

The Bulletin
*Bligh or Rum” by M. H. Ellis-me u
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
January 25, 1961
Price 1/-
White Oliphant?
Registered in Australia for transmission by post, as a newspaper.


The Red Page
An Absence of Sophistication
A Treasury of Australian Humor. Bill
Wannan. Lansdowne Press. 30s.
In his introduction the editor of this
anthology gives fair warning that the
reader must expect “an almost com-
plete absence of sophistication in the
writers represented... .The trend is
more often towards the earthy than the
elegant.” . There is no room for the
fantasies of Hugh McCrae or Les
Robinson, the irony and wit of Martin
Boyd or Ethel Anderson, or the satires
of Hope and McAuley. These writers,
one presumes, would come into the
category of “aristocratic humor” and
therefore be ruled out of this anthology,
which is devoted essentially to the Aus-
tralian “democratic tradition of
humor."
This popular tradition forms, Mr
Wannan considers justifiably, the main-
stream of our humorous writing, and
he proceeds by his selections to empha-
sise two elements of it —a radical out-
look and the bush folklore. The tali
story of the bush, for instance, is amply
represented by the extracts from T. E.
Spencer, Goodge. Paterson. Lawson,
Steele Rudd. E. J. Brady, Lance
Skuthorpe and Alan Marshall. Mr
Wannan’s collection of humor consti-
tutes, to a considerable extent, a further
addition and companion volume to the
several volumes in which he has
gathered folk tales and bush lore. It
is pleasing, too, to welcome here such
old favorites as Skuthorpe’s classic
“The Champion Bullock Driver” and
Alan Marshall’s “They Were Tough
Men on the Speewah.”
To much of the humor chosen could
be applied the description of Steele
Rudd’s writing by A. G. Stephens as
“the typical fun of the Bush —obvious,
rough and hearty.” The heartiness
applies also, however, to such accounts
of the city as Dyson’s “Benno the
Barracker,” the extract from “Jonah’’
and the “Bucks' Party,” taken from
“They’re a Weird Mob.” It is mainly
the humor of action, of the farcical
incident and the exaggerated situation,
often irreverent and sometimes sanscu-
lottist. Only occasionally do we find
the subtler comedy of character, as in
Price Warung’s story of “Dictionary
Ned” or Vance Palmer’s slight but
effective “Mameluke.”
Almost completely missing, more-
over, is that incisive irony which forms
one of the most characteristic ingredi-
ents of the national humor as repre-
sented in our literature—the irony
wrought on a large scale in such novels
as “Such Is Life” and “Capricornia” or
flicked off in asides by such sophisti-
cated writers as Lawson, Lennie Lower,
Martin Boyd and Patrick White. It
must be admitted, however, that any
anthologist would find it difficult to
represent. this form of humor ade-
quately, except perhaps by some Lower
sketches; or such items of Lawson as
“Mitchell on Matrimony.”
Any anthologist hazards inevitable
disagreement, of course, and opinions
must vary especially with such an indi-
vidual quality as humor. Personally I
feel that the anthology would have
benefited by cutting out the inferior
extracts by John Dun-more Lang and
Garnet Walch, Gordon, R. H. Long
and Furnley Maurice. These could well
have been replaced by excerpts from,
such genuine humorists as Norman
Lindsay, E. O. Schlunke and Brian
James, all of whom could be regarded
as well within the democratic tradition,
One misses, too, such classics as “My
Other Chinese Cook,” “How Mc-
Dougall Topped the Score,” “The
Lobster 'and the Lioness” and “The
Loaded Dog.”
Within his chosen limitations, how-
ever. Mr Wan nan has amassed a goodly
’wealth of humor.. It is a .substantial
collection with a sometimes surprising
variety that begins with Barron Field’s
whimsical “Kangaroo” and “The Con-
victs’ Rum Song” to travel through fee
decades to such contemporary works as
“They’re a Weird Mob” and David
Campbell’s delightful poem “The
Miracle of Muilion Hill”—in which a
bush story is treated with imagination
and artistry. Ballads like “The Old.
Bark Hut” rub shoulders with Leon
Gellert and Bill Harney. James Tucker
and Charles Thatcher describe the
convict and gold-digging days whilst
Gavin Casey tells of modern miners
and Dal Stivens. gives a brilliant
account of the memorable occasion
“When Trumper Went for a Blob.”
The old brigade is w r ell represented, of
course, with three selections each from
Lawson and Paterson, two each from
Dowell O'Reilly. Steele Rudd and C.'J.
Dennis —those from Steele Rudd are
good, those from Lawson could be
bettered, and one cannot go wrong,
anyway.:with “The Banjo..” Katharine
Prichard, Leonard Mann and Peter
Hope-good are suitably represented,
along with Cyril Pearl, ‘Manifold,
Waten and Frank Hardy.
This anthology, therefore, should
appeal to a wide audience and gain
quick popularity.
T. Inglis Moore
Enfants Terribles
A Word From Children. By Keith
Smith. Rigby. 18s. 9d.
The example of the friend or rela-
tive who “has a way with children” is
generally enough to frighten thought-
ful persons from trying to worm their
way into children's confidence. Even a
parent would rather treat his children
as household animals than see them
mumble reluctant acquiescence in some
routine of gush and goo, or fawhingly
try to play up to it.
Keith Smith, who in about ten years
has secured the confidences of fifty
thousand children on hundreds of miles
of recording tape, as often as not in
front of a hall full of adults, seems at
first hearing to have so little of a way
with children as to be positively hos-
tile: He begins by advancing, or
getting them to advance, a general
proposition. In their first remarks they
are generally repeating something they
have heard their parents say, like the
Melbourne girl:—
“I don’t think children should say
what they think until . , . about
twenty-one, because they’re . „ .
they’re a bit too young to form an
opinion, I think.”
Instead of patting her on the head
and telling her what a good little yes-
girl she is, Smith coldly advances to the
attack:— ■
“Oh I see. But you’re giving me
an opinion now.”
Asked to explain this flaw in her
own construction, the girl is on her
mettle:—'
“Oh, well, who knows that I’m not
twenty-one?”
Smith bores in again:—
“But you told me you were only
eleven before.”
This spurs her on to new heights:—
“Oh. but I might have been telling
a fib, then.”
After a bit more of this, Smith says,
“we both relaxed. It had been a good
tongue-tussle, and I think she won.”
He finds that half an hour with a
group of children exhausts his own
freshness and the children’s interest;
and one can understand this, because,
at his. best, he is working on a high
tightrope:
“What do you do in your spare
time at home?”
“I boil orange,
“Why?”
“Oh, just for fun to see what they
look like. But that’s nothing—my
brother writes on eggsT
“On eggs! How old is your
brother?”
“Sixteen. When Mum goes to the
fridge and sees all the eggs with notes
on them, she goes mad.”
“But why does he write on eggs?”
“He’s doing his Leaving, and he
studies in the kitchen. Sometimes he
{Continued on page 27)


m
■
V
m.
y'
m
m
i
*
' -'
*1
?p*
?><
§8;
aekfat
\*
TRAINED WOOL STAFF
IS AT YOUR SERVICE
From the sheep’s back to the Show Floor, wool-
growers can depend on Elders complete and
efficient organisation which has for over 120
years been developed to cover all phases of the
marketing of Wool.
You can be sure that your wool will be displayed
to advantage in all major selling centres of Aus-
tralia under the best conditions. With a network
of 200 Branches and nine large and well lighted
Wool Stores throughout Australia, Elders are well
equipped to handle all aspects of business for
the “Man on the Land.”
One bag or 1,000
bales receive the
same attention
from Elders
trained wool staff.
Elders complete Service to the Man on the Land covers Wool Broking, Livestock, Merchandise,
Travel, Chartering, Insurance, Property, Rural Finance, Skin and Hides.
ADELAIDE, PERTH, ALBANY, MELBOURNE, GEELONG, SYDNEY,
NEWCASTLE, GOULBURN, BRISBANE, LONDON


The Bulletin
JANUARY 25, 1961
Vol. 82
No. 4224
INDEX
COVER STORY
The White Oliphant? 12
CURRENT AFFAIRS
Plain English
Revival at the Bar; Re-
form ? Abolish ? ; Home
for the Arts 8
Political Points U
DEPARTMENTS
Aboriginalities 54
Personal 16
Service and Information 59
Society 6
FEATURES
What Asians Think of Us.
No. 4: Indonesians - 18
Air Disaster—Can It Happen
Here? 32
Look Back at Anger 44
Bligh or Rum, by M. H. Ellis 47
FICTION
Miss Frog, by Nancy Keesing 45
FINANCE
Business, Robbery, etc.
Profits Create Capital 39
Wild Cat Pages 56
LETTERS 50
MAN ON THE LAND
Queensland Education Be-
fore Survival 33
OVERSEAS
Australia for the White Man? 19
South Vietnam: Fewer Dol-
lars, More Sense 22
REVIEWS
The Red Page
An Absence of Sophistica-
tion 2
Verse 29
Shows 23
SPORT
Indies Debunk Eugene O’Neill 36
John Schofield 38
WOMEN
Fashion Writers; Kitchen
Status ; Fashion Back-
grounds 30
NEXT WEEK
Does the Australian Farmer
Work Too Hard?
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street,
Sydney; Box 2521; Phone: BU 5971.
A Bit of Everything ?
|N a more realistic Australian society than the present one Professor MessePs
statement that university undergraduates fail because they do not work
hard enough would not have got into the newspapers —because it would
not have been news. In this Australian society—where well-meaning idiocy
may yet choke the life out of education—Professor MessePs platitude became
the controversy of the month. We have progressed so far down the hill in
education that the fact that hard work is necessary to pass examinations is
now considered to be a reactionary error —this in an age when complicated
industrial societies do not function without considerable reserves of special
skills.
There is no field of Australian life about which it is easier to be
pessimistic than that of education. There is the politician’s desire to dispense
education as a social commodity, with a university degree in every home
to match the refrigerator. There is the “new” educationists’ desire to treat
children softly and “mould their that may mean-
instead of introducing them to the difficulties of fact-gathering and inquiry,
There is the continuing conflict between the humanists and the technologists,
who fail to combine against their common enemies. And there is the
prevailing social climate in which it is held to be self-evident that nothing
should be hard to get and everybody should have a bit of everything.
The results are overcrowded and ill-equipped educational institutions
necessarily staffed with some dilutee teaching-labor, and fighting a rearguard
action against necessarily lowering standards.
Yet something can be done if only those whose interests are threatened
can combine, and attack the attackers. The humanists and the technologists
should declare a closed season on each other and really go out to get the
kind of “educationists” who think education is a matter of intelligence tests,
teaching aids, gentle exhortations, semi-literacy, high moral laziness,
togetherness and general fun and games. Who cares whether physics or
Latin has the higher social status ? It is up to the physicists and the Latinists
to find their common interest in educational standards rather than stress
their somewhat trivial differences.
JF they cared to extend their attacks to politicians and parents they might
have to find other allies. But the exercise of a little skill in the presentation
of their case, combined with a lot of determination in pushing it, should
get them allies. Many of the men who run affairs in this country are not
all that interested in education. Because the “new” educationists have done
the most talking they have reached the widest audience. And the pre-war
attitude that educated men are “impractical” still has some followers. Yet
all over the country the very men who are running things are complaining
about the increasing stupidity, laziness, lack of initiative and irresponsibility
of people who work for them. It is from this point that those who are
interested in raising educational standards—or at least keeping them from
sinking lower —can make their attack.
Unfortunately at the back of this confident assertion there are some
unnerving “ifs” and “buts.” In the universities —in varying degrees—there
are still groups of men who want to maintain standards. But in the
secondary schools the standard-bearers are being flooded out. The schools
are going to export more and more rubbish. And in the universities
themselves there is in some places a terrifying timidity—a fear that if
professors speak up the resultant publicity may simply lose them something
they already have. Some professors already prefer a monastic policy of
silence, exile and cunning; they feel that with so many battles lost they
should quietly keep what they have. Worst of all—some of the greatest
enemies of education are those who have seized control of it.


"I'LL HUFF AND I’LL PUFF
“Do you think you should go on with your puff, Harold? Look what you’ve done already with your huff!”


Society
Send Not to Ask . . •
A man who had retired to the Sydney
suburb of Wahroonga after half a
lifetime in the Far East brought with him
a large bronze bell from a Chinese temple.
Set-up under a tree in his garden, it
looked well and was the admiration of
one and all. Years later, deciding to
move into a home-unit, he bequeathed the
bell to the chap who bought the place
from him. Returning a year later, he
saw that the bell had gone. His host
informed him that he’d presented it to
a church which had lately been built in
the district. He is now a bit intrigued:
he’d like to know how the congregation
would react if it realised that the Oriental
words engraved on the bell which now
calls them to Christian worship signify:
“I take my refuge in the compassionate
Buddha.”
❖ ❖ *
Flies over Melbourne
TAirector Stanley Kramer retained one
vivid impression of Melbourne when
filming “On the Beach”—the mushroom-
like cloud of clinging, stinging flies. Mel-
burnians, who did not take Kramer’s
remarks too kindly at the time, are now
indulging in a little self-criticism on this
score. The recent heatwave brought re-
newed clouds of the “vile pest,” Local
councils were urged to stop their “petty
squabbles” and unite against the fly.
Out went the call to clear the beaches of
filth and stench, to control rubbish dumps,
and to follow the television commercials
by spraying, spraying, spraying.
An entomologist in the Victorian
Department of Agriculture’s biology
branch, Mr H. B. Wilson, loyally came
up with a soothing explanation. There
were not more flies around this summer,
he explained. It’s just that flies are more
active in hot weather.
* * *Z*
Rest Around the Clock
{'Ane weekend out of six weeks’ round-
the-clock shifts taken on by a
16-year-old schoolboy during the long
holidays:
Saturday, 7 a.m., work; 3.30 p.m.,
beach; 7 p.m., out to teenage party,
from which he went, at 11 p.m., directly
to work; Sunday, let off work early
and saw the Oriana; 6 a.m., Mass;
7.30 a.m., home asleep ; 1 p.m., beach ;
7 p.m., TV (rock-’n'-roll) at a friend’s
place; 8 p.m; home asleep; 11 p.m.,
work.
❖ * ❖
End of an Influence ?
HThe suburban cinema continues to
vanish under the wrecker’s hammer.
A service station usually replaces it —but
can anything really take the place it has
occupied in suburban life? Apart from
being as much a landmark as the .post-
office the town hall and the church jt s
influence on people’s lives must have been
enormous. Can anyone under the age 0 f
40 say that he would be quite the same
person he is if “the local” had not brought'
the whole glittering mess of Hollywood
values right into the middle of his earl?
environment? Could he think of one
foreign country or more than a few major
political events that he did not find po r .
trayed there?
Television has no doubt taken over
this role, as well as that of presenting the
latest in group dress, manners, attitudes
But can television ever have the influence
the cinema has had on one of our most
crucial functions —courtship? The “local”
provided not only the physical surround-
ings for courtship, far from parents or
landladies, but models of conduct and
technique as well. Long before we ever
kissed a girl, Hollywood or Ealing had
shown us the best ways of doing it. One
even recalls couples locked together in the
gloom, watching an epic of the passions
between embraces, as if copying a lesson
from the blackboard.
i
*> *
Tracing the Nymphet
IyTELBURNiANS who still want to read
“Lolita,” and haven’t yet come across
one of those brownpaper-covered copies
that belong to a friend of a friend who
got it overseas, need not despair-
especially if they know Italian or someone
who can translate it. All they have to do
then is go to one of the Italian-language
bookshops in Carlton or Fitzroy and say
something to this effect: “Posso avers
questa libro ‘Lolita’?” The chances are
that within minutes they will find them-
selves owning ‘a paperback with its cover
adorned by a particularly attractive-look-
ing nymphet —and wondering, like a
recent Society researcher, just how our
zealous censors work, and how many
other black-listed titles manage to enter
the country in foreign languages.
CALYPSO
“Members of Parliament staying at Queens-
land Parliament House Lodge cook their own
meals at weekends because there is no kitchen
or dining-room staff then.”
Members of Parliament try to dodge
Weekends at Queensland Parliament
Lodge ;
Talk all week for their bread and meat,
Stop at weekends, they get nothing to eat
Cauglit in the kitchen, boiling chooks.
They’re breaking the rules for the Union
Cooks; I
Carry a steak from the stove to the board.
They’re bound to trip over the Waited
Award.
So if ever any men had Lost Weekends
They’re our poor old Queensland Parlia-
ment friends,
And therefore the reason is not far 10 ’
seek
Why they’re all in some Party the resl
of the week.
SWILLIAM.


Great Outdoors
For that al fresco lunch (?), the “Geraid-
ton Guardian” (W.A.) advertises:
“To Let —One-roomed kitchen with back
an d front verandahs.”
❖ ❖ ❖
Unmixed Doubles
Identical twins Patricia and Pamela
Stratford, of Adelaide, celebrated
their 21st birthday with a party and, of
course, invited their best friends, Aileen
and Barbara Schilling—also identical
twins. Quite a few of the guests struck
an appropriate note by bringing identical
presents.
The System
During the holidays a visitor to Brisbane
got caught in the sort of situation
which suggests that human communica-
tions are being undermined by rigid
systems of procedure. Electing to eat in
one of those places which flatly announce
their capacities as “Fish —Grills,” he
ordered grilled fish. The waitress hope-
fully brought him a plate of fried fish.
He turned it back, repeating his original
order. The, waitress went away and
returned some time later, looking as if
she had now done everything possible
and could no longer answer for the
consequences, with a plate of grilled
steak.
Importance of Purity
A group of Sicilian folk-singers—five
men and a girl—arriving in Sydney
for a tour of Australia enlivened an
Italian restaurant in Leichhardt, three
hours after leaving their aircraft, with a
selection of wild and melodic songs and
dances. After stressing, through an in-
terpreter, the importance of purity to the
presentation of folk-songs, the leader
showed eagerness to please Australian
audiences by learning a local folk-song.
His agent promised to teach him a piece
called “Tie Me Sport Down, Kangaroo.”
♦!«
A Handful of Porter
/Critics of the Commonwealth Literary
Fund will get no comfort from Hal
Porter. His last year’s fellowship took
him to London, to work on the English
side of his Wainewright novel. It will
be published about September by Faber
and Faber (London), “tentatively called
‘The Tilted Cross’.”
Also, Angus and Robertson are to
bring out a collection of his short stories,
most of them familiar to Bulletin
readers, some time this year.
His fellowship year over, Porter has
resumed business at the City Library,
Shepparton (Vic.).
Constructive Prize
With New Australian girls parading in
their national costumes, Melbourne’s
Moomba celebrations this year will in-
clude a “Miss Moomba International”
contest. There shouldn’t be any difficulty
selecting the second-prize winner. The
coveted trophy is a “six months’ figure-
improvement course valued at £50.”
That was Society
Strangers at Hobart (Tas.) used to be
struck by an effigy on a pub opposite the
wharf, representing Lord Rodney, of
Lord-knows-who, waving his sword and
cheering his men on into the threepenny
bar. This old landmark has gone and the
premises are to be turned into a jam-
factory. Everything in Hobart is to be a
jam-factory. Possibly when Federation is
accomplished the remnant of local legis-
lators will meet in Heathorn’s Hotel
(where half the business is done even
now) and let the House of Parliament as
a jam-factory.
— “Bulletin”, January IS, 1900.
One reform following the abolition of
the old useless Sydney Transit Commis-
sion has come in quietly, but effectively.
No through heavy traffic is now allowed
in Pitt and George Streets, nor in the
cross-streets south of Bridge Street. For
years this reform has been advocated, but
its fulfilment was declared impossible by
the old governing body. But it has been
done simply enough, to the evident re-
lief of the congested streets of Sydney. Big
wool drays, lorries with hides and tallow,
furniture vans and the like no longer
block Pitt Street, and, with the dwindling
bus traffic, that and other thoroughfares
are now comparatively safe.
— “Bulletin”, February 9, 1901.
Is there any reason why a tar-mixture
should not be spread (as in Melbourne)
over the Sydney street blocks to prevent
horses slipping, and to deaden the sound
°f traffic?— “Bulletin", February 23, 1901.
Politicians of the M’Gowen-Lyne pat-
fern talk bravely about keeping Sunday
a Day of Rest on which all small shoos
shall be closed. Now, if there be Tear
law against any sales on Sundays it is
against the sale of newspapers. M’Gowen
and Lyne and the rest of that class are
hereby invited, if their convictions are
anything but sham, to put the law in
motion against the sale of Sunday news-
papers. If they’re not game for this -and
they’re not—then they ought to let the
little sellers of soft drinks and bruit alone.
They don’t dare to seriously enforce the
law against Sunday grog-selling!
— “Bulletin”, March 2, 1901.
Most Australian artists derive the chief
part of their income from tuition. Aus-
tralia is a hard country for the painter,
An energetic and most excellent all-round
man, who is well represented in the
N.S.W. gallery, and has painted some
really brilliant portraits, told writer the
other day that, barring portrait-commis-
sions and pictures bought by the Gallery
trust, he had never sold in Australia any
picture for over £lO. No wonder he seeks
fresh fields.— “ Bulletin”, March 2, 1900.
The outside doctors have at last found
that they cannot get on without the Adel-
aide hospital practice, and so they have
surrendered at discretion. In future deaths
under chloroform and other little “acci-
dents”, which have hitherto always been
made as public as possible by the disaf-
fected parties, may occur at the institu-
tion without being so loudly mentioned,
Also, the University students will be let
loose on the patients and the nurses, who
have for years had none but qualified
doctors to deal with.
— “Bulletin”, February 23, 1901.
“E.M.S.” writes to the dailies, urging
the racrifice of one-quarter of Hyde Park,
Sydney, for the purpose of a railway-
station, on the ground that the revenue
therefrom would plant and decorate the
other three-fourths, provide for the play-
ing of bands, etc., etc. Bands playing amid
the roar of traffic, the clanging of bells,
and the shrieking of steam-engine whist-
les! Which sordid proposal is quite on a
level with the scheme to grab a Urge
hunk of the Domain foreshore for ihe
construction of wharves. Verily there is no
sacrilege too brutal for the trader with an
axe to grind. — “Bulletin”, March 2, 1900.
SOCIETY STILL OPEN
T> EA DERS are reminded that the
Society pages are still, open to con-
tributors of short, bright paragraphs about
city life in Australia. Pen-names have
been dropped, but rates of payment have
been lifted. All MSS. should bear the
contributor's name and address.
As from this issue, contributions will
be paid for on publication; no claim
need be lodged. Outstanding claims for
contributions over the past year should
be made as soon as possible.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Revival at the Bar
The report of the N.S.W. Bar Council
condemning the coroner’s handling
of the Yeates inquest marks the revival
of the Bar as an active force in Australian
public life. In the long run this will
probably be more significant than any-
thing it has said in this particular report.
The American Bar Association has
always been active in fights over civil
liberties, and the British Bar, through the
organisation called Justice, has made de-
tailed and critical reports on Police Inves-
tigations and on the laws about Contempt
of Court, but until now Australian Bars
have been remarkably apathetic about
public questions. The last time the
N.S.W. Bar issued a public statement
was in May, 1954, when it condemned
Mr Justice Dovey’s handling of the
Studley-Ruxton Royal Commission—and
that was just a few disapproving sen-
tences, not a detailed argument like the
report on the Yeates case.
The Yeates report claimed that the evi-
dence the Coroner admitted “exceeded
all reasonable and proper bounds.” The
report singled out the questions asked of
a Mr Dick ins whether he “thought” the
“rumors” about an association between
Dr Hedberg and the widow of the dead
doctor were correct, and the evidence
admitted from relatives and friends of
the late Mrs Hedberg about various state-
ments alleged to have been made'by her:
(1) that Dr Hedberg had given her a
sherry after which she was ill; (2) that
he had given her an injection for vari-
cose veins after which she was ill ; (3)
that she thought her husband was trying
to kill her.
It also claimed that while the help
these inquests gave the police is “fic-
tional,” “the risk involved is that a
person considered to be a suspect but
against whom the police have no evi-
dence or case may be punished by the
hearing of a mass of hearsay and even
of gossip or rumor which the police
already know.”
The report congratulated the N.S.W.
Government on the new Coroners Act
coming into force on February 1, which
requires a coroner to adjourn if someone
is charged in the course of an inquiry,
and which deprives him of the power
to find someone guilty of an indictable
offence, transferring to the Attorney-
General the power to present an indict-
ment. But it claimed the Yeates case
shows the need for further amendments
in the Act: (1) to ensure that coroners
strictly observe the law of evidence ; and
(2) that persons against whom suspicion
has been directed should not be called
as witnesses unless they volunteer to give
evidence.
It also criticised a police-officer for
breach of an undertaking given to Mrs
Yeates’s legal adviser that he would con-
tact that adviser if he wished to see Mrs
Yeates again. “It is most undesirable
that having given such an undertaking
and being aWare that the person involved
wished to have the benefit of legal
advice the police-officer interviewed her
with the intention of getting answers to
questions in the absence of the legal
adviser.” In this case the police-officer
said he committed this breach of an
undertaking “because I felt I should give
Mrs Yeates an opportunity of refusing
to sit down and discuss this matter with
the police in the absence of her solicitor.
I gave the matter considerable thought
before I did it. ... I thought that oppor-
tunity would be heneficial to the course
of justice.” The report described this
explanation as “unsatisfactory” and “not
a justification.”
The N.S.W. Bar Association plans to
follow up the Yeates report by establish-
ing a Rule of Law and Civil Liberties
Committee with the dual role of publish-
ing statements whenever liberties are
threatened and of educating both the
public and lawyers in the importance of
the issues involved. There should cer-
tainly be plenty of matters to keep such
a committee busy.
Reform ?
Abolish ?
'T'he N. S. Wales State Cabinet settled
A on April 29 as the date for taking
the referendum on the abolition of the
Legislative Council, and March 23 for
closing rolls and issuing writs.
The election of a new batch of 15
members, unfortunately for the Council’s
would-be destroyers, must be completed
before April 22, so that before March 2,
when nominations will close, the various
parties will have to furrow their brows
to find sacrifices ready to be nominated
in March and elected in April. April 1
would have been an appropriate date for
the election, but Premier Heffron had no
sense of humor and made it April 16.
After they have been elected the N.S.W.
men will proceed in two directions. The
Labor men will start campaigning for
their own abolition. The Liberal-C.P.
men will join in the “full-blooded cam-
paign against abolition” which the Liberal
party has promised to conduct.
With Parliament meeting on February
14, there should be so*me lively preludes
to the campaign, but no doubt Parliament
will not stay in session longer than can
be helped—if the Government is really
eager to win the election, which some ■
people believe some Ministers are not.
In presenting the issues to the electors
the Government, has offered only two
alternatives—to keep the Council as it j$ -
or to have no council at all. Vote “Yes"
or “No.” This certainly provides a
grievance and at the same time makes it
clear that what is aimed at is the removal
of all checks on the Government.
The main drive for the abolition of the
Council has come from the back-room
elements that try to run the Government.
They want to be able- to do with legisla-
tion what they have done with Cabinet
decisions in the past. So far the Council
has prevented this.
No one likes the Council as at present
constituted. There are too many party
functionaries and financiers on the
Liberal-C.P. side, and too many trade-
union has-beens on the Labor side. But
many people do not want to see the
Council abolished altogether and the
Government left free to make the Assem-
bly merely a registry for decisions of
Cabinet or forced on Parliament from
outside.
There certainly is justification for a
revisory chamber to help keep Govern-
ments on the rails. But it needs to be
constituted on such a basis that it is non-
party, represents the community and can-
not be packed.
A chamber elected by various elements
of the community has been suggested.
But how would it be elected? The Oppo-
sition has come out in favor of reform,
not abolition. But it has not yet indicated
any reform.
Home for the
Arts
A ny day now, Melbourne can expect
to be shown the architect’s design
for the £4-million cultural centre which
it is proposed to build at the southern
approach to the city, just over Princes
Bridge on the old Wirth’s Park site.
The project has been gestating for over
14 years and has been talked about for
at least twice as long, but if and when
it is completed it will be the first major
public building put up in Melbourne for
over 70 years.
The idea is to provide under one roof
“a home for the arts” —a gallery, concert
hall, library and facilities for film shows,
lectures, displays and teaching. K ! s
being handled at the moment by a build-
ing committee consisting mainly of busi-
ness people under the chairmanship 0
Dr Leonard Cox, a Collins Street
neurologist. Later this year the com'


mittee will launch a public appeal for
£250,000 to supplement a grant from the
Victorian Government.
Meanwhile, the architectural fraternity
are sharpening their axes for when the
design is shown. Originally it was in-
tended to hold an international contest
for a design, the winner to be appointed
architect for the job (as was done with
the Sydney Opera House). The building
committee not only scrapped this pro-
cedure, but even refused to hold a com-
petition restricted to Australian architects.
The Royal Victorian Institute of Archi-
tects held a meeting of protest, asking
that at least a national competition be
held, but to no avail. The building com-
mittee called for applications for the job
of architect, and five of its number, meet-
ing as a sub-committee, appointed Mr
Roy Grounds.
Before he designed the circular
Academy of Science building in Can-
oerra, 56-year-old Mr Grounds was per-
haps best known as the builder of the
famous “round house” at Frankston.
He has also been hailed as “the high-
Pnest of the car-port and the open
huffet between living-room and kitchen.”
Beyond saying that the cultural centre
w ould be “quiet and restrained and the
reverse of the Sydney Opera House,”
Mr Grounds has given no clues to what
he is designing.
Less reticent, however, is Mr Eric
Westbrook, director of Melbourne’s
Present National Gallery, who has been
\y® on t^e building committee. Mr
Westbrook has issued a veritable mani-
festo for the cultural centre. According
t© this, the building must avoid “self-
conscious grandeur,” and “the desired
effect on the visitor should be one of en-
chantment rather than functionalism . ..
Culture is not to be imposed in this
building, but created by the community
itself.”
Having laid down general principles,
Mr Westbrook’s document then cata-
logued some of the things to go into
the building—2oo,ooo sq. ft. of gallery
space, 5000 sq. ft. for the library, ten
painting studios, two pottery studios (with
kilns), rooms for screen-printing, litho-
graphy and etching, sculpture studios
and classrooms for seminars and lectures.
Mr Westbrook stipulated private toilets
for the director, deputy-director, the
curator of prints, the exhibitions officer
and the head of the art school, but not
for the scientific officer, the numismatist
or the curator of Australian art.
Even though there was no competi-
tion for the design of the building, it
mightn’t be a bad idea to hold one now
to chose a less repellent name than cul-
tural centre for Mr Grounds’s building.
Baffling Act
/
'T'HE new rules of procedure in the
Matrimonial Causes Act are worry-
ing lawyers all over Australia. One
lawyer said: “It is a prime example of
Canberra gobbledegook. Under the old
Act I could draw up a petition in half-
an-hour, but under the new rules it could
take a week.” Some lawyers have already
advised their clients to wait several
months before they apply under the new
Act —otherwise they might be used as
guinea-pigs.
The new rules seem to have been
designed to save litigants expense in
solicitors’ fees, but, according to lawyers,
it will have the opposite effect. For
example, under the old rules, solicitors
got together and reached agreement over
maintenance, custody, and settlement.
The discussion in court was mostly over
the decree nisi. The questions already
decided informally were ratified by the
court with little delay. Now the court
will exhaustively discuss everything.
If a wife is going to claim for main-
tenance, for example, this must be stated
before the case can be heard. If it is
not in the original application, leave of
the court is required before the court
can decide whether it will consider it or
not. When it decides to hear the applica-
tion it then considers it. The rules also
provide for a compulsory conference
between the parties to see if agreement
can be reached, and evidence (more forms)
fhust be shown that this has occurred.
Solicitors say this used always to be done ;
and now that it has been formalised most
of them will make an extra charge to
their clients.
Another complaint about the rules
concerns the haste with which they are
to be implemented. They became avail-
able on January 11, and solicitors and
judges must be familiar with them by
February 1. Three weeks is not long
enough to digest 329 new rules.
People seeking divorces for the next
six months may be paying for the pro-
cedural education of the legal profession.
Small
Developers
"Crom any high spot around Sydney
and its inner suburbs the skeletons
of unfinished home-unit blocks can be
seen reaching at the sk*y. When they are
finished many of them may take a while
to fill. Times have suddenly hardened
for both the “developer” and the specula-
tor in real-estate.
There is a fine line of distinction be-
tween the developer and the speculator.
The developer is one who undertakes
subdivision work and makes actual physi-
cal additions, such as surveying, road-
making and kerbing, to an area of land.
The speculator follows in the wake of a
developer, buying blocks in ready-made
subdivisions and hoping that values will
advance on those accepted by the original
subdivider.
The market has tightened for both
because the “end-users” of land—home-
builders and builders of business premises
—are now more hesitant about buying
land from anyone. They have less finance
at their disposal, and want to buy at a
lower price.
In this situation the small developer is
generally at the biggest disadvantage. If
he has obtained outside financial assist-
ance he may have had to do so at a com-
paratively high rate of hire-purchase in-
The C.P. and the B.H.P.
For the past 12 months the Com-
munist-directed Newcastle Trades
Hall Council has been needling the
B.H.P. It could not attack directly
through the ironworkers —who do
most of the B.H.P.’s work—because
they do not belong to the council.
But the nine craft unions (1600 mem-
bers) who do maintenance-work at the
steelworks have not done a bad job
in industrial disruption.
Stopwork meetings, 24-hour strikes
and two- to three-day stoppages
almost constantly endangered property
—and life. But the ironworkers con-
tinued to work. Two- or three-
hundred went on strike during the
Crimes Act rumpus; the remaining
8000 stayed at work. In the present
strike all the ironworkers stayed at
work as long as there was still work
to do.
This year the B.H.P. has taken a
firm line-—and the steelworks has
closed down.
Why are the Communists so con-
cerned with the 8.H.P.? Apart from
the rights or wrongs of the present
case, there are three main reasons. It
is routine Communist strategy to dis-
rupt key industries. The Communists
want to cause the kind of fuss in
which the country is divided against
itself. And they would like to get
back control of the Ironworkers’
Union.
They have never reconciled them-
selves to the loss of the Ironworkers.
In the great days of Ernie Thornton
they could switch steel production on
and off like electric light. In 1945
they managed to tie up Newcastle and
Port Kembla for four months. The
union gave them greater political,
industrial and financial strength. And
now they have not only lost all this,
but the present Ironworkers’ executive
provides the most outspoken opposi-
tion to Communist control ot unions.
How has the current industrial
trouble affected these aims? It has
certainly disrupted a key industry. It
has failed in the dividing-the-country-
against-itself gambit. There is no
enthusiasm about the strike even
among the strikers. And it has failed
to discredit the Ironworkers’ execu-
tive. The stand-down ironworkers on
unemployment-relief are better off
than the striking craft-unionists on
strike-pay, and they are likely to
remember this when the Ironworkers’
election comes up in November.


terest, hoping to dispose of his blocks
in a time short enough to make interest
commitments a minor consideration any-
way. With the sale of blocks “sticking,”
the interest becomes heavier in total and
the future outlook clouded. Some small
developers have already approached the
bigger real-estate boys with a view to
disposing of their half-finished projects
and $o cutting their profits—or losses.
At the moment “resort” development
offers the most difficulty. The Queens-
land Gold Coast has suffered a setback
after its prolonged boom ; holiday-area
blocks anywhere are less in demand than
suburban homesites.
As for home-units —which have been
favored by couples whose families have
grown-up and by business firms seeking
handy accommodation for executives —
reports say that there has been little or
no cut in price, but sales are slower.
Although in New South Wales it is in-
tended to provide “strata” titles to home-
units, ownership at present is mostly
through shares and an agreement, and
finance is difficult to obtain, as reaU
property mortgage conditions for home-
units are as yet out of the question. And
because the prospective unit-owner finds
finance difficult, the builder also has
problems if he seeks overdraft or other
finance on his unfinished or unsold units.
Many builders —the small men par-
ticularly—are hoping for a change in the
economic climate before many months
are past. There is certainly no lack of
demand for homes or home-units —only
lack of finance
Mistakes
One of the longest industrial disputes
in the nation’s post-war history has
been the railway row in Victoria. But
as an exercise in Communist strategy it
will hardly find a place in L. L. Sharkey’s
hancfbook on trade-unions.
Officially the dispute began in March,
1959, when rail unions led by the Aus-
tralian Railways Union, with its Vic-
torian Communist secretary, J. J. Brown,
sought a service grant for all members.
The idea was that a worker should get
a progressively higher grant for length
of service (10s. after the first year, £1
after the second year, and so on). The
demand was rejected by Senior Commis-
sioner A. E. Chambers of the Common-
wealth Conciliation and Arbitration
Commission in October, 1959.
The unions made three mistakes.
Their first was to stage a “work to
regulations” which slowed services, but
created discontent among the unionists.
Railwaymen discovered that obeying every
minor regulation was tedious work.
Gradually they abandoned the tactics
until the unions officially called off the
“regulation” strike.
Second, the unions took no steps to
prevent the workers being divided.
After the breakdown of the “regulation”
strike and a short peppering of lightning
stoppages, union tacticians hit on an
overtime limit —no more than 16 hours
overtime a fortnight— to bring the
Government to its knees.
The Government retaliated by drop-
ping Sunday train services. Drivers,
guards and allied workers still got their
share of overtime even without Sunday
trains. But the clerical staff in many
cases were left without any overtime at
all; and they had no juicy Sunday penalty
rates to compensate.
The unions’ major mistake lay in mis-
calculating the likely real support forth-
coming from railway workers for the
service-grant demand. True, many did
want service grants. But many others
preferred high superannuation for their
retirement rather than an immediate lift
in take-home pay.
Ultimately, when a settlement of the
dispute devolved on a give-and-take com-
promise—service grants but lower super-
annuation —the split in the ranks was even
more pronounced. This, to a large extent,
explains the cautious handling of the
dispute by the Melbourne Trades Hall
Council industrial - disputes committee.
The committee was aware that J. p
Brown, if he had wished, could have
backed up his boasts of unity with a secret
ballot "of members. Significantly, he
shirked a ballot.
The Government has not escaped un-
scathed. Its decision eliminating Sunday
trains seemed a good industrial counter-
attack, as indeed it was. But politically
it was a mistake. The public blamed the
Government, not the unions, for train-
less Sundays. Statements that the Govern-
ment was saving £500,000 a year raised
no enthusiasm among citizens forced to
curtail their Sunday outings or hire taxis.
Perhaps a fair share of credit for the
relative peacefulness of this dispute rests
with Senior Commissioner Chambers, who
refused to insert a “bans clause,’’ with its
attendant penalties, into the award.
Muddling Through in Physics
Tn the nuclear age Australian physics-
-*■ teachers are scrounging for equip-
ment. At the end of the controversial
Nuclear Research Foundation Sum-
mer School last week Professor Harry
Messel announced a kind of jumble
sale. Sydney University had some
scientific equipment that was outdated,
he said. And he gave it to teachers
attending the school to help them out.
Lack of equipment is only one of at
least seven problems facing science-
teachers. Classes are too big. There
are not enough teachers. Nor enough
graduates. Nor any laboratory-assist-
ants. Nor enough up-to-date text-
books. Nor adequate facilities for
teachers to know what is happening in
their fields.
It is impossible for a science-teacher
to arrange a satisfactory practical
lesson in which each pupil conducts
his own experiment when he has a
class of 40 or 50 ; but such classes are
the rule rather than the exception in
the first years of State secondary
schools.
The best equipment, designed after
consultation with science-teachers, is
of top world standard, but often it has
to be bought with money raised by
parents’ and citizens’ committees
rather than with Education Depart-
ment funds.
Frequently the equipment is inade-
quate, and sometimes it has to be
borrowed from older, better-endowed
schools. If there are two laboratories
in a school they are rarely equipped
independently ; youngsters have often
to go from one laboratory to another
to check, say, the Fortin-barometer
reading.
Even when the equipment is avail-
able science-teachers find they are
working double-time to assemble it be-
fore their lessons and clear it away
afterwards: they claim this is the work
of a laboratory-assistant, but Tas-
mania is the only State which employs
them in its schools.
New Zealand has found an answer
to this problem by paying a nominal
amount to a student who acts as a
laboratory-assistant before ahd after
school, but such a scheme has not
been officially endorsed here ; science-
teachers have to go on shouldering the
extra work. They say they work
harder than English, maths or
language teachers, and ask is it any
wonder that there are too few taking
up science-teaching.
In a great number of schools there
is only one graduate among the four
or five science-teachers partly because
the best bonded science-teachers re-
ceive offers to join commercial firms
on completion of their courses. In
others there are not enough science-
teachers, even unqualified- or callecl
out of retirement ; so physical-culture
lessons have had to be given in the
time allocated for science lessons.
The rapid increase in scientific
knowledge creates problems for the
science-teacher just as does the rapid
increase in school population. Summer
schools have helped teachers to catch
up with the latest developments, but
they still have to teach with textbooks
that all too often are far out of date.
Science - teachers claim they are
poorly treated in comparison with
their English and American counter-
parts, but they have an even more
invidious comparison to make: they
ask why are manual-crafts and home-
science subjects taught to comfortable
classes of 20 with splendid equip-
ment and facilities while they have to
struggle to impart scientific knowledge
in crowded classrooms and with inade-
quate equipment?
In these circumstances it is not
surprising that many girls’ schools
confine science-teaching to biology and
botany.


POLITICAL POINTS
STRIKE-YEAR
If the first three weeks of 1961 are any
guide Australia is in for a year of re-
curring industrial troubles. Five States
have already suffered strikes: Western
Australia is still enduring a coal strike
at Collie ; Queensland railway* workers
stopped for half a day; New
South Wales is having a crippling strike
at 8.H.P., Newcastle, a glassworkers’
stoppage at Australian Glass Manufac-
turers, and the Transport unions are still!
simmering ; 2200 Victorian men walked
off at a petrochemical plant at Altona,
and railwaymen are still agitating over
service grants ; Tasmanian employees at
Mersey Shipyards, Devonport, are on
strike. South Australia, the only State
free from immediate troubles, will have a
one-day transport stoppage on a date to
be fixed.
9 , •
AN OPINION
In the current issue of “The Australian
Liberal” Derek Montefiore-Castle has
written an article on the pre-selection of
Parliamentary candidates. He parallels
it with the selection of business-managers
and says that the same criteria should
be used in pre-selecting future Parliamen-
tarians. The assumption underlying the
article is that politicians are responsible
to the party, not the electors. Australia,
in Mr Montefiore-Castle’s opinion, is a
business and should be run by capable
managers.
• •
OIL FROM INDONESIA
While the search for oil continues un-
successfully in Australia, our imports of
crude oil are rising. The total for the last
September quarter was 884,365 gallons,
a rise of 22 per cent, compared with the
September, 1959, quarter. (Petroleum
products were up by 8.8 per cent., to
almost 117-million gallons). Of the crude,
Indonesia and Qatar each supplied more
than 172-million gallons. In 1959-60
Indonesia was the second most important
source of supply of crude (21.5 per cent.)
and the major supplier of refined products
(43 per cent.). The short haul from In-
donesia is an important factor in costs.
A statement from Canberra of the
likely effects on Australia of the pending
nationalisation of the Indonesian wells
and refineries might be timely.
• •
OVERDUE
An important conference will be held in
Canberra on January 26 and 27. Com-
monwealth and State Ministers respon-
sible for aboriginal welfare will discuss:
drinking laws affecting aborigines;
tests to decide whether protective or res-
trictive legislation applies to indivi-
dual aborigines; changes needed
to ensure that a person freed
from restrictive laws does not be-
come subject to them if he moves to an-
other State ; the position of semi-nomadic
natives in Western Australia, South Aus-
tralia and the Northern Territory; social
service benefits and the difficulties of
making payments to aboriginal pen-
sioners. Arrangements will also be made
for Commonwealth-State consultation on
welfare, research, health, nutrition, educa-
tion, housing and vocational training.
• •
SENATE VOTING
Are Labor voters more apathetic or care-
less than other Australians at the polls?
Senators Dittmer, Kennedy and Ormonde
apparently think so. The trio, who
are charged with drawing up blueprints
for a Labor victory in this year’s Federal
elections, say they are “gravely con-
cerned” at the large number of informal
votes cast for the Senate, and obviously
believe that the A.L.P. has more to gain
than the Government if the invalid vote
can be reduced.
In a report to the A.L.P. Federal Ex-
ecutive, the three have calculated that-for
the whole of Australia, 10.29 p.c. of total
Senate votes cast in the 1958 election
were invalid, compared with a national
average of 2.87 p.c. invalid vqtes in the
Representatives voting. In New South
Wales the 244,828 informal Senate ballots
were just a little short of the quota of
245,757 votes necessary to elect a Senator,
and were equivalent to 12.46 p.c. of the
total Senate vote in the State. Queens-
land with 7.17 p.c. of votes invalid and
S.A. with 7.74 p.c. handled the Senate
voting papers best. Then came W.A.
(9.4 p.c. spoiled), Victoria (9.8 p.c.) and
Tasmania (11.21 p.c.).
“In addition,” they add, “we believe
that immediately Labor is returned as a
Government it should amend the Elec-
toral Act to permit Labor’s policy of
optional preferential voting to be imple-
mented.”
This is less drastic than the Victorian
A.L.P.’s formula for gaining office—the
abolition of preferential voting altogether.
But it’s all rather like the chicken and the
egg ; before the A.L.P. can tamper with
the electoral machinery to ensure its own
win, it has to win etc., etc.
• •
BACK TO THE BASTILLE
Fifty-eight employees of the small
Bernard Smith Engineering Co., Alexan-
dria (New South Wales), have staged a
protest march against the refusal of the
Boilermakers Society’s Federal execu-
tive to sign an agreement with the firm
giving them £2 a week attendance-money.
Comrade Buckley, the Boilermakers’
Federal secretary, says some restrictions
in the agreement —such as provision of
a small fine for lateness—are contrary
to “trade-union practice.” The men and
firm—as in the coal industry, where the
Miners’ Federation has fought vainly
against bonuses and incentives —will win.
The Communist Federal president of the
Miners’ Federation, whenever an incen-
tive or bonus is under discussion, has
come to look like the French revolu-
tionary who was found lonely in a dark
street, shouting: “Where are the toilers?
1 am their leader.”
• •
INCENTIVE
When the Glassworkers’ Union was in
the Commonwealth Industrial Court,
Mr. Justice Dunphy, who presided, made
a magnanimous gesture by making the
fine £350 instead of £5OO. But for their
half-century of good industrial conduct,
he said, the fine would have been much
heavier. An incentive “be good boys”
rate of £3 a year!
• •
MINERS AND TRUTH
The mining unions in Western Aus-
tralia have blacklisted Mr Keith Dar-
row, of the “West Australian,” for report-
ing the following: “Collie traders and a
majority of the miners’ wives are said
to be against any continuation of the
strike.” Mr Darrow interviewed about
30 miners’ wives and several delivery-
tradesmen and wrote his report on what
he had seen. Union officials then said
that unless he wrote in the “West Aus-
tralian” that the majority of the miners’
wives were fully supporting the strike
he would continue to be blacklisted.
• •
MIGRANTS
In case we are feeling self-righteous
about the deportations of four migrants
who have been procuring girls for pros-
titution in espresso-bars it should be
that Victorian police figures show
at least half the persons convicted of
this type of crime in the past four years
have been Australians —not migrants.
• •
URGENT
The Australian Government should
immediately increase its contribution of
£386,442 to the United Nations Congo
fund. When over 200 Congolese are
dying of starvation daily it is absurd for
Mr Menzies to say that Australia will
probably give another £766,000 later
this year.
• •
ABOVE POLITICS
Mr Santamaria, president of the National
Civic Council, said in Melbourne that
Australia should make a gift of
£5,000,000-worth of wheat to the people
of China where 156,000 square-miles
of land has been affected by drought.
We did not see any reference to his
sensible suggestion in the Communist
press.


The White Oliphat?
By CONRAD ROBERTS
THE main issue that has divided Australian scientists
into two warring camps is Sir Mark Oliphant’s
proton-synchrotron in Canberra. Sir Mark first an-
nounced his plans for building the world’s largest atom-
smashing machine in 1949, but since then, according
to the critics, nearly /im. has been squandered on the
project, plans have had to be changed several times,
and the machine is not yet completed—perhaps will
never be completed. The increasingly weighty opposi-
tion is centred around the School of Physics at Sydney
University, and Professor Harry Messel, whose announced
policy is to avoid entering the big-machine race with other
countries, to concentrate on specialised research where
Australia can make original discoveries, and to build up
expert staff. The struggle behind the scenes involves
far more than personalities—it concerns the use of Com-
monwealth research funds. On its outcome depends
the future organisation of Australian science.
In August, 1949, Professor Mark
Oliphant returned to Australia, after
spending two decades abroad. That
20 years was a period in which the
world had entered the atomic age —and
Oliphant, who had worked with Ruther-
ford, the first British atom-splitter, and
had helped develop the bomb that cast
loose the world from the old, secure
conception of existence, was the prodigal
son returning home.
Oliphant, white - haired, idealistic,
passionate, one of the most famous
scientists this country has produced, was
back at last, to lead Australia into the
new era, in which nuclear science would
provide the answer to everything that
this country lacked. If Oliphant did not
quite see himself in that role, it was
certainly the way he was regarded by
the Australian Government.
When Mr Ben Chifley and his Minis-
ters became convinced, after the last war,
that this country needed a great national
university to raise its scientific and cul-
tural standards, two names unquestion-
ably headed the list of Australia’s scienti-
fic expatriates who might be persuaded
to come home —Oliphant and Florey.
Sir Howard Florey, co-discoverer with
Fleming of the powers of penicillin, was
Professor of Pathology at Oxford.
Oliphant was Professor of Physics at
Birmingham. Both were invited to come
back and head research schools at the
Australian National University, to be
built at Canberra. The Federal Govern-
ment had decided that what money Aus-
tralia could spend on scientific research
could best be spent in such an institution,
and in government bodies such as the
C.5.1.R.0., rather than in the State
universities.
Florey declined, but Oliphant accepted.
And after 12 years Sir Mark Oliphant
remains the doyen of Australian scientists,
and retains the confidence of the Aus-
tralian Government. For his Research -
School of Physical Sciences he has re-
ceived, and is still receiving, all the
Federal money set aside for scientific
research, except that used by the Gov-
ernment for its own agencies, the
C.5.1.R.0. and the Atomic Energy
Commission.
How far has the bright future for
scientific research at Canberra, so con-
fidently predicted in 1949, come true?
How justified has the Federal Govern-
ment’s faith in centralised research
proved?
SIR MARK OLIPHANT
“The Fixer”
The story is all on the record. It is
a story that has split Australian science
down the middle, although the rift has,
in recent years, been concealed from the
public. But as Australia enters the
decade of the 'sixties desperately short
of scientists it becomes a story of loom-
ing importance.
Today Sir Mark Oliphant sits in his
laboratory in Canberra, with his staff
around him ; but it is far from being
the world-renowned centre of scientific
thought and discovery that he once hoped
to establish. His School of Physical
Sciences has not attracted the most
brilliant graduates from the other Aus-
tralian universities. The great atom-
smashing machine that he began building
more than ten years ago, to put Aus-
tralia in the forefront of nuclear research,
is still nowhere near completion.
How could things go so wrong in the
well-ordered world of physics, for a man
so gifted and dedicated to the cause of
science and its use to mankind?
'T'he Oliphant story begins in Cotton-
ville, South Australia. Marcus
Laurence Elwin Oliphant was born in
1901, and was soon noted for being
“clever with his hands.” He went bril-
liantly through Adelaide University,
where he helped pay his way by working
as a laboratory assistant. Here he further
developed the skills at making things that
later got him the name of “The Fixer.”
Oliphant won an Exhibition scholar-
ship to Cambridge, where he got his
Ph.D. In 1927 he was chosen by the
great Rutherford himself, the giant of
British nuclear physics, to work at the
Cavendish Laboratory in Cambridge.
Oliphant built much of Rutherford's
equipment, and gained the reputation of
being a genius at improvising. “I have
never met such a man for fixing,” said
a contemporary. “When something was
going wrong he came up, stuck his great
fingers into the middle, and before you
knew what he had done, it was working.’’
Finally Oliphant was appointed Pro-
fessor of Physics at Birmingham Univer-
sity, one of Britain's leading centres of
nuclear research. By this time Oiiphant
knew’ a lot about the cyclotron, a machine
for accelerating nuclear particies to
speeds sufficient to knock other particles
out of the atomic nucleus. This kind
of machine is the basic tool of nuclear
research ; and Oliphant became fascinated
with the devastating power of such
machines, their awesome potential in
unlocking the secrets of matter and of
the universe.
At Birmingham, in 1939, Oliphant
began building the biggest cyclotron in
Britain. It weighed 300 tons, and was de-
signed to produce bursts of particles with
energies of eight-million electron volts
—8 MEV, for short. When war broke
out, Oliphant worked on the problems
of radar, and later led the team of
British scientists that went to the United
States to work on, the atomic -bomb.
After the war Oliphant went back to
Birmingham. But he also began to make
himself heard on a grim subject—the use
of nuclear energy for the wrong pur-
poses. This is something that has always
worried him, like many another scientist,
and Oliphant’s outspoken views that “the
atom is for all mankind” are widely
known and respected.
By 1946 Oliphant had begun building
an even bigger atom-smashing machine
at Birmingham, weighing 1000 tons. That
same year plans were announced in
Canberra for the Australian National
University. Ministers went to Britain to
ask Oliphant if he would head the Re-
search School of Physical Sciences.


Mood of Revolution
Oliphant was fired with the idea of
joint Commonwealth scientific effort.
“What we want,” he said, “is a mood
0 f revolution among the youth of the
Empire,” and he urged Australia to
develop its own atomic research and
the production of atomic energy. But
he was not sure that he wanted to leave
the atmosphere of momentous scientific
development in Europe.
To a visitor to Birmingham, Oliphant
pointed out the cyclotron, and said:
“If Australia could provide its scientists
with equipment like that she’d have no
difficulty in keeping them at home.”
Chifley and Dedman, Minister for
Post - War Reconstruction, assured
Oliphant that he could have the money
for any kind of a machine that' he
wanted. Here Was an opportunity that
proved irresistible to Oliphant, “the
fixer” as well as the patriot. The Aus-
tralian National University, established
in July, 1946, was to consist of four
schools of research: into medicine, the
physical sciences, the social sciences, and
Pacific studies. There would be no
students to teach, no over-crowded classes
to fritter away a man’s energies and
time. It would be a centre of cerebration
and research, such as existed nowhere in
Australia.
Oliphant visited Canberra for several
weeks in January, 1947, discussing with
Chifley and his Cabinet the setting-up
of the School of Sciences. He told them
it would cost some £500,000 in capital,
and up to £BO,OOO a year to run. He
admitted to the press that he would very
much like to join “an Australian Oxford
or Cambridge, disseminating knowledge.”
Oliphant underlined the need for a
place where graduates with brains could
do their research. “It’s no use looking
for ideas in scientists over 35,” he said,
“because they , haven’t got any. All they
can do is direct, and create conditions
that enable the ideas of young men to
flourish.” Oliphant was then 46.
But he still hesitated to leave Birming-
ham. He told Chifley that his final
decision would depend upon whether
Sir Howard Florey and Sir Keith Han-
cock, another distinguished Australian
who was then Professor of Economic
History at Oxford, decided to accept the
posts offered to them at the A.N.U.
A year passed. At the beginning of
1948 Dedman said that the Federal
Government was still hoping to get
Oliphant. And in October, 1948, Chifley
announced that Professor Mark Oliphant
had accepted the invitation to become
Director of the Research School of
Physical Sciences, as soon as buildings
and equipment became available.
Neither Florey nor Hancock accepted
Ihe posts offered them at the time—
though Hancock came later. Oliphant,
however, was already planning the
machine he would build at Canberra.
He advised the A.N.U. to hurry' with
their building programme. “I might get
tired of waiting,” he said.
In July, 1949, Oliphant arrived in Can-
tarra to see how things were going, and
made his first specific announcement
shout the machine he intended to build.
It was a sensational claim. “It will be,”
he said, “the world’s largest super-
cyclotron, weighing 1500 tons, and pro-
ducing particles with energies of two-
billion electron volts.” This 2 BEV
machine sounded incredible. The largest
accelerator in existence at that time was
the \ BEV machine at the University of
California, while Standford University
was building a 1 BEV machine.
“My machine will be in operation by
1952 or 1953,” said Oliphant. And just
a year later, in July, 1950, Professor
Mark Oliphant resigned from Birming-
ham University (leaving his betatron
unfinished), and with his family sailed
for home and the “superoyclotron.”
At the time, the vice-chancellor of
the A.N.U., Professor Copland, set out
the aims of the establishment once again :
“It will attract more scholars from
abroad, as well as provide for first-rate
Australian research-workers. The im-
portance of this to Australia cannot be
over-emphasised.”
When Oliphant arrived in Australia
a reporter asked him if, perhaps, the
A.N.U. would starve the State univer-
sities of their best men. Oliphant said
this was nonsense. He pointed out that
the best men had been going abroad
anyway, but that now they would have
to go no further than Canberra to get
the same research facilities in the sciences.
During 1950 the buildings lor Oliphant’s
great proton-synchrotron (which is what
it was) got under way, and Oliphant
brought over to Canberra, as his chief
assistant, Dr E. W. Titterton. Titterton
had been one of the British team sent
to the U.S. during the war, and had gone
back to work at Harwell afterwards.
In August, 1950, Oliphant announced
that he intended to build a model to
“iron out faults” before he began the
assembly of the machine proper. The
design, he said, had been decided, and
was standard, but owing to technical
variations each synchrotron had to be
constructed by trial and error. He added
that the estimated cost had gone up from
£lOO,OOO to £500,000.
By the end of 1950 Oliphant felt
confident enough to be more specific in
his’ hopes. “By the end of 1951,” he
said, “Australia will be in a position to
go further than any other country in
atomic research.”
But 1951 came and went, with no news
from Canberra of the machine in opera-
tion, or even under test. In the middle
of 1952 Oliphant went to Britain to speed
up vital supplies of equipment. When
he came back to Australia he found a
significant change in the scientific scene.
A newcomer named Harry Messel had
taken over the School of Physics at
Sydney, and was bent on showing that
research could be done better at a live
university than at one without students.
By this time many scientists had
extended their criticism of the A.N.U.
to Oliphant’s own judgment in deciding to
build his big machine. They began, pri-
vately, to question Oliphant’s reliance on
his famed ability to improvise equipment,
and his known disdain for engineers.
They pointed out that his machine in
Birmingham was still not working.
Oliphant hit back spiritedly.
“There are those,” he in public,
“who argue that the building of large
accelerators is not justified, that they
can be done better in the U.S. This
policy of defeatism will never enable
Australia to advance towards maturity,
intellectually.” He admitted that his
Birmingham machine had been beaten by
the Brookhaven proton-synchrotron in
the U.S., owing to bigger efforts and
easier supplies. But he said that the
Birmingham machine would be operating
by 1953, and added that the Canberra
machine would be simpler, cheaper, and
would produce particles with greater
energies than any of the U.S. machines.
“Our objectives in the field of high
energy physics are comparable with any
in Europe or the U. 5.,” he added.
Events abroad, howeve:, were not pre-
pared to wait for Canberra. In Septem-
ber, 1952, came news from the U.S. of
a discovery making possible the con-
struction of a 100 BEV accelerator, a
machine of stupendous power. Oliphant
agreed that this was of “tremendous
importance,” but said that he was plan-
ning a 20 BEV machine to be installed
after the completion of his 2 BEV proton-
synchrotron. “I don’t think Australia
need despair of being out of the race in
nuclear research,” he said.
Messel Arrives
A few months later Professor Messel
at Sydney joined the race, a late but
explosive starter. He engaged five lead-
ing overseas physicists for the School of
Physics, and predicted that he would
turn it into one of the world’s leading
centres of research —despite its teaching
commitments. Messel said he would do
this by selecting a few narrow fields
of research in which Australia could
specialise and thus excel, rather than
to make the mistake of competing in
the field of bigness.
Now the split between Sydney and
Canberra was wide open. Oliphant
replied to Messel’s claim. “It may well
be true,” he said, “that the quality of
the staff recruited by. Professor Messel
will cast into the shade any other group
of physicists in Australia. But we are
content to wait for the verdict of time,
believing that it is ‘by their works ye
shall know them.’ ”
In the middle of 1953 news came from
Britain that Oliphant’s machine at Bir-
mingham was, after seven years, at last
“under test.” Oliphant cabled all con-
cerned his congratulations, and a fort-
night later issued a further progress
report on his. own machine in Canberra.
“We are making good progress with the
accelerator,” he said. “I hope it will
not be more than a year or so before it
is ‘completed.” He then disclosed that
his machine would be able to produce
protons with energies in the range of 10
BEV, “thus giving Australia the most
powerful atom research machine in the
world.”
This disclosure of the increased power


of the proton-synchrotron (Oliphant had
previously rated it at 2 BEV) was the
only hint Oliphant gave that he was
planning to alter the method of opera-
tion of the machine. (This could cer-
tainly step up the magnitude of the
power pulses, but it meant greatly reduc-
ing their frequency. Many kinds of
experiments would therefore take much
longer to carry out.)
And so the months passed. The otaff
at the A.N.U. continued to grow, until
there were more than eighty people work-
ing away on their researches. At the
end of 1953, however, the weighty
British scientific journal, “Nature,” pub-
lished an attack on the whole scientific
set-up in Australia, and the Australian
Government’s decision to give its re-
search funds to the C.5.1.R.0. and the
A.N.U., instead of to the teaching uni-
versities (where, by British and U.S. tradi-
tion, most original research has always
been done). “Nature” specifically criti-
cised the divorcing of the C.5.1.R.0. from
the universities, and said that this had
“weakened the progress of Australian
science as a whole.”
Oliphant, commenting, admitted that
the C.5.1.R.0. had been set up at the
expense of the universities, but said that
the latter “had not shown much drive or
originality in trying to attract finances
to themselves.” (Messel was even then
ready to demonstrate what could be done).
In the middle of 1954 there was further
evidence that Canberra resented the
growing volume of criticism from Syd-
ney, when Messel’s name was withdrawn
from consideration for membership of
the Australian Academy of Sciences, a
body in Canberra which was hoping to
become a kind of local Royal Society,
and of which Oliphant was President.
And so the end of 1954 came, and
then 1955 came and went, and still there
was no sign of life from Oliphant’s
machine (known by now in some scien-
tific circles, abroad as well as at home,
as the “white oliphant”). Oliphant him-
self was frequently in the news, urging
Australia to wake up to the promise of
industrial atomic energy. He also sug-
gested, at a time when Sputnik I was not
even suspected by the West, that a Com-
monwealth satellite programme should
be begun.
In Oliphant’s laboratory some work
was going on in the low-energy field,
under Titterton, with the help of the
U.K. Government, which had presented
the A.N.U. with a £50,000 electron-
synchrotron. But disquiet among the
Sydney physics group, and others, at
what was happening to the large sums
that were being spent on the high-energy
machine continued to grow, until
Oliphant realised that he would have to
do something or risk losing the confi-
dence of the Government.
So Oliphant invited Messel to bring
his team to Canberra and state their
case against the proton-synchrotron.
Oliphant would then answer. Disin-
terested but distinguished observers
would be invited to judge.
This dramatic confrontation, the Icind
of thing rarely seen since the 19th
century, took place on December 16,
1955. Oliphant began by admitting
“errors.” He said that he now realised
that the design change he had adopted
in 1951 was a mistake. It had looked
like a good gamble, said Oliphant, but
it had failed ; and now an American
machine had achieved one of the very
purposes for which he had planned his
machine: the discovery of a new particle
called the anti-proton. However, said
Oliphant, he did not give up when some-
one beat him to a certain scientific goal,
because there were always other goals.
He then revealed that all work had
stopped on the proton-synchrotron it:elf,
and that the main effort thereafter was
to be concentrated on the “homopolar
generator” (of which more later), which
HARRY MESSEL
“You’ll be left high and dry”
was to supply power to the proton-
synchrotron. . This generator, said
Oliphant, would be an achievement in
its own right, and useful for experiments
on its own, as soon as it was completed
Messel’s opening batsman was Dr J.
Blatt, a distinguished nuclear scientist
from the University of Illinois. Blatt
had a good case, but tended to over-
state it. He said that Oliphant’s pro-
ject had failed in its purpose of attract-
ing scientists and building up Australian
science ; that it had been fatal to attempt
to compete with others in the big-
machine field without adequate funds;
and that Oliphant had failed in his
promise to do not only good but “spec-
tacular” physics.
Oliphant demolished Blatt’s argument
in good debating style. He said that he
had never looked upon his project as
something intended primarily to attract
overseas scientists and build up Aus-
tralian science, although the A.N.U. may
have thought of it in that way. There-
fore the failure of these things to eventu-
ate was not a failure of his project.
Furthermore, said Oliphant, going over
to the attack, he had no time for those
who were afraid that Australia could
not compete with other countries. If
we continued to be frightened, said
Oliphant, we would never achieve any-
thing or even start anything.
Messel then went in to bat —a captain’s
innings. He said that refusing to com-
pete in a field where you knew you would
be beaten was not showing fear. He
had considered all along that the big
machine was a waste of time and effort
but now the big question was: when
would the proton-synchrotron be ready,
and what experiments did Oliphant plan
to do with it?
Oliphant bowled defensively for a few
overs. The machine could be ready
within two years, he said, or, looking a
it on the pessimistic side, within four
years at the latest (making the completion
date 1959). He said he had no specific
experiments of an original nature in
mind, but he felt that it was unlikely
that the Americans and the Russians
would exhaust all the possibilities in the
high-energy field before the Canberra
machine came into action.
Messel then hit out. He suggested
that by the time Oliphant’s machine was
working all the interesting and exciting
work would have been done, and that
the Canberra group would be left high
and dry. He pointed out that already the
British had learned their lesson and had
almost stopped work on big machines,
but had instead joined with other Euro-
pean countries to share the expense of a
very powerful machine at Geneva for
their common use.
“Don’t Sell Us Short”
Out now Oliphant loosed a barrage of
bumpers which effectively scattered
Messel’s team. Speaking with all the
passion and conviction of which he was
capable (and justly to be admired for),
Oliphant put up a 'spirited defence for
Australia. Don’t sell Australian brains
short, he said. Don’t under-estimate our
ingenuity and our original approaches.
And, above all, don’t say that there is
nothing we can do simply because we
don’t have the resources of bigger
nations.
With this attitude Oliphant won the
day. The cold facts were swamped by
the appeal for a “fair go.” All Messel’s
group could do was to wish Oliphant
success. And, in fact, from that time the
Sydney group has never said a word in
public against Oliphant’s project.
A few months after the great debate
Oliphant announced to the National
Engineers’ Conference that his machine
would be operating within two years.
“We still have lots of problems ahead
of us,” he said, “but the task of building
the machine has been of much the same
importance as the work we will perform
when the synchrotron is operating.”
In fact the task of building the machine
was proving much more difficult than
even Oliphant could ever have expected
This was due to the design which
Oliphant had devised himself.
The conventional way to accelerate
particles to atom-smashing speeds is to
inject them into a kind of giant doughnut
containing a Strong magnetic field. The
particles are accelerated round the ring
by the fluctuations of the magnetic field,
and bursts of them can be fired at the
target as often as 200 times a second.
The magnetic field is produced by passing
electric current from a standard type of
generator through miles of wire wound
round an iron core, the iron having the
effect of multiplying the strength of the


magnetic field. To get the high energies
required for nuclear research this magnet
may have to be hundreds of feet in
diameter and contain thousands of tons
of iron. (The Soviet machine at Kiev
js reputed to weigh more than the steel
in the Sydney Harbor Bridge.)
In order to make his machine cheaper
than those overseas, Oliphant had de-
cided to do without this huge mass of
iron. A magnetic field can be set up
without an iron core, but the charges
of electricity through the windings must
be much greater—far greater than can
be obtained from any conventional
generator. And the wire windings, in
this case, must be replaced by huge coils
of copper, which are subjected to
immense disruptive forces when the cur-
rent passes, and must be held in mon-
strous cages of metal and concrete.
To get his big currents of electricity,
Oliphant had decided right at the begin-
ning to use a homopolar generator. This
type of generator is well known but
rarely used outside a laboratory, where
it is looked upon primarily as a demon-
stration instrument. In the homopolar
generator a metal disc is set spinning like
a top. A magnetic field is suddenly
switched on around the disc and immedi-
ately brings it to a halt. In the process
the mechanical energy contained in the
spinning disc is converted into a burst
of electrical energy, which, if contact is
made with the disc, can be led away and
utilised.
What Oliphant set out to do —and is
still trying to do after ten years—was to
build a giant homopolar generator,
bigger than any that had ever been seen
before. The two steel rotors weigh 40
tons each. When these masses of steel,
spinning at nearly 1000 revolutions a
minute, are suddenly brought to a stop
by the magnetic field the stresses involved
will run into thousands of tons and
strain the very building itself. The bu*st
of electrical energy produced is such
that no ordinary contacts could take the
current out of the rotors. So Oliphant
is planning to use jets of liquid sodium,
squirted agqjnst the rotors, as conduc-
tors. The mechanical and electrical prob-
lems involved are made more forbidding
by the fact nothing- like this has ever
been done before, anywhere.
Throughout 1956, however, Oliphant
and his group kept tryihg. Oliphant him-
self in that year had to swallow another
disappointment. In June, 1956, the Soviet
10 BEV synchrotron went into action,
and Oliphant was invited by the Soviet
Academy of Sciences to attend the open-
ing ceremony. Oliphant did so, and said
later that the Soviet achievement had
“dashed Australia’s hopes of being first
in the field,” but he went on to say that
his machine would still be the second in
the world of 10 BEV capacity, even
though it might not be fully completed
until 1958.
Work continued all through 1957. In
January, 1958, as a sign of the buried
hatchet, Oliphant was invited to speak
a t Messel’s first Summer School for
science teachers. Oliphant accepted, and
® his speech made a revealing remark.
We have forgotten to deal with science
as a human activity carried out by men
and women,” he said. “We have tended,
perhaps naturally, to set up a smoke-
screen of jargon and strange glamor
about our own work.”
In March of 1958 Oliphant reminded
the country again of his hopes for the
Canberra machine. News had come of
experiments abroad in thermonuclear
energy. Oliphant said that A.N.U.
scientists would help these experiments.
“We have unique equipment in the homo-
polar generator,” he said, “a source of
high pulse energy. The generator is near
completion. We feel we should use it to
help harness thermonuclear power.”
In June, 1958, Oliphant predicted that
he would be able to carry out his
thermonuclear experiments “next year”
(1959). Then he was appointed to lead
the Australian delegation of 27 scientists
(including Messel, who had also by this
time helped. Oliphant obtain a new
£600,000 low-energy machine for Titter-
ton to work with) which went to the
world conference on atomic energy in
Geneva.
On his return Professor Oliphant be-
came Sir Mark Oliphant, K.B.E. In the
A.N.U. annual report for 1958, which
came out shortly after the New Year
Honors list, Sir Mark had, however, little
progress to report on the homopolar
generator.
E. W. TITTERTON
A Harwell Man
Another year, 1959, passed, during
which Oliphant and Professor Stuart
Butler, of Sydney University, represented
Australia at a Soviet conference on
nuclear physics - at Kiev —but still the
homopolar generator had not been com-
pleted. By this time the A.N.U. had
grown even larger, although Dr Emery
Bares, the commentator, in a long report
on the university, said that young men
on the staff were complaining of “a lack
of a cultured, intellectual atmosphere,”
and found it too dominated by the pro-
vincial, civil-service mentality of Can-
berra itself. Bares wrote at length on
the activities of the Curtin Medical
School, the School of Social Sciences
and the School of Pacific Studies—but
could find only two paragraphs to say
about the School of Physical Sciences
(although ne did say handsomely that
“the work done here is in the highest
world class”).
Another year passed, and the A.N.U.
annual report for 1959 revealed further
troubles in Oliphant’s laboratory—bear-
ing failures in the rotor mechanism of
the generator. Said Oliphant: “The
whole system of rotor support, compris-
ing bearings, shaft and shaft -to - rotor
joint, needed to be made more rigid.
With these results in mind, the bearing
design was reviewed in the light of
modern engineering practice and exten-
sive inquiries abroad. This showed that
nowhere have bearings been made to
carry such high loads with variable shaft
speeds and reversal of direction of rota-
tion as is required in this generator.
Nevertheless, revised designs have been
completed on the basis of the experience
gained during these tests, and it is clear
that the difficulties experienced can be
overcome.”
That was 1959. The report for 1960
has not yet been published. It is known,
however, that bearing failures are still
occurring, and that the complicated sys-
tem of liquid sodium conductors has yet
to be tested. Under the best working
conditions the homopolar generator,
having to be “wound up” to speed be-
tween discharges, would still only pro-
duce a burst of high energy once every
seven or eight minutes, which in itself
immediately restricts its usefulness. And
this is only the source of power—the
proton - synchrotron itself has yet to be
built.
But Sir Mark Oliphant’s critical fellow-
scientists are mainly concerned at the
amount of money which this ill-starred
Venture is diverting from the whole field
of Australian scientific research. In
1959, the last year for which figures are
available, the Resear h School of Physi-
cal Sciences received, as in 1958, more
money (£445,000) than any of the other
three schools that make up the A.N.U.
It also had the largest staff (50). But it
attracted the fewest number of graduate
research students (23) and put out fewer
scientific publications than any school
except Pacific Studies, which is much
smaller.
If the Departments of Astronomy (Mt
Stromlo) and Geophysics are left out of
the picture of the Research School the
remaining Departments of Nuclear
Physics, Theoretical Physics and Particle
Physics (Oliphant’s own), have a record
that hardly lives up to the image of a
famous and prestigious centre of atomic-
age research envisaged in 1948.
The most disappointed man of all
must be Sir Mark Oliphant. But as a
fellow-scientist has said: “How can any-
one admit that something that has cost
nearly a million pounds is a mistake?”
v Perhaps Oliphant is beginning to admit
it to himself. A few months ago, after
a tour of Britain and the U.S., he said:
“We cannot hope to compete on the
same scale in scientific fields as nations
like the U.S. But we can make a very
useful contribution along our own lines.”
The verdict of time, as Sir Mark once
put it, may yet be that Australia’s leading
scientist was side-tracked, at the peak of
his career, by the dream of a boy who
was clever with his hands.


PERSONAL
The Big Persuader
Any Australian housewife asked in the
coming year to recall the chair she
hated most in her childhood need have
no guilt feelings about her early toilet-
training. She is merely being subjected
to a “depth interview” by a “motivational
researcher,” designed to elicit the “souk’
of the ideal TV-viewing chair.
“Everything,” says Dr Ernest Dichter,
“from wheaties to washing powder, has a
soul, an essential inner image that makes
you want to buy it. We tell the manu-
facturer how to get that soul into his
product.”
Dr Dichter is known in the U.S. as
the father of “motivational research,” the
widely criticised but rapidly growing
technique of “selling through the sub-
conscious.” Or, as Vance Packard puts
it in his book, “The Hidden Persuaders,”
“the manipulation of peoples' minds to
induce acceptance of products, ideas,
attitudes, states of mind, or candidates.”
Dr Dichter has just paid a rapid visit
to Australia to finalise the establishment „
of his methods here, in conjunction with
John P. Young and Associates, one of
the largest management-consultant firms
in this country.
Dr Dichter is a middle-aged American
of Austrian origin, with some lay ex
perience of psychiatry. He wears horn-
rimmed glasses, and looks keenly at every-
one he meets, as if seeking repressed buy-
ing impulses.
“It’s no use asking anyone what they
like, or why they buy it,” he says
decisively, “because if you do they start
asking themselves why they like- it, and
then they come up with an answer that
gratifies their ego.
“We asked housewives in New York
what they most disliked in soap-operas
—you know, radio and TV serials. They
said ‘all that divorce.’ So we took the
divorce out, and the housewives stopped
watching the soap-operas.”
Dr Dichter’s interviewers take a differ-
ent line now. They ask people about
anything but the subject under review.
They psychoanalyse them, after a fashion,
by asking them to talk about all the
“pleasures, joys, enthusiasms, agonies,
nightmares, deceptions and apprehen-
sions” that the product recalls to them.
They even use the Rorschach ink-blot
test, in which the subject is asked to
say what an extended ink-blot reminds
him of. From this, deductions are
drawn about the subject’s wishes and
“self-projections.”
Dr Dichter, for his standard consulta-
tion fee of 500 dollars (about £260) a
day, will advise advertising agencies
how to successfully market anything from
cigarettes to tourist paradises. “The
successful agency,” he says, “manipulates
human motivations and desires, and
develops a need for goods with which
the public has been unfamiliar, and may
not even have wanted at all.”
As a result, companies acting on Dr
Dichter’s advice now offer far more than
the product itself. They persuade cus-
tomers that they are buying not soap, but
beauty ; not orange juice, but vitality ;
not cars, but prestige ; not cigarettes, but
masculinity ; not after-shave lotion, but
virility ; not power-boats, but power
itself.
/"\ne of Dr Dichter’s most profound con-
elusions was that people who bought
“self-indulgent” products like sweets,
liquor, soft drinks and cigarettes had
hidden “guilt feelings” about doing this.
He concluded that “every time you sell”
a self-indulgent product you have to
assuage the buyer’s guilt feelings—offer
absolution.”
In this way he helped correct a big
decline in candy sales in the U.S. by
telling manufacturers to hit back at the
belief that candy was simply fattening
and bad for the teeth. He told them to
emphasise that their large bars or packets
contained “bite-size” pieces. This would,
he said, give the customer an excuse to
buy without feeling guilty. “After all, I
can eat a small piece and keep the rest
for some other time,” he visualised the
customer saying.
Dr Dichter told cigarette-manufac-
turers, frightened by the cancer scare, to
stop telling people that smoking wouldn’t
kill them. He urged them to remind
Dr ERNEST DICHTER
Every product has a soul.
people that they smoked mainly when
working hard or under strain, and there-
fore deserved the “comfort” that a
cigarette gave them.
But Dr Dichter’s classic investigation
was in the field of utilising hidden sexual
yearnings to assist sales —in this case, of
cars. He was asked by the Chrysler Cor-
poration to investigate a puzzling pheno-
menon: men car-buyers were obviously
most attracted by convertibles, and could
be lured into a showroom more easily by
a display of convertibles than by any
other model. But they nearly always
ended up buying a saloon. Why?
Dr Dichter concluded that a man saw
in a convertible a “symbolic mistress,”
reminding him of daydreams of romances
with flashy, exciting girls. But, just as
he invariably married a plain girl, he
bought a “wife” kind of car—a safe,
down-to-earth saloon.
As a result the company combined
the images of wife and mistress —and the
“hard-top convertible” (which was really
only a saloon that looked like a con-
vertible) became the most successful new
model since the early days of the auto-
mobile.
■pvß Dichter’s advice is also taken, he
says, by countries anxious to attract
tourists or investment. First, in order to
build up an “image” of a country, he
has to find out what the people of that
country think of it themselves. __
“We -don’t ask direct, of course,” he
says. “We attack the country, and see
how readily its citizens come to its
defence.”
Americans and Germans, says Dr
Dichter with some pride, won't let any-
one criticise their country. This, he says,
is a sign of “balanced maturity.” South
Americans, Frenchmen, and Australians,
however, not only permit criticism, he
says reprovingly, but actually join in.
“I’ve told many Australians that joke
that Ava Gardner made when she said
that ‘On the Beach’ was a film about the
end of the world, and that in Melbourne
they’d found the perfect place to make
it. And you know something? They
just laughed and said she was right.”
Dr Dichter shook his head doubt-
fully. It looks as if his “depth inter-
viewers” may find themselves in very deep
waters when they go into action out here.
• •
Words From
the Elite
“nPHE average uneducated native be-
comes hopelessly irresponsible under
the influence of liquor . . . Europeans
can drink from a bottle of whisky and
leave some for another time. But natives
would drink the lot.”
Who said it? A missionary? A
planter? A colonial administrator? No-
At any rate a white man? No indeed.
An educated Papuan native, Mr Albert
Maori Kiki, announcing in the middle 01
a flurry of reports from New Guinea of
Army unrest, civil retrenchments and
brawls, that liquor was “strangling the
health, prosperity and progress” of his
people.
Mr Kiki’s use of the qualification


“uneducated” is the only clue to his first
statement’s source; few white men
would bother to use it. But to Mr Kiki,
leader of the Kerema Welfare Society,
which he organised over the past few
years out of a conviction that his people
needed to be united and their se'nse of
civic responsibility lifted, the implied dis-
tinction must be vitally important.
A brilliant product of the Papuan
Gulf’s Orokolo mission school, Kiki was
“making tea” in the Education Depart-
ment at Port Moresby when a senior
officer there picked him out to be trained
as a teacher at the advanced-education
centre at Sougeri. He later spent some
years as a medical trainee in Suva, and
in 1958 he was involved in the clash
at Moresby between members of the
Papuan Infantry Regiment and men of
his own Kerema tribe. Shortly after-
wards he began to organise the now
strong Kerema Welfare Society.
He is thus one of the few Papuans
capable of seeing his people - and their
problems through the glass of higher
education, travel and personal involve-
ment ; one of ihe brightest hopes to
have emerged for leadership in his
country’s uncertain journey towards
nationhood.
Some observers have taken his state-
ment on liquor as the foretaste of an
attitude to be expected more and more
from Papua’s emerging leaders towards
their own people—an attitude even more
paternalistic than that of the white
administrators.
• •
A.W.G.C.’s Break
with Tradition
T'he appointment of Tumut (N.S.W.)
grazier W. P. Nicholas as chief
executive officer of the Australian Wool-
growers’ and Graziers’ Council is a break
with tradition. It is rare, if not unknown,
for a man holding high office in a
primary-producer organisation to go on
the salaried staff. It happens in business,
of course ; but here a more likely com-
parison is a State Minister resigning to
become permanent head of a Common-
wealth department.
But neither business nor politics pro-
vides an exact parallel with the primary-
producer organisations, which are in-
volved in both fields —wool, after all, is
Australia’s biggest have a
quality of their own. Significant differ-
ences are a strong amateur tradition and
an interlocking of State and Federal
offices. W. P. Nicholas, for instance,
was elected to the Graziers’ Federal Coun-
cil in 1959, and became vice-president of
the N.S.W. Graziers’ Association last
year. Tom Scott is president of both the
N.S.W. Graziers’ Association and the
Australian Woolgrowers’ and Graziers’
Council.
The new post of chief executive officer
of the relatively new A.W.G.C. —the
result of a merger last year between the-
Graziers’ Federal Council and the Aus-
tralian Woolgrowers’ Council —is a big
one. Its creation, and a related re-
shuffling of A.W.G.C. staff, indicate a
change in thinking by graziers—an aware-
ness of the need to present their case to
Governments and special tribunals, such
as the Tariff Board, at least as well as
other industries, and an increasing interest
in the Federal sphere.
W. P. Nicholas is a son of the late Mr
Justice Nicholas. Contemporaries at The
Kings School, Parramatta, remember him
as a masterful youth, good at sport and
class. At Paul’s College, Sydney Univer-
sity, he was a useful 440 runner, cricketer
and footballer. Fie collected “blues” in
athletics and football and an Australian
Universities’ “blue.”
After graduating in Vet. Science he did
a bit of jackerooing, then joined the
Second A.1.F., serving with the 2/2 M.G.
Bn. in the Middle East, New Guinea and
North Borneo. He was a Company Com-
mander in the islands and was mentioned
in dispatches ; after the war he was C.O.
of the (C.M.F.) 7/21 Australian Horse.
A newcomer to the Tumut district
after the war, Nicholas quickly made his
mark in local affairs —and in the Graziers’
Association. A tall, greying, well-built,
fresh-complexioned man in his forties,
he has a calm, judicial manner in debate
—which he will now need.
Into the Silence:—
At The Entrance (N.S.W.), at 72, Theodore
Cleveland Roughley, one of Australia’s fore-'
most fishing authorities. During his 28 years
with the Technological Museum in Sydney, he
achieved world fame by his discovery that
oysters change their sex during their lifetime.
From 1939 to 1952 he was N.S.W. Director
of Fisheries. A well-known broadcaster and
author, he often wrote articles for The
Bulletin and other papers, published several
popular books on fishing, including “The Story
of the Oyster,” “Cult of the Goldfish,”
“Wonders of the Great Barrier Reef” and
“Fish and Fisheries of Australia.’*
In Sydney, at 60, Vic Peters, well-known
sportsman who was associated with greyhound
racing for more than 40 years, and was secre-
tary of the N.S.W. Greyhound Breeders,
Owners and Trainers Association.
In Sydney, at 81, Charles William Heyde, a
former director of British Tobacco Gompany
(Aust.), Ltd. Heyde was a Fellow of the
Chartered Institute of Secretaries and for many
years was associated with Sydney Hospital and
the Royal Fife Saving Society.
In Devon (Eng.), at 98, Eden Philpotts, one
of Britain’s most prolific writers. His 250
published works included novels, plays, poetry,
essays, detective stories, fairytales- and books
on gardening, nature and wildlife. His most
successful play, “The Farmer’s Wife,” written
in 1917, ran for three years in London.
In Sydney, at 60, William Raymond Caroll,
Director of Public Works in N.S.W. since 1958.
He was largely responsible for supervising the
construction of Adaminaby Dam and the inner
harbor of Port Kembla.
The Australian Novelists
2. PATRICK WHITE
Patrick White,
at 48, has become
one of the few
c o n t r o versial
figures in Austra-
lian writing— not
because of the
way he behaves,
but simply be-
cause of the way
he writ e s. His
last book, “Yoss,”
aroused world -
wide praise and
widespread deri-
sion. His tangled
prose is, to some,
as compelling as
the eye of the
Ancient Mariner;
to others it is a verbal obstacle-course.
Mr White himself —a tall, gaunt,
calm man who lives a solitary, tranquil
life in a farmhouse near Sydney—is
the last one to become involved in
explanations.
He was born in 1912, lived in the
country, and was educated in England.
He began writing early, even while
working as a jackeroo in the Monaro
valley. His unhappy experiences there
formed the basis of his first published
novel (there are still five in MS.), “The
Happy Valley,” which came out in
1939.
During a long sojourn in Europe he
immersed himself in European art and
literature, “eating his way through it
and out the other side,” as an observer
put it. He has said nothing of what he
thought of it all, except that the
e x i s t e n tialists
were “revolting.”
After a spell
with the R.A.F.
during the war
he came back to
Australia, a coun-
try whose limit-
less silences
seemed to pro-
vide him with the
peace he needed
to catch the sound
of distant thun-
der.
His next novel,
“The Au n t’s
Story,” was a
failure. White was
depressed, and
wrote nothing for two years. Then he
slowly began to write again, and four
years later produced “The Tree of
Man,” a family saga of struggle and
triumph on the land that had him en-
thusiastically labelled “the Antipodean
Thomas Hardy.” *
Another two years passed, and in
1957 came “Voss.” This story of a
German introvert and his ragged band
wandering in the interior was read by
some as a frontier adventure, by others
as a psychic love story, and yet others
as a Bunyanesque safari across the hin-
terland of the mind in search of God.
White writes for four hours a day,
in long-hand. The direction of his next
expedition remains to be seen. “I do
not start with a story,” he says. “My
books are a series of encounters be-
tween characters.”


What Indonesians Think of Us
Little or Nothing
By CHARLES MEEKING
The Fourth in a Series on Asian Attitudes to Australia
Only a small proportion of Indo-
nesians knows or cares anything
about Australia. As elsewhere
in Asia, large chunks- of people
outside the small official and politi-
cal circles have either no knowledge
of us, or some distorted notions from
casual reports or contacts. The average
Indonesian, just moving out of the stage
of mass illiteracy, would probably lump
us in with British and Americans,
although propaganda now is possibly
telling him that we are linked with the
disliked Dutch. As Miss Tay said in
her article on Malayans, we are apt to
be counted simply as Europeans. In
other words, Indonesians in general know
as little about Australians as Australians
know about Indonesians.
f ,
One thing in our favor is the vast
listening audience in Indonesia which
hears Radio Australia. This means that
a great many Indonesians outside official
circles hear and learn something about
Australia. It is a slightly eerie experience
for an Australian deep in some remote
part of Indonesia to hear a Radio A us-
tralia programme. The radio set may
be in the headman’s house, and the
villagers gather there at broadcast time,
and listen with obvious pleasure. The
musical programmes are widely appre-
ciated, the news summary is accepted as
accurate and impartial. By far the largest
proportion of the 100,000 letters a year
concerning Radio Australia which the
A.B.C. receives from Asia comes from
Indonesia. Questions asked by the writers
cover a remarkable range of subjects,
It is impossible to say whether the
effects will be lasting, and whether Radio
Australia will continue to be heard so
widely in future. Over the last few years,
however, this service has been the most
potent factor in making us known to
Indonesians.
'T'he university graduate scheme, a small
A but impressive venture, is less well
known in both Australia and Indonesia,
It means briefly that some young Austra-
lian graduates have been prepared to
devote two or three years to training
Indonesians in special skills,
The great point is that they are
prepared to accept the low Indonesian
rates of pay, and to live with Indonesian
families in Indonesian conditions. The
effect Qf on Indonesians has bee n
ver y g rea t, considering the small num-
bers Q £ g radua tes involved. Many hun-
dreds of residents in one of the poorest
parts of Djakarta, for example, knew
about two Australian girls who conducted
a pharmacy close to one of the odorous
canals. The girls accepted practically
no money for their work; they ate
Indonesian food and learned to speak
Indonesian. These facts were reported
far and wide, and they undoubtedly had
more influence on Indonesian feelings
towards Australia than the expensive
diesel buses which Indonesia sought from
Australia under the Colombo Plan, and
which add to the traffic tangles in
Djakarta.
As elsewhere in Asia, the material gifts
and—strictly off the record ...”
under the Colombo Plan often seem to
the observer to be of doubtful value in
promoting friendly feelings. The
despatch of experts in health, education
agriculture and other matters, the training
of students, the supply of secondary
school and university text-books have a
more lasting effect. Educated Indonesians
appreciate technical help “without
strings” from any source. Indonesians
generally are a friendly and hospitable
people, delighted to welcome visitors.
Many who have come here have formed
warm friendships with Australians.
A mong those Indonesians who know
of the “White Australia” policy
there seems to be no resentment of it,
They know their students may come
here freely, and that we have little or no
color prejudice. This may appear sur-
prising in view of what Neil Mclnnes
reported of Indian reaction and what
Miss Tay said of the feeling of the
Chinese in Malaya. It may stem in part
from the fact that the Indonesians, unlike
some Indians and Chinese, have never
wanted to migrate to Australia and are
not likely to do so. They think of Aus-
tralia as mostly arid, compared with their
own lush fertility, and have a trans-
migration programme of their own,
although inadequate in scope. It aims
at moving communities from the crowded
areas of Java to the unpopulated parts of
Sumatra, Borneo, Celebes —and later to
“West Irian.” They estimate that the
republic can, eventually support a popu-
lation of 200 million.
Another factor is that “color” was
never an issue in their own country,
even in the days of the Netherlands East
Indies. The Dutch had no segregation
policy, apart from the fact that they
were reluctant to develop or encourage
true self-government in the Indies. There
was no ban on inter-marriage, and many
Dutchmen married Indonesian women.
In spite of all the favorable factors,
most of them admittedly small, which
should persuade Indonesians to under-
stand Australian problems, and think
well of us, there is the major unfavorable
one, the vexed issue of West New Guinea,
There has recently been a good deal of
newspaper criticism in Indonesia of Mr
Menzies and the Australian stand. This
is the more disturbing because the Indo-
nesian press, ten yeai;s ago among the
freest in the world, is now under rigid
official control. In other words, it seems
that the Indonesians are being “condi-
tioned” to be critical of' Australia, to
consider us exponents and supporters of
“colonialism.” If this is so, and if this
feeling spreads in inflammatory fashion,
then all other gestures aimed at good-
will and understanding could be forgot-
ten. The recent suggestion by the Indo-;
nesian Embassy in Canberra to
Djakarta that Australia should be in-
vited to participate in the 1962 Asian
Games in Indonesia would be pigeon-
holed, the stream of students would dry
up, there would be disinclination to
accept Colombo Plan aid, even in the (
terms of Soekarno’s warning in 1959:
“Do not think that assistance will P r0 ‘
duce a nation in your own image.
not think that what applies in other
countries will necessarily apply here.”


OVERSEAS
Australia for the White Man?
By “OBSERVER”
Readers are invited to
submit correspondence on
the subject of this article.
The Bulletin has dropped its old
motto “Australia For The White
Man.” It is a matter, more than any-
thing else, of common-sense and of taste.
One can still support a restrictionist
immigration programme on economic
and social grounds but not —in 1961 for
Heaven’s sake! —on the color of people’s
skins.
To put it as a matter of expediency,
this is the kind of insult that Australia
can no longer afford. We are a small
Power living a secluded life by virtue
of the American H-bomb. In our more
cheeky days we were an even smaller
Power living a secluded life by virtue
of the Royal Navy, but almost everyone
in a non-European skin at that time was
being kept in some kind of order by
someone in a European skin. Now the
allies who keep us safe from Communist
danger—and that is our danger —can
perhaps continue to do so only if they
can keep most of the people with non-
European skins on our side.
If, in the middle of this, we start
flapping the color of our skins at every-
one we become meddlesome, troublesome
and downright absurd. Those of us who
spend our time sprawling around on
beaches are more than a little off-white
anyway, lighter than most Africans, but
darker than most Asians. Even in the
winter we mostly range from pink to light
brown. Surely we can stop this nonsense
about skins.
But the old reasons for restricting non-
Europeans still apply. We do not want
Queensland flooded with cheap Filippino
labor—nor Sydney run by Singapore
millionaires. One can exaggerate the
number of people of non-European
origin who want to come to this country,
but if we freed immigration of all restric-
tions there would be those in whose
interest it would be to import cheap
labor. All the basic wages in the world
would not stop a depression in some
standards of living.
We would also import—quite insanely
—the kind of race disturbances of which
we are now completely free. It may be
irrational that people cause race dis-
turbances, but a sudden flood of non-
European migration would undoubtedly
cause them —and all the sweet, rational
arguments in the world would do nothing
about it.
Above all, our ability to live in a
country of predominantly European
culture might be destroyed. Well—why
should it be destroyed? The Indians are
anxious to preserve their own ways of
living, as are the Indonesians, the Bur-
mese and every other national group.
These people restrict their immigration.
Why can’t we? It is one of the sovereign
rights of a nation that its Government
can decide whom it lets in and whom
it keeps out ; we have decided.
These massive arguments, of course,
apply only to those who want no restric-
tions, who would like to see tens of
thousands of Asians come in each year.
THE SUICIDE SQUAD.
London “Sunday Times.”
Tlie more common argument now is that
in the name of morality and/or ex-
pediency we should establish a quota
system, a token affair which would show
that we do not follow a policy of
apartheid, but would not, in fact, let all
that many people of non-European
racial origin in. The obvious fault in
this argument is its possible impractica-
bility : How do you establish the quotas
without offending everybody? Would
quotas not set up a much greater pressure
to come to Australia than exists at
present? But there are at least three
assumptions in the w'hole argument that
are also worth examining as examples
of what some people say when con-
fronted with a non-European skin.
The first is the moral assumption. Very
few people would suggest the loosening
of other kinds of restrictions of immigra-
tion on moral grounds, but there is a
feeling of obligation that many of us
have towards Asians —a quite insulting
feeling, by the way—that they are some-
how children who have to be helped ;
that in their case, everything is different.
It is an inversion of the old superior
white-skin Complex: these innocent chil-
dren are better than us —although not
so well off—and we must look after them.
'The second is the expediency assump-
A tion. Hundreds of millions of Asians
are all living up there in the North and
the only way we can stop them from
pouncing and gobbling us up is to feed
them interesting titbits. Concessionary
policies are now, of course, part of the
progressive vogue: you give people things
and then they like you. There is no
evidence to believe that this is necessarily
so, but it is for the moment considered
to be the clever, hard-headed way of
going on. It is connected with a feeling
of panic—that everybody is stronger
than we are, therefore we had better give
in. To state this attitude is to criticise it.
The third is the apartheid assumption.
Some Australians harp on this to the
point almost of treachery. Distinguished
Indians come here, expecting a rigid
South African type racial division. They
are astounded, perhaps even disappointed,
when they find —in the cities anyway—
an almost complete indifference to ques-
tions of skin. The simple fact is that it
is Australian criticism of Australian
immigration policies that has given so
many people the idea that inside this
country we follow a policy of race ex-
clusion. If we combined all of our efforts
to knocking this one —and on this ques-
tion dropping The Bulletin’s old nio{to
has done no harm—a large part of the
undoubted dissatisfaction with our immi-
gration policies among the intellectuals
of a great number of countries might
begin to disappear. To strengthen the
point we would certainly be well advised
to do something about the aborigines and
let the world know about it—pretty soon.
There are refinements of the quota
system suggestion that at least make
better sense. Supporters of these policies


suggest selective migration treaties, that,
—rather than have ten of everybody,
or whatever it is that the quotas would
do —we should enter in agreement with,
say, fellow Commonwealth countries on
a quota basis. This would lead, it is
suggested, to a carefully controlled token
migration which would show that our
heart is in the right place, without run-
ning some of the risks of the quotas.
There may be something in this —
although, like the quotas, <t might lead
to heavier and wider pressure—but why
do it? Is there any immediate great
danger that makes this change in policy
necessary? I do not see that there is.
No other nation is making any threats
to us to try to get us to change our
immigration policy. In diplomatic mat-
ters we do not lack Asian friends. At
least some Governments —and Indonesia
is one —do not want their nationals to
stay here because the very people who
might come are those scarce, skilled
Indonesians the Indonesians need most.
Certainly, our present immigration policy
can cause embarrassment to Australian
travellers in Asia (which does not matter
much) and we do get a bad press—but
exactly how much does that matter
either? Should we not be more con-
cerned with putting our side of the case
and, in general, acting decently so that
more and more people see us as we w'ould
like to be—or are.
I think that both for those who believe
in our traditional migration policy and
those who don’t the successive Menzies
Governments have done an almost ideal
job. What they have done does not
please the dangerous men who believe
that you must not take human irration-
ality into account in human situations
and would like to see hundreds of thou-
sands of Asians all over the place. But
for those who support restricted immi-
gration the Government’s politics have
done the great service of taking some
of the white out of the White Australia
policy. By letting some Asians in, and
by avoiding the scandals of Mr Calwell’s
Asian-hunting period as Immigration
Minister, they have made the policy work.
And for those who support a relaxation
of the restrictions the Government’s
policy has provided an educative period
London “Evening Standard.”
“But the trouble is when you get on to any kind of moral escalator, to know
whether you’re ever going to be able to get off.”
Sir Charles Snow.
in which public opinion has somewhat
changed.
The kind of intellectuals whose social
spectrum gives them a simple alternation
of black and white may find Govern-
ment policy a bit dull. It is an empirical,
conservative and indeed arbitrary policy •
there are no definitions, no lines drawn',
no pronouncements ; for someone used
to bookish excitements it may seem
pretty disgracefully uninspired. But it.
has worked..
For it to continue to work it must be
associated with more positive policies—
especially with the aborigines and the
Papuans. It is also important that the
new Minister for External Affairs, when
he is appointed, should provide the right
kind of flair Because if you are going
to shut the door in people’s faces you
have to be polite about it.
Laos
Cffß, —They are not worth much, the
buildings of Vientiane, and the people
who inhabit that shabby administrative
centre had little to live for and less to
die for. One hopes that Luang Prabang
will have a better fate. This is one of the
most beautiful towns in the world, with
a royal palace the size of a very small
country house, and almost every four
buildings a temple: a town of bells and
peace.
One cannot believe, now that the
French have gone, that the people of
Laos are much concerned'with either of
the warring parties ; there is not the
fervent common enthusiasm, which made
the war in Vietnam a national war, and
it is tragic to think that it is a Western
Power which has brought war back.
The dream of a neutral Laos was a
good one, but it is idle to think that
neutrality can fail to have a certain
coloring when the neutral country lies
on the borders 'of two conflicting
systems. For four winters in Viet-
nam I was an unhappy witness of
the disintegration caused by the intrigues
of American undercover agencies in the
cause of an unrealisable dream—the
dream of a Third Force ; nobody with
any knowledge of Laos is likely to deny
that Prince Souvanna’s Government had
been undermined by the aid given from
the United States to Right-wing forces
At least the Russian aid at the beginning
of this mad competition was given to the
legal Government of the country.
One is painfully reminded of the
Spanish Civil War. America has taken
on the role played then by Germany and
Italy, and they are AmenY™ weapons
which have helped to destroy Vientiane,
one can only hope that England will not
play again her former pusillanimous part
by aiding, with her ambiguous diplomacy,
the forces of the Right. Can any sane
person believe that a Right-wing Gov-
ernment would ever be allowed to exist,
contrary to the agreement of Geneva, on
the borders of China and the Democratic
Republic of Vietnam any more than
Guatemala was allowed to keep a Gov-
ernment under Communist influence?
Yours truly,
GRAHAM GREENE.
—from the London “Times,” 4/1 /’6O.


Overseas Pointers
EUROPE
SPAIN
The Primate, Cardinal Enrique Deniel,
President of Spanish Catholic Action and
sponsor of the Christian Workers’
Brotherhoods, has warned that the rela-
tions of the State with the Brotherhood
could lead to a real conflict. In a letter
to the secretary of Franco’s party, the
Falange, he complains of police action
against the Brotherhoods, stating: “I
cannot consider the defence of the
workers’ interests to be demagogic.” His
strongly worded protest is an even more
important indication of worsening
Church-State relationships than the con-
demnation last May, by 300 Basque
priests, of police brutality to political
prisoners and violations of civil rights.
WEST GERMANY
-
Dr Adenauer told a group of Parlia-
mentarians that it might be possible, and
would be welcome, for Poland and Ger-
many to come closer together. Provided
the Polish reaction is favorable, a trade
mission should leave shortly for War-
saw, and full diplomatic relations could
follow. Such possibilities do not arise
from radical changes in West German
policy but from consideration of the
trade available in Eastern Europe and
the advisability of West German repre-
sentation in Eastern Europe should
reunification ever become practical
politics.
ALBANIA
Exciting possibilities in the field of small
Powers angling for big-Power patronage
have been opened up with the arrival in
Peking of an Albanian economic mis-
sion. Russia’s economic sanctions
against Albania have possibly lost her
her only remaining chance of exerting
influence on the Adriatic area, and this
mainly because she did not want to sup-
port Albania’s complaints against Yugo-
slavia. So the smallest and biggest Com-
munist countries have drawn closer to-
gether. They are both uncompromisingly
doctrinaire, and increased Chinese aid
will probably come as a reward for con-
sistent ideological support and opposition
to regional disarmament plans.
U.S.S.R.
The Communist Party’s Central Com-
mittee has decided on a wholesale re-
organisation of agricultural leadership in
order to step up production. Mr Nikolai
Podgorny, First Secretary of the
Ukranian Communist Party and member
of the Central Praesidium, must qualify
as the man most likely to receive the
axe after Mr Khrushchev’s interjections
while he was giving figures for the corn
the Ukraine had grown: “I am sure,
Comrade Podgorny, that the figures you
give are only half the harvest and the
other half was stolen in the fields.” “You
are right, Nikita Sergevich,” admitted Mr
Podgorny. “Then why do you try to
conceal it?” asked Khrushchev, and later
added: “Do not deceive yourself. Do
not mislead collective farmers and
workers on the State farms, because you
will pay for this lack of leadership.”
MIDDLE EAST
ISRAEL
The clash between Mr Ben-Gurion, the
Prime Minister, and Mr Lavon, Secre-
tary-General of the Histadrut, the Federa-
tion of Labor, threatens to tear the
Cabinet apart and disrupt the country.
Recent events revived memories of an
intelligence service fiasco of 1954 when
Mr Lavon was Minister for Defence, so
Mr Ben-Gurion called for a judicial
enquiry to decide whether Mr Lavon
was responsible for the failure or was a
victim of enemies within his Ministry.
Instead there was a Ministerial enquiry
which exonerated Mr Lavon. Mr Ben-
Gurion, prophet of collective responsi-
bility, does not like the Cabinet decision,
and has once again threatened to resign.
Both Mr Ben-Gurion and Mr Lavon are
members of the dominant Mapai Party,
and their discord may split it: Ben-
Gurion is vulnerable because he favors
unpopular young men such as General
Dayan and Mr Peres as his successor,
while Mr Lavon is regularly criticised
because Histadrut has become so exten-
sive it now covers agriculture, industry,
steamship and air lines, health, insurance
and much more. If the Histadrut’s
character was changed or the Mapai split
Israel itself would undergo fundamental
shake-up.
ASIA
INDONESIA
The 250,000-strong Indonesian Catholic
Party has endorsed President Soekarno’s
guided democracy programme, the new
eight-year national reconstruction plan
and Indonesian’s claim to Dutch New
Guinea. This should ensure that the
Catholic party will pass the Government
inspection of all political parties during
February.
PAKISTAN
President Ayub Khan’s current visit to
West Germany is designed to gain in-
creased development aid for Pakistan
from the Federal Government and Ger-
man industry. The Field Marshal’s
itinerary during the last three months
rivals some of Soekarno’s jaunts: Saudi
Arabia, Egypt, Burma, Indonesia (where
he expressed sympathy for Indonesia’s
West New Guinea case), Philippines,
Japan and Yugoslavia. Such a breadth
of interests would be unthinkable a few
years ago and, to show that even for
staunchly pro-Western Pakistan the
opposed Power blocs make one common
market, the Pakistani Minister for Fuel
has just returned from Moscow with a
promise of unconditional Russian eco-
nomic assistance.
CHINA
Hong Kong initiative is helping the
Chinese Government overcome its food-
distribution problems. Near famine con-
ditions in the adjacent Kwangtupg
province have not only lead to an in-
crease in the volume of food parcels being
sent from Hong Kong to Canton but
also to the establishment of a flourishing
food-courier service. Many Hong Kong
women take about a hundredweight of
rice regularly to Canton, where it is
shared between relatives and friends or
posted to more stricken parts of the
province. The Chinese Customs officials,
apparently more worried about losing
weight than losing face, have adopted a
liberal attitude to such couriers, and the
only people displeased about the service
are Hong Kong residents who find amahs
ever scarcer. Anyone who believes in the
efficiency of Chinese Communism should
reflect that Hong Kong is largely depend-
ent on China for its food.
AFRICA
ETHIOPIA
Soldiers of the Imperial Bodyguard who
took part in the December revolt have
been pardoned by the Emperor, but
officers who were involved will be tried.
The Emperor, in an address to the nation,
said that, in future, all Ethiopians must
be educated to their capacity. One-fifth
of the education budget will be used to
open provincial elementary and
secondary schools.
CAMEROONS
The Northern Cameroons will decide by
plebiscite, on February 11, whether to
join Nigeria or the Cameroon Republic
The United Nations is conducting the
plebiscite and has insisted that, contrary
to Northern Nigerian practice, women be
granted the franchise. They outnumber
men by 131,102 to 129,662, and it seems
they will ensure unification with Nigeria,
which will promptly disenfranchise them.
NORTHERN RHODESIA
Malaria is on the increase at Ndola, in
the Copper Belt, so the Ministry of
Health is issuing prophylactic tablets free
to European civil servants but not to
African civil servants. The local medical
superintendent explained that the drugs
were not given to the Africans, as they
were for the most part immune to
malaria. Malaria is the second biggest
killer of Africans in Northern Rhodesia.


South Vietnam
Fewer Dollars and More Sense
By DENIS WARNER
A CURRENT danger in South-east
Asia is that the flashes of lightning
in the Laotian sky will distract attention
from the thunder-clouds gathering in
South Vietnam, where American policies
are certain to be heavily tested in the
lifetime of the new Administration. Dur-
ing the past twelve months the situation
has deteriorated sharply—both in the
countryside and in the internal stability
of the Diem regime: the prospects are
for further deterioration.
This is partly, even largely, due to
Communist efforts. The 3000 to 5000
armed guerrillas who remained in the
south after the Geneva Agreement ended
the Indo-China war in 1954 have been
reinforced recently by cadres and activists
from North Vietnam. Working to the
strict Maoist formula they have directed
their principal efforts towards the stimu-
lation of peasant unrest, in particular
against the “agrovilles,” or new rural
towns which are being created by the
concentration of scattered peasant fami-
lies, and repressive security laws, which
have been made necessary, of course, by
the activities of the Communists. This
disquieting rural situation is, in turn, re-
flected through most of the country.
There is continuing frustration among
many genuinely anti-Communist nationa-
lists whqse assistance has never been
sought by Diem. Unemployment is high.
And, to a .large extent, South Vietnam;
like South Korea, has fallen into the status
of permanent mendicant, with most of
the imports required to keep inflation
down being paid for by the United States.
Asa temporary measure, United States
aid has succeeded over a period of
more than six years in its primary objec-
tive —which was, and is, to keep South
Vietnam out of Communist hands. Ameri-
can aid helped to resettle three-quarters
of a million Northerners who fled from
the Communists, knocked the hodge-
podge of military forces left over from the
Indo-China war into a conventional fight-
ing force of 150,000 men, brought infla-
tion under control, improved health ser-
vices, and rehabilitated the rice industry
and some of the fledgling industries that
had fallen victim to the war. All of this
was creditable, and, as a temporary ex-
pedient, perhaps satisfactory enough. It
has not been sufficient, however, to save
South Vietnam from the prospect of a
Communist take-over. The question now
is, therefore, what should the United
States do in South Vietnam?
Tq begin with, there was that basic
mistake that the Communist threat was
purely military. To match the 350,000-
man Viet Cong Army, the United States
built up an Army which is larger than
any under-developed economy in a coun-
try of only 13,000,000 can possibly bear.
It is a good Army: but it is a conven-
tional Army created in the image of its
American instructors. Against a direct,
conventional attack from the north it
could be counted on to do well, even
though outnumbered two to one. No
such attack is likely, however. During
the Indo-China war the Viet Cong regu-
lars (therl Viet Minh) fought only against
targets of opportunity when they had all
tactical advantages on their side and the
main French supporting forces were tied
down by guerrillas and regional forces.
Those are the only terms under which the
Viet Cong are likely to fight: and against
such attack the South Vietnamese Army,
plagued by swarms of guerrillas, is not
likely to prove more effective than its
predecessor, the French Union Army of
1954. Nor would it be more effective if
it were three times its present size.
The Communists must be countered
where they begin—in the grass-roots.
N.Y. “Post.”
“MOVE ONE TO THE BACK
BURNER —ONE UP TO THE
FRONT BURNER—”
And assuming that the American aid
commitment is to remain constant at, say,
250,000,000 dollars a year (most of which
at present goes in direct military support),
a first saving must be to reduce the size
of the Army, perhaps by as much as
100,000 men and to divert the released
funds first to the agrovilles, their defence
and improvement, and second to economic
development. As the British and Mala-
yans discovered in the Communist insur-
rection in Malaya, the resettlement of
isolated peasants into villages and their
separation from the guerrillas is a prio-
rity task. It is one that can succeed, how-
ever, only with the co-operation of the
peasants. They must be convinced that
their living conditions, economically, and
in terms of security, are improved by the
change: and they must be encouraged
(by all means, including secret payment
for information) to be primarily respoti-
sible for their own village defence.
A second, longer-range but nonetheless
urgent, requirement is economic develop,
ment. American help in rice production
has been first-class. But rice, like wheat
is hard to sell these days. At the same
time, industrial development, apart front
the rehabilitation of a sugar refinery, a
jute mill and a rubber factory, has been
negligible. The American belief that free
enterprise and foreign private investment
ought to take care of industrial growth is
nonsense in countries like this.
The need, as one sophisticated South
Vietnamese once said, is not for more
dollars but for more sense, an apprecia-
tion that the best hope for South Viet-
namese is to make it self-sufficient,
capable of defending itself and dependent
on a self-generating economy. The prob-
lem is not of exclusive interest and impor-
tance to the United States. Yet for the
most part America's allies are content
to supply only the criticism—while the
United States provides the finance. Aus-
tralia is one of the most concerned—
and one of the most vulnerable countries.
It contributes less than £6 million a year
in aid to under-developed countries in the
South and South-east Asian area.
r T''HE American Administration could--
and should —insist on greater contribu-
tions from its allies in meaningful aid
projects. South Vietnam needs technical
schools. It needs schools for administra-
tion. It needs project aid. And it needs
-political advice.
President Ngo Dinh Diem has many
admirable qualities. He is immensely
hard-working. He is a dedicated patriot.
But he is fighting a one-man, or a one-
family, war against Communism: and
that is not good enough. Stringent mea-
sures are necessary to combat the Com-
munist guerrillas: but all who are critical
of Diem in South Vietnam are not Com-
munists. Diem’s tendency to equate oppo-
sition with treason has alienated thou-
sands of Vietnamese no less concerned
than he is with keeping South Vietnam
out of Communist hands. The members
of the Dai Viet party, who, on their record
of six years ago, could scarcely be
accused of being pro-Communist, have
disappeared because Diem did not want
their help. Democratic institutions, such
as free elections, have been turned into a
farce. Imprisonment is the punishment
for criticism. Instead of liberty there
is tyranny.
The challenge to South Vietnam is not
really of aggression from without but sub- i
version from within. Diem has power-
ful allies, including the United States,
who are morally committed to his defence
in the event of an attack from abroad.
The country’s weakness is therefore pr, l "
marily internal and social and econo® 0
rather than military. It has been given
the facade of strength but no foundations. (
It is a castle built on sand. Neither the .
United States alone nor Diem can effect
the necessary repairs. Nor can they be
made without some agonising reappraisals
in both Washington and Saigon.


Shows
Must Our Ballet
Come from England?
THEATRE
News that negotiations are in progress
for an Australian Ballet Foundation,
which will ensure the
development and con-
tinuation of a national
ballet in Australia, is
being received by Sydney ballet circles
with some caution and reservations.
The history of the evolution and
development of the arts is one of con-
tinuous death and re-birth. The shock
of the news of the coming disbandment
of the Borovansky Ballet Company was
absorbed by the hope that this regime,
which had proved itself outmoded, was
finished, and that this death would give
release to the vigorous, imaginative spirit
of modern Australian ballet which for
some time now has been struggling for
recognition.
Consequently it is hoped that this pro-
posed new ballet organisation will not
be a resuscitation, under another name,
of the old Borovansky organisation,
Borovansky ballet, bluntly, was a colonial
counterpart of English ballet.
Was this, then, an undesirable state of
affairs? It was, because Australians in
ballet have not the same feeling for tradi-
tion as the English ballet people have.
Australian dancers will tell you that they
feel that their temperament and style
are closer to those of the Americans or
the Russians. Australian choreographers
still avidly discuss the magnificent reper-
toire of the New York City Ballet which
toured this country some little time ago.
Our teachers and dancers constantly
speak of the indications* of a distinctly
Australian balletic style. They will tell
you that Australian dancers “like to get
their teeth into something.” The dancing
and choreography to which they feel they
can give* themselves is “something with
y igor, fire and vitality.” This is not to
be found in the traditional, conservative,
concern for technique at the expense of
expression, which informs English
dancing.
And yet under the Borovansky regime
n o Australian dancers could gain admit-
tance to the Borovansky Company unless
they had been trained in certain Aus-
tralian “Royal Academy of Dancing”
schools. Thus, practically every school
°r ballet in this country was forced to
se the “R.A.D.” syllabus. Helene
kirsova, prima ballerina of the De Basil
tympany, is remembered as saying that
dancers who came to her Australian
studio with “R.A.D.” degrees were, for
her, ruined material.
Australian dancers have already shown
hat they, like our athletes and sports-
? en ’ a re in world class. Peggy Sager,
ame Fifield, Kathleen Gorham, and
I , ene Ffrance are instances of bal-
ennas. Vassily Trunoff (Australian,
born of Russian parents) and Garth
Welch are examples of male dancers.
Peggy Sager, the most brilliant of the
ballerinas, was trained by Kirsova, as was
Helene Ffrance. An individuality of
style persisted in the other dancers in
spite of, and not because of, “R.A.D.”
training.
The trend of English choreography,
when it is not repeating variations of
traditional examples, appears to be
towards the dance-drama, of which Aus-
tralian audiences have seen an instance
in “Blood Wedding,” by the outstanding
English choreographer Walter Gore.
American choreography, on the other
hand, is dominated by the masterful,
neo-classical creations of George Balan-
chine, such as “Symphony, in C.” and
“Concerto Barocco,” and by the modern,
revolutionary, and imaginative Jerome
Robbins, whose ballets such as “The
Cage,” “Fancy Free,” and “Afternoon
of a Faun,” could be nothing else but
“American.”
Australian choreographers are much
more in sympathy with the American
spirit of ballet creation. A recent pro-
gramme of ballet, given at the Sydney
Conservatorium by “Ballet Australia,” a
self-supporting group, demonstrated this.
On this occasion the programme con-
sisted of four new ballets by four dif-
ferent Australian choreographers. Judith
Burgess and Valrene Tweedie are two
outstanding choreographers who contri-
buted to the programme. Here was an
example of native creativeness which we
had not witnessed throughout the 15
years’ reign of the Borovansky Co.
In this matter also,, mention must be
made of the accomplished and original
resident French dancer and choreo-
grapher, Robert Pomie. In his little
Sydney Ballet Theatre le Franqais, M.
Pomie produced such highly original
ballets as “Le Surf,” (“The Surfers” of
the present Melbourne production) a
ballet about Australian surf life-saving,
and the neo-classical ballet, “Etude
Classique.”
A distressing aspect of the Royal Ballet
during its Australian visit was its male
dancers. Critical ballet circles here attri-
bute this to the fact that women directors
have dominated English ballet. Austra-
lians feel that they need a man as artistic
director, someone with the nature of a
Balanchine or a Robbins. Australians are
aware of the athletic virility of the
American male dancers and of the
strength, nobility and no - nonsense
masculinity of the Russians.
Roland Robinson
“The Fourposter”
It would be easy to dismiss this gentle
comedy of marriage manners as trite and
undeserving of the time and talents of
Peter O’Shaughnessy, who has introduced
it to Melbourne audiences at the Russell
Street Theatre.
However, if “The Fourposter” holds
up but a blinkered and not especially
penetrating mirror to wedded life, it is
a mirror nonetheless, and what it reflects
has a certain truth. When we ask for a
writer to be penetrating we ask him in
effect to answer more “why?” or to bring
before us more than readily observable
realities. This appears to be beyond the
playwright, Jan de Hartog.
De Hartog employs only two charac-
ters, the nuptial couple, Michael and
Agnes ; and we are first introduced to
them on their wedding night. By showing
how they react to a variety of trials and
tribulations throughout the first 35 years
of this marriage De Hartog attempts
to say something about one man-woman
situation in particular, and about marriage
in general.
As the husband Peter O’Shaughnessy
managed to ring enough changes in
mannerism and make-up to convince us
that the passage of years had taken their
toll, while Shirley Smith, as Agnes, her
delicate face an instrument more perfect
for expressing what she was thinking and
feeling here than perhaps her voice,
turned in a performance as impressive as
anything she has done since her Eliza
in “Pygmalion” some years back. But,
as with the majority of the cohabitors
of the stage in this city, there was an
absence of any really communicated
feeling of physical tension and emotion
between characters.
A. S. Jorgensen
“The Surfers” Ballet
Nicely cognisant of the kind of weather
that browbeats Melburnites around this
time of the year the Borovansky Ballet
Company (at Her Majesty’s) chose for
the final programme of its season two
remarkably appropriate ballets: the
perennial favorite, “The Nutcracker,”
with its old-time Christmas fantasy and
drifting snow-flakes, and “The Surfers,”
the versatile Robert Pomie’s interesting
and tantalising contribution to Australian
ballet repertoire.
To deal first with the new. In plot, “The
Surfers” is about as inconsequential as
ballet can get. A team of sun-bronzed
life-savers 101 l about on an Australian
beach, flexing their muscles and eyeing
the girls. Suddenly there is a distress
signal. The life-savers leap into action.
Robert Pomie, as their leader, flings him-
self into the sea. The lights black out,
and there are sounds of stage scenery
being shifted.
Up go the t lights again, fainter this
time, to cast eerie, liquid patterns over
a green gauze drop-curtain. Eventually
we perceive, drifting and pirouetting


behind all this, Pomie and the girl-in-
trouble (the exquisite Kathleen Gor-
ham). To a marvellously evocative musi-
cal score by Ibert, they carry on in the
watery depths for some time until at
last the scene changes again and hero
Pomie emerges dripping from the sea
with the lovely lass in his arms.
She makes a surprisingly rapid recovery
and the rest of the ballet is taken up with
dashing and colorful ensemble dancing
by the company, including an ingenious
routine in which the dancers are spot-
lighted then plunged into darkness at
repeated split-second intervals —the effect
is somewhat like the broken-up, jerky
movement of an ancient movie. Much
of this, of course, is sheer gimmickry,
but it has the saving graces of gentle
satire and a light heart, plus some par-
ticularly imaginative choreography and
excellent dancing all round.
“The Nutcracker” has been done so
often that a fresh approach would prob-
ably be the only way really to bring it
to life again. As it is it remains one of
the ballet’s most pleasant and bearable
cliches. Under Peggy van Praagh’s direc-
tion there were no surprises, only
evidence once more of a lift in the general
level of competence on all sides of pro-
duction.
The one failure of the evening, in this
reviewer’s book, was the famed corps
de ballet snow scene in which too much
emphasis was placed on individual move-
ment and gesture at the expense of what
might be called overall flow. There was
technical excellence here, but little heart.
And the grace was more akin to that of
the mechanised dolls from an earlier
scene in the ballet than to that of snow-
queens.
A. S. J.
“Lady Precious Stream”
The quaintness, Mathew Arnold found
in certain translations of Homer and
which is to be found in Vachel Lindsay’s
adaptations of negro spirituals is to be
found in this English version of an old
Chinese play. What would seem natural
to a Chinese audience seems quaint to
us. That an actor should mount an
invisible horse and trot round the stage
to suggest a long journey is quaint conven-
tion enough; in addition there is the
quaint turn given to the speeches by a
Chinese translator who has a full appre-
ciation of their effect on an English'
audience.
This quaintness, with its effect rather
of caricature than of portraiture, made
“Lady Precious Stream” an excellent
coming-out piece for the young members
of Sydney Genesians’ training course.
Under their producers, Evelyn Wood and
Michael Pope, they created very well the
ceremonial gesticulations and especially
the rhythm of continuous movement,
even when sitting on the cushions which
are the stage’s only furniture, that sug-
gests many conversations going on at
once, so that what is actually said is
enriched by the background of mime.
Such a piece should glow with a soft
lustre, as of something perfect and
something overheard. Heather McClure
as Precious Stream and Margaret Green
as her mother, the Prime Minister’s wife,
came closest to requirements. Warner
Whiteford, as the gardener this oriental
Lady Chatterley chose for a husband, be-
sides forgivable first-night fumbling,
lacked an informing pose. Jeanette Loy,
as Princess of the Western Regions, was
somewhat of a musical-comedy lady-
field-marshal. Derry MacGillicuddy, as
the Honorable Reader, suggested the
M.C. of a surf lifesavers’ annual get-
together.
Yet the ensemble acting sent the re-
viewer home gesturing in its conventions.
Heather McClure and Margaret Green,
with George Duncan as the Prime Minis-
ter,-and Elizabeth Bendeich and Judith
Murphy, and Bryce Fraser and Roger
Perry, as his daughters and sons-in-law,
made a most graceful family gathering.
Altogether the performance was good
enough to suggest how good it might
have been.
Ronald McCuaig
[«□
Rafty Caricatures
“The artist’s impersonal gaze” is no
excuse for an artist whose wife finds it
resting too long on another woman ; but
any wife might be mollified by the results
of cartoonist Tony Rafty looking long
and hard at women in his collection of
caricatures in the Aranda Room Gallery
at Anthomy Horderns.
There’s La Fonteyn, no romantic
“Swan Lake” princess here, but a grey-
hound lean, angular ballerina stripped of
all illusions by the rigorous demands of
dancing. And there’s Sabrina, with an
obvious wasp-waisted, uplift figure that
Nature never designed. And look at this
creature, long hair thrown back, enor-
mous front teeth, rather nice blue eyes,
though. Gracie Fields, isn’t it? Let me
see the catalogue. Good Lord, it’s
Tommy Steele!
And there’s Vladimir Kuts, not the
grim, relentless Russian running-machine
at all, but very much a fair-haired,
blue-eyed, laughing human being. Not
so kind to Russian violinist David
Oistrach, though; he’s like a massive
hippopotamus, with small, hippo eyes
and ponderous, full under-lip.
The caricatures cover a world range of
leaders in statesmanship, politics, sport,
art and business. Drawn and painted
with faithful modelling, they are pene-
trating and forceful.
R R.
David-Kathner Exhibition
Allen David and Paul Kathner’s joint
exhibition at Sydney Macquarie Galleries
is abstract without being theatrical and
theatrical without being abstract.
Mr David might be said to be, by
turns, a “futurist,” an “action,” or an
“abstract” painter. This kind of paint-
ing first startled the Paris critics in 1912.
He is not so modern ; he has a poetic
feeling for color compositions and
harmonies.
Compositions particularly pleasing and
enriching are: “Reflections,” a poetic
reverie of color harmony, “Landscape
near a River’s Edge,” strictly non-
representational in rich pastel tones,
“Wedding,” in Rouault colors, and the
visionary burst of color, “Sun Among
Rain Clouds.” Apart from such per-
sonal preferences, there is a consistent
level of quality in this painter’s perform-
ance.
At a time when the fate of Australian
ballet is being so hotly discussed, it is
interesting to note that Paul Kathner’s
theatre designs are, in the main, for
ballet. Mr Kathner is a traditionalist
but with.a degree of originality.
Of the two paintings of decor for
“Giselle” that of the forest scene of the
second act is darkly luminous and
atmospheric, the result of a fresh yet con-
trolled approach. A sense for effective
color and a feeling for form and for
stage proportions have distinguished his
decor for “The Gods Go A-Begging.”
Decor for “The Haunted Ballroom” is
again atmospheric, with effective grada-
tions of its dominant color tones. The
theatre setting for “Measure For Mea-
sure” is conceived in proportions that are
solid, clean and controlled.
It is Mr Kathner’s designs for ballet
costumes that are rather disappointing.
These show little departure from, or
improvisation within, what has already
been done in the traditional manner.
R. R.
New Melbourne Gallery
Only a month ago one of the most
vigorous and enterprising of Melbourne’s
smaller galleries, the Richman, found the
pressure of circumstances too great and
sadly put up its shutters for the last time.
The gallery’s demise highlighted the diffi-
culties in this city of making art pay.
Fortunately the kind of people who go
in for this sort of thing are a hardy
breed, dreamers and optimists who are
not easily put off by the unlucky experi-
ences of others.
One such is Annette Barrett. Entering
into a business which can be as costly
and risk-ridden as any, she has not been
content to set off cautiously. The gallery
she established, the Eastside, at 3 Palmer
Street, Jolimont, is a model of its kind,
simply designed, with first-class lighting,
a few elegant bits of furniture and, at
openings, beautiful sherry.
The gallery is unorthodox on two
counts. First, it is dedicated to sculpture;
second, its hours are from 5 p.m. to 11
p.m.
The first exhibition is of sculpture bv
Lenton Parr, Alison Byrne (who is young
and on the evidence of what she has
exhibited here, certainly one of this city’s
major sculptural talents), Inge King and
Max Lyle.
Accompanying this show of graphic
work and painting by Michael Hoare.
This recently arrived English artist does
his best work when he seems to be most
painstaking about it. Unlike many work-
ing in this medium whose sketches seem
fresher and more pointed when they are
also of the sketchiest, Hoare’s quick and
light pieces have an awkwardness and a
labored confusion that place them in a
decidedly lower key to his other work.
Notable amongst the latter is the intense,
slightly awesome “Candel” series,
’’Domestic Group,” and “The Lamp”
AST


CUSTOM CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
(Assets in Australia Exceed £80,000,000)
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
Interest ranges up to
CUMULATIVE STOCK
3 to 20 Years . 6% per annum
Interest is paid in equal quarterly instalments,
free of exchange, on the last days of June,
September, December and March.
o
o
Years
For Currency
10
A copy of the Prospectus covering this issue of Registered
Debentures has been lodged with the Registrar of Companies,
Sydney.
Applications must be made on the Forms enclosed
in the Prospectus, which is now available from
ALL. MEMBERS OF THE STOCK EXCHANGE
Every Branch of
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
Each of the 48 Branches of
CUSTOM CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED
130 New South Head Road, Darling Point, Sydney
Secretary-General: KEITH LOVE. Telephone FM 5861
RD3I.IUO


''/^<JiA / I 6£T QiGGBR,
VO I GO TO THE UNIVERSITY?*
>*oo PONT JO£T GO TO THC
~ OuN£RstTy, SOM
*o ee \jezy clbvzgl amp
WORK \/€tzy -HARP AMO "
yotA? if woßjßy
yOU, A\U/V\ —^
/ "
l POMT WANT To 60, M/yWAy :


has no paper, that’s why he uses the
eggs, but not always. Sometimes, he
writes on his hand.”
Smith goes on: “I am amazed, and I
look at the faces of the thirty children
around me. They have heard it all,
yet not one eyebrow is raised in won-
derment. I am reminded once again
that anything is normal in the zany
world of childhood.”
It is by being able to enter this world
that Smith can present an anything-but-
zany picture of Australian households;
their furniture, food, punishment,
relaxations, hopes, fears, disappoint-
ments, jealousies. It is especially a
portrait of Australian parents, and it
may or may not be surprising that so
many children’s recipes for Dad pacify-
ing Mum agree with a letter of Robe-t
Burns’s that used to be on the secret
list. Smith’s cool questioning, here, is
a triumph for “l’audace. toujours
l’audace.”
On the other hand, he makes no
pretence at scientific sociology. He does
moralise to the extent of disapproving
bringing up children by textbook; a
little mother-love and a fair amount of
beating, he considers (and he says the
children consider, too), superior to
psychologising methods. His book is
rather a co-operative entertainment
than a study, its best chapter being an
account of a day at Surry Hills talking
to a group of children making a battle-
ship from a rubbish dump and being
asked into a Surry Hills home, that
turns out to be a home Mr Smith can
approve of, for a cup of tea.
Certainly the funniest chapter is
“The Showstoppers”:—
“Would your father like a modern
bodgie crewcut with short-cropped
hair all over?”
“Oh, yes.”
“Why?”
“ ’Cos he’s bald! ”
Some of the: belly-laughs are so
good that you think they must have
been otherwise invented, yet you still
have to read them out to anybody in
the room. But while you have to take
Mr Smith’s word for it that these pieces
really were original and really stopped
shows, there is no such guarantee for
some of the “favorite stories of head-
masters and headmistresses in many
Sydney metropolitan schools”; while of
the account of the little boy in another
part of the book, who made friends
with bricklayers and an unfortunate
remark, one can only opine that it hap-
pened long, long before Mr Smith was
a little boy himself.
R. McCuaig
Tedium of Success
Trumpets From the Steep. Diana
Cooper. Rupert Hart-Davis. 31s.
Lady Diana Cooper’s infinite charm
(and toughness) have already been
praised in reviews of this third volume
of her memoirs. What has mostly been
ignored is the rare picture it gives of
the underside —the ambitious side —of
a politician’s life, seen sympathetically
by his wife.
Duff Cooper seems to have been a
very “decent” sort of politician. His
resignation from Chamberlain’s
Cabinet was a much more dignified
and principled affair than Eden’s,
though it got less publicity. But like
any good politician, he wanted office.
This book tells how, although he was
shunted around the world throughout
the war. he kept on just missing out.
He was a friend of Churchill’s, and,
as the only Chamberlain Ministei who
resigned in protest against the appease-
ment policy, he naturally had great
expectations when Churchill moved in.
He was landed with a dreadful port-
folio —the Ministry of Information; but
how this Ministry was to wreck him
was not at first obvious. In writing of
Churchill’s Cabinet Lady Diana reports
confidently, “Duff was made Minister
for Information and felt himself to be
the ideal choice.”
But it is not long before she was
writing to her. son, “Papa is still
attacked daily with great malice by my
oldest demon-friend Lord Beaver-
brook.” Beaverbrook was in fact her
son’s godfather; throughout her book
one sees how in politics that sort of
thing does not necessarily count. Then
Churchill began to treat Duff Cooper
distantly, as one does a friend out of
favor. “Duff is anxious to live in the
country and so am lif we survive. He
seems depressed. He thinks that Win-
ston hates him now.”
Lord Lothian’s sudden death in
America inspired large hope. “I am
ashamed to say that my second thought
was: might Papa be given the job?
What a vista of hope and light I floated
down.” And then: “So Halifax is to
go instead of me.”
When the Ministry for Information
was handed over to Brendan Bracken,
Churchill sent Duff Cooper out to
Singapore on what turned out to be a
heartbreakingly meaningless mission.
Churchill had to do something with
him, so he sent him to Singapore.
“A midge in the ointment was
Duff’s outlook. He did not really
know what he was doing in Singa-
pore.” However, having travelled so
uncomfortably around the world, 1 ;
had to do something. He assembled a
team and began a report. “Maybe
Winston thinks Duff comfortably out
of the way here —no necessity to find
him another job that way and quite
easy to stop any trouble.”
Suddenly he was appointed Minister
for Far Eastern Affairs. Just as sud-
denly Wavell was given the Far East
instead. “Wavell said he felt like a
man not expecting a baby being sud-
denly given quadruplets.” This meant
the sack for Duff Cooper. “I don’t
know really why he is being removed,
which makes it more difficult to sug-
gest staying. It may, after all. be that
the home Government think he has
made an appalling mess of it.”
In England, while Churchill was
wearing day and night the “pair of
gold-embroidered black slippers that I
gave him*” Duff Cooper was, as Chan-
cellor of the Duchy of Lancaster, doing
nothing. And then: “My face, I sup-
pose, could not hide the shock of aver-
sion that his first words, walking home
from the commuters’ bus, ‘How would
you like to be Ambassadress in Paris?’
gave me. Nothing I would dislike
more.” But: “I had remembered, too,
that just before the war he had said ‘I
should like to finish up Ambassador in
Paris.’ ”
He reached this post by first serving
time as British Representative to the
French Committee of Liberation in
Algiers. The house apportioned to him
was so cold that Lady Diana slept in
her fur coat, and so unplumbed that
they washed at the Macmillans’.
Housing problems, and more than that,
were settled after the Coopers visited
the Churchill’s at Marrakesh:—
There was our old baby in his
rompers, ten-gallon cowboy hat and
very ragged oriental dressing-gown,
health, vigor and excellent spirits
There is a lot of talk about our
housing problems and plans for purg-
ing officials who obstruct our hopes
all is set for a reconciliatory
lunch today and a super picnic to-
morrow. Great fun.
Back in favor, Duff Cooper was able
to get on with the job. But Lady
Diana records the tedium of success: “I
was between Wormwood (de Gaulle)
and Massigli; my heart sank to think
of the amount of dinners, perhaps for


years, I shall be sitting in just such
a place.” Then to Paris: “We knew no
one in Paris....we had never lived
there and only passed through occa-
sionally.” And: “We used the well-
worn subjects, dinner after dinner.”
Then the Attlee Government:
Nothing to be done. Yet the sack
did not come for two and a half
years. Instead came Ernie Bevan to
see and conquer us all. Ernie was
fond of me and used to ask me not to
think of him as a big bad wolf, but
our fate was in his hands and I knew
that one day he would be forced to
gobble us up....We bore him no
grudge when the grim day came. To
Duff he never once referred to the
dismissal and we continued as friends
to his lamented death.
And that was the end of the career
and (after he had finished his book) the
life of Duff Cooper.
Kiwis that Flew
The Kiwi’s First Wings. David Mul-
gan. Wingfield Press.
The author, son of Alan Mulgan,
the poet-author, has avoided cluttering
up his book with other aspects of N.Z.
aviation history than the pioneer work
of the Walsh brothers and of the New
Zealand Flying School they inaugur-
ated, 1910-24.
Mulgan’s story is enlivened with dry
humor and an occasional glint of
philosophy. He is deeply impressed
with the unlimited patience and perse-
verance of the Walsh brothers. “They
were bold without being reckless, ven-
turing into the unknown, yet insisting
on the greatest possible standard of
safety.”
He considers that New Zealand’s
highly developed aviation industry
rests on the foundation laid for it by
the Walsh brothers. They began with-
out capital or training in aviation. The
first plane they ever saw in the air was
their own, and tjiey had no book of
words. They made their first flight in
1911. Their second venture was to de-
sign anc j build the first seaplane in the
Southern Hemisphere. This was suc-
cessfully tried out when the First
World War was a few weeks old.
.
There were no State hand-outs in
those days; New Zealand was the only
Commonwealth country where war
pilots were trained by private enter-
prise
Mulgan is a careful recorder, but
there are one or two controversial
points briefly touched on in his story.
His claim that “the first successful
flight ever to be made in N.Z. took
place at Glenora Park, Papakura, on
the morning of February 5, 1911,” is
qualified with the statement that the
Walsh machine rose to a height of
60ft; flew about 400yds and made a
safe landing. This is certainly more
impressive than a flight made about the
same time by Arthur Schaef, a Welling-
ton photographer. His was just “a long
hop” of over 100yds.
But a claim now being investigated,
not mentioned by Mulgan. is that a
Southland farmer named Richard
Pearse made a brief flight at Waitohi
almost 11 years earlier. It is chimed
that Pearse was sufficiently airborne
to crash-land on a 12ft hedge. This
matter is being probed by aviator
George Bolt, and if proved would
mean that the Pearse flight was a few
months earlier than the first flight bv
Wilbur Wright. y
Mulgan mentlons that m this flight
Wright was catapulted into the air.
Some future Solomon may have to
adjudicate such aviation niceties,
Pat Lawlor
Editor's Dilemmas
Ihe View Prom the Fortieth Floor.
Theodore H. White. Cassell, 235. 9d.
Some time about the late 1940’
eveo , bod seemed to be rea( U
Frederic Wakeman’s “The Hucksters"
, • , f • satirp ’
“ e 7 nlcai ’ tast - mov n § satire upon
c 9 radio, which
a * a P in mi u° r i war
had put a stop to the 19 30-ish flood of
satires u P on fi J m industry and
everyone was sick of satires upon the
armed foices. 1 re-read it about a year
a §°’ or halt re-read it; it seemed
rather thin and creaky,
And now, with “The View From the
Fortieth Floor” I feel that the re-
reading is done completely at last, so
thoroughly does the spectre of Wake-
man haunt the pages of White. This
time the world to be exposed is that of
two glossy magazines, the publishing
corporation behind them and various
businesses and businessmen whose
interests are linked with the publishers,
The central character is Ridge
Warren, brought in ai managing
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 627
Across
I—A1 —A lemon' drink, aspirin, cough drops and plenty of
handkerchiefs? (4, 7)
7 —Backing uncooked strife. (3)
9—Deathly reigns (anagram): (13)
10— Duck. (3)
11 — Sin scene might need to be differently arranged for
this to be evident in it. (8)
14 —Parts of a flower insect belong-
ing to her. (7)
16—Taverner? (5)
18— Despatched to the interior. (5)
19— The clasp on Sonya is too
much for that which runs
around a boat to protect its
timbers. (7)
21 —What cannibals might order
Ignaz, the pianist. (8)
23 —A name for some son in law.
(3)
25 —1-across offered by this dummy
of the position. (4, 9)
27 — 8-down drops on a beam. (3)
28 — Mix us red diits —it’s helpful
for the tomatoes. (6, 4)
Down
I—Posted tea protection. (5, 4)
2. —Famous U.S. television com-
pere is not part of 2-down. (10)
3 The P.M.G. will frown on this
example of 1-down. (5, 6)
4 1 sum up the middle note in
art. (5)
5 Negro said to be in fabrics. (9)
6 Comment from the deprecatory
pharaoh. (3)
7 Paddle in a dew. (4)
8 — Lindwall bowling such stuff. (5)
12 — No nudes bent with seasonal
headgear on. (3, 8)
13 — They’re had by the quarrelsome
—and you. (10)
15—A mere snub from a contributor
to a children’s comic. (9)
17 —There’s nerve in this mobster
Leo. (8)
20—Upset spread the alternative
officer. (5)
22 —Polynesian and I wander up.
(5)
24—Respond to order love given
to an influential Algerian. (4)
26—How the mistrustful may de-
liver fish. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 626


BOOKHUNTER
Dept. “D” Box 2(171, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.0., Sydney.
editor of “Trumpet” and “Gentle-,
woman” at a time when their stars
appeared to be setting, and confident
of his ability to revive them with the
backing of a fairly honest, unpleasant
m an called Morrisey. The story opens
when Warren has boosted the circula-
tions but failed to attract sufficient new
advertising to cover the costs of his
improvements. Morrisey wishes to
draw in his notes, creditors threaten; if
the papers go down the corporation
itself will prosper exceedingly in its
other ramifications.
What is Warren to do? Can he,
without courting an action for fraud,
find the few million dollars he requires
from outside sources? Is he fated to go
bankrupt himself? What will happen
to all the fine guys who work for the
two magazines? To the superb new
color-printing works? And back into
his life comes Mary, his divorced wife
who left him before because she could
not stomach his lack of altruism, his
single-minded play for the top of what-
ever job he undertook. What does her
good opinion yet mean to him?
So it goes, and just a shade too
slowly, for just a fraction too long. The
main issues become dissipated and
one’s sympathies are no sooner engaged
by one clerk’s personal problems than
that character is whisked off stage and
someone else’s point of view presented).
Warren in his search for cash backing
meets too many eccentric financiers—
possibly every one was drawn from
life, but in spite of the author’s best
efforts they remain stagey stock figures
here.
Nearly everyone speaks alike. Cer-
tainly it is acutely heard American
speech, but a stereotype, with its terse
wisecracks and laconic remarks, except
for when Warren pleads his cause.
Then it sounds like excerpts from those
sermon-like articles that some of the
popular American magazines favor.
Nancy Keesing
Children’s Books
Bedtime Stories. Thornton W.
Burgess. Macdonald. 15s. A lavish
children’s book with numerous illus-
trations in both color and black-and-
white done with considerable vivacity
and colored endpapers. The text com-
prises 20 stories about animals which
palatably present a considerable
amount of nature lore. Many of the
animals will be unfamiliar to young
Australians muskrats, coyotes,
skunks, buzzards and so on.
The Illustrated Book About Africa.
Felix Sutton. Macdonald. 265. No
expense has been spared in this child-
ren’s travelogue. The title-page lists
not only an illustrator but a creater and
designer as well. There are 100-odd
pages, an index and more colored illus-
trations than one would care to count.
The book covers all aspects of Africa
in its informative and simply-written
text and would be ideal for a junior
school library.
Old Winkle and the Seagulls. Eliza-
beth Rose, with illustrations by Gerald
Rose. Faber. 12s. 6d. A simple and
satisfactory story about an old fisher-
man who was appropriately rewarded
for his kindness to the gulls. The
illustrations have a sophistication in
color and line that one would have
thought might not appeal immediately
to children, but nevertheless it does.
A gay and lively book.
Basil Chimpy’s Comic Light. Aaron
Judah. Faber. Bs. 6d. Illustrated with
some very sure and accomplished draw-
ings of the animals who are its charac-
ters, the story did not hold the atten-
tion of the six-year-old to whom this
reviewer read it, and perhaps it is
intended for an older age-group, but
the presentation is, confusingly, for
the young.
The Contest at Paca. Marc Simont.
Faber. 9s. 6d. Quite a merry romp
for children about a contest in a small
town which involves, among other
people, a cook with the fine resounding
name of Reinaldo Supson, together
with the Supson stew that he created.
Boys, particularly, will appreciate the
joke in the story.
Special Occasions. Janet McNeill.
Faber. 10s. 6d. Presumably for older
children, it would give pleasure to
adults with a taste for light irony and
a pinch of fantasy. These 11 stories
are skilfully done and deserve a better
and more congenial dust-jacket.
Rosemary Dobson
The Proud One
Merlin on the wrist of morning
All but his ascension scorning
See that hawk whose mystic eye
Measures town and farm and sky
Checks the angle of his rising
Stills his meditative cruising
Street so thin, church so small
Might well tremble at his fall.
Switching cows to morning milk
The boy who runs a grassy silk 7
Says he feels he might be mark
Seeming right as mouse or lark.
Ah watch that epitome of pride
Into the further field subside
For when hunger draws him down
Large as the sky are farm and town.
N.Z.
GLORIA RAWLINSON.
Sunday
Pluck no crow-notes from blank air,
Pasture, heart, your wandering care.
Children and running water run
Beside me in the flawless sun
Unheeding to their distant grace.
Rest, and let the water wear
Light’s blue veil on its changing face.
Let crow’s pulsing mote diminish
In sunny realms of air, and vanish.
I float my fingers in the creek
And see their wavering shadow streak
Cold rock where water’s crystal breaks.
Tomorrow I must rise and finish
The heavy work that builds and takes
My daily strength. But now l bless
Water and rock, and let the stress
Flow from my limbs. My children play,
Quarrel and sing, and bear away
Towards hope and chance, for good or ill,
My face without its heaviness.
I watch the restless water spill
Its pouring of live jewels around
The benediction of my hand.
Tomorrow I must wake and see
The crow, my ravening enemy,
Wheel with his acid eye upon
My flock. But now my spirit bound
Week-long to laboring earth is gone
Walking on water, unafraid
Of light’s ambiguous surface, stayed
Upright on water by the clear
Rightness of its horizon. Near
To hunger, children bid me wake
From dreaming rest. Unmade and made
Anew by sleep, I smile and shake
The cleansing water from my hand,
Begin once more to understand
The double nature of my world:
My peace dispersed like water hurled
From rock to rock, while on the stream
As darkness gathers through the land
My spirit walks. This is no dream.
N.S.W.
FRANCIS GEYER.
Cockatoos
Coming back we t stopped the car
And watched a flight of cockatoos,
Three thousand, or four or five, far
Too many for those who enthuse
About precision in their facts.
For half an hour they held our view
While clouding down in snowy tracts
To clothe old boughs and make as new
The skeletons of ten tall trees.
Such heavy leaves and heaven-white
Was in itself enough to please
Without us summing up their flight.
—lf heaven’s gate should open wide,
Would you, presuming God allows,
When fronted by the trees inside,
Go counting leaves upon the boughs?
Vic.
NOEL MACAINSH.


Women
FASHION WRITERS... KITCHEN STATUS ... THE BACKGROUND
Writers in Fashion
Not even the most difficult editor re-
quires that his sporting writers be able
to run a four-minute mile. And no one
judges a financial writer by his bank-
balance (in fact, an overly financial
financial writer is somewhat suspect). So
it seems entirely unfair and illogical to
expect fashion writers to look fashionable.
Yet somehow, one rather does expect,
or hope for, something from them.
The Paris fashion houses are so
glamorous with carpets as thick and lush
as unmown pastures, with solemnly
winking chandeliers, their air heavy with
the smell of My Sin or Ma Griffe and
the smell of money.- Surely some of
this must rub off on the people who
write about it?
Yet many of the women who write
with the greatest confidence and, some-
times, with the greatest intelligence about
fashion at fashion’s centre are about as
elegant as your Aunt Emma.
The most lasting impression of the
spring fashion shows in Paris is of snow
in the grey streets, and in the salons
stout. English legs crossed one over the
other, and at the end of stout English
legs stout English feet thrust into boots
which would have carried Wellington
across the plains of Waterloo.
The English journalists, being more
conscientious than most, go to the collec-
tions early to get a good front-row seat.
So the floating organzas and chiffons of
Dior and Lanvin-Castillo drift across
an unlovely rank of boots which suggest
that the wearer had to bring in the cows
before dashing to the salon.
The English fashion writers are almost
uniformly unfashionable, but the London
press at least has some of the English
talent for eccentricity. For instance,
Alison Settle from the London
“Observer,” with head nodding and eyes
closed behind half-moon glasses (“I
wonder how many fashion shows Alison
has slept through in her long fashion
career?” whispers a catty colleague). But
so experienced is Mrs Settle that she
obviously can write about fashion in her
sleep.
Many fashion journalists, however,
come from the provinces backward
areas where editors have never even
heard of a dress allowance. Fashion
reporters wear the same clothes they
would wear to cover the local council
meeting or the annual meeting of the
Women’s Institute.
English provincial is dreary, but French
provincial is fascinating. Perhaps only
the French truly know how to be pro-
vincial.
What would the average Australian
man to whom the word “Frenchwoman”
conjures up a picture of Brigitte Bardot
or the Folies Bergere make of these
women? Their clothes are two genera-
tions out of date. They-wear high/collars,
no make-up and small, sad pieces of
family jewellery. They are unmarried.
They are minor characters from Francois
Mauriac who by some inexplicable
trick of fate have become fashion writers
instead of governesses or lady’s com-
panions. They are pale and thin, their
bones strung” out by unhappiness and
frustration, by hours of boredom in hot
summers and weeks of boredom in long
winters.
God alone knows what they write
about, how they translate high fashion
into something the provincial dressmaker
will be able to make something of.
Italy is the only European country
the representatives of which are chic. The
Italian fashion writers are all titled and
all amateurs. There is still really no such
thing as an Italian career woman, cer-
tainly none who can forsake one iota
of her excessive and heavily breathing
femininity for the simpler relationships
of the workaday world.
The German and Swiss representatives
are generally fat, efficient and loud-
voiced in well-cut suits and well-polished
brown brogues. They are generally
accompanied by handsome, beautifully
dressed young epicenes. These are
photographers or artists.
Most American papers, even the New
York dailies, make a point of choosing
rather homey, folksy women to write
about homey, folksy things for their
homey, folksy readers. By the time Dior
fashion gets to Des Moines it is, believe
it or not, homey and folksy, too.
Many of the American fashion
journalists are in the peter-pan-collared,
carefully-blued-hair style. They are family
women from suburban areas. In Paris
they move in a bunch from the Crillon
to the dress houses looking exactly like
a group of tourists converging on the
Eiffel Tower or Napoleon’s tomb. Some-
times they wear bits of clothing they have
picked up like magpies in London or
Italy on their way to Paris. All American
editors have heard of dress allowances.
A sweaterTrom Pucci, a handbag from
the Burlington Arcade. None of it
matches, but they’re happy. It's loot.
The general picture of the crowds in
those hot, airless rooms is grey indeed.
But among all these sparrows there are
some birds of bright plumage. These are
the women who work for the fashion
glossies.
Mostly they work for very small
salaries and very considerable perquisites.
To a quite extraordinary degree they
live the way they advise their leaders
to live. They cook the right things, dress
the right way, decorate their houses the
right way. They are painfully U, mean-
ing uniform.
The chief perquisite is, of course, that
they can buy their clothes cheaply from
the fashion houses. Or do they really
sometimes get them for nothing?
The speed with which some of the
new models can get off the backs of the
mannequins in the collections and on
to the rather less lissom bodies of the
fashion writers from the smart magazines
is breathtaking. A hat shown in the
morning collection can be on the pretty
blonded-grey head of an editor at the
afternoon’s shows.
These women, in general, don't write
about what they see. They simply sit
there and make up their minds about what
will be photographed or sketched. Most
of the writing is done by underpaid,
underprivileged little people wearing
green eyeshades who work at the office
and never, never go near a dress show.
All this is true of the representatives
of the American and British fashion
magazines. But the French journalists are
different.
Although France has many successful
working women these days, it isn’t long
that a variety of careers has been open
to them. But, it is invariably alleged
by their colleagues, some of the French
journalists have previously had a degree
of success in another field. These
women, it is constantly and confidently
reported, are: ( a ) the mistress of a
Finance Minister; ( b ) the ex-mistress
of a Finance Minister ; (c) the mistress
of an ex-Finance Minister ; or (d) the
ex-mistress of an ex-Finance Minister.
They are quite works of art. Their
expensively clad bodies are taut with
constant massage or over-dieting. Their
hair is so marmaladed with streaks of
different colors that no one could hazard
a gueSs at its original color. One can
only be sure that if left alone it would
now be grey.
If asked, they would readily admit
to at least two plastic-surgery operations:
one to bob the nose, another to reshape
the bosom. They may not so readily
admit they have had a facelift or that
other operation to turn back time (and
said to be very neat, quick and easy),
two little tucks in those pads of fat which
hang down over the elbows.
☆ ☆ ☆
Class in the Kitchen
I live in a middle-class suburb and
shop in what is said (by my neighbors)
to be a working-class one. I have to
take my neighbors’ word for this, because
for the life of me I can’t see any dif-
ference between them —myself and the
people we shop among except the
obvious ones of age, size, coloring and
so forth. There must, however, be some
difference in the things we buy.
I now have an electric mincer. Among
other things for which it is regularly
used are breadcrumbs. We save ouf
crusts, toast them when the oven is
heated and put them through the mincer.
It is much easier now than when we used
to do the job by hand, and several of


my neighbors bring their tins of crusts
over to my place and use my mincer to
make their own crumbs.
But, electric mincer or no, we all did,
or continue to do, the job at home.
Obviously some people don’t. Where I
shop the grocer’s shelves offer a selection
of packaged bread-crumbs which some-
one must buy.
There, too, you can buy “browned
flour.” Browned flour is useful, of
course, for making nice dark gravy in
a hurry. While the oven is hot you pop-in
a cake-tin with flour about haif-an-inch
deep on it, and as the flour scorches you
stir it occasionally. Then you put your
scorched flour in a jar and keep it —for
months. That’s all there is to it, but
apparently for many housewives it’s all
too difficult.
They buy “Cinnamon Sugar” too, in
costly fancy bottles. When we want
cinnamon and sugar for sprinkling on
pancakes or puftaloons or hot toast we
mix a spoonful of it into a. cupful of
sugar at a negligible cost.
Pancakes remind me of “mixes.”
Cakes, pancakes, scones, pikelets, biscuits
and puddings —all in packets. Very easy
for women who have to do all their
cooking the old-fashioned way, by hand.
I have an electric food-mixer and can’t
for the life of me see that the packets
save much time ; and they certainly
cost more. My weekly cleaner buys
packets all the time and uses her electric
mixer to blend the contents!
That mixer! It is superb. I covet it.
The things I’d do if I had that mixer.
She has a steam-iron, too, an electric
coffee - maker, an electric frypan. She
works terribly hard, far harder than I
would care to at housework and, as she
lives in the suburb I shop in I suppose
she is working-class, although when we
have our weekly gossip over the morn-
ing-Tea cups I can see no difference be-
tween our conversation and those 1
indulge in in the drawing-rooms of my
neighbors.
She complains, as they do, about costs.
She says her neighbors find it difficult
to provide holiday bus-fares for their
children. I stupidly asked if the children
could not walk to their usual destination,
the swimming-pool half-a-mile away.
She looked at 'me horrified: “In that
strong sun!”
Most of my neighbors’ children walk
there, and back, so perhaps a certain
delicacy is the distinguishing mark? The
pool is a good deal further from our
neck of the woods.
Today while she was here I made
breadcrumbs. She was fascinated: “I
never thought of doing that.” She has
gone home with a tin full. And another
of dripping. Somehow she never can
“make” dripping. But then of course
her family would never look at mutton-
fat. I meanly did not say that mine is
a glorious mixture of any fat we have,
flavored with the garden herbs that
covered the roasts, otherwise her family,
who frequently cook with it, would prob-
ably force her to buy the stuff from the
butcher.
I’m not at all certain what the moral
°f all this is. Better “Home Economics”
classes for schoolgirls, perhaps.
Helen Crane
Find a Background
Where most women go astray in fashion
is not that they buy the wrong clothes
but that they wear them at the wrong
time and in the wrong place.
The high-class fashion magazines are
very strong on this point. They have
much serious advice to offer, but the
best thing for the woman who wishes
to gain a reputation for true chic is to
study the photographs closely. Don’t
look at the model and the clothes she
is wearing. Examine the background.
Too many women think that the girl’s
luncheon party or the big committee
meeting is the place to give their new
outfit an airing. But look at the girl
in the glossy. She’s wearing hers while
teetering in splinter-heeled shoes on a
steel girder about 15 stories above
ground. Doesn’t that give you an idea?
The skyscrapers now being built
in Sydney and Melbourne should be
swarming with smart women anxious to
show their new clothes against the best
possible background. Yet many women
who honestly think they know clothes
never even go near a building site. They
might pause for a few seconds at the
public observation post and peer through
at the churning mud and saffron-yellow
excavators, but then they simply pass on.
If you want to wear your clothes with
panache a new building site is the place
to do it. The higher the building the
more haute the couture. Elegant and
poised on a crane, you gaily defy the
laws of gravity and the Department of
Labor and Industry’s safety regulations.
Of course, if you simply must, you
can wear a tiny safety-helmet under your
beehive hat or beehive hairdo. Nobody
need know. It’ll be your hidden weapon,
and it’ll keep the bats in as well as the
bolts off.
When you’ve exhausted the possibili-
ties of a building site —and perhaps the
patience of that old crosspatch foreman,
too —there are other places to consider.
What about the fish markets in the early
morning? The middle of the soutbern-
line railway tracks just outside Redfern
station? The stores or wharves when
they are loading wool bales? These are
locales which offer a good deal to the
fashion-conscious woman.
You’ll certainly attract far more atten-
tion than you will at the girls’ luncheon,
even if it’s only from a startled fish, an
apoplectic stationmaster or a shop-
steward of the W.W.F.
And consider as your number one
fashion accessory a clutch of street
urchins, Italian, barefooted, with smiles
like Raphael cherubs’ and eyes as know-
ing as a Mafia leader’s. According to
the fashion magazines, no well-dressed
woman can be seen in public without
them.
If you can’t manage the upkeep of
urchins, four or five bowler-hatted
Englishmen, muttering behind their hands
while they look at you the way no
Englishman ever looks at a woman, will
serve.
Save up your new chiffon peignoir for
your trip to the East. It’s absolutely the
thing for your trip on a barge through
the klongs of Bangkok. Just lean back
gracefully among the sacks of rice and
drift with the tide. And if the ruins of
Angkor Wat are on your itinerary your
new ballgown is an indispenable. Don’t
worry about overweight air baggage.
You’ll be a sensation.
In your new swimsuit you’ll pass
unnoticed at Palm Beach, so why not
save it for your trip to New Guinea?
More unimaginative people might take
their mosquito swat and pith helmet,
but who ever got anywhere in fashion
by being practical?
That new two-way stretch corselette!
Don’t wait'until you’re going somewhere
special to ease yourself, straining and
protesting, into it. Wear it for your
early-morning sprint. You could only
be going to pick up the paper or the
milk, but the girl in the glossy will show
you how to do this wit,h style.
Can’t you just see yourself, lissom and
free, and swathed in veils of mist, dash-
ing across the daisy-strewn grass?
Well, can’t you?


Air Disasters
Gan They Happen Here?
By S. W. KEOUGH
The world’s worst air
disaster when two U.S.
airliners collided over
New York recently to
send 134 people to their
deaths, inevitably threw up the
question: Could it happen
here? Anything is possible,
but the probability is very
remote, and for a variety of
reasons.
One of these concerns air-
traffic density in Australia.
With a population of 10 mil-
lion, as against 180 million in
the U.S., it would be many
decades before our air spaces
would become as cluttered as
theirs is now.
Another factor in our favor
is weather. For most of the
year we have incomparable
visibility. Pea-soup fogs are
rare compared with what they
get in Europe and parts of the
American littoral. We get an
odd gale and only an occasional
cyclone.
Yet another factor is our
topography. W'e have no moun-
tain ranges rearing 15,000 ft up
to constitute an ever-present
hazard. There isn’t enough
snow and ice aloft to worry our
airline operators.
But the factor which weighs
heaviest by far in our favor,
and since commercial flying
came under its control years
ago has kept Australia as one
of the leaders in air-safety
methods, is the patience and
ceaseless vigilance of the Civil
Aviation Department.
So let us take a look at the
working of Air Traffic Control
at Sydney’s Kingsford Smith
Airport, out at Mascot. Kings-
ford Smith handles slightly
more air-traffic daily than Mel-
bourne’s Essendon, and the
bulk of the international traffic.
On an average there are 200
aircraft movements daily, and
that weekly 1400 includes 130
movements of international
planes.
Senior Supervisor of Air
Traffic Control is F. R. Meere.
Under him work five sector-
controllers who are in direct
communication with all air-
craft within their areas of
responsibility. Before he can
enter controlled air-space every
pilot must get a clearance from
A.T.C.
Navigational Aid is the great
reliance to get airliners to their
destinations. N.A. which makes
use of V.H.F. (Very High
Frequency), a line -of - sight
method, includes D.M.E. (Dis-
tance Measurement Equip-
ment). This highly favored
form involves the use of
stations situated on very high
points. There is one on Mt
Canoblas, near Orange, in the
N.S.W. Central West. A clock
graduated in miles in the cock-
pit tells the pilot, by means of
continuous signals, how far he
is from the D.M.E. into which
he is tuned.
Another Navigational aid is
V.A.R. (Visual Aural Range).
This gives out four beams, and
these are orientated to suit the
traffic-pattern in any particular
area. These beams give out a
specific signal. A pilot can
readily ascertain whether he is
off the beam along which he is
allotted to fly by reference to
the V.A.R. dial on his instru-
ment-panel, or by aural identi-
fication.
In these air “corridors” along
which they fly pilots have navi-
gational tolerances which take
care of all possible errors.
Directly over the N.A. the
minimum tolerance is a radius
of five miles. In addition a
buffer is built between these
tolerance-areas of other air-
craft of a mile. This bit of
no-man’s-air gives that extra
safety-factor, so that, theoretic-
ally at all events, aircraft are
kept at a minimum of 11
miles from each other.
There are also supplementary
aids. There is V.O.R. (Visual
Omni Range), the difference
between this and V.A.R. being
that, as the word “Omni” im-
plies, the pilot can get a beam
in all directions. Another
assistance to aircraft in flight is
provided by N.D.B. (Non-
Directional Beacon), which
uses medium frequency and
gives a somewhat lower grade
of service than the others. In
total, these add up to quite a
formidable battery of safety
devices ; and they are getting
better all the time.
Take, for instance, an air-
liner taking-off from Kingsford
Smith, bound for Brisbane.
Initially the pilot takes his
guidance from N.D.B. and
D.M.E. until he gets to West
Maitland, where he tracks on
to a V.A.R. beam which is
located at Point Lookout; in
addition he has further D.M.E.
and N.D.B. assistance ; thence
he tracks on to the Brisbane
V.A.R. till he comes under air-
port control at the northern
capital.
I.L.S. (Instrument Landing
Service) gives the pilot a glide-
slope and track-guidance where
Visibility in the approaches to
the airport are bad. This
method is supplemented by
navigational electronic “mar-
kers” which indicate to the
pilot his exact location on the
I.L.S. flight-path.
Many overseas airports are
kept open irrespective of the
weather. But Australian air-
ports are closed unhesitatingly
by the Airport Controller
when weather conditions are
observed to be below the
minima laid down by the
regulations. Where conditions
are unsafe for landing, aircraft
are diverted to other suitable
airfields where the conditions
are clear. The cost of such
diversions is not taken into
account at all.
In cases where the airfield is
closed owing to bad weather, or
where there is an excessive
number of aircraft to handle,
“holding stacks” may be put
into operation—that is, the
holding of aircraft at various
levels, with never less than
1000 ft separating the “layers”—
until such time as they can be
brought down safely. The
modern N.A. in use, however,
makes the need for this very
infrequent.
TX7ell out in the open in
the airport is the Control
Tower, manned by three
officials. The Approach Con-
troller controls the landings and
take-offs of all aircraft. The
Co-ordination Controller co-
ordinates all traffic require-
ments between Airport Control
and Area Control. The third
man is the Surface Movement
Controller, who controls all
aircraft and vehicles on the
manoeuvring area. The tower’s
four glass walls allow a 360-
degree area of sight.
But Air Traffic Control no?
only directs. In the far-flung
areas outside its own tightly*,
disciplined areas of control it
gives invaluable advisory ser-
vices to individual aircraft in
areas where traffic density is
not sufficiently high to justify
imposing controls. The Dept,
also gives a flight-information
service to individual aircraft,
about the movements of any
other aircraft which are operat-
ing in the same area where air-
craft movements are generally
sparse.
There is one room at the Air-
port which is used only rarely,
and one that it is the fervent
hope of all in A.T.C. to see in
perpetual disuse. This is re-
served for the Search and
Rescue Section, work formerly
handled by the R.A.A.F. It
goes into operation, by a highly
trained staff who normally
carry out other duties, when an
aircraft is deemed to be in
need of assistance—as, for
instance, when it is overdue
and no communication has
been received from it.
HPhe Department exercises
fairly wide powers. It can
commandeer any aircraft at
any time to assist in the search,
owners being reimbursed for
the cost, the bill being footed
by the Government. It be-
comes, in effect, a self-help
service. Organisations which
readily give assistance include
police, harbor marine services,
fishing-fleets and the Volunteer
\ Coastal Patrol.
Incidents in recent years both
in the U.S. and Europe of
fighter-planes flashing down at
supersonic speeds out of cloud
to slice the wing off an air-
liner naturally raise the ques-
tion: What is done to prevent
such a calamity here? This is
very fully looked after by close
liaison between the Air Force
and Civil Aviation authorities.
Once a week the R.A.A.F.
reserves air-space for training
purposes, and this space is
tightly closed to all other air-
craft.
It is not unusual for an
Electra to kick about 3500
miles behind the slipstream for
the day. Out at the airport
they say they “go up and down
like yo-yos.”
It is then that the mechanics
start to swarm over the Electra,
giving it much more than a
once-over to make certain that
it is thoroughly airworthy to
take-up the burden of continu-
ous flight the next day. And,
depending on the hours aloft,
overhauls through various
stages up to the major ones are
made. It all adds-up to safety.


LAND
LAND
Queensland —Social Services v. Progress
By M. H. ELLIS
The Annual Report of the
Queensland Irrigation and
Water Supply Commission
carries an introduction which
is typical. It says that during
the year “reasonable progress
has been made on the investiga-
tion of surface and under-
ground water resources of the
State.”
Also that “probably the most
important occasion in the Com-
mission’s activities to date”
happened in October, 1959,
when water from Tinaroo Falls
Dam was released into the
channel system of the Mareeba-
Dimbulah Irrigation Project,
which has resulted in “the
spectacular expansion of pro-
duction in this area which for
the year 1959-60 was some
£2,500,000 greater than the
value of production when the
scheme was commenced.”
In plain fact the Tinaroo
Falls Dam was begun 10 years
ago when 2400 acres of tobacco
were planted in the Mareeba-
Dimbulah area, the average
price of leaf per lb at that time
being 11 Id. In 1959-60 there
were 5500 acres planted and
the yield per lb was 149.5 d.,
giving a total value for the leaf
sold of £3 million. Thus a
good deal of the increased
return is due to the increased
price of tobacco, and probably
a good deal of the increased
acreage, too.
All the improvement is put
down to the “effect of the
project” which is only now
beginning to feed out water in
any reasonable quantity.
The dam has a total storage
capacity of 350,000 acre feet.
Releases to 349 farms totalled
15,441 acre feet during the
year.
But the cost of the project is
now £12,500,000 to last June,
°f which half went into the
dam and half into irrigation
channels. It is not clear
whether the figure includes
roads built in new areas to
se rve the total of 70 farms
which it is expected to open this
year.
The whole plan envisages
1100 farms on which 49,500
acres would be irrigated an-
nually and that, of this, 12,000
acres would be growing
tobacco.
The dam, which will con-
serve the equal of about a
quarter of the water in Warra-
gamba (N.S.W.), is the first
large project of its sort in
Queensland. It will provide
about 72,000 k.w. of electricity
for Cairns and other large
centres. The irrigation project
is still far from finished —at
the end of the year not half its
channels were complete.
As an economic demonstra-
tion of where to start in
irrigation for a State with an
area equal to more than half
India, it is scarcely imposing,
the less so since the need for
irrigation in the north is so vital
to its progress. Irrigation legis-
lation has progressively been
put on the statute books since
1922 to the accompaniment of
a great deal of political band
music.
The off-stage music in the
Tinaroo Falls project can still
be heard in the distance, but
it is perhaps well not to go into
that or to treat too seriously
The Irrigation Acts 1922-59,
the Irrigation and Water Supply
Commission Acts 1946-49, the
Irrigation Area Land Settle-
ments Acts 1933-59, the Land
and Water Resources Develop-
ment Acts 1943-46, The Water
Acts 1926-57, The Farm Water
Supplies Assistance Act 1958,
the N. S. Wales-Queensiand
Border Rivers Act 1946 and
some other bits and pieces.
The formidable battery of
legislation passed over nearly
40 years has produced the
following result in a nutshell
(apart from a series of photo-
graphs and maps reproduced in
annual reports which convey at
first glance the impression that
Queensland is a sort of Noah’s
Flood piled yp behind weirs
and cement walls like the Great
Wall of China):
Out of a total area under
crop of 2,600,000 acres (which
is about one-fifth of the area
under cultivation in Bulgaria,
a backward little Balkan State),
about 154,000 acres are irri-
gated and this small area pro-
duces about one-fifth of the
£B5 million worth of agricul-
tural production of the Queen
of States (as its politicians like
to call it).
The reader of the Commis-
sion’s report should not start
patting the Government on the
back before he reads from the
Queensland Year Book that the
“bulk of the irrigated area is
supplied with water from pri-
vately owned pumps operating
from streams under licence or
from underground water re-
sources.” The Government has
certainly assisted by diverting
streams and putting in weirs—
-39 in 25 years—which have a
total storage capacity, though
not always an actual storage,,
of 49,430 acre feet.
It gives technical advice, etc.,
which isn’t as cheap as one
might think, and loans which
are mere peanuts. The actual
area irrigated by the Govern-
ment last year was 8055 acres.
It has some special areas for
development (which would tuck
into the corner of any irrigation
scheme in India and be forgot-
ten) such as 5900 acres from
weirs on the Dawson River,
near Theodore, serving about
60 farms ; a project for the Bur-
dekin in North Queensland,
which is to serve about 200
farms when complete; the
millionaire one at Tinaroo ; the
St George scheme which pro-
vides for 41 farms for fats
raising and the Warrill Valley
Scheme near Boonah, where
another dam comparable to the
Tinaroo scheme is on the way
and intended to increase the
area irrigated in that rich
corner of coastal Queensland
from 3000 to 9000 acres.
In a State in which the
problem of development hinges
on water and communications,
the outlook of the Government
is unreal. The mere fact that
only 154,000 acres is irrigated
in an agricultural State of
662,000 square miles does not
tell the whole story. It needs
analysis to limn the sorry pic-
ture sharply.
/"\ut of that 154,000 irrigated
acres, 65,000 acres is in the
sugar cane area. Another
26,000 acres consists of vege-
table gardens. Another 31,000
acres covers fodder paddocks,
mostly rich lucerne flats in the
south-eastern corner of the
State in a high rainfall area.
Outside sugar, vegetables and
fodder, all mostly grown on
high or moderately high rain-
“After all, man is-never REALLY free.”


kstab'ished 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing. Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney. London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
"JACKSUL," BRISBANE
si
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£A363,000,000
•
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE. ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
start the day right!
■
UhavVmC
£?£»**
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies ~ .. .. 2/r
Yearly Subscription .. 22 1 P
Graziers everywhere will
no doubt be pleased to
hear of the new wool
markets in Asia, which
have already challenged
wool production to meet
the demand. If this
demand is to continue,
the total world wool
production will be
lifted to a record level.
One way to help in-
crease wool production,
as most Australian
graziers have discovered,
is by using the Elastrator
Green Rubber Ring
method of castrating and
tailing. With Elastrator
there are no open
wounds to harbour
germs, thus lessening the
risk of disease to your
lambs or calves.
This then reduces the
lamb mortality rate,
which means increased
returns.
fall coastal country, only 31,016
acres of Queensland country is'
irrigated and one-third of that
is improved or natural pasture.
Social services, not develop-
ment, are the first essentials to
politicians in the welfare state.
Only in a welfare state would
it be possible for a government
to spend only about 30s. a year
per head including capital ex-
penses on irrigation and £8 per
head on State schools alone,
without causing any comment.
But that, regrettably, is the
Queensland Story. And there
the 30s. per head covers such
schemes as the Tinaroo plan.
Queensland’s rainfall and
waterflow are not helped by
great rivers like those of India,
filled seasonally by the melting
of Himalayan snows. All the
more reason why every drop of
water that can be conserved or
harnessed should be treated
with proper respect and saved
from evaporation by tree plant-
ing, as is done along great
canals such as the Montgomery
Canal, which irrigates an area
with a population of 10 millions
in the Punjab.
The rainfall, such as it is,
should be trapped wherever it
can be trapped, especially in
the waste two-thirds of the
State which carries only 72,000
people, and made to work, and
work hard.
Better a concentration of in-
dustry in dispersed, small inten-
sively producing areas well-
watered and cultivated and
fertilised to profitability than
that agriculture and grazing
should be, as an industry, a sort
of concealed unemployment.
Such a state could be compared
with the concealed unemploy-
ment of Asia where a cloud of
people divide up an adequate
one-man wage in order to live
on a starvation basis.
In a period when costs —of
wages, margins, land, leisure,
taxes, strikes, welfare imposts,
transport have become so
heavy that even some of the
aristocrats, the wool growers,
are operating at a loss, waste
and regression are almost a
crime.
On the overall crop statistics
in Queensland the position is
not very bright; but it must
be admitted that it is not very
bright in the other States either,
though it is better in the south
than in Queensland. In N. S.
Wales and Victoria water re-
sources are being applied in
conjunction with the only pos-
sible marketing policy for soil
production in Australia —the
marketing of crops on the hoof.
There is an external demand
for beef, mutton and dairy
produce at prices commensur-
able with cost of production.
The intensification of fatten-
ing production is something
that goes hand in hand with
irrigation—good grasses Season
after season, ample reserve
fodder, shade, quick turnover
all go with regular provision of
water. But whenever a Queens-
land Government thinks of
water it cannot conceive any-
thing being done unless on a
grand scale —yet it cannot
finance anything on a grand
scale.
There must be dozens of
projects waiting to be handled
at moderate cost in Queens-
land if planners will only take
the chain off their imagina-
tions.
For example, just before
World War 11, the late Dr
Bradfield, exploring the head
of the Dawson River Valley
area of Central Queensland,
propounded a scheme for the
River Dee, 15 miles or so from
Mt Morgan and 43 miles from
Rockhampton.
A lot of Dr Bradfield’s
schemes were visionary in his
day though not so much now;
but this was a scheme, the
advantages and possibilities of
which must have been obvious
to anybody who knew the
country.
It was quite simply a plan to
use a perfect dam site at Wura
on the Dee River and on the
main road and railway from
Rockhampton down the Daw-
son Valley. Such a dam would
impound the water from 230
square miles of catchment
area.
r T''HE site is perfect. The dam
would call for a concrete
gravity wall 750 feet long and
75 feet high, merging into an
earthen wall 25 feet high and
900 feet long with a concrete
core three feet thick.
The surrounding country
north of the Gelobera Range
spreads out in converging
valleys along a series of creeks
and the main bed of the Dee
River which already provides
Mt Morgan, its mine and its
5000 people with a water supply
based on Fletcher’s Creek.
The average rainfall of the
area is 33.86 inches. The
wettest year on record gave
60.38 inches and the range of
fall is between 28.96 inches in
ten consecutive dry years and
35.75 inches in ten consecutive
wet ones.
South of the dam site the
country is hilly for a mile or
so, then becomes gently un-
dulating till Dululu, five miles
from Wura, where it spreads
itself out into flats slightly in-
clining towards the south-west.
This is first-class country.
The soil is deep and rich, highly
suitable for sorghums and stock


WHAT HAPPENS TO EVERYONE
IMMEDIATELY AFTER DEATH?
This is a simple question. The answer should be
neither mystical nor vague. Your attention is called to
a hook by Emanuel Swedenborg (see Encyclopaedia).
It can be borrowed at most libraries, or copies can
be bought from me. This truly Christian book I
believe to be the only full description of the life
after death.
Send ten shillings for “Heaven and Hell”
(400 pages) to:
SWEDENBORG FOUNDATION Inc.,
51 E. 42nd Street, New York, U.S.A.
or to: REV. D. L. ROSE,
86 Laycock Road, Hurstville, N.S.W.
“1 wish l might be able to radiate the spiritual illumin-
ation that came to me when l read with my own fingers,
‘Heaven and Hell’/' HELEN KELLER.
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters
Ideal for farms, stations and for
hot-water systems, and household
requirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last a
lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of “Curvi-
linear” Mining Tables, .Rapid Magnetic
Machines and Ellison Switch Gear.
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720)
Assets exceed £173,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
Kindersley House, Bligh/O’Connell Streets, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton, Manager for Australia.
Start the weekend well with
WEEKEND
1/- from your newsagent
feeds in general and is already
being put to good use.
The stands of milo on it are
excellent. There is one big
Hereford stud in the area and
cattle throughout the district
were in splendid condition
when the writer went over the
area in October last, consider-
ing the droughtiness of the
year generally.
All the countryside round
yVowan is made for irrigation
and its position in relation to
the dam is almost unique.
Burrinjuck water, for in-
stance, has to be taken 240
miles to feed its irrigation area,
but at Wura a main channel
five miles long would bring the
water to the doorstep of an
area of 60,000 irrigable acres
which the locals believe would
carry 1000 settlers on 60-acre
blocks.
Most of the Dawson and
Callide country goes in tor
dairying with some cotton and
pig raising. But it is estimated
that with irrigation water, rice,
green fodders, fruit and vege-
tables, poultry and bees could
be added to the Wura area
economy and would be pay
able in the light of the growing
development of industry.
This includes permanent
mining at Mt Morgan, which
is a rocky medley of geology
short of adjacent agricultural
land, Rockhampton, with its
45,000 people and the grow-
ing coalmines of the Callide
and Baralaba. Brisbane and
Townsville are as near as
Griffith is to Sydney. Much of
the country looks suitable for
grapes. And certainly there
would be work for irrigated
land in topping off young stock
It would certainly provide
Mt Morgan with subsidiary in-
dustries— cement, for instance
-and make an outlet for a
great proportion of the mine’s
stock of sulphide fertiliser
material, which is being stored
away in huge beds as it is taken
out of the mine, with the future
in view.
Yet here is a comparatively
simple irrigation proposition on
an ideal site, with good land
waiting to be used if provided
with water, completely neg-
lected, despite its estimated
limited costs.
Before the war when Dr
Bradfield put the plan forward,
Be estimated that it would cost
--weir, canals and channels
and general preparation of the
farms for irrigation, and in-
terest during construction
about £400,000 against the
G 700,000 spent on the Theodore
scheme, which is an expensive
Pumping-scheme.
The cost of the Theodore
scheme has doubled since
through accessory work and
feeds water to only about 3000
acres. The Wura scheme en-
visages 60,000 acres. Also,
being entirely gravitational and
therefore needing no pumping
stations, it would be much
cheaper and the water would
be spread infinitely more
quickly than if pumping capa-
city bottlenecks had to be taken
into account.
The cost nevertheless wouid
probably be in the region of
four or five times the cost when
Dr Bradfield made his estimate.
At that it would be highly pay-
able, if the experts who have
looked at it have not grossly
over-estimated its possibilities.
Apart from the revenue to
the State from development of
Crown land, the scheme should
soon be able to provide an
annual surplus from water
supply. The operational
accounts of the Theodore-
Gibber Gunya area, even
allowing for its expensiveness
as a pumping proposition,
yielded surpluses in the last
three years of operation and
these should certainly increase
with the expansion of acreages.
HThe Dee River scheme alone,
it seems, could more than
double the area irrigated in the
State outside sugar and vege-
table gardens. It is only one
example of what is waiting to
be done at comparatively low
cost.
Even sugar, the major irri-
gation crop of the State, is only
11.9 per cent irrigated, vege-
tables only 40 per cent; fruit
8.6 per cent, cotton 3.6 per
cent. Tobacco is the only land
industry which approaches
complete irrigation in the north
—90.3 per cent.
Queensland, where the need
for irrigation is greater than
in the southern States, is far
behind them. Its figures com-
pare badly with those of N. S.
Wales —about 680,000 acres in
1958, soon to be vastly aug-
mented from the Snowy Moun-
tains scheme and Victoria,
855,000 acres. Irrigation
doubled the population of the
Murrumbidgee areas within a
generation.
In Victoria, it is officially
estimated, that the value of pro-
duction in the districts con-
trolled by the Irrigation Com-
mission has risen from £500,000
per annum in 1905-6 to £42
millions in 1955-6.
Victoria’s water storage has
risen from 172,000 acre feet
just after Federation to about
6 million acre feet today.
The whole responsibility is
not on the State Government.
The Federal Government has a
very direct interest in the
development of a thriving
population in Queensland, on
the doorstep of Asia.


SPORT
Indies Debunk Eugene O’Neill
By LINDSEY BROWNE
It the first threat of danger
the darkie panics and his
gibbering jungle superstitions
take over to gobble up his
nerve, his heart and his guts —
or so argued playwright
Eugene O'Neill without having
had the advantage of seeing
the whole theory blasted by
such darkies as those who won
the Sydney Test for the West
Indies the other day.
Here they were, these vividly
handsome blood - relatives of
the “Emperor Jones,” and half-
a-dozen times in this match
disaster struck spitefully into
them in search of the reputed
panickiness of their kind, and
half -a - dozen times disaster
came out whimpering, hum-
bled and bewildered by the
mockery it had found in there.
Every time they were ready to
put a hoodoo on voodoo.
Caribbean voodooists burn
a sacrificial chicken in the dark
of the night in order to lay a
curse on somebody or other
—but it was soon clear on the
first day that these Caribbeans,
if they indulge in such match-
winning rites, had benevolently
excluded Australia’s Alan
Davidson. Davidson had them
halfway into a crash by lunch
on the first day, and the Aus-
tralians were already counting
chickens of another kind.
If the Emperor Jones had
come in to bat then, the
Australians’ chicken-counting
might have made sense but
nobody was going to be
allowed to call Garfield Sobers
chicken, even if he did scratch
around for quite a time, and
nobody was going to find an
Emperor Jones in him, even
if he did go so far as to reveal
the most beautifully imperial
batting style seen in a genera-
tion’s cricket. It was a
romance of runs,
There was none of the
familiar trying to outsulk the
bowlers that is such set prac-
tice in Australian and English
fight-back batting. There was
none of that all-or-nothing
butchering in which desperado
panic does the work more than
skill and character. Coolly and
suavely, with senatorial
flourish on every great stroke,
he legislated against the Aus-
tralian bowling, and fieldsmen
were seen racing everywhere
like police after crime,
Sobers’s 168 was the second-
highest score ever made by .a
West Indian in a Test against
Australia—and the stroke that
got him out, an attempted
hook off a Davidson bumper,
was for me one of the most
beautiful shots of the day,
because of what it revealed
about the man. “Shirk no
challenge,” said the ball. “I
shirk none,” said the bat. Up
went the catch that a shirker
or a squib could not have
given. Better to die brave than
to live a coward!
What bores are they who
complain like peevish school-
masters about the “rashness”
of strokes like this! And all
that pontifical talk about exces-
sive backswing! Let's have
plenty of backswing while the
going’s good ; we’re stiff
doomed to see many years of
rr.iser-batting from fellows like
Ken Mackey. Why, you could
put a Sevres china teaset six
inches behind Mackay’s block-
hole, and it wouldn’t be in the
slightest danger all day!
TAisaster, not game to appear
while Sobers was back-
swinging bigly into 25 fours
and a six, moved in as he went.
Four wickets fell for no run.
The Indies, steered to a big
score by Sobers, were chopped
back to an “unwinning” one.
The innings, and the team’s
hopes, were given a Manx-cat
tail. All out, 339. Not enough,
surely, against tie 10-deep
Australian batting side?
The Emperor Jones, if a
member of this team, would
have been frightened to death
of so “few” runs. But he was
not picked, his place being
taken by an extraordinary sort
of slouching buccaneer named
Wesley Hall, the most
ferociously fast bowler in the
world. What a name! Wesley
the evangelist, and Hall the
bushranger! And that’s the
sort of cricketer he is, too.
He’s Wesley in between the
really business moments of
cricket, a watermelon smile on
a lot of genial benevolence that
got into cricket instead of the
theatre. He’s bushranger Hall,
and murderous, in the business
moments, and that got into
cricket instead of into Devil’s
Island. For controlled and
vital ferocity, there’s been no
other fast bowler like him in
recent times.
Despite a bruised heel —the
heel that tries to get itself
thumped knee-deep into the
ground at the pivot of every
delivery this magnificent
fighter kept the Australians
wondering more about their
insurance than their scores.
But the man who cashed
Hall’s furious brilliance was
little Rohan Karihai, a West
Indian of East Indies blood.
Diving full length to his left
on the grass for a leg-glance
off one of the fastest balls
ever bowled in Sydney, he took
the ball as if to save a butter-
cup from a bullet —and opener
Bobby Sirnpson, whose own
catching-reflexes have flabber-
gasted opponents tor years
went back to the pavilion to
report a biter-bit episode.
A t the end of the second day's
play, Australia was half-
way towards reaching the West
Indies first-innings score. Our
“tail” usually makes a hundred
or two, but the Indies men
must have burnt chickens all
the weekend, because, mainly
through clever off- spinner
Gibbs (three wickets in four
balls), ducks were the plentiful
outcome of Monday's play.
Australia, all out for 202.
A winning position? But not
for long, because in half an
hour or so Alan Davidson had
wrought another crash. Three
of the greatest batsmen in the
game— Hunte, Kanhai and
Sobers—were back in the
pavilion with the score at 22.
Surely panic would get a go
on this time? But, again, no!
To the menace of a score of
3-22, majestic Frank Worrell
and cavalier Cammie Smith
answered in high contempt. All
they could think to do was to
bung on a hundred runs in
an hour—and this a Test
match!
Worrell's batting style, as
Sobers’s, had an emperor in
it somewhere—but where
Sobers is an emperor of
romance, a Charlemagne in a
herald’s world of pennants and
puissance and caparisoned
steeds, Worrell is a classic
imperator whose deeds beg to
be told squarely in Latin on
marble. One cover-drive off
Davidson w'as as superlatively
poised and wise as Pliny’s
prose.
■Cmperors? Oddly enough, if
you exclude little wicket-
chucker-down Solomon, there
is only one man in the team
with an emperor’s name—
Alexander, the team’s one
white man. And this Alexan-
der, with a tail-end century,
did plenty of conquering in a
spirit of thoroughly trades-
manlike tenacity. Thais would
not have loved him, though.
But it was he, after Worrell,
who ensured that Australia
wouldn’t have an easy fourth-
innings target only 463 to
make to win!
No scope for panic in that,
you’d think, but Harvey and
O’Neill went after the runs
with such overpowering bat-
ting mastery on the fourth day
that the Indies men could not
have been without some


Faith hi iJw
On every Australian pound note, under the
watermarked imagte of Captain James Cook, is
inscribed the word “Endeavour.”
It is fitting that it should be there, expressing
as it does the faith and courage of the Yorkshire
man and his crew whose discoveries led to our
inheriting this country.
Whoever gave the name “Endeavour” to the
three hundred and seventy ton barque that took out
from Plymouth one day in 1768 could not have
known that it would ever afterwards be linked with
a continent then misted in the title of the Great
South Land.
For those who, like myself, are interested in
the origin of words, it is worth recording that
“endeavour” was coined from the Middle English
word “dever,” meaning “duty.” Its longer
derivation is to be found in the Latin verb
“debere,” “to owe.”
The settlers who made the farms, formed the
towns and set the foundations for the national
advancement wp are making now—they knew what
it meant. And it is only by a spirit of individual
endeavour that Australia will be taken on to its
richest fulfilment.
Our approach to this should be more than a
matter of sentiment. It must be firm and practical.
Refusing to be content with meeting events as they
come, we have to anticipate them and be prepared
intelligently to face up to whatever challenge
they bring.
Any who may be tempted to doubt by the
incidental problems that arise should think back
on the difficulties that confronted Cook and his
handful of men when they dared the storms and
secrets of the seas in one small ship nearly two
hundred years ago.
Australia is what it is today because of the
courage and sacrifices that went into the past. It
will be what it is in the future by what we ourselves
give to it in our time.
And the word for the duty we owe it is there
before us every time we hold an Australian pound
note in our hand.
//' //asftoifz
y
qualms when the last day’s
play began.
Perhaps chickens were burnt
again overnight, for Harvey
got out promptly—to Lance
Gibbs who, thrashed into
nonentity the previous after-
noon, came back full of fight
to get five of the eight wickets
which fell before lunch! There
was nothing in his aggressive
off-spinning of that last morn-
ing to suggest that he was in
any way inclined to keep down
with the Emperor Joneses.
And, for good measure, per-
haps because they got Norman
mixed up with debunkable,
Gibbs finished-off O’Neill soon
after.
Down with O’Neill! Any
O’Neill!
Out of six could-have-been
panics these fighting darkies
had won a great Test by 222
runs, and so ensured that the
whole Test rubber would be
alive right through to the last
ball of the fifth Test. And
everyone of this winning team
might quote what the Emperor
Jones himself has to say: “1
got brains and I uses ’em quick.
Dat ain't luck.”
Sights on the Tenpin Target
Few Australians are not
familiar with tenpin bowl-
ing, American style, as many a
Hollywood movie scene has
been shot in these entertain-
ment alleys. Generally the film
theme is of happy family life —
and the fact that 30 million
Americans play the game regu-
larly is proof that it caters for
family entertainment.
Now it is here, and its appeal
is spreading rapidly.
The vacuum created in the
field of out-of-home night
recreation -by the closing of
suburban movie theatres,
through the impact of TV, had
to be filled —and the tenpin
bowl looks like doing the fill-
ing.
Two alleys are operating in
Sydney—one at Hurstville and
a second, recently opened, at
Enfield. A third, to go in at
Bankstown, will have 60 lanes
-three times bigger than
Hurstville. Others are planned
for several more suburbs and
the spread to other cities is in-
exorable.
One big advantage of this
indoor sport is that it is first
and foremost a social game.
As in golf, the “singleton”
player has no standing. From
two to five players is the usual
team.
Surroundings make for the
maintenance of a congenial
atmosphere. The Enfield Bowl
is a spacious, handsome, ultra-
modern building, housing 28
lanes. Entrance is free. You
Walk into a wide, deep foyer,
its wall-to-wall carpet of pale
blue and white carrying a motif
of bowls and pins.
In front are the spectator
se ats ; in front of those again
the lounges for players and
scorers. All furniture is of
fibreglass.
The Bowl is air-conditioned.
There is a snack-bar where hot-
dog addicts may restore their
fibres between games. A
jnirsery, well-stocked with toys,
looks after the very young
while their mothers have a
game during the day.
Hours of play are from 9
a.m. to midnight, six days a
week. On any week night
there will be from 400 to 500
players rollin’ ’em up.
The bodgies and beatniks
don’t foregather here, and they
are not welcome. Also, the
management is strict in Us
refusal to tolerate slommicky
dressing such as shorts and
singlet. Shorts with long golf
socks are allowed but most
men wear slacks and sports
shirts. Girls play in colorful
matadors, slacks or skirts, and
blouses or jumpers.
As with all ball games, this
is one of skill depending on
co-ordination of eye and hand.
The bowls come in five
weights: 10, 12, 14, 15 and
161 b, the lighter ones for the
girls.
It i osts ss. a game, consist-
ing of 10 “frames.” You have
two shots at each frame, unless
of course you manage to
skittle the whole 10 pins in one
go. It costs another shilling
for hire of special shoes. Pro-
fessional instruction is free.
It is a game ideally suited
for friendly rivalry between
groups on a point-score basis.
Whilst the preponderance is
heavily on youth—the age
group 17-25 who mostly want
to be out of the home at night
—there is a fair sprinkling of
the young-middle-aged Young-
sters in pyjamas and dressing
gowns look on while Mum and
Dad and their friends shoot a
few down the polished timber.
And it will be well worth
cracking. An Ampol competi-
tion which closes on the last
day of this month is worth
£lOOO to the player who can
bring it off—score 12 strikes
in a row, or 300 points.
This evergreen game from
the U.S. has transplanted well,.
Its roots have got a firm grip
into Australian soil and the sap
is healthy. It looks like grow-
ing into a giant.


One Million Guineas to New Zealand
By JOHN SCHOFIELD
Tn the last 15 years Australian buyers have spent just
■*- over one million guineas buying yearlings at the New
Zealand sales. They rounded up the figure —sterling, by
the way—at the sales just concluded when they bought 121
lots for 101,870gns. This was 44,245gn5. less than the
record of 146,295gn5. paid for 149 lots last year.
Sydney trainer T. J. Smith again was the biggest buyer,
but he got only 11 yearlings which cost him 12,050gn5.
His biggest draft buy was 22 —the year he bought Tulloch,
the cheapest of the lot.
Brisbane trainer Fred Best bought eight for 5000gns.
and Adelaide trainer Bart Cummins, son of Comic Court’s
trainer Jim Cummins, bought three for 7400gns.
Cummins bought the second highest priced lot, paying
3250gns. for a colt by Blueskin II (imp.) from Sierra
Nevada. Top price of the sale was 7000gns., paid by an
American for the filly by Pride of Kildare (imp.) from
Florida, and, therefore, half-sister to Tulloch.
Sales showed a marked drop compared with last
year, but a drop was expected because of economic
conditions in both New Zealand and Australia. Also, the
N.Z. stage was set laSt year for a good sale, much more
so than this year.
In Australia last year Star Kingdom (imp.) dominated
the sales because of the regular success of his sons and
daughters in major two-year-old and three-year-old races.
Trainers advised owners to look elsewhere for yearlings
because of the likelihood of extreme bidding for the
progeny of Star Kingdom (imp.).
Their forecast was correct. The youngsters broke all
records, top price being 15,500gn5. for the yearling from
Confection (now named Columbia Star), yet to race. At
the sales this Easter things may be different. Star Kingdom
stock will still be eagerly sought, but he will not dominate
the sales.
The stock by Wilkes (imp.) have won their way to the
top flight through Wenona Girl, Brolga Lad, Native State-
man and others. Stock by Edmundo (imp.) have proved
themselves well worth the money paid for them. And in
Adelaide there will be keen bidding for the youngsters by
Coronation Boy (imp.).
Maybe it was because of the wide choice available
in Australia that owners were not very interested in New
Zealand. Or maybe buyers are taking stock of the some-
what meagre return from the million guineas outlay' in
the past 15 years—Tulloch excepted.
Two important announcements were made during the
A week. In Melbourne the V.R.C. placed a limit of 26
on the size of the Melbourne Cup field. This was long
overdue. Last year’s Cup was spoiled because of the field
of 30. Jockeys had to go where their horses took them.
They had no opportunity to use their skill in getting the
best possible positions for their mounts.
The other decision came from the stewards in Sydney,
and it, too, could have been made years ago with
advantage.
The stewards announced that gear used on horses in
races cannot be changed at will. In other words, trainers
cannot race a horse in bandages today and without them
tomorrow.
The late Jim Lynch, one of the best stewards racing
has known, made this rule on his own account in Brisbane
and policed it without fear or favor.
If a trainer convinced him that a special type of bit
bettered the performance of a horse he would allow its
use ; but once used it was used always—there was no
leaving it at home when the trainer did not want to back
the horse!
TThe New Zealand two-year-old—Commanding—which
we suggested earlier might become the first New
Zealander to win the Sydney Turf Club’s £lO,OOO Golden
Slipper Stakes, looks like turning the trick.
Last week Commanding won the Trentham Stakes at
Wellington, a race for three-year-olds and two-year-olds,
running the six furlongs in lm. 95.!
We have some pretty good two-year-olds in Australia
at the moment, but it would be a brave man who would
back any one of them to run that time.
Todman ran lm. 10s. to win the Champagne Stakes
m his year. Sky High ran lm. 10|s. last year. Todman
holds the record for the six furlongs Golden Slipper at
lm. Ilfs. And the world record for a two-year-old over
six furlongs is lm. 7-Js. credited to the “spotted wonder ”
The Tetrarch.
Moore intends remaining in Sydney. Offers
will be made to Neville Sellwood and to Athol Mulley
to replace Moore as No. 1 jockey with the French trainer
A. Head.
Moore has no quarrel at all with French racing. He
found it very profitable. However, there are other con-
siderations, mainly the education and upbringing of his
family.
Moore’s decision poses a query regarding the riding
of Tulloch in the champion’s autumn engagements. Sell-
wood took over the mount when Moore temporarily
severed his connection with T. J. Smith’s stables to go to
France. Mulley secured the greater part of the general
riding for the stable.
Sellwood’s handling of Tulloch in the Melbourne Cup
came in for divided comment. It is not exactly an even-
money bet that Sellwood will retain the mount.
Qegenhoe Stud, at Scone (N.S.W.), owned by Mr Lionel
° Israel, has bought another French-bred stallion,
Avebury, who will arrive shortly so that he will have
plenty of time to acclimatise before beginning duty next
September.
Avebury was lightly raced and won one two-year-
old event—the October Stakes (lm.) at Doncaster. He is
a young horse, foaled in 1957. His pedigree is widely
known in Australia: he Is by Worden II from La Joliette
by Alycidon from Justina, by Fairway from Jurv by
Hurry On.
Worden II and his half-brother Mahan won the
International Stakes in the U.S.A., and a 1 third half-
brother, Wilkes (imp.), promises to become one of the
best stallions Australia has seen for many years. Jury,
the third dam of Avebury, produced seven winners, among
them Whirlaway (imp.,) and Justice Jury (imp.). Whirl-
away, who stood for a time at Widden Stud, was the sire
of the dual Derby winner Alister. Justice Jury stood at the
stud in Queensland. Another representative of the family
who was at the stud here was Confessor (imp.).
Segenhoe Stud at the moment has two stallions whose
progeny are not old enough to race. They are Piping Rock
(imp.) and Duvidal (imp.). The stud sold Nilo (imp.) to the
U.S.A. and Pan II (imp.) back to a French breeder.


There’s richer enjoyment in every glass
|EANpX
jAGXtG)
Australia’s
Better Brandy
STAGnes
potstm BRANDY
There’s no drink at once so stimulating . . . so
relaxing ... so cheering at all timeg as good
Australian brandy. And no brandy offers you
richer, more satisfying enjoyment than St. Agnes.
All the skill and experience of careful wine mak-
ing, distilling and blending are combined in the
perfection of St. Agnes Brandy . . . winning for St. Agnes a
distinguished reputation for quality, both in Australia and the
world over!
Enjoy the
Better Brandy
STAGnes
BRANDY
Old Liqueur
or Three Star
ANGOVE’S LTD. of RENMARK, S.A. • WINEMAKERS & DISTILLERS
ru w.\ m-i i.\:Wivm'r±w\'i i in
Business.Rollery,Etc.
Signad....
Profits Create Capital
If it has not been realised
before in polite society that
profit-earning on an adequate
scale is necessary in the run-
ning of a free-enterprise
economy it should be realised
now.
Legitimate profit-earning is
nothing to be ashamed of ; in
fact, it is a most necessary
thing for progress in any true
democracy.
In the 1930 s Major Douglas,
of “Douglas Credit” fame,
used to maintain that industry
did not distribute sufficient
consumer purchasing-power to
buy back its own goods. That
may have seemed so in the de-
pressed 1930 s even if it were
not true.
But during the 1950 s and
1960 s we are seeing another
phenomenon. Today industry
is not producing enough goods
and services to meet the de-
mands of consumers who are
spending their wages and
borrowed consumer-credit in a
way never seen before for such
a prolonged period.
This shortage of consumer-
goods is accompanied ly an
even greater scarcity of capital-
goods.
In addition to their own
spending, consumers are hav-
ing a far greater sum spent on
them by public authorise: in
the name of social security and
services.
The productive side of the
economy is being overloaded
with demand. It is being re-
quired to hold back its profits
in order to finance expansion
so as to cope with demand. Its
profit-margins are being cut
so fine that, between plough-
back and reinvestment of
dividends by its own share-
holders, it is still struggling to
find capital that is reasonable
in cost after payment of taxa-
tion.
Inevitably a country develop-
ing at the pace we are seeing
in Australia must have the
assistance of overseas capital,
especially if it is absorbing
large numbers of overseas
Migrants. But it is unfortunate
that at a time when develop-
ment was likely to be at a high
rate anyway such a political
emphasis should have been
Placed on full employment,
social security and consumer-
services and such restrictions
placed upon profit-earning.
The greate r bar to reason-
able profit - earning (from
which most of our indigenous
capital for industrial expansion
comes) is the p jlicy of the
Federal Treasury, which taxes
company dividends twice, and
makes no allowance for the
inflated cost of plant-replace-
ment when estimating deduct-
ible depreciation provisions.
Visibly and invisibly, com-
* pany earnings are being
bled away by Treasury taxa-
tion policy. Only because their
shareholders have been per-
suaded to accept yields of as
low as 2 p.c. on their shares
have some companies been
able to raise the capital neces-
sary to continue expanding.
Fears of further inflation have
sent people buying industrial
equities and accepting yields
down to 3 p.c. and 2 p.c. even
where they have had the
counter-offer of Common-
wealth bond interest at 5 p.c.
or a rate of 8 p.c. from
“unsecured notes.”
The National Bank of Aus-
tralasia recently had a look at
the proportion company earn-
ings occupy in the national
income. It came up with the
conclusion that possibly, with
the impact of higher costs and
maybe some easing in the
tempo of business activity, a
more strenuous effort will be
required to maintain profit-
margins. However, continued
the bank, it would appear that
in general the basic, longer-
term outlook remains sound,
although special concern must
be felt about the situation in
the highly important farming
sector.
The National found it diffi-
cult to conclude other than that
overall the profit - earning
capacity of farming has been
declining, but to precisely what
extent lack of data renders it
impossible to say. The pre-
liminary figure for the gross
value of farm production for
1959-60 is given as £1304
million and farm income,
tentatively, as £466 million.
The difference between these
figures (i.e., £B3B million)
represents, in broad terms, the
costs (inclusive of depreciation
allowances) incurred. The ratio
of this cost figure to value of
production was over 64 p.c.
last year, the highest recorded
for many years with the excep-
tion of 1957-58, when it was
artificially high owing to wide-
spread drought conditions
resulting in loss of income.
Regarding companies, the
national - income preliminary
figures for 1959-60 give £694
million for aggregate company
income, which is gross earnings
less expenses and dividends re-
ceived from other companies,
but before payment of corn-
pany income-tax. Additionally,
there are estimates for aggre-
gate incomes for each of two
other parallel business sections,
unincorporated businesses and
professions, and farm income,
and also the aggregate income
received by wage- and salary-
earners.
/'Emitting farm- income be-
cause of its special nature
and the fact that its severe
fluctuations from year to year
invalidate comparisons, last
financial year wage- and salary-
earners received 72.6 p.c. of the
grand total of the three
categories, companies 14.7 p.c.
and unincorporated businesses,
etc., 12.7 p.c. Five years ago,
these percentages were 71.1
p.c., 15.1 p.c. and 13.8 p.c.
respectively.
This result strongly suggests
to the National Bank that,
despite the great expansion in
business and industrial enter-
prise over the period, company
income as a whole barely
maintained its position, while
the proportion going to wage-
and salary-earners definitely
increased.
It would also appear that the
share going to unincorporated
businesses and professions
definitely decreased. In conse-
quence, the inference can
hardly be avoided that, in
reality, company income and
profits, in total, are most de-
cidedly not increasing at any
excessive rate at all.
The bank points out that
many published figures of pro-
fits exhibit constant rises, but
all too often they merely
reflect higher money-values


*
Aj&a
NOTICE
8
M
PER ANNUM
5 YEARS
I
I
PER ANNUM
10 YEARS
PER ANNUM
Registered Office:
321-5 Chapel Rd., Banks-
town. UY4035.
ANY BRANCH OF AUS-
TRALIA & NEW ZEALAND
BANK LTD.
ANY MEMBER OF A
RECOGNISED STOCK EX-
CHANGE.
REGISTERED FIRST
DEBENTURE STOCK
• SHORT TERM
12 mths. notice.. 8% P.A.
6 mths. notice 7% P,A«
3 mths. notice P.A.
Investments in short term are for
an indefinite period.
Repayment is obtained by giving
the notice selected on the applic-
ation form.
• LONG TERM
10 to 20 yrs g% P.A.
sto 9 yrs 81% P.A.
4 yrs 8% P.A.
ASSETS EXCEED £20,000,000
INTEREST PAID QUARTERLY
Trustees for
Debenture Stockholders
THE M.L.C. NOMINEES PTY. LTD.
The Applications will be accepted
only on printed form attached to
the Prospectus.
WHERE TO INVEST
Invest at any H. G. Palmer show-
room in N.S.W., Victoria, Queens-
land, South Australia and A.C.T.
• UNDERWRITING BROKERS
N.S.W.: Bernard Curran & Co., 27
Hunter Street, Sydney.
VIC.s Vinton Smith, Dougall & Co.,
401 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q'LAND: Ernest H. Corser, Hender-
son & Hale, 334 Queen Street,
Brisbane.
S. AUST.: Woodhead, Needham &
Tolhurst, 35 Grenfell Street,
Adelaide.
TAS.: H. W. Bayley & Co., A.M.P.
Chambers, Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
W. AUST.: Geo. H. Newton, Fuller
& Co., 105 St. George's Terrace,
Perth.
POST THIS COUPON TODAY!
To: H. G. Palmer (Consolidated) Ltd.,
321-5 Chapel Rd., Bankstown, N.S.W.
Please send copy of Prospectus to:
Name
Address 8.26/1
and growth when everything
else is also growing.
On the basis of the 1959-60
trading results of a number of
individual companies, profits
in some cases may have im-
proved somewhat. But lack of
available data renders it im-
possible to relate the aggregate
of profits for all companies, or
similar figures for the other
sections, to the funds involved
in earning them, to the total
number of concerns, etc. And
to base conclusions about
profit-earning merely on figures
of company income or profits
on their own is to invite errors
which can be ridiculous in the
extreme.
"Particularly to be noted in
connection with the fore-
going is that the company
incomes, as shown in the
national-income figures, not
only have to bear tax at Bs. in
the £ before passing to share-
holders, but shareholders pay
tax on them, when they come
to them, at the rate appropriate
to their own income.
Wage-earners and unincor-
porated businesses pay tax only
at the rate applicable to indi-
viduals. They escape the
initial Bs.-in-the-£ levied on
companies.
The soaring prices for indus-
trial shares up to September
16, 1960, was not so much a
reflection of the high profit-
earning of companies but a
rather ghastly manifestation of
the effects of inflation com-
bined with the queer incidence
of Treasury policy.
Cheaper Notes
Pradford Cotton 8 p.c.
unsecured notes have been
offering lately at around £lOl,
as against up to £lOB earlier
this year. They mature in 1966,
but are called daily on Sydney
and Melbourne ’Changes.
J. Gadsden Australia, Ltd.,
unsecured notes, maturing
1965-67, are selling at £lOO for
the par yield of 8 p.c.
General Motors 7 p.cs.,
maturing 1964, have been sell-
ing at £9B 10s.
Gollin Holdings 8 p.c. (1965)
can be bought around £99 in
Melbourne.
Permewan Wright 8 p.c.
notes maturing in March, 1963,
were on offer in Melbourne
at £99. This represents a high
rate of return on what is now
a short-term (two-year) invest-
ment.
The 8 p.c. notes in H. H.
Webb, Melbourne (reviewed B.
21/12/’6O), have been selling
at £96. They mature in 1966.
Yarra Falls 8 p.cs.
can be picked-up for £IOO.
A longer-term note, Elec-
tronic Industries, Ltd., carry-
ing p.c. and maturing i n
1970, could be bought in Mel-
bourne last week for £9l 5 S
yielding 8.2 p.c., allowing for
buying and selling brokerage,
Stock Exchange commission
on unsecured notes is one-half
of one per cent, for both buy-
ing and selling.
A note bought at £99 would
therefore cost about £99 10s.,
and if sold before matunly
would stand the purchaser in
at about £IOO.
Interims and Prices
A fter a week or more of
moderate recovery and in-
creased turnover, share prices
have again tended to weaken,
but not on a pronounced scale.
The market is now more in*
dined to look on the bright
side as well as the gloomy side.
And time, of course, marches
on from September 16 and
November 15.
Bank-borrowers should soon
be passing through their crisis
of overdraft-reduction, if they
have not already gone through
it.
It now seems that there will
be more share-issues by smaller
cos. which now find other
means of finance unacceptable
or unobtainable, and this may
influence the sharemarket
downwards. But “rights” should
not be sacrificed without
reason.
A burst of interim dividends
for the six months to December
31 is now erupting. Some of
these should encourage in-
vestors to take the long-range
view. A heartening pointer is
the lift in the divs. of Kandos
Cement and Australian Cement
from 10 p.c. to \2\ p.c.
Bradford Cotton, too, re-
ported increased turnover for
the July-December half-year
and, with profits up, had no
hesitation in paying the 124 Pi-
rate on the old and new capital.
A marked rise in sales was
recorded in the Burlington
“rurals” division and also in
the new sheeting, weaving and
finishing plant which began
production since the close of
the last financial year.
Minster, Ltd., in the busy
floor-coverings industry, h aS
maintained its 20 p.c. rate on
the bonus-increased capital.
A newcomer to the share-
lists, and in a more speculative
(real-estate) business, Westfield
Development Co., Sydney, has
declared its forecast rate ot
10 p.c. for the four months to


The New
Approach to
INVESTMENT
Of great significance to those with Estates,
including Investment holdings, is the plan-
ning of a balanced investment portfolio, and
possibly the formation of a Family Trust.
Such a plan may be devised to minimise
Death Duties, yet provide adequate
income and conserve Estate assets
during one’s lifetime and after death.
Union Trustee with a group of experts—
skilled in the modern conception of
Investment —can act as your financial
counsellor, relieving you of investment
worries, and helping you in many ways
to plan for future financial security.
May we discuss these matters with you—
without obligation—and in complete
confidence?
THE
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria)
333 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l.
20 O’Connell St., Sydney
. 398-402 Queen St., Brisbane
Also at Newcastle, Albury, Toowoomba,
Rockhampton, Townsville and Charleville.
UT34a-82N
MULLENS & CO.
A, H. Urquhart, M. D. Passmore, K. W. A. Bridges, F. H. Mdllens
Members oj the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
16 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone Cables and Telegrams
BW 8171 (3 lines) BL 5327 “EMDECELJ3X,” Sydney
A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. D. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER, N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor, The National Mutual Life Building.
297 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address; “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 81 2761 <4 Dines) P.O. Box No. 1887 W
pecember 31. It has now
entered the motel business.
Further interim reports and
dividends will be forthcoming
each day from now on. The
Pecember 31 half-year will not
be a true indicator for the full
1960-61 term, but reports and
div.-declarations should give
some indication of how the
directors of companies engaged
in various industries feel about
prospects in their own fields.
Xhis should be of value to the
true investor, as distinct from
the speculator who has been
relying on market “tone” for
the past two or three years.
Arbitrage
ON Wednesday of last week
Tasmanian Board Mills
shares sold at Bs. lid. in Mel-
bourne, which is their principal
market. On the same day busi-
ness was done at 6s. 6d. in
Sydney, where they are dealt
in only occasionally—in fact,
they are not listed in the dailies,
although on the official Ex-
change list.
Wednesday’s widely dis-
parate sales in the two capitals
was a remarkable example of
arbitrage —a difference of over
25 p.c. It remains to be added
that the Melbourne quotation,
on Tasmanian Board’s last
balance-sheet, appeared to be
the more realistic valuation.
Safety, Yield
Eor those people who are
* worried about the future
of possibly over-expanded in-
dustries or those which will
be affected by changes in trade
policy, what’s wrong with
switching, their investments
into bank shares?
The yield from some of the
largest banks is quite good.
The ’Wales shows 5.3 p.c., the
National 6.4 p.c. and the Com-
mercial of Sydney 5.9 p.c.
All these banks have a tre-
mendous asset-backing behind
their shares, especially in their
freehold premises. Certainly
1 their earning prospects are re-
stricted by Federal banking
legislation, but they are far
from being a fixed-interest
security. None of the three
banks mentioned has resorted
to revaluing its freeholds for
the purpose of making a
bonus-issue or anything like
that. Each of the banks gives
much more “equity” protection
gainst inflation than any fixed-
interest security. And, short of
electoral approval by referen-
dum, there seems to be no
danger of nationalisation.
Kandos, 121 p.c.
C'udden and steep market
appreciation in the shares
of Kandos Cement, Ltd., and
Australian Cement, Ltd., men
tioned here last week, turned
out to be in well-founded anti-
cipation of a lift in the interim
div—up from 10 p.c. p.a. to
12| p.c. p.a.
In view of the big capital-
outlay still in prospect,/especi-
ally at the Geelong (Vic.) end,
the lift is something of a sur-
prise, as in the past most
capital-outlay has been financed
out of profit-ploughback, and
dividends have been kept down
to 10 p.c. as a consequence.
But the new and much bigger
Geelong plant as it stands at
the moment must be highly
profitable compared with the
old one, and the total capital
cost is low in relation to output
capacity.
Whether the p.c. rate
means that in future divs. will
be more liberal but share-issues
more frequent is a matter for
speculation. However, it does
indicate that the A.P.C. group
is not intimidated by the arrival
of the Blue Circle people on the
Victorian scene.
Clifford Love
Operating from new fac-
tory and office head-
quarters at Enfield (N.S.W.),
Clifford Love and Co. v Ltd.,
now has a widespread organisa-
tion: the Uncle Toby’s oat-mill
at Enfield, the Wade’s cornflour
and Lily white starch mills at
Lane Cove, the Clifford Love
McKenzie Pty. mills and
offices in Melbourne, the new
Brisbane office and factory,
and the flourmilling, baking
and pastoral interests of Strat-
ton and Sons Pty. at Coota-
mundra (N.S.W.).
All told, including the pro-
ducts of the las. F. McKenzie
business, the organisation
manufactures a fairly extensive
range of groceries, the majority
of which are sold under brands
which are household words.
The new ss. ords., now on
offer at around Bs. on Sydney
’Change, are interesting.
Between 1927 and 1953 paid
capital had grown cautiously
from under £200,000 to
£243,931.
In 1954 there was a one-for-
four issue (of £1 ords.) to
shareholders at a 10s. pre-
mium, and in 1955 the issue
to Strattons (116,500 £1 ords.
at a 345. 6d. premium), fol-
lowed by a four-for-five bonus-
issue, financed mainly ouF of
share-premiums and only to a


Invest in
The Longest Established National
Hire-Purchase Company
G
k
c
in which the Bank of New South Wales
has a 40% shareholding
DEBENTURE STOCK
(NEW ISSUE)
12 months
Short 9 months
Term 6 months
3 months
5 3 A% p.a.
5Va% p.a.
4 3 /a% p.a.
4V2% p.a.
Long
Term
6to 10 years 7% p.a.
5 years
4 years
3 years
2 years
6%% p.a.
6Va% p.a.
6%% p.a.
6% p.a.
Application for Debenture Stock can be accepted only
on the printed form included in the prospectus
obtainable from the Bankers to the issue
Bank of New South Wales (All Branches)
any A.G.C. Branch, and your Stockbroker.
PAID-UP
CAPITAL
£6,875,000
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
Corporation Limited
142 Phillip Street, Sydney • BW 2673
Branches and offices throughout Australia
Underwriting Brokers: lAN POTTER & CO. „
small extent by revaluation of
properties.
This bonus-issue was the
only sign of exuberance in the
listed life of Clifford Love.
Otherwise it was a tidy, con-
sistent and well-run profit-
winner for 40 years, always,
apparently, with something up
its sleeve.
There was a one-for-ten par
issue in 1956. Following the
acquisition of the business of
Jas. F. McKenzie Pty. in
1958-59, Clifford Love’s paid
capital rose by £93,000 and
share - premium reserve by
£46,500.
During 1959-60 the bakery
of F. L. Holmes and Son,
Cootamundra, was acquired;
C. L. and Co.’s capital went
up by £23,205 and share-
premiums by £17,708.
In December, 1960, there
was a one-for-ten issue at a
premium of 20 p.c. By this
time the ords. had been split
into ss. units.
At last balance-day paid
capital of .C. L. and Co. stood
at £949,737 and share-premium
reserve at £62,270. The issue
made in December will add
about £95,000 to capital and
£19,000 to premium reserve.
Takeovers [the co. has been
in the takeover business for the
past 50 years, early acquisi
tions being Imperial Manufac-
turing Co. and Brown and
Poison (Aust.)] and its own re
juvenation and expansion have
produced big changes in the
accounts over the past seven
years.
Manufacturing has been
shifted from Kent Street,
Sydney, to Enfield, and the old
city premises sold. The recent
share-issue was made in order
to finance continuing expan-
sion. Everything indicates that
the business is tightly con-
trolled financially, and though
the co. obviously is on a good
footing with its bankers, it
recently has set about reducing
its overdraft.
Up to 1959 the co. did not
disclose the amount provided
for taxation. Last term it was
shown at £73,500, after allow-
ing £58,092 for depreciation.
Net profit was exhibited at
£103,664 (on the conservative
side, judging by the tax pro-
vision), and represented 11.1
p.c. on average capital. The
div. was 8| p.c., including 1
p.c. bonus, as in the preceding
year, when p.c. was paid
to “commemorate 40 years of
continued uninterrupted divi-
dends.” Between the 1955
bonus-issue and 1957-58 the
rate was lj p.c. Up to the
time of the 1955 bonus-issue,
from listing in 1919 the divi-
dend had never been less than
10 p.c. or more than p.c.
in times of depression or
prosperity.
The present basic rate of
1\ p.c. is an improvement on
the pre-bonus rate of 12y p.c.,
and when the 1 p.c. bonus is
added it is better still. Recent
issues at a premium take some
of the gilt off capital-growth.
When announcing the recent
one-for-ten issue at a premium
of a shilling per ss. share the
directors said that, “subject to
the continuance of normal
seasonal conditions, it is antici-
pated that a basic dividend-rate
of 1\ p.c. will be paid on the
increased issued capital.”
Profit-earning in 1959-60 must
have been disturbed, to some
extent, by factory changes.
Production should by now be
streamlined and stabilised.
No capital-profit was shown
in the accounts following the
sale of the Kent Street free-
hold. But between the 1959
and 1960 balance-dates the
book-value of mill and office
premises—“at. revaluation in
1955 and/or cost” —fell from
£833,700 to £725,410, notwith-
standing expenditure on the
new factories.
At Bs. the ss. units offer a
yield of just under 4.7 p.c. on
a 1\ p.c. div. basis, or 5.3 p.c.
from an 8| p.c. distribution.
Ralph Symonds
[A tribute from Brisbane]
/~vne of the few industrial in-
ventors produced by this
country passed on with the
death of Ralph Symonds, guid-
ing-light of the fast-expanding
plywood- and veneer - manu.
facturing firm which bears his
name.
Mr Symonds was not con-
tent to rely on imported p ro .
cesses. With his wide know
ledge of woods, he was able to
produce unique machinery and
devise methods for new pro-
ducts which very quickly at-
tracted attention overseas. His
interests and energy becane
legend, and many thought he
had built a “one-man” business.
But Mr Symonds made his
business into a public company
in 1952, and during these last
years built up a strong manage-
ment and production team.
Although many of the Ralph
Symonds projects received wide
publicity, the essential profit-
ability of the company rested
on mass-production of standard
products, fabricated with great
attention to control of costs.
Australia has lost another of
a fast-vanishing breed of men.
The company he built will con-
tinue and will be a reminder of
an outstanding figure.
The French Report
[From H. Yona]
HThe determination of the
A Government to get an in-
dependent analysis of Austra-
lia’s oil potential has brought
forth on the local scene much
smoke, plenty of steam, but
little fire.
During the course of the in-
vestigation we were warned by
interested parties that no atten-
tion should be paid to the
French report, since obviously
nothing very conclusive could
be learned in the four months
being devoted to the initial
study. The clamor became
greater after the report was
submitted, and the threat of its
being made public was hanging
like the sword of Damocles,
Finally the blow fell as results
W'ere released by Senator
Spooner, along with a policy
statement, bn December 15,
1960.
As a result, a new barrage of
criticism has been aimed at
this well-meaning report, but to
date all of it has come from
parties holding prospecting
permits or who are indirectly
but closely connected with the
business of oil-search.
In my opinion, the greatest
problem facing Australia in its
search for local petroleum
sources has been the over-
diversification of areas for ex-
ploration. True, not as much
risk-capital is ever available as
we would like. Yet, if l' l ®
available monies are aimed at
the few most-likely areas, the
chances of success would he
improved considerably.
It is quite possible that the


INCOME withSECURITY
.s&aiSgSßliiEEE^siiii..,
r “WALES” >
INTEREST-BEARING
W DEPOSITS J
PER ANNUM FOR 12 MONTHS
4%
O PER ANNUM FOR ANY
There is no better short-term invest-
ment and you have the satisfaction of
knowing your money is perfectly safe.
Any amount may be deposited, with
interest commencing from date the
deposit is made.
Enquiries will be welcome at any
Branch or Agency.
Xo*
&£■
w
As
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
A6IOIC
Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hudsonian” Brisbane
J. B. & FRANK CHARLTON
F. B. Charlton, J. F. Charlton, J. M. Fay, C.A.B. Marjason, J. L. Russell
{Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange.)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Third Floor, City Mutual Building, 309 Queen St., Brisbane
Telephone: 2 2773, 2 4349 G.P.O. Box No. 61A
RALPH W. KING & YUILL
Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange
KINDERSLEY HOUSE
33 BLIGH ST., 20 O’CONNELL ST., SYDNEY. 2-0137
84 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE
67-5089. 67-5080. 67-1257.
Cables and Telegrams: “Ralphking,” Sydney and Melbourne
Branches at Grafton and Armidale.
Government expected the
French to delineate the most
prospective areas with a view
to changing subsidy policy by
making it more selective. With
the power of subsidy-money
behind it, focusing of explora-
tion could quickly come about
Of course, under such a policy,
someone benefits and someone
gets hurt. Thus the outcry.
Just what did the French
have to say? In their introduc-
tory remarks they say, “The
essential purpose of the mission
was to set-up a programme of
work which when carried out
would allow the I.F.P. (Institut
Francais du Petrole) to give a
reliable appraisal of Australian
oil prospects . . . . ”
What then is all the fuss
about? The French made
it quite clear that this was a
preliminary appraisal based on
what they could digest in the
field and the office during only
four months. Certainly there
will be disagreement with some
of their ideas, mostly because
the French were not able to
get all the information available
on some areas. (This informa-
tion would only be available in
oil-company files. Much of the
company data never sees the
light of day despite regulations,
etc., requiring companies to
reveal the results of their
work).
The overall situation can be
likened to the position of a
prospective investor who can
choose between ten stocks,
judging only on merit. Com-
pare this investor to the one
who already owns a few stocks.
He can see no wrong with what
he holds. It matters not that
he has managed to reduce a
big pile into a little pile—he is
happy, and will argue with
anyone who tells him to cut
his losses. We find that the
French came to look at all the
basins on their merits. They
are now getting an argument
from those who are in the
basins of which the French
think very little.
We can carry this compari-
son further. Our prospective
investor has a past history of
successes in markets in other
parts of the world. Our com-
mitted, losing investor has
Dover made a gain in his career.
The French have pointed out,
a side from the difficulties of
getting a good look at major
Portions of the sections in
various areas, that the Protero-
zoic, because of thick shale
Dnits and evidence of organic
matter, should not be written-
ofl as an oil-source. Ordinarily,
°il is thought to have originated
°Qly with rocks younger than
Proterozoic. We have an in-
dication here that the French
are not doctrinaire, at least in
this respect.
Negatively, they point out
the abundance of continental
fresh-water and glacial-derived
sediments ranging through
several periods of sedimenta-
tion. These cannot be expected
to produce oil. Many of our
eastern basins contain thick
deposits of such rocks.
On the plus side, the French
find the marine-continental in-
terfingering sediments of in-
terest for oil. They find these
conditions in the Otway Basin
(as at Port Campbell, Victoria),
Perth, and Carnarvon Basins
(of (W.A.). This writer classi-
fies this geological condition as
A 1 in oil-prospectiveness for
Australia at the present stage.
A further plus is found in the
presence of evaporites (salt,
gypsum, anhydrite), with as-
sociated diapiric structures. The
presence of evaporites often
indicates that conditions were
prospective for the preserva-
tion of oil at the time of for-
mation. The structures asso-
ciated with them often trap this
oil. Such areas have been
found in the Amadeus Basin
(N.T.) and in the Canning
Basin (W.A.).
CJumming-up, the French ap-
parently feel that Wapet
has the best afeas certainly
not surprising in view of their
being the firstest with the
mostest. The Fitzroy portion
of the Canning Basin is con-
sidered to be the most prospec-
tive area in the country on
present information. The Bona-
parte Gulf Basin has severely
restricted oil possibilities.
The Amadeus Basin and
nearby Georgina Basin (N.T.)
are both poorly known, but
with obvious good and bad
points. They deserve further
work. The Bowen Basin (Q.)
has restricted possibilities,
mostly for gas, in the light of
present evidence. The Sydney
Basin (N.S.W.) may yet yield
commercial gas but much more
drilling is required. The Great
Artesian Basin (mostly in Q.)
is interesting in the Roma-
Surat area, but the French
decline to get specific about
other areas. The Otway Basin
(Vic.) is interesting, but the best
part is probably under the sea.
No other basins were visited.
The French have little regard
for the Eucla and Officer
Basins (S.A.). The small Tor-
rens Basin (S.A.) has some in-
terest, while the Murray Basin
(N.S.W., Vic.) holds little in-
terest. The Gippsland Basin
(Vic.) does not appear to con-
tain suitable rocks. The Car-
pentaria Basin (Q.), the Mary-
borough Basin (Q.), and the
Clarence-Ipswich Basin (Q.), all
failed to impress the French.


LOOK BACK AT ANGER
This comment on the White Australia
Policy by Phil May is the first in a series
of reprints of old BULLETIN cartoons.
From THE BULLETIN, May 19, 1888
BOTH ON THE WALLABY.
BUNNY: “I'm so sorry, Bung Hi, that you are going to leave us. But MUST you go!”
BUNG HI: “All li! You waitem bymeby, you allee same go, too. China man go,
squattah go. Allee same squattah go, ’long come selectah, long come illigation,
takee up small falms. You see? China man go; squattah go; labbit go. Me
go; you go. Goodbye!”


MISS
By NANCY KEESING
IN 1959 Norma met Madem-
oiselle Matthieu de la
Bras by chance, on a
tram. She looked very
old, her sallow skin faded to
the color of dingy ivory, her
once-brown hair now a bush
of mottled grey. Yet age
suited her oddly, as if she had
grown completely into the skin
of hastily assumed dignity that
she had worn for the first time
on the day Norma had last seen
her in 1940. «
Norma told Mademoiselle of
her marriage and her life in
a partly rural area some miles
from Sydney.
“As a child,” said Madem-
oiselle, “I visited often a farm.
A change from our apartment
in the city. I liked it. Have
you hens?”
“Yes.”
“And a cow?”
“Yes, we have a cow, too.”
“Ah, how fortunate! The
cow is such a companion!”
She alights soon after, leav-
ing Norma to continue her
journey through town —or back
to 1934.
A year of depression.
Mademoiselle Matthieu de
la Bras is giving Norma and
Margo their weekly lesson
in French conversation. They
hate it. .
She is middle-aged, yellow-
skinned, dumpy, shabby and, to
their sensitive noses, smells
musty and horrible. The child-
ren wriggle and tease her.
Margo crosses her legs
deliberately and kicks the
uppermost foot about in an
irritating way so that Madem-
oiselle must glance to see what
moves, and say, for the nine-
tieth time, but it still delights
them: “To sit thus, Margo, is
an offence against the Blessed
Virgin.”
. And for the ninetieth
time Margo will ask, “But
Mam’selle, what is a virgin?”
Mademoiselle cannot answer
an eight-year-old girl’s ques-
t'°n. She is confused, she dis-
simulates. They love it.
Norma has complained to
Mother, “She won’t even let us
Sl t comfortably.”
Margo has wailed, “But what
d °es it mean?”
Mt means,” says Mother, an
agnostic, “that you are very
impolite little girls and I am
delighted that Mademoiselle is
trying to teach you some
manners ”
Mother knows quite well
that Margo probably and most,
certainly Norma, who is ten
and precocious, are well awa r e
of the nature of virgins blessed
or secular. Perhaps she does
not so well realise Norma’s
alliance with the maid, Clara.
After the lesson Clara, large,
raw-boned, brassy and blowsy,
brings Mademoiselle a tray of
afternoon tea. Clara, the child-
ren's ally, who constantly
grumbles about “that Miss
Frog.”
When Norma goes out to
the kitchen to ask for the tray
Clara, with a wink, asks: “Did
she teach you a lot today,
love?”
Norma says, “No, not a
thing,” and they laugh to-
gether making cosy fun of
Mademoiselle.
Clara and Norma have in-
vented a complete private
mythology for Miss'Frog from
which fantasy Margo, to her
fury, is partially excluded.
What, they say, should plump,
pretty Margo know of the
extraordinary peculiarities of
dirty French old maids? But
thin, ugly Norma, she knows!
With fear and pleasure she
knows.
Clara can never elaborate
enough. She says her Bert,
who was with the A.I.F. in
France in 1917, says all Frogs
are rich. Everyone knew that.
They were dirty, Bert said, and
would pretend to be hungry,
the way she does, wanting her
tea and her scones and her
jam if you please—or at least
tricking your Mother into
ordering these things for her,
and her cake, and last week,
would you believe it, the
remains of that good leg of
lamb to take home. Pretend-
ing to guzzle as if she isn’t
going home to cook herself a
grand dinner —“Because the
Frogs fancy their ‘cooseen’ as
they call it.”
Yes, Bert says they were sly
and would pretend all these
things, but if you looked under
the dirty big manure heaps they
keep right in their houses—
“ Yes, Miss Norma, right inside
their houses, and their cows,
too, the dirty things,” if you
looked there you’d find their
money, and their food, too,
most like.
Touring a subsequent lesson
Norma asks Mademoiselle
to explain “cooseen.” There
is a period of confusion
Mademoiselle desires so greatly
to follow up this first en-
couraging sign of real interest
in her pupil. She flashes her
yellow smile more profusely
than usual. But “cooseen,”
what can this word be?
“Food and all that,” Norma
says.
“Ah, cuisine!”
Norma, her wicked eyes in-
ventive with rebellion, her lips
contorting in ghastly parody
of Mademoiselle’s exaggerated
labial antics, has to repeat the
word until she has the pro
nunciation just so.
“Ah, Norma. Perhaps then,
after all, this girl is not such
a savage,” smiles Mademoiselle
Matthieu de la Bras, with
nauseating pleasure, and giving
them an excited discourse of
which, being all in French,
they understand precious little.
“One day, Norma, when my
situation is more —more com-
fortable maybe you young
girls will dine with me, and 1
shall then demonstrate the
cuisine.”
Unfortunately Mademoiselle’s
situation becomes increasingly
uncomfortable. Mother and
she have earnest conversations
conducted in impeccable
French on both sides. Eggs,
slices of cheese, ends of joints
follow the remains of the
leg of lamb and a curious
covered wicker basket stands
at Mademoiselle’s side during
the lesson. Clara and Norma
know that the dirty thing keeps
a cat, along with the good food,
in its unimaginable interior.
Margo, however, probably
deserves the credit for precipi-
tating the crisis that leads
Mother to take truly humane
action and find the poor lady
another, better-paid job, read-
ing daily to an elderly French
gentleman who has gone blind
Margo, having observed
Mademoiselle’s pleasure at
Norma’s interest in the cuisine
affair, invites her to translate
a sentence that, on her honor
and cut her throat, makes
sense.
“Yes, Mam’selle, it truly
does. I got it out of a book,
but you have to say it aloud.”
The sentence is “Pas d’elle y
Rhone que nous.”
Mademoiselle frowns, mut-
ters and pronounces the words,
aloud. Norma gasps for breath ;
Margo looks rapt, angelic.
Mademoiselle admits defeat,
and is told the translation is,
“Paddle your own canoe.” She
loses her temper.
Mother hears and no doubt
is persuaded by such an un-
expected display of spunk that
Mademoiselle is worthy of
better things.
"VTorma did not see her again
A* for years. To be exact, in
1940.
It appears unlikely that
Norma will matriculate unless


FOR SPEED
(First issues off the press)
CONVENIENCE
(Right to your mail-box)
CONTINUITY
(No chance of missing out)
HAVE
rf>£ulCetla
DELIVERED
♦
BY POST
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept., NEW SUB. / RENEWAL
The Bulletin Newspaper, (Please cross out one)
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please find enclosed my cheque I money-order f0r .......
months’ subscription to The Bulletin.
RECIPIENT:
ADDRESS:
DONOR:..
ADDRESS:
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 125.; \ year—£l 6s. Post
free. British C’wealth: £3 3s. 6d. Foreign: £3 16s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight—Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British C’wealth: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to ‘‘The Bulletin” or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
something can be done about
her French. Mother has an
inspiration. She believes that
Mademoiselle Matthieu de la
Bras still lives in her little flat
in Paddington and might agree
to give Norma some evening
lessons.
Norma strolls down one
Saturday morning to enquire.
She has partly forgotten
Mademoiselle and almost en-
tirely forgotten Clara ; his chief
recollection of the latter is
that, after having given her
notice for some serious mis-
demeanor, Mother, cleaning
out her vacated bedroom,
noticed a most peculiar smell
and eventually traced it to a
heap of rotting fruit cores and
peelings which had been swept
under the carpet.
Of~ Mademoiselle Norma
recalls the yellowness, the
horrible smile, and prepares for
her visit with a vague expecta-
tion of discovering a filthy
crone, for she was old in those
days, and is now some six years
older. She mentions to Mother
that she believes Mademoiselle
lives somewhere near a livery
stables.
“Nonsense,” Mother replies,
“there’ve been no livery stables
in that part of Paddington
since before you were born.”
“I associate her with
manure.”
“A relic of your own beastly
nature as a young child,” says
Mother. “Th& dance you and
Margo led that poor, destitute
creature made me ashamed.”
r T" , HE flat building is pokey and
dingy. Mademoiselle opens
her door. Norma, enchanting!
So delightful it was, teaching
Norma and Margo, so sorry
she was to leave them, and had
poor Monsieur Bertrand not
needed her more certainly, she
would have persisted and
Norma would now have had an
accent most exquisite.
Would she not come in?
But please, first, to remove
her shoes and leave them here,
in the hall. For nothing is
worse for carpets than shoes,
and especially these high heels.
These calico strips, you observe,
are for walking on. This saves
the carpets, and besides, such
runners can be washed. More
hygienic, is it not? One cannot
be too careful of microbes, or
at least so she was brought u 5
to believe, though in Australia
it is not the same.
Today being a first visit, she
would take a dustcover off a
chair for Norma, to show
honor and to display the pretty
covering she brought, long ago
from Belgium , but next time
s,°’ or ear^ nc^
Jr- om ® e^§l^ jn l,- Of course,
She ™% not French ' bu ! k
|e deplore the Bel ™
accen{ and it is true the }
orders k atro ciously. But
No rma, should
guessed _ my pictures!
Her ictures indeed T
wa]l above that room -
crossed with calico ru
and cluttered with large dark
pj eces G f furniture each draped
j n its dustcover, were hideous
with yellowing framed photo-
graphs %f the Belgian royal
family, every conceivable last
cousin of them, but particu-
larly, of course, of the present-
day king and his household,
In the midst of all this
Mademoiselle looks exactly as
Norma remembers her.
The weekly lessons began in
January.
T eopold’s sudden betrayal of
' his allies, country and
tradition in June of that year
occurred between appoint-
ments, and it did not dawn on
Norma to connect so distant a
disaster with Mademoiselle
Matthieu de la Bras until at
the next lesson she opened her
door.
Mademoiselle stood, dressed
completely in deepest black,
and even then Norma did not
realise, but wondered if, after
all, she had a family, and
whether she ought to enquire
about some bereavement.
But the living-room made
plain what anguish Madem-
oiselle was enduring. Every
picture was down.' Even the
First World War ones of King
Albert. Where they had been,
the walls were scarred with the
shadows that remain where pic-
ture frames have long hung,
each rectangular mark like the
scab of some horrible and
extensive wound.
Mademoisslle gave that les-
son ; but, as the girl wa *
leaving, said she was sorry >
she would not continue.
“I shall not speak French
again. Now I have no country.


Bligh or Rum
By M. H. ELLIS
The date January 25-6 has
important implications
in the history of Aus-
tralia. It covered the
day and night of 1788 during
which Sydney, the cradle of
Australian civilisation, was
founded. It covered the climax
of the “glorious revolution” of
1808. And the latter date was
important indeed, since it
showed that New South Wales
needed a real Government
instead of a naval command.
The implications of the first
and last of the three historic
dates and the picture of the
events that led up to them are
clear. About the day of rebel-
lion against Bligh in 1808
legend rather than history has
told the story and inaccurately.
Every schoolboy knows about
the upright, if brusque and
brutal, Bligh who manfully
took the field against the
Demon Rum and its promoters,
the “Rum Corps,” led by the
wicked arch-debaucher of con-
victs, John Macarthur, and was
defeated.
But it is unfortunately a
fact that the age of Bligh had
never heard of the Rum Corps
monopoly. It had never, in-
deed, heard of the Rum Corps,
though Dr Evatt declares that
the New South Wales Regiment
was so christened during the
period in which Governor
Hunter ruled. There is no con-
temporary evidence behind this
tale. Most of the members of
the N. S. Wales Corps were
long dead before the nickname
was heard.
The false legend of the
Rum Corps” later arose be-
cause early Governors in theii
despatches told the British
Government that the “officers”
of the - colony, which meant
doth the civil and military
officers—at the time embracing
nearly all the freely come in-
habitants of the Territory—had
established a monopoly. And
later historians read “officer” to
mean “military officer.”
Everybody in N. S. Wales
l ' Se d rum or spirits, or arrack
f y°u like, as a medium of
darter and-this was inevitable,
oecause the free workers of the
colony insisted on spirits, and
°niy spirits, as the principal
medium, in which to receive
tneir wages.
Palmer, the civilian Commis-
ary, the Treasurer and Minis-
ei for Trade, so to speak, of
“A most troublesome, revengeful, unpleasant man.”
N. S. Wales, and one of Bligh’s
two most intimate supporters
during the rebellion of January,
1808, told the House of Com-
mons Select Committee on
Transportation (1812), four
years later, that “the greatest
proportion” of spirituous
liquors imported into Sydney
was bought by “officers of the
Government.” He added:
I paid away spirits for the
purposes of agriculture. I farmed
more than any other person . . .
You may get more ground worked
for a little spirits than . . . for
anything else.
Goverrtor Hunter, who sup-
posedly was ruined by his
doughty fight against the “Rum
Corps” monopoly, told the
Colonial Office that the officers
in N. S. Wales (meaning civil
and military officers) “got their
farms so far forward and
preserved their stock” only
through having stocks of liquor
with which they could depend
on regularly buying labor.
And he complained that the
Government did not give him a
quota of little luxuries, of
which spirits was the first on
his list, to “forward the work
of Government.” Even the
parson paid rum (at 100 p.c.
profit to himself) to laborers
who helped build his church.
Macarthur, of course, in the
legend of the “Rum Rebellion,”
was the arch-trader in liquor.
The fact is that no charge of
illicit trading in liquor was
made against him until Bligh
made it in a vicious despatch,
full of provable falsehoods,
after the rebels had deposed
him. One of the first measures
of Macarthur when he became
rebel “Colonial Secretary” was
control of the trade, and he did
something that Bligh had
never done prosecuted an
open smuggler.
His one authenticated noticed
transaction in rum—at a time
when modern historians are
apt to teach that he was the
King of the Rum Vendors —
was the purchase from the
Regimental store of 2\ gallons
of spirits, so that his company
might drink his health before
he sailed for England at the
end of 1801.
It seems strange that the
very fountainhead of the rum-
barter should not have been
able to lay his hands on so
small a quantity without having
recourse to the regimental
store.
And when one notes the
riotous indignation the tiny
purchase aroused in the breast
of Governor King, it can easily
be deduced what a noise would
have been made if the Gover-
nor had had information that
so awkward a teetotaller as
Macarthur had been dealing
unduly and illegally in the
awful stuff —of which, inci-
dentally, King consumed in-
capacitating quantities when-
ever available.
Again and again Governor
King wrote to the Colonial
Office accusing spirit - dealers
—mostly Macarthur’s enemies
—but he did not mention the
name of Macarthur in the list
that included Robert Camp-
bell, later Bligh's most ardent
supporter and close associate,
D’arcy Wentworth, Balmain,
Simeon Lord, Johnston, Hun-
ter’s aide-de-camp. Campbell’s
attempts at illegal importation
were pointed out to Bligh by
the Colonial Office.
TThe real mainsprings of the
rebellion are to be found
in a study of Bligh rather than
of Macarthur. Bligh’s bio-
graphy is episodic, and each
episode of his life covers an
incident that runs true to an
almost regular formula.
The mutiny of the crew of
the Bounty provides the first
example.
Bligh was purser as well as
commander of the Bounty,
making what profits he could
out of rations. He was accused
of continually charging his
officers and men with theft,
and making stoppages of
rations (by which he profited)
to punish them. It was said
that he issued decaying pump-
kin at the rate of one pound
of pumpkin for two of biscuit.
When the crew refused to
accept it, he called them
“damned infernal scoundrels'’
and told them he “would make
them eat grass before I am done
with you.”
It was alleged that he accused
Christian, the officer of good
family who became leader of


the mutiny, with stealing coco-
nuts and called him a “damned
cowardly rascal.” When Chris-
tian said that surely he did not
think him guilty of such a
crime, he replied, “Yes, you
damned hound, I do.”
He said to all the other
officers present, “God damn
you,'you scoundrels, you are
all thieves alike and combine
with the men to rob me. I
suppose you will steal my yams
next and I will sweat you for
it, you rascals —I’ll make half
of you jump overboard before
you get through the Endeavour
Straits.”
He allegedly ordered his
clerk to “stop the villains’
grog and give them half a
pound of yams tomorrow ; if
they steal them, I’ll reduce them
to a quarter.”
All this happened a couple
of days or so before the
mutiny.
He attributed the mutiny to
the desire of the mutineers to
return to Tahiti to the women
there —a charge which he knew
would appeal to his patron Sir
Joseph Banks, who had been
a gay and roistering blade
among the Tahitian ladies
(despite their insects) during his
visit to the Pacific with Cook.
He pursued the mutineers at
their court-martial, even the
youngest midshipman, the in-
nocent Heywood, 16 years old.
Sir John Barrow, a Permanent
Secretary to the Navy, wrote
later that this youth had no
concern with the mutiny, but
Bligh informed an interceding
mother that his “ingratitude is
of the blackest dye . . it will
give me much pleasure to hear
that his friends can bear the
loss of him without much
concern.”
TTis vengeful desire to see the
boy hanged was not grati-
fied and Heywood died, by
accident, a post-captain in the
Navy, and would certainly
have become an admiral had
he lived a few years longer.
The next part of Bligh’s story
concerns the voyage after the
mutiny in the open boat to
Timor and its aftermaths.
It was certainly an adventur-
ous voyage, but the 23 men in
the boat during the 3000-mile
journey were all highly experi-
enced at sea. During much of
it they were not out of reach
of land.
It was not an unparalleled
journey. Two years afterwards
a convict stole a small fishing-
boat in Sydney Harbor and
made a voyage to Timor of
equal length taking with him
his wife and two children and
seven convicts.
Bligh had with him the
master of the Bounty, the boat-
swain, the master’s mate, the
carpenter, the quartermasters
and two quartermasters’ mates,
two midshipmen, a sailmaker,
able seamen, a surgeon, a cook,
a butcher —in fact, the pick of
the skill in his crew who could
be expected to make the best
of circumstances.
Yet, describing his adventure
as a “voyage of a most extra-
ordinary nature that ever hap-
pened in the world, let it be
taken in its extent, duration and
so much want of the necessaries
of life,” the hero took to him-
self the whole undivided credit
for it and wrote:
All these dreadful circumstances
I have combated with success and
in the most extraordinary manner
that ever happened, never despair-
ing from the first moment of my
disaster, but that I should over-
come all my difficulties.
Very strangely, instead of
being consumed with admira-
tion and gratitude at his super-
human feat in rescuing them,
his companions arrived in the
Dutch Indies in very nearly a
state of mutiny.
He had quarrelled with
Fryer, the master of the
Bounty, who, it appeared, was
of a “vicious troublesome dis-
position . . . only equalled by
his and meanness,”
yet withal abject and in the
end ready to make any conces-
sions in order to get to England
out of irons.
When he accused Fryer in
the presence of the crew of
insolence —this is all Bligh’s
own story —Fryer replied : “It
is no insolence. You not only
use me ill, but every man in
the vessel and every man will
say the same,” whereupon “a
muttering began” among the
rest of the crew: “Yes, by God,
we are used damned ill, nor
have we any right to be so
used.” And a “tumult then
arose.”
Ledward, the surgeon, who
did not survive to reach Eng-
land, complained that when he
.had asked Bligh to advance
him the money to pay his pas-
sage home, Bligh had insisted
that “I give him my power of
attorney and also my will, in
which I was to bequeath to
him all my property ; this he
called by the name of proper
security.”
Generally speaking they
charged Bligh that he “had
made extravagant charges to
Government for goods bought
for His Majesty’s service.”
Bligh’s ship, the Director,
was the last to surrender after
the Nore mutiny in 1797. He
had been flogging seamen for
incipient mutiny at sea before
the event. When the mutiny
took place the men sent him
ashore but retained his officers
They delayed surrender in
the end being, according to
Evan Nepean, Secretary to the
Admiralty, “completely under
the influence of the terror.”
“A very dangerous set of
men, the leaders,” said Bligh.
And so apparently was his
master whom he had court-
martialled and dismissed tw T o
years later for having replied
to an "order in “an improper
and impertinent manner.”
Transferred to command the
Warrior 74, he very soon was
in difficulties with his officers.
Late in 1804, he charged a lame
officer on the sick list with
“contumacy and disobedience”
in having refused to go on duty
when ordered. But the sur-
geon supported the lieutenant
and testified that he had shown
great distress at not being able
to obey Bligh’s order.
He was acquitted and
promptly demanded a court-
martial on Bligh on a charge
of having “behaved'himself to-
wards me and other officers in
the ship in a tyrannical, oppres-
sive and unofficer-like behavior
contrary to the rules and discip-
line of the Navy and in open
violation of the Articles of
War.”
Every officer in the ship
except three' came forward to
support the charges. Peter
Mills, one of those who sup-
ported Bligh, came with him to
Australia, received an appoint-
ment in Hobart from him and
gave it up to become a bush-
ranger !
It was sworn that Bligh had
called the sick officer “a
damned rascal, a damned
scoundrel,” h i s officers in
general “a lot of blackguards”;
that he had described every-
body “from lieutenants to mid-
shipmen” as “a parcel, of
villains and scoundrels,” the
master, Keltie (who had' been
Phillip’s master in the Sirius
with the First Fleet) as “a
damned old villain and a scoun-
drel ... a vile man, a shame-
ful man, a disgrace to the
service, a lubber, an old thief,
a great liar, a Jesuit” and the
gunner as a “damned long pelt
of a bitch.”
The usual situation devel-
oped. Bligh was amazed that
officers whom he had treated
.with the greatest kindness
should turn on him. Why—
it will be remembered that the
same circumstance applied to
Christian—he had actually j«
vited them to dinner the ni<%
before they had deserted him'
Bligh admitted using violent
language to mere lower -de c |(
people; but when he found that
he was actually accused 0 f
uttering to officers the abuse he
shouted at common sailors he
Aas “so shocked as to lose all
recollection.”
He decided that except for
his first lieutenant, who told
the court that he believed the
lower deck had a high opinion
of Bligh’s humanity and good
conduct towards them, his
officers were as “very bad a
set of men as he had ever heard
of” ; men who had “artfully
managed their charges.” The
surgeon was a “wicked man-
highly perjured” ; another offi.
cer a liar, another a drunkard
and the prosecutor “low and
disgraceful.” In fact, taken as
a group, the whole of them
were the “worst of serpents.”
Banks, his old friend, to
whom he appealed to have “the
serpents” removed from the
Warrior, at once recognised
him as the man with “integrity
unimpeached ... firm in discip-
line and civil in deportment”
for whom the Government was
looking fo fill the vacant
governorship of N. S. Wales.
He got him the job and had the
salary doubled so that he would
be comfortable.
■p vents again followed their
usual pattern.
He at first showed a strong
desire to get out of the Navy,
but then scenting possible
prize-mpney to be won on the
way out, he sought to be made
commodore of the squadron
which was to take him to N. S.
Wales, over the head of its
commander, Captain Short.
He went on board the Por-
poise, Short’s flagship, and
read his Commission as Gover-
nor which, of course, could
not operate until he was in
N S. Wales territory. The
Admiralty fully supported
Short. But that did not prevent
Bligh continuing his attempt to
usurp command and once more
reading his Commission,, when
they were at sea and out of the
reach of the Admiralty.'
The voyage was a riot during
which abuse and insult flashed
between the Madeline Sin-
clair, in which Bligh was pas-
senger, and the Porpoise
Whenever a mail was available,
Bligh poured out letters to the
Admiralty and his patrons
demanding Short’s supersession
and abusing him in his usual
unmeasured terms.
The captain of the Sinclair in
which Bligh travelled had a


(.pcvous breakdown and the
Stacie was witnessed, it was
imported, of Bligh dragging
[is servant round the deck and
customary for a
fovernor to be sworn in im-
mediately on landing so that he
ffl ight take over after having
had his Commission read. Bligh
y twice already had his Com-
mission read and twice claimed
L a t he had acquired Gover-
nor's authority ; but now he
decided that he was not Gover-
nor after all and that he would
stay out of office for six days.
!jhe purpose of this was to
(allow the ailing Governor King
(to remain in office long enough
to achieve a thoroughly dis-
honest transaction for their
mutual benefits.
Against the instruction of the
Colonial Office in such matters,
and without its knowledge,
King gave Bligh grants of land
(which made him one of the
'greatest landholders in the
(colony—one grant of the area
on part’of which Sydney Uni-
versity now stands, plus 113
acres in the heart of Parra-
matta, plus 1000 acres on the
Windsor Road at Rouse Hill,
[plus a farm on the Hawkesbury,
iplus 600 acres for his daughter,
'the grant of which was dated
back nearly eight months to
hide it.
He then took office and made
substantial grants to King’s
.family, one block of which was
[promptly named “Thanks.”
No other Governors of N. S.
Wales ever committed such a
[breach of duty as was involved
[in these grants. Bligh concealed
the fact of their having/ been
made and wrote to Banks
that he believed that he
(ought to have some land and
tasking him to use his influence.
Meanwhile, he was developing
his clandestine estates, appar-
ently using Government cattle
and labor to stock and improve
(them.
j All this would not have been
l so bad save for his general
fland policy towards others.
John Macarthur specifically
|'had permission to select land
ar >d his selection at Camden
was actually occupied. But
%h refused to make the grant
official and made clear his in-
dention of trying to retrieve the
fland (on which King, if not he
nirnself, certainly had an eye).
*ne Blaxlands, and Dr Town-
sort, recently arrived, certainly
113(1 a conditional right to
select. Bligh refused to listen,
( 'en though they had explicit
, e krs from the Home Gov-
ernment.
j The unfortunate Captain
' °, rt had been told that he
°uld select 700 acres. Bligh
e USe d to make the grant. He
kept Short and his ailing family,
including a baby born on the
voyage out, confined in the
Porpoise in Sydney Cove
through a dreadful summer,
refusing him lodging and
rations ashore.
Then he sent Short to Eng-
land for court - martial on
charges made by his First
Lieutenant.
The Court found that the
prosecutor had been instigated
by Bligh to bring forward part
of the charges (on which Short
was acquitted without a stain
on his character) whereby Short
had been “deprived of the
command of his ship, precluded
from benefiting by the benign
intentions of the Government
in ordering a tract of land to
be granted to him ; obliged,
with a wife and six children
under tivelve years of age, at
an inclement season of the year
to return to this country in a
leaky ship, whose distresses
caused the loss of his wife and
one child.” It declared that he
had lost the whole of his capital
invested in tools and imple-
ments, thus leaving him in
“indigence and distress,” all
because of Bligh’s pursuit of
him.
The court asked for special
treatment for the poor captain,
whose wife had come home in
a barrel of rum, destroved by
Bligh’s cruelty. Its verdict was'
written on December 13, 1807.
In N. S. Wales Bligh was
following the usual course.
He was enriching himself and
his friends. He was abusing all
who crossed his path in familiar
language, while telling those
with whom he corresponded in
England that he was “polite and
attentive to everyone and grati-
fying them by every means in
my power,” an estimate in
strong contrast to the opinion
of those who soon were describ-
ing him as a “tyrannical villain”
who had hanged more criminals \
in a year by three than King
had done in five, and who
moved around like a “great
planet.”
11 1 cancelled the town leases
of his enemies, but not of
his friends. He prosecuted mer-
chants —and punished them —
on the most peculiar charges
and then his officers refused to
take the Commissary’s—Gov-
erment’s —notes of hand in pay-
ment of his victim’s fines. He
called his attendant dragoons
“b rs and wretches.”
He ordered his guards to cut
down a trembling boy who
drew his cart aside and saluted
him on a narrow muddy road
and had him brought to Gov-
ernment House and threatened
to blow his brains out if he
did not next time draw more
smartly off the road. He
“Cot a match ?”
called the Government House
Guard rascals only fit to wear
convict uniform.
He shouted at a retired
secretary to the Governor.
“Damn the laws of England”
and said that here “he made
the law, and every wretch of
you, son of a bitch, shall be
governed by them.” He had
damned Macarthur’s sheep and
told him, by God, he should not
keep the 5000 acres of land he
had been given by the Home
Government. He had damned,
also, publicly the Privy Coun-
cil and the Secretary of State.
He had made poor old Gover-
nor King weep into his break-
fast and sturdy John Blaxland.
a sober, well-balanced sort of
man, fear for his life.
In fact, everything ran true
to the precedents of the Bounty
and Warrior incidents, about
which his tales had raised
severe doubts in the minds of
his early and authoritative
biographers about his bona
tides.
Sir John Barrow, formerly
Permanent Secretary to the
Admiralty, had been one of the
doubters. A more modern
Naval critic, Admiral Sir
Cyprian Bridge, though he
called Bligh a naval officer of
fine qualities and exceptional
force of character and a strong
and imperious will, a first-rate
seaman and accomplished navi-
gator, agreed with Barrow that
he was a “man of coarse habits
and entertained very mistaken
notions in regard to discipline”:
“to speak plainly ... a bully
and not a truthful one.” He
said that Barrow put it “very
mildly” when he wrote: “The
allegation that Bligh falsified
his narrative [i.e. of the famous
boat voyage after the mutiny],
it is to be feared, is not with-
out foundation.”
Bridge declared that in peace
Bligh proved himself “quite un-
fitted for the command of
men.” Caley, the naturalist,
one of Sir Joseph Banks’s
agents, called him “an unfit
man for Governor of this
colony.” Macquarie described
him as “a most unsatisfactory
man to transact business with,
from his want of candour and
decision, in so much that it is
impossible to place the smallest
reliance on the fulfilment of
any engagement he enters into
. . . (he is) very generally
detested by high, low, rich and
poor.” The mild Judge Advo-
cate, Ellis Bent, saw him, on
contact, as a “most trouble-
some, revengeful, unpleasant
man.”
And Dr Arnold, of H.M.S.
Hindostan, after touring the
Hawkesbury with him before
be finally left the Colony,
declared that he “overpowered
a °d affrighted every person that
might have dealings with him,
expecting from all a deference
and a submission that the
proudest despot could covet,”
so that everybody who had
anything to do with him was
relieved, when he sailed away,
to part with "so boisterous and
ostentatious a little old man as
Commodore Bligh.”
The conclusion is inescapable
that the reason for the so-
called Rum Rebellion was not
Rum, but Bligh.


LETTERS
“The Bulletin” Changes
Sir,
So the old Bulletin is dead.
A great pity. In the most un-
expected places throughout the
world one came across copies
of the old red-covered weekly.
It was global in stature. I sup-
pose 55 years of reading it
and 40 years of contributing
to the open columns would
build up a degree of resentful
prejudice, but many are going
to miss the old format.
To the thousands who were
content to read the old
Bulletin from cover to cover
absorbing what they were able
to absorb within the limits of
their mental digestive capacity,
the new product is an un-
wanted premature bastard. It’s
parochial, with Sydney stamped
all over it.
H. J. Storey
Fullarton (S.T.).
Sir,
Congratulations on The
Bulletin facelift. I am 78
years old and have known the
old lady for quite a long time.
Having her always about, I
had got rather fond of her, and
so took her looks for granted.
It was only when I saw her
new looks after the operation
that I realised how deepset
and fixed her wrinkles had
become.
• It is not only a facelift but
a rejuvenation.
I hope the operation was
not too painful. It must have
required some nerve to go
through it. Now the sprightly
old lady has a long lease of life.
M. Glanville
Melbourne.
Sir,
I have been a constant sub-
scriber to your paper for 50
years, excluding 1915-16 when
I was overseas with the A.I.F.
You have just about wiped-
out any interest the bushman
had in your paper by doing
away with the numerous pars,
in Aboriginalities, which
covered all sorts of subjects
and were unique. No other
paper in the world had this
feature.
Your Aboriginalities page of
January 11 consists of a short
story by Kylie Tennant (no
general interest to the country-
man), an article about “No
Freak Cyclones” and a couple
of other items of very little
general interest.
Chas. W. Dowling
Ocean Grove (Vic.).
f
Sir,
It is sad, when one looks
back at the days when The
Bulletin was a power in the
land, and when every literate
male lined up at the post-office
in outback towns on Bully
days and then adjourned to the
pub to argue about things.
Nobody even argues about
The Bulletin’s opinions these
days. Unless it is a certain
queasiness about the Commu-
nist bogey, it hasn’t any. Com-
munist bogey —phooey! There
are bigger things in the wood-
shed these days if people would
only take their heads out of
the sand.
But don’t expect The
Bulletin to sound the watch-
word. Those days are gone.
Josephine Purnell
Sydney.
Sir,
As a Bulletin reader for
more than 50 years, to me
your new set-up is punk. Read-
ing-matter has been cut down,
replaced by large headlines
and a two-inch blank margin
at top of each feature.
The main features which
made The Bulletin famous —
Society and Aboriginalities—
cut down to three or four un-
interesting pars, instead of a
dozen or two pars, full of in-
terest. (Perhaps your contri-
butors, like us, are losing
interest.) And there are ft
many uninteresting s }, 0 ,
stories.
W. D. Walsh.
Junee (. N.S.W. ).
Sir,
I approve very much of ft
changes in The Bulletin
From being a casual readei
over the years I am likely t (
become now a regular buyer,
I like the new layout—indei
headings, etc. —and the mate
rial seems at least as good.
D. Bros
Miranda (N.S.W.).
Sir,
Thanks for the fine “Change
in The Bulletin” leader. A
a reader since 1920, it answere
most of the things I wante
to know. Some of the alien
tions and omissions are a l
hard to get used to, but if
heartening to know that Ti
Bully is to be maintained;
an Australian paper written!
Australians.
How a*bout letting a fi
more of us have a go at Socie-
and the “Abo.” columns. Mo
of the contributed pars, m
always worth reading. | c
Your short sketches of pot 1
ticians and personalities
excellent. j
G. R. Pi° ol “
Lane Cove (N.S.W.). L
[Contributions are still urgej
required for Society and
riginalities, although pen-np f
will no longer be used.—Ed] [.
si
Sir ’ • Ti
The changes in "Sj
Bulletin perhaps irritate
older folk. Changes, howe'i
go hand in hand, in the
with progress, and unlock
journal makes progress 1%,
profits) it eventually f ai tr
away. t It;
1 hope there will always[
WHAT DO YOU
THINK?
Readers are invited to
contribute letters, prefer-
ably no longer than 300
words, on subjects of
interest in The Bulletin.
All letters should k
signed with the writer's
own name and address for
publication.
Henceforth no payment
will be made for letters .


“Mrs Lovelace here tells me they haven't anything to be high and mighty about — they're travelling
'go-now-pay-later'!"
a Bulletin and that it will re-
main an independent force in
our public life, and will long
continue to “expose the
enemies of our free way of
life.”
E. Dalziel Brent
Cooma (N.S.W.).
Sir,
Despite the fact that of late
years The Bulletin has fallen
flat on its face, there have been
moments of extreme pleasure
watching the progress of
“Heth’s” fat and ferocious
baby, and Unk White’s
luscious ladies, who are things
of beauty—physically —even if
one gathers their morals are
not all they should be.
In the issue of January 11
1 see no “Heth” and no Unk
White. Why? They are a very
sad loss.
! The illustrations and jokes
of this issue contain neither
wit humor nor talent.
Like another of your cus-
tomers, L. D. Bingley, I have
decided that any more muck-
ln§ about with The Bulletin
in d I, too, quit.
Jane Williams
¥conb'ridge (N.S.W.).
j jkth” and Unk are, of course,
Ml with us.—Ed.]
k
j “ w as with concern that I
M that The Bulletin was
r danger of going out of busi-
n s - Your paper occupies a
tOique position in the Aus-
rahan newspaper scene, and
i ls loss would be serious.
however, if the last few
issues are an indication of what
is to come, I feel sure that you
will gain a good many new
readers as well as an increased
interest and enthusiasm from
the vast majority of your old
readers.
John Simonsen
Strathfield (N.S.W.).
Sir,
I’ve read The Bully for
33 years ; contributed, on and
off, for about 25. I’ve seen you
slaughter the “Aboliars” and
Society, obliterate one of the
best features, The Other Fel-
low’s Mind, turn the Women’s
page into a rehash of advertis-
ing patter—all in three issues.
If you really want to kill
the old “Red ’un,” why" not
do it in one issue all-same
Keith Murdoch did with
“Smith’s Weekly,”
At least a paper of The
Bully’s standard (pre-Christ-
mas, 1960) deserves a merciful
death —not slow strangulation.
John Orrell
Cairns (Q-).
Sir,
I bought my first Bulletin
at Kings Cross railway station,
London, on September 28,
1901.
I miss Aboriginalities most
in your new format. Some of
the new features take a lot of
getting used to, but on the
whole I think the information
given is more useful to readers
generally.
But do restore Aboriginali-
ties.
E. L. Paine
Brisbane.
Sir,
I want you to know that
my Bulletin goes the round
of a number of my fellow Aus-
tralians here as well as some
Englishmen, and the editorials
are highly commended for
their vision and courage.
Dr W. G. Goddard
Crowborough, Sussex (Eng.).
Sir,
I heartily agree with D. J.
Willis (Letters, 11/1/’6l) that
the Society and “Abo.” pars
should be restored as they
used to be. I give you till the
end of this month.
J. H. Stevens
Brisbane.
Sir,
That pithy par. in Political
Points re questioning of E. V.
Elliott by Judge Foster about
lack of ships’ crews as well as
the leader on “How Labor
Could Win (Some) Election”
are in my opinion far more im-
portant to Australia than the
£looo’s-worth of publicity
given lately to Professor Mes-
sel and Dusseldorp combined.
(Mrs) J. M. Forbes
Auburn (iV.S.JK).
Sir,
What are you doing to the
jokes? Isn’t plain Australian
humor good enough for The
Bulletin now?
J. J. Alexander
London (Eng.).
Sir,
The intellectual tone of The
Bulletin has gone up by 200
per cent. But some of the
jokes are still corny.
P. Cleary
Fitzroy (Vic.).
Sir, v
There is one main thing
wrong with your critics. They
are comparing the new
Bulletin with their memories
of The Bulletin in its heyday.
This is absurd. They should
compare it with what it was
like last year.
Alan Kelly
A delaide.
Sir,
Congratulations on securing
writers such as Alan Reid who
seem to know what they are
talking about. And on the
really excellent new feature
“Overseas Pointers.”
T. Holly
Melbourne.
Sir,
The Bulletin is doing a
great service to Australian
writing by encouraging the new
type of feature article it is now
presenting. There may be more
future in these than in the short
story.
L. P. Davidson
Pascoe Vale (Vic.).
Sir,
Although there has been im-
provement in particular pa"rts
of The Bulletin, the paper
seems to have lost its former
definite personality. Perhaps a
new one will emerge?
J. M. Desmond
Annandale (NS. W.).


Don't miss this Opportunity!
£5/151- %
GOVERNMENT
GUARANTEED!
THE
SYDNEY
WATER
BOARD
LOAN
FOR 7, 10 or 20 YEARS
The higher return from this gilt-edged security is the first
increase since 1956. The New South Wales Government
unconditionally guarantees your money—interest payments
every six months, together with full repayment of principal
when the Loan matures.
The Loan is an Authorised Trustee Investment in New South
Wales, Queensland, Western Australia and Tasmania.
If you hold securities in Loan No. 143 (£4/15/- per cent.,
maturing Ist February, 1961) prompt conversion to the new
Loan assures you of higher interest without interruption.
Apply at any office of the —
© Commonwealth Trading Bank;
© Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited;
© Bank of New South Wales;
© Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited;
Or through a Stockbroker;
Or at the Sidney Water Board offices.
CLOSES ON OR BEFORE SATURDAY!
Underwritten by lan Potter & Co.
STAGNANT QUEENS-
LAND
Sir,
I was very interested in
M. H. Ellis's article “In Stag-
nant Queensland” (B.
28/12/’6O). I congratulate you
on publishing information and
views which are necessary to
shake the Queensland Govern-
ment and people out of their
complacent trance.
The most disquieting thing
is that Queensland is now
losing population by migration
when all the other States, ex-
cepting a small loss from Tas-
mania, are gaining substan-
tially.
I have inquired about this
from people who make it their
business to analyse economic
trends in the Australian States
and Territories and to study
their systems and techniques of
government.
The weakness in the Queens-
land Government’s administra-
tion appears to arise not so
much from party policies as
from the long - sustained
usurpation, principally by
Labor Ministers, qf the day-
to-day functions of permanent
heads and other senior officials.
Queensland is well off for
scientific, professional and
technical officers, but this ad-
ministrative weakness has ham-
pered many sound develop-
ment plans brought forward by
some of these officers.
Too many developmental
schemes are still being planned
against the inherited back-
ground of Socialism, which
contemplates that no one
should be given the opportunity
of becoming more successful
economically than “the average
worker,” even though the re-
sult may be stagnation and
loss of our best youth to other
States and territories.
The Queensland Soldier
Settlement Schemes are an
example of this, especially the
one at Clare. The present Gov-
ernment has made some
amends there, but it is still
being unconsciously influenced
by the soul-destroying Socialis-
tic thinking imprinted on the
minds of its administration by
the previous Government.
Queensland is suffering be-
cause for many years the State
Ministers and many of the
public servants at all levels
have been jealous of the Com-
monwealth and have been
absurdly non -co - operative
with it.
One of the reasons why Vic-
toria, South Australia and the
Commonwealth Territories are
progressing so rapidly is be-
cause the Commonwealth is
itself spending a high propor-
ti®n of its millions in those
areas.
T°° many °{ Queens J
Federal Parliamentary re J
sentatives over the years
not pulled their weight f!
their State. That app J
especially to the Senators, \yj|
the notable exception of out
sitting Senator from N o[t i
Queensland.
Whilst the M.H.Rs art
necessarily tied fairly closely
to party politics in the House
the true role of the Senators
should be more concerned with
the welfare of their State in
the Federal sphere. But most
Senators from Queensland,
Tasmania and Western Aus-
tralia have failed to realist
their strong strategic position
to prevent grossly unbalanced
development at Common-
wealth expense in Victoria,
South Australia, the Common-
wealth Territories and to a
lesser extent in N.S.W. to tie
detriment of the less populousi
States on the perimeter. I
If Queensland is to continue
as a single State its capital
should not be in one extreme
corner, virtually on the N.S.W,
border ; it should be moved to
some more central point, pre-
ferably to an inland town,
Brazil has done this recently,
And Canberra is booming.
Alternatively, Queensland
should be divided into two oi
three States so as to get away
from what is tantamount to re-
mote colonial rule from Bris-
bane.
J. L. O’MEAGHE[?]
Melbourne.
ROARING CASTRO
Sir,
I beg to differ from the con-
clusion reached in your par,
concerning Fidel Castro in
Political Points (B. 11/1/’6l).
The baying of Fidel and his
young brother, of Che
Guevara and their pals rather
makes one wonder whether
they saw Peter Sellers's film
“The Mouse That Roared.” it
appears to be the basis of
Cuban foreign policy.
B. R. PASCOE
Petrie ( Q .).
DON’T KNOCK SHIRLEY
Sir ’ • A
“M.H.” in his review o
Shirley Abicair’s lovely TV
presentation of interesting
places and folksongs r e ‘
verts to a typical P aS "
time of a lot of Australians
—to knock and roll anything
that would promote a better
understanding of their country
Propaganda of the right so
made America what she is to
day. I sincerely hope that thef
will be a lot more propaganP
of the Shirley Abicair typ


Legal Notice
IN THE ESTATE of WALTER
POINTON late of Curramulka in the
State of Shuth Australia Retired Farmer
deceased.—NOTlCE is hereby given that
ALLAN PERCIVAL VICTOR POINTON
at some time resident at Curramulka in
the said State or his children or personal
representatives is or are required before
the expiration of one month from the
date of publication of this notice to
send by prepaid post to PICKERING
CORNISH & LEMPRIERE ABBOTT 51
Grenfell Street Adelaide Solicitors for
the executor of the estate of the above-
named deceased who died on the 3rd day
of June 1936 full particulars of his her
or their identity and of any claim which
the said ALLAN PERCIVAL VICTOR
POINTON has or had against the estate
of the deceased together with all avail-
able evidence in support thereof other-
wise he she or they will be excluded
from the distribution of the estate.
Note : Allan Percival Victor Pointon a
son of the deceased was born at Curra-
mulka on the 9th day of August 1905
and left his home at Curramulka in
1931 without informing any person of
his destination and has not since been
heard of.—GEORGE H. WALTERS,
Deputy Master of the Supreme Court of
South Australia.
FOR YOUR HOLIDAY IN
GREAT BRITAIN
WHY
NOT COMBINE TRAVEL
AND ACCOMMODATION.
THE VOLKSWAGEN
C A R A V E T T E is a highly
reliable and economic motor
caravan for two adults (and
two children.) Or if you have
a car, consider a two-berth
Eclipse tourist caravan. Both
fully equipped.
Greatly reduced rates for long
period hire.
Full insurance cover.
APPLY:
I. WATSON, School House,
Freethorpe, Norwich, Norfolk,
Nor. 66. Z. England.
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
78 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
THE OBSERVER
Price 1/6 Fortnightly
From All Newsagents
to overseas consumption. God
jJ oWS , we could do with it.
It would not hurt a lot of
DU r politicians from both sides
f the House (they are the
biggest knockers of Australian
enterprise) to take a leaf out
of Shirley’s book.
J. H. STEVENS
Jri sbane.
WHERE ARE OUR TV
CRITICS?
Melbourne television and,
[suspect, that of other States
as well is only good in
patches, and its advance will
continue at its present snail’s
pace while there exists no in-
formed and regularly pub-
lished criticism of it.
It must be to the advantage
of star, producer, and station-
owner alike to know how their
offerings are being received
and how they may be im-
proved. Audience ratings and
amateur opinions are not
enough.
The adult national periodi-
cals by their nature can only
I comment on nation-wide pro-
grammes, or the general televi-
sion scene. These articles are
valuable, but we need more.
, “Listener - In - TV,” “TV
Week,” and “TV Times” are,
as their names suggest, devoted
to the medium. They are filled
from cover to pin-up cover
; with fan-type articles on the
stars, programmes, romantic
interests in Hollywood and
supposed feuds among station
personnel.
“TV Week” is alone in
living over two of its 70 pages
to a competent critic with an
t apparently free hand in what
le says. Gordon Williams’s
column unfailingly displays
hste and good sense ; but un-
fortunately two pages a week
are insufficient to review a
week’s-work of shows and do
justice to the scene. What we
wd is a daily comment on the
Previous night’s viewing, while
tl> e memory is still with us.
But the daily papers are
Mostly still sunk in the belief
® a t it is a sin to criticise your
own programmes and (by a re-
ojprocal agreement?) anyone
else’s.
Apart from perpetuating the
fyth that whatever is on the
! C [ ee . n . is 0.K., this encourages
personalities in their
strange belief that an attack
® their show is an attack on
mem.
! don’t need personal
Wears or malicious gossip;
tl we need is three men of
J calibre of Mr Williams,
110 will mete out applause or
spberries where necessary.
nl y in this way will standards
begin to rise at a satisfactory
rate.
P. H. TATHAM
Footscray (Vic.).
WOOD MEANS FIRE
Sir,
Did bushies in “Duke” Trit-
ton’s day, arriving at a camp-
place, as shown in your adver-
tisement for “Time Means
Tucker,” scout round for four
nice sticks to construct a gal-
lows to hang the billy, and then
gather an armful of wood to
light a large fire, to windward
of the swag/ (The fire had to
be large to reach the distant
billy with its warmth.)
Or did they gather a handful
of sticks and bark, then sit the
billy on a small fire that did
not keep them at a distance?
H. DONN
Sydney.
THIS OTHER ETON
Sir,
Let’s hope the Sydney Uni-
versity Department of Educa-
tion report on .Geelong
Grammar (B. 18/1/’6l) is pub-
lished. Those who live outside
Victoria can hardly appreciate
the influence of the Public
Schools here, but they certainly
do a lot to give the place its
second-hand, provincial English
mentality. This, of course, is
certainly preferable to no men-
tality at all. Although the
Public Schools may appear
anachronistic I have little faith
in the profoundly anti-intellec-
tual brood of Dewey who have
almost total control' over Aus-
tralia’s schools of education.
It is difficult to estimate a
report from brief passages, but
one would like some more de-
tails of the criticism of “anti-
democratic values” at Geelong
Grammar. It is one of the
surest signs of the educationists*
lack of intellectual vigor that
they use such phrases.
The reason is. not hard to
find: if education concerns
only certain intellectual 1 train-
ing it has some limits, but if it
is training for life in democ-
racy, it has a limitless, because
intangible, subject-matter, and
educationists can waffle on
endlessly about it and make
the most fantastic claims for it.
Christopher Mclntyre.
Carnegie (Vic.)
NOT FAIR TO FREE?
Sir,
Your Melbourne drama
critic, A. S. Jorgensen, is
hardly reasonable when he sug-
gests that Barry Pree’s adapta-
tion of “The Mystery of a
Hansom Cab,” for all its
“style and imagination” and
for all its success with audi-
ences, has somehow failed
the Australian theatre (B.
18/1/ ’60).
Of course our theatre “cries
out for local writing relevant
to the times”; but does that
mean that no young play-
wright can afford an excursion
into sheer entertainment, even
if it turns out to be the kind
of play he writes best? Surely
our theatre also cries out for
this kind of writer at least as
much as for the “significant”
boys.
Mr Jorgensen seems further
to imply that the writing of a
successful entertainment will
almost inevitably lose Barry
Pree to serious drama; or at
any rate that he will learn
nothing by it. Why? Might
it not do him a lot of good—
develop his confidence in his
craft, for example? And if his
play goes on being a success
it will at least help to convince
reluctant audiences that Aus-
tralian playwrights can please
them as much as foreign
ones — and with Australian
material.
Mr Jorgensen tells us much
about his critical approach
when he suggests that Aus-
tralian playwrights need “an
awareness of directions being
taken overseas.” Presumably
he means that their work
should reflect overseas
fashions ; for it is hard to
imagine a young Australian
playwright who is not aware of
overseas directions in the sense
of having at least read most of
the famous modern plays. But
don’t we want Australian play-
wrights whom Europe will be
of, rather- than play-
wrights who will be aware of
Europe? Playwrights, that is,
with a voice that will be at
once national and inter-
national?
M. M. PALMER
Melbourne.


ABORIGNALITIES
The Waterhens Come
The happiest of Australian
birds—happier even than
wagtails, ground larks, pee-
wees, magpies, bower - birds
and brolgas must be the
common waterhen of Western
Queensland and other areas,
That bird never knows what a
hard time is. It lives on the
cream of the land, always.
West of Queensland’s Divid-
ing Range you won’t see a
single hen for months and
months; over on the coastal
fall they’re in scattered lots of
a dozen or so, always on green
picking near swamps and other
places of full fare. Then the
season breaks: overnight the
creeks run, the rivers take up
the overflow, water spreads and
swamps appear. The flood isn’t
more than a day or so old when
strange sounds break the night,
There’s the .whistling of torn
wind as aerial expresses tear
through; there are odd raucous
calls of a lost soul wandering
on high ; occasional bumps on
the iron roof of some solitary
building, followed by a slither-
ing sound as a body slides
down. The hens have come.
Next morning black dots
play through the lignum, race
in and out of canegrass clumps,
chase each other over the clay-
pans, wade knee-deep, swim
heavily with heads jerking, dive
as the shadow of a hawk shows
on the water beside them.
When the sun rises it’s
quite impossible to count
them ; there might be tens of
thousands; there might be
millions. * You can ride all day,
and for many days, and never
be out of sight of endless mobs
of liens—-so long as you stick
to the frontages of creeks and
rivers. A mob opens and leaves
a pathway for the ridden horse
to pass through them ; odd
nervous members might fly ;
mOS i f i aS a m s^
.7^ ie X r f- USy a , k™!'
tai^s . Peking restlessly, beaks
f° r small insects or
herbage on which they faie
s ? They have no domes-
tic worries—l ve only once
heard of nests or chickens being
found during their western
migration. I think it was 1898
~the season was so sumptuous
that they forgot themselves.
they laid eggs in ready-made
nests all over the sand-ridges
Monkira Station, in the
Channel country. Apart from
that lapse Ive never known
them to saddle themselves with
domestic worries in the west,
y*7 H ere do they come from?
W What calls them together?
What brings them to the
promised land? A thousand
miles or so must be less than
nothing to them on their
migrations. They must be
powerful flyers, though when
disturbed on the river frontages
they seem heavy and labored on
the wing. ' They can run like
red-shanks, and some people
quite ignorantly refer to them
by that name. They must
make the long trip in one lap:
I’ve never heard of any relay-
station on the route.
When they settle from their
migration they remain until the
cream has gone from the pick-
ing, when small insects are
scarce, when soft foliage has
dried and become tough. Then,
perhaps, they invade the station
gardens.
A few start those intrusions ;
the bad example is followed.
Stones, curses, sticks, and
finally guns are brought in to
protect the gardens. Each bird
is no bigger than an ordinary
bantam fowl, but a few hun-
dred of them with busy beaks
and industrious claws can play
hell in a garden.
Then, as suddenly as they
came, they have gone. No one
saw them come, though many
have heard them. No one knew
they were there until those busy
black dots showed in the morn-
ing. No one sees them go.
More than likely they sneak
away in units during the night
—there is no tearing of wind
or calls of distress as they pass
over a homestead.
But, however they came, and
whichever way they went, they
leave a memory of happiness
behind them. It was good to
see them ; and that they only
appear during a wet season
adds to their charm.
H. G. LAMOND.
Royal Tie-down
"D olfe Harris’s dying stock-
man was not the first man
to have his kangaroo tied down.
I saw an old-man boomer
lassooed from horseback and
tied short to a wilga tree on
Miowera Station, near Nyngan,
in 1922, so that a guest at the
station, the Prince of Wales,
could satisfy his ambition and
“shoot a bally kangaroo.”
Having read in English news-
papers of the Prince’s poor
showing as a horseman, the
station-manager thought per-
haps his prowess with a rifle
may have been equally bad, so
on the morning of the shoot a
couple of station hands were
detailed to procure and tether
a good specimen of kangaroo
to a tree.
Then with apparent inno-
cence the manager steered the
Royal party to the locality,
stopping the car far enough
away from the tree so that the
Prince could not detect the
ruse. When a Royal bullet
laid the “old-man” low, the
station groom raced up and
removed the rope before the
Prince and his retinue reached
the dead Too.
Today, in a back paddock
of Miowera, jackeroos and
boundary-riders puzzle over an
old wilga tree with a weathered
blaze on one side. Carved deep
into the wood is a cluster of
three feathers and a date of
nearly 40 years ago.
C. A. LAMBERL.
Wild Ones
Tf a stock survey now being
made in North Australia is
successful, Brahmin cattle
which have run wild on the
Coburg Peninsula for over a
century may be used to im-
prove blood-strains on top-end
stations. When the military
base established at lonely Port
Essington was abandoned in
1838, domestic herds of deer,
Brahmin cattle, buffaloes,
Timor ponies and fowls went
bush, and now the Assistant
Director of Animal Industry
and a stock inspector have left
Darwin to check reports that
livestock in the Coburg Penin-
sula area continues to be of
pure strain after all these years.
Tick-resistant Brahmin cattle
could improve strains of Terri-
tory stock, it is claimed.
* * * *
Lake George Again
HThe old argument as to who
discovered Lake George
has been brought up again in
the Goulburn (N.S.W.) daily
paper.
It started with a report of
the information to appear on
a sign on the Federal Highway
near the lake. The sign attri-
butes the discovery to “Joseph
Wild, August 19, 1820.”
A Mrs Rose Sheridan, of
Collector, near the lake (and
once Ben Hall’s territory), P r0 ‘
duced a clipping which had
belonged to her late father-in-
law, Thomas Sheridan, one of
the first settlers in the area.
The clipping, written hy
John Gale, ,of Queanbeyan,
dates the discovery of the law
to 1812, by “a blackfellow em-
ployed as a scout by Governor
Macquarie.” It was made.
Gale said, when Macquarie was
visiting Wollogorang Station
(which still exists), at Breadai-
bane. Gale claimed that tti >
Governor saw the lake soo
&ftcr
This statement brought J
reply from Goulburn historia
Stuart Hume, collateral desce
dant of the explorer, whose sig


jature is to be affixed to the
projected Lake George sign.
Hume said that John Gale’s
claim, made in 1919, and re-
peated in his book “Canberra,
Its History and Legends,” had
leeti “blown skyhigh on numer-
ous occasions.”
The most convincing evid-
ence that the lake was not seen
by white men until 1820 came
from Macquarie himself, Hume
sa id. Macquarie wrote in his
journal in October, 1820; “We
fell in with Nagary, a fine old
patriarchal native with his
whole family of wives, sons and
daughters, all of whom Mr
Throsby had engaged to
accompany us to the great
saltwater lake recently dis-
covered by Joseph Wild.”
Macquarie would not have
written that had he himself
seen the lake eight years
before.
Nor did Wollogorang Station
exist in 1812. It dates from
1834, 1 think.
The land that is now the
bottom of Lake George—it
disappears for anything up to
10 or 20 years every so often,
the most recent disappearance
being between 1930 and 1950 —
is still leased out, some of it
to the Sheridan family. The
Government will not revoke
the lease either, Mrs Sheridan
says, so they and other lease-
holders will have to wait until
the next “dry” before they can
graze their sheep there again.
K.R.
Two Battlers
'T'he tree that grew through
the concrete in Brooklyn
had it reasonably easy com-
pared with at least two plants
in N.S.W.
The Flatbush tree at least
had its roots in the ground, but
for years a lantana bush at
Gerringong (South Coast) has
been growing from a pocket in
the brickwork of an old chim-
ney on the site of a burnt-out
“Here, have a ’tailor-made '”
homestead. The seed, carried
by a bird or blown by the wind,
must have lodged in the pocket,
12ft above the ground, settled
in dust or perhaps soot, and
germinated there. When I first
saw the growth, 10 years ago,
it was a sturdy plant; today it
is a flourishing shrub—still
nourished by nothing more
than wind-blown dust and rain.
Another example can be seen
at Ultimo, Sydney. On the
former site of “Little Bridge,”
historic home of the Harris
family, a building known as the
Esme Hackett Memorial Hall
now stands. Between the brick
wall of the facade and a
wooden notice-board a seed
must have somehow become
lodged. More than 18 months
ago I noticed the tiny sprig of
green sprouting from the top
of the' board. it is a
healthy-looking plant with six
major arms, and still growing.
Not being a botanist, I can’t
identify the variety from the
ground, and to climb up and
break off a sprig for identifica-
tion purposes would be sacri-
lege. One wonders how long
a plant can exist under such
conditions.
H. C. BAKER
End of a Legend?
TVTor quite nine miles from
- Gundagai, in a roadside
cafe that sold souvenirs, the
following conversation took
place between a man, his wife
and his son of about 11.
Boy : What are all these
ornaments, Dad?
Father: They’re not oroa-
ments, they’re souvenirs.
Boy: What kind of souve-
nirs?
Father: You’ll see further
on. There’s a monument where
the dog sat on the tucker-box.
Boy : What’s that mean?
Father: What’s what mean?
Boy: Tucker-box.
Mother : It's a box one puts
one’s food in
Father: They used to call
it a tucker-box.
Boy: Who did?
Father : The pioneers.
Boy : What are pioneers?
Mother : The early settlers,
darling. The men who first
came here.
Boy : Why was the dog
sitting on the food-box?
Mother: Tucker-box, dar-
ling.
Father: I don't know. It’s
a song.
Boy: What's a song?
Father: THE DOG SAT
ON THE TUCKER-BOX!
Boy: Why do they have
these ornaments souvenirs—
about it?
Father : Look, I told you.
It’s a famous song.
Boy: Do you know it?
Father : Everyone knows it.
Boy : Sing it.
Father: Not in here.
Boy: Say it then.
Father: I don’t know all
the words. All I know is that
the dog sat on the tucker-box
nine miles from Gundagai.
Boy: Well, it seems pretty
silly to me. Anyway, there are
about twenty different kinds
of dogs sitting on these things.
Father: GET OUT TO
THE CAR!
That Was the Country
A Hawkesburyite has been
boasting loose in Sydney
“Daily Telegraph” on the
proud position his electorate
occupies in that by its
tlnee-to-one vote against the
Bill it has put its hobnailed
boot on Federation more ef-
fectively than any other
N.S.W. electorate. Deniliquin
voted 16-to-one for, and the
writer knows the two elector-
ates well.
Whether it is that the old
convict leaven is stronger
there than elsewhere, or for
some other occult reason, the
inhabitants of the “Oxberry”
are a people apart, and like
no other to be found in
Australasia. Taking them by
and large they are selfish and
narrow-minded; the stranger,
unless well-heeled and pro-
mising good pickings, is
looked on as an interloper.
Their standard diet is corned
beef, pumpkin and prayer,
and their intellectual de-
velopment is just as luxur-
ious.
The Deniliquin people are
just the opposite of this;
none more generous in their
thought and action are to be
found on this imperfect
sphere. Let a stranger visit
Deniliquin and he will re-
ceive a remembersome lesson
m open-handed hospitality.
By their contiguity to Vic-
toria they are fully in a posi-
tion to judge of the alleged
nefarious designs of that pro-
vince.
—“ Bulletin”, July 9, 1898.
Travelled lately from Tib-
oobuna to Broken Hill.
Crouched up in a shanghai
from noon on Saturday till
Monday night, one interval
between meal and meal, 18
hours; another, 11 hours;
then three two-bob meals in
nine hours. Horses poor and
weak, whipped fiom stage to
stage, and driven full walk
up to each “mail change.”
And for an exhilarating trip
of this kind you part with six
lovely - sovs. each way —be-
sides 4d. per lb. for luggage
over 141 b.
At Sandy Creek we met the
up-coach bogged in mid- ,
stream, the coachman wad-
ing through mud and water,
and whacking into the weary
brutes. The mail must be up
to time at the Broken Hill
end; but at Tibooburra it is
often from four to forty
hours late. Common thing to
see the mails served out at
midnight, and even at 1 and
2 a.m.
. —“ Bulletin”, April 20, 1901.
An appreciation of Broken
Hill, by a man just back:
A dirty, ill-built city, sleep-
ing under a shroud of smoke
from a volcano that never
rests but pulsate:; day and
night in grime and dirt. A
factory, where orphans and
widows legitimate and
“grass” are turned out
daily. The paradise of doc-
tors and undertakers, and the
rendezvous of the back-coun-
try unemployed. A place
where you never see a pretty
woman, but encounter every
kind of female scarecrow.
— “Bulletin”, June 8, 1901.


The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Elder, Smith and Co., Ltd.
Tn 1959-60 primary industries accounted
for 80 p.c. of the national export-
cheque, which totalled £926 million.
Wool, as usual, formed the bulk of Aus-
tralia’s exports.
Japan was the largest wool-buyer, dis-
placing the United Kingdom. Lrance
and Italy continued to call the Continen-
tal tune at the auctions.
Elder’s last wool-selling season opened
well, with an almost 30 p.c. increase in
values. But as the year progressed wool
prices gradually softened, to end-up barely
5 p.c. above the previous year’s closing
quotes.
The market continued to weaken, and
sales decreased in quantity, after June 30,
1960. Australian wool exports for five
months to the end of November were
£22 million lower at £llß million.
Bounded in 1837, Elder, Smith and
Co., Ltd., is the largest wool-broker and
stock-and-station agent in Australia. The
co. also has extensive shipping, airways,
chartering and insurance interests and
acts as a country-banker to pastoralists.
A chain of 219 branches operates
throughout the mainland States and in
London. The wide geographical spread
of the business, and diversification of
activities, help to cushion the effect of
seasonal fluctuations and variations in
wool prices.
Last term wool sales were steadier in
volume. Overall prices were 25 p.c.
higher, but costs continued to mount,
alarming the board. On the the
year was comfortable, despite a very dry
season in S.A. Net parent earnings rose
by 11 p.c. Consolidated figures are not
published, and this conceals the real rami-
fications of Elder’s business.
In the year ended June 30, 1960, the
co. handled 779,161 bales of wool (up
15,667 bales), representing 15.8 p.c. of
all wool receivals. Bales sold amounted
to 769,692 (up 166 bales). Carry-over
into this term was 79,881 bales (up
11,614 bales). The average price for the
season was 57.92 pence per lb.—an im-
provement of 19 p.c. on the 48.68 pence
in the previous year.
Livestock sales were good. Sheep turn-
over at 7,730,008 (up 1,296,607) was a
record for the co. Sales of cattle were
somewhat lower (down 96,504 at 521,247).
The sustained strong overseas demand
for Australian beef has depleted the
herds. Sales of pigs improved slightly.
Total livestock turnover was £3,436,878
higher at £34,908,766. Sales of skins and
hides and real-estate business im-
proved :
1958. 1059. 1960.
Wool .. .. £57,252,560 £45,868,565 £57,567,882
Merchandise .. 22,954,989 20,814,364 23,309,074
Livestock .. 27,058,213 31,471,888 34,908,766
Real estate .. 6,010,283 4,952,499 6,653,639
Skins and hides 1,882,793 1,769,263 2,181,348
Turnover of merchandise rose by
£2,494,710 to £23,309,074.
Insurance business continued to expand
and total premium income advanced by
£138,675 to £978,391.
The co.’s shipping department cele-
brated its 121st year. Results edged-up.
Chartering remained in low gear.
Total turnover for all departments, plus
income from investments (£392,169), was
£819,961 higher at £8,370,162. Operat-
ing costs and administrative expenses
swallowed-up £6,652,124 (up £611,524),
including £553,819 provision for depre-
ciation (up £54,856).
Income-tax provision was not shown
separately. Rates and land-, payroll- and
income-taxes totalled £1,015,589 (up
£139,835), leaving net profit for the year
£68,602 (or 11 p.c.) fatter at £702,449:
Parent Co. Onlt.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
££ £ £
1954.. 648,854 12 p.c. = 339,156 309,608 2.559,515
To provident fund, £42,823 .. .. 2,516,692
Share-premiums, £847,890 .. ..3,364,582
1955.. 810,191 12 p.c. = 434,002 376,189 3,740,771
To provident fund, £52,554 .. .. 3,688,217
Share issue exes., etc., £64,108 .. 3,624,109
Share-premiums, £415,045 .. .. 4,039,154
1956.. 797,783 11 p.c. = 545,254 252,529 4,291,683
To provident fund, £38,431 . . . . 4,253,252
Share-premiums, £285,732 .. .. 4,538,984
1957.. 882,542 12 p.c. = 636,547 245,995 4,784,979
To provident fund, £25,805 .. .. 4,759,174
Share-premiums, £18,013 .. .. 4,777,187
1958.. 705,121 10 p.e. = 532,660 172,461 4,949,648
To provident fund, £13,151 .. .. 4,936,497
Share-premiums, £4973 . . . . 4,941,470
1959.. 633,847 10 p.c, = 533,666 100,181 5,041,651
Share-premiums, £28,030 . . . . 5,069,681
1960.. 702,449 10 p.c. = 535,366 167,083 5,236,764
This represented an earning-rate of 13.1
p.c. on the slightly higher average ord.
capital, compared with 11.9 p.c. in the
previous term, 13.2 p.c. in 1958, 16.6 p.c.
in 1957, 16.1 p.c. in 1956 and 20.8 p.c.
in 1955.
The steady 10 p.c. div.-rate (absorbing
£535,366) was well covered, leaving
£167,083 for reserves, which also bene-
fited by £28,030 share-premiums, climb-
ing to £5,236,764.
Elder has done “much in the past
twelve months to consolidate and inte-
grate” its substantial interests in N.S.W.
and Q. In W.A. the co. bought-out
Paterson and Co., Ltd. (fruit-exporting
and merchandising) and R. P. Mclnerney
and Co. Pty. (engineering-agency).
A franchise was acquired from Lister
Blackstone Pty. for W.A., S.A. and Vic-
toria, with appointment as sub-distri-
butors in Queensland. Adelaide agencies
of Orient Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.,
were taken-over. In addition, Elder is
now handling the homeward service of
the British India Steam Navigation Co.,
Ltd., also in Adelaide.
The co.’s premises in capital-cities
and ports were modernised. A new
wool-store is being built at Goulburn
(N.S.W.). The co. will participate in
the wool sales in this important country-
centre.
During the year the co. issued 4860 12s.
paid ords (at a premium of 6s. a unit)
to staff, and another £19,200 12s. p J
ords. in acquisition of R. P. Mclnernev
and Co. Pty. This lifted paid capita
to £5,361,939 in 8,936,565 20s. ords. p aid
to 12s.
Book-value of fixed assets was app re .
ciably higher. Stocks increased
Advances and book-debts were £2,493 539
higher at £16,381,930. Creditors rose hv
£956,790: y
1958. 1959. 19fin
Paid capital .. £5,327,934 £5,337,879 £5,361 ait,
Reserves .. 4,936,497 5,041,651 6,23e|7ai
Deposits ... 2,007,701 2,118,011 2 495001
Creditors . . 13,769,241 15,100,634 IC^V
Due to subsids. 430,630 - 416091
Tax provision.. 800,208 705,628 81831
Final divs. .. 266,397 320,272 32i’u 5
£27,538,608 £28,624,075 £30,708^
Freehold
properties .. 2,5 1 8,5 6 3 2,4 1 5,8 7 4 2,508 5?;
Leasehold
properties .. 1,299 10,034 22 074
Plant, fittings 456,305 648,151 502’197
Stocks . . 2,892,490 2,206,299 2,368,749
Advances, etc 11,451,584 13,888,391 1G,381’,930
Due by subsids. 2,697,386 742,671 34, ’431)
Shares subsids. 2,235,453 1,181,254 2,011’322
Shares in other
cos. .. 378,761 176,719 266,558.
Govt, bonds, cash 4,906,767 7,154,682 6,142,4041
Goodwill .. 200,000 180,099 [
£27,538,608 £28,624,075 £30,708,211
Fixed- and term-deposits lodged with the
co. were higher. Theoretical working-
capital decreased by £476, ,o
£7,428,471. Net tangible asset-backing
works out at 235. 4d. for each 20s. ord.
paid to 12s. on the basis of conservative
parent book-values.
With a smaller wool-clip expected this
year, and the prospect of a lower average
price, “the outlook ahead is not nearly
as promising as it was a year ago.”
Costs continue to rise and the full
effect of wage-increases and higher co,
tax-rates is yet to be felt. For better or
for worse the fortunes of Elder, Smith
and Co., Ltd., and its shareholders are
tied securely to the sheep’s back.
At the last sale in Sydney the 125.-paid
ords. changed hands at 225. 6d. a unit,
The immediate yield is 5.3 p.c. on the
basis of the steady 10 p.c. div.-rate.
Stocks and Holdings, Ltd.
/'Ance quoted at 21s. for a ss. ord. unit,
Stocks and Holdings scrip can notf
be bought for 11s. a share. This makes
the immediate return 9.1 p.c. on the basis
of the present 20 p.c. div.-rate.
The very high proportion of intangibles >
to reserves leaves a lean net tangible
asset-backing of ss. for each ss. ord.
unit, calculated on consolidated figures.
After taking-over Simon Hickey Indus-
tries, Ltd., in April, 1958, and changing
the name to present fashion, the real-
estate interests now controlling Stocks!
and Holdings, Ltd., made a good start.
Consolidated net earnings climbed from
£6166 in 1958 to £11,125 in 1959 and
£76,231 last term. Earning-rates worked-
out high on the small paid capital
employed.
In October, 1959, a three-for-one pa|
issue {plus another 16,000 ss. ords. issue o
in addition to entitlements) lifted pa*7
capital from £24,000 to £IOO,OOO. This
was followed by the putting-out
400,000 ss. deferred ords., one-for-one at
par, in April, 1960.
Operating through a complicated sys-
tem of subsidiaries and associated cos.,


Ready to FLY away at £5,555
Full Instrumentation Retractable Tricycle
Undercarriage Excellent All Round Vision
All Metal — V.P. Propeller Max. Speed 160
m.p.h. Dual Control
ECONOMY—3O m.p.g.—4.5 g.p.h.
CRUISE SPEED—I4O m.p.h.
FUEL INJECTION—WaIter M 332 Engine-
-140 h.p.
RATE OF CLIMB—9OO ft./min.
RANGE—6BO miles
LUXURY—4 place
COMPLETE AFTER-SALES SERVICE
AND FULL RANGE OF SPARE PARTS
* LEASE PLAN
* HIRE PURCHASE
* TRADE-INS NEGOTIATED
® 40 MILLER STREET, NORTH SYDNEY. XB 1174
DIJL
AIRCRAFT PTY. LTD.
m
sm
SWA
mm
S#sS*s
The AERO 145
today’s BEST BUY at £13,900
Let us demonstrate to you 1960’s wonder 4-5 place
twin-engined aircraft. The “Aero 145’s” spacious interior
appointments and aircraft workmanship give you
unequalled value i.i its price range, for PERFORMANCE.
ECONOMY, SAFETY and COMFORT.
The world-renowned Walter M 332 engines ensure twin-
engined safety with single-engined economy. Normal
consumption is quoted at 10 gallons per hour. These
engines incorporate the latest design in fuel injection
and supercharging. Total output for take-off is 280
b.h.p. Cruising speeds up to 170 m.p.h. are obtained
with a total endurance of 7 hours.
For the business and professional man, the “Aero 145”
is the answer to all transport problems. Operation into
small areas can be carried out in perfect safety, with
take-off distances under normal conditions being 230
yards. '
A TEST FLIGHT CAN BE
ARRANGED WITHOUT
OBLIGATION. AND AT
YOUR CONVENIENCE.
• HANGAR 274. BANKSTOWN AERODROME. UY 1247
§ and H. is mainly an investment-co.
w j t h real-estate interests. The principal
operating-unit is the 82 p.c.-owned
Stocks and Holdings (Realty Finance),
Ltd., formerly called Metropolitan Realty
finance, Ltd.
After ruling-off the books S. and H.
launched Stocks and Realty Corporation,
Ltd., described as a “sister-co.” which
“will co-operate, in developing fields of
real-estate investment and finance.”
paid capital is £125,750 in ss. ords. paid
to 2s. 6d. (last quoted at Is. 9d. a unit).*
The new show uses the sponsor’s pre-
mises and key personnel, and has an inter-
locking directorate with S. and H.
Consolidated net profit of S. and H.
for the year ended June 30, 1960, was
£65,106 h’gher at £76,231 after providing
£5225 for depreciation and setting-aside
£32,650 for tax (previously undisclosed):
Parent and Subsidiary.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit f —Dividends serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
Capital reserve, £1653 .. .. 1,653
Pre-reconstruction deficit, £219 - .. 1,434
1958 .. 6,166 6,166 7,600
1959.. 11,125 13 p.c. = 3,120 8,005 15,605
Pre-acquisition reserves and profits,
£5043 20,648
Increase capital reserve, £921 .. 21,669
Added on consolidation, £10,050 .. 31,619
1960 .. 76,231 20 p.c. =20,000 56,231 87,850
‘Subject to intangibles, £87,622 at 30/6/’6O.
This represents an earning-rate of 38.1
p.c. on the higher average ord. capital,
compared with 46 p.c. in the previous
year.
The 20 p.c. dividend (raised from 13
p.c.) absorbed £20,000. Reserves bene-
fited by £56,231. No divs. were paid on
deferred shares, which do not participate
in distribution of profits earned prior
to June 30, 1963.
Consolidated balance-sheet shows a big
jump in funds employed. Working-capi-
tal amounted to £482,984:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
1958. 1959. 1960.
Paid capital . £24,000 £24,000 £200,000
Reserves .. .. 7,600 15,605 87,850
Minority interest.. 23,407 28,982 36,548
Loans .. .. - - 416,480
Overdraft . . . .
Sundry creditors,
provisions. , . 46,972 49,274 80,565
Tax provision . .
Final dividend .. 1,560 10,000
£101,979 £119,421 £1,035,797
Freeholds and lease-
holds . . . .
Plant, equipment .
Investments .. 97,606 111,180 2,309
Deposits . . . .
Stocks . . . . - . 583,488
Debtors .. .. 1,520 5,030 83,915
Cash . . . . 2,791 3,211 7,276
Intangibles . . 62 87,622
£101,979 £119,421 £1,035,797
Stocks, comprising mainly land-holdings,
work-in-progress and cottages, were said
to be conservatively valued at £583,488.
Borrowings totalled £576,207, almost
twice the shareholders’ funds.
The co. reports that development pro-
jects in hand include sub-divisions and
housing-estates in Sydney outer Western
suburbs. An interest has been acquired
in a motel being built at Tamworth
(N.S.W.). There have been some recent
management changes.
A typical growing real-estate and in-
vestment business, Stocks and Holdings
is directly affected by fluctuations in the
level of economic activity. The manage-
ment is alert and venturesome, but the
present economic climate is unfavorable.
William Crosby (Holdings), Ltd.
A record profit is disclosed in the
latest accounts from William Crosby
(Holdings), Ltd., a higher return from
both trading and investments lifting net
earnings by more than 38 p.c. The co.’s
unremunerative fresh-fruit-exporting acti-
vities were terminated.
Founded in Hobart over 100 years ago,
the shipping-and-agency business con-
trolled by the co. was later extended to
cover -a number of manufacturing and
merchandising interests.
Registered in Victoria in 1954, William
Crosby (Holdings), Ltd., exchanged
370,000 £1 ords. for the £IOO,OOO paid
capital of William Crosby and Co. Pty.,
and shortly afterwards offered a further
■130,000 ords. to the public at par. A one-
for-five par issue in November, 1955,
brought in £112,000, while extensions to
the group’s interests in Tasmania and
Western Australia during the same term
involved the issue of 84,000 ords. During
last term to June 30, 1960, the co. took
over Shanks and Co. Pty. (Victoria),
issuing 40,000 ords. in satisfaction of the
deal. Paid capital is £796,000, all in f.-p.
£1 ords.
Although the group has a wide spread
of interests throughout Australia, many
of its activities stem from its early asso-
ciation with shipping, and five of the
11 subsidiaries are shipping-customs-
agents or insurance - agents (in the
southern States and W.A.). The parent’s
investment-portfolio includes scrip in a
number of stevedoring, salvage and ship-
repairing cos.


Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hatmax” Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
115 Pitt Street, Sydney. Telephone: Bff 17U—BW 8088
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
R. H. ALLEN, M. R. L. DOWLING, P. R. LEVY, A, P
REYNOLDS, N. R. COURSE (Melbourne Resident Partner)
Delfin House, 16 O’Connell St., Sydney—2s-5911 (20 lines)
Prudential Ruilding, 150 Queen St., Melbourne—67-5957 (4 lines)
Telegrams and Cables: “Rosdale,” Sydney, Melbourne or Wollongong.
The William Crosby group is as fol-
lows :
William Crosby and Co. Pty. (shipping,
insurance and travel).
William Crosby and Co. (Tas.) Pty.
(shipping, insurance and merchandise).
William Crosby (Merchandise). Pty. (floor
and wall tiles, baths, basins, builders’
hardware and general merchants).
William Crosby and Co. (N.S.W.) Pty.
(general merchants).
Wilcrome Industries Pty. (light engineer-
ing and electroplating). '
Plan Printing and Supplies Pty. (sensi-
tized papers and plan-printing).
Federal Stevedoring Co. Pty. (contracting-
stevedores).
Concrete Products Co. Pty. (concrete
building-materials).
Frank Flammond Pty. and Frank Ham-
mond (Launceston) Pty. (cartage-contractors
and customs-agents).
Shanks and Co. Pty. (sanitary-ware,
wall tiles and plumbing fittings).
The co. has, amongst other valuable
connections, an agency for D. Anderson
and Sons, Ltd., of Manchester, England
(insulated flat-roofing tiles—-thermotiles).
The franchise, previously restricted to
certain States only, has now been ex-
tended to cover the whole of Australia.
It is proving extremely profitable and
local manufacture (of thermotiles) has
been commenced—a factory was erected
at Somerville, Victoria, last term.
All the subsidiaries operated profitably
last term, the consolidated pre - tax
trading-profit rising £26,510 to £112,970.
Income from divs., rent, etc., jumped by
over 47 p.c. (£13,181) to £41,078 to give
a group net profit of £110,012 (up
£30,611):
Parent and Subsidiaries.
i To Re- Re-
June, Profit. , Dividends N serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1958.. 47.235 8J p.c. = 63,000 52,398
Add reduction intangibles, £987 .. 53,385
Capital profits, £14,533 .. .. 67,918
Tax overprovided, £326 .. .. 68,244
Note-issue expenses written-off, £3786 64,458
Unexplained addition, £793 . . . . 65,251
1959.. 79,411 8 j p.c. = 63,000 16,411 81,662
Deduct added intangibles, * £16,154 65,508
Capital profits, £1373 .. .. 66,881
Tax overprovided, £lOOl .. .. 67,882
Stock reserve written-back, £735.. 68,617
’ Adjustment minority interests, £l9 ... 68,636
Note-issue expenses written-off, £286 68,350
Unexplained reduction, £793 .. 67,557
1960.110,012 8J p.c. = 65,778 44,234 111,791
* After deducting intangibles.
Reckoned after providing an extra £9090
for taxation (£44,036) and £27,337 (up
£3129) for depreciation, and after meet-
ing £23,148 (up £10,657) interest on notes
and fixed loans, the profit represented a
return of 13.9 p.c. on average share-
capital, as against 10.5 p.c. in the pre-
ceding year and 6.2 p.c., 11 p.c. and
9.3 p.c. back to 1956. The div.-rate re-
mained steady at 8| p.c. absorbing an
increased £65,778 and reserves, benefiting
undistributed profits, but subject to intan-
gibles, £36,028 at balance-date, rose
£46,283 to £147,819.
The group contemplates an' overall
extension of activity throughout Aus-
tralia during the current term, especially
in N.S.W., where operations are for the
present confined to the subsidiary, Plan
Printing and Supplies Pty. Business has
already been stepped - up in W.A.
(additions to the Perth premises) and
Tasmania (a new store at Burnie and
extensive alterations to the Hobart show-
rooms), and considerable expansion
awaits Frank Hammond Pty. (one of the
Tasmanian subsidiaries) in the active
exploitation of cartage and forwarding
business attaching to the establishment of
the Bass Strait ferry service.
The co. has already expended large
sums in the purchase of specialised equip-
ment to handle the new method of trans-
portation. Work involving a capital
expenditure of approximately £25,000 is
in hand in the light engineering section
(additional premises and plant for Wil-
crome Industries Pty.) of the William
Crosby complex.
The balance - sheet emphasises group
growth plus increased liquidity:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1958. 1959. 1960.
Paid capital .. £756,000 £756,000 £796,000
Reserves .. 73,259 101,536 147,819
Minority interest 9,130 10,236 11,081
Mortgage . . 186,242 203,232 200,222
Notes . . . . 49,703 141,400 173,120
Overdraft . . . . 84,109 4,462 37,084
Loans on mortgage,
etc. . . . . - 4,650
Creditors .. 216,137 128,369 194,139
Tax provision . . 33,248 38,200 51,800
Final div. .. 63,R00 '63,000 65,778
£1,470,828 £1,446,435 £1,677,043
Freeholds . . 523,248 552,373 571,893
Plant, etc. . . 134,474 129,518 158,734
Shares other cos... 164,300 201,432 201,552
Stocks .. .. 389,344 .299,162 346,003
Debtors . . . . 229,993 204,656 320,518
Cash, bonds, etc. 8,608 39,420 37,665
Intangibles . . 20,861 19,874 36,028
£1,470,828 £1,446,435 £1,677,043
The book-value of freeholds rose £19,520
to £571,893 ; of plant £29,216 to
£158,734. Notes, including deferred
deposits, rose £31,720 to £173,120 —there
are 14,000 £lOO 8 p.c. -registered un-
secured notes maturing March 31, 1967.
The investment-portfolio (£201,552) is
relatively massive and, considering its size,
shareholders might expect some indica-
tion of the value and nature of their
investments —no information is given.
Increased turnover left stock and debtors
higher at £346,003 (up £46,841) and
£320,518 (up £115,862) respectively.
Creditors finished-up £65,770 at £194,139.
Theoretical working capital finally
worked-out a much improved £355,385
(up £46,178).
As to the future, it is difficult to
envisage anything but a continuance of
present moderate profit-patterns. Latest
results do, however, provide a greater
div.-cover, which could indicate better
things to come, perhaps even at next
reckoning; better things in the shape
of bigger handouts to shareholders. Much
will depend, of course, on the co.’s plans
for expansion . . . “considerable progress
has been achieved in the preparation of
plans for expansion particularly in rela-
tion to our merchandise division,”
In the search for more adequate
premises, but at a minimum cost,
directors are negotiating sale of the
present Collins Street (Melbourne) head-1
office property. It is hoped, if the deal
goes through, to arrange a long-term lease
of the property and with the proceeds
from the sale, to erect a new building on
the same site.
Last traded at 20s. 6d., the £1 o rds.
give an immediate-yield of 8.1 p.c. f rora
an 8| p.c. div. Net tangible asset backing
at balance-date was 225. 9d.
Timor Oil, Ltd.
A fter discussions with Wayne Granger,
who is in charge of drilling opera-
tions in Timor for the associate Trade-
winds Exploration, Inc. (of U.S.A.), direc-
tors of Timor Oil decided to complete the
Matai No 1 well in the upper horizon
by cementing sy-inch casing to 1200 ft
This will be followed by casing-perfora-
tion.
The production-rate cannot be esti-
mated at this stage, “but Mr Granger,
from observations on the site, believes
that it can be completed as a flowing oil-
well.” This statement has pushed-up
Timor’s scrip on Sydney ’Change to 7s. 9d.
for a ss. ord. v
Oil samples from the well, which have
been tested so far, “have indicated that
the oil is high grade, has a paraffin base,
and a gravity of 36.5 degrees A.P.1.” It
is said to be a typical East Indies crude,
A second well, Matai No 2, will be
drilled to a depth of 4000 ft to 5000 ft
irrespective of the results of tests made
in Matai No 1. Drilling will start as soon
as the rig can be moved and set up.
The Sydney-registered Timor Oil, Ltd,
prospects for oil in Portuguese Timor,
During the year ended June 30, 1960,
Timor Oil carried out field operations, in-
cluding geological mapping and diamond
core drilling in the Same-Viqueque area,
east of Uato Lari, and at Ossulari,
Viqueque and Suai. Tradewinds Ex-
ploration drilled two holes at Ossulari
by agreement with Timor.
Prospecting and development expendi-
ture for the year amounted to £92,921.
Administration costs took-up £25,072.
Income totalled £22,598 (including £9603
interest from investments).
Paid capital at June 30, 1960, was
£1,390,625 in 5,562,500 ss. f.-p. ords..-
1958. 1959. 1960.
Paid capital . . £1.000,000 £1,062,500 £1,390,625
Creditors .. 11,932 9,687 It®
£1,011,932 £1,072,187 £1,402,218
Plant, equip-
ment . . . . 181,5 9 8 1 96,7 0 8 203,62
Shares other cos . . 15,677 78,178
Stores . . . . 41,779 38,954 53,529
Debtors, etc. .. 13,775 15,502 V’-Ti
Cash, deposits . . 184,237 31,964 159,0 W
Prospecting rights 127,20 0 1 27,2 0 0 127,269
Prospecting, de-
velopment, ad- ~
ministration, etc. 378,393 514,408 609,304
Preliminary ex- /'■ ..
penses .. 69,2 7 3 69,2 7 3 89,9 U
£1,011,932 £1,072,187 £1,402,278
Liquidity improved markedly. Theoretical
working-capital was £219,404.


SERVICE DEPARTMENT
a Information Sought
, \fere there any maifor industrial
’’ kmles in Australia before ihe
11 di-rushes of the 1850 s?
g ’There were no major strikes ot
* disputes before 1850, or any that
knously disrupted industry, but
Lre were numerous small strikes
Ling from wage disputes.
[Until 1840 a high pioportion of
L e work-force was convict labor,
• Lj the severity ot punishments tor
[convicts who aired their grievances
" Gras an effective deterrent. Prob-
■ Bbly the first real strike occurred
- [,> ]829 when the compositors on
i ihe newspaper “Australian” struck
' bgainst a reduction of real wages
bused by the currency depreciation.
During the 1830 s various small
- poups of city workers struck,
usually for increased wages.
Between 1840 and 1850 strikes
me more numerous. The cessation
iit transportation to New South
i Wales in 1840 and the flow ot free
, -immigrants during this decade meant
feat, at least in the employer-
-I'employee relationships tn the cities,
- Australian conditions became more
like English conditions. Under the
: amended Masters’ ..and Servants’ Act
'of 1840, which was partly in re-
-1 sponse to a strike-wave -m 1840,
i conspiracy to raise wages or otfier-
: wise to improve conditions -ot labor
(was punishable by unpiisonment.
Tet, despite the severity of the
penalties, many strikes occurred, the
most common cause being a de-
mand for inci eased wages or resist-
ance by the men concerned to reduc-
tions in wages.
• # * *
biographical details of ’‘over-
hinder' 1 John Gardiner ?
Gardiner settled rn Tasmania
pboiiL 1822 as an official and share-
holder in the Van Diemen's Land
IBank. He invested money in New
South Wales, and in 18j4 had a
jsquatting-run near Yass. Fie was
po part-owner with Captain John
Hepburn, a manner, art a steamer
Nmed the Ceies, plying between
Nney and Newcastle. Eaily in
JM6 he visited Port Phillip, soon
liter the first saltiers had arrived,
md decided to take his cattle there
ovei land lrom Yass to the new
settlement.
On arriving in Sydney, Gardiner
bund that the Ceres had been
wtecked. He theietore invited
Hepburn to join him in the pro-
ved overland journey. Together
went to Yass and mustered
jfe cattle, and were there joined
w) George Hitchcock,Who is be-
“evcd to have been Gardiners
Ration manager. Another man,
bseph Hawdon, also joined the
Wy, either at Yass or on the
Murrumbidgee. Gardiner was the
Principal owner of the 30§ head
1)1 cattle.
Ihe cattle were driven to the
Hume (Murray) River, on whose
»orthern side there were already
Pliers, none of them, however, hav-
ciossed the river with cattle,
efe party crossed at Howlong in
Fteembcr, 1836, and went on to
P e settlement of Melbourne, which
p)’ reached in January, 1837.
I Guidiner settled and built a
W>e on a hill near the Yana,
t ear Jhe site of the present-day
otch College, Melbourne, but
l°n moved up-river to Moorool-
W' to a larger and better grazing
;°P er ' y . In 1838 he became
‘"fager of the Port Phillip Bank.
e felt to visit England tn 1853 arid
did not return. A memorial cairn to
Gardiner, Hawdoua and Hepburn has
been erected near Scotch College
by the Victorian Historical Associa-
tion. The municipality of Gardiner,
established in 1856, had its name
altered in 1878 to Malvern.
* * * *
When were Arrzac Day and Aus-
tralia Day first celebrated as public
holidays ?
Anzac Day was first celebrated
in 1916, but no public holiday was
proclaimed. The day has been
obseived as a public holiday each
year since 1919 in Western Aus-
tralia ; since 1930 in New South
Wales (wiith the excepts or. of 1921),
Queensland and Tasmania ; and
since 1921 ia Victoria and South
Australia. It was made a statutory
holiday wi Queensland and South
Australia m 1921, m New South
Wales in 1924, in Victoria m 1925
and in Tasmania in 1927.
A notice in the "Sydney Gazette”
of February 1, 1817, refers to a
dinner-party given “for the purpose
ot celebiating the Anniversary of
the Institution ot the Colony,” and
in 1818 Governor Macquarie
ordered a salute of thirty gums to
be tired -on January 26, an honor
of the 'thirtieth anniversary ot the
first landing.
It appears that January 26 was
first proclaimed a public holiday
in 1838, the fiftieth anniversary ot
the founding, and that it was
observed as a public holiday from
that year on. For many years the
dale was called by various names
in the various States, the most usual
being Anniversary Day or Founda-
tion Day. In 1931 Victoria adopted
the name Australia Day, arid sub-
sequently the older States came
into line.
* * * *
Was King Sigurd, a hero of
Icelandic sagas, an historical charac-
ter, and, if so, where wm his
kingdom situated ?
Sigurd, or Siegfried, was Ihe hero
of the Nibelungenhed, and of a
seiies ot poems oi an earlier date
in the Elder Edda, as well as of
the prose Vdlsunga Saga, which is
mainly based on ihe latter. Accord-
ing to both the Scandinavian and
German versions ot his legend, he
was the son of .Sigmundr (Sieg-
mund), a king m the Netherlands,
or the “land of the Franks.” The
exploits of Sigmundr and his elder
sons form the subject ot the earlier
parts ol the Vdlsunga Saga, and
Siegnuind and his nephew are also
mentioned in the Anglo-Saxon poena
Beowulf. According to the Scan-
dinavian story Sigmundr was slam
in battle before the death of
Sigurd, but the German story
makes him survive his son.
Sigurd acquired gieat fame and
riches by slaying the dragon Fafnir,
but the chief interest of the story is
in his connection with the court
of the Burgundian king Gunnar
(Gunther). He married Guorun
(Kriemhild), the sister of the king,
and won for him by a stratagem the
hand of the Valkyrie Brynhild, with
whom he had himself already
exchanged vows of love. A quarrel
arose between Brynhild and Guorun,
in the course ot which Brynhild
learnt of the deception, and this
led eventually to the death of
Sigurd.
According to the Scandinavian
-legend fig -was slain by his .brother-
in-law, Gutt-orm, according to the
German version by the knight
Hagen. Gunnar’s brothers were
sufese-quently slain while visiting
Atli (Etzei), or Attila, king of the
Huns, who married Guorun after
Sigurd's death. In the German
story they were killed at the insti-
gation of JCrreratuld an revenge lor
S:egliled. The Scandinavian ver-
sion attributes the deed to Atttla’s
lust tor gold.
Ihe story of Sigurd is of Ger-
man rather than Scandinavian
origin, and has given rise to more
discussion than any .other subject
connected with the Teutonic heroic
age. Like Achilles he is represented
as the embodiment of the per-
fect ideals of the race and, as in
the case of the Greek, it is custo-
mary to regard his personality and
exploits as mythical. . There is no
question, however, that the Burgun-
dian king who is said to have oeen
his brother-in-law was an historical
person who was slam by the Huns
when they overthrew the Burgun-
dian kingdom.
Sigurd tu nisei f is not mentioned
by any contemporary writer but,
apart from the dragon incident,
there is nothing in the story which
affords sufficreai justification lor
regarding his personality as mythi-
cal. Opinions, however, vary widely
as to the pxopouttms of history and
fiction which the story contains.
* * * *
Wiml -was the ‘'‘Gladstone
Colony ? Was it the forerunner
of the Queensland town of Glad-
stone ?
Ihe Gladstone -Colony was a
project originated in the 1840 s to
help the pioblems of convict dis-
posal. Ihe death penalty had been
abolished lor most crimes and this
had increased the number of pri-
soners sentenced to long terms ot
Uarrspoimuon. At the time the
only places to which convicts might
be sent were Van Diemen’s Land
and Noil oik island.
Lord Stanley, then Secretary ot
State lor Colonies, wanted to estab-
lish a new penai settlement in the
uninhabited northern regions ot Aus-
tralia but before he dialled a scheme
he was succeeded by Gladstone
(later Prime Minister of Britain).
Gladstone proceeded with a scheme
for the iounding of "North Aus-
tralia,” despite local opposition.
Those to be sent to the new colony
were those whose terms of transpor-
tation had expired; those who were
conditionally pardoned; and those
whose conduct m Lnglish gaols had
been satisfactory and who were to
be pardoned on reaching the new
colony.
A suitable spot for a harbor
and town was to be selected as a
preliminary, and farming areas ot
various sizes were to be allotted
to convicts and settlers. Lieut.-
Col. George Barney was put m
charge of the scheme and, alter
examining the -Queensland coast, he
decided that Port Curtis should be
the site ot the town to be estab-
lished. Returning to Sydney he
charieied the barque Lord Auck-
land, which on January 8 , 1847,
sailed from Port Jackson with the
pioneers of North Australia.
The Lord Auckland was followed
on Februaiy 26, by the Thomas
Lowry. The total complement ot
the group was less than 150. On
January 30, Barney was sworn in
as superintendent; an Executive
and a Legislative Council were pro-
claimed; and Captain Day. of the
99th Regiment, was appointed
police magistrate.
The new settlement started off in
miserable fashion, having to contend
with unaccustomed rain and heat.
But on July 3, 1846, Ear-1 Grey
had succeeded Gladstone as Secre-
tary for the Colonies, and one of
his first acts was to reverse Glad-
stone’s policy lor North Australia.
On November 18, he wrote to
Governor Fitzroy to order aban-
donment of the colony, the cost of
which had been more than £15,000.
Although abandoned, the colony
had drawn attention to the pos-
sibilities of settlement in the north,
and many squatters left. Sydney to
establish themselves in the Port
Curtis area. The town of Glad-
stone grew up on the site of the
experiment.
Wants
Copy of “The Animals Noah
Forgot,” by A. B. Paterson. —43.
Copy of “They Struck Opal,” by
E. F. Murphy.— 44.
Copies of “Alan Dale,” by Syl-
vanus, and ‘Gaudens in Australia,
1 heir Design and Care,” by Edna
Waiting.—4s.
Information concerning the
whereabouts ©f Hugh Carruth, iB.
contributor around 1912. —46.
Words of the song “De Old
Umbrella,” by Corney Gram.—47.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered lor publication on the
understanding that they niay roe
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
C.V.: The lady whose “grey eyes
gleamed across the years” ts rather
suggestive of some wild animal,
staring across a cieek at night....
T.H.: No, the story of St Peter's
conversation with the Commumst
applicant is not any “fresher” for
being put into doggerel A.G.A.:
“Sweet death had gently tailed him
to the peace of eternal night.”
Please supply an authouty for the
personification... .S.P.: Sent pack-
ing M.V.: Humorously inde-
cent... .J.L.D.: Admuable senti-
ments, but the vetse won’t d 0....
W.P.: Nearly... .L.K.: Very neat
. ...M.D.: No fire in that dragon.
The iact that he never met St
George doesn’t make an impression
one way or another... .J.K.: No
meat in the pudding... .T.R.: Son-
net rather shapeless, other piece
only fair. ... “Half chance” : Can’t
take it....G.N.: Mote like a pinch
than a pastiche... .S.S.: "So far
1 have not contributed . . .” So tar
so g00d.... 8.N.: “Sabine Women”
met a horrible fate....“ Wee
Willie”: We wontee... .S.W.:
That suggestion lor a National
Anthem lead like a cross between
“Brave New World” and the
Declaration of Independence....
A.W.A.: “Wingaway” fell at the
start.... E.D.R.: Be oft:
’Tvvixt Bloomsbury (Eng.) and Bondi
(Auit.)
A first comparison is just;
But 0, the difference in between,
And dead does not departed mean.
And I for one, would rather die
Tii Eng.’s .benighted Bloomsbury
Than, like the Vikings, put to sea
At Aust.’s brash borderer, Bondi.


%e
99
1
Published by
i
21-
per single
copy
A review of :
ECONOMIC, MARKET
and
FINANCIAL CONDITIONS,
COMPANY ACCOUNTS
and
OIL AND MINING ACTIVITIES
22/6
a year,
post free
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” gives the most complete and comprehensive
analysis of company accounts, in addition to its mining comments and
economic forecasts.
It is thoroughly indexed on a continuous basis, and the pages are stitched
fogether for permanent reference.
Facilities are available for binding each twelve issues on an annual basis.
“The ‘Wild Cat' Monthly,”
BOX 2521. G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
