

i tsmmmt
SSI
fj
<» \*rrji
-
;
$
%
i
r *
umaojoi \ 9i|i jo
\
c
c
®i§l
SS®
\\
uy
The Bulletin
Itgistered in Australia for trans-
mission by post as a newspaper.
September 9, 1961


When A.M.P. was founded
in 1849, taxis looked
like this 1
yfr.
r
~~VT
If
2Lr,
wK^T'
'Zryx&r--
X
*£*r **.....
«r*H*
' 'Via ? *!sij
$2568
THE A.M.P. FIELDMAN OF 1961 is equipped by
training and experience to provide a professional service
covering the whole field of assurance and insurance at
a time when both people’s needs and the policies to
satisfy them are becoming more complex.
Australia’s LARGEST and oldest
life assurance organisation
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
HEAD OFFICE: »7 PITT STREET. SYDNEY
Offices in cities and towns throughout Australia and New Zealand; and in the United Kingdom.
A.M.P. members enjoy the unquestioned security afforded by funds of £SOO,OOO 3 Q(K>
Bikhdt the- Society seeks to- invest to the greatest benefit to members.


The
Bulletin
SEPTEMBER 9, 1961
Vol. 82
No. 4256
ANSWERS TO
CONTRIBUTORS
C.T.: That beautiful women
encourage poets to write has often
been suspected, but that they save
them from suicide —that is too
much. There ought to be a law.
. ...M.8.: How can anyone who
can write such brilliant factual
pieces descend to such melo-
dramatic fiction? .... M.T.: “Sym-
phonic Variations” in prose have
to make up for no orchestra on the
one hand, and complex thematic
construction on the other—and
yours don’t S.H.: “Rachel’s
Story” not one of ours... .N.M.:
Selling real-estate you may learn
to write about Australia rather
than other countries... .J.M.: No
coy animal fables... . M.W.: “A
look of unaccustomed rancor on
our pretty face,” we thought you
had it in you to do better....
S.P.: Women should not write
about adventurous men.... 8.P.D.:
Words, words, words... .E.S.:
Slight... .E.C.H.: A half-dressed
mechanical idea... .G.R.: Your
boy sadists were not ineffectual—
they made us sick H.H.W.:
Slick comic ending... .J.D.O’R.:
Something there, but you haven’t
the technique to develop whatever
it may be. ... J.C.S.: Might make
a factual article, if true... .J.McC.:
Melodrama E.L.-H.: “Once he
belonged to the bowls club. Mum
was a member of the Ladies Guild
at the church. But as their health
deteriorated, they had to forgo
those pleasures . . .” Surely a drastic
decision W.C.: Not quite
A.W.L.C.: Your story about the
man who leaves hoof-marks on
the sand has got whiskers on it.
. ...K.S.: It’s a funny thing, but
lately our heart has taken up put-
ting on little fluttery fits, t 00....
J.M.8.: Sorry, we don’t know
any sub-aqua stenographers....
J.P.: Too slight, but interesting.
.. . .P.H.8.: That one has done the
rounds,
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street
Sydney; Box 2521; Phone: 27 5971.
SCARING THE NEUTRALS
THE first reactions to the Soviet s abrupt resumption of nuclear tests
included, understandably, a certain amount of optimism. Some anti-
Communist commentators felt that this killed in one blow the whole
Communist peace movement; that “neutralist opinion” would be appalled
by the brutal Soviet move; that (with the exception of an increase in Stron-
tium 90) the resumption of tests had cleared the air; the Soviet now stood
out in all its ruthless aggressiveness.
This may be so, but unfortunately there is another possibility and that
is that neutralist opinion” may simply get into a panic. There are already
signs that the resumption of tests may again set in motion demands for
easing of tension” and conciliatory talks. “Neutralist opinion” finds it
easy to explain and excuse Soviet actions; it can see Soviet threats simply
as a symptom of a situation of “tension” for which the Soviet is not to
blame, or not altogether to blame. This kind of “opinion” sees the problem
not in terms of a Soviet aggression that must be coolly met, but in terms
of a two-sided tension in which there are faults on both sides.
It may at first have seemed an appalling blunder on Mr Khrushchev’s
part to have resumed tests on the eve of the neutralist talks in Belgrade;
but perhaps he chose that very time because he wanted to scare the neu-
tralist nations into setting up a concessionary agitation; the neutralists
would then force the West either into making a salvationary offer or, by
refusing to make one, to isolate itself from neutralist opinion. We think
of diplomacy simply in terms of making friends. The Russians think of it
that way, but they also think of it in terms of scaring people and using
them. They do not want to be loved by the world as much as we do. They
want to run it.
'Y'HEY no doubt have other ways of increasing tension and they will no
doubt use them if they see fit. It is just as likely that neutralist nerves
will crack under the strain as stand up to it. Since so many neutralists are
in the British Commonwealth they will begin to put pressure on Mr
Macmillan, who is already being affected by appeasement policies from both
the Right and the Left that keep a constant pressure on him at home. He
may again begin to waver, as he did during the peaceful coexistence flap;
division amongst their European allies may begin to worry the Americans.
The signs are that it will not. So far as one can see the Americans
are going to stand firm on Berlin which is as ever what the argu-
ment is all about. But while this is essential because West Berlin is in a
sense the soul of the free world, and its future it is not something that
one can be lighthearted about. Our position is that we face two hideous
dangers: one is that Mr Khrushchev will force concessions; the second is
that he will underestimate American firmness and precipitate a war. The
concessions must never be made. If they are not made only courage and
faith can save us from disaster and force Mr Khrushchev to climb down.


This Australia
THE CAYANAGH CASE
The Untouchables
of Queensland
BY JOHN HIGGINS IN BRISBANE
COMMISSIONER BISCHOF
A report
(Author of “Pull Over, Driver ”)
nPHERE is a new breed of policeman in
Queensland today wearing an old
title made fashionable by TV —“The Un-
touchables.” But they bear little relation
to Eliot Ness and his incorruptibles,
unable to be “touched” by the czars of
organised vice. The Queensland variety,
it seems, cannot be touched by those
normal legal processes which operate so
swiftly in cases involving ordinary
citizens.
The situation was dramatised last week
in Parliament House following an an-
nouncement that a free pardon had been
granted by the Governor-in-Council to
a British migrant for a crime which he did
not commit. The facts behind this admis-
sion of a “frame” are appallingly simple.
Anthony Francis Cavanagh, 31, mar-
ried, with one child, was employed as a
night porter at Lennons Hotel. On the
night oi April 7 he put £lO 9s. in a cloth
bag in the hotel’s night safe. Next morn-
ing a relieving cashier was unable to find
the money and the police were contacted.
On Saturday, April 15, according to
Cavanagh, a detective came to his New
Farm flat at breakfast time and asked
him to go to the hotel. Instead of taking
him to the hotel, however, the detective
took him to the C. 1.8., where he was
questioned by two detectives. According
to Cavanagh, the detectives refused to
accept his story that the money had been
placed in the safe ; threatened him with
being locked up for the weekend ; kept
reminding him that his wife and baby
daughter only had ninepence left at the
flat ; and told him that if he signed a
confession, and promised to make restitu-
tion to Lennons, nothing more would be
done about it.
Cavanagh signed the statement. “I was
scared—scared for my wife and child.
And with me they come first,” he says.
Taken before ihe Court that morning,
Cavanagh was convicted of the theft, put
on a six months’ good behavior bond,
and ordered to make restitution to Len-
nons within 14 days, in default 21 days'
jail. Sacked from Lennons, Cavanagh got
another job at another hotel. The storm
broke on May 2 when the permanent
cashier returned from holidays, and dis-
covered the “stolen” money in the bag
in the safe where Cavanagh had placed
it.
Within a few days Cavanagh was
offered his job back at Lennons, but he
was not told the money had been found
until he asked about the restitution order.
Nine days after the money had been found
he actually received a letter from the
Court of Petty Sessions office approving
a request for additional time to make
restitution. According to Cavanagh, as
soon he discovered that the money had
been found, he wrote both to Police Com-
missioner Bischof and Justice Minister
Munro several times asking what investi-
gations had been made, and what action
had been taken against the two detectives.
It took a final letter from his solicitor
to produce the reaction that led to the
granting of a pardon by the Government
for a crime that was never committed.
TVTews of the pardon triggered off a full-
' scale blast against the Government
by the Queensland press and Parliament.
According to Justice Minister Alan
Munro, Mr Cavanagh had not given
“sufficient details” for the Solicitor-
General to make a recommendation on
departmental action. What additional
details other than the facts needed to grant
a pardon is a matter for sardonic specu-
lation . . but in any case Mr Cavanagh
claimed to have told everything he knew
in a seven or eight-page letter to Mr
Munro and again to Mr Bischof. “I don't
know how' to be more explicit,” he com-
mented.
Under questioning in Parliament,
Police Minister Morris admitted that he
had received a report on the Cavanagh
case from Commissioner Bischof on May
19. He had forwarded it for advice to
the Justice Department, and was still wait-
ing for that advice. The report, said Mr
Morris, did not name any police officers,
nor did it incriminate any officer, and
both officers involved were still working.
In subsequent moves, Mr Cavanagh
and his solicitor agreed to meet a Crown
Law Department officer to see just exactly
what “explicit” details were required . . .
and Mr Cavanagh announced to the press
that he had wired the Premier asking for
£5O out-of-pocket expenses, an extra-
ordinarily modest claim under the circum-
stances.
Sickened by the whole sorry business,
with its quite sinister implications of
official skulduggery on every level.
Queenslanders had two more news items
to chew over before the week ended.
Again under questioning in Parliament Mr
Morris disclosed that in two recent cases
involving allegations against policemen,
the Solicitor-General had advised against
criminal charges being laid. In the first
case a girl of 16 claimed she had been
raped in a police car in New Farm. A
disciplinary charge had been preferred
against the policeman, and he had later
been dismissed from the Force. The man
had subsequently appealed against his
dismissal.
Tn the second case, a woman alleged that
she had oeen assaulted while she was
held in custody in the Brisbane Watch-
house. The Solicitor-General had advised
tha- there was not enough evidence for
a criminal charge, but that there was a
case for a charge of misconduct under
the Police Acts. The constable had denied
the charge and a date had been fixed for
an investigation.
How extraordinarily convenient the
Police Acts prove (for policemen) in cases
of this nature. Let the normal citizen be
accused, rightly or wrongly, of rape or
assault, and see the celerity with which
the Solicitor-General's Department, and
the Police Department, can act in rela-
tion to criminal charges. And watch the
blaze of publicity in open court as move
after move is unfolded.
Queenslanders, still brooding about the
Mt Isa case, when a man named Jorgen-
son was kicked to death in a police cell
five years ago and his murderer or mur-
derers never discovered, are doing some
heavy thinking as a result of the Cavanagh
case, and the two latest private Police Act
probes.
Certainly it can be argued that a jail,
a watchhouse, or a C. 1.8. is an extremely
dangerous establishment in Queensland
today. All sorts of inexplicable mishaps
ranging from phoney confessions to minor
cuts and contusions down the range to
fatal injuries can take place without
redress to the victims. In Brisbane re-
cently a man was alleged by a detective
to have been sober on his arrival at the
C.T.B. and drunk shortly afterwards!
Not only police conduct, but Crown
Law Department conduct, is also receiv-
ing close scrutiny. If the old tag, Who
Will Protect the Protectors? is in full cir-
culation, so is another one: Who Will
Prosecute the Prosecutors? It seems that
it is high time for legislatures in all States
to give serious consideration to the re-
moval of Crown Law Departments from
Public Service (or political) control. Too
often in all States —particularly in Queens-
land —have Crown Law Departments in
recent years given the impression at least


of being mere tools of the governing
political parties instead of being the com-
pletely impartial instruments envisaged by
their title.
There are European precedents for a
Crown Law Department armed with the
independence, and dignity, of the judici-
ary, as distinct from a breeding ground
for public functionaries, nurtured at the
barren breast of the Public Service. That’s
the sort of “Untouchables” Queensland,
and all other States, would welcome,
In the meantime, to spare the Crown
from possible obloquy, Brisbane wits are
arguing that active consideration should
be given immediately to changing the
title of the Crown Law Department to
Police Legal Branch, and that of the
Justice Department to Prosecutions
Bureau, E. and O.E.
VERSE
Poetry
in Corners
FROM A STAFF CORRESPONDENT
VINCENT BUCKLEY
Partisan?
was no poetry on the Red Page
last week and there is none this
week. But beginning next week The
Bulletin plans to publish a whole page
of poetry once every two or three weeks.
The man who will be running the poetry
page is Vincent Buckley, the Melbourne
poet and critic. Buckley is well aware
that he will have his time cut out main-
taining the standard set by Douglas
Stewart (now with Angus and Robertson)
who is not only one of the country’s lead-
ing poets but has been a most important
patron and nurturer of poets. Every
important Australian (with the exception
of A. D. Hope) appeared in the Red Page
when Stewart was running it.
Stewart wished Buckley well in his new
enterprise, though they have disagreed
strongly on literary questions. One of
Buckley’s most controversial essays in his
first book of criticism. “Essays in Poetry,
Mainly Australian,” was an attack on
what he called the “Bulletin School of
Poets,” who, he claimed, were “a new
orthodoxy . . . and a debilitating force
in Australian culture.” He alleged they
were obsessed with landscape and saw
men as no different from, and with no
more soul than, the gibber-plains, mulga,
soil erosion, crows, dead sheep and
withered outback mountains which regu-
larly appeared in their poems. He sum-
marised their poetry as “jazzed-up
Georgianism partly adapted to Austra-
lian conditions” which in its attitude to
Australia showed “basic incomprehen-
sion, escape, sensation-seeking, un-
acknowledged sadness.”
Stewart replied to this blast by point-
ing out The Bulletin had published all
“the major efforts in recent Australian
poetry” in such widely differing styles
as Fitz Gerald's “Heemskirck Shoals” and
“Fifth Day,” Webb's “Ben Boyd” and
“Leichhardt” as well as Rosemary
Dobson’s poems on mediaeval religious
paintings. He added he would even print
Buckley’s poems if they were submitted
and were good enough. (Buckley took this
up and in due course his work appeared
in The Bulletin.) Buckley’s “errors
and excesses,” he said, “spring from one
source: his belief that ‘nativism’ in
Australia has become ‘an anachronism’
and that ‘a more integral and a more
Christian humanism is beginning to sup-
plant the humanism centred on a bush-
man hero.” From this he went on to
accuse Buckley of prejudice in favor of
a new orthodoxy—centred on the work
of James McAuley and A. D. Hope.
Nevertheless he agreed Buckley could
always be read with “rare pleasure” and
that he was a “grave, thoughtful, illumin-
ating and uncompromisingly honest”
critic. How Buckley reacted to all this
is not recorded.
When The Bulletin asked him this
week what he thought of Australian
poetry at the moment, Buckley agreed
it had reached a new stage of “com-
petence,” but the trouble was that
“competence” had become an excuse for
running away from the more terrifying,
more challenging aspects of experience.
Many of our poets, he said, were
crouched in various cosy corners, the
“basic-simplicities” corner, the “sensitive-
responses -to - nature” corner, the
“repeated - graceful-reminders-that-life-is-
not cosy - and-that-there-are-no-answers”
corner. Too many are afraid to commit
themselves. The best young poets such
as Evan Jones, Chris Wallace-Crabbe and
Francis Webb are not leaders ; it is the
older poets such as Wright, Hope—and
Stewart —who still give the lead.
Buckley is 36, a co-editor of the maga-
zine “Prospect,” and has published two
books of verse, “The World’s Flesh” and
“Masters in Israel” and two books of
criticism: “Essays in Poetry” and “Poetry
and Morality.” The original title he
gave to the first book of criticism was
“Partisan Essays”—but now. as The
Bulletin’s Poetry Editor, he will aim at
the widest representation possible.
R.Q.S.P.C.
77 Years
Against Cruelty
FROM FRANK ROBERTS IN QUEENSLAND
'T'here were no resignations, walkouts,
* angry clashes or unveiled criticisms
when the Royal Queensland Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty held its 77th
annual general meeting this week. Unlike
one or two similar organisations in other
states the R.Q.S.P.C. has a trouble-free
history and a healthy roll of 3500 sub-
scribers, of whom 1500 are full members
contributing 10/- or more each year and
about 200 are £lO 10s. life members. The
Society has had the same secretary for
11 years and the same president, Mr
F. J. Morgan, for 14 years. It is without
Government subsidy but manages on
subscriptions, donations and sizeable
bequests.
Probably much of the R.Q.S.P.C.'s
success is due to its concern for children
and the aged as well as for animals,
which has given it a more representative
membership. The Society worries about
cruelty in any form and rescues bogged
horses, maltreated children and homeless
old people with equal promptness.
Last year, Mr Morgan said, the
R.Q.S.P.C. investigated 118 reports of
child neglect or ill treatment, mostly
referring to very young children ieft
alone for long periods in locked houses
or rooms, with a few more serious
charges. Society inspectors look into
such complaints and report to the police
or Child Welfare when necessary. They
also helped 30 aged people suffering
neglect, including a blind woman who
had been turned on to the street.
In animal welfare, the society received
16,000 dogs, cats and “sundry birds and
animals” at its Refuge, kept an eye on
stockyard conditions, reduced the use of
steel-lined whips at trotting meets, insisted
on spells for 50 riding school hacks,
rescued 35 animals from trees, drains and
bogs, made a 2000-mile patrol of western
Queensland stockroutes, and campaigned
vigorously against greyhound “kills” of
possums, cats, fowls and guinea pigs.
Much of this work is done by two
full-time inspectors, but the society also
has the active services of its committee
members and nearly 100 honorary
inspectors throughout Queensland with
heavy representation on the Gold Coast
which apparently has more than its share
of wild life. For societies of any kind
seeking a formula for success the
R.Q.S.P.C. appears to have it little
talk and much activity.


DEPORTATION?
The Molinari Affair
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
A. R. DOWNER
His decision
The legal paradox in the case of
Giovanni Molinari differs from those
of W. S. Gilbert and A. P. Herbert by
the fact that it is definitely not funny.
Last October Molinari, 26, a laborer
then living in Abbotsford, pleaded guilty
to charges of living off the earnings of
prostitutes. In Fitzroy Court he admitted
having procured the services of four
teenage girls, one of whom was “Jill” of
the famous TV interview hoax. In court,
the prosecution read a statement from
“Jill” in which she alleged that Molinari
had forced her into becoming an espresso-
bar prostitute and had beaten her with a
metal curtain-rod. Two detectives gave
evidence that Molinari had admitted that
her statement was true. None of the
four girls was called to give evidence
and upon conviction Molinari allegedly
told the magistrate: “It’s all true —I’m
sorry.”
The magistrate sentenced him to nine
months’ jail, but this was not his only
penalty: a police report was sent to the
Minister for Immigration, Mr Downer,
naming Molinari as “El Capitano,” leader
of a vice-ring which had been broken up
by his apprehension. The “El Capitano”
report received considerable press pub-
licity. When his prison sentence finished,
Molinari was held in custody pending
deportation, scheduled for June 21 last.
On that day, however, two moves to
stop the deportation were launched by
solicitors engaged by Molinari. (He had
had none at the Fitzroy hearing.)
The first was an application to Mr
Justice Little in the Supreme Court for
a writ of habeas corpus based on a
claim that Commonwealth immigration
powers did not extend to migrants who
had been in the country as long as
Molinari. He had arrived in May, 1956,
which meant he had lived here for just
over four years at the time fixed for his
deportation.
The second move was a request to Mr
Downer to change the terms of the
deportation order which was based on
Section 138 of the Immigration Act. The
effect of this section is to put crimes
associated with prostitution into a differ-
ent category from other crimes com-
mitted by migrants. Mr Downer was
asked, instead, to make out the order
under Section 14 of the Act which pro-
vides for deportation of persons of
undesirable character. Under the latter
section, a judge or barrister may be
appointed to investigate the case.
The Immigration Department, however,
refused to rewrite the deportation order.
As a result, when the habeas corpus
came before Mr Justice Scholl on July 17,
it was Molinari’s last hope.
His counsel, Mr Lush, Q.C., argued on
legal grounds that Molinari was not an
immigrant since he had been here more
than four years. However, the case was
not confined to legal argument: at the
request of both parties, Judge Scholl
allowed evidence about the orginal case
at Fitzroy to be presented. This time,
Molinari claimed he was innocent of the
charges which he had admitted in Fitz-
roy Court over nine months earlier. He
said he had pleaded guilty then because
a policeman had told him it would be
better to do so than to pay a lawyer
£lOO to defend him. He also claimed
that the same policeman had threatened
him and struck him in the face when he
had been taken to police headquarters
for questioning. He denied intimacy with
any of the girls and said that for part of
the Fitzroy hearing he could not under-
stand the interpreter.
The constable concerned, Louis
Andrew Montagna, is an Australian born
of Italian parents and speaks fluent
Italian. He told fudge Scholl that he had
never struck or threatened Molinari nor
dissuaded him from hiring legal help.
He insisted that, upon conviction,
Molinari had apologised to the Fitzroy
magistrate for his crime. Molinari, he
said, had admitted to intimacy with the
girls, though he had denied taking money
from them.
Judge Scholl gave his reserved judgment
last week. He rejected Mr Lush’s argu-
ment based on Molinari’s four years’
residence, holding that the relevant sec-
tion of the Act meant five years, conse-
quently the deportation order must stand.
But, he said, having heard evidence con-
cerning the original Fitzroy case, he was
not satisfied beyond reasonable doubt of
Molinan’s guilt. It was not his province,
he said, to re-examine the facts of the
conviction, but this was the conclusion
he had reached. He was critical of the
fact that no written record of the Fitzroy
magistrate’s observations on the case
existed and that as a result his own court
had to rely on recollections of what was
said at the time. He thought Montagna
had dissuaded the accused from getting
legal advice, but he also thought the con-
fession was voluntary. “If I had to decide
the guilt or innocence of Molinari on a
charge of living off the earnings, as a
criminal charge, I would not be satisfied
beyond reasonable doubt,” the judge
concluded.
However, the deportation order stood,
and it was for Mr Downer to decide
whether it should be put into effect, hav-
ing regard for the fact that another
tribunal was not satisfied with Molinari’s
guilt.
Convicted and punished by one court
and found not guilty by another as a by-
product of a legal challenge that failed,
Molinari is still in custody. The State
Secretary, Mr Rylah, who had earlier
commended the decision to deport
Molinari, said last week that the matter
“might well” be brought to Mr Downer's
attention.
MAURICE NATHAN
Melbourne's Lord Mayor
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
MAURICE NATHAN
Ambassador?
/Consider the inconsistency of Merra-
billy, the good four-year-old sprinter
owned by the new Lord Mayor of Mel-
bourne, Mr Maurice Nathan. Since May
13 he has come: first, fifth, first, fourth,
tenth, sixth, first. That is the way to
financial success on the turf: don’t lose
on a photo-finish.
This inability of Merrabilly to win each
time he races is about all that Mel-
bournians could criticise in his owner, and
in any case, however astute he may be in


commerce and finance, most veterans
would regard him as a racing mug. He
has so many other interests, he is liable
to forget he has a runner until the races
are mentioned. Thereupon he is likely
to pick up rhe nearest telephone, talk
without reserve to the trainer and then
beamingly reassure all-comers the horse
will be home on the bit. V.A.T.C. mem-
bers were so enchanted by these perform-
ances, they elected him to their committee
last season.
That has been his forthcoming style
since he bounded out of school, where
he had been a crackerjack sportsman, into
the soft job that had been kept open for
him by his family, sweeping out one of
their suburban furniture shops. No doubt
he was fortified, as he dusted the 1935
three-piece moquette suites, with the
knowledge that he would become manag-
ing-director at 25.
In the meantime he became Victorian
squash champion and helped a dozen
m:nor charities to help themselves, with
the aid of an equally young committee.
He rose rapidly in the army, put in about
four years overseas, and when he returned
to his business he raised the turnover 15
times. It was, of course, an ideal time
to sell furniture: but his firm. Paterson’s,
left many of their competitors far behind.
He got into the City Council in 1952,
in a year when there was an infusion of
youth by ratepayers bored by the in-
activity of some very aged aldermen, and
he immediately became a protagonist of
the Sell Victoria (later the Victorian
Development and now the Victoria Pro-
motion) Committee, touring abroad to
win industries, and winning them.
Maurice Nathan is a modern. Prob-
ably his commercial success was due to
a decision to give popular taste a chance
on better modern design after decades of
fuddy-duddyism, and he has imported
some of the best new craftsmanship from
overseas.
He won the Lord Mayoralty only
because Cr W. H. Luxton was beaten
(by N. P. Andrews) and Cr O. J. Nilsen
was not beaten (by ex-Councillor J. D.
Cox). At the meeting of the Civic Group
which controls the City Council (by 21
to Labor’s 12 members) he got a majority
of 13 to eight over his opponent, Cr Leo
Curtis, but had the election results been
different and Mr Cox and Mr Luxton
been returned, others would have voted
with them and Cr Curtis would have been
chosen.
He got to the Lord Mayoralty sur-
prisingly quickly. His name has been
publicised in Victoria in recent years only
in association with the promotion com-
mittee. and as he was not even a com-
mittee chairman at the Town Hall it was
his efforts to win overseas capital that
raised him from being a council nonentity.
He has, however, won gratitude for not
speaking, in a somewhat windy cham-
ber, unless he has something to say, and
saying it lucidly.
He is 47 In a decade or so, with a
changed outlook in Canberra, he may
make a Washington Ambassador or Lon-
don High Commissioner.
Tanner
"WHY DON'T WE START A PEACE CONGRESS?"


BREATHALYSERS
A Tip for the Wine Trade
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
“PANSY” WRIGHT
No tampering
The breathalyzer or breathalyser (de-
pending on which Melbourne paper
you read) has generated much litigation
and public debate since the Victorian
police imported six of the gadgets earlier
this year. It is a metal box, not unlike
a portable typewriter in size and weight,
and its purpose is to sort out the drunk
from the sober by a chemical analysis of
the bibber’s breath.
The suspect is given a rubber tube into
which he blows for about 90 seconds. A
measured amount of his breath is then
bubbled through a solution which will
turn green if alcohol is present. Exactly
how green depends on the amounts of
alcohol in the breath. A photo-electric
cell measures the shade of green and then
activates a needle which moves against a
scale from which a blood-alcohol figure
can be read off. With the aid of a con-
version table, any policeman can trans-
late the figure into so many glasses of
beer.
Both the breathalyser and the blood-
test are backed by groups who believe
that alcohol is the main factor in Vic-
toria’s road-killings, now running at
about 700 a year. In passing, be it noted,
the role of alcohol in the road accidents
is itself a matter of great dispute. At the
moment, the groups who believe that
booze is the main culprit are in the
ascendancy. They include the Methodist
and Presbyterian Churches, the police
surgeon, Dr Birrell and “The Age.”
While resisting pressure for compulsory
blood-tests the Government last year
tightened up the penalties against drunken
drivers, doubling the fines and providing
for imprisonment for second offenders.
(One fourth offender got two years as a
result.) It also gave the police the right
to confiscate ignition keys of motorists
“suspected” of being drunk when about
to drive, and made it an offence to be
drunk while in charge of a car parked
in a drive-in theatre.
Meanwhile, the police were using
breathalysers in their attempt to secure
convictions, and a number of novel legal
points arose. In one case which went to
the Supreme Court last year, Judge Little
told the jury to disregard the breath-
alyser evidence because the sergeant who
had used it lacked scientific training. The
Chief of Police, Mr Porter, quickly com-
mented that the machines were made for
the use of policemen, not scientists. “The
Herald” noted, editorially, that the gadget
had made “an unimpressive entry” into
the courts. Soon after, Mr Porter tabled
his annual report to Parliament. It con-
tained a request that the Government lay
down an arbitrary blood-alcohol figure
as a measure of drunkenness. “The Age”
thought this a fine idea, but the Govern-
ment took no action on Mr Porter’s
request.
Another legal decision came from Judge
Murphy in General Sessions when he
ruled that police evidence of a motorist's
refusal to take a breath test was not
admissible. In other cases, a pathologist
and a medico-legal chemist threw doubt
on the value of the blood-alcohol
measure. Mr Porter wrote an article in
the Police Association Journal telling his
men to disregard these attacks.
Pressure for compulsory breath or
blood-tests mounted as the Victorian elec-
tions drew near and in July the Liberal-
and-Country party said it would legislate
for the breathalyser if returned to office.
“The Age” was delighted, but “The
Herald” had warned that the machine
should not “lessen ine obligation of the
police to support drunken driving charges
with other acceptable ‘old fashioned’
evidence.”
Then late last month, the Chief Justice,
Sir Edmund Herring, upheld the decision
of another stipendiary magistrate who
had rejected breathalyser evidence. Sir
Edmund said police evidence had failed
to establish the machine was a scientific
one which was likely to produce accurate
results if properly used. By this stage
the L.C.P. had approved a draft bill which
is understood also to include a clause
making evidence of refusal to take a test
admissible in court. The Acting Premier,
Mr Rylah, said that the Herring judg-
ment would be of great value to the
Government in finalising the legislation
for compulsory tests. He also gave the
latest score —198 tests, 32 not charged, 166
charged, 94 convicted, 17 acquitted, nine
committed, and 17 still to appear.
Few attempts to tamper with the rights
of the citizen escape the notice of
Melbourne University's Professor of
Physiology, “Pansy” Wright. He said
compulsory breathalyser tests are worse
than compulsory blood-tests (which he
also opposes) since the machine can go
out of order without any sample being re-
tained for checking. Moreover, no
sample is given to the accused to have
checked by an independent analyst. He
noted the record of the test is made by a
constable, and that “it is not a sealed
record and such records have on occasion
been falsified.”
To add to the confusion, a police
witness said that the machine could not
cope with claret. It seems that the
alcoholic strengths of Australian reds vary
widely. Consequently there can be no
neat conversion table to translate those
decimal figures into glasses of wine. This
is a selling point the wine trade should
take up right away.
FOOTBALL
"No More Me. Back to Europe"
FROM KEITH WILLEY IN DARWIN
Through the week Darwin’s 1000-odd
Greek residents are quiet, hard-work-
ing and respected—at peace with their
neighbors and themselves. But come
Sunday, when their Hellenic soccer team
runs on to the dusty Gardens Oval to do
battle, no one is safe.
The latest victim of these Jekyll and
Hyde sportsmen is “Northern Territory
News” photographer Joe Karlhuber.
While taking pictures of the customary
post-game barney between Qantas and
Hellenic he suddenly found himself right
in the middle. He was punched, kicked
thrown to the ground, dragged about 30
yards. His camera was booted round like
a football (and had to be sent south for
repairs).
Later, mourning his bruises and his
torn shirt, Karlhuber was philosophical.
“On the past record of this club,” he said,
“I suppose I can count myself lucky to
escape without losing half an ear.”
(Earlier this year Hellenic were involved
in an incident at Rum Jungle during
which a Greek player bit an opponent's
finger),
The game leading up to the attack on
Karlhuber was about average by Darwin
standards. A Qantas player had been
sent off. Another had traded blows with
a linesman. A Hellenic man, enraged
after missing a shot at goal, had rushed
up to a group of spectators, including two
women, and shouted a four-letter word.
But things did not really blow up until,
with two minutes to go and scores level,
Qantas kicked a disputed goal. Karl-
huber began taking photos when Greek
footballers surged around referee Brian
Jones, who called off the game as they
jostled him and tugged at his shirt,
Hellenic’s Nick Boubaris spotted Karl-
huber and yelled at him to stop. Karl-
huber promptly photographed Boubaris,
who charged. .Seconds later Karlhuber
went down under a milling mass of Greek
fooballers.
Elsewhere on the field guerrilla warfare
broke out during which the gatekeeper


"A typical Australian party! I wish I could
think of a Way of luring them from the keg
and taking an interest in their Womenfolk !”
and others were punched and pushed. A
bystander described later how he saw a
RAAF man place the battered “News”
camera between his legs and fight off “12
to 15 Greeks who were running round
and round like Indians.”
The Soccer Council acted sternly, sus-
pended one player for the rest of the
season and all of next season for striking
the referee and a linesman ; suspended
Boubaris for the rest of the season for
attacking Karlhuber ; fined Hellenic Club
for not controlling its players.
By this time many senior members of
the Greek community were completely
browned-off with their soccer team, some
of whom do not speak English and seem
to be fighting the Cyprus rebellion over
again every Sunday.
Soccer president Con Demetrie —a
lawyer and himself of Greek descent-
commented : “I am absolutely flabber-
gasted to see one particular team involved
in these incidents on the field. Being of
Greek origin I feel very hurt. They are
letting us down.” He warned that the
club affiliation with the association might
be reviewed next year unless their con-
duct improved.
The Soccer Tribunal chairman George
Cridland told Hellenic to: “Quieten down.
Play football. Don’t argue, and take
decisions like men. Wake up and have a
bit of sense,” he added. After the discip-
linary hearing one player, Vrondos,
shouted: “No more me. Back to Europe.”
But last Sunday spectators were amazed
to find a “new” Hellenic taking the field
in a replay of the earlier “footbrawl.”
The worst troublemakers had been left
on the sidelines. No punches were
thrown and the language would have done
credit to a ladies’ seminary. And Hellenic
played their best football for two seasons
to thrash Qantas 3-nil.
HISTORY
Rescuing Archives
By M. H. ELLIS IN SYDNEY
’’HDhen the new Archives Authority Act
was proclaimed recently New South
Wales became the first State in Aus-
tralia to acquire an archives department
established by a special statute to contain
and make available collections of his-
torical Government documents.
The Commonwealth has been archives
minded since Federation. Tasmania has
an old-established department set up
under its public library legislation w'ith a
highly competent conservation and
research staff ; and the other States have
gradually, and mainly since a conference
held in 1949, acquired separate archives
wedded to their public library systems
and operated under their public library
legislation. But N.S.W. is the first State
to have a special Archives Act.
These have been among the most
important developments for research
workers in the postwar era. Archives
native to Australia began to accumu-
late in January, 1788, and during
the 173 years which have elapsed since,
so many official papers have been
destroyed that New South Wales in par-
ticular has needed to have recourse to
the Public Records Office in London for
copies of most of the official dispatches
and other documents locally produced.
Whole hundredweights of them consoli-
dated into solid blocks of pulp in the
damp cellars of the Colonial Secretary’s
Office and some departments, notably the
great Crown Law Department, which
one would have expected to know better,
conducted wholesale burnings that wiped
out thousands of priceless historical
records at the flare of a match.
The new authority’s collection in New
South Wales will be housed in a new
block attached to the present Public
Library, so that the general library, the
Mitchell Library, the Archives De-
partment and the Dixson Library will be
all under the same roof. The Principal
Librarian will act as Chief Archivist, but
instructed by the authority, on which
Parliament, the great departments, the
universities and the judiciary and Indus-
trial Commission will have representa-
tives.
The numerous departmental and other
official documents, reports, etc., which
the Mitchell Library has acquired on
deposit in the last years, but which were
not grouped for cataloguing under the
generic name of “Archives,” will go to
the new collection.
And all the urgings to found a public
record office, the first by a committee
appointed by Governor Darling in 1827
to organise the Government on a depart-
mental basis, others by Sir J. Henniker
Heaton, Bonwich, G. B. Barton and Sir
Henry Parkes, will at last bear fruit.
Henceforward, no public records in
New South Wales can be destroyed with-
out the sanction of the Archives
Authority, and this applies both to
records on the secret list as well as to
those which can be made available to
research students. Only when materiel is
in the hands of the authority may the
expert decision whether it shall be kept,
sold or burnt be made.


PRESS
The Polish Newspapers
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
J. ZUBRZYCKI
Intermarriage
Come years ago the law required all
foreign-language papers published in
Australia to print a substantial propor-
tion of their editorial content in English.
This was resented by the migrant editors,
who got around the problem by running
boring serials, old jokes, riddles, kitchen
recipes and the like. Times have changed
since,
Foreign-language publications are no
longer compelled to carry English texts,
and migrants’ emergence from their
national mental “ghettos" is reflected in
their papers, which devote more and
more space to Australian affairs and to
the role of migrants in community life.
They are also interested in giving their
own ideas a wider hearing. For instance
the Sydney-based “Wiadomosci Polskie”
(“Polish News") has recently issued a
well-produced eight-page tabloid supple-
ment in English.
The supplement carries a statement on
the Berlin crisis by General J. Kleeberg,
President of the Federal Council of Polish
Organisations in Australia and a member
of the Australian Delegation of the
Assembly of Captive European Nations,
extensive extracts from the pastoral letter
of Polish Bishops —a courageous docu-
ment seeing that it was produced in what
is, after all, a Communist-dominated
country and a note on the Polish Cul-
tural Circle in Sydney, a firm supporter
of Australian theatre and the Elizabethan
Theatre Trust.
For the more specialised readers there
is a learned article (with a formidable
statistical table) on the intermarriage of
Polish migrants, written by Dr J.
Zubrzycki, of the Australian National
University. It appears that over 1947-60
the average proportion of Polish migrants
marrying Australian girls was 30.9 p.c.,
against 40.1 p.c. who took Polish-born
brides. The actual proportion fluctuated
widely over the years. In 1955 only 28.7
p.c. of Polish males married Polish-born
girls and 39.8 p.c. Australian-born girls.
When Wladyslaw Gomulka introduced
extensive liberalisation into the Polish
Communist regime in 1956 a steady
stream of Polish migrants began arriving
in Australia, including many proxy
“After laying off all those people for a fortnight I couldn't in all
conscience stay at work myself!"
brides and fiancees. Last year the pro-
portion of Polish-born brides shot up to
49.2 p.c. and that of Australian-born
slipped down to 26 3 p.c.
Mr J. Dunin-Karwicki, the editor of
“Wiadomosci Polskie” and a prominent
Polish community leader, told The
Bulletin that the main purpose of pub-
lishing regular English-language supple-
ments was to “inform the Australians
about what is going on in the homes and
minds of Polish migrants”—who now
number almost 80,000 —and to give the
general public some idea of Poland’s
cultural and historical tradition. His
paper is printing many regular features
on the Australian scene, including a
weekly review of events, political and
economic comments, historical notes, and
special articles on taxation problems.
The chief rival of Sydney’s Polish
paper is the Melbourne-based “Tygodnik
Katolicki” (“Polish Catholic Weekly”),
with a slightly lower, but likewise rising,
circulation. Both weeklies are sold
throughout Australia. Both are inde-
pendent, paying their way by advertise-
ments and subscriptions. “Tygodnik
Katolicki” was originally started in a
Bathurst migrant camp by a Polish
Catholic priest, Father Trzeciak, but is
now in the hands of Mr Roman
Gronowski, an experienced journalist
whc once edited the “Wiadomosci
Polskie” in Sydney and then worked on
The Bulletin’s composing staff. It is
likely that he will counter his Sydney
rival’s move by bringing out some kind
of an English supplement of his own.
Both journals are strongly anti-
Communist and have been highly critical
of unity tickets in the unions—their only
real venture into Australian politics in
which sides were clearly taken.
BUSINESS
Automation
FROM AN ADLLANIDE CORRESPONDENT
A fter making the usual jokes about
what might happen when you press
buttons. Sir Thomas Playford applied the
index finger to open the new £220,000
Coca-Cola bottling plant in Adelaide, and
the audience of Adelaide's biggest busi-
nessmen was gratified to hear the purr of
well-oiled machinery. But they were
amazed at the dexterity with which the
mechanical monster went on the rampage
at the crucial moment it was being
inspected by the official party.
Bottles were being broken with pro-
duction-line abandon. A worried staff
knee-high in bottles whacked at the
jammed machine with hammers, picked
up the broken glass with bare fingers
and threw it rather inaccurately over the
ranks of other bottles into bins held in
the air by frantic fellow-workers. AH
so un-automatic. It was not long before
tempers were frayed, fingers were gashed
and bloodstains were appearing on the
bottles and the bright new machinery.
“Teething troubles,” one executive
called it.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Cleaning up the A.C.T.U .
ALBERT MONK
Supine?
APART from this week’s disagree-
ments in the A.C.T.U. Congress
about the payment of levies to
finance visits to Australia of “unionists”
from Communist-dominated countries,
there are many other questions about the
A.C.T.U. that make it seem a Communist-
manipulated sham.
For example, the Congress agenda
paper contained 238 items for discussion
of which only 45 came from non-
Communist unions. All the others came
from unions that are either Communist-
controlled or generally support the Com-
munist unions. The items that did come
from non-Communist unions were con-
cerned mainly with bread-and-butter
matters —the basic wage, proposed
amendments to the Arbitration Act, and
so on. It was left to the Communists and
their supporters to lay down the law on
political questions.
The apathy of the non-Communist
unions comes out even more clearly when
one looks at the number of bodies that
sent in items for discussion. Altogether
97 unions are affiliated with the A.C.T.U.,
yet while 20 Communist-controlled or
Communist-influenced unions sent in
most of the motions only 11 non-
Communist unions bothered to send in
any motions ; the remaining 66 unions
had nothing to say at all. In fairness,
16 others were unions refusing to pay
the levy ; but that still leaves 50.
When you also realise that the 20 sus-
pect unions that sent in 193 of the 238
items to be discussed sent in motions
that, in all sections of the agenda, are
very similar in context and closely follow
the Communist party line you get a very
clear idea of what is happening to the
A.C.T.U. Under the supine leadership of
Mr Albert Monk the bulk of the non-
Communist unions, perhaps still demoral-
ised by the Labor splits of the nineteen-
fifties, are letting the Communists deter-
mine the public image and to some extent
the general policy of the A.C.T.U. This
gives the Communists political advan-
tages both in Australia and overseas.
They can foist on to a moribund A.C.T.U.
ridiculous resolutions about foreign poli-
cies and internal affairs that would
horrify most of their equally apathetic
members. These then become the
“policy” of the Australian union move-
ment and are quoted as such in Australia
and overseas.
When, in addition to this, the A.C.T.U.
tried to force a levy to pay for the trips
to Australia of totalitarian government
officials who parade as union leaders it
is easy to understand why a group of
unions finally revolted from a body that
was in effect —although not by the inten-
tion of the men it is supposed to repre-
sent —becoming the agent of hostile
foreign powers.
The A.C.T.U. has been a sham for a
long time in the sense that, though it
asserts itself as the voice of the Aus-
tralian wage-earner, it is, in fact, a
minority body. It does not represent even
half of the Australian wage-earners.
What it does represent is old-fashioned
unionism at its worst —inefficient union
officials and apathetic members bound
together by a lot of dated humbug in
which most of them no longer believe,
but in which the Communists still trade
to the befuddlement of the rest of the
union movement.
The Labor splits of the nineteen-fifties
made far too many union officials con-
cerned with only two things: opposing
the anti-Communists and/or Catholics.
They have placed themselves in the hands
of their natural enemies—and their
country’s enemies, and democracy’s
enemies—for purely party political and
sectarian reasons and in some cases
purely to keep their jobs.
The result is that the flagrant abuses
of democratic decencies that go on in
some unions go very largely unopposed.
Consider, for example, the extraordinary
scandals Alan Reid unearthed in The
Bulletin about the Seamen’s Union. His
report described this union as one that
has gunmen, standover men and some
of the biggest thieves in Sydney as its
associates. It described how members
of the union are intimidated into silence
by threats of violence —and even of
murder. It suggested that the union is
run to deliberately wreck the industry
its members draw their livelihood from.
Not one word of rebuttal came from
one official of the Seamen’s Union.
Nothing but guilty silence from an outfit
that is usually vociferous and touchy.
Why doesn't the A.C.T.U. Congress con-
sider that ? Why doesn’t it inquire into
a union which is so keen about its good
name that it says nothing when it is
attacked as an exploiter of its own mem-
bers, that resorts to barbarities which,
if an employer attempted them, would
land him in jail?
The answer is that far too much of
the union movement is corrupted by its
alliance with the Communists, demoral-
ised by its hatred of the anti-Communists
and/or Catholics and generally put to
sleep by fat-headed traditionalism. But
if the official union movement does not
soon wake from its long sleep and
attempt to remedy abuses that remind
one of the 19th century at its worst,
surely someone else must. Australians
are not going to stand by forever and see
democracy made mockery of by the
arrogance of the Communists and the
slothfulness and sectarianism of the non-
Communists.
WHAT is needed is a Royal Com-
mission into the Seamen's Union,
an inquiry that will unearth
exactly how low a union leadership
can get and will c o startle ordinary decent
unionists that they themselves will attempt
to move the more decrepit of their
“leaders” into action. In the meantime
the A.C.T.U. Congress goes on sitting,
and debates motions such as the follow-
ing, submitted by the Seamen’s Union:
“Congress commends the Cuban people
on the overthrow of American imperial-
ism and defeat of its sponsored counter-
revolutionaries. Congress instructs the
A.C.T.U. officers ... to make contact
with the Cuban Trade Union movement
with a view to the exchange of informa-
tion, experiences and, if practicable, dele-
gations.”
“Congress declares that peace is trade
union business of the highest priority.
One of the primary objectives of the
Trade Union movement is to continually
activate itself in the struggle for the
preservation of peace .. . Congress
affirms that as an immediate and urgent
objective its member unions will fight for
the banning of all nuclear tests in Aus-
tralia and an atom-free Pacific zone.”
The Seamen’s Union is not expected to
accept an amendment to the last motion
adding the words “and an atom-free
Soviet zone.”


AN ABC
OF THE VICTORIAN A.L.P.
What Mr. Calwell Does Not Know
By PETER KELLY
SOONER or later the Federal Executive of the Labor
party will have to dismiss the Victorian Executive just
as it dismissed the former Victorian Executive in 1954
and the N.S.W. Executive in 1956. Mr Calwell staved
off the inevitable step in Canberra last month, but it is pos-
sible that even he does not realise the extent of the disinte-
gration of the Victorian branch of his party. In fact, it
would be almost true to say there is no party in Victoria,
merely a Central Executive presiding over its own collapse.
There is no sense in thinking of avoiding a split, as Mr
Calwell evidently does, when there is nothing to split.
The Victorian party’s branch membership is dying; its
finances have never been lower; its union affiliation fees
remain static; in each election it loses more votes to the
D.L.P.; its anti-Catholicism is so bitter a special Masonic
lodge functions within the Trades Hall; its political
nepotism is so blatant that even the electors are turning
away from those members who have been given safe elec-
toral seats by their colleagues; and it is so compromised by
continued collaboration with Communists on unity tickets
and in pseudo-peace organisations that it is little less than a
Communist front itself.
MEMBERSHIP
According to the 1958-59 Victorian Central Executive
report, the membership of the Victorian branch was 23.625
members in 259 branches, made up of 11,932 members in
134 metropolitan branches and 11,693 members in 125
country branches. The 1959-60 report shows a total of
19,530 members in 235 branches—a drop of 4000. But
today the figure is 14,708 —which means a drop of 9000 in
three years. (The D.L.P. has 13,000 members in Victoria.)
In the 1960-61 report the Executive glibly told its con-
ference that “The question of branch membership has also
been under thorough review, and it was originally scheduled
that plans for an increased membership drive should be held
in 1961 . . . The Central Executive further feels that
branches can use the elections to the fullest opportunity as
a way of increasing membership.”
It is not possible to find out how many branches have
gone out of existence (it is even doubtful whether an Execu-
tive which sees the centre of power as being unity ticket
unions would know either), but one instance of the
Executive misleading its members can be given. In its report
this year the Executive lists 19 branches which have been
reformed “since the beginning of 1961.” But of these, 13
went out of existence in 1960! The report also states that
nine new branches “have been formed.” Of these nine, one
at least is an amalgamation of two branches operating in
1959, one of which died in 1959 and the other in 1960. So it
seems that any drive for membership is out of the question
until the Executive can regain all those members it has
lost since 1960 —or maybe they were all secret D.L.P. men?
But nothing daunts the Executive. In their report they
comfortingly tell their members that “The groundwork for
the formation of other branches has already been laid, and
this will be followed up in due course and branches estab-
lished.” But. according to this year’s Executive report to the
A.L.P’s Federal Conference it stated that “Trade unions
affiliation remains at 72 and branch organisation steady.”
PARTY FINANCE
Union Affiliation: In 1958 union affiliation fees
amounted to £13,262; in 1959. £12.768; in 1960,
£13,531. So despite increased affiliation fees that year
union payments only increased by £793. What a number of
unions obviously did was to lower the number of members
on whom they pay affiliation.
Even the Executive woke up to this lurk, because their
report states; “It has been noticed in the first quarter of
1961 that certain unions have dropped their affiliations in
order to meet the increased fees . . . the Central Executive
hopes during the course of the year the unions concerned
will review the position and bring their membership up to
that prevailing in 1960.”
But it is not only the virtual falling off in money
received from unions and membership that is worrying the
Executive—at the moment their chief concern is the election
fund. In 1958 the election fund stood at £19,884. 1 Is. 7d. In
1959 the report shows the “Election Campaign Account”
with a credit balance of £2566 3s. 3d. That year the Execu-
tive wisely commented that “as the cost of three elections
must be faced in 1961 this account should be much higher
than at present ...”
No details were shown in this year's report, but the
Executive stated that it needed £30.000 to fight the elections.
Buried deep down in the Finance Committee’s report is
the statement that “although there have been increases in
affiliation fees, the balance in the election fund is a third of
what it was at the same time three years ago, prior to the
1958 elections.” Whatever the state of the party’s election
fund actually is, the Executive are extremely reluctant to
tell their members, and it can be assumed it is drastically
low. It is possible that unions, as well as branches, are sick
of donating money to a party which is beaten before it goes
to the polls.
Labor Trust Case: One reason why party finances are
so low is because the Central Executive was so filled with
sectarian bitterness that it pursued—and lost —a court case
against the D.L.P. which cost it over £5OO0 —against the
advice of all its lawyers.
After the Labor party split the D.L.P. (then the Anti-
Communist Labor party) retained possession of property
and assets totalling £17,482, as well as £l5OO in Common-
wealth bonds. The A.L.P. Executive issued a writ in the
names of R. A. Cameron and P. J. Clarey against F. P.
McManus and other members of the D.L.P. in an effort to
regain the money.
The Central Executive, after it had pursued the case
against its own legal advisers’ opinions, was charged £2014
by its own counsel. Perhaps in order to give the A.L.P.
a pre-election shock, the solicitors acting for the D.L.P. did


Tanner
PARTY BRANCH
BLIND EYE
MAIN CHANCE EYE
LEFTWJNG
PEACE MEDAL.
WORKING CLASS TIE
UNITED FRONT
WORKING CLASS SPIRIT
PEACE DOVE
DEAD DUCK
SPLIT-
-PARTY LINE TOE


not present their bill of £3OOO to the A.L.P. until May 25
of this year. The A.L.P. secretary immediately paid £3OOO
into the A.L.P. solicitors' trust fund, and, according to this
year’s report, asked “the legal committee to review the costs
and place them in the hands of the Taxing Master.”
ELECTORAL FAILURE
The Victorian Executive’s report to the A.L.P. Federal
conference this year boldly declared that “the Victorian
branch faces 1961 confident of Labor successes in all politi-
cal contests.” After the recent State election the Victorian
A.L.P.. with 17 seats in the lower house, has its smallest
representation since World War 1. and Mr Bolte has the
highest number of sitting members of any party leader in
the history of Victoria.
In a time of an economic slump, with the worst unem-
ployment since the depression, the A.L.P. vote in Victoria
during the recent elections went up by only 1.3 per cent. In
contrast to this, the D.L.P. vote rose by 2.7 per cent., which
in effect means that for every one voter who is turning to-
wards the A.L.P.. two are turning in the D.L.P’s direction.
As every politician knows, it is the young voters in the
outer suburban areas whose votes must be won for a party
to attain office. In 14 outer suburban seats in Victoria the
A.L.P. percentage went down in ten seats and the D.L.P.
percentage increased in them all. The “splinter group’s”
vote rose by as much as 6 per cent, in some electorates, and
its average rise was 3 per cent.
It is clear from the above figures that electorallv the
A.L.P. in Victoria is fast losing ground, and perhaps one
reason is that at its last conference 300 of the 350 delegates
were from unions. The industrial domination goes even
further: of six officers of the branch four are union officials;
of the 18 elected members of the Executive only four are
not union officials, and of these four only two were repre-
senting State electoral councils at this year’s annual con-
ference.
But the electoral humiliation of the Executive is shown
more clearly by its blatant nepotism. Since 1958 the Execu-
tive has preselected eight “friends” for A.L.P.-held seats.
In 1958. Frank Courtnay. then a member of the Central
Executive for the safe Federal seat of Darebin. In 1959.
Bill Divers, another C.E. member, was selected for Foots-
cray. In this area, between 1958 and 1961 there was a
swing of 10.5 per cent, against Mr Divers. To stifle any
criticism they then selected a non-Executive member. Mr
N. Beaton, for the Bendigo seat in 1960.
Mr J. Tripovich, the former State Secretary, was
“kicked upstairs” in 1960 for the Doutta Galla Legislative
Council Province seat. He was not quite as successful as
Mr Divers, as he only recorded a swing against the A.L.P
of 4.1 per cent. However. Dr Jenkins, another Executive
member, was selected for Reservoir in the same year, and
he scored a 5 per cent, swing against the A.L.P. Mr
Douglas Elliott, a well-known TV and radio commentator,
the man largely responsible for putting over the party image
to the electors, was selected for the marginal seat of Mari-
byrnong in 1958 —which he failed to win. In 1960 he was
rewarded with the Melbourne Legislative Council Province
seat.
The Senate selections show another facet of the
behavior of the Central Executive. On June 13, 1960 two
weeks before the Executive met to select its Senate candi-
dates. a small paper produced by a group of social demo-
crats in Victoria called “News and Views.” published the
following statement: “We heard from well-informed Com-
munist sources that the Labor party Executive will endorse
the following A.L.P. members as candidates for the next
year’s election to the Senate: (1) The youngest of the sitting
Senators. (2) A retired sea captain. (3) An editor of a
New Australian Labor paper. (4) The president of a Jewish
Communist-front organisation. This raises the question of
who actually selects the A.L.P’s candidates? For this
amazing prophecy, made two weeks before the event,
accurately forecast that Captain S. Benson, presumably a
member of the A.L.P. who virtually came from nowhere,
and Mr Sam Cohen, then president of the Communist-front
organisation, the Jewish Council to Combat Fascism and
Anti-Semitism, and Senator C. W. Sandford, would be this
year’s A.L.P. Senate candidates. Mr Cohen was also elected
on to the Executive this year, and was number eight on the
official A.L.P. ticket.
Commenting on finance, the report mentions that the
Finance Committee “has closely followed the position” due
to increased union affiliation fees and membership fees
(raised in 1960). “but to date there has been no significant
falling-off because of this fact!” Something must be “falling
off” because the “splinter” group, the D.L.P., runs
second in 14 seats out of the 17 seats held by the A.L.P.
in the Legislative Assembly. Or to put it another wav. the
D.L.P. vote only exceeds a 20 per cent, vote in seats held
by the A.L.P.—which means that at the present rate of
disintegration the D.L.P. can only win seats from the
A.L.P.
UNITY TICKETS
Unity tickets arrived in Victoria almost at the same
time as the more influential members of the present Execu-
tive obtained power. These people normally referred to
as the junta, are the rulers who control the A.L.P. in Vic-
toria: Messrs A. McNolty (secretary. Sheet Metal Workers’
Union). D. MacSween (secretary. Clothing Trades' Union),
R. Brebner (secretary. Paper Mill Employees’ Union). F.
Carey (secretary. Australian Federated Union of Locomo-
tive Enginemen). W. Divers (now an M.L.A.. but formerly
secretary of the Municipal Employees’ Union). W. Butler
(Amalgamated Engineering Union). J. V. Stout (secretary,
Melbourne Trades Hall Council). All the above came to
power just after the split, and later recruits are W'. H.
O'Brien (a notorious Communist-front man and A.R.U.
unity-ticket stander). D. Allen (the Tanners’ Union). G.
Crawford (Plumbers’ Union). S. H. Cohen (a barrister and
member of the Jewish Council, and one of Victoria’s next
Senators). Including their numerous hangers-on. all the
above have supported unity tickets and have so embroiled
the Victorian A.L.P. in two Communist-front organisations,
the Jewish Council to Combat Fascism and Anti-Semitism,
and the A. and N.Z. Congress for International Co-Opera-
tion and Disarmament, that what once looked like a Labor
party now resembles nothing more than an old man's
Eureka Youth League.
To give a detailed analysis of all the unity tickets in
Victoria would even bore fanatical anti-Communists. But
it is sufficient to list the unions which invariably run them:
the Australian Railways’ Union, the Waterside Workers'
Federation, the Meatworkers’ Union, the Tramways’
Union. These unions, plus sympathetic unity unions like
the Sheet Metal Workers’ Union of Mr A. McNolty. the
Clothing Trades’ Union of Mr D. MacSween. and the
Plumbers' Union provide a bloc vote of approximately 35
per cent, which effectively controls the affairs of the Vic-
torian A.L.P. When it is realised that it was a Victorian,
Mr Brebner. who sponsored the motion at the Federal Execu-
tive conference to try and make operative the A.L.P’s ban
on collaboration with Communists on unity tickets it be-
comes obvious that any gestures in this direction are
prematurely futile.
The classic unity ticket union is the Victorian A.R.U.
In 1957 there were 81 positions in the union for which
members voted. On one ticket were the “baddies.” Indus-
trial Group men and non-Communists; on the other were
the “goodies,” A.L.P. members and Communists. The


“goodies’ ” ticket was drawn up at combined meetings of
A.L.P. men and Communists held in Unity Hall, Bourke
Street, on February 1 and 15. No A.L.P. man opposed a
Communist and no Communist opposed an A.L.P. man.
(“To be anti-Communist is to be anti-working class.”) Nine-
teen fifty-nine saw a repetition on a smaller scale: Messrs
Pauline, O'Brien, Bone and other members of the A.L.P.
appeared on the same ticket as Communists Brown,
Cregan, Loye and others. In 1961 Pauline, Bone, O'Brien
had their photographs placed alongside Communists
“Jackie” Brown and A. Cregan in the union’s official journal,
and Mr Pauline went a little further this time and wrote: “I
am drawing attention to the forthcoming union elections
and calling upon the membership to fully support the present
leadership for a further term of office.”
Other instances occurred such as that when an A.L.P.
man from the Meat Industry Employees’ Union, Mr G.
Wood, actually signed a unity ticket, but later was exoner-
ated by the Central Executive for not knowing his name
had been placed on the ticket.
But perhaps the best example which illustrates the
farcical situation union elections are in was the recent elec-
tion for the Federal Presidency of the Tramways’ Union.
In this election two candidates were a Mr Boyd, an A.L.P.
man from N.S.W., and Mr Clarrie O'Shea, a Communist
and Victorian secretary of the union. In Victoria the D.L.P.
and National Civic Council men worked hard for the A.L.P.
man and Victorian A.L.P. men worked for Mr O’Shea, the
Communist! In fact, Mr Grace, a prominent A.L.P. man,
addressed tramwaymen in Port Melbourne and Hawthorn in
support of O’Shea, and another member, Mr Edwards, did
the same at Footscray and Kew tramway depots. O'Shea
won.
“PEACE”
Although “unity” tickets demonstrate how deeply
involved the Executive is with the Communists and Com-
munist causes, a better illustration is its attitude to Com-
munist-front organisations, particularly those relating to
“peace.” In its 1961 report the Executive declared: “During
the course of the year the Executive maintained its repre-
sentation at the various activities of the Australia and New
Zealand Congress”—-(for International Co-operation and
Disarmament).
This organisation held a much-publicised conference in
Melbourne in 1959. The conference originated at a meeting
of a well-known world Communist-front organisation, the
World Peace Council, in Stockholm in 1958. The two Aus-
tralians who attended were Mr S. Goldbloom, secretary of
the congress, and the Rev. F. J. Hartley. Mr S. Goldbloom,
who is still a “loyal” member of the A.L.P.. was pre-
selected by the Victorian Executive as Federal Labor can-
didate for Latrobe in 1958 and opposed Lord Casey. Mr
Goldbloom was also charged in 1958 by two A.L.P. mem-
bers, Miss Rosemary Hanbury, secretary of the St Kilda
A.L.P., and Mr Bono Wiener with being a member of the
Communist party.
Mr Tripovich, M.L.C., who was then secretary
announced that Mr Goldbloom would have to sign a statu-
tory declaration saying he was not a member of the Com-
munist party. But no one to this day has seen the declara-
tion. Chiefly due to some A.L.P. members in Victoria,
the “Peace” Congress was clearly shown to be a Com-
munist-sponsored performance, and it is straining anyone’s
credulity to think that the Executive itself is not aware of it.
Not only were they officially represented at the con-
gress but Mr Tripovich in 1960 made an extremely vitriolic
attack on Mr Barry Jones (better known for his TV perform-
ances), a member of the A.L.P., Mr James Jupp (a member
of the A.L.P. and a lecturer in Political Science at Melbourne
University) and other members of the A.L.P. who dared say
that the congress was a Communist show.
To pay back Mr Wiener for attacking their “Peace**
darling, Mr Goldbloom, the Executive later had him
expelled, but in doing so they had first of all to disband a
flourishing New Australian organisation of which he was then
secretary. Although the Executive said they expelled him,
no motion was ever passed at a Central Executive meeting,
it was never recorded in the minute book and he was
virtually accused by Executive members of stealing the funds
of the New Australian organisations.
In August this year the Executive sent a circular to its
branches asking them (on behalf of the A.N.Z. Congress)
to sell buttons for a “No More Hiroshimas” march which
was held on August 6.
A.L.P. branch secretaries were given a list of people
from whom buttons could be obtained to raise money for
“Peace.” One of the persons on the list was a member of
the Communist party. Also on a pamphlet, specially printed
for the “Hiroshima March,” the A.N.Z. Congress pub-
lishers said that members of the “Hiroshima Day Commit-
tee .. . embraces representations from the Trade Union
Movement and such organisations as: Australian Labor
Party (Victorian Central Executive), Society of Friends,
Fellowship of Reconciliation, Victorian Peace Council,
Women’s International League for Peace and Freedom,
Eureka Youth League, Pacificist Society of Victoria, Union
of Australian Women.” Three of these organisations are
Communist fronts.
It is not only “Peace” fronts that the Victorian Execu-
tive worries about. It actively supports the Jewish Council
to Combat Fascism and Anti-Semitism, and lately it has
become involved with another Communist-front, the Society
of Realist Writers.
In the Melbourne “Age” on July 21 of this year it was
announced that a public protest meeting “against censorship,
alleged political discrimination in Commonwealth Literary
Fund awards, and ‘witch hunts’ in universities would be held
by the Society of Realist Writers.” Among the speakers
who spoke at this meeting were Mr R. A. Mortimer, a mem-
ber of the Central Committee of the Australian Communist
Party, Mr Judah Waten, the Communist party’s cultural
commissar, and Mr W. O’Brien, assistant secretary of the
Victorian A.R.U. Mr O’Brien was elected to the Central
Executive this year (he was number 15 on the official ticket
and received 245 votes), presumably for services rendered.
INTERVENTION
Examples like Mr A. McNolty being awarded a “Peace”
medal; Dr Cairns and other Victorian Parliamentarians
working for Communist-front organisations; payments from
one company to a union secretary member of the Central
Executive to keep his union members quiet; the endorse-
ment of unscrupulous characters for Parliamentary seats;
Mr H. Speed, who a year ago was an ardent supporter of
unity tickets, now declares that they are no good (this was
before the Federal Executive decided not to intervene);
failure and loss involved in publishing party publications;
open sectarianism; secret meetings with Communists
arranging for “working class” control of country Trades
and Labor Councils: all these are separate stories in
themselves, but the electors are realising how trustworthy
the Victorian A.L.P. is.
Nothing can possibly save the Victorian Central Execu-
tive from Federal A.L.P. intervention after the elections.
The only weapon which Mr Stout and his gang turn on the
Federal A.L.P. is that of threatening them with a “break-
away industrial Labor party.” But what the Federal A.L.P.
and Mr Stout have not yet realised is that an “Industrial
Labor party” (once most of them have left the sinking ship)
will only consist of a dwindling band of sectarian fellow-
travellers, who no longer care if Australia remains a
democracy or not.


AUSTRALIA AND THE WORLD
FISHERS OF MEN
"Our diplomats are more moderate than many Australian tourists abroad"
By NEIL McINNES
The ordinary European who thinks of migrating to Aus-
tralia can get information about the country only from
an Australian embassy, consulate or mission. Outside
of the British Isles, no one else knows anything about
the place for it is seldom mentioned in the press, except on
the sports page; it is never represented in the illustrated
magazines or movies, unlike Canada and all the American
republics ; and travellers’ tales are rare. So, if he does decide
to migrate he could probably say, at the moment he boards the
ship, that all he knows of Australia he has learnt from
Australian officials and governmental literature, plus maybe a
visit to a public library and a letter from a compatriot who
has preceded him. If then, after arrival in Australia, he suffers
more than the usual amount of disappointment, bewilderment
and insecurity that are the common fortune of all expatriates,
he might say (or someone will say on his behalf) that he was
misled by our representation abroad.
This would be quite unfair. Many of the thousands of
East Germans who have fled to the Federal Republic say they
are bitterly disappointed by the “capitalist world.” Sixty per
cent, of them have to live more than two years in camps before
they find an apartment, they get along badly with some West
Germans who are too prosperous to be sympathetic, and they
feel that the West sees them as “manpower” rather than as
human being:-; some, incredible as it may seem, actually go
back to East Germany! Yet none of this lends color to
Pankow’s fable that its population is being filched from it
by capitalist slave-traders and by lying Western propaganda.
It would be no more reasonable to conclude, from some signs
of disillusion among migrants, that Australian officials abroad
are encouraging visions of an earthly paradise which cannot
survive contact with Australian reality.
Naturally, such migrant-catching activities as they under-
take (none at all are allowed by law in France, and elsewhere
they seldom reach beyond those who were already tempted)
are in the nature of advertising, and we all know what adver-
tising entails, even “honest advertising”: glossy booklets, pretty
colored pictures, photographs of Bondi under brilliant sun-
shine but never of Bondi under the rain, potted information
that selects the high figure for TV ownership rather than the
relatively low figure for modern sanitation, and so on. There
is, as far as I have seen, no deliberate misrepresentation or
even questionable exaggeration, and no more arbitrary selec-
tion than is implied in the very notion of advertising. Also,
it is of course governmental advertising and is therefore per-
vaded by that complacent nationalism that people expect of
governments.
TTowever, it is as well to admit that, as hucksters and as
nationalists, our diplomats are more moderate than many
ordinary Australians abroad. The German and French Govern-
ments have traditionally been much more patriotic than
individual Germans and Frenchmen, but in America and
Australia the reverse is true: civil servants tend to be rather
apologetic whereas private citizens lapse easily into jingoism.
I was waiting in our Brussels embassy lately to see an official
while a migrant was getting information at the desk. A young
man in a loud Melbourne University blazer butted in and said
to the candidate, “Are you migrating to Australia?” Surprised
and confused, the European mumbled that he was thinking
about it. “Oh, you should!” exclaimed the young patriot, his
eyes misting with sudden passion and his voice quavering with
conviction, “You should!'' There was a moment's embar-
rassed silence, and the woman behind the desk cleared her
Part of a group of 400 Polish Displaced Persons at a Rome railway station preparing to return to Poland!
THE BULLETIN, September 9, 1961


throat and resumed telling the European how, in his case, be
had no right to an assisted passage.
This European would leave the embassy with a folder
full of literature, details on the passage scheme, and answers
to any specific questions he raised. The literature is much the
same in all foreign countries, being translated from a basic text
which is presumably available in Canberra to anyone who
wants to check up on it. It makes no reference to the respon-
sibility of living in a camp and contains no picture of a migrant
camp, but 1 have been shown the draft of a new document that
mentions the camps (they are called hostels, not to mislead
but because camp has sinister connotations in Europe) and
says they are not luxurious but will serve as home while a
migrant looks for better accommodation. The documents are
frank about the housing shortage and rents. Details on the
passage scheme, different from country to country, being
subject to negotiation between governments.
Tf the candidate is attracted, he will come back and meet
someone more informative than the receptionist. If he
lives in a country where there is a big migrant traffic, say
Holland, he will attend information evenings with films (which,
unlike the folders, show the dowdy streets of Sydney and
Melbourne as well as the beaches), lectures by returned Dutch-
men or visiting Australians, and question time at the end. A
serious effort is made to keep the information dispensed up-to-
date ; officials receive fortnightly economic news from home
and a monthly employment report broken down for States
and trades. No one, for example, would fail to be told today
about the credit squeeze and its results. The trouble is that
it might be a year or 18 months before the migrant gets to
Australia (his entry permit is valid for one year) and, in our
exaggeratedly cyclical economy, his information might be quite
out of date by then.
If the migrant has trade qualifications, they will be
examined, at the more important missions, by the “technical
adviser” who is a trade-union bureaucrat, expert in these
matters. The migrant will be told whether his qualifications
will be accepted, and how far, by the union or other corpora-
tion involved. Indeed, he is not just told but signs a paper
saying that he is being admitted as a skilled fitter, unskilled
laborer, or whatever Inquiries about wage-rates are always
answered, I am assured, by quoting the lowest figure of the
range. At every stage of his dealings with the mission, the
candidate is invited to use the Australian papers as a source
of information, especially to consult the situations-vacant and
housing columns.
Such grosser illusions as persist are apt to be dissipated
at the moment of the “selection interview.” An instant's
thought will suggest what the atmosphere is at these encounters.
The migrant, by now sold on Australia, is anxious to please
the foreign official, whom he takes as the agent of his new
masters, and sounds enthusiastic ; he is also perhaps genuinely
impatient to get out of his own country and tends to run it
down. The official is inevitably cast in the role of moderator
and disabuser. Anyhow, those I have met were very cautious
civil servants and, at least in two cases, rather suspicious of
migrants in general; it would be only by inadvertence that
fallacious promises would be made.
On the question of Australian unemployment, it is worth
noting that our rate has not exceeded 2.7 per cent, of the total
estimated work-force and that the Americans have not cut
migrant quotas when their rate has been over 5 per cent., while
the Canadians did not let up on migrant-catching until theirs
was 10 per cent.
While exculpating our missions abroad of the charge of
dream-peddling, none of the above should harden our hearts
against the migrant who had hoped for something better or
different, and is cruelly disappointed. That officials do not
spread falsehoods about our society does not mean that they
tell the truth about it. The truth about a whole society, even
a small and uncomplicated one like ours, is beyond any man's
telling ; and what cannot be told, a family on the verge of
the momentous decision of migrating will supply for itself
with hopes and vain imaginings.
Feiffer
I HAV6 MH OWN
PLAN FOR PFAC6.
we <eep hearing
ABOUT CULTURAL
EXCHANGES BETWEEN
east ANOLOEST
BEING A FORCE \
IN IMPROVING
RELATIONS.
RIGHT?
0)61 L, I iro'
ALL NONSENSE
DM EXCHANGE
CULTURES ? ,
CULTURE'S C
not at issue f
If A MILITARY
EXCHANGE 0)6
SHOULD consider
U)M NOT EACHAN6E
A RMIES ?
OURS TO OCCUPY
TH£M AfJC? SSUP I
to
occupy us. A~ t
an exchange jJ'
OCCUPATION. '
LOOK HOD IT
) WOULD SOLVE
I aa, The arms
INSPECTION
/ problem.
AND BESIDES
whov Want
TO SEN 0 OFF A
MISSILE If IT
WOULO BLOWUP
THEIR OWN TROOPS
THEN MOD T HEW
GET TO 00 THE
OCCUpyiNG f
JUST
CXAMUOg THE
ADVANTAGES,
wev GAIN
ALL THE
benefits
op post-
war
REACTION-
THERE‘O ec the
\ USUAL OCCOPA'
TlOtO TROOP
AJ* SCANDALS, THE
/ A POLO6IES &p The
ARHy OF OCCUPATION,
the growing feat DOS
of guilt Toward the
couNTpy OCCUPIED-
ALL mmAW
LEADING TO AH
ERA OF 600 P
HCUIN6!
if m cdvid om
SIMULATE POST-WAR
SENTIMENT WITHOUT
ha me to 60 ro
WAR WE MI6HT
SURVIVE-
)


£ TAKING OVER NEW ZEALAND
"Mr Holyoake, the New Zealand Prime Minister, could
become a State Premier"
By EUGENE DORLING
AS soon as it became obvious that Britain would have
to join the European Common Market —and disrupt
her economic relationship with the Commonwealth
—the British press felt a bit guilty about New
Zealand.
Not much sympathy has been spared for Australia
and Canada. We are supposed to look after ourselves and
adjust our export trade to the new pattern which will result
when Britain joins the West European economic pool. It has
even been suggested that we have for years followed a rather
selfish policy in our trade relations with the United King-
dom and have thereby forfeited claims for “special con-
sideration.”
Not so with New Zealand. During the war New
Zealand sold all its meat, butter and cheese to the United
Kingdom at fixed prices. Since then its primary production
has been geared specifically for the British market, which
has absorbed at least 53 p.c. of all New Zealand’s exports
—including 90 p.c. of all her overseas sales of meat and
butter. New Zealand has specialised in production of
lamb —a treat for the English, but rather hard to sell any-
where else.
The desire to protect loyal little New Zealand has led
Mr Nicholas Davenport to come up in the London “Spec-
tator” with nothing less than a plan for the union of the
United Kingdom and New Zealand.
Writing in a grand old colonial style, he stated that
although “Canada and Australia are making the noisiest
objections” to Britain’s participation in the European Com-
mon Market —“no doubt for local political reasons” —they
are precisely “the two Dominions whose dependence on the
British market is relatively small . . . Canada has always
pursued a realistically selfish policy in the matter of U.K.
trade. At the 1958 Commonwealth economic conference
she refused our request to bind certain preference margins,
and recently a Government commission has proposed a 10
p.c. tariff on British cars. The cause of her present economic
plight has been her absurd financial policies ... if it thinks
that it can correct its huge payments deficit by exporting
more of the products of its secondary industries to the U.K.
—most of its manufacturers are subsidiaries of American
combines —it is going to be taught another sharp economic
lesson.”
XJOWEVER, “poor New Zealand, which is making no
attempt to hector or lecture, has every reason to feel
alarmed” at the U.K. joining the European Economic
Community. New Zealand has been loyal to the United
Kingdom all the way through —where else could she sell
almost all her lamb and butter? New Zealand still affords
a greater degree of preference to imports from the U.K.
than any other Commonwealth country. Over 90 p.c. of
British exports to New Zealand enjoy an average preference
of 18 p.c. New Zealand has not used its right to reduce
U.K.’s preference margins as Australia has.
And so, concludes Mr Davenport, “on the facts pre-
sented, little loyal New Zealand deserves special treat-
ment . . . Let the U.K. offer union to New Zealand . . .
Does it not make sense to regard New Zealand as our
home farm overseas? She is the largest and cheapest
exporter of lamb and mutton in the world . . . She is also
the biggest and cheapest exporter of butter . . . With union,
New Zealand would be treated as Northern Ireland—
governing itself and sending a few representatives to West-
minster. A joint economic planning board would have to
be set up to co-ordinate investment and farm programmes,
but that is a detail.”
Since everything is so easy and simple, why not match
“The Spectator’s” proposals and offer a rival union of New
Zealand with Australia?
Mr Holyoake, the New Zealand Prime Minister, could
become a State Premier. That is if both islands do not
become separate States —which might be wiser on the divide
and rule principle. The Governor-General would have to
become one of the State Governors. With three Parliaments
to serve there would be a big demand for politicians.
Instead of sending a few representatives to West-
minster, New Zealand could send a much larger contingent
of Parliamentarians to Canberra. Australia’s population is
about five time smaller than that of the United Kingdom,
and New Zealand’s 2.4 million people would be able to
insist on a much higher per capita representation. And fares
are so much cheaper.
Administrative and legal differences are a minor prob-
lem. What would an extra sovereign Government or two
matter? Seven have been operating in Australia quite
successfully ever since Federation, and there are loud
clamors for at least two more. New Zealand’s good record
with the Maoris would come in handy when the U.N.
criticises our treatment of the aborigines.
ALL this would be rather expensive. Australia would
have to dismantle her own dairying industry and buy at
least £6O million-worth of New Zealand butter, about £24
million of cheese, as well as £46 million frozen mutton,
£5 million frozen lamb and lots of canned meat, powdered
milk, chilled beef. But we would be able to ruin whatever
secondary industry New Zealand has and flood it with our
consumer goods. And it would be somewhere else to specu-
late. We would, of course, have to devalue the New
Zealand pound to bring it into line with ours. But they
should have done that themselves years ago. In return, we
could give New Zealand a chance to share in our industrial
unemployment problems.
With little difficulties like these soon cleared up we
could absorb Fiji, the Melanesian Federation, the New
Hebrides and Samoa. And then the Australasian Con-
federation could make a takeover offer to the United King-
dom and easily outbid the Common Market people. The
Commonwealth would be saved.


Architect approved ... for the ‘low
look’ roof lines of today
LYSAGHT
O FI E 3
STEEL SHEET ROOFING
-jrs.
m
ml
I
-x-
-m
m
miiii
m
m
s'*
Si*
In homes like the one above, the roof is the
key to the whole design. That is why the
architect specified today’s most decorative
modern roof deck Lysaght KLIP-LOK ! A
brilliant example of modern design, this new
steel deck is so simple, so functional, that its
use can cut roofing costs considerably.
Lysaght Corrugated and Lysaght Flat are equally
economical . . . equally versatile. Each has a
special place in the modern scheme of things.
Choose the Lysaght style that suits your plan.
*„*.* »***
just published . . . fascinating new guide to the
newest trends in the home design. Send for your
copy today! Fill in and post coupon below.
John Lysaght (Australia) Limited,
Port Line Building, 50 Young St., Sydney
i Please send me, without cost or obligation, the
new Lysaght Portfolio of Low Cost Home Plans.
NAM E __
ADDRESS.
STATE.
3 TYPES
TO CHOOSE
FROM
CORRUGATED: Lysaght Red
Orb Sheet, made especially
rigid for roofing purposes,
has almost endless applica-
tions in the building industry.
Available in all wanted widths
and lengths; also pre-painted
in aluminium where speedy
finishing is a factor.
FLAT: Essential for forming
guttering, downpipes, etc.;
also widely used for special
roofing purposes and effects.
*KLIP-LOK! New smartly
ribbed, heavily galvanized
Steel Sheet with self-locking
shoulders for flat and near
flat roofing,and wall cladding.
In cost-saving unbroken
lengths to 50 ft.
* Patent No. 222046
G16cc


FORUM
"TIME ENOUGH
IN SEPTEMBER, 1961"
l N view of the threatened split in the A.C.T.U. over Mr Monk’s
policy of levying trade unionists for visits to Australia by Russian
and Chinese “trade unionists.” it is pertinent to reread the TCN
“Meet the Press” interview he gave in August last year when he said'.
“1 am not endangering union unity!’ Here are the relevant extracts.
Mr Watson: Mr Monk, do you believe
that Russia and China have trade unions
in the sense that Australia, Britain and
America have them?
Mr Monk: The trade union movement
in Russia and China are organised on the
basis of almost what you might call
compulsion in as much as every member
—everywhere they must be a member of
a trade union to obtain health benefits,
other social services and the whole struc-
ture of the trade union movement is on
a different basis to what we carry on in
Australia. The only other country that
I know of that compares to the Iron
Curtain countries in the form of organisa-
tion is Israel where, for instance, a
worker has to belong there to the Israeli
Trade Union Movement, because all the
health benefits provided by the Israeli
Government are distributed through the
Trade Union Movement. So, let’s put
it this way, it is to the advantage of
any worker, irrespective of whether he
be an industrial worker or peasant, to
belong to an organisation because that
is where he gets his social service benefits
from.
Mr Watson: Does it mean benefits in
the industrial field in the sense that unions
in Britain, Australia and America get
their members?
Mr Monk: I would say from my
observations, having visited both China
and Russia in recent years, that the trade
union movements are having a far bigger
say in the management of the countries,
both Russia and China. For instance, in
Russia there is no doubt about it that
the trade union movements now are con-
sulted by the economic boys, as we term
them, with regard to the budget before
it is introduced in the presidium, and the
trade unions are able to have an effective
voice and the recommendations they
make, particularly on social services or
how much is going to be spent on housing
in any one year. I don’t think that did
apply so much in the Stalin era as it does
now.
Mr Horne: Surely the unions in both
countries are run by the Government.
In China one of the vice-chairmen of
the union movement is a Minister in the
Government, another one is a Govern-
ment official in the Foreign Affairs
Ministry, another was a judge who
executed thousands of Chinese workers
who tried to stick up for themselves
once; and in the Soviet, the Central
Committee of the Communist Party re-
places them and puts men in power that
have nothing to do with the unions.
Mr Monk: I don’t accept that position
at all. For instance, a very great personal
friend of mine, Chu Hsai-fan, the Vice-
President of the All China Federation of
Trade Unions, is not a Communist. I
have known him since 1941 —he was
Chairman of the revolutionary Kuomin-
tang party. He has never been a member
of the Communist party, he is a Vice-
Chairman of the Trade Union Movement
there, and he is also the Postmaster-
General in China today.
Mr Horne: What about the other one,
Mr Hsu Chi-chen (or something) who
was a member of the “People’s Supreme
Court” which executed thousands of
Chinese workers?
Mr Monk: Personally, I don’t know
him.
Mr Horne: And the head of it is in
the Chinese Foreign Office.
Mr Monk: Well, that may be.
Mr Horne: Well, Mr Grishin, the head
of the Soviet one, who so far as I know
has never had any experience in union
affairs, he was Secretary of the Moscow
Committee of the Communist Party when
the Soviet Government suddenly bumped
him in as head of the Soviet Union
Movement.
Mr Monk: No, I think that Grishin
... I have met Grishin
Mr Horne: Yes, you have met him,
but he wasn’t in the union—he had no
experience at all as a unionist . .
Mr Monk: Well, let us take another
person, take Kusnetsov, the first Deputy
Foreign Minister for the Soviet Govern-
ment. He was an old trade unionist —
he was President of the All Central
Council of Trade Unions and migrated
from the Trade Union Movement into the
Foreign Office.
Mr Horne: Yes, he was a trade
unionist, but he was replaced by the
Central Committee of the Communist
Party.
Mr Monk: No, Kusnetsov was pro-
moted.
Mr Horne: Then this other man, Mr
Grishin, has had no experience as a
unionist at all. It is as if you put
Sharkey in your job.
Mr Monk: Well, I don’t think that
that would operate, in spite of the fact
that Mr Reid said some time ago that
the skids were under me ....
Mr Reid: Would you clarify to this
extent. Would you say that an individual
union could:
(a) defy the policy of the Government
in China and the Soviet, and
(b) take punitive action of a strike
nature such as happens in Aus-
tralia against the Government?
Mr Monk: There have been reports
just recently that there have been strikes
over wage issues in Russia. It is not
necessary really for the strikes to occur
there because the Economic Department
of the Government confers with the trade
union movement and wage levels are
fixed by arrangement between the Econo-
mic Department of the Government and
the All Central Council of Trade Unions.
The same applies in China.
Mr Reid: Doesn’t that suggest that
strikes are needless here —in other words,
you consult, do you not, with the Arbi-
tration Court, with Ministers for Labor
. . isn’t that the situation? But you
insist, I think, subject for you to correct,
that you are not an arm of Government
—are these an arm of Government?
Mr Monk: I say, that from my obser-
vations they are less an arm of Govern-
ment now than they were 10 years ago
or 15 years ago.
Mr Horne: Mr Monk, this little book
is the rules of the Trade Unions of the
U.S.S.R. I don’t know if you are familiar
with it. It says here that “it is the duty
of unions to scrupulously observe State
and Labor discipline, to fight every mani-
festation of loose discipline, bearing in
mind that any violation of Labor disci-
pline is detrimental to the interests of the
country and the people and also unions
should expose shortcomings in produc-
tion and work for their elimination.” In
other words, unionists should put in their
mates if they are not doing a good job.
Is that your idea of a union movement?
Mr Monk: Well, that is not my idea
of it. What has happened in Russia, of
course, is that the Trade Union Move-
ment is so closely linked with the develop-
ment or drive for increased productivity
with a view to improving their standard
of living that the unions do actively take
part in the move for increased produc-
tivity. In this country we know very
well and accept the position that increased
productivity is necessary to not only
maintain our standards of living but to
improve our standards of living.
Mr Horne: Would you like a situation
in which th«- bloke that was working
next to me would put me in with the
boss because I wasn’t doing much work?


Mr Monk: 1 don’t know that that
applies ....
Mr Horne: It says here, that that is
what they are supposed to do, they are
supposed to expose ....
Mr Monk: I don’t know how far you
are going back with that ....
Mr Horne: This is the most recent
one —1959 —March 27th.
Mr Monk: Yes, well ....
* * * *
Mr Reid: Have they the sacred right
to strike which you are insistent upon,
Mr Monk, in those countries?
Mr Monk: Well, I don’t —I say there
is not the same necessity to strike, but
the point is, if you want to say to me
directly that everything's perfect in
Russia, l say it isn't, but everything isn't
perfect in China either, or in Poland.
Mr Watson: Why do you say there
is no necessity to strike, Mr Monk?
Mr Monk: Well, because the wage
rates are arrived at by discussions between
the Government and the Trade Union
Movement.
Mr McNicoll: May 1 ask a simple
question, Mr Monk ... 1 think they are
getting a little bit involved .... Take a
worker in Russia, say a skilled worker,
a welder or something like that, would
his life and conditions and freedom and
so on in Russia be in any way compar-
able to, say, in Australia?
Mr Monk: I would say this. That
the standard of living for the majority of
the people in the U.S.S.R. is not as high
as what it is in the Western world—l
have already said that on quite a number
of occasions, but I also say that with each
successive five-year plan, with their higher
productivity, that the standard of living
of the Russian worker is materially
improving year by year. There is not the
slightest doubt that with the end of this
seven-year plan finishing in 1967 their
housing standards, their wage standards,
their social benefits and all the rest of
it will improve materially.
Mr Horne: You do agree that Russia
is a dictatorship . . . you don’t disagree
about that?
Mr Monk: Well, I don’t know what
you mean by a dictatorship. I would say
from my point of view there is not the
same amount of dictatorship under the
present regime as there was under the
Stalin regime.
Jfc 5$ Js!
Mr Horne: This might split up the
A.C.T.U. At the moment these unions
are saying that they won’t pay the money.
Mr McNicoll: How do you intend to
force them, Mr Monk? That is a point
that interests me.
Mr Monk: It might interest you, but
it is not going to interest me to answer
a hypothetical question at this stage and
I won’t be called to deal with this situa-
tion until the September, 1961, Congress
and I am not going to assume, at this
stage, that people won’t pay the levy and
it is time enough for me to have to deal
with that when the September, 1961,
Congress . . .
Mr Reid: Isn’t it a case of official
notification in the case of Federal Iron-
workers’ Union* the Clerks, I think the
Radio Opera tors and several others, isn't
that official?
Mr Monk; Yes,
Mr Reid: Then it is no longer hypo-
thetical,
Mr Monk: It is hypothetical whether
they are going to stick out until the 1961
Congress or not.
Mr Horne: I put it that this seems
to be something that seems to be
endangering union unity of which every-
body is very keen to uphold.
Mr Monk: I’m not endangering union
unity,
Mr Horne: No, but why don’t you
put this to the Labor Councils in the six
States?
Mr Monk: There was no necessity to
put it to them because the resolution of
Congress was that the Executive make
arrangements for the visits —it is as plain
as a pike-staff to me.
Mr Watson: Why didn’t the motion
include the fact that there would be a
levy?
Mr Monk: Well, because Congress had
been told by me in moving the resolution
that they would be called upon to pay
for the cost of the delegations. We had
a meeting of the Finance Committee
which estimated what it was going to
cost and I told them what the estimated
cost would be. You can’t do any more
than that surely.
Mr Watson: Well, if you are so keen
to get this on the record by telling the
Congress why didn’t you get it right on
the record by putting it in the motion?
Why didn’t you say “and shall pay the
levy to be fixed,” and put it in the
motion?
Mr Monk: Now you are getting very
dialectical.
Mr Reid: The only point is that it is
similarly dialectical that Delegate
Chamberlain stressed that Congress em-
powered the Executive to do something.
Now it could be argued that this could
be done in accordance with the accepted
procedures and the A.C.T.U. Constitu-
tion. He took the same dialectic position.
Mr Watson: The point I am trying to
make, Mr Monk. I don’t know whether
you agree with rne, is that if this had
been in the motion then there would have
been much greater opposition in the Con-
gress to this thing going through.
Mr Monk: No. You know what I
would have sooner seen tested instead of
this subterfuge business that the A.S.E.
moved, that we shouldn't invite anybody
else except an organisation affiliated with
the 1.C.F.T.U., if they had shown any
tactics at all they would have opposed
our motion outright, and then we could
have had a clear test on this issue, but
they didn’t chance to do that, and then
when the amendment was defeated by
307 votes to 79, they didn't take advan-
tage then of contesting the vote by a
division on the motion, because when I
put the motion that was declared on (he
voices, it was overwhelming. The oppor-
tunity was there for them to do it.
Mr McNicoll: Mr Monk, a couple of
weeks ago we had Mr Calwell on this
session and he, in the course of his
remarks, said that although he admitted
that the country appeared to be going
through a great boom period that he
thought that depression and disaster was
just round the corner. Do you go along
with him on that?
Mr Monk: No Sir.
Mr McNicoll: You don’t?
Mr Monk: I think this country’s got
a great future —1 think from my inter-
national work and what I know of the
way things are operating in other coun-
tries of the world, we haven't got the
same fears as many others. There will
be a lot crash before we do. You take,
for instance, in Germany, in December,
1958, there was 4 per cent, unemploy-
ment. That was general over Europe.
Now the average all over Europe is about
1.5 per cent. The country that has got
the biggest headache is the U.S.A. where
it still has 44 million unemployed, about
4| per cent, of their total work force,
but there again it is not that they have
a reduced work force, it has been due
to the fact that I have mentioned on
quite a number of occasions, this bulge
which we term it. That is the number
of, the high number of, young people
who are leaving schools, and universities
and so on cannot be gainfully employed
as soon as they leave the schools and sc
on. Now', that is America's big problem
at the present time. It is more pro
nounced in the U.S.A. than it is, I thin!
in any other country of the world.
* * * *
Mr McNicoll: Mr Monk, we hav.,
come to the end of our time, but
would like, if I could revert for a secoiu
to something earlier, 1 assume, and 1
don't think there is any doubt about this
that you personally are opposed to the
Communist system and with that in mind
1 would like to ask what earthly good
purpose could be served by bringing these
union officials from these Iron Curtain
countries to Australia.
Mr Monk: Well, I think that reciprocal
visits are a good thing personally. 1
have supported them because I have
been to some of the Iron Curtain coun
tries myself, I think it is a good thing
for some of the Iron Curtain countries
to come here. Now, in the last fortnight
we had Waterstaradt here from the East
German Trade Union Movement and
he told us that he was surprised at the
work the trade union movement was
doing here, he never thought that we
had such a strong trade union movement.
He obviously had been reading stuff
which led him to believe we were in
effect a very weak trade union organisa-
tion in this country, and by coming here
and seeing what are our standards, now
I don’t care whether I see the best or the
worst, I am able to judge. 1 think, which
are good standards and which are bad
standards, but by them coming here . . .
1 will just go back to my own remarks,
and they see a better standard it
obviously opens their eyes when they see
things which they never expected to see.


LETTERS
Communism in Universities
Sir,
Having failed to prove his point with
reason, your correspondent, Mr Hughes,
has been driven to use his imagination.
In our debate on the reading guides used
by the lecturer in Political Science B at
Melbourne University in 1953, Mr
Hughes claims that the presence of
“such studies as those of Towster, Fain-
sod. Harper and Thompson and Hazard”
proves that the reading guides were fully
representative.
May I point out that Fainsod and
Hazard were not on any of the reading
guides published that year ; the Arts
handbook reading guide or the roneoed
pass and honors reading guides.
So we are left with two books out of
some 30 or more which were strongly
recommended : the studies of Harper and
Thompson and Towster. The latter does
contain mild criticisms of the U.S.S.R.
of the “not much political liberty, but real
economic progress, you know,” sort ; the
former is mostly a dull formal study of
the structure of the Soviet Constitution.
These two books might be found on a
normal reading guide, but the significant
thing is that they were surrounded by
standard Communist texts, C.P.S.U. com-
mentaries and by the works of the early
pro-Stalin Carr, by the blind Webbs, the
fellow-travelling Pares and the Com-
munist Christopher Hills. This gross
imbalance in the recommended text-
books, which is a good image of the
course of lectures, completely misled
most students about both the nature of
the Soviet regime and the state of Soviet
studies.
Mr Hughes claims that the very brief
list of text-books which 1 supplied as
examples of those which should have
been on the Political Science course are
mostly about foreign policy . . . W. H.
Chamberlin’s “The Russian Revolution”?
. . . S. M. Swartz’s “Labor in the Soviet
Union”? . . .
It was also asserted that a number of
important topics which were conveniently
omitted from the course were about
foreign policy and therefore not essential
to a set of lectures on the Soviet Union.
Apparently it wasn’t made clear enough
to Mr Hughes that there is an organic
relationship between Soviet institutions
and foreign policy. No one can under-
stand the aims of Stalin or the pre-
war C.P.S.U. without studying the role
of the Comintern, for example.
Despite what Mr Hughes thinks “is
open to question,” neither can the charac-
ter of the Soviet regime be grasped with-
out due reference to hostile and minority
groups. If Mr Hughes’s view was carried
to its logical conclusion he would be left
studying only the machinations inside the
C.P.S.U., or, rather, the psyche of Stalin.
Finally, Mr Hughes asks us to believe
that the role of Stalin and Trotsky, the
purges and the secret police were
adequately dealt with. An image of what
was done to these topics may be given
from a related question.
“Is the Soviet Union a dictatorship?”
our lecturer asked.
“No,” he replied, “for Stalin was
never recognised as Hitler was.”
“Are basic decisions made by one
individual?” he inquired.
“No,” came his firm reply again. “They
are made by a number of committees.”
Khrushchev gave a different answer in
1956 ; but evidence about the totalitarian
Stalin terror was available long before
then—for those who knew where to find
it.
Mr Hughes has apparently lost his
lecture notes, but he is welcome to
borrow mine. He obviously has no copy
of the 1953 reading guides. He is wel-
come, nay, exhorted, to inspect those
too.
B. W. BUCKLEY
Kew {Victoria).
FIVE WAYS TO SAVE THE
WYNDHAM REPORT
Sir,
May I say how much I enjoyed John
Tvl. Blatt’s “Five Ways to Save the Wynd-
ham Report” in The Bulletin (August
26, 1961). lam afraid I am one of those
products of the old N.S.W. State school
system who hope I never have to meet
Dr Wyndham because the chances are he
is quite a pleasant fellow, whereas l
prefer to keep my detestation of his educa-
tional policies unqualified by personal
considerations No one objects to the
Wyndham Reoort’s concern for the
£ n T m 3
mediocre students. This should have been
done years ago. But this worthy goal is
no justification for the dismantling of the
painfully established system of selective
schools and high standard academic sylla-
buses. The two systems could go to-
§ as in the past-though with he
mediocre getting a fairer deal. Under the
“f" s y stem l n * e name of fairness, the
State discriminates against the intelligent,
However John M. Blatt shows that there
still some nope left and even accept-
mg the Wyndham Report something may
be salvaged from the wreck. It is interest-
»* »° see > ha ‘ " a " Spends on ,he
ihV "o S
Wyndham,, es by preserving th/ Upper
House: let us hope they show they were
worth preserving.
But two other results of the adoption
of the Wyndham Report are worth men-
tioning. One is the almost universal
support it has received from professional
educationists and university intellectuals
(apart from Blatt’s group)-thereb y re-
minding us that when we are tempted to
attack the Government for banning “Lady
Chatterley’s Lover” etc., the real threat
to civilisation in this country is not the
Government but the intellectuals and
academic demagogues like Dr Wyndham
who deliberately and systematically des-
troy educational standards. The other
point is that private schools will become
more and more important. Those of us
wno want a good education for our child-
ren will probably have to send them


there-—which is another reason for sup-
porting the Country party’s State aid
proposals.
MARTIN TRELOAR
Sydney (N.S.W.).
WHAT STUDENTS THINK
Sir,
If university students are intellectual
midgets as your article (Bulletin, Sep-
tember 2) seems to show, no wonder
Feiffer has such a gallery of verbose
morons to draw on.
JOHN CRESWELL
Cammeray (N.S.W.).
THE MURRAY BANKS
SLANDERS
Sir,
In ‘ This Australia” (Bulletin, Septem-
ber 2) you seem bent on giving an impres-
sion of Dr Murray Banks as a gross,
overpaid comedian, who by a slick com-
bination of fast double talk, topical
subjects and too-expensive seats, flies
blithely about the globe, collecting money
from gullible audiences with very little
effort.
Reading between the lines of Mr
Lawlor's report, one detects an air of
disdain toward the doctor, who admittedly
had slandered Mr Sceats and “had uttered
‘very gross slanders’ ” against Mr Holmes,
but quickly realised his position and,
publicly, apologised to both gentlemen,
who had been merely doing their job.
Despite this, Mr Lawlor seems turned
against Dr Banks, even implying that the
speed with which the apologies were forth-
coming from the doctor was merely to
save time to enable him to make money
elsewhere, and his report seems to carry
with it the conviction that psychologist-
comedians (and Murray Banks in par-
ticular) are a poor variety of entertainer
and one that New Zealand could well do
without.
Nevertheless, even if Dr Banks’s visit
served only to “revive interest in censor-
ship in New Zealand” it was well worth
while, and many countries could well seek
the services of Dr Banks to help settle the
vexing problem of censorship. With his
unorthodox views of religion, psychology
and sex, he, perhaps, can solve it.
ALAN GORDON
Chester Hill ( N.S.W. ).
SUPPER WITHOUT SONGS
Sir,
I was, and every other taxpayer in the
Commonwealth should be, interested in a
paragraph in The Bulletin (2/9/61)
describing the jolly scene at Angus and
Robertson's when six volumes of Aus-
tralian poetry (sic) were launched on a
waiting world.
All of these have been published with
the assistance of the Commonwealth
Literary Fund., i.e., with the assistance of
us poor fool taxpayers. We, the tax-
payers, also presumably helped to provide
the sherry which greased the tonsils of
these poets and their hangers-on and
enabled them to stand around at a party
for hours, telling each other how wonder-
ful they were.
Apparently nobody, neither the poets,
nor Angus and Robertson, nor the Com-
monwealth Literary Fund expect these
books of poetry to sell. In future, could
The Bulletin give publicity to such hare-
brained enterprises in the Business,
Robbery pages. It would be more appro-
priate.
GEORGE FORSYTH
Footscray (Vic.).
LABOR’S INFLATIONARY
REMEDIES
Sir,
I have been appalled by Eugene
Bajkowski’s arrogant and uninformed
attack on Mr Calwell’s speech in the
House of Representatives. I can’t follow
his tortuous thought processes, if he lays
claim to any. A week ago he had criti-
cised the Federal Budget brought down
by Mr Holt. Now the same Mr Bajkow-
ski turns around and tries to tear Mr Cal-
well's ideas apart.
Whom does he like, and what does he
want? Responsible business leaders and
experienced politicans have all come out
either for the Government or for the
Opposition. But Mr Bajkowski appa-
rently wants to do away with both. Who
is going to run the country?
After all, Mr Calwell did not propose
to bring back inflation. All he did was
promise to spend £lOO million pounds to
get rid of unemployment. What is wrong
with that?
Why don’t people, who know nothing
about business, attend to their own affairs
and leave the nation’s economic problems
to people who really have something to
say about them?
E. A. ANDREWS
Lind field (N.S.W.).
“THE BULLETIN” IN MIDDLE-
AGE
Sir,
The Bulletin was, originally, a light,
yet thoughtful, cynical review of current
affairs, but in middle-age now looks on
with morose cynicism.
The daily papers have acknowledged
the need for an escape from these prob-
lems for the public and provides comics
for this purpose.
However much one may appreciate the
humor of a local cartoonist The Bulletin
is still badly in deed of brightening up
with a few light-hearted articles.
TONY HAGON
Bellevue Hill (. N.S.W. ).
SPECULATOR’S DIARY
Sir,
1 have just seen a press cutting from
your journal, dated July 31, under the
heading “Speculator’s Diary” in which
your correspondent criticises us for the
delay in issuing share certificates to the
minority shareholders of Marley Reliance
Limited.
It is admitted, and very much regretted,
that our registrars went astray in send-
ing the certificates by surface mail with-
“Nationality?”
out our knowledge, but beyond this there
was no undue delay on our part, as I
stated in a letter I wrote to one of the
shareholders which I quote hereunder:
“I have noted your protest about the
delay in sending you this certificate, and
whilst I am very, very sorry for the mis-
take of our registrars in mailing these
certificates by ordinary mail contrary to
our wishes, nevertheless, I must point out
that the initial hold-up in registering your
application and issuing your certificate
was due to the late arrival of the former
document from Australia. This was due
to the delay in receiving the decision of
the minority shareholders and, as a
matter of fact, there are still a number
of outstanding replies awaited. The par-
ticulars from Australia, including your
own, were only received by us on May
10 and were duly accepted and approved
at a meeting of my board, held on May
16, shortly after which the appropriate
allotment sheets, with applications, were
returned to our registrars for recording
and the making out of the new certifi-
cates. These were then returned to us
for sealing and were dispatched at the
beginning of June. I do not think you
can complain about any delay on our
part, other than the unfortunate error
which was made in sending the scrip by
sea instead of air mail.
“However, this should not have pre-
vented you, and other Australian
minority shareholders likewise disposed,
from selling their respective holdings on
the London Stock Exchange, which was
done in a number of other cases. The
London stockbrokers acting duly con-
tacted our registrars arid, even without


the certificate, we were able to give them
the necessary authority to proceed in
view of the fact that we were able to say
whether or not the said shares had been
allotted. This was the material factor.”
I think this explains the position quite
clearly and shows that, beyond the mail-
ing mistake, the delay in the issue of
these share certificates was due to the late
arrival of the decisions of a number of
the minority shareholders concerned
which held up the major part of this
work.
J. W. S. STOKER
Secretary,
The Marley Tile (Holdings)
Co. Ltd.
Riverhead, Sevenoaks, Kent (U.K.)
“THAT WAS SOCIETY”
Sir,
Each v/eek I buy your paper, and one
of the fondest things 1 read is the “That
was Society” or “That was the C ountry.”
But couldn’t you liven up your journal
a little bv including “That was the Wild
Cat.”
The above suggestion would be much
better than using some of the cartoons
for fillers as you apparently do now.
R. PHILPS
Surrey Hills, Melbourne.
TANNER ATTACKED
Sir,
Although 1 like Tanner’s work, why is
his range of ideas so narrow? If it’s not
Calwell he attacks it is Communism.
Surely the world contains more than the
two parties Mr Khrushchev and Mr
Calwell represent.
JCHN MASTERTON
Albert Park {Vic.).
THE DEATH OF FREDDIE LEE
Sir,
The Bulletin is to be commended for
publishing material which brings into the
open the way we treat aborigines in Aus-
tralia. Your motives were first class in
lamenting the passing of one of cur few
remaining “full-bloods” (Fred Lee was
actually three-quarter caste) and pointing
the finger at the responsible white citizens
around him who should have done some-
things about Fred to save him from him-
self.
Quambone is an unfortunate place.
The blacks who live there are unfortunate.
But what can the local residents do? Pass
the hat around to provide the hundreds
of thousands required to give the abo-
rigines decent housing, and then watch
it torn to bits —as happened in Moree?
Walk around Quambone with whips in
their hands flogging the blacks into the
schoolrooms so that they can get the
education to solve their own problems?
Press the Police Department to station a
constable in Quambone full-time (they
have been doing that for years), so that
the blacks will be under some kind of
legal supervision? These are the “con-
structive” things that can be done, but
it is hard to be constructive about the
“Looks like some lucky coot beat us to it.”
aborigines of Quambone when the
Aborigines Welfare Board itself does not
want to be constructive about the town
—it wants to re-settle the aborigines in
Coonamble, and that is giving the board
plenty of trouble already.
What the local whites do about the
blacks is keep their noses clean. They
use aborigines as labor and make sure
that they are paid the award rates, and
that all the union requirements are met.
There are plenty of people in the com-
munity, even a community such as Quam-
bone, who would delight in being able
to take “one of them graziers down a peg
or two” and when articles such as yours
appear, they rub their hands in glee.
Frank Margan mentions that Freddie Lee
washed in the pigsty. Great! says some-
bodv and the local union organiser hot-
foots it out to see whether the local grazier
is breaking the award provisions that
require the aborigines’ living quarters,
while he is on the job. to have a piped
su PP'y °f fresh watei. A few other
officials run around other properties
checking books to see that the blacks are
not being used as slave labor (they’re not)
, r • . . ~ VVA , , , '
and living quarters to see that the blacks
(who. in Quambone, wouldn't know
decent living quarters if they fell over
them! are not kent in “shims” In shr,rt
rnem; are nor Kept m stums Jn short,
articles such as yours provide a Roman
holiday for every tin-pot official within a
100 miles and the chance for everyone
around with a chip on his shoulder to have
a crack at the “well-to-do grazier.” No-
body finds any evidence at all that
awards aie being broken, or that the
blacks are not being treated while work-
ing on these properties, in any way that
contradicts any agreement or law ever
drawn up. But it is the grazier who
suffers the annoyance as a result of your
article. The aborigines themselves prob-
ably can’t read, and the people who supply
the liquor to them—l assume them to be
the main target of this article—simply
feel indignant that the price they charge
for their bottled beer is misquoted (it’s
ss. 6d. a cold bottle, not 65.). Blaming the
local whites because a black drinks him-
seif insensible and kills himself is a bit
tor much.
JAMES FLETCHER
Manly {N .S.W.).
Frank M comments .
To say that I blame the local whites for
directly causing Freddie Lee’s death is to say
that if 1 blew m y brains out I would blame the
Cbmese for inventing gunpowder. The facts
are that Freddie Lee died as a direct result
of drink, not because he chose to wash in a
pigsty or wore socks with holes in them. The
,ocal whites turn a blind eye to the fact that
what IS P rin cipally wrong is that the aborigines
are being supplied with liquor.—Editor, The
Bulletin.


OUT and ABOUT
PSYCHOLOGIST
Please, Mr Pavlov, is it true :
Is death a reflex action too?
Anion Vogt
The Sydney afternoon-paper poster
“A.L.P. Horror” caught the eye of the
politically-conscious last week. But then
the other afternoon paper’s poster read
“Horror pictures” which left passersby
wondering what horrifying thing the
A.L.P. could be up to which could
possibly be photographed.
Poetry, People and Poverty
Touring the winter months the Poetry
and People group have been striving
to build up a following for their Hyde
Park poetry-readings. With the coming
of spring the crowds swell and interest
grows.
Last week a woman had just finished
reciting “The Man from Snowy River”
when a tall, thin bloke ambled up to her.
“I am the man from Snowy River,” he
said, close enough to the microphone for
the whole park to hear, “Can you lend
us ten bob?”
“I’m sorry,” said the woman, “but our
group are as poor as churchmice.”
Hobart's Beardless Artists
Such a pity that it chose to rain for
the sherry preview to the Tasmanian
Group of Painters exhibition at the Art
Gallery, Hobart. This ruled out party
hats. Such a pity, too, that the new keeper
could not find the picture hooks and the
group had to suspend their paintings pre-
cariously with bits of string from the
conduit rail.
Attention, however, was quickly gained
by the assembled company. Such a well-
dressed lot. One beard alone in the crowd
of 70 or 80 and that coupled with a sober
grey suit, not even a duffle coat to be
seen. A pleasant feature, however, of
Tasmanian society, shared with Tas-
manian painting, is that it is so small that
even a layman can find his way around
and observe its progress.
The habitue steadily drank sherry (or
fruit juice) and gossiped. The hungry
artists snavelled savories and smirked,
while the newcomer peered at the paint-
ings. Exiled TV geniuses exclaim: “My
dear chap, I simply have to fly to Sydney
every few months to stay sane.” The
regulars—“l always come towards the
end of the week to look at the paintings,”
as if, like game, they might improve with
hanging.
Many Max Angus paintings appear on
the walls but the catalogue lists only one.
The answer is that Max’s pupils are now
painting the Angus’s of the 1950 s while
he, to keep ahead, is developing a new
’sixties style for himself.
Controversial George Davis exhibited
a cartoon and detail of his prize-winning
mural designed for the A.B.C. TV build-
ing in Hobart. To be depicted in mosaic
tiles 63 feet by nine feet, this will please
the avant garde, bewilder the masses and
stir the narrow-minded to bombard the
columns of the “Mercury” on the
depravity of Modern Art.
Free Enterprise
One of our acquaintances with inter-
state interests, Miss X, has suffered a
sharp reverse at the hands of Mr Lee
Bernstein of Brookfield, Qld.
For quite some time Miss X has been
doing the rounds of country shows with
a suitcase full of canvases. At 49 shows in
?0 er art has impressed
judges who feel that an ait contest is a
nice thing to have in a local show, but
frankly don t have much time or
inclination to visit galleries or read art
books.
Unfortunately for our much-travelled
acquaintance, Mr Bernstein has both,
and takes a lively enough interest in art
to visit the prize exhibitions at other
annual shows besides Brookfield's. At
first h e noted Miss Xas an artist of pro-
mise, but soon moved to a decision that
she was either a genius or a fraud. She
painted so well in so many styles. When
her paintings turned up at Brookfield


“For the life of me I can't see why Jimmy Carruthers Wants to
make a return to THIS game!"
Show and won four first prizes, he was not
surpris. d. The originals to his know-
ledge hung in some of the best art
galleries.
On being questioned. Miss X departed
for another State, declaring she'd never
exhibit at Brookfield again.
Everyone Was Nice to
Gordon
When Launceston’s renowned Brisbane
Hotel closed its doors for the last
time last week, it was farewell to Gordon
Groves, who joined the staff 46 years ago
as a porter. As “the man in front of
the Brisbane” —a hotel which has prob-
ably accommodated more famous people
than any other in Australia —Groves
couldn’t remember anyone who wasn’t
“nice to him.”
Notable among those who were nice
to him is the Duke of Windsor, to whom
Gordon served whisky and soda when, as
Prince of Wales, the Duke stayed at the
Brisbane. “A lovely fellow,” Gordon
recollects. King George VI, as Duke of
York, was “a very quiet man” and “very
easy to please,” and his Duchess was
“a very beautiful woman.” The Duke
of Gloucester “wasn't so well liked by
some, but I liked him a lot. And the
Duchess was a lovely little woman.”
As Sir Anthony Eden, the present Lord
Eden was a visitor (“What a gentle-
man!”), and Lord Bruce was “a gentle-
man, like Sir Anthony.” The late Mr
Curtin was also “a very nice man,” and
Dr Evatt was “a fine man,” but Gordon
is unswervingly loyal to his favorite guest,
Mr Menzies (“I liked him better”).
The Brisbane was already known as
the “Government House of Northern
Tasmania” when Gordon Groves took
up duty there. Tasmanian Governors
visit Launceston frequently, and the
Brisbane for half a century or more has
been their regular headquarters.
It stands on the site of a blockhouse
built in 1805. A bank replaced this
building in 1811, and the Brisbane fol-
lowed it in 1824. It was Tasmania’s third
licensed house.
It came into the ownership of the
Quigley-Dulling family in 1916 and
remained with them as perhaps the big-
gest Australian hotel in the hands of a
family.
Getting a Run in "Pravda"
A member of The Bulletin staff, who
can not only read Russian but can
also cope with the curiously stilted form
of the language in which, he says,
“Pravda” is written, reports that Australia
has been getting quite a run lately.
The scene at the Trocadero, Sydney,
last month when William Morrow
received the Lenin Peace Prize was
described in detail. Also reported was
the speech by Sahib Singh Sokhey, the
Indian representative on the Lenin Peace
Committee (“Pravda,” however, stripped
him of rank and title ; he is a major-
general with the title of Sir). Sokhey,
according to “Pravda,” described Morrow
as a “distinguished fighter for peace.”
Morrow, “Pravda” reports, in an “emo-
tional speech” described the award of
the Peace Prize as “one of the greatest
events in the history of Australia.”
Menzies got a mention in “Pravda”
after the successful flight of the second
Russian spaceman, Titov. The Soviet
paper reported, too, that after the flight
Tass made a telephone call to a “major
bourgeois paper” (which turns out to be
the “Sydney Morning Herald”), and was
told by someone at that paper that “this
tremendous flight has removed the last
obstacle to the exploration of the
cosmos.”
That Was Australia.
Young William Bailup had a home
ready, likewise a small herd of milkers.
Old Sorghum’s girl had told him the
old, old lie. Love burgeoned in his
heart, and he sought his male parent's
benison. “Me an’ Liz is thinkin’ of gettin’
leg-roped nex’ church Sund’y, father,” he
said. Bailup, senior, pondered. “You
an’ Liz, ay?” “Yairs,” answered William;
“s’pose yer don’ mind, do yer?” “Oh,
no; I don’ know as I minds. Liz is a
strong healthy girl, an’ she’s a decent
girl, an’, wot’s more, she’s a great milk-
ing girl No, there ain’t much wrong
with Liz. But wot’s yer hurry, Bill?
They ain’t given’ much now; yer don’t
want to go to the expense of an extry
hand yet. Let it wait till the milkin’s
heavy, an’ it takes two of yer. Put her
off till the Spring.”
-—“Bulletin,” August 6, 1908.
“No mistake,” writes a Bulletin corres-
pondent, “black-gins are ideal Socialists
and equal distributors of wealth. I
lately saw one of our country-women
suckling her piccaninny on one breast
and a half-breed kangaroo-pup on the
other. At the same time, she was draw-
ing on a stumpy, black, clay pipe and
blowing the smoke through a bamboo
into the mouth of her dusty lord and
master, whose head rested in her lap.”
— “Bulletin,” March 6, 1897.
The death of poor Prince Albert Victor
should prove a perfect god send to Gov-
ernment House, Tasmania, where, as the
Viceregal Court will have to go into
mourning for some weeks, the expendi-
ture on sardine-sandwiches and rasp-
berries and milk for distinguished visitors
will be temporarily knocked on the head.
— “Bulletin,” January 30, 1892.
The half-dozen squatters in the bar
parlor at Warialda had been talking
sheep till the stranger could stand it
no longer. With a face of disgust he
made for the door, turning to shout
“Baa, you brutes! Baa! Baa-aa-aa!”
— “Bulletin,” August 3, 1901.
“The bush-missionary has to be a very
forbearing man,” says a Melbourne sec-
tarian paper. How true, too! The bush-
missionaries we have known would put
up with anybody.
— “Bulletin,” September 8, 1900.


FOR THE OBSERVER
In Search of a Writer
1. GXVXN CXSXY.
Little Jack Horner
Sat in the corner,
Eating a Christmas pie ;
He put in his thumb,
And pulled out a plum,
And said, “What a good boy am I!”
Little Jackie usually felt at home in
The Joint. He could relax with The Men,
the neon lights blinking. Now it was
Christmas, or Little Jackie thought it
must be because someone had used a lip-
stick to scrawl “Merry Christmas
Suckers” on the mirror behind the
counter. The juke was blaring and bang-
ing away at “Good King Wenceslas,”done
by a rocking guitar band, and if it sent
you, you couldn’t go, but just acted like
it was something your grandmammy
might recall, if you had any grand-
mammy.
Little Jackie had a pie in front of him.
At Christmas you’d steal a chicken, or a
pie, and you had it made. But try any-
thing fancy, like stealing a turkey, or
thumb sticking, and you’d be out with
The Men. Little Jackie did not feel
altogether comfortable sitting in the
corner on a chrome stool, he had pins
and needles in his feet from the tight-
ness of his jeans. He was getting a bit
sick of pie stealing and wanted to go
after the big stuff. He had a soft spot
for thumb stickers. It had a purpose,
the showing of your skill, and with it
went a sort of comradeship.
He’d like to try the thumb sticking,
but how could you? You’d get the big
he-he from The Duke and if you got
ambitious you might get a bike chain
wrapped around your head by The Chain.
“What’s with sitting in the corner,
Horner?” said The Duke, ambling up to
him.
“And he's got a pie, Sky,” put in The
Chain, swaggering behind The Duke,
cleaning his fingernails with a flick-knife.
“Wait a sec, Tec,” said Little Jackie.
“Christmas pie’s square, Hair.”
“This pie's round, Hound.”
“What you gonna do, Stew, with the
pie, Hi, you gonna eat it, beat it, have
a feast, subleased. Or are you gonna
stick in your thumb, chum, and try for
the plum, Mum?” snarled The Duke.
“Don’t get fierce, Bierce. I might just
try for the plum, epigastrium.”
“Have a go, Ho. You’ll never be no
good, understood,” said The Duke.
Little Jackie lifted his thumb and
walloped it into the pie. His thumb-
nail bit hard as it cut through the pastry.
It felt wonderful. His thumb hit a plum
and stuck hard. He pulled back quickly,
his thumb crashing back through the
pastry. He realised with wonder and
amazement that he had done it, he had
pulled out the plum.
“He’s done it men, Ken,” said The
Duke.
“Must be the first to pull a plum on
his first try,” said The Chain with what
was almost reverence, so impressed that
he couldn’t rhyme.
“Here, wash the kidneys, kid, Syd, M
said The Duke, handing him a milk-
shake.
They were treating him like a man of
some significance around The Joint. He
was on top now, and The Men looked
weak and silly to him, and Little Jackie
didn’t think they were so progressive any
more, they hadn’t even heard of blank,
verse.
Little Jackie went home after that. He
was thinking of Christmas dinner at
home, with Mum and Dad, the kids,
Grand-daddy, and the great feeling of
knowing that he could pull out a plum.
It all seemed so purposeful.
2. HXL PXRTXR.
Little Jack Horner’s house, late Decem-
ber, the Christmas sun glinting from a
turquoise sky in a summer onslaught
on the penetrable lower middle-class
window, through the diaphanous, jaun-
diced nylon curtains, relieving nascent
infuscation and illuminating the patina
of violet dust on the mantle, which bore
proudly the annual offering of snow-
scened Christmas cards.
The room? Cloistered? Above, crenel-
ated crepe paper streamers stretched
their crinkles as they snaked pensively
from the light cord to the walls. A
sibilant breeze, stirred by the circum-
gyrations of an electric fan disturbed
ramifications of gaudy, marshalled tinsel,
stirring it into an obsequious rustling
crescendo and rattling two dozen colored
balls . . . dun, magenta, chlorophyll,
verdigris, malachite ... no carillon, but
a cacophony of miscellaneous plastic
tinkles.
Thus the groaning board, a cornucopia
of litter, dinner eaten, the spotless
starched napery soiled, batik place mats
askew, a perforated-paper doily balled
and plugged into a cup, the seasonally
burnished silver. The aroma of burnt,
GENTS


WORLD-WIDE
Table Lamp
TLI2O
100% British Made
light
in every
corner...
Abundant light throughout the
house with the Tilley Table
Lamp. Practical and elegant, en-
tirely safe and self-contained, it
burns for 12 hours on only 1£
pints of ordinary kerosene.
For economical lighting wherever
and whenever it’s needed, you can
put your trust in TILLEY.
§
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores. In case of
difficulty write for name of your nearest Stockist to:—■
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY PTY. LTD.
1092 Mt. Alexander Road,
Easendon, W 5. Australia.
burnt fingers, and burnt raisins, snap-
dragon over, the flaming cognac’s crepita-
tions ceased, the raisins snatched.
Broken ends of bon-bon crackers,
snapped, disgorged of their gimcrackery
and paper hats. The gobbled chicken,
it’s bleached ribs protruding like an up-
turned skeletal boat, the carlings carni-
vorously swallowed. A filter cigarette
was butted in the white china bowl of
glace fruit.
Cornered, an urban carle, Little Jack
slumps, his shoulders at rest against the
pink kalsomined plaster walls, posterior
supported and held aloft by an ormolu
television stool. The wife in question,
Nance, equally churlish, peremptory and
leonine of aspect, shoulders arching
back, looses an audible report, which
startled both, but which both, with
sophistication imperceptibly depressing
their incautiously arched eyebrows, ele-
gantly ignored. Both were, after all, not
only hyperacidulous but overeaten also.
“Jew want some pie, Jack?” Mrs
Horner inquired, raising her sienna-
lustred eyebrows quickly, courageously:
the drip-dry draperies hanging on a tar-
nished brass spear behind the anti-
macassared settee became positively
public-barish. Next, less quickly, but
more courageously, the eyebrows
descended, and Mrs Horner —how many
times drunk? —continues, saying, “Jew
feel like just a little slice of this pie to
top it off? Y’ate everything exceptin’
the pie.”
He gave the pie a noiseless, silent
look.
“I don’t wanta gormandise meself,
Nance. Reely. I’ve had a ample suffi-
ciency. Reely.” He said Nance utterly
without a capital n.
Neither of them queried this, although
Nance covered her ears, as it were, to
listen to herself thinking.
“Ah! Come on, Jack. Christmas
comes but once a year. Reely. The
proof of the pudding, so to say, or the
pie, in this case, is in the eating.”
Annoyed, he suddenly slid the pie-dish
toward himself, inspecting its crust, an
auriforous baker’s melody of mouth-
watering gamboge and warm apricot
color, its serrated edge fire-browned.
Confused, an avatar of atavistic impulses,
he plunged his thumb into the pie,
through the bottom. The pseudo crust
of the top rose, a trick, and tricked, his
thumb, lying on bloody cotton-wool,
cut off.
3. MXNX XBDXLLXH and RXY MXTHXW.
How peculiar, that we, a Punjabi
Moslem family should spend Christmas
in a Christian land. And it was this
peculiar week when Father was in the
paddocks and our own family mother
was in the kitchen stalking and salting
the chillies and cutting the mangoes and
watching the black peppers and the
cummin and the coriander seeds and
other peculiar things as they roasted, that
Sister Salome found the flour and the
raisins and the plums and the eggs and
the butter and made the Christmas pie.
“She is acting like Australian children,”
said our own family mother.
“She is act peculiar,” I said.
“What’s she doing?” I asked Brother
Little Jak.
“I don’t watch cooks,” he said.
Already he was acting like a man. “I’m
sleeping.”
I was so furious that I kicked Genghis
Khan, our baby elephant. He ran out
into the yard trampling down our own
family mother’s pomegranates and
tuberose and jasmine.
“She’s cooking, Jak,” I said. “She’s
cooking a pie.”
But he went on sleeping.
“To eat,” I said.
He leapt up.
“What’s the matter?” I asked Salome.
“The pie doesn’t cook,” she said. “See,
it does not go brown.”
“Why don’t you ask Father? Father
could cook anything.”
So we waited until Father came back
from the mending.
“What’s this? What’s this?” asked
Father.
“It’s a Christmas pie and it won’t
cook,” said Salome. “You have to make
it cook.”
Father burst out laughing and put
some more wood in the stove. “You
have to be patient. Time and fire will
cook anything.”
After a while the pie began to cook
and became brown and soon it was
ready. We first offered the pie to Father,
as is our custom. “It’s a children’s
doing,” he said. So we placed the pie
in front of Little Jak.
Little Jak sat cross-legged in the corner.
We placed the pie in front of him, with
a finger-bowl. Little Jack dipped his
fingers lightly into the water and then
tentatively poked his thumb into the pie.
It came out with a plum stuck to it.
“It’s sour. It’s very sour,” said Little
Jak sadly as he tasted the plum.
The whole pie was sour. We had tears
in our eyes as we trooped out and fed
the pie to our neighbor’s pig. That was
the worst thing we could do to it.
“Life is always a little sour,” said
Father.
And that afternoon Father did no
work. He sat with our own family
mother and spoke of life and watched
us at our game.
ROGER BARNES


ABORIGINALITIES
In Darkest Tasmania
"PROM the dark, dripping forest and
rough, seldom-trodden mountains of
Tasmania's West Coast has come another
well-authenticated report that the flesh-
eating Tasmanian tiger or wolf still
survives. About August 15 two Stratum
fishermen, Bill Morrison and Laurie
Thompson, camped ashore at Sandy
Cape, about 50 miles north of Macquarie
Heads to set traps for bait for cray-
fishing. About 9 p.m. they heard a noise
at a trap. Morrison said that when he
shone a torch on the trap he saw a
strange animal caught by a hind leg. It
stood about 1 Sin. or 20in. high and it was
30in. to 36in. long excluding the tail. Its
tail was rigid and its coat was dark. He
discerned a stripe behind the shoulders.
The animal was ferocious, and it got
away while they were releasing it. “It
seemed a slow mover,” Morrison said.
He added that while they were at the trap
they heard another animal in the bush
making the same peculiar noise that the
trapped animal made.
About 18 months ago the Strahan
head teacher, Mr G. Eccleston, reported
seeing a “tiger” about nine miles along
the road to Queenstown. Two other
sightings in the same area were reported
in the preceding three years.
In March, 1958, lan Stephens, an
apiarist who had his hives in the Cardigan
River area about 20 miles from Queens-
town on the main Lyell Highway from
Hobart, found footprints which he was
certain had been made by a thylacine.
The prints were about 3in. long and 2in.
wide, with five distinct toe and claw
marks on each. They showed evidence
of a depression in each paw where a dog
has a pad. The print followed kangaroo
tracks, Stephens noted, and he also re-
ported that his dogs were nervous and
would not leave him.
In October, 1959, Zeehan butcher A.
R. Fairchild, travelling in the early morn-
ing to Queenstown, saw what he took to
be a “tiger” in the lights of his car. It
had the striped markings and the unusual
legs he had noted in museum specimens.
His family confirmed the details.
Two months later, there was another
circumstantial report, but from the
opposite side of Tasmania. Near Coles
Bay, on Freycinet Peninsula, on the east
coast, A. Machin, of Devonport, saw in
the evening what “looked like a dog but
wasn’t.” Its hindquarters, he said, were
“tucked under.” There had been earlier
reports of “tigers” in this area.
Other less positive reports have come
in in the last few years from areas border-
ing heavy bush country in the north-
east and the far north-west, but if the
tiger—or more correctly the thylacine—
still exists in any appreciable numbers it
would probably be in the remote,, unin-
habited and almost completely undis-
turbed south-west.
Thylacine is (or was) an uncomely
beast, generally dog-like in the fore-
quarters and head (though the teeth are
distinctly different) and somewhat
horridly kangaroo-like in tail and hind-
quarters. The stiff, thick-stumped, short-
haired tail is characteristic, as are the
pronounced heels on the hind legs. The
animal runs to about 4ft from nose to
rump, with the tail up to 2ft long. It is
grey-brown, with about 16 black-brown
“tiger” stripes running across the back
and rump. It once inhabited eastern
Australia, whence it was driven by the
dingo, which never reached Tasmania.
The “Australian Encyclopaedia” remarks
on the striking parallelism of the develop-
ment of the (non-Australian) mammalian
dingo and the (indigenous) marsupial
“tiger.” Their resemblances exemplify
how two completely different animals
will develop similar habits and character-
istics under similar conditions.
Experienced naturalists who agree that
it still exists though various expedi-
tions they have undertaken have failed
to find any are convinced that its
numbers are so reduced that the point of
“Well, don't blame ME because
We're incompatible!”
no return has been passed, and the animal
must become extinct.
Strangely, its relative, the carnivorous
Tasmanian devil, has multiplied to pest
proportions in some places, though it
was as remorselessly hunted down as the
tiger. “Devils” are fully protected today,
but the Animals and Birds Protection
Board agreed in 1959 that permits might
have to be issued to reduce the pest in
specified areas. Mr M. D. Mills at that
time told the board that the “devil” was
neither use nor ornament. Its natural
population rise, he said, was leading to
widespread damage. Mr Mont Turner,
who runs a zoo of native animals at
Westbury, said that the “devils” had in-
creased rapidly not only because of pro-
tection but as the result of myxomatosis,
which had led to cessation of the rabbit
trapping that previously had caused many
deaths among them.
GOODWIN EWENCE
Veterans Return
A fter years of “sitting down” around
Darwin and in various bush camps
the Territory’s veteran crocodile hunters
are out again. This season crocs are
expected to earn about £300,000 in
revenue for the Territory and keep 150
to 200 shooters busy. Good quality
saltwater skins now sell at 14s. a circum-
ference inch. A 10-footer is worth about
£2O.
Two Darwin men have just returned
to remote lagoons after delivering skins
worth £2500 which they collected in six
weeks. Another man shot £4OO worth in
four nights after spending £35 on charter-
ing an aircraft to survey billabongs.
Ningle Haritos, the skin buyer, reckons
this will be the best season for many
years After the war and right up to
1956 crocodile skins were a good money-
spinner. From 1953 to 1956 about
50,000 skins worth £250,000 left the Terri-
tory annually. Then the bottom dropped
out of the market. Prices slumped to 4s.
or ss. an inch. The more accessible areas
had been shot out anyway, and the indus-
try collapsed.
This season at least 60 shooting parties
are operating in the rivers and creeks
between the western edge of Arnhem
Land and the Western Australian border.
Others are busy in the Gulf Country. Mr
Haritos expects them to bring in about
30,000 skins, worth up to £300,000. Prices
this year average about 7s. 6d. a circum-
ference inch, with as much as 15s. an inch
paid for first-class skins.
One veteran professional, Irwin Rids-
dale of Daly River, has seven camps
operating. Two former pearling masters,
J. Gonzales and Curly Bell, have con-
verted their luggers for crocodile shoot-
ing. Parties of weekend hunters go out
from Darwin. A man can double his
wages if he gets two good skins.
There is no cheap way of outfitting an


expedition. The average party numbers
three men. They must have a Landrover
or some other sort of rough-riding vehicle
plus a good boat with a good engine—
that’s well over £lOOO to buy reasonably
new. Another £3OO to £4OO would go on
guns, ammunition and stores.
One area which is a constant, if danger-
ous, lure to hunters is the wild, almost
uninhabited coast of Arnhem Land.
There, in mud-dark, mangrove-fringed
creeks, crocodiles live and multiply as
they once did throughout the Top End. A
few natives hunt crocs there and sell them
to the missions for ss. and 6s. an inch—
giving the mission middlemen a clear 100
per cent, profit. But it is an aboriginal
reserve, and any white man who tries to
cash in—and is caught in the area —faces
fines of up to £5OO, possibly with a prison
term thrown in. (There is no doubt a
few whites sneak in from time to time,
risking the penalty for the gamble of a
quick and certain profit.)
But apart from Arnhem Land, big
money still exists for the experienced
man, despite the croc’s depleted numbers.
Southern buyers are even offering ss. an
inch for freshwater crocodile skins, which
previously were unsaleable. Most skins
are exported to France and the Far East,
to be made into women’s shoes, handbags
and other fashion items.
K. G. WILLEY
DESIGN
No Room for Despair
A man who lives in a 100-years-old
house in the Sydney waterside suburb
of Balmain looked through “Best Aus-
tralian Houses” and commented, “These
houses leave no room for despair.”
Despair was too strong a word so he
settled for depression. The depressing
thought is that he is perfectly right.
These 22 houses, designed by Australia’s
leading architects for the sort of people
who can afford leading architects, appear
to have been designed by bullies for
thoroughly cowed people ; both at this
moment may be lying on the psycho-
analyst’s couch. In point of fact, the
clients and the architects are undoubtedly
everyday Australians who live and work
in places such as Canberra, Kew and
Marryatville.
Evelyn Waugh once said something to
the effect that the reason why there were
no neuroses in the Victorian age was that
the Victorians always had something to
distract the mind and the eye. If a Vic-
torian were feeling depressed he could
look at the French paperweights on the
whatnot, or spend a couple of hours
sorting through his coin collection in the
glass-case near the window. After that
he felt better, or at least it was three hours
later and the crisis had passed.
What does a person in a 1961 “custom-
built’' Australian house do when he is
feeling depressed? Does he stand at
the picture window and look at the tiled ■
roofed, “broken”-fronted cottage which
the unenlightened home-owner next to
him lives in? Does he sink into the sole
butterfly chair on the terrace (there is
only one chair so he cannot be joined by
a sympathetic friend) and stare at the
solitary monsteria deliciosa, struggling for
life in a pot?
How does the ebb and flow of every-
day living move through these machines
a abiterl How do people grow closer
together? How do they get away from
each other?
How do people live in houses without
books? Or in houses where books are
kept out of sight behind some elaborate
“built-ins” near the fireplace, in which
rests a cast-iron bowl containing a few
twigs? How do visitors find out any-
thing about the people in the house if
they cannot run their eye along the row
of Penguins on the bookshelves?
How do people get on when they wake
up feeling grouchy and go into a bath-
room with even the soap hidden away
somewhere? How do they manage when
the shortest route to the kitchen from the
bedroom for a quick, desperate cup of
coffee is across an inner court floored
with pebbles as big as those at Margate?
What happens to children brought up
in houses with immense areas of glass so
that throughout childhood there are no
games with a ball?
This might all seem totally irrelevant
to the book. After all, these are a col-
lection of recent houses and are designed
possibly more for architects than for
intending home-builders or for the
general public. But the important thing
is that houses are for people to live in.
The introduction to ‘ Best Australian
Houses” says that the “custom-built house
is a laboratory for both social and struc-
tural problems.” The architects in some
instances have found brilliant solutions
to structural problems (the book is highly
recommended to anyone with a new
house in prospect), but social prob-
lems —if social problems mean fitting
houses to people—remain.
The editor, Neil Clerehan, seems quite
aware of this.
“As a reaction [to the ‘medium-priced
house’ which was a ‘jumble of unco-
ordinated, reasonably useless and ugly
status symbols’] some of the houses illus-
trated are almost depressingly bare in-
side,” Clerehan writes. “Apart from ease
of maintenance, this new bareness has
been smugly adopted as the structure
itself replaces the suite as the family status
symbol.”
Clerehan admits the deficiency but he
puts the blame on the clients and their
snobbishness rather than on the architects
and their bright ideas. The whole point
about modern “custom-built” houses was
supposed to be that architects designed
the furnishings too, so that the house was
a co-ordinated whole.
Either the architects are imposing their
will so strongly on their clients so that
the poor people rattle around in the<r
houses like peas in a bottle, afraid even
to leave a cake of soap in the bathroom.
Or else the architects have given up the
struggle of establishing an environment
for people whose ideas of possessions
stop short at cars, TV sets, washing
machines and refrigerators.
[“Best Australian Houses” is published
by F. W. Cheshire Pty Ltd, Melbourne.]
"and that's my husband's conversation piece”


REVIEWS
Signifying Something
| THEATRE
The Resounding Tinkle. N. F. Simp-
son. Theatre ’61. Perth.
r pnE tale told by Shakespeare’s idiot was
presumed to signify nothing ; but the
idiot conversation of N. F. Simpson's
characters in his short two-acter, “The
Resounding Tinkle,” ob-
viously signifies some-
thing. Full of row and
laughter, its irrational
spate produces the all - too - familiar
rhythms of a modern middle-class domes-
tic interior. Husband and wife wax and
wane over the most lunatic matters: their
new elephant has been delivered and is
too large. Some comedians are expected
to rehearse an act in their lounge and
they will be obliged to watch through the
kitchen hatch for want of space. Neigh-
bors are a consideration, but help comes
from one, whose new snake is far too
small: she will exchange for the elephant
so long as this can be done without being
seen.
The comedians turn out to be rehearsing
a number covering a medical inspection.
The patient wishes to consult about his
feet, which swivel. After an exhaustive
examination with dead-pan concentra-
tion entailing much question and answer
-—“Knee-caps a bit low, eh?” —“I can’t
seem to keep them up.” Or, “Kidneys
not so good.”—“But I don't use them”
—the poor fellow is told, on departure,
“Oh, you should really see someone
about your feet . . ”
After that, the author also appears as
a character, to suggest that the stage be
left empty so that all may compose their
minds into a “mystic amalgam” in order
that something may come to it. What
comes is the snake in a short box to
be exchanged for the outsize elephant,
and Uncle George (who has been ex-
pected), but has changed, not his new
model elephant or TV or what-have-you,
but his sex. He is now a glamorous
young blonde.
All this brilliant nonsense cuts close
to the bone of daily pretentiousness in
common or garden chatter about pos-
sessions, politics, parties and other
people. Whimsical satire indeed, but
with an underlying theme that may be
seen as sad, or even tragic: Mr Simp-
son is in fact preoccupied with the
disastrous imperfection of human com-
munication.
Produced in the round by Frank
Baden-Powell, whose similar presentation
of two Sartre plays early this year was
outstanding, “The Resounding Tinkle”
shows him equally successful with off-
beat comedy. A delighted audience cer-
tainly “amalgamated,” laughing with the
cast as much as at them. At close quar-
ters, Dorothy Krantz as Middie Paradock
was able to use facial expression with
notable finesse, the smile that dawned
with realisation of some dubious point was
itself highly sophisticated comedy. John
Lenton, as her husband Bro., made an
absurdly convincing householder no
matter how imbecile his remarks—the
light touch was a surprise after the brutal
parts in which he is frequently cast.
“The Tinkle” was preceded by a one-
act, “Interlude” —with dialogue less utterly
inconsequential, but still concerned with
faulty human communication, this time
twisted by differing types of mind. A
girl and her married lover-to-be meet in
a hotel bedroom for a snatched lunch-
hour of consummation. The landlady
comes in ; somehow the tale the man has
invented to procure the room is dis-
covered by the girl. Already over-strung,
she immediately imagines herself as
indeed this wife of his, complete with
children parked on a sister-in-law who
dislikes her. Vainly the man fumbles
along, trying to keep her to reality ; all
she sees in his invention is a reflection
of his own nature. The landlady returns,
the irritation increases. The hour ticks
to its end. The man is left alone quite
bewildered: “We did not even take our
coats off!” Less surrealist than “The
Tinkle,” there is a wistful Chekovian
humor, or flavor, in this accent on the
vain hope of ever achieving understand-
ing of one another.
Keith Flanagan, Angela Watts, and
Bobbie Frankland gave a first-class per-
formance. The intimacy of the occasion
was aided by the method of presentation
and ably maintained by close in-playing
and the rising tension of interpreted
character-clash.
H. DRAKE-BROCKMAN
Three Cheers for Two Children
Misty. Clark. Sydney Esquire.
/'~\nce in a blue moon a children’s film
is a children’s film and “Misty” is
one of these. The old ingredients are
present, but they are not mixed in the
films!
usual way. There is no
bathos, no vulgarity, no
straining after effects, no corn.
Instead, there is a simple
story of two youngsters in the country,
in love with a horse. Romantically beauti-
ful in setting, “Misty” is direct in treat-
ment and superbly acted, by two child
stars, an old stager and a herd of wild
ponies.
The director, James B. Clark, has
chosen the annual round-up of wild
horses at Chiconteague, on the coast of
Maryland, as the authentic setting for
Tom Sherdeman’s screenplay, using the
people of the district in subordinate roles
and avoiding studio shots. Art directors
Cramer and Randsford, using subdued
“Color de Luxe,” have caught sea and
sky, island and dunes, and the gay, un-
sophisticated fair, with breathtaking
realism.
The two youngsters, played by David
Ladd and Pamela Smith, are on the screen
all the time and their performance is
faultless. They manage a series of child
moods, from tragedy to comedy, without
being cute or coy. One shares their
adventures: discovering the landscape,
selecting the pony they wish to own,
planning and odd-jobbing to save the
needed dollars, joining in the round-up,
meeting disappointment as the pony is
sold, overcoming the tragedy, training her
for the annual race, and letting her return


Kstab'ished 186®
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking end Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON &
, O StIUJVAN
Aj PTYi.’D .
%. km'A?
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, .New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STF.REOTYI ‘ERS
RULERS. BOOK BINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
‘JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IS YEAIIS OF SERVICE
10 THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
ik
HELP
LEGACY
all the year round. Donations: 169
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. BM2OOI.
to the herd. Against all this, Arthur
O’Connell’s Grandpa is the perfect foil
without hint of sentimentality, hamming
or clowning.
ANTON VOGT
Refreshing Cant
ART I
James Cant Retrospective, Bonython
Gallery. Adelaide.
AT the Bonython Gallery there is retro-
spective exhibition of paintings by
James Cant which should consolidate the
stature of this artist as one of the few
painters in Australia who have
given a new validity to land-
scape. Cant does not paint
scenes, but the activity of
natural life itself. This show provides
a fascinating commentary on the diffi-
culty of getting back to nature nowadays.
It begins with his London paintings,
grey, stiff and stern. The air in them
is thick with smoke, and the people do
not breathe any more than puppets do.
Cant attempts to resolve the complexities
of the great city into long horizontals or
flat surfaces welded together by muted
paint; the result is dispiriting.
Returning to Australia he immediately
plunged into the open air. He cleared
his lungs with a series of mountain land-
scapes, not exhibited here, and then
unexpectedly flung himself on the ground
and took a mouthful of twigs and grass.
There are two stages in his later
development, with excellent works in
each. The first is a close-up view of
grass or bush where the form is com-
pletely loosened by the introduction of
movement ; the work is semi-abstract,
heavily moulded and suitably restricted in
color range. Cant is in fact showing the
freedom of growth that lies underneath
our wide open spaces, and mostly he has
avoided the danger of mere accumulation
of detail, though there are a couple of
cases where one feels the painting could
easily have gone on for another yard or
two.
His latest, and most agreeable, work
has opened out into cloudy, soft puffs
of color, glimpses of sky or the tradi-
tional Australian depth of bush timber,
generally letting in the air without pump-
ing it at you in the Advance-Australia
style. The smaller paintings, such as
“The Fishing Bird” or “River Torrens”
(strictly not the city view), are particularly
successful. Some of the larger ones,
such as “Autumn Sunset” or “Olives
Uprooted,” show a strengthening of a
dominant form without sacrifice of the
surrounding activity of detail. Figures,
however, are not Cant’s strong point;
the big “Lovers” contains a coy pair
who are refugees from Peynet. There is
also a folio of pleasant wash drawings.
GEOFFREY DUTTON
More Art than Landscape
Transfield Prize. David Jones’ Gallery,
Sydney.
A Sydney construction company, Trans-
field, has awarded its first £lOOO
prize for a “modern landscape.” Just
what landscape is modern and what
modern painting is landscape should be
answered by the exhibition in David
Jones’ Gallery.
In a landscape one would expect that,
even if there are no recognisable images
that represent parts of a scene, at least
the source of inspiration would be found
in the artist’s contact with his surround-
ings. One would hope that from the
intensity of his perceptions he might dis-
cover and present an essence and create
a picture which when we look at it gives
us a heightened feeling of what it is like
to be aware of a landscape.
What is modern is perhaps a more
difficult question to answer. It does not
just mean work that is produced today
for most of the best-known Sydney land-
scape painters are not represented here.
Nor does it just mean non-figurative
painting. Jeffrey Smart in his “Coogee
Baths—Winter” is fanatically absorbed
in the reality of his rocks and boards
and human figure, and the heightened
effect of his brilliant colors is caused not
so much by colored paint as by colored
objects. Roy Fluke’s “Warragamba” is
more representational than most of his
paintings, and Sali Herman has repre-
sented the abstract burial posts realisti-
cally in his “Melville Island Scene.” The
judges’ idea of what modern landscape
is, or should be, is indicated by their
commendations and their award. Margo
Lewers’s “Waterfront” is modern in that
it is a panel of stridently contrasted
colors and tones. It is concerned
primarily with itself as a decorative
object and differs little from her non-
landscape paintings.
Robert Juniper's “Summer Tapestry” is
also more a painting than a landscape,
though its brilliant colors and loosely
etched lines give it a surface suggestive
of flowers in bright sunshine. John
Ogburn’s “Spring in the Wattle Country,”
despite its motifs which have an organic
quality, is primarily a decorative panel.
But most of all, the winner of this award,
John Molvig's “City Industrial,” is simply
a formal design with dramatic contrasts
of tone which obliterate the suggestions
of factory chimneys in the background.
Unlike his more familiar work there is
no mystery or subtlety but the simple
appeal of decoration. Also commended,
perhaps because of its thick-textured
paint or its pretty-Polly attractions, is
Albert Tucker’s “Land Image.” If
decorativeness is a criterion Edwin
Tanner’s “Maps and Mines,” with its
intriguing symbols, must have barely
missed commendation.
There are others here that have made
the painting equate with something about
a landscape. The slashes of a well-


RECENT A. & R.
PUBLICATIONS
KILLERS OF EDEN
by Tom Mead
Men and killer whales versus whales
in Twofold Bay. "'The story of
these strange happenings, which
have no parallel elsewhere, was
worth preserving. An absorbing
boo k . . a valuable addition to
Australiana.” (Daily Telegraph).
Well illustrated.
28/6 (post lOd.)
SOLDIERS’ WOMEN
by Xavier Herbert
“A landmark in Australian litera-
ture. When a man writes a great
book and then produces nothing
important for 23 years, readers may
be excused if they open a new work
with misgivings, expecting a let-
down. In the case of Soldiers’
Women, the let-down doesn’t come.
One forges through the 490 pages
with growing pleasure and excite-
ment.” (Gavin Casey)
30/- (post 1 /3'■)■
A TREASURY OF GOOD RECIPES
by Winifred Savage
This collection of more than 1000
of Mrs Savage’s best and favorite
recipes will appeal to everyone who
cooks and enjoys good food. It
will have a special interest for young
home-makers, since it includes basic
facts and practical advice, and the
clearly set out recipes, even the
most exotic of them, are easy to
follow. Illustrated with photographs.
45/- (post 1/3)
CHINESE COOKERY
by Ella-Mei Wong
An up-to-the-minute collection of
recipes by a television personality
who also conducts the Chinese
Cookery course at East Sydney
Technical College. Simplicity is the
keynote of the recipes; they are
easy to follow and the ingredients
are readily available. Illustrated
with photographs.
17/6 (post 1 Od.)
LISTENING TIME
Kindergarten of the Air Stories and
Verses. A delightful book for three
to six-year-olds. Illustrated.
16/- (post 10d. N
LINDY AND JAMES
by Gwenda Allen
Two Australian children visit Lon-
don with their parents. For sever,
to ten-year-olds. Illustrated.
14/ (post lOd.)
AT ALL BOOKSELLERS
ANGUS & ROBERTSON
89 Castlereagh St., Sydney
loaded palette-knife are made into a
country town by Andrew Sibley, and the
swirls of squelching pigment make a
writhing bush in John Percival’s “Burnt
Trees.” James Cant shows how to con-
trol the sweet romantic flavor of light
filtering through branches with bitter
etched scratches into the paint surface
of his “Birds in the Boxthorn,” Clifton
Pugh’s “Landscape with Goats and
Rocks” has a strong design which suits
the harsh awkwardness of his subject,
and Kenneth Hood produces an image
of “Autumn Landscape” in a picture
which could stand on its abstract quali-
ties alone. John Olsen’s “Up and Down
Monkey Hill” is not his best work, but
it is the only abstract which is manifestly
landscape in character in a show of
interesting pictures.
The judges seem to have been less
concerned with impulse to make a state-
ment about landscape than with an
artistic mode which, unlike our landscape,
is international and responds more to art
movements than to the artist’s experience
of his surroundings,
SALMON
Westralian Vigor
The Perth Group. lan Wroth, Louis
Kahan. All three shows at the
Skinner Galleries, Perth.
nPHE Perth Group—Robert Juniper, Guy
Grey-Smith, Brian McKay, Tom
Gibbons, Maurice Stubbs and their two
younger guests, Margaret Capell and
Nicholas Barwell—made an interesting
showing this year. In even their most
abstract moods, these artists possess
controlled minds and brushes. Guy Grey-
Smith’s enormous “Horseshoe Range”
leapt to attention, exactly as the huge
rounded granite outcrops of the Keller-
berrin district, with their tree-filled clefts,
impress imagination. Here was a pur-
poseful pattern, far removed from direct
representation, but real with animistic
force, its greens and burnt colors, orange
and sienna, giving harmony, even grace,
to the violence of first impact.
Nevertheless, it was Brian McKay’s
salt flats, luminous as mother-of-pearl at
the far end of the gallery, that dominated
the show The pale nacreous gleam of
reflected light was beautifully enhanced
by deliciously-colored, angular shapes
shimmering on a far horizon beneath a
pale shining sky, an interpretation of
shimmering light utterly antipodean but
minus blinding glare.
Robert Juniper showed two works
compounded of various media, with some
raised surfaces reminiscent of Tucker’s
less exaggerated craters. But the elegance
of color and delicacy of design so pre-
dominantly Juniper’s remained undis-
turbed by more determined line and bold
reds and browns. “The Lovers” was a
large, exquisitely tinted tapestry in his
earlier acclaimed style, with a surface of
great tactile charm.
More variety of subject was offered
by Tom Gibbons, whose approach is in-
tellectual, with a style almost precise
in its smooth surfaces and well-defined
linear interests. A richness of color, dark
blues and black, gave substance to small
canvases, several using fish, in patterns,
with fresh and often amusing emphasis.
lan Wroth’s first one-man show was
as vigorous as his favorite subject, best
defined as the pride of horses. Aus-
tralian appreciation of equine strength
and elegance, once as keen as that of
classical Greece, and expressed with
realistic brilliance by Lambert and Power,
has been in the wilderness for a long
time. Country-bred, Wroth refreshes
memory in a series of small glowing
canvases, evocative and decorative,
packed with recollections of antiquity,
but with contemporary freedom of form
and color His stallions are the fierce
beasts of the Assyrians he seems to
have been fascinated by ancient frieze
carvings, the pyramidal lines created by
proud necks and heads. “Three Horse-
men” is a striking example, beasts and
men, not one clearly defined, yet all six
moving in ranks across a plain, though
the painting itself is not large. Rich blues
and browns give way to scarlet and white
in “St Martin and the Beggar. 11” with
the horse clearly drawn, white and pranc-
ing, the beggar crouched in the fore-
ground, the saint less substantialised.
There is an originality and excitement
about these surely-handled paintings that
suggests an interesting future.
The already much-talked-of portrait of
Professor Walter Murdoch is the centre
of interest at Louis Kahan’s current show
at the Skinner Galleries. A good likeness,
easily and freely painted in tweedy greens,
blues and browns with a characteristic
upwards glance from kindly quizzical
eyes and pipe-hand poised, the portrait
has the same distinctive quality as the
eminent sitter not immediately arresting,
but quietly holding, maintaining and in-
creasing attention. Kahan’s notable flair
for character statement can also be en-
joyed in a few pen and ink drawings of
other famous men, but city-scapes in oils
and watercolors, from Paris to Sydney,
predominate. The oils, all small, never-
theless frequently possess particularly
interesting surfaces. This almost sanded
texture is noticeably effective in “French
Village Church,” and quite dominant in
a still-life with an enticing crayfish. But
a lovely, small, winter’s day in Collins
Street, Melbourne, is altogether different,
rainily smooth, with diffused yet shining
light struggling through wet grey clouds.
The watercolors in wash and ink are
as delicate and beautiully drawn as ever ;
possibly the most interesting is a vista in
Heath Street, Hampstead, a composition
involving the problem of two crossed
tree-trunks placed dead-centre, growing
from a triangular grass-plot, and flanked
by diverging rows of shops and houses.
H. DRAKE-BROCKMAN


The Red Page
Ants with Swollen Bodies
By RICHARD L. WALKER
The Anthill: The Human Condition in
Communist China. Suzanne Labin.
Stevens and Sons. 575. 3d.
/“\n January 22, 1961, a Chinese in a
small village in south China wrote
to his uncle and aunt in Latin America
a letter of thanks for their remittance to
him:
Dear Uncle and Aunt:
I received your letter and the news
about yourselves. You have both
always been very kind and have
always looked after me. I am grate-
ful, but do not know how to recipro-
cate in words and deeds. We are all
experiencing hardships in the village.
You must have heard. At present
there are severe shortages in the
village ; each person is allowed about
four ounces of rice per meal but no
meat and no oil ; anything substantial
is out. Sometimes there are a few
items, but prices are impossibly high ;
they cost ten limes and sometimes
almost a hundred times more than
shown on the tag. To keep from
starving to death we have to purchase
some items. Sweet potatoes cost one
yuan and twenty cents for one catty.
How can one live on a small income?
Because people lack nourishing food,
many have swollen bodies. Right
now. no one in the family is feeling
well. Even I —a strong man —cannot
take hard work without nourishment.
I get weaker every day and my body
is beginning to swell. In this condi-
tion a man can do nothing. We have
just finished harvesting not long ago
and there is still a food shortage.
What are we going to do for food in
the next six months? I shall let you
know.
Your nephew, Chien-shih.
Such letters continue to pour from the
communities of mainland China to rela-
tives overseas. They highlight the human
dimensions of one of the tragedies of
the modern world, the plight of the
Chinese peasants under an agricultural
system that has proved a dismal failure
in its application throughout the Com-
munist bloc. This is an important type
cf source material for assessing develop-
ments taking place in Communist China,
material which all too frequently con-
tradicts the glowing reports of the guided-
tour visitors to Mao’s domain.
In the spring of 1961, the Chinese Reds
began to abandon many of the aspects of
the people’s communes —except in name
—returning to the smaller work teams of
the agricultural co-operatives and even
individual garden plots. But this came
only after three tragic years of the “great
leap forward” during which the top
leadership insisted that mobilised masses
could substitute for technical competence
in lifting China into an age of indus-
trialisation and plenty. Meanwhile, actual
admissions by Peiping, an accumulation
of testimony from refugees, revelations by
other members of the Communist bloc
in connection with the Sino-Soviet dispute,
and such facts as grain purchases from
the non-Communist world have rounded
out a picture of the Chinese people endur-
ing the same sort of suffering to which
Stalin subjected his peoples during the
great collectivisation drive of the 19305.
This picture has been just as embarrassing
to those officially-sponsored visitors who
have written glowing accounts of Mao’s
China as were the Khrushchev speech of
September 13, 1953, on Soviet agricultural
failures and his February, 1956, speech
on the crimes of the Stalin era to the
apologists for Soviet totalitarianism.
Although the reliability of the testimony
of refugees from totalitarian regimes has
frequently been questioned, experiences
with those who escaped from Hitler,
Mussolini, Stalin, Franco, Peron, and
now Mao, have indicated that when sup-
plemented by careful study of documents
and publications coming from the con-
trolled areas their testimony forms a
firmer basis for the real picture than a
stay of even several months. This is not,
of course, to disparage the value of visits
by perceptive observers. Madame Suzanne
Labin has combined an intensive inter-
viewing of various types of refugees from
mainland China in Hong Kong with close
attention to the Chinese Communist press
and has produced a book which is at
once a realistic and terrifying description
of the human condition in Communist
China (to use her subtitle) during the
frenzied period of the “great leap for-
ward,” and a valuable document for
t'nderstanding the politics of this new
totalitarianism.
Madame Labin, an experienced and
talented French author and political
analyst, has pieced together material from
intensive interviews with 54 refugees from
Mao’s China. Originally published in
French in 1959, it is now rendered faith-
fully in English by Edward Fitzgerald.
“The Anthill” is a descriptive analysis of
the most grandiose project of totalitarian
organisation ever undertaken. There is
the bank clerk who had been beaten into
a confession, the worker from Anshan
who experienced ihe pressure of the
emulation campaigns, fishermen who fled
from Communist collectivisation, the
schoolmistress, a student, and others.
Into the account of these interviews Mme
Cabin has woven a wealth of material
from Communist sources to elaborate,
corroborate and explain the facts they
bring to light. But through it all she
keeps her eye on the one item so neglected
by the Communist monolith and its
apologists: the human equation.
The thesis of “The Anthill” is the degra-
dation of humanity under a system of
total compulsion. The book brings out
the regimentation of the Chinese people
under constant drives and pressures in
which everyone from the party cadres to
the lowest peasant child is caught. Mme
Labin explains through the interviews
what are the “five loves” (not parents or
your neighbor), the “three anti's” and
so forth. She gives a clear picture of
brainwashing and the role of the small
study groups which have played such an
important role in organising the Chinese
masses. In fact, one of the interviewees
asserted: “The supposed genius of Mao,
which is so puffed up in the West, resides
fundamentally in his organisational capa-
city. That’s his whole secret. Mao is
completely taken up with the new cult,
wnich the Bolsheviks made into a really
new science : organising all sections of
the population, all the needs of life, and
all the mainsprings of power to the utmost
possible extent” (p. 221). Everything in
China is organised. No form of human
association takes place outside the organi-
sational framework provided by the doc-
trine and the Communist party. For this
reason one of the former Communist
cadres interviewed felt that even the mass
executions served the organisational plans
of the regime: “The Red Terror in China
was not the result of any ‘historical neces-
sity,’ but of a deliberate bureaucratic
decision.” (p 47).
The Chinese people have without any
question paid a terrible price for some
of the progress made by their country,
and “The Anthill” stresses some of the
resultant resistance and antagonism
among the people and the latent hostility
which makes the party distrust them. As
the former young Communist Lei remarks:
“By suppressing all outward criticism the
party only intensifies the underground
criticism. Behind each mouth which is
tightly closed, or opened only in praise,
the party suspects a hostile spirit inwardly
cursing it.” (p. 242). Mme Labin does not
nourish any unrealistic optimism or hopes
that opposition to Mao’s terror will be
able to make itself felt in the near future,


BOOKHUNTER
Dept. “D.” Box 2.671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.O. Sydney.
but she does argue against any appease-
ment which will further discourage that
opposition.
Although Mme Labin is not a China
specialist, she has managed to fit in a
number of details with general accuracy.
There are some aspects of her work which
call for correction Former Communist
Ku, with whom she had the longest inter-
view (three chapters) either had a faulty
rnemory or perhaps some illusions of
grandeur. Some of his information on
the early history of the Communist Party
of China, and particularly the Long
March, hardly squares with facts as they
are known elsewhere. Again, Mme
Labin’s figure of 10,000 refugees per
month to Hong Kong is just about double
the unofficial estimate of the British
authorities there. And a great number
of them are in Rennie’s Mill, not Rennie’s
Hill (the problem on this and on some
of the other minor mistakes being perhaps
one of translation). There are numerous
interesting and useful passages in this
book. One of them is the reproduction
of Kuo Mo-jo’s poem in honor of Stalin
on his seventieth birthday, a piece which
is as silly as it is embarrassing to his visit-
ing tourist friends who, probably like Kuo
himself, would just as soon forget about
it. As Professor Tsai, another refugee,
remarked to Mme Labin about Kuo
Mo-jo. “That gentleman is the supreme
arbiter in literary and artistic circles in
China today.” (p. 338).
"The Anthill” plays down some of
the justifiable pride which many Chinese
feel in some of the achievements modern
science and technology have enabled
their country to make, and surely there
are many for whom these achievements
have been enough to justify support of
the regime. But the industrial progress
of modern China is no more an evidence
of Communist superiority or a justifica-
tior for the human suffering which Mme
Labin faithfully portrays than were Hit-
ler’s V-2 rocks and Autobahns an evidence
of the superiority of national socialism or
a justification for Nazi extermination
camps.
Ao this reviewer can attest, there are
few experiences more sobering and con-
vincing than spending intense hours with
the refugees in Hong Kong. Those who
have voted with their feet against the
regime of Mao Tse-tung have carried out
one of the greatest plebiscites in history,
With regard to the question of the
“Refugees vs. Visitors” (a chapter
title), Mme Labin comes down firmly and
legitimately on the side of the refugees,
Their testimony is overwhelmingly con-
vincing. and their story is one which can-
not but make a profound impact on those
who will listen. The story carries a warn-
ing, and by telling it so well, Suzanne
Labin has done the service of carrying
that warning to the many lands where
liberty and human values still have some
meaning.
Alive with Corpses
One Rose Less. Pat Flower. Ure
Smith. 16s.
Be Ready with Bells and Drums. Eliza-
beth Kata. Michael Joseph. 18s. 9d.
The Work of an Ancient Hand. Curtis
Harnack. Weidenfeld and Nicolson.
225. 6d.
Are You Hungry, Are You Cold.
Ludwig Bemelmans. Andre Deutsch.
18s. 9cf.
IT is interesting to read Pat Flower’s
fourth mystery novel, “One Rose Less,”
in the light of that perennially-resuscitated
query: “Why can’t Australian writers
satisfactorily handle an urban back-
ground?” Mrs Flower can, so the way
to bring Australian cities to life may be
to bury a corpse somewhere.
She has brought the same lightness and
deftness to conveying the feel of Aus-
tralian life, to exposing the differences
between people who have dinner and
people who have tea, between cosy
suburban life and climbing suburban life,
as her husband, Cedric Flower, has
brought to the design of the charming
dustjacket.
As a mystery “One Rose Less” is some-
what short of a blueprint job, but Mrs
Flower deserves a bouquet for consistent
improvement.
“Be Ready with Bells and Drums” has
considerable merits ; these, unfortunately,
are the means of exposing its weaknesses.
The novel, by Australian-born Elizabeth
Kata, is based on an idea which might
have made a first-class short story. It is
too slight to sustain a full-length book.
Between a striking beginning and a quite
powerful end there is a drastic sag. The
incident grows thin, the conversation and
situation repetitive.
Mrs Kata’s book is a story of love and
cruelty. The cruelty is the monotonous
kind which stupidity inflicts and here
Mrs Kata succeeds very well. The love-
story is based on an exceptionally diffi-
cult situation. Just when Mrs Kata has
it firmly in her grip, she lets it slip into
banal dialogue and sticky sentiments.
“The Work of an Ancient Hand” is
right from the corn-belt. Set in a
Middle-Western community of the United
States, it is a first novel by lowa-born
Curtis Harnack. It has the stamp of a
novel written by someone who has just
graduated from an American college
with honors in creative writing.
The chief trouble is that it is written
on the assumption that if you take a slice
of life, you will carve up one bore, one
lecher, one rogue, one what-you-will.
But people are bores and lechers and
rogues and what-you-will. Characters
which represent one vice or virtue were
left behind in the 19th century.
The novel is really a series of loosely
connected episodes, the connection
between characters sometimes being
merely that they take off their hats to
each other on Main Street.
You might say that “Are You Hungry,
Are You Cold” is a novel about soldiers’
women. At any rate, it is a story, told by
the daughter of the house, of how chil-
dren grow up in the shadow of the
militaristic dictatorship imposed by their
father. Blissfully and calmly, the daugh-
ter sets out her reactions to the cruelty
of her father. For every “paff paff” of
his hand striking her face she exacts
vengeance on him, on her school com-
panions, on the chaplain she calls “la
pere framboise” (she has no intention of
sparing his blushes).
That cunning practitioner Ludwig
Bemelmans has made the military zealot
a Frenchman, and recent Algerian his-
tory might testify that he is true to a
type. The setting is second world war
and postwar occupied Germany. But
the occupied Germans are mere suet pud-
dings, capable of inflicting no greater
cruelty than serving up to a French
family their gruesome . style of cooking.
This is Bemelmans with new depth but
no diminution of delight.
PATRICIA ROLFE
Helping Humpty Dumpty
A Short History of the Labor Party.
Henry Pelling. Macmillan. 345. 9d.
TTf story does not, as a rule, readily lend
itself to fractional fittings. There is
a market, however, for concise, sensible,
easy-to-read and up-to-date accounts of
the development of the major British
political parties. Pelling’s Short History
(126 pages) meets all four requirements.
It describes the Labor party from its
formation down to the 1960 Scarborough
conference, and provides useful, anno-
tated bibliographies at the end of each
chapter.
The crux of the work is Pelling’s recog-
nition and appraisal of diversity within
the Labor movement —of its basic hetero-
geneity. The myth of Labor solidarity
remains a myth notwithstanding its in-
corporation in the body of “received”
ideas. The B.L.P. was as heterogeneous
in its origins as in its later development.
Starting as “a federation of independent
organisations,” a loose coalition, for
political purposes, of individual trade
unions and Socialist societies, the party
did not begin to appear as a separate
entity before 1917.
With the emergence of the T.U.C.
General Council, in 1921, the party’s
development assumed a new orientation
that has continued to the present. Not
that the party came under the “control”
of its trade union elements. For one


thing, union leaders (even apart from
internal disagreements) have never been
sufficiently interested in all aspects of
Labor party activity to constitute a “con-
trolling” group. Pelling shows that by
1920 the ablest of these leaders con-
sidered the Parliamentary Labor Party
apo mea backwater, and that since
e wen ies, ey ave een oo pre
occupied with their union duties and with
m u u- to T ,tr o .
membership of the T.U.C. General Conn-
cu to natntau. wtth parliamentary
. .
The more obvious, if rather superficial,
features ot Labor party-trade union rela-
tions aie fully documented: the card
vote at conference, the varying tally of
union officials on National Executive and
Parliamentary party. Yet it is clear that
union leaders have usually preferred
direct negotiation at a Ministerial leve'i
to reliance on the formal channels of the
Labor party machine. This arises partly
from a realisation that the interests of
party and unions are not identical.
Attempts to play down the divergence of
interest, and to effect co-operation be-
tween the two, have not enjoyed much
lasting success (viz. the uneven career,
since 1921, of the weak National Joint
Council)
Pelling is at his best in tracing the
B.L.P. s development up to the First War.
For once, the expansion of the party is
not conceived as the working out of the
inevitable. Far from being able to force
concessions from minority Liberal gov-
ernments, the Labor party was in the
position of having to maintain such
governments in office, irrespective of their
legislative programme. As late as 1910,
even its survival seemed in doubt: the
party, to Keir Hardie, had “almost ceased
to count.”
Somehow, Pelling llnds room for a
discussion of bro ° der ch in the
pattern of general activity. In the 1890 s
there was a transference of social "energy ’
m
away from orthodox religious pursuits,
an / into the stream of po i i(ical P activity
Around 191 l thcre w / s a further r ’_
direction of activity, this time from
politics, more especially Socialist politics,
towards various forms of syndicalism,
Both had repercussions on the B.L.P.
Labor, Socialist and other reformist move-
ments profited from the overflow of
religious activity (and personnel) into the
political basin. And the practical effect
G f the syndicalist phase was an outbreak
0 f trade union amalgamations.
s treatment of the Labor paity,
Pelling shows that Humpty Dumpty was
never the homogeneous, solidarist figure
portrayed in Labor mythology. That, of
course, will not stop all the king's horses
and ™en from assuming solidarity as the
norm, a nd trying to put him together
again New ideas, a return to traditional
ideas ’ r f earch committees, opinion sur-
s ’ stf ° n B ei ' leadership a return to
democratic control inclusion ot in-
teliectuals, exclusion of trade unions: not-
withstanding interna inconsistences, all
are proposed as equally effective pick-me-
U P S ol an ai ,n § Laboi paity.
IAN CAMPBELL
Love-sick for George
Edith Simcox and George Eliot. K. A.
McKenzie. Oxford University Press.
33 s 6d
SOMETIMES it is difficult not to attach
some weight to the belief that the
Victorians—l refer to the subjects of the
old Queen, not to Bolte s lot—were some-
how larger than we are. Victorians like
George Eliot, of course, were very large
by any standard. But who ever heard
of Edith Simcox? She is not mentioned
in the “Britannica”—and even Lake-
wood. New Jersey, is mentioned in the
“Britannica ”
Edith Jemima Simcox was born in
1844 and died in 1901. In her own time
she was best known as a writer ; she
wrote reviews for Academy at 25 an
achievement, in a man s world and to
that and other good journals over the
next 30 years she contributed articles on
art, literature, history, biography, moral
philosophy, folklore, mythology, econo-
mics, education, womens suffrage, hous-
mg for the poor, trade unions, the
employment of women, and other sub-
jects. She wrote three books.
She was a learned woman, but with
great practical gifts ; for seven years she
and a friend set an example for the times
by making a success of a shirt-and-collar
manufacturing business in Soho that gave
its women workers decent conditions.
This experience led Edith Simcox to take
an interest in the trade-union movement;
in she became one of the first two
women delegates admitted to a Trade
Union Congress, and for 20 years after
tha ,‘ sh « yarned a prominent person
Her intellectual activity, then, was full
and strong ; her practical activity was
vigorous and humane. Of her heart,
however, we must report that it was
fruitlessly given to George Eliot. From
before 1872, when they first met, to well
after 1880, when George Eliot died, Edith
was love-sick.
She worshipped George Eliot. This
] ove was returned with affection, but
George Eliot made it quite clear that “the
j ove G f men an( j W omen for each other
must always be more and better than any
other,” and added that “she had never
all h er ijf e cared very much for women.”
George Eliot, in fact, seems to have
treated Edith with that extraordinarily
fine understanding, sympathy and recti-
tude that her best books record so
beautifully. But even she could not avoid
having her feet kissed on a wet Sunday
in 1877: . . they said, well, I should
Have the afternoon to myself and we had
better sit down, which I proceeded to do
on the rug at her feet, which I kissed ;
while observing that Lady Paget had
adopted the same seat, she intimated a
preference for my taking another, which
of course I did.”
There is nothing great in Edith's
behavior here. And there is even less in
her account of meeting George Eliot and
Lewes when they came home a week
before his death —even then, while Lewes,
very ill, lay on a sofa nearby, “I did in
spite of her protests lie down before the
fire and for one short moment give the
passionate kisses that filled my eyes with
tears —and for the rest of the evening
her feet avoided the footstool where I
had found them then.” The erotic
element in this love (how ridiculous even
a phrase like this seems to our sophisti-
cated modern eyes!) is obvious, and was
not completely hidden from Edith her-
self, who was bold enough to make what
she calls the “brutal observation” that
“the physical base of my despondence,
as of hers, was very likely to be con-
nected with the shutting down of the
normal feminine escape-pipe sacred to
the memory of Eve's transgressions.”
This observation was not made, how-
ever. to any living person ; it was made
to the “Autobiography of a Shirt Maker,”
a manuscript composed in the form of a
journal by Edith between 1876 and 1900.
This manuscript was not available to
scholars till 1958, and has not yet been
published in full. In “Edith Smcox and
George Eliot,” however. Professor
McKenzie, of the University of New Eng-
land, has freely quoted from it to docu-
ment his account of Edith's life, and the
extracts he takes from the 170,000-word
manuscript are obviously of central
importance. This is not a biography in
the popular sense, however ; Professor
McKenzie’s aim has not been to make us
see Edith against the wide background
of her times, and not to make us feel
what it might have been like to be her.
He has presented evidence of her life in
a cool, scholarly, impersonal, and (it
must be admitted) dry way ; he is produc-
ing evidence, not creating.
But that is the way Edith Simcox her-
self would have liked the job done ; and
to say that is to praise the way it is done.
For she did almost everything in the
best of Victorian ways—in a lucid, sympa-
thetic way. Perhaps these days we are
better at loving, but the Victorians were
better at being great ; perhaps only the
gods, like George Eliot, can be both.
PETER SHRUBB
Killer Whales
Killers of Eden. Tom Mead. Angus
and Robertson. 28s. 6d.
r T''HE appearance of a sound and lively
A account of the bay whaling industry
of Eden, the first, 1 think, except for some
pamphlets written by C. E. Wellings, may
mark a new development in the presenta-
tion of Australian history. At least it
poses the question of why most local
writers have ignored such significant
regional fields. In this particular case
a partial answer lies in the sparse and
scattered documentation, and the fact


that few survivors of the industry remain
to add their personal memories ; but Tom
Mead has here employed a high standard
of journalistic ability to overcome these
obstacles.
In Eden, or more accurately in Twofold
Bay, in the south-east corner of New
South Wales, the pursuit of the whale
differed radically from that undertaken
in any other part of the world, for the
whaling-men were accompanied and
assisted for nearly a century by packs
of killer whales, as a pig-hunter is
assisted by his dogs. The excitements
of such co-operation can be imagined,
for the killer whale is one o-f the most
savage of the sea’s animals, his voracity
reputedly overshadowing that of the
worst of the sharks, and his strength and
agility greater than the largest of them.
Tom Mead has chosen to employ the
methods of a novelist to present his
history, and for a start, this leads to some
disappointment. But after a few chapters
the effect is to recreate the atmosphere
of the -sleepy village in which the har-
pooned whale was the fount and centre
°f existence. Ihe hunt was attended
always by the chance of sudden tragedy
°r swift fortune ; no other element much
disturbed the even tenor of life in that
haven stiff so beautiful. The exception
a V *p i^e tragedy of Eden itself; a
promising harbor and city strangled by
Sydney and Melbourne interests jealous
°f an Y regional development there,
“Killers of Eden” is primarily good
entertainment, but it is so instructive
that it will undoubtedly become a source
book for other writers. The photographs
are genuine treasures so that all in all
it is a research job of very considerable
merit,
OLAF RUHEN
Companionable Conversation
Enemies of Promise. Cyril Connolly.
Penguin Modern Classics. ss. 6d.
The Unquiet Grave. Palinurus. with
introduction by Cyril Connolly.
Arrow Books. 3s. 6d.
, , .
T iterary success has always seemed
more desiiable for coming casually,
as to Raleigh s poems, or Sucklings, or
to Cervantes ; but in our limes the idea
of the thing produced for its own sake
is drowned by the ultimate ambition of
so many young men to become great
merchant-authors like Maugham. The
shepherd boy singing on the hillside has
no future in such a world and. in any
case, the writer who wants to seem effort-
less must generally work as Connolly
who studied late at night, by prohibited
dandk-light, at Eton to impress the school
with his effortless scholarship.
Yet suppose the author is rich enough
I , . F p . , , u u
no o e i agge c own y aer,
or independent enough not to be broken
by success or aiuie, ow is e o j 0
his work? Mr Connolly has a simple
A~. . . u . J t
test as intriguing now as when he first
, , • ,mo m
proposed it in 1938: Would it amuse
Horace or Milton or Swift or Leopardi?
' , j . , , , T-, u K
Cou d it be read to Flaubert?
r. u , ~ r-
t wou e wor ive _
°. s *; e au 8 ar |] , PP
t^le c ? n A | U f, ° , ~ r ~
in Cakes and Ale —or perhaps Mr Con-
nolly’s idea is that Maugham could appeal
from Milton's judgment to the author of
“Madame Bovary.” The game has
immense possibilities for a slightly more
learned Beerbohm. If Connolly were
less didactic and more creative he might
give us the dialogue in which T. S. Eliot
seeks the opinion of Virgil on “The Love
Song of Alfred Prufrock”; or in which
Ezra Pound and James Joyce call together
on Elomer with copies of “The Cantos”
and the 20th-century “Ulysses.” The
more gifted the literary man, the better
he can interpret ancient authors in terms
of his own productions, and one suspects
that some of the babies that have been
left on famous doopsteps would have
their imputed fathers howling for the
psychiatrist
The second book, “The Unquiet
Grave,” makes such companionable con-
versation because it mixes reflections on
the sayings of classical and modern
masters with the life of the author when
Connolly was editing “Horizon” during
the second world war. In an introduc-
tion, Connolly elaborates some plan for
the book which might interest amateurs
of musical theory or crossword puzzles ;
for the present reviewer there was enough
interest in the literary arguments of the
author with the ancients and himself, in
the insistent condemnation of such as
would wean wives away from husbands.
RONALD McCUAIG
Gossip info Art
The Exite of Capri. Roger Peyrefitte.
Seeker and Warburg. 225. 6d.
M. Peyrefitte has done it again;—pro-
duced a book to embarrass reviewers,
to delight his own heart, and to perplex
the Australian customs. Not that, despite
its setting, the life he is now describing
is as un-Australian as all that. It is
simply more open, more candid, more
crowded, and more aesthetically defined
than we Australians are used to
His exile is the Comte Jacques d’Adels-
ward-Fersen and the facts of his life be-
tween 1897 and 1923 are recorded with-
out comment, without overt judgment,
without characterisation almost. The
book is a splendid example of the way
M. Peyrefitte avoids writing novels. The
nearest he has come to a, novel in any
ordinary English sense was “Special
Friendships but. even there, intoxicated
With the charm of the affair he had re-
created so tenderly and convincingly, he
let his novel go and was content merely
to use his other characters as plot
devices; the curious ambiguity of the
priest in the story was allowed to pass
unremarked and his actions to appear
unmotivated. In the Keys of St Peter's
and its Malta successor he was un-
ashamedly content to record gossip, scan-
dal, curious fact, and himself to fall in
love with the incidentals of his story ;
novel there was none. His whole approach
to novel making is rococo —detail and
decoration are his joys ; solid walls,
livable rooms hardly matter.
In this new volume, gossip becomes
art. No fact is too small to belong, no
aberration too curious to fit. The mind
trembles contemplating the author’s in-
finite capacity for taking pains, his end-
less concern for trivia that reflect his
own special interests, his egoism and its
curious interest for the affairs of others.
One has, too, to acknowledge his cool-
ness, his poise, his affectation of indiffer-
ence, the artistic detachment with which
he arranges his extraordinary ordinary-
world.
His hero is queer, but there is no
precise definition of how. Youth is his
love. It is for that love that he writes,
that he travels, that he builds. Because
of it he organises a pink mass that is
changed by slander to a ballets roses that
is changed by Diaghilev to a ballets
Russes. Because of it he takes to opium
and later with that drug binds to himself
“the young man whom fatherland and
women had tried to steal away.” Because
of it he suicides, after a life that has
been an attempt at a w'ork of art.
This biography is, of course, useless
as an art of love or a manual of instruc-
tion, worthless as pornography the life
it records is too rich in detail for there
to be time for bedroom description. In-
stead, we have thoughts on life and art,
hints at the paradox of love and age,
and facts —facts —facts about the hero's
acquaintance. They include every known
scandal of the time from Wilde to
Douglas (Norman). There are so many
known exposures that one ends by accept-
ing all the book's revelations as truth, as
glimpses of part of a truth. There will
be dinings out on stories of Munthe and
the birds, Colette and the bracelet, Gorky,
Claudel, “the son of Queen Victoria” . . ,
The “exposures” are some funny, some
sad, some strange, all human. They are,
however, in the later years provided with
disguised names. Part of the book s
pleasure lies in unmasking these revellers.
No one will read it for its plot, its ten-
sions of character , its appeal is to those
who can echo Terence with his “I am
human and everything human concerns
me.” To them it will be amusing, in
the real sense of that word, and it may
perhaps offer more. They, like Cocteau
in his introduction, may learn from it
“that youth is an ephemeral privilege, not
the attribute of a separate, hardy race
setting itself up in opposition to the decay-
ing race of the old.”
RAY MATHEW


GRETA
A SHORT STORY
By MARY WILKINSON
When he suggested a
weekend away together
it was no shock to...
HE had never met anyone quite
like Greta before. He met her
after he’d been a week in
Naples, when he went to collect
his pay at the pay office. She came
up to attend to him with a plump,
cheeky smile, and naturally he smiled
back. He watched her as she counted
out the money, giving it a serious lick
with a wetted forefinger every now
and then, and worked out she couldn’t
be Italian, with that mop of blonde
hair.
“You’re not American, are you?”
he ventured as she handed over his pay.
She gave him an amused look.
“No. I’m German. Bin here a year
now.”
Later he learnt she’d left home
after a fight with her father. He never
found out just what they’d fought
about, but he admired her spirit of
independence. In the year she’d been
in Naples she’d picked up all the Navy
slang and, spoken with her quaint
accent, it had a disturbing effect. He
didn’t know then that it had already
disturbed quite a line-up of sailors
before him. He only knew he liked
her.
Next time he got his pay he asked
if maybe she’d like to see the movie
that night.
“Okay, Joe,” she said breezily. Then, glancing at his
name on the pay slip: “Oh, it’s not Joe, is it?”
“No, it’s Cliff,” he said.
“Okay, Cliff,” her mouth twitched as she said it.
“Pick me up downstairs after work, eh?”
He did so, feeling rather embarrassed because the
other fellows twigged him a bit about her. He never let that
sort of thing worry him, though. You couldn’t, working
in the Chaplains’ Office. And he knew they were only
joking.
He took her off to dinner at the E.M. Club, which she
seemed quite at home in, ordering a T-bone steak and lemon
meringue pie, and playing the poker machines until he ran
out of change. She’d been there before, she told him,
waving to several of the fellows, whom she described as
“nice guys.” He found out she lived with a girl friend in a
pensione just around the corner, but that they were looking
for an apartment.
“Our landlady’s an old bitch,” she told him. “She’s
always griping about somethin’.”
She was an easy girl to talk to, somehow. She laughed
a lot and kidded him about being in with the chaplains,
and told him she only went to church at Christmas. Her
father was a strict Catholic, though. He guessed that was
why they’d fought.
When he walked her home, to a big old building with
a massive oak door, into which a smaller door was set, she
said: “Listen, I can’t ask you up, because we’re not
allowed.”
“A pity,” he said, squeezing her
a bit.
“Oh, 1 dunno,” she giggled. “May-
be a good thing. Keeps me out of
mischief, see?”
But it didn’t, of course. She
seemed to have a surprising knowledge
of all the tourist spots in the area, and
the best hotels in each one. She never,
it appeared, stayed anywhere but the
best hotels.
The next week he took her to the
movies again, and sat close to her, his
knee pressing against hers. She didn't
seem to take much notice, because she
was absorbed in the movie, and in the
popcorn he’d bought her. She was
crazy about popcorn, she told him. her
eyes sparkling. But later, when he
kissed her goodnight outside the pen-
sione, she flung her arms around his
neck and gave a warm, muffled sigh.
“Gee, I could go for you.'’ she
said, wriggling against him.
“I could go for you. too.” he said,
his voice quavering.
He wondered if she’d be shocked if
he suggested going away for a week-
end together, and decided to wait until
he knew her better. It was agony to
have to spend all day away from her.
imagining her down there at the pay
window, with all those guys trying to
make a pass at her. He used to see her at lunchtime, in the
canteen, but she was usually with her girl friends, a rather
mixed bunch, he thought. Rosie, who lived at the pensione
with her, was a tall, skinny girl with ridiculously pointed
breasts, and he’d heard some funny rumors about her from
the rest of the boys. The others weren’t much better, he
thought. It upset him to see Greta in a crowd like that,
and he had to keep telling himself that of course she was
different and knew how to look after herself.
The next time he took her out, their goodnight kiss
lasted much longer, and when he blurted out: “Look, why
don’t we go away somewhere for the weekend?” she giggled
and dug her head into his sweater with a drowsy:
“Mmm . . .”
“Where would you like to go?” he asked nervously.
She lifed her head and looked at him with wide eyes.
“Ooh, let’s go to Monte Faito, eh? They have a big new
hotel I never bin to . . .”
“Okay,” he said, relieved. “I’ll book a couple of
rooms.”
She stared at him. “Don’t be crazy. And waste all
that dough?”
So he rang through and booked a double room, feeling
very man-of-the-world.
They left on the Friday evening, meeting at the station.
It was cold, and Greta arrived all wrapped up in a big wool
scarf, her face glowing pinkly like a schoolgirl’s. They sat
holding hands on the train, while she told him about the
terrible time her family had had in the war. She’d only


DEWAItS
is file Scotch
IT NEVER VARIES
WMte Label
Dewars Fine Scotch Whisrt
OF WARE ACE ,
John Dewar & Sons l
0,. 0
3 , . the proof is
in the tasting
SCOTI.AN l>’s risn»w
IHB WUltU)’s (JUOIC'B
been a kid then, of course; but she remembered the air raids
—American air raids. He felt guilty at the thought, as if
he had a debt to pay to her in some obscure way. His older
brother had been in raids over Berlin. He never told her
that, though.
At Castellamare they had to catch the funivia up the
side of the mountain, and Greta clung to his arm all the way
up. gasping as the town dropped below them and scattered
snow appeared on the tree-tops. There was a moment’s
awkwardness at the hotel when they had to hand over their
passports to the clerk, who could see they weren’t married.
But Greta didn’t seem to care. She strolled about the lobby,
inspecting everything and when they got upstairs she looked
first in the bathroom and exclaimed: “Oh. look! It’s all
pink! I want to have lots of baths . . .” Then she looked
at him with a mischievous air and added: “But let’s eat
first, eh? I’m starving!”
They went downstairs and ordered almost everything
on the menu. Greta always had a healthy appetite, and
Cliff was pretty hungry himself, too. There weren’t very
many other people staying there, and the waiters kept
hovering around, offering new dishes. Greta was in her
element, ordering them around in Italian, and winking at
him behind their backs.
“Damn guineas!” she whispered under her breath as
one approached the table, causing Cliff to splutter into his
napkin.
He was still dazed by his good luck at finding someone
like Greta right away like that. And he couldn't get over
the fact that she was his own age. They could share jokes
that anyone older would have found silly, and yet she’d
“been around.” as the phrase was. He'd been warned about
girls like her in talks the chaplain had given him when he
first arrived. But he was convinced she wasn't really bad.
Why. she didn’t even drink, and only puffed inexpertly when
he gave her a cigarette.
They went upstairs right after dinner, and there was no
embarrassment about getting undressed or anything, because
Greta just treated it as a matter of course. When he awoke
next morning and found her curled up kittenishly beside
him he looked at her with a feeling of strange tenderness.
She was really just a child, he thought; having slept with a
few guys didn’t make her bad. It was all wrong, what the
chaplains tried to tell you. But. then, how could they be
supposed to know? he thought with a new tolerance.
He got up and showered, and as he was shaving she
came in. her hair tousled all over her head and wearing
the top half of his pyjamas. She slid her arms around him,
kissing the back of his neck. He grinned at her in the mirror
and said: “Hey. how can I shave when you’re doing that?”
“Well, if you don t like it . . .” she turned to go. but
he pulled her back and they began kissing all over again.
After breakfast they went outside and pelted each other
with snowballs, falling over and laughing most of the time
Then he took some photos of her. and they got one of the
waiters to take one of them together. (It came out a bit lop-
sided. but he used to carry it round in his wallet, anyway.)
Greta seemed impressed by his camera, and he offered to
buy one for her. but she refused, shaking her head
emphatically: “But 1 wouldn’t know how to work it. No,
thanks.”
He was secretly glad to discover she wasn't a gold-
digger. It made it more fun giving her things, like the brace-
let he bought with his next pay. She gasped with surprise
when he gave it to her. and gave him a big hug. After that
he used to try and surprise her each pay day with some little
thing; they weren’t always expensive; sometimes it was just
a few pairs of nylons from the ship’s store. But she always
acted so pleased, and said: “Oh. honey, you shouldn’t of!”
that it was hard to resist.
Their next trip was to Capri. It was the wrong time


o* f be year, of course, and the boat trip across was rough
g_ug. Greta was close to being seasick a couple of times,
but he forced her to drink a brandy and sat with his arm
about her on the wind-lashed deck, feeling protective and
a little paternal. Once they landed, of course, she was all
right, and led him off towards the funicular, saying: “It’s
quicker than a taxi, and it only costs 60 lire.” He wondered
how she knew, and had to stop himself asking her. Of
course she’d been there before . . . but he didn’t want to
know with whom. And if he asked her she’d most likely
have told him. She was like that. He knew there’d been a
petty officer from Texas before him and a lieutenant from
Chicago somewhere else along the line. When he’d said
blandly that she was his first girl, she’d replied: “Oh. yeah,
I bet. First one in Naples, maybe.”
He had left it at that, preferring not to reveal his inex-
perience. It rained most of that weekend, but they hardly
noticed. They were staying at a big hotel along the road to
Anacapri, with statues of Roman emperors all over the
place. This time the bathroom was all black tiles, and Greta
had several baths, leaving water and towels scattered on the
floor afterwards. It was his only complaint with her, that
she was a bit untidy. But, then, you couldn’t have every-
thing.
When they got back to Naples, Cliff sat up late writing
to his mother telling her about the “very nice” girl he’d
met whom he’d decided to marry. His mother wrote back
at once, perturbed, bidding him to be cautious, because he
was very young and you never knew with foreign girls . . .
what religion was this girl, she wanted to know. Cliff tossed
the letter away with grand impatience. Chaplains and
mothers . . . they were all the same.
The next day. as they were sitting on a park bench
eating a bag of peanuts he proposed to her. Greta did not
take him seriously at first. Then she laughed. “Oh. honey,
that’s sweet of you. You don’t have to, though . . . I’m
not having a baby.”
“Not yet,” he said seriously. “But you might. Anyway,
that’s irrelevant. I want to marry you anyhow.”
“Do you really?” she looked at him with a faint air of
curiosity, then said: “Well, there’s no rush, is there? We
only just met.”
That was an understatement, he felt. He got a little
surly, and said that she obviously was just having a ball with
him. But she teased him out of his bad humor by promising
to think it over.
So he let the subject drop for the moment. They con-
tinued to go away for weekends whenever they could, and
had just about exhausted the supply of new places when
Greta announced that her father was sick and she must go
home to see him. Alarmed, he thrust 30 dollars into her
hand and saw her off on the train, begging her to write.
Greta stayed away a week and when she returned she
was wearing a new coat with a fur collar, ard said that
her father was much better now. She embraced him
warmly and said, yes, of course she still loved him. She
hadn’t written because . . , well, because her English wasn’t
good enough. He forgave her and planned another week-
end at Monte Faito. He was sentimental about things like
that.
This time the booking clerk greeted them with an
indulgent smile, and even the waiters seemed to be looking
on with an air of fatherly approval. Greta was as loving
as ever, only now she seemed bored with having hot baths
and preferred to sit in the lounge watching the television.
It was all in Italian, of course, and he felt left out. because
he couldn’t follow it.
When he prowled disconsolately to the bar she called
out after him: “No more whisky, honey. It’s bad for you.
You Americans drink too much.”
“Oh,” he said nastily. “And I suppose your German
boy-friends don’t?”
She looked up with a wide-eyed puzzlement.
“What German boy-friends?”
“Don’t tell me there wasn’t one,” he sneered. “Up
there in Berlin.”
“Oh!” she gave an understanding laugh. “You're
jealous! You silly boy! There wasn't anyone in Berlin—
honest!”
At last he persuaded her to leave the television and
come upstairs with him. But it wasn’t the same as the first
time. He was aware of a gnawing uneasiness as he gazed
at her pink, flushed face.
“Listen,” he said. “When are we going to get married?
Then we could be together all the time, not just weekends
like this.”
Greta sighed, pulling the sheet up around her plump
neck. “Oh, dear, not again! 1 told you there's plenty of
time.”
“No there isn’t,” he traced a design on the smooth
skin of her shoulder “I’m due to go back to the States
soon, you know.”
“Oh, really?” she seemed undisturbed. “But you can
get an extension . . .” Her office handled that too.
“Do you want me to?” he asked anxiously.
Greta sat up. stretching languidly. “Of course, honey.”
she said, but he wondered agonisedly if she were just being
kind.
The next few weeks were a slow torment to him. He
imagined a new coolness in Greta, although she continued
to act the same, and he knew she wasn’t going out with any-
one else. He pestered her to give him an answer about their
getting married, but she only got irritable and cried: “Oh,
shut up about getting married, will you?”
Then one night as they were eating dinner at the E.M.
Club before a movie she said casually: “By the way. I think
maybe I’m pregnant.”
She pronounced it without the “g,” as the Italians did,
and at first he just stared at her. Then he said: “Gosh, are
you sure?”
“Don’t worry,” she said reassuringly. “I don’t have
to have it, if you can find the dough.”
“How much would it cost?” he asked, too bewildered
to reason. He was trying to remember how it could have
happened. He’d always been so careful . . . but, then, they
said no system was foolproof.
“Oh, about eighty thousan’ lire,” she shrugged. “Rosie
knows someone does it for that.”
“I bet she does,” said Cliff. He felt suddenly on alien
ground, and was swamped by doubts. “You ever had one
before?” he asked.
Greta looked at him crossly. “No, I ain’t. And that’s
not a very nice question.”


“Well,” he gulped. “Why don’t we just get married?
It’d be a lot cheaper.”
She looked cross again. “Because 1 don’t want to get
married, and I don’t want to have kids right away if 1 do.
Hell. I’m only 19. You think I want to spend the rest of
my life changing diapers?”
He’d never seen her look so peevish before.
“All right, all right,” he said, anxious to appease her.
“Don’t you worry about the eighty thousand lire. I’ll get
that all right.”
He felt sick for days afterwards. It was a horrible
business; he’d never had any experience like this before,
and he worried about it more than she did. He’d heard of
girls dying like that. But Greta only shrugged at his fears
and said it was nothing; Rosie had had three.
He gave her the money on a Friday, right after pay
day, and she said she’d arranged it all for the next day. He
wasn’t allowed to come with her, but she’d be all right.
Rosie would look after her. He could call round at the
pensione Saturday night and see how she was.
Saturday dragged by. At lunchtime he went down to
the club and got stuck into the whisky. He stayed there as
late as he could, playing the poker machines and trying
not to think about Greta. Some of the other guys wanted
him to go out on the town with them but he refused and
had dinner alone, picking at the food.
Soon after seven he left and walked around to the
pensione. He knew he wouldn’t be allowed upstairs, but he
asked for Rosie and the maid went off, gesturing him into
a sort of parlor. It was a dim, cluttered-up room that smelt
as if it hadn’t been aired for years. He walked restlessly
around it. blearily peering at the pictures on the walls—
mostly hectic oil-paintings of romantic Neapolitan scenes—-
but afterwards he couldn’t remember one of them.
After a few minutes Rosie appeared in a high-necked
black sweater which emphasised her peculiar structure.
‘ Well, how is she?” he blurted out.
Rosie gave him a nervous look, and then sat down.
“Oh. she’s fine,” she said, smiling brightly. Her front
teeth protruded Cliff noted as he sat down too.
“But I got somethin’ to tell you . . she wasn’t looking
at his eyes, but at a point somewhere on his chin.
“Yes?” he was twisting his cap between his sweaty
hands and longed to open a window..
“Well, it’s like this,” Rosie chewed on a fingernail and
then examined it with interest. “She changed her mind
like. Got scared, I guess. Anyway, she’s gone off to Rome,
to that guy she’s got there . . . she said to tell you she’s real
sorry . .
“What guy?” he stared at her so hard that she stopped
examining her nail and began fiddling with her hair.
“How do I know?” Rosie said defensively. “He’s some
Italian she met when she first come here. But he never
wanted to marry her. I guess now she reckons he’ll have
to . .
“Was she in Rome that time—when she said her father
was sick?” he asked, in a dull voice.
Rosie flashed him a quick look, to see how he was
taking it. Reassured, she said: “Yes, she was. Gee. 1 feel
kinda sorry for you. She should have told you herself. I
mean, it’s not right, leaving you like this . . .”
“Oh, that’s all right,” he got up. He couldn’t think
what else to say. Rosie followed him to the door.
“She said she’d write you,” she called as he emerged
into the street.
Oh. yes. She’d be sure to write, he thought bitterly.
The funny thing was, she did, a week or so later, ft was
only a short note, on the back of a postcard of St Peters.
“Dear Cliff.” it read. “I guess you still mad at me,
and I'm sorry, because you was always so good to me. You
betta forget me, because f was just a bitch. Anyway. I’m
getting married soon, and I hope you do too, with some
nice girl in the States. Love. Greta.”
He kept the letter in his wallet, along with the lopsided
photo of them together in the snow, for years later. He was
sentimental about things like that.


Business, Robbery, Etc.
JAPAN AND AUSTRALIA
Natural Trade Partners
‘“Friendship between Aus-
tralia and Japan is un-
doubtedly growing. It is a
natural outgrowth of the trad-
ing partnership of the two
countries, and has been stimu-
lated by the more frequent
contacts occurring these days.
As so often happens, with in-
dividuals and with nations, an
alliance born of necessity, con-
tracted without sentiment, for
bread and butter reasons, has
generated mutual respect, in-
terest and understanding.” This
view has been ably put forward
by the Japan Trade Council
in its latest review' of Japanese-
Australian trade relations.
Since the war Japan has
worked itself up to become
Australia’s best wool customer,
overtaking the United Kingdom
in 1959. Our exports of greasy
wool to Japan during the year
to June 30, 1961, rose by £11.3
million to almost £103.8 million
—despite lower wool prices.
Washed and scoured wool sold
to Japan brought in another
£2.4 million. In quantity ex-
ports of greasy wool actually
increased —from 335.3 million
lbs. in 1959-60 to 412.5 million
lbs. in 1960-61.
Japan also provides the
largest market for Australian
coal, copper and manganese
ores and concentrates, iron and
steel scrap, cattle hides and
skins and opals. It is also the
second largest importer of Aus-
tralian wheat, lead ores and
concentrates and inedible tal-
low. Other important Aus-
tralian exports to Japan in-
clude sugar, zinc ores and con-
centrates and meat and meat
products.
Australia buys from Japan
about half as much as it sells.
Textiles, yarns, manufactured
fibres and apparel have been
the main import items. But
now Japan is trying to place
more emphasis on heavy and
medium machinery, electrical
engineering goods, rolling stock,
optical and scientific instru-
ments and other capital equip-
ment. Mr M. Naganuma, a
leading Japanese financier and
senior adviser to the Japanese
External Trade Organisation
and the Ministry of Inter-
national Trade and Industry
recently told The Bulletin
that Japan is trying particularly
hard to develop a large Aus-
tralian market for Japanese
medium and heavy machinery.
Mr Naganuma said that Japan-
ese exporters fully realise that
cheaper Japanese textiles are a
strain on the Australian textile
industry.
Britain’s entry into the Euro-
pean Common Market must
cause a shift in the direction
of at least 20 p.c. of our cur-
rent foreign trade. It is here
that Japan may play an ex-
tremely important long run
role. In many ways it will be
able to replace the United
Kingdom, both as a market and
a supplier. Of course, to sell
more we will have to buy more.
But with Japan it may not be
so difficult.
Both the United Kingdom
and Japan are major industrial
countries, which import prim-
ary produce and raw mate-
rials. Both cannot produce
enough food to support their
large populations. Both buy
the raw materials for their
industries. And both depend
on international trade for their
existence.
Australian trade with Britain
does not really conflict with
her own industrial growth,
although the United Kingdom
offers only a limited market
for manufactured and indus-
trial goods. In broad terms,
the United Kingdom and Aus-
tralian economies are largely
complementary.
Japan is in much the same
position. It is an industrial
nation with a rapidly growing
economy, and must import
both food and raw materials.
Australia’s secondary indus-
tries pose no grave threat to
Japan’s markets for consumer
and producer goods. In fact,
Japan can become a major sup-
plier of capital goods to Aus-
tralia and, over the next five to
15 years, the two economies can
move forward rapidly on com-
plementary lines. Australia has
a good start, having enjoyed
substantial favorable trade
balances with Japan over the
past few years.
No doubt, for quite some
time Japan will not be able to
match Britain as a market for
Australian meat and dairy pro-
duce. However, the rapidity
with which Japanese standards
of living and eating habits have
been changing is most en-
couraging. Rising prosperity
in Japan means greater con-
sumption of bread and meat,
and Australia has been supply-
ing both in increasing quan-
tities.
Not all the British meat and
dairy produce market need be
lost if Britain joins the Com-
mon Market. Nor can it be
expected that an exact replica
of the U.K. market could be
developed in Japan. Australian
export output will have to face
several readjustments, particu-
larly in the dairy industry.
New industries may have to
develop to cater specifically
to the Japanese market, just
as j tries tQ produce goods
desiened £or Austla i ia „ con .
sumer testes. This is part of
t^e game
It is also rea sonable to expect
that j invest in Aus _
traJian proiects designed
to develop sources of supply of
raw materiak for the Japanese
industry it is encouraging that
the Japanese have often inti-
mated they would have no
desire to control companies
developing these resources with
the aid of Japanese capital,
Japan merely wants assured
sources of supply and seems
prepared to participate financi-
ally, leaving the controlling in-
terest in Australian hands.
NEW CALEDONIA
Noumea Market Widens
A ustralian exporters have
good chances of expanding
their business with French New
Caledonia. A special trade
mission comprising 19 tepre-
sentatives of Australian manu-
facturing, commercial and
banking interests nas recently
made a successful trip to
Noumea, New Caledonia’s
tropical capital. The Minister
for Trade, Mr .1. McEwen, said
that “substantial sales” of food,
building materials and other
products were made. Some
items included goods never be-
fore sold to New Caledonia.
The New Caledonian Gov-
ernment will also import a
quantity of prefabricated build-
ings for its development pro-
gramme.
The trade mission’s leader,
Mr T. H. F. Spalding, reported
“firm inquiries” for many other
lines. The mission also visited
Fiji.
Australian commercial in-
•terest in New Caledonia has
been growing over the last few
months. Although most of the
island's imports come from the
European Common Market
countries, Australia —the next
door neighbor with much lower
freight costs —could become a
major supplier.
New Caledonia itself is in-
terested in attracting Australian
and New Zealand tourists —the
climate is warm and pleasant,
and there is plenty of scope for
water sports, big game fishing
and hunting.
At the recent Sydney Trade
Fair New Caledonia's attrac-
tively designed stand in the
French Pavilion was very popu-
lar. Mr J. Mulders, managing
director of Coraltours. a Syd-
ney travel agency particularly
interested in promoting Aus-
tralian tourism in New Cale-
donia, who was in charge of
the stand, told The Bulletin
that the number of travel in-
quiries handled by him and his
staff was “most encouraging.''
Mr Mulders feels that at the
moment the main handicap to
a rapid increase in the flow of
tourists is the shortage of hotel
accommodation in New Cale-
donia. He feels there are pos-
sibilities of investing Australian
capital in new tourist hotels
near Noumea. But some more
immediate plans were damp-
ened by the credit restrictions.
Mr Mulders also said that he
hoped that French tourists
from New Caledonia would
come to Australia for holiday
trips in increasing numbers.
The TAI provides a quick and


sgr
Your Estate, whether it consists of real
estate, a business, or investment holdings,
may attract much higher Death Duties than
you think—leaving far less than you
imagined for your beneficiaries.
Expert advice on Estate Planning, and the
setting up of a Family Trust, designed to
meet your personal requirements, can
result in appreciable savings through
reduced Tax and Death Duties, and help
conserve your assets, both during your
lifetime and afterwards.
Appointment of the Company as Trustee
of the Family Trust ensures competent
counsel and management of all matters by
specialists—at moderate charges.
Why not examine, without delay, the advan-
tages of such an arrangement—in a
confidential discussion of your financial
affairs?
UNION
‘TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria)
333 Collins St, Melbourne, C.l.
20 O'Connell St., Sydney.
395-402 Queen St., Brisbane.
Also at Newcastle, Albury, Toowoomba,
Rockhampton. Townsville and Charleville.
UTSaa.SSJ*
efficient air link with Noumea,
and there is a growing interest
in Australian ski sports.
Metropolitan France could
gradually increase its intake of
Australian wool as the Com-
mon Market's needs expand.
French trade officials have
long been trying to push French
exports to Australia, but with
only a modest success. At
present, the emphasis is on
selling French capital equip-
ment to Australia.
Speaking at a press confer-
ence in Sydney, Mr L. Charvet,
vice-president of the French
Steelmakers’ Association and a
member of the “Conseil Econo-
mique et Sociale de la Repub-
lique Franqaise,” said that
France realised that Australia
would soon become self-suffici-
ent in most kinds of steel.
However, he felt that France
could still supply both the
varieties of steel not yet pro-
duced here in adequate quanti-
ties and heavy machinery,
which would help Australia to
increase its industrial capacity.
It appears that since his
departure some progress was
made along these lines.
MOTOR VEHICLES
Car Manufacturers Reply
From MR W.W.W. DAUNT
Secretary of the Federal Chamber of Automotive Industries
T think it is necessary to reply
to three points of criticism
of the motor industry which
were implicit in articles appear-
ing on pages 11, 43 and 45 of
your edition of 19th August
last.
These were that: the motor
industry was to be censured for
the dismissals of staff that had
taken place since 15th Novem-
ber, 1960 ; the prices of motor
vehicles in Australia were too
high ; and the industry had re-
ceived every consideration from
the Government from the
earliest days and, therefore, was
shortsiehted to try to “intimi-
date’ - it into easing up on sales
tax and credit restrictions.
Answering the one on dis-
missals is very easy. One of
the aims of the Government’s
restrictions of 15th November.
1960, was to effect a re-alloca-
tion of labor from those indns-
tries which, it considered, were
operating at too high a level of
activity (motors and building).
Obviously, dismissals in the
motor industry were to be ex-
pected, and yet. every time that
these have occurred there has
been a loud outcry. The respon
sibility for retrenchments in
labor in the vehicle factories
quite clearly rests on the Gov-
ernment.
It is significant that members
of the Government, in their
more recent pronouncements,
have studiously avoided any
references to “reallocation of
labor.” The unfortunate un-
employed have been reallo-
cated to twiddling their thumbs
and tightening their belts.
The question of prices is
governed by costs of produc-
tion, the main ingredients of
which are material and labor
costs. Reduction of costs can
be achieved when the purchas-
ing power of money is stable,
by increasing production for an
expanding market. The latter
phenomenon has occurred in
the Australian motor industry
over the last ten years, but it
must be realised that costs of
material and labor have risen
substantially during that period,
The consumer price index re-
yeals an increase of 37 per cent,
In the cost-of-living since 1952.
retail prices of most dur-
able consumer goods have also
risen during that period, but it
1S significant that vehicle prices
have not shown any appreciable
int^ ease .’ ... , .
To . ,llu i ,rat t Q * h,s - ] e ‘ u ?
exam, " e tde 1952 , and
P™*» f ° r ,w .° P°P L ; llar , mod f a
o£ faml| y sedan-Vehlcle A
a Slxc s' ,indei . , m . edlpnl
car P roduced b * ,he
Australian subs,d,ary of an
*™ r \ can .. D „ and
Veh ‘ c e . ®, a four-cylinder
model ‘ n ‘ he '« ht A car , c ass
P™ du , ced by the Australian
subs,diary of a Brittsh com-
P»"V- Both have been in steady
demand over the last ten years,
1952. 1961. Fall.
Vehicle “A” .. £895 £BB5 —£ 10
Vehicle "B .. £795 £796 +£l
In the case of Vehicle “A,”
the 1961 model has been im-
proved as follows: weight has
been increased by 241 lbs. ; it
is 10 inches longer; improved
springing, heavier tyres and
wheels ; electrical system in-
creased to 12 volts ; electric
wipers instead of vacuum;
more expensive acrylic lacquer
finish ; inclusion of Hashing
light turn indicators and wrap-
around windscreen ; mechanical
and body improvements.
In the case of Vehicle “B,”
in addition to overall mechani-
cal improvements, the engine
power has been increased by
50 per cent, and it now has
overhead instead of side
valves. Heater, demister, screen
washers and self - cancelling
trafficators are now standard
equipment. The car is roomier
and more comfortable.
I think it is sufficient com-
ment to say that, for a con-
siderably lower outlay in real
money the consumer can now
buy a much better product.
The above examples are
typical of what has happened
in price stabilisation and vehicle
improvement in Australia. With
some 14 companies in the


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£A363,000, 000
•
Offices :
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, NX
vehicle production field, the
Australian user has as wide
a range of vehicles to choose
from as in almost any country
in the world.
That prices to the consumer
have risen is due to the heavier
sales tax content. In just under
12 years, tax on cars has risen
from 10 p.c. to 30 p.c. (40 p.c.
from November, 1960, to Feb-
ruary, 1961) and on commercial
vehicles from 8j p.c. to 16f p.c.
Important factors ignored by
critics of vehicle prices are:
that the 1961 motor car is a con-
siderably better product than
that in 1952 ; that such pro-
gress is only achieved through
the expenditure of great sums
of money on research and ex-
perimentation , that the per-
centage profit on a motor
vehicle is considerably lower
than on practically any other
type of durable consumer
goods ; that the “trade-in” is an
accepted part of nearly all new
vehicle sales. When a buyers’
market exists, and such has
existed for many years now,
keen competition often forces
the dealer to accept a loss on
the trade-in. This comes out
of his profit. In such cases the
purchaser is, of course, getting
his new car at lower than the
retail price.
The argument that the Gov-
ernment has shown every con-
sideration for the motor indus-
try is extremely suspect. Dis-
criminatory fiscal treatment of
the industry has been in force
ever since the Menzies Govern-
ment was returned to office in
1949. Sales tax levels have
been raised as described above
and in spite of quite clear
promises at the time of the
“Little Budget” in March, 1956,
that the sales tax rises were only
temporary, the only change in
sales tax levels since that time
has been an increase from 30
p.c. to 40 p.c. on cars and
station wagons imposed in
November, 1960.
Whenever the Government
has decided to apply its heavy-
handed economic brakes, it has
been the motor industry that
has borne the brunt of its
measures. The Commonwealth
Government was estimated to
have enjoyed a revenue of
£lsom. in 1960-61 from the
operations of the motor and
related industries (and State
Governments collectively a
further £som.). Very little of
this enormous revenue will be
ploughed back into national
projects to ameliorate condi-
tions for motor users or the
industry.
To expect the industry to sit
back meekly and never give
voice to criticism when such
treatment is handed out is
surely a little too much to ex-
pect. The truth is that the
motor and related industries
have contributed immeasurably
to the war effort of 1939-45 and
to the progress and prosperity
which Australia has enjoyed
since then. They have made an
enormous contribution to the
diversification of production
which is so essential an ingredi-
ent in the achievement of a
balanced economy.
The industries concerned
have absorbed a very large per-
centage of the migrants to this
country and spent huge sums
of money teaching them skills
which have enhanced the
nation's productive capacity
and enabled the migrants to
enjoy a standard of living to
which they could never have
aspired in the countries from
which they came. The indus-
try has faith in the future, there
is no doubt about that, but it
cannot accept forever the role
of whipping boy in these recur-
ring and unnecessary economic
crises, without making strenu-
ous attempts to obtain more
equitable treatment.
EXPORT TRENDS
Looking Eastward
By MALCOLM ELLIS
'T'he International Industrial
Conference which meets at
San Francisco on September
11-15 will provide a magnificent
platform from which Aus-
tralia’s opportunities can be
publicised. And it is evidence
of the new spirit which is grow-
ing up in Australian commerce
that organisations like the Aus-
tralian Industries Development
Association are grabbing at the
chances offered in a way worthy
of a country which is making
seething progress.
The outside world must find
something fantastic in the dis-
crepancy between the facts of
surging growth, which have
been summarised in a brochure
which the Association has pre-
pared, and the jeremiads of
people like Mr Arthur Calwell
who seem bent on persuading
the world at large that the Aus-
tralian economy is wilting,
diseased by the awful blight of
the Menzies Government, white
anted to the core with destruc-
tive unemployment and head-
ing for the precipice (unless the
Labor party is returned to
power at the next Federal
election) at about seven miles
a minute.
Viewed from outside, especi-
ally in the United States and
Canada—with their still large
quotas of unemployment and
recession in key industries—the
Commonwealth must look like
an island paradise in the light
of the kind of facts that the
A.I.D.A. has set out before the
conference.
They are facts which Aus-
tralians themselves would find
that it pays to look at closely.
The overall reality is that at
the moment, in terms of total
trade Australia ranks twelfth
among the great trading
nations, tenth on the basis of
trade per head of population.
But her opportunities as an
exporting nation show the field
to be practically wide open.
Only 15 p.c. of total output is
exported. Primary industries
are the main contributors to her
income, despite the paradoxical
fact that well over 50 per cent,
of the total population live in
the six State capitals, and a lot
of the rest as close to them as
they can get.
There is the further paradox
that, while Australian pros-
perity and power to trade
abroad depends on primary
industry exports, the trend is
tow'ards industrialisation of the
population
Manufacturing employs 30
per cent, of the whole national
work force and its financial
product is a third of the
national income. The net value
of manufacturing industry is
50 per cent, greater than that
of the primary industries—
mining included.
It could be said that Aus-
tralia started from scratch
after the depression—a nation
undeveloped industrially and
dependent for its existence and
any growth at all on primary
industry exports. It was out
on the end of the longest haul
in the world to crucial export
markets, an isolated unit. But
in the under 30 years since
the world depression began to
lift, with six years of war in
the middle of it. it has made a
kind of progress which is
unique in “new” countries.
It has absorbed a million and
a half immigrants since 1947,
in years which have been re-
markable for the impact of
abnormal and suddenly expand-
ing birthrates during the war.
It has done this without caus-
ing unemployment on any scale
or even filling market require-
ments for labor in some skilled
trades. Its population has in-
creased since 1938 by about 50
per cent., about 75 per cent,
of the increase having taken
place since the war. A country
which, with a population scal-
ing up from seven to ten mil-
lions, has found internally
about 90 per cent, of the
£lO,OOO million spent on public
works and private industrial
development in a decade, in a
period following the disruption
both of production and markets
during the war, can scarcely be
accused of being on the way to
the dogs.
Its vitality is shown by the
expansion of primary produc-


§||ik your banker
br stockbroker...
Mk ; <
" 'Vv:;:
m
m
am >
tSdAY’S
SAFEST FINANCIA
INVESTMENT
Reg.
First
Mortgage
Debenture
Stock
P.A. for
8 and 10 years
REID MURRAY
Acceptance Limited
FIXED LONG TERM STOCK
SHORT TERM NOTICE STOCK
7 Va^o
P.A. on 12
mths. notice
6°?o
P.A. on 6
mths. notice
s<Yo
P.A. on 3
mths. notice
4<7b
P.A. at call
Applications accepted only on forms attached to the Prospectus, Available from:
REiD MURRAY ACCEPTANCE LTD.
403 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 67-1924
Any branch of the
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Any member of a
RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE IN AUST.
Or Joint Underwriting Brokers
TOLHURST, HENLEY, MUNCKTON & CO.
401 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melb.
CUTTEN & HARVEY
97 King William Street, Adelaide
408 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of Stock Exchange of Adelaide Ltd.
PAID UP CAPITAL £7,000,000
RMA.I9
GUARANTEED BY REID MURRAY HOLDINGS LTD.
tion by 40 per cent, in the
19505, despite the fact that the
falls in world prices largely
pared down the advantages to
be gained by this. Manufac-
turing output rose by 72 p.c.
in the same decade and employ-
ment by only 17 per cent.,
representing an increase of pro-
ductivity per employee of
nearly 5 per cent, in every
year. Vast expansion in the
building industry in the decade
is too apparent to need com-
ment, especially when seen
against the years of building
stagnation that preceded it.
The A.I.D.A. estimates that
the increase in population by
1970 wiil be about 25 per cent.,
the work force by 30 per cent,
and the teenage population by
50 per cent.
It is obvious that the major
problem now is expansion of
exports above the present level
of 15 p.c. of total output. The
approach to this problem is
changing over from the old-
fashioned stress on unprocessed
products of the soil, vegetable,
animal and mineral, to a more
sophisticated emphasis on the
export of processed products.
The raw material idea obviously
has only frustration immedi-
ately ahead, and thinking and
practical men like Mr Warren
McDonald continually stress
that mere increase of produc-
tion, especially with expanding
costs, is a bull-at-a-gate pro-
ceeding, which in the end must
produce a caved-in forehead
and broken horns unless
markets are ready to take up
those increases.
The total net value of the
production of rural industries,
as shown by the A.I.D.A.'s
meticulous booklet, rose by
£2oom. in a decade from
over £lOOO millions in 1950-51.
But overall, while the quantity
of rural production during the
decade rose by 40 per cent., the
overall value of rural produc-
tion rose by only 22 per cent.
Australia needs to concen-
trate on a change in policy,
which will give it the benefit
of the value added to raw
materials of the land by carry-
ing manufacture to the point
of finish. Labor costs are
against it ; but local manufac-
ture of wool, for instance,
seems a better avenue of
approach to the problem of
wilting export values than mere
promotion and the expenditure
of millions on telling the world
of raw wool buyers what they
already know.
At least, if we cannot sell to
a United States which has gone
nylon-minded, the effort should


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company of
Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlement of claims
Directors:
ALFRED S. WHITE, Esq., Chairman ; E. G. CONEN, Esq., T. K. MAGNET,
Esq., A. G. PARKER, Esq., DOUGLAS WADLEY, Esq.
H. H. MOULTON, Esq., Managing Director. B. J. LANE, Esq., Manager.
’Phone: BU 7401. (Branches in all States ) 16/20 Bridge Street, Sydney.
I
■F
Qio/ per annum
** * /0 6-10 years
9 0/ per annum
/G 4-5 years
BJ.O/ per annum
2' O 2-3 years
8 0/ per annum
;1 2 mths (fixed)
7*%
per annum
° 9 mths notice
7 %
per annum .
6 mths notice
#5 O/ per annum
” '° 3 mths notice
RE
AC
Interest payable
quarterly
free of exchange
invest with
confidence
in a company with a sound growth
record and secure asset backing . . .
ideal lor either long or short term
investment.
first mortgage
debenture stock:
in multiples of £lOO, payable in full upon ap-
plication, . . . unconditionally guaranteed by
Retailers Acceptance Ltd. . . . assets exceed
£3,400,000 . . . registers Sydney and Brisbane
TAILERS
CEPTANCE
(QLD.) LTD. 280 Pitt Street, Sydney. Phone MA 2373
, 509 Queen Street, Brisbane. Phone 31 1951
Underwriting Brokers:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL 20 O'Connell St.. Sydney, &
340 Queen St.. Brisbane.
LIONEL A. McFADYEN & CO. . 20 ° 'Connell St.. Sydney, &
Musgrave St.. Port Moresby.
(Members.: Sydney Sleek Exchange)
LANCE JONES & CO. 108 Oeek St., Brisbane, &
108 Victoria St.. Mackay.
(Members: Brisbane Stock Exchange)
Banker for the issue: BANK of NEW SOUTH WALES
Trustee for the Debenture Stockholders:
BANK of NEW SOUTH WALES NOMINEES PTY. LTD.
Prospectus and Applications:
Applications accepted only on the application form attached to the Prospectus
which may be obtained from • any member of a recognised Stock E*chang<
• Retailers Acceptance (Qld.) Ltd. Sydney and Brisbane • all
Bank of New South Wales in N.S.W,, <a'[d.f.nd N*» Guinea « the officei
of the underwriting broker*. ® .f Ml* VuiSES
be made to develop a national
scheme of wool manufacture
backed by inducements to Aus-
tralians to use their home
grown wool in place of im-
ported artificials or wool manu-
factured abroad.
Generally speaking, the trade
figures utter an alarmed call to
us to pull up our socks —a call
which has become much louder
with the shadow of the Euro-
pean Common Market hang-
ing over it. Our total imports
from Europe (though showing
a decline of 9.5 per cent, to
52 per cent.) have increased
from £457m. in 1950-51 to
£4B2m. in 1959-60, but our
total exports to Europe in the
same period declined from
59.5 to 48.4 p.c. of the total.
The value of expc.ts declined
from £sB4m. to £453m.
In 1950-51 the trade balance
was 20 per cent, in our favor
in exchange of goods with
Europe ; in 1959-60 £2B mil-
lions against us. In 1950-51
our exports to North America
were worth double our imports
from that continent. Last year
the value of imports from
North America was almost
exactly double our export
income in return.
The whole of our gains in
the trade balance have been
made in Asia and “other
countries” N.Z., Africa,
Soviet bloc, etc. Our exports to
Japan have more than doubled
in value since 1951 —then they
represented 6.3 of our total
sales abroad in terms of value,
now more than 15 per cent,
and growing.
The sales to the Far East
in 1959-60 were going on for
£230 millions, double the figure
of 1950-51 and nearly a
quarter of the whole export
return. Those to all “other
countries” —other than Europe,
North America and Far East
—went up from £llO millions
to £167.5 millions in the boom-
ing decade, an increase of
6.7 p.c. of the total.
We sold these Far Eastern
and “other countries” last year
£394 million worth of goods
and materials, or 42 per cent,
of the whole export return.
We bought from them £265
million worth of goods, com-
ing out on the right side of
the balance by £129 millions.
In Europe, however, we came
out on the wrong side by £2B
millions on a larger trade by
a third. And in North America
(U.S. and Canada) last year
we were on the wrong side by
almost exactly the value of
our exports—£B9.B deficit, the
Americans selling us goods
double the value of those they
bought.
There is no doubt about
where our markets are develop-
ing and what markets for
bulk primary products, heavy
machinery and manufactures
in the right price range, and
of the right kind, are going
to repay active salesmanship in
the next few years.


A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building:,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31 2761
(4 Lines)
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
R. H. ALLEN, M. R. L. DOWLING
P. R. LEVY, A. P. REYNOLDS. N. R.
COURSE (Melbourne Resident Partner).
Deifin House, 16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Building, 150 Queen St.,
Melbourne. 61-5957 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables: “Rosdale,” Sydney.
Melbourne or Wollongong.
JOHN N. ROBERTSON
Member of the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKER.
Temple Court,
422 Collins Street, Melbourne C.l.
Telephones: 67 4804, 67 246 S
Telegrams & Cables:
ROBFALK, MELBOURNE
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Kandos Cement Co. Ltd
The output of cement is one of the
major indicators of basic economic
activity. It is, therefore, encouraging to
note that despite the slump in several
industries which has followed last
November’s severe credit restrictions
Australian production of portland
cement actually rose from 2,632,000 tons
in 1959-60 to 2,861,000 tons in 1960-61.
Output of cement building sheets and
cement roofing tiles was a bit lower, due
to the slowing down of building activity.
Higher production of cement indicates
that the basic sector of the economy has
benefited to some extent from the stric-
tures placed on consumer goods pro-
ducers. However, it has not as yet been
able to expand sufficiently to absorb
surplus labor displaced from the non-
essential sector.
On the whole, the cement market in
New South Wales and Victoria has con-
tinued to offer steady demand. This has
allowed the cement industry to plan
ahead for future expansion—an import-
ant factor because the supply of cement
is relatively inelastic.
Registered in N.S.W. in 1920, the
efficient and quietly prosperous Kandos
Cement Co. Ltd is an equal partner with
Australian Cement Ltd in the operating
company —Australian Portland Cement
Pty, one of Australia’s leading cement
manufacturers.
At June 30, 1961, both partners held
2,350,000 20s. shares in Australian Port-
land Cement Pty. Last term the joint
subsidiary's authorised capital was lifted
by £3,000,000 to £8,000,000. A.P.C.’s
works at Kandos in N.S.W. and Geelong
in Victoria each produced a “record
tonnage of cement” —the actual produc-
tion figure was not disclosed. Despite
delays caused by circumstances over
which the company had no control
the new production unit at Kandos will
commence operations “in the near
future.”
The Geelong plant will raise its annual
production capacity to 800,000 tons and
the necessary orders for plant and equip-
ment have already been placed.
In addition to its half-interest in A.P.C.,
Kandos Cement controls Kandos Col-
lieries Pty —which supplies the Kandos
cement works with coal from the near-
by N.S.W. western coalfields —and Pipe
Linings (Australasia) Pty Last term a
bonus-issue of 7000. fully-paid 20s. ords.
was received from Pipe Linings. Kandos
revalued its holding in this subsidiary,
writing up the books by £9OOO.
Both Kandos and Australian Cement
endeavor to finance most of their ex-
pansion by extensive ploughbacks of
earnings. Last term fresh capital secured
by the one-for-five par issue in May, 1960
—which had lifted paid capital of Kandos
Cement from £1,403,880 to £1,684,656 in
20s. ords. —joined the profit-earning
effort.
A.P.C. Pty provides most of the com-
pany’s income, but its profits are shown
in the accounts of Kandos Cement only
to the extent of dividends paid by the
subsidiary.
The disclosed net profit for the year
ended June 30, 1961, was a solid £67,191
higher at £227,330, after providing a
nominal £4OOO tax provision (down £500),
unrelated to actual profits because most
of the earnings come from dividends paid
by the joint subsidiary.
The dividend rate was lifted from 10
p.c. to 124 p.c., despite a larger paid
capital. The payout amounted to
£210,582 leaving £16,748 to reserves,
which had also benefited by £9OOO re-
valuation of assets and were shown at
£767,058:
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1954.. 83.328 10 p.c. = 74,874 8,454 560,945
1955.. 102,378 121 „ ~93,592 8,786 569,731
Shares in Australian Portland Cement
Pty., Ltd., revalued, £660,000.. 1,229.731
Reserves capitalised, £655,144 .. 574,587
1956.. 150,133 10 p.c. =140,388 9,745 584,332
Special div., A.P.C., £90,000 .. 674,333
1957.. 155,088 10 p.c. =140,388 14,700 689,033
1958.. 155.320 10 „ „ 140.358 14,932 703,965
1959.. 157,983 10 „ ~ 140,388 17,595 721,559
1960.. 160,139 10 „ ~140,388 19,751 741,310
Revaluation shares subsidiary, £9OOO 750,310
1961.. 227,330 121 p.c. =210,582 16,748 767,058
It appears that a higher volume of earn-
ings was disclosed to cover the fatter
dividend cheque. Normally, Kandos
Cement discloses its net earnings in such
a way as to leave a small visible surplus
after satisfying the dividend requirements.
Apart from the increase of the share-
holding in A.P.C. and a fall in cash and
bonds, there were no dramatic changes
in the balance-sheet:
1959. 1960. 1961.
Paid capital . £1,403,880 £1,403,880 £1,684,656
Application moneys
new issue . 124,827
Reserves . . . 721,559 741,310 767,058
Creditors and tax
orovision .. 5,917 6,251 4,995
Final divs. .. 70,194 70,194 105,291
£2,201,550 £2,346,462 £2,562,000
Shares in Australian
Portland Cement
Pty Ltd .. 2,000,000 2,000,000 2,350,000
Loan to Pipe
Linings (A/sia) 5,000 5,000 14,000
Shares other cos. 34,227 34,227
Due by subsid. .. 4,000
Cash, bonds, etc.. . 192,550 307,235 163,773
£2,201,550 £2,346,462 £2,562,000
Investments in “other companies” were
shown at the unchanged book value of
£34,227.
There is little doubt that Kandos and
its partner face a bright and prosperous
future. Economic expansion and popu-
lation growth assure a steady rise in
demand for cement.
The company’s scrip commands a high
premium on the sharemarket. The 20s.
ords. had recovered quickly after the
November jitters, accompanied by fears
that U.K.’s Blue Circle interests—
of which Commonwealth Portland
Cement is an Australian offshoot—would
eat substantially into A.P.C.’s market
after the new Blue Circle plant begins
operating in Victoria.
However, this British venture is costly
and the new plant will initially be small
by comparison to A.P.C.’s cement works,
especially when the installation of addi-
tional plant to raise output capacity at
Geelong to 800,000 tons a year is com-
pleted.
Kandos shares jumped from about 50s.
in late 1960 to the vicinity of 60s. in
January, 1961. At the last sale in Sydney
the 20s. ords. fetched 78s. 6d. a unit,
showing remarkable stamina in difficult
times. The immediate yield is 3.2 p.c. on
the basis of the new 12| p.c. dividend
distribution.
Net tangible asset backing is 295. Id.
for each 20s. ord. on the basis of con-
servative book values.


+LA
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters
Ideal for farms, stations and for
hot-water systems, and household
requirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last a
lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
i Agents and manufacturers of “Curvi-
linear” Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic
Machines and Ellison Switch Gear.
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720)
Assets exceed £177,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
Kindersley House, Bligh/O’Connell Streets, SYDNEY
F. H. Egerton, Manager for Australia.
Finance Corporation of
Australia Ltd
Spectacular development had
been the keynote of hire-
purchase activity ever since the
end of World War 11. In 1945
an infant of doubtful paren-
tage, yesterday a lusty and
legitimate adult, the industry
can look back on an ado-
lescence remarkable for color-
ful and dynamic growth.
Initial rates of growth had
already given way to steadier
expansion when the Federal
Government brought down
credit restrictions in Novem-
ber, 1960. The boom was even
then tending to flatten out.
It is now abruptly ended. Fail-
ing the advent of more buoyant
conditions and/or new and as
yet unenvisaged stimuli, h.-p.
cos. will be hard put to con-
tinue the “sky-the-limit” profit-
growth patterns of past years.
The decision to abandon, as
from the end of the fiscal year,
the temporary legislation intro-
duced in November, 1960, dis-
allowing as taxation deductions
interest charges on capital
raisings by debentures and
deposits, can be reckoned on
restoring some degree of con-
fidence to the h.-p. industry, as
also the budgetary reduction
of sales tax (a boost to con-
sumer spending) on a wide
variety of household furniture
and furnishings. But prospects,
generally, remain tight.
After reaching a peak of
£449.7 million in December,
1960, the public’s outstanding
debt to h.-p. cos. fell progres-
sively, month by month, to
reach £405.6 million at the end
of last June (down £44.1 mil-
lion) and provisional figures
indicate a further fall of £8
million in July. The number
of new agreements negotiated
in June, at 59,045 (106,867 new
agreements were negotiated in
June, 1960), was the lowest
since statistics (monthly statis-
tics) were first tabled by the
Commonwealth Statistician in
January, 1956.
Finance Corporation of Aus-
tralia Ltd kicked off to a good
start late in 1954. The co.
found its feet immediately, and
profits rose in leaps and
bounds. In 1959 they soared
£64,415 to £152,472 to register
more than 73 p.c. above the
1958 figure of £88,057. In 1960
they jumped £74,333, or 49 p.c.,
to £226,805. In the 12 months
to June 30, 1961 they showed
a further, but smaller, rise of
£36,446, or 16 p.c., and at
£263,251, reckoned after tax,
£253,811 (up £76,984), and
depreciation, £28,224 (up
£18,487), constituted an all-
time group record. The tax
provision appears to be exces-
sive, implying a net profit
nearer the £380,000 mark:
Parent Co.
Re-
June Profit. f —Dividend— N serves.*
30. £ £ £
1956.. 54,673 10 p.c.= 45,000 10,584
1957.. 81,142 10 ~ „ 50,000 41,726
Parent and Subsidiary.
Tax overprovided, £4343 46,069
1958.. 88,057 10 p.c.= 50,000 84,126
1959. .152,472 10 „ ~ 60,417 176,181
1960. .226,805 10 ~ ~103,125 299,801
Tax underprovided,
£10.740 .. • • 289,121
1961. .263,251 10 „ ~146,633 405,739
* Subject to intangibles, £66,787 at
June 30, 1961.
Despite the higher profits,
earning rate on average paid
capital fell from 21.9 p.c. to
18 p.c. following 25 p.c., 17.6
p.c. and 16.2 p.c. back to 1957.
During the year, in October.
1960, a first and final call of
ss. per share was made on
1,000,000 shares of 10s. each
(issued one-for-two at par,
March, 1960) thereby increas-
ing paid -up capital to
£1,500,000. And then equity
was further increased to
£1,626,138, its present register,
by an issue of 1,000,000 shares,
one-for-ten at par, books clos-
ing March 24, 1961, payable
2s. 6d. on application by May
1. The remaining 7s. 6d. per
share is payable in three instal-
ments of 2s. 6d. each on
November 1, 1961, May 1,
1962. and November 1, 1962.
Of the profits, £146,633 was
paid out by way of dividends —-
the rate has been 10 p.c. since
the co.’s inception. The
balance, £116,618, went to
reserves, lifting them from
£299,861 to £405,740, subject
to intangibles, £66,787 at close
of the accounts.
In the present economic
climate Finance Corporation's
performance must be construed
as more than satisfactory
Directors anticipated as early
as August, 1960, “that a peak
in commerce and industry was
approaching*’ and accordingly
“that it would be prudent to
conserve the company’s funds
to maintain adequate liquid-
ity.” Bank balances and
deposits were maintained at a
high level and the co. con-
tinued underwriting arrange-
ments for short-term borrow-
ings as protection against any
sudden reduction in the
amount of short-term money
available. Expansion was
limited so as to keep up a fully
liquid position from funds
otherwise available for invest-
ment. A policy of diversifica-
tion was adhered to and busi-
ness was conducted on a con-
servative basis. Interstate
offices were responsible for a
major share of the new busi-
ness written, the co. restricting
certain types of loans —particu-
larly in N.S.W. —because of the
unsuitability to present-day
conditions of the law relating
to money lending. Losses from
bad debts and repossessions
were of minor significance and
the total liability for interest
on borrowed funds is deduct-
ible for income-tax purposes.
These various factors add up
to managerial foresight and an
appreciation, sadly lacking in
some instances, of the general
state of the economy.
Sponsored, initially, by Auto-
mobile Finance Co. Ltd, which
brought along valuable connec-
tions with the Weymouth
(Adelaide) group of car and
tractor distributors, Finance
Corporation was soon under
the protective wing of the
Bank of Adelaide, the bank,
with a 40 p.c. shareholding,
being joined by Adelaide
retailer John Martin and Co.
Ltd, as substantial share-
holders. Automobile Finance
was taken over by its erstwhile
protege in January, 1958, and
is now a wholly-owned sub-
sidiary of F.C.A.
F.C.A. is the largest finance
organisation constituted in
South Australia. Till recently
its operations were confined
within the home State, but this
policy has been set aside “to
satisfy an ever-increasing
demand from the eastern
States” and branch offices are
now opened in Melbourne,
Sydney, Brisbane and Perth.
Originally the co. provided
finance facilities for the
acquisition of motor vehicles,
tractors, farming and horticul-
tural equipment, industrial
machinery and domestic
appliances, but four years ago
it extended its range of activi-
ties to the real-estate sphere,
financing first-mortgage loans
on land and second-mortgage
loans on housing.
The latest balance-sheet, at
June 30, 1961, reflects healthy
growth and ample liquidity.
Loan capital, comprising first-
mortgage debentures and de-
posits, but excluding sundry
creditors and accruals £130,849
(up £15,487), advanced
£1,837,181 to £13,891,921 to
aggregate 7.1 times share-
holders’ funds, less intangibles


m
FINANCE & INVESTMENT
COMPANY LIMITED
SHAREHOLDERS' FUNDS, £891,419.
TANGIBLE ASSETS, £3,184,264.
INTEREST RATES FOR DEPOSITS
(NOW CALLED UNSECURED DEPOSIT NOTES)
WITH RIGHT OF RECALL
ON 30 DAYS’ NOTICE
3 months . . . . 5V2% m.
6 months . . . . 6% p.a.
9 months . ; . . 6!/2% p.a.
12 months . i . . 7% p.a.
18 months . ; ; . 7V2% p.a.
• FIXED DEPOSITS
2 years . . ; ; . 8% p.a.
3 years 8V270 p.a.
AND OVER
APPLICATIONS must be made
on the form enclosed with the
prospectus, which is obtainable
from
Members of the Stock Exchange
ANY BRANCH OF A.N.Z. BANK
The Registered Office of the Com-
pany, William & Crown Sts.,
Sydney. Telephone FA 0322.
Financing world-
famous products
distributed by
The Hastings
Deering Group
of Companies.
FORD
Cars and Trucks
FORDSON
Tractors
A.E.C.
Trucks & Buses
CATERPILLAR
Diesel Tractors
in Queensland
HYSTER
Fork Lift Trucks
in Queensland
JOHN DEERE
Agricultural
Machinery
in Queensland
LISTER
Engines
GROUP SALES
IN 1960
£14,757,281
MAIL THIS COUPON
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE &
INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
G.P.O. Box 4333, Sydney.
Please send me, without any obligation on my part, pros-
pectus dated 1/4/61, giving full details of your terms
deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS
• ••• HD82.10
B. 9/9
(8.2 in 1960 and 6.6 in 1959).
Loan capital comprised deben-
tures and deposits maturing
within 12 months, £5,483,455
(up £897,955); at 12 months
and over, £8,408,466 (up
£939,226):
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1960. 1961.
Paid capital . £1,250,000 £1,626,138
Reserves . . 299,862 405,740
Calls in ad-
vance . . 1,162 1,055
Debenture and
deposits . . 12,054,740 13,891,921
Unearned in-
come 1,538,172 2,252,972
Creditors . . 115,362 130,849
Tax provision 177,731 255,374
Final div. . . 56,250 77,652
£ 15.485,279 £18,641,791
Freeholds . . 362,399 274,578
Office equip-
ment, etc. 59,728 108:399
Shares other
cos. . . 8,900 8,900
H. -p., real
estate and
sundry con-
tracts . . 7,429,055 9,362,710
Secured loans
and sundry
debtors . . 7,201,920 6,749,064
Deposits . . 1,575,000
Cash .. 347,371 436,263
Intangibles . . 78,900 66,787
£15,488,279 £18,641,701
Total outstandings finished
up only 10.1 p.c. higher at
£16,111,774 with £9,362,710
(up £1,933,655) out on h.-p.,
real-estate and sundry con-
tracts and £6,749,064 (down
£452,856) out on secured loans
and sundry debtors —this a
result of the deliberate policy
to maintain a fully liquid posi-
tion out of funds otherwise
available for new business.
Unearned income climbed
£719,800 to £2,252,972 to
represent 24.06 p.c. of h.-p.,
etc., outstandings, as com-
pared with 20.6 p.c. in 1960
and 16.3 p.c. in 1959 The
ratio of total outstandings to
paid capital figured a not un-
reasonable 9.9-to-l as against
11.7-to-l in the previous year.
Cash and bank balances tallied
a handy £436,263 (up £88,892).
Deposits placed by the co., and
appearing for the first time,
aggregated £1,575,000.
But what of the future? The
h.-p. industry is entered upon
a period of intense competition
and shortage of funds, that is,
generally speaking, and moves
and counter-moves by finance
cos. could well open up and
provide interesting and perhaps
profitable fields for the alert
investor. F.C.A. augurs good
potential in this respect and,
although past performance is
not likely to be emulated in the
future (growth-wise), prospects
are not altogether unattractive.
The co. is even now consider-
ing expansion into leasing
activity and for this purpose a
new subsidiary, F.C.A., Leas-
ing Ltd, was recently regis-
tered.
The co.’s 10s. stock-units are
highly regarded on 'Change
and last week fetched 19s. to
return 5.2 p.c. from the steady
10 p.c. div. The 2s. 6d. con-
tribs. are trading around 9s. 6d.
Net tangible asset backing
weighed up at 245. 2d. for each
£1 of paid capital at close of
accounts.
The co.’s current issue of
registered first-mortgage deben-
ture stock has met with an
“excellent response from the
investing public—particularly
in South Australia.” And
more than £900,000 of medium
term money has been received
since the issue opened June 15,
1961.
Greater Union Theatres Ltd
Tn Australia, where TV was
first introduced less than
five years ago, initial progress
has proceeded at a faster rela-
tive rate than in either the
United States or Great Britain
The year 1960 was not an easy
one for the motion picture in-
dustry because, for the first
time concurrently in all States,
theatres met strong competition
from television in each metro-
polis. TV-stations are now
established in all capital cities
and TV-antennae will soon in-
vade country areas as well.
Little wonder, then, that
Greater Union Theatres Ltd is
still viewing the situation with
concern. Revenue has been
affected by reduced theatre
audiences in Sydney, Mel-
bourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth and Hobart, offset
to an extent by rigid con-
trol of operating costs. But the
imminent introduction of TV
to country areas must adversely
affect cinema attendances the
length and breadth of the Com-
monwealth.
Some theatres will be ren-
dered uneconomic by reduced
attendances and, as in N.S.W.
and Victoria, will have to be
closed down. Greater Union
has countered to a degree by
investment in drive-in theatres.
The co. has an interest in Sky-
line drive-ins at Bass Hill,
Caringbah, Dundas, French’s
Forest and North Ryde, all in
conjunction with Consolidated
Drive-in Theatres Corp. Pty.
Interests are also held in Sky-
line drive-ins at Lambton and
Wollongong (N.S.W.). It has
other drive-in interests in Vic-
toria, Queensland, W.A. and
S.A. as well as the A.C.T.
In the long term, however,
Greater Union’s survival, at
least in its present capacity,
will depend upon developments
in the film industry as a whole
and the film industry s sur-
vival, to the extent that it re-
mains unallied to the FV-indus-
try, will depend ultimately upon
the taste and discrimination of
its audiences.
To attain a high standard of
TV-presentation calls for great
expenditure of money and skill,
For instance, costs of putting
single peiformance of a
play on TV are high compared
with costs of making a film of
the same subject which can be
shown not once, but again and
again. The tendency of these
factors is to drive TV increas-
ingly to the use of popular
films or a restricted choice of
plays, by choosing only those
which are thought to have the
widest popular appeal and
which are often meretricious
to the last degree. Certainly


THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED
Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), SIR EDWARD R. KNOX (Vice-Chairman),
R. J. VICARS, A. MURRAY JONES, HUGH DIXSON,
D. A. T. DICKINS, K. B. MYERS, A. E. STEPHEN
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of Every Description
J. O. LEWIS, General Manager.
TV can, and does, provide
some worth-while entertain-
ment. It is excellent for tele-
casting sporting items, the pre-
sentation of public events and
the documentary. Good plays
are sometimes shown. But in
the main it exploits the vulgar
and the obvious. The TV in-
dustry has shown an almost
contemptuous disregard of the
public interest yet this seems
inevitable with profit motifs the
yardstick of culture.
The motion-picture industry,
which in the last analysis is
guided by profits too, may be
able to arrest the decline in
popularity of its product if it
is prepared to enter and better
TV in the fields TV seems so
loathe to tackle. Some pro-
gress has been achieved in this
direction. The last few years
have seen the introduction of
new techniques in film produc-
tion and presentation—the wide
screen, new sound processes
and ever more brilliant color.
But the novelty of the new
processes appears to be wear-
ing off. Though Cinerama still
draws, and the new Todd-AO
process has scored a success
with films like “Around the
World in Eighty Days” and
“South Pacific,” the final fate
of the industry must rest not
so much in methods of por-
trayal as in the inherent quality
of the subject matter portrayed.
Greater Union is half-owned
(through its £400,000 ordinary
capital) by the Rank Group in
England, the other half by
Amalgamated Holdings Ltd,
which was formed in February,
1958, to take-over the share-
holdings in G.U.T. and other
interests of West’s Ltd, Amal-
gamated Pictures Ltd, Greater
J. D. Williams’ Amusement Co.
Ltd and Spencer’s Pictures
Ltd. Amalgamated Holdings
also owns all the £500,000 of
preference capital in G.U.T.
and half the shares in British
Empire Films Ltd, Rank Film
Distributors of Australia Pty,
National Theatre Supply Co,
and Sixteen Millimetre Aus-
tralia Pty. In each case the
Rank Group owns the other
50 p.c. of the shares. Greater
Union owns all the ords. in
Union Theatres Investments
Ltd, Cinesound Productions
and Automatic Film Labora-
tories Pty. The co., either
directly or by way of associa-
tion, is interested in well over
100 theatres throughout Aus-
tralia (in addition to its drive-
in interests), including about 30
leading picture-theatres in the
capital cities, amongst them the
State theatres of Sydney, Mel-
bourne and Adelaide.
For the year ended Decem-
ber 31, 1960, Greater Union
Theatres showed a consolidated
net profit of £268,428 (after
setting aside £20,000 less for
contingencies), compared with
£264,261 in the preceding year.
After deducting the propor-
tion belonging to outside
shareholders of subsidiary
companies, the remainder was
£228,384 compared with
£227,785 and £225,390 back
to 1958.
Consolidated net profit for
1960 was ascertained after
setting aside £30,000 for tele-
vision contingencies (down
£20,000 on the previous year’s
allocation), lifting the accumu-
lated provision to £790,000. Of
last year’s net profit, 5 p.c. to
pref.-shareholders (Amalgama-
ted Holdings Ltd) took £25,000
and £80,500 went to the
same co., with another £80,500
to the Rank organisation.
These distributions were the
same as in the three previ-
ous terms, the total payout
(pref. and ord. shareholders)
jumping £36,000 from £150,000
in 1957. Amalgamated Hold-
ings’ cut enabled that co. to
pay a 10 p.c. div.
The Greater Union Group
presents a balance-sheet show-
ing paid capital at £920,000 in
£500,000 of pref. money and
£420,000 in ords. Capital re-
serves total £618,425 (up
£61,844), general reserves
£280,778 (up £12,917), p. and
1. balances £1,223,560 (up
£42,384), provisions for TV
contingencies £790,000, and
interests of outside share-
holders in subsidiaries £616,950.
Freeholds, including the State
theatres, are in mostly at pre-
war cost. Total fixed assets
appear at £5,270,255 (down
£57,019), against which there
is a depreciation and amortisa-
tion reserve of £2,370,570 (up
£175,432). Investments, includ-
ing shares in other cos (at cost
or less) and partnership capital
and current accounts, aggregate
£909,526 (down £2532). Against
the visible reserved profits and
obvious inner strength there is
£536,479 of intangibles.
According to chairman Mr
Norman B. Rydge, “I see for
this industry a proud past, a
secure present, a future of
change and challenge. Ido not
fear that change and I do not
fear that challenge. Great as
has been the past, I sincerely
believe the greatest days of the
industry are the days that lie
ahead.”
But the outlook for the
future of film exhibition in
Australia is still obscure “be-
cause a position of stability in
the industry has not been
reached.” The trend in the
industry still appears to be to-
wards fewer but more import-
ant films being produced by
overseas studios. Greater Union
remodelled two city theatres
last year, the “Chelsea” in
Melbourne and the “Forum”
in Sydney, and “the results
which they have contributed
since they opened in June,
1960 have been reasonably
satisfactory.” Except in the
field of commercial film pro-
duction, where Cinesound Pro-
ductions Pty encountered keen
competition with profit reduc-
tions, group results (all asso-
ciated activities) were “com-
parable with those for the last
year.” Theatre revenues were
lower particularly in the second
half of the year.
The ss. ords. of Amalgam-
ated Holdings Ltd, through
which the Australian public
holds its interest in the Greater
Union organisation, are cur-
rently fetching around 6s. Bd.
on ’Change. Immediate yield
at this price, and from a con-
tinued 10 p.c. div., works out
a not unreasonable 7.5 p.c.
Greater Union earnings are
revealed as virtually steady
over the last seven years but
if annual provisions for TV
contingencies are taken into
account (and remembering, too,
that these provisions are not
deductible for tax purposes)
profits have shown a marked
downward tendency; from
£363,539 in 1954 (revealed
profit, £213,539 ; provision for
TV contingencies, £150,000),
£431,830 in 1955 (£231,830;
£200,000), £425,061 in 1956
£225,061 ; £200,000), £328,620
in 1957 (£228,620; £100,000),
£285,390 in 1958 (£225,390;
£60,000) and £277,785 in 1959
(£277,785; £50,000) to last
term’s £258,384 (£228,384;
£30,000).
COMPANY NOTES
Vulcan Industries
'I/’ulcan Industries Limited,
’ formed to acquire the
issued capital of Vulcan Elec-
trics Pty Limited, a manufac-
turer of electrical appliances,
will issue 529,512 ss. ords.
This will increase paid capital
to £500,000.
Vulcan Electrics, which will
continue as the operating com-
pany, has been trading satisfac-
torily in recent years, and direc-
tors of the holding company
forecast an annual dividend of
not less than 10 p.c.
Underwriters to the issue are
the Melbourne firm of Wallace
H. Smith and Co.
Pye Industries Ltd
t>ye Industries Ltd has
-*■ acquired a factory
adjoining its present premises
at Marrickville, N.S.W. The
factory was purchased from
Silknit Securities Ltd for
£160,000. It will double the
area of the Pye Marrickville
plant.
The new factory is needed


GUILDFORD
GRAMMAR SCHOOL,
Guildford, Western Australia.
Staff required for 1962 to teach the
following to Matriculation:
1. English.
2. History.
3. Middle School subjects.
Single and married accommodation
available.
For particulars apply to:
The Headmaster.
HELP
LEGACY
all the year round.
Donations: 169 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney. BM2OOI.
for the increasing production
of Pye’s traditional TV, radio
and appliance products ; it will
also handle various new pro-
ducts now in the planning
stage. It is expected that the
newly formed division, to
handle Colston automatic dish-
washers, shortly to be released
in Australia, will move into the
new premises almost imme-
diately.
Pye Industries earned a
group net profit of £203.255, a
fall of £75,794 or 27.1 p.c.. for
the year ended March 31 last.
Profit had risen £18,791 in the
previous 12 months. Earning
rate comes back from 37.05
p.c. to 26.6 p.c. after deducting
pref. charges, £10,250. The
div., a steady 10 p.c., absorbed
£72,550. Latest result is reck-
oned after providing £55,987
less for tax at £200,948.
Pye 20s. ords. are fetching
around 41s. 9d. in today's
trading, to return 4.8 p.c. from
a 10 p.c. div. Prices ranged
as high as 58s. in 1960.
OIL AND MINING
Consolidated Gold Fields
(Australia) Ltd
/Consolidated Gold Fields
(Australia) Pty has
announced a joint-venture
agreement, on a 50-50 basis,
under which Cyprus Mines
Corporation of Los Angeles,
U.S.A.. will participate with
them in mining exploration
throughout Australia. The
agreement, written initially for
a minimum period of three
years, will result in expansion
of Consolidated Gold Fields’
activities through its explora-
tion subsidiary, New Consoli-
dated Gold Fields (Australasia)
Pty, which has been operating
in Australia now since 1956.
It ranges the general held of
mineral exploration and is
wholly separate from the joint
venture announced July 20 as
between Consolidated Gold
Fields (Australia), Cyprus
Mines Corporation and Utah
Construction and Mining Co.
—for the exploration of iron
ore deposits in the Ellarine
Hills region, east of Port Hed-
land, Western Australia.
Consolidated Gold Fields is
a wholly-owned subsidiary of
Gold Fields Mining and Indus-
trial Ltd, which in turn is
wholly owned by the Consoli-
dated Gold Fields of South
Africa Ltd. The Gold Fields
group, with headquarters in
London, showed net assets
amounting to £stg 46.5 million
(£ASB million) at June 30,
1960. In November. 1960, the
group acquired a controlling
interest (54 p.c.) in Common-
wealth Mining Investments
(Australia) Ltd.
Cyprus Mines Corporation
is a major United States indus-
trial co. with world-wide
interests in base metal mining
and other fields.
Timor Oil Ltd
TV/TR Svoboda, vice-president
1 A of Sunset Petroleum and
Tradewinds Exploration Inc.,
reports that, following his
inspection of Matai la, he
decided not to sidetrack the
hole but to move the rig to a
nearby location. The rig has
now been moved, spudded in
and drilling commenced. An
electric log operator has been
flown to the island and will
log the well continuously as it
is drilled.
In view oi the favorable
indications at Matai, a new
programme of drilling is being
drawn up by the board in line
with Dr Schneeberger's recom-
mendations to the co. Dr
Schneeberger recently returned
from his visit of inspection to
the island
Wapet
V\/Ts! Australian Pltro-
leum Pty Ltd reported
August 30 that the 15 drill
collars which were left in the
hole at Eneabba No. 1 well on
August 20 had not been
recovered.
Fishing operations continued
throughout the week, and 21
trips in and out of the hole
have been made with various
fishing tools to the top of the
fish, which is at 9300 ft. The
fish has been engaged on
several occasions, but attempts
to pick it up have failed.
Some idea of the magnitude
of these operations can be
gained from the fact that the
bottom of the drill has
travelled more than 70 miles
up and down the hole since
fishing commenced. Mean-
while the contractors’ geo-
physicists have moved to Perth
to assemble the results of the
marine seismic survey in Ex-
mouth Gulf.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 659
Across
I—Rum1 —Rum glue-box in the country. (10)
6 —Remote arrangements for the R.A.A.F. (4)
9 —Chapless century has a result confused with naming
systems. (13)
11— Bury the lot of Hovell, if Hovell's companion had been
a cannibal. (6)
13 — Nervous saint telephoned when
hung. (6, 2)
16— Mab also disturbed David's
favorite son. (7)
17— Girl coming to tea with a boy
what's gone overboard? (7)
18 — Water-sprinkled author of the
“Old English Chronicle" took a
wile. (7)
21—Plumage causing some frier
pain. (7)
24 —Modify the horse's handicap right
about some woolgrower. (8)
26 —Tell when at one's best. (6)
28—Then half Spain is in confusion,
fluky brilliance being the out-
come. (5. 2, 3. 3)
30— Ordered a bed to be re-
arranged. (4)
31 — Teams muddle a way lor horse-
women to ride. (10)
Down
1— ■Place to drink after a wet morn-
ing in a tree. (II)
2 Ten to one Thomas is yellow! (7)
3 Silent parent. (3)
4 Is in possession where snow
drills. (4)
5 Newly tenanted. (5)
7 Searches for food for consider-
able periods. (7)
8 — Artist's Abyssinian vizier. (3)
10 —N.Z. lake thanks the airborne
duck. (5)
12 —Wire measure for millions
deserted by lions. (3)
14- -Showy display to the Spanish
deer with grapefruit. (11)
15 —Injured maid with others all
around. (4)
17—Upsetting of postscript dan-
dies. (47
19 — Odd lawn cut by an English
composer. (7)
20— What turns the scales in the
wig. (6)
22 — Sister Joshua's father. (3)
23 — Installed in kingship, Kelly is
urged to behave gloatingly. (7)
25—Deer with one tongue. (5)
27 — Hose adapted as footwear. (4)
28 — ft isn't true, and the F. 8.1. is
disturbed b'y it. (3)
29 — Vegetable. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 658


HEETj
(First issues off the press)
CONVENIENCE
(Right to your mail-box)
CONTINUITY
(No chance of missing out)
HAVE
n
e
7
DELIVERED BY POST
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
NEW SUB. RENEWAL
(Please cross out one)
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper,
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please find enclosed my cheque / money-order for
months’ subscription to The Bulletin.
NAME: .........................................
ADDRESS:
RATES (A/asia): 1 year—£2 125.; \ year —£1 6s.
Post free. British C’wealth : £3 3s. 6d. Foreign:
£3 16s.
N.Z. CURRENCY (Remit to Box 965, Wellington,
N.Z.): A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d. ; \ year—
19s. 6d. British C’wealth: £2 3s. Foreign £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether
the subscription is paid direct to The Bulletin
or any newsagent in Australia or N.Z.
THE BULLETIN
IS AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
NEWS MAGAZINE-
-52 pages of top-flight information. The press,
the radio, TV, will you up the headline
news . . . but The Bulletin has time to bring
you the news inside the news.
AND IT’S PACKED WITH
ENTERTAINMENT
Nearly every facet of modern life is reflected
in The Bulletin’s pages, so no wonder
anyone can find a little of himself—or herself
—in The Bulletin.
