

The Bulletin
and The Observer
RACE PREJUDICE
IN NEW ZEALAND?
ln Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
THE BLIND SPOTS OF
SIR THOMAS PLAYFORD
Catholics and the Free Soeiety


Here's the name
that makes the
s
/,
/
/
1
vou SAVE
because you get
more when you
buy GOODYEAR
Every tyre that carries the
name Goodyear makes available
to you the experience and skill
of the world's biggest rubber
company. Look at this
Imperial Nylon, for
instance; this is the safest,
strongest tyre you can buy.
The tough, long-wearing
tread gives positive
traction at all times.
The body is built with
Goodyear's exclusive 3.T
Nylon for greatest resist-
ance to bruise damage,
tyre heat and flex
fatigue. The wider
margin of safety this
tyre gives at high-
speed makes it safest
under any conditions.
See it at your Goodyear
Dealer, Garage or
Service Station.
GOOD#
n y
(bn
L279A


HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street,
Sydney; Box 2521; Phone: 27 5971.
The
Bulletin
MAY 24. 1961
Vol. 82
No. 4241
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
P.S.: Sensitive, mildly depres-
sing: take a trip or get into a wild
argument James Cootamundra
Wattletree: Couldn’t take your
“crude song suggestion”; for the
record, the trash we publish is
Australian, not imported. ...H.T.:
Pleasant.... A.P.D.:
Then what of our daughter? She's going
nineteen.
Does this innocent darling read books
so “obscene"?
When questioned she said, “You old
silly—of course
The obvious cure for them all was
divorce.”
We’ll look forward to some
poems from your innocent darling.
... G.E.W.: “Politically, geo-
graphically, greatest on earth Aus-
tralia is.” There should be a
position for you as leader-writer.
...L.C.: It would be more a
matter of life and death if we
could sec any life in it. . .T.D.L.:
All those operations have been
mechanised these days, whereas
only your situations are mechani-
cal... . J.N.: Those old mates who
quarrel and then one saves the
other's life. .. . P.T.: Fatuous....
E.L.-H.: “The Apprentice” is
bound homeward. .. .J.H.K.:
“He was read in the face” —like
a book, no doubt. ... H.M.8.:
Brevity is the soul of anecdotes.
. ...C.M. and M.F.: Enjoyed your
precise descriptions.... J.R.T.:
“Words, oozing in ugliness from a
dead poet’s brain.” Well, who does
the ghost writing? T. S. Eliot or
John Betjeman? .. . P.K.: Reads
like an anthology of poetic cliches.
As such it might sell,. ..R.J.F.:
“What is it what's gone wrong,
What makes me head go bong,
Me tongue’s hangin’ out,
I've got the flamin’ gout,
What the hell’s gone wrong?”
Your pentameter is dislocated.
• ..J.A.: Try the pin-and-dic-
tionary method —you might hit on
some fresher words... . A.K.W.:
If you want to harangue people,
join a political party.
why?
The Second Round
'J'HIS is the second week of the second round of changes in The
Bulletin. “This Australia” has moved up to the front of the paper,
where (in an expanded form from next week) it will stay. “Business,
Robbery, etc.”, has been lit up with new type-faces and a new section
“Forum” has been introduced. “Forum”, which will include letters to
the editor, is the part of the paper where most of the more argumentative
and controversial articles will be put. It is to be a genuine forum,
including articles opposed to The Bulletin's policy (if they are well-
written and adequately argued). It may be too strong meat for some; but
there will be enough dishes in the new Bulletin for readers to skip a
course or two and still get their money’s worth. And for those who like
argument it should provide some savor in what is often in Australia these
days a rather insipid life.
“Forum” begins life with a double-barrelled review of Henry Mayer’s
symposium on “Catholics and the Free Society.” Mayer thought of the
idea of editing this book about a year ago, mainly because of the extremely
low level of most of the discussion on Catholics in Australia, particularly
as it is conducted by non-Catholics. Both Catholics and non-Catholics are
at present criticising his symposium, and since it is a symposium it
is necessarily uneven in quality; but most of the book lifts the public
discussion of Catholics in Australia at least up to the standard that has
been (less publicly) maintained by Catholics themselves, and in some
chapters beyond it. The Catholic bookshops stocked it without question;
some of the Protestant bookshops hesitated before making their orders
in case they were accused of peddling Popish propaganda!
All in all, we have now amazed even ourselves with the number of
changes we have brought to The Bulletin. We did not intend quite such
a revolution when we took over, but we soon found that a policy that was
all compromises would have merely irritated everybody.
Taking Stock
WITH nothing new to report from Melbourne University this week
one can pause and take stock. What part of the battle has been about
on the whole issue of “Communism in the Universities”—as conducted in
both The Observer and The Bulletin —has been an assertion of the right
to discuss this subject. A variety of motives, ranging from an active desire
to suppress discussion to sheer mental laziness, prompt far too many
academics, wittingly or unwittingly, into merely throwing up smoke-
screens.
The subject is constantly diverted, as soon as it is raised, into a dis-
cussion on the motives of those who have raised it. For this reason we
have constantly returned to what we consider to be the main issues, attempt-
ing all the time to divert the diverters. Several letters to the editor in
this issue have been treated to long footnotes for that very reason. Talk
about circulation-building or being “anti-academic” is all very well as a
sideline speculation, but it is no answer to what we have said; it is merely
an attempt to discredit it. Anyone who cared to keep a scrapbook on this
controversy would soon have enough material for an anthology of
the kinds of un-straight thinking that universities are supposed to eradicate.


This Australia
SCIENCE
The Bazeley
Case
FROM A CORRESPONDENT IN MELBOURNE
DR P. L. BAZELEY
“We pay our way”
IT was due to Dr Percival Landon
Bazeley, the suspended chief of the
Commonwealth Serum Laboratories, that
Australia was the first country in the
world to conquer polio. He is a Vic-
torian, born in Orbost, East Gippsland,
in 1909, but had to go to Sydney to get
a veterinary science degree in the depres-
sion and to work part-time in getting it.
He was in the Army in 1943, leader
(“Basher”) of a squadron of tanks in
New Guinea when he was taken out to
establish the first Australian laboratories
for the production of penicillin.
He did not graduate as a doctor until
1950, and then, attracted to the work
being done in the U.S. by Jonas Salk and
Dr Enders, he began his own experiments
at the Commonwealth Laboratories.
He actually went to the Salk U.S. head-
quarters as a private doctor on leave from
the Commonwealth Laboratories in 1952,
and worked as one of Dr Salk’s senior
assistants. As soon as the Salk claims
were confirmed beyond doubt, he re-
turned to Australia in 1955 with the
vaccine and seeds, naturally triumphant.
He received still more publicity when he
demonstrated his faith in the new vaccine
by using it on his two young children. A
year later, in 1956, he was appointed head
of C.S.L. in succession to Dr Frederick
Morgan who had been director for 29
years.
At 52, Dr Bazeley is greying but he
still has lots of dark hair, and a pale,
heavy, pleasant face which he did not
attempt to hide from the newspaper
photographers in 1958 when he was
chosen by the Father’s Day Council as
Father of the Year.
The Government’s decision to place
C.S.L. under a five-man commission to
ensure more business-like operations pro-
voked Dr Bazeley to complain that this
would turn the laboratories into “a
factory-type operation” with a con-
sequent neglect of research work. This,
ironically, is exactly the charge that some
of Dr Bazeley’s research workers have
discreetly muttered about the present
regime—that C.S!L. is primarily a factory.
And so it is. With a staff of over 1100
the Parkville plant produces over 90 per
cent, of Australia’s vaccines, anti-serums
and antibiotics. It occupies 38 acres at
Parkville and has another 380 acres of
farmland at Broadmeadows where it
runs the horses, heifers and dogs needed
for the production of vaccines. Alto-
gether it represents a capital investment
of close on £6 million (soon to be in-
creased by another £470,000 when a new
building is put up at Parkville.) The
Federal Minister for Health, Dr Cameron,
while not replying to other remarks made
by Dr Bazeley, has nevertheless made it
clear that under the new regime C.S.L.’s
research work will be protected and even
expanded.
Dr Bazeley also claimed the C.S.L. has
always paid its way It does not, in fact,
produce a public balance sheet, but in
1958 at the request of Cabinet it issued
a financial statement. This showed a
profit of £4OOO, rather a meagre return
on the capital investment. Moreover,
C.S.L does not pay sales tax, payroll tax,
rates, interest on capital, and other
charges which would form part of a full
business costing. On the other hand, it
does supply a large part of the medicines
available under the Commonwealth
Health Scheme which is costing the
Treasury in the vicinity of £24 million a
year. It seems that some of what the
Government is losing on the C.S.L.
swings, it is gaining on the Health Scheme
roundabout. The fact is, however, that
nobody knows what the C.S.L. position
ts simply because it is not constituted on
a business basis. The new legislation is
designed to regularise its affairs and make
the costing position clear.
Early in 1960 an approach was made
to Federal Cabinet by the big American
pharmaceutical firm of Abbot Labora-
tories to buy into C.S.L. In the ensuing
controversy, it was alleged that C.S.L.,
being free of the obligation to pay in-
terest and taxes, was providing unfair
competition for private firms. Now, it
seems, the Government is worried that
the lack of proper business management
in C.S.L. may biing about a situation
where its privately-owned competitors
™ ay ? ut c ! n l [° lts usiness - The National
Healtn Scheme has made Australia a
most atti active market for leading phar-
maceutical firms of Britain, U.S.A. and
Europe, and C.S.L. is undoubtedly going
to face increasingly severe competition,
]? ot on j y f'°m impoits but eventually
fr on ? large-scale l°cal manufacturers,
Having letused to sell C.S.L. to private
interests, it is understandable that the
Government should wish to safeguard its
ca P ital investment in the enterprise by
ensuring the most efficient management.
There are other indications that C.S.L.,
despite its distinguished record of service,
could do with some good managerial
scrutiny. The matter of the breakdown
in Salk vaccine supplies last November,
when 600,000 dosages had to be destroyed,
has been made the subject of an inquiry,
Another unresolved dispute arose last
month when Dr Bazeley, writing in the
‘‘Australian Medical Journal,” accused
the pharmacists of not storing vaccines
properly. The Federal President of the
Pharmacy Guild, Mr Eric Scott, promptly
retorted that this was a smokescreen to
cover the inability of C.S.L. to supply its
products in adequate quantities.
CHINESE FAMINE
Food Parcels
FROM A CORRESPONDENT
A Chinese factory worker in Canton,
T*- writing recently to a Melbourne
family, said that he ate steamed bread
for breakfast and about half a pound
of boiled rice for lunch. His evening
meal consisted mainly of vegetables.
About once a week there was fish. His
wages were equivalent to less than £AIO
a month, and on the black market he
could buy poultry at £1 a pound and
eggs at 2s. each.
If these prices are typical, then it is
probably better for Australians sending
relief to friends or relatives suffering in
the Chinese famine to send food parcels
through one of the many special agencies
that have sprung up in Hong Kong than
to send money.
Certainly the agencies are the quickest
way. There are no parcel-post facilities,
either surface or airmail, from Australia
to mainland China, and no registration
facilities for mail of any kind. But the
Hong Kong agencies are moving tens of
thousands of parcels a week over the
border.
Prices are steep. Mao, in his bene-
ficence, has slapped heavy duties (up to
150 per cent.) on gift food parcels, and it
is no good sending a food parcel to a
hungry family if they cannot meet the
duty on it. Hence the Hong Kong
agencies charge a price which includes
the cost of the foodstuffs, plus freight
and pre-paid duty,
On this basis, to send a pound of sugar


{o Canton will cost over 125., a pound of
flour 4s. 6d. and a pound of preserved
o rk about 18s. (plus any banking charges
for remitting Australian currency to Hong
Kong)-
The services seem to be efficiently run,
at least as far as getting the goods to
Southern China where most Chinese living
j n Australia come from.
For some local Chinese the satisfaction
of having sent food to hungry compatriots
is offset by the realisation that a large
pait of the money they have spent has
gone to feed Peking’s holdings of overseas
exchange. However, the same would be
true if they simply sent money. In fact,
sending a food parcel might well be the
best thing in a bad situation.
POLITICAL POINTS
Queensland C.P.
Under Fire
By MUGGA
ALAN FLETCHER
Rattled
'T'he senior partner in Queensland’s
1 first non-Labor coalition Govern-
ment for a quarter of a century is show-
ing the flag this week in Cairns the
autumn Mecca of Australian tourists.
The occasion is the annual convention
of the Queensland Country Party, its
fourth since the coalition assumed office
after the downfall of the Gair Govern-
ment in August, 1957. The 1000 miies
from Brisbane to Cairns is expected to
limit the attendance, but nevertheless the
convention is expected to bring Country
party Cabinet Ministers under the
strongest fire they have yet experienced
from their own supporters.
The Country party holds six of the
State’s 11 Cabinet seats, and all six
Ministers, including Premier Frank
Nicklin, will be in attendance. In Par-
liament it holds 25 seats compared with
21 to the Liberal partv. Of the balance,
the A.L.P. holds 25 seats, the Q.L.P.
four, and Independents three. Two seats
are vacant caused by the deaths of sitting
members.
The criticism is expected to resolve
itself into major attacks on the adminis-
tration of land and transport. On the
former, the Government is at direct
loggerheads with the powerful United
Graziers’ Association and its districts and
various branches.
The newly-appointed Lands Ministe"
and former Speaker, Mr Alan Fletcher,
a gentleman who is inordinately proud
of the fact that he is an old boy of
Scot's College, Warwick, has been
bluntly accused of sabotaging the 1959
Land Act and the Payne Report recom-
mendations, which were meant to usher
in a new deal for land administration in
Queensland. He has had the uncomfort-
able experience in recent weeks of getting
what amounted to no-confidence motions
from meeting after meeting of graziers ;
a -nd he has been rattled to such an extent
as to brand U.G.A. president Mr C. P. B.
Bell as a trouble-maker and the head of
a Pressure group.
Observers say there is no doubt that
Mr Bell’s charges that neither the letter
n °r the spirit of the 1959 Land Act and
*be Payne Report are being implemented
are solidly based.
The Government, for instance, has
appointed a Land Consultant instead of
the Judicial arbitrator envisaged by the
Act, and stubbornly claims that it means
the same thing.
With U.G.A. members providing the
bulk of Country party rank-and-file
membership, there is no doubt that the
Cairns convention will see Mr Fletcher
severely tested. Another new Minister
in former Country party president
Harold Richter will also come in for
his share of the cane as his department
is responsible for revaluations
Administration of land transport
should result in major attacks by dele-
gates. The portfolio is held by Liberal
Minister Gordon Chalk, who has run up
record railway losses in his four - year
term of office. Late last year he intro-
duced a new State Transport Act which
has been described as one of the most
illiberal and authoritarian measures ever
put before a Parliament of English-
speaking people. It is apparently de-
signed to hamper and restrict road trans
port development in Queensland in a
bid to force country people to use the
State’s antiquated ribbon railway system.
On the issues of land and transport
administration, the Government for
weeks now has been subjected to
scathingly offensive criticism by the in-
fluential “Queensland Country Life,”
official organ for half a dozen major
primary producing bodies. It has warned
the Government that its “Jekyll and
Hyde” administrative policies must
cease if the Country party is not to be
wrecked, and there is no doubt that the
paper’s readers (cir. 28,000), comprising
the vast majority of Country party rank
and file and the State’s graziers and
farmers, have taken its strictures
seriously.
These issues have largely been ignored
by Queensland's flibbertigibbet daily
press, which finds difficulty in raising
its eyes above midweek racing, night
trotting, and liquor reforms. These latter
are minor issues, of little interest to the
Country party, and less to the economy
of a State racked by the growing pains
of development.
EDUCATION
The New
Script
■CoRGERS should have a boom era in
New South Wales in the 1970 s
according to Mr Stanley E. Card. Mr
Card is the general secretary of the United
Bank Officers’ Association of N.S.W. and
he is worried by the effects of the Educa-
tion Department’s decision to introduce
new writing styles in New South Wales
public schools. “The new styles of writing
will be easier to forge and if it is intended
that the child be trained to continue to
use it in later life, particularly when sign-
ing his signature, then the forger will be
in a position to play havoc in the com-
munity.”
Mr D. Broadfoot, a spokesman for the
Teachers’ Federation, said that extensive
tests of the new style at Artarmon Primary
School had shown that children re-
vealed as much individuality in these
styles as they did in copperplate. He
could have added that the aim of educa-
tionists is to make writing more legible,
speedy and attractive but not to make
bank officers’ work less difficult.
62,000 third-graders will be taught the
new writing styles when they are intro-
duced in 1962. Since the beginning of
1959 a special committee of 11 educa-
tionists has been evaluating Canadian.
English, Scottish and the United States
of America's experience with writing
styles and this led them to look for styles
to supersede the copperplate which has
been in use since 1928. The committee
considered copperplate cumbersome and
decided to substitute either a “modified
cursive” (which simplifies the present
copperplate cursive by removing the
differences in the height and thick-
ness of letters and by eliminating loops)
or a “modified italic” (similar to the one
used in Canada, which is derived from
Tom Gourdie, a Scottish educationist
and is widely used in Scottish schools ; it
is distinguished from other italic styles by
unlooped lower-case of a particular
shape.)
Tasmania, after ten years of experi-
ments with various styles, introduced
“cord cursive” in 1960. Tasmanian pupils
use a more flexible pen than will N.S.W.
children —a more inflexible one making
for greater uniformity. Victorians intro-
duced cursive script in 1960 —before that
they used a style similar to the existing
“cumbersome” N.S.W. copperplate.
For those “traditionalists” who label
the “modified cursive” as another of those
“modern education fads,” educationists
have a ready answer. They point out
that it derives from Cursive writing
which became popular in the second
decade of the XVth century —Pope
Eugenius IV decreed that Papal Briefs be
done in this style and it consequently
became known as “Cancelleresca Corsiva ’
or Chancery Cursive.


DELINQUENTS
Mutiny in
Toowoomba
FROM A CORRESPONDENT IN BRISBANE
DR H. W. NOBLE
Taped
The 5.20 evening meal on Sunday,
May 15, saw open mutiny at West-
brook, the Queensland Government’s
1000-acre corrective farm for boys about
12 miles south of Toowoomba. A hay-
shed containing 15 tons of hay and farm
implements valued at £3OOO was burnt
out, and 30 boys “hopped the wire.”
Westbrook houses 130 boys aged
from 11 to 18 years. Some are serving
sentences for crimes ranging down the
scale from arson and armed robbery ;
others have been committed there as
court wards because of broken homes,
etc.
Last year 18 boys escaped from West-
brook and were recaptured. These are
official figures. The unofficial tally of
boys caught by warders as distinct from
outside police is said to be much higher.
This year the tally to Sunday, May 15,
was 14.
In the weeks preceding the big out-
break a series of extremely grave charges
was made by ex-inmates of Westbrook
and their relatives, the majority of whom
were prepared to supply names, addresses
and statutory declarations. Allegations
covered floggings of up to 38 strokes with
a leather strap, and deliberate falsifica-
tion of the official punishment book to
show a maximum of 10 strokes ; forcible
feeding of castor-oil to boys for breaches
of discipline; compulsory haircuts with
two-handed horse-clippers; a form of
punishment known as the “kangaroo
hop” by which boys were forced to hop
around on their haunches under official
supervision , boys being forced to walk
back and forth on a path for hours at a
stretch ; and bashings by up to three
warders at a time. Poor food, inadequate
clothing (many escapees in the mass out-
break were barefoot), and the denial of
established amenities such as hot water
for showers were also included in an
apparently well-substantiated list of
complaints which brought forth a solid
and sustained demand for an open
inquiry.
Leading the demand was Toowoomba's
Mayor, talkative ex-milkman and now
bus-proprietor Jack McCafferty, and the
State Opposition-leader and Member for
East Toowoomba, Jack Duggan.
Public attention focused on West-
brook's superintendent, I. R. (Roy) Gol-
ledge, a giant of a man, well over six
feet in height, and weighing an esti-
mated 17 stone ; an ex-Army officer who
has been at Westbrook for over 40 years.
Though uncommunicative to the press,
Mr Golledge did admit in a March inter-
view that some boys had to be “belted
until they submitted,” but he denied that
they were punished excessively or treated
sadistically.
Mr Golledge got headlines again in
recent weeks when Mayor McCafferty
charged him with threatening to “shut his
big mouth” if he, McCafferty, kept open-
ing it about Westbrook. The Mayor’s
charges were not denied.
Meanwhile, the Minister for Health
and Home Affairs, Dr H. W. Noble, who
is responsible for the conduct of West-
brook, was industriously defending Mr
Golledge and Westbrook. The contro-
versy was unjustifiable, he said. One
person was responsble for all the allega-
tions. There was no need for any inquiry.
There would be no inquiry, open or
closed. Mr Golledge was a “decent
honest citizen with a deep love for boys.”
A small percentage of the boys were mal-
contents ; the balance were happy, con-
tented and well-looked-after. There was
definitely no flogging at Westbrook, only
corporal punishment no worse than he
(Dr Noble) had received at school. Mr
Golledge, said Dr Noble, had even told
him “with tears in his eyes” that he got
“sick and tired” of using the strap.
Much of Dr Noble’s month-old defence
of Mr Golledge and Westbrook was tele-
vised to Queensland on a “Meet the
Press” programme late on Sunday night
(May 15). Unfortunately for Dr Noble
it had been taped on the preceding
Friday. At the time it was shown, radio
stations for hours had been broadcasting
news of the mass outbreak, and police
cars were converging on Toowoomba
from as far away as Brisbane (80 miles).
At the end of the taped session, a
“live” Dr Noble came on the screen for
a short interview. He announced that
he would now recommend a closed
Magisterial inquiry into Westbrook.
Cabinet confirmed Dr Noble’s recom-
mendation but “Courier-Mail.” which
regards itself as the official organ of the
Government, commented that a closed
inquiry “would not be sufficient.” It
pointed out that it would be for Cabinet
to decide whether the findings ever
reached Parliament and the people, and
much, if not all, of the evidence would
be withheld. “It is unfortunate,” the
“Courier-Mail” added, “that Dr Noble
has taken an attitude of seeming to resent
any criticism of the institution as though
it were directed against himself.”
The Minister struck this attitude so
strongly that even his reluctant announce-
ment of a closed inquiry held an intimi-
datory note. Those who had complained
about Westbrook would be sub-poensed
if they did not volunteer evidence, and
would be cited for contempt if they did
not appear.
At the weekend the Queensland Bar
Association expressed disquiet at the
constitution of the closed inquiry and
the employment of a Crown prosecutor
to assist the Chief Magistrate Schwarten.
Their protests were considered on
Tuesday by a depleted Cabinet meeting
(six Ministers were in Cairns for the
Country party convention), but the in-
quiry got away on time on Monday—
behind closed doors.
TRADE
Malaya: A Growing
Market
/'"'ommunist China is our largest
potential trade rival in the Malayan
market, but it is not yet in the race as
far as food products are concerned. An
improvement in Peking's economic posi-
tion, however, could increase the dangers
of dumping cheap consumer-goods.
Meanwhile, although Australia’s trade
with Malaya is still relatively small, it is
steadily increasing in volume. The
Federation’s expanding population and
rising standard of living offer a growing
market for Australia's basic food pro-
ducts and industrial equipment.
Malayans are developing a healthy
appetite for Australian milk and flour.
Australian exports to the Federation
during the nine months ending March,
1961, amounted to almost £9.4 million.
The bulk of this was in foodstuffs, par-
ticularly milk and flour products and
meat. Food products, in fact, make up
almost 70 per cent, of our exports to
Malaya.
Exports increased by some 40 per cent,
over the past three years, totalling £12.7
million in 1959-60. The upward trend is
being maintained.
Exports of metals, metal manufac-
tures, machinery, cars and railway
vehicles last year amounted to £1.7
million. Other manufactured goods are
encountering a widely fluctuating market.
The import bill in 1959-60 added up
to £17.8 million, mainly rubber and latex.
Variations in the price of rubber have a
major influence on the cost of Australia’s
imports from Malaya. Other products
include timber and tin.
The Federation is Australia’s only over-
seas tin supplier. Last year it provided
29,100 cwt, valued at £1.5 million.


ABORIGINES
The Elusive
Drinkers
Planes using Darwin’s international
airport now face a new hazard —
drunken aborigines. Residents either of
the Reserve at one end of the strip or
of the camp at the other end, they wander
about the strip, smashing bottles and
getting in ihe way of incoming aircraft.
The officials have to search the runway
each morning, taking away buckets full
of glass from broken flagons and bottles.
The other night R.A.A.F. service police
found five aborigines—including three
lubras —staggering drunkenly about —just
where a Qantas Superconstellation was
due to land within the hour. Four were
warned and escorted off the ’drome. The
other threw a bottle at the police and
escaped
With several international plane move-
ments through Darwin each night the
Department of Civil Aviation is worried.
Mr Burgoyne says the danger to natives
is great. That to aircraft (which could
puncture their tyres on the smashed
bottles) may be even greater. Despite the
six months jail minimum penalty for
supplying natives with liquor they are
getting drink now on a greater scale than
ever before.
Cr Peter Spillett complained to the
Darwin City Council recently about
aborigines camping on a vacant lot in
the middle of Stuart Park residential
area. Neighbors, he said, had been kept
awake all night by “obscene shouts” and
offended by the sight of nude aborigines
washing from a bucket in the morning.
Police have tried to crack down on this.
But, as Deputy Commissioner Clive
Graham says: “Quite often by the time the
police arrive the natives have gone, or else
they disperse too quickly to be caught.”
Perhaps the most tantalising problem
of all, though, belongs to District Wel-
fare Officer Ted Evans, a stocky, round-
faced official who is regarded as per-
haps the Territory’s top expert on
aborigines. Currently he is pitting his
wits against Darwin’s craftiest gang of
native drinkers. He knows they are in
town somewhere, but can't find them.
These beanpole aborigines, clad in tat-
tered, cast off clothes, refuse to stay with
their fellow-tribesmen at Bagot Com-
pound. Instead, they prefer to camp in
the scrub, just out of the city area, where
they can drink in peace. Through some
strange “bush telegraph” the suppliers
seem to know immediately this band is
in town.
Several times the Welfare Branch has
removed them to isolated settlements.
They always come back. Once they *. en
walked back from Maningrida in the
Gulf Country—newest and most remote
settlement of all. Through hostile tribal
country, skirting Arnhem Land, fording
crocodile infested rivers, they tramped
hundreds of weary miles—all for a drink.
Recently Mr Evans thought he had
them. Without their knowledge Welfare
hooked them on the mail plane to Mel-
v>He Island. At dawn a patrol officer
raided their camp—only to find blankets
THE BIG 2


and other gear hastily discarded, empty
bottles everywhere. . . .but no natives!
The search for these elusive tipplers
is still going on. What is the solution
to the native drinking problem? Mr
Evans has advocated supplying a light
beer at aboriginal settlements to teach
them “civilised drinking.” The Rev. Mr
Lloyd Shirley of the United Church
feels the answer is in “voluntary total
abstinence” by white Territorians. You
can take your pick.
CULTURE
Boyd on Tour
FROM A HOBART CORRESPONDENT
HThe bracing Taswegian climate does
-*• not encourage Hobart citizenry to
move far from their TV-sets, but the
Contemporary Art Group’s annual show,
usually visited only by exhibitors and
their friends, recently drew Disgusted
Parents and Irate Taxpayers in large
numbers. They came to look at a
naturalistic nude in a semi-abstract set-
ting and somewhat provocative pose, but
as the painting was modest at least in
size (about 3in. x 7in.), many visitors, not
noticing it, thought it had been removed,
and a damn’ good thing, too.
Nevertheless a year of TV has almost
completely paralysed the city's cultural
i-f A-i Lr u * t-u * r> j
kn, f.n r , a,re R ° ya r I,m P ed , s °
badly at the end of its recent four weeks
run of opera, ballet and drama that it
seemed it might be permanently crippled.
The festival ended with a week of read-
ings .tom Dylan Thomas, and although all
the seats were free, the theatre was still
arge y empty.
But the Adult Education Board, sur-
prisingly enough, is luring the citizens
away from TV by importing lively lec-
turers from the mainland. The poet
Roland Robinson has just completed a
successful three weeks in which he
travelled all over Tasmania lecturing on
the Oral Tradition of the Aborigines and
giving readings from Australian poets
and prose writers. Cecil Hadgraft is
booked to come down from Brisbane
later to discuss the subject of his book,
Australian Literature, and acidulous
architect-author Robin Boyd will be in
Hobart to lecture on lune 13.
Boyd’s talk could have a dramatic
effect: this will be one of the last
chances to save the Battery Point area
from the improvers. Debate has raged
and died in Hobart as to whether Battery
Point, which is an enviable elevated posi-
tion overlooking the Derwent, should be
cleaied of its old homes. One side
f' 3 ™ 5 " 'l 0 " 1 ? sent,mental,sts who want
to keep these slums; the other asserts
that they are not slums, that there are so
few remains of the past left after the
wholesale destruction of the last 10 years
, ha , , h shou | d be preserved And e ven
if he does not set that vexed question
aright he should have plenty to say about
the Tasmanian Ugliness: Hobart citizens
were recently encouraged to paint their
houses various bright colors to liven the
place up, and Sir Robert Cosgrove once
had the audacity to say the city’s Com-
monwealth Bank Building put Hobart on
the map artistically. A view of its curved
windowless back wall suggests nothing so
much as a dam awaiting the flood-waters:
perhaps it will burst on June 13.
CRICKET
A New Science
A USTRALIAN cricket pitches have
always been pretty slipshod jobs,
the pitch-makers too often working by
instinct, guesswork and a few rough
theories. But over recent weeks the
groundsmen have had their heads
buried in an expert article on the
Science of Pitchmaking by Mr J. R.
Harris of the C.5.1.R.0.’s Division of
Soils in Adelaide. Besides containing
a classical stage-by-stage guide for
pitch-makers, Mr Harris offers a
whole new plan for the construction
of central areas of cricket grounds.
The day of the ignorant groundsman
is over—or should be.
Mr Harris’s paper, which was pub-
fished in the April issue of “The Aus-
tralian Scientist,” examines in detail
such things as the under-preparation
of pitches which leads to “featherbed”
conditions to make everything easy
for batsmen and hopeless for bowlers.
To help prevent such injustices to
cricketers, Mr Harris advances a new
set of specifications for the ideal de-
signing of the central areas of Aus-
tralian cricket grounds,
He insists on :
$ A top layer of plastic clay, four
inches thick, and free from the
self-mulching tendencies which
cause powdering of the soil at the
surface.
® A second layer of sandy loam, six
inches thick,
® A two-inch cinder bed.
® A nine-inch underbed of coarse
stones.
Q A system of agricultural drains in
graded trenches about two feet be-
low the surface,
The only question is how many
municipal councils will ever vote
money for such extensive improve-
ments.
WHARFIES
Long Service
FROM A STAFF CORRESPONDENT
Ole!” cried Federal Opposition
members as L. C. Haylen, M.P
made bull-fighting passes with a red-
and-green rug in Canberra’s dignified
Parliament House. A week later in the
Senate, the Ministei for Civil Aviation,
Senator S. D. Paltridge, called his fellow
party member, Senator R. C. Wright,
a “clown,” and Senator Nicholas E.
McKenna, the Opposition leader, said:
“Little wonder the public tends to regard
politicians with contempt.”
It was in this atmosphere that the
most controversial bill of all was intro-
duced —the Long Service Leave Bill
designed to give Mr Healy’s union mem-
bers three months long-service leave after
20 years of service, and six-and-a-half
weeks leave for each subsequent ten
years.
The Government appears to have had
mixed motives for its generous action.
First, the Tasmanian Government had
already legislated for leave without
“strings,” and the N.S.W. Government
has reluctantly indicated its willingness
to provide similar legislation. So the
“gift” of the leave is partly a matter of
collecting credit that would have gone to
the State authorities.
The second motive is the one outlined
by the Minister for Labor, Mr W.
McMahon: “1 emphasise at this point
that the Bill includes several provisions
designed to discourage waterside workers
from engaging in irresponsible and
avoidable port stoppages. . . .These pro-
visions are directed to the suspension of
attendance money benefits and deferment
of long-service leave.”
The maritime industry is generally
recognised as the juvenile delinquent of
Australian industry. In 1958-1959,
345,000 man hours were lost on the
waterfront ; 1959-1960 they rose to
806,000 and for the first half of the year
1960-1961, the hours lost so far are
nearly as much as for the previous year.
The offer of leave is intended to reduce
push-button strikes.
Mr Healy has received help from
unexpected quarters: the A.C.T.U. is
publicly supporting him ; the two D.L.P.
senators voted with the Opposition
against the bill ; and every time Mr
Healey pulls his boys out the tally
clerks strike the following day. So one-
day stoppages by the W.W.F. now result
in a two-day paralysis of Australia’s
waterfront. But the Communist leader-
ship of the W.W.F. seems unlikely to
win. The A.C.T.U. is unwilling to risk
a head-on collision with the Government
during an election year and their support
for Mr Healy is likely to be gradually
withdrawn. Waterside workers are
generally anxious to have the long-
service leave, with or without penalties,
and this internal pressure may force Mr
Healy to go slowly. In a head -on
collision between one trade union and
Government legislation the Government
generally wins.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Small Men in a Panic
A kind of disease has set in amongst
some classes of people who would
normally be among the Government’s
most fervid supporters. Hit by the Gov-
ernment’s economic measures, they have
suddenly discovered a love for the two-
party system of which no one would
have suspected them before last Novem-
ber. Faced with economic problems, they
are now talking loosely of voting Labor.
Some of them may even be short-sighted
enough to do it. Nobody can make a
greater mess of politics than small
businessmen in a panic.
What this kind of Liberal party sup-
porter cannot stomach is the fact that an
Australian Government cannot run the
country as a kind of racket in which
everyone who has his money or his per-
son invested in a certain economic
activity has a divine right to go on
pursuing that activity for ever —if its
future is limited. That people should
look after their interests is one thing ;
that they should expect that investments
or jobs that have no future (because they
are going to crash anyway) should be
given a future is expecting the impos-
sible.
The basic trouble with this country is
that too much investment and labor is
tied up in consumer goods and services
that are draining investment and labor
away from the industries that earn or
are likely to earn us an export income.
Many of these consumer industries pro-
duce a good profit on a small invest-
ment ; they can afford to push up wages
and other costs —to the detriment of
industries that could earn us the kind of
export income that would make it pos-
sible for us to buy many consumer goods
more cheaply from overseas manufac-
turers.
The economy was inflated ; our bal-
ance of payments was declining; our
credit system was devoted more and
more to financing the purchase of con-
sumer goods ; and a speculation boom
was accentuating the flow of capital
away from basic industries. The specu-
lation boom in itself was sufficient to
warrant the Government doing some-
thing. Booms do not ride on for ever ;
it is better to damp them down than let
them crash from their own momentum.
Individual criticisms may very well be
made of some of the individual measures
the Government took. Stop-and-start
policies—a fundamental part of progres-
sive economic thinking—are primarily
questions of degree, and in practice the
degrees can be got wrong. The psycho-
logical jolt of some measures may have
been too severe ; and the follow-up may
have been too uncertain. A little less
restricting at the beginning and a little
more at the end may have been a better
policy. But that some such measures were
necessary if we were to steer ourselves
away from disaster cannot be disputed.
And the short term results have been
effective. What might be criticised is
whether the long term results will be any-
thing.
However, this is not the kind of criti-
cism made of the Government's mea-
sures. The more general criticism is that
the Government is too muddling, arro-
gant, etc., because it has stepped on a
number of people’s toes (to get them
away from the precipice!) and we really
should change the Government.
According to the theories of two-party
government, it would certainly be true
that it is time for a change. This one
has been in power for a long time, so
we should change to the other one. This
theory is aesthetically pleasing ; there is
a nice rhythm about it , you swing this
way, then that way. In practice it means
putting the A.L.P. into power. And
before deciding to do that one should
ask what the A.L.P. has in the way of
an economic policy.
Well, what has the wild A.L.P. been
saying on economic policy? Insofar as
Mr Calwell and others have bothered to
say anything (and they are so obsessed
with their own tragic futilities that they
leave most of the attack to the Govern-
ment’s supporters) their short-term policy
seems to be —of all things!— to put money
back into the pockets of the speculators.
They realise that people have been hurt,
so they want to heal them by putting
things back to where they were in
October.
This can be an effective political trick.
Someone has lost what he wants, so you
promise to give it back to him. How-
ever, it is the kind of policy that would
not outlast an election. What would they
do then? Presumably the answer is that,
since on economic matters they know no
other policy except war-time socialism,
they would go back to price control,
import control, raw materials control,
capital issues control—and profit con-
trol. In other words, they would fiddle
around with the symptoms of inflation ;
but they would not seriously attempt
policies which would increase produc-
tion.
The more general effects of a spell of
Labor Government —until the A.L.P.
cleans its stables —might be disastrous.
The debilitation of the A.L.P. has encour-
aged the purely ratbag element in it.
John Curtin and Ben Chiftey controlled
a party which was broad-based enough
for them to crack down on the crackpots
when that was necessary. Now Mr
Calwell does nothing without looking be-
hind his back, knowing that if he irritates
the fellow-travelling Victorian A.L.P.
Executive he might lose his preselection.
The party that started the Industrial
Groups is now the party that turns a blind
eye to Unity Tickets (or connives in
them). The latent treachery of some
Labor members is so horrifying that it
is impossible to describe it without being
accused of exaggeration.
Given all this, we are stuck with the
Government. It is to be hoped that Mr
Menzies will not be put off balance by
the criticisms of his economic policy, that
he will extend it into a long-term policy
designed to balance permanently the
nature of economic growth in this coun-
try and that he will not only win the
election but win it on a policy that aids
the prosperity and stability of this
country.
Kennedy to the Summit
Tt is not as necessary to express fore-
bodings about President Kennedy’s im-
pending visit to Mr Khrushchev as it was
when the summit diplomacy fuss was at its
height. For one thing, President Kennedy
is more likely to be able to look after
himself than President Eisenhower. For
another, no one is expecting anything. It
is when people expect miraculous easings
of tension that summit diplomacy
becomes most dangerous in the democra-
cies. There is always then the possibility
that a democratic leader will relieve ten-
sion—that is to say, give in.
President Kennedy looks as if he knows
what “peaceful co-existence” really
means: that it is a propaganda term
denoting the attempt by the Russians
to get in by the back door when they
have decided they cannot get in by the
front. If this is so, there cannot for
the moment be any developments in
summit diplomacy —unless the Russians
are ever in such a position that they are
ready to make us some concessions.
However, we may as well go on with it.
Statesmen can move from one place to
the other and get their photographs
taken as they display their eagerness to
achieve something they do not want. It
is supposed to go down well in India.
BY OBSERVER


A Guide to the Clergy (First of a Series)
By DAVID SWAIN
HOLY ORDERS
ARCH BISHOP
GREEK ORTHODOX
GREEK UNORTHODOX
CHRISTIAN SCIENTIST
MODERATOR
MODERATOR GENERAL


Racial Prejudice
in New Zealand?
The national myth that 'lt can’t happen in New
Zealand” is disappearing.
By LOUIS JOHNSON
Prejudice runs two ways
Recent statements that there is a race problem in their
midst has come as a distinct shock to many New
Zealanders.
It has become something of a national myth that
“it can’t happen here” and that the two races, Maori and
pakeha live side by side in harmony.
A year or so ago the average, tolerant, easy-going New
Zealander would have passed off allegations of racialism with
a grin. He would have pointed to the evidence all around him
that amity and concord prevailed—and there is plenty of it.
But that was before the “All Black” issue showed that on
racial grounds, and in the name of the nation's unofficial
religion, Rugby, it was as easy to divide the nation’s sentiments
as it was to pass a hot knife through a pound of butter. It
was before the brother of the New Zealand Government’s
representative in Malaya (a Maori) was refused service in an
Auckland hotel on racial grounds. It was before it was found
that other New Zealand hotels made the same rules.
Now if the New Zealander falls silent in the face of
accusations about the color-bar it is because of a core of guilt,
an uneasy feeling that in spite of the official reassurances,
things might have been happening behind his back of which
he has not been aware.
Three reports made in the past year have tried to run
some sort of a fence around the race question. They are the
Geiringer report, prepared by Dr Erich Geiringer, senior
medical research officer at Otago University ; the Hunn report,
by J. K. Hunn, a professional civil servant and at the time
Acting-Secretary of the Department of Maori Affairs ; and the
outburst of Dr David P. Ausubel, American Fulbright scholar
and noted Kiwiphobe who spent 11 months in New Zealand
some two years ago. His consequent publication, “The Fern
and the Tiki” (Angus and Robertson), aroused such ire among
even those who supported his views, freely expressed in the
press while he was here, that as a consequence nothing he
suggests is likely to get looked at a second time. “The Fern
and the Tiki” is so unobjective that it can only suggest the
author has cast himself as a sort of mediator-savior of the
native race and allowed his highly subjective feelings to run
amok.
Dr Geiringer points out that if there is any parallel to be
drawn in the New Zealand race situation, the closest analogy
is with the Red Indian of North America rather than with
the Negro situation. Both Maoris and Indians have been held
in respect by their conquerors after defeat in “honorable”
wars and have been helped towards racial survival. The Maori
has not been invested with the myth of superior sexual prowess
and potency as has the Negro, and thus he is not feared as a
rival by the European New Zealander —though Geiringer points
°ut that the Maori is probably responsible for a much higher
proportion of rape charges than is the American Negro.
"["he Maori is looked upon indulgently—as something of a
happy-go-lucky Stone Age survival learning to cope more
or less with civilisation. He is officially given every opportunity
to do so. He shares in the full social benefits of the Welfare
State, yet socially he makes the country’s most depressed group
and lives on the level of the European slum-dweller.
As Geiringer says, the Maori is blamed for being “thrift-
less (like European slum-dwellers) ; devoid of social ambition ;
more easy - going and fond of leisure than even the New
Zealanders ; devoted to loud clothes (like the U.S. whites);
and to loud parties (like the New Zealand intellectuals); and
convinced that the evil of the day is sufficient thereunto (like
Jesus Christ).”
Geiringer says that the Maori’s depressed state is fostered
by the paternalistic and humanitarian methods by which he
has been treated and that these tend to keep him a socially
distinct group. So long as he remains in that group, with
special Government Departments and protective agencies to
help in housing problems and other indulgences, the greater
will be the danger of real trouble coming to a head. For the
Maori population is on the increase. In 1900 there were 40,000
of them. In 1958 there were 150,000. There has also been too
much pious talk of the need to retain the Maori culture, and
this stands in the way of full integration.
“According to the crackpots on both sides of the fence, the
Maoris must adopt the customs, beliefs and morals of the white
man but must at the same time and at all costs hang on to
their own culture. How is it done?” he asks. “The crackpots,
he says, “confuse culture with art and art with decoration.”
In the face of it the young Maori veers citywards, twangs his
twangy guitar and learns to sing like Elvis.
The high rate of intermarriage is another factor many
think will hammer the final nail into the coffin of racial preju-
dice. But intermarriage, though increasing each year, is wrong
to both a section of the European population and to the die-
hards of the Maori elders who want to see the blood kept
MRS ELEANOR ROOSEVELT WITH GUIDE
Too much pious talk


S&i***®*-* - * * *«..**-»
...
. :
■ ,:V . .
I
■<*?&&« y -■-: ■■■’.
M%m
> r
&■
%
mm
mm
i h
...- >•-
- .. .. -
]gs|jsy'*'
* ‘ JL _ V/~ v r 'Si*.-;*.
... . *.,.». ••■ assays* : -* ** * * * *
~.. •••'• ■' 1 ■id%js., is’SSSPVHfc'S* *■• ..... ■ ' ’
ifefwf . ■ -v;
Reflecting the vigour,
enterprise and
enthusiasm of a growing
nation.
A great
Australian enterprise
THE
NATIONAL Ml/Tt/AL
UAE ASSOC/AT/ON 0A A/AS/A LTD.
(Inc. in Vic.)
HEAD OFFICE: 395 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE. PHONE 62-6541
SYDNEY: 350 GEORGE STREET. PHONE BL 1271
BRISBANE: 293 QUEEN STREET. PHONE 31-1711
ADELAIDE: 91 KING WILLIAM STREET. PHONE LA 2091
PERTH: 81 ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE. PHONE 23-1341
HOBART: 119 MACQUARIE STREET. PHONE 2-2851
pure. If there is prejudice in New Zealand it is a two-way
prejudice in which the superiority complex asserts itself on
both sides of the fence (and that surely is one measure of
equality!).
And prejudice also exists for political reasons. A minority
group, growing as fast as the Maori population, wields some
power. In recent Parliaments where power has remained with
one of the two major parties by a margin of two or three
seats, some observers claim the Maori voter (who is entitled
to elect four Maori candidates in the 80-member house) holds
New Zealand in the hollow of his hand. The reasoning is hard
to follow, since the four Maori members have been, as a rule,
almost as inarticulate as many of their white colleagues.
Furthermore, all changes of Government in the past 20 years
have been brought about by a change of heart in the European
electorates, while the Maoris have consistently returned Labor
members since the early ’forties. They, therefore, must have
been the losers sometimes. But the point remains that on
political issues one can see the seeds of racialism.
T>robably the main source of trouble has been the drift to the
cities, especially by younger, inexperienced Maoris eager
for life under the bright lights. And arising from this, the
continual appearance of young Maoris in the courts on every
charge from petty theft and drunkenness to rape.
Maori welfare officers are worried by it just as they are,
unofficially, worried by one of its consequences—the fact that
as a rule a Maori must be over-qualified to get preference over
a white in selection for a job. This is one reason why the
Maori places such little value on higher education.
What the well-disposed New Zealander cannot be sure of
is that Maoris do really want to go on being truck- and
bulldozer-drivers or waitresses —and if they do not, how he can
be really helped. On the surface it would not appear that
opportunity for the Maori is lacking. In my own neighbor-
hood —one of the smallest of the nation’s cities —Maoris
include bishops and churchmen, teachers, successful business-
men and farmers, the medical superintendent of the city hos-
pital and one of the country's most advanced architects, as
well as the hordes of unskilled workers and the more skilled
shearing gangs. Nationally, and for the first time since early
in the century, Maori writers and poets who write in English,
not Maori, are emerging. And Maori artists are beginning to
move away from the wood and seashell carving stage.
Very few of these people I have met are interested in the
life in the pah (Maori village) or in the “Maori problem”—
they’re too busy with their own lives in the full community.
And this approach—fuller and quicker integration—seems to
be the backbone of the Hunn report.
Currently a campaign to keep Maori youth at school
longer, to give the promising young Maori the fullest educa-
tional opportunity is said to be bearing fruit. Just what fruit,
in terms of race relations, remains to be seen. When the stage
is reached at which highly qualified Maoris can occupy posts
they are fitted for over the heads of their white brothers—
then, indeed, will New Zealand know whether it is faced with
a race problem.


The Blind Spots of
Sir Thomas Playford
Continuing the series on State Premiers.
By GEOFFREY DUTTON
SIR THOMAS PLAYFORD
Big
Sir Thomas Playford has now reached the most interesting
stage in his extraordinarily successful career.
Premier since 1938, he has seen the three main stages
of South Australia’s growth. As a fruitgrower, the land
is in his blood. As his State's shrewdest P.R. man, industry
has involved the challenges he likes best to meet. But the third
stage, symbolised by the Festival of Arts, is not his business.
He genuinely believes that the arts are frills, not fundamentals,
and also (with more justice) that too much education often
produces very silly people. He is all for Adelaide having its
Festival frolic as long as the Government doesn’t have to get
involved in it. (In fact, the very existence of the Festival proves
the fact that private citizens have most enterprise where
Governments interfere least.)
Like Sir Christopher Wren and St Paul’s, if a monument
is needed to Playford's honesty and energy any South Australian
has only to look around him. Establishing a factory in S.A., for
instance, is the sort of problem he enjoys solving. It means
that most of the materials have to be imported from the
eastern States, and then most of the manufactured goods sent
back again. But Philips is an example of a firm who thought
such difficulties well worth surmounting in order to be sure
of a stable background for their activities. Again, S.A. has
only one Federal Minister, but pity help Mr Menzies if the
S.A. Premier thinks the State’s interests are being passed over ;
recently Playford flew to Canberra and sat on Menzies’
doorstep until admitted.
Playford is indubitably an S.A. patriot in performance as
well as in sentiment. Yet these spectacular personal interven-
tions, that may lead to an oil refinery here or there a rail
gauge row with the Commonwealth, never extend into the field
of social services, taking these in their broadest sense. He has
too many blind spots. A seemly scuffle may develop with two
of Playford's most valuable supporters, Sir Lloyd Dumas and
Sir Arthur Rymill, over the project of a Festival Hall and Arts
Centre in shabby Victoria Square, but nothing comes of it.
Playford’s chief Minister, Sir Lyell McEwin, may be absent
for a few weeks and Playford take over the running of his
department. Suddenly the doctors find that things stait to
happen and a committee is set up that should have got down
to business years ago ; but nothing further happens. There
are plenty of fine new schools in S.A., and the Teachers’
College is about to have a huge new building, but S.A.’s school
leaving age is still the lowest in the Commonwealth. The
squashed ant-heap of Adelaide's Public Library is eventually to
be reorganised in a new building, but in the rest of the State
the Government will not establish new libraries but only
subsidise those already existing. The list could be extended
through departments like Child Welfare and Police to an ironic
conclusion in the impeccable mediocrity of S.A.’s new town,
Elizabeth.
'T'here is nowhere a hint of corruption, not even of danger-
A ous mismanagement; it could be argued that these social
services are details, and that no Government can be perfect.
The State grows and prospers, Playford just maintains his
rather oddly-arrived-at majority—why disturb the show when
it is running pretty well? The answer is of course that if
Playford is to preserve, let alone increase, his slim leadership
he will have to give some more signs of leading. Playford is no
Eisenhower, either in his dealings with big business or the golf-
course, but he could take a few hints from his fate.
In the earlier stages of State growth, Playford’s strength
and his stability were his greatest asset; in the later stage of
consolidation and intellectual stimulus they are a handicap.
Like his grandfather Thomas, a distinguished State and Federal
politician, he is a big man, exuberantly but not offensively
healthy, seemingly quite inexhaustible in the number of meet-
ings and dinners he attends. He is too humane a man to despise
those weaker than himself, but in the words of one eminent
doctor, Playford’s own good health may tend to confirm him
in the view that good factories are more important than good
hospitals. With this strength goes a stability that is part
inherited, part won. He was brought up on the land, in the
Adelaide hills, and he knows how to grow cherries ; he says
his university was the East End Market. He has the confidence
of the returned soldier who can go to reunions with his mates.
(The rumor is that this is the only time he ever has a beer.) He
has the relaxed ease of the successful professional ; he knows
he can run rings round nearly all of his fellow-members in the
House. He also has a phenomenal memory, and simply by
taking in what he has seen and read he can hold his own with
physicists at Woomera, oil men in the U.S.A. or drovers on
the Birdsville Track. In after-dinner speeches, where he used
to be stolidly practical and repress his good sense of humor,
he now sparkles to such an extent that not long ago he out-
performed Menzies at an Adelaide dinner. His sense of bluff
and timing is nearly always perfect ; the Opposition still smart
over an occasion about seven years ago, in a debate on educa-
tion, when Playford quietened criticism by playing on the fact
that he knew very well that he had seen the Commonwealth
report in question, whereas the Labor members had not. All
this confidence and stability makes for a capacity to ignore
what he thinks irrelevant, especially ideas and anything that
could be called aesthetic (except orchid-growing).
TTe is a big man politically as well as physically, but he has
none of Menzies’ arrogance and he is remarkably loyal to
his Ministers. It is customary to talk of him as S.A.’s
benevolent dictator. A trip to, say, Portugal would soon dis-
pense with this illusion, but the fact remains that he over-
shadows all his subordinates to such an extent that many
people wonder how he can refrain from moving in and shaking
up their departments. The Opposition has been out of power
for so long that relations between the parties are often so
matey as to astonish strangers to S.A. customs. The usual
exception is Don Dunstan, whom Playford calls Number One
Bloody Nuisance. Dunstan is a match for Playford both in
intelligence and memory, and in keeping the Premier's wits
sharp he is probably more use to Playford than anyone in the
Government. Playford is not often rattled, but when he is it is
usually because he has been relying on the ignorance of others,
and Dunstan has not been ignorant. Playford’s temper broke
most publicly in the Stuart case, and in the subsequent Rivett
case, that between them almost caused a civil war in South
Australia and disturbed complexities that still reverberate
uneasily.
Playford has been called “a shrewd peasant” and “a
consummate artist in public relations.” Two such astonishingly
different labels give an idea of the brilliance of the man. He
knows what sprays go on the cherry, what acids go into the
plastic. His test now is whether he knows what goes into the
mind of the Australian of the 19605. The week still has 168
hours, and although all of these can be spent in a hospital,
even the lucky ones who work for only 40 hours cannot spend
all the rest asleep.


James Edmond
An Editor
Who Changed
Australia
"The most powerful and persuasive political
writer Australia has known
By J. E. WEBB
{Editor of The Bulletin 1933-48)
JAMES EDMOND
The qualities Lawrence admired
ON April 21, ninety-two years ago, there was born in a
Glasgow home, too closely acquainted with poverty, a
small Scot who was to become a great journalist in
an age of great journalism, and the most powerful and
persuasive political writer Australia has known.
No Highland seer could have augured such a destiny for
James Edmond. His family could do so little for him that
he had to leave school at 12 and get a job. He must even then
have been a clever fellow, but he never looked or talked like
one, and nobody with the capacity to help him forward offered
himself as a patron.
At 16 the neglected lad was a clerk in an insurance office.
That experience must somehow have assisted to give him the
unique financial knowledge and ideas which were long after-
wards exhibited with telling effect in The Bulletin’s Wild Cat
columns and editorial pages ; that, and years of voracious
reading in the Glasgow public library. But his worldly affairs
did not prosper, and his 20th year found him in the steerage
of a steamer bound for New Zealand.
As it happened, New Zealand, though a second home for
many thousands of North Britons, showed no particular interest
in a young Glaswegian with no influence or graces of speech
or person. It was the same with Victoria when he crossed over
to that part of Australia, a colony then. Not until he reached
Queensland and —boldly, though mendaciously, claiming
experience—became a proof-reader on the Rockhampton
“Morning Bulletin,” did his exceptional talents begin to be
recognised.
From Rockhampton he sent pars, and articles to this
Bulletin, then edited by J. F. Archibald. Though not much
of a writer himself, Archibald was an unsurpassed judge of
good stuff, and he printed, and paid for, nearly everything
Edmond sent him. In 1886, the year following the stranger’s
arrival in Rockhampton, Archibald gave him a staff job in
Sydney, and he made good straight away.
'T’hough there were cartoonists of distinction, Phil May and
Livingstone Hopkins, in the office, there was a shortage
of writers, other than the ever-growing multitude of contri-
butors in prose and verse. In the unique style which he had
cultivated somehow in his wanderings and leisure hours,
eminently readable and full of humor and fetching compari-
sons, “the man from Rockhampton,” as he had introduced
himself, soon made his presence felt in every section of the
paper, as it was then.
Cartoonists and “joke-block” artists have to be fed with
ideas ; and Edmond fed them. As a contemporary wrote, “his
capacity for seizing upon striking and original ideas vividly
illustrative of the critical point of a subject was one of the
greatest of his many great qualities.” At the same time he
had a hand in almost every printed page. Paragraphs and
articles on all manner of subjects, all dealt with in a lively
fashion, short stories, sketches and jingles flowed from his tire-
less pen. Theatrical criticism, too.
In those days we Australians saw better shows than we
have seen in these latter years, and Edmond dealt with them
in the fashion that he made his own. The great Sarah had
come to Sydney:
Bernhardt faints elegantly. There isn't the slightest doubt
about it. The world is full of actresses who can't faint worth
twopence, and they grow wearisome. The worse the actress the
heavier the wallop with which she strikes the floor . . .
R. L. Stevenson was an occasional visitor. The strangest
of his works had been made into a play:
The story of Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde, written by the hermit
of Samoa and dramatised by Alf Dampier, is keeping the pot
boiling with a cold sort of boil at Sydney Criterion. Jekyll was
the man who got into the habit of being Hyde, and died of it . . .
And Wilson Barrett was performing in “The Sign of the
Cross”:
A certain Marcus Barrett dwelt in Rome long time ago,
And the limelight-man pursued him as he ran the gaudy show.
He was quite a whale for women in hjs autocratic way,
But he knew too much to marry, so the Naicest used to say.
For the ladies all were pagans, and their moral code was blue:
They dreaded not the future, when damnation falleth due;
And they suited Marcus nicely (though they nevah touched his
heart),
Till his mouth began to water for an Early Christian tart . . .
An amiable English lordling was on his way to Sydney
to take up residence in Government House, and had reached
the West. A Perth pressman induced him to address a message
to his subjects-to-be, and he obliged with four lines from
Kipling:
Your birthstains you have turned to good,
Forcing strong wills perverse to steadfastness.
The first flush of the tropics in your blood,
And at your feet success.
When the young man arrived at his destination a freezing
wind blew from Society and there was uproar in the press.
The Bulletin contented itself with a single line—Edmond's:
For Birthstains, take Beauchamp’s Pills.
This was matched long afterwards by another line, written
during the Boer War, which Edmond hated, after one of the


many frontal attacks ordered by fatheaded generals whom
British and Australian daily papers extolled as masters of their
craft; in the jargon of the period, always “reverses”:
Sir Revers'd Biiller. Only one letter transposed.
Richard Aldington, in his introduction to the Penguin
edition of D. H. Lawrence’s “Kangaroo,” refers to The
Bulletin as “Lawrence’s favorite periodical.” Lawrence,
himself, thinly disguised as his character Somers, says: “The
Bulletin was the only periodical in the world that really
amused him. The horrible stuffiness of English newspapers
he could not stand: they had the same effect on him as fish-
balls in a restaurant, loathsome, stuffy fare. English magazines
were too piffling, too imbecile. But The Bully, even if it was
made up all of bits, and had neither head nor tail nor feet nor
wings, was still a lively creature. He liked its straightforward-
ness and the kick in some of its tantrums. It beat no solemn
drums. It had no deadly earnestness. It was just stoical and
spitefully humorous.”
There followed just on three pages of extracts from The
Bulletin, with an occasional comment: “Somers liked the
concise, laconic style. It seemed to him manly and without
trimmings/’
Edmond was no longer editor of The Bulletin, though
principal contributor, when Lawrence lived in the Australia of
1922, but he more than any other man gave it the qualities
that the novelist admired. But there was no spite in his com-
position or in that of S. H. Prior, the editor in 1922, and
Edmond’s successor as controller of the Wild Cat section as
well as in the Chair—a dual role that was to be filled in the
late forties and fifties by David Adams. Spite is no ingredient
of a good financial writer’s equipment. In political as well as
financial matters Edmond and Prior were earnest men, and,
working together, they achieved enduring things for Australia.
At 40 Edmond was associate editor. The six colonies were
then moving, though slowly, towards union of a sort. E. W.
Cole, of Melbourne’s famous Book Arcade, offered a hand-
some cash prize for the best essay in favor of Federation and
another for the best essay against it. Edmond won both.
'That was one of his priceless assets as a constructive political
1 writer. When set on a policy he could turn over in his
mind the several objections to it and dismiss them one by one.
With this unusual asset, and with consummate knowledge born
of observation, reading and reflection, he did more than any
other contemporary writer to bring about Federation. This
was recognised by Edmund Barton, beside whom, at the invita-
tion of the stately figure who was to be the first Prime Minister,
J. E. WEBB
J. F. ARCHIBALD
A judge of good stuff
the little-known editor, short, dumpy, a tuft of hair on his chin,
sat on the balcony of the Empire Hotel, Sydney, when Barton
delivered his historic speech on the cause that was about to
triumph.
And no man did more than Edmond to shape the thinking
of the parties that predominated, till the outbreak of the First
World War: Barton's, then Deakin’s party and that of Watson,
who was followed by Fisher. In articles which took a heavy
toll of him, in season and out of season, Edmond urged on
legislators, often reluctant, practically all the nation-making
measures which were eventually placed in the Statute Book.
A citizen Army, a national Navy, a Commonwealth Bank, old-
age pensions, conciliation and arbitration, a White Australia
and an industry-establishing tariff —all these things were recom-
mended to members with a wealth of argument and passionate
conviction. For Protection he labored mightily against heavy
odds. Only in Victoria, indeed only in Melbourne, was there
any strong Protectionist feeling ; from New South Wales came
a Free Trade Prime Minister, G. H. Reid, and Hughes himself
had leanings that way, together with most of the people in
other States, dependent on land industries as they were, or
thought they were.
With the need for Protection made increasingly evident
by world affairs, opposition melted away, and long before
Edmond's death in Sydney on March 21, 1933 —a breakdown
had forced his retirement as editor after 12 years, in 1915 —
he had the satisfaction of seeing solid tariff-nurtured industries
established in every State. But it is not on record that any
Chamber of Manufactures has ever acknowledged his work in
any way. Indeed, a visitor to a flourishing concern bossed by
one or more of its members would invite ridicule if he sug-
gested that it owed its very existence to the work of an editor
28 years dead who wore himself out in advocacy of what he
regarded as almost a sacred cause. His breakdown incapaci-
tated him for four years, and he was nearly blind towards
the end.
But Edmond was the sort of man who never looks for
praise or reward, nor did he ever care a dump what critics
said about him or his paper. It delighted him, in fact, when
Cecil Rhodes was goaded into thrusting at “Sydney Bulletin
Australians.*’ Poor Rhodes —how pathetic now seems his
vision of a Cape-Cairo railway running through all-British
territory! And what a sequel, sixty years after, to the conflict
Edmond loathed, and the consequences of which he dreaded, is
the republic incorporating not only the Transvaal and
Orangia, annexed in 1902, but Cape Colony and Natal, with
.Vorwoerd as Prime Minister, and apartheid!


AUSTRALIA AND THE WORLD
Angola, South Vietnam, Cuba-
The Take-over Bid
Every struggling country is a target for "liberation” —
the prospects are limitless.
By DENIS WARNER
North Vietnam’s Ho Chi-minh...
the smile of victory
Tn the spring of 1955, while the first Seato Council was
meeting in Bangkok, a Western military attache and a
Vietnamese named Tran van Dinh, who ten years earlier
had been chief of staff of the Lao-Viet Liberation Army in
Vientiane, talked over the functions of the new treaty
organisation and the security of South-east Asia.
“This is the way the Communists will come,” said the
officer pointing to the map spread out on a table in front of
him. And he ran his pencil through the Porte de Chine,
China’s gateway into Tongking, describing over the rest of
South-east Asia a series of lines that spread from the main
invasion route like the branches of a swizzle stick.
‘ You are wrong,” said the Vietnamese, taking the pencil
and scoring the map with lines that covered South-east Asia
with a series of interlocking circles fashioned like the points
of a compass. “They will come this way.”
The Westerner thought and spoke in terms of conventional
war. Communist China had more than two million men
under arms. Ho Chi-minh's Vietminh forces totalled
another 350,000. The defence of South-east Asia therefore
required the creation of conventional military forces to stand
in the way of a conventional act of aggression. Tran van
Dinh, who had once trained, organised and led what the
Communists call a war of national liberation, knew better.
He talked of cells and united fronts and the creation of
“liberated zones” inspired and supplied from without but
created from within and which became military only in their
final expression.
Even in the light of the French defeat in Indo-China, the
military attache was not convinced. He thought the French
had lost negatively and could not bring himself to accept
the appreciation that a Western army of 350,000 men had been
defeated positively by a force of similar size which had no
planes, or tanks and little artillery and depended in many
cases on the equipment it captured from the French.
He was not alone in his view'. Seato became a conventional
military alliance designed to meet a conventional military
threat. Over the years the Seato planning staffs drew up well-
formulated conventional plans for meeting conventional
aggression. They had plans for every conceivable form of
military assault from Communist China, or North Vietnam,
against the treaty area: but they had no plans for the
apparently inconceivable concept of the type of “aggression”
involved in a Communist war of national liberation. Thus,
by the time Seato was reluctantly prepared to consider action
at its Council meeting in March of this year, the war in Laos
was already lost and the Royal Laotion Army had been
defeated without ever really being called on to fight. A similar
situation appears to be shaping up in South Vietnam.
Contiguous borders, such as those which separate Laos
from North Vietnam and Communist China and South Viet-
nam from North Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia, are obviously
helpful to the Communists in fighting wars of national libera-
tion. But they are by no means essential. And since the
current Communist view is that the formula is readily
applicable in any colony or semi-colony, or in any country
where there is an impoverished peasantry, or gross inequalities
of wealth, or unpopular authoritarian government, and a
dozen or more such wars are already in the making, the
situation suggests that the West might profit from an urgent
re-examination of the Communist tactics.
The general rules, based on Mao Tse-tung’s experience
in the Chinese civil war, were laid down by Liu Shao-chi at
the World Federation of Trade Unions’ Australasian con-
ference in Peking in November, 1949. Liu called for the
creation of Communist parties in all designated territories,
the formation of national united fronts led by the Communist
party, and the establishment of national liberation armies
under Communist leadership as a prelude to liberation wars
fought from rural bases and co-ordinated with non-military
activity in the towns and cities.
His call came at a time when Ho Chi-minh was locked
in bitter and ineffective struggle with the French Union forces.
Almost all of Indo-China was harassed by a bloody guerrilla
war. Terrorists in Saigon and Hanoi used to hurl bombs
into crowded cafes and blow up buses on lonely country roads.
Terror stalked the country by day and by night, but it would
have been ridiculous to suggest that these untrained terrorists
might one day bring the French Union Army to inglorious
defeat. One French battalion could go anywhere it liked
with impunity.
nPHE first step towards putting the Chinese formula into
practice was the formal re-creation of the Communist
party and its installation in the vanguard of the revolution.
While this was going on, some tens of thousands of Vietminh
guerrillas were moved out of Tongking into training camps
in South China, where, under the direction of Marshal Ho
Lung, they were organised into a regular army of several
divisions.
At the same time., the terror campaign in Indo-China
came to an end. Political cadres became active throughout
the countryside, establishing party branches and cells and front
organisations which eventually threw a network of Com-


NOTHING EQUALS
WARMRAY'S AMAZING EFFICIENCY!
t warm ray *
. ‘TRADE MARK REGD JSr
• TRIPLE PURPOSE
• SLOW COMBUSTION
• AIR CONDITIONING
HOME HEATER
MODEL ' H.l|/ STANDARD
has over 7,000 cu. ft. heating
capacity, equipped with a non-
jamming shaker grate.
• BURNS ANY SOLID FUEL
AND NEED NEVER GO OUT
—...
★ Beautifully enamelled on
solid cast iron, Model H.D. is
available in CERAMIC GREY, HAWAIIAN
CREAM, and MAHOGANY to suit the contemporary or
traditional home.
Installs in rooms with or
without fireplaces .
MODEL No. 3
SUPER DE LUXE
★ Capacity Over 10,000
cu. ft.
★ Special large firebox for
long burning.
★ Extra large hotplate for
cooking.
The secret of Warmray’s efficiency is the patented
Heating Tubes (illustrated below) which are built into
the firebox. The air in the room passes through these
tubes continuously, thus maintaining an even, overall
warmth.
World patented heating
make this the most
economical and best room
heater of them all, regard-
less of price!
TTTT
WARM RAY I
HEATING TUBES|
IEXTI
British Ministry of Power and Fuel gives Warmray
an efficiency rating of 83%.
IMITATED?? OFTEN!!
EQUALLED?? NEVER!!
Sold by Stores, Builders’ Suppliers
and Hardware Merchants everywhere.
Warmray Pty. Ltd*
Manufacturers and Wholesale Distributors
Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Telegrams: “Warmray”, *25-2216.
If unobtainable locally, ’phone, write or call for illustrated
brochure and name of nearest agents.
WAR/HP-34 A
munist control over most of rural Vietnam. What had been
an indiscriminate war —as much against the Vietnamese people
a s against the French —now became a people’s war. Guerrillas
remained spread throughout the countryside ; but instead of
indulging in haphazard terrorist activities they concentrated
on specific military targets with the object of tying down
French troops in static defence.
At the second level of military organisation were regional
battalions which fought when they could win and went back
to their jobs in the paddy-fields when they couldn’t. Finally,
there was the elite, full-time regular army. Though some
elements were used inside the French lines in the Red River
delta, it was mostly kept intact for occasions when it had
overwhelming tactical superiority and could launch an attack
in divisional strength against an isolated French regiment
or battalion.
Against these new tactics the French proved helpless.
Their repressive measures designed to prevent the local popula-
tion from collaborating with the Vietminh served merely to
swell Ho Chi-minh’s ranks. By 1952 it was apparent that
ultimate French defeat was only a matter of time.
\l7hile the United States built up the Royal Lao Army and
Seato cast its “mantle of protection” over Laos, the Neo
Lao Hak Xat Party created its rural political bases and spread
its network of cells and front organisations over the Laotian
countryside. All of the leading members of the Neo Lao
Hak Xat, with the possible exception of Prince Souphanou-
vong, were also members of the Lao Dong (Communist)
Party of Vietnam. Hanoi therefore had direct political control
of the underground movement in Laos. It followed Mao’s
well established technique in securing military control, also.
China’s Mao Tse-tung with students from Asia, Africa and
Latin America.
Just as the Vietminh forces had once been trained in China,
Pathet Lao irregulars were taken from Laos for training in
the Vietminh bases at Yen Bay and Dien Bien Phu, imme-
diately north of the Laotian border. It was the return of these
forces in 1958 and 1959 that produced the anguished cries
from Vientiane that Laos was being invaded by the Vietminh
from North Vietnam. The invasions were fact: but the troops
were not Vietminh but returning Laos and Laotian tribesmen.
In the later stages, when Russian transports were flying
supplies to the Plain of Jars, Vietminh technicians and advisory
groups were present: but it is improbable that organised Viet-
minh fighting units participated directly after 1953 and 1954
when their “volunteers” in divisional strength established Prince
Souphanouvong and the Pathet Lao in Sam Neua, Phong Saly
a nd Luang Prabang provinces. After the French withdrawal
a repetition of such an overt act of aggression could not have
been concealed: it could scarcely have failed to provoke even
me Seato “paper tiger” into action ; but in any event, it was
not necessary.
. Circumstances were different in South Vietnam. The
Withdrawal of the Vietminh apparatus after the Geneva


Agreement in 1954 left South Vietnam in a situation which
one Vietnamese Communist writer compared with that which
existed in the Russia between 1910 and 1917, when the Com-
munist party of the Soviet Union, “though having to pay a
high price to carry out its clandestine activities, continued to
struggle actively to win the masses and to prepare them for a
new revolution.”
For the first two years the Communists in South Vietnam
undoubtedly struggled under heavy difficulties. President Ngo
Dinh Diem’s success in cleaning up the dissident religious
sects and in destroying the corrupt Binh Xuyen, which con-
trolled both the police and the organised vice of Saigon,
facilitated the extension of his rule in the rural areas in a
manner that North Vietnam had not expected. Communist
rural agitation was comparatively slow to develop and for
a time misdirected. Booby-trapped rice-fields, for instance,
killed many people: but they also made many enemies.
With the formation in 1960 of the National Front for
the Liberation of South Vietnam, however, and a sharp
stepping up in infiltrators from North Vietnam, Diem fell
back on highly unpopular counter-measures, such as summary
arrest, trial and execution and the resettlement of peasants in
agrovilles: quite rapidly, effective control of the countryside
passed into Communist hands.
There are now guerrillas everywhere. “Liberated’’ areas
and the appearance of regular Communist forces recruited
in the South but trained and equipped by the North are the
next predictable steps in this campaign. There will be nothing
that the more pusillanimous members of Seato are likely to
be able to identify as an act of aggression.
In areas where such treaty organisations do not exist the
prospects are even more favorable for the extension of wars
of national liberation and the risks are even less. Much of
Africa, for instance, is both anti-colonial and anti-imperialist
and full of forces that may be conveniently harnessed and led.
A difficulty here is that among many of these primitive
peoples few, if any, have ever heard of Marx, Lenin, or Mao.
Although Angola and Mozambique, for example, are classic
illustrations of colonialism at its worst, with forced labor
systems and fearful poverty, the natives have hitherto lacked
the resources and the knowledge to start a successful revolution,
or even to force modest reforms.
Tn the March, 1961, issue of International Affairs, Moscow
described how the break-through was achieved. The estab-
lishment of the Angola Communist Party in October, 1955,
was ihe first step. Fourteen months later, with the party now
an established underground force, it formed the Popular
Movement for the Liberation of Angola. In 1959 the Popular
Movement for the Liberation of Angola and the African Party
of Independence set up a co-ordinating centre called the
African Revolutionary Front of Struggle for National Indepen-
dence of Portuguese Colonies. All of these organisations are,
of course, illegal, and because of the risks they began quietly.
At first their activities inside Angola were confined to what
the Moscow weekly “New Times” described as the “distribution
of leaflets, manifestos, action programmes and appeals for the
intensification of the anti-colonial struggle.”
On Easter Sunday, 1959, the Portuguese police struck
back. More than 150 Africans suspected of membership of
the Communist party, or groups associated with it in the
liberation movement, were seized in Luanda alone, and large
numbers of others were taken elsewhere in the territory Instead
of breaking the independence movement, however, these arrests
sparked off the war of national liberation.
Two separate, but now related, groups swung into action.
The African Revolutionary Front of Struggle for National
Independence of Portuguese Colonies had become established
in Conakry, the capital of Guinea, where Chinese and Russian
aid and advice was readily forthcoming and North Vietnam
had established a large and active mission. The front was
ready to push armed and trained insurgents into Angola from
the sea and overland through the Congo, where the Union
of the Peoples of Angola, with headquarters in Leopoldville,
was following a similar programme. Early this year, armed
infiltrators from both groups swept across the border: soon
large areas in north Angola were “liberated” or under insurgent
domination
Between April 18 and April 20 leaders of both the Leopold
and Conakry groups met representatives of other Portuguese
national liberation movements from Mozambique and Portu-
guese Guinea at Casablanca. Here, according to “New Times”
they co-ordinated their plans for revolts throughout Portuguese
Africa, and apparently decided to approach Peking for further
material aid.
Actual Communist strength in these liberation movements
is tiny. But the tactics used and the policy of “uniting with
all peoples and groups willing to be united with” are straight
Mao Tse-tung.
Potential buyers of the formula and hardware for wars
of national liberation follow a well-trodden path that begins in
Moscow, carries on to Peking and includes a stop-over in the
test-tube of Hanoi. Belkacem Krim, Vice-Premier of the
Algerian Provisional Government, who went to Peking to
negotiate an aid programme in May, 1960, began and ended in
Moscow, but included Hanoi for talks with the Vietminh (now
Vietcong) Commander-in-Chief, General Vo Nguyen Giap.
Premier Ferhat Abbas followed in his footsteps last November.
/"Organisations such as the All-African People’s Conference
(which promoted the African Revolutionary Front for the
National Independence of Portuguese Colonies), the Asian-
African Women’s Conference, the Afro-Asian People’s
Solidarity Council and numerous “friendship” associations,
which maintain a constant flow of selected visitors from the
under-developed world into the Soviet Union and Communist
China, are one way of spreading the concept of wars of
“national liberation.” For members of Communist parties
from these and other countries there are special schools in
Peking and Moscow. Almost every member of the executive
of the Australian Communist party, for instance, has attended
some sort of ideological school in Peking: and nearly a
thousand Japanese passed through another Peking school of
instruction in revolutionary techniques.
Most students who accept invitations to study in the
Soviet Union and Communist China are probably
not Communists or even Communist sympathisers.
But they are receptive to anti-colonial and anti-
imperialist propaganda, which is the basis for most
wars of national liberation. It is significant, therefore, that
the number of students from Latin America studying in bloc
universities jumped from 167 in 1959 to 496 in 1960, while
numbers of Africans increased from 694 to 1666.
The increase in touring delegations is even more marked.
At the end of April there were no less than three separate
Cuban delegations in Peking.
If Cuba was the “trail-blazing vanguard of the revolution
in Latin America” to the Chinese leaders, it was scarcely less
attractive in prospect to Khrushchev, who in his speech to the
Higher Party School of the Academy of Social Sciences and
the Institute of Marxism-Leninism on January 6, 1961,
remarked gleefully that Latin America was no longer an
American “manorial estate” and predicted that soon volcanoes
therein would erupt everywhere.
What we must expect, therefore, is that Cuba will become
a training-ground for, and headquarters of, wars of national
liberation in the Caribbean and elsewhere in Latin America.
Guadeloupe and Martinique have both been mentioned as
“ripe for revolt,” also Chile, Nicaragua, Bolivia and Guatemala.
Every country in the region has been surveyed, its dependence
on, and importance to, the United States assessed and its
revolutionary prospects carefully catalogued. Here, in Africa
and in Asia, the prospects are limitless. Every Western colony,
every Western market or source of raw materials, every
struggling under-developed country associated with the West
is a target.
For a long time Indonesian tactics in West New Guinea
puzzled both the Dutch and Australians. Mr R. G. Menzies
hailed as a diplomatic victory the assurance he received from
President Soekarno that Indonesia did not intend to use force
in New Guinea. The cheering died away in Australian Govern-
ment circles when General Abdul Haris Nasution, Indonesia’s
Defence Minister, and chairman of the National Front for the
Liberation of West New Guinea, revealed that while Indonesia
is not bent on a conventional invasion, it intends to launch a
vigorous war of national liberation. The Dutch have effective
control over about a third of the country. The task of “borrow-
ing” Papuans for study and training in Indonesia and subse-
quent return to whip up a popular revolt against Dutch rule
presents comparatively few problems • and, as in many other
parts of the under-developed world, it carries the promise of
bloody success.


LOOK BACK AT ANGER :"Hop” on Assisted Migration
MORE "DESIRABLE COLONISTS"
HER MOST GRACIOUS: “I heartily applaud your scheme for sending this riff-raff to
Australia. How my loving and loyal subjects there will look at it lam not quite certain
—but it doesn't matter much so long as We get rid of these objectionable and turbulent persons
GENERAL BOOTH: “How can the Australians object? Don't I intend to put my converts
under the tap first?"


FORUM
CATHOLICS, 1961
1—An Enormous Advance
Because of the importance of the questions it raises
we here publish two opposing views of a contro-
versial new book, "Catholics and the Free Society"
ICheshire, 305.1, edited by Henry Mayer.
By WILLIAM GINNANE
'Y'HE market for unpleasant generalisations about Catholics is
always fairly buoyant in Australia. When confronted with views
such as the following “Catholics are uncritically-minded, sub-
missively-childlike creatures bent on compensating for their own
personality deficiencies by dominating others in an authoritarian
and, indeed, fascist way” or “Catholics are either extremely illiberal
in political matters or else ignorant or insincere about their
religion”—a certain hopeless weariness assails the spirit and even
the urge to shout dies limply.
OF course some Catholics are like that,
as indeed are some Anglicans, Hindus,
Atheists, Bookbinders, Brunettes, Peru-
vians and Asthmatics. Should we be
surprised? Is the variety of human
nature just too much to comprehend?
Must we tidy nature up a bit, and of
course make ourselves a little more in-
tellectually comfortable in the process,
by rushing into frantic generalisations
and substituting “all” (or even “most”)
for “ some ”? All the drear old untruths
about the supposedly “essential” charac-
teristics of Catholics, Jews, negroes,
squatters, wharf-laborers, pommies,
socialists, aborigines, etc. are lying in
wait to be dredged up if we really must
engage in this sort of “thinking”.
The two generalisations that I cata
logued above are on display at present,
the vendors being a Sydney University
psychologist and a Melbourne University
philosopher respectively. For Mr Maze
the psychologist, does think that Catho-
lies are essentially uncritical, submissive,
childlike, etc. authoritarians, Dr McClos-
key the philosopher, thinks they are neces-
sarily politically illiberal. This is the gist
of their contributions to this important
and stimulating new symposium.
It is difficult to discuss the book satis-
factorily, so various and variable are its
contents. However, there is no difficulty
in praising it. The mere existence of any
intelligent symposium of this kind marks
an enormous advance in Australian in-
tellectual life.
Mr Santamaria’s paper is of course
fascinating. It could not be otherwise:
“The Movement: 1941-60”—An Outline
given by the prime mover himself!
“Was ‘the Movement’ genuine in its
professed aim of defeating Communism?
Or was it in reality an organisation which
used the Comunist issue as a means to-
wards its ‘real end’—the taking over of
the Labor Party?” That is the question ;
there is no doubt about that. Whether
he really answers it is another matter,
He begins by outlining the crucial place
the penetration of the trade unions has
in Communist theory and practice and
relates this to Australia in particular,
Then we are given a lucid account of the
gradual growth of Communist power in
Australian trade unions from the mid-
-1930s until “by the end of the war in
1945, the balance of power in the unions
had altered decisively in favor of the
Communist party. ’ That power was then
used with increasing effect until Mr Chif-
ley in July, 1949, in the midst of the great
Coal Strike, was forced to take emergency
action against the Communists, declaring
“the whole economic and social life of the
nation is approaching complete disrup-
tion.
As the Communist power grew in the
unions in the forties, so did its political
influence in the A.L.P There is no doubt
that Santamaria is right in this general
contention, though how far he is correct
in his estimate of the extent of this in-
fluence is another matter. He claims, for
example, that the Communist party
brought off “the actual capture” of the
N.S.W. A.L.P. Executive in 1939. In
any case the increase in influence was
apparently enough to lead to several
important non-Communist men in the
Labor Movement being more than happy
to draw on the resources of Mr Santa-
This section of The Bulletin is.
forum of opinion and conflicting
ideas. Each week it will contain
controversial articles and repiies
to them.
HENRY MAYER
Editor
maria’s “Movement.” This had been
founded in the early 1940 s as a result
of contacts with Catholic trade unionists
which he had built up around the
National Secretariat of Catholic Action
(founded in 1937) of which he was then
the Assistant Director.
Having given an interesting sketch of
the origins of the “Movement” and of his
largely successful efforts to associate the
Australian Bishops with it, Mr Santa-
maria then goes on to speak of the growth
of the Industrial Group organisation with-
in the A.L.P. and of the co-ordination of
its efforts with those of the “Movement."
He claims that leading non-Catholic men
in the Labor movement, both industrial
and political, fully supported and indeed
actively solicited his efforts right up to
the time of the “split” in October, 1951.
He gives impressive evidence of the degree
of intimacy that existed between the
Labor leaders and himself.
Nevertheless, the original question is
still unanswered: Was it not the
case that the “Movement” was bent on
taking over the Labor party? He never
actually gives a simple negative answer
to this question. What he does say is
(a) that no evidence has been adduced
that this was the intention of the “Move-
ment” (this is substantially true), and (b)
that it is “inescapable,” given the nature
of the organisational links between the
unions and the A.L.P.-, that any organisa-
tion controlling the unions must control
the A.L.P. (this is also substantially true).
This is an adroit skirting of the question
rather than an answer to it. The way he
elaborates on (b) gives the impression
that the “Movement” was unwittingly oj
unwillingly caught up in A.L.P. interna
power struggles by the sheer “logic” oI
its success in defeating the Communists
in the trade unions.
'T'hat is not my impression of the situ 3 '
tion I believe that round about 19L
or 1950 (if not earlier) the “Movement
leaders, feeling their new and perhaps
unexpected strength, formed the conscio®
policy of using the A.L.P. to impleff> ell


their particular conception of the detailed
application of “Catholic Social prin-
ciples.” These plans went far beyond the
defeat of Communism and were common
knowledge to the leadership of the
“orthodox” Catholic Action organisations
such as the Young Christian Workers
movement (of which at the time I was
a member of National Executive).
Something needs to be put on record
here in passing. It is this: the various
regular Catholic Action organisations,
with the exception of the National Catho-
lic Rural Movement which Mr Santa-
maria effectively controlled, were stead-
fastly opposed to the political activity of
the “Movement.” Mr Santamaria was
largely able to negative this opposition
within the Church by virtue of his tenure
of the key position of Director (replacing
Mr Frank Maher) of the National Secre-
tariat of Catholic Action.
The National Chaplain and the
National Secretary of each of the Catho-
lic Action movements (of which the
“Movement” was not one) formed the
so called “Consultative Committee for
Catholic Action” to advise the Australian
Bishops on matters relating to the lay
apostolate in Australia. By virtue of his
position as Director of A.N.S.C.A. Mr
Santamaria was both the chairman of this
committee and its direct link with the
Bishops. I was a member of this com-
mittee during the period that I was
National Secretary with the Y.C.W. It
was patent to me, and to others on the
committee, that he used this position to
effectively isolate the official Catholic
Action organisations from the sort of
contact with the Bishops that would have
jeopardised their support for the “Move-
ment.” The only official advice the
Bishops received from the committee set
up to advise them on these matters was
mediated by Mr Santamaria ! He was
the only member of the committee even
aware of what the Bishops were going to
discuss at their (relevant) meetings ; he in
fact largely prepared the agendas for the
meetings of the committee of Bishops in
charge of Catholic Action. He con-
sistently refused to divulge the contents
ot these agendas to the very body whose
function it was to advise on them.
This situation was admittedly counter-
acted to some extent by the fact that each
of the Catholic Action organisations had
special official access to a particular
bishop who was the “Episcopal Chair-
man” of that organisation. The Y.C.W.
during these crucial years (several years
before the A.L.P. split with its attendant
furore) constantly made representations
to its Episcopal Chairman, Archbishop
Simmonds, voicing its concern about the
activities of Mr Santamaria and the
“Movement.” As is well known Dr
Simmonds shared this unease. Neverthe
less, Mr Santamaria largely had his own
w ay in those days.
The fact that he did largely have his
way is what led to the general belief in
the public mind later that Mr Santa-
yana’s kind of activities are what is to
expected of Catholic Action. The
f r uth is that most of the people involved
ln Catholic Action in Australia were quite
°PPosed to such activities. Their idea
°f the appropriate way for Catholics to
behave in secular institutions was radically
different from his essentially manipulative
approach. In his paper in the present
Symposium,, Dr Suttor claims that the
Movement was substantially
strengthened at a crucial stage by recruits
from the Young Christian Workers move-
ment. This is quite wrong. Among
those actively engaged in the Y.C.W. in
Australia (as distinct from those who
merely engaged in its ancillary sporting
and social activities) at the time, there
were hardly any who were even vaguely
in favor of the “Movement” let alone
disposed to join it. This despite the fact
that many Y.C.W.’s were active trade
unionists and a few were even trade union
officials. So much for the allegedly
monolithic practice of Catholics in
these matters!
At all events, I suppose all this bears
out one of Henry Mayer’s principal con-
tentions in his own essay in the book:
that actual Catholic behavior, if one pays
attention to the facts rather than to
elaborate a priori presuppositions, is
vastly more variegated and many-stranded
than one might expect. This does not
mean, of course, that one has to subscribe
to the view, which Mayer also advances,
in his papei, that principles or ideas are
substantia ly irrelevant when it comes to
social and political behavior.
/~\N the historical-sociological side the
w contributions by Dr Inglis, Professor
Spann, Dr Knopfelmacher and Dr Suttor
(once you get past his first three or four
pages of tortuous and somewhat gratuit-
ous definitions) are all careful and in-
teresting. Brian Fitzpatrick’s essay is not
really up to par: one can really only
describe it as lazy. He gives Catholics
the responsibility for all those Australian
social ills, real and fancied, which in
“The Australian Commonwealth” he sees
as more variously caused,
The controversy between Dr Charles-
worth and Dr McCloskey occupies its
own special niche in the book. Each is
concerned to establish that essential
Catholic social and political theory neces-
sitates a certain sort of attitude on the
part of Catholics to the Free Society,
Both are philosophers at Melbourne Uni-
versity. The former, a Catholic, argues
that Catholic principles give one every
reason for actively welcoming the exist-
ence of a free, pluralist, non-totalitarian
society. The latter, an agnostic, takes
the gloomiest possible view of his im-
pressive collection of “official” texts,
Needless to say the two Doctors come
to opposite conclusions. However, it is
impossible for me to take up here the
issues they raise, apart from merely
giving my opinion that Charlesworth is
substantially right and McCloskey elabor-
ately wrong.
As j implied at the beginning of this
review, Mr Maze's effort seems to be just
rather silly. It consists of the flimsiest
G f empirical material bolstering up an
incredible set of a priori generalisa-
tions about “the Catholic personality.”
These are further “supported” if that is
the word, by a certain amount of rather
second-hand, “period” moral philosophy
of largely 1930 s vintage. He brandishes
this as though it were a commonplace of
all reasonably informed contemporary
philosophical analysis. I am afraid that
I have to disillusion him.
2 —How to Argue About Catholics
By TOM TRUMAN
THIS interesting symposium of views of philosophers, psycholo-
gists, historians and political scientists was prompted by the
publication of my book, “Catholic Action and Politics”, and the
controversy that ensued in the reviews of several journals about my
remarks on the dangers to liberal democracy implicit in certain
policies and practices of the Catholic Church. Some contributors,
Dr Suitor, Dr Charlesworth and Mr Fitzpatrick, explicitly refer to
this fact. Dr Suitor, for example, says “It is Mr Truman s merit to
have spotlighted this (the relation of the Church to toleration )
however crudely”.
Co perhaps I ought to spend this review
what my views are on the matter.
However, the editor of the book, Mr
Henry Mayer, the Sydney political scien-
tist, has in characteristic fashion raised
such fundamental questions about how
to discuss the problem that I am left with
no alternative but to devote my space to
the issues he raises, a method which is
also characteristic of him. Besides, he
evidently expects criticism from me,
though he appears to resent it because
he says in his introduction that some
people will use his book to “pick out
ingredients for the various brews which
they concoct in their miasmatic swamps,
which remain miasmatic even if the brew
is flavored with syrup—say pineapple”.
In the final chapter of the book Mr
Mayer uses his advantage as editor to
criticise most of his contributors and to
put forward his own views. It is a pro-
vocative and therefore stimulating paper
(Mr Mayer must be a good teacher). He
observes that most of them discuss the
problem in terms of “principle,” that is to
say, they search out the authoritative
statements of Catholic spokesmen, mostly
Papal encyclicals, concerning democracy,
liberty and religious toleration and they
compare these with what they regard as
the “principles” of liberal democracy or


the free society. He says this implies a
naive rationalism —the view that there
are clear-cut “principles” on both sides,
and that people’s conduct is determined
by their “principles.” He insists that
what is important is how people actually
behave rather than what they say they
believe in. “What is at stake are clashes
between sets of demands or policies. Talk
about ‘principles’ is nothing more or less
than one weapon in the struggle. It is an
ideological device used by all sides in it.
(And that means its function must be
investigated.)” Again, “talk of principles
is disguised talk about clashing demands.”
In other words, “principles,” morals,
values, ideas, theories, philosophies and
religions are rationalisations of interests.
Behavior, he says, will determine the
actual functioning and content of “the
principles.” The “principles” of the
Catholic Church, which differ from
country to country and even from group
to group within the one Catholic com-
munity, are cloaks to hide the interests
of these groups, though we are not told
what these interests are, or whether the
groups are conscious or unconscious of
their “real” motivation. Similarly, those
who talk about the “principles” of the
free society do so in order to advance,
respectably, the interests of their own
groups whatever they may be.
The “free society” (or any society)
seems to Mr Mayer to be ethically
neutral, though I would have thought to
be consistent he would have to say its
institutions have been shaped by the
dominant interests to suit their own ends.
Mr Mayer agrees with Dr Knopfel-
macher’s description of it as “moderately
hierarchical, multi-centric, private pro-
perty —based and built around the patri-
archal Western type of family” which, of
course, implies preferences and therefore
values. He thinks that the Australian
Catholic Church is quite compatible with
this society, not in its “principles,’’ of
course, for these come into violent con-
flict with the “principles” of other groups,
but in the behavior of its own constituent
groups which has important unintended
and unwanted consequences. He goes on :
“any institution which advances demands
different from those normally prevailing
in society will contribute to freedom in
it,” providing “the unorthodox or ‘hereti-
cal’ (R.C.s!) institution or movement is
itself subject to considerable internal con-
troversy about the nature of its demands
and how they are to be realised and that
it advances its demands on a limited and
selective range of objects.” Dr Knopfel-
macher, please note this applies to the
Communists, too. The proposition is
patently false when the Communists
approach majority support. Then there
is double tendency towards dictatorship
from left and right.
Mr Mayer gives some empirical
evidence to show that many Catholics
behave differently from what one would
expect of them on their principles. For
example, United States surveys show that
85 per cent, of Protestant wives and 45
per cent, of Catholic ones approved
deliberate family limitation, and two-
fifths of the Catholic ones used contra-
ceptive devices banned by the clergy.
Regarding belief in the right of churcn
leaders to tell their members how to vote,
Mr Mayer gives a break-up of the Gallup
Poll figures of those who said the church
does not have this right: D.L.P. 62 per
cent., A.L.P. 88, Liberal and Country
Party 90, Catholic 71 per cent., C. of E.
91, Methodist 94, Baptist 100. He also
says, “When the ‘principles’ of the so-
called ‘free society’ are put to people in
surveys the majority tend to reject l n
. . . The elite look on paper to be the
defenders of ‘democracy’ while the
workers, on paper, are the most authori-
tarian ” This is a bad paraphrase of
S. A. Stouffer’s conclusions in America.
The “elite” were local community
leaders, including mayors, officers of
Chambers of Commerce, political parties,
labor unions, ex-servicemen’s associa-
tions, Daughters of the American Revo-
lution, women's clubs, lawyers’ associa-
tions, school boards, library boards and
publishers of local newspapers. Mr
Mayer’s “workers” turn out to be cross-
sections of the nation and of local com-
munities. The surveys were made in
May, lune and July, 1954, when Mc-
Carthy was riding righ. To me they show
a remarkable adherence to the “prin-
ciples’ of free speech and toleration of
dissidents like Communists, socialists
and atheists on the part of the community
leaders, though the cross-sections of non-
community leaders don't show up nearly
as well. But then, as all good g rou
theorists will agree, when it comes to
action the leaders are usually able to le^
/"An this evidence Mr Mayer is entitled
to claim that some Catholics do not
conform to Catholic “principles” and
some citizens of the U.S.A. do not adhere
to “principles” of free speech, but he is
left to account for the attitudes of the
rest. He certainly cannot rule out the
possibility that they are trying to live
to their “principles,” or, in other words
that their “principles” affect their
behavior. Indeed, he seems to be out of
step here with the school of behavioral
scientists in psychology, with whom. 1
think, he claims affinity. They, like all
other psychologists, appear to believe
that behavior is, in fact, purposive and
goal-seeking. Freudians who come nearest
in psychology to his view that “prin-
ciples”' are rationalisations of interests,
explain neuroses by the conflict between
what an individual feels he “ought” to
do and what his secret drives make him
want to do. Of course Marx was the great
champion of the view that “principles"
or ideologies are the rationalisations of
class interests, but he also believed there
was some two-way traffic between
ideology and economic base and between
subjective consciousness and objective
material conditions.
Mr Mayer has appropriated this idea
for his interest group theory, which is
where his conclusions derive from, and
not from the empirical evidence he has
presented. (Incidentally one could say
that the “principles” of his group theory
must be, according to his view, rationali-
sations of some interests or other and
should not be taken at their face value.)
Of course he would be justified in im-
porting his group theory into the discus-
sion if it were, in turn, soundly tested by
empirical verification, that is if it were
a true scientific theory But it is not
He gets his results, 1 think, by definition
or reductionism. He defines all political
phenomena as group phenomena and so
all his predictions are self-fulfilling. It is
an immense tautology A scientific theory
would enable predictions to be made
that were falsifiable. But when empirical
evidence seems to refute the propositions
of the group theorists they explain it
away, just as the Marxists do, in a pro-
cess of infinite regressions like the images
in two opposed mirrors. A science must
be able to predict from an appropriate
set of data the future course of all its
variables. The group theorists have not
begun even to identify their variables,
and one of them may well i> e
the “principles” they seek to explain
away. There is nothing, as far as 1 can
see, in the positivist creed on which
behaviorism is based that excludes the
beliefs as data of political behavior.
Truth to tell, there is at present no
science of politics, and Mr Mayer's con-
clusions have no scientific standing,
am not entering into the argument
whether, in principle, there can be 3
science of politics, but 1 do say that at
the present time political science is 3
jumble of description, prescription-
philosophy and attempts at scientm 1
theorising. Many academic writers have
observed that even its very terminology
and including that of the behaviorists, |S


with preferences or values.
Requirements of both logical and honest
thinking require each political scientist
to find out and state his preferences.
You will notice that Mr Mayer’s obser-
vations have an air of hard-boiled
cynicism. Consider this example: “Mr
Fitzpatrick (who contributes a chapter)
implies that there is something incom-
patible with the principles of the ‘Free
Society’ in Catholic demands for cen-
sorship. This merely means that he
wishes his conception of those principles
to prevail. It seems to include the ‘prin-
ciple’ of censoring the pro-censorship
forces.” Now, on any commonsense or
dictionary meaning of “censorship” it
does not follow at all that Fitzpatrick
wants to prevent Catholics from reading
any books ; quite the contrary. But in
Mr Mayer’s theory a demand to be free
from censorship is itself a form of cen-
sorship. (You simply can’t win in this
sort of game.) Similarly, he says, “The
same point holds for his references to
‘smearing’: If you do it, it is criticism, if
the other fellow does it, it is a smear.”
No difference between criticism and
smearing? I think I would prefer a little
naive rationalism to this naive irrational-
ism.
So it is with relief we turn to the
interesting discussion of “principles” be-
tween two very competent Melbourne
philosophers, Dr Charlesworth, a
Catholic, and Dr McCloskey, a non-
Catholic. Dr Charlesworth argues that
the formula “error has no rights” really
means nowadays that it has, while Dr
McCloskey restores it to it literal mean-
ing and says Charlesworth and Catholic
“liberals” like Murray and Maritain are
not only mistaken they just are not
liberals.
Dr Knopfelmacher thinks there is only
one danger to liberal democracy, and that,
of course, is Communism. Anyone who
criticises the Catholic Church is playing
the Communist game, is his conclusion.
Dr Suttor, a Catholic, and Professor
Spann, a non-Catholic, give two very
interesting historical surveys of Catholics
and Australian politics. Dr Inglis, a non-
Catholic historian, gives us a picture of
the Australian Catholic community which
to my mind shows how much more
Catholics are put under restraints than
non-Catholics. Mr J. R. Maze, a Sydney
psychologist, writes about studies of the
authoritarian personality and gives
evidence to show that the education and
training of Catholics is a factor that tends
to produce that phenomenon and that the
submissiveness of Catholics towards their
priests is incompatible with the inde-
pendence of mind necessary to intellec-
tual freedom.
I have used so much space arguing with
Mr Mayer that I have none left for my
old adversary, Mr Santamaria, whose
account of “the Movement” while propa-
gandist, nevertheless contributes to the
search for the full truth about the Catho-
lic Church’s political activities. Perhaps
it is just as well I have not again entered
into controversy with him, for he is so
agile and flexible in debate (see Brian
Fitzpatrick, “Catholics in Controversy”)
that I should probably have been worsted,
anyhow.
LETTERS
The Sharp Case
Sir,
Whilst not wishing to enter the general
controversy about Communists in the
Melbourne University, certain facts
should be kept in mind. People are
inclined to rely on a mathematical
formula when discussing Communist
activity. The reasoning goes something
like this: There are only 5000 Commu-
nists in Australia and there are 10,000,000
people—how can they possibly do any
harm? Or another version, frequently
used by some politicians, is to point
triumphantly to the lack of electoral sup-
port for Communists. The deduction is
then made that they represent no
totalitarian threat to Australia or Aus-
tralians.
According to Communist-party sources,
95 per cent, of the 5000 members are in
trade unions. This means that there are
roughly 4750 Communists in a total of
If million trade unionists. This “in-
significant” number dominate most of
the maritime, metal, transport and mining
unions- Perhaps those who rely on a
mathematical formula of escape can
explain why the majority of these key
unions are controlled by Communists?
The answer normally given is that
although they are Communists they are
good industrialists and work in the in-
terests of their members. Unfortunately,
facts disprove this politically naive
answer.
When E. Thornton was secretary of
the Federated Ironworkers’ Association
from 1936 to 1950, he wrote in the
“Communist Review” of July, 1948: “I
doubt whether there are more than 500
or 600 members of the Labor party of
the 40,000-odd members of the Iron-
workers’ Union. Only two members of
the A.L.P. are officials of the union. But
the Communist party is in a different
relationship with the union. Many
officials are members of the party. This
shows the great authority of the Com-
munist party with this union ; and the
general policy of the union, is that
decided in consultation with the leaders
of the Labor party? No. The policy of
the Ironworkers’ Union is decided in
consultation with the leaders of the Com-
munist party.”
The Communist party membership in
the F.I.A. during Thornton’s reign was
roughly 150-200. This “insignificant”
number, by Thornton’s own admission,
worked in the union to further Soviet
Communist policy.
As for the efficiency of Communist-
party officers, here is the position when
I became national secretary in Novem-
ber, 1951: (1) The union was heading
for bankruptcy ; (2) union membership
was dropping as thousands of iron-
workers were leaving the union in disgust
and joining other unions; Thousands
more were refusing to pay their union
dues in protest against the strike-happy
and undemocratic practices of thi Com-
munist officials; (3) the union was grossly
overstaffed; (4) the fortnightly union
journal posted to every member at the
cost of £400 an issue was a Communist
propaganda sheet; (5) wages and con-
ditions of ironworkers were neglected.
Some key awards had not been improved
for at least ten years.
As to the people who say the Com-
munists were “freely elected” to office,
they should examine the judicial record
of faked ballots during the Communist
regime. This “insignificant” number of
about 200 captured an institution of
40,000. So, in the argument about Com-
munists in universities, numbers of Com-
munists, surely, are not important. What
is relevant is the behavior of a well-
organised, disciplined minority group,
who are dedicated to capturing any insti-
tution to which they belong. And why
do people talk about Communist
academics as though they are somehow
different?
L. Short
National Secretary,
Federated Ironworkers’
Association of Australia,
Sydney.
Sir,
I have been reluctant to come back
into the controversy concerning Com-
munists in the Australian universities for
two reasons. First, 1 believe that The
Bulletin’s attack on Melbourne Univer-
sity is made without due regard for the
people and the institution concerned and
even for the evidence, and that its
primary intention is to build circulation ;
and I don’t like helping to maintain an
irresponsible and cynically conceived
campaign of this sort. Second, while the
principles and assumptions underlying
university education are legitimate and
important subjects for public discussion,
I have a strong objection to Mr Horne
and Dr Knopfelmacher acting as
prosecuting counsel and judges in a
lynch-law trial of Melbourne University
conducted in the columns of The
Bulletin.
However, since you and, more im-
portantly, some of your correspondents
seem to think that your ex parte allega-
tions against some members of the staff
of Melbourne University have “silenced”
the defenders of academic freedom, may
I make the following points?
1. The Bulletin’s attack can be re-
duced to the following propositions:
(/) Mr S. committed acts A, B, C . . .;
Mr S. is a Communist; therefore all
Communists commit or are likely to
commit acts A, B, C . . (//) All Com-
munists are likely to commit acts A, B,
C . . . ; these acts are incompatible with
membership of a university staff ; there-
fore all Communists should be excluded
from university staffs. So reduced, it
becomes apparent (a) that the major and
minor premises of the first proposition


are untested allegations, based on the
testimony of interested parties, and not
facts ; (6) that the conclusion in proposi-
tion (/), and therefore the major premise
of proposition (//), do not follow from
the premises ; (c) that the minor premise
of proposition (if) assumes what has to
be proved ; (d) that the final conclusion
—to which The Bulletin has laboriously
led up —cannot, in fairness or in logic,
be derived from two untested allegations,
one assumption, and one unwarranted
conclusion.
2. I do not intend to canvass the
specific issues raised. No one outside
Melbourne University—least of all The
Bulletin —can make any sensible assess-
ment of these matters. I sympathise
wholeheartedly with the refusal of those
whom you have traduced to be drawn
into a reply in your columns. For them
to do so would be to concede your right
to set yourselves up as an unofficial Com-
mittee on Un-Australian Activities. For
them to plead their case in a kangaroo
court which has already found them
guilty would be merely foolish.
3. It is not a “McCarthy-like smear”
to suggest that the evidence on which
The Bulletin has relied to support its
allegations has come from interested
parties; this is relevant —not to the
good faith of your witnesses, but to their
objectivity. On the other hand, may I
draw attention to a real instance of the
McCarthy technique in your handling
of this matter? Your letter column
(May 10) is headed “Melbourne Univer-
sity Communists.” Your first correspon-
dent refers to a Mr Turner as “the
husband of one of the people whose
activities have been discussed in the
Sharp case.” Would it be going too far
to suggest that this has in it the elements
of guilt by association? (To keep your
records straight, I should perhaps make
it clear that I am not related to the Mr
Turner concerned.)
4. While at the outset it seemed as if
The Bulletin would be appeased by the
ritual sacrifice of one victim, it is in the
nature of witch-burning that the appetites
of its practitioners are self-renewing—
as your editorial (May 10) adequately
demonstrates. When you have finished
with the one-third of one per cent, of
Australian university staff members who
are also Communists, who would you
like next? Those who, like me, are
former Communists? And then those
who have never been Communists, but
who have shown themselves in the
present argument to be “soft on Com-
munism”?
5. Nothing in this distasteful and
artificially inflated controversy has
shaken my conviction (on the contrary,
it has been confirmed) that political
beliefs as such have nothing to do with
fitness for academic appointment—and
that to suggest that they have necessarily
opens the way to practices which are a
denial of the traditional freedoms of the
Australian universities.
lan Turner
Canberra.
It is ridiculous to dismiss The Bulletin’s
articles (which are not an attack on Melbourne
University as a whole) as a circulation-building
trick. How on earth can Mr Turner support
that smear? It is a childish way of avoiding
the point.
(1) All of the “A,B,C” and “Mr S.” business
has nothing to do with what The Bulletin
said. We were giving examples of what we
meant in our general position. We were not
trying to prove a point by using the fallacy of
the undistributed middle. We used one case.
(2) Let us hope that someone will be pre-
pared to “canvass the specific issues raised”
somewhere, sometime. It is another childish
smear to suggest that we are concerned with
“Un-Australian activities.” Mr Turner could
only reach this conclusion by using the very
logical fallacy he accuses us of using:
People who condemn “un-Australian activities”
attack Communists; so does The Bulletin ;
therefore The Bulletin condemns “un-
Australian activities.”
(3) It is a “McCarthy-like smear” to attempt
to refute arguments by making “personal
observations.” It was a disgraceful smear of
Professor Crawford to try to direct attention
from what he had written by saying his wife
was connected with it. As to the rest of this
paragraph: it is well known that the associates
of Communists are not necessarily Communists.
They may simply have been taken in by them.
(4) All that we are concerned with is defence
of the academic way of life. A discussion of
Communists —and their victims —is relevant to
this.
(5) Political beliefs should not—as such-
have anything to do with fitness for academic
appointments and we did not say they should.
What is relevant is membership of a para-
military political organisation which demands
total obedience, which is acknowledged to
engage in blackmailing, character assassination,
fractional politics and all of the rest of it,
and which has as its purpose a political
system which would kill academic freedom and
turn the universities into disciplined State
institutions. Can Mr Turner, as an ex-
Communist, seriously dispute this?
Again and again in his letter Mr Turner
invents a position, claims it is ours, and then
attacks it.
—Editor, The Bulletin
Sir,
“Free inquiry,” to use a phrase made
familiar by that one-time supporter of
Communism, John Anderson, is an essen -
tial part of the academic process, or of any
process of investigation that pretends to
be just and thorough. If one assumes
the right of free inquiry, however, one
should accept the responsibility of being
complete and impartial in the examina-
tion and presentation of evidence.
I cannot comment on the facts of the
situation in the Social Studies Depart-
ment in Melbourne, since I am com-
pletely ignorant of them. One does not
need to know anything about them, how-
ever, to criticise the manner in which The
Bulletin has presented its version of the
affair. To set the matter in its true per-
spective it is necessary to remember (a)
that bitter faction fighting within and
among departments is endemic to univer-
sity life ; ( b ) that the majority of those
drawn into such struggles are not Com-
munists, and the initial causes of dis-
agreement are rarely political; and (c)
that, with one or two exceptions, the
majority of Communist and ex-Com-
munist academics are as efficient, respon-
sible and valuable within the university
as their non-Communist colleagues.
It is clearly the purpose of The
Bulletin to act as if these considerations
did not exist. Unless it takes some cog-
nisance of them, it is laughable for it to
pretend that its “discussion on the pos-
sible role of Communists in universities”
deserves to be taken seriously.
I share with The Bulletin an anti-
pathy to Communism. I do not believe,
however, as Mr Horne and his colleagues
apparently do, that one contributes any-
thing to the cause of anti-Communism by
becoming utterly and irresponsibly anti,
academic.
R. F. Brissenden
Turner ( A.C.T. ).
(a) It is the very fact that “faction fighting
within and among departments is endemic to
university life” that university Communists are
likely to exploit. There is also the fact that
this was a very special kind of “faction fight-
ing.” Faction fighting in universities does not
usually involve attempts to alter the whole
running of a department while its head is on
sabbatical leave, for example.
( b ) It does not matter that the majority of
those drawn into the struggle are not Com-
munists. There were only a handful of
Communists in the Ironworkers’ Union, for
example, when it was controlled by Thornton
and his gang. Communists often do not exploit
political issues; they go for “job issues.”
(c) This is the very matter under dispute.
It can hardly be solved by simple affirmation,
If Mr Brissenden shares our antipathy to
Communism he should read a good book on
the subject. His failure to understand points
(a) and (b) means that he does not understand
the methods of the Communism he is anti-
pathetic towards. He might also care to explain
why The Bulletin is “utterly and irresponsibly
anti-academic.” What does that mean? Is it
anti-academic to believe that the Australian
Communist Party is an enemy of the spirit of
inquiry and the love of scholarship, and the
continued existence of universities as independ-
ent institutions? That’s what we mean by
“anti-academic.” What does he mean?
—Editor, The Bulletin
Sir,
It is tragic to see such an eminent
academic as Professor Crawford joining
the “orphanannies” “the bogeymen
(Communists) will get you if you don’t
watch out.”
Surely he is not so naive as to think
that Communists are the only ones to
work politically and fractionally in Aus-
tralia—in universities or anywhere else.
What about Masons, Labor and
Liberal-party members, not forgetting
the Knights of the Southern Cross and
Mr Santamaria’s followers? Indeed, the
Communists are numerically insignifi-
cant, and one would have to be a
fanatical “orphanannie” to think they
can make up in supernatural cleverness
what they lack in numbers.
Even without politics, can Professor
Crawford be sure that the academic will
overcome the devout Roman Catholic?
All the information so far published
in The Bulletin about alleged Commu-
nist activity in Melbourne University, far
from incriminating Communists as such,
merely emphasises the theme of C. P-
Snow’s novel, “The Masters” and be-
littles a great educational institution.
So long as all this nonsense is pub-
lished by those who know very little
about Communism and even less about
how the Australian Communist Party
works, so long will Archbishop Mannix
have to give “rather doleful” addresses
in which he has to state that “the Com-
munists were really conquering the
world.”
Louise Mackay
Lind field (N.S.W.).
The suggestion that any other organisations
in Australia conspire in the same way as the
Australian Communist Party does is—to P ul
it at its most charitable —not proven. And to
speak of the numerical “insignificance” of Cow-
munists is-—as Mr Short says in his letter-') 0
miss the whole point of Communist methods-
And Archbishop Mannix may yet be right.
—Editor, The Bullet*


Society
Economy Note
IN these hard times economy can mean
many things. A stout matron, scoop-
ing up tins of cream being sold at a
special price in a city shop, remarked to
her friend: “You know, you save two
shillings on a dozen of these. I mix the
cream with caviar and walnuts and serve
on thin biscuits.”
Once Upon a Time There
Was a Big Bear
The Big Bear supermarket at Neutral
Bay, an inner suburb of Sydney’s
North Shore, is to be converted into 30
separate lock-up shops, leaving only the
food section of the supermarket. Every-
body around Neutral Bay is saying: “I
could have told them so.”
When the Big Bear opened two years
ago it claimed to be the largest super-
market in Australia. But Neutral Bay
is an area populated largely by widows
or other remnants of families, living in
a few rooms with a few pieces of good
furniture and a small income from a few
good shares. They are the sort of people
who infinitely prefer the quiet of the one-
man store to the hurly-burly of wire
baskets, loaded with breakfast food, being
driven furiously on the wrong side of
the aisles. A shopkeeper who calls them
by their name is worth any number of
tins of spaghetti in tomato sauce, special
reduction 4d. a tin.
Not only was the Big Bear in what
most Neutral Bay residents thought was
the wrong suburb, it was even at the
wrong end of the street. Nobody would
have gone there unless they were pre-
pared to make a special trip from the
“right” end of the junction.
It was presumed at first that all those
housewives with cars on the upper
North Shore would be prepared to make
a trip to Neutral Bay for at least one
shopping expedition a week. However,
competition in groceries is keen every-
where these days, and the thrifty-minded
(if such there be) on the North Shore
would find no saving, after adding the
cost of petrol to Big Bear prices when
compared with the “specials” their local
grocers offer.
The Prodigal Telephone
r PHE ways of the P.M.G.’s Department
can sometimes be almost eerie.
Four months ago it informed a Bulletin
man that the phone he had applied for
would be installed within three months.
He paid the usual deposit, etc., and
heard no more about it until the new
telephone directory came out. Then one
morning a friend asked him whether
he’d been out the night before. “No,”
he said. “Why?” “Well,” said the friend
suspiciously, “I rang you and got no
answer.” It turned out that our man
Was listed in the directory with a num-
ber which, as his friend had found, pro-
duced the orthodox ringing sound when
dialled, but could not be answered —at
any rate by him. The phone has since
been installed, but our man can hardly
bring himself to use it. He keeps looking
at it and wondering where it has been.
In Prison Air
'T'he collapse of part of the wall of
Melbourne’s Pentridge jail, lately
noted here, has put new life into the
movement among residents of surround-
ing Coburg to have the prison shifted.
The movement, said to get its strongest
support from those living closest to the
jail, wisely' avoids stirring up needless
antagonisms by suggesting alternative
sites for Pentridge ; it is content to say
that the jail should go somewhere, else-
where, anywhere
Activists in the cause include the
Mayor of Coburg, Cr F. G. Cox, and
the local State Member, C. Mutton
(Labor). With 200 ft of Pentridge wall
lying in rubble, they no doubt feel that
they must capitalise on the start that
fate and the decay of mortar has given
them. Just as importantly, the collapse
has made Pentridge news, and the papers
have been prepared to print Coburg’s
demands for the move.
But the secretary of the Victorian
Public Service Association, A. E. Poyn-
ton, has argued that to move Pentridge
to the wilderness would mean reverting
to the “social outcast theories of the
bad old days”; and it would cut jail
officers off from normal social life at
a time when it is the accepted thing to
encourage them to mix in the com-
munity. This would be a pretty terrible
thing to do, for the jail staff spent at
least £25,000 a month around Coburg.
Finally, Mr Poynton scoffed at claims
that those grim, grey walls had an
adverse affect on children’s minds.
Records showed, he claimed, that child
delinquency and hooliganism were less
per head in Coburg than in many another
suburban area.
Social Significance
"Crequent criticism is levelled at present-
day education, but extracts from
N.S.W. matriculation social studies papers
seem to show that students are getting a
fair idea of how things really are.
Here are some:
“The Senate acts primarily as a House
of Revue.”
. . Ministers must also keep a way-
ward eye on other departments.”
“If the rate of income tax is too high,
this leads to tax aversion, and so it must
be kept down to an agreeable level.”
“The Colombo Plan is right up Aus-
tralia’s ally.”
“. . . The Foundering Fathers ..”
“Italians may only migrate to Aus-
tralia if they have relations with some-
body who is already living here.”
“Higher purchase . .
Quaint Custom
or custom-built seems to
be the latest words to come out of
the advertising copywriter’s mangle. It’s
a nice, handy, not-too-specific label which
can be pasted on everything from cars
to carraway seeds.
What exactly does it mean? In the
sense in which it is generally used
here it means absolutely nothing. In
America it is, or was, the term for made-
to-order, or made-to-measure. In Eng-
land its equivalent is still sometimes the
rather charming bespoke.
In Australia everybody knows what
made-to-order or made-to-measure means,
so you can’t fool anyone with those. So
custom-made is used, just as a vague
suggestion that the goods are above-
average quality. Manufacturers appa-
rently feel they are so sure that they know
what you would order, if you wanted
something made specially, that they can
go ahead and make thousands of them.
Custom-made shouldn’t fool anyone, but
it might succeed in annoying some people.


/ C
C
c
1
*%?• W ’' ¥ % :
m jh i&t M
s&sa& .
ft
<i
ft
V
J
x_r
-tr
S/zr
%
•*
lERS
mm m m
Stockbrokers in Sydney,
Magnates in Melbourne, Bankers in
Brisbane, Architects in Adelaide.
Tycoons in Tasmania, Professors in
Perth are but a few of the busy
businessmen all over Australia who agree
that here at last is a financial paper
that fulfils the needs of the times.
THE AUSTRALIAN
FINANCIAL
SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
AUSTRALIA: £4/5/- per year.
Mail coupon to “Circulation Manager,”
Australian Financial Times,
Box 185 C, G.P.0.,
Melbourne, C. 1, Victoria.
NEW ZEALAND: Air Mail Subscription
Rate £7/-/- for year
Mail coupon to: Box 965, G.P.0.,
Wellington, New Zealand.


PERSONAL
SOME OF THE PEOPLE
Methodist minister, the Rev. Dr
Gloucester Udy, picked “God’s
great football team” for a North Sydney
congregation which included the visit-
ing Fijian Rugby Union team. He
named Moses as fullback and Peter as
lock-forward.
Talking of the coffee den he opened
in the Cathedral crypt on Sunday, the
Dean of Melbourne, Dr Barton
Babbage, made with a cool wrap-up:
“Any crazy cat is welcome to creep
down to our crypt for coffee and crum-
pets. And squares are welcome, too,
if they reckon they can dig the new
Cathedral Coffeeville.”
The Dean, on another subject, de-
clared that tattooing was a “grotesque
example of barbaric savagery.” He ad-
mitted, however, that the mania was not
limited to one stratum of society. “The
King of Denmark is a fervent and avid
collector of tattoos and regularly goes to
London to have his designs touched up,”
he said.
P. J. Kennely, Deputy Opposition-
leader in the Senate, said that if he were
a waterside worker he would vote for
Jim Healy, Communist general secretary
of the Waterside Workers’ Federation.
Lieut.-General Sir Frank Berryman
retired as director of the Royal Agricul-
tural Society of N.S.W. He will be
succeeded by W. Parry-Okeden, former
A.J.C. secretary.
Sitting for the first time on the
Northern Territory Bench, Judge Joske
dismissed appeals for citizenship by
aboriginal wards Nugget Dongalgarri,
Jack Mulberry and Mulberry’s wife
Rosie Bin A Bu.
In a city council debate on litterbugs,
Sydney Civic Reform Alderman R. S.
Luke suggested a motto to be put on
council rubbish bins;
“If scattering rubbish is a sin
Be tidy—use the flamin’ bin.”
George Sample defeated J. E. Cassidy,
Q.C., in a ballot for the presidency of
the N.S.W. Lawn Tennis Association.
Complaining that his Brisbane home
was being “dive-bombed” by flocks of
kookaburras, C. J. Sanders didn’t think
much of a suggestion that he leave the
windows open and catch the birds when
they flew in. He favored a .22, but said
later that wine-soaked baits might make
the catching a bit easier.
Enos, Maurice and Ewalt, artist sons
of Albert Namatjira, and grandson
Gabriel, also an artist, were jailed in
Alice Springs for liquor offences.
Bishop S. J. Moyes, of Armidale,
N.S.W., called a choice between Com-
munism and capitalism a false alternative
because in practice both were Godless.
In the capitalist system, he said, “it is
assumed that the natural relation between
employer and employed is one of market
demand.”
In a “copy-book” rescue operation
Kenneth George Smith was picked up
by helicopter after ejecting from his
flaming Vampire jet, and within 13
minutes was back at Williamtown
(N.S.W.) R.A.A.F. Base.
The Rev. Mr L. J. Mclntyre, vicar
of St John’s, Horsham (Vic.), refused
to stop the two 10-minute peals rung on
the church’s bells each Sunday, although
city councillors had complained they
were far too noisy. Melbourne’s Arch-
deacon, the Ven. Archdeacon G. T.
Sambell, expressed a hope that the coun-
cillors could be as much disturbed by the
message inside the church.
Mr and Mrs B. T. Bush and their four
children, American immigrants who were
persuaded to come here by the “kind’’
face of Prime Minister Menzies and a
magazine article on Australia, arrived in
Sydney.
Dorothy Milovanovic told a Mel-
bourne magistrate that she had gone shop-
lifting hoping to be caught and deported
“to my Yugoslavia.”
Dame Judith Anderson received U.S.
television’s best-actress “Emmy” for her
role as Lady Macbeth.
Artist William Dobell flew to Saigon
to paint Ngo Dinh Diem, South Vietnam
President.
Abram Landa, N.S.W. Housing Minis-
ter, pledged his support in Cabinet for the
beginning of work on Sydney’s Eastern
Suburbs railway, a project already more
than 40 years old.
Dr Keith M. Bowden retired after 16
years as Victoria’s senior State patholo-
gist.
Former Adelaide Police Commissioner,
W. F. Johns, reported to his one-time
official driver, Sergeant Koehler, for a
driving test.
Julie Bott, of Mt Mclntyre (S.A.),
took up a challenge to all (women)
comers by Beth Nicholls, of Moree
(N.S.W.), and beat her in a shearing
contest.
American interior decorator Josephine
Bull, at present on an Australian lecture
tour, gave comfort to women frightened
by the upkeep of a professionally
decorated home when she said in Brisbane
that her own two-bedroom home was
decorated “so that it doesn't show the
dust.”
At the Greek Orthodox Church in
East Melbourne the Rev. C. Boyazoglu
found time on Sunday to squeeze in a
few christenings between the 14 wedding
ceremonies he conducted.
Captain A. A. Koch, for the last 10
years inspector of air safety for T.A.A.,
retired, ending a career in which he had
flown for the R.A.F. in England, Pales-
tine and Egypt, for Guinea Airways, for
Qantas and for the R.A.A.F during
World War 11.
Into the Silence: —
In Sydney, at 86, Sir Lionel Lindsay, oldest
of the lour artist brothers, famous for his water-
colors and wood engravings and for his cartoons
in the Sydney “Evening News” and The
Bulletin.
In Sydney, at 70, James Sweeney, former
Metropolitan Superintendent of Police.
On Vanua Balavu (Fiji), Sydney-born Garnet
Malley, for 10 years between the world wars
adviser to Nationalist China s Chiang Kai-shek.
In Melbourne, at 67, J Ringland Anderson,
leading opthalmic surgeon
In Melbourne, at 65, Air Commodore John
Hamilton Summers, former air officer command-
ing Eastern, and later far-Eastern, areas.
At Bourke (N.S.W.), at 102, Goolam Russell,
Indian-born Moslem who had lived in Australia
more than 80 years, for many of them as a
camel-driver in the outback.
That was Society
An immense amount of building goes
on in the city of Sydney these days, and
it is rather disheartening to consider that
probably half these fine new structures will
have to come down again, in a year
or two, when the huge, inevitable job
of street-widening and. general recon-
struction can no longer be postponed.—
“Bulletin,” September 15, 1910.
The big Australian newspapers are
gradually getting rid of the last shred
of reserve in the rush to picture the Spot
Where the Outrage Occurred, the Axe
With Which the Deed Was Perpetrated,
the Maimed and Mutilated Bodies Being
Removed from the Wreckage, and the
Group of Sorrow-Stricken Relatives; and
in the struggle to report the Dying Words
of the Injured, and the remarks by the
gentleman with the Severed Windpipe. —
“Bulletin,” August 18, 1910.
The council of Melbourne University
invites applications for the new posi-
tion of Professor of English (language
and literature) and specifies that photo-
graphs of applicants must accompany
applications. The Rev. E. Sudgeon
opposed this. “It looks like a beauty
contest,” he said; but he was overruled
After all, it may not be a beautiful Pro-
fessor the council is after; they may
desire to have the new Professor known
as “Plain English .’’—“Bulletin,” Septem-
ber 29, 1910.
The alleged discovery of a combine in
the Melbourne confectionery trade en-
courages the wild hope that a conspiracy
of butchers will be brought to light anon.
Confectionery plays but a minor part in
building up the national constitution,
whereas meat, at its present price in Mel-
bourne, is a matter for domestic alarm.
Even the young man who delivers joints
at the back door suspects the existence of
a combine somewhere, and advises the
oppressed consumers to go on strike; but
his exact knowledge of the situation is
limited to the fact that he gets nothing
extra for himself. The rise in the price
of meat has not benefited any sort of
worker thus far. Neither is the grower of
livestock thought to be getting sinfully
rich at public expense. But between him
and the cold, dead carcases of sheep and
bullock are the inevitable middlemen,
among whom the mysteries of meat-trad-
ing are carefully preserved. The decapi-
tation of a master butcher on his own
block would be generally recognised as a
practical result of the Anti-Trust Act.
— “Bulletin”, September 3, 19081


FOR THE CONSUMER
Packaging: What is in it
for the Shopper?
"Packaging, as an industry, and as some-
thing which the consumer seems to
want, is here to stay. This is true, if
only in the sense that no one in her right
mind would take along her own bowl
to the grocer to collect butter, or would
bring home the cottage cheese wrapped
in a cabbage-leaf, as Grandma did. The
grocer’s boy, standing all day negligently
weighing sugar and flour, is a thing of
the past.
The only question which remains in
Australia now is what are the limits of
packaging. Will women buy individually-
wrapped bananas when nature gave the
banana a very efficient wrap anyway?
Will a shopper buy a dozen oranges “on
impulse” because they are wrapped in a
plastic bag, when she didn't want any
oranges, or wanted only three or four?
At this moment, what percentage of
shoppers prefer washed, packaged vege-
tables and feel irritated when they are not
available? On the other hand, what per-
centage feel that packaged vegetables
mean you are simply paying more for
nothing? In the long run, how many
consumers will withstand the blandish-
ments of the slogans printed on the poly-
thene bags, and demand the right to
carry home their potatoes, unwashed and
wrapped in newspaper?
These are the questions to which the
Australian packaging industry at present
has no answers, but wishes it had. The
industry can only talk about what happens
in America (never an infallible guide),
and point out the thriving state of the
packaging industry in Australia now.
The National Packaging Association
recently held its fourth study series at the
Chevron Hilton hotel, Sydney. An ex-
hibition of packages and contests for
package design were held at the same
time.
In the industry it is estimated that the
package on an average represents about
10 per cent, of the cost of the article.
This proportion, of course, varies con-
siderably. The value of a plastic bag for
a cashmere sweater is nowhere near 10
per cent, of the value of the sweater.
But 10 per cent, is a workable figure for
many grocery and allied lines. It doesn’t
seem an excessive figure when it is con-
sidered that for many foods the package
is perhaps their most important advertise-
ment.
A constant claim in the packaging in-
dustry is that the consumer saves money
by buying packaged goods. It is claimed
that the shopkeeper has fewer returns to
the manufacturer because packaged goods
do not deteriorate so quickly. This
saving is, theoretically, passed to the
shopper. Also, the housewife should
save money because packaged food is
less likely to deteriorate and be wasted
in the home.
In spite of these claims, probably not
many housewives, even those who buy
packaged goods, would think that pack-
aging actually saved her money. Most
consumers feel that packaged vegetables,
meat, even biscuits “cost a bit more, but
are worth it.”
The reason why not many consumers
think that the packaging industry’s claim
of saving money is valid seems in part to
be because the industry—in common with
many other industries —makes little effort
to help consumers understand what it is
doing.
For example, probably everybody in
the soup-making factories and everybody
in the packaging industry knows that
soups in dry form are packed in tinfoil
(which is more expensive than many other
wrappings) to cut out ultra-violet light
which will cause the contents to deterior-
ate rapidly. This enables the housewife
to keep soup-packets for a very long time.
But, ask any housewife, and she wilj
hazard a guess that the makers chose tin-
foil because it was pretty and would
attract the attention of the shopper.
Another commodity, now generally
wrapped, about which many consumers
are vague is bacon. Bacon is not a food
which will last long. Packed in thin
plastic, it will last perhaps 10 days;
vacuum-packed in more expensive',
heavier plastic, it will last for from four
to six weeks. Once a shopper understood
this, she would know, by her family’s
requirements, when to buy the long-
lasting bacon and when the shorter-life
package would do.
Few consumers are at all clear about
what polythene wrapping does, other than
make goods look more attractive. How-
ever. the claims that polythene wrapping
will lengthen the life of many foods are
soundly based. Polythene wrapping has
one or two per cent, permeability, which
allows a small amount of fresh air to
penetrate. The small amount of fresh air
means that foods last longer than if they
were exposed to the atmosphere, or
packed in an acetate film which would
exclude air altogether.
Perhaps manufacturers are reluctant to
make claims about their packages, lest
these should be taken as guarantees. But,
in many instances, it seems that manufac-
turers overestimate the knowledge of the
consumer. They are so familiar with the
properties of the materials they are hand-
ling that it seems inconceivable that every-
body doesn’t know as much as they do.
Another field where packaging benefits
the consumer, although the makers do
not generally stress the fact, is in the
preparation of small quantities of food,
either for small households, or for con-
venient buying of rarely-used ingredients.
Manufacturers are always talking about
“giant, economy” sizes and so forth, but
it’s often the “dwarf” sizes which are the
real economy.
Every housewife needs small quantities
of preserved cherries, olives, even sauces
and jams, at times, and modern packaging
enables her to buy them without all the
waste which half-used jars and tins stuck
at the back of the cupboard, represents.
FOR THE OBSERVER
The Elaborate Traditions
of the Australian P.R.O.
A ccording to the hand-out, chanoyu,
the Japanese tea-drinking ceremony,
was originally practised almost exclusively
among Zen Buddhist priests, who used it
to prevent drowsiness during their long
hours of meditation. This is probably
true, because it seemed easy to fall into
a reflective mood at the demonstration
of chanoyu in Sydney recently, to medi-
tate on the sustained efforts which go into
promotion these days, and to wonder how
much of it really gets anywhere.
Before the ceremony the exchange of
courtesies, in the elaborate tradition of
Australian public-relations officers, be-
tween Anthony Hordern’s, Qant a s,
Columbia pictures and Legacy, who all
had a spoonful in the pot, made the
Japanese tea ceremony seem as simple
as making a cup of instant tea.
Guests entered the Aranda room at
Anthony Hordern’s through a Tori (the
Japanese gate of Heaven), which came,
in pasteboard, by courtesy of Qantas,
Australia’s overseas airline, regular flights
to Japan. A Qantas public-relations
officer was there to look after the Qantas
end, to watch the tea ceremony and,
perhaps, to meditate.
Although the two authentic geisha girls,


WHITE HORSE
SCOTCH WHISKY
ftl
c.
K
< 4
w )
Vj
r*
!’ i i
ri/i
vr.sr
;> ♦/
Pirn!
I
m
A
K
/ V
&
&
The
Old
Scotch
r<*s
o=3
Celuk
A'
N* 64 400 ScotcKWN.sK>
\ (4.IAR
*?£
■4Pi
(iiur
Pleasant accompaniment to
bar-side discussions, White
Horse Scotch Whisky. And
at least one subject upon
which complete agreement
is always reached —for it’s
an age-old fact that there
is no finer Scotch Whisky
anywhere. White Horse . . .
of course.
«■/
TT
R 67
Available in three handy sizes:
26-oz. bottles, "halves" and
"quarters."
At Standard Brand Prices.
Fumiyuki and Osono (by courtesy of the
Gion Geisha College, Kyoto), came
physically by Qantas, they were brought
here to Columbia pictures to publicise
its film, “Cry for Happy.”
Anthony Hordern’s public relations
adviser was there to welcome the 150-odd
cuests who had paid half a guinea
guests, who Udu pdiu Ud.li d. gull
to see the ceremony, to tell them about
“Cry for Happy.” (which got most un-
happy treatment from the critics), and
to remind them that the geisha girls would
be giving a demonstration of traditional
Japanese flower-arranging at Hordern
Bros., which Anthony Hordern’s now
own.
Even in these days of persistent promo-
tion, it is not possible just to tell people
that you want them to see a film. Some-
thing has to be done in the name of
charity. The recipients of the tea,
ceremoniously served, were six women
who work for Legacy, and the proceeds
of the function went to Legacy, one of
the best of good causes. A public-rela-
tions officer was there from Legacy to
make sure that everybody could identify
Mrs Lionel McFadyen, the president of
Torch Bearers for Legacy, and the rest
of her team.
Mrs McFadyen and the other five
women had to sniff and drink the tea, a
pea-green fluid, without, of course, milk
and sugar, and they did it very gracefully
without giving the audience any idea of
how good or bad it tasted.
At least Legacy gained some practical
benefit from their efforts. Otherwise, it
is difficult to believe that the visit of
two geisha girls to Australia will make
anyone go to see “Cry for Happy” these
cold nights after the critics have panned
it, nor will they inspire anyone to fly to
Japan by Qantas, or to shop at Anthony
Hordern’s. However, Fumiyuki and
Osono were just as pretty and charming
as we’ve always been told geisha girls
are, so the Gion Geisha College may get
some new pupils.


ABORIGINALITIES
The Snider Carbine
T>ooks, magazine articles and films have
made many people familiar with the
firearms which played a large part in the
European colonisation of America —the
long Kentucky muzzle-loading rifle, the
Sharps breech-loading rifle used for bison-
hunting, the Winchester repeater, the Colt
revolver. Few, however, can name the
firearm which played the corresponding
part in Australia —the Snider carbine.
The Snider’s history is unique. Origin-
ally a muzzle-loader, it was later, by a
most ingenious adaptation, turned into a
breech-loader.
During the Crimean War our troops
were issued with the Enfield muzzle-load-
ing rifle of .577 bore, firing a bullet of
530 grains. A few years later hundreds
of thousands of these Enfields were ren-
dered obsolete by the invention of the
breech-loader. Some of the Enfields were
sold to be used as muzzle-loading shot-
guns, with or without having the rifling
bored out. But they fetched only a few
shillings apiece.
In an attempt to get a better price the
British Government offered a prize of
£5OO for a simple method of converting
the Enfields to breech-loaders. It was
won by a gunsmith named Jacob Snider.
In Snider’s design, part of the solid
breech was cut away. To this was fitted
a block hinged on the right side, with a
striking pin running through it at an angle
to use the existing hammer on the right
side, originally designed to strike a per-
cussion cap on a nipple.
A chamber was reamed out in the
barrel to take the brass central-fire car-
tridge invented by Colonel Boxer. The
long barrel was cut down to reduce the
weapon to the overall carbine length of
36|in To load it, the thumb of the left
hand pressed a catch on the breech block
and swung it across to the right. The big
cartridge was inserted with the right hand,
the right forefinger swung the block back
THE SNIDER
Muzzle-loader to breech-loader
and the right thumb latched the catch
with a quick, downward push.
With a little practice this could be done
very rapidly. After a round had been
fired, the breech-block was swung open,
and a jerk on it ejected the empty shell.
A number of gunsmiths made this
change-over, using Snider’s idea, and they
usually stamped their names on the
weapons, giving rise to the belief that a
number of people made Sniders. Actu-
ally, all were made originally at the
Enfield small-arms factory in England.
From 1870 to 1895, Sniders were the
popular weapons in the Australian out-
back. Every police trooper carried one,
the aboriginal police of Queensland were
armed with them, and they were the
favorite weapon for shooting game. The
original buffalo-shooters also used them.
It was a deadly weapon ; the big bullet
of soft lead made an awful mess of any-
thing it hit.
Tn 1922 I came across a Snider in first-
■- class order at a cattle-station home
stead, with over a thousand cartridges.
I had been warned that, because of the
reduction in the weapon’s weight from
91b to s|lb by shortening the barrel by
more than a foot, plus the use of rapid-
burning, fine-grained black powder in the
cartridges, the weapon had a ferocious
kick. I took my first shot with some
trepidation. But I found this was greatly
exaggerated. Provided you held the
Snider tightly and kept your cheek clear
of the stock, it was nothing to worry over,
although after firing ten shots in succes-
sion my shoulder did start to feel sore.
1 used the Snider to shoot some scrub
bulls which had been causing trouble and
1 held a post-mortem on one after it had
been skinned. The damage done by the
big bullet showed why a “mickey” scrub
bull dropped as if struck by lightning
when given a chest shot.
Old Sniders can still be found in the
bush and they are now valuable as
collector’s items, especially in the U.S.
Some of them look woeful, with rusted
barrel and cracked stock, but it is wonder-
ful what can be done to them with rust-
remover, fine emery cloth and a pull-
through of wire gauze to clean the bore.
Cracked wooden stocks are repaired by
introducing into the splits, with the aid
of a small, stiff feather, one of the modern
synthetic-resin glues, then drawing the
cracks together by applying several layers
of wrapping of inch-wide rubber strip,
cut from an old car inner-tube and
stretched to the limit. Used in this way,
rubber exerts a heavy, steady pressure
from all sides. The carbine in then placed
in the sun to warm and to help the glue
to set.
Later, when the walnut wood of the
stock has been scraped down, sand-
papered and given a coat of raw linseed
oil, it is hard to see where the cracks
were. The Snider shown in the illustra-
tion was repaired in this way. When
handed to me, it looked as if it had come
out of a rubbish dump, but after being
done up it was fit to take its place in the
collection of the South Australian
Yluseum.
H A. Lindsay
TURTLES ON THE TARGET
A mong the latest victims of inter-
national tension are the giant turtles
which breed on tiny Quail and Sandy
islands, 40 miles along the coast from
Darwin.
For some years this area has been
gazetted as a “high-level, high-explosive
bombing range.” For a long time this
didn’t mean much, but during the past
six months R.A.A.F. squadrons have
been coming up from the south with
increasing frequency for “mobility exer-
cises,” and the turtles have been getting
such a pasting that they are quitting one
of their very few breeding areas along
400 miles of coast.
Where once the visitor could see hun-
dreds of turtle tracks in the sand, leading
to the sea, there are now only a few
dozen. Waugait natives who used to
visit the islands for turtle eggs —and still
do when the coast is clear —say there will
soon be no turtles left if the bombing
continues. The turtles cannot stand the
noise, they say, and there is nowhere in
reach for them to go instead.
Darwin citizens have repeatedly
appealed to the R.A.A.F. to find another
bombing range. Their concern for the


turtles is not unconnected with the fact
that Quail Island was once a prominent
weekend resort and the surrounding
waters were among the best fishing spots
along the coast.
A long-time Territorian, fisherman
and hunter, Roy Moffatt, who prizes the
“nutritious value” of turtle eggs, is par-
ticularly upset about being barred from
the area. A scientist and wildlife expert,
A. E. Newsome, appealed from as far
away as Alice Springs; “The breeding
areas of turtles are ancestral,” he said.
“They come back to the same spot year
after year. So once a breeding area is
destroyed it is gone for ever.”
But the R.A.A.F. is unmoved. It
claims that the islands are the only suit-
able bombing range along the coast. The
Government is equally adamant.
So the slither-clump of young turtles
racing down the sand, through a gauntlet
of seagulls’ beaks, to the blue waters of
the Arafura Sea may soon be heard no
more on Quail and Sandy islands.
K.G.W.
THE WEB TRAFFIC
A Queensland woman who evidently
doesn’t share the average housewife’s
horror of spiders, however inoffensive,
has lately been establishing various
species of the spinners in her garden.
And now she's annoyed because bandits
are disrupting operations.
The chief bandit, it appears, is the
beautiful little yellow-breasted sunbird,
which, having a special fancy for web-
bing as nesting material, rips into the
spiders’ retreats with its long beak. Then,
while the spider is frantically trying to
repair the damage, down comes a drongo
and makes a meal of her.
Birds have been preying on spiders
“I will now try an imitation of Sammy Davis Jr. imitating Satchmo!"
during untold years, almost as much as
they have on insects. But it is not entirely
one-way traffic. Many insects live on
birds or in their nests, either as parasites
or cleansers.
The spiders get the worst of the deal.
A few of the bigger fellows occasionally
trap and eat small birds, and at odd
times a spider lives in a vacated birds’
nest; but, broadly, the only way spiders
“help” birds is by keeping their vast
population-increase under control.
On the other hand, many species of
birds lean heavily on spiders, partly as
food but mainly as providers of nesting
material. The willy-wagtail depends
largely on webbing when building his
strong and shapely nest. So do other
members of the flycatcher family. So,
indeed, do scores of builders of fibrous
nests in trees, shrubs and grasses, from
cuckoo-shrikes and orioles to the tiny
mistletoe-bird and sittellas, these last two
being highly skilled weavers. And, of
course, the talented little tailor-bird
(fantail-warbler) uses spiders’ silk as
thread to stitch leaves into the body of
its nest.
Birds go for webbing because it is
remarkably strong, pliable and adhesive.
It is ideal as binding material in soft
nests —and it is readily available every-
were, from coastal jungles through open
forests and heathlands to the plains of
the interior.
Spiders’ offerings are not restricted
to strands of webbing. Egg-sacs, closely
woven and impervious to water, also
find favor with many birds. A honey-
eater’s nest found recently not only had
webbing threaded through its walls, but
the exterior was strengthened by egg-sacs
of the black house-spider and the St
Andrew’s Cross spider. And the cham-
ber was completely lined with inner sacs
of the little fairy huntsman-spider.
A.H.C.
LOCK UP YOUR OPAL
The free-and-easy atmosphere of the
outback barely exists any more.
Travellers in Central Australia have
never had the same welcome since the
Sundown murders of 1958. Now opal-
miners in Coober Pedy are putting locks
on the doors of their underground
homes. There has been too much free-
and-easy pilfering of their opal produc-
tion, which last year soared from
£170,000 to a record £597,000, due to
some fantastically rich strikes.
Biggest buyer of Australia’s national
stone are the Japanese, who have
developed a hunger for the green opal
hitherto despised by the trade. With the
U.S. favoring reds, and Germany a good
mixture of color, things are booming
on that sunstruck field where gougers
and noodlers can only cool off by living
in man-made caves.
That Was the Country
Recently travelled from Menindee to
Pooncarie. The cockies along the Darling
are watching for signs of rain; pelicans
are standing on one leg in the gradually
diminishing water of the “warrnambools”
and billabongs, anxiously gazing down-
wards in the hope that some unfortunate
fish will be indiscreet enough to let him-
self be seen; and tramps sit on the road-
side on “Matilda” hoping for some Good
Samaritan to come along with “a chew”.
The steamers aground in the shallow
river expected to get away in about six
weeks by reason of the recent heavy rains
in Queensland. The publicans lean list-
lessly outside the pubs, waiting for a pos-
sible customer. The boundary-riders ex-
pect to be able to go to Melbourne next
Xmas; the policeman is expecting a stripe,
and the schoolteacher a removal. There’s
a lot of expectancy there.
— “Bulletin”, February 16, 1905.
The desire to meet the coach becomes
a sort of mania with the residents of
Australian bush districts, and when the
coach ceases running and the locomotive
arrives, the quaint passion long con-
tinues, and large, hairy, deliberate men
drift slowly in from the surrounding
mysteries to gaze at the train coming in
and going out again. The worst victim I
ever knew was old Simon Myley, at Pea
Creek. Simon was on hand regularly for
seven years to see the coach pull up at
Mclvor’s pub, although he had to ride
nine miles to do it, astride a saddleless
horse with a ridgepole like a picket fence,
and a gait like two pigs in a bag. The
railway has now reached Pea Creek —now
dignified by the name of a British peer—
but Simon Myley still rides in twice a
week to see the train, although it ar-
rives at Pea Creek with a stupid iter-
ation that would madden you. Some-
body asked Myley why he did it. He
looked surprised. “By gosh.’’ he said, “I
saw a feller rolled over be the coach
here once.”
— “Bulletin”, February 25, 1909.


Fiulli Ml 11l C
\
0
m
Water has been the great attracting force in
human settlement all down the ages. Wherever
rivers have flowed, men have lived and nations
have risen.
This has been particularly true in our brief
Australian history. In a country unserved by a
river system as vast as the Nile or the Mississippi,
for instance, most of our population is living at the
fringe of a continent nearly three million square
miles in area.
But science has begun to break these barriers
of natural chance. Among its many works for the
enrichment of Australia, the Commonwealth
Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation is
developing a filter for a machine that will extract the
salt from sea water.
Chemical engineers say that within twenty
years great areas of inland Australia could be
supplied with fresh water produced from the ocean.
Such are the advances being made in this
work, both here and overseas, that its benefits will
spread to arid areas of every continent, answering
in large part the questions presented by the rapid
rise in the world’s population.
Mention has been made of atomic power for
taking this water cheaply into the interior. But
the method used —and whatever its ultimate cost—
will be incidental to the rewards to be won by
pressing on with the reticulation once the filtering
process has been perfected.
The transforming of Australia by taking water
in volume across its surface is not fantasy. It was
being done before most of those now living in this
country were born.
In Western Australia sixty years ago, long
before atomic energy was heard of, men were
building the three hundred and fifty miles of pipeline
to take water in from the Mundaring Weir, to give
life to the enormously rich goldfields that are still
yielding today.
They proved then, with only a small fraction
of our present resources, that dry land is no frontier
when men have the courage to win out past it and
take its conquering into their own hands.
Feiffer
1& SWT
WITH 1
6or m- C
W A
?mmx
WHO iM*
\ieM
mmm
AT Flß6t.
W I
MM
to
TRUST M£, TO
001/C M 6, TO
CAT OUT OF
MM HAIOP.
THCU r
cor MM -
SFCF A 006
U)HO 60AS
l/CRM MERVOUS
AT FIRST /
dort
Tzmeo m
1206 TO TRUST
TO TOl/C MS
to'pO AU TKS
TRICK'S I
HIM
M6XT I
60T WWtf
A CAT <OHO
6UA6 vW
[UITHPRAWfJ
AT FIR6>T.
6jt r
TRAIUCC MM
CAT TO /
TRUST MC, U
TO LOi/C
TO COMC
AMTIM6
[ CKIIW-
MOW! LN6
coDTevreptf
with mm
pmtett mm
OOb m MM
cat. m omo
Em Mtiour^
OE M QM
to
mm. it's
AM) /Ml/At'
MiW 60Rme
PffETtff 400(C)
ru ge
RFACM FOR
m?u-


Soccer Heading for the Footy Jackpot
By GEORGE CRAWFORD
Football is Australia’s major winter
sport—the national code games in
Melbourne have been attracting 100,000-
plus crowds every Saturday for years, and
Rugby League crowds in Sydney have
topped 70,000.
And these are crowd figures that soccer,
so far, cannot equal, but beware! Soccer,
the Cinderella of Australian football for
years, is now a fiercely growing child
nourished by the increasing migrant
population.
Migrants from Europe, the men who
will play the big hand in the future of
Australian soccer, can be expected to
follow the spectacular promotional ideas
of European soccer and these ideas,
once let loose upon us, could shock all
Australian fans of the national code
and Rugby into the realisation that the
administrators of these games are merely
toying with their business.
One peep into European soccer could
persuade any Australian footy fan that
the present approach to football in Aus-
tralia is very small-time by comparison.
Before the 1939-45 war, soccer in
Europe was mediocre. British teams
frequently outclassed the European sides,
often by huge scores. Then, after the
war, the game'began to flourish. Today,
European soccer is much stronger than
in Britain, and many of the great British
teams are copying modern European
tactics and styles.
As in other popular European sports
such as track and field athletics, fenc-
ing, gymnastics and wrestling, the Euro-
pean soccer people have adopted a scienti-
fic approach to their sport. The Russians,
for instance, are not so much obsessed
with leading the world in scientific devel-
opment and the space race as to neglect
the scientific challenges of soccer. Last
August, Russia started out on an intensive
two-year-campaign to win the 1962
Soccer World Cup series in Chile.
Can anybody imagine Australia under-
taking a two-year campaign to win an
international series? We do not think of
sport that way. Why, last year we did
not think it worthwhile to send our
Olympic Games team to Rome a few
weeks early to get acclimatised and for
competition! The Russians in their two-
vear plan for the Soccer World Cup have
chosen a squad of 33 players. These
players will get together regularly with
expert coach Gavril Kachalin for train-
ing and practice matches. One by one,
the less promising players will be weeded
out until, eventually, the 22 required for
the final preparation remain.
The squad will be together winter
and summer. While the winter snows
make out-of-doors activity impossible the
squad will work in Moscow’s vast indoor
stadium, which is big enough for full-
scale practice matches. The average age
in this 33-man Russian squad is 29. In
Australia a sportsman at that age is con-
sidered a veteran, but to the Russians that
is the age a footballer has experience and
maturity. To them these facts count
heavily in the tough field of international
football competition.
Behind this top-flight squad, the
Russians are keeping their sights on a
select team of under-21 youngsters, who
will be developed gradually until they
reach the stage to replace the current
experienced men. There is no Australian-
like cry, “Give the young ’uns a go!”
The Russians leave it to the experienced
men who know. Australia, in Rugby,
particularly, has gone down too often in
its craze for youth.
Soccer, with all its seriousness in
Europe today, is a big-money business.
Talk of payments of £50,000 and more for
the transfer of top-class players is
common. The terms the coaches get to
groom the players and keep them sharp
would open the eyes of Australians.
'T'he coaching set-up in the Spanish club,
Barcelona, is an illustrative case.
Here is an amazing story of the ruthless-
ness of the controllers of a famous club
and of the lengths to which they will
go to ensure a well-groomed team ....
Last year Barcelona imported a top-class
Yugoslavian coach, Ljubisa Brocic. It
appointed another member of the coach-
ing staff, Enrique Orizaola, to teach
Brocic the Spanish language. This he did
in 40 days. No man looked more secure
in his job than Brocic did. Under his
coaching Barcelona knocked out of the
European Cup the famous Real Madrid,
acknowledged as the world's greatest
soccer team. A great beginning for
Brocic! He was a hero ... he was
feted .. . mammoth bonus payments
were added to his already tasty pickings
of £lOO a week.
Then came defeats and a revolution
in the coaching set-up followed practi-
cally overnight! Club directors appointed
Orizaola as the new senior coach and
Brocic as a mere assistant. Brocic first
learned of the change when he walked
into the ground one day and saw Oriza-
ola coaching a squad of players in a
corner. It was little different from the
normal everyday training scene—except
that Orizaola was coaching the first team
instead of the reserves. The directors kept
Brocic on its big squad of coaches with
his pay docked £2O a week —an assistant
coach on £BO a week! Can anybody
imagine it in Australia!
A nother angle on big soccer: a London
travel agency is already taking book-
ings for people wishing to go to Chile
next year to see the World Cup series. Not
even bookings for Olympic Games are
taken so far in advance as this. And, in
Chile, people already are buying tickets
on a time-payment system. The price is
£3 ss. for the early rounds and £4 for the
semi-finals and final. Australians have
never had to pay anything like that to
see football. But the South Americans
will pay it happily and pack the stands
to overflowing.
Will football eventually come to Aus-
tralia on a scale like this? I think it
will. And when it does soccer will be
the game. This round ball game, which
Australians know so little about, must
have some sort of magic to attract the
millions it does in Europe and Britain.
And, when the soccer people get down to
real promotion here, the game could
erupt overnight as it did in Europe and
engulf the country.
“Testing , one , two , three.. ."


THE THURSDAY-NIGHT AMBITION
By GAVIN CASEY
Contempt was the keynote at The Place. They weren’t
despairing intellectuals, like the Beats. But the attitude
was languid. When you hammered a heel you had to
look bored with it. When you told your triumphs you
had to shrug them off. If the juke sent you it had to send you
slow, sad and sour, like that wasn’t something that got under
your skin, but just something your grand-daddy might have
remembered if he’d had any memory.
Success was all right. You could talk with respect about
the big boys, the men who were tops in the bands, the voices,
the stars. But going after success was drac. You do it, and
you had respect. You try to do it, and you were a figure of
fun. Things you could do, you could do. Things you couldn’t
do, you wouldn’t dare try, or you’d have everybody laughing.
You burn off a cop on the Beach Road, you’d done
something. You scare a square off the road like a toad you
could mention it, with contempt for him. You take a hand
with the band in a bit of stealing, use your cosh to get some
dosh, open a store and clean up the floor and they liked you.
Just so long as you didn’t try for what was high, starting low
like a cubical Joe. Start at the top and work your way down
seemed to be the idea.
If Throttle Mullican or Full-Lock Fullerton had ever
come into The Place they would have been treated with
reverence. They were at the top of the Speedway game, they
got the dosh and the dames, ’cause they won all their games.
They were the champs, not two-bob tramps, but, of course,
they never came to The Place.
The speedway riders who did turn up there sometimes
were just the novice boys, the second stringers, the triers who
hadn t got there yet, if they ever would. They were a joke.
“Them leatheries!” the Prince would say. “You could
kick your hat around the ground faster than any of them go.”
'T'he dislike was mutual, and there were sometimes fights.
“Racing’s for tracks,” one of the speedway boys told
Knucks. “Any mug could beat Morris Minors along River
Road the way you bodgies do.”
“I got a Leopard Century outside, just a little working
man’s grid, kid,” Knucks said. “I’ll beat you to the Port,
Sport, pick your own road.”
“Racing's for tracks. Any number of laps you like on the
oval.”
“I seen you race there. I couldn’t go that slow, Joe.”
“No, you couldn’t? Well, if you’re that good I could get
you a match with Throttle Mullican next week.”
“I ain't claiming to beat him, Jim. It’s you I could do.”
“With yer tongue, maybe.”
“With the grid or me knuckles, Chuckles,” said Knucks
with his hand in the pocket where he could wind his short
piece of bike-chain around it.
At about that stage The Place sometimes got gruesome,
but not often. The talk brought less bruises, and both parties
could go home satisfied that they would have won had it
actually come to the test with fists or with the hot motors
roaring. The people at The Place didn’t want the speedway
mugs around, and the mo’bike boys only went there when
there hadn’t been enough trouble at the track and they felt
they’d enjoy a bit more.
Lefty belonged to The Place, but he never felt altogether
comfortable when the hassle was on with the dirt-track types.
He had a soft spot for the speedway, and the fact was that
he was getting a bit sick of weaving hair-raising patterns along
the highways under the noses of the family sedans. When
Lefty went to the speedway, the racing excited him more than
he let people see. It had a purpose, the entertainment of the
crowd, and for the riders the applause and the prize-money,
and even a sort of comradeship that was different from the


ganging together at The Place, more open and aboveboard,
somehow, less full of undercurrents and strange, distorted
unwritten rules of behavior.
t efty had a Leopard Century, a goer, one that could come
U P the ton, and he kept it in the pink, but what for?
When a bunch of them went for a blast he could usually get
out in front and stay there, but why? He’d burnt off a cop
or two in his time, but what was the point, they got you sooner
or later—and when they did pounce, usually when you were
just tooling along about fifty thinking about something else,
they added on all the speed of all the times when they hadn’t
been able to catch you.
He d have liked to have a go, on the track, but you
couldn t do that, of course. You’d never live it down, showing
any ambition was cause for suspicion. You’d get the loud
ha-ha from Knucks and the Prince and the rest of them, and
if you got cheeky you might even get a brass fist in your
teeth. The Prince and them, they were a bit cautious with the
regular speedway boys, but they wouldn’t worry about Lefty,
they’d know how to handle him.
Then there was a practice afternoon on the track, and
Lefty was there watching, and it got the better of him. No one
else who belonged to the crowd was about, and the track
was wide and white and inviting. The spidery little Japs, with
just a countershaft in the drive instead of a gear-box, chattered
and slithered around, tossing tempting smells of hot oil and
high-compression fuels in the air.
The leather-clad riders threw the machines down, arid made
beautiful curves, broadsiding in long surges of power, sending
fans of dirt out from their rear wheels in a way that fascinated
Lefty. It was something he had to do, or try to do, and he
went down and had a go.
“You ride that crate, like that,” the official in the
pits told him. “No mudguards, no headlamps and stuff. You
gotta have a knee-hook, you gotta wear leathers.”
“I just wanted to see how I go,” Lefty said. “I’ll pull off
the tin bits, right here. Maybe I can borrow some leathers
and boots.”
He managed to do all that, but he went badly. The big
Leopard, in its third gear, slithered all over the track, and
without a knee-hook his own trailing inside foot tried to toss
him out of the saddle. It was a very different proposition
from burning up a slice of straight tarmac ; strenuous and
uncertain, full of blunders and skin-of-the-teeth recoveries.
He slid her, but it happened when she wanted it, not when he
wanted it. He was never in complete control, except along the
straights.
Eventually, Lefty fell off, untidily and fairly painfully.
He tried to lift her up when she was past lifting up, when the
thing to do would have been to slide her right down to the
ground. When she had slowed a good deal, and he was still
fighting, she stuck both wheels in and catapulted him. She
wasn t going fast enough to bend herself, only to scrape the
chrome and the enamel a bit, but she knocked the wind out of
him.
JJe chugged back to the pits, bruised and bitter, waiting for
the laughter, or at least the superior grins. There weren’t
any. Almost nobody took the slightest notice of him, but one
man came across. It was Benny Tramper, one of the old-
timers, but still one of the best. He was a nuggety, trim-built
man who always looked good in action, under the lights.
Now, in the daylight, lounging along on his own two feet, he
looked about 90 years old, but friendly.
“You didn’t go bad,” Benny said.
“I went on me ear,”
“No ears here that haven’t been lobbed on a few times,”
said the rider, cheerfully. “You got a lot to learn, but you
wasn’t frightened of it.”
“Wasn’t I, but,” Lefty said.
“You gotta have a hook,” Benny told him. “Can’t use
your foot properly ’less you’re anchored down/’
“I’ll have one next time.” He hadn’t known there was going
o be a next time, but that was what he said, arid he found
mat he meant it, too. He had to beat this thing.
‘You get a hook, and then you ride her, son. Don’t
just go faster and faster until the back wheel goes. That’s a
skid, it ain’t a proper power-slide. What you gotta do is throw
her down and dig that foot in and open the taps, all together,
before she wants to do it. Then she’ll come round for you.”
“Thanks. I’ll have another go now.”
“Don’t have another go until you got that hook on. You
won t go much better without a hook, son,” Benny advised.
Tefty was warmed and encouraged. He was committed
now, and to hell with the people at The Place. But they
heard about it, of course, and they made it uncomfortable.
Here s Leathery Lefty, star of the speedway,” the Prince
jeered that same evening.
“You reach forty?” Knucks asked. “They tell me you
was going so slow it looked like you had a reverse gear on
the Leopard.”
“Benny reckoned 1 done all right—Benny Tramper,” Lefty
told them warmly.
“Now why’d he kid you like that? What'd be in it for
him?”
“I m having another go, anyway.”
“You have as many goes as you like, Mike. You’ll never
be no good, Pud.”
“We ain't your wet-nurses, Dad,” Knucks told him, loftily.
“You wanna get the laughs, we don’t stop you.”
Knucks put a token in the juke, and when it started
blaring he grabbed Daisy Dust and staggered some steps,
chewing and not looking at her, working his muscles madly
but looking scornful of it all, as though something not himself
was making him do it. Daisy looked on strings, like a puppet.
The Prince got himself some more cow, and sat down again
with his back to them so he wouldn’t see them. He didn’t
look at Lefty, either, just at his glass. They all started to leave
Lefty alone, to take no notice of him except to make occasional
remarks about him that they thought were funny in his
hearing.
Lefty didn’t like it, and it made him mad, but what could
he do? He couldn’t fight anybody, because if he tried a
bunch would do him over. He had to take it, and he was
more than ever committed to this Thursday-night ambition
of his. He ground his teeth and resolved to show them on
the track, to hit the top and hit it fast. Then they’d grin on
the other side of their faces.
/~\n the next practice afternoon, with the hook fitted and the
w advice from Benny in his head, he went better, a lot
better. He had some more of the surplus tinware off his
model, too, but he realised why the big boys had to have the
little Japs with the big power and the minimum of weight,
with the big wheels and the spider-web frames, and the low
gearing without a lot of shafts and cogs between the mighty
motor and that oversized back sprocket. How did you get
one of those, without winning a lottery or having a rich,
enthusiastic father?
He didn’t go to The Place much, and when he did they
were stand-offish and amused. He wasn’t enjoying life much,
but he was committed, and he was elated when, after his third
afternoon on the track the promotor invited him to be in the
Novice Handicap the following Thursday night. Here it was,
a chance, if he didn’t muck it up.
“They say you’ve got in the kindergarten, with the little
fellers, Bellers?” the Prince sneered at him that night.
“Gotta walk before you can run, Bun.”
“Well, we’ll all be there Thursday to catch you if you
fall and start to bawl.”
So on the big night they were there, and on his mind.
They were there, in the vast, noisy crowd, quiet and full of
their contempt. Lefty felt lonely in the pits, where nobody
took any notice of him. They were all too busy, readying up,
watching their mechanics change plugs and swing back wheels
to tug the Jap motors into angry, bellowing life.
The track lay smooth and graded, bare and white, looking
different under the glare of electricity, new and frightening.


FINE
A fine example of early Colonial
architecture is this Bond house in
Happy Valley, South Australia.
Here the mellow blends that make
Bond 7 Fine Liqueur Whisky
quietly mature in cask in the age-old
way that makes great Whisky.
FINE LIQUEUR WHISKY
=
BOND 7
WHISKY
'JS#
One oj the Jive great whiskies oj the world . . .
923 4 B
The mob mumbled in anticipation, and the loud-speakers
blared announcements and corny, old-fashioned jazz. Officials
ran about, yelping, and there was nothing to do but wait and
worry. Anyway, the Novice Handicap was the pipe-opener
of the programme, it came on straight away. The winners
of the first heat went about twice as fast as Lefty could ever
imagine himself going, and then, suddenly and terrifyingly,
he was out on the track, on his mark up in front, watching
the lights and feeling sick in the stomach.
He made every mistake in the book in his anxiety not to
fall off at least. Under the lights he never knew where he was
on the track, the corners jumped at him before he was ready.
He rode untidily and uncertainly, and people roared past him,
slinging dirt at him. He remembered what Benny had told
him, but it was simply impossible to do it, to bash her down
on her side and open the taps the way that had been getting
to be easy in practice. He came second, because three of the
other four fell off, and then crept shamefully into the pits,
and more or less hid while he awaited the final.
To his horror the Prince came to the fence of the pits
and leered at him.
“Never mind, you was only half a lap behind the winner,
Sinner.”
“I was second, wasn’t I?”
“Second out of two, that’s how it was, Bos.”
“You go an’ dip yer eye.”
T>ut the Prince had overdone it and enraged Lefty. He
** went out for the final seeing things in a blur of anger,
not giving a damn if he crashed as long as all those mugs
didn’t pass him while he was still motoring. He clenched
his teeth and almost shut his eyes at the first bend, and
obeyed old Benny’s instructions to the letter.
He walloped the Leopard over on her side and gave her
the gun and got away with it. The wheels bit hard and the
good motor screamed, and he came out of it in the back straight,
still on the inside of the track, going like a bat. It felt
wonderful. It didn’t work quite so neatly on the big Railway
Bend, but he stayed upright and he was motoring.
He got away with it ten times in the five laps. He was
tired on the last two, and went very wide, but on the last one
it was mainly because he was passing somebody—actually
passing somebody, and he must have lapped him, too, some-
how or other. There was a blur of checkered flag, and as he
slowed and chugged around the track back to the pits he
realised, with wonder and exultation, that he had won.
In the pits Lefty was rushed by people who hammered
him on the back. He realised in a daze that he had won by a
couple of hundred yards, and a warm, enthusiastic voice
over the loud-speakers was saying something about a five-lap
record for novices.
“Good on you. You learn fast, son. You’ll do all right,”
old Benny said.
Then the promotor came over and grabbed his arm. He
said, “You didn’t go like that in practice. You’ll be novice
back-marker next week. You can have a try-out on one of
the track Japs, if you like.”
'T'he Prince and Knucks and the rest of them weren’t any-
where in sight, but they were all at The Place when Lefty
got there, much later, weary but happy, and he didn't have
to tell them anything, they knew it all.
“They reckon you was offered one of the track Japs.
That right, skite?” Knucks said with new respect.
“Must be the first ever to get offered a Jap after his first
ride,” commented Mechanical Sam with what was practically
reverence.
“Here, slosh the tonsils, kid,” Knucks told him, coming
up with a drink.
“Shows what I always said, Ted,” the Prince went on,
with his arm over Lefty’s shoulder. “Easy as pie to beat them
Leatheries at their own game —not anybody here, p’r’aps, but
one of our good throttle-twisters like Hefty Lefty.”
They grinned at Lefty, their contempt all gone. He was
on top, now, or so near it didn’t matter. They’d defer to
him as long as he got there and stayed there, and they were
readying themselves up for it, getting in some practice at
treating him like a man of importance around The Place.
But they looked weak and foolish and sly and silly, now,
and Lefty no longer wanted their deference, or to be a man
of importance around The Place. His milk-drink, stained and
streaked with brilliant flavorings, tasted sour and unpalatable,
and he couldn’t care less what they thought of him or anything
else.
Lefty went home soon, and as soon as he stepped out of
The Place they were all out of his mind. He was thinking of
the track, and old Benny and the men who rode on it, of the
grand feeling of a full-lock power-slide when you knew you
had it under control, of the spectator-mob yelling happily and
of the spidery, purposeful, explosive, built-for-the-job Jap he
would be riding next week.


The Red Page
The Autumn
Quarterlies
By PAUL FROLICH
Australian Letters: Vol. 3, No. 3. Over-
land: No. 20 (Autumn, 1961). Quadrant:
No. 18 (Autumn 1961). Southerly: No.
1 of 1961.
/AF the five major “literary” quarterlies
in Australia, only “Meanjin” has not
yet appeared this season. “Australian
Letters” and “Overland” both continue to
grow in stature ; “Quadrant,” sponsored
by the Australian Association for Cul-
tural Freedom, grows in earnestness;
“Southerly,” reborn after a year’s burial,
has been given a new lease on life in
more ways than one.
“Australian Letters” has become —and
remains—the only one of the quarterlies
that I would willingly (and boastfully)
send overseas as an example of Australian
writing. An attractive cover, fine print-
ing, imaginative lay-outs and the use of
good paper certainly ought to be aids to
better sales of this magazine. (Incident-
ally, enquiries from Sydney bookshops
during this week failed to locate a single
copy on offer to the reading public!)
And the contents are of a high standard
too. There is a sequence of poems by
David Campbell, “Cocky’s Calendar,”
with drawings by Russell Drysdale, who
also supplied the exciting cover-draw-
ing. I am not, as a rule, much of a
verse-reader and was, therefore, delighted
by Campbell’s “un-modern” poetry ;
there is music in it and the comprehen-
sible imagery of the observant farmer
who loves his land:
Amongst the broken clods the hare
Folds his ears like hands in prayer
or, again:
See how these autumn days begin
With spider-webs against the sun . . .
The Drysdale drawings, though rather
less simple-hearted, are very fine and
excellently reproduced—it is a little un-
fortunate that one of them was inserted
upside-down!
Then there is a very workman-like
story by Mary Wilkinson, “The Golden
Moment,” with some nice touches of
both humor and malice, good dialogue
and some quite delightful characterisa-
tions. Other poems are by Judith Wright
and Randolph Stow ; the latter’s make
good reading without, in my estimation,
being good poetry. J. A. Porter (“Spini-
fex” of The Bulletin) reminisces enter-
tainingly on “Bush Minstrels” in a chap-
ter from his forthcoming book “Roll the
Summers Back,” and Brian Elliott, quot-
J ng from letters and other sources, casts
some interesting new light on the life of
Adam Lindsay Gordon.
There are thoughtful articles by Dr
Earle Hackett, “Two Waste Lands”
(affinities between contemporary Austra-
ban painting and English art forms of
the 1920 s and 30s), Frank Kermode,
“The European View of Christopher
Brennan,” and Bryn Davies on the new
Brennan edition. Not least, there is a
long extract from Patrick White’s new
novel “Riders in the Chariot,” to be pub-
lished later this year ; here is beautiful
writing, filled with compassion and
humanity, tender and always clear.
Though only one chapter from a novel,
it is completely self-contained and has
given me greater respect than ever for
White. The magazine provides a total
of 60 pages of reading matter.
“Overland,” intentionally, is a less
expensive publication. The paper is less
good, lay-outs are more haphazard and
the reading matter, though possibly con-
taining as many words as “Australian
Letters,” if not more, is cramped into 49
pages; but the printing is good and illus-
trations are well reproduced. There is a
large quantity of verse, none of it out-
standingly good, including work by Max
Harris, David Martin, Noel Macainsh,
lan Mudie and Geoffrey Dutton. The
short stories are excellent: “Ward Four,”
by John Morrison, is a very fine example
of the sincere no-gimmick kind of story
which really has something to tell. “Black
Peter,” by W. N. Scott, is a gem of brevity
and observation. Roderick Shaw has
contributed an article, and some fine
drawings, on scenes from the Snowy
Mountains scheme, particularly on the
submersion of Old Adaminaby.
There is well-written and thought-
provoking material aplenty—from a
Leftist angle. Raymond Williams, in
“Freedom and Ownership in the Arts,”
suggests alternatives to the dilemma of
“speculator or bureaucrat.” Brian Cooper
(although most of the evidence given at
his Port Moresby trial was ignored by the
mainland press, he writes without rancor)
speaks with love of the New Guinea
people and enthusiastically pleads their
ability to govern themselves. Other read-
able material comes from John Manifold
(“Music School at Armidale”), C. P. Snow
and David Martin ; and in the form of
reviews and letters.
“Quadrant” has become a little more
readable with this issue and, in the essays
by Chris Wallace-Crabbe on Furphy,
Martin Haley and Vivian Smith on Bren-
nan, a little more “literary.” But there
are no short stories and the 87 pages of
reading contain relatively little verse;
what verse there is, especially contribu-
tions by Francis Geyer, Noel Macainsh
and Clive Sansom is of a very high
standard.
“Quadrant” is well printed, has an
attractive cover (a Brennan sketch by
Lionel Lmdsay) and good lay-outs ; bui
there is no illustrative material between
its covers and the contents, however
readable, are more often didactic and
topical than of literary interest: pages of
Professor Messel on Soviet tertiary educa-
tion, F. N. Cox defending Behaviorists
against Social Scientists, J. G. Latham
on the immigration of Asians. Professor
Spate on the trials of an ‘'‘expert” is
amusingly sincere and H. A. Lindsay
supplies some good material on early
American ventures in South Australia.
The best piece is by Kenneth Gee in
‘ Taiwan Journey” and another acceptable
contribution is by W. G. L. Imms on
“Change and Frustration in the Torres
Straits.” There is plenty of it, but surely
it could be a little less dull and of more
literary interest?
“Southerly,” revived after Mr Burns’
departure from Angus and Robertson,
provides better reading than it did for
some years before 1959. In its 58 pages
—well printed on good paper, well set
out, plain cover, no illustrations—it in-
cludes three short stories: a very good
one, “Sully,” by Francis Stapleton ; a
pretty good one, “Peppercorn Rental,”
by Amy Witting ; a very slick, less good
one by Desmond O’Grady, “Barbecue.”
There’s quite a lot of poetry and I
enjoyed verse contributions from Rose-
mary Dobson, Aileen Palmer, Geoffrey
Lehman, Peter Elkin, Les Murray, Gwen
Harwood and R. A. Simpson. There are
fine articles by John Byrnes (Macquarie’s
influence on Australian writing) and
Derek van Abbe on the film as an art
form. There are excellent and informa-
tive reviews from the pens of many of
our best writers and a delightful word
portrait of Sydney Tomholt by R. G.
Howarth.
Incidentally, for the purposes of a
survey, I recently read about 60 issues
of the following periodicals: “Australian
Letters,” “Bonfire,” “Meanjin,” “Over-
land,” “Prism,” “Prospect,” “Quadrant,”
“Southerly,” “Westerly” and “Salient.”
One feature common to most of these
(and the majority of defunct Australian
literary magazines) is the presence of
a poet in the editor’s chair or as one of
the principal editors. These poet-editors
are not, as one might half expect, bad
or minor poets: their number includes
Kenneth Slessor, James McAuley, Vin-
cent Buckley and Max Harris. It quickly
becomes obvious, while reading, that a
good poet need not be a good editor and
that, conversely, a good editor does not
require poetic talent, although the two
qualities may, rarely, coincide and
overlap.
In the past, only two of the above
magazines have lived for more than 20
years and they are the ones which
received subsidies from the Common-
wealth Literary Fund for the past few
years: “Meanjin” and “Southerly.”
“Prospect,” published in Melbourne
by the Universities Catholic Club, with
Vincent Buckley as one of the editors,
is an avowedly Church-orientated publi-
cation which yet breathes an air of free-
dom. The editors state that the quarterly
is “. . . catholic .... neither Leftist nor
Rightist .... humanist .... We accept
the title ‘Leftist’ and reject its oppo-
site . . .” and this is proved true by the


BOOKHUNTER
Dept. "D” Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find It for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.0., Sydney.
contents, incidentally often of great
literary interest and value.
The editors’ stand is made clear by
articles against Santamaria and clerical-
ism, by their apparent insistence on
quality of all accepted contributions, the
adequate space allowed to verse (Chris
Wallace-Crabbe, Evan Jones, James
McAuley, Buckley) and truly interesting
material from writers like A. D. Hope,
Helen Prideaux, Alan Barcan, Kenneth
Hince, etc.
Many of the contents of “Prospect”
are directed at university students and
the same might be expected of
“Westerly,” published three times a year
by the Arts Union, University of
Western Australia, of from 28 to 44
pages, only about three of which are
allowed to verse. The contributors
include A. E. Sturges, Katharine Susan-
nah Prichard, Alec King, Dymphna
Cusack, Gavin Casey, Gaye Tennent,
G. M.Glaskin, Elizabeth Durack, Donald
Stuart, John K. Ewers, Francis King,
Dorothy Hewett, David Martin, etc.
Lying somewhat remote from the main
stream of Australian writing, much of the
material in “Westerly” is (as might be
expected) a little self - consciously
Western Australian and very little of the
writing is really good, although most of
it is fair enough. This is very definitely
a university publication—most of the
published stories even have an academic
setting! The stories, generally, are too
short and what else there is seems either
too aggressively “Left” to carry convic-
tion or else too adulatory: Dorothy
Hewett waxes eloquently acidic about
Kylie Tennant whom she regards as a
humanistic renegade of former socialist
convictions. Buckley dwells lovingly on
McAuley and Dymphna Cusack lovingly
on herself. As a literary magazine,
“Westerly” will have a long way to go
yet, before arriving.
This leaves only three more. “Salient”
is published in Sydney, with the subtitles
“Mainly for Women” and “A literary
magazine”; the first it probably is, the
second not quite. Founded in Geelong
in 1960, it contains readable material by
Kylie Tennant, Barry Humphries, verse
by David Martin, Gwen Harwood, etc.
So far, little genuinely first-class material
has found its way into the pages of
“Salient,” but it is no better and no
worse than a dozen or so defunct Aus-
tralian quarterlies and may possibly live
to improve. “Bonfire” saw three issues in
Sydney in 1960 and has since died ; it
was well got up, without any advertising,
and printed by Walter Stone; another
journal “of protest,” it contained some
very readable material and a fair amount
of rubbish besides, many of the contents
being reprints of overseas articles, includ-
ing one by Henry Miller and, somewhat
inexplicably, one by Karl Jung. Despite
some potential for good, I don’t think
“Bonfire” will be missed.
Finally, “Prism” continues to appear
monthly, published by the Poetry Society
of Australia. In the main, it contains
verse contributed by its members and it
would be impossible to fill a monthly
journal with verse of a publishable stan-
dard: so much of it simply does not get
written. The bulk of it (and it is some
bulk!) is very minor and ephemeral and
wouldn’t be missed. All the same, odd
bits of good verse do creep in from time
to time as well as occasional items of
readable criticism from people like Gina
Ballantyne.
A. A. Milne in Latin
Winnie Ille Pu: a Latin version of A. A.
Milne’s “Winnie-the-Pooh,” translated
by Alexander Lenard. Methuen.
15s. 9d.
Tt was a strange fancy that prompted a
Swedish Professor domiciled in Brazil
to translate an English children’s classic
into Latin ; and who would have thought
that this work, first published privately
in Santos, would run rapidly through two
impressions in London?
Dr Lenard has obviously enjoyed him-
self hugely over it, and learned professors
have been having Olympian fun solemnly
reviewing it in Latin. “The Times
Literary Supplement” excelled itself with
an idiomatic column, ostensibly written
by an ancient Roman, who referred to
Lenard as “a member of the far Northern
tribe of the Suevi, whom the Divine
Julius never visited.” The present less
accomplished reviewer, whose painfully
acquired Latin has grown rusty with
disuse, can nevertheless still share the
“Supplement’s” appreciation of Dr
Lenard’s elegant Latin style, which has
the true classical flavor, nor is appropriate
quotation neglected —Chapter V alone has
two phrases from Catullus and one from
Livy, cleverly woven into the text.
Schoolmasters (and mistresses) have
joined eagerly in the fun, and are busy
introducing their pupils to the delights
of “Winnie Ille Pu” as comic relief, or
more properly, as “Latin Without Tears.”
Even elementary students can perceive
the exquisite absurdity of the declension
of “Pooh Bear” —nominative “Ursus Pu,”
accusative “Ursum Pum.”
The Latin terseness and compression
subtly alter the tone of the book.
“Winnie-the-Pooh” is not as sentimental
as are most children’s classics, but a
faint aura of sentimentality does sur-
round it. In the ruthless exactness of
the Latin all traces of this vanish, and
Christopher Robin’s little loving asides
to Pooh become quite bald.
The illustrations are the same as ever,
the charming, witty, black and white
sketches of Ernest Sheppard; and in
addition, he has shown us Pooh as Roman
Emperor, with Piglet as his standard-
bearer, and Pooh crowned with laurels.
Dr Lenard has expended infinite
ingenuity on his free and delightful
rendering of Pooh’s ineffable rhymes.
Pooh-lovers will recall that Kanga fussily
interrupted his song about the days of
the week, and didn’t want to know what
happened on Friday. In an appendix,
Dr Lenard tells us that so many people
asked him, “What was the song that
Kanga wouldn’t listen to?” that he felt
obliged to supply it on Pooh’s behalf:
Diem Veneris dum ago,
Et per silvam vacans vago,
Meditor procontor me,
Est-ne? It-ne? Habet-ne?
Not to be outdone, I have ventured to
translate:
On Friday to the woods I go,
And wander idly to and fro
Musing on what I do not know,
Has it? Does it? Is it so?
“The Times” in its enthusiasm demands
more Latin translations from Lenard.
“Cur ‘Fundus Animalium’ (‘Animal
Farm’) non traduces?” But we say: “Cur
non opus Australicum, cur, o Lenarde,
non ‘Placentam Mirificam’ (‘The Magic
Pudding’) nostri Normani Lindsiensis
Latine vertes?”
CATHERINE MACKERRAS
Man and Atoms
Radiation, Genes and Man. Bruce
Wallace and Theodore Dobzhansky.
Methuen. 295. 9d.
■Cveryone has watched a puppy or a
child grow and slowly reveal the
characteristics which it has inherited
from its parents: blue eyes, blond hair,
dimpled cheeks in the child ; brown hair,
a black nose, a friendly disposition in the
puppy. Some of us may have wondered
how all these properties could have been
transmitted via the tiny egg and sperm
which were the starting points in the life
of the young one.
How is it possible that all the properties
of a man down to such tiny detail as the
shape of his toenails can be transmitted
from one generation to another? How
is it possible that the characteristics of
both mother and father can be shuffled up
together and such enormous variety pro-
duced?
One of the essentials for a mechanism
which can store the information needed
for the development of the new embryo
is great stability ; it must not be affected
by the environment at all readily. In the
business world we formerly used punched
cards for the storage of important data:
holes in cards are very stable and don t
get rubbed out. Nowadays we use mag-
netic tape or tape with tiny holes in it
for the same purpose. Long ago nature
solved this problem by using a specially
stable but complicated compound called
desoxyribonucleic acid (DNA for short).
This substance forms long threads along
which are spelled out in a sort of code
the pieces of information needed for the
control of the life and growth of a living
cell. It occurs in the living cell in the
chromosomes. All that needs to be
known for the complete construction oi
a man is stored in these almost infinitely
small threads. If all the chromosomes
from all the fertilised eggs needed t
produce the world’s two thousand hv


hundred million people were put together
they would form a little heap equal in
volume to an aspirin. The storage capa-
city of DNA is fantastic —it makes the
memory of Silliac look trifling.
Along the DNA thread there are
regions responsible for certain jobs within
the cell. These are genes ; they are the
fundamental bits of information which
control the cell's life. The threads occur
in the cell as two interlocked spirals, each
the mirror image of the other. When the
cell grows and splits the chains unwind
and each makes a mirror image of itself
by taking up suitable substances from the
cell juice. Thus the chromosomes are
able to make identical copies of them-
selves each time a cell divides.
The integrity of the organism as a
whole depends on the accuracy of this
process because if differences between
cells occurred there would be trouble —
in fact many think that cancers are due
to some such mechanism. In a similar
way the accuracy with which the germ
cells obtain their complement of chromo-
somes (half the number of ordinary cells)
controls the precision with which our
genetic make-up as a species is main-
tained.
I remember the horror with which my
parents reacted in my childhood when it
was found that the baby of one of our
friends was a mongoloid idiot. One
theory was that the father was to blame
as he was a drunkard ! What is the cause
of such a tragedy?
I have said that DNA is very stable.
It is not so stable that every germ cell is
a perfect reproduction of the parent cells ,
sometimes the genes become damaged in
the process of duplication. Some damage
is due to chemical and physical factors
at present not understood ; this causes
what are called “spontaneous mutations."
Other damage is caused by radiation from
outside the body: “background” radia-
tion from the rocks and the sky ; man-
made radiation from X-ray machines,
luminous watches and atom bombs.
Some mutations are lethal ; they stop the
cell from developing at all (the cause of
radiation-induced sterility); some cause
sickness and shorten life ; others do not
matter very much. Most mutations are
harmful and even the mildly deleterious
ones will ultimately cause someone's
death
This excellent book by Wallace and
Dobzhansky is first of all a fine introduc-
tion to the science of genetics ; one of the
most important branches of modern
knowledge. Secondly it presents the
problem of radiation damage to human
heredity in such a W'ay that the diligent
reader can work out for himself the
expected effects. As far as possible the
writers avoid dogmatic and spectacular
statements. The difficult problems of
e stimating genetic damage from atomic
radiations are discussed with great clarity
and where there is inadequate knowledge
this is frankly admitted.
Much violent argument has taken place
°n the question of nuclear weapons test-
lnB; frightening statements have been
raade on both sides. This book sets out
{ he reasons for the worries of the
geneticist, explains carefully the whole
leaning of genetic damage and without
heat or overstatement leads one to the
conclusion that man must avoid any
increase in his radiation exposure.
We are all shocked at the brutal destruc-
tion of the Jews caused by Eichmann and
his Nazi friends. Are we much better
morally when knowingly by means of
nuclear explosions we cause the death
and sulleiing of our children and our
children's children?
This book points out the meaning of
radiation damage and shows where
science ends and moral judgments begin.
It is essential reading for all who want
to understand the perils which face
humanity as we enter the atomic age.
It also makes clear the fact that the
life sciences are deplorably undeveloped
compared with physics and chemistry.
The latter have great destructive value in
war time ; genetics so far seems to have
peaceful uses only. Yet in the long run
surely if our way of life is to survive it
must be based on wisdom and the under-
standing of ourselves. Despite Professor
Messel 1 believe that biology is more
important for our survival than physics ;
Wallace and Dobzhansky present some
sobering thoughts on this.
The book is well bound, clearly and
accurately printed and has some good
illustrations. 1 would have liked more ;
but, for the money, is has plenty to say.
W. G. WHITLESTONE
Lawrence in Mexico
Mornings in Mexico. D. H. Lawrence,
Penguin. ss. 6d.
I awrence’s travel books, such as
“Twilight in Italy,” “Sea and Sardinia”
and “Mornings in Mexico,” unfailingly
remain amongst the very best of his
writings. They brush the dust off one’s
perceptions, and make the world as fresh
as morning. A morning, that is, with
all its stinks and cripples, for Lawrence
is never sentimental, provokingly wrong-
headed though he may be on occasions.
Nowadays most travel writing seems to
The Sea and the Land
ROCK FISHERMEN AT
NORTH HEAD
Look at the eyebrows of land, and not
At the eyes of the sea. See, two fleas,
each a dot!
How can the round earth tolerate such
—what?
Rock-fishermen? Not fleas that infest
that
Ledge near the sea? If the eyes look
up.
If the sea rises, if the winds misshape
The waters into a splash of sight
Which looks up, glowers up, at each
mite
That dishevels the line of the cliff, one
in bright
Black oilskins, one wearing star-white,
Then the sea will gain some vision : for
these
Rock-fleas, rock-fishermen, tease
Sea into a rolling eye, searching for
them.
They are providing it drama —at least,
pro tern.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT
EBB-TIDE
Now that you have no word for me
I bring your bitter silence here
where the tide rustles from the sand
seaward, its whispered meaning clear.
My young son chases, stone in hand,
a sandcrabs’ rattling greyblue army.
He stones the scuttling host, and
gathers
one crippled prize. Cannot decide
which is its head. As dying claws
tickle his palm, he laughs. The tide
withdraws for his delight. We pause
at every pool. The mind surrenders
its agony to littoral creatures
rocked in the comfort of the shore's
unvarying seasons. A smooth spine
held in my idle fingers scores
a name in sand as the gulls sign
the windless water with your features.
I have one picture of you, taken
picnicking somewhere: mountains,
clouds
beyond a pier ; improbable blue
water surrounds you, masts and
shrouds
pattern unheard-of azure. You
smile there for ever. Time has shaken
life from the sea, flung on dry land
bones that got upright, fleshed their
wild
sea-creature grins, and learned the
weight
of earth. I run beside my child
stoning the crabs with mindless hate.
The sea withdraws from the gold sand.
QUEENSLAND.
FRANCIS GEYER
THE BOAT IN THE PADDOCK
She floats in the young green summer
Between a stringybark and a hawthorn
tree
Where ants rise to her quiet keel
And instead of porpoises, three geese
Breast the waves of grass around.
The dove, the pulse of summer,
Beats all day from the fronting hill,
One sound in the fine day’s ripples
Where water slapped along the clinker
And the moorings made a creaking
sound.
She rides level as summer,
No storm can heave her obstinate bow
Nor strain her ribs as the mast leans
out.
Catspaws across the grass, gusts loud
In the rigging, she has safely run
aground.
This is her forty-fifth summer
But nowhere is now too far to go.
A boy sails her from Rio to Borneo;
Amongst the trees great whales blow ;
Iftvthe grass good fish are found.
S.A.
GEOFFREY DUTTON


Still Going Strong!
Angus & Robertson's
AMAZING BOOK
BARGAINS
ANGUS & ROBERTSON
LTD.
89 Castlereagh St., Sydney
be either a by-product of huge, organ-
ised expeditions, or else a kind of con-
spiracy of the glossy magazines, where
secret agents are sent out to discover every
delicious hidden bay and every forgotten,
innocent island, returning to write them
up with a duplicity that makes Judas
seem like an honest broker. Soon there
will be nothing hidden or innocent left
to be put to death by tourists ; it is just
as well Venus may be soon available.
Even on his shortest trips, Lawrence
and Frieda were never like tourists. The
planned itinerary, the camera and the
guidebook were not amongst their few
belongings. Nor did they fall into the
other trap of being expatriates who pre-
tend to belong, those sad creatures who
are more French than the French. Law-
rence always remained the Englishman
who wanted his cup of tea, even if he
had to carry his own portable stove, and
Frieda the hausfrau (even if she was a
baroness) who wanted a clean kitchen
and refused to pay too much for the
tomatoes. What's more, Lawrence had
the precious ability to laugh at the
absurdities of the traveller in foreign
parts, which form a microcosm of the
whole absurdity of existence. Con-
fronted with a mocking Mexican parrot,
he asks himself: “Is it possible? Is it
possible that we are so absolutely, so
innocently, so ab ovo ridiculous?”
At the same time, while registering
disgust or laughter, Lawrence never loses
his sensitivity to nature and man. He
responds marvellously, not to the set-
pieces of tourism, but to oxen: “Slow
oxen, with heads pressed down nosing
to the earth, swaying, swaying their great
horns as a snake sways itself, the shovel-
shaped collar of solid wood pressing
down on their necks like a scoop.” Or
to the smallness of man in a vast environ-
ment: “Even as you come across the
plain to a big city like Guadalajara, and
see the twin towers of the cathedral
peering around in loneliness like two lost
birds side by side on a moor, lifting their
white heads to look around in the wilder-
ness, your heart gives a clutch, feeling
the pathos, the isolated tininess of human
effort. As for building a church with
one tower only, it is unthinkable. There
must be two towers, to keep each other
company in this wilderness world.”
It is this quality of immediate contact
that always distinguishes Lawrence’s
writing. When he goes dead, it is when
he loses contact, when he starts to
theorise or preach. There is very little
of such deadness in “Mornings in
Mexico.” Mostly, in his own words,
there is “Nothing but the touch, the spark
of contact. That, no more. That, which
is most elusive, still the only treasure.
Come, and gone, and yet the clue itself.”
Yet fundamentally this is a very sad
book, and sad in a way that affects us.
The Indians are the aboriginal Ameri-
cans, and there is the same gulf between
them and the white Americans or the
Spanish Mexicans as there is between us
and our aborigines. In one passage
Lawrence makes a brilliant attack on the
sentimentality with which most writers,
“anthropologists and myth - transcribers
and all,” treat the Indians. As he says,
“There is that creeping note of senti-
mentality through it all, which makes
one shrug one’s shoulders and wish the
Indians to hell, along with a lot of other
bunk.” But an honest writer like Law-
rence is conscious all the time of the
gulf, especially in religion, the tragedy
of what we have lost and they still have,
the equal tragedy that they will grow
to want what we so pitifully have.
GEOFFREY DUTTON
Centuries of Loot
Art Plunder. Wilhelm Treue. Methuen.
31s.
Tdeas about art plunder, writes Wilhelm
Treue, have altered greatly with time
as have ideas about the rights of war.
There have been times he says when art
has been respected, protected and prized
by the conqueror and other times when it
has been regarded as booty and carried
off in triumph as a symbol of the total
overthrow of the enemy. “Art Plunder”
is a study of these changing attitudes
towards art. For the most part it is a
record of human villainy, a charting of
the underworld of culture.
Plunder, the author tells us takes many
forms. The mercenaries of the 16th and
17th centuries could invoke written law
when they rifled a conquered town for
its valuables, and even while they plun-
dered they were bound by a code of
honor and strict rules of discipline, any
disregard of which might mean that they
were summarily hanged on the very scene
of the crime. In the Second World War
the “Einsatzstab Rosenberg” justified
robbery and plunder by the National
Socialist philosophy and if any question
of right or wrong arose, they were
settled by Goring's announcement: “I am
the court of appeal.”
Napoleon and his commissioners justi-
fied their robberies in Italy by the claim
that Paris had supplanted Rome as the
hub of the world and the Russians in
1945 plundered German museums and
galleries as part of their war on capitalism
and the middle classes, and in pursuance
of the aim of educating the world in
socialism. What seems to emerge from
all this is that looting of some sort has
always gone on but that tastes have
changed. The aristocrats like Lord Elgin
and Marlborough discriminated by bur-
glaring only the best; with the outbreak
of democracy nothing was left untouched.
It would be difficult to award a prize
for the most proficient student of the
arts. Here is a Turkish nomination:
“And when our lord, the Sultan Selim
Khan, left Egypt he took with him a
thousand camels laden with gold and
silver, besides the rich booty of rarities,
weapons, porcelain, copper vessels, clasps,
horses, mules and much else. He took
the best of everything, and his viziers did
the same, so that there was no counting
all that was taken.” From Sweden there
is Gustavus Adolphus to consider. He
had a healthy interest in books and ikons.
He collected libraries, especially those of
Jesuits which were looted with particu-
lar pleasure. Of his army it was said:
“If the men threaten to mutiny, they are
taken on to fresh ground and given a
few towns to plunder.” Then there is
Alaric, leader of the Visigoths, Frederick
Barbarossa, Charlemagne, Prince Eugene.
The list is endless. With every war art
treasures migrated or were lost. The fall
of great cities like Rome, Peking, Con-
stantinople or Prague hastened the pro-
cess. The robbers were themselves robbed.
Wilhelm Treue has taken enormous
pains to assemble his material. Much of
it has been gleaned from old manuscripts,
obscure books and the like and it is all
interesting, especially some of the snippets
of information —Louis XII wanted to
take Leonardo's Last Supper from Milan
but he could not get the fresco off the
wall of the church.
However the difficulty with this sort
of information is that it cannot readily
be related to any general ideas ; the author
is not trying to work out any theories
and what is produced is a beggar's bag
of bits and pieces, fragments of know-
ledge that don’t seem to illustrate any
underlying point. In the introduction the
author does in fact raise some issues
involving social attitudes but later in the
text does not get down to answering them.
His prime concern is to describe, not to
explain, and this leads him to select
material that is colorful rather than
accurate. In his choice of authorities he
is inclined to be uncritical. He does not
question the credentials of Cicero, f flt
example, or those of the historian
Gregorovius and the result is that mucn
of the evidence where it is explicitly
acknowledged seems to come fro®
sources that are frankly partisan. In th {
long run this probably does not affect p
general outline but on points of deP
one should tread warily.
DOUGLAS TERRY


Shows
Is Something Amiss
with Stern?
Isaac Stern’s admirers had reason to be
disconcerted by the character of his violin
sonata performances to a packed Sydney
Town Hall the other night. He was far
MUSIC
too much below his best to
have deserved the rave
approval of his audience
and the next day’s press, or
to have felt gratified that second-rate
Stern could thus score as heavily as the
Stern of full mastery.
Absence from a Handel sonata of
higher refinements of style and affection
(tone too earthbound and tough), some
ham exaggeration of the dramatic shocks
in Beethoven’s C minor sonata (Op. 30,
No. 2), a certain slogging emphasis on
the sheer physical problems of the first
unaccompanied Bach sonata and a lum-
bering, misproportioned estimate of the
jollities of Prokofiev—all this pointed to
a man who, perhaps only for the night,
had fallen out of love with his work.
True, anybody coming to hear Stern
for the first time could have been left in
no doubt whatever as to the extra-
ordinary resourcefulness of his technical
equipment and the huge range of his
dynamics, reaching right up to trumpet-
ing power, but the value of these things
is vitiated if the heroic, self-consuming
temperament of the old Stern is not in
them and the informing genius abandons
heart-eating for complacency. Can it be
that this great master, who gave us excite-
ment after excitement in 1947 and 1954,
is now allowing himself a dash of laurel-
resting take-it-easy in his philosophy?
God forbid!
The Bach was the evening’s most satis-
fying music, though in neither of the
slow movements did Stern achieve a
glowing elevation of tone to suggest that
the blessing of heaven shines directly on
to this music. The fugue was most
strenuously hewn, though the rugged
physical limning of it was too much in
the foreground for the intellectual ex-
citement of it to remain entirely un-
obscured.
The Beethoven sonata, with Alexander
Zakin’s piano part sounding unduly
‘damped” at times, was a mixture of
brilliances and overstatement. Beet-
hoven’s switches in and out of bluster
and lyricism are a quite sufficiently ex-
citing marriage of incompatibles without
e very switch in the moods being given
the melodramatist’s double-emphasis that
Stern gave to them. The even flow of
the violin line through the successive
double-stopped and single-stopped sec-
tions of the first movement and the mag-
nificent power and certainty of the off-
beat stresses in the scherzo were Stern at
ms peak.
The Prokofiev sonata, if memory
serves, has been featured in the opening
Sydney recital of each of Stern’s three
Australian tours. Perhaps he has played
it too often to continue to find in it the
charm and bounding vitality com-
municated from his earlier performances
of it here. Something of the ingratiating
blandness of the opening movement cer-
tainly eluded him this time, and so much
stevedoring muscle went into the huge
pile-up of exuberances in the finale that
one found the physical labor of it shift-
ing emphasis away from leaping joy of
spirit.
Lindsey Browne
Abstracts
Survey I. Sydney Avant Garde
Painters. Blaxland Galleries.
Nothing so gay, so fresh, so energetic,
so large in scale, so full of dazzling
color in its first impact as this exhibition
has been seen in Sydney since the School
of Paris came to see us a few
ART |
years ago. It is a display by 11
abstract painters, each working
in strongly individual styles,
who want to show us their work “with
a force that may not be so discernible
in exhibitions by societies or in competi-
tions with set themes”: the sort of effort
we have had here before by the Fifteen
Group and the Contemporary Group.
The experiment succeeds to a large
extent simply because this is an ideal
way to show paintings. The group are
broadly in harmony. You do not have
the muddle of big mixed exhibitions
and you do not have to bother about the
conflicting aims of abstraction, semi-
abstraction and representationalism.
If some of these paintings are essen-
tially mural decorations, and no more
than that, it does not matter. Hung here
like murals, with plenty of space, they
simply look like murals, and very bright
and lively ones at that. Also, the artists
in this sort of exhibition get the chance
to present themselves at their best they
do not weaken, as some of them might
in an extensive one - man show, by
repetition.
Gerard Ebeli sets the keynote for the
show with a huge canvas like an enlarge-
ment of the colors left on the palette
after a hard day’s painting. Nancy
Borlase paints weird impressions of city
life in shapes of blue and orange that
fly about like gigantic Christmas beetles.
Darryl Hill has some of his intriguing
Sputniks and a lovely warmth of color
in “Painting IV.” Margo Lewers is full
of depth and movement in the submarine
green of “Fusion.” Henry Salkausas ties
himself in black knots but comes out
into some sort of green cellular life In
“No. 21” . . . and so on. Abstraction
is not the only valid approach to art
today ; but this is certainly a very lively
group.
D.S.
Contemporary Interstate Exhibition.
Adelaide. R.S.A. Gallery.
Summer must have struck Victoria,
for once, judging by two big paintings
sent for this exhibition that are as
striking as they are different. Robert
Grieve sees “Summer Landscape” in
terms of long reaches of light that fall to
an abstract harvest; H. G. Jamieson sees
“Back Block” in the actual blows of light
that beat down on animal, man and tree
with almost separate throbs of intensity.
John Perceval gets a different sort of
intensity from a landscape writhing with
growth and warmth, while David Boyd
goes to moonlight for a high-gloss drama
without much depth.
Amongst the Sydney artists represented,
John Coburn is disappointing ; little of his
work has been seen in S.A., but a great
deal heard of his ability to present the
essence of landscape. His “Capricornia”
is a clayey affair, laid out with the morti-
fying regularity of a bush cemetery.
Among the good South Australian
work S. Ostoja-Kotkowski’s heavily em-
bossed “Landscape Autumn” gives a
display of superb technique, while James
Cant continues to be impressive and his
“New Growth” lives up to its name.
Geoffrey Dutton
Charles Bush. Melbourne. Australian
Galleries.
Taken individually, only a few of the
present paintings, like “Waterfall Gar-
dens,” with its exotic appeal and sense
of the jungle about to overwhelm the
few remaining spaces on the horizon,
and “Jetty,” clean, sharp, and simple,
can really stand comparison with Bush’s
best. However, as a lightweight im-
pressionistic review of the life and land-
scape of northern Malaya and of what
the R.A.A.F are doing up there the
pictures are outstanding. They achieve
a penetration and an immediacy which
suggest that it is to the painter rather
than the journalist that the authorities
might increasingly look to in the future
to carry out this kind of superior P.R.
work.
A.S.J.
Tea or Coffee 1
The idiot-box continues to have its
moments ; but not such moments as the
purveyors of bang-bang and bash-bash
intend.
The greatest joys continue to come
from Australia’s monumental saga
“Whiplash.” Dull would he be of soul
who could pass by this immortal weekly
interpretation of our national life and
culture.
Some of these pleasures are of a pri-
vate kind. To see the gentle and civilised
un
Leonard Teale purporting to be
a white blackfellow, covered in
tribal ochres and initiation
scars and heaving dirty great
spears at the brylcreemed American chap
who plays Cobb is an esoteric pleasure.


unusual decor
food & wine
icoolatoali
cnr. bond tree
hamilton sts. bu 1338
start the day right!
K
rf.
sm
1 pU4C
-iiSSSj?
CB® *
INSURANCE
FOR YOUR
PROTECTION
Union Insurance
Society of Canton
Ltd.
(Incorporated in the British
Colony of Hong Kong).
Established 1935.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8
O’Connell Street Sydney.
Telephone BW 8131
(4 lines)
'Sf
OuWW
in
TKe Australian .
Womans Mirror
gives an
view of family life . , .
written by our readers.
WHY
don't you contribute, too?
GET YOUR COPY TODAY
N 254
More universal is the observance of how
TV has dealt with the nakedness of the
myall black. For “Whiplash” purposes
the aborigine wears a gumleaf skirt, and
very natty and hula-hula it is, too.
Moment supreme No. 2. The Aus-
tralian girl and Christopher Cobb are
sitting around the campfire. The billy is
on the boil. A gumleaf is thrown in. The
brew is stirred with a twig. In the back-
ground the doleful strains of “Moreton
Bay.” “Mr Cobb,” says the little bush
maid, “would you care for another cup
of cawfee?”
Most exciting episode of all was the
week they hung Harry Dearth! Harry
Dearth, acting Harry Dearth to perfec-
tion, has been captured by a gang of bush-
rangers. In accord with the old Aus-
tralian bushranging custom they decide
to hang him immediately. The reason is
completely obscure, unless it be that Aus-
tralian actors have it in for Harry to an
almost barbarous extent. Anyway, there’s
Harry D with his veins bulging, his eyes
popping and his tongue lolling out. We
laughed until we nearly dropped . . .
MAX HARRIS
Hong Kong at King’s Cross
“The World of Susie Wong.” Sydney.
Metro Minerva.
Now reopened by James Laurie as a
live theatre after some years in the
wilderness as a talkie house, the Minerva
doesn’t seem to have changed much.
THEATRE
Were the red plush seats
quite as red as they are
now? Were there not
goldfish in those tanks by
the stairway as you go up to the dress
circle? What cat got them?
It was never quite the theatre it was
meant to be. The company building it
ran short of money half way through
and did something drastic to the plans
of the architect, Bruce Dellitt, by lower-
ing the roof or some such. Nothing more
was ever heard of the fan-shaped mural
by Norman Lindsay that was to decorate
the end wall of the upper foyer where
the uninspired photograph of the Harbor
Bridge was stuck in to replace it; nothing
more was ever heard of the planned
murals of illuminated lalique glass
designed by the sculptor Rayner Hoff.
Yet it always was and still is a
comfortable and a pleasant little theatre.
Now more than ever, as the population
of the Cross has multiplied and visitors
pour into it to see Sydney at its brightest,
it seems most strategically placed. And
it has now one inestimable advantage —
free parking in a nearby garage for
theatre patrons.
The curious thing about “The World
of Susie Wong,” for all its exotic setting
in a brothel in Hong Kong, is that you
could find more genuine wongdoing in
real life anywhere round the corner at
the Cross. Stage prostitution is really
very decorous and the local inhabitants
may find it insipid.
Still, it may startle the suburbs. The
first half holds quite well, for its exotic
color, as a mild sort of Somerset
Maughamish entertainment; the second
half, as the impossible plot tries to pep
itself along, peters out in sentimentality.
Douglas Stewart
“The Constant Wife.” Sydney. Royal.
The big weakness of “The Constant
Wife,” a 1927 Maugham tribute to
Shavianism, is that it dates like the
Charleston and rolled stockings—
and so Mr Sumner, taking his cue
from a current Parisian production
of the same play, makes the dated-
ness an asset by switching the play’s
clock right back to 1900 in order to
enjoy the yesterdayness with full-plumed
Wildian elegance and luxury. Again the
trick works. Confronted by such a be-
guiling show-enriching device as this,
one cannot readily share the heroine’s
doubt that yesterday’s cold mutton will
not do duty as tomorrow’s lamb cutlets.
Googie Withers’s performance in the
name part is a sparkling delight from
start to finish —vivacity, vintage irony,
provocative wit, pout, pooh-poohs and
dark sentiment glow generously from
this role all through. Indeed, the polish,
gaiety and elegance of this playing in
album gowns and picture-hats does
almost more than Anne Fraser's charm-
ing stage design to persuade an audience
that they are looking at a Wilde play
crossbred from “An Ideal Husband"’ and
“Lady Windermere’s Fan.”
Critics Max Harris from Adelaide and
Val Vallis from Brisbane have already
had a squabble about the merits of this
show. It is not hard to affect a Harris
curl of the lip if one is predisposed that
way after all, Maugham offers the
indefensible argument that once the wild
adoring goes out of marriage the partici-
pants become coolly indifferent about
each other’s bodies—but, on the w'hole,
I can see with Mr Vallis that this show
has something not insubstantial to say
about husband-wife relationships and
says it most engagingly.
Lindsey Browne
“Stop Press!” Sydney. Phillip Street
Theatre.
“Stop Press!” lacks revue’s most im-
portant requirement: a point of view.
There were items based on Sydney
(“Peak Hour,” “High School for Scan-
dal,” “North Shore South Shore”);
topical, if not local, items such as “Yes
and No,” “What the People Want”; and
items neither topical, local nor amusing,
a couple of Berlei-bra ads, “Happily Ever
After,” “Encorpse.”
The diffuse effect of such a hotch-
potch was most painfully felt after inter-
val when it became apparent that the
show had been put together in a very
“theatrical” fashion. It seemed that
people had seized at an idea, a situation,
or opportunity for dressing up, carried
it on for a while without making
much of a point, and then had hurried
on to something else. The lack of con-
trol over the material was most eviden
in the evocation of the 1930’s


V^SAOHrTs
PROOF
100% Australian-
made from Aus-
tralian Material
LYSAGHT’S
ESTABLISHED 1884
WIRE NETTING • FENCING WIRE • BARBED WIRE
WIRE NAILS
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK for Oar MARKER
in every Roll of Netting
ts*i
- *
I
&olti
rv WfjdP 313 P
i •i>?|iis*a
Skw;
* V U'
/. •■-•'"■. : • / is
Bp;p f » v - -'.--‘lf
ZINC OXIDE
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
IYSAGHT BROS. & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Reg’d Office and Works, Blackwall Pt, Road,
Five Dock
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
where the cast and audience teetered
between nostalgia and parody.
Barbara Wyndon, who can move like
a puppet, Brigid Lenihan, Judy Farr,
especially when being stupid, and Mary
Hardy, consistently adequate, were at
their best as Shirk Di, Noelene and Marj.
in “Girls’ Night Out” while Stewart
Ginn, particularly as flat-accented Bum-
per Ness in “Surfside Sick,” was the
outstanding man.
O'G.
“The Splendid Outcasts.” Melbourne
Little Theatre.
A stage designer who raises his craft
to the status of an art is rare indeed
so rare that on no account should his
talents be allowed to go to waste. The
Little Theatre is in the enviable position
—not shared by any other Melbourne
theatre —of possessing such a man. His
name is John Truscott.
But unless the Little can put his unique
abilities to better things than this wishy-
washy, banal attempt by Rosemary Anne
Sisson at forging drama out of the
notorious Borgia family of Renaissance
Italy, then they should release him.
As far as this production is concerned
Truscott’s remarkable work, from the
conception of the two main scenes to
the merest detail, so dominates that we
are left with the impression that we have
just been to an exhibition of paintings
in which the subject-matter, though
people, is only incidental to the total
effect. Or as one local critic put it: “We
remember the frame, not the picture.”
A.S.J.
“Crime Passionel.” Perth Playhouse.
Sartre’s play about totalitarian tactics
as opposed to ideology began in France
as “Les Mains Sales” but in English
receives the title of “Crime Passionel.”
The change alters the emphasis, high-
lighting the impulsive killing at the end,
rather than the multiple crimes that
dirty the hands of those who serve “the
party” and seek power, which is the pre-
dominating intention of the author. Being
Sartre, he is also concerned with the
accidents of chance that appear to alter
destiny, yet are themselves factors of
fate.
This is a play of emotional tensions,
of mixed loves (party, power, and
human), of intellectual arguments and
violent actions. Hugo, a very young man
of “bourgeois” upbringing joins “the
party" in some mythical State of Central
Europe and to test his loyalty to “the
party line,” is ordered to assassinate
Hoederer, an idealised leader now fallen
into disfavor.
Raymond Westwell dominated the
piece as both producer and actor.
Hoederer is his first part since he arrived
in W.A. as director of the theatre. The
presentation was smooth, imaginatively
mounted, tense ; his Hoederer moved
with relaxed assurance, creating an
awareness of situation and character
with subtle intention —the most distin-
guished performance Perth has seen for
some time. Leone Martin-Smith made
a playful Jessica unwilling to be drawn
into the stresses of adult living.
H.D-B.
Bardot in Bother
“La Verite.” Melbourne Savoy.
“La Verite” is the latest film
attempt at being startlingly different in
the most ordinary possible way. Con-
sider the combinations of successful pre-
cedent. First there is the presence of
Bardot; her case is obvious. Secondly,
there is the direction and the script by
H. G. Clouzot, the creator of “Wages
of Fear” and “The Fiends,” two films
that can still be assured of successful
runs as revivals in the art houses. Thirdly,
it is the story of a trial and can draw
from such admirable examples as “Wit-
ness for the Prosecution” and “Anatomy
a . Murder. Finally, it has been
vicariously associated with the nouvelle
vogue by setting it around the Sorbonne
w ds °ff~b ea t students and jazz-filled
f afes ol the i! „ k of “ Les Tricheurs” and
Cousins.
~ lhe , result of all this is singularly
dismal, and the fault can only be attri-
°uted „ to Clouzot - No one can blame
Miss Bardot for her acting, for her pre-
tensions were never great. But Clouzot
flounders hopelessly in his attempt to
create a story of human emotions which
is far from his normal field of suspense
and horror . . At least suspense and
horror allowed Clouzot to hide his
withered view of life beneath a display
of dilletante virtuosity. In “La Verite,”
after two hours of evasion, we finally
realise that Clouzot is just not interested
in the truth, his characters, or anything
else, and by that stage neither are we“
A.S.J.


stag;
in<®§
•4 <rj
T^l
”
A happier choice for every occasion . . .
WINE
Fine wine adds pleasure to living . . . and you’ll
find no happier choice than Angove’s Wine of mature
perfection. Angove’s FINO DRY SHERRY, superbly
dry and appetising, is an excellent introduction to the
distinctive range of Angove’s TABLE WINES . . . each
the result of care and skill in wine making, combined
with the rich soil and sunshine of South Australia’s
glorious Murray Valley.
You will enjoy Angove’s Wine
APERITIF, TABLE AND DESSERT WINE OF HIGHEST
QUALITY: SHERRY, VERMOUTH, BURGUNDY, CLARET,
HOCK, RIESLING, SAUTERNES, PORT, MUSCAT,
and ST. AGNES BRANDY of course!
ANGOVE’S LTD., RENMARK, S.A.
WINE MAKERS & DISTILLERS
YOUR FAVOURITE BRANDY
ST. AGNES BRANDY
Business, Robbery, Etc.
LAND
Real Estate Consolidates
"O ight through the boom-
breaking months land
values held firm. Financial
stringencies have slowed down
real estate turnover, ruined a
host of marginal dealers and
forced some overcommitted
finance companies to default
on lending arrangements, but
so far have failed to force
down the price of land.
Paradoxically, liberalisation
of credit may be followed by
appreciable drops in some land
values.
Some five or six years ago,
most real estate transactions
were financed by private mort-
gages. The entry of major
hire-purchase companies into
real estate financing brought
land within the reach of the
average income earner.
Real estate speculation be-
came a favorite and profitable
sport. Rising incomes allowed
more and more people to put
down a relatively low deposit
on a block of land, borrow the
balance on about 6 p.c. flat,
and then settle down to pay off
the loan and merrily watch the
property steadily rise in value.
Inflationary trends helped to
push up land prices to ever
greater peaks, and the avail-
ability of relatively cheap
money encouraged spec buying
and selling. Advance buying
developed, with buyers eager
to snap up lots in subdivisions
for speculation or out of a
genuine fear that the coveted
home sites soon would be well
out of their reach.
All this came on top of a
strong and rising effective de-
mand, stimulated by migration
and natural population growth
and rising real earnings.
Tt is important to realise that
the land market is diversi-
fied. Several distinct factors
blend into a complicated pat-
tern. Land in metropolitan
areas is a scarce commodity.
The more select or popular the
district, the more developed
and built up, the stronger is
the upward pressure on land
values. This applies to both
residential and industrial areas.
Zoning and green-belt regula-
tions and releases, further com-
plicate the picture.
The dynamic growth of city
populations has exerted a
terrific pressure. Immediately
before the credit squeeze, real
estate dealers were primarily
concerned with opening up and
subdividing new outer areas. It
was here that mass sales and
the highest profits were made.
And here rushed the specula-
tors and fringe operators.
The anti-inflationary brakes
applied last November
achieved two things. Firstly,
everybody concerned got a
severe psychological jolt and
confidence in the self-perpetu-
ating land bonanza evaporated.
Secondly, the Treasurer’s deci-
sion not to allow deduction of
interest charges on borrowings
from taxable earnings placed
the finance companies in a
tight spot. The Reserve Bank’s
tight-fisted credit policy made
overdraft finance virtually im-
possible to obtain. Effective
demand was seriously affected,
transactions could not be
financed, settlements were de-
ferred and sales declined.
Interest charges shot up from
an average of 6 p.c. to 9 p.c.
p.a. flat. With some exceptions,
this made the total real costs of
speculation prohibitive.
At this stage many firms with
considerable land hold-
ings found themselves in a
dangerous liquidity position
and were anxious to sell, but
could not afford to reduce their
prices, except for a limited
number of cash transactions.
Marginal firms in need of cash
were severely hit.
Inability to sell at lower
prices, low liquidity and the
steadfastness with which specu-
lators —who themselves often
had acquired land at high
prices—grimly held on to their
blocks had the cumulative
effect of firming prices and
arresting the rate of growth in
land values. Stabilisation was
aided by a smaller, but steady,
volume of demand for blocks
with homes, giving room for
operational adjustments by the
better established firms with
more capital and building
facilities.
Green-belt releases near Syd-
ney and the ability of a num-
ber of firms, and speculators,
caught with large holdings to
unload their land when the
credit situation improves, will
increase the supply and may
force down prices.
The pattern of demand is
altering, the speculative ele-
ment is at a disadvantage and
marginal operators have quit.
Oligopolistic tendencies are
appearing. The pace is being
set by fewer but stronger firms,
builders as well as subdividers,
prepared to cater for genuine
home-seekers. This is an im-
portant and healthy develop-
ment. A more selective
financial and tax policy by
the Government would help to
accelerate this trend to con-
solidation.
Prices for many categories
of land now seem to be at their
peak, although values may
continue to grow in select resi-
dential and industrial areas
where this commodity will
always be in short supply.
CARS
Sales Fall
'T'he credit squeeze is still
taking a heavy toll of the
motor industry. Preliminary
figures released by the Com-
monwealth Statistician show
that total registrations of all
motor vehicles (excluding
motorbikes) in Australia fell
from 23,657 in March to
18,882 in April. The com-
parable total for April, 1960,
was 23,040. Normally there is
a decrease in the number ol
car registrations with the be*
ginning of the cool season.
However, the drop of 4775 id


The New
Approach to
INVESTMENT
Of great significance to those with Estates,
including Investment holdings, is the plan-
ning of a balanced investment portfolio, and
possibly the formation of a Family Trust.
Such a plan may be devised to minimise
Death Duties, yet provide adequate
income and conserve Estate assets
during one’s lifetime and after death.
Union Trustee with a group of experts-
skilled in the modern conception of
Investment —can act as your financial
counsellor, relieving you of investment
worries, and helping you in many ways
to plan for future financial security.
May we discuss these matters with you—
without obligation—and in complete
confidence?
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria)
333 Collins St., Melbourne, Cl.
20 O’Connell St., Sydney
398-402 Queen St., Brisbane
Also at Newcastle, Albury, Toowoomba,
Rockhampton, Townsville and Charleville.
UT34a-82N
April seems to be higher than
could be ascribed to the usual
seasonal fluctuations.
This situation is reflected in
the used car market, which
feels the difficulties with obtain-
ing finance for term payments
particularly acutely. Cash sales
are at a premium, and con-
siderable discounts and high
“trade-ins” may be obtained
for immediate payment.
HOUSING
Prospects Uncertain
By THOMAS JILEK
The Prime Minister’s state-
ment on the building in-
dustry is timely.
Unless the Government takes
action to increase housing
finance, the outlook for the
building industry is bleak.
The number of houses and
flats started in the March
quarter was the lowest since
the December quarter in 1958,
and some 5500 less than at the
peak in the September quarter
last.
Housing construction is
limited by the availability of
credit. Traditionally, the bulk
of housing finance has come
from the savings banks, trading
banks, life offices, and the
Federal Government under
the Commonwealth-State hous-
ing agreement. Last year, hire-
purchase companies made an
impressive sally into this field.
At present, it is difficult to
envisage an expansion of
advances to housing from any
of these sources. Trading
banks have been instructed not
to apply credit restrictions to
housing with the same severity
as to other forms of lending.
Despite this, it is improbable
that an increase in loans will
come from this source, as
trading banks are not an
appropriate institution for the
provision of housing finance.
This stems from the fact that
the bulk of their deposits is
of a short-term nature which
makes it imprudent for them
to undertake long-term com-
mitments on too large a scale.
The Federal Government’s
measure to penalise life
offices whose holdings of
Government securities is less
than 30 per cent, of their total
assets will probably induce
them to restrict housing loans,
which are their second lowest
earning investment. Hir e-
purchase companies, having
burned their fingers last year,
are unlikely to lend for hous-
ing to any significant extent
either.
The savings banks are like-
wise in a situation which does
not augur well for the housing
industry. There are two ways
in which they could increase
housing loans: out of increases
in deposits, and by changing
the composition of their asset
holdings.
If present trends continue,
savings bank deposits will
increase at only a modest rate ;
any significant contribution to
housing can, therefore, come
only through a decrease in
other assets held by savings
banks.
The Government has shown
concern over the housing
situation. On May 9 it was
announced that savings banks
would be authorised to increase
their loans for housing. It is
unlikely that this will mean a
relaxation of the existing
requirement that savings banks
hold 70 per cent, of their funds
in Government loans. It
would be inconsistent to lift
the pressure on savings banks
and, at the same time, impose
it on the life offices. The
probable outcome of this deci-
sion will be the sale by savings
banks of Government securities
held in excess of the 70 per
cent, minimum. This would
involve diverting some addi-
tional £3O million to housing,
which will not relieve the situa-
tion to any appreciable extent
in view of the expected decline
in the rate of new lending by
life offices and hire-purchase
companies.
NEW HEBRIDES
Investing Opportunities
Cociete Hoteliere d’Efate,
a French hotel and tourist
company recently formed
under French law in Port Villa
in the New Hebrides, is seeking
Australian capital.
One of S.H.E.F.’s directors,
Mr Pierre Bourgeois, has flown
back to Port Villa after hav-
ing personal talks with pros-
pective investors in Sydney,
S.H.E.F.’s authorised capital
is 12,500,000 French Pacific
francs (equivalent to £62,000),
divided into 1250 shares of
10,000 francs each. The com-
pany has issued 250 shares to
founding directors in con-
sideration for land assigned to
the company. Under French
law, a company is finally
registered only after the
authorised capital is subscribed
in full, and at least half the
amount deposited in cash in a
bank. S.H.E.F. is seeking
£20,000, half in cash and the
balance in two equal calls. Mr
Bourgeois told The Bulletin
he was “reasonably confident”
that the money would be
raised,
T .
Last the French Gov-
ernment tightened up com-
P an Y legislation in order to
protect shareholders. The
regulation requiring that at
least half the subscribed capital
be paid in cash makes the
business of company forma-
tion rather more difficult than
in Australia. At the same
time, this would afford a good
deal of protection to any pros-
pective Australian investors.


3
a
FINANCE & INVESTMENT
COMPANY LIMITED
SHAREHOLDERS' FUNDS, £891,419.
TANGIBLE ASSETS, £3,184,264.
INTEREST RATES FOR DEPOSITS
(NOW CALLED UNSECURED DEPOSIT NOTES)
• FIXED DEPOSITS
2 years 8% p.a.
3 years p.a.
AND OVER
APPLICATIONS must be made
on the form enclosed with the
prospectus, which is obtainable
from
Members of the Stock Exchange
ANY BRANCH OF A.N.Z. BANK
The Registered Office of the Com-
pany, William & Crown Sts.,
Sydney. Telephone FA 0322.
Financing world-
famous products
distributed by
The Hastings
Deering Group
of Companies.
FORD
Cars and Trucks
FORDSON
Tractors
A.E.C.
Trucks & Buses
CATERPILLAR
Diesel Tractors
in Queensland
HYSTER
Fork Lift Trucks
JOHN DEERE
Agricultural
Machinery
LISTER
Engines
GROUP SALES
IN 1960
£14,757,281
MAIL THIS COUPON
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE &
INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
G.P.O. Box 4333, Sydney.
Please send me, without any obligation on my part, pros-
pectus dated 1/4/61, giving full details of your terms
deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS
24/5
HD82.8
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FI RE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 18'8
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman)
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. 0. S. PETTERSEN, Manager.
HrantTicß in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write
to the Manager, who will quote you a price for the
original.
The hotel trade in Port Villa
seems to be prosperous enough
at the moment, and prospects
look fair.
The French authorities are
said to be backing the project
and to support the idea of
attracting Australian capital,
Plan Fides, the Government-
sponsored development finance
organisation, is to lend S.H.E.F.
the equivalent of £20,000 at
i ow interest for hotel develop-
ment when the company is
finally registered.
GOLD
World Output Rises
■Estimated world production
of gold rose from 32.5
million ounces in 1959 to 33.9
million ounces in 1960. This
excludes gold production in the
Soviet Union.
Samuel Montagu’s “Annual
Bullion Review” says turnover
in the London gold market
increased by some 30 p.c. com-
pared with 1959, “despite the
virtual absence of Central Bank
activity in the last quarter of
the year.”
The year was marked by
huge purchases of gold in
Europe and Canada by U.S.
interests. Reselling to date has
been small.
Last October there was
a strong but brief upsurge
of speculative activity. The
highest “fixed” price quoted in
London was 2705. sterling per
fine ounce, on October 25,
1960. The lowest “fixed” quote
of 2495. lOd. sterling occurred
on April 8, 1960.
Eligh speculative demand in
October was mainly caused by
rumors that the recurring heavy
withdrawals of gold from the
U.S. Treasury would soon force
a rise in the official U.S. dollar
price of gold.
This “additional non-monet-
ary demand” created a strong
temporary pressure, and the
normal production supplies
could only partly satisfy
demand. The Bank of Eng-
land’s action in releasing ade-
quate supplies to the gold
market eased the supply posi-
tion. When reselling resumed
prices fell, although the market
remains very firm. On the
whole, speculative activity was
“relatively small, if judged
from the size of forward deal-
ings.”
Soviet Union remained a
major supplier, but its gold
exports to the United Kingdom
were less than half the 1959
total. But it is understood that
the Soviet Union sold consider-
able quantities to European
Central Banks.
Australia’s estimated gold
output in 1960 was 1,085,104
ounces (down 2320 ounces).
Exports of gold to the U.K.
amounted to 3.15 million
ounces, compared with 2.86
million ounces in 1959.
RETAILERS
Sales for Quarter Drop
retail sales in Australia in
the March quarter totalled
£661.2 million. This represents
a drop of £115.9 million, com-
pared with the three months to
December 31, 1960.
The seasonal decline in retail
trade in the previous March
quarter was £91.8 million. The
latest decline looks relatively
modest if credit restrictions are
taken into account. However,
the latest preliminary figures
exclude sales of motor vehicles,
spare parts and fuels, which
fell by £49.9 million to £201.5
million in the last quarter.
Provisional estimates put re-
tail hire purchase outstandings
at April 30, 1961, at £420
million. This represents an in-
crease of 1.9 p.c. over per-
centage change in April, 1960,
and is considerably lower than
£450 million at December 31,
last. The monthly rate of
growth—as compared to the
same period in the previous
year—in the national retail hire
purchase debt has slowed
down from 23.2 p.c. in March,
1960, to 1.9 p.c. in April, 1961.
The figures relate only to busi-
nesses which finance retail hire
purchase sales, but do not sell
goods themselves. The dampen-
ing effect of the tight money
policy is evident.


CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
(■lncorporated under the Companies’ Act of New South Wales on Bth March, 1950)
(ASSETS EXCEED £7,500,000)
1
0
PER ANNUM
5 YEARS
6 or 10
YEARS
%
P.A.
4 YEARS
P.A.
2 or 3
YEARS
SHORT TERM RATES
8%
P.A.
12
MTHS'.
NOTICE
y>
P.A.
6
MTHS'
NOTICE
ON
30UON
\SHIW
Cl
Vd
6*
P.A.
1
MTH'S.
NOTICE
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
Funds may be withdrawn in a personal
emergency.
Increased interest rates apply on renewal of
investments.
iterest paid quarterly FREE OF EXCHANGE through
the BANK OF N.S.W.
btain Prospectus and application forms from aU
branches of the BANK OF N.S.W.
he Company's Offices, Ground Floor, Cambridge
House, 249 George Street, Sydney. 'Phone: BU 5542.
Ground Floor, 411 -413 Lonsdale St., Melbourne. 67-6792.
Any Member of a Recognised Stock Exchange.
Underwriting Brokers:
Ralph W. King & Yuill (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
Carrie & Co. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
Leonard G. May & Son (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
Trustee for Stockholders:
Bankers & Traders' Insurance Company Limited
Investigating Accountants for the Underwriting Brokers:
Smith Johnson & Co.
Registrar: Bank of N.S.W. Nominees Pty. Ltd.
Registers: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Canberra.
Applications for the debenture stock accepted only on one of the forms of
application attached to a printed copy of the prospectus.
Clip and Post Coupon -
CAMBRIDGE CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED,
Ground Floor, Cambridge House, 249 George St., Sydney.
Please send me without obligation a copy of the prospectus with
mm
Inches off your waist instantly
FLATTENS front
SUPPORTS back
IMPROVES postur •
SMARTENS looks
and SLIMS !
ONLY the “ Manly ” will
INSTANTLY pull in your
waist 3-sin. INSTANTLY
relieves fatigue backache,
lumbago, sciatica. INSTANTLV
feel fitter, look smarter. Finest
2-way Stretch Washable Elas-
tic Fabric (Pre-Shrunk). ALL-
DAY comfort sitting, stand-
ing, playing. Extra detachable
Supporter FREE. Hundreds of
delighted testimonials.
Send 70/-. State waist size (next to
Aust. Notes or M.O. skin), to
General Medical Supplies, 152 Hereford
Street, Box 1547, Christchurch, N.Z.
The Australian
Womans Mirror
N 253
Speculator 's Diary
Monday, May 22
I’m afraid I’ve let my suc-
cesses of the past few weeks
go to my head and I’ve had
quite a buying spree this week.
This happened after I totted
up my profits for the year and
found that they were £424.
This week I made another £46
on my Life Savers and A. G.
Sims, so I’m feeling very
pleased with myself.
I bought 200 Life Savers only
a fortnight or so ago at 255. 6d.
on the strength of the 20 per
cent, dividend being main-
tained on capital increased by
large bonus and cash issues as
well as a placement. But 1
hardly expected a ss. rise so
soon. Consequently when they
shot up to 31s. last Monday I
put on an order to sell. I got
30s. and made £4l, including
the interim dividend.
As far as A. G. Sims are
concerned, 1 bought these at
ss. 3d. a month ago simply
because I felt the price had
been knocked down too far by
the prophets of disaster. So
1 sold when they took a rise.
I got 6s. 3d., but if I hadn't
been so hasty I could have got
a few pence more next day.
My Sims profit was a miserable
£5, my brokers making as much
on this deal as I did with their
high rates of brokerage on low-
priced shares. I have already
reinvested my Sims money, plus
a bit more, quite profitably. 1
bought 400 Watkins Consoli-
dated which were looking a bit
cheap at par (55.). 1 was lucky
because next day one of the
financial weeklies came out and
gave them a boost. What attrac-
ted me to Watkins Consolidated
was the interim report early in
the week which said that con-
struction activities in North
Queensland were not being
affected by the credit restric-
tions and that profit was in line
with last year’s prospectus
estimates. So on a well-covered
10 p.c. dividend basis the
shares looked decidedly cheap
at ss.
Before buying Watkins, I
added another 200 Tom Piper
to the 200 I already hold.
You'll remember last week I
was moaning about the fact
that the shares had slipped
down to 21s. 6d. despite an
interim report which talked
about a “marked” increase in
sales and “very satisfactory”
profits. So I felt the only thing
to do was to buy some more.
I hope that move doesn't
mean I’m just becoming stub-
born, because I also bought
200 more Antill Ranger, the
road-transport operator. Its
shares have eased back to 12s.
6d., which is only sixpence
more than I paid for my
original 200 back in December.
At 12s. 6d. they look a bit of
a gift because the earning rate
this year should be at least
25 p.c. so that the earnings
yield at this price is probably
20 p.c. And there are very
few stocks on the list that can
offer an earnings yield of any-
thing like that. So now 1 have
400 Antill Ranger.
Finally, my recent profits
have made me sufficiently
cheeky again to take a punt
on a takeover rumor. It con-
cerns the old but ailing flour-
millers and bakers, John Dar-
ling and Son. Their 10s. shares
are languishing under par so
I went a bit wild and bought
500 at Bs. 9d. The prospective
bidder is supposed to be
Allied Mills, another flour-
milling firm with interests in
bakeries and also in margarine
and vegetable oils. Allied
Mills £1 shares are selling at
445., or double their par value,
so there seems plenty of scope
here for a reasonable deal if
Allied Mills is interested.
Anyway, I'm hoping for the
best.
Details of the week's business
are:
SOLD
200 A. G. Sims at 6/3 £6O
200 Life Savers at 39/- £3OO
BOUGHT
200 Antill Ranger at
12/6 £l2B
200 Tom Piper at 21/6 £220
400 Watkins Consol, at
5/- £lO5
500 John Darling at
8/9 £225
All this activity reduced my
cash position to £253 and left
me with the following port-
folio :
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Total Per rent
Shares Company Cost Share Price
400 Antill R. £251 12/3 12/0
100 Pick-Me-Up 414 81/6 £5
500 Merica 105 6/4 7/-
300 Stocks Hold-
ings deferred 127 8/3 7/9
100 Tom Piper 455 22/3 22/6
200 Hornibrook 234 23/- 26/6
200 Parbury
Henty 174 17/- 16/3
400 Marrickville 433 21/3 23/0
132 Marley Tile 158 24/- 27/6
200 David Jones
notes 101 9/10 10/9
200 Concrete Ind.
contribs. 96 9/5 10/3
400 N. B. Love
contribs. 94 4/8 5/6
100 John Lysaght 100 20/- 20/-
500 Newcastle Ten
Pin Bowling 125 5/- 5/-
400 Watkins
Consol. 105 5/- 6/3
500 John Darling 225 8/9 8/9


Hstab'ish<“rl 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
•jackson &
. o'SULUVA.!y
PTY . LTD *O,
.’it g xrt-'ij-
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS •; PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
•■JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
1.C.1.A.N.Z. Ltd
HThe huge and increasingly complex
Imperial Chemical Industries of Aus-
tralia and New Zealand Ltd ranks one
of the largest industrial undertakings in
the southern hemisphere. A member of
the world-wide 1.C.1. organisation, the
co.’s province extends the length and
breadth of the Commonwealth and
across the Tasman Sea to New Zealand.
There are, all told, 13 subsidiaries, four
of them in N.Z.
1.C.1.A.N.Z. was formed in 1928-
initial capital was £2,065,238—as an off-
shoot of Imperial Chemical Industries
Ltd (U.K.), and although the public were
invited to subscribe a £1,000,000 5 p.c.
pref. float as far back as 1938, ord
scrip was not to be had until 1950, when
the co. parcelled out 1,006,505 20s. ords.
at a premium of 2s. 6d. Subsequent
issues, the most recent in 1957 on a
two-for-five basis at a premium of 55.,
have lifted paid capital to £18,010,000.
The sharemarket puts a value of over
£59 million on aggregate ord. equity
today—there are 17,010,000 20s. ords. on
the co.’s register—the 20s. ords. fetching
70s. on ’Change. The shares traded as
high as 90s. in January 1960 ; as low
as 595. in November.
Group activities range the vast and
volatile field of chemical manufacture,
products of vital importance to primary
and secondary industry including ex-
plosives (the so-called Nobel group),
chemicals, alkalis, dyes and fabrics,
plastics and paints. Many such lines are
imported, principally from members of
the 1.C.1. group, but local production
accounts for the greater part of turnover.
A 70 p.c. interest is held in Balm Paints
Pty “Dulux” paints and “Duco”
lacquers and varnishes —a 50 p.c. interest
in Newcastle Chemical Co. Pty and a
42.5 p.c. interest in Albright and Wilson
(Aust.) Pty—phosphorous and phos-
phorous derivatives.
Expansion, measured in terms of plant
installations and productive capacity, is
the end result of extensive and con-
tinuing research, both in Australia and
in the U.K., the co.’s conservative div.
policy facilitating development through
heavy plough back of profits. Growth
has been spectacular. Recent years have
witnessed a growing hunger for funds.
Working-capital, etc., has been supple-
mented by debenture and note issues.-
No detailed information is given re-
garding the operations of the various
subsidiaries last term —the 12 months
ending September 30, 1960 —but group
turnover, a compounding of progressive
management, technical skill and
efficiency, rose to record heights. Sales
effervesced, rising £3 million, or 5.1
p.c., to £62.9 million. They were
written despite reductions, some sub-
stantial, in tne selling prices of many of
the co.’s products. “Some price reduc-
tions were made possible by lowered
costs of production resulting from higher
turnover and improved efficiency. Others
were made in order to meet the intensi-
fied competition resulting from freer
imports.”
All subsidiaries contributed to the im-
proved showing. There was a strong
demand for most of the co.’s products
throughout the year. Business activity
in Australia was maintained at a high
level. In general, secondary industry was
not seriously affected by the reduced in-
come of the pastoral industry. The
general level of the N.Z. economy, how-
ever, reflected the setback sustained last
year by reason of depressed prices for
export products. Nevertheless, in a
keenly competitive market, the N.Z. sub-
sidiary, 1.C.1. (N.Z.) Ltd, achieved a
further increase of turnover.
Consolidated net profit edged forward
£4038 to £3,082,007. The richest pre-
cipitation of earnings to date, it was
struck after deducting £2,451,332 (up
£447,744) for tax and £2,489,347 (up
£361,329) for depreciation.
In February, 1960, imported goods
directly competitive with many of the
co.’s major products became readily
available in the Australian market. “This
increased competition was felt during the
latter part of the period under review,
but is likely to affect the full period of
the company’s next financial year.’’
Domestic competition is also intensify-
ing:—
,■ Dividends
Pref. Re-
Sept., Profit.* 5 p.c. , Ord. N serves.t
£ £ £ £ £
'67.-2,371,296 50,000 9 p.c. =1,166,400 8,216,111
Sinking - fund income, £5605 8,221,716
From deferred tax provision,
£50,500 8,272,210
Add reduction intangibles,
£49,813 8,322,029
Share premiums, £532,477 .. 8,854,506
Unexplained addition capital re-
serves, £265,941 . . . . 9,120,447
'58..3,007,129 50,000 9 p.e.=1,458,000 10,619,576
Profit sale investments, £237 . . 10,619,813
Sinking-fund income, £6708 . . 10,626,521
From deferred tax-prov., £50,500 10,677,021
Loss liquidation of subsid., £10,758 10,666,263
Note-issue expenses w/off, £53,273 10,612,990
Less increase intangibles, £76,565 10,536,425
Unexplained addition, £147,996 . . 10,684,421
’59..3,077,969 50,000 10 p.c.=l, 701,000 12,011,390
Profit sale investments, £llß . . 12,011,508
Sinking-fund income, £BO3I . . 12,019,539
From deferred tax-prov. £152,846 12,172,385
Provisions subsid. cos., w/back,
£6828 12,179,213
Excess depreciation w/back,
£754,460 12,933.673
Revaluation assets, £13,553,265 . . 26,486,938
Intangibles w/off, £459,295 . . 26,027,643
Add reduction intangibles, £415,662 26,443,305
Unexplained addition, £53,705 .. 26,497,010
’60..3.082,007 50,000 10 p.c.=1,701,000 27,828,017
* Eliminating outsiders’ proportion, f Deducting
intangibles (now £622,745).
Costs continued to rise during the year,
especially labor costs. The interest debit,
low in relation to funds raised, jumped
£167,885 to £609,691.
Earnings, after pref divs., represent
17.8 p.c. on ord. capital as against 17.8
p.c. in 1959 and 18.2 p.c. (average), 17.9
p.c., 17.3 p.c., 17.1 p.c., 14.4 p.c. and
11.6 p.c. back to 1953. Reserves, benefit-
ing £1,331,007 undistributed profits (43.1
p.c. of total profits), £152,846 deferred
tax written back, £754,460 excess depre-
ciation written back, and £ 13,553,265
revaluation of assets, rose £15,400,965
to £28,450,762 taking shareholders’ funds
above £46 million. The ord. div. rate
remained steady at 10 p.c.
The writing up of consolidated assets
was effected with the objective of bring-
ing them into the books at replacement
cost, less an allowance for age and re-
maining useful life. Depreciation will
be written off, henceforth, in amounts
designed to extinguish the value of the
assets at the end of their working life.
The rise in depreciation provision (£-4
million), during last term, is small com-
pared with the write up in the value of
assets. But it would appear that
1.C.1.A.N.Z. had already been charging
depreciation at a rate in excess of that
allowed by the taxation authorities on
the old book value of fixed assets.
Revaluation will probably make depre-
ciation tax free to a greater extent than
hitherto. Even so the latest tax provision
seems more than adequate in relation to
total net profit.
Balance-sheet figures are testimony of
1.C.1.A.N.Z. growth. Capital investment
continued at an accelerated rate. Addi-
tions to plant and extensions to factories
brought about a net increase of £1,454,701
(discounting revaluation) in the book


A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREISROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31 2761 P.O. Box
(4 Lines) No. 1887 \V
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
R. H. ALLEN, M. R. L. DOWLING,
P. R. LEVY, A. P. REYNOLDS, N. R.
COURSE (Melbourne Resident Partner).
Delfln House, 16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
25-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Building, 150 Queen St..
Melbourne. 67-5957 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables: “Rosdale,” Sydney
Melbourne, or Wollongong.
JOHN N. ROBERTSON
member of the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKER.
Temple Court,
•122 Collins Street, Melbourne C.l.
Telephones: 67 4804, 67 2465
Telegrams & Cables:
ROBFALK, MELBOURNE
For the investor
who looks
before he leaps
THE
WILD CAT
MONTHLY
is the best
available
company guide
ANNUAL SUBSCRIPTION:
22/6 from
THE BULLETIN
NEWSPAPER CO.,
PTY. LTD.,
252 George Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
value —cost or revaluation, less deprecia-
tion —of fixed assets.
1.C.1.A.N.Z. and Subsidiaries.
1958. 1959. 1960.
Paid capital. . £18,010,000 £18,010,000 £18,010,000
Reserves .. 11,581,418 13,049,797 28,450,762
Outside interests 1,706,990 1,756,185 2,244,623
Debentures . . 6,000,000 6,000,000 6,000,000
Notes .. 500,000 3,500,000 3,500,000
Overdraft . . 2,575,115 832,845 1,338,446
Sundry creditors,
etc. . . 7,044,842 8,548,195 9,432,403
Tax provision,
etc-.* .. 4,501,087 4,252,024 4,799,185
Final div. . . 899,333 1,113,983 1,113,983
£52,818,765 £57,063,029 £74,889,352
Freeholds, plant,
etc. . . 24,593,272 26,327,141 41,335,107
Investments . . 868,340 984,585 1.232,820
Stocks .. 16,747,961 16,454,007 17,125,109
Debtors . . 9,400,018 9,194,921 10,271,931
Cash, bonds . . 247,352 3,063,968 4,301,640
Intangible* .. 961.842 1,038,407 622,745
£52.818,785 £57,063,029 £74,889,352
* Includes prov. deferred repairs, contingencies, etc.
The co. is expanding the capacity of its
alkali works at Osborne (S.A.). A huge
£l+ million pigment plant is nearing com-
pletion at Altona (Vic.). A new sub-
sidiary, Imperial Metals (N.Z.) Ltd, to
be formed shortly in N.Z. under the joint
auspices of 1.C.1.A.N.Z. and Yorkshire
Imperial Metals Ltd (U.K.) —1.C.1. is an
equal partner in Yorkshire Imperial
Metals with Yorkshire Copper Works —
with an initial capital of more than
£N.Z.2 million, will undertake manufac-
ture of copper- and copper-alloy-sheet,
-strip and -tube.
1.C.1.A.N.Z. loan outstandings, un-
changed during the 12 months, comprised
an aggregate £94 million —£3 million in
4 p.c. registered mortgage debentures
redeemable 1965-70, £3 million in 44 p.c.
registered mortgage debentures redeem-
able 1967-72, £500,000 in 64 p.c. regis-
tered unsecured notes redeemable 1973-
83 and £3 million in 7 p.c. registered
unsecured notes redeemable 1971-74. The
more or less liquid assets totalled
£31,698,680 at balance-date covering
current liabilities, £14,561,231, twice over.
The current ratio is 2.18.
All things considered, 1.C.1.A.N.Z.
looks a good buy but for long - term
holding rather than quick turnover, a
stock for institutional portfolios rather
than the small investor. “Notwithstand-
ing the rather difficult short - term
prospects, the company views the future
with confidence, and its present construc-
tion programme is greater than at any
other stage of its history.” Immediate
return is only 2.9 p.c. (with the 20s. ords.
at 705.), a mere pittance and -likely to
remain such for a long time yet. But
earnings today, those that are retained,
mean bigger profits tomorrow, other
things being equal, and bigger profits can
mean bigger divs.
A cash issue may be imminent, group
expansion showing no slack, but the
record discounts the probability, the
board increasingly favoring alternative
finance. In any case the issue would
almost certainly be at a premium.
Meantime 1.C.1.A.N.Z. expects to ex-
port goods to the value of £1 million
during the current term. Group sales
must be stepped up. At balance date,
net tangibles weighed up a solid £45
16s. 9d. the prefs and 525. 9d. (up 55 p.c.)
the ords.
Mary Kathleen Uranium Ltd
TTnder an agreement effected in March,
1955, between Rio Tinto Mining
Co. of Australia Pty [now Rio Tinto
Holdings (Australia) Pty], Australasian
Oil Exploration Ltd, and the Walton
MacConachy Syndicate (original dis-
coverer of the Mary Kathleen uranium
field), Mary Kathleen Uranium Ltd.
acquired the Mary Kathleen uranium
leases situated between Cloncurry and
Mount Isa (Q.) A.O.E. subsequently sold
its interest to Mary Kathleen Investments
Ltd [now Kathleen Investments (Aust.)
Ltd]. Division of interest in M.K.U. is
as follows:
Rio Tinto Holdings (Aust.), 51 p.c.;
Kathleen Investments (Aust.), 35 p.c.;
Walton MacConachy Syndicate, 7 p.c.;
and nominees of Rio Tinto Holdings (Aust.)
Pty, 7 p.c., part of which interest has now
been disposed of on Change.
M.K.U. has contracted with the U.K.
Atomic Energy Authority to supply 4500
short tons of uranium oxide, the contract
providing, inter alia, a small premium
for early delivery—the premium was at
a maximum during 1959. Successive re-
ductions will eliminate the premium by
the end of 1962, the first reduction apply-
ing as from January, 1960. The contract
price works out at somewhere between
£A.4O and £A.45 million gross, depending
on dates of delivery. This would indicate
a price of £A. 10,000 per ton of uranium
oxide ; the exact figure is still an official
secret.
Supervised by Rio Tinto, construction
work began early in 1956. Total cost
of development was then reckoned in
the vicinity of £lO million. It has
actually run to around £l2 million with
total funds employed in the project just
short of the £l4 million mark. Large
sums were advanced by Rio Tinto (5 p.c.
unsecured) and the U.K. Authority
(secured). Rio Tinto arranged an over-
draft.
Under the terms of the mortgage,
M.K.U. may not pay a div., other than
the first 5 p.c. of any pref. div., unless
a sum equal to the gross amount of the
div. is at the same time applied to the
reduction of either the co.’s bank debt
or overdraft or its indebtedness to the
U.K. Authority and to Rio Tinto in
respect of moneys advanced in the ratio
of four parts to the Authority and one
part to Rio Tinto.
Production of uranium oxide com-
menced in June, 1958, well ahead of
schedule. Five months later M.K.U.
delivered its first shipment of oxide.
Profits have been spectacular.
In its second full operating year, to
December 31 last, M.K.U. milled 430,413
short tons of ore (479,990 short tons in
the previous 12 months) with head values
of 3.751 b. per ton (3.361 b.). The increased
head values reflect rejection of waste,
prior to milling, by the newly installed
electronic sorter. Overall recovery, 91.74
p.c. (90.48 p.c.), produced 1,475,8511 b.
(1,452,1361 b.) of uranium oxide.
Gross revenue was £6,499,380
(£6,475,267) ; mining, milling* and


CLOSING NEXT MONTH
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
p
Q
PER ANNUM FOR
YEARS
6 OR 10 YEARS
RETAILERS
DISCOUNT
LIMITED
6 MONTHS
6%
PER
ANNUM
12 MONTHS
70?
/q
PER
ANNUM
SHINOW VZ
7i%
PER
ANNUM
INTEREST PAYABLE QUARTERLY FREE OF EXCHANGE
Applications accepted only on the application form attached
to the Prospectus which may be obtained from: —
• Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange.
• Retailers Discount Limited, 280 Pitt Street, Sydney.
• Bank of New South Wales, all branches in N.S.W.,
Queensland or A.C.T.
Trustee tor Debenture Stock Holders;
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES NOMINEES PTY. LTD.
Underwriting Brokers:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL,
20 O'Connell Street, Sydney.
LIONEL A. McFADYEN & CO.,
20 O'Connell Street Sydney.
Members of Sydney Stock Exchange
RETAILERS DISCOUNT LTD., 280 Pitt Street, Sydney. 8M6206.
Please forward me a Prospectus and Application form.
NAME
ADDRESS
administration costs, etc., were
£2,360,746 (£2,386,248); in-
terest on loans was £248,878
(£365,133). Operating profit
worked out at £3,889,756
(£3,723,886). The co. made no
provision for depreciation and
tax provision, £B5OO, applied
to interest only—profits from
Uranium mining are exempt
from tax liability up until
June 30, 1968:
Net , Dividends N Re-
Dec Profit.Pref.Ord. Total. serves.*
31, £ p.c. p.c. £ £
’58..1,417,266 —- 1,417 266
’59-3,723,886 8 110 861,907 4,279,245
’6O-3,889,756 8 180 1,399,968 6,769,033
* Subject to £1,051,635 intangibles at
31/12/60.
Four ord. divs. were paid
during the year three
quarterly amounts of Is. fol-
lowed by a div. of Is. 6d. per
stock unit in the final quarter
—absorbing in all £1,278,828
(£781,506) and representing, in
aggregate, 180 p.c. return on
face value of scrip.
M.K.U.’s issued capital is
held in 5,683,678 2s. 6d. stock
units and 1,402,100 (1,580,400)
20s. 8 p.c. cumulative redeem-
able pref. shares. Pref. divs.
totalled £121,140 (£80,401).
The prefs. are held in en-
tirety by Rio Tinto and were
issued during 1959 in part
satisfaction of the long-term
loan. Profits not specifically
earmarked, and taking prefs.
into consideration, are equi-
valent to 243 p.c. (266 p.c.)
of ord. capital. This suggests
the possibility of a much
higher div. than that distri-
buted last term. Indication that
the div. rate will in fact be
raised follows the latest hand-
out of 2s. per stock unit made
last February. So far distri-
butions made by M.K.U., in-
cluding a further 2s. going out
tomorrow (May 25), aggregate
11s. 3d., or a return of 450
p.c., on each 2s. 6d. stock
unit—divs. are considered at
three-monthly intervals.
Reserves rose in all
£2,489,788 to £6,769,033, and
include £4,197,700 (£2,336,000)
set aside for repayment of
long-term loans and £306,300
(£128,000) set aside as pre-
scribed by statute, being a sum
equal to the amount applied in
redeeming prefs.
Streamlining of the milling
process has already brought
considerable savings in costs
but “our position as one of
the cheapest producers in the
world has been affected by the
very heavy bonus loading (£lO
per week) placed upon our
wage and salary structure by
the Queensland Arbitration
Court.” The co. has effected
construction of a second water
reservoir (on the East Leich-
hardt river).
The massive nature of the


fgf '*SSr
wmmmmm
m.
SB-**®*? P p |
/y'wl .’f- : fe <
- r t 1. - ,;f PK
;
f ft&SS
if :/-M
r
f m *
i»» ’ * .
A-N-Z
IS
THIS
SHIELD
ON
YOUR
SAVINGS
AND
CHEQUE ACCOUNT
BOOKS?
Whether you’re growing
wool, wheat or dairy
produce, A.N.Z. Bank is
there to assist you in
all your banking. Make
for the Bank with the
blue and gold shield, on the
outside and the friendly,
personal service on the
inside!
O An A.N.Z.
Savings Bank
Account
earns 3/4% p.a.
interest
on amounts
up to £2,500
•An A.N.Z.
Cheque Ac-
count saves
you time
and money.
1
iuilllliinww , '»
- r r g "V-" 4
ANZ. 360.90 S
tjOu'&tL Jlikc, ba*t\cAMs oJt
ANZ BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
undertaking is revealed in the
balance-sheet:
Paid capital — 1959. 1960.
£ £
Redeemable pref. 1,580,400 1,402,100
Ord. 710,460 710,460
Reserves 4,279,245 6,769,033
Long-term loans—
Sundry 199,857 65,668
U.K. Atomic
Energy Autho-
rity 5,649,774 4,399,448
Overdraft -
Creditors, pro-
visions, etc. 419,751 428,535
12,839,487 13,775,244
Freeholds, mining
leases, etc. .. 355,126 343,763
Buildings, plant,
machinery, etc. 9,462,297 10,086,179
Investments . 95,455
Stocks ore and
oxide .. 676,600 854,806
Stores .. 733,506 763,054
Debtors . . 187,858 459,641
Cash . . 426,425 120,711
Intangibles .. 997,675 1,051,635
12,839,487 13,775,244
High profit earning has
already altered the debt struc-
ture spectacularly.
What of M.K.U.’s future?
World shortages of uranium
have given way to world sur-
pluses.
The co.’s contract with the
U.K. Atomic Energy Authority
cuts out in 1964, if present
delivery rates are maintained,
and there is every possibility
that they will be maintained,
if not increased. Certainly a
continuity of supply is assured.
Proven ore reserves are now
bordering on the equivalent of
8000 tons of oxide, and the
co. is confident of furthet
significant additions as indi-
cated by diamond drilling
below and adjacent to the
existing open cut. But will
demand be sustained? Will
M.K.U. be able to sell its
product on the open market?
At the moment legislation pro-
hibits export of uranium oxide
from Australia above 25001 b.
to any one purchaser country.
From a competitive point of
view, M.K.U. is still one of
the cheapest producers of
uranium oxide in the world.
The co. is competent to com-
pete for and secure overseas
contracts, provided artificial
restrictions presently in force
are removed. Japan, with a
large-scale nuclear power pro-
gramme in progress, has
already evinced considerable
interest in the co.’s product;
so too has India. But ship-
ments of uranium oxide, apart
from sample lots, are pro-
hibited.
Short - term prospects are
grim (after 1964) failing estab-
lishment of a nuclear power
station in Australia—and this
seems highly unlikely (again in
the short term). Longer-term
prospects are reasonable (in
the 19705) when the inevitable
demand for uranium, on a
world-wide basis, is reactivated
hy growth of nuclear power—
world resources of fossil fuels
are declining at an alarming
rate. M.K.U. is delving the
possibility of treating copper
ores at its Mary Kathleen
plant. A programme of ex-
ploration in the vicinity of
Mary Kathleen, initiated by
Rio Tinto, is being supported
by the co. and the terms upon
which certain copper prospects
may be acquired are being
negotiated.
Meantime, earnings con-
tinue to mushroom, div. fall-
out accelerating rapidly. In-
vestors, discounting the prob-
lematical future of the co.,
but confident of continued
divs., at least until 1964, are
paying a high premium for the
2s. 6d. stock units. They
fetched 30s. on Sydney Change
last week.
COMPANY NOTES
Australian Gypsum’s U.K,
Link
A USTRALIAN GYPSUM INDUS-
TRIES Ltd is alloting The
British Plaster Board (Hold-
ings) Ltd 1,000,000 ss. ords., at
a cash premium of 7s. a share.
This will lift the co.’s paid
capital by £250,000 t o
£2,875,000.
Australian Gypsum will col-
lect £600,000, including
£350,000 premium. Proceeds
of the issue “will be used for
general expansion of the co.’s
activities.”
Australian Gypsum Indus-
tries Ltd was formed late in
1960, as a result of the amalga-
mation of The Australian
Gypsum Ltd, The Victor
Electric Plaster Mills Ltd and
Peninsula Plaster Co. Ltd.


Your banker
or stockbroker
knows
*■
* *" -w.
s»' : ?
S>
mm
HOW TO APPLY:
Applications accepted only on forms attached
to the Prospectus. Available from
REID MURRAY ACCEPTANCE LTD.
403 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 67 1924
Any branch of the
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Any member of a
RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE IN AUST.
Or Joint Underwriting Brokers
TOLHURST, HENLEY, MUNCKTON & CO.
401 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melb.
CUTTEN & HARVEY
97 King William Street, Adelaide
408 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of Stock Exchange of Adelaide Ltd.
YOU CAN
SAFELY
INCREASE
YOUR INCOME
WITH
REID
MURRAY
Acceptance Limited
£1,009,000 ISSUE AT PAR
P.A. for 8 and 10 years
Registered
First Mortgage
Debenture Stock
PAID-UP CAPITAL
£6,000,000
INTEREST RATES
8 1 /2%-
7 1 /2% P.A 2 YEARS
7% P.A. 1 YEAR
5% P.A 6 MONTHS
4 1 /«% P.A. ...... 3 MONTHS
4% P.A AT CALL
GUARANTEED BY REID MURRAY HOLDINGS LTD.
The British Plaster Board
(Holdings) Ltd, of London, i s
the largest gypsum and plastics
products manufacturer in the
United Kingdom, and has
several important research
laboratories. Associated or
subsidiary companies operate
in Canada, South Africa
Southern Rhodesia, Eire'
Sweden, Belgium, Italy and
France.
Australian Gypsum will now
have “full access” to all re-
search information available to
the English co. A special
agreement provides for the use
of the English co.’s patent
rights.
Mr R. S. Jukes, managing-
director of British Plaster
Board (Holdings), will join
Australian Gypsum’s board as
a director.
OIL AND MINING
Weipa Contract
VXfORK will begin shortly on
the dredging of an eight-
mile access channel for ship-
ping into the Embley River at
Weipa on Cape York Peninsula
(Q.). A contract for the dredg-
ing to be undertaken for
Comalco, the bauxite and
alumina subsidiary of Comalco
Industries Pty Ltd in Queens-
land. has been let to the West-
minster Dredging Company of
Sydney. The contract provides
for further deepening in suc-
cessive stages beyond 27ft up to
a maximum of 33ft.
Total cost of the dredging
will be well in excess of £1
million. Work is expected to
start in June, and will involve
removal of about 5 million
cubic yards of material. The
channel will be dredged to a
depth of 27ft below datum line
by September, 1962. “This will
allow' full availability at the
new- port for ships drawing up
to 29ft. Availability for ships
with shallower draughts will be
possible earlier.”
Wapet
JHDest Australian Petro-
W leum Pty Ltd reports
that good progress has been
made with the preliminary
work for the Eneabba No. 1
well. An access road to per-
mit the moving in of the pre-
liminary rig has been opened
up and is being strengthened
to take the heavy loads. Camp
and accommodation buildings
are on the location and are in
the process of erection.
Combarngo Well
A ssociated Australian Oil-
fields N.L. report that
Combarngo No. 1 well reached
a depth of 2811 ft and is drilling
ahead.


The Man on the Land
WOOL
SUPPLEMENT
A Breeder’s View
By GEORGE B. S. FALKINER
President of the N.S.W. Sheepbreeders’ Association
and the Australian Association of Stud Merino Breeders
This year’s Sydney Sheep Show has
been named the Science Sheep Show.
Special displays and demonstrations will
illustrate the tremendous benefits already
brought to the wool industry and primary
industry in general by the initiative and
energy of scientists.
Science is, however, by no means the
sole answer to the present problems of
the wool industry. Scientific achievement
must be seen in correct perspective and
all the scientific research in the world
will not restore the wool industry to its
former condition of prosperity if equal
attention is not given to two basic require-
ments —a sound economic base for sheep-
breeding and wool production and skilled
promotion of wool throughout the world.
I have been asked by The Bulletin to
outline my views on promotion. This is,
of course, highly relevant to the Sheep
Show, because it would be useless for
breeders to continue to breed the mag-
nificent sheep displayed annually at the
R.A.S. Showground if there were not
some definite prospect of raising wool
prices above their January, 1961, levels.
The fact that Australia already sells all
the wool it produces is not sufficient,
we have to ensure that the financial return
from woolgrowing is adequate to make
it a worthwhile undertaking.
We should, of course, join with other
countries in the promotion of wool of
every kind but, in view of the fact that
76 per cent, of the wool we produce is
from Merinos, it is necessary to concen-
trate our attention primarily on Merino
wool promotion.
A disquieting feature of wool prices
last year and earlier this year was the
unsatisfactory margin between the price
°f Merino wool and wool from British
breed sheep. A continuance of this trend
could have grave consequences but, for-
tunately, there has been an upward move-
ment in Merino wool prices.
A clear indication of the importance
°f Merino wool to the Australian
economy is that, on the basis of January
ngures, a 12{ per cent, increase in Merino
w °°l prices, if maintained for 12 months,
jj'ould add no less than £37-million to
Australia’s revenue from exports.
In my capacity as president of the Aus-
Mian Association of Stud Merino
Ble eders, I recently expressed the opinion.
in a submission to the Commonwealth
Wool Marketing Committee of Inquiry,
that the present policy of advertising
“pure wool” is wrong and that it should
be replaced by a policy of advertising
throughout the world the virtues of “Aus-
tralian Merino Wool.” Some money
could be spent on promoting coarser
wools but the amounts would be in pro-
portion to the importance of the wools.
I pointed out that the term “pure wool”
includes wool of poor quality and wools
which are not and cannot be satisfactory
except perhaps for blankets, carpets or
similar uses for which they may be
naturally suited.
The soundness of the above view is
supported by the figure showing what a
per cent, increase in Merino wool
prices means to this country.
Tn our submission to the Inquiry Com-
*- mittee, I pointed out that 10 per cent,
of the apparel textile requirements of the
world are at present being supplied by
wool. Of this percentage approximately
2\ per cent, is Australian Merino wool
and j per cent, is Australian crossbred
and Australian-bred British Breeds wool.
As explained to the committee, it is not
sound commercial practice for Australia
to promote simply “pure wool” since
such promotion assists producers of the
remaining wool grown throughout the
world to sell a product which is, in the
main, of very inferior quality when used
for clothing.
Australia can and should demonstrate
to foreign producers of wool that raising
the demand and hence the price for Aus-
tralian Merino wool will not depress
prices paid for foreign coarse wool.
These coarse wools will also benefit from
the promotion of Australian Merino
wool, particularly if the latter is promoted
as a quality product which, in the opinion
of the Australian Association of Stud
Merino Breeders, it should be.
The above views involve a marked
change in promotion policy and it is to
be hoped that the change will soon be
made. That is not to say, however,
that we should not continue to give our
maximum support to the Wool Bureau
and International Secretariat in the in-
terim. Some woolgrowers have already
shown our sincerity in this regard by
G. B. S. FALKINER
approving a voluntary levy of 3 per cent,
for promotion purposes.
The techniques to be adopted to pro-
mote Merino wool are, of course, a
matter for experts in this field, but we have
submitted a number of preliminary sug-
gestions for the Bureau’s consideration.
The inquiry Committee has been given
a list of people in Australia and overseas,
who could, I am sure, offer some worth-
while ideas. I have personally had dis-
cussions with quite a number of them and
it would be foolish in the extreme not
to avail ourselves of their knowledge
and experience. At all times there should
be the closest liaison with merchandise
managers of large department stores,
tailoring firms, clothing firms and adver-
tising agents in Australia and overseas.
There is also, I am sure, a wealth of
influence in our great newspaper organisa-
tions which should be harnessed to assist
in wool promotion. I have spoken to
many of the highest executives of these
organisations and all are fully aware of
the vital importance of the wool industry
to Australia's progress and prosperity.
There is general recognition that a
soundly - based secondary industry is
essential for a growing nation but that
first and foremost, we should ensure that
everything possible is done to promote
the economic health of the wool industry.
It is clear that, in the past, insufficient
liaison has been maintained with the woo!
trade and retail outlets and with the press.
Only through the newspapers, popular
journals and through radio and television
can the public be informed of the prob-
lems of the industry. Politics invariably
reflect public opinion—at least in the long
run —and there is a most urgent need for
Australians to became far more wool
conscious than they are at present.
A mong the proposals I submitted to the
Wool Marketing Committee of In-
quiry was the adoption of one or more
registered names—for example, “Mer-
laine” —to indicate various types of Aus-
tralian Merino wool. Once such a
registered name has been selected, I
pointed out, it should be widely adver-
tised so as to become as familiar as
Orion or Terylene.
Our submission included photostat
copies of advertisements in the “New


■ mm\
•*■ m
„ w>
Limited
*w»
4T
Jv-j*
9r*\
Vtb * t -
<£»
>.*©*
**<*•*-
•W***'*
" ‘ s*s*
*<"•♦ ■
</LASi^ **-
.V-
-**■
<4^
»' . -
- ,
/
ro/j
krlice tl H° f 01 m
-1 e Ma " •» the Uni
[sk Sc- <£*
fc> *e*r<*
y : ?-- .#**■
>*«<
*pr«r u : ,
Wlk
4
$£L
v«‘
/•
’:: • ;!•’’ ‘ •• •***
*■**
of
/ -
x.-'" :: : : , :
'
'sA
J ".,/ *tf *sf
wsw
f***' %&w*rtf WAi.rs
•■«a°w '-' s 3»?4SU t
•; •■"> , t •%.; >\_
w
£ .J 6 Mi lb"- -
: V/ iJfer?^ri
iii
:,. ; *. C<>.,
or
1; 4 ♦ / *
SSI
W&o. fi» ; * 4 -',
«.»***«*.,£
.* >
n
{£%&td offer you the choice of selling your clip in any of the Major Selling Centres of
Australia, under perfect conditions. Our specially Trained Wool Staff is at your service.
For Expert Attention, Efficient Service, Top Market Prices
consign your clip to:
Elders complete service to the Man on the Land covers Wool Broking, Livestock,
Merchandise, Travel, Chartering, Insurance, Property, Rural Finance, Skin and Hides.
ADELAIDE, PERTH, ALBANY, MELBOURNE, GEELONG, SYDNEY,
NEWCASTLE, GOULBURN, BRISBANE, LONDON


n
1961
SCIENCE
SHEEP
SHOW
Mm
31st May-3rd June at the Sydney Showground
Sales, sth-7th June
Special exhibition in the Arts and Crafts
Pavilion showing how science is aiding the
advance of agriculture and sheep and wool
production . . . display demonstrates the
work from the soil right through to the
finished product.
Record entry of over 2,000 sheep of all breeds, including 880
Merinos, from world-famous studs. See the fine display of
fleeces . . . over 200 of the highest quality on show.
SHEEP DOG TRIALS EVERY DAY
DOG AND CAT SHOW—3rd June
POULTRY SHOW—2nd and 3rd June
N.S.W.SHEEPBREEDERS’ ASSOCIATION
Adults, 5/- (all sections except cats). Children, 1/-
PORT LINE . . .
taking wool, refrigerated and general cargo .
Specialists in the carriage of livestock.
Excellent accommodation for limited number of saloon, passengers.
WBBm
Hfliltan
Regular sailings for . . .
UNITED KINGDOM
AND THE CONTINENT
For further particulars contact:—
PORT LINE LTD.
(Inc. in Eng.)
50 Young Street, Sydney. 27-5301
or AGENTS: GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO.,
15 HAMILTON ST., SYDNEY. B 0548. Also at Brisbane,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Fremantle, Hobart and Newcastle.
A. G. WEBSTER & WOOLGROWERS LTD., Launceston.
AUSTRALIAN ESTATES LTD., Rockhampton and Townsville.
V rker” and other overseas publications
hwina th e potential of such methods.
This potential is already being exploited
-,u remarkable results by the synthetics
manufacturers. The tremendous impact
f their advertising would be almost
frightening if it were not for the fact that,
to many purposes, wool is widely recog-
nised as a far better product.
In the face of such advertising, it is a
waste of money and effort to promote
only, “pure wool.” Nothing will convince
vaS t numbers of people that synthetic
articles are not quite satisfactory for a
wide range of uses.
Wool promotion should be concen-
trated mainly upon articles containing
higher quality wool which may be relied
upon to have a useful life and to safe-
guard the health and enhance the appear-
ance of the wearer. It is useless to expect
a quality price for any type of merchan-
dise unless the real quality of the goods
is stressed.
An examination of overseas publica
tions--to say nothing of radio and tele-
vision and other promotion media—shows
very clearly that wool promotion is today
only a drop in the bucket compared
with that of our competitors. We should
undoubtedly provide more money for
stepping up the quality and scope of wool
promotion but, above all, it should be
very carefully directed, so that the un-
paralleled virtues of wool —and particu-
larly, Merino wool —are brought under
public notice.
We also suggested to the Wool Market-
ing Inquiry Committee that motivation
research should be conducted in America
and other places in order to ascertain the
reasons why men and women buy woollen
clothing, why they do not buy woollen
clothing and also the effects of various
types of advertising methods and media.
We enclosed case-histories of various
products showing how motivation re-
search had assisted in the marketing of
many well-known articles. One example
given was that of prunes which were
advertised as “Prunes for Constipation.”
On the advice of the motivation research
authority, Dr Ernest Dichter, the slogan
was changed to “Prunes for Vitality,”
with the result that sales were doubled!
In the past, there has been far too much
guesswork both in regard to the ways in
which the growers’ money has been spent
And to the nature of promotion work.
Advertising in great national journals
's, of course, essential in any promotion
scheme but we should make sure that the
Promotion message is 100 per cent,
correct from the motivation standpoint
a nd that the basic policy behind the
advertising is sound. Such advertising
costs large sums and it would be difficult
bfind a more effective method of wasting
Ihe growers’ hard-earned money than
spending it on poorly-conceived advertis-
! n B’ even if its technical execution is
ccyond reproach.
1 have been among those whom,
des Pite some dissatisfaction with past
Wo °l promotion efforts, have strongly
supported an increase in the funds pro-
i e d for the Australian Wool Bureau and
Wool Secretariat,
fo refuse an increase in promotion
unds is a policy of defeatism and, under
e Present circumstances, such a policy
°uld prove disastrous.


\
m
■
m
%
i
mm
& “
'r'.'K
m
STUD SHEEP
REQUIREMENTS
Buying or Selling
When you feel you need stock to improve YOUR herds, or if you have STUD
STOCK to Sell, you will find that Experts are attending to your every need
when you contact
WINCHCOMBE,CARSON
LIMITED
SYDNEY, NEWCASTLE, GOULBURN,
BRISBANE & BRANCHES
When in Sydney for the Sheep Show and Ram Sales don’t fail to drop in on
us in our new office in Commemoration Avenue, or ring us at 35-9034 on
the Showground.
Costing Production
By M. H. ELLIS
One of the great difficulties in the wool
industry is the assessment of cost of
production, a problem which needs far
greater attention than it has been given.
Various commissions of inquiry have
so far found themselves far less con-
fident about their knowledge of costs than
politicians on the Left or hard-pressed
graziers, whose wishful-thinking appara-
tus are often more efficient than their
actuarial systems.
The Payne Commission (Queensland),
highly sympathetic to graziers, in 1959
remarked that it was “surprising how
comparatively few graziers seem to know
what their costs of production actually
are.” And the Wool Brokers’ Association
told the Commission, despite all the
experience of its members in financing
properties extending back to the begin-
ning of Australian time: “We are not
in a position to express an opinion which
could be sufficiently reliable for your
purpose.”
It is quite fashionable as wool rises and
falls to state that it has now risen below
or above cost of production ; but there
is a vast difference as between localities
and as between properties at varying
distances from rail or market, varying
types of watered country, country bought
at low and high prices and properties of
high-density development, or in course of
development, and between large and
small holdings.
Also there is a considerable range of
costs depending on whether properties
are rented from the Crown, or freehold
in the same hands from the early days
onwards.
The Payne Commission summed-up
the position of our knowledge of the
matter by writing that “failing exact
figures graziers have resorted to propa-
ganda. Perhaps they will never realise
what damage extravagant propaganda
has done their cause.”
Sir William Payne remarked that it
was “nauseating to read the complaints
of [some] graziers that year that ruin was
facing the industry.” Without any effort
on their part “wool prices went to dizzy
heights and carried them to fortune; so
that if they made no profits at all for
a number of years, they would still be
better off than most people in Queens-
land.” He declared that figures circu-
lated by people, well-meaning enough in
their efforts, generally dealt with hypo-
thetical holdings and activities, and that
while many of the deductions were
accurate they were “too much embel-
lished by fanciful additions.”
When, for instance, he said, a man
buys a grazing leasehold in Queensland,
according io these hypothetical estimates
he is usually credited with buying good-
will ; but actually he pays no goodwill.
By hypothesis capital value of property
on which . e pays rent, bank interest on
non-existent money investment, interest
on debts on which there is no interest,
and other such items appear in the
schedule in a way which makes it easy
to bump production cost up to a theoreti-
cal 50d. per pound without trouble.
Mr J. P. Carney, in an article in the
“Quarterly Review of Agricultural
Economics” in 1958, analysed the costs
of 49 holdings in semi-arid New South
Wales in which the number of sheep
carried over the five years ending in 1956
was about 4000 and in which there had
been little or no cultivation during the
period.
He divided the properties into those
which bred replacements without having
any surplus animals for sale, those which
had surpluses for sale and those devot-
ing themselves to fat lambs.
These properties carried from 3406
head upwards and their wool cut vane
from 9.31 b. to 101 b. per sheep. But
striking an average of 9.51 b., he pl ace
the cost of wool on the replacemen'
breeding far- at 2s. Id. per pound an
at 275. 6d. per h id. The corresponding


Y |^|
EXPERT
TOUCH
■V
m
w//
W
m
m
|S4s ; * K
mi
m
d
■ :>
iii
%
In handling wool, much
depends on the skill and
experience of the Woolbuyer.
Likewise in banking, the wool managers of
The Bank of Adelaide are skilled and exper-
ienced in handling wool credits, wool bills,
and the many practical problems of woo!
clients.
CONSULT AND USE OUR WOOL MANAGERS AT ADELAIDE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, PERTH, FREMANTLE AND LONDON OFFICES
ESTA BUSHED 1865
incorporated in South Australia with limited liability
General Manager
ALAN A. WEST


irff . mi
BALTIC SIMPLEX
HAMMER MILLS
f r
ms'
Cm
%$■
There’s no mystery about the
universal popularity of the Baltic
Simplex Mill. It’s the biggest seller
because it’s the most recommended.
And farmer recommends it to
farmer because, in actual field use,
it fulfils every claim made. The
bigger capacity, faster grinding
and dependable trouble-free
performance make it by far
the best value for
your money.
Chances are
your neighbour
has a Baltic
Simplex Mill. Ask
him—or arrange with
your Baltic dealer
to demonstrate
one on your
property without
obligation.
There’s a model
for every farm!
BALTIC SIMPLEX
MACHINERY COMPANY LIMITED
191 Parramatta Road, Auburn. YX 3281-2-3
481 Townsend Street, AEbury
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORY:
210-220 Hall Street
Spotswood, Victoria
QUEENSLAND:
115-117 Merivale Street
South Brisbane
TEST A BALTIC SIMPLEX HAMMER
MILL ON YOUR FARM; SEND
COUPON NOW!
Baltic Simplex Machinery Company,
191 Parramatta Road, Auburn.
Please contact me regarding a demonstration of
your Hammer Mills.
NAME
ADDRESS
PHONE
BHM-4-61A
figures for surplus-sheep farms were 2s.
lid. and 275. 10d., and for fat-lamb
properties at 4s. Id. per pound
These were for the period over the
five years. But there had been consider-
able variation and rise and fall. The cost
per head on the surplus-sheep properties
in 1952-53, for instance had been 2s.
lOd. above those of the replacement-only
holdings—32s. 2d. And fat-lamb costs
in 1954-55 had been 465. 4d. per head
and 4s. lid. per pound of wool against
30s. Bd. and 3s. 3d. per pound on the
surplus-sheep holdings and 295. Bd. and 3s.
Id. on properties breeding replacements.
Mr Carney’s average figures had a
rather different complexion when the
range of single-farm costs were looked
at. They exhibited the fact that on the
purely wool-raising properties costs within
the five years varied—but not progres-
sively—from 35d. to 45d. per pound, and
on fat-lamb properties from 47d. to 59d.
per pound. On the fat-lamb properties,
however, it must be taken into account
that wool represented only 5.7 per cent,
of the return.
Another estimate in N.S.W., prepared
by the Rural Bank in 1954, adopted a
different method from Mr Carney. The
Bank ascertained the actual operating
cost of properties, added 5 per cent.
interest on the owner’s capital investment
and gave him a wage allowance of £750
per annum. On this not altogether satis-
factory basis, it discovered that on the
larger holdings shearing between 3000
and 5000 sheep and breeding replace-
ments, the figure was about 40d. per
pound, on those with from 2000 to 3000
sheep about 48d. per pound, and on those
shearing less than 2000 sheep 60d. per
pound.
TO eading these figures against Mr
Carney’s and against the bank's quo-
tation of one ‘'special case" with an
annual shearing of 15,000 on which the
cost was 24d per pound, conclusions
about the value of such figures are
obvious —apart from the thought that the
socialistic mania for intense closer settle-
ment may have overreached itself and be
costing the wool industry a huge sum in
production outlay which couid be
avoided if holdings were larger than
they are.
The eagerness of would-be graziers to
acquire smail holdings at double-figure
costs, at least per acre in the freehold
area, also tells its own story as to whether
costs are generally payable at even
present price levels.
In Queensland, of course, costing
problems are different and more varied
owing to difference in types of tenure,
land and area.
In the North, however, the effort to
evaluate the position has been more
thorough than in the South where the
matter is not so much an official concern
as in Queensland where the bulk of sheep-
raising is done on leased Crown land,
with the result that constant argument
and research are in progress.
The trend of greasy-wool prices in the
northern State was shown by the Payne
Commission to have been ir. the nature
of a rise of 400 per cent, between 1939-40
and 1957-58. The sale value of properties
a trifle more in percentage terms.
An instance was given of production
costs 1948-57 on a well-managed aggrega-
tion of Central Queensland grazing selec-
tion carrying from 15,000 to 22,000 sheep,
including lambs, which it considered a
perfect example of efficient book-keeping
and management. A warning is, how-
ever, needed that net profit on sales is
shown on the basis of the difference
between a low book-value of sheep and
net proceeds.
The comparison of expenses and gross
proceeds per pound of wool on the par-
ticular property which the Payne Com-
mission recommended, having been
obtained from this group, is exhaustive
and includes the cost of some timber
cutting and water-supply improvement.
It breaks up costs under 36 headings,
as a well-run commercial business would
do. And the gross result shows that in
1948 expenses, including taxation, rent
and rates, worked out on a production
of 153,0001 b. wool at £12.196 or 19.1 d. per
pound ; and the gross proceeds from sales
of wool, greasy and scoured, at £38,957.
By 1957, costs had gone up to £38,309
or 39.09 d. per pound on a production of
235,0001 b. and gross return to £102,953.
It would pay a good many graziers to
study these account.-; in the Payne Report,
for, after all, the basis of profit making in
any business, whether one is a book-
maker or a woolgrower, is to know costs
realistically.


The most advanced silo yet introduced!
The new ©LYSAGHT
All-purpose SILO
* Patent Pending 55007/59
Years ahead, with
full-size “walk-in” door
at no extra cost.
■
mm
m
i
m
lii
Wrt'OMQflMtW
m
111
m
fl'o»
*
r
w
t*
©
B
EACH FEATURE CAREFULLY PLANNED TO SAVE TIME AND MONEY!
• Full-Size "Walk-In" Door (silos from 1,200 bushels upwards)
enables the silos to be emptied and cleaned with a minimum of
time, effort and discomfort.
• Easier, Faster, Cheaper Erection.
• Vertically Rigidised Walls and 6-Ply Horizontal Ribs for
added strength.
• Revolutionary New Robust Positive-Action Bagging Outlet
complete with bag holder and steel cover.
• Sampling Outlet and Auger Chute in bottom bulkhead behind
door.
• Improved Centre and Side-Filling Hole Assemblies complete
with hinged lids and positive fastenings.
• Wider Turned-Down Eaves on Roof Panels.
• Fully Rodent-Proof Construction.
ALL THESE PLUS THE FOLLOWING OPTIONAL EXTRAS!
Cuts overall costs up to £lOO
• Easy-to-install Heavy-Gauge Steel Floor . . . suitable for
conical or flat bases.
• Steel Earth Ring.
PRICES (F.O.R. Newcastle)
* The 500 Bushel Silo is not
equipped with a door. Price
includes steel floor.
AUGERS
Highly efficient vertical Grain
Augers designed to centre fill
all Lysaght Silos from 1,200
B. to 3,700 B. are available.
Prices; £97. £lO9. £ll6.
(F.O.R. Newcastle.)
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
Offices in Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Fremantle. s3smc


TIE WIRE-NETTING
GERRARD
AUTOMATIC
RING FASTENER
GUN -- - 60/- each
GALVANISED FASTENERS
ll- per 1000
\
As fast as you can squeeze its easy-working handles, this self-
feeding gun effortlessly clamps the 14 Gauge cement-adhered
staples into sturdy fin. rings, which are automatically fed into
the jaws. There is no wastage —the job is quick, neat and strong.
■Sk
THIS EASY WAY-
(2S yards per minute)
Ring Fasteners are sold
in packets of 1000
Available from ALL WOOL HOUSES and GENERAL STORES
Manufactured by Gerrard Engineering Pty. Ltd., 18 Ireland St., W. MELB.
A Woolgrower’s View
By N. H. LOGAN
Nukinenda Station, via Esk (Q.)
Asa Queensland woolgrower of some
experience—in my day I shore
120,000 sheep annually on my stations
and had a partnership in four other large
sheep stations —I should like to put for-
ward some reasons why I am opposed
to the various unsound and wasteful
schemes being put before woolgrowers
as a panacea for all the troubles of the
wool industry.
All wool-promotion schemers and
reserve-price planners seem to forget that
world affairs have always been in a state
of flux, and always will be. All indus-
tries and businesses have their ups and
downs and the economy of the world
could not function without such fluctua-
tion.
In 1951 the wool industry enjoyed a
sudden boom caused by the natural
demand of a wool-starved world, not by
any floor-price or promotion scheme.
This boom lasted for several years, until
the supply had caught up with the
demand, and, as always happens with
booms, it left many troubles in its wake.
It no doubt helped synthetics because
the woollen manufacturers could not
compete and dispose of their materials at
a profit, consequently people developed
the habit of buying more synthetic
apparel, because it is cheaper and in many
cases just as serviceable.
The same thing happened in the beef
industry last October, when people found
a substitute for the highly priced beef,
the price of which began to fall. As a
result of the boom prices some fatteners
and dealers have been badly bitten —
though not the breeders.
Another trouble was psychological.
The mentality of many growers has not
recovered from that easy-money period,
but the most salient point is that the
cost of production then started to rise
and has progressively soared up to the
satellites. This high cost-structure has
not yet adjusted itself to the reduced price
of wool.
I submit that it is the cost-structure —
and this alone —that a wool committee
of inquiry should investigate.
Governments and woolgrowers’
organisations should all concentrate on
this nationally tragic problem.
It is one thing to demand a higher
price, but quite another to get it. If the
rise in price comes by natural causes, all
well and good, but don’t try to bring
it about by artificial schemes. Also it
seems to me immaterial what the
increased price of wool reaches, if it is
continually, as at present, being over-
taken by rising costs of production and
inflation. Growers would be no
better off.
If gains are to be made by the industry
these costs must be arrested. Moreover,
in the event of any rise whatsoever the
period of benefit would be of very limited
duration, before the margin of profit
would be again reduced by added costs
and the position of the woolgrower would
be the same as he is in today.
I know that the majority of growers,
promoters and floor-price fans consider
the remedy lies in higher prices, but that
is not the answer, that is beginning at the
wrong end. First things first! Any
inquiry should cover the rise in land-tax
on unimproved values of freehold land,
stock assessment, stamp-duty, pay-roll
tax, costs of transport, charges at auction,
wages, levies by boards and bureaux, the
increased fees of the United Graziers’
Association and so on, ad infinitum, for
this is where the trouble lies.
It would be a dreadful economic policy
to put further taxation on the already
overburdened shoulders of the wool-
grower by declaring an exorbitant levy
on all wool sold at auction to support a
wool-promotion scheme.
It is evident that any attempt to force
the price of wool beyond the world's
economic level will de f eat its own ends
and will play into the hands of the syn-
thetic manufacturers. Seeing that we sell
90 per cent, of our wool outside Aus-


INVEST IN
HADDON RIG BLOOD!
YOU INVEST IN
YOUR FUTURE ->
AND AUSTRALIA'S!
Almost 80 years ago Australian graziers began investing
in Haddon Rig blood. Today, their studs are the biggest
and best producers of wool, not only in Australia, but all
the world. At the 1960 Sydney Ram Sales, the world’s
record price for a Merino Ram was twice shattered by
Haddon Rig, and 130 Haddon Rig rams auctioned
throughout Australia averaged £668. What better
example of the Australian woolgrowers’ faith in the
value of Haddon Rig blood.
Now, with the 1961 sales just around the corner, it is
time for you to think of your future. This is your chance
to invest in Haddon Rig blood. But, no matter how big
or small your investment, you are assured that the
quality and value of your wood clip will rise with it.
Woolbuyers all over the world recognise the marvel-
lously soft handle of Haddon Rig wool. They admire its
defined crimping, its good elasticity and easy spinning
qualities. This is the high standard all Australian wool-
growers should aim for with their wool. This is the
standard set by Haddon Rig Stud, and will be offered at
the Sydney, Brisbane and Perth Sales.
SYDNEY SALES. The usual outstanding Haddon Rig
team will be auctioned at Sydney on the sth, 6th and
7th of June.
Agents: Goldsbrough Mort & Co. Ltd.; Dalgety & Co.
Ltd.; Elder Smith & Co. Ltd.
tVaiia we must conform to the rules of
world parity.
The best way of meeting any competi-
tion is to sell our wool at a price that
the world is prepared to pay. The higher
we make the cost of wool, the more we
are helping wool’s rival, synthetics.
Practically all our wool is going into
consumption and we are getting current
prices at world’s parity for it. If it were
worth more it would be reflected in the
world’s weekly markets where it meets
international competition.
] venture to say that if the whole of
the proceeds of the Australian clip were
to be spent on wool promotion the value
of our wool would not be enhanced one
iota. Such schemes are a waste of tax-
payers’ and woolgrowers’ money and the
only people who would benefit by them
would be those who would administer
them.
It would be most inequitable for the
Government to enact legislation levying
woolgrowers without taking a referendum
on such an important and controversial
matter.
To be a sound proposition the Austra-
lian Wool Bureau would not only have
to recover the high amount it proposes
spending on wool promotion within the
next six years, but also to show a profit
over and above the outlay to cover all
the levies, administration and storage
costs. Otherwise it will be a fiasco
I submit that the wool-promotion
scheme is the greatest gamble that has
ever been suggested. What assurance
have we that it wili be successful? None
whatever!
I am opposed to the reserve-price
scheme, although it is the lesser of the
two evils.
The auction system has stood the test
of time. Why alter it? It is the only
sound, true and economical method of
getting world parity. Competition is the
fundamental condition of the world’s
economy.
The price of wool, like all other com-
modities, must fluctuate in accordance
with the amount of competition. It is
just as difficult to stop wool prices going
up when competition is there, as it is to
stop them going down when it is not
there.
I understand a reserve price means
creating a stockpile. It has been sug-
gested from time to time through the
press by different writers, some of which
are growers, and by others calling them-
selves authorities, that the amount of
wool bought in should range from 10 to
20 per cent, of the clip.
To me it seems impossible that any-
thing under 10 per cent, would be effec-
tive. Even at this low estimate it would
not be difficult to visualise the magnitude
°f the finance that would be required
from the growers or the Government to
implement such a scheme on a sound
basis.
I gather that promoters of the reserve-
Pnce scheme would require a guarantee
from the Government before they set
° u t on a buying spree. Government
finance means Government control. The
] ndustry would be handed to any socialis-
ts Government on a silver platter.
Stockpiles are dangerous for the
tollowing reasons:
1. The wool is not going into con-


WE KNOW
:
\ (AND APPLY)
WHAT
IT TAKES
TO GET
TRUE MARKET
VALUE
FOR
YOUR
You owe it to yourself to make
certain that your clip is efficiently
presented on sale day. A.M.L.&F.
experience in the lotting, display
and selling of wool ensures that
your clip is shown and handled to
your best possible advantage.
...WOOL'S
QUIET
ELEGANCE
O/SCOI/E/e..
AUSTRALIAN, MERCANTILE, LAND & FINANCE CO. LTD
(INC. IN ENGLAND 1863)
WOOL STORES
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • BRISBANE
NEWCASTLE • GEELONG
Branches and Representatives throughout New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland
AM.170.94


m
m&m
“Phenovis” brand of
Phenothiazine
... in
research
@and in
the field
. . . FIRST to make
phenothiazine in Australia.
. . . FIRST in the world
to develop and prove the
absolute necessity of high-
purity phenothiazine.
. . . FIRST in Australia
with fine particle-size
phenothiazine.
. . . FIRST high-purity
phenothiazine sheep drench
produced to give positive
control of all major intestinal
worms in all sheep.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LTD.
HIGH-PURITY
'PHENOVIS'
PHE.97x.G284.R
sumption and has to be sold sooner or
later;
2. If the market continues to fall the
position becomes more precarious ;
3. To be consisent the pool must buy
more and more ;
4 If this state of affairs were to happen
on a large and prolonged scale, it is not
difficult to foreshadow the financial panic
that would ensue.
Ninety-five per cent, of growers and
promoters who are blaring and bleating
to save the industry are helping syn-
thetics by wearing nylon socks, shirts
and other raiment. That may be only a
small part of their apparel, but it mounts
up when applied to the peoples of the
world.
Those in favor of a reserve-price
scheme should ask themselves why New
Zealand and South Africa are supporting
promotion, if their floor-price schemes
have been successful. The answer is
obvious! Moreover New Zealand has
principally coarse wool, consequently
there is not so much competition from
synthetics.
Is there any sound argument for a
floor price? I have often heard it said,
and read it in the press, that there are
“pies” and “cartels” operating to the
detriment of the grower If this is true
it is difficult to understand why these
sinister and mysterious associations ever
allowed wool to go to the unprecedented
values of 12s. a pound in ’5O-’ST
Ti now appears from reports of all Aus-
•*- tralian sales that wool prices are on
the upward swing and may continue to
rise. That is due to increased competi-
tion and not to any artificial schemes.
I am not overlooking the fact that the
BAWRA stockpile after World War I
and the stockpile created by the appraise-
ment scheme which the post-war Joint
Organisational Scheme took over after
World War II were successfully disposed
of over the years.
We must remember, however, that con-
ditions then were entirely different to
those that prevail in the wool market
of today. First, BAWRA and the JO
Scheme had unlimited financial backing
by the Governments of Britain, South
Africa, New Zealand and Australia.
Secondly, through the two world wars all
clips were commandeered, and no wool
came on to the open market. Thirdly,
the world was starved for wool.
Stockpiles could be disposed of at the
then current rates without flooding the
market, and the world demand could take
the entire current clip as well as the dis-
posed wool, x lanufacturers could there-
fore buy with confidence. Also it must
not be overlooked that since World Wars
f and II synthetics have made such tre-
mendous strides that they have become
the greatest rival to the wool industry.
This did not then apply to the same
extent Under the JO agreement the
residual stockpile was disposed of, and
a share of the profits returned to the
growers.
None of these conditions could apply
today. On the contrary, it would now be
extremely difficult to put stockpiled wool
°n the market without again depressing
Prices. Finance would be limited by the
ability of growers to pay. All money
obtained by sale of the stockpiled wool
would be eaten up by the administration
and storage costs. Wool might be sold
at a loss and growers called upon to meet
such a loss.
It is incomprehensible to me why the
promoters of these schemes are so
alarmed about the future of the wool
and the dangers from synthetics. To my
knowledge it has been a hardy annual
as a motion on the agenda at all the
conferences of woolgrowers’ associations
for the last 25 years. Despite all these
ominous forebodings we still have a wool
industry and always will.
Synthetics will never be a complete
substitute for wool in cold climates and
for many military purposes. Moreover,
most synthetics contain a percentage of
wool in their manufacture and hence the
industries could be complementary. The
more synthetics there are, the more wool
is needed to blend with them. Despite
the fact that the wool content may vary
and sometimes be only small, the output
of synthetics is so colossal that the woo¥
needed to blend with it must run into
many millions of pounds,
The Australian average price for the
last decade—that is, from June 30, 1950,
to June 30, 1960, was 76d. a pound and
exclusive of the boom year was 684 d.
This is a record average that has never
been excelled in the history of the wool
industry. In the face of these prices
how can we ask for higher averages?
In fact there is nothing wrong with the
present price. I repeats The nigger in
the woodpile is the cost-structure. But
even with present high costs there is still
profit to be made by intelligent workers,
but not by idlers who expect Heaven to
rain golden manna upon them without
their lifting a finger,
When I was in the wool industry in
a much larger way than I am today, I,
with thousands of my contemporaries,
sold wool as low as 4d. a pound and
sheep at 9d. a head and we made ends
meet.


Free help for young home planners
m
k A
m
m
m
.
,
<m
*3=—
f&ftm
::::3
ai
■ *<
*1
Hi
******;
1
* B£l
Post coupon below now for 1961 issue of the
John Lysaght (Australia) Limited,
Port Line Building, 50 Young Street, Sydney
Please send me, without cost or obligation, the new
Lysaght Portfolio of Low Cost Home Plans.
NAME
ADDRESS
STATE
LYSAGHT
PORTFOLIO OF
HOME PLANS
In two minds about the right plan for your new home?
Then send today for this brand-new Lysaght Portfolio.
Feast your eyes on some of this year’s most brilliant home
plans. Each, of course, features the modern ‘low look’
roofline.
Expensive to build? Far from it! Even though many of
these homes have the look of luxury, they’re well within the
budget of almost every young married couple especially
if you specify Lysaght Steel Sheet as the roofing material
Gl7ce
ORB


the
BACKBONE OF THE WOOL INDUSTRY n o high priced
clips of Australia owe their success to the infusion of
TASMANIAN SAXON MERINOS
"RHODES"
Longford
"ROSENEATH"
"KENILWORTH"
Campbell Town
"VAIIEYFIELD"
Epping
"WINTON"
Campbell Town
"PLEASANT BANKS"
Evandale
INSPECT Stud and Selected Rams at the forthcoming Midlands Agricultural Show, Campbell Town, 13th
to 14th June, 1961, and Melbourne Sheepbreeders’ Show from
FAMOUS TASMANIAN STUDS
Australian Seasonal Wool Records were again established by clips using sires from members of the
Tasmanian Fine Merino Breeders' Association
Tasmania tops the market again, 400 pence. J. G. CUFF, Secretary, 1-21 St. John Street. Launceston.
A Time for Taking Stock
By the Rt. Hon. JOHN McEWEN
Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Trade
IN terms of physical expansion, Aus-
tralia's wool industry has made re-
markable progress over the past decade.
However, the deterioration in the market
situation for wool which has occurred
in the last few years makes it imperative
that ail avenues be explored to assure
the future of our major rural product.
. r , A
Fhe expansion ot the woolgrowing
industry has been much greater than
could have been expected ten years ago.
In the period ended 1959-60, sheep
numbers increased enormously, from
113-million to the record level of 155-
million, the fleece weight per sheep
increased, and the volume of wool pro-
duced rose by nearly 50 per cent., from
1142-million lb. greasy in 1949-50 to
1689-million lb. in 1959-60. This increase
is substantially greater than the overall
increase which occurred in the produc-
tion of rural products other than wool,
amounting to 18 per cent. Moreover,
unlike some other rural commodities, of
which the domestic market has absorbed
an increasing proportion of total produc-
tion, the quantity of wool available for
export has increased correspondingly.
Scientific advances and the ability and
preparedness of graziers to undertake
the necessary investment have played the
major roles in this rapid expansion of
file woolgrowing industry. Myxomatosis
made a spectacular contribution in the
early 1950’5, by greatly reducing rabbit
numbers. Apart from the success of
myxomatosis, some other advances con-
tributed to the growth of the woolgrow-
ing industry. These included the dis-
covery of trace elements for the correc-
tion of soil deficiencies in some sheep-
grazing areas, the improvement of sheep
breeding techniques (including the adop-
tion of accurate fleece measurement
methods of selection as distinct from
visual appraisement), and the spread of
pasture improvement in the higher-rain-
fall areas.
The favorable prices for wool which
prevailed during most of the 1950 s pro-
vided both the means and the incentive
for § r f z,ers to undertake the necessary
lures on property development.
1 he special taxation provisions applicable
to primary producers also helped to
encourage such expenditures. As a result
of the property improvements, the ability
of the woolgrowing industry to withstand
drought conditions has been greatly im-
proved. In the most recent drought, in
1957-58 sheep numbers declined by only
half-a-million, compared with a decline
of 26.2 million in the 1944-46 drought.
Despite these creditable achievements,
the price falls of recent years and the
prospect that competition from the
synthetic fibres will become increasingly
severe have given cause for some hard
thinking about wool's future. The matters
which appear to warrant the most atten-
tion are research, marketing and promo-
tion.
a n important contribution must con-
J*- tinue to be made by intensive and
imaginative research into wool and wool-
textile production and by the ready
application by graziers of known tech-
niques of keeping down the cost of pro-
ducing wool. A premium must be placed
by graziers on cost-reducing investment,
It is indeed fortunate that property
investment was undertaken during the
1950 s on the scale that it was: even
though profitability per pound of wool
is now lower than some years ago, the
increased level of production in the
industry has served to offset to some
extent the effects of the adverse cost-price
movement on net farm incomes,
On the marketing side, all possible
avenues of making the movement of wool
The Rt. Hon. J. McEWEN
to users more efficient need to be
explored. On marketing questions, both
the industry and the Government will be
looking forward to, the findings of the
Committee of Inquiry into wool-market-
ing methods which was set up early in
1961 at the request of woolgrowers.
The price that is offered for wool in
the world’s markets depends finally on
the strength of demand for wool through-
out the world. This depends not only
on world economic conditions over
which Australia can have little influence
—but also on measures which are taken
to stimulate that demand.
The heavy expenditures on promotion
which are undertaken by the synthetics
manufacturers demonstrate the great
importance attached to advertising by
that sector of the world’s fibre industry.
While I attach great importance to the
method of marketing wool, I am sure
that it is imperative to stimulate the
demand for wool by all the devices of
advertising and promotion known to the
commercial world. The recent discoveries
of commercially practicable methods of
adding to the attractions of wool in con-
sumers’ eyes, such as shrink-proofing,
moth-proofing, and drip-dry qualities,
would make intensified wool promotion
so much the more rewarding.


mm
r-
m
m
■o> \
••••
■
x: '
M
f.
%gw»
JSr- „
1
> i
m
w<-
u
- la i
Drive it! You'll be delighted with NEW
HYDRAMATIC
TRANSMISSION ON
HOLDEN
the most automatic automatic of them all!
There’s nothing to equal the delight and effortless ease of driving a new Hydra-
Matic Holden. No clutch, no gear lever nothing but smooth, relaxed driving.
IT’S THE BIG VALUE IN AUTOMATIC TRANSMISSION
Hydra-Matic is a three speed transmission. The
“middle” gear gives you more flexibility on steep
hills or when your car is heavily laden. Because of
Hydra-Matic’s exclusive fluid coupling, “slippage”
has been virtually eliminated.
Holden’s Hydra-Matic transmission is the newest
version of the world-famous General Motors trans-
mission proved by years of owner driving in
Cadillac and Oldsmobile.
IT’S THE BIG THRILL OF ’6l MOTORING
Hydra-Matic transmission makes owning Holden a
new and even bigger thrill. You move with a serene,
gliding motion because changes are made auto-
matically for you. The fluid coupling cushions
every change reducing wear on the engine, trans-
mission parts and tyres.
However, words can’t possibly do justice to the
real pleasure and driving ease of Holden with
Hydra-Matic* transmission. So ask your Holden
Dealer to arrange for you to have a drive —now!
TRADEMARK
VI
w
AND YOU’LL LIKE HOLDEN’S NEW BEAUTY AND VALUE
You’ll like the wide range of new colours you have
to choose from ... all in fade-resistant Magic-Mirror
Acrylic Lacquer Finish. You’ll he impressed with
the new luxury inside. You’ll appreciate the new
electric windshield wipers and new engine hood lock.
As well, Holden offers you proved advantages for
Australian motoring that no other car can match—
proved six cylinder performance, proved depend-
ability, proved operating economy, proved high
resale value. Come in ... see for yourself. .. Holden
is now even more rewarding to own —even finer
motoring value.
HOLDEN
AUSTRALIA'S OWN CAR
Prices from £BB5 plus tax
Hydra-Matic transmission is optional on Special Sedan
and Special Station Sedan at £95 plus tax.
Convenient GMAC Hire Purchase is available.
SEE YOUR LOCAL HOLDEN DEALER TODAY
GENERAL MOTORS-H OLDEN'S PTY. LIMITED


Divorce Notices
TO JAMES FRANCIS BRENNELI.
formerly ot 54 Hamilton Street Bus-
sendean W.A, — TAKE NOTICE that
your wife OLIVE BREN NELL has com
meneed proceeding's against you in the
Supreme Court of Western Australia
for Divorce on the ground of desertion
for a continuous period of three years
or more If you desire to defend the
proceedings you must file your defence
in the Central Office of the Supreme
Court of Western Australia at ?crth
within forty clear days from the date
of this publication. In default of you
so doing the case may proceed and the
Court will pronounce judgment and
make orders against you in your absence.
DATED the :14th day of April, 1001. —
O. T. STAPLES, Acting Registrar.
GEOFFREY G. HAMMOND, of 98 St.
George’s Terrace, Perth, Solicitor for
the Plaintiff.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES- L\ Divorce.
TO CARMEN MARY BAILEY and
CHARLES JOHN HEAD late of 94
St. Paul’s Street, Randwick. —TAKE
NOTICE that ARTHUR THOMAS
BAILEY has filed a Petition No. 3865
of 1959 praying- for a divorce from
CARMEN MARY BAILEY on the
ground of her adultery with CHARLES
JOHN HEAD. It you or either of you
wish to defend this suit you may
enter an Appearance in the Divorce
Registry, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney by the 31st July, 1961
and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from Messrs MCDONALD
& McDONALD, Solicitors, of 17 Bolton
Street, Newcastle, or JOHN CORCORAN
& CO.. Solicitors, of Assembly Hall,
2 York Street. Sidney.— ; C. A. 11.
HARMS, Registrar.
Great Kia Ora Stud
Closes Down
By JOHN SCHOFIELD
K[A Ora Stud, born at Scone
(N.S.W.) in 1912 when a
cattle property was turned over
(o horse breeding, went out of
existence last week. It may
a gain become a place for the
raising of beef.
Appropriately, it went out on
a record note —the dispersal
sa | e is acknowledged as the
greatest of its kind in Austra-
lian turf history.
The catalogue comprised 73
thoroughbreds, which sold for
86,090 guineas —an average
price of 1179 guineas,
in May, 1959, the property
and all the stock were auctioned
to allow a reconstitution of the
family company which con-
trolled the stud.
The 95 mares auctioned then
brought 99,395 guineas, a good
many of them being bought
back by Norman Wheeler, who
bad directed the stud's opera-
tions for the last eight or 10
years.
Kia Ora was established by
the late Percy Miller, father-in-
law of Mr Wheeler, in a very
small way. It was intended to
build up gradually until there
were about 30 mares in the
paddocks, and this task w'as
left to the late Bert Riddle,
later to be acknowledged one
of the most astute studmasters
in Australia.
Kia Ora first sold yearlings
in 1917 w'hen two youngsters
went through the ring to bring
200 guineas for the pair. Five
for 695 guineas was the tally
for 1918. But by 1925 the Kia
Ora consignment reached 76
and from then on Kia Ora
always had 80 to 90-odd year-
lings except in the latter part
of World War 11 when opera-
tions, of necessity, were cur-
tailed.
'T'he greatest number sold was
105 in 1941, and several
times the list fell short of the
100 by only a few.
Kia Ora's first stallion was
Flippant (imp.), but in 1919
Magpie (imp.) was bought and
on Magpie the fortune of the
stud was built.
Not only was Magpie an
outstanding sire of winners but
he became the greatest sire of
brood mares Australia has
known. Even today his influ-
ence is felt, and many of the
top brood mares of the times
carry a strain from the famous
sire.
Magpie (imp.) cost £5OOO and
his stock won £315,875. The
greatest of his winners, horses
likes Windbag and Chatham
and Amounis to mention three,
were Kia Ora bred.
Magpie (imp.) mares had a
great deal to do with the suc-
cess at the stud of later stal
lions. This was particularly so
with Midstream (imp.) whose
stock have won more than
£600,000. The Midstream-
Magpie mare cross was one of
the most successful breeding
patterns ever exploited.
A/Tidstream (imp.) had the
biggest tally of stakes won,
but, then, stakes when his
progeny raced greatly ex-
ceeded those of Magpie's day
when races carrying £lOOO or
more were limited to the major
tracks, and a £lO,OOO race was
an owner’s dream.
All told, stallions who stood
at one time or another at Kia
Ora have sired the winners of
£3,166,000 in stakes. How
much this total would be if the
winning produce of Kia Ora-
bred mares were added is any-
body's guess.
Unfortunately Kia Ora has
never kept records; it would
be impossible, almost, to total
the number of winners bred
there, and the races and the
stakes these winners accumu-
lated.
Shannon £84,000. Hydrogen
£59,000, Amounis £48,000,
Delta £48,000, Cara n n a
£38,000. Electro £37,000, Wind-
bag £35,000. Baystone £32,000,
Evening Peal £30,000, Murray
Stream £28,000, and True
Course £25.000 are sufficient to
establish the point.
The mares are now dispersed
in all directions. Woodlands
Stud gained the biggest tally.
Woodlands headed the stud
aggregates at the last yearling
sales, taking over the place
traditionally held by Kia Ora
for so many years. The influ-
ence of the Kia Ora stock may
help Woodlands to maintain
its lead.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 644
Across
1-He may have an angle if backing a Lincolnite
general. (9)
5-Bowl if batting with a soil of relief. (5)
8-How are the bowling averages when 1 am among the
rtins? (5)
10—A nut delivery on salary. (9)
12 — 45 inches. (3)
13 — Bat's cart, (anagram) (8)
14— Examinations in talking. (5)
16 — Hand-reader could see dreadful
disaster in this vegetation. (4, 4)
17— Untranslated? (3)
21 — Sue is too disturbed to put in
employment. (3)
22 — Foully murdered, so hesitated
from uncertainty. (8)
23 — Block fricasseed bream. (5)
26 —American peak business asso-
ciated with a head joining a
cricket team. (8)
28 —It's possessive of you. and no
contradiction. (3)
30 : —Get his tap in food. (9)
31— Fellow. (5)
32 Loans out of which a fashionable
parlor might be constructed. (5)
33 Baidy hasn’t many such holds. (9)
Down
1 — Those who send on the goods
for prison officers. (10)
2 Slovenly fieldsmen who are ex-
pected to be sharp with a brick-
carrier. (8)
3 Notes on some beer entertain-
ment. (8)
4 A spoilsport fellow of rank. (4)
5 Who bends from the waist
arbor? (5)
6 Stop everything which is very
good. (5)
7 River line is amended. (4)
9 —Sergeant has some disorderly
priests. (7)
11—Be seen about a boy, a dashing
young shaver. (5)
15—One item of the pack stream’s
motorists., (3-7)
18 — It makes one sure to be nervy. (7)
19 — Plant girl hiding in a cover. (8)
20 — Is its car smashed up in a geologi-
cal period? (8)
21— Ugly zebras beget every giraffe
initiated by this Asian. (5)
24 — Tree has everything of mine. (5)
25 — Grey as some layer. (5)
27—-Residents by 7-down used to
worship this one little rela-
tion. (4)
29 —Skin trouble gives it cloth which
is missing the lot. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 643


. its V
X, *.>!
<
mw ■
zZ>y 9
m
a
Mill
' :; ; ; ••: ■■
HHBI
■■—
c .
Sr
iIM
. ..
DIVERSITY
Atlantic and Esso have something to do with just about everything . . . from
hurricane lamps to solid propellent research for long-range rockets. There’s an
Atlantic or Esso petroleum product used in virtually every branch of industry.
Atlantic, through affiliation with world-wide Esso, can help in your business. Call on
Atlantic’s Advisory Service for a preliminary informal talk.
Atlantic and Esso products include Motor Spirits, Solvents, Waxes, Power and
Lighting Kerosenes, Diesel Fuels, Process Oils, Lubricating Oils, Home Heating
Oils, Fuel Oils, Liquid Petroleum Gases, Petroleum Resins and Synthetic Rubbers.
ATLANTIC]
an affiliate of world-wide
Atlantic Union Oil
Company Pty. Ltd., 66 Pitt Street, Sydney, and
State branches
22J4/I ’t
