

The Bulletin
1 «
August 5, 1961
THE
OUTCASTS
v OF THE
l A.B.C.
6 Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
</
✓


When A.M.P. was founded
in 1849, cricketers
looked like this
xh
'v 4
/</>
' ‘ ,
'O'fuMi/tyM-
re
v
\
\ ?
\
y
*&>*>*•»v*; /f **
r. <
' // tsh
i '///
l %'■',;
c
S'
.y
jl 373
MODERN A.M.P. POLICIES are geared to modern
needs. Business and professional men need substantial
life cover. The A.M.P. “R” Unit Plan can provide it on
a low cost basis with guaranteed insurability. Ask any
A.M.P. man or A.M.P. office about the “R” Unit Plan.
Australia’s LARGEST and oldest
life assurance organisation
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Offices in cities and towns throughout Australia and New Zealand and in the United Kingdom,
A.M.P. members enjoy the unquestioned security afforded by funds of £500,000,009
which the Society seeks to invest to the greatest benefit to members.


IN THIS ISSUE
The
Bulletin
AUGUST 5, 1961
Vol. 82
No. 4251
ANSWERS TO
CONTRIBUTORS
E.L.-H.: It is the old truth: an
anecdote does not make a short
story S.T.: Too slight J.M.:
The plot has endless complications,
without any real climax....
T.E.T.: “Brown or white that girl's
got something”—but it isn’t for us.
G.F.R.: “He’s always mutter-
ing to himself. It does him good
to hear his own voice.” We can
hear our own voice saying, “No, no,
n 0”... .G.R.R.: If you start off
shouting in the first paragraph
nobody can hear a word you are
saying by page three... .A.P.:
Who cares whether Susan Alford
got a divorce anyway? .... W.V.:
Home was never like that....
P.N.: After two paragraphs it was
obvious who was the killer and how
he was found... .P.Q.: Now sit
down and write us a letter explain-
ing simply what it was all about.
. ...K.A.: No, we cannot bring
out a special number consisting
of all your stories... .F.M.E.:
There is no better place to be,
Than underneath an old gum tree,
Watching the sunlight filter through,
With here and there a glimpse of
blue.... J.G.: Should have put
more thought into presenting such
a difficult theme.... A.R.: It is just
as important to leave words out
as to put them in....D.F.: You
have fascinating background
material there but it occupies all
the foreground of your story....
K.L.: You got into an interesting
situation on the last page of your
story ; drop the first 18 pages and
start from there... .F.R.: All your
characters speak as if they had just
swallowed a grammar b00k....
E.McM.: Might consider it when
the character on the first page stops
spitting out all his speeches....
0.P.: If de Maupassant sweated
blood learning to write short stories
why do you think yours would be
worthwhile when you’ve managed
to write four while in bed for
three days with a cold?
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street.
Sydney; Box 2521; Phone: 27 5971.
Solemn Enough to Look Silly
T HE A.B.C.’s Channel 2 always runs the danger of confusing the serious
with the solemn. At the moment it is running a serial, “The Outcasts,”
which is entertaining fiction but, as M. H. Ellis points out in this issue,
cockeyed history. This would not matter if it was not passed off as
“authentic history”: the A.B.C. states that the author, Mr Rienits, has
“made a diligent and patient search of numerous historical records and
publications in order to establish a degree of authenticity and has con-
sulted manuscript scores (sic) too numerous to mention in the Mitchell
Library and in the ‘New South Wales State Archives’.” No one doubts
Mr Rienits’s diligence, even among the non-existent “New South Wales
State Archives,” but the degree of authenticity is rather low.
M. H. Ellis pinpoints errors of fact (regarding the founding of the
Bank of New South Wales, specifically mentioned in the A.B.C. advance
publicity), of atmosphere (the relations between Macquarie and Green-
way), of incident (Ensign Bullivant’s caricature of the Governor) and of
attitude (the reasons for the officers shunning Dr Redfern). As Ellis points
out, the reasons were far more complex than the sort of inexcusable snob-
bishness presented in “The Outcasts” but there is no hint of that.
Admittedly interpretations vary and dramatists foreshorten, telescope,
exaggerate in order to present their vision within the conventions of par-
ticular mediums. But Mr Rienits’s presentation simplifies the period into
an unreal Goodies versus Baddies battle and his mistakes seem to be due
as much to ignorance as to artistic intention: he has not let the drama of
the Macquarie era speak for itself. But nobody expected him to be our
Shakespeare and Thucydides combined and he has provided a slice of
colorful old-fashioned melodrama.
The A.B.C. was not content with this; it wanted to impress everyone
with the authenticity of Mr Rienits’s work. It has hoodwinked its
viewers who obviously have a lively interest in our early history and it may
even have hoodwinked itself. Apparently it has no idea that Mr Rienits’s
may not be the veritable version of our early years: after reading M. H.
Ellis’s article we rang the A.B.C. to ask whether they regarded “The
Outcasts” as an authentic history and back came the answer, “ ‘The Out-
casts’ is as authentic as it can possibly be.”
The Yellow Dress
“'JpHE gift of divine grace descended upon Isabel Callaghan during late
Mass, one hot summer Sunday, and from the beginning she had a
guilty feeling that it had come to her by mistake.” This is the sort of open-
ing sentence which makes one’s scalp creep. It forces one to read the rest
of Amy Witting’s story in this issue, “The Yellow Dress,” if only to see
whether or not she comes a ghastly cropper. After such a beginning one
or two things can happen: the author either lapses into a pious didacticism
or achieves a particularly satisfying story. Amy Witting brings it off and
one of the reasons would be a view of character which excludes didacti-
cism: she says of Isabel “the insects that scuttled in her cobwebbed cell
(soul) were shrewd and nasty generalisations about human nature.”


This Australia
THE TRADE FAIR
Putting the Finishing
Touches
FROM PATRICIA ROLFE IN SYDNEY
J. C. BEVERIDGE
From real estate
H. E. Clifton’s office at the Sydney
Showground was a tiny oasis of calm
in the centre of the indescribable chaos
and confusion, usually referred to in
public-relations language as “putting the
finishing touches.”
Around Clifton his staff milled, sorting
out invitations for the 15,000 trade
visitors, who are expected to visit the
Sydney Trade Fair this week and next,
and streamlining the facilities for the
million-odd members of the public whom
Clifton expects to visit the fair after the
Governor of N.S.W., Lieut.-General Sir
Eric Woodward, opens it on August 4.
Beyond Clifton’s office in the 50 of the
78 acres of the Royal Agricultural
Society’s grounds, which the fair occupies,
the Russians were perhaps ahead on their
“finishing touches.” Most of their ex-
hibits were in place while the German
pavilion was still an uncharted wilderness,
and in the Italian stand, lately cleared of
poultry, pigeons and canaries, immense
blow-ups of noted Italian buildings were
standing on their heads and no one had
had time to paint off the Arabic script,
left over from some Middle East fair.
Clifton had time both to look back on
the history of previous attempts to launch
international trade fairs here (“give me
that stuff you got from the Mitchell
Library, Jack.”) and to look forward to
the next Sydney Fair in 1963. He said
that bookings for the 1963 fair were
almost complete, and that the United
States, which this year with Canada was
a notable absentee, had suggested that it
would send an exhibit to the 1963 fair.
“They wanted to wait and see how this
one went,” Clifton said. “They seem
satisfied now that it is a goer.”
The Sydney Trade Fair is Industrial
Public Relations’ own baby and Clifton,
its director, can produce some pretty im-
pressive figures to show that it is already
a very healthy child. He said that £6O-
- worth of merchandise, £4O-million
of it Australian and representing the pro-
ducts of 1400 local companies, is on
display. Twenty-three countries (16 of
them Asian) are exhibiting at the fair
and 40 countries, including the United
States, will be officially represented as
possible buyers on every level from Trade
Minister down.
Clifton claims that the Sydney Trade
Fair is already second only to the old-
established Hanover Trade Fair. He says
the Sydney fair outstrips the Milan fair,
which, he says, is these days devoted to
textiles and fashion. “The British Indus-
tries Fair is a complete washout,” he
said. “The trouble with it was that it
was a Government-run show.”
Industrial Public Relations Service of
Australia Pty Ltd, was founded ten years
ago by J. C. Beveridge, who came to it
from real estate. H. E. Clifton had for
20 years been doing sales promotion for
G. J. Coles. (He was one of the four
Australians who took part in the Nor-
mandy landings. “I dug the biggest hole
in France,” he said. “I’m a natural-born
coward.”)
Fairs and exhibitions are their business.
Seven years ago they organised their first
show, T j Sydney Homes Exhibition.
Now they are established in all States,
have overseas representatives, and have
so far organised 39 exhibitions. They
already have 22 fairs and exhibitions
pencilled in in their books, to take place
between now and 1964. They are
associated with home exhibitions in Syd-
ney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Perth,
and with periodical engineering exhibi-
tions in Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide.
Although the Sydney Trade Fair is on
the highest possible official level, with
Premier Heffron and Sydney Lord Mayor
Harry Jensen on the general committee,
and trade departments, chambers of com-
merce and manufactures and retail
traders’ represented on the executive
committee, most of the risk is borne by
Industrial Public-Relations.
Industrial Public Relations built the
pavilion for the Russian exhibit, but have
already resold it to the Royal Agricultural
Society in Adelaide for £35,000. The
£175,000 pavilion, being used by the
Germans, was built by the R.A.S. as a
permanent structure, but the rental being
paid by the Germans for this and the
1963 trade fair, will help to defray the
initial cost
Clifton emphasised that the idea behind
the fair was really to sell Australian
goods, although the general public in-
evitably was more interested in the goods
which other countries had brought here
to exhibit.
“We look on the fair as a great big
market-place,” he said. “We hope it will
make Sydney the market-place for the
whole of South-east Asia. Sixteen of the
nations exhibiting are Asian and 75 per
cent, of the trade visitors are from Asian
countries.”
Was he satisfied with the way the fair
was working out? “We knew all along it
would be like this, a great, big beautiful
Christmas tree, with presents on it for
everyone,” he said. “As for organisation,
he said modestly, “the thing about a show
like this is that once you’ve got it going,
it runs itself. People with something to
sell meet people who want to buy some-
thing—and there you are. They can work
it out for themselves.”
WOMEN
The Right to Jury Service
FROM PETER KELLY IN SYDNEY
One of the few areas left for Australian
feminists to operate in is the right
of women to serve on juries. Queens-
land women acquired this right in 1929,
Tasmanian and Western Australian
women in 1957, but Victorian and South
Australian women still do not have it.
In New South Wales the position is
more complicated. If a woman wants
to serve on a jury she has to make a
special application to be placed on the
jury list. (Men, on the other hand, are
automatically placed on it). “This proviso
necessarily prevents a lot of women from
applying for service on juries,” Mrs
Evelyn Barron, the president of the
N.S.W. Women Justices’ Association, told
The Bulletin. “If you apply you are
thought of as having a morbid interest in
the work of the courts. A jury should be a
cross-section of the community and with-
out women how can it be?” In 1932
this association led a deputation of 27
women’s organisations to the then Mini-
ster of Justice asking him to amend the
Act making provision for women to serve
on juries. After many such deputations
and much pressure-group activity women
were allowed to become jurors in 1947
—if they make the special application,
The Women Justices’ Association and
organisations like the League of Women
Voters were agreeably surprised to learn
from the Minister of Justice, Mr Man-
nix, that 891 women were currently on
the jury list. The recent deputation not
only asked Mr Mannix to amend the
Act to place women automatically on


the list (thus cutting out the need for
them to make special application) but
also urged him to take steps to provide
adequate toilet facilities in N.S.W. courts.
Facilities in the inner city courts were
not too bad, but places like Newcastle,
Parramatta, Cooma, Albury and Coota-
niundra almost ignore the existence of
women. According to women spokes-
men, it is this humiliating factor which
prevents more women from applying for
jury service. In criminal cases, legally
the jury has to be kept together, but
sexually they must be separate if the
jury is locked up overnight. Most of
the courts in outer and country areas
cannot accommodate women overnight
and this is possibly one reason why few
women apply for jury service. An officer
of the Sheriff’s office told The Bulletin
“It’s mainly the accommodation, not the
toilets that is the trouble.”
Like all good Ministers, Mr Mannix
was quite “receptive to our suggestions'’
and he has promised to make adequate
provision for toilets and accom-
modation in new Court buildings and to
“look into” the position in the older
Courts. Having had no women jurors
from 1788 to 1947, it seems anachro-
nistic for modern feminists still to be
fighting for women’s rights in 1961.
THE YOUTH COMMITTEE
Headmistresses and
Humanists
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
JUDGE CURLEWIS
Practical solutions
From the playing-fields of Mosman to
the ranks of the Humanists there
seems to be a belief that if there is some-
thing wrong with youth today the respon-
sibifity rests with the press, radio, T.V.
Representatives of the Association of
Headmistresses of N.S.W. (fur coats,
white gloves, earnest expressions) and of
the Humanist Society of N.S.W. (sports
clothes, battered and bulging brief-cases,
earnest' expressions) shared last week's
session of the N.S.W. Youth Advisory
Committee.
It may have been a little disconcerting
to both parties to note that at some
important points their opinions coincided.
But it may have relieved the tired minds
of the now somewhat baffled committee
to find some agreement somewhere.
“There are so many irresponsible items
in newspapers,” suggested Miss Violet
Medway (Queenwood school, Mosman).
“How much can you control the press?”
asked the committee chairman, Judge
Curlewis “There should be somebody
to do something Miss Medway replied,
with spirit. “You mean censorship?”
asked the judge. “Oh, no,” Miss Medway
said.
The president of the Humanist Society
of N.S.W., Dr J. H. Hirshman, deplored
the prevalence of “females of unlikely
anatomical proportions” in magazines.
Curlew'is: “How can we educate the
press?” Hirshman: “It is all a question
of profit and loss but, of course, we don’t
approve of censorship.”
Since the controversy between Anglican
Archbishop Gough and Professor Stout,
of Sydney University’s philosophy depart-
ment, on “free love” spilled over into the
committee's proceedings, somewhat gum-
ning up the works, Judge Curlewis seems,
naturally, doubly careful to keep evidence
within the terms of reference of the com-
mittee. (The committee is specifically
not an inquiry into delinquency.) Judge
Curlewis emphasised that what were
sought were practical solutions to prac-
tical problems.
The terms of reference do ask it to
recommend how youth leaders should be
recruited and trained and how youth
services should be co-ordinated. This
seems to have led to a certain amount
of question-begging. It is assumed that
youth leaders are A Good Thing, that
youth needs to be led, and that the
answer, or one of the answers, for young
people is more clubs.
“Of course,” Miss Medway admitted,
“one does meet an odd individualist.”
But the tenor of evidence from head-
masters and headmistresses, from parents’
and citizens’ organisations—although the
report of the committee might, of course,
totally cut across this—is that so long as
we send the potential “leaders” along to
Outward Bound and provide plenty of
clubs for the rank and file everything is
going to be all right,
The Humanists want the clubs to be
“secular, non-sectarian, non-political and
largely self-governing,” while the head-
mistresses stress the value of church
fellowships and church-organised camps,
But both agree that “the Government
should set up clubs.
Although most of the committee appear
old enough to be grandparents, nobody
giving evidence seems to have much faith
in what parents can do. “It is too late
to do anything with the present genera-
tion of parents,” Miss Edith Ralston
(Wenona school, North Sydney) declared,
“However,” she added, folding one white-
gloved hand over the other, “I am not
thinking of our own old girls.”
LAW
No Precedent
FROM A PERTH CORRESPONDENT
Tn one of the most difficult compensa-
A tion cases ever heard in an Australian
court a judge of the Western Australian
Supreme Court has awarded almost
£lO,OOO damages to a 34-year-old boy
who, to quote the judge, “has lost the
enjoyment of life as completely as if he
had been killed.'’ The case was the first
of its kind in W.A. legal history, and Mr
Justice Hale admitted in his judgment
that he had found it difficult to obtain a
precedent anywhere in the world for his
decision.
Evidence was given that the child,
David Royston Hunt, could not speak,
was virtually blind in both eyes, had no
mental power at all and was severely
paralysed. For this reason Mr Justice
Hale awarded nothing for pain and
suffering but fixed compensation for
physical injury at £5OOO, loss of earning
power at £3700, loss of enjoyment of life
at £BOO and awarded special damages at
£266.
The claim was made by his foster-
father, David Frederick Gilbert Hunt,
and liability was put at three-quarters
against foster-mother Bernice Lilian
Hunt, who drove the car in which he was
injured two years ago, and one-quarter
against Brian Maurice Johnson, with
whose parked truck Mrs Hunt collided.
Mr Justice Hale said it had to be taken
into account in the damages assessment
that the plaintiff was quite unaware that
he had lost anything. “From the evidence
of the neuro-surgeon, Dr Lekias, I can
only believe that the child is not capable
of any suffering or feeling whatsoever,”
he said. “Nor has he any awareness of
his environment.” Medical evidence was
given that the child was growing normally
and would continue to do so, but the
expectation of life could only be assessed
at 20 to 22 years.
The judge said most of the blame for
the accident was attachable to Mrs Hunt.
The truck had been inadequately lit, but
if Mrs Hunt had not been negligent she
would not have driven into it.
Despite the judge’s warning that the
child would soon become too much for
one woman to handle and the advice of
a doctor that the Hunts should let him go
to an institution and adopt another child,
the couple have decided to keep him and
try to bring him up normally. “We just
couldn't let him go into some sort of
home where he would be kept all alone
and not given any opportunity to de-
velop,” said Mrs Hunt last week. “We
keep on thinking of Esther Costello and
Helen Keller, who was seven years old
before she began to get over some of her
disabilities.”


SPORT
The Great
Victorian Defeat
FROM MAX HARRIS IN ADELAIDE
JACK DYER
Strong man
After last week’s mighty Australian
Rules Football Carnival in Brisbane
there was an unexpected demand for
Melbourne newspapers in all the Aus-
tralian States (except poor N.S.W.). It
was not so much because Victoria had
been toppled from its place as champion
State of Australian Rules for the first
time since 1924. Keen observers have
seen the day coming for the past couple
of years. It was purely for the diversion
of seeing how the Victorian sporting
press would react.
From Perth to Brisbane whoever could
lay hands on a tattered Melbourne paper
received choice entertainment. Apart
from photographs of the Victorian team
staggering into Essendon like stunned
and crippled war refugees, the national
carnival was still relegated to its usual
insignificance under the normal club
reports. The perfunctory “Sun” report
made no mention of the fact that
Western Australia became the champion
football State by out-bashing, out-
bumping, out-playing and out-scoring the
18 most accomplished players to be
found in Victorian Teague. It appeared
that Melbourne had failed in Brisbane’s
sunny drizzle because the team finished
up with only 17 players on the ground
(no reference to the fact that this had
happened in the closing minutes of play
when W.A. were beating Victoria to the
ball so convincingly that it wouldn't have
made any difference if Victoria had 28
players on the ground). The “Sun” report
suggested, as if W.A. had been guilty of
unfair tactics, that Victorian champion
Aylett had been bumped out of the
game. This coming from the State which
has produced strong men like Jack Dyer
and prides itself on having invented foot-
ball “vigor” produced hoots of laughter
that could be heard across the Nullarbor.
Meantime the return of the Western
heroes produced the nearest thing to
a mass riot ever seen at Perth airport.
South Australia joined in the general
hilarity, revelling in Victoria’s further
discomfiture. At the end of the carnival
the Australian National Football Coun-
cil named its All-Australian team as
usual, and only five Victorians made the
All-Australian grade as against seven
South Australians and six Western Aus-
tralians. It has been the normal conven-
tion for Victoria to produce at least ten
of the 18 All-Australians!
For a New South Welshman or a
Queenslander to understand the socio-
logical import of all this, he has to
understand the curious Victorian obses-
sion with football as a kind of status
symbol and religious cult at one and the
same time. I recently attended a St
Kilda - Fitzroy game with a group of
otherwise intelligent journalists. As a
South Australian I was startled by the
kindly condescension of my companions
. . . 1 was offered the joys of the game
as if a chalice were being placed to my
lips; the sacrament was explained to
me in simple terms ; I was watched to
see how breathlessly J admired what
must surely have been my first game of
real football. I felt as alien as a little
ant man from a hopeless planet. Aus-
tralia has few real regional psychoses—-
but football megalomania is the admitted
Victorian disorder
Victorian football standards are not
declining. Far from it. What has hap-
pened is that S.A., W.A., and Tasmania
have slowly but surely learned the ruthless
tactics of Melbourne footbali, and begun
to apply them.
The first big showdown came with
the Victoria-S.A. game at Adelaide last
year. With Victoria scarcely aware of
it, South Australia, traditionally the home
of tiggy-touchwood football, had under-
gone a revolution. Killer Killigrew, the
coaching genius imported from Victoria,
had turned the district team of Norwood
into a typical Melbourne side—vigorous,
hard-bumping, strength-sapping players.
Independently Port Adelaide had for
years been developing a football
“machine” based on the big man as
against the fancy position player. To
cap the whole process West Adelaide had
produced the perfect iron-man leader in
Neil Kerley. Consequently South Aus-
tralia sprang the surprise of a decade
on the Victorians in 1960. Victoria’s ace
rovers were “slaughtered” in the first
quarter, and even the heavyweight ruck-
men were clouted into submission by
some of the fastest, toughest tackling
ever seen in the code, Victoria made sure
it didn't happen the second time that
season.
But the pattern had been set for the
1961 carnival. It began with South Aus-
tralia meeting Victoria, and attempting
to repeat the 1960 result. They went in
hip to hip for three torrid quarters,
matching the Victorians every inch of the
way. But by the last quarter they had
bruised away their strength, and the
quality which makes Victorian football
predominant, supreme physical condition,
came out on top. Victoria raced away
in the last quarter.
But South Australia later came out
and defeated Western Australia in what
must have been a far less hostile occasion.
By the final day Victoria had had its fair
share of Victorian-style football, been on
the receiving end of a respectable crop
of injuries, and in the second half
Western Australia hit them with every-
thing they had. A rash of fights broke
out, but the Western Australians were
the less intimidated.
The television screen told the tale of
that historic last quarter in fine detail.
The Victorian footballers still showed
out superior in finesse, team understand-
ing, and ball anticipation. They lacked
only one thing as the final siren sounded
—and to say this is to invite a mob-
lynching in Collins Street: they lacked
appetite for the body clashes. In the
end the mice were roaring and the lion
was playing tiggy-touchwood.
CRIME
The Rowell Forgeries
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
Although they profess to be quite
baffled, it is hardly possible the Mel-
bourne C. 1.8. has not a fair idea of who
were the perpetrators of the £6500 forgery
on the joint account of Sir Sydney and
Lady Rowell at the head office of the
Commonwealth Bank.
The forgers knew the money was in the
account, both on June 14 when a cheque
book was obtained in the Rowell name
and on June 16 when the money was
drawn. They knew only one signature
was necessary for a withdrawal. They
knew that one of the signatures should
be preceded by “B.M. and S. F Rowell
per ...”
The police now are engaged on the
task of discovering the make of type-
writer used to type all the words on the
cheque, except the signature, and then,
if possible, the machine itself, a long,
formidable trail, made fainter by the
fact that the forgery was not discovered
f° r almost five weeks,
The cheque was made out to Allan
Roberts, a fictitious name since neither
of the Rowells know one, and after
having telephoned on the morning of
June 16 that a substantial cheque would
be presented in the afternoon, the forger,
or the man he sent, waited ten minutes
at the bank waiting for the signature to


be passed by the bank’s examiner and
for sufficient of the £lO notes he requested
to be brought to the teller to pay him.
The Rowell forgery is claimed to have
been the best in copying for years ; it
was certainly copybook in execution.
The bank’s decision to make good the
loss to the Rowells, who are not rich
citizens, was a handsome compensation
for their shock.
Although in 1955, Melbourne bankers
were claiming that forgery was a dying
art because of the precautions that were
continually being introduced in new inks
and papers, forged cheques for large
amounts are continually being cashed in
Collins street. The principal losers in
recent years have been bookmakers,
multiple-shops and trust funds. One
smart fellow can wash out even Not
Negotiable stampings with tap water.
BOMBS
Suing the
R.A.A.F.?
FROM KEITH WILLEY IN DARWIN
Tn Darwin the R.A.A.F. had hit trouble
A again. The outcry followed its recent
bombing exercises on the range at
Leanyer Swamp, only four miles from
the residential suburb of Nightcliff. Con-
cussion from the powerful 500-pounders
split walls, opened up door joists, and
cracked ceilings. Insurance assessors are
at work and legal action against the
R.A.A.F. is under discussion.
Even before this, the Air Force had
roused some anger over Quail Island, an
idyllic spot around the coast from Dar-
win. Until it became a bombing range
and a restricted area a few years ago,
it was a favorite fishing spot and week-
end picnic rendezvous.
But the Leanyer Swamp range has
been causing more immediate concern
for some time. A few years ago a
Darwin businessman, out for a picnic
with his family, was startled by the
shock of bombs exploding almost within
lethal distance A runaway aboriginal
convict gave himself up to police after
one R.A.A.F. practice. “Too much boom-
boom allabout,” he complained. He
assumed the planes were after him and
that things were getting too hot.
The local R.A.A.F. commander,
Group-Captain Dixie Chapman, com-
mented on the Nightcliff damage: “I
really am sorry for the people affected
and for any inconvenience caused, but
we have to use the range and it has
been there a long time. There might be
a parallel in a person building his house
alongside a piggery that had been estab-
lished for ten years and then complaining
°f the smell.”
But members of the Nightcliff Com-
munity Association were hopping mad.
One citizen said: “In any case of a
P'ggery annoying citizens it would be
the piggery that would be shifted —not
the houses.” The betting is that the
bombing range will be moved fast.
Tanner
THE WHITE MAN'S BURDEN


POLITICAL POINTS
The Graziers
Serve Notice
By MUGGA
GORDON CHALK
Jeered
Queensland political history was made
in Roma recently as angry graziers
gathered from all parts of south-west
Queensland to register a protest against
the “Socialist” nature of their Country
Party - Liberal coalition Government
Attendance of more than 600 made it
the iargest Country party meeting ever
held in the Maranoa, and the meeting
flatly rejected a personal plea from the
Premier, Mr F. Nicklin, to support his
controversial State Transport Act of 1960.
The Liberal party Transport Minister,
Mr Gordon Chalk, attended the meeting
by special invitation from the Premier
and spoke for 90 minutes. He was
heckled and jeered at, and his legislation
ridiculed
If it did nothing else the meeting
demonstrated the essential virility of the
Country party rank and file in what is,
after all, practically the birthplace of the
party ; and must have shocked State
machine leaders and the Country party
Cabinet who appear to have totally
ignored rank and file feeling on much of
its legislation, particularly that revolving
around transport and land administration.
Roma’s meeting to discuss transport was
called by the Premier himself following
a fantastic protest meeting held at Dalby
three weeks ago. Organised by Country
party rank and file members, including
graziers, farmers, sawmillers, merchants,
etc., the Dalby meeting was open to the
general public, and attracted an attend-
ance finally estimated at over 1500, prob-
ably the largest rural political meeting
ever held in Queensland. With only three
dissentients, the meeting carried a motion
demanding complete repeal of the State
Transport Act of 1960.
The State Transport Act of 1960 has
been described as one of the most illiberal
and authoritarian measures ever put on
Australian Statute books. The Act elimi-
nated the system by which road operators
in southern Queensland were granted
franchises to certain areas, in which they
were compelled to charge railway freights
and pay 20 per cent, of their gross revenue
to the State. Franchise holders were
refused compensation for vast sums spent
in developing these areas. In place of
the franchise system, an allegedly “open
road” policy was introduced, under which
any operator could obtain a permit to
cart goods on payment of a certain fee.
The fee was fixed at a maximum of 3d.
a ton-mile on the registered carrying
capacity of the truck. For inter-town
hauliers this has meant payment of large
sums of money on thin air. To Roma,
for instance, a distance of 320 miles from
Brisbane, the tax works out at £4 a ton
where the truck is fully loaded. Where
half-loaded trucks are sent out to main-
tain faith with schedules, however, the
tax is £8 a ton, and so on in proportion
to loading percentage. On top of this,
regulations introduced under the Act have
prohibited hauliers outside a radius of
100 miles from carrying goods such as
cement, steel, galvanised iron, wine, beer
and spirits, which have become the exclu-
sive preserve of the State's antiquated,
inefficient, and inadequate railway ser-
vices. Banning of these goods has
seriously affected country hauliers in
obtaining full-loadings.
Further bitterness has been caused by
two extraordinary features of the admini-
stration of the Act in that within a 25
mile radius no vehicle capacity tax is
applied, while under 100 miles there are
no prohibitions. Approximately half the
population of the State lives within a 25
mile radius of Brisbane, and well over
half within 100 miles radius. Not one
Liberal party electorate, therefore, is hit
by the Act, and country people claim
that they are being asked to carry railway
losses under a purely sectional tax. The
Act, among other things, specifically
denies road hauliers the right of appeal
to a court of law against decisions by the
Transport Minister and/or Transport
Commissioner (an extraordinary piece of
legislation for a Government which
promised to bring down a Bill of Rights).
It also makes provision for police and
“authorised officers” to break into the
homes and offices of hauliers and seize
records without a warrant.
The meeting, at times rowdy and always
hostile, overwhelmingly carried a seven-
point motion instructing the Government
to “take immediate action” to implement
amendments which would, in effect,
destroy the Act, and remove sectional
burdens. Both the Premier and Mr Chalk
left in their respective cars shortly after
the meeting. Crowning insult for Mr
Chalk was to have his windscreen broken
on the return trip by a stone flung up
from a road transport truck.
The next move now in the transport
war is up to Cabinet. One thing is
certain —a decision to ignore the Roma
recommendations will almost surely
sound the death knell for the Country
party in the next State elections.
UNIVERSITIES
Hands into Pockets
for the Orr Fund
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
S. S. ORR
Unemployed
IyriNETY lecturers and professors of Syd-
ney University met last week to find
a way of getting themselves out of a
ridiculous position. The University Staff
Associations have condemned the Univer-
sity of Tasmania time and time again
over its handling of the Orr case, the
University has been excommunicated oy
the Federal Council of University Staff
Associations, they have regularly de-
manded that the case be re-opened, the
philosophers have boycotted the Philo-
sophy Chair . . . and yet nothing much
happens. The University of Tasmania
remains unmoved and continues to get
staff, while Orr remains unemployed, and
seems no closer to achieving his main
object—“the resumption of his chair.”
Now that W. H. Eddy’s book “Orr,”
which is a detailed presentation of Orr’s
case, has appeared, Orr’s supporters feel
that some more effective steps must be
taken, or, as Professor A. K. Stout puts
it, “it would be the end of the case.” The
Universities of New England and of
N.S.W. had each established a fund to
assist Orr. What would Sydney do? A
questionnaire was sent to all staff mem-
bers asking if they favored setting up a
Sydney fund. Of the 80 who answered, a
majority said yes.
At the meeting the committee wanted
to get things rolling with a resolution
stating that there is “a definite possibility”
that Orr has been the victim of an in-
justice. Since there was a general feeling
that this was a namby-pamby sort of
statement. Professor McManners, for-
merly of the University of Tasmania,
moved that the meeting should rather


adopt the conclusions reached by the
Federal Council's Committee of Inquiry
into the case, the most important of which
was: "The University of Tasmania, in
the procedures which led to Professor
Orr's dismissal, manifestly failed to do
him ‘natural justice.’ ” This motion was
carried almost unanimously with only
one voice—a female one —firmly saying
“No.”
Having cleared the decks the question
of what financial steps should be taken
was then dealt with. The committee had
claimed that “Orr is a fellow-academic
who has been deprived of his livelihood.”
On the face of it this was a strange
claim since Orr had only been sacked
from one job—the sort of thing that
happens to people every day—and there
is nothing to stop him applying for othei
jobs in philosophy on the mainland ; or
if the circumstances are as grave as they
are alleged to be. there is nothing to stop
his fellow academics who support his
cause so fervently from establishing a
special job or foundation to enable him
to continue his philosophic studies.
As for the first suggestion Professor
A. K Stout said that, given “the plain
hard facts of life,” there was no point in
Orr applying for any job in the mainland
universities. As for the second sugges-
tion, after some vague discussion it was
left in the air.
But it was agreed to establish a volun-
tary fund to assist Orr, with details to be
settled later. There was also agreement on
one point: the money should not be spent
“enriching lawyers in a hopeless cause.”
ft may, however, “enrich” them all the
same. The Federal Council is at the
moment getting legal opinion whether Orr
has grounds for a defamation action
against the University of Tasmania for
] ts publication of a pamphlet “The Case
°f the University of Tasmania against
$• S. Orr.”
“Your Grace! This IS a surprise !”
RELIGION
Dr Wood on Birth Control
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
VX/hile the Protestant Churches do not
oppose birth control, it is rare to
find their ministers advocating it publicly.
Recently, however, one of Victoria’s
leading Methodist spokesmen, the Rev.
Dr A. H. Wood, told a Melbourne
University audience that birth control
was a sheer necessity to check the present
increase in world population. “It is
surely not the will of God that children
should be brought into the world to
die of starvation,” Dr Wood said, “it is
not offending any theological principles
to realise that we are called to co-operate
with God in creative activity in recogni-
tion of the fact.”
Alfred Harold Wood, 65, has been
principal of the Methodist Ladies College
since 1939, and for many years held
leading offices in his Church. He retired
last year as Methodism’s Australian
president-general and prior to that he
was secretary-general. His forceful pub-
lic utterances on a wide range of topics
have done much to create the picture
of Methodism in Victoria ,-s Left-wing
wowserism.
Over the years Dr Wood has attacked
liquor, lotteries, indecent gramophone
records, nuclear bomb tests, “Capitalists
who published filth in print at the expense
of the morals of Australian youth,”
U 2 flights over Russia, the White Aus-
tralia policy, State aid for Church schools
and clergymen who charge fees for con-
ducting funeials. He has a strongly
developed social conscience over the
plight of the aged and other neglected
minorities and has gone on record in
support of scholarships for Pacific island
peoples (he was once a missionary in
Tonga) and for summit meetings.
Like so many Victorian clergymen,
Dr Wood was at one time drawn into
the “Peace Movement,*’ but his dalliance
was short. In 1953 he was co-chairman
with the Presbyterian Rev. Eric Owen
of the National Convention on Peace and
War, one of the many shapes assumed
by the “Peace Movement.” The Prime
Minister, Mr Menzies, at a private inter-
view showed Dr Wood what was claimed
to be documentary evidence of Commu-
nist control of the convention. Dr Wood
said he was not entirely persuaded, but
in view of his responsibilities to his
college, withdrew from the convention.
Mr Owen carried on, but after the
convention was over he published a
booklet which blew the gaffe on Com-
munist operations in the movement.
Since then Dr Wood has been a kind
of independent advocate on peace
through nuclear disarmament, keeping
clear of organised peace movements and
often making it clear that he has not
time for Communism.
Dr Wood’s advocacy of birth control
will, of course, annoy Catholics,
but it is doubtful that this will worry
him. In his statements on church union,
he has always confined himself to the
prospect of the Protestant denominations
getting together. In raising the birth-
control issue Dr Wood was only doing
so in the context of the problems of the
world’s impoverished peoples, a subject on
which his interest and sincerity have long
been apparent. Nevertheless, in an in-
direct way his remarks will help per-
petuate the Protestant-Catholic division.


MINING
The End of the
Collinsville Drama
FROM FRANK ROBERTS IN BRISBANE
E. EVANS
No pique
“t»7e see no reason why the mine can’t
W pay,’’ the managing director of
Davis Contractors Pty Ltd, Mr J. E.
Thornton, said in masterly understate-
ment after his company had agreed to
buy the Collinsville State Coal Mine
from the Queensland Government. Only
Davis Contractors and the Government's
geologists could know the mine’s future
potential, but in 1959 it produced 137.586
tons of coal valued at £491,318.
One of the two deep mines on the
Bowen fie’d, it contains mechanical
equipment which cost about £500,000 to
install a few years ago, and when it was
closed last April the geologists had driven
a shaft to within seven feet of a promis-
ing new seam. ”Jt was certainly not over-
looked by the Government. They were
fully conscious of it.” said Mr Thornton
on his way through Brisbane.
A contract is yet to be signed, but
the new owners tendered, and the Gov-
ernment has verbally accepted, a round
sum of £200.000 plus 2s. a ton for all
coal mined in the next ten years—which
would amount to a total of £137,000 on
1959 production figures. The Govern-
ment expects to gain about £200,000 over
ten years in two bobs, which indicates
that 1960 production was higher. At that
rate, Mr Thornton's company should be
able to make the mine pay.
It already has a record of success in
running the adjacent Bowen Consoli-
dated Mine at Scottsville, where 1959
production was only 2000 tons more
than Collinsville's, and value of coal
about £10,000 higher. Scottsville ran at
a profit and Collinsville at a substantial
loss, which the Government has variously
quoted as £70.000 and £100.000 a year.
Meanwhile in the mining township of
Collinsville 100 or so men are wondering
when they will go back to work again.
They are the unemployed lemainder of
the 240 thrown idle in April, some of
whom have gone elsewhere, while some
have been taken on at Scottsville.
Davis Contractors has not promised
to reopen the mine immediately, if at
all. The company has a N.S.W. firm of
mining consultants looking things over,
with particular regard to the new seam.
If this proves to be worthwhile, the mine
will probably be relocated to take advan-
tage of it.
So ends the drama of Collinsville,
which briefly shook Queensland last
April when the Government suddenly
closed the mine and offered it for sale,
and the trade-union movement threatened
to declare war.
There was high talk of combined
action, of stoppages and reprisals, but
by May the whole issue appeared for-
gotten —a regression which the Nicklin-
Morris Government is not likely to over-
look next time it decides to act firmly
against militants, real or imaginary.
For although the Queensland Minister
for Mines, Mr Evans, denied a Bulletin
statement that Collinsville appeared to
have been closed in a fit of pique, the
Government has never been able to show
that the miners had a bad work record,
even by adjacent privately owned Scotts-
ville standards, for attendance and pro-
duction.
Now the selling price of Collinsville
suggests that the Government was simply
tired of losing money on the mine and
wanted to get rid of it, together with
the troubles of hiring and firing
managers, and searching for markets for
its coal. At any rate, this won’t be the
last Queensland people hear of Collins-
ville. The Government may have rid
itself of the embarrassment of ownership,
but Davis Contractors will still need
miners to work the mine.
ACTORS
Getting into the Act
FROM AN ADELAIDE CORRESPONDENT
T AST week actors and entertainers
' became virtually Adelaide’s first
“white collar” workers to join the Trades
and Labor Council, if you can use such
a term for people whose work obliges
them to wear anything from dinner suits
to dungarees. Unlike S.A. journalists,
who last year rejected their State com-
mittee’s proposal to link up with the
Labor Council, the one-year-old Actors’
Equity felt it could raise its members
from their present status as a "depressed
class” by joining.
As Equity’s State secretary Cliff Neate
expressed it: “Joining the Council is
fairly essential from our point of view.
If we’re to get any uniformity of condi-
tions we need to join other unionists.
The Theatrical Employees’ Union is a
member, so is the Musicians’ Union. At
the present time the rates our people are
paid don’t conform to anything at all.
We have to depend on whatever the
individual employer likes to pay, and
some peculiar conditions exist. There
are cases when different entertainers get
different fees for exactly the same work.”
To exist at all in Adelaide’s restricted
entertainment game means becoming a
jack-of-all-trades. Even the most suc-
cessful, like Neate himself, have to
do half-a-dozen jobs—not only acting,
but compering on radio and TV, writing
scripts, interviewing. If it were not for
the fact that the A.B.C. runs its own
Schools Broadcasts in S.A., actors would
all be on the breadline—and even the
A.B.C. has a different scale of payment
for “lesser States”; that is, anywhere out-
side N.S.W. or Victoria. There is no
professional theatre in Adelaide, apart
from an occasional touring company
from elsewhere, almost nothing on com-
mercial TV, and antiquated laws make
it hard for nightclubs to sponsor floor
shows because it is considered immoral
to drink a glass of wine, let alone stronger
liquor, after 10 p.m.
However, Equity feels that a State
which expects its population to top the
million mark next year must soon achieve
a social life not run entirely in favor
of churchwarden: and is trying to build
the entertainment industry by striving for
rewards in keeping with the standard
of talent already available. First Equity
branch outside the Eastern States, it has
already 66 members and believes it can
recruit as many again from people work-
ing at least part-time in ballet and
variety.
Until last year, Mr Neate told us, the
A.B.C. was the only employing body of
any account. But the growth of TV,
which has fostered several new advertis-
ing agencies, now makes a little extra
work possible, especially in the field of
light entertainment or commercials. All
the same, Equity members feel their big
hope lies in present efforts being made
through the Arbitration Court to secure
a Federal Award that will cover their
work in all States. Equity is now organ
ising towards the same end in Queens-
land, while efforts are being made to
form branches in W.A. and Tasmania.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Silence as a Weapon
The Bulletin seems to have become
miraculously blessed with the gift to
strike silent those who are usually most
vociferous. More than three months
ago we exposed the activities of a Com-
munist in the Social Studies Department
at Melbourne University. Nothing has
been produced to refute what we said;
a whole university that rightly burst into
flames of protest against the Archbishop
of Sydney when he talked vaguely about
universities has not even yet regained the
power of speech when faced with our
specific charges.
And now a month has passed since Alan
Reid reported W. F. Phillips’s charges
against the Seamen’s Union in The
Bulletin. At the time of writing we
have not had one “spontaneous demon-
stration” or one official statement from
a union that usually takes only a few
hours to put up an intimidatory show
when it thinks there is good reason to
employ intimidation. On this occasion
it has chosen silence—except for an
unofficial article by Mr Fred Wells, which
will be published next week. It cannot
deny the truth of what we have said.
But that is not why it is silent. It is
silent because it does not want to give
any publicity to our charges. Its whole
apparatus of false demonstrations (staged
at lunch hours to get maximum atten-
tion) is designed to get its phoney
“claims” into the newspapers; the last
thing in the world the Seamen’s Union
would want to do would be to give pub-
licity to The Bulletin articles.
Imagine it. Alan Reid’s report des-
cribed this union as one that has gun-
men, standover men and some of the
biggest thieves in Sydney as its asso-
ciates. It described how members of the
union are intimidated into silence by
threats of violence —and even of murder;
how the union is run to deliberately
wreck the industry its members draw
their livelihood from; how even reading
matter in the crews’ quarters on ships
may be censored by Communists; how
elections are run in a way that puts union
officials in a position to know how every
member voted. He has said all this —-
and more. And there has been no dis-
claimer from the union. Can any sen-
sible person seriously believe that these
charges are not true when no one from
the union makes any attempt to dis-
claim them? Is it possible to imagine
a union which had a clean skin not
denying these charges indignantly and at
the first possible moment? Or is a
sense of honor so low in Australia that
those who are attacked but do not defend
themselves are not automatically assumed
to be guilty?
In the circles where these articles can
have their greatest effect —in the union
movement itself —this guilty silence will
not go unnoticed. It is fortunate for Aus-
tralia that a band of Australian unionists
distinguish themselves from the rest of
the community by actively carrying on
the fight for decency and democracy
when most of the rest of us —politicians,
businessmen, intellectuals —blather away
without ever bothering to acquaint our-
selves with facts, or believe them when
they are thrust under our noses. In
some ways it is this kind of unionist
who is doing the real fighting for demo-
cracy in Australia.
Who is to Give the Orders?
This week’s tribal rioting in Rabaul,
-*- so soon after the riots early this year
in Madang, Lae, Bulolo and Port
Moresby, suggests that the Australian
Administration may soon have a big
pacification problem on its hands. As
trade unions begin to emerge despite
Government coolness, as the pool of
disgruntled semi-skilled unemployed in-
creases around the townships, as independ-
ence in Dutch New Guinea draws nearer,
as the idea of self-government becomes
more general (at the last meeting of the
U.N. Trusteeship Council an absurd
Russian resolution calling for full im-
mediate self-government was defeated by
only one vote) the conditions favoring
discontent and rioting increase rather
than diminish—without even taking tribal
hatreds into account. Nor is it scare-
mongering to raise the question to what
extent the native soldiers can be relied on
in view of their mutiny in Port Moresby
in January when they assaulted Austra-
ia ” °*T Cers ‘ .. • ,
At the same time civilisation is only
too obviously spread very thin in New
Guinea. A few weeks ago. for example,
a Catholic Bishop told a Madang magis-
trate’s court of his experiences in a village
a few miles from Madang. He had heard
confession, said Mass and led the
villagers in a religious procession. After
they had sung some more hymns a leader
asked him if he would kill a black rooster
to purify the village. When he declined
the leader brought a middle-aged native
with a reputation for being something of
a seer from behind a fence. The seer
raised his arms. With a knife three
inches wide and two feet long the leader
slit the seer’s throat. He thrashed to
death at the astonished Bishop's feet.
His flock, however, seemed satisfied.
In conditions of this kind widespread
rioting of the proportions of a mass
movement could easily take the ghastly
form familiar to us in parts of Africa.
Who is to organise the necessary counter-
violence? Who is to give the orders?
There is no New Guinea elite, not one
Papuan administrator, not one economist,
not one lawyer, not one journalist, not
one university graduate. The Govern-
ment’s policy of “uniform development”
has meant that there are no native leaders
trained in the rules of law and civilisation,
Pacification, in other words, will have to
be organised by the Australians, and in
the eyes of the world and New Guinea
it will look like a racialist colonialist war
on the Angola pattern. Our reputation
in Asia and the world will be destroyed,
despite the fact that we have no colonialist
ambitions in New Guinea and are com-
mitted in the Prime Minister’s words to
leaving the island “sooner rather than
later.”
To avoid thig sort of development,
which to say the least is a very conceiv-
,, , U J , ~. • '
ab e ° ne ’ * eony ° u 10 , p n P
educational programme on the Du ch
* mes anc * hand responsibility to the
Papuans The day before the riots began
in Rabaul Mr Paul Hasluck said in Perth
that we will have to administer New
Guinea for another 30 years. Obviously,
speaking in the abstract, we need to
administer it for at least this period and
probably for much longer. But local
and international conditions will not allow
us this long. If the killings in Rabaul
force Mr Hasluck to revise his plans and
launch a Dutch-style crash programme
for producing a set of New Guinea leaders
capable of assuming responsibility for
running their country as quickly as
possible, they will at least have served
some purpose.
By OBSERVER


The Outcasts of the A.B.C.
Channel 2 Goes "Authentic"
By M. H. ELLIS
ONE of the TV programmes which is being most
forcibly brought to the notice of historians is
ABN’s Channel 2 essay in Australian drama, con-
sisting successively of two episodic goodie and
baddie pieces called “Stormy Petrel” and “The Outcasts.”
Goodies and Baddies can be fine entertainment. The
trouble is that the A.B.C. takes itself too seriously, with
the result that viewers are likely to think they are look-
ing at authentic history. I have no quarrel with the series
as fiction. For those who like their historical drama pre-
sented in the Alfred Dampier manner, with shouting, weep-
ing, oppression of the weak, all the characters pure-white or
pure-black in morals and the dialogue scissored out of
volumes seven to ten of the “Historical Records of Aus-
tralia,” the series is good, clean fun. But viewers should
not take them as historical gospel, even though the A.B.C.
has informed me that Mr Rienits. the author, has “made
a diligent and patient search of numerous historical records
and publications in order to establish a degree of authen-
ticity and has consulted manuscript scores too numerous
to mention in the Mitchell Library and in the ‘New South
Wales State Archives’ also “that the author’s intent is
that there be authenticity in the characterisations and set-
tings of the period on which the story is based.”
The word “authenticity” has been overworked in the
publicity for the series, but in fact, it is only the kind of
authenticity that one finds in the Daisy Ashford master-
piece “The Young Visiters” and in cartoons in German
comic papers of Highlanders. The overall picture in “The
Outcasts” is false in detail as far as it depicts trends, events
and atmosphere. Dr Redfern. its hero, was certainly not, as
the announcer has declared, the “central figure” in Mac-
quarie’s fight for the emancipist rehabilitation. He was not
the humanitarian he is pictured. He was actually a rather
unbalanced fellow who became skilled as a medico, and
who in later life went out of his mind (like some other
early colonists). He was not Macquarie’s number-one
choice as medico. He used Dr Wentworth when available
Mr Rienits’s Baddie No. i. in the series, the Rev
Samuel Marsden, and even less his Baddie No. 2, Lieut-
Colonel Molle, Lieutenant-Governor and commanding
officer of the 46th Regiment, are no more real or faithfully
painted than his saintly No 1 Goodie. In fact. MoJle was
not very black at all —and his name was not pronounced
“Moll” as the A.B.C. sometimes pronounces it. Marsden’s
hardness is overdone, and Mr Rienits forgets his virtues
and great services to the country, while exaggerating some
of his worst traits. Or perhaps the actor exaggerates.
After about 30 years’ experience of the Macquarie era
during which I have, 1 think, read every available scrap of
authentic contemporary paper about it (though no “manu-
script scores.” nor yet the phantom Wales
Archives), I thought I had a pretty close acquaintance with
the characters and the setting of most of those who flourished
at the time. I thought I knew, for instance, how a convict
was handled when he came into the presence of the Gover-
nor. But apparently all my conceptions about the respect
demanded even in the most enlightened and easy-going
circles from convicts are all wrong, because I find in
Mr Rienits’s world Mr Francis Greenway. a convict
still doing time, and only four months in the colony, is
allowed to wander round Macquarie’s vice-regal sanctum
dressed up to the nines, with Macquarie treating him as an
equal and interlarding conversation with the words “you


and I. Greenway”; and, in fact, so engrossed with him that
he forgets that the Supreme Court Judge (referred to as the
“Chief Judge.” which he was not) is coming to pay his
ceremonial call after arrival in N. S. Wales. The Governor
j s so enthralled with Mr Greenway’s company that he is
obviously annoyed at being interrupted. He does not even
(jo the arriving dignitary the courtesy of asking him to be
seated, and he and his judicial visitor rage round the room,
forgetting that they are both men who normally observe
the punctilio of high society. They shout at each other
phrases which Mr Rienits, with notable prescience, has
culled from the dispatches written some months later.
Macquarie, of course, fiercely resented the slander
which the A.B.C. perpetuates that he gave a “general
preference” in society to persons who had been convicts.
All he had done, he said, was to give “a very few” emanci-
pated men of education, whose conduct had been good for
many years, the benefit of their reform.
He did not dispute the right in particular of officers
of the regiment, birds-of-passage, in the colony to choose
their associates and to lefuse to entertain ex-convicts. This,
in Mr Rienits's mind, seems to brand them as everything
bad: as drunken, snobbish sots of no account. Let us illus-
trate this with the incident of Ensign Bullivant’s indiscre-
tion —first the fact, then Mr Rienits’s fancy.
The ensign, a beardless boy of 19. while on duty in the
Officers' Room at the Main Guard, was moved to caricature
the Governor in “an ignominious posture” in charcoal on
the wall. Young subalterns are frequently assailed by such
impulses. A couple of other bright lads added their contri-
butions and there the caricature remained until Colonel
Molle heard about it. ordered it washed off and prepared
to court-martial the author, who was saved only because
Macquarie forgave him on account of his “youth and inex-
perience.” Those are the facts. But Mr Rienits presents
things differently.
In this seriakthe Lieutenant-Governor (Baddie Molle),
is discovered sitting at the end of what appears to be a
kitchen table furnished only with a cheap water carafe full
of plonk, flanked by three or four of his officers. They are
all roaring drunk, singing (Baddie Molle included) and dis-
orderly. The Colonel is cheering on the artistic efforts of his
junior ensign, and presently rises and personally adds boms
and a tail to the caricature. Then enters Captain Antill
dressed up like a tin soldier in full parade uniform leading
Dr Redfern who has the air of a shying mare. Those present
unanimously insult him in a manner which undoubtedly
would have compelled Antill to challenge the lot of them if
he wished to remain in the Army. But all he does is to sneak
off to tell on them to the Governor, while His Excellency,
Lieutenant-Governor Baddie Molle. seizes the carafe of
plonk and drunkenly fills the glasses of his juniors.
TTHE outlook which led the regiment to show particular
repugnance to entertaining Redfern is clearly under-
standable. The circumstances of his transportation were
these: In 1797 England was facing a position much like
that at the time of Dunkirk. Western Europe was united
against her. Her Navy had been driven out of the Medi-
terranean. the country, as Professor G. M. Trevelyan puts
it. was at “the nadir of our fortunes and reputation.” At
this terrible juncture there broke out in the Navy at the
Nore a mutiny—not like the earlier one at Spithead. “an
effective strike of loyal men” —but a senseless outburst of
malcontents which threatened the safety of the country and
was “deeply resented by all loyal sailors and citizens.” In
this Redfern. a warrant-officer surgeon’s mate, was one of
the few officers who joined. He urged on the mutineers.
He was arrested and transported. Despite his good conduct
and his gradually acquired medical skill, the attitude of
both the Home Government and the officers towards him
was understandable. It was possibly the nature, not the
measure, of his crime that prevented him from becoming
chief surgeon of the colony, and it was this which influenced
all Macquarie’s advisers—some of them personal associates
of Redfern —to beg him not to try to force Commissioner
Bigge to agree to the surgeon’s appointment as a J.P.
I should not like to have been the officer who. having
done time for inciting and abetting mutiny on. say. H.M.A.S.
Sydney when Australia was in deadly peril at the time of
Pearl Harbor, turned up as a guest in Victoria Barracks
Mess. Sydney, in 1946. The attitude of the 46th Regimental
Mess, which had been for years on active service, would
certainly have been reproduced at the Victoria Barracks
in the presence of such an officer, no matter how respectable
he was otherwise.
Take another typical incident. The A.B.C.’s advance
publicity supports the Rienits view that emancipists founded
the Bank of New South Wales. We are shown Dr Redfern
doing the planning for it with slight help from the Gover-
nor’s private secretary. J. T. Campbell, and. of course, from
Tin Soldier Antill. his consistent off-sider. Fie is, moreover,


we notice, distressing his wife by putting all his savings,
£2OOO. into the venture, “risking everything” to get it
started.
The fact, of course, is that Macquarie planned the bank
after discussions with Lord Caledon, Governor of the Cape
of Good Hope, on the way from England. Caledon had on
the spot his fellow-Ulsterman, J. T. Campbell, a former
official of the Bank of Ireland, who had come to help him
found the Bank of the Cape of Good Hope. As soon as he
arrived in Sydney Macquarie submitted to the Home Gov-
ernment a plan to establish a bank, obviously drafted by
Campbell, who had come from the Cape as his secretary.
The Privy Council turned the scheme down, but in 1816
Macquarie decided to act on his own account and called a
meeting of merehants and officials to consider the idea.
It is singular that the chairman was Mr Rienits's No. 2
Baddie, Colonel Molle. the Lieutenant-Governor, and those
present were Judge Advocate Wylde, D’Arcy Wentworth,
Richard Jones, Alexander Riley. Thomas Macvitie. Robert
Jenkins. J. R. O'Connor, Richard Brooks, C. Hook. J. T.
Campbell, Simeon Lord and Thomas Wylde, solicitor. All
these were leading merchants, and financiers, and senior
officials, with only one emancipist among them —Simeon
Lord, whose descendants, incidentally, are legion in the
higher echelons of the bank's staff to this day and stud the
membership of the Pioneers’ Club like raisins in a Christ-
mas pudding. Redfern was not even present, but when the
share lists were opened he bought two £SO shares out of the
initial 105 and later was elected to the board. So far from
founding the bank, the few emancipists who were allowed
to take shares got in only on Macquarie’s firm insistence.
'T'HESE two incidents, the case of Bullivant and his boyish
caricature and Redfern’s bank-founding act, set the
general standard of authenticity in “The Outcasts” serial
and much of it is as laughable as the Hollywoodian scene
in which John Macarthur returns to Sydney to be welcomed
at the wharf by his middle-aged wife (looking less than her
years). For some reason she is dressed up like an Irish
colleen with a shawl over her head and, in the presence of
the grinning convictry, behaves in the clinches like a youthful
Elizabeth Taylor ( “O-o, John! It has been s-o-o long!”).
This remarkable scene, of course, did not occur, since
Macarthur’s arrival surprised them all and he did not see his
wife till he arrived in Parramatta. This is just as well, for
Mr Rienits has inserted into the scene a most incongruous
and fawning figure who seems to have come expressly to
conspire with the new arrival —Baddie No. 1, the Reverend
Samuel Marsden —Mr Macarthur. of course, having been
Baddie No. 1 in the “Stormy Petrel.”
If Mr Marsden had turned up Mr Rienits need have
troubled no further about him. Mr Macarthur. a doughty
snake-killer, would almost certainly, in his mood at that
time, have reached for a waddy to dispose of “Honest Sam
. . . that immaculate priest . . . that propagator of diabolical
falsehoods,” who was his pet hatred.
Perth: The
Do-it-yourself City
No outsider can buy or talk his way in
By JOHN GRAHAM
CHARLES COURT
“The spirit of the new age”
Climb to the top of Kings Park to look down on Perth
at night and your reaction to the view is a measure
of your status as a citizen of Perth. If you are a migrant
you are likely to feel a vague chill at the tiny circle of
light in the vast darkness of the bush around it. If you are
a true Perthian you will feel that you are standing at the centre
of the universe.
Perth is an artificial city like Canberra. Its port lies 10
miles away at the bottom of the Swan River, and only the
wharfies and the Italian fishermen live there by choice. The
city has no heavy industry. It does not look down on ships’
masts as Sydney does, nor is it backgrounded by the tangle
of railway lines that gives Melbourne the air of a miniature
Chicago. Commercially it is no more than a collection of
shops and offices bounded by the empty waters of the Swan
River on one side and the empty acres of Kings Park on
another.
Yet it is an entity in the sense that no other Australian
city is Because it is accidentally separated from the nearest
capital city by 1750 miles of scrub, and wilfully separated from
its port by 10 miles of shallow river, it has become insulated
to all outside forces to a remarkable degree. To say that Perth
is one of Australia’s loveliest cities has no meaning. It is the
capital city of Western Australia, which has nothing to do with
the rest of Australia.
In other cities it is best known for its relaxed way of life
and its hospitality. This is a view perpetuated by expatriate
Perthians who remember the good old days when you could
go prawning at the bottom of Barrack Street, and enthusiastic
visitors who are so overwhelmed with hospitality that they
come to believe that their hosts have nothing else to do but
drive them around the city all day.
In fact, the Perthian works as hard as the climate will
allow, perpetuating a tradition which stems directly from county
England. Though his manners are informal, his sense of social
convention is rigid and unyielding. He will welcome a casual
visitor like the prodigal son, yet he will hold aloof from a
migrant, even a fellow Australian, until he feels he has accepted
the Perthian values.
There is an element of Australianism amid the rose gardens


siid the clipped lawns, yet it is not a national Australianism
at any level. Parliament Plouse is a citadel of anti-Common-
wealth sentiment and the official mistrust of the kind of Federal
overlordship that creates artificial lakes at Canberra and refuses
to extend the country water scheme in the west filters down
through every level of home-grown society.
Despite these two outstanding traits which are working
against Perth's position as an Australian city, it is in a state
of flux and development which leaves its final character still
undetermined. Since the war it has taken in more migrants
than any other Australian city on a population basis and the
newcomers are now knocking at the door of dynastic control
which characterised its isolation up to 1939.
Sir Harry Howard, Lord Mayor of Perth for three terms,
is the chief symbol of migrant opportunity. He sports a
morning-coat, a bowler hat and an unmistakably Lancashire
accent and bosses the city with all the autocracy of a Forrest
or a Mitchell. He won the Commonwealth Games for Perth
from Adelaide's strong claim and is determined that by
November, 1962, the city will be ready to meet its moment of
destiny. Since the issue is that Perth can put on a better
show than Melbourne did in 1956, it probably will.
Proving that it can do things as well as the big boys in
the east, is one of the mainsprings of Perth’s present boom,
which has transformed the city in five years from a big country
town to a model city in a minor key. The Perthian who left
in 1956 and returned today would hardly recognise the
hunched city of those days. Perth is growing upwards rather
than outwards and its growth is the more impressive for that.
St George's Terrace —just the Terrace to those who still recog-
nise a good percentage of the faces that pass along it —is a
lovely street that will grow lovelier and shadier as the buildings
push upwards.
The T. and G. Building is going to be 18 storeys, dwarfing
the new Rural and industries Bank building which shot up to
an unprecedented 11 storeys only six months ago. The
Chevron Hilton Hotel was going to be the daddy of them all
until the credit squeeze dried up its finance, and so far it has
not even reached ground level. Over the river at South Perth
another major development project is still in the realm of
wordy promise. A group of Victorian businessmen signed a
deal 12 months ago to develop a large area of wasteland along
the Swan River foreshore into a £3,500,000 tourist attraction
and holiday playground. Its plans included 15-storey flats, an
open-air coliseum to seat 3500 people, a nine-hole golf-course
and a “hotel,” which was officially described as a floating
hotei. Six months later the directors announced that the credit
squeeze had forced the curtailment of its plans, but work
would start in two months’ time on a modified scheme. It has
still not started, ostensibly because of a legal wrangle over
title to some of the land.
"Derth has had plenty of experience with this kind of disap-
A pointment. Fhe city’s whole history is studded with the
names of spectacular promoters from the dreaming Thomas
Peel, who was going to start the Swan River colony with 10,000
free immigrants, and whose incompetence almost wrecked it,
to the suave Claude de Bernales, who built a Spanish castle
by the Indian Ocean on the proceeds of floating bogus gold-
mines.
Its preoccupation with boom to the detriment of develop-
ment is partly due to a naivete that is almost a State charac-
teristic, partly to a mystique of distance that has lured its
pioneers on epic journeys in search of green valleys they never
found. The Coolgardie goldrush also played a big part in
developing boom psychology. Subconsciously, the city still
waits for a similar event to provide its second renaissance.
What was called gold-fever in the 1890 s is now termed the
industrial break-through, but it amounts to the same dream of
cornucopia.
Despite its boom and bust history, Perth is a notably honest
city. The public service has a reputation for incorruptibility
in the best Whitehall tradition and the business community
guards its ethics jealously through a series of associations
based on the club principle. Though there are few autonomous
businesses, the pattern of outside financial control is not as
obvious as in other small States. The eastern States manufae-
turer tends to appoint an agent rather than a manager, and
though the local business community rails against eastern
States’, competition there are plenty of stately homes on the
Swan built on the proceeds of commission fees.
Lord Forrest extracted the Commonwealth Railways as
the price of Western Australia’s reluctant entry into the
Commonwealth, but if he had foreseen the effect of Section 92
of the Constitution on the local manufacturing industry he
might not have pressed so hard for the trans-continental lime.
In the business houses of Perth freedom of trade between the
States means the right of eastern States manufacturers to flood
the local market with excess goods or to price-cut on a com-
petitive line to throttle a W.A. manufacturer. When television
came to Perth not quite two years ago, the big manufacturers
sent sets westward by the shipload and the price-cutting war
that followed left many a depleted bank account and at least
two liquidations. The Perth retailers said the manufacturers
were forcing them to buy in large quantities, but there was
plenty of evidence that the recurring dream of cornucopia
might have led them to over-enthusiastic orders.
Being a Perthian in the traditional sense leads to a delight-
ful tolerance and a comfortable sense of patronage towards
those unlucky enough not to know the advantages of belonging.
A Perthian may be born into citizenship or he may acquire
it by the acceptance of its values, but no outsider can buy or
talk his way in.
/'Ance you are in, the world is a comfortable place revolving
around the Weld Club, the Peppermint Grove parties, golf
at Karrinyup and yachting at Freshwater Bay if you are in
the top drawer, or a baked asbestos cottage at Nollamarra,
fishing at City Beach and back-garden beer parties if you are
in the bottom drawer. On all social levels you will accept
Jews, Catholics, Asians and any other minority groups as long
as they subscribe to the Perthian virtues. You will spend all
the time you can outdoors and you will be an active participant
in some kind of sport as well as a compulsive football watcher
on winter Saturday afternoons. You will lead an active social
life and have a wide circle of friends on your own social level,
but you will not attempt to move outside it because there is no
point in doing so when the people at the top have the same
values as the people at the bottom.
This do-it-yourself society also looks inwards for its
cultural values. The tradition of supporting local artists was
born in isolation and persists today to the despair of inter-
state and overseas entrepreneurs. Almost the only imported
shows that have made solid money in Perth in the last couple
of years have been Winifred Atwell and “Ladies’ Night in a
Turkish Bath.” Derek Farr and Muriel Pavlow played a
polished bedroom farce to empty houses, and the Borovansky
“For godsake! You didn't go bustling in again with
that ‘What do you say, lady , YES or No?’”


JicuUi in inc
Fubirc
\
»
Ml
The word Future has been at the head of this
column for so many years now that it seems fitting
to dwell for a while on what the future means—
for Australia and the world.
There is a tendency to judge tomorrow by the
standards of yesterday and today. But the future
will be making its own high levels; and some of
them will be amazing when viewed through the lens
of our present sight.
This was brought forcefully home when
President Kennedy, speaking of the “New Frontier”
he envisaged for the United States, said that the
first country able to take salt out of sea water by an
economic process would earn far more prestige
than by sending the first man into space.
The blessing which an unlimited supply of
fresh water from the sea would confer on our own
country needs no underlining. And is there anyone
to doubt that this, the product of a simple
conversion of matter, will be brought about in this
age of astounding performance?
Well, let us look back across the years and
see how the waste of today becomes the wealth
of tomorrow.
In the latter half of the nineteeth century the
chief value of petroleum was in the oil to which it
was reduced for the lighting of lamps. The spirit
that was to power motors and energise industry
in a newer age was then discarded.
In years to come, when nuclear power will have
been put to the service of domestic needs, the
wonder will be that men lived and laboured so long
without having employed the atom.
You see how changing values make the future
something of which men at any given time can
have only a vague and limited conception.
In the years ahead, Australians have a whole
fruitful continent to work upon; and if that fails to
inspire faith for the good and honest working, we
can scarcely dare to cry in History’s face that the
opportunity was denied us.
Ballet Co. threatened to wipe Perth off its itinerary last year
after a string of losses.
The subsidised Playhouse Theatre officially belongs to
Perth, but has been run by a succession of imported directors
who have tried every type of play in an effort to make it self-
supporting. Serious drama is a consistent money loser and the
present director, Raymond Westwell, seems to have accepted
this fact with stoicism.
This is not to say that Perth is anti-cultural. On the con-
trary, it is probably more culture-conscious than Brisbane or
Adelaide, but it will support only what it feels is home-made
or thoroughly proven. For this reason the Festival of Perth
is a resounding success every year and the organisers are able
to inject an increasing element of professionalism into it by
stressing that the presence of international artists raises the
status of the festival and thus enhances the city’s reputation.
Perth has a large and successful writing community, but
with the exception of Katherine Susannah Pritchard none have
influenced Australian letters significantly, again because they
look inwards rather than outwards. Gavin Casey, Henrietta
Drake Brockman, Mary Durack, F. B. Vickers, Donald Stuart
and Dorothy Lucie Sanders are all productive and readily
published, but none has founded a distinctive school or stepped
far from the beaten track of the narrative novel. Randolph
Stow's dark broodings on the quality of isolation are read for
their local atmosphere rather than for their imaginative power.
Though Perthianism is the only genuine regional culture
in Australia that still persists, its virility is already waning. It
has more point than the now defunct Melbourne-Sydney
argument because Perth is far enough removed from the main
Australian influences to need its own cultural pattern. But
when the goldminers from the eastern States forced Western
Australia into the Commonwealth they dashed any chance
of achieving it. Now it is a negative and hopeless attempt to
prove that it still rules its own destiny.
The biggest breakdown of the old bitterness between Perth
and the rest of Australia comes from the migrants, who are
totally uninterested in an argument they cannot subscribe to
and whose main aim is to fill the cultural vacuum that they
find. So far, they have hardly dented the mental barrier that
greets all efforts to introduce outside views on the city’s develop-
ment, but men like town-planning expert Professor Gordon
Stephenson and State Librarian F. A. Sharr are beginning to
make a considerable contribution through their professional
qualifications and this indirect pressure on the isolationist out-
look is bound to increase.
The old pastoral families still exert a big influence on
the city’s social life, but their political power is slowly waning
before the managerial revolution. Industrial Development
Minister Charles Court is the spirit of the new age, and it is
significant that although he has absorbed all the elements of
Perthianism he is not a Western Australian by birth. His
intense energy makes him a little suspect among the business
community, which still likes to take two-hour lunches and spend
Wednesday afternoon on the golf-course.
If the promised industrial revolution arrives, it will
undoubtedly have a profound effect on the isolationist elements
of Perthianism. It remains to be seen whether it can quicken
the city’s tempo. Many a smart operator from the eastern
States has vowed to stir things up, only to fall victim to the
summer lethargy which has been bluntly called the Western
Australian Tired Feeling.
It is hard not to succumb to this delightful ennui when
the whole city wilts under the baked summer sky, waiting for
the Fremantle Doctor to stir the oven-dry air and ruffle the
glazed surface of the river. The sea breeze melts into the
velvet-soft evening and the night is filled with the whirr of
sprinklers reviving parched lawns and the soft laughter of the
backyard parties. Down on the river the prawning nets are
trolled through the warm black water and the cool sand of the
coastal beaches is a mecca for fishermen, beer drinkers and
lovers.
These are the things that will draw the Perthian home
from the ends of the earth and lure the migrant away from
past loyalties. It is a feeling that life is clean and uncompli-
cated and that everything is possible because everything lies
ahead.


AUSTRALIA AND THE WORLD
One Way of
Running a Union
"The Labor movement generally preferred a
respectably aloof silence to action"
By PETER KELLY
JOHN BYRNE
"Sent to Coventry”
FRANK FOULKES
Still powerful
From its headquarters at Hayes Court, one of England’s
former stately homes set in wooded grounds in Bromlev,
Kent, the executive of the 240.000-strong Electrical 1 rades
Union, the seventh-largest in Britain, planned a successful
series of strikes over a period of several years in the printing
industry, air bases, atom plants and defence factories. But
a High Court decision last month has jeopardised the 15-year-
old control of this key union by 2000 Communist party
members.
Mr Justice Winn found that John Byrne, an anti-
communist, had been fraudulently deprived of the union s
general secretaryship and the Communist president Frank
Foulkes, the Communist general secretary, Frank Haxell and
three other Communists, had conspired in rigging the election.
The method used in perpetrating the fraud was nothing short
of ingenious. As is usual in most postal ballots, the E.T.U.
has a rule stating that branch votes which reach the head
office after a specified date are void. 1 he Communist officials
had declared votes from 109 branches disqualified (all but
three with majorities for the anti-Communist Byrne) because
the postmark on the envelopes containing the votes all showed
that they were posted too late. Byrne alleged in court that
envelopes in which 55 of these branches had sent in their
votes were destroyed, and that someone went round Britain
by car posting other envelopes in the same districts, so that
the union officials would have evidence of late postmarks
and could accordingly disqualify the votes. The Judge found
that this was certainly what had happened in at least 27 cases
and held that instead of the Communist Haxell having a
majority of about 1000 votes, Byrne should have won by
at least 1150, probably 1500, and possibly more.
Even though Mr Byrne has been declared elected (the
case has yet to go to the Court of Appeal, the costs of which
will also be taken out of union funds), the Communists still
control the Executive Council of 11. Already they have
stripped Mr Byrne of some of the powers previously held
by the general secretary. He is being treated as the office boy
round headquarters, at least one of his press conferences
has been sabotaged and he has been “sent to Coventry.”
T)ut the case has shocked Britain, and the ramifications of
it are only gradually being seen. First, it will be a
severe blow to the unilateralists in the British Labor
party —those who have been advocating total nuclear dis-
armament of Britain, even if no other country decides to
do so. Had it not been for the card-vote of its 240.000
E.T.U. members, the British Labor party would never have
adopted the unilateralist position which has resulted in a
barely concealed major party split, and still threatens to
ruin Labor’s chances at the next general election. In other
words, in this crucial disarmament decision which became
Labor policy, it was the votes cast at the direction of the
Communist party Labor’s bitterest enemy which deter-
mined the result. No doubt Mr Gaitskell and his supporters,
who have vigorously opposed a unilateralist position, will
not be slow in pointing out this revealing fact to the nuclear
disarmers. When the fraud was laid bare the Trades Union
Congress chairman, Ted Hill, shrugged his shoulders and said
the affair “was nothing to lose sleep about” and such “irregu-
larities” inevitably occur in the trade-union movement. At
the beginning of the month he said that unofficial strikes
were a useful stimulus to production because workers came
back to their jobs refreshed and that “what we have to do
as a trade-union movement is not allow people from outside
to tell us what to do.”
In London, “The Economist” argues that it is no more
logical to say that “handling of trade-union malefactors is
‘best left to the Trades Union Congress’ than it would be to
say that the policing of the Companies Act and Restrictive
Trade Practices Act ‘had best be left to the Federation of
British Industries.’” “The Economist,” which has repeatedly
been urging for reform in the laws governing trade unions,
has, in the aftermath of the E.T.U. exposure, come out and
pointed to the anomalous position trade unions occupy in
British society. Their power over individual lives, “The
Economist’’ suggests, is stronger than that of a board of
directors over its shareholders. There are all sorts of legis-
lation protecting shareholders from unscrupulous directors,
but almost none protecting unionists from union sharks.
It is amazing that even as far back as 1958 complaints
about the practices within the E.T.U. had been lodged with
the T.U.C. It eventually decided to make the E.T.U. answer
two principal allegations: that its elections were faked, and
that the union was controlled by an advisory committee of
the Communist party, of which the principal E.T.U. officials
were members. As soon as the first legal moves were made the
T.U.C. washed its hands of the whole affair. The Labor
movement generally preferred a respectably aloof silence to
action, and some of them genuinely believed that if the
E.T.U. officials were exposed, trade unions would be damaged
by public opinion and the Tory Government would pass some
“interfering or restrictive” legislation. Others thought that
Communist Haxell was doing such a good job for his
members that the malpractices should be overlooked. (It is
worth noting that while the Left-wing “New Statesman '
regards as “dubious” the claim that Haxell and the other
E.T.U. Communists were doing “a good industrial job for
their members,” the independent “Spectator” says that "no
industrialist who has had experience of the E.T.U. over the
past ten years is likely to dispute this. 1 ’)
IT is now certain, however, that the protected, almost
sacrosanct, role the unions play in British society will
be altered. And it is unfortunate that it was the E.T.U.
case which sparked the clamor for reform. In their current
campaign against wildcat strikes some of the big unions are
trying to solve their problems by giving more power to
union officials entrenched at the centre of the bureaucracy.
It is at workshop level that greater opportunities exist for
dedicated Communists to do the burdensome menial tasks
which most unionists can’t be bothered doing. And per-
formance of such jobs eventually leads to power in any
trade union.


The Man on the Land
Wool at the Brink
A way of putting the wool industry back on solid
economic ground is urgently needed
By H. M. PALMER
The past year’s wool figures prove that a herculean task
lies ahead of the industry and the Australian Wool
Bureau.
The statistics could not be more depressing. They
show that on top of steady falls over a number of years prices
were down 5.72 d. per lb. for 1960-61, the lowest figure in a
decade save in 1958 ; that the fall-off in export returns from
wool was such that they represented only 37 per cent, of a
shrunken export over all income against 42 per cent, the year
before. This in a period when costs were at a record height
and going higher.
It is dangerous, as many politicians are doing, to adopt
the ostrich fallacy that Australians no longer “live off the
sheep’s back.” Wool at least represents the difference between
square meals and dry bread for the Australian economy. The
prosperity or otherwise of an industry which produced £3o4m.
of export money out of a total of £B33m. last year, with little
profit to the producers—-a large proportion of whom had
little more than the basic wage out of their farms and another
large section only loss—represents the narrow margin of safety
between national solvency and disaster.
What happens to the wool industry is the more important
because of what is happening to beef, dairy products and flour
on the overseas markets. Australia used to be the world's
greatest exporter of flour, but undercutting by European firms,
local milling in purchaser countries and currency difficulties in
Indonesia have whittled the market down to almost nothing.
When the N.S.W. Wheat and Wool Growers’ Association
met in Sydney on July 25 the chairman, D. G. Barwick,
declared that a reserve price would give the grower “security
in knowing that his wool would not be sacrificed,” adding
that “we ought to know the present system—we have had it
long enough —and look at the financial trouble many wool-
growers are in.” Such remarks sound like the histrionics of
desperation and take no account of the inevitable inflationary
consequences of fixed minimums as they operate in the
Australian economy.
Mr Barwick himself had no solution save that “it appears
inevitable that more money will have to be made available
by the woolgrower for promotion,” but that promotion
“cannot necessarily secure a better price unless the market
has some protection against pie buying.”
The Wool Commission is engaged abroad on part of its
marathon inquiry into pie buying, but so far has unearthed
nothing but gloom. The United States undoubtedly is going
over to artificials for winter clothing. This trend is hitting
not only the wool trade but the fur trade, for nylon furs are
replacing the genuine article and artificials are cutting down
wool requirements ; and heated automobiles and houses and
offices are generally reducing the need for warming materials.
The same trends are starting, and are not far behind, in other
Western countries. Meanwhile wages and costs of the wool-
grower go up apace, transport becomes more expensive and
prices come down. The grower is caught between two
inexorable trends —a downward trend in prices and overall
returns per pound of wool, an upward trend in both capital
and running costs.
True, the world absorbed the wool off about 50 per cent,
more sheep last year than in 1950 —about 550 million pounds
more of wool. But in the process there is no doubt that the
market has gone groggy as is clearly demonstrated by average
prices.
A textbook which every Federal politician should have on
his desk is G. D'A. Chislett's review of the factors
influencing sheep production and the pastoral industry issued
last year. In cold, unassailable figures he set out the position,
and what looked bad to him before the last year’s fall in
prices and rises in wages and costs, looks considerably worse
now. Australia, with a 5 per cent, fall in its wool return
from export last year after a larger one the year before, has
more serious things to worry about than the unemployment in
the textile trade and elsewhere—small beside the unemploy-
ment of the United States, Canada and other overseas countries
—especially with the threat of the Common Market looming
in Europe.
Mr Chislett divided his figures to cover the wool industry
in three zones. The first, the pastoral, is mainly composed of
country with a lOin. to 15in. rainfall, running through Queens-
land, N.S.W., South Australia and Western Australia and
accounting, when he wrote, for a third of all the sheep in the
Commonwealth, though the proportion was declining because
of the increase in closer settlement zones. This is 95 per cent.
Merino country, most holdings devoted to sheep only, though
some have cattle and wheat, the income of the whole on the
average is 80 per cent, from wool.
The area has lower land values than others, but these are
balanced by higher transport costs, and it has the continual
hazard of drought, which added the loss of three-million sheep
(and an all-round half-pound in the cut of wool per sheep) to
its costs in 1958 and more since. Normally the area has higher
fencing, watering and mustering charges, more difficult and
expensive breeding conditions and its cut per sheep is lower
than in coastal regions. The average size of its runs is round
60,000 acres and wool produced per holding ranging from about
48,0001 b. in a reasonably good year down to 40,0001 b. in a
drought year. The average lambing on these properties was
about 60.4 per cent, over the five years 1952-57, but only 45.5
per cent, in the drought year of 1957-58.
After allowing the average owner in the zone nothing
to pay him for his management and a stationhand's wage for


WORLD-WIDE
f;
the iron that travels...
The Tilley Domestic Iron goes anywhere, tackles any-
thing. NO flex to get in your way; it is entirely
self-contained, and runs for 4 hours on one filling
(i pint of ordinary kerosene). Clean, easy to use, with
exact heat control.
100 % British Made
a
For trouble-free ironing, anytime, anywhere, you
can put your trust in TILLEY.
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores. In
case of difficulty write to:—
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY PTY. LIMITED
1 OS2 Mt. Alexander Rd., Essendcn, W.S. Australia
his actual farm work, he received in 1958-59 a return of 1 per
cent, on his capital outlay against 16.6 per cent, in the base
years 1952-57. And though prices rose the following year and
were in 1960-61 still a bit over the 1958 figure, rises in costs
have rendered the position worse as time has gone on.
The next zone for which Mr Chislett compiled figures is
the wheat-sheep area in which rainfall is 15-20 in
in the higher parts of N.S.W. —and all seasonal. This, again,
extends through all the continental States on the inner fringes
of the purely pastoral country, though not much wool is
produced in conjunction with wheat in Queensland. Uncorre-
lated variations in both wool and wheat output and the
considerable variations in crop areas means that this zone
suffers a double plague of fluctuations and complications.
About 60 per cent, of its sheep are Merinos, the balance
crossbreds and English breeds largely reared for fat lambs
as well as wool. But wool income represents 70 per cent,
of the total of the zone. Costs are higher per sheep and
there is more pasture improvement than in the purely pastoral
zone. Properties average round 2300 acres, with 480 acres
or so of improved pasture and a little less than 400 acres
under grain. They shore an average of about 1416 sheep
and lambs per farm in the five base years 1952-57. Their
lambing percentage was about 71 per cent. In 1958-59 they
shore 1100 average more sheep per farm, produced 13,0001 b.
of wool instead of the 12,0001 b. in the base years ; but their
average wool income was down from £3570 to £2554 ; their
labor costs were up from £3796 to £4424 and their return
on capital down from 7.4 per cent, over the five years to
4.1 per cent. Pasture improvement, machinery for additional
cropping and increased sheep had called for an increase of
20 per cent, average per farm in capital investment.
Roughly the same story was told of the high-rainfall areas,
which include Victoria and Tasmania. The farm areas were
slightly smaller than in the wheat districts ; the proportion
of improved pastures was larger. Wool returns fell from the
base five-year average of £4852 to £3402 in 1958-59 ; costs
of production, which represented 55 per cent, of return in the
base five years, jumped 10 per cent, in 1957-59 alone till they
represented 81 per cent, of sale returns.
Summarised over the whole of the Australian wool
industry it was calculated that while wool production was
16 per cent, higher in 1958-59 than in the five base years
1952-57, net income before allowing for owner’s labor,
management and interest chaiges was 56 per cent, lower.
It is easy to devise solutions based on artificial price
rises through subsidies or regulation by establishing reserve
prices. Every artificial penny rise in price to the overseas
buyer and user of wool is, in effect, a subsidy to the com-
petitors of wool. And moreover, every Australian is now
familiar with the vicious-circle law under which it would
go against nature if every rise in price were not the excuse
for a rise in labor and other costs. Devaluation, which has
been suggested as a method of relief, is subject to the same
vicious circle of rises as price control. In woo!, the same
problem rules as in other rural industries —that of making
capital and labor more productive per £ applied to the job.
But, as in other industries, Socialist theory is pulling in the
opposite direction, by reducing the size of holdings and
multiplication of improvements and facilities at a time when
almost the only palliative visible to the drifting economic
position of wool-raising is the pooling of equipment and
improvements and their overall reduction, combined with
improvement of the productivity of land, men, animals and
machinery. Half to a third of all our wool is grown on farms
too small to provide a fair margin of economic security.
There is no doubt about the importance of the matter.
Wool this year represents the lowest percentage of the gross
national product in history—lower even than 1945-46 and
the lowest percentage of exports in value certainly since 1905.
Its prosperity is important not merely in the export field but
in support of the markets in almost every secondary and
consumer industry.


FORUM
A Case Against Aid
to Church Schools
"To give the people's money into the control of
a sectarian hierarchy would mean the semi-
establishment of a religion”
By ALISON LYONS
TffIHEN N.S.W. Premier Heffron and State Country-party leader
Cutler were told by “The Anglican ’ that “the plani\ of State
aid to denominational schools in most Australian States and above
all in N.S.W. is the leaden plan\ which will sin\ the platform of
any political party which employs it,” they must have realised
that this issue could easily be red-hot at election time. Protestant
leaders have been questioning party heads as to their attitude since
Cardinal Gilroy said he believed “that the Roman Catholic church
would receive Government financial assistance for Church schools
in the not very distant future.”
r ¥~'HE question of State aid to Church
schools is not a new one, for in
N.S.W. it has been tried, considered a
failure and abandoned. To reintroduce
it would be to put the educational clock
back to the 19th century. In 1866 Par-
liament passed the Public Schools Act,
and State schools were established along-
side denominational schools which then
received State aid. The Public Schools
Act was vigorously opposed by both the
Church of England and Roman Catholic
authorities. Gradually, however, public
opinion moved behind the public schools
and only the Roman Catholic hierarchy’s
opposition to the system remained. The
Roman Catholic Bishops made several
attempts to break the public school
system. In a pastoral letter in 1879 Arch-
bishop Vaughan, Roman Catholic Arch-
bishop of Sydney, condemned the public
schools as seed plots of future immor-
ality, infidelity, and lawlessness, being
calculated to debase the standard of
human excellence and corrupt the pol-
ideal, social and individual lives of future
citizens . Five months later the Public
Schools Act was passed and the State
system as we know it was adopted, and
c , f •, . , • , T ,
State-aid to denominational schools was
withHrpu/n
The Act of 1880 said that education
was to be “free, compulsory and
secular’’ and that in all schools under this
Act the teaching shall be strictly non-
sectarian, but the words secular instruc-
tions shall be held to include general
religious instruction. In addition, pro-
vision was made under the Act for the
clergy of the different denominations to
enter the schools and instruct their child-
ren. The religious provisions are cur-
rently acknowledged and in the Wynd-
ham Report are given a prominent place,
If the full advantage of these provisions
is not taken it is scarcely the fault of the
system—it is generally the Church that
lacks the manpower to use the time. The
Solution to the problem is not to destroy
the system but to reorganise to take full
advantage of it, and if necessary to
amend the Act.
The question of State aid to denomi-
national schools is basically a question
c f power and authority. No one denies
that education is power over people’s
minds. The question is: what power
should the people recognise and support
financially? Protestants generally, on a
Scriptural basis, claim that fundamentally
power should lie with the people. The
people therefore should not give away
hs power,
The public-school system, established
. 3 . , V . ,
after muc h thought and debate by the
will of the people works fairly well. The
effectiveness of the people’s control has
been seen recently in N.S.W. in the great
activity stimulated by the Wyndham
Report and the deputations on educa-
This section of "The Bulletin" is a
forum of opinion and conflicting
ideas. Each week it will contain
controversial articles and replies
to them.
tional questions to the Minister. A
further virtue of public control lies in
the assistance it gives to the preservation
of truth. Peculiar theories say, of
science or history— not ony fail to obtain
public support, but if abuses are detected
they can be corrected relatively easily.
TThe view that power and authority in
education should lie in the hands of
the people is commonly held among
democratic Australians. However, it is
not shared by the Roman Catholic
hierarchy which claims a peculiar posi-
tion for its Church —the ultimate control
of education (at least over Roman
Catholic children) and the “right” to
State aid for their schools. Roman
Catholic Archbishop Vaughan said (and
it has not been retracted) that the public
schools contravene the first principles
of the Christian religion. An exposition
of Roman Canon Law 1375 says that the
Catholic Church has the right to estab-
lish schools of every grade (Woywood’s
Commentary on Canon Law). As inter-
preted, the Canon Law places education
unreservedly in the hands of the Catholic
Church and places the Church above
the State in such matters. C. C. Marshall,
writing in “The Roman Catholic Church
in the Modern State,” says: “The
antagonism between the State and the
Roman Catholic Church in respect of
this question (of education) is very sharp.
“A concerted movement by the Metho-
dist Church and the Presbyterian Church
in education would have no more consti-
tutional significance for the State than
the educational propaganda of Harvard
University. Those Churches do not claim
to be sovereignties, nor to assert coherent
rights at any point superior to the State,
nor to be the exclusive depository of
the Revelation of God, nor to have a
human head, who is, in intrinsic truth,
the vicar of Christ. It is such claims that
give the Church of Rome a peculiar
relation in theory to the whole body of
objective moral truth and hence to educa-
tion.”
The argument is taken one step further
by Rome. It is said that “Liberalism,”
founded principally on the fact that
modern society rests on liberty of
conscience and worship, on liberty of
speech and of the press, is to be con-
demned because it denies all subordina-
tion of the State to the Church. This
statement is the crux of the whole argu-
ment —shall the State agree to become
the temporal arm of the Church or not?
Should the people give up some of their
present power to the hierarchy of the
Church, or not? It is, in fact, the people
versus the hierarchy, democracy versus
religious authoritarianism. (For brevity


the other small groups who want full
State aid are not discussed.)
Those who oppose State aid claim
other grounds for their opposition as
well as the question of power. The reason
that Roman Catholics insist on Church
schools is that their Canon Law 1374
forbids Roman Catholics to “attend
schools that are mixed—that is to say,
open also to non-Catholics.” For the
State to give money to sectarian groups
would be to give State support to a
segregation by religion which is harmful
to the cause of Christian amity and
Christian unity. The public school, with
all denominations represented, is catholic
in a way no denominational school can
ever be.
Roman Catholics, like all others, have
a share in the control of the public-school
systems of education and on this ground
alone it is right that they should con-
tribute to it in taxes. To ask for realloca-
tions of tax funds without either resign-
ing one’s voice in the public-school
system or accepting public control of
the transferred funds is to seek double
power. In addition thousands of Roman
Catholic teachers are paid millions of
pounds a year by the State of N.S.W.,
in whose schools more than 50,000
Roman Catholic children are educated.
Roman Catholics thus benefit from tax
moneys.
To give the people’s money into the
control of a sectarian hierarchy would
mean the semi - establishment of a
religion.
T'hose who seek State aid do so
generally with four catch-cries. They
say (1) That the parents of children
attending private schools are paying
“double tax.” But this is not really so.
These parents are, in fact, being taxed
once by the State for education in com-
mon with all other taxpayers, including
bachelors, childless couples and those
with children not of school age. The
second tax of which they complain results
from the imposition of the Vatican
decree that Roman Catholic children
must attend Roman Catholic schools.
It is not a tax at all in the sense of being
imposed by the Government, but is the
price of obedience to a particular Church.
If the principle of “only the users pay”
were admitted, bachelors, etc., could be
automatically exempt from educational
tax. Such an exemption would, when
carried to its logical conclusion, mean
the breakdown of public life and the
division of the community into sectarian
groups, car and bus groups, militarist
and pacifist groups. Indeed the number
°f pacifists in the community might
greatly increase if one were exempt from
defence tax on these grounds.
(2) Much is made of the fact that “the
school in which the child is educated
should be chosen by the parents.” The
supporters of the public-school system
agree with this. They question whether
the State is obliged to subsidise this
choice. They ask two questions: first,
must the State subsidise any school
chosen by the parents? What about a
“Watch this bloke. He's got a very deceptive in-swinger .”
Communist school? Second, is this
“right of choice” as real in fact as is
claimed? Any such instance on the right
and freedom of choice should be received
in the light of Cardinal Gilroy’s state-
ment in “The Catholic Weekly”
(27/12/56): “Thus it happens that only
a few Catholic children attend the State
schools, and the few who do attend them
do so out of some necessity or the
parents are negligent in the faith. In
fact, parents who send their children to
the State schools without grave necessity
and without the sanction of the parish
priest do wrong and are not allowed to
receive the sacraments.”
Why should education be treated dif-
ferently from, say, defence or foreign
affairs? If a person disagrees with the
nation’s defence programme, even if he
were at liberty to establish his own
private army, would he then be able to
demand a tax rebate to pay for it?
(3) Despite the 1880 Act and its
provisions, some claim that the State
system is irreligious. This is not so
either legally or in practice. On the one
hand the Roman Catholic Church con-
demns the public-school system as
secular, and yet on the other accepts the
provisions made under the Act and sends
its priests into the schools to instruct the
children.
(4) The Roman Church authorities
claim that they save the State money
by educating some Roman Catholic
children and therefore they should be
given State aid. Of course, this is not
their motive for conducting schools.
To give State aid to denominational
schools would mean one of two
things: either the public-school system
would suffer as the money for the
denominational schools would be drained
away from its budget; or taxes would
be increased to provide the additional
finance necessary for the aid. So, there
must be the choice.
Every political party is at present
endeavoring to weigh up the situation
and use it to its own advantage at the
coming election. The various State-aid
proposals of politicians usually avoid the
appearance of direct aid, in unspoken
hope that opposition will not be stimu-
lated. The current extension of the
bursary scheme by the A.L.P. in N.S.W.
is one such step designed to counter the
D.L.P. There is no doubt that such a
scheme (so far as it goes) docs suit D.L.P.
policy on State aid and no doubt about
it being really and definitely a form of
State aid, despite the apparent innocence
of the professed desire to assist people
in financial difficulties (a thing which
could be better done in other ways).
In Queensland the further step towards
fuller State aid has already been taken:
scholarship moneys can be paid directly
to the school. Since the D.L.P. grows
on the products of Church schools it is
ironic that its food should be cultivated
by its parental enemy.
In N.S.W. the A.L.P. policy has been
copied and enlarged by such bodies as
the recent Country party conference.
Instead of having the courage to con-
demn the A.L.P. for fostering proposals
which must ultimately do great disservice
to the public schools, the conference
decided that the Opposition should not
oppose. Thus it seems possible at the
moment that the defenders of the public
schools will swing more and more behind
Mr Heffron, a swing which could be
quite strong if the A.L.P. reaffirmed its
1957 Federal Conference decision against
State aid.
The Church of England Diocese of
Sydney with its 1.000,000 members
declared itself through its elected Synod
to be against any and every form of
State aid. It is united with other Protes-
tant denominations in N.S.W. on this
issue. Only a minority wants State aid —
the Roman Catholic hierarchy and its
followers and a small number of others—•
and this for inadequate reasons. To sug-
gest altering the present system in order
to catch votes is hardly likely to com-
mend itself to the electors. In practical
politics as in theory therefore State aid
to denominational schools is best for-
gotten, and all effort put into the public-
school system.


LETTERS
Communism in Universities
Sir,
Although a moving display of loyalty
to his Alma Mater, Mr Alan Hughes's
letter (Bulletin, July 29) is, in the main,
both irrelevant and wrong about the
issues which I raised (Bulletin, July
15).
Mr Hughes seems to think that I have
accused Mr Churchward of sharing in the
intimidatory activities of his Communist
colleagues at Melbourne University. If
Mr Hughes has another look at my letter
he may observe that I nowhere accused
Mr Churchward of these things, and that
I carefully separated the paragraph about
general Communist tactics at Melbourne
University from that which refers to Mr
Churchward. I deliberately began the
paragraph which raises the question of
the teaching of Soviet affairs in the
Political Science Department with the
words: “Another interesting feature of
your correspondence....”
It follows that Mr Hughes’s comments
about Mr Churchward’s failure to dis-
criminate against anti - Communist
students are beside the point. The defence
is answering an unpreferred charge.
However, to set Mr Hughes's mind at
rest may I say that neither in my
Bulletin letter or anywhere else have I
claimed that Mr Churchward discrimi-
nates against students or that he partici-
pates in the activities of other university
Communists in intimidating fellow-
academics.
In so far as my letter referred to Mr
Churchward, it claimed that his teaching
of the Soviet Union was most unsatis-
factory. I was taught political science B
by Mr Churchward in 1953, and it is
my belief that his lectures on the Soviet
Union were mostly an undisguised
peddling of the straight C.P.S.U. line.
This line is a fabrication from beginning
to end, but I have no reason to doubt
that Mr Churchward sincerely believes it.
For example, the lectures said little or
nothing about such fundamental issues as
these: (i) the history and treatment of
forces opposed to Stalin inside the
C.P.S.U.; (ii) the ruthless domination
exercised by Stalin over the party and
the 1934-39 purges ; (iii) the use of the
secret police as a major instrument of
the Soviet State apparatus; (iv) the
C.P.S.U. relationship with the Comin-
tern ; (v) the long period of collaboration
between the Bolshevik party, the
N.K.V.D. and the German General
Staff ; (vi) the Molotov-Ribbentrop pact;
(vii) the treatment cf Jews and other
minority groups inside the U.S.S.R. ;
(viii) the extermination of the Ukranian
and other territorial cultures; (ix) the
political and economic relations between
the Soviet Union, the Eastern satellites
and the Chinese Communist party.
These and numerous other vital issues
do not fit comfortably, of course, into
the picture created by the C.P.S.U. of its
own history and institutions. Nor does
the history of the Trotsky-Stalin clash.
Trotsky merited the briefest mention. It
was not surprising that in 1953, for the
first time, both his “Revolution Betrayed”
and “History of the Russian Revolution”
were left off the Arts Handbook reading
guide and replaced by a quite minor
work, or that this reading guide omitted
Trotsky’s works altogether in 1954.
In fact, the books on the reading
guides provided by Mr Churchward were
mainly a compound of official C.P. texts
and commentaries, fellow - travellers’
addenda and Left-wing liberals’ apologies
for the “objective view.” Really com-
petent anti-Communist estimations of the
Soviet Union were missing.
It was some years after my instruction
from Mr Churchward that I discovered
that books which were basic texts on the
U.S.S.R. at other universities had never
been Mentioned e.g., Ruth Fisher’s
“Stalin and German Communism,”
W. H. Chamberlin’s “The Russian
Revolution,” F. Borkenau’s “World Com-
munism,” S. M. Swartz’s “Labor in the
Soviet Union,” M. Beloff’s “The Foreign
Policy of Soviet Russia,” Gankin and
Fisher’s “The Bolsheviks and the World
War” and many others.
Each of these works has at least two
things in common: (i) publication before
1953, (ii) competence in its keen but criti-
cal analysis of Soviet affairs. Their
rightful place on Mr Churchward’s read-
ing guides was taken up by such books
as the Webbs’s “Soviet Communism” and
Christopher Hill’s “Lenin and the Russian
Revolution.”
Leaving motives aside, Mr Hughes,
what would you expect of a Nazi lectur-
ing on Hitler’s Germany, or of a
Falangist lecturing on Modern Spain?
But expectations, too, may be ignored
in the case at issue ; for the facts speak
for themselves.
B. W. BUCKLEY
Kew (Vic.)
Sir.
Probably few of your readers will have
the opportunity, energy, or stomach to
check up on the background to Mr B. W.
Buckley’s wild (“A series of Soviet fabri-
cations in place of a set of lectures”) and
insulting (“Much of the teaching in the
Melbourne Political Science Department
of subjects relating to the Soviet Union
could only be described as a joke”)
charges against the head and staff of the
Melbourne University Political Science
Department (Bulletin, 15/7/61). There-
fore, lest some of the mud should stick,
it seems desirable to set the record
straight.
What did Mr Stargardt, Mr Buckley’s
sole cited source and ground for his
accusations, “demonstrate”? After a
controversy with Mr Churchward about
the merits of the pamphlet “The Myth
of Soviet Imperialism” in which enough
was said by both disputants to allow
readers of The Bulletin to make their
own judgment on its content and rele-
vance, Mr Stargardt went on (Bulletin,
10/5/61) to assert that it was extremely
doubtful whether facts such as the revolt-
ing sequels to the Nazi-Soviet Pact of
1939 “have been made sufficiently clear
to Mr Churchward’s students, any more
than to the readers of his pamphlet.
Judging by his reading guides, it can
hardly be so.” Thus whether Mr Star-
gardt’s charges were demonstrated rather
than merely stated depends on what he
could prove on the basis of the depart-
mental reading guides, Mr Buckley's
“public documents.”
(Incidentally, Mr Stargardt had earlier
(Bulletin, 26/4/61) stated that he did
not doubt Mr Churchward's qualifica-
tions in political science, nor his subjec-
tive goodwill—a judgment apparently
endorsed by the Australian Political
Studies Association, to whose annual
conference Mr Churchward is to present a
paper on decision-making in the Soviet
Union.)
Mr Stargardt stated that the booklists
for the Melbourne course on the Soviet
Union, as given in the Arts Faculty Hand-
books from 1954 to 1958 inclusive, did
not include any of Trotsky’s works,
whereas before 1953 “The Revolution
Betrayed” had been included in the pass
section and “The History of the Russian
Revolution” in the honors section. He at
once concluded, without furthur reason-
ing, that Trotsky was studied without any
reference to his own works, and that this
established the point that “the distortion
and suppression of historical evidence
apparent in Mr Churchward’s pamphlet
exist also in his academic work in this
subject.”
In judging whether these conclusions
have been validly demonstrated, the
following facts, which will not be familiar
to many of your readers, should be borne
in mind:
1. The lists which Mr Stargardt quotes
are not, in fact, the reading guides issued
by the department during the year, but
are those in the Arts Handbook under the
heading “Recommended for Reference.”
These lists of eight to 12 books mean
little ; their existence has little but con-
vention to recommend it, and faculty has
recommended to heads of departments
that from 1962 they be dropped from
the handbook altogether. It is hard to
imagine circumstances in which students
would need to refer to such lists, and they
would certainly form a most unreliable
guide to the detailed content of a course.
2. The handbook contains a more sig-
nificant heading, “Prescribed Textbooks,”
and the books on the Soviet Union under


heading have always been by non-
Communist authors, usually Americans.
3. Detailed reading guides are issued
by lecturers to students throughout the
year on the various topics covered in
lectures. These guides go to the head
of the department for approval before
they are handed out. Mr Churchward
has publicly offered to make a complete
set of the guides issued by him over the
years available to any interested person
who wishes to make his own judgment
about the course (see the last issue of The
Observer). I remember that when 1 did
the course in 1954, one of the years in
which Mr Stargardt claims that Trotsky
was to be studied without reference to
his own works, “The Revolution Be-
trayed” was certainly on the reading guide
issued.
4. The lectures in political science sub-
jects form only part of the teaching
offered, as weekly tutorials are held (and
tutors often issue their own supplementary
reading guides). Whether by accident or
design, it has been the case since at least
1953 that the members of staff who gave
tutorials to students taking Mr Church-
ward’s lectures on the Soviet Union have
been people of strong anti-Communist
views In every political science subject,
no student can be failed in the annual
examination unless his papers have been
marked by at least two of the staff mem-
bers who teach it.
Mr Buckley, as an ex-student of the
department, should have been aware of
these facts. It is most regrettable that he
did not reflect on them before making his
sweeping and ferociously offensive state-
ments.
K. G. ARMSTRONG
Hawthorn (Vic.).
THE WATCHDOG DOESN’T
SPEAK ENGLISH
Sir,
In reference to the article dealing with
the recent delegation of Soviet students,
this was the first group of such students
to come here at the invitation of the
N.U.A.U.S. I object, however, to your
statement that when a group of Soviet
youth came here last year, a Mr Thomas
“managed to get the Soviet youth away
from the Eureka Youth League for a
brief time to attend an A.L.P. Club
function.”
I am in a rather good position to know
ail about this group since I travelled
with them and acted as their secretary.
] was a delegate to the Youth Festival
in Moscow in 1957. nominated by the
W.W.F Rugby League Football Club.
I was one of the people who organised
ibis visit with other young people who
had visited the U.S.S.R. in the summers
°f 1957 and 1959 at the invitation of
the Soviet youth organisations. The idea
w as to repay a bit of hospitality. It was
from this group that I was elected to act
as the secretary.
You try to give the impression that
this Soviet Youth delegation was con-
stantly with the Eureka Youth League,
but in fact this group visited high schools
and private schools, had lunch with at least
one university students’ representative
council, took part in university meetings
and held discussions with the National
Union of Students, which directly led to
the visit of the student delegation. As the
delegation last year was not entirely a
student group, they wanted to see many
other facets of Australian life, so they had
meetings with sporting officials, including
the N.S.W. Rugby League Board of Con-
trol. They saw sportsmen play and then
met with them after for discussions. In
Melbourne they had a meeting with a
Presbyterian youth group. In Brisbane
they had a meeting, after attending a
Church service, with one of the largest
Methodist youth groups in that city. In
Sydney they spoke to a meeting in Fellow-
ship House. In Adelaide and elsewhere
they had discussions with leaders of
youth organisations and Church youth
departments. They visited and spoke for
some time with young lads in the Mel-
bourne Newboys’ Club and in Sydney
they met executive members of the Junior
Chamber of Commerce, saw the Wil-
loughby Junior Council in action and
later had supper with the members.
One of the members of this delegation
was a young trade unionist, so naturally
there were meetings with unions on the
job and parties with young workers. They
visited many factories, sometimes at the
invitation of the managements, such as
G.M.-H in Melbourne and Adelaide, and
sometimes at the invitation of the trade
unions.
The Eureka Youth League had a meet-
ing with the group in each city that they
visited, and in Sydney they visited the
Junior Eureka League Gymnastic Club.
This is by no means a complete list
of their activities, but it surely illustrates
that your statements are absolutely in-
correct.
Incidentally, when the Soviet student
delegation arrived at Mascot airport, I
met them as a representative of my union.
The union was grateful to the N.U.A.U.S.
for this opportunity to say hello, and the
Soviet students expressed their pleasure
at meeting representatives of various
unions and young workers as their itiner-
ary had allowed little opportunity for
this.
These are the facts of the visit of the
Soviet Youth last year, and I suggest that
in future you check the truth of the
material to be used in your publication.
R. LEWIS
Vice-President,
Sydney Branch,
W.W.F.
Sydney.
The article to which Mr Lewis refers
implied that the Eureka Youth League did not
want the Soviet youth group visiting Australia
last year to attend an A.L.P. club function.
Mr Lewis has not denied this. —Editor, The
Bulletin.
THE WYNDHAM REPORT
Sir,
A justifiable glow of confidence has
followed the acceptance of the Wyndham
Report (Bulletin, July 29). The Minis-
“Nearest translation I can get is,
‘Mind your head' !”
ter for Education has assured us that
the State schools will manage with
£3Bm. in the first nine years. A spokes-
man for the private, independent schools
was reported to predict that they would
not even have to raise their fees. Oddly
enough, no one seems to have asked how
the schools which are maintained by the
Catholic members of this State will get
on I say oddly because these schools
are at present educating 44,800 pupils
between first and fifth years—at the upper
end about 29 per cent, of all pupils in
this State are in Catholic schools.
Obviously the effective application of
the Wvndham Report must greatly aggra-
vate the financial burden on the Catholic
group. Personally I think the two fol-
lowing possibilities should be considered :
(i) the Catholic schools will break down
under the strain and, at the best, continue
on a seriously modified scale, or (ii) the
system will continue, but with the sacri-
fice of some of the highly desirable educa-
tional objectives of the report.
In either case the whole society is
affected. If it is the former the Gov-
ernment will need to reconsider seriously
its estimate of costs, extra teachers and
building needs. If it is the latter, then all
thoughtful citizens must clearly be con-
cerned.
Here I am mainly concerned to stress
a fact —something that is not a matter of
argument. In accepting the Wyndham
Report and in the official estimates, the
State Government is presuming on the
continued existence of the Catholic


schools at their present strength. The
State-school system could scarcely con-
sider an immediate expansion of
secondary education if suddenly it were
required to absorb the Catholic school
population.
Apart from any more fundamental
considerations, Catholics argue that the
State is perfectly competent to recognise
the social service rendered by their
schools, and to pay something for it from
public funds.
At the very least, it seems opportune,
on the occasion of radical changes in
education, for all members of our society
to submit the claims of their Catholic
fellow-citizens to a public, objective
inquiry. The recent Royal Commissions
of New Zealand and Manitoba (Canada)
are ample precedent.
B. S. CRITTENDEN
Ashfieid (N.S.W.).
ISRAEL TODAY
Sir,
Your correspondent Mr Broad may
find it unpalatable, yet it remains a fact,
divorced of propaganda, that the vast
majority of the Arabs of Palestine fled
the country at the direct insistence of the
neighboring Arab Governments. The
evidence is well (not sparsely, as sug-
gested) documented, and, apart from the
broadcasts mentioned, two sources (none
Zionist), Arab and British, may be
quoted. In 1948 Emile Ghoury, secre-
tary of the Arabs Higher Executive,
stated in the “Beirut Telegraph”:
The fact that there are these refugees today
is the direct consequence of the Arab States in
opposing partition and the Jewish State. The
Arab States agreed upon this policy unanimously
and they must share in the solution of the
problem.
Mr Ghoury’s opinion was not isolated.
Edward Atiyah, one of the leading Arab
propagandists today, wrote in “The
Arabs” (page 183):
This wholesale exodus was partly due to
the belief of the Arabs, encouraged by the
boastings of an unrealistic Arabic press and
the irresponsible utterances of some of the
Arab leaders, that it could only be a matter
of weeks before the Jews were defeated by
the armies of the Arab States, and the Pales-
tinian Arabs enabled to re-enter and retake
possession of their country.
The Haifa correspondent of the British
weekly “The Economist” on October 2,
1948, reported:
....the Jewish authorities who were now
in complete control urged all Arabs to remain
in Haifa and guaranteed them protection and
security... .Various factors influenced their
decision to flight. The most potent were the
announcements by the Arab Higher Executive
urging them to quit. The reason given was
with the final withdrawal of the British, the
combined armies of the Arabs would invade
Palestine and drive the Jews into the sea.
It was further intimated that Arabs who
remained and accepted Jewish protection would
be regarded as renegades.
Thus the pattern of motives became
painfully obvious, for in effect the Arab
leaders were saying, “Stay at your own
peril or join us and collect the loot on
your return.”
MONTY SCHAFFER
Kew (Vic.).
WHERE A VOTE COULD MEAN
DISASTER
Sir
K. G. Willey’s Forum article (Bulletin,
July 29) may be a good piece of factual
reporting in that it probably represents
Ihe opinions of most of the inhabitants
of Australia. But it is also a measure or
reflection of the failure of the “white ’
people in Australia to educate the
aboiigines for citizenship and also of the
extent, to which we have prostituted
democracy in Australia, particularly by
meekly accepting compulsory enrolment
and voting by electors.
To me, the governing sentence in the
article is “With a mass of uninformed
and uninterested voters like these to be
herded (my italics) into the polling booths,
the danger of pressure groups and a block
vote arising is obvious.”
To a lesser degree this description aptly
applies to thousands of “white” people
in Australia under compulsory voting
although they have full rights as citizens.
As to “pressure groups and a block vote,”
are the chicaneries of the “white” man
to be used as an excuse for denying to
the indigenous people of Australia the
necessary passport to full citizenship—the
right to vote which is accepted as funda-
mental in any democracy?
Although we gave away this “right”
by accepting compulsory voting there
seems to be no valid reason why enrol-
ment and voting should not be optional
for all aborigines, particularly as it might
be a step towards restoring to all electors
what should be one of our freedoms of
choice—to vote or abstain.
CRASTER C. M. USHER
Hornsby (N.S.W.).
THE CONFUSION OF
ARCHBISHOP GOUGH
In reply to the letter of J. B. Paul, in
your issue of July 22, I would like to say
that I do not retract one word of my
pamphlet, “Empiricism and Freedom.”
Also, 1 have been disappointed by the
empiricists’ failure to make even an effort
to meet a single point from the pamphlet,
reasonably and philosophically.
But I have been most amused by their
frantic efforts to smother it in red
herrings.
V. J. KINSELLA
Sydney.
Feiffer
w fitsT mtSACKf Tine /o as
" The NAKED DASHER PENT-
noose CA?ev Twe Tackct m
l» 80000 RED WITH THt DM*
IW6 Of A CHAIMPP, HALF v —V\
meo ML HaplM6 A
fCWfiE Af TH£ THPPAf «PF
A PRIVATE CPP II) A rpS
T&m COAT f
Twe suewtAO ooiwe
coven ugur-'uNfri
SgpICfRgSS
\ rROM THE SA^'
"v \ TARIUM HIRgP
?1V ) PEtECflve
W/ me Tesrenm
9* fu Tue itvtfS hap „
J to se zeo£\rw:
if oewiT foe. wem-Five
ctTiTs. it socu mve
K MIUIOU. I HAP fiFrggD
\- PAPERBACKS AFTER
THAT,- o|k)6/ OW6(
\ \ g!o6[ 1
ijs*' ! Tioecvf
y \ MiluoM [ TI&LVC '
S# Muwi
THgfO-AU Of A
9W&i-N(MWR£!
FRC6S 60 UP WOT
> COMPf, 60 OUT
w cias*? cones
/ in. 1 cm m
] 6er au tom
f TO MK TO Me.
4(5 M4f WAR r Ssf W/TH
Iff MH N6W
CAME LWT WPER
THE TITLE "f WC- ,
TIONAL ASPECTS
OF THE MORAL
DICHOTOMY^
IN Jodeo- r
CHRISTIAN -fr-
fAAN'THK£'S T
A PAMTIO6 tf \
MOZART W
m
ow M ewe R. <
amp MW wm mm u to m
moe oo wo w the sub heap -
"(OHEM THE 4EPWSIKESE Ffi3M AOTltXrf
hieep am weoft)u>6Gr mik^
fIFATEfIW AU OF P66CARrZS'
I TfIBJPIE* feMAMPEP SEAPPRAKAI?
I AMP T/ST (JlOPee THAT (f
I PEaps -'A ceincAt auS&W
1 of ope Time.'
ns soup fooßvoeu
Mum copes,
I'Ve OOTT6M mens
y oe offers To
i STFAK AT
I uvirtßSlTies,
M m’oMToms"
J is poao6 m
1 nee storm. .
m mim<
Of A
pfoeessiom
IS A
pizofmo
n| xtiotieese
of m
■sm m<tf


OUT and ABOUT
Caviar to the General
Guests at the press preview of the
Russian exhibition at the Sydney
Trade Fair assembled in a rather untidy
fashion around the helicopter outside the
pavilion on a green lawn dotted with
multicolored farm equipment. The first
thing learnt about Russia is that life on
a collective farm is at least colorful.
Tractors and harvesters come in all
primary colors, some are two-tone
models.
While the hard newsmen gathered in
for some really searching questioning —
such as “How many passengers does the
helicopter take?” —on the periphery for-
lorn young men from radio stations
implored some of the floating female
interpreters to say a few words into the
microphone. Most scored near-misses.
The party then moved into the main
pavilion, which is dominated at one end
by a legend: “Our duty is to ensure that
everywhere, beneath birch trees and olive
trees, beneath palms and maples, people
should live in peace and not know the
horror of war.” KHRUSHCHEV.
Observers felt that the omission of the
gum-tree proved something conclusively.
After viewing the Sputnik the party
moved into the consumer-goods section.
Here there is an impressive display of
Russian wines and other liquors. There
are TV sets, with provision for 12
channels, although none of the Russians
would say whether 12 channels existed.
All the TV and radio sets had the full
Australian quota of shiny tin strips and
gaudy detail. All were topped by a
pottery ornament of the style so lament-
ably popular here. From this section is
relayed continuous music. Most of it is
classical, but one of the Russians said
that popular-style music would be played,
too.
The leaders of the Russian mission
then suggested that the press sample some
Russian food and drink. The press party
jammed into a smallish room where
dishes of caviar, sausages, biscuits and
bread without butter were set out.
The Russians were extremely hospit-
able. Vodka was drunk like mineral
water, and mineral water like vodka.
One journalist took advantage of the
general bonhomie to ask a Russian what
he thought of Pasternak. “He is not
popular, ’ said the Russian. “He is just
a translator of poems.” “Isn't he a
poet?” asked the Australian. “Yes, he
is a poet, but not a novelist.”
This not-very-fruitful exchange was
interrupted by another Australian ask-
ing whether the cognac he was drinking
was Armenian, somehow creating the
impression that he normally touched
nothing but, say, Georgian or Caucasian
cognac.
This led another Australian to a very
original line of questioning. “Do you like
Russian beer or Australian beer?” he
demanded. The Russian replied that
Russians did not like eels, which later
was translated into ales.
However, it took an Australian to have
the last word on Pasternak. “Pasternak
is the most boring writer I've ever read ,”
he said, leaning over the Russian’s
shoulder, "except Patrick White, of
course ”
Standard of Values
TPhe bulletins issued regularly by the
various Embassies in Canberra are
normally devoted to showing in a favor-
able light the recent political, economic
and social events in the country repre-
sented. They do not often make spark-
ling reading. It is with something of
relief that one finds the bulletin from
the Embassy of Ireland at the bottom
of the current batch and reads this
opening sentence:
“It is fairly generally accepted that
Saint Patrick—the great missionary saint
who converted Ireland to Christianity—
died in the year 461 a.d.”
This means, of course, that Ireland is
this year celebrating the 1500th anniver-
sary of his death. The celebrations run
to 2\ pages of single-space foolscap,
while Ireland’s decision to follow the
United Kingdom into the Common
Market, if the U.K. does go in, gets one
paragraph. It may not be everyone’s
standard of values these days, but it is
certainly refreshing,
Somethina New
. ,
A “V Henry Htlton arrived here
. lecen»I ecen » , y to f U P f. loc , al b ™" ch ° f
bls Recreation Interna tonal which has
been °P erat,n c m the United States for
26 years and is also in Canada. His
V.P.I. (“Very Personalised Invitation”)
booklet is now circulating in Sydney
and he hopes to do something similar in
other States,
Hilton said that the idea of his booklet
was that it should be available to firms
as an employee-relations scheme. The
booklet consists of coupons which can
be exchanged with the theatre, race track,
sports or other organisation, printed on
the coupon, for a free ticket of admis-
sion. Hilton emphasised that no mer-
chandise was involved and that he had
no connection with any firm already
operating anything of a similar nature in
this country.
The Sydney booklet costs £2 10s. and
Recreation International has made con-


"The Saute Veal Marengo will be RUINED!”
tracts with such people as the N.S.W.
Government Tourist Bureau, J. C. Wil-
liamson’s, Tivoli, Hoyts, the A.J.C. and
the Royal Philharmonic Society.
Wine Down the Drain?
Probably the first Australian product to
-*■ go down the drain if Britain enters
the Common Market will be wine. Even
the most optimistic local vigneron can see
no way of competing with the enormous
and highly-reputed products of France
and Germany, especially as the Australian
product is still suffering a heavy hangover
from the days of mass importation into
Britain of poor-quality bulk Australian
wines.
However, with the idea that there is a
chance of holding a part of the market
with prestige wines, the head of Leo
Burings, D. E. Mead, left Sydney this
week for London where he will organise
a tasting of special wines which are
already on their way there. Mead also
hopes to expand his company’s hold in
Canada (Buring’s have exported to
Ontario for 25 years) and will have a
look at possibilities in the East. He said
that any country which had even a small
percentage of people living a Western-
style life could become a consumer of
Australian wines. For example, he said,
the Pacific islands were growing into a
worthwhile market.
The Face of Stravinsky
Persistence of the Australian Customs
A Department in its peculiar attitudes
as to what should come into the country,
and what should not, will not cause
undue embarrassment to that world-
renowned maker of musical history, Igor
Stravinsky, when he tours Australia late
ffiis year. Stravinsky is experienced with
Customs eccentricities.
Pablo Picasso once made a quick
pencil drawing of Stravinsky’s aquiline,
intellectual face and presented the draw-
ing to the composer. But, whether it was
the nature of his features or the nature
of the artist’s style, Italian Customs
officers suspected it dreadfully when they
found it in Stravinsky’s luggage on one
of his crossings from France to Italy.
They confiscated the portrait as “secret
plans.”
Oh, My Sunshine
HPhe A.B.C.’s habit of translating the
titles of foreign musical items into
English becomes a little confusing when
the original title is more familiar than
the often-ignored English meaning.
“Le Bourgeois Gentilhomme” seems
rather odd when referred to as “The
Middle-Class Gentleman,” and the in-
terest aroused by the prospect of “Oh,
My Sunshine,” is quickly dampened by
the realisation that it is merely “O, Sole
Mio.”
5/g Art Show for Festival
A delaide has achieved an art scoop by
securing the most representative
exhibition of Australian painting ever
arranged for its second Festival of Arts
in March next year. Last week National
Gallery Director Robert Campbell an-
nounced that the Commonwealth Art
Advisory Board had agreed to showing
a representative collection of Australian
work during the Festival before shipping
it to London’s Tate Gallery. It will not
be shown anywhere else in Australia.
The decision to arrange this preview
in Adelaide has been made by the Prime
Minister, Mr Menzies. The collection
would consist of three separate phases
of Australian art. There would be 30
major historical paintings, including work
by Conrad Martens, S. T. Gill, Waine-
wright and John Glover ; another 30 by
impressionists such as Streeton, Roberts
and McCubbin; and 140 by contem-
porary artists. The pictures were now
being selected by the Commonwealth Art
Advisory Board from State galleries and
private collections.
Negotiations for this important loan
collection had been initiated three years
ago by Sir John Rothenstein, director of
the Tate Gallery. It should have an
assured audience awaiting it in London
after the sensational success of the recent
Australian exhibition at the Whitechapel
Gallery.
That was Society
It was the death of old Jack Robert-
son that killed the Sydney Reform Club.
While" old Jack lived there was always
hope for that whisky-fed institution. A
few years ago the Club found itself heavily
involved. It was left for Sir Jack to
devise a remedy. “Let us drink our-
selves out of debt,” he said. And they
did. Pretty nearly every man who ven-
tured inside the Club was fined a case
of champagne. Jack levied toll on all-
comers. Everyone who pleased him had
to shout champagne, and everyone who
displeased him had to shout champagne.
And from the ukases which proceeded
from his throne in the eastern corner of
the general room there was no appeal.
— “Bulletin.” October 3, 1891.
Mr Frank Suttor has brought in a Bill
in the N.S.W. Assembly to enable any
married couple to legitimise a child
born out of wedlock. The Bill will be
regarded by more than one eminent poli-
tician as being beastly personal.
— “Bulletin,” October 24, 1891.
The Bulletin softly sniggers at the
picture of ex-Gov. Carrington which is
to join those of the rest of the N.S.W.
Governors at N.S.W. Government House.
It is just the sort of portrait which an
individual like Carrington deserves.
— “Bulletin,” September 26, 1891.
For some time, owing to Government
economy, Adelaide Supreme Court Law
Library has been without a librarian,
The Adelaide lawyers, therefore, with
the universal natural instincts of their
profession, have stolen nearly all the
books. — “Bulletin,” September 26, 1891.
The Salvation Harmy people in Mel-
bourne have chartered the Wairarapa
(N.Z. Co.) to carry a hallelujah picnic
crowd down to Port Philip Heads and take
General Booth from off the Tasmanian
boat. £llO for a special steamer seems
very like vanity. There used to be none
of these naval demonstrations on the lake
of Galilee.
— “Bulletin,” September 19, 1891.
Dr W. G. Grace gets £3OOO for his
Australian trip, together with his own
expenses and those of his wife and two
children who accompany him. Yet the
player who straightforwardly takes £2
for a day’s work is merely called “Smith,”
and brutally shorn of his Mister.
— “Bulletin,” November 21, 1891.


FOR THE OBSERVER
Last week at the Art Gallery of
N.S.W., several hundred invited
people paid each to view a
parade of new fashions by Aus-
tralia’s Hall Ludlow. Champagne
and caviare were served. Cartoonist
Boh Hughes was lurking in the
wings.
“God, you painters are an arrogant mob! Why
SHOULDN’T fashion be art P”
‘Wo, darling, you have it.”
“Of course, mannequins always look so artificial .**


DESIGN
Busy Time
of the Year
An American tourist recently admitted
on arrival in Australia that she
knew only one Australian, and him by
name only. The Australian was Paul
Jones, of Sydney, who may be the most
noted flower-painter in the world.
Mr Jones’s specialty is, of course,
camellias. His busy time of the year
is between March and September. Then
the clients, who have commissioned a
portrait of one of their prize blooms,
will bring him the specimen when it is
at its best. Mr Jones paints the flower-
head at once, because camellias fade or
spot quickly, but, he admits, he often
doesn’t fill in the leaves and background
until the summer.
Mr Jones generally does the decor for
the leading camellia shows in Sydney.
For the Australian Camellia Research
Society’s show at Farmer's Blaxland
Galleries this year this involved cutting
20 lengths of bamboo from the bush
and then spending a very wet Sunday
finding flowers which hadn’t been
damaged by the rain. After Mr Jones
has done the decor, the tedious business
of constantly replacing Uooms during
the show is left to other, less busy hands.
Sometimes Mr Jones visits private
gardens, notably that of Professor and
Mrs E. G. Waterhouse, at Gordon, to
paint, but more often these days the
flowers are brought to him by their
proud owners.
Mr Jones estimates that he has so far
painted about 200 different varieties of
camellias, which leaves about 4800
varieties to go. He said he could most
certainly identify any of the varieties
he had painted but it was hard to say
what would be the maximum number
any person could identify. However, he
was prepared to think that if Professor
Waterhouse could not name any camellia
shown to him, he could at least judge
its history and name some related
varieties.
Paul Jones is in the enviable position
now that most of his work is com-
missioned in advance. Unless he takes a
fancy to paint a certain variety of flower,
he need never do anything without the
cheque being already in the bank. His
pictures sell well in England, the United
States and here. He has painted camellias
in Portugal, Guernsey and Wales, .as well
as Australia, and has crossed the United
States in a Greyhound bus in pursuit of
specimens.
He is one of the enviable people who
knew from the beginning what he wanted
to do. He wanted to paint and he wanted
to paint flowers. One of his first flower
paintings was done when he was on
leave from the Army in New Guinea.
The painting, which is now in the Art
Gallery of N.S.W., includes a camellia
variegata, which Mr Jones admits he
stole from Vaucluse House.
When Mr Jones had an exhibition last
year there was quite a scramble to get
back enough pictures from lucky owners
to cover the walls of the gallery.
Two handsome volumes of Paul
Jones's camellia paintings have been
issued by the Urquhart Press, England.
The second book cost £8 10s. a copy.
Another book is expected out at the end
of the year. The plates for the books
are printed in Germany, and are so good
that people who cannot afford a Paul
Jones original can make do quite well
with prints.
Next year Mr Jones plans to return
to England, where he once spent some
years, for an exhibition of flower-paint-
ings at a London gallery. He will prob-
ably stay away about a year and has plans
for painting specimens of rhododendrons,
which he cannot find here, and also the
blue Himalayan poppy, which, he says
is apparently not grown here at all.
In summer, Mr Jones, after he ha.;
finished the leavers and backgrounds of
his camellia paintings, generally turns to
hibiscus. He says that there are about
5000 varieties of hibiscus, which, although
it is the national flower of Hawaii, is a
native of Syria. The hibiscus he paints
come from around Sydney.
There seems little doubt that Mr Jones,
if it were humanly possible, could paint
his way through the 5000 varieties and
still find enough clients in Australia to
buy his paintings.
More than 20,000 people visited the
Australian Camellia Research Society s
show in Sydney last year. Most of the
time at this year's show there are con-
tinuous queues around Farmer’s Blaxland
Galleries. The queue moves at a steady
pace and it is almost impossible to work
your way back for a second look at a
certain bloom.
The society holds its meetings between
March and October, so camellia-growing
is exclusively a winter pastime. Although
rare camellias are extremely expensive
most members of the society freely ex-
change cuttings. A notice-board has just
been set up by the society. On this mem-
bers can post particulars of specimens,
cuttings of which they are willing to
exchange or give away.
At his house at Roseville, where he
lives with his sister, Frances, who is an
artist (another sister, also an artist, is in
England) and his mother, whose hand-
dressed dolls are highly prized, Mr Jones
has only two camellias in pots. These
have been given to him by members of
the camellia society and neither is par-
ticularly rare. “Growing them as well
would be too much,” he admits.
ABORIGINALITIES
T he Sear ch for
Tr es ize T iles
ITtE road to Normanton, on the Gulf
of Carpentaria, was a good one. One
could speed along at 60 or 70 miles an
hour over it. The township is mainly a
wide, straight, red-gravel road, lined with
buildings and with telegraph poles dis-
appearing in perspective into the immen-
sity of the plain.
The superstructure of the town's well,
with an old-fashioned lamp-post stand-
ing beside it, is at the entrance to the
town. Hawks continually wheel over-
head. The isolated buildings are often
gaily, or garishly, painted. One double-
storeyed house, fronting the main street,
j s painted in red, yellow, and dove-grey.
The Hotel National is in green and red.
The Burns, Philp store is a huge gal-
vanised-iron, warehouse-!ike building
with no windows. A solitary aboriginal
was riding a bicycle down the wide,
deserted main street,
Captain Percy Tresize, of Barron
River, North Queensland, had told me
to inquire for '“The Bottom Pub/’ This
was a homely looking, gal vanised-iron
and wooden, shanty-like pub with a
hip roof. The top of the bar of this
hotel is entirely faced with Percy’s hand-
painted, glazed tiles depicting Gulf-
country scenes. I asked if I could note
them down and the drinkers kept moving


C.S.R. Co.’s ANNUAL REPORT
POINTS FROM CHAIRMAN’S ADDRESS TO SHAREHOLDERS
In his annual address to shareholders, the chairman of The Colonial Sugar
Refining Company Ltd., Mr. J. W. Dunlop, referred to:
• heavy financial losses in Fiji
• decreased sales of building materials and chemicals
• high production at C.S.R. raw sugar mills in Australia
• importance of an effective tariff system to Australian manufacturers.
Mr. Dunlop, at the annual
meeting held on 19th July,
reported on the Company’s
activities in Australia, New
Zealand and Fiji. Some of the
points from his speech are:
RAW SUGAR
Total production: Production
of iaw sugar at the Company’s
mills in Australia and Fiji during
the 1960 season was 448,000 tons
compared with 572,300 tons the
previous season.
SUGAR REFINING
Australia: Sales of sugar pro-
ducts from our five Australian
refineries were 509,000 tons for
the year ended March 1961, a
decline of 3% on the previous
year’s sales.
Sales of liquid sugar and bulk
granulated sugar increased satis-
factorily during the year, rising
to 20% of total sales to manu-
facturers.
We are now packing refined
sugar in 2-lb. and 4-lb. packets
for the grocery trade in New
South Wales, Victoria, Queens-
land and Tasmania and this trade
continues to increase in the four
States.
New Zealand: Sales of sugar
Raw Sugar Production at the Company’s Mills
TONS ACTUAL SUGAR
N.S.W. Queensland Fiji Total
1955 34,800 196,200 163.100 394,100
1956 34,700 198,500 134.500 367,700
1957 35.600 239.600 196.100 471.300
1958 56,400 245,500 198,300 500.200
1959 67.900 221.400 283.000 572.300
1960 60.400 240.500 147,100 448.000
Australian mills
The overall tonnage of sugar
made at the Company’s Austra-
lian mills in i 960 was the second
highest on record, despite a re-
duction in New South Wales due
to drought.
Crop prospects for 1961 are not
quite so promising as in 1960 as
most districts have experienced
drought or near-drought condi-
tions during the main growing
period.
Fiji mills
We sustained a heavy loss in
Fiji in the last financial year,
brought about by a late start in
harvesting and crushing, an in-
adequate weekly supply of cane
from growers for a time after
the start, the low quality of the
cane, the use for this one further
season of the old cane price scale
which paid too high a price to
the growers, and production at
only 74% of normal level.
The low production of 147,100
tons of sugar in the 1960 season
was due primarily to a disagree-
ment with the cane growers’
associations about the terms and
conditions' of a new contract for
the sale and purchase of cane,
which had been unresolved since
the previous year. As was re-
ported in the last half-yearly
circular to shareholders, an
interim agreement for the 1960
season was eventually reached
with a majority of the associa-
tions, using the old cane price
scale. However, harvesting of the
cane did not get into full swing
until September, three months
later than usual.
This serious disruption in the
Fiji sugar industry led to the
appointment by the Fiji Govern-
ment of a Commission of Inquiry
under the chairmanship of Sir
Malcolm Trustram Eve, Bt.,
(1.8. E. The report of the Com-
mission is expected shortly.
products during the year ended
March 1961, by our subsidiary,
the New Zealand Sugar Co. Ltd...
were a record: 115,600 tons were
.- old, an increase Of 2% over 1960.'
We shall soon be selling sugar in
retail packets to the grocery
trade in New Zealand.
SUGAR INDUSTRY
Vlistration kiigar Inquiry
Committee
The report is expected soon of
the Committee appointed by the
Commonwealth Government under
the chairmanship of Mr. M. E.
McCarthy, C. 8.8., to report on
the Australian sugar industry.
It it llv handling of raw
sugar in (lueensliind
The bulk raw sugar terminal
at Mourilyan Harbour is operat-
ing successfully. Tlie conversion
of New Farm refinery’s raw sugar
supplies to a bulk basis has
been completed and the new
system there came into operation
with the start, of the 1961 har-
vest. About 83% of Australia’s
production of raw sugar is now
handled mechanically in bulk.
F.S.A. sugar market
Australia has received an allo-
cation of 90; 000 short tons (or
80,000 long tons) for entry into
the United States during the
1961 calendar year. The alloca-
tion confers no rights continu-
ing beyond 1961.
BUILDING MATERIALS
During the year under review
many C.S.R. building materials
experienced strong competition,
but sales were in general well
maintained up to the end of
1960. The credit restrictions of
November 1960 then intervened
to depress the whole building
industry and sales of most pro-
ducts fell sharply. No matter
what is now done to stimulate
the building industry, the effect
of the November restrictions will
last for a long' time because it
takes many months to plan, ten-
der for and construct buildings.
C.S.R. Fibre hoard Group: Dur-
ing the year the manufacturing
and selling of Timbrock, Cane-ite
and Masonite were grouped under
one general manager.
Pyneboard (60% C.S.R.): The
new Pyneboard factory at Oberon
operated at full capacity for some
months after it started. Unfor-
tunately the market, and hence
factory output, have been reduced
by the' combined effects of credit
restrictions and imports.
Floor Tiles: Sales of Vinylflex
vinyl-asbestos floor tiles have
been maintained against severe
competition from imports and
from an increasing number of
Australian producers. Production
of a new high-grade flexible
vinyl tile, called Hi-vinyl, com-
menced in March 1961.
Gypsum Plaster Group: The
demand for plaster from our five
mills has been adversely affected
by the drop in home building.
Sales of Gyp rock plaster-board
are satisfactory.
Mineral Fibres Group: During
the year Australian Blue Asbes-
tos Pty. Ltd. suffered serious
interruptions from floods and
cyclones, but is now returning to
full operation.
The Bradford mineral wool
companies in N.S.W. and Victoria
(75% C.S.R.) are making good
progress.
Rii hero i<l (60% C.S.R.): Con-
struction of the Ruberoid factory
at Altona, Victoria, has begun
and it is expected to be operating
towards the end of this calendar
year. It will make bituminous
roofing materials and allied lines.
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS
f, .... y •'•.'■■■.. .
For the first time since the
formation of C.S.R. Chemicals
Pty. Ltd. (60% C.S.R.), annual
sales showed a decline compared
with the previous year.
Prices of a number of products
have been reduced to meet com-
petition from imported materials'.
At the same time, unit costs of
production have increased be-
cause volume has decreased. Part
of the local market has been
lost to imports, and in many of
the Industries served, demand
has fallen drastically as a' result
of the Government’s restrictive
economic measures. Naturally,
profits have been affected ad-
versely, especially in recent
months.
Most of the various chemical
plants are working' well below
capacity, and some employees
have had to be dismissed. There
are no signs of recovery yet and
a. difficult period lies ahead for
both established and new pro-
ducts.
C.S.R.C.-Dow Pty. Ltd. (50%
C.S.R. Chemicals Pty. Ltd.): Erec-
tion is proceeding of the various
chemical plants and service sec-
tions of this company at its fac-
tory at Altona. Production of the
Mr. J. W. DUNLOP
Chairman of C.S.R.
first chemical product, styrene,
is expected in September.
It, F. Goodrioh-O.S.K. Chemicals
I’ty. Ltd. (40% C.S.R. Chemicals
Pty. Ltd.): This company has
completed its factory at Altona
and production of the important
plastic, polyvinyl chloride (PVC),
started last month.
OTHER MATTERS
Distilleries
Sales of distillery products
were well maintained throughout
the year.
Investments
During' the year the Company
increased its shareholding in
Reed Paper Products (Holdings)
Ltd., formerly Paper Products
( Holdings) Ply. Ltd.
A further 750,000 ordinary
shares in Fletcher Holdings Ltd.,
New Zealand, were recently
taken up by the Company.
ECONOMIC SCENE
i
There have been rapid changes
in the Australian economic scene
during the year under review,
and their effects have been felt
in many of this Company’s wide-
spread manufacturing' activities.
The virtually complete removal
of import licensing' in February
1960, the severe credit restric-
tions and taxation action and
threats, aimed at “damping
down” the whole economy, have
operated together to affect the
manufacturing and construction
industries very sharply. Reduc-
tions in manufacturing output,
and some unemployment, have
occurred.
The damping down, by credit
restrictions is doubtless tempor-
ary, however, and it is the out-
look for the longer term for
manufacturing industry that
gives rise to the greatest con-
cern.
In Australia’s present stage of
development, the home market is
still small by world standards.
The most important means of
aiding manufacturers to reduce
and stabilise costs, expand pro-
duction and create employment is
to make that home market secure
and develop it. With import
licensing' abolished, and on the
assumption that resort will not
be had to currency devaluation,
many manufacturers of worth-
while products now depend for
their existence on the effective-
ness of the tariff system.
Tariff policies and mechanisms
are the main uncertainties in the
minds of Australian manufac-
turers today, and many share
our grave doubts whether those
at present in operation will be
effective to mitigate the severely
adverse effects of the removal of
import licensing'.
CSRB94 y


their glasses along the bar for me as I
travelled round the bar writing in my
notebook.
The first panel was a painting of an
old-timer standing at the bar drinking
from a bottle labelled “Old Pro s Poison.
A love-chase between an aboriginal and
a lubra was depicted on the label. The
next scene was that of Percy s favorite
pub, a hip-roofed shanty on a bare, red
plain A stockman lounges in the door-
way. A skinny-legged gin in a “mother-
hubbard” is walking away. An old car,
sunk on deflated tyres, is abandoned in
the shadow of a shed. In the background,
an aboriginal stockman, in a "ten-gallon”
hat, moleskins and spurred riding-boots,
is chasing a naked lubra across the plain.
There was a hunting scene. Among
spindly trees and termite formations, a
monstrous black boar, with curving
tusks, has put the hunter, his rifle flung
away, up a precarious, dead tree. Another
hunter is frantically trying to scale
another tree on which a crow is perched.
A frightened dog has taken refuge on
the top of a termite formation. Wild
pigs are clearing out in all directions.
Again in the background, oblivious of
the scene, a naked aboriginal is chasing
a fleeing lubra through the bush.
And now an uproarious branding
scene. A wide-horned bull is being
branded and castrated. Some local
identity, a bald-headed man with a knife,
has just flung aside the testicles. A hawk
has taken them in mid-air and is flying
off with them. Two aborigines are flung
aside by the bellowing beast's convulsion.
Dogs are adding to the uproar. Non-
chalantly, a stockman stands by with
a glowing branding-iron which has just
branded a screaming and leaping stock-
man on the seat of the pants: u.p.U.
In the background is the recurring motif
of the erotic chase.
Next came a river-scene with a boat
overturning as one man wrestled with a
monster - sized barramundi. Percy the
airman, with handlebar moustaches, is
going over backwards, spread - eagled,
into the river. Disappearing into the
water are the black feet and hands of
an aboriginal and the love-chase con-
tinues through the pandanus and paper-
bark trees.
This was followed by the scene of a
large crocodile which has hold of a
hunter in a boat by the seat of his
pants. His terrified mate believes in
“every man for himself’ and is going
overboard while the love-chase still con-
tinues in the background.
The last scene was of a Mitchell Air
Service plane which has landed at an
outback station. A stockman is galloping
up. The homestead is depicted with
towered water-tanks, windmills and with
hawks wheeling overhead. In the fore-
ground, the protracted love-chase is
concluded with the lovers wrestling in
barely concealing bushes.
There was a wild, piano-thumping and
singing party at the pub last night.
Aborigines were looking in at the open
windows. As I was falling asleep in my
room in the distant wing of the pub, the
rhythm and beat of the party seemed
tc be rising in intensity to that of a kind
of corroboree.
When I woke an aboriginal maid was
sweeping the verandah. 1 could hear her
talking to one of the stockmen’s pups
called “Whiskey.” “O Whiskey, Whiskey,
O. you’re my little friend,” she was
saying.
A little, two - car punt ferried me
across the green - yellow Norman
River.
At a low-level river-crossing an old
blitz-buggy, loaded with gear and a boat,
was pulled up. Five young men—they
were really boys—were lounging round
the truck. One was filling up a drum
with water from the river. They were
crocodile-shooters and had picked one
another up along the road as they
travelled. One was a Pole, one a German,
the others were Australians, two from
Cairns and one from Victoria.
They were unshaven, in no hurry, and
laughingly they told me of their adven-
tures and expectations of making their
fortunes at crocodile-shooting. “Where
are you from?’’ the German boy asked
me. “Well,” I said, “I could be an
Eskimo, but I’m from Ireland.” “Ah,”
said the Polish boy, “1 worked for an
irishman once. He used to say: ‘What-
ever the Government is. I’m agin it.’ ”
“That’s an Irish attitude all right,” I
saitL
“And you’re travelling round Aus-
tralia?” the German boy asked me. He
was a typical German, tall and blond.
“Why, that is what I am doing,” he
added. “I am travelling and working
my way round to the see the country.”
I leave them at the crossing, lounging
round the blitz-buggy, with one of them
pouring oil into the engine. The country
levels out towards the Gulf into a vast,
featureless plain. I drove first to the
pilot-station on the shore. Beyond the
house lay the glistening, blue Gulf of
Carpentaria. Hundreds of goats were
grouped about the pilot-station. 1 asked
the man at the station what the goats
were for. “Well,” he said, “in the wet
we eat them. A bloke feels like goat
himself sometimes.’
A little way off on the salt-pan a small
plane had landed. A couple of tourist
crocodile-shooters climbed down out of
it and proceeded to load their gear and
their heavy, canvas-covered rifles into a
waiting Land; Rover. I followed the
Land/Rover oyer the salt-pans to the
modern hotel in the distance,
A bear d e d, long-haired crocodile-
shooter led me into the modern bar.
This was the bar I had come to see.
Crescent-shaped, its top is tiled with the
Percy Tresize tiles. A huge snake writhes
along its complete length. Between its
folds is depicted an aboriginal myth of
a long and creative amorous pursuit
between two ancestral beings. It was
obvious how Percy obtained his love-
chase inotif for the bar of the Bottom
Pub at Normanton. At one end of the
bar is a transcription of the myth with
the heading, “Interpreted by Xavier
Herbert. ’
Outside the bar, sitting on the edge of
a concrete pond, an aboriginal woman
was feeding bread to tortoises and young
crocodiles.
ROLAND ROBINSON
That Was the Country.
When I arrived at Lightning Ridge
(N.S.W.) opal field, one of the fust things
I heard about was the quadrille club.
Being introduced to the secretary I asked
him if I could join. He told me I
would have to deposit £2 with my applica-
tion, that my name would require to
be posted outside the hall for a week,
and then if no objections were made
I would be duly admitted as a member.
At the end of the week I had got through
all the preliminaries, and on Saturday
night got into my most blatant evening
dress and went to meet the elite of
Lightning Ridge. On arriving at the
hall I found dancing already in progress,
but was surprised to find nothing but
“buck” sets, and the blokes were wearing
hats but no coats, and smoking pipes
or cigarettes. I asked the secretary where
the ladies were. “ ‘Strath!” he replied,
“you don’t want much for your money.
How many skirts do you think your
two quid would import from Goodooga
—for there ain’t none nearer than that?”
I then applied for a refund, and was
“given the chat” that if I made a row
someone would “pass me a job on the
nose.” So 1 wrote that £2 off as a bad
debt. — “Bulletin,” July 14, 1910.
Americanisms are gradually creeping
into the Australian slanguage. Was
travelling on the Darling Downs re-
cently, accompanied by Matilda, when
I came upon a cocky’s selection. In
answer to my knock the missus came to
the door with a crying child hanging
to her skirts. My “Good-day" was in-
audible above the lamentations, and the
mother turned on the infant. “Shut up,”
she snapped, “or I'll give you to the
bummer and he'll eat you.” I could
have given her a bit of tinned tongue
myself, but I didn’t —I just shook Matilda
up, and got. — -“Bulletin,” October 6, 1910.
A White Australia! Aborigines Pro-
tector Stretton, of Port Darwin, says in
his latest report that last year aboriginal
half-castes to the number of 112 were
born, the fathers being variously Euro-
pean, Chinese, Malay, Cingalese, Filipino,
and French Creole. Of 100 aboriginal
women examined by the Chief Medical
Officer near the settlements only one was
free from trace of venereal disease.
— “Bulletin,” August 11, 1910.


The Red Page
Another Look at Xavier Herbert
By DONALD HORNE
Soldiers’ Women. Xavier Herbert.
Angus and Robertson. 30s.
It was distressing, but not surprising,
that most Australian reviews of Xavier
Herbert’s “Soldiers’ Women” have been
so scrappy. It is, I believe, a major
literary work and most reviewers don’t
quite know what to do when they are
confronted with such a phenomenon.
The habits they get into inhibit their
judgment when faced with the gawky,
powerful, unclassifiable kind of thing
major works often are.
The danger of reviewing a lot of novels
is that you may get into the habit of
knocking or praising according to the
demands of journalism or a set of private
fads. It is like reviewing pass papers in
an examination: you have to imagine
differences and develop hobby interests
in marking to keep your sanity. This kind
of reviewer should be spared the occa-
sional major work ; the rules that he
follows in his awful regular stint may get
him into trouble if he applies them to
something that passes beyond his normal
scope. And the overlarge helpings of
praise that some reviewers dish out to
encourage novelists to novelise lose their
flavor when they have to praise something
that is for once worth reading. Reviewers
who every week find something good to
say about inferior novels may go through
an emotional crisis when they are faced
with a novel that is out of their class and
they may get nasty. In Australia there
is the additional distraction caused by the
belief that the best way to encourage the
writing of Australian novels is to give
them a most-favored-nation treatment (as
if literary production can be fostered by
being treated as if it were the textile in-
dustry) ; a cosy set of people slaver away
in admiration of “Australian” work. It
takes the emergence of something like
“Soldiers’ Women” to make one realise
what a lot of fuss about nothing this can
be. And of course Mr Herbert is not
in anybody’s clique. He has been up
there in North Queensland for God knows
how long doing God only knows what;
he emerges on us like Rip Van Winkle,
oblivious of anything we have been talk-
ing about for the last 15 years. And
thank heaven for that.
This innocence of what is fashionable
for the moment has led him to produce
a book that affronts most of the present
ground rules for novelising. His book is
a particular affront to the “stylists.” It
lacks the laconicism of the English or the
tepidly intricate word-building of the
Americans, or the virtuoso verbal brilli-
ance that goes down well with all the
poet-critics, or failed-poet-critics, or poet-
ridden-critics. It is not “sensitive” (little
bits of girlish insight into the simple uni
versal human problems of a blind homo-
sexual American negro selling cocaine in
a Tunisian night club or of a two-headed
midget in an Afghan circus). And it
lacks the honorific obscurity that gains
reverence for many a dish of nonsense.
The style basically is 19th Century
Ornamented —pushed along by 20th-cen-
tury bluntness, an idiosyncratic irony, a
simple delight in story telling and many
moments of great force when paragraphs
break into flame. The force increases
as the book goes on ; or alternately as
one gets used to the style one ceases to
notice it; I am not sure which. There
are times I suppose when it fails to come
off ; it is hard to avoid some passages
falling to pieces in your hands when you
are not engaging in a steady, even kind
of prose ; but it seems stupid to quote
little examples of this out of context.
You can make fun of anything that way.
Novels are not collections of finely written
paragraphs each of which will go well as
an isolated quotation ; the belief that they
are is one of the things wrong with
modern writing. This book is written
with great force ; perhaps at times this
skids out of hand ; but its whole effect
would not have been possible if it had
been written in some currently more
fashionable way. It would have been a
different book and a lesser one.
'T'he force of the book comes out
equally clearly in its construction.
Mr Herbert juggles a lot of balls in the
air at once, all circling in different planes,
all in intricately changing relations to
each other ; then to his audience’s amaze-
ment at the end of the act they all end
up back in his hands. There is a strength
in the resolution of each of the themes
he has developed that is remarkable.
Even the best novelists often huddle up
scrappy and improbable endings if they
have attempted a many-themed book ;
these days few even attempt it. “Soldiers’
Women” is a tragedy ; inevitable results
stem from inevitable “accidents”; it
would be a sensationalist mess if this
were not so. But that it is so —that one
can trace it all backwards from the end
or forwards from the beginning—is not
only a sign of Mr Herbert’s strength as
a novelist; it is also the reason for
“Soldiers’ Women” being an unusual kind
of novel to be published in 1961.
The points made so far are superficial.
They are merely intended to clear the
ground of technical obstructions. What
matters is what the book is about. And
to that there are several answers of vary-
ing importance.
Of the more obvious if less important
themes there is the brilliant impression of
certain kinds of life in an Australian
coastal city. (Some say Sydney, some
say Brisbane; I don’t know anything
about Brisbane but the cap certainly fits
Sydney.) The flatness and inanity of
lower middle - class strivings come out
well in the hysterical Batt household,
with a striking passage in which the
errant Pudsey Batt sees a silhouette view
of her home as members of the household
in turn perform a pre-bed backyard ritual.
The Bohemian and semi-criminal life
also comes out true. Best done of the
lot is the upper middle-class household
of Ida Fry, a cleverly drawn picture of
comfortless luxury. The upper class
households totter towards caricature but
the interactions between the classes is well
done, particularly the portrait of Ida Fry
as an unhappy arriviste, lost between the
classes. There is a concern with class
and social types that is rare in Australian
writing ; this novel gets away from the
literary cliches and attempts to portray a
multi-class society (even if the soldiers*
women of all classes are sisters under the
skin). This is incidental to the main
themes but, based on observation rather
than platitude, it is a good thing to find
in an Australian novel.
As Hugh Atkinson has already pointed
out, the book is fundamentally about
womankind —not women as part of the
human race, or as social types, but as
women who, unlike men, are liable as a
result of sexual intercourse to become
pregnant and bear children. The men are
all transients, all needing pleasure, a few
needing love, but none of them —beyond
lost pride —having to pay any reckoning.
The vanity of men is paraded in its many
forms as they possess women for their
physical wants in full manly pride—and
then leave them to sort out what all that
added up to. (“Hubble dubble, boil and
bubble, women’s lot is toil and trouble,
up the bunt and blown with knubble . . .
ruddy cud and flooding blood . . . labor
gripes me .. . will I die? Mother,
Mother, hear me cry!”) This is an
artistically isolated picture ; the distresses
of women are isolated by the social dis-
turbances of war ; they do not get much
sexual pleasure from the transients and
even less love ; and they do not bear
children they can love. TTiey are women
distorted and perverted by a cataclysm
that isolates their tragedy, but Mr Herbert
makes two other things clear: Even in
disorders there are women who maintain
their sense of order. (Selina decides
against her American ; Erica is a pillar
of order ; Lolly Mulberry decides to bear
her bastard child). And even in order
these are women who are not simply the
victims of men but have gone out for
all they can get. Ida the arriviste, Rosa
from the landed family, Lolly from the
retail store family join the semi-prostitutes
Fay and Carnation in a hunt for men that
cannot really be distinguished from the
men’s hunt for women. In a strict sense
only Pudsey and Felicia are victims.
But the women suffer for what they do
and the men don’t.
He carries the study beyond this. He
sees women thrown out not only of social
order, but of a kind of natural sexual


BOOKHUNTER
Dept. “D,” Box 26U, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.O. Sydney.
FREELANCE
WRITERS!
Learn Story Writing, Freelance Journ-
alism, Radio and TV Script Writing,
Verse Writing, etc. by excellent corres-
pondence training with STOTT’S—
Australia’s leading Correspondence
Training College.
Write today for full particulars, sent
free and without obligation.
Molls Correspondence C ollege
158 Flinders Fane, Melbourne; 149 Castle-
reagh St., Sydney: 290 Adelaide St., Bris-
bane; 21 Grenfell St., Adelaide; 22 Howard
St., Perth.
-——’—CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON — ——
To STOTT’S: Please send me, without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
AGE (5.8.1561)
order. Sexual conventions, male practice
and social demands pervert the sexual
and reproductive roles of women with
results that may turn them into unhappy
sports (in the biological sense). Social
stresses turn Lolly into an acquisitive
lover; social demands smother Rosa’s
natural maternalism so that the woman
who dreams of a happy reproductive life
turns drunken sexual huntress and aborts
her baby; a complex of sexual and
social factors give Ida a sexual and
emotional shallowness that has tragic
results for anyone who associates with
her so that she becomes a kind of inno-
cent chain-reaction killer.
Linked with all this are a number of
other themes. There is the morality
of Selina, who though in equal plight and
equally tempted, exercises restraint,
thereby adding contrast to the main
theme. There is the treatment of friend-
ship as a meeting of needs that withers
when one person’s need dies (and of love
as “need plus admiration”). This theme
is specifically stated, but it is worked out
dramatically throughout the book in a
very finely-woven texture that makes the
whole thing a tragedy of needs; the
nature of friendship and love is one of
the things the book is “about.” There is
also a passage about the virtues of cour-
age, kindness and awareness which seems
to be one of those expressions of what
an author would like his book to be about
but did not somehow manage to contrive
it into the texture of the book itself.
But what seemed most remarkable of
all was the mixture of irony and com-
passion used in working out the tragedies
of Ida Fry and Pudsey Batt, the two
central and most finely-drawn characters.
Pudsey is a beautifully drawn picture
of a delinquent. Enchanted and schizoid
she slips into a life of evil (which even
includes a murder) without evil ever
finally implanting itself in her soul. She
is delinquent perchance and offhand ; it
is not what she really wants to be, and
she hardly notices that it is what she has
become. The external apparatus of
delinquency is well done: the eldest
daughter vieing with her mother for her
father’s love ; her affection extended to-
wards Ida Fry and her children and
snapped off thoughtlessly by the frivo-
lous Ida ; the accidents: the corruptions
of school friends, the seeking of affection
in strange places, the need to eat; the
real exchange of friendship with the
middle-aged American colonel; the con-
tingencies of sexual assault; the despera-
tion when reality breaks through. Put
like this it sounds like something out of
a social studies textbook. But it is all
expressed with compassion in Pudsey’s
dream world and with an irony in the
external account that purges out the sob
stuff and gets on with the story. Joyce
Cary’s “Mister Johnson” came to mind ;
perhaps because this was another finely-
drawn study of the irresponsibility and
innocence of internal enchantment; there
is something in the theory that Africans
do not know what they do because they
are children ; but the theory goes beyond
Africans. We all of us at times do evil
in a state of innocence, but the evil often
then destroys our innocence. In a sense
Pudsey was “saved” by her death ; the
results of her innocence in action had not
yet destroyed the innocence that gave
them birth. When Ida’s house is on fire
Ida is sleeping off a love bout in the
boatshed ; when she realises her children
are destroyed she is pleased. But the
delinquent Pudsey kills herself in a futile
attempt to save the children ; the enchant-
ment is still with her, and her “natural”
state is still one of love.
Unlike Pudsey, frivolous Ida is a
Survivor. But despite the holocaust she
makes of everyone and everything around
her at the end she, too, is (in a different
sense) “saved.” The causes of Ida’s dis-
content are trivial—she is sexually
shallow, personally frivolous and
wrongly married. The actions that lead
to so much unhappiness to others are all
of them trivial. A cigarette is left alight
and her children are destroyed ; she finds
Pudsey a bit of a nuisance, so Pudsey
slips into her murderous chain reaction ;
and so on. And the manner in which she
becomes happy—finding a man with
whom she can live at a pleasantly shallow
level —is also trivial. Yet trivialities are
the things from which most of our
tragedies and our lives are made. Where
Mr Herbert has succeeded is in bringing
out such tragic themes from such
suburban triviality and in displaying the
compassion and irony that understands
the kind of character that unwittingly
“saves” itself after making a bonfire of
everybody else.
With Pudsey and Ida —in fact with all
of his characters (although with varying
success) —Mr Herbert has taken up one
of the great themes of the literary artist:
the tragic potential that lies in any
human heart. It may lie forever dormant,
like the kind of seed that needs a bush-
fire to germinate it. It is when personali-
ties are extended, pushed to their furthest
limit, that we find in action some indica-
tion of what those personalities really
are.
Chopped Sage
The Basic Writings of Bertrand Russell,
edited by Robert E. Egner and Lester
E. Denonn. Allen and Unwin. 625.
Russell. How could it? How could one
decide what anybody’s “basic writings”
were?
What has been done is to reprint
selected chapters, prefaces and essays
from Russell’s 40-odd books, classifying
this material under 17 headings ranging
from “Autobiographical Asides” through
“The Logician and Philosopher of
Mathematics” to “The Philosopher of
Education” and “The Analyst of Inter-
national Affairs.” The editors have added
a couple of pages of “Epigrammatic
insights from the pen of Russell” and
“Some thoughts about Bertrand Russell”
(epigrammatic insights about Russell
from other pens) and a short puff in
front of each of the 17 sections.
Russell contributes an introduction
praising the labors of the editors. Is he
sincere or simply short of money? A
book called “Wisdom of the West" was
W 1 1 ' . ..
Such a method of selection is a i
worst with Russell s more serious work,
that on logic, philosophy of mathematics,
theory of knowledge etc.; particularly
in view of his many changes of view in
the course of a long intellectual ie.
Snippets here are merely confusing.
Only by reading a whole book can one
come to grips with a part of Russell s
thought.
In the more popular writings—on
education, on morals, on politics—antho-
logising is less unfair to Russell. But this
is because Russell does not write on these
questions as a philosopher (as he admits
himself in his preface), and is only an
intelligent and articulate man giving his
views. They do not involve the depth


of reflection aimed at (successfully or
not) in philosophic work.
Through these popular writings runs
the contradiction so devastatingly
described by J. M. Keynes. Writing in
1938 of the group of intellectuals at
Cambridge before the First World War,
which included Russell and Keynes,
Keynes says: “Bertie in particular sus-
tained simultaneously a pair of opinions
ludicrously incompatible. He held that
in fact human affairs were carrie 1 on
after a most irrational fashion, but that
the remedy was quite simple and easy,
since all we had to do was to carry them
on rationally.” This describes Russell’s
moral and political attitudes right down
to his present stand on nuclear dis-
armament. He has never grasped the
power of “irrational” forces in man and
society, and this gives the characteristic
thinness to his popular writings. At the
same time, perhaps because of this, he
has never felt any temptation to the
worship of power, and his early and
emphatic rejection of Communism is
one of the best things in his liberal-
progressivist humanism.
In his more technical work, Russell’s
position in the history of philosophy is
secure, although we can credit him only
with high talent, not philosophic genius,
which is a very rare thing. One point
that emerged for me in reading over
these extracts is the considerable care-
lessness of his thought and writing.
Despite his concern with mathematics
and his great contributions to symbolic
logic, despite the clarity and ease of his
style, there is some lack of rigor in his
thinking. This can make him rather
distressing reading for the professional
philosopher. Indeed, to read Russell
either when he is writing for a profes-
sional or a popular audience is, for me
at any rate, to swing constantly between
admiration and irritation.
DAVID ARMSTRONG
Ophion is Dead
The Native Moment. Anthony C.
West. Mac Gibbon and Kee. 22/6.
A Season of Mists. Honor Tracy.
Methuen. 18/9.
'T'he Irish may indeed be as Irish as they
A are said to be. Honor Tracy, from
her house on a hill overlooking Dublin,
is, in “A Season of Mists,” writing about
county English, while North-of-Ireland
man, Anthony C. West, now living at
Anglesey, has set his “The Native
Moment” in Dublin.
Anthony C. West is new. Until now
he had published only a collection of
short stories. The first thought about him
is the practical one of how awkward to
share a name with another writer so that
a middle initial has to be put in. Think
of Anthony C. West, and hear him
murmuring at publishers’ cocktail parties,
“No, not Anthony West. Not the
Anthony West. Anthony C. West.”
There are difficulties for the reader, too.
You ask the library for the latest
Anthony West, and instead of “The
Trend is Up,” in which you can explore
the difficulties of being very rich in
America, you are reading something
about the difficulties of selling eels in
Dublin.
However, Anthony C. West appears
to be a man who would welcome diffi-
culties. From Anglesey he views Ireland,
a country, he says, which “was never
meant to be a nation,” a country whose
troubles have really begun only since
“the troubles” ended.
West’s hero, Simon Green, is another
Ulysses on a day and a night’s journey
through Dublin. He is every Irish
hero, feckless, romantic, time-wasting,
obsessed. He has been to America and
found nothing there he wants. Now he
is in Dublin, carrying about with him
his business sample, a live eel, named
Ophion, in a tin-can filled with water.
He wanders through streets and snugs,
and visits a prostitute who gives him
rest when rest is all he needs. All the
time his thoughts are of Tamar, the girl
from his village whom he wants to marry
before her illegitimate child, not his, is
born. Morning comes, the eel is dead,
and so, alas, are his hopes.
Despite a deadly seriousness which
causes a dangerous teetering towards
sentimentality and despite the conscious
difficulties of style, West’s novel is a
fine achievement. He has tried to see
Ireland as it is today, and through the
eyes of someone to whom America is
no longer the promised land, someone
for whom there is no promised land.
Above all, there is sympathy between
West and his characters, a somewhat
unfashionable thing these days when
most novelists disgustedly hold their
characters up with tongs for our bemused
inspection.
TTonor Tracy, who has taken several
sharp and original glances at Dublin
and Ireland, has turned her eyes from
her own fair city towards the weli-
worked-over ground of the English home
counties. The hero, if such he be, is
Ninian La Touche, a noted art-dealer,
past middle age, who thanks God he is
an atheist and who has “great faith in
Harrod’s.” The story is of his infatuation
with his very young, remarkably silly,
secretary, from whom he requires nothing
more precious than a clearer recollection
of what it felt like to be young.
Honor Tracy is quick, bright and
expert. She can economically and
brilliantly work up a scene which keeps
a dozen or so characters moving at pace.
She can snatch a character from the
limited stock of Englis'h-county types,
give him or her a quick coat of varnish
so that the appearance is fresh.
However, most of Miss Tracy’s
admirers probably are happiest when she
is in her home territory. In “The Straight
and Narrow Path” and “Mind You, I’ve
Said Nothing” she stands alone; in
“The Season of Mists” she is one of
many.
PATRICIA ROLFE
Eloisa to Abelard
Solace and hope depart. God’s finger
traces
on fields of frozen darkness: You
shall find
loss, absence, nothing. Walking on
the wind
Our Lord speaks to a crowd of foolish
faces,
no face that is not mine, while filter-
ing through
gaps, honeycombs of memory you
seem
but the faint ghost of a remembered
dream.
Unveiled by pain, I bleed. My wound
is you.
Lost in the well of space, my spirit
hears
“Lucis creator optime . . .” The choir
entreats God, out of tune. 1 join my
voice
to theirs. Nightfall’s immense. I taste
my tears.
I reap the harvest of my own desire.
No heart escapes the torment of its
choice.
WALTER LEHMANN
Abelard to Eloisa
Far above memory’s landscape let the
fears
unlatched from thundering valleys of
your mind
carry their lightning. Stare the sun up.
Find
kinetic heat to scorch your mist of
tears.
All that your vision limned by night
appears
loose in dismembering air: think your-
self blind.
Louder than death in headlines the
unkind
elements hawk my passion: stop your
ears.
Deny me now. Be Doubting Thomas.
Thrust
into my side the finger of your grief.
Tell me I am an apparition frayed
out of the tattered winding-sheet of
lust.
Recall no ghost of love. Let no belief
summon me, fleshed and bleeding,
from the shade.
WALTRE LEHMANN


QUADRANT 19
The winter issue contains
lames McAuley’s recollections
and reflections on New Guinea.
This is a timely document, as well
as an intimate personal record.
Stories by Peter Shrubb and
Hugh Atkinson also Mungo
MacCallum on Drysdale also
Charles Higham on Judith Wright
•—and much else.
20s. a year : : ss. a copy
Box 4714, G.P.0., Sydney
Australiana
BOOK BARGAINS
No charge. No obligation.
Monthly Lists from
FULLERS SPECIAL LIST,
Box 1538, HOBART, TAS.
THERE IS NO REFUGE
Gwen Kelly
A novel of Sydney University Life
2<K-
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON - MELBOURNE - SYDNEY - AUCKLAND
Back Room Boy
Sir George Cayley. J. Laurence
Pritchard. Parrish. 51s. 6d.
Sir George Cayley (1773-1857) emerges
from Mr Pritchard’s pages as a man of
great wealth with wide mechanical —as
opposed to scientific —interests, ranging
from artificial limbs to railway signals.
However, in spite of the fact that he
discovered and recorded—in a rather
obscure manner —some of the principles
governing mechanical flight, the impres-
sion remains that he was rather one of
the last of the 18th-century “natural
philosophers” than, as Mr Pritchard
attempts to convey, one of the first of
the 19th-century engineering scientists.
Although Sir George lived in the excit-
ing times of the French Wars and the
Industrial Revolution, there is little in
this book of the historical background of
his life, and the man himself remains
a shadowy figure. Cayley seems to have
enjoyed having several irons in the fire
at once, but the breadth of his activities
is obscured by making each of his interests
the subject of a separate chapter. As a
result we have a series of short technico-
biographical sketches: “Aerial Naviga-
tion,” “The Aeroplane, “Balloons and
Airships,” “Cayley Gives a Hand” or
“Cayley Sees The Red Light." This is
not a good way to write either history
or biography, since a man’s life cannot
be put into such watertight compartments.
One fact does emerge from this treat-
ment, the fact which stamps him as the
dilettante rather than the scientist or the
engineer—Sir George never finished any-
thing. His mechanics worked up his
ideas, he read papers to learned societies,
he attended lectures, and he gave advice.
But none of his ideas came to anything,
and he wrote no book to leave a lasting
record of his researches for those coming
after. Although he knew or corresponded
with men like Joule and Watt, Ampere
and Stephenson, no fundamental law or
device is named for him. Mr Pritchard
tries to convince us that his subject was
a great aeronautical pioneer, but this
reader is still unconvinced that Sir George
was more than a wealthy attender of
scientific societies, an early 19th-century
“back-room boy,” who did not realise
the importance of his one noteworthy
discovery in the fundamental laws gov-
erning heavier-than-air flight.
E. M. PENNAGE
Steering a Course
The Poets and Their Critics: Chaucer
to Collins. Hugh Sykes Davies, ed.
Hutchinson. 20s. 3d.
There are two extreme views of the
nature of criticism that constantly
need scotching; or, perhaps, two
hazardous pillars that the critic must
steer his course between.
On the one hand we have the notion
that criticism begins and ends as sub-
jective preference: that no critical judg-
ment has any more objective validity
than the remark, “1 liked this book and
recommend it to you.” People who hold
this opinion point to the notorious revo-
lutions in critical taste, suggesting that
critical attitudes to Milton, or Donne,
or Scott, have undergone complete
reversal as the personal requirements of
critics have changed. For them neither
shoal nor shore in the chart of English
literature is stable. I have even met a
man who claimed that Shakespeare's
reputation had always depended on
whether the political climate in England
was liberal or reactionary!
On the other hand there is the
dangerously arrogant notion that the
critic can apply objective standards to
literature, that criticism can aspire to the
condition of a science. Holders of this
position exaggerate the amount of agree-
ment possible between critics, accuse
their opponents of wilful irresponsibility,
and suggest that critical differences may
be only linguistic in the last resort. What
suffers here is the humility demanded of
us by a work of literature.
Hugh Sykes Davies in this anthology
provides a valuable and chastening cross-
section of comment on particular poets
from their own age to the present day.
His selection briefly outlines some of
the key areas of agreement and disagree-
ment in English criticism. The poets in
question are Chaucer, Spenser, Donne
(with the Metaphysicals thrown in for
good measure), Milton, Dryden, Pope,
and Gray and Collins (treated together).
The selections are intelligently made and
illuminating, if a little scrappy. Looking
through these extracts we are reminded
that renewed enthusiasm for Donne
began as far back as Coleridge and
De Quincey, that Pope was keenly aware
of the dangers of Milton’s “exotic style”
and that Johnson’s account of Dryden
remains unsurpassed for acuteness and
concision. We may also trace the long-
inflated reputation of Gray and Co'lins,
and the remarkable way they have
always been coupled as a sort of
eighteenth century lyric hybrid. It re-
mains difficult to see why Collins’s
wretched verses have long sustained a
higher reputation than the poetry of such
men as Swift. Churchill, Smart and
Crabbe. Somehow he seems to have
been buoyed up on the water-wings of
Gray’s “Elegy.”
Mr Davies is at his weakest in selecting
from the modern critics. Fliot, Murry,
Empson, Lewis and Charles Williams are
included, but why not Tate on Donne?
Why not Cleanth Brooks or Waldoek
on Milton? Why not Leavis or Brower
or Wilson Knight on Pope?
And what are we to make of Mr
Davies’s platitudinous introductions,
which can sink to such massive obtuse-
ness as “Donne's success is only super-
ficial because his poetry has no
intellectual basis Thinking orderly,
coherent thinking was foreign to his
temperament”? Are we to regard intel-
lect and emotion as incompatible?
Fortunately these editorial intrusions are
kept to a minimum. The book remains
a fast-moving anthology of important
critical observations.
CHRIS WALLACE-CRABBE


Shows
Autumn in Illyria
Twelfth Night. Old Vic Company.
Her Majesty’s Theatre. Melbourne.
Designer Loudon Sainthill's Illyria is
an ivy-covered classical ruin which
yet has a very Gothic appearance. The
all-purpose set is very ingenious, being,
THEATRE |
like the most expensive
new houses, an affair of
split levels, which de-
mands a great deal of
nimbleness from the actors. In
keeping with the set, the programme
notes describe “Twelfth Night” as
“autumnal.” But surely Illyria's season
is spring: a season of uncertain and
changeable weather, now boisterous, now
mild. One moment Orsino is talking of
violets and “sweet beds of flowers," the
next we are with Viola, shipwrecked in
a storm. Sunshine and sudden storms,
practical jokes—cruel as well as harmless
—midnight parties, broken heads, sudden
love and sudden violence: these are the
pains and joys of a lusty spring. Every-
one is young and impulsive, or else, if
they are old like Sir Toby, they have all
the irresponsibility of youth. Even Mal-
volio, middle-aged and self-important, is
trying to be a young lover. Everyone is
deluded about the real state of affairs,
and this leads to a continuous explosion
of almost farcical situations that keep
the play bubbling and sparkling with
“matter for a May morning.” There is
nothing mellow or autumnal about
“Twelfth Night.”
But Robert Helpmann's production
takes a different point of view. Rather
than attempt to combine harshness and
sweetness, Mr Helpmann has smoothed
out the play. The result is a gentle, light-
hearted, but rather muted “Twelfth
Night”: a “Twelfth Night” produced by
Prospero, perhaps. The interpretation is
consistently carried through and is in-
teresting even if one does not agree
with it. The Old Vic company displays
its full strength here. The large number
of character parts are played with great
technical accomplishment.
Vivien Leigh is a spirited and appeal-
ing Viola, even if she does not convey
the full depth of Viola's feeling for
Orsino. She speaks the verse with clarity
and beautiful modulation. Except that
from time to time a metallic, cocktail-
party note comes into her voice, which
does not suit Viola’s “small pipe” and
youthful candor.
Frank Middlemass plays a rather
subdued Sir Toby Belch, a little thin and
careworn. John Merivale’s gentle and
lisping Sir Andrew Aguecheek is more
successful. Basil Henson’s socially-aspir-
ing Malvolio, with constricted vowels and
laboriously misplaced aitches, manages
to seem absurd and yet retain some
dignity. At the end he is allowed more
humanity than usual as he lays his chain
of office at Olivia’s feet and rushes away
in distress.
Perhaps the most interesting perform-
ance of all is Mark Kingston’s Feste. In
keeping with the rest of the production
it is a quiet performance, but it has
remarkable authority. Mr Kingston
limits the character very strictly: he dis-
tinguishes Feste from Lear’s Fool by not
attempting to make him an oracle or a
saint. He is shrewd and watchful and
intelligent, as he needs to be, for he lives
by his wits and must please his superiors.
His ventriloquism with a puppet on a
stick adds a touch of the magical which
should enchant any child. His singing
of the lovely songs matched the rest of
his performance.
This production has a virtue which is
taken for granted on the English stage
but is a rare pleasure in Australia:
Shakespeare’s verse is spoken as swiftly,
naturally and clearly as if it were collo-
quial speech. Not only lovers of Shake-
speare but all lovers of the theatre should
see it.
MADELEINE ARMSTRONG
Unjorced Farce
The Amorous Prawn. Theatre Royal,
Sydney.
'T'HE function of farce is to amuse.
Anthony Kimmins does that most of
the time, as author; Eileen Peel and
Michael Shepley, as leads, and Frank
Ward. Gloria Dawn and Joe McCormick,
as supporting players, do it all the time.
The others, including the producer,
William Rees, are not wholly successful.
There are moments of bad timing in the
beginning, but more especially at the end.
In the last ten minutes the play winds
down instead of up, without much loss.
The laughter remains: it bubbled through
a packed house on opening night, leaving
a sweet taste of English inconsequentiality
and verbal whimsy. With it was broad
slapstick, from A to Z.
The locale is the drawing-room of a
mansion somewhere in Argyll, official
residence of the G.0.C., North-western
Districts, the about-to-retire Blimp of
Blimps, Major-General Sir Hamish Fitza-
dam, alias Michael Shepley. He rules a
small staff in khaki with military precision
and inefficiency. When he sets off to
visit the United States, his wife, alias
Eileen Peel, takes over. She is charmingly
efficient and militarily unorthodox, in
converting her husband’s G.H.Q. into a
luxury salmon-fishing resort for dollar-
paying Americans ; and un-English only
in her wilful appropriation of public
property and personnel. With the im-
probable first premises established, the
rest follows: impossible Americans, out-
size salmon, instant amours, and the un-
expected return of the two main props
to a bagpipe-thin plot, her husband and
“the prawn.”
There is always a danger in being too
eleven The author who withholds his
title character to the end gives himself
and his audience an extra hurdle ; but
the one he makes it most difficult for is
his new actor, who must compete from
behind scratch with actors who have
established themselves, and perhaps even
endeared themselves to the spectators.
Unfortunately, the current production of
“The Amorous Prawn” grows slack when
“the prawn” himself appears. John
Morris, a competent enough actor, is
miscast for a late and intended-to-be im-
posing, over-riding upper-class English
entry ; the more so because Miss Peel and
Mr Shepley are themselves so absolutely
right, and instinctively more “U” than he
can hope to be.
ANTON VOGT
Students on a Warhorse
The Beggar’s Opera. National Insti-
tute of Dramatic Art, University of
N.S.W., Sydney.
IF the prime function of the National
Institute of Dramatic Art is to teach
people how to act, Tom Brown’s produc-
tion of “The Beggar’s Opera” is conceiv-
ably the best piece of work the institute
has yet exposed to the public. The old
warhorse comes up as indestructible as
ever, despite longeurs, and the production
rightly goes for exuberance rather than
style. The kind of strained elegance
attempted in earlier N.I.D.A. productions
has failed on all levels except the purely
visual; a stylishness aped from a fashion-
able West End approach sits awkwardly
on immature Australian drama students.
Mr Brown’s rough-and-ready earthiness
yielded more satisfactory dividends. For
the first time we saw some glimmering
of characterisation rather than the pretty
posturings of the past.
The pros and the cons of the perform-
ance came out about equal. Thomas
Dysart was robust enough as Mac Heath,
but surely lacked dash, lightness of touch
and, above all, humor; he achieved
seriousness rather than mock-seriousness.
At first Briony Hodge's interpretation of


LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
Established 1808 in Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen
many Battles, including
the Battle of Waterloo,
and has emerged from
them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT
MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
JV.S.JF. Branch:
Kindersley House,
Blig-h - O’Connell Sts., Sydney
start the (lay right!
m
i m
Oi
F*
owo' hC
r»«*sii6
ri" 6
If any “Bulletin” illustration
takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you
a price for the original.
Polly indicated a refreshing satire on all
dewy-eyed heroines, but apart from one
or two later scenes this approach was
not given free enough rein, although her
songs were given in a husky pipe
reminiscent of Anna Russell impersonat-
ing English choirboys. Worst moment
in the production was the Dysart-Hodge
mangling of that tenderest of songs,
“Over the Hills and Far Away.”
Many of the supporting roles were
realised with some robustness, especially
the Mr Peachum of Don Philps and the
Lockit of Eric Hoek, though the full
richness of the comedy was not always
brought out. In Sandra McKenzie we
have an incipient stylist who must now,
however, bend herself to becoming the
first Sandra McKenzie, not the second
Dinah Shearing.
Shortcomings of the production in-
cluded a technically cumbersome transi-
tion from prelude to opening action, not
altogether to be put down to first-night
uncertainty ; and an occasional piece of
business seemingly stuck on from an
earlier production and not quite apt for
the less-oeasoned approach of the
students. The two triumphs of Mr
Brown’s interpretation were the rowdy
virility of the first highwaymen’s scene
in which the institute’s young actors dis-
played good ensemble playing and some
warm individual characterisations, and
the riotous scene between Mac Heath and
his doxies. The beautiful change from
shrill bawdry to terrible silence, one of
the test moments of the work, was excel-
lently done.
“The Beggar's Opera” seems to me
important to Australian theatregoers, for
next year these young actors will be find-
ing their way into the nation's profes-
sional theatres. This crop seems inferior
to last year's graduates in movement,
gesture and posture, but superior in
ability to characterise in broad, vigorous
terms. One disquieting reflection, how-
ever- one came away with the feeling
that this was good work for students;
should we not expect more at this latter
stage in the institute's two-year course?
ALAN SEYMOUR
Party and Hangover
Birthday Party. Adelaide Theatre
Group.
Harold Pinter’s “Birthday Party” pre-
ceded his great success, “The Care-
taker,” by two years. In the light of his
now proven talent it is easy to look back
on “Birthday Party” and discern the ele-
ments of sound theatrecraft and brilliant
ideation. One can understand why it
received a pretty torrid reception in 1957.
It appears to derive more from Kafka
than from Beckett, and yet, for all its
frankly surrealist logic, more again from
“Look Back in Anger” and the English
sociological school. If Jimmy Porter had
gone completely up the wall he would
have found himself on the end of such a
birthday party.
The play appears to be a psycho-
sexual fantasy (probably projected out-
wards from the mind of Meg Bowles, an
elderly boarding-house keeper) in which
a deadbeat pianist is savaged into a state
of placid idiocy by two Kafkaesque visi-
tors. The menacing visitors are mouthers
of every known ugly cliche in the English
language, and they are matched in this
glib mental vacuum only by the slow-
witted verbal idiocies of Meg herself.
The play’s “message,” if we can assume
one, is that the grey verbal horrors of
the admass mind not only exist freely in
society but exist in order to make every-
thing and everyone into the same human
image.
Adelaide Theatre Group’s production
of this offbeat drama provided the one
pyrotechnical event in a squib of a
theatre year. Leslie Dayman, the State’s
leading amateur player, turned his hand
to production for the first time and
managed to evoke startling heights from
his players in addition to professionally
dynamic production values. John Pais-
ley, a newcomer from English rep., gave
a superbly acted and timed interpreta-
tion of a menacing schizoid Irish mind.
Leslie Dolphin John Dick and Morna
Jones played wholly within their parts
no mean achievement to create authen-
tically the nightmares that breed beneath
the surface of suburbia. Bill James
expounded his bland Semitic cliches with
only occasional timing defects, while Judy
Dick introduced some normal turpitude
into the perverted moral logic of the
play.
MAX HARRIS
Friendship
Donald Friend. Macquarie Galleries,
Sydney.
T'vonald Friend belongs to a vintage of
painters whose work has, through the
years, undergone a process of develop-
ART 1
ment while its basic aim has
changed little. The surprising
thing is that yet a further refine-
ment has been possible.
In his current exhibition his love of
life and enjoyment pervades a world of
peace and rest. The figures in his paint-
in 8 s are either idly standing around or
sleeping peaceiully, and even those
ferocious animals, the bulls, show no sign
of violence but are symbols of tian
quillity.
Friend draws with ease the pliant forms
of his figures, which he contrasts with
delicately suggested backgrounds of


Ceylonese townscapes. Occasionally in
these backgrounds he uses colors which
border on sweetness, and when, as in
“Galle, the Walled City,” part of the
townscape assumes an importance as a
solid thing in space its decorative charac-
ter seems out of place. But in “Muslim
Couple,” where the town behind is as
flat as a theatrical backdrop, its joyous
color is the perfect foil for those two
sombre figures.
Friend's drawing is shown to best
advantage when he uses it within some
classical format, and I prefer it used with
limited color as in “The Palmist” and
“Two Figures,” where the mainly brown
color is offset with just a touch of blue.
This color scheme is also used in the
first of the two “Sleeper” pictures, both
of which have a wonderful feeling of
relaxation. 1 can’t remember seeing
drawings in which the graceful ease of
sleep is so convincingly depicted. In
“Boy with Mythical Animals,” Friend,
with amusing sophistication, contrasts the
figure of a boy with some benevolent
gargoyle-like native symbols which seem
to enjoy being painted. But in “In the
Rock Temple” he seems for once to be
intense and serious, and the numerous
figure studies are brought together un-
happily in a graceless “spectacular.” It
may be a more powerful picture, but
somehow this seems all the more the pity
when elsewhere in this exhibition there
is such gentle charm.
SALMON
The Method
The Bauhaus, Aspects and Influence.
Arranged by Dr L. Hirschfeld
Mack. Gallery A.. Melbourne.
'"This orderly and well-documented
A review of the ideals and influence of
the Bauhaus makes a stimulating exhibi-
tion. Anyone whose faith in the relevance
of art to living has been shaken should
go along for some encouragement. The
Bauhaus’s trenchant belief in the supreme
utility and rationality of art has always
about it the undeniable ring of truth.
When a man starts out with a clear pur-
pose to do something useful for his
fellows and finds a way both reasonable
and beautiful to do it, then he is an artist.
Freedom from effete conventions, clarity
in investigation, high standards of crafts-
manship and deep respect for nature and
for men stand out boldly in this exhibi-
tion as the essentials of Gropius’s creed.
A truly international movement, its
influence has been felt everywhere, even
m Australia to a great extent, especially
m industrial design and architecture. It
Is often, however, misinterpreted as a
doctrine of pure functionalism, with the
result that many of our architects and
designers who would number the Bauhaus
among their ancestors, albeit at several
removes, still produce cold and pointless
based more on models than on
•deas. A glance at even this small reflec-
tion of the immense work of the Bauhaus
should cleanse us of any such notions.
Gropius and his staff were men of rich
culture who saw the world about them
always freshly, who analysed problems
of form and space and material from
the base, scientifically, till they had
mastered all the data. The result was
usually perfectly rational yet highly
imaginative. It is in their method, not
in any style they lent their name to, that
the lesson lies, now as it did then,
BILL HANNAN
Rape of a Fair Country
Spinster. Sydney Liberty.
Sylvia Ashton-Warner is the only
New Zealander to hit “Time’s” annual
list of ten top novels, with a human
document that is scarcely fiction and not
1 FILMS 1
much of a novel. If the
classification was doubtful,
the literary editor's judgment
was nevertheless sound. The
book is glowingly alive with Maori
youngsters, acutely and lovingly observed,
and carefully recorded; and it has a
message as old as the New Testament:
“Suffer little children to come unto
me . . ”
In the Revised Version, as presented
by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, the Maori
youngsters are Mexican and Asiatic
Americans ; the supporting New Zealand
male teachers are English Old School
Tie ; and the supporting white women
are on-stage cockneys. To give local
authenticity, the school is an impossible
pastiche of a disordered pah, thrown
together with bamboo and plasticene.
Behind this there are backdrops of Mt
Egmont; but good use is also made of
the hot pools of Rotorua, carefully trans-
ported a few hundred miles, and of the
Rockies, only a few thousand miles to
the north-east. As far as I could see, the
flag on the flag-pole had the Southern
Cross on it, but I rather think it was
Australian.
There are other faults. Deviation from
the story was the least important; the
denigration of the Maori people the
worst. What was most expected was the
building up of the book’s worst feature,
the love story, at the expense of all its
good features, children well taught by an
erratic but warm personality.
Shirley MacLaine, with little help from
the director, shows that she could have
made a fine film out of this if she had
directed it herself. Hers is an honest
attempt to get near the teacher-mother
role the part craves. But to do it she
should have been sent for three months
to a New Zealand country school, as far
away as possible from the rest of the
cast; and especially from Mr Laurence
Harvey, cockily unconvincing as a man
unsure of himself. There is more room
at the bottom than there is at the top.
ANTON VOGT
"Shakespeare, eh? I didn't know you Were interested in literature!"


The Yellow Dress
Isabel's life changed when divine grace descended on her—by mistake.
By AMY WITTING
The gift of divine grace descended upon Isabel Callaghan
during late Mass, one hot summer Sunday, and from
the beginning she had a guilty feeling that it had come
to her by mistake. Already at fourteen she was not
so harsh in her judgment of the Lord as to suppose Him quite
infallible. Perhaps it was her neighbor who was in a perfect
trance of prayer, and the divine gift was meant for her.
Isabel herself was intensely conscious of the heat, of dust
swimming in a ray of sunlight, of a patch of rosy light from a
stained-glass window that was as ugly as a bag of jujubes but
cast lovely colored shadows, of the open doorway drowned
in the foliage of a peppercorn, but she was hardly conscious
of the service at all, until the sermon began.
That day the sermon was given by a visiting priest, a
young man with a gentle, easy voice and a matter-of-fact
manner. “Consider, my dear brethren,” he said sadly but
without indignation, “the sinful human soul. It is not beautiful.
There are thick spiderwebs looped in dirty corners, and
scuttling insects which, only half-heartedly, we try to drive
out.” This reference to scuttling insects struck home to
Isabel, and she began to listen intently. “The only window is
so dull with grime, we hardly see the sky. But if the light
of the Holy Spirit should penetrate all at once into this cracked,
cobwebbed cell, dear brethren, what a glorious difference!”
These words had an effect on her, more magical than
moral. Her soul was bathed in a calm, delightful sunlight
which remained through the rest of the Mass, and when Mass
ended she was sorry, because now she had to take her new
treasure out into the uncertain world. She walked home behind
her mother and her sister Margaret, avoiding conversation
so as not to disturb this state of grace and considering how
to preserve it. In her world, this would not be easy.
She and Margaret fought all the time, for one thing and,
what was more, it was such a settled thing that they should fight,
she felt sure it would be considered scandalous if she desisted ;
for another, Mrs Callaghan was convinced that her younger
daughter was born with a black soul ; to be contradicted by
people made her angry, but to be contradicted by events made
her frantic.
Once aftei Mass the parish priest came up to congratulate
her on Isabel’s examination results, and added, “A fine charac-
ter, too, the Sisters tell me. A very good girl, and so is
Margaret. You should be proud of your daughters, Mrs
Callaghan.” Mrs Callaghan walked home in a rage that drove
her along like a gale, repeating, “Street angel, home devil, that’s
Miss Isabel. I could have told him a thing or two ; a good
girl, a fine character, indeed. With all I have to bear. Street
angel, home devil, I should have said.” Indignation made her
drive her heels furiously into the pavement as she walked
and slam the front gate behind her as she went in.
Today she and Margaret walked along chatting peace-
fully and Isabel walked behind them undisturbed. As soon
as they arrived home, she hurried to change her good dress
for an old one and went out to the kitchen to peel the vege-
tables and set the table for dinner. Her mother practised
a particularly insulting way of telling her what to do and she
hoped to forestall her, not knowing yet how much provocation
grace could withstand. As she was setting the table, the others
came in, and Margaret said, with a poised and dainty air of
triumph which had never before failed to madden her, “Well,
it so happens that it’s your turn to clear up. You’re not going
to get out of it that way, I can tell you.”
How strong divine grace was, and how little Isabel need
have feared: the words reached her like a recording of some-
thing said long ago. She turned her face away and mumbled,
“I forgot,” pretending to be sulky, for they lived so intimately
bound in hatred that it was impossible to hide anything for
long, and she feared the moment when the others discovered
the change in her. The insects that scuttled in her cobwebbed
cell were shrewd and nasty generalisations about human nature,
and she knew that the virtuous didn’t like being asked to move
up one.
Mrs Callaghan’s curiosity was aroused already, and during
dinner she said, “It’s too hot for you to walk to Grandma's
this afternoon, Margaret. Isabel will have to go.” She spoke
as usual with a calm determination to ignore, as one who knew
better, the superficial appearance of injustice in her words, and
waited intently to hear Isabel scream, “1 won’t. 1 won’t go.
It’s not fair.” Isabel said nothing and her mother turned and
looked at her. She was dreamily chewing roast mutton while
inwardly she contemplated her past rages with wonder. As
if it mattered, whether or not she went to Grandma's!
“You look like a cow chewing its cud. What's come over
you all of a sudden?”
Margaret giggled. “Perhaps she’s been converted. Saint
Isabel of Plummer Street.”
Isabel was beginning to feel confident now of maintaining
her inward happiness. It required concentration, but she found
the concentration came to her easily. It was like carrying a cup
full to the brim with water, and finding her hand steady. No,
it wasn’t quite like that, it was easier and more ordinary.
It was like carrying a cup of water one was going to drink any
moment. One could never quite forget one was carrying it,
that was all.
She said, “I have to take a book back to Kathleen,” and
knew as she said it that her mother would find the remark
inadequate, but realised—it was a new idea —that there was
nothing her mother could do about it. She would have to
make do with it.
After a moment’s reflection, Mrs Callaghan came to the
same conclusion. With a harsh expulsion of breath in the
tempo of laughter, she set about punishing a baked potato, and
finished her meal in silence.
Tsabel really liked visiting her grandmother’s house. In a
-* bookcase on the side verandah there were all the books
the Callaghan children had read in their childhood and, though
they were supposed to belong to her cousin Kathleen whose
parents shared the house with her grandmother, no one except
Isabel bothered about them. She found her grandmother
dozing on a chair where the latticed roof of the fernery made
a patch of shade and dank staghorns and hanging baskets of
maidenhair suggested the idea of coolness.
“Trying to catch a breath of air, love. Now you’ve
walked round in all this heat and Kathleen’s gone out with
her mum and dad.”
“It doesn’t matter, Grandma. Mum sent me round with
your meat-press.”
“Put it on the kitchen table, my petty, and save my old
legs.”
“Then may I stay and look at the books?”
“Of course you can. There’s some lemonade on the ice,
but don’t drink it while you’re hot.”
Such warnings were the common coin of love to Grandma


Callaghan. They had not much value in themselves, but she
pressed them upon her friends and relatives with firmness and
authority, as a token of her interest in their welfare. Isabel
liked being told not to sit on stone, or drink water after
eating grapes, or sleep with the moon shining on her face, and
she felt at home in her grandmother’s house.
She poured herself a glass of lemonade and carried it
on to the side verandah where she sat on the grass matting
in front of the bookshelves and prepared to be perfectly happy.
She loved the old books as well as the stories they contained,
the stiff, cloth-bound covers, the illustrations, the decorated
capitals at the beginning of each chapter, but most of all she
loved the stories not for plot and character but for their back-
ground, the revelation in minute detail of a completely strange
world. Sitting on the floor in front of the bookshelves, she
had the feeling that the past was a great open box she could
rummage in, and she was usually happier there than anywhere
else on earth.
It was not so this afternoon, however. As she sat re-
reading “The Wide, Wide World,” contented but not as
absorbed as usual, it occurred to her that never again would
she be happier in one place than in another. It was like what
the priest said about Heaven, the eternal sunshine which had
neither climate, nor seasons, nor night and day, and for a short
moment she regretted the past with its contrasts and surprises,
but the past of this morning was quite remote and returning
to it unthinkable.
She went home in time to set the table for tea, and the
family ate it in an uncanny quiet. When she got up to clear
away, her mother said sharply, “That’s enough, Miss Clever.
Leave those dishes alone. Margaret doesn’t mind doing her
share.”
Margaret sat still, and on her face a gleam of anger
showed in a fog of bewilderment, and began to grow brighter.
Her astonishment was really comic, and Isabel was beginning
to smile when suddenly she realised the danger she was in.
Quietly and without warning, the world had nearly had her.
Her temptation, she realised, was to be the smirk of victory,
not the rage of defeat, and practising humility she had acquired
power, which would make her life strange and difficult.
At this point, Isabel turned to the lives of the saints. She
felt foolish about it and read the books surreptitiously,
but even if grace had descended on her by mistake, she meant
to keep it if she could, and who but the saints could help her?
As soon as she opened the books, she was in a familiar world.
In the light of her inward happiness, how well she understood
the actions of the saints, even the mortifications through which
they tried to pay for their joy, for fear of not deserving it.
Isabel understood that fear.
Acquiring merit was her problem, and what-
ever she did, her life seemed much too easy. She
did the chores—“ Leave her alone,” her mother said, “she'll
get tired of it” —but pride was her sin, not sloth, and she
never found enough hardship. She got up early, scrubbed,
swept, washed and ironed ; she tried to do all the jobs she
particularly disliked, or had disliked when she still had prefer-
ences, but it all passed as easily as if she were reading about
it in a book.
Meanwhile, Mrs Callaghan had begun to quarrel with
Margaret. She tried to make her compete with Isabel, but
Margaret could not be made to see that the housework, which
had been considered degrading, had now become honorable.
“You're a fool to let her put it over you,” Mrs Callaghan
said with fury, and Isabel saw with surprise that she didn’t
love Margaret either. It was caprice that she favored Mar-
garet and persecuted Isabel. What she wanted was their
conflict, to act out some anger in herself that was beyond
expression.
Isabel could not suppress this insight into the feelings of
the others, but she found that it didn’t matter. Knowledge
could exist with grace, so long as one made no use of it.
She didn’t attempt to love her mother and her sister, either.
That would have been foolish, for as the mists of provocation
and justification cleared away her mother's dislike of her
emerged like a black fang of rock.
Mrs Callaghan had a young sister who sometimes sent
the girls her cast-off dresses and these were given to them in
turn, with strict justice. It was a matter in which their mother
made a display of justice, and Margaret would never try to
claim a dress that was Isabel’s. It was at this time that the
parcel with the yellow dress arrived, a beautiful dress, not
much worn, with a yoke of heavy linen lace. When Isabel saw
it, her breath stopped as she realised it was hers ; then imme-
diately she realised that she could make a worthwhile sacrifice
at last.
Margaret was crying, “Oh, it’s not fair. I only got that
old blue thing, it's not fair.”
“You can have it if you like,” Isabel mumbled.
This caused a silence. Her mother paused before she said,
“You’re angling for a new dress, I suppose. You're above
wearing cast-offs, are you?” She spoke uncertainly, and
Margaret, hurt by the insult to the lovely dress, put her hand
out to touch the lace of the yoke.
“Now that’s enough, that’s enough.” All at once Mrs
Callaghan was beside herself, raging and shouting. “There's
to be no more of this nonsense. You’d like to go about in
rags and bring shame on me, I suppose. It's Isabel’s dress
and she’s going to wear it. Setting yourself above everyone
else, you sly little beast. You won’t be satisfied till you’ve
driven me mad.”
This drove Margaret to rebellion. “Why shouldn’t 1 have
it if she wants to give it to me? I’ll give her the blue one. She
said she’d give it to me.” As this made no impression she
repeated with desperate plainness, “Isabel wants to give -it
to me.”
Her mother stared at her, looking quite terrible. “Oh,
you,” she whispered, “you fool. She can put anything over
you.”
She turned and went out, and the girls forgot her com-
pletely. Often she went into rages that disappeared without
a trace, and in spite of her violence they hadn't taken her quite
seriously.
“Do you really mean it?” Margaret asked and Isabel
nodded. “Well, thanks.” She said the words rather stiffly, but
after all they sounded quite ordinary. She took off the dress
she was wearing and pulled the yellow one carefully over her
head. It fell splendidly into place, and Isabel discovered that
she was able to contemplate her sister’s good looks with patience
and resignation.
HThen she looked up and saw her mother standing in the
doorway. She ran at Margaret and seized the neckband
of the dress with both hands, it was the only act of violence
they had ever seen her perform, and she went about it in a
dazed and blundering way. Words were her weapon, and from
the outraged look on her face it seemed that she had just
discovered the limit of their power. She tugged at the neck
of the dress, and Margaret in astonishment stood docile with
her head bent to one side like a little girl having a dress fitted
till she heard the lace give way ; then she cried out and began
to pull the dress over her head as if she could still avert
disaster. Her mother snatched it from her and threw it on
the bed where Isabel was sitting.
“Now look what you’ve done. Now are you satisfied?”
Whenever she said something completely unreasonable a gleam
of joyful release appeared in her eyes. Isabel saw that look
now and rage took hold of her and shook her. By the time
she remembered it her state of grace was remote ; she was no
longer the same person.
The mother hurried out with her face averted and Margaret
began to smooth the dress out, nervously. When she saw the
strained and ragged threads, separated with so much deter-
mination, she began to cry loudly, beating her closed fist on
the bed with rage.
“It's only a dress,” said Isabel unhappily.
“Oh, you shut up. It’s all very well for you. You didn’t
want it anyway.”
Isabel didn’t feel either that it was only a dress. It was
a symbol that was powerful through its artlessness, and at
the sight of it she felt deprived and desolate. They were both
better off than before: she was no longer helpless and Margaret
no longer innocent, but the yellow dress was gone, and so was
her state of grace, and she knew for ever that such things were
not for either of them.


King on
Norfolk Island
Continuing our series on the early Governors of New South Wales.
By M. H. ELLIS
MRS PHILIP GIDLEY KING
To explain the general conduct of King during his
Governorship of New South Wales, as set out in the
previous article, it is necessary to know the details of
his earlier career.
A Cornishman, born in 1758, he came to Australia
as Phillip's great friend, serving as second lieutenant on the
Sirius on its trip to Botany Bay with the First Fleet.
On February 14, 1788, Phillip sent him away to Norfolk
Island in the tender Supply to take possession of it and establish
himself as commandant and superintendent. His little band
consisted of Thomas Jamison, the surgeon’s mate of the Sirius,
Petty-officer Cunningham of the Sirius, two private soldiers of
the Marines, two persons who professed a knowledge of flax-
planting and -dressing and nine male and six female convicts,
mostly volunteers.
With this unpromising complement he was ordered to
colonise an island without a proper landing-place and covered
in a tangle of undergrowth which would almost have defied
the passage of a lean rabbit. With tents, tools and provisions
for six months he was set down somewhat roughly on the surf-
bound, rocky coast, adjured to plant grain and cotton and
flax for the common stock. And, inter alia, to “cause the
prayers of the Church of England to be read with all due
solemnity on Sunday,” and to “enforce a due observance of
religion and good order.”
By way of example to his admiring parishioners, he imme-
diately appropriated one of the convict ladies to his own uses.
She presented him with a son.
He, no doubt, felt extra jubilation in having beaten all
competitors to produce the first native of Norfolk Island, white
or brown. The child, whom he named Norfolk and who died
at 37 an officer in the Royal Navy, was born on January 8,
1789. The mother was one of those ladies whom he had chosen
from the Lady Penrhyn, because “their character stood the
fairest,” Ann Inett, of Worcestershire, who a year later gave
him another son, Sydney, named after Sydney Bay, the main
landing-place on the island. His first-born he publicly baptised
after he had held divine service on a clear Sunday morning.
In 1790, at the period after the wreck of the Sirius in
Sydney Bay, the mainland colony was almost starving and
Phillip sent half its inhabitants to the island which, by vigor
and a better knowledge of agriculture than most sailors, King
had made into a well-fed colony by comparison with rat-
infested Sydney Cove. He chose King himself to send to
England as his messenger to explain the colony’s plight.
He has left us the most complete and minute record of
the first years of Norfolk Island's history, from a daily note
on the weather to brief references to every event of interest
and to every official action. These records mark him as a
methodical man at that period when he w'as a handsome young
officer 32 years old ; a man whose record fully justified
Phillip’s commendation of him to the Home Government as
“an officer of merit.”
Phillip, indeed, was never tired of praising him to the
authorities. He told Lord Sydney in one of his earliest
dispatches that he hoped King had by now attained the rank
of master and commander which he had well earned in the
late war ; that he was a “very steady, good officer,'’ who in
Norfolk Island was “cut off from all society” and in “a situa-
tion that will require patience and perseverance, both of which
he possesses, with great merit in the service.”
King left for England via Batavia in April, 1790, on his
perilous and fever-haunted voyage of nine months.
The Admiralty recognised his merit as an administrator and
when H.M.S. Gorgon reached Sydney from London on Sep-
tember 22, 1791, the settlement was not a little astonished to
find King revealed in a new setting. He had been absent
from the colony a year and six months. Of this he had spent
14 months at sea. In the remaining two months in England
he had (a) suffered a severe rheumatic attack, ( b) persuaded
his cousin, Anna Josepha Coombe, of Hatherleigh, Devon-
shire, to marry him and return to the colony with him. (c)
persuaded the Admiralty to appoint him a commander after
the Home Office had decided to reward his public service by
appointing him Lieutenant-Governor of Norfolk Island.
On the voyage, at Capetown, he had on his own initiative
bought a quantity of livestock for which he gave
unauthorised bills on the Treasury and in the process made
friends with Colonel Gordon, the Dutch Commandant, and
thus laid the foundation of a connection which, some years
later in 1796, secured for Australia its first Spanish Merino
sheep. He took charge of every affair at the Cape where the
Dutch were in charge—which he thought might interest the
Home Government —with an aplomb not normal in a newly-
fledged commander who had never commanded a ship.
Having gone away a messenger who had been command-
ing a gang of convicts, he returned as a sub-Vice-regal
personage with a wife and an embryo-secretary in the shape
of his young protege, William Neate Chapman, to enjoy the
delights of what Mrs John Macarthur. lonely for two years
for the company of women equals, called “our little brilliant
society.” This society consisted of no less than four free
ladies joined with their spouses in tasting the delights of
Government House, which possessed the only pair of stairs in
the colony and a menu which included kangaroo and “bow-
wow” pie.
Then oft they went to his new island kingdom, with all
his retinue and with Captain William Paterson, who had intro-
duced them to Colonel Gordon in Capetown ; for Paterson
and Gordon had once explored the country of the Hottentots
and the former, it was said, had taken to England the first
giraffe skin ever imported there. Now. his pleasant little
Scottish wife Betsy and Mrs King would be the first free women
to land on Norfolk Island.
It was not the same Norfolk Island he had left after the


IXL
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of: —
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY, LTD.
(A member of Commercial Union Australia Group)
ESTABLISHED 1812
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
F. S. WATSON Manager
wreck of the Sirius. The great increase in population, the
clearing, the tillage and the presence of military and superin-
tendents of higher standing presented him with a different sort
of task to the earlier one ; this more especially since the
fertility of the place had so impressed the Home Authorities
that they were not sure whether it might not be a good idea,
at that stage, m transfer the whole of the hungry population
of New South vv'ales to its shores, at least for the time being.
He could no ionger behave as the absolute monarch of
what Phillip believed to be “one of the finest islands in the
world,” and La Perouse, who had found it impossible to land
there, an island only fit for angels and eagles. His wife, expect-
ing her first infant at any moment, they waited in the Atlantic
for the surf to abate in the first days of November, 1791,
before they could make the perilous landing. They found a
scene of dissension and turmoil.
For eagles, Norfolk Island might have been a good home
at the end of 1791, for there promised to be plenty of carrion.
But there obviously had been no immigration of angels, though
Major Ross, the quarrelsome locum tenens, Lieutenant-
Governor of N.S.W., who had been packed off thither from
Sydney so that Phillip might have some peace and quiet, was
certainly preparing to go home trying to look like an angel.
In fact, King found “discord and strife in every person’s
countenance and in every corner and hole of the island, which
you might easily conceive would render this an exact emblem
of the infernal regions.” An embryo scheme of settlement
was in being. A clergyman had come over to do a little very
necessary marrying and christening. But Christian charity
had not accompanied him. On every hand, the new Lieutenant-
Governor was “pestered with complaints, bitter revilings, back-
bitings and almost everything to begin over again.”
T'heir personal surroundings were wretched and insanitary.
Government House, only 24 feet by 12 feet, was falling
to pieces. There their son. Phillip Parker King, named after
Governor Phillip and the Captain of the Gorgon, began an
adventurous life’ he was the first Australian to become an
admiral and wa c * noted naval explorer He became super-
intendent of tlv great Australian Agricultural Company with
its million chartered acres and the whole of the Hunter and
the Peel country and the mines of Newcastle to play with.
King did his best with the island population, but the rot
in his constitution had already set in. The long sea voyages
in ships plagued with putrid fever left its mark on all the
pioneers of the early days, affecting all with the dreadful
rheumatism or arthritis which they called “gout.” Some staved
off insanity from continuous pain through the regular con-
sumption of “rum”; some stuck it out like John Macarthur
and gradually went insane after years during which their angers
and impatience became less and less controlled.
King lived with the anodyne of rum amid a community
in which his subjects were the unwanteds of Botany Bay, in
a community in which it was necessary to chain hardened
young brutes to the public grindstone pending their export to
Sydney Cove, and women were whipped at the cart’s tail as a
matter of course and one of them hanged. He faced the
rivalry of the military and the free civilians, as they faced
his natural naval arrogance, and the best company he could
enjoy was that of the slightly contemptuous D’Arcy Wentworth
with his strange household.
In the midst of all the turmoil two more children were
horn: Maria, destined to marry Hannibal Macarthur anti
become the chatelaine of The Vineyard , and Utricia, who did
not reach maturity
Life was complicated by the presence of two strange visi-
tants, a Maori priest and a Maori warrior, who had been
brought from New Zealand to teach the art of dressing flax,
neither of them very pleased since they had been enveigled into
Captain Vancouver’s storeship H.M.S. Daedalus, and shang-
haied. They ate at the Kings’ table. They slept in the house.
Their gloomy tattooed faces seemed to haunt everybody round
about and ever and anon they wept and announced their
Mention to commit suicide. It was an unhappy time till King


in person took them home in Captain Raven’s Britannia and
left them with their singing wives and families, “crying
terribly” at parting with him.
However, civilisation progressed in the island, almost as
fast as the “gout” in King's system. They even began to hold
theatrical performances, but these ended in riot by insolent and
licentious soldiery outside his house, after there had been a
dispute between his servants and the military about seating
in the improvised playhouse, in which the military believed the
convicts were over-favored.
Mutiny apparently was only averted (if King’s version
could be accepted, which is not necessarily the fact) through
his personal intervention in the scuffle followed by the seizure
of the detachment’s arms by a ruse ; but there was another
side to the tale—that the playhouse scuffle had been started
through a convict striking a soldier, an act not viewed lightly
by the Acting-Governor, Major Grose, who had succeeded
Phillip at Sydney headquarters, though when the circumstances
became clear the quarrel that ensued was smoothed over.
All the time King became less and less his old self, his
condition scarcely improved by the consumption of what seems
an inordinate quantity of port wine for a patient allegedly
suffering the horrors of chronic gout in its most painful form.
Matters came to a climax in 1795. He became almost
an invalid, incapable of carrying on, and Governor Hunter,
newly arrived, gave him leave of absence to go to England to
mend his health.
Off he and his family set for England in the Britannia,
which Hunter had ordered to call for him en route for the
Cape of Good Hope, having sent his eldest son, Norfolk, in
the Earl Cornwallis. The little Britannia was crowded with
historic personalities—David Collins, first Judge Advocate, was
there ; so was John Palmer, the Commissary, formerly purser
of the Sirius. They plunged through the Roaring Forties at
their worst period, while Mrs King awaited the birth of her
third daughter, Elizabeth, still unborn when they reached False
Bay ; but they could not pause there. They sailed from the
Cape on the ninth anniversary of the landing at Sydney Cove
in the East Indiaman Contractor in which Elizabeth was born
during the four months’ voyage to Plymouth. The interval was
only long enough to secure that the Spanish sheep of the
deceased Colonel Gordon would go to New South Wales.
The future was not promising. He was a Vice-regal
person who was too ill, for the moment, to continue to carry
out his duties. He had sold his effects and his private stock
of animals before he came away from Norfolk Island. He
had not had any service in the Navy for nine years and his
place on the commanders’ list was so low down that there was
little chance of his routine promotion. He was nearly 40 years
old. Nobody seemed to want him at first. It appeared, five
months after he had returned to England, that he would do
well to resign his Lieutenant-Governorship of Norfolk Island
and throw himself on the Admiralty.
IF the Admiralty proved uncompliant, he “must go into Wales
or Cornwall and take up my spade.” But it was
fortunate for him that he expressed these opinions to Sir
Joseph Banks, who was always ready to help a friend. Banks
knew that Hunter’s reign as Governor of New South Wales
was near a disastrous end, and apparently regarded the
Governorship of New South Wales, judging by his recom-
mendations, as a sinecure for someone feeble or the naval
officer out of favor who happened to be his friend.
He therefore secured for King a foothold on the threshold
of the Governorship by having issued to him a dormant
commission to become Governor of New South Wales with
limited powers in the event of the death or absence of Hunter.
And probably knowing from the first the doom that hung over
poor Hunter’s head, King prepared to return to the Antipodes.
No man was ever in a worse condition to undertake the duties
of Vice-regal office, especially in New South Wales where he
would be dowered only with prospective limited authority, not
designated as Deputy Captain-General or Governor-in-Chief
in the commission showed that the Colonial Office merely
looked on him as a possible stopgap when Hunter should come
home, as they intended that he should do on King's arrival.


Business, Robbery, Etc.
MIGRATION
After the Riots
Broken glass piled up thick
in the Bonegilla migrant
camp. Migrants waved their
hands, shook their fists at
camp officials, wrecked a coupie
of offices and dislocated a
policeman's shoulder. Children
cried and women screamed.
The riot itself was an un-
fortunate and mixed up affair
—as most riots are —but not
really unexpected. Despite a
slowing down in the unemploy-
ment trend the number of job-
less still rises and such outbursts
are well on the cards.
The Bonegilia riots gave rise
to the usual chorus of protests,
accusations, counter accusa-
tions, ministerial statements and
demands that the migration in
take be cut down.
More sober reflection may
show that despite the headlines
and bad publicity abroad, the
riots in themselves were a
minor affair. Even so. the
Federal Government has de-
cided to cut the inflow of
unskilled migrant workers, par-
ticularly those from southern
Europe, in the period to De-
cember 3 1 next.
There is no doubt that con-
tinuous arrival of migrants now
aggravates the unemployment
situation. This is especially
true of unskilled and semi-
skilled labor. On this point a
case could be made out for
restricting migration when em-
ployment difficulties become
serious.
However, the flow of
migrants cannot now be turned
on and off on tap. Displaced
persons in Europe have for all
practical purposes disappeared.
Increasing prosperity on the
Continent, rapid economic
development of the Common
Market countries and higher
standards of living have radi-
cally altered the situation that
existed in 1945-50.
Highly skilled men are reluc-
tant to come to Australia if
they have good jobs in their
home countries. It is difficult
lo attract the required number
°f skilled migrants and indis-
criminate cuts in the annual
migration quota may make
things very difficult in future.
On the other hand it is use-
less to bring out people if there
are no jobs for them. Most
migrants come to Australia for
purely economic reasons. The
era of mass influx of escapees
from totalitarian systems has
pretty well passed. And a
migrant who comes out here
because of better earning
opportunities rapidly gets dis-
satisfied if employment pros-
pect are poor. Hence a riot of
jobless migrants is not really
surprising.
Present difficulties are only
a passing phase, but they are
real. Unemployment may be
small by overall standards but
this does not help the people
"ho are out of work. It is a
pity that such happenings as
the Bonegilta riots should occa-
sionally put a blot on Aus-
tralia's splendid immigration
record. In times of temporary
employment difficulties it may
be advisable to introduce some
selective adjustments, as
effected, particularly in the
intake of unskilled labor,
wh ch cannot be absorbed as
rapidly as in the boom period.
Australian immigration rep-
resentatives on the spot should
be quite up to date on the state
of our economy and must
advise intending migrants
about changes in the pattern
of employment.
It also must be realised that
Australia’s immigration pro-
gramme is both ambitious and
essential, and cannot be re-
garded from the employment
angle alone. It would be most
unfortunate if the Immigration
Department had to make
major shifts in its policy
to match fluctuations on the
Australian labor market. Once
it is accepted that Australia is
committed to a policy of large
scale immigration, without
which the existing rate of eco-
nomic growth could not be
achieved, it must be firmly
realised that it is very costly.
Pockets of temporary unem-
ployment are one of the costs
of large scale immigration,
undertaken for political as
well as economic reasons. They
must be relieved as much as
possible, and the necessary
adjustments made when re-
quired by the economic situa-
tion.
But large scale policy shifts,
such as an immediate major
reduction in the intake of
migrants, may easily lead to
more serious problems in the
near future.
It also seems undesirable to
keep large groups of migrants
in one huge camp. This in-
evitably leads to a lot of ten-
sion and makes it more difficult
to place unemployed migrants
in jobs. Long periods spent in
such camps later on seriously
hamper natural assimilation
and integration tendencies.
SYDNEY TRADE FAIR
Poland’s Machine Hopes
P very year Poland buys be-
tween £7 million and £lO
million of Australian wool
and about £300,000 worth of
hides and rutile. About 70 p.c.
of Australian wool bought by
Poland is shipped directly to
Gdansk, Gdynia and Szczecin
on Polish cargo liners, which
arrive at the rate of one every
three months or so.
However, Poland's exports
to Australia added up to only
£357,000 in the eleven months
to the end of May and Polish
foreign trade agencies are try-
ing to make the best of the
Sydney Trade Fair to sell more
goods to Australia. Basically a
rural producer before the war,
Poland was completely devas-
tated during the hostilities and
exploited by a number of post-
war trade agreements with the
Soviet Union but has suc-
ceeded in building up major in-
dustries —at a heavy cost.
Poland is now a major pro-
ducer and exporter of ships,
locomotives, rolling stock,
heavy and medium engineering
machinery and complete fac-
tories which are assembled by
Polish experts in the purchasing
countries.
Mr Boniecki, the chief of the
Commercial Section of the
Polish Consulate General in
Sydney, told The Bulletin in
a special interview that ‘‘Poland
decided to show her industrial
development, and the Polish
stand in the Hordern Inter-
national Pavilion will have
what is probably the largest
display of machine tools at the
Fair.”
Two large Polish trading
organisations have sent thei r
exhibits and export specialists
to the Fair. These are the
Cekop organisation and Metal-
export, both of Warsaw, with
an annual turnover of about
£4O million each.
Mr Boniecki said that during
six years of its operations
Cekop has built and installed
over 120 complete factories in
about 30 countries, including
Holland, Brazil, India, China,
Austria, Sweden, Finland,
Greece, Irak, Egypt, Czecho-
slovakia, Yugoslavia, the Soviet
Union, Afghanistan and Indo-
nesia.
Cekop, together with another
firm, Polservice, also specialises
in selling the services of its
technical experts and patents.
Mr Boniecki said that at
present about 100 Polish experts
are working all over the world.
In Sydney for the Fair are
Ce k o p's vice-chairman, Mr
Mackiewicz, a deputy director
of Polservice, Mr Tabaczynski,
and Mr Lezon, a coalmining
specialist. Mr Mackiewicz and
Mr Lezon arrived from India.
Another Cekop official. Mr
Wagner, came by air from
Warsaw to take charge of the
information service at the
Polish stand. It seems that no
effort or expense is being spared
to try to sell some of Cekop s
products or services to Aus-
tralia.
Metalexport, which has also
sent a special delegation, headed
by Mr Jankiewicz to the Fair,
hopes to sell some machine
tools, rolling stock and textile
machinery. Among exhibits
are nine metal-working
machines, including radial drill-
ing machines, lathes, milling
machines, boring machines, etc.
This firm, according to Mr
Boniecki, maintains business
relations with some 70 foreign
countries and also averages an
annual turnover of £4O million.


Wk
m
whatever you choose
to drink .. .
LASSETER’S LAST
To H parts
Gilbey’s add 1
tspn. sugar and
the juice of a
fresh lemon.
Half fill tall
glass with
crushed ice;top
up with cold
soda; garnish
with lemon
slice.
THE GIMLET
Add 3 parts
Gilbey’s to one
part lime juice.
Stir, add ice and
cocktail cherry.
GIN
if
« .
don t say gm... say
GILBEY’S
=>235 G
Mr Boniecki said that Poland
could supply a considerable
quantity of light, medium and
heavy capital equipment to
Australia. He said that “Poland
is already the world’s sixth
largest producer of coal, ninth
largest shipbuilder and fifth
largest manufacturer of rolling
stock. In the production of
sulphur, Poland will shortly
become the second largest in
the world.”
In conclusion, Mr Boniecki
said that the rising standard
of living in Poland may in-
crease demand for Australian
wool.
HIRE PURCHASE
Outstandings Fall
TT ire-purchase outstandings
declined by a further £6
million to £406 million at the
end of June, according to pre-
liminary figures released by the
Commonwealh Statistician. The
total fall in outstandings of
hire-purchase companies in
Australia since December,
1960, has now reached £44
million —a drop of about 10
p.c.
Meanwhile, two spokesmen
for the hire-purchase industry
have made alarmed statements
about proposals to introduce a
moratorium on hire-purchase
debts and denied that interest
rates charged by Australian
finance companies are exces-
sive.
Mr R. E. Honey, chairman
of N.S.W. division of the Aus-
tralian Hire Purchase Confer-
ence, said that “it would be un-
thinkable for the Federal Gov-
ernment even to consider intro-
ducing a moratorium on hire-
purchase agreements in the
A.C.T.” He was commenting
on the decision of the A.C.T.
advisory council to ask Federal
Government for authority to
bring in a form of moratorium
on hire-purchase contracts.
Mr C. W. Fletcher, the Con-
ference's Federal chairman,
denied that Australians paid
the highest hire-purchase rates
in the English-speaking world.
This was stated by Mr Whit-
lam, Deputy Federal Opposi-
tion Leader, in a speech in
Queensland.
Mr Fletcher said that Aus-
tralian hire-purchase charges
are actually lower than in the
U.K. and Canada.
THE LABOR MARKET
The Teenage Explosion
By D. KEEGAN
A ustralia is facing a major
teenage explosion. For
years teenagers have filled the
news pages with stories of
juvenile delinquency and
“raised” a million peculiar
“adjustment problems,” pro-
viding bread and butter for a
host of psychiatrists, psycholo-
gists, social workers and the
like. In the last decade and
a half, a whole teenage fetish
was built up and lovingly culti-
vated.
However, most people seem
to miss the less spectacular
but more important economic
influence the teenagers exer-
cise in the community.
Walking into ready-made
jobs straight from the
school bench more often
than not as soon as they reach
the age at which compulsory,
and free, education ends —they
earn solid wages and develop
easy spending habits. Entire
industries have been set up and
thrive on teenage spending,
catering exclusively for their
specific tastes.
Another aspect is the
deliberate creation of these
tastes and “needs,” where none
existed before, through a
highly developed system of
sales promotion directed at the
teenage customer.
Consumer goods manufac-
turers, importers, travel agents,
hire-purchase firms and re-
tailers all benefit. And the
pampered teenager often grows
up relying on ample employ-
ment opportunities and high
wages, and despising the mun-
dane grind of secondary and
tertiary education. Even five
years ago higher educational
qualifications, gained by years
of painstaking swotting, offered
little inducement moneywise.
Now the whole situation is
changing. The buoyant post-
war years were marked by a
high demand for youths leav-
ing school. Teenage labor was
keenly sought after and this
discouraged schooling beyond
the middle secondary grades.
But now there is competition
among teenagers for the avail-
able jobs. The large number
of marriages in the immediate
post-war years brought up the
15-19 years age group from
4.1 p.c. of the total population
in 1947-52 to about 7.6 p.c. in
1960. This trend is strengthen-
ing.
The latest Australian Demo-
graphic Review shows that the
number of live births in Aus-
tralia in 1960 was 230,326.
The total number of births has
been increasing annually since
1948 and the task of those
responsible for placing young
people entering the work force
is becoming tougher every
year.
The number of jobs avail-
able has not kept pace because
of rising production efficiency.
In the rural industry, for
example, the number of farm


,u FRENCH *
THIS WAY
ars
as
0
No textbook c-an teach you to. SPEAK a foreign language
correctly. To do that you must HEAR the rhythm, the
lilt, the everyday speech by ordinary people. Lingua-
phone teaches you by this auick, thorough, effortless
method. You learn by LISTENING to the voices of
expert native teachers on gramophone records, following
the words in the illustrated textbook. In half the usual
time, this method enables you to SPEAK, READ and
WRITE the language—and above all, to understand it
when spoken. There is no formal learning. From the
start you are thrown into the conversational atmosphere
of the boulevard and cafe.
df
Put iii fifteen min-
utes a day, and in
a few weeks you
can express yourself
freely in the lan-
guage of your
choice. Find out all
about the unique,
modern method of
learning. Post the
coupon below for a
free illustrated
booklet describing the Linguaphone language courses
and Week's Free Trial Offer.
Linguaphone
Far LANGUAGES
- —POST THIS TODAY 1
Linsmpbone Institute Pty. Ltd., I Fleming Place, off
359 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Please send me without obligation your free, illustrated
booklet of the Lingua phone method of learning languages.
I am interested in FRENCH □ GERMAN Q ITALIAN □
SPANISH Q
or
(34 languages available)
NAME *
ADDRESS
8./5561
workers felt from 516,000 in
1939 to 461,000 in 1954. In
the same period output rose
by almost 20 per cent.
Prospective employers can
now afford to be more selec-
tive ; they can ask for higher
qualifications and thereby gam
greater stability in the younger
section of the working force,
The very high wages earned
by unskilled youths, compared
with those of trainees and
apprentices, will decrease,
auguring well for improvement
in industrial efficiency.
Children will be looking to
their parents to try to keep
them at school longer, and
help them through the uni-
versifies and technical colleges.
Those who fail to gain the
higher qualifications will be
bypassed for the more attrac-
tive jobs. The Senate of the
University of Sydney has now,
in common with other Aus-
tralian universities, introduced
drastic entry restrictions, based
on the standard achieved in
the Leaving Certificate. The
competitive element is becom-
ing decisive.
Financial burdens on State
governments to provide more
schooling facilities are inereas-
ing. As the economy grows,
and the demand for controlling
and co-ordinating staff in-
creases, the need for highly
trained technicians in manufac-
turing industry and tertiary ser-
vices will rise,
The very foundations of the
unskilled man’s paradise are
being shaken—at last.
Speculator's Diary
Monday, July 31
r F'His week’s —or rather, forr-
night’s—diary begins on an
unusually angry note. The sub-
ject of my wrath is again the
Marley Trie Company of Eng-
land and the inordinate time it
has taken to issue share certifi-
cates following the takeover ot
Reliance Industries. This has
meant, of course, that there
has been no market for the
shares virtually since the take-
over bid was made back in
February.
Well, last week the share
certificate finally did arrive but
it came by surface mail, having
been posted in London on June
16! Even that was a month
after the certificate was signed
on May 16. This sort of off-
hand treatment tempts one to
tell the British that maybe it
would be better if they did go
jump in the Common Market.
So I despatched a few words to
Marley Tile’s chairman saying
more or less that.
Having got that off my chest,
I proceeded to sell my humble
132 shares but found they still
were not listed in Sydney. So
my broker is having to sell
them in London. However I
gather the shares are worth
about £AI each which means
Hi lose £25 or so. At one stage
I stood to make that much if
°nly the shares could have been
sold.
The sooner the Marley
money comes to light the better
as I have finished up this fort-
night heavily in debt.
First I hopped in and bought
5b A.C.I. at £5 7s. 6d. after the
announcement of the bonus
and the cash issues. To me,
A.C.I. has now demonstrated
that, among the industrials, it
is second only to B.H.P. in in-
vestment status. The Bank of
N.S.W. dropped out of the
stakes for No. 2 position long
ago and C.S.R. and 1.C.1. have
both forfeited their claims with
their recent dismal reports.
What particularly appealed to
me about A.C.I was the tax
provision of £3,094,000 which
was only £lOO,OOO less than the
declared profit. I have always
had a weakness for stocks with
hefty tax provisions (P.M.U.
and James Hardie, for instance)
and the C.S.R. denouement has
I now hold:
Cost Car-
No. of Name of Total Per rent
Shares Company Cost Share Price
400 An till R. £251 12/3 13/3
100 Pick-Me-Up 414 81/o£6/6/-
500 Merit a 165 6/4 6/0
600 Stocks: &
Holdings def. 261 8/6 9/6
300 Hornibrook 354 23/- 24/
200 Marriekvtile 217 21/3 25/3
132 Mar ley Tile 158 24/
400 David Jones
notes 207 10/- 10/3
500 Newcastle Ten
Pin Bowling 125 5/- 5/9
400 Phillips Oil 100 5/-
100 James Hardie 391 77/- 86/-
300 McDonald 207 13/6 15/-
200 Sou ( hern TV 205 20/- 23/3
400 Ampol rigMs 42 2/- 2/3
400 Besser (Q>.) 174 8/6 8/6
400 Rio Trnto 307 15/- 15/6
300 Pyrox 87 5/9 6/6
200 Dodge 136 13/4 14/5
200 John ell 215 21/- 20/3
400 Motel Carp 61 2/11 3/3
50 A.C.I. 273 107/6 109/-
anly confirmed my belief that
it is much wiser to back the
company which is openly un-
derstating its profit than the
one which is only assumed to
be hiding the golden egg.
Another purchase last week
was a further 100 Stocks and
Holdings deferred which were
selling a full ss. below the
ordinaries although the divi-
dend difference is only 2s. 6d.
I also bought another 100 Hor-
nibrook because they had
slipped back to what I paid for
my original 200 despite the
dividend increase and optimistic
interim report in March.
Details of these purchase*
were:
50 A.C.I. at £5/7/6 .. £273
100 Stocks & Holdings
deferred at 9/6 .. £49
100 Hornibrook at 23/6 £l2O
With no sales to offset these,
I am faced with finding £414
in a hurry. So maybe those
James Hardie’s or even 50
P.M.U.’s will have to go this
week.


The WILDCAT
COUMN
Colonial Sugar Refining Cos. Ltd
Tlringing an era of die-hard con-
-■-* servatism to an end, the C.S.R. has
at last taken shareholders into its con-
fidence —admittedly not into its complete
confidence but certainly part way there
—latest accounts revealing not only
consolidated figures but the hitherto
hidden and highly pertinent taxation
allocation, basic check and double check
on real performance.
Investors have suffered a bitter blow.
Here, thought ’Change, was chance for
capital gain. The market bid up to £92
for the C.S.R. £2O scrip in early June.
Then came the bombshell. C.S.R., in
a preliminary statement issued June 21,
indicated parent net profit, for the 12
months to March 31, 1961, well down
on that of the previous year (down 9.7
p.c.) and, ghastly but true, that con-
solidated net profit was a mere few
thousand pounds higher than the parent
showing. The £2O ords. slumped quickly
to settle at one stage as low as £67 10s.
They are presently fetching £69 10s.
The one indisputable ray of hope, and
a pretty solid one at that, lies in the
disclosure of enormous asset strengths
reckoned on in the past but never re-
vealed.
A corporate colossus, one of Aus-
tralia’s oldest and largest public cos.,
the Colonial Sugar Refining Cos. Ltd was
formed back in 1885 to take over an
established sugar refining business, the
Australian Sugar Cos., which had been
founded in Sydney some 13 years earlier.
The co. refines and, as Government
appointee, markets all but a fraction of
the Australian sugar output.
C.S.R. is also the sole refiner of sugar
in New Zealand and owns all of Fiji’s
five sugar mills, seven of Australia’s 34
mills (the seven handling approximately
20 p.c. of all locally grown cane), two
general cargo vessels and distilleries in
Melbourne and Sydney, where the co.
produces rum, methylated spirit and
numerous other products. The co. does
not grow cane sugar commercially in
Australia, and only to a small extent in
Fiji, but has extensive facilities for
scientific research, the results of which
are made available to cane farmers.
A large building - materials division
manufactures wall-board, asbestos-
cement products, floor and ceiling tiles,
building plaster, cane - ite insulating
board, etc., while the 60 p.c.-owned
C.S.R Chemicals Pty turns out an exten-
sive range of industrial and pharmaceuti-
cal chemicals, amongst them, cellulose
acetate flake, plastic moulding powders,
industrial solvents and plasticisers, and
toughened polystyrene under licence
from Dow Chemical Cos. of U.S.A. The
activities of these big and growing con-
cerns include, but stretch well beyond,
the utilisation of by-products from the
sugar industry. Nevertheless, to Austra-
lians, New Zealanders and Fijians, sugar
and C.S.R. are synonomous terms. Sugar
is still the dominant product turned out
by C.S.R.
Other activities include shipping, pro-
duction of carbon dioxide and the mining
of gypsum and blue asbestos, the wholly
owned Australian Blue Asbestos Ltd
mining asbestos at Wittenoom, W.A.
There are substantial shareholdings in
Courtalds (Australia) Ltd and Fletcher
Ftoldings Ltd of New Zealand. Fletcher
Holdings has a diversity of timber, con-
struction and other operations in N.Z.
plus some interests in Australia.
Avery rapid diversification has taken
place in recent years. In 1959, a con-
siderable interest was acquired in the
insulation industry. An active part, in-
volving heavy investment expenditure, is
taken in the huge petro-chemical project
centred around Vacuum Oil's refinery at
Altona (Vic.). C.S.R.C. —Dow Pty (50
p.c. C.S.R. Chemicals Pty and 50 p.c.
Dow Chemical Cos. of U.S.A.) is
scheduled to commence manufacture of
styrene monomer in September next. The
ethylene dichloride and chlorine /caustic
soda plants should start up about the
end of the year. Recently announcement
was made that the common interests, in
Australia, of C.S.R. Chemicals and the
Dow Chemical Cos. would best be served
if production and sales of the poly-
styrene group of plastics were channelled
through C.S.R.C. —Dow Pty (the jointly
owned co.) —these products will be sold
under the well-known Dow trade name
of “Styron.”
C.S.R. took over Masonite Holdings
Ltd in 1960 (now wholly owned) plus
a large majority interest (75 p.c.) in the
Bradford rockwool group of cos. in
N.S.W. and Victoria, the latter deal
effected through C.S.R.’s holding, an
extensive one, in 8.1. Holdings Pty.
Again, in 1960, the C.S.R., along with
B. F. Goodrich Chemical Cos. of U.S.A.,
formed a joint co., B. F. Goodrich-C.S.R.
Chemicals Pty, to manufacture polyvinyl-
chloride. The co.’s subsidiary, C.S.R.
Chemicals Pty, has a4O p.c. capital in-
terest in this venture. The jointly owned
factory at Altona (Vic.) began produc-
tion in last May.
Anew plant, set up by Pyneboard
Pty, a co. formed by C.S.R., Timber
Industries Pty (an Oberon, N.S.W. firm),
and Fletcher Manufacturing Cos. Pty (a
subsidiary of Fletcher Holdings Ltd of
N.Z.) came into operation in May, 1960
—producing “Pyneboard” from resin-
bonded pine flakes.
These then are some of the many and
varied activities engaged in by the giant
C. Shareholders have been asked for
additional capital on only one occasion
in the last 50 years, 117,200 £2O ords.
going out in 1950, one-for-five at £27
each. Retained earnings, disclosed and
otherwise, have long been a major source
of funds. However, bonus issues were a
comparatively common event early in the
century, and, although the latest gift
issue, a one-for-three in 1958, was the
first of its kind in 23 years, over £l4
million has been handed back to share-
holders, either as scrip or cash, since
1900.
The 1957 handout, incidentally,
absorbed little more than a third of the
£l3 million of reserves uncovered at the
time through a revaluation of Fijian plant
and property and modest “upward
adjustments” to Australian fixed assets.
The issue lifted capital to £18,720,000
at March 31, 1958 —all in f.-p. £2O ords.
The div.-rate was dropped from 10 p.c.
to 8 p.c. Capital, steady in the ensuing
12 months, has since risen to £21,166,020,
the result of takeover activity including
the issue of 1679 £2O ords. last term in
consideration of the acquisition of a 29
p.c. interest in Ingham Plaster Cos. Ltd.
The div.-rate rose from 8 p.c. in 1958 to
Sj p.c. in 1959 ;to the current 9 p.c.
in 1960.
Turning now to the world sugar
market. The breach between the U.S.A.
and Cuba seems likely to pose major
problems for the working of the Inter-
national Sugar Agreement. Cuba, the
U.S.A. and the U.S.S.R. are among the
parties to the agreement. The working
of the agreement is to be reviewed at a
conference in September.
The price of about one-half of Aus-
tralia’s sugar exports and one-third of
Fiji’s sugar exports is based on the world
price of sugar and the continuance of an
effective International Sugar Agreement is
therefore most important to both Aus-
tralia and Fiji.
Australia produced 1,343,000 tons of
raw sugar from mills in the 1960 season
—the yield of sugar per acre was the
second highest and the yield of sugar
per ton of cane was the highest on
record. It is conservatively estimated that
1,000,000 tons of cane were left un-
harvested (restrictions under the Interna-
tional Sugar Agreement) some of which
will be harvested in the coming season.
C.S.R.’s total output of sugar last term
was 124,300 tons lower than in the pre-
ceding year at 448.000 tons:
f — Season
3 958. 1959. 1960.
Australia .. .. 301,900 259.300 300,900
Fiji . . . . 198,300 283,000 147,100
Totals .. . . 500,200 572,300 448,000
The overall tonnage of sugar made at
the co.’s Australian mills in 1960 was the
second highest on record, despite reduc-
tions in N.S.W. due to drought.
In Fiji raw sugar production settled
at only 74 p.c. of normal levels, due
primarily to a disagreement with the
canegrowers' associations about the
terms and conditions on anew contract
for the sale and purchase of cane, which
had been unresolved since the previous
year. A heavy loss was incurred but it
is expected that the financial result will


PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
R. H. ALLEN, M. R. L. DOWLING
P. R. LEVY, A. P. REYNOLDS. N. R.
COURSE (Melbourne Resident Partner).
Delfin House, 16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Ruilding, 150 Queen St.,
Melbourne. 67-5957 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables: “Rosdale,” Sydney.
Melbourne or Wollongong.
JOHN N. ROBERTSON
Member of the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKER.
Temple Court,
422 Collins Street, Melbourne C.l.
Telephones: 67 4804, 67 246 S
Telegrams & Cables:
ROBFALK, MELBOURNE
A. L NEYITT & CO.
A. F. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER
( Member's of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31 2761 P.O. BOX
(4 Fines) No. 1887 W
gdfg
be better this year. However prospects
remain obscure.. The serious disruption
to the Fiji sugar industry has. led to the
setting up of a Commission of Inquiry
by the Fiji Government, a report from
which is expected shortly.
Sales of refined sugar from C.S.R.’s
five Australian refineries for the year to
March 31, 1961, amounted to 509,000
tons (down 3 p.c.). Sales of liquid sugar
and hulk granulated sugar increased
satisfactorily, rising to 20 p.c. of total
sales to manufacturers. New Zealand sales
also increased and at 115,600 tons (up
2 p.c.) constituted an all-time record.
AH in all, parent net profit dropped
£276,899 to £2,605,604. Consolidated net
profit was shown at £2,617,735. Parent
figures, including investment income,
£116,275, were ascertained after setting
aside £2,756,913 for depreciation (up
£16,976) and £1,563,647 for tax (not
shown in the previous year) ; group
figures, including investment income,
£138,386, after setting aside £3,710,817
for depreciation and £2,086,203 for tax.
Debenture interest sliced £350,000 from
parent income; £402,500 from group
income. Directors’ fees took £BSOO and
£13,738 respectively:
Year Replace-
Ended mcnt, etc..
March, Profit. Dividends. Reserves.* Reserves.
£ £ £ £
10 p.c.
1956 .. 1,679,636 1,404,000 6,725,881 15,209,992
Profit, sale vessel, pineapple cannery,
etc.. £80,152 .. ... 6.806,033
1957 .. 1,971,358 1,404,000 7,373,391 16,380,751
Surplus on- revaluation, fixed assets, in-
cluding transfers from depreciation
replan merit reserve (£5,305,361),
£13.266,789 .. ..20,634,180 11,075,390
Reserves capitalised,
£4,680,000 .. ..15,954,180
8 p.c.
1958 . . 2 335,058 1.497,600 16,791,638 13,452,017
Unexplained addition,
£55,637 .. , . 16,847,275
84 p-c.
1959 . . 2,539,284 1,591,200 17,795,359 1 5,539,723
Share premiums,
£1,943,085 .. .. 19,738,444
From replacement reserve,
£4,7799)32 .. .. 24,518,076
.Assets revaluation,
£1,193,954 .. .. 25,712,030
Capital loss, £336,457 .. 25,375,5.73
Unexplained addition, £5,784 25,381,357
9 p.c.
1960 .. 2,882,633 1,901,240 26,362,750 12,028,913
Parent and. SußsiMAßiEs.t
From replacement reserve,
£5,376,944 .. .. 31,739,694
ironi provisions no longer required,
£634,156 . . . . 32,373,850
Asset revaluation,
£1,780,538 .. .. 34,154,388
Currency adjustments,
£1,467,272 .. .. 35,621,660
Unexplained additions,
£1,103,480 .. ..36,725,140
9 p.c.
WSI . . -2,617,735 1,903,431 37,439,444 15,651,164
* Subject to intangibles £690,892 at 31/3/61.
t After deducting minority interests-
Profits from building-materials activity
disappointed due to the downturn in
demand which followed the Govern-
ment’s economic measures, and price
competition—the sharp decrease in build-
mg activity and severe competition in
fde restricted available market. These
influences became increasingly evident in
the latter part of the year and continued
to operate with severity on many of the
Products of the building - materials
division.
C-S.R. Chemicals Pty suffered in-
creasing!y severe competition from im-
ports and business had also been re-
stricted by the lower general level of
demand. Prices of a number of products
have been reduced to meet competition
from imported materials. At the same
time unit costs of production have in-
creased because of reduced volume of
activity. Most of C.S.R.’s various chemi-
cal plants are working at well below
capacity. There are “no signs of recovery
yet and a difficult period lies ahead for
both established and new products.”
Sales of distillery products were well
maintained throughout the year and the
co.’s two ocean-going vessels, the “Tam-
bua” and “Rona” continued to give
satisfactory service plying the trade
routes between Queensland and Fiji.
Parent net profit works out equivalent
to an earning rate of 12.3 p.c. on average
capital as against 13.6 p.c., 13.5 p.c. and
12.5 p.c. back to 1958. Group net profit
is equivalent to 12.4 p.c. of average
capital, or 14.8 p.c. if earnings are
reckoned on a tax basis (£3,129,304 com-
pared with the disclosed £2,617,735).
The unchanged div. absorbed
£ 1,903,431. reserves (parent) leaping
£10,108,234 to £36,470,984. Group re-
serves are shown at an aggregate
£37,439,444 and include transfer from
replacement reserves, £5,376,944, trans-
fers from provisions no longer required,
£634,156 and assets revaluations,
£1,780,538. Another £1,467,272 is traced
to currency adjustments and unexplained
additions account for £1,103,480. A note
to the accounts gives it that overseas
assets and liabilities and profits, etc.,
have been converted to Australian cur-
rency at exchange rates ruling at
balancing dates.
It is anybody’s guess as to how much
remains in the inner-reserves kitty. The
replacement reserve is still shown as a
massive £9,607,812 (parent accounts;
down £2,421,101) ; £15,651,164 in group
accounts. Reserves have advanced five-
fold in the past four years and may
represent, even yet, only a part of the
actual figure:
Parent and
r~ Parent only Subsidiaries.
1960. ‘ 1961. 1961.
Paid capital.. £21,132-,440 £21,166,020 £21,166,020
Reserves . . 26,362,750 36,470,984 37,439,444
Outside inter-
ests ... ■ —•— 3,106,842
Depreciation
reserves . . 12,028,913 9,607,812 15,651,164
Creditors, etc. 22,639,040 18,084,033 19,659,652
Overdraft; . . 413,545 1,756,442 3,720,824
Debentures,
loans 7,000,000 7,000,000 7,810,000
Exchange
fluctuation
Final div... 1,003,791 952,471 952,471
£9t>,580,479 £96,199,027 £110,667,682
Freeholds,
leaseholds,
etc 1 f 6,722,586 7,104,635
Machinery, f 51,205,453 j
plant, etc. J [ 54,308,478 70,021,100
Shares subsids 9,237,116 10,294,681
Stocks- .. 13,266,192 11,886,539 16,617,288
Rank debts,
etc. . . 15,795,551 11,456,937 13,724,342
Investments . . 1,031,415 1,501,308 2,473,232
Cash and
deposits . . 44,752 25,498 36,193
In-taangibles „. - 690,892
£90,580-,479 £96,199,027 £110,667,682
Because of the number and diversity
of the fixed assets owned by the co.
and its subsidiaries it “was necessary,
in preparing the consolidated balance-
sheet, to adopt a simpler classification
of assets than that previously used by
the parent company.” The changes have
meant “that many current figures are
not comparable with those of the pre-
vious year.” The book-values of free-
holds, leaseholds, etc., and machinery,
plant, etc., both in at cost or valuation,
are heaped up group-wise, an aggregate
£77,125,735. In the parent balance-sheet


.V
3
ap
;S'Age€>
ll>«w. '.>
°Ves
1
fine Australian
pot-still i
TJIJ
BRANDY
ALSO ASK FOR ANGOVE’S WINE
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 18'$
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLAS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS
A. C MAITLAND, Managing Director. O. S. PETTERSEN, Manager,
Branches in all States Agencies in ail Country Centres
they still total a massive
£61,031,064 (up £9,825,611).
Investments in shares, bonds,
debentures, etc., in at cost less
provision for fluctuation, are
shown at £2,473,232 (group);
up £469,893 at £1,501,308
(parent). Debenture loans
total an unchanged £7,000,000
(parent) but appear at
£7,810,000 in group accounts
—of this £4,000,000 in 5 p.c.
paper is redeemable 1959-1962,
£3,000,000, 1960-1963, and
£750,000 in 7 p.c. paper, 1963-
1968.
Stocks, a bit lower on parent
reckoning (down £1,379,653 at
£11,886,539), are well up group-
wise (at £16,617,288). Book-
debts, less provision for doubt-
ful debts, and creditors, etc.
too, are both substantially re-
duced. Bank accommodation
is greatly increased. But “the
various changes in the value of
stocks, debtors, creditors and
bank balance are due mainly
to movements in the pattern of
finance required for sugar crops
in Australia and Fiji.”
Conditions in the world sugar
industry remain difficult. If
the U.K. joins the European
Common Market, as seems to
be intended, it will be important
for the Australian Government
and for all concerned with the
sugar industry in Australia to
see that the sugar-marketing
arrangements of the 8.C.5.A.,
and the preferential duty, are
fully protected now and in the
future.
Crop prospects for 1961 are
not quite so promising as in
1960 as most districts have ex-
perienced drought or near-
drought conditions during the
main growing season. The
Fijian situation is still obscure.
Meantime Australia and Fiji
have been seeking to participate
in the U.S. Government’s
sugar import programme and
whilst Fiji, so far, has been un-
successful, Australia has re-
ceived an allocation of 90,000
short tons for entry into the
U.S. during the present year.
Negotiated price for exported
sugar under the British Com-
monwealth Sugar Agreement
for 1961 will be £45 2s. sterling
a ton (up 13s. 2d.).
The year in retrospect has
been an exceedingly difficult
one for almost all facets of the
C.S.R. complex —that is, the
year to March 31 last. Im-
provement can only be ex-
pected pending stimulation of
the Australian economy now
that credit restrictions have
been partially eased. So far
outlook must remain gloomy.
The co. increased its share-
holding in Reed Paper Products
(Holdings) Ltd, formerly Paper
Products (Holdings) Ptv, and
has recently taken up a further
750,000 ord. shares in Fletcher
Holdings Ltd.
At the last sale in Sydney,
the £2O ords. changed hands at
£69 10s., returning an immedi-
ate yield, on the basis of the
9 p.c. div.-rate, a modest “blue-
chip'’ 2.6 p.c. ’Change puts an
aggregate value of over £73
million on the C.S.R. enterprise.
Net tangible-asset backing
on consolidated figures, March
31, works out at £54 14s. 6d.
for each £2O unit. If the
£15,651,164 replacement and
depreciation reserve is included
with other reserves, the net
tangible cover rises to
£69 10s. 3d.
Directors have announced
that they expect to recommend
a change from the present £2O
shares to shares of 20s. each in
association with and as part
of the next major capital issue
whenever that may be neces-
sary.
Prestige Ltd
A s one of the first of a
species to balance its
books, a leader in the sensitive
knitting industry, Prestige’s ex-
perience is pointer to what may
be expected from rival outfits
in the same field —the co. ruled
off accounts March 31 last.
The history of this well-
managed group makes pleasant
reading. The co. has estab-
lished a measure of consolida-
tion and diversification which
is proving most valuable
in present circumstances.
Although initial difficulties had
forced Prestige to jettison half
its capital two years after
registration in Melbourne in
1922, the business bounded
along from then on, taking the
depression and war years in its
stride. A severe jolt in 1952
marred an otherwise scintillat-
ing record, but despite the loss
of £65,062 registered for that
term, equity shareholders were
merely reduced to half rations,
and recovery was rapid. The
div. scale has never strayed
long from 10 p.c.
Over the past decade or so
shareholders have had three
excellent opportunities to pad-
out their portfolios. In 1947
there was an issue of 244,067
10s. shares one-for-one at
par to ord. shareholders, and
in 1951 a four-for-five bonus
handout was followed up by a
three-for-five cash issue at a
ss. premium. The 10s. ords.
were converted to ss. stock-
units in 1952. Then, and dur-
ing last term, the co. graced
its register with a one-for-five
bonus issue, involving in all an
aggregate 561,580 ss. stock-
units.
Capital as it now stands
comprises 103,050 20s. 8 p.c.
cumulative prefs., 375,000 20s.
5 p.c. cum. prefs., and
3.369,492 ss. stock-units, a
total of £1,320,423.
The Australian textile in-
dustry is so complex, and its
ramifications so wide, that a
general summing-up of the
present situation is virtually
impossible. The industry has
always been subject to intense
internal competition, its exist-
ence is almost wholly depend-
ent upon protectionist
policies, and fashion changes
constitute a constant threat to
stability.
Unfortunately tariffs
granted since cessation °t
import restrictions, February,


m
FINANCE & INVESTMENT
COMPANY LIMITED
SHAREHOLDERS' FUNDS, £891,419.
TANGIBLE ASSETS, £3,184,264.
INTEREST RATES FOR DEPOSITS
(NOW CALLED UNSECURED DEPOSIT NOTES)
AND OVER
APPLICATIONS must be made
on the form enclosed with the
prospectus, which is obtainable
from
Members of the Stock Exchange
ANY BRANCH OF A.N.Z. BANK
The Registered Office of the Com-
pany, William & Crown Sts.,
Sydney. Telephone FA 0322.
Financing world-
famous products
distributed by
The Hastings
Deering Group
of Companies.
FORD
Cars and Trucks
FORDSON
Tractors
A.E.C.
Trucks & Buses
CATERPILLAR
Diesel Tractors
in Queensland
HYSTER
Fork Lift Trucks
JOHN DEERE
Agricultural
Machinery
LISTER
Engines
GROUP SALES
IN 1960
£14,757,281
* MAIL THIS COUPON*******
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE &
INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
G.P.O. Box 4333, Sydney.
Please send me, without any obligation on my part, pros-
pectus dated 1/4/61, giving full details of your terms
deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS
HD82.8
B. 5/8
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company off
Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlement of claims
ALFRED S. WHITE, Esq., Chairman ; E. G. CONEN, Esq., T. K. MAGNEY,
Esq., A. G. PARKER, Esq., DOUGLAS WADLEY, Esq.
H. H. MOULTON, Esq., Managing Director. B. J. LANE, Esq., Manager.
’Phone: BU 7401. (Branches in all States) 16/20 Bridge Street, Sydney.
1960) have proved inadequate,
the credit squeeze (November,
I960) has reduced demand and
costs have risen spectacularly.
Competition is so keen, in fact,
“■that there is relatively little,
if any, profit in most divisions
of the industry at today's levels
of production.” It is estimated,
if all looms installed and on
order are taken into account,
that capacity is more than
three times above market
requirements.
The situation is such to
demand astute, far-sighted and
efficient management and
Prestige meets these specifica-
tions right down the line.
Diversification, its greatest
asset, is evident in the range
of activities —the manufacture
of hosiery, fully-fashioned and
seam-free, of lingerie, of rayon,
woollen and worsted fabrics,
of rayon and nylon knitted
fabrics and of printed furnish-
ings ; the processing of nylon,
rayon and terylene yarns and
dyeing and finishing. The sub-
sidiary complex comprises
Prestige Fabrics Pty, Dyecraft
Pty, Johnson Bros. Pty, Dapco
Pty, Prestige (N.Z.) Ltd, H. G.
Foletta and Co. Pty, Austra-
laine Fabrics Pty and Decor
Textiles Pty. Factories are
established in Victoria at
Brunswick, Sunshine, Ararat
and Horsham, and in N.Z. at
Wellington and Stratford. The
distribution network extends
throughout all States.
Prestige ran into heavy
weather last term. Sales in-
creased during the first six
months of trading, but slacked
off sadly in the last quarter —
at final reckoning total sales
were only slightly above those
written in the previous year.
Demand on “our long-estab-
lished consumer goods and
services division” declined
steadily throughout the period
—pressures associated with
excessive importing.
The higher level of turnover
in the first six months resulted
from progressive increases in
sales of producer goods and
semi-raw materials made pos-
sible by earlier installations of
new equipment. Then came
the August budget (demand for
these newer diversified produc-
tions flattened out), then the
November credit restrictions,
when demand for “all your
company’s productions” turned
steeply downwards. From
November on, turnover (all
divisions) declined, month by
nionth, until in March it repre-
sented only 70.6 p.c. of the
similarly assessed figure 12
Months before.
Reduced activity was pri-
marily responsible for a 10 p.c.
increase in consolidated stocks,
heavy retrenchments of valu-
able trained labor, increased
indebtedness and undue inci-
dence of overheads in costs.
Calculated after writing off
£16,520 (up £9112) to bad
debts, paying out £89,814 (up
£6463) in interest on borrowed
money (unsecured notes and
fixed loan) and £7684 (un-
changed) to directors, setting
aside £117,071 (down £42,056)
for tax and £301,359 (up
£35,636) for depreciation on
buildings, plant and equipment,
net profit at £144,982, includ-
ing £25,992 (up £2933) income
from investments, was down
£44,410, and equal to only 14.2
p.c. on the higher average ord.
capital, allowing for the prefs,
as against 23.1 p.c., 19.5 p.c.,
25.6 p.c., 20.8 p.c., 22.2 p.c.
and 23.8 p.c. back to 1955:
Presti&e, Ltd and Subsidiaries.*
, Re-
Mar., Profit. Pref. Ord. serves, t
£ p.c. £
1955.. 155.499 8& 5 9 p.c. 1,104,544
Loss sate assets, £7446 .. 1,097,098
Tax overprovided, £3229 1,100,327
Unexplained reduction,
£2963 1,097,364
1956.-182,599 84 5 10 p.c. 1,181,523
Tax underprovided, £BOB 1,180,715
Toss sale assets, £4830 . . 1,175,885
From plant reserve,
£183,621 . . . . 992,264
Intangibles written-off,
£19,384 972,880
Unexplained additions,
£2776 „ . .. .. 975,656
1957.. 172.883 8&5 10 p.c. 1,049,907
Loss sale assets, £8312 . . 1,041,595
Tax overprovided, £4070 1,045,665
Intangibles written-off,
£93,513 .. . . 952,152
Unexplained additions,
£lOl4 .. .. .. 953,166
1958. S&5 10 p.c. 1,060,423
Profit sale assets. £3854 1,064,277
Taxation overprovided,
£2530 1,066,807
Unexplained reduction in
reserves, £3083 . . 1,063,724
1959. .164,363 8&5 10 p.c. 1,127,396
Profit sale assets, £2528 . . 1,129,924
Tax overprovided, £970 . . 1,130,894
Unexplained addition, £493 1,131,387
1960. .189,392 8&5 10 p.c. 1.223,587
Profit sale assets, £18,451 1,242,038
Tax underprovided £1364 1,240,674
Reserves capitalised,
£140,395 .. .. 1,100,279
Unexplained addition,
£362 1.100,641
1961. . 144,982 8& 5 10 p.c. 1,135,353
Tax appears to be dispropor-
tionately high in relation to
profits shown. The anomaly
is explained, at least in part,
in that special depreciation
allowances —recognition of the
textile industry’s susceptibility
to plant obsolescence —are not
deductible for tax purposes.
The tax provision would have
been much higher except that
directors claimed depreciation,
for the first time, on a prime
cost basis, so that allowable
deductions were increased by
£65,000 —the percentage that
can be written off, and claimed
for income-tax purposes as
depreciation in future years,
will decline.
The reduced profit panned


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON x
O'SCLUVAJV
PTYLTD
M ARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANU tTACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYI 'ERS
RULERS, BOOK BINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL," BRISBANE
If any “Bulletin” illustration
takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you
a price for the original.
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED
Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), SIR EDWARD R. KNOX (Vice-Chairman),
R. J. VICARS, A. MURRAY JONES, HUGH DIXSON,
D. A. T. DICK INS, K. B. MYERS, A. E. STEPHEN
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of Every Description
/. O. LEWIS, General Manager.
ELECTRIC LIFTS HYDRAULIC
ELEVATORS PTY. LIMITED,
877 Dowling Street, Waterloo. FF 3931.
Represented in all States. Telegrams: Hydelec.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS for Express Lift Co., Ltd., England.
out a slender cover for div.
payments which were main-
tained at the usual 10 p.c. rate.
The bonus issue soaked up
£140,395, reserves slipping
£88,234 to £1,135,353.
Balance-sheet figures reflect
a grim but successful struggle
to preserve liquidity:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1960. 1961.
Pref 478,050 £478,050
Old 701,978 842,373
Reserves . . 1,223,587 1,135,353
Outside interests 71,297 66,018
Loan .. .. 362,500 475,000
Notes .. .. 632,078 588,971
Overdraft .. 309,994 477,250
Creditors .. 419,751 413,672
Tax provision.. 159,747 151,392
Final divs. .. 66,145 76,014
£4,425,127 £4,704,093
Freeholds .. 926,451 933,089
Plant .. .. 920,403 960,934
Shares .. .. 65,132 30,105
Parent’s capital
held by subsid-
iary .. .. 875 22,825
Stocks .. .. 1,733,366 1,915,850
Debtors .. .. 756,204 816,977
Cash, bonds .. 22,696 24,313
£4,425,127 £4,704,093
Stocks are up £182,484 at
£1,915,850—an inability to
reduce production pro rata
declining sales ; a difficult cir-
cumstance for Prestige bearing
in mind the risks, inherent in
the textile industry, of carry-
ing excessive stock on hand
(fashion changes). Debtors are
up £60,773 at £816,977. Bank
overdraft climbed steeply (up
£167,256 at £477,250). Long-
term liability to the National
Mutual Life Association of
Australasia Ltd (secured under
first mortgage over freeholds)
advanced £112,500 to £475,000.
Registered unsecured notes (7}
p.c.), redeemable September,
1966, declined £43,107 to
£588,971.
Turnover has remained rela-
tively static during the current
term, but at the reduced levels
as at close of accounts, and it
is the board’s opinion “that the
need by customers to liquidate
stocks and improve liquidity
would prevent any worthwhile
uplift in demand for a con-
siderable period.” It even
seems likely now that Prestige
will be forced to close down
its Horsham factory, at least
for the time being.
But chairman G. G. Foletta
comments, “I feel confident
that the textile industry has an
assured future ; also that your
company will command its
share of expansion when con-
fidence returns throughout
industry generally.” Although
turnover still remains severely
depressed and forward orders
are extremely disappointing
sales should “improve suffi-
ciently to enable your company
to show a reasonable level of
profit for the year.” It would,
however, be “over-optimistic to
suggest that confidence will
return to the economy suffi-
ciently quickly to enable us to
achieve a net profit comparable
with last year’s. We do anti-
cipate that the Government
will speedily grant adequate
protection to the textile indus-
try .. . it should assure a
return to healthy trading con-
ditions during 1962/63.”
Meantime the N.Z. sub-
sidiary continues to make a
worthwhile contribution to
consolidated promts offsetting
the decline in Australia, at least
in part.
Prestige ss. stock-units fetch
ss. 6d. on ’Change, yielding
9.1 p.c. Net tangibles weighed
up a solid 11s. 9d. per unit at
balance date.
COMPANY NOTES
Eric Anderson (Consoli-
dated) Ltd
T}ric Anderson (Consoli-
dated) Ltd, the N.S.W.-
registered electrical retailer and
hire-purchase financier, repre-
sented in N.S.W., Victoria and
Queensland, has floated a fur-
ther £200,000 issue of registered
first mortgage debenture stock
(£100).
Interest rates range from 6
p.c. per annum for three
months to 9 p.c. per annum for
ten years. Both long- and
short-term rates are an in-
crease on those of the previous
issue in May, 1960. Long-term
rates had previously shown a
downward variation from the
levels struck in July, 1959.
Short-term currencies are now
in excess of the 1959 level.
Eric Anderson has the right to
retain oversubscription up to
£300,000.
Proceeds of the issue will go
towards satisfaction of an in-
creasing demand for funds;
also towards the refinancing of
a limited amount of debenture
stock maturing within the next
six months.
Group net profit, for the six
months to December 31 last,
tallied £118,782, as against
£115,475 in the seven months to
January 31, 1960 ; £192,497 for
the previous 12 months. Chair-
man, A. C. Cameron, sums up,
June 26, “Retail trading in the
current half year has reflected
to some extent the general
economic trend, nevertheless it
is anticipated that the profits
from this source will in the cir-
cumstances be satisfactory. The
additional business flowing
from the new stores has in-
creased the turnover in the
finance section of the group and
the expected improved results
from this section should more
than offset any possible lessen-
ing in retail profits thus enab-
ling the Company to show a
higher overall profit than last
year.”
Eric Anderson is paying an
unchanged 12} p.c. ordinary
div. for the year to June 30
last. Prospects look anything
but unattractive.
Net tangible asset cover for
each £lOO of the present deben-
ture issue is estimated at £241.
Underwriters to the issue are
Ralph W. King and Yuill of the
Sydney Stock Exchange.
OIL AND MINING
Timor Oil Ltd
Gamma-ray logging at the
Matai 1A drill site indi-
cates that the formation which
produced the recent show of oil
is slightly above the bottom of
the casing shoe.
Directors comment that
when gun perforating was
attempted it was found that
heaving shales had entered the
bottom cf the well and caused
an obstruction.
It is emphasised that these
technical difficulties are not un-
usual and testing procedure
could continue over the next
few weeks.
King Island Scheelite
17"ing Island Scheelite (1947)
Limited has sold to Amal-
gamated Chemicals Ltd its
wholly-owned subsidiary, Wan
Chang Chemicals Pty Ltd>
which operates an arsenical
plant at Brisbane. The con-
sideration received was 57,600
ss. stock units in the purchaser
company. The name of Wall
Chang Chemicals Pty Ltd has
now been changed to “Queens-
land Chemicals Pty Ltd.”


Missing Friend
CTvALTER JOHN DAVEY, formerly
l 10 Judd Street, Camberwell in
■L State of Victoria but now of
l " rts unknown.—TAKE NOTICE that
l ur wife has instituted proceedings
"u-ainst you for Divorce on the grounds
!f Desertion and Separation and unless
ou flie and serve an Answer or Notice
• f vddress for Service in the Office of
die Prothonotary of the Supreme Court
i„ Melbourne on or before the loth
lav of September 1901 the case may-
weed in your absence. A sealed
Ly petition and Notice of Petition
mav be obtained on request from the
undersigned. —FRANK C. 11l LLS &
pO of 414 Bourke Street, Melbourne
Solicitors for the Petitioner.
Divorce Notices
\ Divorce Petition has been tiled
gainst WILLIAM JAMES THATCHER
late of 19 Northside, London, S.W.Tti
wlto.ma.y apply to the Divorce Registry,
Somerset House, London, W.C.2 Eng-
land for a copy of the Petition. If
within SO days he has not communi-
cated with the Registry, the Court
mav hear the ease in his absence.-
H. LONG Registrar.
"Is" Tin: SUPREME COl RT OF
NEW SOUPII WALES
Matrimoniai. Causes Jurisdiction.
To: SIGMUND WILLIE BALLANDIS
late of Yarraliappini.—rTAKE NOTICE
that LYDIA BAI.LANDIS has hied a
Petition for Divorce No. 4135 of 196 b
on the grounds of habitual drunkenness
and cruelty for three years and up-
wards. If you wish to defend you may
enter an Appearance in the Divorce
Registry, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney by the Ist day of
October, 1961 and obtain a copy of
tire Petition without charge fn m
CHARLES GRIFFITHS, Solicitor, 107-
10!) Elizabeth Street, Svdnev. New
Smith Wales. C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME ( (T( IF! OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
To: WILLIAM LEWIS late of
ffaggih—TAKE NOTICE that PHYLLIS
MAY LEWIS lias filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3778 of 1960 on the
grounds of desertion for three years
and upwards without just cause or
Reuse and is asking for the exercise
of the Court’s descretion under 5.19
(-) (a) of the Matrimonial Causes
Act ISO!) 1957. It you wish to defend
you may enter an Appearance in the
Divorce Registry, M int Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney by the Ist
day of October, RHii and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge
from CHARLES GRIFFITHS, Solicitor
107-109 Elizabeth Street, Sydney, New
South Wales. —C.A.H.HARMS Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
To: DOROTHY JOYCE BAKER-
TAKE NOTICE That WILLIAM
SAMUEL BAKER has filed a Petition
for divorce No. 2157 of 1901 on the
ground of desertion. If you wish to
defend you may tile an Answer in
the Divorce Registry, Supreme Court
Mint Building. Macquarie Street, Sydney
within 21 days from the date of
publication of this notice and obtain
a eopv of the Petition without charge
from Messrs. MOLLOY & SCHRADER,
Solicitors of 149 Castlereagh Street,
Sidney in the State of New South
Wales'. —C. A. 11. HARMS Registrar.
Positions Vacant
THE SCOTS COLLEGE
Bellevue Hill, Sydney
The Council invites applications for
the position of
ASSISTANT TO THE
PRINCIPAL
as Director of School Studies.
Applications close 30th September,
1961. For full particulars, apply
The Principal.
BRIGHTON
GRAMMAR SCHOOL
A Graduate with Chemistry is
sought for Brighton Grammar
School, Victoria, 1962.
House could be arranged.
Canon Wilson, Headmaster.
Positions Vacant
CRANBROOK SCHOOL,
BELLEVUE HILL,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Vacancies occurring from Ist
Term, 1962.
English Master (1)
To take over English Department
or, if no suitable applicant, to teach
English, including 6th Form.
Science Masters (2)
Any combination to teach Chemis-
try, Physics and Geology—Senior
and Junior work.
Accommodation
Two Flats for married Masters in
Eastern Suburbs and Resident Single
Accommodation available.
Write to Headmaster stating full
academic and extra curricular
qualifications and experience.
PULTENEY
GRAMMAR SCHOOL
Incorporated 1847.
Applications are invited for the
position of
MASTER OF THE
MIDDLE SCHOOL
from January 1, 1962.
The Middle School consists of
approximately 320 boys from Grade
3 lo Grade 7.
Applicants should be:
1. Communicant members of
the Church of England.
2. Graduates of a recognised
University.
Applications are to be accompanied
by not less than three references,
one of which should be from the
Rector of the parish church.
Conditions of appointment may be
obtained from, and applications to
be forwarded to:
The Headmaster, Pulteney Grammar
School. South Terrace. ADELAIDE,
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Positions Vacant
SYDNEY CHURCH OF ENG-
LAND GRAMMAR SCHOOL
STAFF VACANCIES
There are vacancies in the Physics
and Chemistry staffs of this School
—immediately or in January, 1%2.
The School intends to build new
laboratories in the near future.
(1) Physics Master —to teach to
Leaving honours standard.
The policy is to have one
Physics Master supernumerary
to establishment, so that in
rotation, a master is engaged in
research into Physics teaching
and in preparation of teaching
aids.
(b) Laboratory Assistant —f o r
Chemistry laboratories. Depend-
ing on qualifications, the school
would be prepared to assist in
future training of the Laboratory
Assistant.
For particulars write to the Head-
master.
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
Tine only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 654
Across
I—Horse and cart are both found to be smashed by this
band. (9)
s—Bit of strife (5)
7 Not turning weight. (3)
8— It quietens the small piano player without a jag. (9)
10—Pete's injured with no gentle inclination to soak. (5)
11— What makes a Melbourne suburb
moon about some high priest
putting Othello on the salt
receptacle. (9)
12— Primordial location is rather too
much down the line from 11-
across. (10)
15—How a horse may proceed with
Ruby hiding in a Sydney race-
course. (10)
20 — Against disorderly Allen of the
Caribbean zone. (9)
21 — What makes the German storm
into the street with a capital
Chaldean 1000. (5)
23 — How’s 24-across compared with
26-across? (11)
24 It may be taken in hand by the
punitive act when amended. (3)
25 — Counts with which he shortened
a Stevenson. (5)
26 — Cheese arrived with a boy past
1000. (9)
Down
I—Curses1 —Curses from Athos. (5)
2: —All its crimes are capital
crimes. (8)
3 Father Malachi is too much refer-
ring to heat. (7)
4 A gallant morning or bone duck
is musically tender. (7)
5 A wizard priest offering a bogus
article. (6)
6 When one's expecting the small
piano duet for boy and girl. (9)
8— Misbehave with zest! It helps
the digestion. (6)
9 Graduate by the outcome of
6-down. (4)
12 — Maul some fellow aid to grip-
ping. (9)
13 — Forced some salary increase in
the Police Department. (6)
14— Boil relation to the cat’s coat. (8)
16 — Jerusalem bickering is too much
for a vessel of distillation. (7)
17 — Taste mutton in a Chinese puzzle
if sunburn is overweight. (7)
18 — C'est le termination de beaucoup
des malaises. (41
19 — As about some rising outcry in
such ways. (6)
22—Musip for the church totem is
damaged. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 653


(First issues off the press)
CONVENIENCE
(Right to your mail-box)
CONTINUITY
(No chance of missing out)
HAVE
0
7
DELIVERED BY POST
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
NEW SUB./RENE WAL
(Please cross out one)
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper,
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please find enclosed my cheque I money-order for
......... . months’ subscription to The Bulletin.
NAME: ...
ArtnDCCQ .
L-'iyiVUiJD . • *»• • • » ••• •.» • • «j. «... •>• «• • •
RATES (A/asia): 1 year—£2 125.; \ year—£l 6s.
Post free. British C’wealth: £3 3s. 6d. Foreign:
£3 16s.
N.Z. CURRENCY (Remit to Box 965, Wellington,
N.Z.): A/asia: 1 year —£1 18s. 6d. ; year—
19s. 6d. British C’wealth: £2 3s. Foreign £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether
the subscription is paid direct to The Bulletin
or any newsagent in Australia or N.Z
THE B U L LETI N
IS AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
NEWS MAGAZINE-
-52 pages of top-flight information. The press,
the radio, TV, will dish you up the headline
news . . . but The Bulletin has time to bring
you the news inside the news.
AND IT’S PACKED WITH
ENTERTAINMENT
Nearly every facet of modern life is reflected
in The Bulletin’s pages, so no wonder
anyone can find a little of himself—or herself
—in The Bulletin.
