

The Bulletin
Registered in Australia for trans-
mission by post as a newspaper.
November 18, 1961
\<
A
GUIDE
TO THE
ELECTIONS


s
G
Z
<
C/5
D
O
ZIZ
h*
LxJ
Z
>
H
Z
LU
LITTLE TRAINS
%
uj
Q
CO
&
<b
<v*
o
in every year, 29,000 passenger and mixed trains move across
branch lines of the rural scene carrying mails, freight and people
in a never-ending contribution to the State's prosperity and progress.
Along these branch line tracks capillaries of steel that feed into
the arterial mainlines the State draws the substance of which its
greatness is made . . . the bounty of its pastures, the minerals of
its earth, the fruits of its orchards, the output of its factories . . .
On the durable structure of the spreading network of the New
South Wales Government Railways grew this State to greatness,
and on such will it continue to grow.
NEW SOUTH WALES GOVERNMENT
RAILWAYS


TEARING OFF A STRIP
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; Phone: 27 5971.
Vol. 83
No. 4266
Getting Down to Details
THE article on page 9 brings together two subjects Australians
rarely think about nowadays—droughts and the development of
the North. Yet the drought now searing the Northern Territory
is already four years old and if rain does not fall this month over the
cattle regions the cattle industry in many areas will be ruined.
It will not be the first disaster for this region. The Humpty Doo
rice scheme failed; we lost the export trade in cattle to the Philippines
because Indonesia produced better cattle more cheaply; the export to
Hong Kong amounts to a skinny few hundred; agriculture just stag-
gers along, and so on.
It is not as if politicians do not talk about the North. It is in all
the election policy speeches. Every dry season they look the Territory
over, inspect schools, houses, experimental farms, take the pilgrimage
to Humpty Doo (where four share farms remain of the Giant Rice
Scheme and the magpie goose lives like a king). They then return
to Canberra inspired to develop the North by word-power.
Everyone agrees the region is not one which can be developed by
unaided private enterprise. But if Government investment is essential,
it must be sensible investment. Suppose, instead of sending armies of
clerks to Darwin and building a huge, air-conditioned office block to
house them, the money had been spent on completing the north-south
railway. Suppose the millions paid out in district and other allowances
—to attract and maintain Government employees in Darwin and Alice
Springs—had been spent instead on beef roads, particularly in the
Top End. Admittedly this would have drastically reduced the sprawl-
ing administrative set-up which has been described as the Territory’s
basic industry. It would have driven away the time-servers and pro-
motion seekers. We would have been left with only the most dedicated
Public Servants. Darwin today might have been half the size. But
the money spent on Government homes at Parap, Fannie Bay and
Nightclift would have been available to subsidise such commodities as
steel fence posts, wire, fertiliser. The Mt Wells battery might have
been built and we might now be cashing in on today’s high tin prices.
Maybe Darwin could already have an abattoirs. Subsidies might have
gone to financing stations into pasture improvement even if it
meant Darwin going without a Town Hall or a swimming pool. And
the disaster now threatening the cattle industry would at least be
smaller in scale.
Even if Darwin tallied lower in the Census figures and that
is by no means certain —the Territory would be an economic unit.
With improved communications and fewer “district allowances” the
cost structure would certainly be lower. The basis for healthy growth
would be here. Even the big populations would come in time. Instead,
we are left with a situation where, as the Foster Committee on Agri-
culture has reported, “There is a danger that any worthwhile develop-
ment scheme in the North would sink in a sea of apathy and bureau-
cracy.”
What is needed is not merely Government money but a proper
scale of priorities for spending it. When the Parties present their
policies, let us hope they drop generalities and get down to a few
details.


This Australia
ADVERTISING
Censor's Itch
FROM PETER COLEMAN IN SYDNEY
Dr D. A. CAMERON
A new code?
Sometime last year Ulsterman Dr Alex
Johnson, the Commonwealth Depart-
ment of Health's Censor of Radio and
TV advertisements, had an attack of
Censor’s Itch —the feeling that every
censor gets from time to time that his
powers are too restricted. His control
over advertisements for “medicines” was
clear and definite enough in the Act, but
what about those scores of commodities,
all important to health, that were outside
his powers —food, soap, detergents, fly-
sprays, toothpaste, toothbrushes? What
-about those misleading “white-coat com-
mercials” when someone who probably
is not a doctor but looks like one
recommends something as good for your
health? What about all those dubious
“laboratory approved” products? What
laboratories? Who did the research?
What are their qualifications? What
about those toothpastes which “stop
tooth decay all day”? What about
“hexachlorophene”?
Dr Johnson’s big chance came in May,
1960, when the National Health and
Medical Research Council appointed him
chairman of a committee to draw up
a comprehensive advertising censorship
code which they hoped would be
voluntarily accepted by the advertising
industry. The Council also gave him
his main lead when it recommended to
Federal Health Minister Dr D. A.
Cameron that he amend the Broadcasting
and Television Act to give the censor
power not merely over the comparatb :!y
narrow range of “medicines” but over all
“substances or appliances for which a
therapeutic use is claimed.”
With this encouragement he drew up
a list of over 20 types of “therapeutic
substances” ranging from throat paint to
toothpaste and hearing aids, the adver-
tisements for which should be censored.
He went on to rule out “white-coat
commercials” and the use of testimonials,
and to demand details of the laboratory
research on which scientific claims are
based. Warming up to his subject he
even produced a philosophy of advertis-
ing in which he answered the question
“What is Truth, advertising-wise?” (It
is compatible with puffing But not with
misleading exaggeration.)
The admen were naturally alarmed by
Dr Johnson's new dictionary. They
quickly set up a committee to negotiate
with him and exchanged memo upon
memo. They saw his proposed code as
another Canberra encroachment on
private enterprise ; they suspected a
paternalistic attitude to consumers (in-
stead of the healthy old caveat emptor,
Big Brother will protect the public); they
saw a moralistic busy-bodiness (Dr
Johnson, for example, wanted to ban
advertisements disparaging rival products
—a matter which has nothing to do with
the Department of Health); they claimed
he misunderstood advertisements (even
if, for example, some toothpaste claims
are inaccurate their real meaning is to
make the public teeth-conscious and no
one should object to that); they were
shocked by his cynical tolerance of the
idea that most advertisements are a little
untrue (Truth, they insisted, is and must
be sacred).
To meet their objections, Dr Johnson
produced a second, a third, and a fourth
code, The admen would still not agree;
above all they would not let him sub-
stitute “therapeutic substances” for
“medicines.” By the time he was pre-
paring his fifth code over a year had
passed, and it looked as if the debate
would fizzle out with nothing done.
Then Dr Johnson suddenly hit on a
new tactic. He convened a meeting of
State Directors of Health to suggest that
they adopt his code. This would mean
it would at least be applied to news-
papers even if it did not touch radio and
TV. It would then be a good precedent
for an extension to radio and TV.
The admen got worried again, though
as' it happened this need not have been,
as the State Departments were not
anxious to take on more work or to hand
their existing powers over to a national
authority. This move however brought
things to a head and the admen now
suggested that a new code be drawn up
but that it be a consolidation of the
already existing voluntary codes. This
proposal was finally accepted.
Not everyone was happy with it. Dr
Johnson naturally wanted more, and the
dentists, for example, wanted toothpaste
advertisements to carry a message urging
people to visit their dentists. But the new
Director-General of Health, W. D. Ress-
hauge, supported the idea and soon Dr
Johnson's code was cut down to a few
pages. It was promulgated this week.
Scientific claims still do not have to be
proven in detail, testimonials are still
not forbidden, and the crucial word
“medicines” is kept instead of "thera-
peutic substances.” The old rule sur-
vives : caveat emptor.
THE CUP
Manifold's Flemington
FROM COLLINS STREET
Cup Result Saves Bookmakers From
Heavy Pay-Out” announced the
Melbourne “Age” after the Melbourne
Cup, a headline that would be apposite
after almost any Cup and one of the
indications why so many of the rails
bookmakers at Flemington are reputed
to be half- or near-millionaires.
Another is that their wives and
daughters dress like it and frequently
make trips to Australia from Paris to
attend the Cup carnival. They are never
chosen as The Best-Dressed Girl by the
newspapers. Perhaps the social editresses
feel that to do so would be bad taste,
giving the game away.
In all other respects it seemed like
most Cups, too. (There were 20,000 less
than at last year’s Centenary Cup and
that was something to be grateful for,
since the course was so much more com-
fortable.) The familiar features were the
success of a Sydney horse, because the
Victorians were over-weighted, a too-
familiar fact; the Englisnness of the
committee boxes; the wonderful and
traditional good humor of the crowd;
the bestowal of the best mounts on the
boomed Sydney jockeys; the niggardly
odds offered by all except the better book-
makers to the mugs and the hundreds and
hundreds of dead-heads.
It is true that Lord Fury did not
show his best form until after the de-
claration of weights for the Cup and
with 7.8 he was not thrown in to the
same extent as some Sydney and New
Zealand horses nave been in recent yeafs;
but both Grand Print and Dhaulagiri,
the Victorians which ran second and


third, were harshly handicapped. Grand
Print had won only minor races yet he
was weighted within lib of Far Away
Places, winner of the Adelaide Cup, and
Dhaulagiri had failed last year with
121 b less.
Both Grand Print and Dhaulagiri im-
proved in the intervening months, mak-
ing the prescience of the V.R.C. handi-
capper quite remarkable. (There were
other instances of under-estimation of
the prowess of N.S.W. racehorses in the
minor races, notably Sky High, Astro-
naut whose handicap in the First Railway
Highweight at 71b above the minimum
after he had won successively at Canter-
bury, Rosehitl and .Randwick was remark-
able, Lady Cornelian, and Moviegoer.)
The V.R.C. handicapping is singled out
here because it relates to the Cup meeting,
but the handicappers of the other Mel-
bourne clubs share his opinion. Year
after year results disclose that the best
Sydney form is about 71b better than the
best Melbourne which is little, if any,
better than Adelaide's. There are mutter-
ings about the V.R.C. eagerness to attract
interstate horses to Flemington, but the
resentment is inarticulate, so far.
Last year the gentlemen’s and ladies’
committee boxes looked like week-end
house parties in the Midlands or one of
the Home Counties. The Governors and
their ladies from the other States were
in full force, with gracious spacious liv-
ing very evident in their boxes. The pay-
ing Australian members and their ladies
stood up behind. Once again this year,
however, the ladies' box was almost empty
after the Cup. the gay party having
retired to the festivities in the vice-regal
acreage in the inner stand, and the
members’ ladies were standing up again,
and craning for a view, between the
enormous hats, of the race.
The toppers, which had been out in
force on Derby Day, were put aside
chiefly on Cup day. Harold Holt wore
his, but it did not make him look any
younger. In fact, he looked as if he were
suffering a credit squeeze. Fred Dennett,
owner of the famous men’s shop Henry
Buck’s, which sells most of the Fleming-
ton toppers, wore one of those sporting
rough-felt hats which went out of high
fashion about three years ago. Even I
discarded mine last year.
Still, despite all these complaints, it
was a very successful Cup and those
who have not visited Flemington in re-
cent years, especially the Hill, would find
the public accommodation vastly im-
proved. I have not much doubt this is due
chiefly to the chairmanship of Sir Chester
Manifold. Nearly all the members of
the V.R.C. committee are inheritors —its
weakness is its comparative lack of self-
made men such as its Pat Gormon—
and Manifold is one himself, but the
Manifolds have always been liberals with
a lively regard for public comfort and
opinion, and under him Flemington has
again become a first-class course for the
public and S.P. routed fc!y the off-course
tote.
WESTBROOK BOYS HOME
Waiting for the Report
FROM JOHN HIGGINS IN BRISBANE
Dr H. W. NOBLE
2000 pages
IX/'ay back on the night of Sunday,
’ * May 15, Dr Noble, the Queensland
Minister for Health and Home Affairs,
told a Meet-the-Press television panel
that Westbrook Boys’ Home near
Toowoomba was a “very good show.”
At the time the Queensland Press was
in a state of uproar over persistent
allegations of brutality at the home, but
according to Dr Noble in his TV inter-
view, “one individual only was respon-
sible for all the allegations,” and the
Superintendent, Mr Roy Golledge, “was
a decent honest fellow with a deep love
for boys . . . There were tears in his
eyes as he told me he got sick and tired
of using the strap from time to time.”
The TV interview had been taped on
the preceding Friday night. A few hours
before it was televised all over southern
Queensland, 30 inmates of Westbrook
staged a mass breakout, setting fire in
the process to a hayshed with 15 tons
of hay and farm machinery worth £3OOO.
At the finish of the TV session, in which
Dr Noble steadfastly refused all requests
for an inquiry, a news flash announced
that he would have one.
Meanwhile former inmates of West-
brook came forward and listed for the
Press (with their names and addresses)
the various brutalities they alleged had
taken place at the Home during their
sojourn there. These included floggings
of up to 38 cuts, bald hair cuts, walking
up and down a path for four hours at
a stretch, “kangaroo hopping,” forcible
dosing with castor oil—all for minor
offences such as talking on parade and
so on. Charges that the punishment book
at Westbrook was falsified to show no
more than ten cuts for a flogging were
also made.
On May 17, Dr Noble announced the
appointment of magistrate A. E.
Schwarten to inquire into the conduct of
Westbrook and all aspects of its admin-
istration. A storm broke immediately
when it was discovered that the inquiry
was to be conducted in secret and that
a Crown Law prosecutor had been
appointed to assist the magistrate. The
Crown Law officer fell sick after a Bar
Association protest on the nature of the
inquiry and an outside barrister (Mr
McGill) was appointed in his place. The
Government briefed another barrister to
represent the Westbrook staff and the
A.L.P. briefed counsel for the boys.
By way of explanation for the secrecy,
Dr Noble told a meeting of Young
Liberals that he did not want to see
the staff crucified. Earlier he had told
the Press that he did not want to see
young boys, entitled to Children’s Court
anonymity, crucified.
The inquiry got away to a flying start
on May 22 behind closed doors, the Press
retaliating by cheerfully interviewing
witnesses before they gave evidence.
It ended on July 28 after sitting for 32
days in Brisbane and Toowoomba. It
was highlighted by another mass out-
break of 34 boys on June 10, followed
by four more on July 2. Dr Noble told
the Press that the boys’ language while
in lock-up awaiting trial was dreadful.
According to “informed sources” there
were 2000 pages of evidence given by 88
witnesses. The final report handed to Dr
Noble on October 9 consisted of 80 typed
pages and eight appendices. On October
26 the pro-Government “Courier-Mail”
commented testily that after a “two
months' clamp of secrecy” the report was
still unavailable to Parliament, Press and
public. According to Dr Noble the delay
has been occasioned by the need to
“code” the report —that is, to change the
names of witnesses to code names or
numbers. Charged with hedging to avoid
having the report discussed in the present
sittings of Parliament, the Government
replied by announcing that it would be
tabled when the Department’s estimates
came up for discussion later this month.
Copies recently were circulated to
Cabinet Ministers—and then withdrawn.
Meanwhile, the Press, inquisitive as
ever, had discovered that Superintendent
Golledge was on holidays at Nambour,
and Dr Noble has denied reports that
he was under some form of suspension.
And there the matter rests at the
moment, with only one more move to
be made —the tabling of the report.
Dr Noble, meanwhile, hasn’t been
given a let-up by the Press, apparently
annoyed by his Westbrook tactics. A
biting series of articles on the State’s
mental hospital set-up by Walkley
Award winner Arthur Richards really
rocked “the Doc” last week. On the
evidence presented by Richards, it seems
that either Dr Noble has been misinform-
ing the public in regard to conditions
at the Goodna Mental Hospital, or else
he has been misled by his officials and
accepted their statements without ques-
tion. The debate on his Departmental
estimates will see a whole lot of dirty
linen hanging on the Parliamentary line.


ADELAIDE'S FESTIVAL
The Second Round
DAVE BRUBECK
FROM GEORGE FARWELL IN ADELAIDE
HThough the opening of the second
Adelaide Festival of Arts is still
about four months away, seats for many
of its 111 performances are already in
demand. When advance bookings opened
on Monday, November 6, fourteen
thousand pounds’ worth of tickets had
already been applied for and at least
100 hotel rooms booked for interstate
visitors.
After months of negotiations the pro-
gramme is now complete. The Festival
will be opened by the Governor-General
(Lord De L’lsle) on Saturday, March 17,
in a brief Town Hall ceremony followed
by a torchlight procession through city
streets Immediately afterwards four
major performances will begin. These
are the first of five appearances by the
London Philharmonic Orchestra, a
choral concert by the visiting 180-voice
Royal Christchurch Musical Society’s
choir, the Australian premiere of Archi-
bald MacLeish’s verse-drama “J. 8.” pro-
duced by New Zealander Richard Cam-
pion and “Festival Fair,” a large-scale
outdoor affair designed for popular
entertainment, with nightly programme
changes, beside the River Torrens.
The following week’s programme will
include Sir Malcolm Sargeanl conducting
the London Philharmonic and three
combined choirs of 450 voices ; Hepzi-
bah Menuhin playing the fourth piano
concerto of Beethoven with the same
orchestra ; Yehudi playing Beethoven's
violin concerto with the S.A. Symphony
Orchestra ; Menuhin brother and sister
in a violin-piano recital ; the opening of
the Elizabethan Theatre Trust’s “Saint
Joan,’’ with Zoe Caldwell, and its opera
season. First opera is the Australian
premiere of Strauss’s “Ariadne on
Naxos.” Adelaide-born Una Hale, now
leading soprano at Covent Garden, re-
turns to sing the title role.
The ten theatres and halls to be used
nightly will also house an Indian dance
group from New York, “Bhaskar and
Company”; the Southern Ballet Group,
led by former Royal English ballet
dancers Desmond White and Patricia
Cox ; a theatre-in-the-round production
of Ben Jonson's “Volpone” by Cohn
Ballantyne and Benjamin Britten’s
“Noah’s Flood.”
Musically the second week has been
built around Yehudi Menuhin, but
big interest is already being shown in
the return of Dave Brubeck —a popular
success of the 1960 Festival. He has
promised to compose a special piano piece
for the occasion. Australian folk ballads
are also to be given five airings by
(Jueensiand poet-musician J. S. Manifold
and h,s Bandicoots. There will be a
conference of Australian writers during
the first week, as well as public poetry
and prose readings, and another con-
ference on the problems of Australian
playwrights sponsored by UNESCO in
the second week.
As In the last Festival, strong emphasis
is being placed on the visual arts.
Adelaide will see the only showing of
the comprehensive collection of Austra-
lian Art —“Colonial To Contemporary”
—now being assembled for the 1 ate
Gallery, London, by the Commonwealth
Art Advisory Board. Other shows in-
clude Contemporary German Painting,
100 Years of American Art, a Pre-
Raphaelite exhibition and a collection
of primitive masks from various parts
•of the world.
Altogether, the programme is so
crowded and the S.A. Symphony
Orchestra in particular so busy—that the
last two of four scheduled operas have
to await the Festival’s official end on
March 3 1 to reach the boards. These are
the first professional staging of Verdi’s
“Falstaff” and “Don Giovanni.”
Adelaide will also be given a new look
with a Festival Club, where theatre- and
concert-goers may dine or order after-
show suppers with liquor served until
midnight.
BOXING
Kraal's Death
FROM A MELNOURNE CORRESPONDENT
Experienced boxing opinion in Mel-
bourne is that George Kraal was
suffering from cerebral damage before
he received injuries, or aggravations, that
led to his death in his fight with Keith
Lewis on November 3 at Melbourne
Festival Hall. An inquest will be held
on Kraal’s death and the medicai views
given then will be illuminating but can
scarcely be definitive because Kraal was
not X-rayed before he entered the ring.
For this reason there is authoritative
support in Melbourne for the move by
the N.S.W. Boxers’ and Wrestlers’
Association for the full examination of
boxers, including X-rays of their heads.
Boxing has been comparatively safe
in Melbourne compared with other
sports, especially racing and bike-riding.
This is the second death in 30 years. In
that time many bike-riders have been
killed and a score of jockeys.
Kraal, a resistance lighter in the 1956
Hungarian Revolution, arrived in Aus-
tralia about a year later after 43
i • r- ti j
amateur bouts in Europe. He turned
professional on arriving, mixed boxing
w. h timber-cutting m Queensland and in
July 1959, lost the Queensland light-
weight title to Gary Cowburn, a hard-
punchmg southpaw.
He took 18 months’ spell from the
ring, then joined Sydney trainer Ern
McQuillan and as a welterweight won
six successive bouts. His seventh was in
Melbourne on June 16 when he first met
Lewis. The boxing writers generally did
not agree with the referee’s decision in
giving the bout to Lewis. They were
unanimous Kraal gave Lewis a boxing
lesson in the first six of the 12-rounder,
out-speeding and out-manoeuvring him,
but agreed he tired badly in the last tew
rounds, persistently holding Lewis in an
attempt to avoid Lewis's heavy punches
to his head.
Kraal was advised not to bolt before
he met Lewis for the return bout on
November 3. In the meantime he had
shown improved stamina by beating
Mick O'Driscoll, the strong English
welter, at Sydney Stadium, and Lewis
had lost on points to Queensland's Peter
Lambert, a former Victorian amateur
champion, but had out-pointed the
N.S.W. welter Brendan Tapp,
Lewis has been publicised as one of
the most dangerous punchers in the Aus-
tralian 10.7 field, but Kraal had not
learned his lesson. He bolted again.
Lewis won the second round, but almost
all the others had been won by Kraal,
who had a big lead on points when the
refer “ s >°PP ed Ih , e "= hl , m . Ihe tent , h
, rollnd when Kraal was obviously col-
a P sm « '" the neutral corner ron.
Lewis s onslaught. He was carried from
, he „ to hospita i, operated on in
h(J ear| hours f ,£ mm £ and died
)ater f„ the d from cerebral
haemorrhage
An x . ray at an a p propr i at e time be-
fore professional boxing matches is now
considered necessary even by those Mel-
burnians who are sympathetic to the
present control of boxing in Australia
and see no real reason for the Sydney
idea of a boxing commission. The medi-
cal examinations are quite thorough, but
nowhere near as searching as those
the U.S. The Americans insist on electro-
cardiographs, blood counts and other
tests as well a.s X-rays.


Tanner
"HOW CAN WE EXPECT INDONESIA TO DEVELOP TO WESTERN LEVELS OF
CIVILISATION WITHOUT THEM GAINING EXPERIENCE AS IMPERIALISTS?"


THE MOSCOW TRIP
The Taylor Affair
FROM A LAUNCESTON CORRESPONDENT
M. O'BRIEN
U.N.
'T'asmanian members of the notably
militant Australian Railways Union
were far in advance of the palsied A.L.P.
State Executive in scotching what they
quickly recognised as a trick by Com-
munists and unity-ticketers to send their
State secretary, Ralph Taylor, to Moscow
without reference to them.
M r Taylor, it seems, was named by
A.R.U. General Secretary M. O'Brien
as a delegate to the Communist-front
W.FT.U conference in Moscow in
December. The A.R.U. State Council
“overwhelmingly,” it was said, agreed,
and the docile A.L.P. State Executive, of
which Mr Taylor is a member, endorsed
the decision.
Proceedings came into the open on
October,4 when “The Examiner” revealed
that Mr Taylor was lined up for the trip.
He was reported to have said that the
“A.C.T.U. had ruled that delegates could
attend such conferences as observers."
Next day, “The Examiner's” political
roundsman in Hobart reported that the
State Executive of the A.L.P. was “un-
decided” on what action it should take.
Facing the dilemma that action against
Taylor would widen the split between
political and industrial wings, while a
blind eye would cause further dissension
in the party, the executive seemingly de-
cided to do nothing.
But there was immediate rebellion
among rank-and-file A.R.U. men. The
president of the salaried officers' commit-
tee, Mr W. D. D’Alton, said that “the
interests of unions and the people of
Australia would best be served by the
absence of trade union officials from these
Communist - front organisations.” And
the powerful Launceston sub-branch of
the A.R.U. by 14 votes to eight passed
a motion of no confidence in the State
Council’s action and strongly opposed the
move to introduce as Taylor's relief none
other than E. J. Stanistreet, an avowed
Communist and protege of J. J. Brown,
who had been State secretary of the
A.R.U. before he was transferred to
Sydney. “I’d throw him out of the State
if he comes back,” one delegate exclaimed.
There was also a move to demand Mr
Taylor's expulsion from the A.L.P. State
Executive, “to restore public confidence
in the A.L.P.’s efforts to counter Com-
munism.”
Nearly a fortnight later the A.L.P. State
Executive indicated that it did' not pro-
pose to take any action on this “purely
internal matter” and returned to
silent contemplation, no doubt sustained
by the action of the Hobart A.R.U. sub-
branch in endorsing Mr Taylor's trip
with only one dissentient.
Mr O'Brien next took up the running.
The decision of the A.R.U. to send Tay-
lor to Moscow, he said, conformed with
the policy of the A.C.T.U. The union
was “adhering to the policy of the U.N.
on freedom of association” and certainly
would tolerate no outside interference
“in matters which concern the working-
class movement.”
Through these proceedings Mr Taylor
himself maintained that he, as servant of
the union, would be guided by the union.
He seemed to disregard the A.L.P. Mr
Taylor is a socialist, but those who know
him believe that he is not a Communist,
and that he would have been a faithful
and objective observer in Russia. They
agree, however, that this is not the point.
His mere presence at a Communist-front
conference would have been objection-
able.
After four weeks of often bitter dis-
sension, the issue was industrially settled
when Mr Monk circularised unions ex-
pressing the hope that affiliated unions
would not send delegates to the con-
ference. Mr O'Brien confirmed that Mr
Taylor's trip was off.
But politically the issue was not dead.
Last week Launceston railwaymen peti-
tioned the union to rid itself of Commu-
nist influence, and a lively meeting called
by the salaried officers' committee asked
the A.R.U. to withdraw support from
members associated with Communist or-
ganisations. It asked the A.R.U. State
Council to rescind its decision to allow
Mr Taylor to attend the Moscow gather-
ing, and to accept Jacky Stanistreet as
his relief.
The West Tamar A.L.P. branch, regard-
less of the feelings of the bewildered
party leaders, called on the A.L.P. State
Executive to endorse Monk's ban on
the W.F.T.U. conference and to “deal
with" Taylor.
In Hobart, the State Executive was
reported to feel that Mr Taylor had
broken no rules, and that the question
had been settled by Mr Monk anyway.
The A.L.P. Executive, they maintained,
“would look silly” were it to intervene.
TRAFFIC
The Accident Boom
FROM FRANK DIXON IN CANBERRA
TTp to the end of last year the road
accident rate in the Australian
Capital Territory, per 10,000 registered
vehicles, was well below that of any of
the States, but this year has risen
alarmingly.
The total number of accidents reported
in the Territory for the 12 months to
December 30 last was only 339, but for
the first six months of this year it had
risen to 734 This second figure has not
yet been officially published but anyone
who cares to inquire will find it is correct.
This steep rise probably accounts for
the increase of one-third in third-party
insurance premiums announced by the
Minister for the Interior, Mr Freeth,
early in October after receiving a report
from a special advisory committee. The
Minister has now asked the committee
to report generally on third-party in-
surance in the territory.
t, x , u a ,
If 1 were to hazard a guess at the
reason for such an alarming increase in
the A.C.T.’s accident rate I should say
it is due to the local driver's interpreta-
tion of the “give-way-to-the-right” rule
—an interpretation which in my opinion
goes much further than the authorities
intended. The regulation itself is couched
in similar language to the N.S.W. regula-
tion covering traffic at intersections: it
says that when a driver is approaching
an intersection . . . and there is a reason-
able possibility that his vehicle might
arrive at the same spot simultaneously
with another vehicle, or that a dangerous
situation might otherwise develop . . .
he must § ,ve wa Y to the vehicle on his
right.
In my recent experience the majority
of A.C.T. drivers pay no heed at all
to vehicles approaching on their left —
in many instances I doubt if they even
know they exist—and provided their
right is clear they cross intersections at
speeds well above the 30-mile limit which
has been imposed in certain parts of the
city area. When 1 asked a traffic officer
if the police regarded these high speeds
as safe and legal, he replied that drivers
are being fined £25 each for exceeding
the limit every week but they still keep
doin<* it "
°
This speeding across intersections
seems to be much more prevalent now
than when 1 visited Canberra two years
ago. The volume of local traffic has in-
creased considerably in the interval and
the influx of interstate cars is also much


“Dial a grace!”
greater. It is this “mixing” of traffic
which accentuates the problem. Vic-
torian drivers are unaccustomed to giving
absolute preference to vehicles on their
right at intersections; and although
N.S.W. and other States have the same
“give-way-to-the-right” regulation as the
A.C.T. it is not, in my experience, inter-
preted in the same do-or-die manner.
Most drivers in N.S.W. give preference
to vehicles on the left as well as on the
right when circumstances justify it; but
any motorist who expects similar con-
sideration in Canberra is simply looking
for trouble.
In the light of Canberra’s high inter-
section accident-rate I was astonished to
read that the recent Transport Advisory
Council meeting, in its admirable aim to
bring about an Australia-wide traffic
code, had adopted a “give way to the
right” rule irrespective of the order of
entry into the intersection, and there
seems every probability that this will be-
come part of the code which the Minis-
ter for Shipping and Transport, Mr
Opperman, hopes to present to the coun-
cil for adoption at its next meeting in
June, 1962.
To impose such a rule without also
imposing a speed limit would be to turn
our back on courtesy and commonsense
which have played such an important
part in our road safety education up to
the present.
DROUGHT
The Worst Yet ?
PAUL HASLUCK
Help
FROM KEITH WILLEY IN DARWIN
“nr'HE worst drought in the time of the
white man” was the verdict of the
Northern - Territory’s Federal Member
Jock Nelson, himself owner of a cattle
station out from Alice Springs, as he
underlined the disaster now looming over
a huge area of the Territory.
In Central Australia the Animal Indus-
try Branch has declared 80,000 square
miles as “drought - stricken.” The
position on some stations is tragic.
One lease south of Alice Springs near the
S.A. border has a “normal” rainfall of
seven or eight inches a year, but it had
only an inch in the 12 months to June 30
and none since.
In the Centre the cattle industry is
relatively drought-resistant these days. It
has reasonably good roads and a central-
ised rail point, and the area’s ability to
turn off large numbers of cattle quickly
by road transport (road trains take 85
per cent of all cattle moved in the Alice
district) has saved it from really serious
losses so far. But the mass exodus to
markets and agistment area has left its
mark on the cattle population, which
stands now at 204,000 for the Alice
Springs district—lowest ebb since 1948.
The drop has been steady. Estimated
population in 1959-60 was 246,000 and
in 1958-59 273,000.
In the Centre they now face the
dilemma: sell off now and, if it rains,
face the prospect of being unable to
re-stock properly for years; or hang on


{til
Penfolds
Amontillado Sherry
Full-bodied, dry
■gwmifo.
m
fOrr/M’
SHKRKY
Penfolds Pale
Dry Fino Sherry
A classic sherry
ft
&
f)
rti
a o
o
00
000
0000
00
00
■omm
ffiwud.yfoi
SKKKHY
Pcnt'olds Special
Flor Sherry
Delicately blended
s4^
FOR
PERFECT WINES
mi
Penfolds Club Port
Mellow perfection
'dd-
W?
i’O.tVJ-
Penfolds Private
Bin Port
Full aged, tawny
o
O
It?
u
HELP
LEGACY
all the year round. Donations: 169
Elizabeth Street Sydney. BM2OOI.
and lose everything if the weather fails
to break in the next few weeks.
If the plight of Centralian pastoralists
is critical, that of cattlemen in the Top
End—where no worthwhile rain has
fallen for seven months —is tragic. They
have no way to move their cattle out
when times are bad. The Larrimah-
Darwin railway is remote from most
stations. Feeder roads —where they exist
—are pitted with corrugations and pot-
holes, pushing road transport costs and
stock casualties skyhigh. (North Austra-
lian Cattlemen's Association secretary
Jim Martin estimates losses from weak-
ness and other causes on trucks going
through Katherine at 20 per cent). A
traveller recently saw 500 dead cattle
at one point alone —No. 7 bore on the
Barkly stock route. On famous Elsey
Station, the manager, Peter McCracken,
found 200 dead cattle in three square
miles. The hardest hit of all is Delamere
where pastoralist John Nott has lost 10
per cent of his 10,000 cattle already and
expects to lose half his herd unless rain
falls within three weeks. Adding to his
troubles are 4000 wild donkeys which
swarm on his property. To make matters
worse. Administrator Roger Nott’s relief
kitty is empty. Only Paul Hasluck can
help now.
In the Far North the sickness of the
cattle industry is apparent, even to the
most uninformed observer. The cattlemen
of the Top End have no reliable markets.
They lack money for the pasture and
other improvements their properties need
so badly. The shocking death-rate among
cattle sent to Asia (80 out of the last
600 shipped to Hong Kong were dead on
arrival) reflects grimly on the quality of
the average beast this area turns off at
present. Katherine veteran Nugget Ray-
mond (60 years in the North) says the
current period is the w'orst season he can
remember in the Top End. Even so, it is
possibly mild by Centralian climatic
standards. But the industry here lacks
the drought-resistant qualities of pro-
perties further south. It just cannot get
the cattle away. Even if it could it has
no regular markets and no agistment
areas nearer than Queensland.
Creation of markets is vital, even if it
means building a subsidised Govern-
ment export abattoirs in Darwin. Without
an assured outlet cattlemen will never
have enough money for the fencing, new
bores and improved pastures they need
so badly. Perhaps equally important is
stepped-up research into a more suitable
species of cattle for tropical Top End
conditions.
On past experience in the Territory,
all this will take a long, long time. But
at least the Government could make a
start now by granting funds immediately
for emergency drought relief. Even a
few weeks of procrastination on this vital
issue could mean ruin to many battlers
and set the Top End's seedy cattle
industry back for a decade.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Trading with Asia
TF the hopes aroused by the discovery
1 of large iron-ore deposits in Western
Australia are verified our economic
position will certainly be much stronger
in the long run, but we shall also face
some new major problems.
As Sir John Crawford pointed out
this week in “The Australian Financial
Times,” 39.6 per cent, of total Aus-
tralian exports in 1960-61 were
absorbed by Asian and Pacific coun-
tries, compared with 15.2 per cent, in
1937-38. Last year Japan took 16.7
per cent, of all Australian exports,
compared with 3.7 per cent, in 1937-38.
These figures show how our inter-
national trade is changing.
At this stage the Australian and
Japanese economies are roughly com-
plementary. Wool forms an important
part of the raw materials needed by
rapidly growing Japanese industries;
coal is gaining in importance; and
Japan should also be able to absorb
increasing quantities of Australian
meat and wheat. For these reasons it
is to our advantage to help Japan
expand her European trade, because a
higher level of economic development
and prosperity in Japan may mean
more export sales for Australia.
The announcement of the new iron-
ore deposits should be considered with
this background in mind. Australia is
not now an exporter of steel, although
our steel output is generally sufficient
to satisfy domestic demand —except for
some quality and special steels which
we will have to continue to import for
some time yet. Now we face the possi-
bility that “Australia’s iron-ore posi-
tion will be transformed,” to use Sena-
tor Spooner’s words. If the Pilbara
deposits—some of which are about 50
miles inland from possible shipping
points—are really as important as the
early reports indicate, Australia will be
able to develop an export industry in
steel very much earlier than originally
expected. This will place us in direct
competition with Japan in a number of
Asian markets.
These points are most important in
selling steel and capital equipment
overseas, particularly to under-
developed countries which often require
the services of well-trained, and rela-
tively inexpensive, technical experts
when they import steel and steel pro-
ducts in large quantities. Our develop-
ing export trade in coal may have to
be curtailed—more Australian cpal will
be required by the growing steel
industry, and selling coal to Japan
might work against Australian steel
exporters. Of course more iron-ore
may be sold to Japan, but this again
could work against ourselves in the
long run.
Then there is the problem of raising
enough capital to develop the new
deposits. This will have to be obtained
on relatively modest, non-speculative
interest rates which may discourage
some domestic investors. The influx
of huge amounts of foreign capital may
excessively restrict Australian owner-
ship of the steel industry—a point very
ticklish politically, although the econ-
omic problems involved are not always
all that difficult.
All this means that we shall have
to decide to what extent we intend to
promote an economic partnership with
Japan, and to what extent we are going
to compete against her. Some new and
difficult trade agreements may have to
be made and major decisions taken. We
will have to make them in any case. But
the Pilbara discovery may force us to
make up our minds earlier than we
have expected because, like all
blessings, its effects are mixed.
The Keesing Doctrine
YY7HEN Frank O’Connor was giving
" a creative writing course in the
United States, he was repeatedly
buttonholed by students who told him
they had undergone a terrific exper-
ience and were about to write a story
about it. Invariably it concerned last
night’s experience under a bridge, in
their flat or in the back seat of a Dodge.
The Irish writer failed to see the
uniqueness of the episodes. Nancy
Keesing makes the same complaint
about our short story writers; she finds
their hectic flush a little adolescent.
They are highly excited about their
emancipated attitude, says Miss Kees-
ing, but they fail to excite us about
their stories.
In her Forum article in this issue
she says they are well on the way to
establishing a new orthodoxy, a new
cliche in the short story. Australian
short story writers 50 years ago were
preoccupied with four subjects: South
Seas islands, the Bush, Melbourne and
Sydney slums, and Suburban Boarding
House. Nowadays the South Seas
stories have a market in America, Bush
books cater for Englishmen’s romantic
ideas of the colonies and the slums are
on the stage. The suburban boarding
houses, occupied by drunken bachelors
fifty years ago, are still occupied by
drunken bachelors. But whereas they
were working class in those days,
women-shy, and boozed with their
mates, today they are University stud-
ents, the mates they booze with are
female. And they write short stories
about it.
How does this Keesing doctrine
relate to the discussion “The Bulletin”
started some time ago about the Aus-
tralian short story? “The Bulletin”
wanted more stories with urban, subur-
ban, and middle class settings, a greater
sophistication in approach, new sub-
jects. We asked for stories about the
relation between men and women, for
less preoccupation with fringe group
characters, above all we were after the
“shock of recognition” stories which
illuminated the way we live now.
Our interests included, as Miss Kees-
ing has it, “young unmarried, osten-
sibly educated people living away from
their parents’ homes, and revolving
centripetally, or sometimes centrifu-
gally about a shared bed, with or with-
out benefit of clergy,” but they were
much wider than this. Some of the
attitudes and subjects she described are
what “The Bulletin” called outdated
Bohemian preoccupations'. We are
anxious for writers to enter the unex-
plored territory of suburbia, to describe
the ninety per cent of Australian life
which goes unremarked ...
Fortunately, the Rally-round-the-
bed-boys stereotype is not a sufficient
label to cover the contemporary output.
A number of stereotypes could be iden-
tified: the recent Faber anthology of
Australian stories had a goodly propor-
tion of “nature notes,” one group of
writers go for nostalgic looks at child-
hood, others cannot see Australians
unless they look through the eyes of
New Australians . . .
Without necessarily endorsing Nancy
Keesing’s judgment of the short-story
writers she discusses, we agree with her
that the writers who are remembered
are those who “give an acceptable
account of some of the dilemmas of
his age.”


A GUIDE
TO THE ELECTIONS
By MUGGA
DURING the last two years leading Australian
Liberals from all States have been appearing on
TV screens. Some of them thought they were
electioneering, some imagined themselves as
budding J.F.K’s, others “froze.” became garrulous,
blustered, pulled at their ears, scratched their heads, tugged
at their glasses. Unfortunately none of us viewed these
performances. They were seen only on a closed circuit
that the Liberal party has organised as the biggest pre-
election dry run in Australia’s electoral history. When we
do see the Liberals during the election campaign in the
next three weeks they will try to show us the urbane per-
sonalities most politicians imagine themselves to have.
All over the Commonwealth more pencils are being
sold, old typewriter ribbons are being replaced with new,
printers are receiving more orders and airlines bookings
are heavier. Admen at Hansen and Rubensohns are book-
ing advertisements with the big metropolitan dailies, small
country papers, on radio, TV —anywhere they think they
can gain more votes for their client, the Australian Labor
Party. Hayes in Melbourne and Goldbergs in Sydney are
doing the same for the Liberal party, although most of
the Liberal's propaganda is in fact done by the Liberal
party's own staff. (The Liberal parties in each State make
their own arrangements with agencies, while Labor tends to
centralise its work with one agency.)
People who belong to parties, yet never attend meet-
ings. are getting in touch with their local party bureaucrats
asking them “What can we do?” Stickers with square-
jawed paternalistic faces seductively leering from them are
being received in the most unlikely of homes. The old
method of making paste (with flour and water) is being
shown by “old” Labor, Communist. Liberal or D.L.P.
supporters to people who are excitingly looking forward
to their first election campaign and who will enjoy the
thrill of furtively pasting stickers on lamp-posts and paling
fences late at night.
In the country party stalwarts are rostering car services
to drive pensioners, the sick and the transportless to the
nearest school or church-hall so that their man will still
get in.
A LL these preparations roll up into two big questions:
Who is going to win? What is the election all about?
And these two questions really roll up into one central
issue, the issue Australian electors have settled decisively
for more than a decade: Is Labor fit to govern? According
to almost all predictions the answer will again be “No.”
If that is so. there are only two smaller questions left to
settle: Will Mr Menzies be faced with a hostile Senate?
And how big will Labor’s defeat be?
In a Federal country one way of finding answers to
these two questions is to examine the “images” of the
three decisive parties —the Liberal-Country parties, the
A.L.P. and the D.L.P. —and to see what they are State by
State, for in every State the balance in “images” between
these three parties is different.
VICTORIA
The only question on which there would be unanimity
among political commentators is that it is in Victoria that
Mr Calwell’s aspirations to office are buried, for the
“image” of the A.L.P. in Victoria is of a very special kind,
quite different from that, say, of N.S.W. To understand
PARTY REPRESENTATION
Party strengths in the Senate —broken down on a State
by State basis are:
Country Liberal Australian Democratic
Party. Party. Labor Party. Labor Party.
N.S.W. 2 4 4
Vic. 1 3 5 1
Tas. 0 5 4 1
Qld. 2 4 4
S.A, 0 5 5
W.A, 2 4 4
7 25 26 2
Total number of Senators, 60. Number of Senate
vacancies to be voted for in this election, five for each
State except South Australia, which is six.
In the House of Representatives the relative
strengths are:
Country Party. Liberal. Labor.
N.S.W 8 16 23
Victoria .. ..5 18 10
Queensland .... 5 10 4
Tasmania .... 0 2 3
W.A. .... 1 7 1
S.A. .... 0 5 6
19 58 47
Two members of the A.L.P., one representing the
Northern Territory and the other Canberra, have limited
voting rights. This leaves the present Government with an
actual majority of 17.


the elections one must understand this image. It means
that whatever Mr Calwell says or does, and no matter
how many big guns are trained on this State, nothing can
efface from the minds of a significant number of Victorian
electors the image of a faction-ridden, sectarian and
Communist-collaborating group of men running the A.L.P.
In Victoria there is no way of burying the skeleton of
“unity tickets” or of collaboration with the Communist
party in “Peace” Congresses and other Communist-front
organisations.
The Liberal image in Victoria is diffuse. Although Mr
Bolte (the farmer’s friend) is not the most brilliant of State
Premiers, his Government has capitalised on the benefits
increased migration has brought to Victoria and the fact
that overseas capital is always portrayed as “pouring” into
Victoria. However, there is a complication. It is in Vic-
toria also that minor “anti-Menzies” revolts in the Liberal
party keep breaking out. perhaps because with a Govern-
ment of their own. the Liberals feel stronger and cheekier
than they do in N.S.W. Mr Holt was going to be
opposed, Mr McEwen was going to have a Liberal candi-
date stand against him, several members were expelled.
But the revolts have now simmered down, mainly perhaps
because Mr Menzies called the party bureaucrats’ bluff and
threatened that he would personally step in. With the
help of the Democratic Labor party the Liberals (who
understand the A.L.P. more in Victoria than they do in
N.S.W.) can hit the weaknesses of Labor, while Labor
will have to dissipate its energies on a two-front war against
both the Liberals and the D.L.P.
As with the last Federal elections, the D.L.P. will be
the key to this election. It is mainly responsible for pro-
jecting an unfavorable image of the Victorian Executive of
the A.L.P., and in the last Victorian elections it seemed to
have broadened its base to include a number of non-
Catholic Labor voters and disgruntled Liberals. Mr
Menzies knows that he doesn’t have to bargain with the
D.L.P. for its preferences, and the D.L.P. shows no evidence
yet of a desire to bargain with Mr Menzies. Without its
attempt to reform or replace the A.L.P. as an Opposition
there is no reason for existence for the D.L.P.
If the Labor party in this election is as humiliated
as it was in the recent State elections, and the D.L.P. vote
soars, it may mean some kind of final reckoning between
the D.L.P. and A.L.P.
The D.L.P’s preferences decided at least eight seats
during the 1958 elections, and during the Victorian State
elections it emerged as a potential third party. Even before
its present membership drive its membership was greater
than the Labor party’s.
NEW SOUTH WALES
The three keys to this State are that the State Liberal
party is still seen as an ineffectual Opposition; that the
State Labor party, which has consequently had a monopoly
of power for over two decades, has a respectable “image,”
unlike Victorian Labor; and that, compared with Victoria,
the D.L.P. is weak.
In some ways the Country party in this State has
seemed more lively than the Liberals. It is only in the last
year or so that the State Leader, Mr Askin, has come to be
seen as a possible alternative Premier, and the Liberals’
“clean out” recently in Statewide pre-selections, while it
has brought adverse publicity, has also livened up their
image as a get-up-and-go party. That these were State
pre-selections, not Federal, may evade many voters. How-
ever, the general slowness of the State Liberals in exploit-
ing such issues as the Minister for Health’s arrogant show-
ing over Callan Park Mental Hospital, transport muddles
and other local issues and the apparent ignorance of State
Liberal politicians of the nature of A.L.P. Federal Executive
leadership have left much more of a 1940’s flavor in N.S.W.
than has been possible in the contemporary melodrama of
Victoria. In N.S.W. electors may not be so much voting
for or against the Liberal party as for or against the Menzies
Government. Another weakness of the N.S.W. Liberals is
that in a State in which, unlike Victoria, there is still con-
siderable Catholic backing for the A.L.P., the Liberals seem


“They love him
They love him not ”
curiously unable to provide Catholic candidates for
elections.
The New South Wales Labor Government, on the
other hand, has been status-quoing with the business com-
munity for many years and (only just) keeping its Parlia-
mentary left wing from public disorder. When the Evatt-
controlled Federal Executive went on the rampage in the
mid-1950’s it caused splits that were responsible for remov-
ing Labor Governments in Victoria, Queensland and
Western Australia. By the time its “purge” reached N.S.W.
it acted a little more gently, and though it caused casualties
on the State Executive, right-wing Labor managed to
survive in office. Accommodation to Victorian policies was
the price of survival, but most people in N.S.W. did not
realise this. There was their respectable Government to
prove otherwise. The right-wing controlled State Executive
is now showing signs that it might finally work up a revolt
against Victoria, but since few N.S.W. voters know about
Victoria anyway, this may be neither here nor there. The
worst single load the Labor image will carry in N.S.W. is
Mr Calweli. Not knowing much about the A.L.P.. N.S.W.
voters do not see him as a demoralised leader and captive
of a hostile Federal Executive but as the fire-eater of the
1940’5. That’s the way it goes.
The Democratic Labor Party caught only five per cent,
of votes in N.S.W. in the last election, although its prefer-
ences decided the seats of Hume and Phillip. The party
may be more decisive this time. Mr Leslie Haylen hangs
on to his seat of Parkes by only 826 votes, and this year he
might lose it. As a Chinese tourist and attender of
Communist-dominated “Peace” Congresses, he is a natural
D.L.P. target. His book, “Chinese Journey,” can only be
described as a public relations job for the Chinese People’s
Republic. His defeat might not be altogether deplored
even in the A.L.P. The D.L.P’s preferences may also per-
haps surprisingly settle the issue in Bennelong. where
Sydney’s Lord Mayor, Alderman Jensen, may be glad-
handing Mr Cramer’s majority down.
The image of the D.L.P. in N.S.W. is blurred. It
secured less A.L.P. stalwarts than it did in Victoria, and
many of its members are “younger people” (in the political
sense) who have become interested in politics for the first
time. Most sections of the Catholic Church in N.S.W. are
opposed to it, yet at the same time it is attacked as a
“Catholic party” by non-Catholics. The feeling that the
D.L.P. should become a genuine third party is overwhelm-
ing in N.S.W. The effects of this feeling on the elections
are unpredictable.
QUEENSLAND
This is where Mr Menzies will have to fight to retain
his advantage of 15 Government seats to the Labor party’s
four in the House of Representatives. Two years ago this
wouldn’t have been expected, but two factors since then
have given him a handicap. The first is Premier Nicklin’s
coalition Government, which has thrown up an unsatisfac-
tory image, and the second is Mr Menzies’s own credit
squeeze, which affected Queensland’s employment rate more
seriously than any other State’s. On the other hand, the
Queensland Labor Party, the Queensland D.L.P. affiliate,
has an image as active and aggressive as in Victoria, and the
A.L.P. has one that is just as bad.
Rightly or wrongly, Queensland people who are having
their first taste of party rule other than Labor’s for
nearly two decades are disappointed with the result. Far
from the State Government being a relief from the frustrat-
ing years of Labor rule, its indecisiveness and inept handling
of issues such as the Westbrook Boys’ Home have produced
an emotional let-down. The Government was a second-
rate team that fluked office. Queensland Labor has stayed
in power mainly as a result of successful gerrymanders, and
the two Opposition parties were dispirited when they were
suddenly hustled into office by the Labor split. They make
poor allies for the Federal Liberals.
Although unemployment has been comparatively high
in Queensland, nobody can really say whether this is suffi-
ciently concentrated to swing any seats away from the
Government parties, although it may be important in voting
for the Senate.
The Q.L.P. has an advantage over the D.L.P’s in
other States in that it is active in State politics. It is already
regarded as a seat-winning party. In the last State elections
four Q.L.P. men were re-elected. As in Victoria, the
Q.L.P. strength lies in the overt use by A.L.P. members of
unity tickets; the Trades and Labor Council is Communist
controlled; and many of its policies on “peace” and related
issues follow Communist policy. Signs of a split are already
evident in the Queensland A.L.P. Mr Duggan, the Opposi-
tion Leader, is plainly unhappy at Trades and Labor
Council pressure, and his feud with that body’s president is
too well known to maintain a glorious Labor image of
unity.
The Q.L.P. is expected to do well. Its Senate candidate,
Mr Vince Gair, the ex-Premier who was successfully
deposed from office because of a personal vendetta carried
on by the late Joe Bukowski of the Australian Workers’
Union, is well regarded, particularly by A.L.P. voters. He
provides a well-known name, something D.L.P.-Q.L.P.
candidates often lack.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
When Mr Menzies goes to Adelaide during his election
tour he will be walking into the most conservative State
“ and forgive the poor, misguided souls who fail
to vote [1] Millgate, [2] O'Grady, [3] Paton on
December 9th."


in Australia. And since 1938 this stronghold of conserva-
tism has been ruled by one of the wiliest of Liberal poli-
ticians in Australia, ex-fruit-grower Sir Thomas Playford.
It is his image which will gain the votes for the Menzies
Government. Whatever anyone says about Sir Thomas, he
projects the image of stability—why shouldn’t he?—the
gerrymandering in South Australia has enabled him and his
Government to reign unhampered for 23 years. Charges of
“Liberal mismanagement” are rarely raised, and if they
are Sir Thomas is nimble-footed enough to effectively dodge
them. It was only the Stuart case and the Rivett case
that gave South Australians their first serious moments of
doubt. To many Labor voters Sir Thomas gives the impres-
sion of a right-wing Labor man. His South Australian
patriotism has forced him to attack Menzies and his Gov-
ernment many times —and this, too, is well known. It is
hard to imagine Menzies losing too many votes while Sir
Thomas still rules untroubled.
The Labor party is somewhat hampered by the lethargy
produced by so many years of Opposition. Their Parlia-
mentary “mateyness” with the Liberals is indicative of their
attitude. They always have the excuse of gerrymandering
to fall back on. and being the Government always produces
problems (and work) for any party. The world is a more
simple world without problems, and Mr Calwell will not
only be fighting against the general political apathy of the
electors but also the apathy within his own party. It is only
politicians like the rising Don Dunstan and the energetic
Clyde Cameron who stir up Labor members and hint to
the electorate that their Liberal Government may not be
doing so well after all.
The D.L.P. in South Australia is similar to that in
New South Wales but is much weaker. It grew not so
much as the result of a split but was a belated and slightly
bemused splinter. Electorally speaking it has virtually no
effect, and there would be quite a few voters who are
unaware of its existence. But if the trend in 1958 elections
and the Victorian State elections is any guide it should
gain support.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
As in Victoria. Queensland and South Australia. Mr
Menzies has the advantage in having a Liberal Govern-
ment in office. He reaps any benefits the Brand Govern-
ment has brought to the Westralians and he can deflect
any of the mistakes it has made. Western Australia is
always just one step away from secession, and any Federal
Government of whatever political color starts off at a
disadvantage precisely because “it comes from outside.”
The West, more than any small State, suffers from
xenophobia.
The Liberals in this State have made most of their
gains from the weaknesses of the Labor party rather than
from any virtues they may possess. And the weakness in
the Labor image is that it is a Chamberlain-dominated
party. Because of the relationship between the A.L.P. and
the Trades and Labor Council (to be a delegate to the Trades
and Labor Council, you have to be a member of the
A.L.P.). Federal A.L.P. Secretary Chamberlain reigns as
an authoritarian king. Since his power has increased
the efficient Hawke Labor Government has fallen, and
Labor’s representation in the House of Representatives is
down to one, Mr Kim Beazley. And Mr Chamberlain is
anxious for him to iose his pre-selection—an act of sheer
Labor political hari-kiri.
In the 1958 election the Federal seats of Stirling and
Kalgoorlie were lost to Labor on D.L.P. preferences. Some
D.L.P. men say that this was the case also with Swan —-
but this is arguable, as the Lib.-C.P ; candidate had a
majority of 4331 before the distribution*"of preferences and
ended up with a majority of 6518.
As one Labor politician. Mr Herbert Graham, State
member for East Perth, said after the last State elections
(quoting him from memory) the election was not a victory
for the Liberal party but a victory for the D.L.P. (The
Hawke Government fell as a result of the distribution of
Democratic Labor Party preferences.) The D.L.P. members
in the West are possibly more “Labor”-minded than in
most other States, and would be awaiting the day when
they can come back to the Labor party. Mr Calwell and
Mr Whitlam are never happy when they go to speak in the
West —they start a long way behind scratch because of the
handicap of having Mr Chamberlain as Labor boss.
TASMANIA
Politics in Tasmania are almost “parish-pump.” The
Labor Party State has ruled there for many years with an
uncomfortably narrow majority. Because possible defeat is
always just around the corner, this has served to unite the
party more than anything else. Just as Sir Thomas Playford
is regarded as a right-wing Labor Premier, so was the late
Mr Cosgrove regarded as a left-wing Liberal. Although Mr
Reece projects a more particular Labor image, he has
inherited much of this from his predecessor.
It is personalities above parties in this State. One
example of this is where Senate candidates, despite what
number they occupy on the party ticket, can and do
tell the electors to vote number one for them. Another
example is the way State elections are conducted. Poli-
ticians are elected on the proportional representation system,
and during the actual voting no party how-to-vote tickets
are handed out.
Because of the personality factor it will be possible for
Dr Turnbull to be elected as an Independent candidate for
the Senate —a feat which would be virtually impossible in
any other State.
It is also the personality factor which prevents the
D.L.P. from becoming a significant force in that State—-
despite the presence of Senator George Cole. None of its
preferences had any bearing on the result of the 1958
elections, and it is likely that the 1961 election will follow
the same pattern. In a State such as Tasmania, Federal
issues and the personality of Mr Menzies have little impact.
Mr Calwell, on the other hand, can capitalise to some extent
on the years of Labor rule.


FOR CORSAKE
Probably Australia’s most popular joke is the one
Stan Cross did for “Smith’s Weekly” before the
war. which we reprint here on the right. Wonder-
ing how magazines in other countries would have
treated this joke if they had ever thought of it,
“The Bulletin” asked its artists to give their
versions of the possibilities.
“NEW YORKER”
“Stop crying, dear—this is funny."
“SMITH S WEEKLY”
“For gorsake stop laughing—this is serious!"
“KROKODIL”
"For Gorki’s sake, stop laughing! This is Siberious !”


“HOLIDAY”
“For goodness sake, keep smiling!
This is fiftieth of a second at f/11.
color."
"I say, old man, wipe that grin off your
face —Cowdrey is out!"
“ESQUIRE”
“I his IS serious , that's my husband down there!"
“NEW STATESMAN”
“For gorsake stop laughing—this is serious!"


A VISITOR IN CHINA
Fears of Communist China should be tempered by facts
MAO TSE-TUNG
The strain is showing
By ROBERT S. ELEGANT
THE news from Communist China is bad. And both
natural and man-made calamities make it likely that
the news will be worse in the next few months. If the
Chinese nation were either an individual or a corpora-
tion beset by comparable difficulties, it would already have
been naturally or legally dissolved. But the People’s Gov-
ernment continues to rule China, somewhat in the manner
of other Asian regimes which endure though they have lost
all justification for being except inertia.
From the moment the infrequent visitor from the
West arrives at Canton, the metropolis of the south, he is
surrounded by signs of decay the regime cannot hide. He
may dismiss the bedraggled railroad carriages and the
woebegone look of his fellow-passengers during the three-
hour ride from the Hong Kong border as characteristic of
immemorial rural China, unaware that both these carriages
and their passengers looked quite different three years ago.
But he is invariably struck by the cavernous and unpainted
Canton Railway Station, where pinch-faced countrymen
and women compete to carry his bags for the equivalent in
“people’s banknotes” of two or three cents.
His car carries him through streets where he sees only a
handful of other motor-driven vehicles and a few animal-
drawn carts; most goods and passengers are moved by
human labor. If his route is not carefully chosen to avoid
the back streets he notices they have a strangely bare look.
All metal fittings on doors and windows were removed for
scrap, along with household utensils, during China’s drive
to double and redouble her steel production by utilising a
multitude of miniscule “native” blast-furnaces.
There are block-long queues before official food stores
and swarming outdoor markets where private enterprise has
reluctantly been permitted to return to China, after the
nation was completely “communalised” in 1958-59. There
are men and women scrabbling in refuse piles for bits of
food and begging from passers-by. While the foreigner
need not fear the food thieves who beset returning overseas
Chinese, he nevertheless can see large groups idling on street
corners or performing their tasks with obvious bad grace.
The police carefully ignore these misdeeds in a nation
which boasted only a few years ago that it had abolished
begging—a nation where idleness and theft are crimes of
equal gravity.
The visitor cannot see the symptoms of deeper rot. He
is probably not aware that the youth of China are in a
revolt so acute even official publications must report their
dissatisfaction. The generation which is just adult argues
volubly that the Draconian measures enforced to indus-
trialise China cannot succeed. It complains at the Conir
munist party’s demand that it pass its days in “constant
struggle.” even though the hierarchy itself knows no
deprivation.
Nor can the casual visitor see that all China's “intellec-
tuals” are fighting a passive war against the Government,
which alternately woos and denounces them. This civil war
is infinitely more debilitating than it would be elsewhere. In
Chinese the term “intellectuals” means literally “those who
are aware of things” and the group includes everyone with
the equivalent of an American grade-school education.
The new arrival generally does not realise, either, that
the incorruptibles of the Communist party —the cadres who
are the nerves and muscles of the regime—are so broken
by disillusionment and self-seeking that minor corruption
has once more become a way of life in China. He cannot,
however, help realising that something is extremely wrong
in China; the severe food shortages have exacted obvious
tolls. If there is no evidence of wracking famines in China
today, it is because the Government, to its credit, has spread
its marginal food supplies over the entire nation. Peking
has distributed deprivation equitably.
The Communist regime, contemplating 12 years of
truly heroic efforts gone awry, publicly puts the blame
upon natural catastrophes; privately it lays much of the
responsibility to grudging and inadequate Soviet aid. The
weather and Russian parsimony have indeed contributed
much to the creation of the present Chinese impasse, though
the complaints come somewhat incongruously from the lips
of a regime which, only a few years ago. acclaimed Russia’s
assistance in tones as stentorian as its boasts that massive
water-conservation projects were making China’s vulner-
ability to floods and droughts a thing of the past.
Peking does not hesitate to castigate its servants the
cadres, for mistakes in carrying out policies ordered by the
Government. But it obviously cannot offer a public cata-
logue of the grave errors of judgment at the top which have
contrived the present debacle.
/CONFRONTED with the erosion of its authority by the
irrepressible discontent of hundreds of millions living on
the bare edge of subsistence, the regime has had no choice
but to modify the harsh policies by which it sought to reach
its fantastically ambitious goals. The People’s Republic of
China has demonstrated it is impossible for a backward,
agricultural nation to leap into the El Dorado of modern
industrialisation by its own unaided efforts—or with only
a trickle of outside assistance. In its attempt to perform
that miracle, Peking has imposed backbreaking hardship
upon the people, and its own measures have been most
responsible for the present food crisis.
The regime’s failures are not limited to the dominant
economic sphere. After nearly 12 years, it is quite clear
that “thought reform” —better known as “brainwashing”
in the West —has failed to make the Chinese masses abso-
lutely responsive to the will of their Communist masters.
Equally disastrous for the Communists was the transforma-


•«,
iSB
>K
Hi
T^7
i i
*. ■%
THE MAN ON THE
LAND KNOWS
FROM EXPERIENCE
There is NO satisfactory
substitute for
STEEL PIPE
Stee! Pipe is simply a way to carry
things almost without exception
the best way.
Steel Pipe carries gas, chemicals, oil, wires,
cables, voices and WATER.
From almost every point of view: strength, long
life, versatility, ability to withstand pressures,
exposure and economy—there is not, and
never has been, any satisfactory substitute for
steel pipe.
So, for agricultural needs, in particular, specify
STEEL PIPE wherever water has to be conveyed.
STRENGTH . . . LONGER LIFE . . . ECONOMY . . .
EXPOSURE PROOF . . . GREATER PRESSURES
. . . VERSATILITY
STRENGTH
LONGER LIFE
ECONOMY
EXPOSURE
VERSATILITY
STEWARTS AND LLOYDS (distributors) PTY. LTD
SSAI.6O
BRANCHES: All Capital Cities, also Townsville, Rockhampton, Newcastle,
Wollongong, Geelong, Fremantle, Darwin and Alice Springs
AGENCIES: Cairns, Mackay, Kalgoorlie


tion of the dedicated enthusiasm, which existed until
1957-58, into a contemptuous resentment of the Com-
munists and all their works.
The intellectuals were alienated by the Hundred
Flowers Campaign of 1957. when they were first invited
to express their criticism by a complacent regime and then
severely punished for accepting that invitation. The masses
were alienated between 1958 and 1960 by the creation of
the rural and urban People’s Communes, with their minute
organisation of every aspect of life and their enforcement
of 16-hour working days on wholly inadequate diets which
have made China a nation of semi-invalids. The land
simply could not support China’s people and also provide
the capital needed for industrialisation.
So far this year between 20 and 40 million men and
women have been shifted from work in the cities and in
factories to tilling the soil. Factories work halfdays in
major cities, and a number of light industrial plants have
closed.
Although the Communists show no signs that they will
ever relinquish the ideal concept of “collectivised life” in
People’s Communes as the “stepladder to the paradise” of
true Communism, communards are now allowed to work
their own small plots with the Communes’ tools, and cadres
are instructed to grant laborers free time for their own
tilling. The communards are even allowed to sell their
produce in the “free markets” the Chinese Communists
have reluctantly decided to tolerate —after failing to sup-
press them. The party has explained weakly to its troubled
zealots that such markets are “compatible with Socialism.”
Despite concessions, the events of 1957-58 are the great
water-shed in the history of the People’s Republic of
China. At least two decades will have to pass before
Peking can again enjoy the enthusiastic support it knew
before that time. Most discouraging to the hierarchy is the
fact that “retrogression” to barely tolerable conditions
means it must postpone all its most cherished plans. The
regime has every intention of once more stepping forward
briskly when the people have been mollified, although
realistically it can only look forward to a recurrence of
the present crisis—something the arrogant Communists
cannot bring themselves to recognise.
“The steam has gone out of the Chinese revolution.”
said a diplomat upon returning from Peking. “Like a loco-
motive seeking to haul a heavy train up a steep hill, it’s now
slipping backwards.”
TT is impossible for any individual—outside China or
inside —to determine the actual state of affairs everywhere
in that vast country. But the cumulative evidence portrays
a nation where intense suffering has afflicted 650 million
persons and has shaken the Government’s authority. The
Communist leadership responded to the first realisation of
failure in 1960 by proclaiming its sponsorship of a violent
“liberation movement” for all the underdeveloped nations
of the world. It carelessly accepted the likelihood that such
revolutions, ignited and fed by international Communism,
might provoke nuclear war. which it declared was. in any
event, “inevitable.” The ideological quarrel between Peking
and Moscow, on internal as well as external matters, arose
when first effects of failure were felt in Peking..
Contemplating even a brief catalogue of China’s woes,
it is not surprising that outsiders who have always believed
the Communist regime would collapse now maintain their
conviction with increased ardor. It is actually more sur-
prising that some who have always been awed by the
power of the People’s Republic, no matter how much they
abhor it. still portray China as a massive Juggernaut con-
trolled by a single switchboard which is poised to accomp-
lish our destruction. Neither view is correct.
A striking example of the first position was offered
recently by President Kennedy. Entertaining Vice-President
Chen Cheng of Nationalist China, the President proposed a
toast which envisioned the Communists’ collapse in much
the same manner that the tyrannical Chin Dynasty perished
in 206 BC after ruling for just 15 years. A timetable which
would allow the Communists just three more years is, to
say the least, somewhat optimistic as a historical pro-
jection. As a basis for making policy, the assumption
could be disastrous.
'T'HE historical analogy between Chin tyranny and Com-
munist tyranny is especially tempting because both
regimes created unified nations out of a welter of local
principalities. But the Chin was destroyed, after its founder’s
death, by powerful feudal warlords whom it had been
unable to suppress. The Communists have attacked their
enemies so efficiently that no centres of resistance still exist
in China. There is today no force in China around which
mass discontent can coalesce into effective political or
military action against the regime's security apparatus,
which is still highly efficient.
Moreover, the present crisis in China was brought about
by excessive aspiration. It has demonstrated that the Com-
munists cannot attain' their highflown ambitions. It has
not demonstrated that they are incapable of maintaining
their hegemony over China. The present retreat, promising
a modicum of relaxation, will probably improve conditions
slightly. That prospect is much more appealing to an
exhausted and half-starved populace than any call to arms
against the regime could possibly be.
The West, therefore, must not expect a major revolt
against Communist authority. Actually, revolts have
occurred every week since the imposition of the People’s
Communes in 1958. Peasants have thrashed or killed their
foremen on many occasions; they have attacked Commune
and party offices and sacked food stores. Workmen have
refused to work and cadres have ignored Government
directives.
None of these continuing small revolts has really
threatened the regime's existence; nor has passive resistance
by hundreds of millions of peasants, although it forced the
present wave of relaxation. Since 1958 a large-scale revolt
against Peking’s authority has been conceivable. This was
not true before, but it is the thinnest of possibilities and
hardly provides a firm foundation for a China policy.
Any successful revolt against the Peking regime will
probably come from its own ranks. The Communist party
has repeatedly admitted that the “factional” splits do
indeed exist —even within the Central Committee. Pre-
sumably. either the “moderates” or the “extremists” could
seize power to enforce their own policies. They could
hardly do so. however, without the support of a powerful
segment of the armed forces, which are now so closely
tied to the party that an independent military revolt is
most unlikely.
In any event, a realignment of power will probably
occur after the death of Mao Tse-tung. who is now almost
68 and showing the strains of a hyper-active life. Either
case conjures up a fearful possibility. A new group o(
Communist leaders in China, necessarily insecure in theii
power, might well pursue external policies even more aggres-
sive than Peking’s present strategy.
Continuing deterioration could conceivably result ir
a. breakdown of the Communists’ administrative machinery
and the passing of their regime through attrition. But such
deterioration will probably be averted by the wave of
relaxation. Thus, for the foreseeable future other nations
would be wise to reconcile themselves to living in a world
which also includes an aggressive and unhappy China under
the Communists. They might also season their fears with
facts—and their wishful thinking with realism.


Tanner's Seven
Deadly Australians
\\ ENyy


KHRUSHCHEV TAKES FRIGHT
"The Berlin crisis is in itself insoluble"
By SALVADOR de MADARIAGA
The Chinese wall through Berlin, the
50 megaton bomb, the renewed
attacks on Molotov, several other
aspects of the figure cut this
month by the Soviet Union on the screen
of public opinion can be reasonably ex-
plained within the Soviet plan for the
steady advance westward of Communism.
It is plain that Mr Khrushchev began his
“Operation Berlin” with a heavy attempt
at intimidation. One of the key move-
ments in this campaign was the fixed date
for the treaty with the D.D.R., which
conferred on his other proposals the
character of an ultimatum. The series
of bomb explosions belong to the same
category of intimidating moves. The
announcement made by the Soviet Minis-
ter of Defence to the effect that the Soviet
scientists have discovered a way to stop
missiles is yet another.
It is possible to surmise that the
renewed attacks on Molotov aim at the
same target. Without in any way exclud-
ing the possibility of a delicate internal
situation, this anti-Molotov campaign has
often stressed that Molotov and his asso-
ciates belong to the spirited warlike wing
of the Communist party rather than to
that which Mr Khrushchev represents,
based as it is on peaceful coexistence.
Translated into our more straightforward
idiom, this means that Molotov and con-
sorts would if necessary initiate a hot war
to push westwards the frontiers of Com-
munism ; while Khrushchev would prefer
infiltration and cold war, and, though
ready to accept war, would not initiate it.
Still, why re-raise the Molotov issue
now? Possibly because the Soviet Prime
Minister wishes to convey to the West
that, if he is not strengthened by a favor-
able deal over Berlin he may be unseated
and succeeded by a more bellicose team
that would not hesitate to grab Berlin by
force and risk a war.
Such an interpretation of the Molotov
affair would fit in with the general atti-
tude which Mr Khrushchev has main-
tained throughout the Berlin crisis. This
attitude might be described as an endea-
vor to make the West even more
frightened of him than he himself is of
the West.
For Mr Khrushchev is evidently
frightened. He is a cool-headed and
steady-hearted poker-player, an ability
he may have learnt under Stalin, whose
pupil and disciple he is far more than
he cares to remember. But despite his
magnificent apparent calm, he is
frightened. His East German Republic
is a total failure, to such an extent that
it has become indispensable for him to
destroy West Berlin as an island of liberal
prosperity in a sea of Communist
misery. Operation Berlin means there-
fore the salvage of the D.D.R. through
the ruin of West Berlin.
No one realises better than he that this
twofold aim requires the surrender of a
long-standing position on the part of the
allies. Hence his attempt at intimida-
tion. But as he is afraid of war (mostly
because all Eastern Europe would rise
against him), these attempts at intimidat-
ing the West intimidate him also. That is
why he is apt to blow hot and cold, and
now sounds warlike, now conciliatory,
and now throws bombs about and now
hints at peace. His last trick is to warn:
“Be careful. If I am not successful
there'll be a second Stalin who will make
war on you.” Molotov is dressed to
look like a scarecrow.
This double-decked state of mind
explains the curious combination of
intractability and flexibility in his game.
On the by now notorious peace treaty he
has been adamant several times, which
means that he has never really and truly
been adamant. For he has already fixed
a time limit more than once, only to
push it back when the delay he had fixed
became uncomfortably close. The last
of these cases of delaying tactics has just
taken place. Both he and his Foreign
Minister have declared that there is
nothing rigid about the date December
31.
Every time Mr Khrushchev shows signs
of yielding, a crop of proposals for
conciliating him turns up in the western
press and radio. The why-nots make
their appearance. Why not recognise the
Soviet annexation of the Baltic States?
Why not recognise Pankow? This why-
not? Party is so busy trying to find solu-
tions for the problem that it has lost sight
of the problem itself. Presumably its
members would expect to get some
guarantee of a free passage to Berlin in
exchange for recognition of the D.D.R.;
but they overlook that if the D.D.R. came
to be recognised that would mean the
end of Berlin.
Indeed, the mere fact that there is so
much talk about that recognition has
already produced the beginning of an
exodus of West Berliners, which is one
of the most sinister features in the situ-
ation. Such a development plainly shows
that we are dealing neither with terri-
torial nor even with legal issues; but that
the true issue is one of faith.
The issue is not “are we ready to stand
for Berlin?"’, but “are we ready to stand
by our faith?” What the West Berliners
and the East Germans are now wonder-
ing is not so much whether the West will
defend Berlin and see the wall removed,
whether the D.D.R. is or is not going to
.be recognised by the West; but whether
the West is going to stand by its faith. And
the issues of Berlin and of the D.D.R.
are only important in that they stand as
signs or witnesses of what the future will
bring, of how the wind is blowing, or
whether the West is really and truly going
to stand by its faith.
Tr is in this sense, as an episode in the
cold war, i.e. the war for the conquest
of world public opinion, that the “solu-
tions” to the Berlin crisis must be sought.
The Berlin crisis in itself is insoluble.
It is but an episode in the cold war.
We may win or lose this episode or cold-
war battle according to whether our
“solutions” are based on our faith, which
is freedom, or on the enemy’s faith which
is force. We are, therefore, by no means
limited in our ideas for proposals to such
as would eventually be acceptable to the
adversary; for we are in fact facing, not
a negotiation leading to a possible agree-
ment, but a public debate or ideological
battle leading to the defeat of the enemy
before public opinion. Our duty is to put
forward proposals that will show him up
as the enemy of mankind which he is.
That is why the political liberation of
the Eastern Zone of Germany should be
the first and dominant proposal for
“solving” the Berlin crisis. That the Soviet
Union would reject it out of hand is no
argument against proposing it; it is rather
an argument for. Entire continents have
been liberated in the last ten years in the
name of self determination. It would be
little short of shameful for the West if it
failed to claim for Eastern Europe what
is has liberally granted in the case of Asia
and Africa.
And it is in fact a matter for some sur-
prise that the West has not already insis-
ted many a time on this question. Mr
Khrushchev’s truculence is due in part to
the fact that the West has failed to keep
him constantly on the defensive by point-
ing at the Soviet Union as the harshest
colonialist and imperialist power in the
history of the world. That this self-
restraint has been inspired in the hope of
conciliating his good graces makes this
failure the more tragic.


FORUM
BEDSIDE STORIES
The new stereotype
By NANCY KEESING
'YEARS ago I read some 150 Australian and New 'Zealand stories and
sketches that were all written in the approximate period of 1890-1910.
And because the overstaffed mind refects so much of what it reads, 1 have
now forgotten nearly all of those stories, retaining, however, an overall
impression that their four most common settings were: The Bush, The
South Sea Islands, Sydney and Melbourne Slums, Suburban Boardings
Houses. Again my generalised impression is that most of the men in those
tales were bachelors, hatters, drunks or ail three. The most frequently recur-
ring women were long-married wives already well-established naggers,
from whom any blo\e worth his salt would escape to booze with his mates
{masculine). These coves spent much time outwitting and/or hoodwinking
those unattractive wives goodness k nows > in passing, how our Austral
race, as they thought of themselves then, perpetuated itself!
As they boozed these fellows met
another popular category of female —the
barmaid who traditionally out-hood-
winked them. The suburban bachelors
returned to terrible landladies and it
was often as difficult for the returning
drunken clerk to creep past his landlady
on the stairs, as for his uxorious brother
to sneak in beside the nagger in bed.
Moonlight flits were pretty common,
ha ha.
Any mothers involved, were ready-
made. When the tale began they were
copiously provided with snotty, whining
kids. Some were Brave, Resourceful
Little Women. I cannot remember a
woman becoming pregnant during the
course of a story. And for all I recall
our forbears married without any
pleasurable courtship whatever, which
might explain the whole sorry cycle
(escapes to the South Seas and all).
We have come a long way since then,
bless us. A pause while we adjust our
sophistication.
‘‘One afternoon about six months
after her abortion 1 was walking
home through the Fitzroy Gardens
with Madge Holyoake . . .”
Alan Davies
“ ‘When Mike finally got me to
bed it hurt his hothouse feelings when
he found out I already knew the
routine. His poor pride, you know.
Thought he was going to be the
conquering hero. Instead he turns
out the lamest runner in the race.
Now he’s busy finding excuses not
to get married. Funny, isn’t it ?’ ”
Maurice Shadbolt
“ When I turn round she’s back on
the bed and I’ve made up my mind.
I kneel down beside it. And she's
made up hers and she lets me kiss
her, properly now, no Queensberry
rules. Then while I’m fumbling, she
sits herself upright and gives me a
stare. I couldn’t see how she was
looking. Didn’t know what was
wrong. She suddenly laughs.
‘You’ll have to let me . . .’ she
says, and then she stops. ‘lt makes
me embarrassed. I really must go.’
So I take her to the yard and
point up to the next floor and show
her where it is . . .”
Ray Mathew
I freely admit the unfairness of
quoting snippets of this sort out of con-
text. It never means much except as a
device to set the stage. The quotations
are from three recent short-story collec-
tions: “A Bohemian Affair” by Ray
Mathew of Sydney, Aust.; “A Sunday
Kind of Love,” by Alan Davies of
Melbourne, ditto ; and “The New
Zealanders” by Maurice Shadbolt, New
Zealand.
The majority of stories in each book
concerns young, unmarried, ostensibly
educated (often University students,
artists, school-teachers) people living
(most* often) away from iheir parents’
homes, and revolving centripetally, or
sometimes centrifugally about a shared
bed, with or without benefit of clergy
(or registrar).
There’s a good deal of drinking in
each book too. A devoted, rather ritual
drinking. I must confess that I never
found the 1890-1910 drunks terribly
funny as they wove homewards bran-
dishing their lobsters—l doubt if it was
often killingly funny at the time. But I
confess nowadays I wouldn’t mind a
froth of humor among the flat, neurotic
suds, or even a suggestion that many of
my generation enjoy a measure of
alcohol without (a) passing out, ( b)
hoping to find an answer to the riddle
of the universe while tipsy, (c) sitting
uncomfortably on the floor or propped
stiffly against a bar.
No, drinking is neither jest nor prob-
lem any more. Bed! That is jest, prob-
lem, sadness, takedown or whatever have
you. Which is, of course, more or less
exactly as it should be when young, un-
married people form one’s chief subject
matter.
My objection is to an antipodean
attitude, common to many of our writers
other than the three mentioned here. A
way of thought which commands us to
“See here. Look what we’ve discovered.
So clever, so new, let’s make the most
of it!”
Ts it so new? Ray Mathew tells a
story of a University student who
frequents coffee shops and produces an
illegitimate baby. Her friends, some
inspired by what might be the D.H.
Lawrence thing to do, raffle the young
Mum, the lucky man who wins to claim
the bride and bring her the cash. But
the girl will not accept the man —she
prefers her single irregular state, but is
glad to use the money. I recall an old
Bulletin joke from about the period of
those drunk-and-lobster nights. One man
asks another to buy a ticket in a raffle.
“What’s it for?” “For the poor Widder
Brown.” “Crikey no, what would I want
with a poor widder?” Or words to that
effect.
Alan Davies begins a story with the
sentence quoted already anent aborted
Madge. It’s a most provocative opening
sentence, but has nothing essential to do
with the subsequent tale. It is con-
ceivably necessary to convey that Madge
was no virgin though I’m not persuaded
of the necessity, but in terms of the story
as Davies tells it her abortion means
nothing except bravado.
Davies and Mathew both “cheat” the
reader, in fact. The one by obliquity of
narration, the other by shallowness of


presentation. “Cheat” perhaps is too
strong a word—but “disappoint” is toe
weak a one. Davies writes fine descrip-
tions of places and of people. He estab-
lishes atmosphere extremely well, and
by dialogue can suggest very tangential
relationships most skillfully. But nothing
worked through. Too many of the
characters’ decisions seem to have hap-
pened not because they were inevitable
to the person involved, but because the
story had to be ended somewhere.
Mathew “cheats” by dressing up quips
and hanging them upon barely percep-
tible people. Consequently the people
vanish the moment the reading is done.
All that remains is a flash of red nails
(whose?); a head of mousey hair; a
figure too fat. But wait. This is not quite
true —usually (not invariably) it is the
women who disappear so disconcertingly.
Has he refused to depict them out of
some misplaced sense of chivalry? The
more the pity because potentially
Mathew has a Maupassant-ish quality —
and because, too, one had hoped the
world of Victoria Street, Darlinghurst,
and its congeners had found its 1960’s
spokesman and it is scarcely so
One other notion occurs to me: that
in his stories Ray Mathew seems
often to be uneasily balanced between the
world of his poetry and the world of
his plays. Sometimes his poetry, so plen-
tifully starred, at its best, with most
individual and far from shallow imagery,
seems to have, if one might say this of
poems, too little “plot” for its content
. . . contrast this with many of the
stories that have too much. And Mathew
the playwright can make his characters
visible simply by getting them in front
of the scenery. This is perhaps the real
explanation of all those vague feelings
that these tales are not quite good enough
- —they would be the better for a syn-
thesising of the writer’s other skills.
To New Zealand. Apparently “The
New Zealanders” is Maurice Shadbolt’s
first book. It has received praise both
in his own country and overseas. The
author is a widely travelled man, a
graduate of Auckland University, a
journalist and film director. When it
was published he was 27 years of age.
An author’s age is not necessarily im-
portant, but in this case it means some-
thing to know that the writer is
contemporary with the people he most
Often writes about, yet infinitely more
mature than most of them. He can stand
outside his own age-group, in no lofty
attitude of withdrawal, in no smart-alec
way, and contemplate their problems and
their uncertainties, their entranced pro-
cessions round the bed, nearly always
with wisdom, with compassion. He
writes (and understands) best and most
when the tales are concerned with New
Zealand people on New Zealand soil.
Like Alan Davies, Shadbolt writes well
of painters and painting, writers and
writing. There is little obliquity, although
neither is there an intrusive explicitness
in his work.
And during the telling of his story,
which usually takes him to rather more
than average length, not only the people
are realised extremely vividly, but the
places—the countryside, the beaches, the
streets, houses and rooms.
{Consider one scene common to each
of these books —the Saturday night
party in a private house.
Mathew’s party is “A Bohemian
Affair.” “ Marion had a place where
noise, late hours, screams in the
garden, guitar or recorder music
never troubled the landlord . .It was
a house in the suburbs, the bush
really ... (the guests) nominal pur-
pose was drink-and-talk —always the
possibility of meeting the right per-
son, the intelligent one, the one who
understood you . .. but in real-life
fact, the parties were a re-shuffle and
the real purpose was to see who left
with whom, and who didn’t leave
at a 11....”
At Davies’s “Saturday Night Func-
tion” “A h ! how they clapped and
danced and hallooed. It was wonder-
ful, really wonderful. And Richard’s
slow, raking stare swept the room,
his thick glasses glinting , slightly
awry, a gleaming blush on his fore-
head . (seeing) the glossy heads
bobbing and weaving, the almost
choking assault of all the bright
colors, the narcissistic sparkle of
glass and silver, the astonishing
whiteness of elbows and throats, and
the quite independent corporeality
of red smiling lips
At Marion’s party a diffident poet,
Nicholas, meets Sally. Shortly he wins her
from Alfredo, her long-time painter
lover whom, with sudden resolution,
Nicholas persuades to marry another girl.
Nick and Sally then live together, the
poet taking a steady job as garage atten-
dant. Soon though, Alfredo deserts his
new wife, and Sally returns to him.
Nicholas visits Sally to protest, makes
a feeble gesture of murder, desists, goes
away, is promoted at work, marries a
girl of conventional family that boycotts
the church wedding at which Marion, who
is matron of honour, remarks, “Won’t
Sally be furious? ... Missing all this
champagne.” It is all hurried through so
quickly that one has no time to do more
than sense, between the lines, Sally’s
obvious misery, or Nicholas’s steps
towards maturity. We must hurry, hurry,
hurry, to Marion’s funny concluding
words.
At Richard’s place Howard and Hugh
skirt round each other obviously victims
of some odd, compelling need to con-
verse. Hugh passes out before they can
speak and is put on a spare bed by
Howard and another man. Howard,
increasingly tight, bores various people
as h: tries to explain why he so wanted
to speak to Hugh and, just as Hugh
recovers consciousness, passes out him-
self. So Hugh then hoists Howard onto
the bed he so lately vacated, returns
to the party, finds he has lost touch with
the group, goes to the bedroom to collect
his coat, disturbs Howard who struggles
to plead for contact, says to Howard,
“You’re all right!” very loudly and
firmly, and leaves. All very dim, very
inconclusive.
How like and yet unlike is Shadbolt’s
“Play the Fife Lowly.” Helen, one of
those not-plain, but not-pretty girls who
has had few men friends, becomes more-
or-less from desperation more-or-less
engaged to pompous Gerald. For some
time she has been trying to blind her
honest mind to the facts of his hypocrisy,
boringness, and generally second-rate
personality. They drive to a party at
Mike's place—Mike be : ng a loud-
mouthed, common, ex-school friend of
Gerald’s who gives frequent parties. But
tonight Tom Anderson, another ex-school
friend, Gerald’s one-time special friend,
has been invited. Gerald is uncomfortable
as he explains Tom to Helen :
“The one that went all arty after
college Really went over the deep
end. Everyone knew he’d come a
flop. He did all right, Hit the booze
and got T.B. and God knows what
else. Trailing round with all types.
Helen asks, “Wasn’t he your par-
ticular friend ?” “Just a friend,” he
corrected quickly.
Arrived, Helen finds Mike’s fiancee
Sylvia in a mood of change, dissatis-
faction, honesty. (I have earlier quoted
a fragment of her conversation). This is
obviously bound to be an uncomfortable
evening. Tom, sandalled, dressed untidily
—check shirt, corduroy trousers —arrives
bringing a group of Maori boys and
girls, themselves ill at ease in this pros-
perous alien gathering, and a “delicate
youth with thin feminine features; he
wore a turtle neck sweater, and curls
of fair hair tufted from beneath a black
beret.” Mike’s unkind “bit of fun” is mis-
firing badly. From here on the intricacies
of conversation, events, alignments and
re-alignments of the characters, dis-
closures of past happenings, intimations
of future developments, become both too
complicated and too subtle to attempt to
precis briefly. At one level this could be
dubbed a squalid story —one can imagine
some narrow moralist using it to point
scorn at today's abandoned youth. At
another level it rises to heights of most
compelling beauty, to strange illumina-
tions of the human heart, to a climax of
power and inevitability. It is magnifi-
cently written, absolutely controlled.
In 50 years’ time the fashionable con-
ventions will have altered—perhaps the
joke then will be directed at mutational
oddities or at miscegenation with partners
from outer space. But I venture to guess
that Shadbolt will then still seem to have
given an acceptable account of some of
the dilemmas of his age (as Henry
Lawson or Katherine Mansfield seem
now to do), whereas most of his con-
temporaries, read in the mass, will seem
to coalesce into yet another generalised
stereotype.


LETTERS
NORTH AND SOUTH POLE
Sir,
Your theatre critic, Kevon Kemp, by
choosing to couple the Old Vic presenta-
tion of “Twelfth Night” with the finals
of the British Drama League (Bulletin,
November 4) competition for amateur
productions of one-act plays, has availed
himself of a ready-to-hand stick to beat
a very inoffensive dog.
Nobody questions that the Old Vic
has the better of an incongruous and
unfair comparison. It is so easy to sneer
at amateur aspirations compared with
the polished best that the professional
theatre can do. However, everything else
in his review is questionable. He says
the same groups compete every year:
the group placed second this year was
competing for the first time in this or
any other competition. The plays are
“stupid”: authors of the finalist entries
were Shakespeare, Moliere, and an
adaptation from Chaucer. The groups
themselves are “motley”—once an appro-
priate word for players, now the sort
of vague and unverifiable term of abuse
that only journalists employ. The dic-
tionary defines it as “heterogeneous”;
we can’t all be homogeneous. The
“B.D.L. Festival” school of actor, which,
he feels sure, this competition fosters,
has included among prizewinners in the
past Dinah Shearing and Grahame
McPherson at present in the cast of “The
Caretaker” in London and Dublin.
Finally, his remark that the British
Drama League should deploy its
resources to send amateur theatre groups
to see the Old Vic, is, up to the present,
unnecessary since one of the results of
the joy and interest such groups find in
the theatre is that they go of their own
accord. However, Mr Kemp's efforts in
both play-production and criticism may ,
finally contribute to the falling-off of
interest in theatre —already marked in
Australia —to the point where audiences
will have to be subsidised.
I suggest that amateur participators
do theatre more good than professional
killjoys and intellectual snobs such as
your reviewer.
JUDITH BARTON
Lane Cove ( N.S.W. ).
A LETTER TO MR KEMP
ir ’ , e . . , f
f As a reader ot s™ r critiques and fa
f , ronl ready access to the professional
«« atr f . 1 u have b f en Plated to be
guided in the past by your assessment of
> he professional and amateur shows per-
formed in Sydney.
Your recent indictment of British
Drama League Festivals in geneial, and
the scant attempt to assess their value has
Ifft me with the feeling that you should
descend from your dreary, jaded height,
leave the field of criticism to a
fresher palate. The harm youi comments
do i s impossible to assess. Leave the
field, and retire to your own private
sorrows. We can do without such com-
ment. Its only value, perhaps, may be
that we are afforded the opportunity of
re-assessing the worth of the British
Drama League Festivals,
A careful search of the professional
casts in Australia, in particular the
actresses, and the casts of British pro-
fessional companies, would reveal that
an astonishing number of these people
were solidly grounded in their craft in the
Little Theatre companies scattered
throughout the Commonwealth. It’s not
all “pot-hunting”, you know, they do
compete to gain experience,
As a matter of interest to you, you
obviously do not know that almost all of
these Festivals, not only in Sydney, but,
under British Drama League policy of
“He says he represents the children."
de-centralization, in the country, have a
special section for Original One-Act
Plays which offers budding Australian
playwrights practically their only oppor-
tunity of having their original works
performed, and being given an expert
opinion of their various weaknesses,
which after all, only become apparent
when they have seen the play acted.
I venture to say that many of our
now recognized playwrights have had
much cause to thank the bravery of
amateur groups for their present-day
success.
As a producer of the Moliere in the
last Festival, hardly to be wiped off as
a “dreary and stupid one-acter”, by dint
of going without dinner later to make
time, I and my cast, managed to find time
at a matinee to share Mr Kemp’s enjoy-
ment of the Old Vic Company’s “Twelfth
Night” in the hope that we might take
back to our amateur group, some of the
technique necessary for amateurs to
better perform Shakespeare.
(Mrs) EILEEN WATTS
“Tara Downs," Borenore ( N.S.W. ).
THE COHEN CASE
Sir,
In reference to the article “The Cohen
Case,” by “Mugga” (Bulletin, October
14), “Mugga” seems to be doing his best
to blacken the name of Mr Cohen. I
have no doubt he thinks it is his duty
in the cause of freedom.
I, too, love freedom as no doubt you
and every decent Australian does. So,
in the cause of freedom, I challenge
“Mugga,” with your permission, to con-
duct a similar interview with the officials
of East-West Airways into the allegations
they have made against Senator Paltridge.
J. KENNA
Claremont (W.A.).
THE MT ISA “LOCK-OUT”
Sir,
With reference to the John Higgins
report on the Mt Isa lock-out (Bulletin,
October 28). There are quite a few
misstatements and half-truths. First of
all, do you really expect people to believe
that any company would import sea-
sand from the coast 600 miles away to
the east? The truth is that the sand came
nine miles away and was donated by the
firm of Thiess Bros., 1000 cu. yards, using
some of Mt Isa Mines machinery and
using voluntary labor.
I’m using that as an instance to show
that he has not completely checked his
facts. Where did he get his information
from—the biased press of Brisbane?
He states: —-“Last year Mt Isa made a
profit of more than £5 million” in reality
it was £5,929,087— just a minor
difference.
As to all the amenities provided by the
mines, it's for its own advantage, cuts
down large turnover of staff, makes life
a little more bearable for the employee
and is claimed for in taxes. And now the
reason for the increase in bonus claim.
Petrol ss. a gallon, new cars at least £6O


extra for freight, spare parts of all kinds,
hard to get sometimes waiting weeks
plus air-freight to get them sooner still.
Building materials are twice the Brisbane
price ; cement is 255. 6d. a bag in Mt Isa
and only 10s. 6d. in Brisbane.
The temperature at the time of writing
is 96°. 1 can’t afford to use my air-con-
ditioning owing to the cost. I may add
that tne air-conditioning was put in by
myself, the cost and loss of a holiday, I
could not afford both. Although we
reported for work we were refused entry
and I signed a declaration witnessed by a
j.P. to that effect ; if that is not a lock-
out, what is?
NORMAN CLINION
Mt Isa (Queensland).
ON SURVIVING
Sir,
A: The article on civil defence on
page 16 of The Bulletin, November 4,
seems to be a typical piece of facile
optimism.
B: In part I disagree. A few years
ago we believed nuclear war was the most.
No one would have the courage to press
the button that would end mankind. Now
we build shelters and plan evacuations.
Fear is controlled if not conquered.
A: Well, is not this optimism?
B: In a way. Now we can have our
nuclear war and some of us might go
on living.
A: You are not one of these pacifists
we lampoon in The Bulletin cartoons?
B: No I am not one of “those” paci-
fists. I am neither Communist, publicity
conscious nor intellectual.
A: Then take Tanner’s advice: stop
buying The Bulletin if you disagree
with its attitude.
B: I shall.
BRUCE PENNAY
Taree (N.S.W.).
SUICIDAL ASSASSINATION
1 take exception to the remark of
your reviewer, James Griffin (Bulletin,
October 28), who has alleged that the
conduct of Sir Anthony Eden during the
Suez crisis was that of certain English-
men to whom “bullying was a nervous
reflex.”
It is because of such short-sighted
criticism that the position of the West
in international affairs today is in such
jeopardy. Were it not for the perfidy
of the Americans the extremely vital
link of the Suez Canal would not be
in the hands of a mercenary dictator
with Leftist inclinations. Remember also,
that if the British forces had not reached
the Canal before the Jewish forces, the
Middle East would have been easily
plunged into a full-scale war.
Contrary to the opinion expressed by
Mr Griffin, 1 think that future historians
will recognise in the Earl of Avon that
ability to act decisively in a crisis which
has been the dominant characteristic of
all our great men.
S. L. CAMPBELL-BANNERMAN
Crawley (W.A.).
DR BIALOGUSKI SMILED
Sir,
Notwithstanding the disadvantage on
my part in reply to the article by your
“Sydney correspondent” entitled “Dr
Bialoguski Smiled” (Bulletin, October
28), which appeared on the fourth page
of your Bulletin, while this letter of
mine may be treated only as a “letter
to Editor,” and will probably pass
unnoticed, if printed, in the “Letters”
column, I felt it necessary to correct
some statements in above mentioned
article by your correspondent.
I also wish to bring to the notice of
the readers the fact that it was your
correspondent, who right at the begin-
ning of the meeting asked two questions,
which were calculated at, if not defam-
ing, at least intimidating the organisers:
(1) Is it true that you have invited the
Consul of the Polish People's Republic?
(2) Is it true that you have invited repre-
sentatives from the New Citizens' Coun-
cil? Furthermore, when asked by me
wherefrom he received such information,
your correspondent, who introduced
himself as Mr Bajkowski, a White
Russian from China, replied that he
received two telephone calls. When
asked if the calls were anonymous,
he replied NO, he knew the persons but
could not reveal their names.
it is my pleasure to bring these things
to the notice of you, Sir, and the Aus-
tralian public just to show how the
democratic principles have been violated
in order to torpedo the meeting. L also
would like to assure you that it is the
IDEA, the great IDEA, which is sup-
porting us, members of the Association,
and NOT any political or other group.
It is the IDEA of close co-operation,
and through smooth assimilation the
amalgamation of Polish and of Austra-
lian people into the Australian nation.
However, it is also my duty and duty
of any Australian of Polish descent to
draw attention of the public that like in
Europe so here the same enemies of the
Polish people from under the Molotov-
von Ribbentrop banner will try to keep
the Polish community ISOLATED in
order to achieve their ends. "Wot?
Palaczki organizuyet sia?” and/or
“Was? Die Polen marschieren wieder?”*
J. PIOTROWSK!
Ashfield (N.S.W.).
♦Translated this means: “What, are the
Poles organising?” (Russian) and “What, are
the Poles marching again?” (German).
“Dr Bialoguski Smiled” was merely a factual
report of the inaugural meeting of the N.S.W.
Branch of the Australian-Polish Association of
Australia Inc.
After one of those present asked a series of
questions about the origin, purpose, intentions,
structure and people behind the A.P.A.A. Inc.
—an oganisation altogether unknown in
Sydney—Mr Bajkowski asked the Federal
President, Dr Briton, and the State Secretary
and agent for N.S.W., Mr Piotrowski, six
questions: l Was any representative of the
Consulate General of the Polish People’s
Republic in Sydney at any stage invited to the
meeting? 2. Was the New Citizens’ Council
invited to the meeting? 3. Were any existing
Polish organisations in Sydney invited, and
what was their response? 4. Was there any
publicity given to the meeting in Australian
and Polish papers? 5. Who are eligible for
membership in the A.P.A.A. Inc,? 6. What
is the membership of the Association in
Australia?
Dr Briton answered that he felt these ques-
tions were irrelevant to the main purpose of
the meeting, and asked Mr Bajkowski to see
him after the elections. He added that no
representatives of the Polish Consulate General
or the New Citizens’ Council were invited, that
anyone was eligible for membership, and that
the Association had about 360 members. After
the meeting both Dr Briton and Mr Piotrowski
again denied that the Polish Consulate General
or the New Citizens’ Council were invited, and
described the questions “as damaging rumors.”
Mr Bajkowski did not introduce himself as
“a White Russian from China.” He was, in
fact, first introduced as a journalist to those
present by Senator Ormonde —still in the foyer,
before the meeting—and clearly stated he was
present as a representative of The Bulletin.
Mr Bajkowski was a Polish citizen from his
birth to his naturalisation in Australia —but this
is beside the point. Being a “White Russian”
can no more disqualify a person from being
an objective reporter than prevent Miss Tania
Verstak from becoming Miss Australia. Mr
Piotrowski’s assertion smacks of the very racism
his Association says it intends to fight against.
—Editor, The Bulletin.
THE UNDERTAKERS’
CONFERENCE
Sir,
1 would like to correct one impression
left by Peter Kelly's article about the
Undertakers’ Conference (Bulletin,
November 4), namely that 1 am on the
side of Mr Kinsela when attacking the
operations of some undertakers. This is
far from the truth, for 1 am very much
opposed to the expensive funeral “set-
up,” and Mr Kinsela's suggestion that
because a funeral starts from a church
it becomes “cheap'’ is altogether absurd.
1 do not think that Mr Kelly is quite
accurate in saying that Mr Leslie S.
Andrews of Strathfield (incidentally his
establishment is in Ashfield) attacked me
and by implication Mr Kinsela, in his
letter to the press. It seemed to me that
Mr Andrews was chiefly concerned in
attacking the arguments of Mr Kinsela,
and in passing commented on the
“paucity” of my arguments. "Paucity”
or not however, neither of these under-
taking gentlemen have yet found them-
selves able to answer the complaint that
many funeral directors overcharge, and
that undue pressure is brought to bear
on sorrowing relatives.
Since my letter to the press was pub-
lished 1 have received many letters, one
even coming from Brisbane, all agreeing
that undertakers overcharge, be they
large or small firms. 1 have also been
told of a “tie-up” which exists between
florists and undertakers. When the
funeral director offers to order the
flowers for the bereaved person it usually
means he gets in the region of 7s. com-
mission on every wreath. Thus the £1
wreath ordered by the director is really
worth only 13s.
1 would submit that there is a case
for licensing undertakers, whether asso-
ciated or independent, and that 'hey
should be subject to some form of price
control.
(Rev.)
JOHN F.S. CAMPBELL
St Lukes Church of England,
Miranda ( N.S.W .).


OUT and ABOUT
FAIR GO, YOU JOKERS
There's so much beer in the worst of us,
And so much gin in the best of us,
That it ill behoves one or two of us
To shout all the drinks for the rest of us.
Anton Vogt
Baffled at Bondi
A/isiting English poet John Betjeman
* admits that the Bondi surf has him
baffled. Betjeman is a keen surfer on
the Cornwall beaches. “There I stand
breast-high with my surfboard in front
of me and wait for a wave to carry me
forward,” he explained. “I tried this at
Bondi with disastrous results. However,
1 do insist that when you get a wave
on the Cornwall beaches it takes you
further than the Bondi ones do.”
Airborne Cranes
I ately the question has been raised,
among those who study our chang-
ing skyline, of how the builders of
multiple-storey buildings get the cranes
down off the roof once the building is
finished. If we’d thought about it at
all we had presumed that they just left
them there and grew trailing ivy over
them. However, the usual procedure is
for the smaller cranes to let the dis-
mantled larger cranes down ; then a
block and tackle is used to lower the
smallest crane. The block and tackle is
then taken down the goods lift.
In some of the new buildings a crane
is left on the roof to raise and lower
the window-cleaners’ platform.
A Cap for a Cornet
A/fELBOURNE wharfies are getting used
I’*- to frantic jam sessions on the pier
as, since March this year, the Overseas
Visitors’ Club has sent six Melbourne
jazz bands to England on the Patris,
and each time the local jazz fraternity
turns out in full to farewell them. But
last week they saw a jam session unlike
any in recorded history. It was 9.45 p.m.,
all visitors ashore, the departing band
on the lower aft deck and the locals on
the wharf blasting away at each other ;
Greek seamen ecstatic, a middle-aged
businessman thumping time on the rail,
several couples, young and old, jogging
away merrily. Everybody enjoying them-
selves enormously, except, of course, the
two policemen on duty on the pier.
The policemen stop their round and
stand near the band. A ripple of appre-
hension. Surely they’re not going to
come that old disturbing the peace line?
Not on your life! Quick as a wink one
copper doffs his cap, plonks it on the
head of the cornet player in exchange
for his horn and joins in with a sharp,
hot line which more than keeps up with
the others. The musicians are amazed
and flattered, not to say relieved.
Later as the ship is turned and steams
into the bay, the musicians move to the
extreme end of the pier and send a
last soulful “Farewell Blues” across the
water. The policeman, who has been
identified as a blower from the good old
Frank Johnson days eight years ago,
leads the group with considerable
strength for one who has not touched
his instrument in that number of years.
Once you've got the spirit, seems it never
leaves you!
The Bulls and the Bees
A London correspondent reports that
he attended the annual Hillith
Foundation lecture, one of the first given
by Robert Graves after his surprisingly
mild inaugural lecture as Professor of
Poetry at Oxford. Fie spoke to a pre-
dominantly Jewish audience on the con-
trast between Hebrew and Greek myths.
Graves is at present collaborating with
a Jewish professor in New York on a
book on this subject.
Graves said that Hebrew myths estab-
lished the ethical principles of Western
civilisation —“however lax we may be in
following them.” He said there were two
types of culture which played an impor-
tant part in biblical history, those of the
Bull and the Bee. In the Bee culture,
with the queen’s treatment of the male
and callous treatment of drones there is
a conflict. “This,” says Graves, “is the
"...dressed in a fawn sports coat with a cerise fleck over a pale lavender
jumper edged with golden crimson — dove-grey trousers and an off-white
shirt complete the ensemble."


origin of the whole sex war which is
still raging furiously.”
Graves alleged that the Jews had
censored favorable references to the
Bees. The world was further misled in
Roman times. “Aristotle, a man for
whom I have no respect, contrived to
mislead the whole Roman Empire by
inventing a King Bee, a patriarchal
figure, in what was previously a
matriarchal culture,” he said.
Plans Deferred
An Auckland correspondent reports
that the £3-million Chevron Hilton
hotel planned for that city has been
shelved for the moment. This is a sad
blow for Auckland which has an acute
shortage of first-class hotel accommoda-
tion. Mr H. Korman, representing the
Chevron group, says that the venture
has been deferred because of “unfavor-
able financial conditions.” However, last
year the group bought 2} acres of land
in the city and the tenants of the build-
ings are still under notice to quit.
Just a Whisper
■COR some time commercial radio has
been sewing itself into some
mysterious shroud, mysterious because
radio is anything but booming. Sound
licences are relatively declining, and the
B-class stations in Sydney have seen fit
to appoint a promotion man to put zip
and zing into the industry.
In spite of such a step, the manage-
ments in Sydney still don’t want to tell
their plans. Only by combing the dailies
for a fine-print rundown (hard on the
eyes of anyone older than the top-sixty
set) can you discover anything. No radio
magazine exists. No newspaper ealeu-
lates it worthwhile to run a weekly sup-
plement.
Now the A.B.C. is at the silence game.
Until this month, the A.8.C.-sponsored
“TV Times” has run a good resume of
A-class sound programmes. From next
month you will have to ask and pay for
information. You will have to write to
the A.B.C. for a “Programme Guide,”
send them 225. for the year, and they
will send you a roneoed sheet every
week,
A “leisure” sink is the latest fantasy of
some busy advertising man. Granted
a sink doesn’t lend itself to very imagina-
tive treatment, but what could a “leisure”
sink possibly mean? The only leisure
sink would come with dish-washing
machine attached, or with a good, strong
human dish-washer standing in front
of it.
That Was Australia
“There was a great time in a Mel-
bourne suburb the other day when a
local shopkeeper took the hint from a
recent biograph picture and inserted an
inch ad. for a wife in the morning papers.
By eight o’clock the applicants started
arriving, and as he took each one into
his room to examine her as to her quali-
fications, there was soon a block. By
ten, he had put through about half-a-
dozen, and there were still 20 waiting.
Meanwhile the crowd had got wind of
what was going on, and a couple of
hundred onlookers gathered round the
shop and criticised the applicants audibly.
Then the police arrived, and just in
time, for the applicants had started to
criticise each other. One expressed
the opinion that it showed some people’s
cheek when they expected to get married
with such faces, and the lady referred to
retorted that at any rate she was a res-
pectable woman. There was every possi-
bility of a free fight, when the much-
sought came out and announced that he
was suited. Eighteen ladies at once rose
to the occasion, laughed contemptuously
at the bride-elect, and marched ofE saying
that the bridegroom was no gentleman,
and if they’d only seen him properly
they wouldn’t have troubled waiting.
Most of the applicants were past their
first youth and not lovely, but they in-
cluded a couple of attractive, little fringed
suburban girls of 16 or so and a staid
widow of 50. The bride was a bright
looking intelligent girl, and the choice
of the advertiser showed that he kept his
senses about him to the end.”
—“The Bulletin,” February 1, 1906.
“Certain ladies of a certain theatrical
company not a thousand miles away from
Australia are making a name for them-
selves ‘off’ as well as on the stage.
Sometimes, indeed, they are said to be
a bit off when they are on, although they
are more often on than off:—
Young Juggins has his special “star”
And standing at the theatre bar
Will thus about la belle blow —-
“The way she lifts her leg,” says he,
‘‘Is grand, but O! you ought to see
- My Tottie lift her elbow.”
—“The Bulletin,” July 9, 1892.
Feiffer
&]£ veto 10 Bum A ROUW
A LOT, Mes AW ME'
aose FRiewß - °iou kwio
WM I MEAN) f
EOfOWAtfrS. ■
AMP IHGM 0R1M66 THIS M
AROUMP'OH S\JR6 Mice £MOU6H
AMP ei/eWTH|M6. AMP HP
to j'm (sernM6
MARRia?.' «e wei/es
SAiP A WQRP ABOUT
H6R BEFORE to
WHAT HT
IRMIM6
I TO „
PROVE ?
rneto m 6or mo a haeele moot m
cei®mo»m - Mes waiotep it otto ww.
THIS 6IRL- fcJAMTgp IT ANOTHER MM,
\W I IT THE fcM
' £ah? dtcMoe it
MACE THE M&T SEf&E'.
so after that thisoirl cor verh
TEWSE WITH ME. WOT EXACTLY
UUFRI6WPLH BUT A66RESSIVELY
UKS WHflO «6
ORO\l6 TO M C6R6'
MONM <4OO SHOULD
on rue m shc
JAMMfP HgR m
IMTO OUR OAR,
Fl/efJ THSU6H
THFP6 WM>
fIARPIM 61/CM
ROOM OWOUOtf
FOR ME-
AUP AFTER Them V iP IT I O)A6, PF
COURSE RAPPM FOR HIM, BUT WOW
1 TOUT HAVE mkon TO TALK
TO. I STARTED 601W6 PUT
.WiTH 6:RLS FVERV
Nl6df IHSTSAP Of
o'usr wsgK'
cWPS.
W OUR A 16 HARPW eifcM A
FRiPwPsmP anymore. he seems
to TAUKT TO TH6 6U MORE THAM
HE TO ME. " JUIES"
I SAIP/'fOHO KfJOWS
MOU LOttOER? «JHf
TARE A CHAMCE
ow ser-
TIM 6
irrespprs-
16PE API/iCE
50f- l POUT kfOOU3- SOMim IjJE
STOP PEP B£ 1106 CLOSE. I CMC
HIM MOR6 THAM tf£ CMLS M£.
AMP THCffi APS
4 A LOT OF
PAUirfa-
H 65
CHAN6£P-
M£W AIWA%
COM 6 A60)6, Bi/T Af
Mtf A6£ AM
I &)fU6 T 3
FIIUP AMOTH6f?
Bum?


TRAVEL
Amy Woodford-Finden
Co Home!
HTHE Kashmir problem is no problem
at all, not really. If I were Prime
Minister Nehru I would give Kashmir-
lock, stock and Ladakh —to President
Ayub Khan as a diwali gift. This would
do wonders for India’s good-neighbor
policy. It would also be a marvellous
opportunity to unload the most over-
rated lump of land since the Esperance
scheme.
There is an alternative. In a 15-page
manifesto 1 drew up last week in
Srinagar (I must remember to post it),
I suggested to his panditship that he be
patient until the outbreak of World War
111 he so frequently predicts, then bomb
Kashmir, and blame it on the Americans.
The Americans would immediately rush
a bill through Congress voting enough
war repayments to finance Five-year
Plans number four, number five, maybe
even number six!
Those Kashmiris who like living in
India (yes, there are one or two) could
all move their houseboats onto the
Ganges and open guest houses for
foreign tourists. So much easier to get
to for the weekend!
But Jawaharlal is not to blame. The
person to blame is a Miss Amy Wood-
ford-Finden who first penned the immor-
tal words “Pale Hands I Loved Beside
the Shalimar.”
I doubt if Amy Woodford-Finden had
ever been to Kashmir. She probably
wrote her love songs sitting on the top
of a 247 bus to Dagenham.
Ever since then people have been
flocking to love pale hands beside the
Shalimar. Last week, the only hands
beside the Shalimar were rather dark,
outstretched, and belonged to Moslem
shikara-rowers asking for tips. They are
exceedingly unlovable hands.
What Amy started, the British Raj
carried on, hiring an advertising agency
to promote Kashmir as “the tourist resort
most likely to succeed.”
It succeeded. They took a perfectly
ordinary valley in the foothills of the
Himalayas near a lake. So ordinary that
the Megalong Valley and Nelly’s Glen
are veritable Austrian Tyrols in com-
parison.
Then they dotted the lake with shikaras
-—by gondolas out of sampans—and
opened up a sort of B-class Botanical
Gardens and called it Shalimar. Next
they put together a beautiful brochure
with copy after Burton, Kipling, Shelley,
et al, and photographs of Switzerland.
They did a good job. So good, in
fact, that now, 14 years after the British
goodbye, even INDIAN tourists lured
there return genuinely believing they
have had a good time.
If you think I sound bitter about
Kashmir, well . . . well, let me tell you
about Kashmir.
The overnight luggage-rack ride from
Delhi to Pathankot. Fine. The bus-ride,
the two-day bus-ride 265 miles to
Srinagar. Well, that’s something else
Imagine a Bondi tram converted into a
bus. Imagine two days in it.
And then, a houseboat is not a home.
Not when you spend half the day fight-
ing shikara-mobile hawkers out of the
windows and the sliding doors.
And the heat! Heat? Anybody want
to buy 200 rupees’ worth of winter
woolies, Kashmir-inspired?
The last straw was when three Indian
boys moved into “The Jazz Singer” (a
second-class houseboat next door) with
hobnailed boots and beanies and alpen-
stocks. They were spending a fortnight
in Kashmir's Himalayas practising for
a proposed climbing holiday in the Blue
Mountains.
There was only one unnerving incident
on the trip back from Srinagar to Agra.
That came as the express slid out of
Pathankot station. Thirty-two schoolgirls
in blue tussore and plaits stood up and
said the Lord’s Prayer. It doesn’t give
one much faith in the Indian Railways.
And I saw the Taj Mahal by moon-
light. It looks for all the world like one
of those miniature marble models of the
Taj Mahal with the blue-painted bulb
inside . . .
I sat on the steps in front of the
famous reflecting pool which Richard
Halliburton the great traveller is sup-
posed to have swum. (It is three inches
deep). At 10.05 the moon came up. Not
a big, fat full moon, because I was a
week late, but a bosomy light-giving
threequarter moon.
When I got back to my hotel they had
turned the water off.
DON WHITE
From the
West Island
of the first things I did when I
hit London was call on a publisher
who’d shown interest in some of my
work. The firm’s book editor, a plump
and joyful little man, came straight to
the point.
“You’re just the fellow we want, you
know. We need a new biography for our
children’s series. On Sir Edmund
Hillary.”
I was rather surprised. “Fine,” I said.
“But why me specially? I'm an Aus-
tralian.”
He beamed. “That’s just it! You’ll
have the background right at your
fingertips.”
I pointed out that I’d never been
nearer to New Zealand than about 35
yards into the Bondi surf. I said that
as far as I was concerned a geyser was
an unpredictable apparatus in a corner
of my grandmothers’ bathroom and Mt
Cook was just some place we sent our
red dust in a bad summer.
He waved that off. “You’ll find lots
“ Don't Worry, I think Forsythe has something up his sleeve !”


of stuff up at Australia House to fill
in the details,” he said.
I shrugged. I’ve been shrugging ever
since. Although I’ve never checked, it
seems that on English atlases the Tasman
Sea has somehow been omitted. Here,
I feel like the rather monstrous progeny
of a kangaroo sire and a kiwi dam!
“How lovely to meet someone from
right Down Under! Just where actually
are you from?”
“New South Wales.”
“Oh, indeed! Wonderful lamb from
your country. We eat such a lot of it.
From . . . from Canterbury. Canterbury
lamb.”
My smile is brittle.
“Anything you eat from Canterbury,
New South Wales,” I pointed out, “is
probably produce of knackeries. Sydney’s
biggest racetrack is at Canterbury . . .”
I can only suggest that the same
passion for unification that drove the
English to try welding half the earth
into one Commonwealth is sporting now
in the antipodes with Australasianisation.
I look back through an amber haze
of sentiment towards schoolteaching
days in Sydney.
We had a Kiwi on the staff then.
It was never too difficult to take a rise
out of him across a cup of tea.
“Gave a lesson on New Zealand this
morning, Bill. Ran through your cities.
Auckland first at round half a million.
Then Wellington . . . Christchurch . . .
Dunedin . . . Sydney . . .”
Wait for it! Then—
“ Well, you know damn well Bill that.
Sydney is your fifth biggest city. There’s
sixty or seventy thousand of you blokes
loafing round here!”
“Or infiltrating! ” the deputy adds
darkly.
Bill would scorch us with a glare full
of trans-Tasman hate. He knew what
we were really up to. The seventh State
was his nightmare. That was to be New
Zealand’s fate if vigilance and animosity
flagged for just one moment.
But here in the Old Dart?
“Delightful. And do tell me just
exactly what part of Down Under do
you come from?”
A pause. For the sake of simplicity
and more peaceful living—will I try it?
“I suppose you’d call it New Zealand.”
“Indeed? The North or the South
Island?”
1 smile.
“Well . . . from the West Island
actually . .
KENNETH MOON
DESIGN
The Decorating Duchess
T oelia, Duchess of Westminster,
' fashionably dressed in a silk print
combining persimmon-pink and persim-
mon-yellow, said that although she
believed in following fashion in dress,
she certainly did not believe in having
what was fashionable in her house.
“In fact,” she said, “once I found out
something was fashionable I would leave
it alone and choose something else.”
The Duchess is in Australia to lecture
on home decorating for Taubmans
paints. Apart from the fact that she is
hardly likely to advocate wallpaper in
preference to painted walls, the Duchess
has been given a free hand at her lec-
tures, at which she will also show slides.
These will include photographs of the
Queen Mother’s Castle of Mey.
She is not a professional interior
decorator and she is an untrained expert.
She is a member of the staff of the
English magazine “House and Garden.”
The Duchess says she believes her
interest in interior decorating came from
her mother. Her father was Lord
"...in sickness and in health ..."
Sysonby, an equerry to Queen Victoria
and later head of the Royal Household
at George the Fifth.
The Duchess said that she really began
to get practical experience in decorating
during the five years of her marriage to
the Duke. She was then mistress of
five houses and with unlimited money
at her disposal. She now has a flat in
Grosvenor Square and a cottage in
Suffolk.
Grosvenor Square is part of the West-
minster estate and hers is one of the few
private residences in the square still. The
Duchess said that her husband before he
died had stipulated that any rebuilding
in the square should be in harmony with
the existing style. However, the Ameri-
can Embassy, claiming some sort of
diplomatic immunity, had covered one
side of the square with an enormous
building, not in keeping with anything.
(The statue of Roosevelt in the middle
of the square, although no doubt a fine
gesture, also is no artistic achievement.)
The Duchess seems to have had no
difficulty in bringing down the scale of
her living, and in reducing the lavishness
of her ideas to something which
magazine-readers can understand and,
perhaps, copy.
She urges homemakers to “keep on top
of their decorator.” “Don’t let him dic-
tate to you,” she said. “Have what you
want. Say to him ‘I like green, now find
me some greens.’ ”
“But what,” she was asked, “does an
interior decorator do with someone whose
taste is simply awful?”
“I am afraid you have to let them have
what they want,” she said ruefully.
The Duchess believes that where most
people go wrong in decorating is with
proportion, and that this is something
you have to train yourself to understand.
“They will put a tiny little lampshade
on top of a great big lamp,” she said.
“It’s like a small hat on a big woman.”
The Duchess said she believed the Eng-
lish were getting a stronger feeling for
and a better understanding of contem-
porary design. “After all, we can’t all
have antiques—there aren’t enough to go
round,” she said.
She herself has a somewhat un-English


Estab'ished 186?
Contractors to Government Municipal,
shipping, Banking and. Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jACKbON 4
. O'StTLUVAty
fc PTY LTD
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. I,td.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Papet Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC printers
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOK BINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
or e Concentrator has
proved over many years to
be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
Send for illustrated Bulletin
to the sole manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Raimi Magnetting: .Machine*.
George Ellison Switch hear,
etc. Makers of Classifiers,
Water Filters, Steam Valves!
ete.
If any “Bulletin” illustration
takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you
a price for the original.
fondness for brilliant colors. “I believe
that hardly any colors really clash,” she
said. “I feel that we can copy the flower
garden in this respect. In fact, one of
the colors in my flat is copied exactly
from a gladiolus. I saw this flower in the
country, decided it was exactly the color
I wanted, took a piece to the shop and
said, ‘Dye me some fabric that color.’ ”
The Duchess said she admired the
colors of the Thai silks she saw in Bang-
kok, but believed that something should
be done to make them more crease-
resisting. “In America these days you
hardly ever get a material that creases,”
she said. "You simply can’t have them
these days.”
The Duchess has an aversion to
“knobbly” tweeds and likes best to work
in linen. She prefers chintz to cretonne,
but has no particular affinity with tradi-
tional designs. She finds many modern
patterns agreeable.
One of her greatest loves is embroid-
ery. “You don't have to ruin your eyes.
Coarse embroidery can be just as beauti-
ful as fine.” Several of the rugs on the
floors of her Grosvenor Square flat have
been made by herself.
What, she was asked, can be done
about the awful look of cheap furniture?
“Well,” she said, “the best thing is not
to buy it, and then shops will have to
improve their designs. I feel that buyer
resistance can be quite strong over some
things, and in some cases this resistance
has led to better things. Magazines,
which draw attention to good design also
help to crowd out bad.”
PATRICIA ROLFE
ABORIGINALITIES
Three Bottles of
Brandy a Day
A ll the old-time Territory bushmen
gathered to see George Conway
“planted ” George, who died recently
aged 80, was buried in the “We of the
Never Never” cemetery at Elsey Station,
alongside the characters of Mrs Aeneas
Gunn’s book.
He was one of the toughest, wildest
products of a tough, wild era. And
dozens of old mates made the 60-mile
journey south from Katherine for a last
farewell.
George rode his horse Commodore up
to the last few days of his life.
And in Katherine recently he had only
one grievance. A doctor wanted him to
switch from brandy to rum.
“Rum is no good to me,” he com-
plained. “I can’t drink more than a
bottle a day. But 1 can drink three
bottles of brandy a day and take another
bottle home for a nightcap.”
His exploits at times convulsed the
Territory. George is the man who, years
ago, rode Commodore in to the bar of
the Mataranka Hotel and ordered: “A
double brandy for me and a plate of
sugar for my horse.” He tried the same
thing on in a Darwin hotel. When
threatened with arrest for disturbing the
peace, he turned his horse’s tail to the
policeman and said: “Constable, do your
duty. But watch out for those hoofs.
He kicks like the devil.”
George lived in the Territory for 60
years He knew Aeneas (“We of the
Never Never”) Gunn. Along the Roper
River he founded five cattle stations, but
sold or lost them all.
George lived his last years in a shanty
on the banks of the Roper, with Rooney,
the lubra who had been his companion
for 48 years. In 1909 George took part
in a punitive expedition against Arnhem
Land tribesmen who had murdered five
white miners and eaten their horses.
He told the story: "There were two
policemen, two other white men, 13
natives and myself in the team. The
others are all dead. We were armed with
rifles and revolvers and rode 300 miles
from the Roper across Arnhem Land to
Caledon Bay and back. The blacks
attacked us every night. We had to shoot
hundreds of them. Some of their camps
contained two or three thousand people.
We didn’t shoot for the love of it, but
because we had to kill or be killed,
“There was a terrible row about it
when missionaries reported us. 1 was
detained in Darwin for six weeks while
a Commission of Inquiry was held, but
it all blew over. They were rugged times
all right. Today there isn’t a wild native
left in Arnhem Land.”
George had been riding horses since
he was six years old. And even in retire-
ment he used to take on stockwork for
"'grog money.” Last year he trapped 700
brumbies and 1000 wild cattle for Elsey
Station.
From time to time in recent months
he had been going in to Katherine for
medical treatment. He complained he
was having “giddy turns” and falling oft
his horse. The doctor was the same one
who treated him in 1959 when a train
ran over his hands.
His only comment on that occasion
was: “It could have been worse. It
could have been my head.”
George’s great fear in life was that
failing health would force him to leave
his beloved Roper River and live in
Katherine (population 500). “I can’t
stand these | big places,” he would
complain.
KEITH WILLEY.


REVIEWS
MUSIC
AH Honor to Stravinsky
By KENNETH HINGE
The arrival of Stravinsky to conduct in
Australia must be, for those whose
sense is not dulled by television and the
brouhaha of commercial spieling, an
event of major importance. It marks the
first lime that we have entertained a
man who, by universal consent, has
proved his claim to a place in the first
rank of creative musicians.
To underline this fact would be a bana-
lity in most other Western countries. In
Australia, on the other hand, it is a thing
which should be underlined again and
again. Although there are many sophis-
ticates on the local scene, and although
Australian audiences are said to have a
quite lively reaction to programmes of
an advanced cast, our sense of values is
still very badly confused when it comes
to the point of making distinctions in
the hierarchy of musical values. In this
respect it seems that music suffers more
than the other arts. Even in the theatre,
which also needs the middle-man per-
former, the ability to distinguish
performance from creation is not con-
fined to the critics and reviewers, but
spreads out fairly widely through
audiences.
In music this is hardly true at all,
partly because our musical life has
become so thoroughly identified with the
subscription or “celebrity” concerts, in
which the limelight is naturally cast on
the touring star performer.
This has produced a state of affairs
rather like that of the Hollywood world
of films, where the high-pressure pro-
motion of actors tends, in the public eye,
to obliterate the work of authors, direc-
tors and even technicians. For us, in
general, the art of music is the same
thing as the art, or craft, of performance.
To a degree we are in the same dilemma
as Berlioz in his reviewing, who groaned
at having to use the same words, the
same epithets, to describe the music of
cretins and the music of genius: the
difference is that, in our case, we are
unaware of any dilemma, and imagine
that fine words were coined to describe
fine performances, not fine music.
Something of this is witnessed by Mr
Doumany, who took issue with me in
last week’s correspondence for making
a distinction between great art and
Segovia’s guitar playing. Basically there
is no issue between, us, other than that
of cultivation of taste and the use of
terms. For Mr Doumany, whose name
is legion, art seems to mean any skill
raised to a high pitch, and he is entitled
to use the word in this way (that is, in
a dictionary way) if he is prepared to
put up with the vague enormity of it.
Anything, from Dr Johnson's dog to Walt
Disney’s performing fleas playing leap-
frog with a Mexican jumping bean, can
be defined as art by a man who bases
his usage on Dr Onions and the OED.
But the simple point is that this usage
is wide enough to be useless: it does
not define, it does not distinguish. And
there are facts which are to be dis-
tinugished one from another—facts which
form the matrix of Western art as it has
evolved.
One of these facts is that music is both
played and composed. For over a cen-
tury we have accepted the specialisation
which has made one man a player,
another a composer. Once upon a time
men did not make this distinction: the
word “music” covered both things, the
word “musician” both functions. Per-
haps in an even earlier time one had to
play all instruments, and sing both high
and low, before one could claim the title
musician. But this should not stop us
from keeping up with the times, and
acknowledging in our language the
changes that have become real in the
art of music itself.
To limit the word “art” to creation,
to employ another word like “craft” for
performance, is therefore not precious or
learned ; it is merely realist. The things
are different. They have been proved
different by the whole romantic school
of music, which has made at least this
achievement if no other. Do the Mr
Doumanys seriously think that we would
today revere the name of Chopin if he
had been no more than a pianist, like
Moscheles or Thai berg? Do they seriously
feel that Liszt is no more important than
von Billow, or that the “Faust” Sym-
phony and the “Years of Pilgrimage” and
the B Minor Sonata have nothing to do
with Liszt’s precedence? Do they regard
every prodigious performer on the
sarrusophone or the didgeridoo or the
piano as the peer of Bela Bartok, who
also played the piano?
Unhappily, they do. So do most mem-
bers of an Australian concert audience.
This is why we must be banal in an
effort to demonstrate that Stravinsky is
not just another strolling player. For
the truth is that he is a man on whom
the stamp of greatness was placed even
before the notorious riot of the first
“Sacre du Printemps” performance,
almost 50 years ago.
The early ballet scores, in which he
perfected the tendencies of his old master
Rimsky, remain a sufficient indication of
his major importance in music. Since
those years he has produced one tour de
force after another ; he has antagonised
numberless people by his chameleon
changes of manner, especially during the
’twenties ; he has helped to remake Paris
the musical centre of the world ; he has
succinctly evaluated jazz, and integrated
its minor but sensational impact into the
main stream of serious music, far more
potently than Milhaud or Gershwin ; he
has stood as a prototype of the modern
musician, able and willing to show that
musicians are no longer reticent or semi-
literate, but competent to evaluate the
contribution of their art to our common
culture. He has taught, lectured, con-
ducted, played: and, most primal of all,
he has composed, over the decades, and
left us works in many forms which are
already part of the canon of Western
art.
And this is why he should be having
a ticker-tape reception in Australia—
because now, for the first time, we have
with us a creative master of a very high
order.
Nearly ten years ago we in Melbourne
honored Juan Jose Castro for devoting
himself to a fine performance of the
“Sacre du Printemps,” the first we had
experienced: now we have with us the
man in whose brain and spirit the work
took shape.
Let us honor him entirely, even at 51s.
a ticket. Above all, let us not treat his
visit as just another sensation, just
another tour by a famous conductor or
harmonica player.
Robert Craft, who is with Stravinsky
here, records in his book that the master
returned from such a famous city as
Philadelphia because they wanted him to
conduct Tschaikowsky; may it be our lot
to show, with heart as well as hand, that
Sydney is just a trifle closer to the ideal
city than Philadelphia. Let us honor
him, because it is he who honors us by
spending 36 sleepless hours flying here:
we have no accolade to add to the great-
ness which nature has accorded him.


NOW AVAILABLE IN THE FAMOUS
INTERNATIONAL PACK
f The new round bottle 3
W
'
urdScotchl
WHTTg
SBUCHANAMI
scow SCOT
' ■ ' V'
*
'W
black&white
.
„ BUCHANANS ri/V
CHOICE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
biA.<
Yoil re so right ...
insist on
* BLACK & WH TE’
SCOTCH WHISKY
nSNVNVHDna,,
By Appointment
Scotch Whisky Distillers
10 Her Majesty he Queen
James Buchanan & Co. Ltd.
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO. LTD.
GLASGOW, SCOTLAND
LONDON
4721
THEATRE
Wilcaimia or Bust
Thataway the Kings Go. Malcolm
Robertson. Union Theatre Reper-
tory Company. Union Theatre,
Melbourne.
'This play is about a young man who is
trying to write a play, or, rather,
being right up to the minute, he is
trying to write a television play. He
has a pile of large, brown envelopes
containing rejected manuscripts, which
have been returned to sender. He lives
in an attic in Woolloomooloo, scorning
the things of this world, and devoting
himself to art. He is inspired in his
high and lonely calling by a painting
which hangs on his wall. This painting is
the work of his friend Bernard Mann,
who is also devoted to art.
When the play opens, the playwright,
Duncan, is standing on the table in his
attic looking through the skylight at the
sunset. The actress, Annabelle, appears,
and she, too, has been looking at the sun-
set. They are obviously soul-mates.
When Annabelle moves into the attic
in Scene 111, she brings with her a bust
of William Shakespeare which she has
loved since childhood. She, too. is dedi-
cated to art. But she has not the strength
to live up to her Ideal. She was offered a
part in a play which was going on a
country tour, but she was deterred by
the prospect, of the discomfort and the
hard work. Instead, she chose to stay in
the city and earn her money comfortably
by appearing in toothpaste advertisements
on television. Duncan is shocked and
piously explains to her the necessity for
hard work, self-sacrifice and discomfort
in the cause of art. He points to his own
example and tells her about the inspira-
tion he derives from the painting by the
saintly Bernard Mann, at present intre-
pidly braying the wilds of north Queens-
land in search of material. Annabelle
passes it off lightly, but of course she
does not forget.
After the Interval, everything seems to
have gone wrong. Duncan has decided to
give up art and marry Annabelle. He asks
his friend Carl, a rich playboy, to find him
a job. Carl is shocked. Although a lay-
man himself, he had pinned his faith on
Duncan's saintly dedication to art. Anna-
belle is outraged. She refuses to marry
Duncan and accuses him of having stolen
her bust of William Shakespeare, which
has mysteriously disappeared. Then she
goes home to her mother, leaving Duncan
drinking beer.
Six months pass. Annablee calls to see
Duncan, who is just moving from his
attic to a comfortable flat. He has scaled
Parnassus, that is to say, he has become
a successful television playwright. “Art”
has paid off. Annabelle herself has just
returned from a tour of the country in a
production of “Midsummer Night's
Dream.” While in Wilcannia she was
vouchsafed a revelation. Pondering on
the lack of appreciation of Shakespeare
by the inhabitants, she suddenly realised
that what they needed was an Australian
play. Duncan re-discovers the bust behind
the books he is packing and they agree
to get married.
The moral appears to be that if you
devote yourself wholeheartedly to art in
an attic in VVoolloomooloo you will even-
tually achieve a comfortable flat in
Double Bay. Furthermore, your plays are
just what the people of Wilcannia are
waiting for, and you have nothing to
fear from the competition of William
Shakespeare. There is no need for David
to slay the Philistine Goliath, he can
sell him a play instead.
The banality of the dialogue exceeds
even the childishness of the plot. It is an
extraordinary and deeply depressing
experience to sit through this play after
the last production at the Union Theatre:
lonesco’s “Rhinoceros.” lonesco’s charac-
ters are like crazy puppets from whose
lips flow endless strings of cliches. Mal-
colm Robertson's characters also do not
make a single remark which is not
a cliche. The only difference is that
Mr Robertson does not seem to
be aware of the fact. It is hard
to imagine why the Union Rep.
decided to stage this play. It is true that
there appears to be a great interest in
Australian plays among audiences at
present: this is the fifth production of an
Australian play in Melbourne within a
few months. But this burgeoning interest
surely cannot survive long if it has to
endure the black frost of such inferior
work as this play.
It is a sad waste of talented company
to have to struggle with such unpromising
material. Sheila Florance has an oppor-
tunity to give an amusing sketch of a
dumb blonde who appears for five
minutes, but the other members of the
cast can do nothing with the stony ground
they have to cultivate.
MADELEINE ARMSTRONG.


Australian Paperbounds
AUSTRALIA VOTES:
The 1958 Federal Election
by D. W. Rawson
(Univ. of Queensland)
By 1958, striking changes were apparent in
Australian politics. The C.P.-Liberal struggle
lor the non-Labor rural vote intensified;
some 30,000 non-British migrants became
eligible to vote; the Labor Party split threat-
ened the very future of a party system
based on class divisions —in which Labor
and non-Labor had divided the electorate
fairly evenly.
This challenge, both to Labor and the party
system, is still a vital issue in the coming
Federal poll.
PUBLISHED ON BEHALF OF A.N.U.
Demy Bvo, pp. 256, with 2 maps, 7 cartoons
Paperbound, 27/6 Also in full cloth, 45/-;
PARTIES & PEOPLE:
A Survey Based on the La Trobe
Electorate
by Creighton Burns
(Univ. of Melbourne)
The 1960 by-election in La Trobe (Victoria)
was regarded by both parties and press as
a test of the Government’s staying power.
It was also part of the occasion for the
election of a new Labor leader, and a test
of that leadership once established.
This survey covers the constituency, the
campaign and the voters. A questionnaire
interview with a sample of voters in Ring-
wood analyses social characteristics and
political commitments in detail.
Demy Bvo, pp. 176. Paperbound only, 18/9
Also Available
Australian Government Today
by Professor Geoffrey Sawer (A.N.U.)
A compact yet comprehensive survey which
has already run through six editions; this
re-issue is completely revised, and enlarged.
“ information which every citizen ought
to have at his disposal but conspicuously
lacks” —Australian Quarterly.
Cr. Bvo, pp. viii, 107
Melbourne Paperback, 6/6
From all good bookshops; and published by
MELBOURNE
UNIVERSITY PRESS
Parkville N. 2. Victoria
Driving Out the Dybbuk
The Tenth Man. Chayefsky. Viennese
Theatre. Anzac Auditorium. Sydney.
Prom Attic days on, writers have
happily borrowed ideas and plots
from each other: Chaucer from Boc-
caccio, Shakespeare from Holinshed,
Eliot from all over. These have set
examples in plenty for current writers to
follow, and 1 would suppose that the
only sensible attitude to have on the
point of “borrowing” is the single
criterion of whether the borrower does
better by the theme than the original.
Paddy Chayefsky, a superficial play-
wright of the day, w'hose mock-honest
film stories “Marty” and “The Goddess”
have deceived many people as to his
depth and craftsmanship, is the latest
man to try his hand as an improver.
The great Jewish play by Anskv, “The
Dybbuk,” may well be the finest love
story in all literature, and this is the play
from which Chayefsky has drawn most
of his notions for “The Tenth Man.”
He has been particularly excited,
apparently, by the revered Jewish doc-
trine of the “Dybbuk,” a soul which,
cut off by some mischance from its
proper entry into heaven, seeks a way
to paradise by inhabiting the body of
a living person. Exorcism is the main-
spring of Chayefsky’s play, and since he
only has the one idea, most of the even-
ing is spent in delaying the actual carry-
ing out of the exorcism.
His devices for doing this, by staging
the play in a shabby New York
synagogue, with some richly Jewish
comic types involved, wear somewhat
thin. Even the “Tenth Man” notion
doesn't stand up under the Chayefsky
delays. For an exorcism of a dybbuk
to be effective, it must be witnessed by
ten Jews, and the search by the sexton
for ten Jews at an odd hour of a work-
ing day brings in the “Tenth Man” —
an alcoholic, suicidal, recently-divorced
lawyer.
Skirting around the main issue of the
play then, Chayefsky somehow runs
himself short of men again, and all the
importance built up around the first
“Tenth Man” is dissipated by the tricksy
appearance of a second “Tenth Man,” a
New York cop —who, of all things!
turns out to be Jewish.
The dybbuk is inhabiting the body of
an 18-year-old girl, who talks with
Chayefskian glibmess of her “insanity,”
though it is difficult to see how a patient
with such amazing insight into her condi-
tion could possibly be regarded as crazy.
There is a facile moment of truth
between the lawyer and the girl, notable
for bad paper-hack level of writing, and
when the great rite of exorcism finally
begins Mr Chayefsky brings in what he
no doubt thought was a masterpiece of
theatre, but is in fact a cheap and
obvious trick : when the dybbuk is cast
out by the rabbi, it is not the girl who
swoons away but the disbelieving lawyer
—he has had a dybbuk too.
For this critic, this was more than
enough, i think back on the great Ansky
play, and its story of how two pre-
destined souls, destined for love by
Heaven, are parted by human greed, and
how their bonds are so great that when
the lover dies he inhabits his beloved's
body as a dybbuk, and when cast out
by dread exorcism, his beloved dies and
both souls go together to paradise.
For this non-Jewish critic, the best
things in Mr Owen Weingott’s produc-
tions were the , realistic bits of Jewish
ritual and synagogue behavior. In them-
selves, these were wonderful theatre, but
hardly to be counted for Chavefsky’s
credit.
One or two fine performances came
through —Owen Grant, as an old Jewish
scholar and rabbi ; Karl Bittman as a
warm “has-been” intellectual, the best
portrayal of the play ; and Arthur Stern-
hell as a fussing, overworked sexton.
As the afflicted girl, Miss Inge Gessner
had one or two moments of pathos, but
on the- whole failed to suggest the tor-
ment of a body inhabited by two souls.
Two important roles —the Tenth Man
himself and the Rabbi of the synagogue
—were inadequately cast. Henry Men-
delson as the Tenth Man seemed intent
on watching the stage floor with the
minutest attention all night. The actor's
eye is the way in for the audience to a
suffering character ; if the actor chooses
deliberately to withhold all glimpse of
his eye, he cannot complain if no
audience feeling comes across to sustain
him in his role.
Mr Weingott's production, reasonably
assured for the first half of the play, failed
to find anything new for the later scenes.
His pace did not build up as the evening
unfolded, so that the climax came on us
flatly
Rather sadly, too, the sound effect of
the blowing of the Ram’s Horn during the
exorcism came over with more comedy
than dread. 1 have no doubt that the
recording was quite genuine, it was the
very best ram’s horn, but truth is not
always convincing on stage. The artist’s
job is to make his audience feel truth, to
appreciate truth, and sometimes it can-
not be done by literal realism.
KEVON KEMP.
FILMS
Bourgeois Beauty
White Nights, Ivan Pyriev. Sydney
Gala.
What is most surprising about the
Russian film programme is that its
excellences derive from “bourgeois”
values: respect for the individual and
his idiosyncrasies. The 50-minute short,
“Violin and the Roller,” is one of the
best 1 have seen in 20 years as a film
critic: equal in quality to “The Red
Balloon,” or “Rhythm of a City,” or
“The Wild Horses.” I name these not
merely because they are well known,
but because “Violin and the Roller"
compounds their virtues. With lyric
beauty, devoid of sentimentality or crude
propaganda, it tells of a seven-year-old
boy's day in Moscow. Surprisingly, the
tiny hero is a violinist ; even more sur-
prisingly, he is contrasted (to his advan-
tage) with a band of Russian “dead-end”
kids. He makes friends with the driver


This Christmas
... and alway
VI
&
I
is the Scotch
WHISKY
SCOTCH
m
m
m
m
4 r
w*
The Deivar Presentation Carton —
available to you at no extra cost
The classic blend of Scotch Whiskies
known to generations for its consistently
fine quality and distinctive character . . .
now in the internationally known clear
round bottle.
i&ir.
—it never varies
GUARANTEED WHOLLY DISTILLED AND MATURED IN SCOTLAND
DWI36D
of a steam-roller and together they
explore the city, and probe, as deeply
as any short story 1 could name, into
the magic and mystery of being alive.
“White Nights,” based on Dostoyev-
sky’s story, rounds off an almost perfect
programme. More flamboyant than
“Violin and the Roller,” it is set in a
high, romantic key. Exquisitely done, it
too is “bourgeois” in every aspect. Its
themes are individual loneliness, young
love, and personal tragedy. At no point
does it preach, beyond Dostoyevsky's
own teaching that love determines the
course of a man’s life and happiness.
Anything less like “social realism” would
be difficult to envisage. Indeed, its hero
(an incorrigible dreamer) is justified by
the vision of his dreams.
From the entertainment point of view,
“White Nights” rides high on the dream
sequences, as interpreted by the director,
Pyriev. The Walter Mitty-like humor,
with the hero parodying Douglas Fair-
banks and Valentino, is irresistibly
funny. The chief weakness of the hero,
Oleg Strizhenov, is that he has so many
strengths that his performance becomes
a histrionic tour de force, admired rather
than felt.
ANTON VOGT
ART
Agreeable
Peter Kaiser. South Yarra Gallery.
Melbourne.
One of the curious things about
abstract painting is that, however
obscure the genre itself may be, the dif-
ference between good and bad is still
quite clear. This may be because they
depend very much on instant appeal, and
have to be judged largely by formal
artistic standards. Peter Kaiser's abstrac-
tions are very good indeed. They are
restrained, most agreeable to look at,
both on first sight and after lengthy
examination, and they are beautifully
constructed.
Some of the best may even be inter-
preted, and enjoyed, as subject paintings,
if you are ready to risk the censure of
the painters by taking the titles seriously.
A muted brown surface with subtly
graded depths, on which rough circular
shapes like water stains are delicately
placed, for instance, is labelled “Mush-
rooms.” Another, this time dense and
deformed, with a finely controlled tex-
tural surface, is appropriately titled
“Fog.”
All are works of great charm and
skill. Kaiser can compose equally well
in line, in shapes and in color. At a
time when beauty has ceased to be a
desired standard in painting, it is a real
pleasure to see a painter who can still
treat the inspiration he derives from
common nature with taste, refinement
and fine craftsmanship.
BILL HANNAN


The Red Page
Same Mistake, Twenty-Six Years Later
By P. B. WESTERWAY
Tt is symptomatic of our political
poverty that an Australian’s first
reaction to such a book as this
is to ask: “What is Radicalism?”
Dr Maccoby* never stops to explain
because he does not need to. Although
they are suffering a Parliamentary eclipse
at present. Radicals have been prominent
in British public life for 200 years. A
good example of their work is the Liberal
Yellow Book of 1928, in which con-
tributors like the late Lord Keynes pro-
duced a responsible, but strongly re-
formist, blueprint for British industry.
And there are still, despite the demise
of the Nation, British journals and news-
papers with a Radical viewpoint. In
Australia, however, this combination of
humanitariani-m and financial skill,
democracy and critical inquiry, reformist
zeal and middle-class caution died out
nearly 50 years ago. Even The
Bulletin, which (despite its strident
nationalism) was once Radical in tone,
has for many years now been conserva-
tive. Only the stridency remains.
The main representative of Australian
Radicalism was Alfred Deakin, a states-
man whose contribution has been sadly,
underestimated for many years, though
it is to be hoped that Professor La
Nauze’s promised biography will soon
do him justice. Under “Affable Alfred,”
men like C.C. Kingston, Isaac Isaacs and
H. B. Higgins (who later enunciated the
principles of the basic wage) worked
against the contemporary abuses of
sweating, tlackfcirding and industrial
anarchy. They introduced the first
irrigation system and were the architects
of arbitration, White Australia, and pro-
tection—‘the so-called “settled issues” of
Australian politics. They dominated Vic-
torian and South Australian politics at
the turn of the century, and the first ten
years of the Commonwealth Parliament,
it was largely because of their achieve-
ments that Australia gained its reputation
as a “social laboratory.”
Deakin and his Radicals were sup-
ported in this first ten years by the
Federal Labor party and it is the tragedy
of Australian politics that Deakin and
Watson, the first Labor Prime Minister,
failed to bring off their Radical-Labor
fusion. Labor became impatient for
direct power and George Reid discovered
that wonderfully useful beast “the
■socialist tiger.” He rode it into an Anti-
SociaHst fusion, and from that day on
non-Labor po.fiicians have been riding
the poor animal to death.
Radicalism lingered in the Labor party
till the conscription split, and stiff some-
times peeps forth in the Liberal party,
but it is a mere shadow of its former
self and hides the moment some powerful
interest (of whatever color) whispers
“Boo!” Since Deakin was forced to
accept the fusion of the two non-Labor
parties in 1909, the politicians’ attitude
has been that of Sir William Lvne:
be as radical as is necessary to win sup-
port. Ironically, but fortunately (since
optimists seize any encouragement to
believe in the triumph of right), it was
Lvne who greeted Deakin after the fusion
with shouts of "hudas! Judas!”
Cor all these reasons no one in Australia
A will write a history of Australian
Radicalism ; certainly nothing like this
book by Dr Maccoby. Starting in 1935.
he has read every significant Radical
publication (one can only admire the
tenacity which enabled him to read the
complete file of the Nation not once, but
several times) and his six volumes trace
every twist and turn of progressive
opinfan over two centuries. Now, 26
•years later, he has finished his task.
Careful as his chronicle is, however,
reading it is often unbearably dull and
though future students will be unable
to ignore his work, they may well bear
Dr Maccoby a grudge. Even the most
determined reader begins to stagger after
several hundred pages of the following,
a fair sample of his style:
And though there was unending
complaint (capped by the disastrous
strike of 1921) from the pitmen’s
leaders on the score of the Govern-
ment's declining to enforce the
alleged Nationalisation majority
verdict returned by six miners’
advocates and (in a less biased
Report) Mr Justice Sankey, public
attention had, by then, long been
diverted to fresher fields, unstated
by the unsatisfactory controversy
that pitmen seemed to have raised
for so many years.
One also begins to feel “diverted to
fresher fields.”
Even those who persist will sometimes
find Dr Maccoby a reticient guide.
He knows his subject so well, is so
engrossed in it, so much the master of
period and persons, that he leaves we
poor mortals behind. Very few people
know, for instance, what “attesting”
meant in 1916 or what was contained
in “the Radical Samuel Report of 1925,”
but such phrases are used with the easy
familiarity of the political commentator.
What should be.a fascinating tale, a cross
between Odyssey and “who-dunfit,” be-
comes a marathon.
However the main coneer.n one feels
over “English Radicalism” is for neither
style nor elucidation. His is not the first
definitive work to be, in the ordinary
sense, unreadable. Much more disturb-
ing, in a work of this stature, is the treat-
ment of contemporary British politics.
As the unchallenged authority on
Radicalism Dr Maccoby carries some
weight, particularly on such questions as
the future of the Liberal party. He deals,
for example, with the “Liberal revival”
of 1927-28 in so definite and detailed a
manner that one feels it has been satis-
factorily disposed of.
TT'his is certainly not the impression one
1 gets in the section on the present
“Liberal revival.” Apparently this volume
was originally to end with 1935, and
there is a good case for this —at that
time the Liberals had become a rump
neither wanted by, nor wanting to join,
the other parties. When he reached this
point, Dr Maccoby wrote:
In conclusion, it may well be
doubted whether the possibility that
existed during the whole period be-
tween 1925 and 1931 of a new
Radicalism being formed by a junc-
tion of Labor’s Right and Radicalism
will ever recur . . .
However, when the general election
of 1959 brought Mr Grimond such
heartening support Dr Maccoby penned
an Epilogue, and' somewhere along the
way lost his objectivity. Labor's land-
slide victory in 1945, he argued, was in
no sense a vote for Socialism:
The Majority of 1945 seems to
have been due, more than anything
else, to the fear of millions of
Servicemen and their families that
demobilisation might not be as
prompt under Churchill as under
Labor . . .
Labor in office was financially irres-
ponsible ; uncommitted voters were
alienated by such gems of Labor
eloquence as “we are the masters now,”
not to mention the costly diatribe on
the “vermin” opposed to the new dis-
pensation ; jobs for the boys, profession-
alism in local-government politics, and
the abolition of university seats, “none
held by Labor," kept Liberals out of the
Labor camp. All true, of course, but
when these are the only things men-
tioned they give a most unbalanced
picture.
* English Radicalism: the End? S.
Maccoby. Allen and Unwin. 101 s.


BOOKHUNTER
Dept. “D,” Bo\ 2671, 0.J’.0.. Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.O. Sydney.
EARN A
SPARE-TIME INCOME
BY YOUR PEN!
Learn Story Writing, Freelance Journa-
lism, Radio/TV Scriptwriting, etc., by
excellent correspondence training
through STOTT’S, and earn in your
spare time as a writer.
Write today for free Prospectus.
159 Flinders Lane, Melbourne; 149 Castle-
reash St., Sydney; 290 Adelaide St.,
Brisbane; 21 Grenfell St., Adelaide;
22 Howard St., Fertli.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT'S: Please send me. without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
AGE.... (SB 2201)
The same tone is characteristic of the
treatment of later elections and Govern-
ments, too. In 1950, despite the casting
of “2,621,489 grossly under-valued votes”
for the Liberals,
Trade Unionists’ belief that they
were better off, in relation to other
classes, than they would have been
under any other Government
brought Labor a mass vote of over
thirteen millions . . .
And so it goes on, until at last “the
growing Liberal tendency to win more
votes from Labor than from Conservat-
ism at last emboldened some of the party
chiefs, headed by the Leader Gaitskell,
himself to suggest a change of emphasis.”
If Mr Gaitskell really does want a
rapprochement with the Liberals, he will
no doubt be pleased with Dr Maccoby’s
verdict on his Blackpool speech:
Indeed, if the kind of negotiation,
called for by some Liberals enheart-
ened by their unexpectedly strong
polling displays at the General Elec-
tion, should ever take place for the
construction of a “new progressive
party” of Radical-Labor Opposi-
tion, few better formulas for the new
party’s constitution could be devised
than Mr Gaitskell’s.
But this is one of the few judgments
for which Dr Maccoby can claim his
usual authority. He can claim it in
this case because he knows better than
most people—and has shown that he
knows—what Radical thought has been
and is.
He does not know why people voted
the way they did in 1945 and 1950-51 ;
nor even in 1955 and 1959. Moreover
he has not made any attempt to use the
very detailed studies of those people who
have tried to find out. Even if he did
know these things, however, his reckless
disregard of the Labor case would be
unfortunate. It derogates from his very
considerable achievements by identify-
ing them with a particular party. In
1935, penning his first volume, he
attacked Labor historians for studying
politics “not for its own sake, but to
serve as introduction to accounts of the
‘Labor triumphs’ of the twentieth cen-
tury”; in 1961 he has himself fallen into
the self same trap.
Playing for Safety
The Forger. Jay Williams. Macdonald.
225. 6d.
The Minister. Maurice Edeiman.
Hodder and Stoughton. 20s.
The Last Exile. James Aldridge.
Hodder and Stoughton. 375. 3d.
Winds of Evil. Arthur W. Upheld.
Angus and Robertson. 17s. 6d.
TX/yndham Lewis once said that you
'' could test the value of any novel
by opening it at random, and by the
quality of the actual writing on any one
page you would know- whether or not
it was good. Not one of these novels
would pass such a test; in each there is
a lack of original perception; and that
capacious grasp on life, which is the true
artist’s aim, is missing. The authors, ail
very talented, have played for safety,
not wishing to offend the common man.
Yet each book is, in its limited way,
successful.
Jay Williams has explored the surface
of the contemporary art world of New
York with affectionate closeness of atten-
tion; so much so that he is able to tell
the reader exactly how a fake Giorgione
could be produced. His story of the search
for artist! c : ntegrity made by his hero,
Rufe Griffin, is entirely convincing when
it concerns fellow artists, dealers, critics,
models, and other inhabitants of the art
world, and there are some fine and funny
characters vividly presented. Had Mr
Williams been content to write an episodic
book, a picaresque comedy, all would
have been well, but he attempts to impose
a “plot’’ on his rich material, and since
this concerns a routine mixed-up beauti-
ful, arty girl, he almost ruins his book
with it. Fortunately, the minor characters
have so much life that the reader can
ignore the “love interest.”
Maurice Edeiman has written several
novels based on British political life, and
in “Th? Minister” he writes a beautifully
planned story of a period of crisis in the
life of a leading politician. A foolish
remark at a public dinner almost ruins
the career of a man w'ho has risen to be
Secretary of State for Commonwealth and
Colonial Affairs, and who is also well in
the running as a future Prime Minister.
His political crisis is matched by a per-
sonal one of intense jealousy when he
discovers that his wife had once betrayed
him with his now dead brother. Mr
Edeiman understands very w'eil the strange
mixtures of vanity, selfishnesss, idealism,
cunning and intelligence that animates
politicians; and how much of their per-
sonal qualities are absorbed into, and
sometimes perverted by, the almost blind
operation of party machines, and the
pressures of big business and trade
unions.
Politicians are human, too, he tells
us, and this book almost frighteningly
shows how vital decisions affecting
millions of-people may be made by men
harassed —just like the rest of us —by
love affairs, money worries, personal
doubts and fears, and other mental hob-
goblins.
James Aldridge's book is as long as
“War and Peace” and like Tolstoy’s
masterpiece, is centered upon military
action, in this case the Anglo-French
attack on Egypt in 1956. In my view, the
writing does not match the giant inten-
tion of the book. “Life was suddenly full
of the strangest * feelings,” muses one
character, and most of the introspection is
on this level. “Helen felt the coldness and
the difficulty between Nona and Quarter-
main overflowing into his better nature,”
is another example of the kind of slap-
dash writing that spoils a work which
couid well have been memorable. The
complex of social, political, racial and
personal issues that is presented, and
brought to a head when the paratroopers
land, is painstakingly detailed, and the
book is certainly impressive as a king-
size literary manufacture.
Arthur W. Upheld sets out to entertain,
and does so with his Detective inspector
Napoleon Bonaparte who is brought in to
deal with a crazy strangler who kills only
when there is a dust storm. Set in the out-
back of New South Wales, the story is
routine, but is told with a swift, neat
narrative line; and it is remarkable that
although Mr Upfield's book is so much
less ambitious than the others in this
selection, his is the best written of them.
There is a careful clarity in his descrip-
tions of places and people; and his use
of language is that of a craftsman with
a real appreciation of the medium. “Joe
Fisher was of medium height, slight of
frame and yet strong, steady on his feet
despite the buffeting of the wind. Like a
man long used to the track he carried his
swag of blankets and spare clothing within
a sheet of stout unbleached calico. The
small canvas water-bag gripped by his


right hand was stained red by the oozing
moisture, and, as the billy was strapped
to the swag, his left hand was free to
battle constantly with the Hies.” This is
in the line of English prose coming straight
from Swift and Defoe, and it is rather odd
that Mr Upfield’s “thriller” would have
the best chance of passing Wyndham
Lewis's test. If he were more daring in
his chosen themes he would pass with
honors.
NORMAN GEAR
The Best Men Money Could Buy
Vino Tinto. Rebecca Warren.
Hutchinson. 225. 6d.
Meet the Turks. Richard Harrison.
Jarrolds. 265.
The Emergence of Modern Turkey.
Bernard Lewis. Oxford University
Press. 695. 3d.
books seem to run to two
extremes —those written in the library
and those written hanging from the
south col. One crushes the flavor of
the bazaars under a mound of facts
and footnotes and for all its contribu-
tion to the literature of frontiersmanship
is about as enthralling to decode as the
Tangiers telephone directory. The other
is immediate, personal, impressionistic,
in which a welter of experiences regard-
less of merit has to be shared with the
reader, a primitive communism indicat-
ing one’s Eskimo origins but hardly the
basis, by Allah, for a good book. In
neither case is the text usually worth
rereading.
it may be that the army of travellers
marches on its stomach but without the
exercise of brain the journey were better
not undertaken. A compromise between
person, landscape and library is prob-
ably the answer. Rebecca Warren went
to Spain by train for a summer holiday
and “Vino Tinto” is the result, a per-
sonal humorous account of her adven-
tures there. Richard Harrison went to
Turkey in a bubble car and his story
is probably as near to the happy com-
promise as one can get. Bernard Lewis
also knows his Turkey inside out. His
account however is not properly a travel
book at all but, as the title suggests, a
scholarly piece of reconstruction worked
out in the library not on the spot. If
any of these three is to survive it will
be his.
A travel agency called Let Us Take
You took Rebecca Warren to Spain.
Much of the time she spent fiddling
about San Sebastian, on the beach, in
the bathroom, in the bus, meeting up
with guides, porters, hotel proprietors
but avoiding all other English people as
one v/ould avoid smallpox or typhoid.
She drank the local wine, she bought
souvenirs, she punished the locals with
Hugo's Simplified Spanish, all very
lighthearted and related with crashing
gusto, the funny peculiar lumped in with
the funny ha-ha. About the country or
the people we learn precious little. For
memorable phrases, her comment on
the bullfight, the game of “Heads i
win, tails you lose,” should be worth a
few pesetas: “. . . the trumpets blared
and the drums rolled as never befoie
and there in the great open doorway
stood the figure of the matador. Jt was
remarkable how they appeared. One
minute there was no one, and the next
there was.”
Turkey is the bridge between East
and West. Formerly “the Sick Man of
Europe” it is now a pivot point in the
Western Alliance. Richard Harrison
describes the country as a benevolent
Police State and this is in line with the
past. “Perhaps the most paradoxical
point in the history of Turkey,” he
notes, “is that while the sultans were
absolute rulers and often cruel and
tyrannical rulers at that, the empire had
a sturdy and unique democracy.”
He has something to say about some
of the sultans, a fine body of men, the
best apparently that money could buy.
Ahmet was 15 when he came to the
throne. He entertained 3600 concubines
and virgins in a seraglio, being the fairest
daughters of the Christians. He died
when he was 30. Sultan Murat was
reputed to have killed 50,000 in Istanbul.
There are others too, equally appealing,
but the author uses the material with
discretion.
The author travelled widely in Ana-
tolia, meeting a variety of people and
putting his own inquiring turn of mind
to good purpose. His main concern is
to introduce his friends the Turks to a
Western audience. He achieves this
admirably. They are fortunate in having
a spokesman who is both intelligent and
generous.
“The Emergence of Modern Turkey"
is issued under the auspices of the Royal
institute of International Affairs. It has
index, maps, footnotes, a very excellent
bibliography and a mass of information,
particularly from Turkish sources. It is
academic in flavor and makes no con-
cessions towards being a popular work.
Yet for all that it is extremely readable
and amply repays the effort.
its theme is the emergence of the new
Turkey from the decay of the old. It is
arranged in two sections, the first a fairly
chronological account of the major
phases of change up to 1950 and the
second isolates four aspects of change,
religion and culture for example, for
more detailed examination. It would be
presumptuous to criticise the text. As tar
as one can judge it is first class.
DOUGLAS TERRY.
“So that's his ‘secret punch.'”


POEMS
Death of a Swan
None saw the shooter in the sunless corner.
His bullets spouted in the black swan’s wake.
The bird was a diamond in the distance, scoring
Scratch-lines on the plate-glass of the lake.
Each silent shot was followed by its sound:
A trodden stick, a bone snapped, and the spurt
With its pencil-slender water-sound. Then one
Hit splashless, hateful, and the swan was hurt.
She beat her wings and rings of ripples went
From that uncouth disturbance to each bank.
And a wing went up and gestured like an arm
Clothed in white samite, beat thrice more, and sank.
W. HART-SMITTH
Hunted Hare
Again I spring the lean hare’s trap of fear.
He footballs from my foot across the field.
He thinks that I’ve been hunting him all day,
Coming upon him where he lies concealed.
It seems his fear attracts me to each place
He goes to ground, hides listening to his heart
Beat like a kettledrum. It draws me there,
Although I spare him not a single thought
Until the moment when I turn to go
Homeward across the field by different tracks
Chosen at random. Suddenly at my toe
The hare explodes from out of root of flax
And panics up the hillside. Thus his day
I all unwittingly must dominate.
The things I fear as surely seek me out.
Hate treads me down, until I cease to hate.
W. HART-SMITH
Good Friday
Good Friday looms through glass, and I
Am crucified but on a bed.
Stigmata, eased down the sky
In morning cloud, are blue and red
And soon will be absolved by rain
Without repose. Christ and the Grail
Obsessed me when a child ; remain
Though I have made each image fail.
So animals are left to wait
While good and evil pass them by.
I cannot give the name, or state
The reason for the moods of sky
That breed a stormy dread to cast
Upon each consciousness confused
By passion, pain, and flesh held fast.
The faith I held was seldom used—
But, at this age, I play a part,
Slowly rise up from a tomb,
And see, as limp intentions start,
The light now resurrects my room.
R. A. SIMPSON
Young Quintus Rejected by the Senate
I offered my own ideas
& they were rejected
not what I learnt of war from my fathers
arts that led them victors of half the world
I know those backwards
but now the barbarian knows them too
& how to avoid them
Instead
I offered my best
new dreams worked out in sand
with sticks & little flags on maps
that only need to be carved into life
in bodies & blood
to march the old the failing Empire
on youthful feet into new dominions
I offered that to the Senate
“My boy you have a lot to learn
Even a common soldier knows
that a rigid formation is a quite impregnable
wall”
& the barbarians hiding in caves
& flowing like poison into the troops sides
have they seen that?
& Roman legions
dying from lack of dreams
to melt them & suddenly set them like iron
round the enemy stings?
How can I tell them they’re bloody fools
who hold the dreams & the strength of youth
kicking in their wrinkled hands?
I fight for Rome
but when the masters are ageing to decay
will only the letting of Roman blood
shake Rome to life?
or can I march by their direction
raised to a hero by the arms
of devoted corpses
before they'd think of accepting?
ANDREW TAYLOR
Un-still Life
And a flower, four strokes
Of an oriental brush,
Decorates the white centre
Of the Hong Kong export bowl
Full of fruit, orange, green,
Pitted. A round, green apple
Reflects a dull window light.
These plucked fruit hide
This deep red flower I know
Fixed in the clear potters’ glaze.
Four fleshy, chewed out, quarter
Peels lie on the dark table ;
Orange outside reflected darkly
in the smooth polished surface.
A cigarette burns away,
Browning the match it rests against
VERNON LOW


Continuing our series on the early Governors
LACHLAN MACQUARIE
2: The Humanitarian
By M. H. ELLIS
MAJOR-GENERAL MACQUARIE
“The Old Viceroy’’
LACHLAN MACQUARIE became Governor of New
South Wales through a chapter of accidents.
Governor Bhgh, that testy naval captain, had received
his appointment after he had been admonished by a
court martial for his treatment of his officers and told to
be more careful of his language in future. He had spent
a lively 16 months in the colony, feathered his nest in a
manner that made his descendants rich. He had then been
ejected from office in a mutiny in which most of the military
and civil servants who were not tied to him in some way
by self-interest joined heartily.
They had toppled him out of his official chair and
forced him to lead the life of a privateer on the high seas.
It had been a most peculiar mutiny, the more so because the
mutineers were headed by the commanding officer of the
troops and because it was carried through ostensibly in the
King’s name.
Probably the Home Government was glad to have
its difficulties with Bligh settled for it by the rebels, since
he was already in considerable trouble with his superiors.
At any rate, when the news of his dethronement came on
the very eve of Sir John Moore’s march to Corunna in
1809, it felt the situation sufficiently serious to send out
as Governor a Brigadier General Nightingale, a son-in-law
of the chairman of the East India Company, backed
by a solid Scottish Regiment of the Line, with the 73rd
or Second Battalion of the Black Watch to support his
authority.
Macquarie had succeeded to the command of this
regiment before his return from India. He was now com-
manding it at Fort William in his native Scotia, secure
apparently in the knowledge that his corps had had seven-
teen years of solid duty in India and was due for a long
rest at home unless Bonaparte became too obstreperous.
However, the troubles of the Peninsula made it needful
for resting regiments to do something, so the War Office
apparently thought that a tour of duty for three years in
Botany Bay would fill the bill.
Macquarie, as its lieutenant-colonel, was no more eager
to be “transported” than the rest, though a little encouraged
by the fact that his rank and position entitled him to become
Lieutenant-Governor. This post had no known duties save
in the absence of the Governor and the not very tempting
salary of £250, over and above military pay, attached to
it, in contrast to the salary of £2OOO which awaited the new
Governor.
Then war blazed up in the Peninsula and Nightingale
resigned the command before sailing to join Sir Arthur
Wellesley.
Macquarie would not have been a Scot if he had not
applied for the vacancy he left behind, and the Colonial
Office would not have been the Colonial Office if it had
given it to him before looking round to see whether any
uncles or cousins happened to be aiming at a lucrative
rest in Botany Bay.
It all seemed hopeless for the poor lieutenant-colonel
who had just lost his first child, a daughter, and who at 49
was not very anxious to go abroad again after having so
recently come home, unless there was real inducement.
Then it happened that he was presented to the King
on his appointment as Lieutenant-Governor while Farmer
George was holding a private chapter of the Order of the
Bath to admit the aspirant’s old friend David Baird and his
other friend Lord Cochrane as knights. His Majesty
apparently was blinded by science or impressed by the ton-
nage of the Lieutenant-Governor’s acquaintanceships; or
perhaps the cautious recommendation of another old
acquaintance. Sir Arthur Wellesley, had weighed.
The next day, strolling through Berkeley Square,
oblivious that later a large branch of the bank he would
found in the Antipodes would dominate the scene about
him. he was accosted by Lord Castlereagh, who shook his
hand and told him that he was to become Governor of
New South Wales and promised him a pension if he could
remain eight years in office—something of a feat if one
knew the past history of Governors in New South Wales.
On December 28, 1809, with his wife and a new Judge
Advocate, the first one with a legal qualification to sit in the
Australian Antipodes, he stood on the deck of the broad-
bellied naval storeship Dromedary, which had arrived under
escort of H.M.S. Hindostan. Captain Pasco, and was now
moving jerkily up Sydney harbor under tow towards the
muddied and half-hidden town nestling in squalor round
Sydney Cove.
TT was a depressing sight. The roads were deep in dust
A or mud. Tree stumps stood in the highways in which
dogs, goats, pigs, bullocks, blacks and convicts roamed at
will. Everybody looked hungry and ragged. Save for the
new stores which Colonel Foveaux. deputy of the convivial
Colonel Paterson, the Lieutenant-Governor, had erected at
the western side of the cove, there was not a new building of
any solidity in the place. The Barracks and the unfinished
church of St Philip showed signs of collapse, and the walls
of Government House seemed to consist mainly of white


ants which were steadily eating the august residence down.
Actually in the two years while revolution had stalked
the country its buildings had improved, but he was not to
know this. Indeed, he had no time to think of anything for
the moment save means of staving off famine and quietening
the opposing yells of rebel and non-rebel, each demanding
that somebody(else) be hanged out of hand.
Bligh, fortunately, was not on the spot, so that he was
able to get his bearings before the deposed tyrant arrived
from the Derwent panting with rage that he had not been
reinstated and calling for more gallows to be erected. For
four months he rampaged through the countryside cheered
by his few supporters until they became sick of him.
The rude disorder of the naval governors who had
ruled since Hunter assumed command in 1795 was replaced
by a genial and intimate Government in which the office
of His Excellency was open to every suppliant.
Instead of being a place where one stood on a doorstep
to be bellowed at with pointings at the jail on the Eastern
Hill, Government House became a genial resort where the
lady of the house laughed with the Irish gardeners and
celebrated St Patrick’s Day for them; where art and
illumination made Government House balls —a kind of
festival sadly lacking of yore—notable, driving the local
press into classical ecstacies. Vice-regal dinners were
advertised to the town by drinking choruses heard down the
valley of the Tank Stream —a favorite and rather incon-
gruous tune was that of “Anacreon in Heaven” which the
Americans stole to turn into the air of their national anthem.
As for the town, it and its life were soon metamor-
phosed, in a way not to the liking of some. Streets were
straightened and the houses numbered. Highways were
repaired and toll pikes, so good in part that one’s carriage
with lathered horses could do the 16-mile drive to Parra-
matta in an hour, were driven out to Windsor, to Watson’s
Bay, to Botany and before long to Minto.
'"TOWNSHIPS were laid out and named along the Hawkes-
bury and at Liverpool. The Blue Mountains were
crossed and a highway driven over them to Bathurst. The
country was explored out to Macquarie River swamps.
The Hawkesbury Ranges were crossed and the way to the
Hunter opened up. The aborigines so feared in the south
in the Nepean River country were quelled and conciliated.
The coal mines were properly sunk in Newcastle and the
sheep country west as far as the Lachlan and down to
Goulburn and the Breadalbane Plains opened up along the
highway across the Cookbundoon.
Settlement within 12 years had spread to the new station
of Port Macquarie, up the Hunter to Maitland, down to
the lllawarra where Woolongong stands, in the inland
south to the very fringes of the newly named Argyll Forest
on what is now the Australian Capital Territory.
The policy of Macquarie was rather that of a Scottish
laird than of a Governor. To him the peasant emancipist
and soldier farmers were merely the crofters of a great
Highland estate. The blacks he understood because they
were so like in habit and custom to the wild Islesmen from
some of the outer isles of the west of Scotland who had
still flourished in their near nakedness and gentlemanly
savagery not so long before his birth.
The great landowners he treated much as the Duke of
Argyll might have treated his tenants on estates acquired
from small chieftains (like Macquarie of Ulva) who had
lost their all in the Forty Five and become mere guests on
lands which they had owned for centuries.
Everything was easy and rule of thumb, but with
underlying discipline, sometimes harsh and sudden, ready
to hand if need be. Control was kept closely at the end
of one pair of strong reins with snaffle and bit well fitted.
Punishment at will was no longer the prerogative of arrogant
former officers of the old school or clergy, bloated with
drink and subject to violent rages. The power of magi-
strates to flog was limited.
The outlook which had treated as inherently irredeem-
able all convicts, save for gentlemanly Irish exiles and a
few Scottish martyrs and military duellists, was changed
for a selective one more suitable to a community in which
convict and free, subject to some curfews and restrictions,
walked the streets together and prisoners had their own
gardens and their wives and children about them.
If a convict had been a gentleman who had gone
wrong the new Governor treated him as a gentleman and
urged him on to recover his self-respect and to acquire
a stake in the country which would encourage him to go
right and forget the past which belonged to another exist-
ence 12,000 miles away. He returned to his station as a
matter of course. If he held a position while an emancipist
who had expiated his crime, or what passed for a crime,
which normally would have given a free man in the same
position the right to enter Government House he was
allowed to enter Government House on social occasions.
TF he were suitable to be a district magistrate, no matter
that he had burnt some stacks on the Scottish border in
a time of civil turbulence and paid for his fun in a long
term of convict exile, his past was forgotten. He became a
magistrate.
If he had abilities, as with Francis Greenway. the
architect, it was seen to that his aptitudes were given full
play to the great benefit of the colony. Under Greenway
the first masons and tradesmen of this continent were
trained, the arts were fostered.
The first Australian-born poet twanged his lyre—
young Charles Tompson. The first “poet laureate” was
appointed —Michael Massey Robinson, late of Oxford Uni-
versity and the Law, an ingenious gentleman unique in
crime in that he had been the first known villain in history
to commit blackmail in verse. It was verse so bad and so
pompous that nobody could be quite sure whether he had
been sentenced for his crimes against prosody or his attempt
to levy tribute on poor Mr Oldham.
No doubt Macquarie knew how bad his verse was as
he sang praises of Royalty and virtues of his vice-regal
redeemer of the fallen:
Brave chief! tis thy illustrious doom,
To rear for these a dearer home
And in. a second rising Rome,
To rival Numa’s fame!
But it would encourage the man to become an official
bard.
A painter flourished in Richard Read who had been a
pupil of Reynolds and who has left us, through Macquarie’s
encouragement, notable and lifelike pictures of the men of
his age. Landscape artists, naturalists, gardeners, explorers,
inventors, people with ambitions to found factories, farmers
with ideas had only to whisper in the vicinity of Govern-
ment House and there was Sandy, as the colony affection-
ately called him, patting them on the shoulder and urging
them on. whether they were bond, emancipated or free.
Though he and his busy wife, employing the talent
which had attracted his eye when he first met her in Lome
for laying out gardens and driveways and establishing
scenic points of advantage in the Domain, conceded the right
of convicts to reform and to their right to self-respect when
made over to comparative virtue, they fiercely resented the
suggestion that they gave preference to them as friends or
advisers over free men and women of equal position.
Yet they also conceded the right of transient military
regimental officers not to mix with them and to choose
their own companions, though the Governor looked on it
as a duty in the permanent officers of the colony, at least
in public, to back his own policy of tolerance.


He was naturally assailed. But as rum in the preceding
reigns had been used by Governors as a fine weapon to
assail opponents and secure the support of “the saints” in
English politics of the Wilberforce breed, so his treatment
of the convicts was used by Macquarie’s opponents as
sticks to beat him with.
Neither rum nor treatment of convicts were real issues.
The real one in both Bligh’s and Macquarie’s periods was
the use of the land, the nature and shape of land settle-
ment. The men who opposed King and Bligh formed the
core of the resistance to Macquarie.
A/fGST of these were not brutal, avaricious opportunists.
Men like Macarthur and the Blaxlands were kind
masters, stern and imposing firm discipline perhaps. But
they were very human in their self-interest.
They had come to the country encouraged by the Home
Government to think that here they would be helped to
build up great estates with the help of retinues of convict
labor on the lines of those of the slave estates of the
Americas.
They found instead that the flustered Home Govern-
ment seemed to have double ideals and was trying at one
and the same time to develop a peasant economy mixed up
with a great-estate policy. The processes were moving too
fast, with too much ferment and in too confined a space
to enable both to succeed side by side.
It was Macquarie’s misfortune that he arrived at the
point when battle was locked, with himself between the
lines. The freed convicts were most numerous. They were
the most ambitious. They were the most united. And they
had at last found a Governor who was prepared to plump
for the peasant economy, or at least for an emancipist
economy, holding that the central objective of the colony
was reform and rehabilitation, not punishment and the
institution of slavery or feudal labor applied to creation of
grandee estates for free immigrants of mediocre resources,
most of whom —there were exceptions like Macarthur and
Cox —had done little to deserve the wealth, which becoming
great landowners in a pristine country would give them.
So the clash came and the advantage was all with the
great landowners, or would-be landowners among the
retired officers. Their policy was the policy of the govern-
ing classes of England, of the landed magnate and the
squire. It was sure to be understood in England and
doubly appreciated at a juncture at which the magnates
and the squires felt the foundations of their system begin-
ning to crumble under their feet, as the tidal wave of violent
democracy bred in Paris flowed round them.
The encouragement of the criminal by pampering him,
so that the fear of transportation as punishment had ceased
to be a deterrent shocked the English middle and upper
classes facing a wave of crime, violence and rebellion in
the years between the fall of Napoleon and Peterloo and
the Cato Street conspiracy.
It was actually being said that men and women were
committing crimes in order to be sent to a free land far
from the slums of Seven Dials, where, the grapevine told,
the Governor actually shook hands with prisoners. There
one might have a wife for the asking, and a grant of a farm
at the end of one’s term was almost automatically part
of the sentence of transportation, so long as one behaved
reasonably and did not get convicted too often.
“We’ll have a fine kangaroo hunt when we get to
Botany Bay,” the joyous convicts were heard by one holy
witness to cry as they exchanged the hulks for the transport
ships.
It was no wonder that Macquarie’s became a voice
in the wilderness when the Government sent out a Royal
Commissioner, Mr John Thomas Bigge, steeped in the slave
traditions of the West Indies. The great landowners easily
convinced him that everything that was being said about
the monstrous leniency of the Governor was true.
It was inevitable that Macquarie should be defeated.
He reigned longer than any other Governor of New South
Wales has ever reigned. At no early stage of Australian
history, until the discovery of gold, did Australia make so
much material and cultural progress and geographical
expansion as during his 12 years of rule.
But for him it was a time of regression. He finished
it old and ailing. He had been impoverished, eaten out of
house and home by those who opposed him while battening
on the hospitality which he dispensed to all. He had been
so long away that he did not belong to the new age of
Britain with its new personalities, its new post-Napoleonic
outlook, its new industrial complexes and its smutty steam-
boats that made him ill.
His estate had gone to rack and ruin. When they let
him go home after three years of pleading he was a stranger,
unregarded in his native land, his work and policy destruc-
tively condemned by the mordant Bigge, a noisy official
Chaliapin backed by a chorus of the interested supporters
of the anti-emancipist policy.
TO the lower classes of Australia, to the rich emancipists,
to moderate men in general he remained a hero—the
first hero, indeed, adopted by the democracy of Australia,
a continent of which he was the first man to use the name
officially. His printed defence of his policies is the classic,
the character of humanitarianism in Australia:
I cannot avoid saying that this country should be made
the home and a happy home to every emancipated convict
who deserves it. Here, according to my system they feel
themselves encouraged and protected, if they deserve it,
and are on. a footing of equality with the general popula-
tion. . . Let punishment be as severe as may be necessary
to effect the grand object, but when that which the law
has ordained has been fulfilled, for the sake of mercy
and justice there let it terminate. . . A merciful and
enlightened jurisprudence, like the Author of all that is
merciful and wise does not rejoice in the death of a
sinner, but rather that he should turn from his wickedness
and live. . . My principle is that when a man is once
free, his former state should be no longer remembered,
or allowed to act against him: let him then feel himself
eligible for any situation which he has, by a long term
of upright conduct, proved himself worthy of filling.
When he died, brokenhearted at the traductions of
his plan and the reflections on his methods printed in the
reports of Bigge, he could not know that time would justify
him; that convict blood would throw up some of the greatest
of Australians, that the descendants of those for whom he
seemed to have fought in vain would mingle their blood
with that of almost every great family which sought to
destroy him, so that it is now impossible to disentangle the
emancipist blood of his era from that of the then “pure
merinos.”
He and his family lie in a mausoleum in the Island of
Mull among woods at Gruline which he himself originally
planted. He lies on a quarter of an acre of land deeded to
Australian trustees —the author of this article is their present
chairman —so that it might be kept in order.
His name has become a legend, but his life was a
tragedy, something that might have been imagined by one
of the great French masters of fiction in the age which
succeeded his own. His family left no surviving direct
descendants. His only son, born in Australia, died in an
accident after a mess dinner of the Scots Greys in 1832.
His estates have been dispersed into other hands. All that
remains to remember him by is the series of inscriptions on
the buildings he erected and his name plastered on rivers,
mountains, towns, streets, harbors, islands, broadcasting
networks, garages and restaurants throughout the region
that he governed, and his lonely tomb down near the end
of Loch Ba.


Another “Wales” Service
Interest
bearing
deposits
There’s no better short-term
investment than “Wales”
interest-bearing deposits and
you have the satisfaction of
knowing that your money is
perfectly safe.
Deposits of any amount are
accepted for varying terms at
current rates of interest, with
interest commencing from the
date the deposit is made. En-
quiries will be welcome at any
Branch or Agency.
You can bank on the
“Wales”.
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(incorporated in new south wales with limited liability)
A6132C
Business, Robbery, Etc.
WOOL
East Europe Buys More
The recent wool sales in Sydney were marked by bigger
purchases by East European countries. Dalgetys reports
that the East European Communist bloc bought more wool in
Sydney a fortnight ago than at any time since last April. The
United Kingdom's purchases were also the highest this season,
and were marked by a keen demand for Merino wools of
645. and stronger spinning quality.
On the other hand, difficulties now experienced by the
Japanese textile industry and Japan’s balance-of-payments
troubles may result in some temporary slackening in Japanese
wool intake.
Australian wool exports to the U.K. and Western Europe
should not be affected by Britain's expected entry into the
European Common Market. In fact, the rapid rate of economic
development within the European Economic Community —
which British participation should accelerate, if anything —will
probably result in an increased demand for Australian wool.
However, hopes for higher wool sales to Communist China
depend on Peking’s ability to pay for its exports. At the
moment Communist China's foreign exchange reserves are in
a very precarious state, and it is likely that the Peking Govern-
ment will give priority to imports of wheat and other food
grains, which are desperately needed and can often be paid for
on extensive credit terms. Moreover, China would normally buy
the coarser and cheaper grades of wool —while Australia is
interested in expanding its quality exports.
It is anticipated that a steady, if gradual, rise in wool
sales to the East European bloc will develop over the next few
years. The twenty-second Congress of the Soviet Communist
Party has adopted an economic programme providing for a
gradual improvement in consumption standards —the Soviet
Premier, Mr Khrushchev, has emphasised the need to increase
Soviet industrial output by improving production efficiency,
rather than by indiscriminately pumping investment funds into
the heavy industry. This seems to give the green light to
satellite regimes trying to lift living standards which had sagged
dangerously low during the ambitious and costly industrialisa-
, tion drives launched in the Stalinist era.
The inefficient and expensive agricultural sectors are a
major obstacle here, making it difficult to expand industrial
output without putting too much squeeze on the consumer
goods sector.
'TThe key to foreign trade problems is effective demand—Aus-
tralia’s trading partners must both need wool and be able
to pay for it. East Germany, Poland and Czechoslovakia
have the largest textile industries and the highest production
and consumption levels in the East European bloc.
Poland is the largest of the three and, in addition to rapid
industrial expansion, also has the advantage of a pre-
dominantly private agricultural sector. Polish State farms
(PGRs) have not paid in real terms since they were first set
up in 1945. The official Warsaw Communist daily, “Trybuna
Ludu,” has expressed pious hopes that State farms will finally
pay for themselves in 1961. More likely than not the PGRs
will continue to lose money, but this should not seriously impair
Poland’s efforts to improve consumption standards, since most
of the agricultural sector is still being run by the more efficient
private enterprise. Official statistics show that in 1960 89.3 p.c.
of the gross value of agricultural output in Poland was pro-
duced by the private sector, 1.3 p.c. by co-operative farms and
9.4 p.c. by State farms. This compares with 80.7 p.c., 8.2 p.c.
and 11.1 p.c. respectively in 1955. Unless undue pressure is
put on the private agricultural sector there should be no run-
away increases in real industrial labor costs due to steep
increases in the true cost of foodstuffs and consumption
standards should continue to improve with greater efficiency
and rapid expansion in the basic industries, which were built
(continued on page 45)


NORTH BROKEN HILL LIMITED
(Incorporated in the State of Victoria )
CHAIRMAN'S ADDRESS
ADDRESS DELIVERED BY CHAIRMAN OF DIRECTORS OF NORTH BROKEN
HILL LIMITED, MR. M. L. BAILLIEU, AT THE ORDINARY GENERAL
ANNUAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS ON FRIDA Y, 3RD NOVEMBER, 1961
Before commencing the formal business of
the Meeting, I have to refer to the loss
during the year of two members of the
Board, each of whom had given many years
of valuable service to this Company and to
the Broken Hill Mining Industry. I refer,
of course, to Mr M. H. Baillieu and Mr A. 11.
West. Mr Baillieu would have been well-
known to many of you for he had been
a Director since the formation of the Com-
pany in 1912 and its Chairman from Sep-
tember, 1939 until January, 1958.
Mr West was equally well-known to you
for he attended these Annual Meetings
regularly since his appointment to the
Board in 1952. Both these Board members
made great contributions to the administra-
tion of the Company’s affairs—Mr Baillieu
as a Director and Chairman of the Board
and Mr West as a Director and Manager at
Broken Hill.
The vacancies on the Board have been
filled by the appointment of Mr J. M. Baillieu
and Mr J. B. Harper, whom 1 welcome here
today and whose names will be submitted to
you for election at a later stage of this meet-
ing.
Mr J. M. Baillieu is a son of Mr M. H.
Baillieu and lias been Alternate for his father
on the Board for several years.
Also, I should like to introduce Mr Eric
Fitzpatrick who has succeeded Mr West as
Manager at Broken Hill and, at the same time,
wish him every success in this most respon-
sible position.
On behalf of the Board, I present to you the
Accounts of the Company and the Directors’
Report for the year ended 30th June, 1961.
As a copy of those documents has been sent
to each shareholder. I propose, with your con-
currence, to take them as read.
FINANCIAL
As you will have read in the Report, the
surplus for 1961 was £1,020,026, or £2:10,366
lower than for the previous financial year.
Of that decrease, £180.283 was attributable to
operations and £50,083 to a reduction in our
Investment income.
The whole of our zinc concentrate produc-
tion was realised. Lead sales, however, were
some 7,656 tons less than production. This
factor, as well as the lower prices for lead
and zinc metal, was mainly responsible for
the value of Mine Production being £4,361,694
or £224,660 below the figure for the previous
financial year.
The quantity of silver sold slightly exceeded
production, the price realised being AS/2.2d. an
ounce or Ao.4d. an ounce higher than for
1960.
For tlie year under review, the average
price realised for zinc produced from our
concentrates was £AIO7/14/8 a ton F. 0.8.
Itisdon compared with £Alll/9/10 for the
previous year. Our lead sales averaged
£AB2/0/10 a ton, or £A6/16/6 a ton lower than
for 1060.
Mine Expenditure was greater than for the
previous year. This was mainly because of
the greater number of days worked, the
slightly higher tonnage of ore mined and
treated and because of additional expenditure
on No. 3 Shaft where the footage sank ex-
ceeded that of the previous year by 114 feet.
The greater part of the increase of £43,541
in Administration Expenditure was attribut-
able to interest paid on Bank overdraft and
loans.
Investment Income was lower mainly as the
result of no dividend having been received
from The Electrolytic Refining and Smelting
Company of Australia Pty. Ltd.
Included in the Current Assets in the
Balance Sheet at 30th June last, is an amount
of £2,G01.517 being the “Cost of Concentrate
sold at prices not yet determined.” This
represented the valuation at cost of 46,397
tons of lead and associated silver content de-
livered in the form of lead concentrates, some
of which was treated to recover the metals hut
none of which was priced at that date.
Since the 30tli June, an agreement was
concluded by The Broken Hill Associated
Smelters Pty. Ltd. for the sale by barter of
its surplus "locks of 44,644 tons of lead to
the United States of America. Your Com-
pany’s proportion of this quantity is 16,358
tons, from which we will receive proceeds
amounting to £A1,102,000.
INVESTMENTS
Your Company’s principal investment is in
The Broken Plill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
in which it owns 30% of the issued capital.
In the year under review, operations were ad-
versely affected by the restrictions on through-
put, particularly from Ist January to (kith
J tine.
Production of sulphuric acid for 1960/61
was a record but, as from the 31st December,
1960, tlie bounty on acid made from sinter
gas was terminated on the recommendation of
the Tariff Board. The bounty had been
paid since July, 1957 as part of the Common-
wealth Government’s policy of encouraging the
use of indigenous materials for the making of
sulphuric acid which is so essential to the
economy of Australia.
Shipments of washed coal from Coal Cliff
Colliery to Japan continued throughout the
year under a five-year agreement with Japa-
nese steel mills.
The New South Wales Government has
announced that modern coal loading facilities
will be provided in the inner Harbor at Port
Kembla for fast loading and the handling of
large bulk carriers. The resultant rapid turn-
around of shipping should provide attractive
conditions for overseas buyers and place the
South Coast coal mines in a much stronger
competitive position in export markets.
The acquisition of further shares in Metal
Manufacturers Ltd., which was referred to in
the Annual Report, brought your Company's
holding in that Company up to 20.6% of its
issued capital. Metal Manufactures Ltd. and
its principal subsidiary, Austral Bronze Pty.
Ltd., together with the associated cable manu-
facturing- companies, supply Australia with
the great bulk of its requirements of wires,
cables and stranded conductors of copper,
cadmium copper and aluminium.
It also supplies copper, brass and aluminium
tubing and copper and brass rods, sheet, strip
and extruded sections. All these productions
are essential, not only to the general engineer-
ing industry, but also to the country’s public
utilities, particularly for the reticulation of
electric power.
In recent months, due to competition and
more particularly to the economic conditions
brought about by the Government's economic
measures, trading conditions have been difii
cult, but the Group reports, despite these
unfavourable conditions, that order books
in most instances are buoyant and demand for
the various products is at a satisfactory level.
Metal Manufactures Ltd. paid a 7|% divi-
dend in respect of profits earned during the
year ended 31st July last.
The results of The Elecrolytic Refining and
Smelting Company of Australia Pty. Ltd.
in tlie year to the 30th June, 1961 were disap-
pointing but not unexpected.
The earning capacity of that Company is
necessarily limited by its present reduced
throughput. The low scale of operation is
a direct result of the refinery’s inability to
attract copper concentrates against competi-
tion from Japanese smelters. As has been
reported to you previously, Japanese smelters,
aided by protective import controls and a
high domestic copper price, dominate this
and other world markets for copper ores,
concentrates and scrap.
The continuous casting plant, although com-
pleted and operating experimentally prior to
the close of the year, did not contribute to
the Company’s earnings. Since tlie close of
the year, commercial production has success-
fully been achieved and it is anticipated that
most of the refinery’s output of copper will
be sold in the special shapes cast from this
plant.
Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation Pty.
Ltd., in which your Company is a share-
holder, has maintained turnover at approxi-
mately the same figure as last year.
With the Government decision to equip
the Royal Australian Air Force with the French
“Mirage” Fighter aircraft, C.A.C. has been
allotted the task of producing the “Atar”
jet evgine and the wings, fins and tail-plane
for Hie airframe.
The Avon/Sabre contract was completed
during the past twelve months, although
manufacture of spares and overhaul of air-
craft and engines will continue throughout
the service life of the aeroplanes; this repre-
sents substantial business.
Bus body manufacture continues, the Com-
pany having developed its own “Coinai.-”
design body for Bedford chassis as well as
a body designed for the Leylaud chassis.
In spite of a limited field for marketing
of agricultural aircraft, ten “Ceres" have
been sold and further avenues are being ex-
plored.
The remainder of the work-load covers
overhauls and spares for Service engines and
Civil airlines and commercial work.
From announcements in the Press and from
circulars sent to you as shareholders, you
have been informed of the developments which
led to your Company joining with Western
Mining Corporation Ltd. and Broken Hill
South Ltd. to form with the Aluminum Com-
pany of America a new company, Alcoa of
Australia Pty. Ltd.
Your Company holds 3,000,000 shares of £1
each, or 12% of the total capital of £25.000.000
of the new Company which will develop an
Australian integrated aluminium industry
based upon tbe Darling Range bauxite de-
posits in Western Australia and brown coal
deposits at Anglesea, Victoria.
Alcoa of Australia, which will be under the
management of the Aluminum Company of
America, has already engaged a number of
staff and has ordered some of the equipment
for the construction of its refinery at Ivwinana,
Western Australia, which will produce alumina
(aluminium oxide) from bauxite, and for
the smelter and fabricating plant at Point
Henry, Geelong. Work on the construction of
these plants will have begun before the end
of this year and it is planned that they will
be in production early in 1004.
In this venture, we count ourselves fortu-
nate to be associated with the Aluminum
Company of America which is the world’s
largest aluminium producer and although,
for the time being aluminium production
exceeds demand, it will invest by way of
capital and loans more than £35,000,000
in Alcoa of Australia Pty. Ltd. thus demon-
strating to the full its confidence not only in
the soundness of that project but in the
future market for aluminium mgtaL
Our other principal investments are in
Public Companies whose Reports and Accounts
are published and, therefore. I feel that it is
unnecessary for me to comment on their
affairs.
SEW SHAKE ISSUE
As shareholders, you will have received a
Circular informing you that the Company will
make a rights issue of shares at par (10/-)
to existing shareholders in the proportion
of 30 uew shares for each 100 shares held.
An amount of 1/- per share will be payable
on application and the balance will be called
up over approximately 2J years. The proceeds
of the issue will progressively finance your
Company’s holding of contributing shares in
Alcoa of Australia Pty. Ltd.
On 30th October, the share transfer books of
your Company were closed to determine those
entitled to participate in the uew issue and
on 6th November a Letter of Offer will he
sent to each shareholder advising the number
of new shares which he or she will be entitled
to take up, when and where acceptances have
to he lodged, and other particulars relat-
ing to the issue.
Your Directors recommend the new issue
and the purpose for which it is being made.
MINE
Ore treated in the Mill during the financial
year totalled 367.651 tons compared with
363,306 tons for the year to the 30th June,
1960.
For the first half of the year, the Company
followed the policy of producing to the
maximum capacity of the existing labour force
which resulted in a larger production than
that corresponding to the agreed restricted
level of commercial sales. During the second
half of the financial year, that is, from the
Ist January, 1961 until the 30th June last,
production was limited to the level of sales of
metal made on our behalf for reasons to
which I shall refer elsewhere. This restric-
tion in the second half of tbe year caused
difficulties in the control of operations, but,
over the whole year, the efficiency of mining
operations was better than for the previous
(Continued next page)


up in 1949-1960. National income is steadily rising in overall
and per capita terms. Poland has become a major industrial
nation with a diversified export trade, although it is still far
behind the U.S. and the Common Market countries. In 1957
per capita national income was U.S. $378, compared with
$1595 in U.S., $lOl4 in U.K. and $799 in West Germany.
Since then economic growth has been adequate.
The world slump in coal prices, aggravated by the glut in
competitive oil fuels, has forced Poland to strive to increase
its export earnings from other sources. A substantial propor-
tion of raw materials imported from the U.S.S.R. and other
Communist countries is paid for by export of Polish textiles.
There is also a limited but steady market for Polish textiles in
Western Europe and in Asia.
Polish textile industry is the key factor in increasing Aus-
tralian wool exports to Poland —the amount of wool pro-
duced domestically is negligible, and the Soviet Union is a net
year. There were 237 operating days compared
with 225 in 1939/60.
Ore treatment operations were maintained
at a very satisfactory standard throughout the
year. The percentage recoveries of silver in
lead concentrate and zinc in zinc concentrate
were the best on record and the moisture
content of both lead and zinc concentrates
was substantially reduced below previous
levels for equivalent products.
Ore reserves at the 30th J line were 4,480,000
tons, or 147,000 tons greater than last year.
Of t-liis increase, 08,000 tons were attributable
to the British-Junction Section.
At this stage, it is appropriate to refer to the
sale of the leases comprising the British-
J-iiaction Section of the North Mine to Broken
Hill South Ltd. which was announced in the
Press at the end of last week. *
These leases contained ore reserves at the
30tli June last amounting to 309.000 tons and
diamond drilling in recent months has indi-
cated that the total of the proved plus prob-
able ore in this area is of the order of
730,000 tons and that there c-ould be other
opportunities for locating ore. On the other
hand, the proved ore reserves of the North
Section of the Mine at the present time are
approximatly 4.200,000 tons and diamond dril-
ling has shown probable ore reserves of the
order of 6.000.000 tons, with the lode con-
tinuing strongly beyond the limits included in
that figure. There are, therefore, at least
10,000.000 tons of ore and probably a great
deal more in the areas served by No. 2 Shaft
or which will be served by No. 3 shaft.
The relatively small tonnage of ore at
present being produced from the Eritish-
J unction Section could be very much more
economically produced from the North Section
of the Mine. To achieve equivalent economies
of production at the British-Junction Section
would require relatively heavy expenditure on
development and equipment which your Board
feels of doubtful wisdom in view of the large
resources of much higher grade ore available
to your .Company at present from No. 2 Shaft
and shortly from No. 3 Shaft, development
of which has taken a number of years and
very considerable expenditure.
After the transfer of the leases, it is in-
tended to maintain the Company's output by
drawing from No. 2 Shaft in the North Section
a tonnage equivalent to that at present being-
mined in the British-Junction Section.
An improved rate of sinking of No. 3 Shaft
was obtained during the year but progress
was, and still is, relatively slow and expensive
owing to the stressed condition of the rock
which the shaft sinking operations have en-
countered.
It is anticipated that the sinking to the
depth of 4.32(1 feet, that is, 50 feet below the
No. 31 (4,270 feet) level, will be completed
during this financial year and that cage
facilities at No. 3 Shaft will be in operation
by June. 1962.
For the year under review. 30,913 feet of
diamond drilling were completed from under-
ground locations.
Since the close of the financial year, dril-
ling has been completed from the No. 26 (3,520
feet) level (a plan is attached to the Annual
Report to shareholders) giving evidence of
substantial tonnages in the Southern orebody
at that horizon and assaying well above
average grade.
Further testing for the continuation of the
orebody below the No. 30 (4.120 feet) level
horizon will be carried out from a drive to be
driven South from No. 3 Shaft on that horizon
at a later date.
To probe the area North of No. 3 Shaft and
South of the De Bavay Fault between the
4,500 and 6,000 feet horizons, an F. 130 dia-
mond drill machine (capable of drilling to
a depth of some 8,000 feet) has been placed in
operation.
Drilling is in progress from the surface
of a parent hole which will be some 5,000
feet in depth and from which at depths of
3,000. 4.000 and 5.000 feet, a series of deflected
holes will be made in an endeavour to locate
the mine orebodies.
Whilst, referring to the subject of explora
tion, this Company is currently prospecting
tireas in Northern Queensland in the search
tor tin, copper and molybdenum.
In association with other companies, pros-
pecting is also being carried out at Moonta
in South Australia and in the Broken Hill
area.
Industrial relations with the Barrier Indus-
trial Council and Affiliated Unions continued
satisfactorily throughout the year.
In conformity with the Company’s policy
ot ensuring- that its staff keep abreast of the
latest developments in management and min-
ing techniques, three senior Mine executives
attended courses at the Australian Adminis-
trative Staff College during the year, whilst
another attended the Seventh Commonwealth
Mining and Metallurgical Congress in the
Union of South Africa and later visited mining-
fields in various other countries.
GENERAL
During the year, lead concentrate from the
Mine continued to be sold to The Broken Hill
Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd. under the fif-
teen-year agreement and our zinc concentrate
to the Electrolytic Zinc Company of Austral-
asia Ltd. under an agreement which came into
operation at the beginning of 1955 and which
will terminate on the 31st December next,
notice of termination having been given Under
Ihe provisions of the agreement.
The restrictions on commercial sales of
lead metal by the main exporting countries,
which were instituted following the meeting-
held at the headquarters of the United Nations
in April, 1959, continued to apply throughout
the year to the 30th June last. From Ist July,
1060 until 31st December, it was the Com-
pany's policy to produce to the then limit
of the capacity of the Company's labour force
which resulted in the production of more
lead than our proportion of the amount that
B.H.A.S. was permitted to sell under the
restrictions. It was possible to sell the whole
of the silver derived from such excess pro-
duction, also our full output of zinc concen-
trate, as there were no restrictions on the
sale of zinc metal.
In the second half of the year under review,
that is, in the six months beginning on Ist
January, 1961. the Mine output was curtailed
to a level corresponding to the Company's
proportion of the B.H.A.S. sales quota for
lead metal under the agreed restrictions. A
corresponding reduction in output to the
level of metal sales, which will be continued
for the first months of 1962. was accepted by
each of the Broken Hill Mining Companies
as a condition of the barter sale to the TJ.S.
Government stockpile of the greater propor-
tion of the excess lead metal stocks held by
B.H.A.S. on their behalf.
After the publication of the Annual Report,
a further tonnage was sold to the United
States Government which brings the total of
your Company’s proportion of lead sold by
barter from surplus stocks to 16,358 tons
compared with the figure of 14,500 given in the
Annual Report.
Since I addressed you last year, there liav«
been two meetings of the U.N. Lead-Zinc
Study Group: one in Mexico City in March and
the second in Geneva during the last four
weeks.
From figures given and statements made
at Mexico City, it was then estimated that, in
1961, new supplies of metal would be some
51.000 tons less than consumption and that
there would be a corresponding improvement
in the level of world stocks which, taken
with the U.S. offer to acquire certain surplus
stocks by barter sale for stockpile, would
very much improve the market situation for
lead metal and result in some improvement
in price.
However, at the recent Geneva meetings,
it was estimated from the later figures then
available that production of metal would
exceed consumption for 1961 by 73,000 tons.
This is a small surplus—approximately 3%
of world metal production—and owing to
the inherent weaknesses of the figures supplied
both for production and consumption the
latest estimate may yet be proved too high
or too low.
It the Geneva estimate as to the excess of
supply over demand is correct —and the pre-
sent weakness ot' the price of lead in London
tends to confirm that there will be a surplus
of production for 19(51 —it is very disappoint-
ing when the main reason for the deterioration
. from the Mexico meeting estimates is the
increase in tlie production of metal by a
number of countries above figures given at
Mexico City whereas, in the case of some
of these countries, undertakings were given
to make reductions from those figures. There
is also an increase in the supplies coming-
on to the markets of the Western world from
the centrally planned economies.
It is also disappointing that these increases
in production took place at a time when some
leading exporting countries were attempting
to restore the balance of the market by res-
tricting production and the United States
Government was implementing its programme,
to which I have referred, of removing surplus
stocks of unsold lead metal through its barter
purchases from a number of leading producers
who were in turn limiting their output and
sales to agreed figures.
These influences caused a weakening of the
price of lead on the London Metal Exchange
during the year under review and a further
fall in the first four months of this finan-
cial year.
Zinc metal sales and production were not
restricted during the year to the 30th June.
111(51 and are still unrestricted. During the
first half of the year, although there was
some surplus of supply, prices were well
maintained, but, in the last few months of the
year, the price weakened and this trend has
continued to the present time.
The L.M.E. price for zinc is now £AB9./9/l
which is £2l/6/0 lower than when I spoke to
j on last year.
Because of the fall in the price of zinc
metal and increases in the charges for treat-
ing concentrate and rail freights, the net-
return per ton of zinc concentrate was lower
in the year under review than in 1959/60.
Owing to the continued fall in the world zinc
price and further increases in smelting charges
and rail freights, our return for zinc concen-
trate during the current half year will be
still lower than in the year 1960/61.
For these reasons, the outlook is more
unfavourable than when I addressed you last
year and. for the current year, a smaller
surplus from operations is indicated. The
full effect of current low prices will be offset
in some degree by improvement in the effi-
ciency of operations at Broken Hill and by-
economies in operations in the second half
of the year arising from the disposal of the
British-Junction leases. Also, the terms of
trade between producers of zinc concentrate
and smelters have changed and. from Ist
January. 1962. we shall benefit from lower
treatment charges following the termination
of the existing agreement on 31st December.
While every effort is being made to reduce
costs of production by improved efficiency,
I again wish to draw attention to the difficulty
of doing this while the Mine is working below
capacity without impairing its ability to
increase output should the market become
more buoyant.
With its existing Mine and Mill and with its
present staff and labour force, the Company’s
facilities and organisation are geared to a
much higher annual output than at present.
The present agreed restrictions on produc-
tion cease at the end of March. 1962. It is
intended, between now and then, that further
talks between producing countries should take
place in an effort to bring some stability to
lead producers in a manner which will
operate equitably to all countries.
If nothing developes along these lines, the
Company will be free to determine its pro-
duction policy again and. in this respect,
your Board will be guided by the facts as
they then appear.
STAFF
Finally. 1 wish to express the thanks of
the Board to Mr Fitzpatrick, and the whole
staff of the Company for their loyal efforts
to advance its affairs during what has been
a difficult year.


You are an
important
person
m
K
Lit
\
at this bank
The housewife nowadays is frequently
the money manager, and at the ‘Rural’
women are among our most important
customers.
Family finances are easy to manage with
a cheque account at the ‘Rural’.
Your cheque butts can show what you
paid, to whom, and when and you
can have money at the ‘point of your
pen’ at all times.
RURAL BANK
“makes money work”
HEAD OFFICE: Martin Place, Sydney
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charier A D. 1720)
Assets exceed £177,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
Kindersley House, Bligh/O’Connell Streets, SYDNEY
F. H. Egerton, Manager for Australia.
importer of wool and cannot supply Polish textile mills with
raw materials.
Poland's purchases of Australian wool in three months
to September, 1961, rose from £1,266,000 to £2,246,000. Greasy
wool exports to Poland in the full year 1961 amounted to
30,393,0001 b., valued at £7.74 million (37,365,0001 b., valued
at £10.73 million, in 1960). Present indications are that Poland
will absorb slightly more Australian wool in the current year
than in 1960.
The textile industry in Poland is large and well developed,
and has traditions going back to the nineteenth century. The
main problems are insufficient capacity of spinning mills and
inadequate mechanisation, in 1958 only 11.7 p.c. of the looms
used in Poland were automatic. This compares with 100 p.c.
in the U.S., 48 p.c. in Italy, 40 p.c. in France and 30 p.c. in
Belgium back in 1955. On the other hand, Poland has
succeeded in achieving a relatively high output with older
machines. A more realistic depreciation and plant replacement
policy is now being followed. The rate of mechanisation is
picking up.
'T'he most negative feature of the Polish textile industry from
J the Australian point of view is its reliance on so-called
“re-used"’ wool, obtained from processing woollen rags. In
1957 Poland produced 54,700 metric tons of woollen yarn, but
the proportion of “virgin"’ wool in the fabrics was as low as'
40 p.c. At present the emphasis is on improving the quality
of woollen fabrics by increasing their “virgin” wool content.
Production of woollen yarn in 1960 reached 58,500 metric tons
and of woollen fabrics 78.7 million metres.
Population growth is rapid. Polish census taken in
December, 1960, shows total population to be 29,731,000, com-
pared with 23,930,000 in 1946. In Polish climate warm cloth-
ing is essential, and population growth will increase the
raw-wool requirements of the textile industry by raising the
demand for woollen fabrics.
Polish trade authorities are trying to increase sales of
machine tools and other capital equipment to Australia, to help
pay for imports of wool. It is understood that turnover is
slowly increasing.
It must be remembered that Australian wool sales to
Poland will remain a marginal item. Nor is it likely that
Australia will ever become a major market for Polish goods.
On the other hand, wool sales to the tune of about £7 million
a year are significant enough to be taken into account. Aus-
tralian woolgrowers should benefit from Poland's economic
development and improving consumption standards.
STOCK EXCHANGE
Bonds "On Post"
I>onds trading has been put on the post system at the Sydney
** Stock Exchange since last Monday, completing the change-
over from call to post trading. The total number of posts
is now 11.
Bonds were the only type of securities not traded by the
post method which was adopted in the new Stock Exchange
building in October, 1960. Since then, they were traded in
a separate room on the call basis.
Thirty-two Commonwealth and 11 Fiji Government loan
issues are being traded at the new post, which operates
continuously from 9.45 a.m. to 4 p.m.
Mr A. H. Urquhart, chairman of the Sydney Stock
Exchange, said that the “move was in keeping with the Stock
Exchange’s policy of service to investors by streamlining the
machinery of investment to the highest possible degree.”
The Brisbane Stock Exchange, which some months ago
moved to “post” trading in industrial and mining stocks, also
began trading in Commonwealth bonds by the “post” system
on November 13, 1961.


COMPANY REPORT
BRAMBLES INDUSTRIES LIMITED
CHAIRMAN'S ADDRESS TO THE 7th ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
Ladies and Gentlemen,
It is once again my pleasure to address you
on the occasion of the seventh Annual General
Meeting of your Company. The Annual Report
of your Directors which has already been
circulated to you incorporates details of the
year’s results, together with a review of your
Company's activities. As in the past, L do
not propose to repeat the information which
is contained therein.
Nevertheless, 1 feel that it may be as well
to point out and perhaps emphasise some of
the comments made under the heading in the
Directors’ report of “the year’s trading.” You
will notice that the financial measures brought
down by the Federal Government in November,
1960, made it necessary for your directors to
delay some of their expansion plans. This was
clearly necessary, as at that time there was no
indication of what the future position might
be in relation to a number of the measures.
In particular, no indication was given as to
the future for taxation allowances in respect
of interest payments. It is now history, of
course, that alter many months the Government
decided to withdraw this particular measure.
It would appear that by this very uncertainty
the Federal Government achieved the purpose
that it set out to achieve. In doing so, however,
it had very serious repercussions on Australian
industry generally, and unless the businessman
was prepared to accept risks which your Board
was not prepared to accept, then it was inevit-
able that expansion must have been slowed
down.
As a result of this slowing down, there has
been a most marked change in the Australian
economy over the last twelve months. When I
addressed you last year, the economy was just
turning down from the boom of the early
months of 1960 and it was then given a most
determined kick downwards by the Federal
Treasurer on the 16th November. Since then
it can hardly be said to have recovered;
although there are now a few encouraging signs
on the horizon, none of these are as yet fully
backed up by any solid trends.
Total civilian employment, which reached a
peak in December, 1960, has since declined by
two per cent. On the other hand, unemploy-
ment figures, which should normally have started
to decline from February running through to
October, increased markedly in January and
increased steadily through to June. Although
some satisfaction has been drawn from the
fact that the number only increased by 1,700
during July, 1961, and the August figures showed
a decline, no real satisfaction can be drawn
because of the seasonal factors which are or
which should be at work.
Basically, the level of employment in any
community must be the measure of its pros-
perity, and no doubt when there are clear indica-
tions that employment is rising we can look
forward again to another period of expansion.
Like all of us here, I have unqualified confidence
in the long-term future of Australia, and I am
sure we all appreciate that in a country which
has been expanding as rapidly as ours since
the end of World War II there must be periods
during which the economy must level out and
perhaps even decline slightly while it recovers
from the inflationary pressures which affect any
rapidly expanding economy.
It is a truism to say that “it is an ill wind
turns none to good,” and I feel that in common
with many other companies in secondary and
tertiary industry we have had a good oppor-
tunity over the last year to examine our opera-
tions and to recognise the faults which had
existed in them and which required actions
which we were either unwilling or unable to
take in booming times. I am sure that your
company has benefited in some aspects from
this particular phase of self-inspection and that
it is now ready to move forward again during
1962 as it has done over the previous six years.
As 1 said earlier, there are signs now that a
bottom has been reached and from this we
can only climb upward.
There is another truism which applies to your
Company: “Let the cobbler stick to his last.”
With the increasing industrial activity at New-
castle, Sydney, Port Kembla and Why alia, there
is every reason to believe that the demand
lor transport and materials-handling will
increase at these ports. Consequently, the
management proposes to concentrate mainly on
the development of the transport and industrial
service s ; de and the activities of the Common-
wealth Handling Equipment Pool during the
current year.
As a person associated with transport, I must
say that I take some pleasure in noticing that
goods loaded at Australian ports for external
trade were running about 36% greater during
the first three months of this calendar year and
in April had increased to 55% greater and
were, in fact, continuing to increase, whereas
at about this time there would normally have
been a seasonal decline. 1 feel that this is
probably pointing up the efforts which are
being made to expand Australia’s export trade,
and it is to be hoped that these efforts will
continue and will also continue to find success.
It is also encouraging to note that although
the export price index for the whole of the
year 1960/61 was 6% lower than the index for
1959/60, there were encouraging signs towards
the last quarter of the financial year that the
position was improving. Similarly, the total
value of exports for June, 1961, was 25%
higher than June. 1960. and the figures were
showing distinct signs of improvement. Of
course, a considerable part has been played in
this improvement in our exports of wheat, but
a number of other commodities have also shown
quite marked increases in June, 1961, over the
month of June, 1960.
It is some indication of the hesitancy which
has taken place since November, 1960, that the
new money raised by listed Australian corn-
parries decreased quite markedly in the first half
of 1961. The total raised during this period
was just under £A.53 million, and this was only
25% of the total raised during the whole of
the year 1960/61 and 53% less than tire amount
raised in the first half of 1960. An even clearer
indication of the effect of the November fiscal
measures is the fact that whereas in the first
half of 1960/61 just under £A.105 million was
raised in the form of debentures, registered
unsecured notes and deposits, only about
million or about 10% of that figure was
raised during the second half of 1961 in that
particular form. This clearly indicates the result
of the Government’s threat to make interest
payments non-deductible for taxation purposes.
Your Company is mainly a service organisa-
tion, and it is, therefore, hardly competent for
me to speak to you on the effect of the lifting
of import restrictions. We have, of course,
seen some of the results of this action in many
ways. We see imported goods in shops, and
many of us must wonder if it is worth while
having them here. We see companies which
were flourishing up to June, 1960, now produc-
ing their results for the year to June, 1961,
and with some most alarming figures involving
the passing and reduction of final dividends.
We have all no doubt read in the Press from
time to time various statements about our over-
seas balance of payments position which,
fortunately, has now improved somewhat
remarkably My only comment on this par-
ticular action, which is now over eighteen
months old, is that it was unfortunate perhaps
that the Government through the Tariff Board
had not taken steps to ensure adequate protec-
tion to those industries which, because of their
nature and small market in Australia, were
unable to compete with the imported products
of low-cost countries with large populations.
I feel that a lot of the doubt which exists in
the economy today is probably due to the
fact that many manufacturers who have been
subjected to the intolerable task of trying to
compete with these imports do not feel justi-
fied in going ahead at capacity production until
their applications to the Tariff Board have been
dealt with. I am convinced that those industries
which have been so affected will, once they have
received the protection which they need, be
able to expand their activities and thereby
geneiate the additional employment which we
so badly need. However, until they know that
they are in a position to compete on equal
terms with the overseas product, they can hardly
be expected to go ahead to the best of their
ability.
At this particular stage, it is clear the way
is ready for further expansion in our economy.
Our overseas reserves are at a high level, bank
credit has been made easier, there is a pool
of unemployment, distasteful as this may be
to many of us, which is ready and available
and which will be increased even further after
November of this year as the school-leavers
join the work force. All that is necessary at
this stage is a return to the confident attitude
which existed amongst our business community
over the ten years to June, 1960. When this
returns there can be no doubt that we will be
in a strong position to move forward again.
In this context, I suppose it is as well to
make mention of the possibility of Great
Britain joining the European Economic Com-
munity and its possible effects on Australia.
I am sure that, although the importance of this
-step to the British Commonwealth of Nations
cannot be under-estimated, the dire results which
have been forecast in many circles may be
exaggerated. In any event, it is certainly likely
to be a relatively long-term project, and con-
siderable negotiation will no doubt take place
before Britain retreats behind the tariff wall
of the Common Market. The effect on Aus-
tralia, as can be seen at this stage, could be
quite serious so far as a number of our
primary products are concerned, but I would
•suggest that in the time which is available to
us we should be able to find other export
markets and to endeavour to make our goods
competitive with those of the Common Market
countries. It is quite certain that the Common
Market will not be a rigid affair. It is likely
to want to export its machinery and equip-
ment to Australia, and no doubt a bi-lateral
agreement will be reached in these circum-
stances. Clearly, the position is not disastrous
to us, although we may encounter some diffi-
culties in the early stages.
To sum up, 1 would say that we have not
come out of this last year completely un-
scathed, but we are almost certainly wiser in
many ways. We wili be able to face the
future with confidence, knowing that we can
benefit from such minor recessions if only to
learn from them. Your Company is in a
strong position to face the future with increas-
ing confidence and to provide the service which
it has been giving to the community at large
for a number of years.
In conclusion, may I thank the directors,
alternate directors and management and all
those associated with the Company for their
efforts during the year under review.
H. L. WHEELER
Chairman.


Cables anti Telegrams: “RALPHKING,”
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Grafton,
Tamworth and Armidale.
John N. Robertson, Thompson
and Co.
Members of the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS,
Temple Court,
422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Telephones: 67 6154, 67 6155
Telegrams and Cables:
ROBFALK, MELBOURNE
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
It. H. ALLEN, At. R. L. DOWLING,
I\ R. LEVY, A. P. REYNOLDS, N. R.
COURSE (Melbourne Resident Partner).
Delfin House, 16 O’Connell Sydney
25-5911 (:20 lines).
Prudential Building;, 150 Queen St.,
Melbourne, 67-5957 (1 lines).
Telegrams and Cables: “Rosdale,” Sydney
Melbourne or Woolongong'.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Hardie Trading Ltd
THOUGH and vigorous, the Hardie Trad-
ing group passed through the trying
months of credit restrictions with flying
colors. Turnover was a record, despite
a downturn in the trading in the second
half of last term. Consolidated net earn-
ings edged up a bit, and the dividend rate
was steady at an impressive 15 p.c.
Originally established in Victoria in
1926, Hardie Trading Limited assumed
public status in 1945. Operating through
seven subsidiaries and two associated
companies, the group is an importer,
manufacturer and distributor of paints,
polishes, abrasives, industrial chemicals,
dye-stuffs, supplies for textile mills,
tanners’ machinery, plastics and foundry
facings, laundry equipment, etc.
The Hardie Trading group comprises
the following subsidiary and associate
companies: —-
Spartan Paints Pty, maker of paints, enamels,
varnishes, etc. Operates factories in all States
except Tasmania.
L. Horscroft Pty, largest producer of dry-
cleaning and industrial-laundry machinery in
Australia.
James Hardie Trading Co. Pty, manufacturer
of car-polishes, rubbing compounds and
adhesives. Also carries on a merchandising
business similar to that of the parent co.
Proud Bros. Pty, manufacturer of foundry
facings.
James Hardie Trading Pty, a subsidiary of
James Hardie Trading Co. Pty, of Sydney.
Colours and Chemicals Pty, manufacturer of
naphthenate driers.
Hardie Trading Co. (N.Z.) Ltd.
Australian Bobbins Pty (half-interest), largest
Australian manufacturer of wooden bobbins
for the textile trades.
Peco-Hardie Pty (minority interest), formed
in association with Projectile and Engineering
Co. Ltd (U.K.), to produce injection-moulding
machines previously imported by Hardie
Trading.
Last year’s trading conditions were
severely affected by the stringent defta-
tionary policies introduced in November,
1960. Demand and sales were buoyant
in the earlier part of last term, but then
credit restrictions and the decline in
overall purchasing power adversely
affected many of the industries which the
group serves. This had inevitable reper-
cussions on Hardie Trading’s own sales,
and turnover eased. But on the whole
the group displayed a remarkable degree
of resilience to fluctuations in demand,
and succeeded in edging up its net
earnings.
Consolidated net profit for the year
ended June 30, 1961, was £6462 higher at
£243,655, after setting aside £74,102 for
depreciation (up £2913) and providing
£185,972 for taxation (down £11,417):
Hardie Trading, Ltd., and Subsidiaries.
r— Dividends N
Pref. To lie- Re-
June Profit.* 5 p.c. , — —Ord. N serves, serves, f
30, £ £ p.c. £ £ £
1954.. 640 7503 424= 57,999 85,138 784,116
Reserves capitalised, £46,400.. .. 737,716
Profit sale assets, £4556 .. .. 742,272
Freni tax-provision, £8425 .. .. 750,697
Unexplained addition, £ll4 .. .. 750,811
1955.. 525 7503 121 = 63,799 104,223 855,034
Reserves capitalised, £51,040 .. 803,994
Profit sale assets, £7558 .. .. 811,553
From tax-provision, £1732 .. .. 813,285
Unexplained addition, £ll3 .. .. 813,398
1956.. 992 7503 121= 70,180 95,309 908,707
Reserves capitalised, £56,143 .. 852,564
Tax overprovided, etc., £8055 .. 860,620
Profit, sale assets, £4166 .. .. 864,786
1957.. 032 7503 121 = 77,197 112,332 977,118
Reserves capitalised, £61,758 .. 915,360
Profit, sale assets, £3296 .. .. 918,656
Tax overprovided, £13,772 .. .. 932,428
1958.. 398 7503 121 = 84,917 119,978 1,052,406
Profit sale assets, £4563 .. .. 1,057,059
Tax overprovided, £7652 .. .. 1,064,711
1959. .2.23,7-58 7503 15 =101,900 114,355 1,179,066
Profit sale assets, £4626 . . . . 1,183,692
Tax overprovided, £11,303 . . .. 1,194,995
Unexplained addition, £150,007 .. 1,345,002
1960.. 193 15 =112,332 124,561 1,469,863
Profit sale assets, £6OlB . . . . 1,475,881
Tax overprovided, £7471 .. .. 1,483,352
Unexplained addition. £5204 . . 1,488,556
1961.. -- 15 =117,013 126,642 1,615,198
* After deducting outside shareholders’ interests and
contributions to staff fund, f Subject to intangibles,
£175,679 at 30/6/61.
Tax provision seems a bit high on the
profits disclosed. The anomalous decrease
may be partially explained by the
consistent tax provisions written
back in the following years (last term
£7471).
Consolidated net profit waB equivalent
to an earning rate of 31.2 p.c. on the
higher average ordinary capital, and com-
pares with 31.7 p.c. in the preceding term,
31.8 p.c. in 1959, 31.3 p.c. in 1958, 33 p.c.
in 1957 and 29.4 p.c. in 1956. Hardie
Trading's disclosed profits display a
remarkably steady trend.
The steady 15 p.c. dividend rate—lifted
from 121 p.c. in 1959—absorbed £117,013
and was amply covered. Reserves
received £126,642, and also benefited by
£6OlB profit on sale of assets, £7471 tax
overprovision written back and £5204
unexplained addition. Total consolidated
reserves and undistributed profits were
shown at £1,615,198 —after deducting
outside shareholders’ interests and contri-
butions to staff fund, but subject to
£175,679 intangibles.
This gives a net tangible asset backing
of 12s. Bd. for each ss. ord., including
uncalled capital at balance date.
Liquidity was satisfactory, despite
difficult trading conditions in the second
half of the last financial year. Bank
overdraft disappeared (£215,050 in the
previous term). Creditors were lower:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Paid capital— 1959. 1960. 1961
Pref £150,060
Old. .. .. 679,334 £748,880 £542,490
Calls in advance 60 104
Reserves .. .. 1,179,066 1,469,863 1,615,’198
Outside shareholders 51,250 51,250 51 -U>o
Mortgage 13,782 13,782 13’782
Overdraft.. .. 63,320 215,050
Deposits .. .. 95,574 76,847 81,110
Sundry creditors.. 877,852 1,101,530 940,966
Tax provision, etc. 196,719 198,463 185,506
Final dividend . . 105,652 112,332 117,013
£3,412,609 £3,987,997 £3,907,419
Freeholds . . 689,699 778,423 918,083
Leaseholds .. 249 —.
Plant, etc. .. 239,311 268,724 275,147
Shares other cos. 22,700 22.700 31,442
Stock .. .. 1,382,965 1,608,687 1,475,058
Debtors .. .. 893,687 1,128,253 1,016,375
Cash, etc. .. 2,484 5,531 15,635
Intangibles .. 181,514 175,679 175,679
£3,412,609 £3,987,997 £3,907,419
Stock was considerably lower, suggesting
adequate inventory control. Book debts
decreased due to slacker turnover towards
the balance date.
Last term’s one-for-four par issue,
announced early in the year, was reflected
in the consolidated balance sheet to the
extent of the 2s. 6d. a share application
moneys, plus calls in advance. Since then
the call has been completed and new
shares are fully paid.
The group is continuing its efforts to
expand its small but growing export
trade. Considerable attention is also
being devoted to production and market
research. A new product, Repo Auto
Cream (a paste polish with a wax silicon
base, described as “having a marked
superiority”), has been put on the market.
Early in the current year a contract
was signed for the erection of a new
building for the Hardie group in St Kilda
Road, Melbourne. Construction has


A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. I>. NEVITT, A. C. DKAI’KK,
N. AV. C. 1) K A PICK
{Members of Brisbane Stock lixchanpe)
STOCK AND SUAREBKOKKKS
Ground Floor,
Tli:‘ National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTtO”
I’lione: 312701 P.O. BOX
(t lines) N T o. 1887 AV
AN IDEAL XMAS GIF!
Keep Your Personal Papers SAFE
THE
HOME
UNITIZE R
Price: 45/- N.S.W. (Postage Paid);
48/- Interstate. 55/- W.A. and N.T.
Attractively finished in book binders’ cloth, this
handy portable Home Unitizer will keep all
your personal and important documents neatly
and safely—ready for quick reference. It has
twelve compartments and comes complete with
printed tags for 72 various titles, such as
Medical, Dental, Kates, Car Expenses, Insurance,
Taxation, Banking, Receipts, etc. Strong!}'
made for long wear. The Home Unitizer makes
an ideal gift with real utility value. Size
15$” x 11” x 3. IMMEDIATE DELIVERY.
MECHANICAL INDEX CO.,
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
FROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IS YEARS OR SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
commenced. Plans for a new building in
Commonwealth Street, Sydney, are
“advancing well.”
Future prospects largely depend on
general economic conditions, which are
not easy. However, the group has so far
weathered the credit and market diffi-
culties well and its resilience and inner
strength are encouraging. A considerable
proportion of Hardie Trading’s turnover
today is in goods of Australian origin—
this may provide a good cushion against
the effects of a protectionist change in the
Government’s import policy, unlikely at
the moment.
At the last sale in Melbourne the ss.
ords. fetched 20s. 4d. a unit, making the
immediate return 3.7 p.c. p.a. on the
basis of the steady 15 p.c. dividend
distribution.
Marrickville Holdings Ltd
IV/lARRICK.VILLE HOLDINGS LTD has
again asserted its position im the
the local food industry by the 9.1 per
cent, profit advance in 1960-61. Profit
was increased by £40,060 to a record
£477,718, representing an earning rate
of 20.6 per cent, on the average ordinary
capital.
The company was formed in 1951 to
acquire the issued capital of Marrick-
ville Margarine Ltd and its subsidiary
Eta Foods Pty Ltd. The margarine com-
pany makes industrial cooking mar-
garine, a hydrogenated coconut oil,
bakery oils, table margarine, caster oils,
stearine for waxes and polishes and stock
foods. Eta foods produces nut foods and
confectionary lines.
The main plant is at Marrickville, on
a site occupying 1 1 acres. There are
branch factories in Newcastle, Bray-
brook (Vic.), Renown Park (S.A.), and
Townsville (Q.). Products are mainly
marketed under the “Eta,” “Marvilie”
and “Pilot" brand names. Late in 1960,
the holding company acquired Glycerine
Distillery Co. Pty Ltd, which makes
glycerine, and fatty acids. The new sub-
sidiary recently completed a major plant
installati n, which directors say will
enable it to expand its product range.
In April the Marrickville group
acquired Krunchi Krisps Pty Ltd of
South Australia, entering the potato
crisp field. After the balance date, Jay-
Cee Potato Crisps Pty Ltd of Melbourne
was taken over. The company has a
financial interest in Brunswick of Aus-
tralia Pty Ltd, maker of equipment for
bowling alleys, an offshoot of Bruns-
wick International, of U.S. Marrickville
has also made a substantial investment
—believed to be £150,000 —in Olympic
Bowling Centres Ltd.
During 1957-58 Eta Foods Pty Ltd
was appointed the sole distributor in
Australia for the products of Procter and
Gamble, of U.S. One of the largest
corporations in the United States, this
group makes and markets soap, tooth-
paste and detergents in direct competi-
tion with the Unilever organisation.
Unilever has been operating in Aus-
tralia for years, and Procter and
Gamble's decision to venture into Aus-
tralia would not have been taken lightly.
The selection of Marrickville as distri-
butor is a measure of its prestige. So
far only two products Flash cleanser
and Camay toilet soap—have been put
on the Australian market. But there is
little doubt that Procter and Gamble
will launch a wider range of products.
The company selected to make Camay,
Preservene Pty Ltd, had teething prob-
lems with the new product, which
suggests that Marrickville might have
also incurred substantial distribution
costs in establishing the new line.
Marrickville's accounts have always
been conservative. In fact for the three
years 1957, 1958, and 1959, disclosed
profits of £297,458, £339,116 and
£346,468 were exceeded or almost
equalled bv the tax provisions of
£327,753, ’£359,982 and £334,141
respectively. In the last two years the
tax provision has been steady at
£370,258 and £370,833. Consolidated net
profit for the year ended June 30, 1961.
was disclosed at £477,718 (up £40,060)
after providing £253.483 for depreciation
(up £27,690) and £370,833 for taxa-
tion :
Parent and Subsidiaries.
r Dividends- —, To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. , Old. \ serves, serves. ’
4| p.c.
£ £ £ £ £
From inner reserves, £385,000 . . 1,523,183
’58..339.110 9500 15 p.c.-189,934 140,222 1,063,405
’59..346.468 9500 15 „ ~192,722 144,246 1,807,651
Deduct intangibles, £456,250 ..1,351,401
Add asset revaluation, £465,000 . . 1,816,401
Share premium, £142,987 . . .. 1,959,388
Less capitalisation of reserves,
£653,500 .. 1,305,888
Difference in par and book value of
subsidiaries acquired, £45,619 .. 1,260,269
’(H)..437.658 9500 15 p.c. =285,740 142,412 1,402,681
Add share premium, £957,841 . . 2,360,522
Add reduction in goodwill, £136,408 2,496,930
’0.1..477,718 95-00 15 p.c. =350,160 118,058 2,614,988
* Subject to intangibles, £456,250 at 30/6/61.
Earning rate on average ordinary
capital for the past five years has been
an average 249 per cent., giving solid
cover for the dividend.
The bonus during the i 960 financial
year only brought a clip of | per cent,
in the 15 per cent, dividend paid for the
previous five years, and this rate was
restored in 1961.
Share premium was increased from
£21,937 to £979,778 by the premium
placement of 200,000 ss. shares in
October, 1960, of 500,000 shares in April.
1961, the issue of 461,392 shares during
the year to acquire companies, and by
the 100 per cent, premium charged on
the issue to shareholders of 1,125,424
shares.
Shareholders have been rewarded in
recent years with a three-for-ten par issue
in October 1957, a one-for-two bonus
in September, 1959, and a one-for-eight
issue of ss. shares at ss. premium in
April, 1961.
A summary of the consolidated


V
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
•
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
•
Funds Exceed
£A363,000,000
•
Offices’.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Public Notice
AKE VIEW AND STAR LIMITED
J— t (Incorporated in England)
FINAL DIVIDEND NO. 93
NOTICE 1 S HEREBY GIVEN that the
Directors have decided to recommend at the
Annual General Meeting of the Company to
be held on December 7, 1961, payment of a
Final Dividend of One Shilling and Sixpence
per share Sterling in respect of the year ended
June 30, 1961, less United Kingdom Income
Tax at Seven Shillings and Ninepence in the
£ (six decimal point nine seven five pence per
share), the net amount of Dividend being
Eleven Decimal Point Nought Two Five Pence
per share Sterling.
Subject to confirmation at the Annual General
Meeting the Dividend will be paid on December
14, 1961, to all Shareholders registered on the
books of the Company at the close of business
on November 16, 1961.
The Transfer Books will be closed from
November 17 to 20, 1961, both days inclusive.
The Australian equivalent of Dividend will
be calculated at the rate of Exchange ruling
on November 16, 1961.
Net Dividend payable to non-resident Share-
holders entitled to United Kingdom Tax
exemption is One Shilling and Five Decimal
Point Six Three Nine Four Pence Sterling per
share, and this rate of Dividend will apply to
all exemption authorities received for Dividend.
For . . .
LAKE VIEW AND STAR
LIMITED.
R. C. BUCKETT,
Attorney.
Fimiston, W.A., November 3, 1961.
balance-sheets for the last three years
reflects the group’s growth:
Faid capital— 1959. 1960. 1961.
Pref £200,000 £200,000 £200,000
Old 1,262,625 1,960,500 2,532,204
Reserves . . .. 1,351,401 1,402,681 2,614,988
Notes, deposits . . 700,000 800,000 1,264,000
Overdraft .. 361,343 515,208 196,099
Creditors .. 600,670 774,955 833,955
Tax provision .. 354,351 400,607 419,518
Final div 98,025 153,412 190,721
£4,928,415 £6,207,363 £8,251,485
Land, buildings . . 1,248,147 2,078,799 2,548,538
Plant .. .. 1,021,467 1.212,932 1,613,003
Investments .. 184,286 337,932 506,628
Stock .. .. 1,729,724 1,772,441 2,392,565
Debtors .. 742,403 802,015 1,186,860
Cash .. 2,388 3,244 3,891
£4,928,415 £6,207,363 £8,251,485
The financial structure looks sound:
the company is not burdened by heavy
fixed interest borrowings, and there are
no convertible notes to water the share-
holders’ equity in the future. Net
tangible asset backing for the 20s.
preference shares on latest consolidated
figures, is £26 14s. 9d. and for the ss.
ordinary stock unit 10s. 2d.
The manufacture of margarine in Aus-
tralia is limited by a quota system, which
protects the dairy producer. It appears
that Marrickville recognises fully the
limitations of the margarine business,
and has actively sought other avenues for
expansion in allied fields. The associa-
tion with Procter and Gamble provides
the biggest growth element for the group.
At around 245. 7d. for the ss. stock
unit, dividend yield is 3 per cent., and
earnings yield—the measure of what the
investor would receive on his outlay if
the company distributed all it earned —
is a modest 4 per cent. The shares look
a solid long-term investment.
COMPANY NOTES
Marcus Clark and Co. Ltd
ATarcus Clark Acceptance Ltd, a
wholly owned subsidiary of Marcus
Clark and Co. Ltd, is making an issue
of 500,006 registered first mortage deben-
tures. “The debenture issue is uncondit-
ionally guaranteed by Marcus Clark and
Co. Ltd and two other companies in the
group—Hobsons Pty Ltd and Wilga
Productions Pry Ltd”.
Prospectus says that book value of
net tangible assets supporting each £lOO
debenture and unsecured liabilities of the
issuing company and guarantors is about
£226. Interest rates vary from 5 p.c. p.a.
on three months notice to 8| p.c. on five
to 10 and 20 years. Underwriting brokers
are Messrs Ralph W. King and Yuill, of
Sydney.
Directors say that funds raised by the
issue will help to meet the increased de-
mand for credit facilities, which is repor-
ted to be accompanying the group’s
increase in sales.
On November 2, 1961. the subsidiary
Bon Marche department store was opened
at Liverpool, near Sydney. Another
department store will be established by
Marcus Clark in Canberra —as a part of
the projected new £2,500,000 regional
shopping centre.
OIL AND MINING
Wapet
VX/est Australian Petroleum Pty Ltd
’c has reported that “good progress”
was made at the Eneabba No. 1 well,
which gained 739 feet —bringing the total
depth to 12,795 feet. There has been no
change in the formations, and cuttings
still have showings of fluorescence.
Seismograph work is continuing accord-
ing to programme.
A late report says that gas was
encountered in the drilling fluid at 12,795
feet. 7 e gas detector showed an in-
creased reading. Extra quantities of
barytes are being transported to the
location to increase the weight of drilling
mud if necessary.
Mr J. M. Kirby resigned from the
position of managing-director and is
returning to the United States, prepara-
tory to taking up another overseas
assignment. Mr P. B. McGrath, who
recently arrived in Perth from the San
Francisco office of the California Ex-
ploration Company, has been appointed
managing-director and was elected chair-
man of the board.
Consolidated Gold Fields
/Consolidated Gold Fields of South
Africa Limited of U.K., earned a
group net profit of £5tg.4,031,585 for the
year to June 30, 1961. This is an increase
of £5tg.843,763 (or 26.5 per cent.) over
the previous year. Consolidated Gold
Fields (Australia) Pty Ltd is an Aus-
tralian subsidiary of the group.
The parent profit was reached after
providing £5tg.2,645.633 for taxation
(£5tg.2,124,402 in previous year). Out-
side shareholders will receive £st. 148,448,
compared with £5tg.52,366 in 1959-60.
Final dividend of 3s. 9d. a ss. unit
makes a steady 25 per cent, distribution
for the year on capital increased by a
one-for-one bonus issue last December.
The company set aside £stg. 1,933,995
from profits for investment and explora-
tion reserve, which includes provision for
exploration in Australia.
Oil Development N.L.
/"\il Development N.L. and Santos
Ltd report that during operations
on Beachport No. I well the drill became
stuck at 3160 feet. Fishing opeiations
are in progress.


Positions Vacant
CRANBROOK SCHOOL, BELLEVUE
HILL, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
VACANCIES OCCURRING FROM FIRST
TERM 1962
GEOLOGY MASTER required to teach
Geology and some Science or Mathematics.
Large new Science-Geology Block being con-
structed with research facilities. Good oppor-
tunity for Honours graduates particularly.
GEOGRAPHY MASTER required to teach
Geography up to Leaving Certificate standard
or, if with suitable experience, to take over
Geography Department.
Single resident accommodation and two flats
for married masters available in Eastern
Suburbs.
Apply in writing to The Headmaster stating
age, full academic and extra curricular qualifica-
tions and experience. Also telephone FM 1110
for appointment with Headmaster.
ROYAJL AUSTRALIAN NAVAL COLLKCE
JERVIS BAY, A.C.T.
VACANCIES FOR MASTERS
Civil Professorial Staff »
Three Permanent Positions
(A) Mathematics (B) Physics (C) French
Salary range £lBl6- £2lOl with eligibility
for advancement as Senior Master, £2166-£2126
on completion of six years service as Master.
Applications are invited from University Gradu-
ates experienced in teaching to Matriculation
standard and qualified to teach at First Year
Australian University standard.
Successful applicants will be required to com-
mence duty at the end of January, 1962. Housing
will he available.
Applications stating qualifications and teaching,
experience Tn the required subject and any others,
to the Secretary, Department of the Navy, Can-
berra, A.C.T. by 25tb November, 1961.
m
HELP
! m =( «~f-Y-4J
all the year round. Donations-. 169
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. BM 2001.
Divorce Notice
Matrimonial Causes Act 1959
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF SOUTH AUSTRALIA
Between: JOYCE EVELYN STEWART Petitioner
and MALCOLM GEORGE STEWART Respondent—
To: MALCOLM GEORGE STEWART. —NOTICE IS
HEREBY GIVEN to Malcolm George Stewart whose
last, known address was at 37 Galway Terrace Largs
North in the State of South Australia that a petition
has been issued in the Supreme Court of South
Australia in an action in which his wife Joyce Evelyn
Stewart claims an order for divorce on the ground
of his desertion and habitual cruelty and in such
action his wife intends to ask for custody of the
children and for maintenance and for costs against
him and if Malcolm Georg'e Stewart desires to be
heard in opposition to the claim for any of such
orders he must, file an answer to the petition in
the office of the Master of the Supreme Court of
South Australia within 28 days of the publication
of this advertisement otherwise orders may be
made against him in his absence.—BßlGHT &
McLEOD 112 King William Street, Adelaide. Soli*
citors for the Petitioner - .
All the
family
will love
I
4
Euerybodys
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
NEW SI B. RENEW AL
(Please cross out one)
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper,
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please find enclosed my cheque I money-order
for months’ subscription to The
Bulletin.
NAME:
ADDRESS:
RATES (A /asia): 1 year—£2 125.; \ year—
£l 6s. Post free. British C’wealth:
£3 3s. 6d. Foreign: £3 16s.
N.Z. CURRENCY (Remit to Box 965,
Wellington, N.Z.): A/asia: 1 year—
£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d. British
C’wealth: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
THE
ORION INSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
( Incorporated, in England )
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT AVIATION
N.S.YV. BRANCH: 19 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
TELEPHONE: 27 4387 L. F. THORPE, Manager.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 667
Across
I—Grubs provide for some columns. (12)
B—Rhode Island drinks estuaries. (5-6)
11 — All rest with Miss Wilson, soprano. (7)
12 — Got fagged out again, so gave up working. (7)
13— Such a motorist may be pleased like 12-across. (7)
14— Vessel which certainly isn’t 17-down. (6)
18—Say yes as dispatched. (6)
20 —One of the toupees swam badly
into the tepees. (7)
24 —Went after game but cowered. (7)
26 —lt makes one feverish operatic
number which is bad according
to the French. (7)
27 — Spirit of me as a parliamen-
tarian. (3)
28 — A little 16-down fabric. (11)
29 — A girl then joins lan’s Spartans,
perhaps. (3-9)
Down
1 — Color this Gallicised increase. (6)
2 Innkeepers place Jules among
sailors. (9)
3 Football to recover in a country
style. (7)
4 The first person acts after a wor-
shipper. (8)
5 Its root is used with Italian
rice. (7)
6 Double up in the pit’s acclama-
tion. (8)
7 Stare intently for an Ibsen
hero. (4)
9—Thanks about the vehicle’s
unloaded weight. (4)
15—Young mutton treat affected this
vehicle. (9)
16 — I'm square enough for an aristo-
crat. (8)
17 — What hippopotamus has a brag-
gart? (3, 5)
19—Genus of water lilies having no
blue “M.” (7)
21 — Documents to comfort the
bereaved explorer. (5)
22 — Rode into this European
river. (4)
23 — Scares with embrace. (6)
25 —A secret agent is snake-
infested. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 666


• .y.- .j; -
It’s great to answer the call of the open road ... great to be going
places, with your car purring gently and your contented family
beside you. Good to know you’ve left the care of your car to
your experienced Atlantic service man. Atlantic ... all you need
for safe, Happy Motoring.
ATLANTIC
Esso
SIGNS OF QUALITY, SYMBOLS OF SERVICE
Atlantic Union Oil Company Pty. Limited.
Wap/to/ AfotdtiHff
begins at your
Atlantic Service Station
$O.
tss
r<
l
2925/105
