

The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
January 4, 1961
Price 1/-
ANATOMY
OF A
BACKBENCHER
BY alan Reid
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.


In 1961
YOU CAN LEARN TO
WRITE SUCCESSFULLY!
Wany Stott Students pay 'for their course
before completing- it,.
Stott St udents are taught how to write
stories that sell and are_ advised by the
College of the names and. addresses of
reputable Literary Agents in various
countries who may be trusted to handle
Students’ MSS to the -best advantage. If
YOU have a story to tell, learn how to tell
it. This lucrative field of Authorship is
waiting to pay well for good work.
m
15!) Flinders Fane, Melbourne; 14!) Castle-
reash St., Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Bris-
bane; 21 (1 renfell St., Adelaide; 254 Murray
St., Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON"— —-
To STOTT'S: Please seud me, without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
AGE (SB 1(51)
The Red Page
THE YEAR’S POETRY
Australian Poetry Edited by
A. D. Hope. Angus and Robertson.
15s.
Every editor is at the mercy of his
contributors —he can only take the best
of what is offering; —and if this year’s
“Australian Poetry” seems at once
more eloquent and less alive than the
previous year’s, mere chance is 'largely
responsible. But there is also the
emphasis, the direction, - which every
editor, however liberal, necessarily
gives to his selection.
The strength of “Australian Poetry
1959,” which, edited by Nancy Kees-
ing. was one of the best issues of this
invaluable anthology, lay chiefly in
Robert D. Fitz Gerald’s “The Wind at
Your Door.” one of those rare pieces
of solid and permanent poetry occa-
sionally cast up among the random
efforts of the year. Fitz Gerald has not
obliged A. D. Hope with anything of
the same calibre —though his “Mac-
quarie Place” is one of the liveliest of
this year's smaller poems.
Almost equal to “The Wind at Your
Door” in 1959, and certainly equally
effective in its own field, was Hope’s
own sustained and witty reversal of
the Robinson Crusoe story in “Friday”;
and there were also Ronald McCuaig’s
moving elegy for his father, “Au
Tombeau de Mon Pere,” and Francis
Webb's powerful “The Sea,” In all
of these there was the feeling of urgent-
life: in the contemporary' poems be-
cause they were contemporary and full
of deep emotion; in the 'historical
poems because the poets were intensely
and imaginatively re-creating and
re-living the stories they wrote about —
Little dangerous men attack without
warning ;
We loot and kill, singing hopelessly
in the .foreign morning ;
and in “Friday” because Hope was at
once satirising contemporary civilisa-
tion and thoroughly enjoying re-living
his imaginary historical situation.
The longer poems in “Australian
Poetry I 960” are Vincent Buckley’s
“Lament for the Makers,” Geoffrey
Dutton’s ‘''Abandoned Airstrip,” Evan
Jones’s “A Valedictory Ode,” James
McAuley’s “The Great Voyage,” my
own “The Garden of Ships” (which I
mention for the record) and Harold
Stewart's “The Descent of Manjusri."
Noting only that we have seen it
before, in this year's Adelaide
anthology, “Verse in Australia.” I
exempt Geoffrey Dutton's meditation
on his R.A.A.F. days from any criti-
cism of these longer selections. It
lacks the final discipline of style and
form to Veep it steadily moving from
point to' point, but it is a good piece
of writing and it is alive. But it is that
sense of life and immediacy, whether
contemporary or contemporary dis-
guised as historical, that I miss in the
other long poems. I am afraid that I
am utterly unable to make contact with
Harold Stewart’s meditations on a
Buddhist theme, except that parts of
it are very beautifully written. It
reminds me of Shelley's “The Witch
of Atlas.” It seems to me that only
in the last stanza of the extract from
McAuley’s long poem on Quiros—
Justus ut patina rose into my mouth,
And delectasi, the sweet psalmist’s
cry.
I felt the lonely strangeness of the
South,
And shuddered/though I could not
have said why.
As we stood oft", there came brief
rain and thunder ;
Once more we glimpsed the island,
lying under
An arc of iris broken at the sky-
do we get the impression that McAuley
is re-living that voyage in the way, for
example, that William Hart-Smith
re-lived Columbus, so that vision,
language and rhythm simultaneously
come to life.
I don't think I am being altogether
fair in suggesting that life is lacking
in Vincent Buckley’s “Lament for the
Makers,” since he mentions Slessor and
Hope among his poets, or in Evan.
Jones’s “Valedictory Ode,” since it is!
a contemporary piece about leaving <
Melbourne University; but both these,;
poems are so derivative as to stand at
one remove from reality. They come
to us its echoes. Buckley's is frankly
derived from Dunbar and. though well
written, falls too far short of the old
Scotchman’s terrible lament—one* of
the most tragic poems in the language
-to bear comparison. Evan Jones’s
(I much preferred his fresher “Christen-
ing Song” in last year’s anthology) is
heavily derived from Yeats; and if it
was sometimes a little uncomfortable to
have the “scholars and wits” of Dublin
over-written in Yeats’s -.mythology, it is
harder still to accept them from Mel-
bourne.
So. while I respect these poems for
their length, their eloquence, their
architectural quality, 1 feel that Hope
has rather over-weigh ted the anthology
with them.: and I feel, too, that in his
mysterious campaign against “free
verse,” renewed in his foreword—l
agree with him that free verse is noth-
ing: but where does he manage to find
it?—he may have misled himself into
excluding such writers as William
Hart-Smith and Colin Thiele. Hart-
Smith sometimes writes free verse, but
not often; Colin Thiele writes a rough,
vigorous iambic. I would also have
liked to have seen Judith Wright repre-
sented by more than one of her bird-
poems (“Extinct Birds”); it has been
her year in Australian poetry.
But perhaps Hart-Smith, and Colin
Thiele simply did not contribute. On
the whole, there is a broad and liberal
selection among the shorter poems—
Rosemary Dobson. Charles Higham,
Nan McDonald. lan Mudie. J. R.
Rowland and others—and the justifica-
tion for printing the longer pieces is
that, apart from their merits and their
interest. Hope has “tried simply to give
a representative view of the best work
in poetry produced in Australia in the
period under review.”
Douglas Stewart
Back to Bafut
A Zoo In My Luggage, Gerald Durreli.
Rupert Hart-Davis; Angus and
Robertson. 20s.
It is an enormous relief to see Gerald
Durreli getting back to Africa on
another collecting expedition in this
book instead of merely reprinting his
radio talks as he did in the disappoint-
ing “Encounters with Animals”; and he
has pulled off a minor miracle here by
revisiting the inimitable Fon of Bafut
and keeping him just about as enter-
taining as he was in “The Bafut
Beagles.”
Nothing, perhaps, could ever quite
equal the first fine careless rapture with
(Continued on page 49)


m
m
m
.
■
i
m
*****3
mm
s3£< : SBfc:?
j 3& * *
*:*>»»«BHBiSiaS<-:-x-:*: iiSteS&Ss!?: :•:> JW?SSJS£?3KSfiB:
iPsfcS
pPp
%'t
v ” v
* ' i
>.<4.* y ...
wmwi
& "tp
.
v -A , K *''*<? ~>4. j.*, v
mm wbs
FULL 6 YARD PAYLOAD MEANS MORE PROFIT • • • POWER TO SPARE
FOR FASTER HAULING ... EASIER DUMPING .. . FASTER TURN-AROUND.
Economical, high-profit yielding operation depends on bigger pay-
loads, faster turn-around, every haul. The AA-160 series was
specially designed to achieve this, incorporating advanced front-
mounted telescopic hoist and specially built light-weight bodies, a
combination which makes possible the legally-prescribed weight
distribution of a full 6 yards of screenings. With power to spare,
the AA-162 and AA-164 models’ nigged 4-speed transmission and
electric shift two-speed rear axles enable them to haul a full
load of 6 yards at speeds to maintain a tight schedule, while the
modern cabs are designed to give maximum driver comfort and
efficiency. There’s an International AA-160 series model exactly
suited to your load or location requirements see the range now!
11 INTERNATIONAL
THE INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. District Sales Offices in Capital Cities.
TRUCKS
: Dandenong, Geelong and Port Melbourne.
FMT36fI/FP


The Bulletin
JANUARY 4, 1961
Vol. 82
No. 4221
INDEX
COVER STORY
Anatomy of a Backbencher 10
CURRENT AFFAIRS
Plain English
Catholics, Italian and Local;
Russian Children’s Books;
Cost of Prosperity 6
Political Points .., . i .... .16
OVERSEAS
Kennedy’s Views on Defence 40
DEPARTMENTS
Aboriginalities .. . ........ 42
Personal .. .. ; .. ... .. • • 14
Service and Information .. .. : 44
Society .. .......... .. ... 8
FEATURES
What Asians Think of Us.
No. 2: Malayans .... 22
The Night the Japs Hit
Sydney .. ... ...; 47
FICTION
Aboriginal Stories as Tpld to
Roland Robinson .. . .. 19
FINANCE
Business, Robbery, Etc.
Where are the “Institu-
tions”? ...... ...... 34
Wild Cat Pages .. 3 .., .. .. 24
LETTERS 45
MAN ON THE LAND
To Lift the Blight of Emptiness
in Queensland, by M. H.
Ellis . . ..; . ..; 37
REVIEWS
The Red Page
The Year’s Poetry ~ .. 2
ShOWS .. ....., .. .. > 26
SPORT
At the Davis Cup .. ; ; ... .. 31
John Schofield ........ .. 33
WOMEN
High Fashion’s Downward
Path ~ .... .. .. 29
NEXT WEEK
DUSSELDORP’S
DAY
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street,
Sydney; Box 2521; Phone: BU 5971.
The Nuclear Weapons
End-game
TT probably does not matter much whether the French make their own
nuclear weapons or not. Although French politics can become so
dangerously febrile that there is always a possibility that some maniac might
emerge who would .want to chuck nuclear bombs at someone, it is a little
difficult to see who he would chuck them at. One way or the other the
French will soon be out of Algeria, and thenceforth their greatest enemies
are going to be the French themselves.
This goes for other formerly major Powers who have now shifted into
the second rank. In the long run they are cemented into the Western
Alliance and accept its major preoccupations and rules. However much
they squabble with each other on the details, necessity forces them to stick
with each other on the generalities. The Suez eruption, for example, might
once have destroyed an alliance. Both the French and British Governments
and the American Government saw in each other’s conduct the blackest
treachery; but what could they do except pretend that none of it had
happened and just patch things up ?
What, then, is going to happen when one or more of the less global-
minded third-rate Powers tries somehow or other to get itself some nuclear
bombs? A Middle Eastern country, perhaps, or —even worse —one of the
new African “Powers” may have a sufficiently narrow view of what we are
supposed to be doing in this world to let one off; or to threaten to do so
(which might, if it involved the two great Powers, be even worse again).
One can worry too much about nuclear weapons. As things stand now
the nuclear stalemate is one of the safeguards of peace and the greatest
deterrent to Communist aggression. But in the next ten years or so third-rate
Powers are going to be demanding nuclear weapons. What happens then ?
The depressing inevitability of the end-game of the nuclear stalemate is
that somewhere around that time the Americans and Russians may have to
do a deal. The kind of reasons that stop either side for the moment from
engaging in nuclear warfare apply to an extension of the possession of nuclear
bombs. The Russians do not really care if the French have a bomb (however
much propaganda they may care to make out of it); they see the French as
part of the Western Alliance. But they are going to care if Israel has one,
or Egypt, or Ghana, or Congo.
BUT how do you prevent minor Powers from making nuclear bombs?
The United Nations can be inspired to pass resolutions; a combination
of the Western and Communist blocs, plus most of the neutralist bloc, could'
pass a resolution about anything. But what do you do if the resolution is
ignored ? The only answer is that you use some kind of force. And at that
stage Russia and America either drop out of the picture and let anyone who
wants to make a bomb make one; or one of them drops out, the other pushes
on, and there is really a danger of either nuclear war or Russian domination;
or both get together and . . . what ? The final implication is that they get
together and run the world.
On the face of it this really is perpetual checkmate. We get a freezing
of the power situation as it will be, say, on the third day of April, 1968, and
that’s that. In practice this will never happen. Situations are never
permanently frozen. For all we know such a “final solution” could work
to our advantage more than the Russians’ if, in the meantime, we keep
our nerve.


OUR YOUNG HOLT'S A DUSTMAN
(But he got no tip this year!)


PLAIN ENGLISH
Catholic Discords
A nyone who fears Italian migration
will lead to a directly proportionate
increase in Catholic power should take
note of the constant, unspectacular but
significant differences between the atti-
tudes of the Australian Catholics and
those of the migrants.
Basically it is a conflict between Irish
and Italian Catholicism. It is felt most
acutely in Melbourne and Sydney
suburbs such as Surry Hills, Leichhardt,
Fairfield, Carlton, Brunswick and Fitz-
roy.
It expresses itself in incidents such as
that of Italians throwing a priest out of
a Melbourne church after he had con-
sistently attacked Italians for putting
pennies on the collection-plate and dis-
approved of the photographers they
invited to weddings.
It caused a Mildura cleric to complain
to the Italian consul that Italians never
attended Mass when, in fact, they were
travelling to Robinvale for it: the priest
there, unlike the one at Mildura, would
christen on Saturday instead of Sunday
so that the Italians could throw a big
christening party at night.
As the Italians, however ignorant,
have always thought of the Church as a
binding social force they are unhappy to
see it divided from the rest of the com-
munity ; they consider emphasis on
separateness un-catholic. There are few
Catholic schools as such in Italy, and
the financial burden of ,the system here
could be a future cause of contention.
Further, Italians regard the constant
warnings against mixed marriages here as
divisive and inhuman. Earlier migrant
generations discouraged marriages be-
tween Italians and Australians, but this
prejudice has largely vanished. They
consider religion irrelevant in such a
personal matter as love, although they
believe that the children should be raised
as Catholics. Similarly, they regard any
Church political pressure as an infringe-
ment of their private lives. Most of them
think Santamaria means either a brand
of olive-oil or of sardines.
The Italian is an individualistic, undog-
matic, anti-authoritarian, undisciplined,
anti-organisational man. He is inevitably
anti-clerical, boasting that he is mangia-
prete but not mangia Christo —priest-
hater but not Christ-hater. At the same
time he expects all priests to be saints,
otherwise he is bitterly disillusioned.
Italians complain that the Australian
Church regards them as economic units
useful for contributions, for fetes ; they
complain that in cases where assistance
is needed from Catholic institutions one
is screened to find out whether one is a
good parishioner. They contrast this
treatment with that given by the Salva-
tion Army, just as they do the state-
ment of the Methodist Conference that
a helping hand should be given to all
migrants, and the ecumenical speeches
of the Anglican Archbishop of Mel-
bourne, with Bishop Fox’s strictures,-and
the behavior of certain parish priests who
prohibit confessions in Italian so that
they can golf.
What do the Italians want? First of
all, priests who can understand them.
Secondly they want more color, less
austerity ; they want singing among the
congregation, spectacular weddings and
christenings, big street processions with
banners, festivities for their saints (prob-
ably vtfith fireworks), a public Via Crucis
at Easter, blessings of their fishing fleets
as now happens at Ulludulla (N.S.W.)
and Port Pirie (S.A.).
When they become really heated they
say that the Irish Catholics are their
worst enemies, that they get along far
better with Protestants. They would be
enthusiastic supporters of the Kon
O’Tiki project suggested by Australian
priests: that all the Irish clergy here
should drift on a raft across the Pacific.
Russian Children's Books
'T'he discovery by many Australians,
especially intellectuals, that Russians
are human-beings must account for part
of the commercial success in Australia of
Russian children’s books.
There are over 100 titles circulating
widely throughout Australia ranging in
price from Is. to 15s. The most popular
is “The Three Bears,” by Leo Tolstoi,
which sells at Is. 6d. Over 10,000 copies
of this beautifully illustrated, simple folk-
tale have been sold. The second most
popular is “Old Man’s Mitten”; already
9000 copies of it have found their way
into Australian households, and it is now
out of print.
Most booksellers contacted regard
Russian fairy-tales as good commercial
propositions in the quality of the illus-
trations, the cost and the toughness of
the paper —a major consideration in
children’s books.
The books retail about 50 per cent,
cheaper than comparable English or Aus-
tralian printed books. One Sydney book-
seller only had one copy of P. Yershov’s
“The Little Humped-Back Horse,” a
hardbacked Bs. 6d. book: he had sold
25 over the last two years.
Communist bookshops sell many more
than do other booksellers: this Christ-
mas Sydney’s New World shop sold over
50 of “The Little Humped-Back Horse”
and 30 of Sergei Mikhalkov’s “Rabbit-
Nose-In-the-Air,” a 6s. stiff-covered
book,
The books have good propaganda
value, and, judging by their price, must
be heavily subsidised. One reason for
the good writing in the books is that
Russian writers have found this medium
one of the few in which they can freely
exercise their talents.
Russian and Chinese children’s books
have been widely circulating in Australia
for six years. The distributors are
Current Book Distributors, managed by
a Mr A. Keesing. Their office is in the
same building as the Communist
“Pioneer” bookshop and the Communist
Eureka Youth League, and it could be
assumed that Current Book Distributors
is a Communist-front organisation. Mr
Keesing told us that he had been mainly
responsible for the appearance in Aus-
tralia of the English - language transla-
tions. He said that when he was learning
Russian eight years ago he noticed the
high standard of the Russian-language
children’s books and wrote to the Russian
distributors, Publishing House for Child-
ren, Moscow, suggesting the commercial
possibilities of English translations.
They accepted his suggestion and
quickly sent out some of the books.
Robertson and Mullen’s in Melbourne
and Rigby’s in Adelaide usually buy them
in lots of 1000. Many teachers have
bought them and freely use them in
primary-school and kindergarten work.
There are no import restrictions on the
books and they are duty-free. ~
Cost of Prosperity
'The Melbourne-based Institute of Public
Affairs looked into the figures on Aus-
tralian living-standards last year and
found that over the whole community
they had risen by about 15 per cent,
between the late 1940’s and the late
1950’5. Now the institute has looked into
the standards of wage-earners and finds
them much better off. Male factory
(operative) employees are up almost 30
per cent, in real wages since 1948-49,
and females by more than 30 per cent.
(To get their figures, the institute’s
researchers took the Secondary Industries
Production. Bulletin, excluded managerial
and clerical staff, and reduced the earn-
ings given in it to real terms by the Con-
sumer Price Index.)
Today ah average of seven-and-a-half
hours overtime is worked in one-third of
all factories, and the 40-hour week has
not only brought the opportunity of over-
time, but also the chance to take a
second job.
The standard of life also has improved.
A high proportion of workers now get
three weeks’ paid annual leave ; workers’
compensation benefits have been ex-
tended considerably; annual contribu-
tions by employers to private and super-
annuation plans have increased from £3
million pre-war to £3B million today.
These superannuation funds now own


more than £2OO million, and 92 per cent,
of large businesses (reckoned here as
those with more than 250 on the pay-
roll) have pension plans.
The institute’s breakdown of its esti-
mate of the average adult male factory-
wage of about £2l a week is: Basic
wage, £l4; margins, etc., £3.5; over-
time, £1.5 ; bonuses, incentive and over-
award payments, £2.
There is one blot in this encouraging
picture. Labor costs in Australia are at
least 10s. an hour compared with Bs. 3d.
in West Germany, 7s. 9d. in the U.K.,
7s. in France and ss. lOd. in Italy.
If this goes on, we won’t be able to
afford to be prosperous.
Slow Death
Heffron Government may have
won its case both in the State Full
Court and in the High Court on whether
the people of N.S.W. should hold a
referendum to decide if they want to
abolish their Legislative Council or not.
But it still faces trouble. Looming up
directly ahead is a statutory Council
election to fill vacancies on the retirement
of 15 members with 12-year terms on
April 22.
This election must be held before
April 22, and with the sound of axes
being ground all over the country and
the certainty that the insurgent Labor
members of the Council will cast their
votes to embarrass the Government and
defeat its nominees, the poll is an incen-
tive to the Premier to hurry-up the
execution of the Council.
If the referendum is held it will pro-
duce a farcical situation—not that farces
worry a political Houdini like Mr
Heffron.
If the referendum were carried first the
election would still have to be held
according to law, since the new law could
not receive the Royal Assent in time to
prevent it. It would thus be an election
of the doomed.
On the other hand, whether there is an
election or not, there will be an interval
during which the dying Council will be
able to struggle violently enough on its
way to the scaffold to hamper the Gov-
ernment’s detailed plans and make the
journey as uncomfortable for the hang-
men as for their victims.
The Government’s chief anxiety, even
if there is no appeal to the Privy Council,
must be to get the numerous prelimi-
naries through in time for the next
election.
There is a considerable amount to be
done. The bill, if approyed by the elec-
tors at the referendum, will have to lie
30 days on the table of the House of
Commons and House of Lords before
Royal Assent can be given—the Austra-
lian States, curiously enough, not being
parties to the Statute of Westminster.
No doubt, when the bill does come before
those bodies, there will be some move to
examine it, and that may take some time.
Also there are the preliminaries to
one-House Government to be gone
through consequential amendments to
existing legislation will be legion and
some of them complicated.
The Council’s sponsors and defenders
are not in a hurry to give their decision
about Privy Council appeal. They are
obviously fighting a delaying-action with
an eye to the main chance.
What is even more worrying to the
Government is the strange lack of eager-
ness among many Labor stalwarts either
to come out in the open for abolition or
to become candidates for the forthcoming
Council elec lion.
The Market for Professors
HPhe government of universities is a
. dull subject, though an important
one, and it takes something like the
Russel Ward case to arouse public
interest in it. 1960, however, produced
another academic controversy which
received less publicity but which may
have more far-reaching effects than the
Ward case the attack on the whole
system of Australian universities by the
ex-Vice Chancellor of Adelaide Univer-
sity, A. P. Rowe, in his book “If the
Gown Fits.” It was more or less the
explanation for his resignation, and he
pulled no punches.
The point that aroused most interest
was his criticism of the quality of our
professors. “The bald fact,” he said, “is
that very few professors in Australia
would be considered for chairs in England
or America.” One of the reasons he
advanced for this is egalitarianism—the
dogma that all professors must be paid
the same salary regardless of their merits
or the subjects they are teaching. As well
as subjecting professors to the vice-
chancellor’s rule, Rowe also wanted to
subject them to the market-place and let
the best of them demand, and get, higher
salaries than their inferior colleagues.
This system works in America, and unless
we adopt it here, he says, we will never
attract the best men to our chairs.
Criticising Rowe’s book in the current
issue of “Quadrant,” Professor Partridge,
of the National University, claims that
when Australian professors have insisted
on equality of salaries, “they have been
moved not so much by the instinct of
mediocrities to protect one another as
by the belief that, since in most cases it
is impossible to discriminate objectively
or exactly, it is better to let virtue be its
own reward. And once we start trying
to match salary status and amount of
administrative authority with intellectual
merit we run the risk of encouraging
ambitions and values that are far from
being truly academic.”
In fact, Partridge thinks, the univer-
sities ought to be more egalitarian still:
in intellectual work, he says, income
rarely corresponds with merit, and it is
often the less - recognised, lower - paid
younger men, rather than the older pro-
fessors who have passed their productive
peak, who are doing the best work.
Should professors, then, be paid less and
their staffs more?.
Nobody Knows
is happening under that intrusion
into Victoria’s civil liberty known
officially as the Motor Car (Driving) Act
1960 (but more expressively as the Seize-
the-Keys Act)? Nobody knows, except
officials. Which officials? Nobody knows,
except officials.
The reason for this is that the police-
man in each case is both policeman and
judge, and his arbitrary seizure of
ignition-keys and car, or both, will not
be tested in court unless the driver
obstructs him and is charged.
Not many motorists willingly enter
a court. It is highly embarrassing and
highly expensive, and under the Act all
they can hope to achieve is vindication
of a sense of personal wrong. The loss
of the case could result in a heavy fine,
and it could be lost on police evidence
that may be exaggerated or perjured and
in any case would be expertly presented.
The Act provides that when any mem-
ber of the Police Force believes on
reasonable grounds that any person who
is driving or appears to be about to drive
is physically or mentally incapable of
having proper control he may forbid that
person to drive while he is incapable,
require him to deliver up all ignition or
other keys in his possession, immobilise
the car or remove it to a safe place.
Any person “who contravenes or fails
to comply with any prohibition or re-
quirement’’ or who “attempts to obstruct”
will be liable to a fine of £5O, and for
following offences £lOO, or up to six
months’ imprisonment, provided the court
is satisfied the policeman had reasonable
grounds for his act in the interest of the
driver, any other person, or the public.
The Act was passed last June with
heartfelt protestations from the State
Government that it would be adminis-
tered most judiciously. How it has been
administered in fact is not known. No
drivers have so far been courageous
enough to take their cases to court.
The modern lawyer, in Victoria at
least, has forgotten in this instance the
traditional role of watchdog of civilian
rights. Only two have emerged from
their lucrative practices to offer any
passionate opposition to the Act.
The first was John Galbally, Leader
of the Opposition in the Legislative Coun-
cil. Galbally is a leading barrister, but
his appeal to the Council was brushed
aside as mere Opposition propaganda.
The second is W. L. Bryan, a leading
Melbourne lawyer, who has written an
article for the current “Law Institute
Journal” chiding his legal brethren on
their indifference to the Act.
Mr Bryan describes the Act as
medieval, and the possibilities of corrupt
or irresponsible police action as bound-
less. Obviously, he says, a constable
faced with some degree of resistance,
refusal or offensive conduct by the driver
would not charge him under this Act
but with some other offence, such as
resisting the police, offensive behavior,
insulting or threatening words.
Mr Bryan asks lawyers to exert what-
ever influence they have to procure an
amendment of “this panic legislation”
which sacrifices the driver to a “pressure-
group of myoptic do-gooders.”


Society
Infra Dig ,
To Say the Least
Sydney shoppers, according to an
exultant Chamber of Commerce,
spent two-million pounds a day during
the late commercial carnival. Some of
this cash undoubtedly came, it follows,
from the pawnbroking establishments
scattered round the city. Did pawn-
brokers, in fact, experience a seasonal
rush of customers anxious to raise
funds? They are reluctant to say. Pawn-
broking, an old and not always respect-
able profession, has, it seems, its code
of ethics.
“I wouldn’t dream of talking about
what goes on inside this place,” said a
woman pawnbroker in William Street,
sipping a cup of tea. “I think it’s infra
dig., to say the least.
“You wouldn’t expect to go down to
one of the banks in Martin Place and
find out how their overdrafts are going,
would you? Well, this is the poor man’s
bank. A person’s entitled to raise money
any way he pleases if he hasn’t the
collateral for a bank, isn’t he?
“Only the other day a press photo-
grapher came in here, calm as you like,
and sat down. Crossed his legs, non-
chalant as anything. ‘What do you think
you’re doing?’ I said. ‘l’m going to take
pictures of the public as they come in,’
he said. ‘Get out,’ I said, ‘before I throw
something at you.’ ”
She took another sip of tea. “Of
course, he said he had a job to do, like
anybody else. Yes, I said, but there are
decent ways of making a living, aren’t
there?”
A visitor to the shop, a man in overalls,
then told the story of a friend of his
who was put off work three weeks before
Christmas by the recession in the motor
trade. What would he do for money for
Christmas now, the man wanted to know,
if it wasn’t for places like this?
The lady behind the counter nodded
sympathetically and appeared to make a
mental note to expect her visitor's friend
in with a clock or a winter suit.
Farther down William Street another
brisk lady pawnbroker was even too busy
to talk. “I’m just rushed off my feet at
the moment,” she said, as impatient
knocks came from the row of booths at
the back of the shop.
The manager of the city branch of
Sydney’s oldest and most respected pawn-
broking business shook his head doubt-
fully when asked how business was
during the festive season.
“We don’t notice any difference,” he
said. “We don't touch furs or sundries.
Mostly diamonds.”
He peered quickly into the booths on
either side and leaned forward confiden-
tially. “Anyway, pawnbroking’s on the
way out. For the little man, that is.
He’s got to charge too much, and wait
too long to get his return.
“We’ve got the name, you know.
Diamonds are our business. I get
diamond-merchants in here all the time,
chatting about diamonds. We’re all in-
"... nor custom stale their infinite variety.”
ferested in diamonds. They sell them,
we get them, and then at our sales of
unclaimed pledges, we sell them back
to the dealers, who sell them to the
public again.”
But he would not say what percentage
of his pledges were eventually sold by
auction. “I am not at liberty to disclose
matters of that nature,” he said stiffly,
the ethics of the profession reasserting
themselves.
As he went to attend a customer,
another of his staff called out cheerily
to all within earshot that “old Charlie,”
who was apparently a regular, had just
telephoned seasonal greetings and good
wishes to all his friends behind the
counter.
-tji-
Lesson for a
Cordon Bleu
jll is a properly qualified, very skilful
Continental chef, Cordon Bleu and
all that, newly arrived with wife and
daughter to make a home in Australia.
Accommodation was his immediate pro-
blem, so he applied for the job of chef
advertised by an out-of-town hotel where
there were living-quarters. He was asked
to come alone, on trial for a fortnight,
air fares paid both ways; so he flew off,
pinned on his Cordon Bleu, and started-
in.
Delicious aromas began to permeate
the passage leading to the kitchen; ordi-
nary ingredients changed under his
hands into things rich and strange; more
and more customers appeared in the
dining-room, and plates came back
cleaned of the last crumb.
Then the manager sent for him and,
shaking his head, handed him his plane-
ticket home. Poor Hugo was dumb-
founded: “But why? Why? I do my
best. I can do better if you give me
garlic and endive and a little red wine.”
“But I don’t want it any better,” said
the manager. “You’ve got people want-
ing to come here to meals. Next thing
I’ll have to double the waitresses and
kitchen staff . . . new tablecloths and
cutlery . . . people wanting to stay here —
could lead to anything! Up to now I’ve
managed nicely on the bar-trade and the
bare minimum in the dining-room and
upstairs ; and that’s how I like it.” ■
So Hugo flew away. He still has no
home for his family, but he has learned
to boil all the taste Out of vegetables,
and is making gravy “with brown paint.”
Soon he hopes to qualify.
❖ * ❖
After the
Storm
Overheard in Angus and Robertson’s
(Sydney) late (very late) in 1960:
Customer: What’s this one like?
Salesman : I’m sorry, madam. We
haven’t had time to read any of the
books this year. 'l’m afraid I’ll have
to refer you to the blurb.


Looking for
the Italians
The most baffling game at White City
last week was to find the Italians.
Sirola and Pietrangeli were easily identi-
fied: but their supporters? These were
expected to fill the 1500 empty places,
but reports of the rush for seats, which
had to be booked for the whole three
days, apparently made them search out
friends with television-sets so they could
watch in cool comfort and save £2 15s.
Many of those who came also saved
on the £2 15s. There was one girl with
a caterer’s pass, a press pass and a mem-
ber's pass. That proved she was Italian,
but where were the rest of them? vis
assimilation complete? It must be, other-
wise there would have been dramatic
cries such as those which accompany a
Naples Soccer defeat: “Oh Naples! Oh
martyred city!”
Shoes were the giveaway: look for
pointed ones that fit the foot like a
glove, and there’s your Italian. At last
a pair of these appeared. The figure
above them was stocky, the head
brachycephalic, the complexion Mediter-
ranean. A photographer snapped this
typical Italian spectator before asking
which city he came from. The answer:
Istanbul.
Introduced to another journalist, the
present one asked her had she found
any Italians.
“You’re the first,” she answered.
“What?”
“Yes. You were pointed out to me as
a typical Venetian. ...”
*l* *l*
Battle of the
Nature Strip
TV4ANY Perth suburban householders
are especially proud of their footpath
lawns—carefully tended patches of grass
between front fences and the narrow
strips of bitumen which form most
streets; and as the majority of side-
streets lack paved footpaths, flowers and
shrubs are also grown on this area.
Legally no one can be stopped walking
on any section of the lawn or gardens,
but many householders abuse children
for doing so, with the result that chil-
dren walk on the sealed portion of the
road, a menace to motorists and a danger
to themselves.
By registering his lawn a resident
can stop vehicles parking on what
municipalities now class as a street-
reserve. On a two-way roadway only
18ft. wide there is little room for a car
to park, and much friction when a car
is parked on a lawn, especially a regis-
tered lawn. Householders even turn-on
sprinklers and give an offending car a
good soaking, legally having every right
to do so, though they themselves park
their own cars on their registered lawns
in front of their homes.
But one waterer of pirating cars had
the tables turned by a car-owner who
had suffered at his hands; he found
himself in court paying a fine for park-
ing his own car on his own registered
lawn.
>*«
Verse—with a Beat
A bout the time that Melbourne’s work-
weary adult population settles down
in front of the telly and loudly dressed
youths crowd around even louder juke-
boxes and the thrill-chasers are begin-
ning to be swallowed up by the gaping
jaws of St Kilda’s Luna Park—i.e., about
8.30 p.m.—a quiet, earnest group may
be noticed making its way to the top
floor of a cabaret-cafe just over the way
from the Park.
They do not seek the pleasures of
dining and wining ; they do not want to
dance. In the gloom they could, be-
cause of a beard here, a duffel-coat there,
lead some to think they were “beat.”
Perhaps a few of them are. But among
them are people from a wide variety of
age-groups and walks of life.
A recent survey tracked down among
them a Melbourne University lecturer in
philosophy, a P.R. man, an insurance-
broker (bald and well into middle-age),
three well-known members of the city’s
most conservative school of poets,
several matronly-looking women, a num-
ber of advertising-men and the music-
critic from a leading daily, as well as two
awkward-looking uniformed policemen.
None of these sported a beard, dark
glasses, duffel-coat, or even a genuinely
vacant expression.
They were pretty square types, in fact,
to be pursuing that form of entertain-
ment, quite new to Melbourne, which
goes under the name of “Poetry and
Jazz.”
The idea comes from Adrian Rawlins,
a young Melbourne poet, and under his
direction “Poetry and Jazz” has been a
regular weekly feature of the city’s even-
ing entertainment since last October.
It is all taken very seriously ; every-
thing is carefully planned and rehearsed
days beforehand ; talking or any other
interruption of a “performance” is strictly
taboo.
The evening starts when the lights are
dimmed, and Rawlins or a guest reader
stations himself at a microphone placed
centrally in the large, circular upstairs
cabaret room.
The band —piano, trumpet or alto-sax,
drums and big bass—swings into a couple
of introductory bars and the readings
begin. It could be Chaucer or Eliot,
Blake or Ginsberg, Donne or A. D. Hope
(Australian poets are included in every
programme).
The band serves mainly to reinforce
the rhythms of the poem and to help
evoke, sustain and heighten the atmos-
phere the poem is striving to create.
Sometimes the combination is breath-
takingly effective, a true collaboration ;
sometimes it is distracting, irrelevant,
unfortunate.
Still, “Poetry and Jazz,” if it can con-
tinue to steer clear of the pretentiousness,
cultism and small-world that invariably
seem to cripple such ventures, has some-
thing valuable to offer —at any rate,
something that is usually out of the
range of the juke-box, the telly or the
big dipper.
THE GREEN CONQUERORS
“St Thomas’s cemetery, North Sydney,
where many northern suburbs pioneers aro
buried, may be converted into a miniature
botanic garden.”
The plot where pioneers were planted
Long ago, and long ago,
Has not come up to what was wanted;
Sturdy stock, they failed to grow.
So after years and years of bungle
The bit of land they helped to clear
Is to revert to flowering jungle,
The fate of all who pioneer: /
To asters, Browns, Mackays and Sheehans
Give way, or else to artichokes •
Until some cross like human beans
Supplants us ordinary blokes.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


ANATOMY
OF A
BACKBENCHER
By ALAN REID
Parliamentary backbenchers, like a quartered apple, divide
naturally into four sections. The sections are:
Section 1: The frustrates. These are the men who come
into the Parliament believing that they are going to play
a major part in reshaping the destinies of the nation and slowly
and resentfully learn that the backbencher is the lowest form
of Parliamentary life, far less influential (except on rare
occasions) than a minor bureaucrat.
Section 2: The philosophers. They face up to the reality
that they are the lowest form of Parliamentary life, but try
to do the best job they can and to exercise as powerful an
influence as they can upon their particular party and its policies
despite their knowledge of their comparative unimportance.
(In this section belong also the cynics, disillusioned men
who stay in politics and Parliament not because they can see
any prospects of advancement for themselves but because they
have succumbed to the fascination of the life, with its sleazy,
shabby atmosphere of perpetual intrigue, its moments of
grandeur, its constant, colorful movement, and the excitement
of being, even if nominally, a participant in events which are the
material of the nation’s history.
The “seat-holders” also probably belong to this section.
They are philosophers in the sense that they are quite happy
to leave others —the “heads”—to work out the nation’s problems
while they concentrate upon getting a phone for Mrs Jones, a
bridge across some canal or creek, a pension for the invalided
Mr Smith, and on nursing their constituencies. They are the
most despised of the Parliamentary breeds but there is in them
a cheerful honesty of purpose (the purpose being to retain their
seat come hail, rain or shine) which is more attractive than the
intellectual dishonesty of some of their fellows. The “seat-
holder” is as necessary, under the democratic system, as a
garbage service is to a big city, and additionally is a stabilising
influence, being generally a man who desires neither to go too
far nor not far enough.)
Section 3: The “starry-eyed.” These men preserve unshat-
tered their belief in man’s capacity to achieve ultimate perfection
despite having kicked round (and been kicked round) in politics
for years.
Section 4: The stuffed-shirts and the playboys.
a-) HE frustrates are usually the more
interesting of the backbenchers.
. They are the ones who find their
way into the headlines. Yet they
vary widely. A few are frankly wreckers.
They are prepared to wreck the Govern-
ment which they nominally support or
the party to which they belong if they
can see in such action a future “payoff”
for themselves —a “payoff” which will
raise them from their lowly positions as
backbenchers to posts of power in which
they can get rid of the frustration that
rides on their shoulder, like a monkey.
Others are builders. Their sense of
frustration stems from their belief that
others ahead of them in the party’s
hierarchy—Ministers (or, in the case of
an Opposition, party leaders) —are either
not building or not building fast enough
for their taste.
Others are “boot-lickers.” They work
out that they can secure advancement by
licking some Great Man’s boots. The
“boot-lickers” find an outlet for their
frustration in seeking to destroy the
prospects of their fellow backbenchers.
They do this generally by acting as spies
for the Great Man whose boots they are
currently licking, and reporting to him
acts or verbal indiscretions on the part
of those who might be their rivals for
advancement that they hope the Great
Man will regard as personally disloyal
to him, and resent.
Some of the frustrates are just be-
wildered men, who when they found
their way into the Federal Parliament
believed that they were going to have
a big say in the country’s management,
found that they did not have that say,
disagree with the way in which it is
being managed, cannot understand why
this should be, blame some individual
rather than the system, and vent their
frustration upon him.
Of the quite numerous backbench
frustrates in the Federal Parliament,
probably five find their way into the
news the most often. Three are on the
Government side; two on the Labor
benches. The Government frustrates are
William Charles Wentworth, Liberal
member for MacKellar, Senator Reg.
Wright, of Tasmania, and Senator lan
Wood, of Queensland. Labor’s most
obvious frustrates (I am excluding those
from the top echelon—the leadership)
are Jim Cairns, of Victoria, and Leslie
Haylen, from Sydney.
Wentworth, 90 per cent, genius, ten
per cent, eccentric, is probably the most
complex. He has a cataclysmic turn of
mind. Haunted by the twin spectres of
Communism and the atomic bomb, he is
constantly expecting the world to slide
into the final political abyss—Commu-
nism—or to explode into atomic oblivion.
To listen to him you would think there
was no escape —that man is moving
towards his doom, either political (Com-
munism) or physical (the atom-bomb).
Yet paradoxically he is also an un-
quenchable optimist. Driven on by a
demon of energy, he wants to build for
the future. The Menzies Government,
of which he is a supporter in the House
of Representatives, is not building fast
enough, he thinks. Hence his frustration.
His restless mind flings off ideas like
a sharpening wheel does sparks. Atomic
power for industrial development? Yes,
Australia needs it, he decides. So off he
races to London, New York, elsewhere,
investigating progress there—and
typically paying for his trip from his
own pocket. Now when he speaks on
atomic power the Parliament listens, and
he has been a factor in securing such
research as there is in Australia.
Transport costs? Too high in Aus-
tralia. We are neglecting one of the
cheapest forms—rail. A 4ft. gauge
all the way between Sydney and Mel-
bourne, instead of the delaying,
exasperating and. cost intensifying
change-over to Victoria’s sft. 3in. gauge
at Albury is essential. Overnight a
Government Railway Committee (of
which Wentworth is the backbone) comes
into existence. There are technical diffi-
culties? Nonsense. Wentworth races up
and down the line between Sydney and
Melbourne like a bespectacled yo-yo on
a piece of string, myopic eyes glinting
behind thick glasses. He produces an
answer to the expert’s objections.
Cabinet is a bit dubious about where
the finance is coming from. More non-
sense. Wentworth pressurises his fellow
backbenchers. They in turn pressurise
the Ministry (one of the rare occasions
on which they are effective). The 4ft.


Biin. line to Melbourne is nearing com-
pletion.
Not many of his suggestions have
ended in such success. There was, for
instance, plankton. Whales live on plank-
ton. According to Wentworth, it is par-
ticularly plentiful in Antarctic regions
in which Australia has holdings. It could
be the answer to the world’s food prob-
lem when human population outstrips
present resources. As I understand Went-
worth’s suggestion, it was for Australia
to get in on the ground-floor—start in-
vestigations now. As far as I know
Wentworth continues to be the only
Federal Parliamentarian interested in
plankton.
Frustration —the inability to get the
Government he supports interested in
things which interest him —has made
Wentworth a “rebel,” criticising his own
Government and even on some minor
issues occasionally voting against it. But
with him the builder is constantly at war
with the “rebel” or destroyer. He and
Prime Minister Menzies do not get
along. He has slender prospects of
advancement from the backbench while
Menzies remains Prime Minister. But it
is hard to see him setting out deliberately
to destroy either Menzies or the Govern-
ment, though if he did so set out his
unbelievable energy would make him
someone who would have to be watched.
13 eg. Wright, the Tasmanian barrister,
who recently voted against the Gov-
ernment’s Sales Tax Bill in the Senate
(thereby defeating it and threatening the
overthrow of the Government of which
he declares himself a supporter), and
within two days abstained from voting
against the same legislation (thereby en-
suring its passage), is a different proposi-
tion.
Wright is another frustrate. He views
himself as a brilliant man, which in some
ways he undoubtedly is. Over 11 years
he has watched Menzies elevate to the
Ministry fellow Senators whom he must
regard as much his intellectual inferiors
(he has practically said as much in his
Senate speeches and by his attitude to-
wards them when speaking).
He has about him some of the qualities
usually more associated with an actor
(ham, say his enemies) than with a
politician. He likes the stagey gesture,
the sonorous phrase and apparently to
have upon himself the spotlight of crisis
and high drama. The normal politician
would have looked at the sales-tax legis-
lation, decided whether he was for or
against it (Wright’s colleague, Wood, for
example decided he was against it and
went on with his opposition to the bitter
end), and if he decided he was not going
to continue opposing it to the last, given
it away. But Wright played it out like a
Hamlet role.
First he was against it. Then he was
not opposing it. And this was not even
a switch. In a television interview im-
mediately • after he had relinquished his
opposition he made it clear that from
! the outset he had never intended to per-
• sist with his opposition. He was acting
r out a part.
s Located as he is in the Senate (likely
j always to be narrowly divided between
. the two main political groups, non-Labor
and Labor because of ;the proportional-
representation system of Senate voting),
theatrical, drama-loving, resenting
furiously the knowledge that if he
behaves conventionally he will become
merely another unit in that lowest form
of parliamentary life —the backbencher —
Wright is probably more dangerous to
the Government than Wentworth will
ever be.
Wentworth finds an outlet for his frus-
tration in building, even if he has to
build with ideas rather than in brick.
Wright seems more limited ; to be more
likely than find his outlet
in opposing.
Menzies could possibly tame Wright
by putting him in the Ministry, and
indeed that might be what Wright might
be playing for. (Arthur Cal well forced
his way from the backbenches into the
Second Curtin Ministry by making such
a nuisance of himself in the Parliament
that the Labor caucus elected him to
Cabinet rank in the hope that it would
shut him up, which it did.)
YX/ r ooD, the Queensland Liberal Senator
who joined Wright in voting against
the sales tax legislation (but who unlike
Wright went on with it) seems a less
complex character than his fellow-frus-
trate. His frustration is more under-
standable. It is a more typical kind of
backbench frustration. Far less sophisti-
cated politically than Wright, a bachelor,
mayor of Mackay for years, fervently
pro-Queensland, a man who still rides
a bicycle in preference to driving a car
(he does not own one), Wood arrived
in Canberra determined to do his best
by Mackay, Queensland and the people
of Australia.
Suddenly he was in a new milieu. In
Mackay he was “big-shot.” In Canberra
he did not amount to a row of beans.
Nobody cared what he did or said pro-
vided he voted the right way. Nobody
consulted him about what the country’s
economic programme should be. He was
simply told what it would be —take it or
leave it.
In normal circumstances he would
probably have accepted what was going
on, and accepted that Menzies, source of
patronage and promotion, was apparently
not impressed by his presence. He would
have settled down to become a philoso-
pher, a cynic or a seatholder, or even
starry-eyed—he has a niceness about him
that would not preclude this last pos-
sibility.
But fate had put him in the Senate
where the defection of two votes could
bring about the defeat of any Govern-
ment measure—and Wright was always
a potential defector. Nobody cared what
he did or said while he voted the right
way. Well, he would not vote always
the right way. And then the powers that
be —including the Menzies whom he had
not impressed and by whom he in turn
refused to be impressed would care
about what he did or said.
He may not have put it to himself with
this precision. But on occasions when
he honestly finds himself in disagreement
with the Government’s actions he aligns
himself against the Government regard-
less of whether it is a point of principle
(on which the Liberals say they expect
an individual to follow the dictates of
his conscience), or, as it was in the case
of the sales tax legislation, a difference
of opinion on a point of detail (when
the Liberals expect their followers to
accept the party’s majority viewpoint).
Labor’s frustrates have not the same
opportunities for public expression. There
are restraints upon them—party disci-
pline, always tighter than on the non-
Labor side of politics, and political neces-
sity. They have to present in the Parlia-
ment the appearance of unity if they are
to get rid of their overriding frustration —
the resentment that comes from the
knowledge that they are virtually power-
less, always at the receiving end, watch-
ing others (lesser qualified, they believe)
enjoying the fruits of office, drawing
“Let's get this straight, Harry—from now on I don't Want to know you!"


Ministerial salaries, riding round in
Government cars, and wielding the power
they covet.
But occasionally the restraints break
down. Individuals release pent-up frus-
tration by quarrelling furiously in the
dubious privacy of the party room, Hie
quarrels sometimes spill over on to the
floor of the chamber. Ned Ward, thin-
lipped and scowling, argues heatedly with
his Deputy Leader, Gough Whitlam, on
the Labor front bench. Pat Galvin, from
South Australia, a quietly mannered,
likeable man, suddenly “blows his top”
when ex-Methodist minister Gil Duthie,
now Labor Whip, calls him a liar and
there is a swift blow.
Out while the frustrates—those express-
** ing a temporary frustration as well
as those sunk permanently into that state
—are the ones who usually make the
backbench news, it is those I call the
philosophers who are simultaneously the
backbone of —and probably the most
numerous group in—the Parliament.
They are the men who have learned,
usually the hard way, that man is in-
capable of creating perfection this side
of the grave. They can see the faults
in a democratic parliamentary system,
but they also appreciate its enormous
strengths and respect its traditions. They
know that it is unlikely that they will
set the Molonglo on fire (few men are
capable of that feat) but they want it
to flow better —to make the system work
more effectively than it worked when
they first entered into it. They get dis-
tracted by their own personal ambitions,
they get tired and temporarily lose heart,
they experience their own personal
periods of frustration, but fhey never
completely abandon their goals. They
prefer to reshape rather than risk the
chaos, of wrecking. They are the ones
who make nonsense of the hard-held
Australian belief that all politicians are
loafers. They work at a pace that would
kill a carthorse, and change the tempo
and nature of their activities in a way
that would shame a quick-change artist.
Here is a a typical Parliamentary
sessional programme for such a back-
bencher. Monday: In home town. Start
seeing constituents about 9 a.m. Listen
to their problems and see where they can
be helped. Take an hour out to talk to
the local bank manager, car salesmen,
minor party figures. Get their viewpoint
on things. Do correspondence with the
help of a secretary-typist (supplied by
the taxpayer, overworked if the back-
bencher is conscientious, underworked
with the job a sinecure, occasionally held
by some unqualified relative, if the back-
bencher is a loafer).
Time out for dinner and a brief sojourn
with the family (unless an engagement
has been accepted which makes it im-
possible). Then usually on to a meeting
(particularly important if you are in a
safe Labor seat where the A.L.P. pre-
selection is all important and you have
rivals —as you usually have in such seats
—trying to undermine you and replace
you with themselves). Either that or a
conference with your electoral supporters
and a discussion of both general party
and electoral prospects. Home but not
to bed. Trying to catch up with the
reports and the special publications that
deal with matters that concern you be-
cause of their impact upon your elec-
torate (for example dairying reports and
trends if yours is a dairying electorate).
Tuesday: Fly to Canberra. A gossip
with your fellow Parliamentarians both
at the drome and on the plane (you need
to know what is doing politically within
the party and in the other party in your
own State). At Canberra. Book into the
Hotel Kurrajong, if you want to make
a bit out of, or break square on, your
£4 a day Canberra living allowance, or
into the Hotel Canberra if you do not
mind being a bit out of pocket in return
for a bit more comfort. Drift off to
one of the other hotels if you are a bit
anti-social, or want to make a break —
usually for political rather than personal
reasons —with the group with whom you
have been breakfasting for years.
On to Parliament House. A swift run
round the men from other States who
usually know the “gen” in their home
States—important in case there are any
developments of which unawareness
would be a weakness. Race round the
Departments, either on foot or by phone,
seeing officers or fixing up appointments
to see them in the week ahead in the
interests of constituents who want cus-
toms exemptions under by-law, the over-
draft that has been refused, a pension,
Government assistance with an industry,
anything, large or small.
The House at 2.30. You need to be
there for questions —three-quarters of an
hour—Ministers’ statements, and party
leaders’ speeches if you are to stay in
touch. If things are quiet you can drift
off to the library to complete the re-
search on a speech you propose to make.
You cannot afford mistakes. The other
side always has an expert who can make
you look like a fool if you make a
serious mistake—and while fools can
advance in politics they can only do so
because of patronage and you do not
want to be dependent upon such an
unreliable quantity as patronage. Sena-
tor Blank and his hard - drinking
friends who have not done a day’s
serious work in their lives since
they have been in the Parliament,
and who do not have to while they
wear the party label, try to inveigle
you into a drink, a game of cards (usually
some game of skill, like solo, or if it
is poker for surprisingly low stakes), or
on to the billiard table where more than
one promising backbencher has wasted
his talents and his future. You brush
them off and they—cynics—call you
“Sucker,” but good - naturedly. They
achieved their ambitions when they
achieved their present good job (£2750
a year, plus £BOO -a - year electorate
allowance, plus perks such as free phones,
a secretary-typist for whom they have
no work, a trip once each Parliament to
an Australian territory, a travel - book
for free air travel, and four free trips
each year from home to Canberra and
back—which can be converted into one
free inter-State trip —for the missus). But
they do not resent another man preserv-
ing his ambitions, for they are politicians
and realists. So you work while they
play and you find yourself resenting with-
out heat that they have become the
symbol of the politician in the Australian
mind, rather than hard working you.
Wednesday: There is a party meeting
at 10.30. You are back in the library
or consulting by phone with your party
associates in your home State, because
there is a matter coming up in the party
room on which you want to have a say
and influence the outcome and you want
to have your facts marshalled. The party
will tolerate fools —even a fool usually
has sufficient sense to follow his leaders
across the chamber and vote on the right
side (though there have been those who
have not even been able to do this with-
out making a mistake) —but it will not
listen to fools. You also have to do a
bit of rushing round. You are on a
specialist committee on which there is a
vacancy. Joe Blow would fill the vacancy
nicely and add strength to the committee,
but Billy Bones, who would not under-
stand what the committee was talking
about, knows it pays a daily expense
allowance, and he has got to be kept off it.
So you round up votes for Joe Blow and
try to sabotage Billy Bones’s prospects.
Thursday: You do more racing round
the Departments ; try and catch up on
your reading and have a look at that
complicated piece of banking legislation
that is coming up, so you will know
what it is all about and be in a position
to put an intelligent viewpoint on what
should be the party’s approach to it. If
it is a quiet day, you can spend quite a
bit of time outside the House, attending
committee meetings and doing the other
inescapable chores. But today the House
sits from 10.30 a.m., possibly until well
after midnight. It is on these days that
men get tired, their nerves jangled and
the fights—some of them absolutely point-
less but none the less heated —start that
keep the division bells ringing and you
tied to the chamber all day.
Friday: You leave for home, to travel
for hours if you are a South Australian,
Tasmanian, Queenslander, or West Aus-
tralian. But even if you’re a Sydneysider
or Melbournesider, you can’t just go
home.
While you have been away, new things
have come onto your plate. More letters
to answer, more constituents’ problems
to be solved, more reports to study, more
people to be sounded on some develop-
ment so that the judgment you will reach
is informed and not made with more hope
than intelligence. A party bureaucrat
may want to see you to seek your advice
or to give you some. You are tired but
it is almost certain that there is either
a night function or a night meeting within
the electorate. You get home late, and
hope that you will get Saturday and Sun-
day to yourself so that you can spend


it with your family. Sometimes you do.
Often you do not.
r T'HE “seat-holders” —the men who con-
centrate upon their electorates and
by and large leave their leaders to look
after the national angles—follow a similar
programme, except that they do not
bother so much about seeking to influence
the party, the research, the study, and
such things. But they bother even more
about their electors’ personal and local
problems and difficulties.
There are two superb examples of
the genus “seat-holder” in the Federal
Parliament —little Billy Jack, Liberal
member for North Sydney, and Dan
Minogue, Labor member for West Syd-
ney, still with an accent as broad as the
widest of Irish bogs despite the fact
that he quit them years ago.
As far as I can remember, Billy Jack
has made two speeches since he has been
in the Federal Parliament—and he has
been there since 1949. But he has built
himself a magnificent local machine. His
Scots burr might be heard so seldom in
the chamber that the Hansard writer has
to peer round to identify the speaker.
But his constituents apparently know that
if they take a problem to Jack he will
be in there fighting for them. While the
majorities of others, more vocal, see-saw
up and down, Jack’s so far has gone only
one way—up.
Minogue is Jack’s Labor counterpart,
though much more verbose. He has two
pet subjects—the tragedy that lies in the
fact that Australia does not have full
diplomatic representation in Dublin
(arising from a now almost ancient
squabble between the Eire and Australian
Governments over the wording of the
proposed Australian representative’s
credentials) and the “oulhd - age pin-
sioners” whose dances he advertises
periodically across the Parliamentary
broadcasting system.
Minogue also must have a wonderful
local machine. Many men —some of
them very important in the Labor party
—have tried to take the A.L.P. pre-selec-
tion, which is all he needs to get regularly
re-elected in the Labor stronghold he
represents, away from him. Minogue is
not nearly as guileless as he looks.
Behind his cheerful map-of-Ireland face
and his simple manner is a shrewd, tough
mind, and he has outsmarted all comers
so far. They have come and gone. He
has stayed.
There are dther “seat-holders” in the
Federal Parliament. But none of them
is in the Jack-Minogue class, as yet.
'T'he “starry-eyed” group of back-
benchers is probably the smallest in
the Parliament. They persist in believ-
ing the best of their fellow men, even
though the same fellow men have con-
stantly kicked them around ruthlessly—
and will go on kicking them round. Kim
Beazley, Labor member for Fremantle, is
probably the best example of this type.
He can always find a kind word to say
even for the men who are sharpening
stilettos- before thrusting them into his
back —thrusts which, though numerous
over recent years, he has amazingly sur-
vived. On the Government side the
“starry-eyedness” does not usually take
this form. There is rather a boyish
and indiscriminate hero-worship of the
party’s leaders who, in the eyes of their
devotees, can do no wrong, even when
they are doing it most obviously. In the
main, this group is unimportant.
The fourth group—the stuffed shirts
and playboys—contains some widely
varying individuals. The stuffed shirts
have no significance, only pomposity.
They accept as an established fact that
they acquired infallibility with their Par-
liamentary seats, instead of merely privi-
leges and an enviable rostrum from which
if they had brains instead of conceit they
could express opinions and advocate
courses which would mould and influence
the nation’s outlook and policies. They
never realise their own unimportance,
can rise only up the chancy ladder of a
Great Man’s patronage, and as a ruie
usually live out their Parliamentary lives
in undistinguished self-satisfaction.
The playboys differ considerably. Some
of them combine high talent with their
other propensities. They can organise a
party, whoop it up in an allnight session,
go to bed paralytic, and then sway a
party meeting with the soundness of their
views. This type can fritter away its
time at the bar or in the billiard room
or between both and still somehow do
the research and analysis needed to make
the House listen to them and realise that
some day they will be powers in the land,
in the Ministry and no longer back-
benchers.
Others are weaklings—-men who suc-
cumbed to the corrupting influence of the
life they have been introduced into and
the knowledge that they no longer have
to work unless they want to and that there
will always be others, fellow Parliamen-
tarians and party officials, who will cover
up for them for the sake of preserving
a seat that otherwise might be lost for
the party.’ Some of them have been —
and are—hopeless drunks, sodden, un-
dependable, but never expendable, except
on rare occasions when the party thinks
it can be done discreetly and without
risking the loss of a seat.
In the main, the playboys’ main outlets
are drink or gambling. For politics is
a strangely male world, and woman-
trouble is rare, though there have been
exceptions, and it does occur.
These are the four sections into which
the backbenchers divide the back-
benchers who, except on rare occasions,
are unimportant today, but who are the
raw materials of tomorrow’s rulers, the
Ministries, non-Labor and Labor, that
will govern this country and have such
a large say in the shape of its future.
THE HOLLIDAYS
"You say , ‘The devil thinks up mischief for idle hands to do'—on the other hand, I say , 'All Work
and no play makes Jack a dull boy.' "


PERSONAL
Girl with a
Mind of Her Own
At three in the afternoon the shoppers
hurrying through the Boulevarde
Arcade seemed hardly aware of the
entrance to, or the significance of, the
“Hungry i.”
Downstairs, in this newest of Sydney’s
restaurants, Miss Lee Sharron, of Texas,
was jn the process of changing all that.
“We've only been open a couple of
nights, but we’re swingin’, baby,” she
said, sitting at a table in a large hat,
simultaneously eating a salad and coping
with a rapid succession of the kind of
crises that afflict any new business ven-
ture.
Lee Sharron was known to only a
select few of Sydney’s population—mostly
male—until she appeared on a television
programme with Lee Gordon, promoter
and impresario (and, at that time, her
fiance). It then became clear that as well
as being a well-shaped and athletic
dancer who changes costumes during her
act (she prefers not to be called a
“stripper”), Lee Sharron is a girl with
a mind of her own and a sense of humor.
She needed both these attributes a
few weeks later when, after breaking her
engagement with Lee Gordon, she was
summarily thrown out of the club in
which she was working—a club in which
Mr Gordon had a financial interest.
“Resigned? Nuts! I’ve been fired,”
said Lee Sharron at the time, scorning
the customary euphemisms. “But I’m
going to stay in Sydney. I’ll open a new
restaurant, a dress-shop, a night-club.
I’ve got big plans for Sydney.”
Three days after the opening of the
“Hungry i” Lee Sharron appeared to be
finding the execution of her plans frus-
trated by a lack of vision in some
quarters.
“It's her partners. They just don’t
know about show business like Lee does,”
said her secretary, while Miss Sharron
dropped her fork and rushed to the
telephone.
“It really breaks me up,” she said.
“That partner of mine. He’s a real nice
guy, but so square. I’m teaching him
all this hip talk, you know, and he goes
roynd saying ‘lt is swinging’ and ‘lt is a
gasser.’ He kills me.”
Che suddenly shouted across the
restaurant, which the staff were
clearing up after lunch, to one of a group
of men worriedly discussing account-
books at another table.
“Have you got that phone for me yet?
You know’ I’ve got to have a phone at
the apartment. Mr Gordon isn’t paying
for it any more.”
A slim, wiry girl with large eyes, a
wide mouth and long, nervous hands, she
wore a white suit that clung to her, a
blue scarf tied under her chin, the spread-
ing hat on top of it.
“Incidentally, I'm getting a new band
in on Monday,” she added, rapidly
finishing her salad. “The Three Out Trio
are out. I told them that people couldn’t
dance to their music. They said they
played real jazz you know, far out.
Fine, I said, I like that stuff, too, but
do me a favor and go play it someplace
else. The customers have to dance, don’t
they?”
Lee Sharron was joined at her table
by Yolando, a Negro dancer who
originally came to Australia with
Katherine Dunham’s West Indian
dancers. Yolanda’s small son ordered an
ice-cream.
Someone came up with the news that
the telephone-call from Lee Sharron's
mother in Texas was coming through.
“Hold it!” said Miss Sharron, leaping
out of her seat and scooping up a large
handbag. “Tell them to hold the call
until four. I’ve got to go over to my
dress-shop.”
She hurried up the stairs and plunged
through the traffic.
“Sure I like it in Sydney,” she said.
“After that TV-show a couple of the
columnists came up and said, ‘What's all
LEE SHARRON
Strippers as well, naturally.
this about you loving Sydney’? and I
to'd them 1 was going into business here,
so naturally I loved the place. I’d be
crazy to say it bugged me, wouldn’t I?”
In the lower part of the Imperial
Arcade she headed for a corner shop—
an open area vaguely decorated with
bamboo curtains and Japanese lamps. A
showcase at the back contained a dozen
dresses.
“Isn’t it cute?” said Lee Sharron. “I
fixed it up in a day. I went down to
the Eastern Emporium and spent about
a hundred pounds. I’m getting a sign
tomorrow. It’s called ‘Lee Sharron’s
C’est la Vie Exclusives.’ You want some-
thing, we make it. I’ve got my designers
upstairs.”
The girl behind the counter, a tall
blonde wrapped in a black kimono,
looked worried. Lee Sharron began
rearranging a few of the Eastern treasures.
“People keep coming in and asking
how much is the lamp, or the bamboo
curtain,” said the girl. “What should I
tell them?’
“If they want it, sell it,” said Lee
Sharron aecisively. “Sell the curtains,
the lamps, the carpet! I can get more
tomorrow.’’
Yolanda drifted in and began trying
on dresses. Lee Sharron produced a
white outlit that consisted of tignt mata-
dor pants and a backless top.
“Listen, oaoy, you’ve got to fix these
zippers,” sire said to the blonde girl.
“They're just not worth a damn. As
soon as I start to dance, and you know
how hard 1 work, I have to start grabbing
at the zippers. Last night the wnole top
fell down. It was gorgeous!”
A young man, who had been dusting
the ornaments, came up and saui
that Yolanoa wanted these earrings, and
how muwh were they? Lee Snarroii
looked at them, then at the boy.
“1 don't have an idea, honey,” she
said. "How much would you pay tor
them?” He looked doubtful, "they re
about thirty bob at Farmer's,“ he said
Lee Sharron laughed.
“Are you Kidding?” she said. “Let her
have them for five shillings. They’l
probably fall to pieces anyway. Anc
charge it, by the way. Yolanda is charg
ing things with me for the moment. Anc
honey, next time that Chinese lady come!
in, for God’s sake ask her how mucl
she’s billing me for all these things. Tvi
got to have prices. How should i knov
how much to sell things for?”
A young man came up, kissed Mis
Sharron’s hand, and asked her how sht
liked the song he’d written for her. “1
was terrific, baby,” she said, “only
haven’t had time to try it.”
“It starts ‘I crawled around the worlc
just to be with you,’ ” he said dreamil)
“Don’t you think that's good?”
Before she left she helped pin Yoland:
into a mauve dress (“It looks sensations
on you, Yolanda, baby”), and signed :
handful of cheques for various employee
of hers (“My partner will kill me fc
this”).
As she left she looked back at Le
Sharron’s C’Est la Vie Exclusives wit
pride and affection. “We’ll give thes
other places some competition. When
first came here 1 used to go to them-


forty guineas they charged me. It’s exclu-
sive, they said. And as soon as I got out
on the sidewalk I met myself coming and
going!”
TTurrying back to the “Hungry i” Lee
Sharron predicted that before long
she would have the best show in town.
“All the girls will come back with me,”
she said. “They don't like those clubs.
There’s nothing but stags go there. ‘Come
on, baby, take it all off,’ they shout. The
girls don’t like it. There’s no class. I’m
going to have strippers as well, naturally,
but every girl is going to have her own
production number.”
“I’m just waiting for them to fix the
lighting and the sound. That's what
you’ve got to have —good lighting and
good sound. I know this business, baby.
And soon I'm opening a big new place
up at the Cross. Lee Sharron’s Follies,
it’s called. How square can you get? I
signed the paper without reading it.
If they’d called it Lee Sharron’s Folies
Bergere, or something—but now it sounds
like George White’s Scandals of 1933!
It really breaks me up, baby.”
And, pausing only to note with amuse-
ment that some patron had souvenired
the “y” from the sign “Hungry i,” Miss
Lee Sharron plunged back down into
her restaurant to rejoin the battle to
widen the cultural horizons of the
metropolis.
• •
In the Camp
of the Vanquished
T ooking 10ft. long, Orlando Sirola
' was lying across the bed and chairing
idly on the telephone. We immediately
put it to him that he was, in fact, a very
nervous character.
“Yes, I’m nervous,” he said, “but I
keep it under control. I’m determinedly
calm! ”
What could make him blow up?
“Any kind of provocation, but move
away from these windows if you're going
to start something. It could be expensive.”
A deep voice and a downward look
suggest he is serious: “Take those hand-
kerchiefs of mine. You tear them up,
fifty of them, but on the fifty-first I
become angry. In Fiume, where I was
born, we say you turn the other cheek
twice, but if you do so a third time you're
a fool.”
He has changed from pyjama-trousers
to brown slacks and green shirt.
Languidly he picks up a paper-light
souvenir boomerang from the dressing-
table, and for a moment looks like a
leathery stockman. “The crowds have
been with us all the time because we
have been the underdogs. All over the
world the crowd is with the underdog,
but the test comes when their home team
is beaten. The Australian public is more
disciplined than Italian spectators and
knows tennis better . . . No, I would not
compare them to the English, but to the
Germans. Controlled, but passionate
when they have the opportunity.”
Except when he smiles toothily, the
short, straight eyebrows and brown eyes
give his long face an almost sombre
expression. Could Italy learn anything
from Australian tennis? “How to win
SIROLA
PIETRANGELI
We didn’t think hard enough.
the Cup? In Italy a greater proportion
play tennis now than 20 years ago, but
only 2000 play assiduously. Another 5000
play weekly, and there wouid be 15,000
more who are occasional players. You
see, our tennis-clubs are rather ‘social.’
It costs about £6O to join one, then a
further £25 yearly. Our hardcourts cost
£l5OO each—it’s a problem of space;
land is costly.
“Only 5 per cent, of the world’s courts
are grass. If we could play the Challenge
on hardcourts it would be a different
story. No, there is no great difference
between the approach of the Americans
and Australians. Basically, for them, it
is a matter of livelihood ; for me it’s a
game.
“The game with Laver was my last
big match ... I would not humiliate
myself by playing as a professional. 1
have some grey matter, and will make
more money in business. That’s my in-
terest from now on. I must prepare a
dowry for my daughter. Four sheets, at
least.”
A few paces along Sydney’s Chevron
Hilton corridor was Nicolo Pietran-
geli’s room.
“I’m a bit tired of tennis,” he said.
“I hope to take my wife to Switzerland
when 1 get back, if she’s well enough
with the coming; then I’ll start
playing again in February. Perhaps in
Paris in an indoor tournament, in Egypt
or maybe on the Caribbean circuit.”
He rushed from the shower to answer
the phone and dried himself with one
towel while another was wrapped about
his loins. Was he disappointed with the
first two days’ performances? “Yes, we
thought we’d have done much better.
There is something in the atmosphere
which is upsetting—l couldn’t explain
what it is. We trained well, but perhaps
we remained at the stage of being con-
tented at our win over the Americans.”
Hadn’t they thought they would beat
the Australians? “We thought we would,
but we didn’t think hard enough.”
Pietrangeli smiles a bit sadly. When
receiving service he dances a few steps
like a boxer, and he has a boxer’s build
with his head close set to powerful
shoulders.
The phone again—a succession of
sports-writers and people making
arrangements for cocktail-parties and
transport.
“Yes,” he went on. “The Australians
did get to the net quicker. It was instinc-
tive for them to follow their service in,
but not for me: I’m used to hardcourts.
As he played on Monday, Laver was the
best player in the world, but he is never
brilliant on our courts.
“We got on well with all the Austra-
lians we met, even with the officials when
they acted as people instead of as
officials.”
Pietrangeli’s blue-green eyes and fresh,
light complexion make him look even
younger than 27. He is still the future
of Italian tennis ; so what of next year's
prospects and the rumor that Fausto
Gardini would return?
“We hope that the semi-final, because
of the new law, will be played at Forest
Hills or Milan. Gardini’s father-in-law
has died, so he’s now a rich man. He’s
only 30, and if he makes a successful
comeback we’ll be here next year for
another Challenge Round.”
• •
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 75, Alek Walter Hicks, former
member of the Public Service Board and
Under-Secretary of the Department of Educa-
tion. With the A.I.F. in World War I, he was
commissioned and won the M.C.
In Melbourne, at 44, one of the city’s best-
known policemen, 22-stone first-constable
Henry (“Tubby”) Hughes, who was 10 years
with the Palestine Police before coming to
Australia.
In Adelaide, at 86, Charles Henry Marshall,
the world’s oldest pioneer radiologist, who was
first introduced to X-rays by a machine built
by Sir William Bragg at Adelaide University
only a year after Rontgen’s discovery in 1895.
Marshall had practised radiography since 1901.
and had been senior radiographer at the Royal
Adelaide Hospital and the City Council’s radio-
grapher for eight years from the inception of
its chest X-ray scheme in 1941. He continued
to hold posts at two hospitals until a coronary
attack forced him Jo retire about five years
ago.


POLITCAL POINTS
At the New Year the Congo reached
the summit of its Everest of political
complications. President Kasavubu and
his Cromwell, Colonel Mobutu, are at
loggerheads because Kasavubu wants im-
mediate restoration of Parliament.
Lumumba, locked up, also wants restora-
tion of Parliament, but a different kind.
Moscow wants Lumumba. The U.N.
wants Kasavubu. Khrushchev doesn’t
want an Irish Commander of U.N.
Forces—he suggests that he can’t fight!
Nobody wants the U.N. forces except
marooned civilians with tommy-guns
pointed and axes waved at them. Nobody
quite knows from one day to the next
who has kidnapped whom. Freedom, it’s
wonderful!
• •
The Christmas-card of the Prime
Minister and Dame Pattie showed the
couple standing in the snow-clad garden
of the Lodge. Photographed last July,
it was a striking picture of what is termed
“a rare snowfall.” Rather timely^for
distribution at the height of the credit-
freeze.
• •
Queensland got its best Christmas-
present in the form of drenching rains
over most of the State. A “leading
grazier” was quoted as saying the falls
would be worth “many thousands to
primary industry.” Many thousands?
That must be the understatement of the
year.
• •
With the N.S.W. Rural Bank interest-
rate on housing - loans increased from
5| per cent, to 5| per cent, and the
Commonwealth and other savings banks
expected to follow suit, the secretary of
the N.S.W. Housing Commission com-
ments that interest-rates on Commission
homes (4| per cent.) will not, be affected.
This is because the homes are financed
from Commonwealth grants on which the
State is charged 4 per cent, and the agree-
ment does not expire until June. How-
ever, the secretary seems a trifle
optimistic when he expresses the hope
that under the new agreement the Com-
monwealth may lower its rate, in which
case the decrease will be passed on to
home-purchasers. The likelihood of
Canberra reducing its rate when all other
interest-rates are rising seems rather
remote.
• •
"President - elect Kennedy has been
-*■ conferring with space-programme
experts on ways to implement his pre-
election promise to overtake the Russian
lead. Russia has a number of spectacular
“firsts” in this field —first sputnik ever ;
first to circle the moon ; first to hit the
moon; first to bring back an animal
alive after orbiting the earth ; and most
of its orbiting ironmongery has been far
bigger than the U.S. satellites. Still, in
actual scientific results America has done
pretty well. On published figures Russia
has put nine sputniks into orbit. Of
these only one is known to be still in
existence. Discoverer XIX, launched on
December 20, brought successful Ameri-
can launchings to 33, with 11 still in
orbit at the end of 1960.
Sixteen U.S. satellites were put aloft
during the year as against Russia’s three
(all of which were part of the Soviet
man-in-space programme). U.S. satellites
have sent back weather information;
information about the ionosphere ; re-
corded the effect of solar-storm radiation
on human tissue; acted as reflecting
communications - stations (Courier 1-B
received and transmitted more than 100-
million words); acted as sky-spies,
missile-launching detectors and naviga-
tion aids.
America also seems to have perfected
the technique of retrieving in mid-air
a capsule ejected from an orbiting satel-
lite. In the man-into-orbit contest Russia
appears to hold the lead ; also in the
matter of launching the big stuff. In most
other fields it is the U.S. that is showing
the way.
• •
Belgian strikes have as much impor-
tance for the rest of the world as for
Belgium. They arise from depression in
the coal trade and from the economic
problems caused by the loss of the Congo.
But it seems ironic that the very people
who forced the premature freeing of the
Congo—the Belgian Socialists —are now
running the strikes. They have failed to
produce revolution only because the
Catholic trade-unions, covering half the
country’s unionists, have stood out firmly
against “insurrectionary” moves, and are
deterred from taking part by fears of a
Communist coup.
• •
R.A.F. Fighter Command, saviors of
Britain in 1940 when the American
technical press had just uttered its loudest
jeers about the suicidal nature of the
U.K.’s dependence on “interceptors,” has
now come under the U.S. Suprerpe Nato
Command. The move is part of the in-
tegration plan for defence-in-depth in
Europe against bomber attack. It was
inevitable in the interests of efficiency,
but the R.A.F. won’t like it.
• •
Syrian Army Intelligence Chief, Colonel
Abdul Hamid Serraj, claims that King
Saud of Saudi Arabia offered him 12-
million cash and £2O-million on com-
pletion of contract to kill Nasser. Infla-
tion appears to be more rife in Syria
than elsewhere. Before the war it was
accepted in Aleppo that anybody would
kill anybody for a fiver (Egyptian)—if
he could summon the energy to move out
of the shade to fire the fatal shot.
• •
17" hrushchev and his American mil-
lionaire (“exploiter”) friend Mr
Cyrus Eaton have agreed that it would
be good to hold an “East-West business-
men’s meeting to help bring about world
disarmament.” An incautious plan for
Russia, since presumably, the Western
delegates will have to do all the talking.
“Businessmen,” as the word normally is
understood, have all been long dead in
the Soviet Union. Except, of course, for
blackmarketeers.
DEATH TAKES NO HOLIDAY—ON HOLIDAYS


This year is election-year for the Com-
munists in three big unions—the
Waterside Workers’ Federation, the Iron-
workers’ Federation and, of all things,
the A.W.U.
The Communists are already kicking
up a lot of dust in the Ironworkers’
Federation, although most of it is com-
ing back into their own eyes. They
heated up their perennial campaign
against Federal secretary Laurence Short
some time ago, and Sydney “Tribune” is
now letting off a weekly barrage against
him and his executive.
“Rank-and-file” meetings are being
organised at workshops in which ten men
pass a resolution and then miraculously
become 100 when the report appears.
Bootleg leaflets are being distributed—
particularly in the Newcastle steelworks
—bearing “Publication of the Australian
Communist Party” instead of the usual
printer’s imprint.
Trained Communist organisers who
have never been ironworkers in their
lives are getting union - tickets. One of
them is silly enough to boast that he got
his training at a school in Moscow. And
the Communists are falling back on their
speciality of militancy ; they try to cause
senseless strikes. Short so far has stopped
them and turned what they intended to
be a demonstration of strength into a
confession of weakness.
Not even the most optimistic anti-
Communists hope to topple Jim Healy’s
monolith in the wharfies’ union. The
Communists —especially in Sydney—have
got the “rank-and-file” too terrorised for
that. But there are cracks in the structure
in Brisbane, Melbourne and Adelaide,
and the Corns might score a few minuses
when the elections come up.
In the A.W.U. Clyde Cameron, M.P.,
will campaign for a court-controlled
ballot, and the Communists will support
him. The fact that the Communists have
always strenuously squealed against
court-controlled ballots doesn’t matter
this time. They want to use them.
• •
■Crance, having exploded its third
A nuclear device, is now working on
what its chief nuclear scientist describes
as an “everyday model,” as part of a
programme to make the bomb “a more
simple instrument to use and manipu-
late.” Presumably later developments
will include a do-it-yourself model (for
the nuclear handyman), a family model,
a large economy model (three megatons
for the price of two) and a king-size
model (with built-in fall-out filter-tip).
All these, of course, will be Paris models.
• •
U.N. has decided to hold a plebiscite
in Western Samoa next May on the ques-
tion of independence. Since 1920 the
area has been administered by New
Zealand as a trust-territory, first under
the League of Nations and then under
U.N. The territory comprises several
islands with a total area of about 1150
square-miles and a population of slightly
more than 100,000. Western Samoa
already has a Legislative Council with
a majority of Samoan members and
Samoans are also in the majority on the
Executive Council.
• •
As a result of the resignation from
Cabinet of Senator Cooper there’ll be
two changes in the Ministry. Fred
Osborne will take over Senator Cooper’s
Repatriation portfolio and will be suc-
ceeded as Minister for Air by Senator
Wade. Osborne has been Liberal
M.H.R. for Evans (N.S.W.) since 1949
and Minister for Air since October, 1956.
Before that he served on several Parlia-
mentary committees and was Minister for
Customs for a short period. A solicitor
in private life, he served six years with
the R.N., winning a D.S.C. and bar.
Harrie Walter Wade was elected as
Country-party Senator for Victoria in
1955 and serves on Professor Bland’s
Public Accounts Committee. In 1958
he was a member of the Parliamentary
delegation which visited Japan.
• •
There were six Federal by-elections dur-
ing 1960. In February R. G. Casey,
Minister for External Affairs, and H. V.
Evatt, Federal Opposition-leader, re-
signed their seats (La Trobe and Hunter),
the former being elevated to the House
of Lords and the latter to the N. S. Wales
Chief Justiceship. By-elections on April
9 resulted in J. D. Jess (Lib.) being re-
turned for La Trobe and A. W. James
(Lab.) for Hunter. The death of Percy
Clarey (Lab.) and the appointment of
Percy Joske (Lib.) to the Arbitration
Court necessitated two more polls on
July 16, and again party-strengths were
left unchanged, Noel Beaton winning
Bendigo for Labor and R. H. Whittorn
Balaclava for the Government.
The resignation of Liberal John Howse
in September caused a minor upset when
the Country party made a successful bid
to win back the seat it hadn’t held since
H. C. Thorby’s time. The new member
for Calare is John England. Final by-
election for the year was necessitated by
the death of Frank Timson (Higin-
botham). The trend against the Govern-
ment, which had been evident in some
of the earlier polls, reached its peak in
this one, largely owing to unpopular
financial measures. After distribution of
D.L.P. preferences Liberal D. L. Chipp
got home by 603 votes.
The balance between Government and
Opposition parties was unaffected by the
six by-elections, but the Country-party
gained one seat from its senior partner.
• •
Speed and road-safety. U.K. Minister
for Transport Marples told a questioner
in the Commons that on trunk-roads
where a 50 m.p.h. speed-limit was tried
as an experiment last summer there was
a reduction of 15 per cent, in the number
of accidents. On a group of comparable
roads where no speed-limit was imposed
there was a rise of three per cent, over
the same period. He said these results
should be treated with reserve as the
experiment had been conducted on only
a limited scale. It would be repeated
next summer.
Indonesia has placed a technical ban
on businesses conducted or owned by
citizens of countries not recognised by
the Government, particularly those of
the Netherlands and Communist China.
General Nasution, following the wiping-
out of his infiltration units who landed
on West New Guinea soil, has postponed
a visit to Australia to visit Moscow and
buy arms to back “a popular resistance”
in Irian along Communist lines and
“deploy our troops with strength, twice,
thrice as well as four times that of the
Dutch,” in what he calls “their puppet
fortress of colonialism.” Peace - lover
Khrushchev is willing to oblige.
• •
Somebody has suggested at the Aus-
tralian National Travel Association Con-
ference that Australia needs uniform
liquor-laws to help it build-up its tourist-
trade. Closing-hours in London differ
sometimes in three or four pubs within
TOO yards of each other, but it doesn’t
seem to stop the tourists coming. More
liberal laws are needed perhaps in some
States, but if anything Australia needs
more diversity to suit local requirements
in particular localities. Even those like
Broken Hill, where they seem to make
their own laws,
• •
Once upon a time the urgent call to
spend before the end of the year was
heard only in Canberra ; but Melbourne
City Council has caught the habit. Sir
Frederick Thomas, chairman of the
finance committee, complains that com-
mittees should try to complete all works
estimated for each year and that some
have not spent as much on works as they
had estimated.
Melbourne’s finances are so healthy, the
city rate has been cut by a penny to
2s. 10d., but the estimated revenue will
still be £251,000 greater than last year’s,
and with skyscrapers reaching upwards
at eastern and western ends of the city
the revenue is expected to be still greater
in following years.
• •
A former Labor M.P., who lost his
seat in the N.Z. general election,
greeted me effusively, though he knew
I had done everything possible to put
him out. This newly-discovered friend-
ship didn’t surprise me. After experience
of seven general elections and twice as
many by-elections, I am well aware of
the loneliness that afflicts a man who
has been ousted from public life. It is
perhaps the most severe test of any man’s
character to be hurled out of the lime-
light in one day, and to be left jobless,
unwanted and often, for a time at any
rate, shunned by his former colleagues.
I asked this chap what had impressed
him most since election-day. He gave
me the same answer I had had from
many others over the years. “The tele-
phone stopped ringing, and I still can’t
get used to it.” How many times have
politicians cursed the phone, which en-
sures that they never get adequate rest!
Well, Mr Sitting Member, that's what
you will miss most when your time
comes. —M.S.N.


ESCAPE FROM THE CROWDED CITIES


Aboriginal Stories from the
A.S.W. South Coast
As told to ROLAND ROBINSON
BUNDOOLA, THE KING OF
THE SEA
From a Narration
by David Carpenter
One time we were cutting grass-
trees near Spunder Hill. We had
a stranger with us and my uncle
told this stranger not to roll
stones down the cliff. He told him that
we’d have rain if he did. Well, this
stranger went and rolled stones down.
That night she teemed. It rained for a
week, solid rain for a week. We lost
two ton of grass-tree over it. We had
it all cut and thrashed and bagged. It
was the spirit of old Bundoola that made
that rain. His spirit is there to this day.
It’ll never die out.
Bundoola was a native of the Kiola
tribe. He lived at what they call Murra-
marang Mountain. He was a clever-
feller. He was as good as a bugeen, and
better.
Bundoola was the king of all fishermen.
He supplied all his tribe with fish. Yes,
mullet and groper and schnapper. Only
the best for Bundoola.
Bundoola could make the sea, the
winds, the lightning and the rain do
anything he wanted. He could make the
sea rough or he could make it calm.
He could make all kinds of different
winds blow. When he wanted fish he
would make the sea very rough and that
westerly wind to blow. He’d go out in
this rough weather in his canoe and
spear his fish. No matter if the sea was
high, over the canoe. He could see the
fish in the waves coming towards him.
He would spear the fish in the waves.
He’d travel on this coast from north
to south, by canoe.
Bundoola’s wife used to live on top
of Smart’s Mountain, that was near
Pebbly Beach, going towards Baldy
Point. Well, he had two other women.
These two other women were his fancy
wives. You couldn’t go and choose your
wife in them days. Your wife was given
to you in the rules of the tribe.
Bundoola had two little kiddies by his
real wife. But he didn’t like her. He
liked his fancy wives. He’d give his real
wife all the rotten fish. But the good
fish he’d give to his other women.
Bundoola destroyed his wife. He
turned her into stone. He was taking
her away from Kiola and she looked
back. He told her he’d destroy her. He
turned the two little kiddies into stone.
That was their rule. When they took
a woman away and she looked back, they
destroyed her.
The Kiola king sent a man to look for
Bundoola. When they found that he
had destroyed his wife, the king’s orders
were that Bundoola had to be destroyed.
They sent a man from north to south
to look for a deep high gorge. They
took Bundoola to Fitzroy Falls. You
know how steep them Falls are. Well,
they tied his arms and legs with wild
vines. They tied him up in wild vines
and lowered him over the Falls. They
kept lowering him up and down, up and
down from the ledge. That was his
punishment for destroying his wife.
At last, as Bundoola was hanging over
the Falls, they cut the vine rope with a
stone axe. He dropped, but as soon as
he hit the bottom he was gone. He was
too clever.
Bundoola was gone for two days. They
sent two Doowan, men who fly through
the air, after him. They picked him up
at Point Perpendicular at Jervis Bay. The
king’s order was to destroy him there.
They took him to Spunder Hill, south
of Currarong. They got him by water.
They tied him with vines and lowered
him over the cliff and into the sea. That
was the only way they could destroy
Bundoola.
Bundoola’s bark canoe was turned into
stone at Spunder Hill.
You can only get to this place by
boat. It’s a sheer drop down from the
cliff.
That canoe has fish in it, mullet and
schnapper and groper all tied up in vines
and turned into stone. There in that
canoe are the two knee marks where
Bundoola knelt.
Any stranger can go to Spunder Hill
and roll stones down the cliff and make
it rain. He’s making that spirit angry.
You can take a stranger there in a boat
and the sea will get as rough as billy-o.
The water will spout up from a big
cunjiboi there about three feet round.
That’s him himself doing that. That’s
Bundoola’s spirit.
Make no mistake, that old bloke’s
spirit is still there. It’ll never die out.
THE WHALERS
Told by Percy Mumbulla
My ole uncle Brierly was the best
whaler that ever they seen in
Twofold Bay. One mornin’
they was cuttin’ up the whale.
The “killer” come up to where they was
cuttin’ up. He jumped straight up out
of the water an’ splashed his tail on the
water.
Soon as ever he seen this my ole uncle
sings out, “Reesh-O!” All the dark
fellers run down an’ jumped in the whale-
boat. All rowin’ their hardest at the big
oars, great big long paddles. The killers
was swimmin’ over one another, under
an’ over, backwards an’ forwards in front
of the whale-boat playin’.
They gets out an’ sees the whale. My
uncle sings out, “Stern-a-moo! ” That
means that you got to get side on to the
whale so you can put the harpoon into
him.
Ole uncle gets hold of the harpoon an’
puts it straight into him: Boong! The
harpoon goes into that monster an’ kills
him stone dead. They’re towin’ him in
now. The killers swimmin’ alongside
playin’ with the whale, rubbin’ alongside
of him. The killers get real glad when
they see the dark fellers killin’ a whale.
They come into the whalin’ station
now. They goin’ to chop the whale up
an’ boil him.
They chuck a big lump of blubber to
the killer. He’s the main feller. He’s
like their dog.
The dark people would never go out
lookin’ for whales. Them killers would
let them know if there was whales about.
Poor ole uncle would speak to them
killers in the language.
Like humans, them killers was, they
was that sensible. They must have been
bugeens, clever blackfellers. They’d go
as far as Narooma lookin’ for whales.
Two would stop with the whale and one
These stories are selections
from material I gathered on the
far south coast of N.S.W., when
I spent three weeks camping with
aborigines and cash doorigines
who were picking beans and doing
other seasonal work. Percy Mum-
bulla supplied our camp with bush
tucker, black duck and fish which
he still spears native fashion.
We brought Percy back with
us and took him to see his - first
ballet: “Giselle” and “Gradua-
tion Ball.” Percy said he knew
them “Willis,” spirits in “Giselle,”
who lure men to their death. He
said that the dark people have
the same things still on the south
coast. “Wild Women,” they are
called.
Percy said that some of the
dancers must be “bugeens”:
clever-fellers with magical powers.
He said that he could have sat up
till daylight “watchin ’ them clever-
fellers dancin’ an spinnin’ in the
air.”
R.R.


would go back to Twofold Bay an’ leap
out of the water. “Pook-Urr! ” He’d
slap the water with his tail an’ let the
whalers know.
Them killers would only tell the dark
people. The white people had to go out
an’ look for whales themselves.
It might be the middle of the night
when them killers would come into Two-
fold Bay. You had no time to look for
your trousers or shirt. When poor ole
uncle sang out “Reesh-O!”, you had to
run an’ pile in that boat an’ out. No
matter if the waves was high as them
trees, you still had to go because you
were signed on.
No sharks would ever touch you with
them killers there. Them killers would
chase a shark an’ chop him to pieces. A
swordfish, you know what he’s like, he
wouldn’t have a chance with the killer.
An’ a porpoise, he’d make a porpoise
sweat, he’s so fast.
If the whale-boat was out to sea, out
of sight of land, an’ got smashed, the
killers was there. They would be
swimmin’ round an’ round keepin’ the
sharks away. No shark would go near
or even a swordfish. If them killers seen
a man gettin’ tired, they would swim
underneath him, put their fin under his
arm, an’ hold him up until the launch
come to pick them up.
The killers would be swimmin’ an’
playin’ all round the launch as it went
back.
Arr, my ole uncle Brierly was a champ.
They got his photo down at Twofold
Bay. He’d never use the cannon-ball
gun, he’d never use the harpoon gun.
He’d use the harpoon spear. He had
a knack of killin’ the whale. He’d make
them sneak right up with the paddles
shipped when they sung out “Stern-a-
-moo!” He’d put the harpoon right into
him an’ kill the whale stone dead.
There’s three whales, the sperm whale,
the black whale an’ the humper—he’s
got a hump on his back. A sperm whale
can smash a boat with his tail an’ come
at you with his mouth open. He’s got
teeth.
The little killers would swim along-
side the whale an’ as soon as he opened
his mouth the little killers would go
inside an’ bite his tongue out, chew it
right off.
Big Ben the killer was a wizard. Then
there was Hookey an’ another one named
Big Tom. Them killers must have been
bugeens for cornin’ into Twofold Bay
like that an’ telling the dark people there
was whales out there.
Soon as ever the dark people left
Twofold Bay an’ come up to Wallaga
Lake, them killers went north. Why?
Because there was no blackfellers there.
Ole Mrs Davison, her husband was
the boss of the whalin’ Station at Boyd
Town, she could have told you.
NGALOONGIRR, THE CLEVER-
FELLERS
Told by Walter Blakeney
My grandfather, whose name was
Ooma, belonged to the Yeagirr
tribe of the Clarence River on
the North Coast. There’s always
been trouble between our tribe and the
Bunjalung tribe of the Richmond River.
My mother’s father was one of the
clever-fellers, Ngaloongirr, we call them.
He was in this trouble. There was one
man in our tribe who was always a
trouble-maker. He had a wife and
daughter. One day he cleared out and
they found out that he was over on the
Richmond River side with the Bunjalung
tribe.
Now and again this man would come
back and visit our side and he wanted
to take his wife with him. She wouldn’t
go. She knew what he was like and
what he would do to her if he got her
over there. He’d treat her worse than
what she was treated.
Finally this woman got sick and died.
They was going to bury her until grand-
father and another clever-feller came
back from a hunt and examined her.
They found out that she had been caught.
She had been caught in the same way as
dark people get caught down here with
the guneena, the devil’s stones.
They went through the burial rites.
They wrapped the body in bark and
bound it on a pole. Two strong men
carried the body on the pole on their
shoulders. Everybody in camp lined up
to see what happened. In them times,
if anybody in the camp was guilty the
two men carrying the body on the pole
had no power to stop the body from
pushing them towards the person who
was guilty.
So they all lined up. The guilty person
wasn’t there. The only direction the
body would go was north towards the
Richmond River. No matter which way
the two men turned round, the body
always indicated towards the north.
One of the clever-fellers kept asking
who the guilty person was. He kept ask-
ing and naming different names. If they
named the right person the weight the
two men were bearing would become as
light as a feather.
They .named the name of the dead,
girl’s husband and they were convinced
it was him who was guilty. They turned
round with the body to walk through
all the people and to say farewell before
the body was buried. The people were
all lined up, children and everyone. The
question was asked once more. Was it
the right person? Would she have any
doubt about it?—for her to prove it once
more. The bearers were pushed along
by the body and it came and stopped
right in front of her daughter, a little
girl of six who didn’t know anything
about it.
After that the body became heavy
again. They knew then that it was her
father who was guilty.
After the body was buried, the pole-
bearers, who were two clever-fellers, dis-
appeared for a week. The old men had
fold those two that they had to go out
and get that man. These two clever-
fellers were away for a week. Later, the
man who killed that girl was found dead.
Those two Ngaloongirr, clever-fellers,
made him pay for what he had done.
Those Ngaloongirr would go into the
bush and there they would change them-
selves into two black eagles. They would
fly until they found what they wanted.
Then they would turn themselves back
into men and do something to the man
they were hunting. That man would
linger for might be two or three days
or a week before he died. He had no
chance of getting away from those two
Ngaloongirr.
NGALOONGIRR, THE CLEVER-
FELLERS (2)
Told by Walter Blakeney
My mother told me this about my
grandfather. All the men had
been out hunting for a couple
of days. They came back to the
camp just as the sun was going down.
All turned up, with whatever they had
got from hunting, except one man. This
man had gone into the Bunjalung tribe’s
country as he was hunting. He had been
told not to wander too far into this
country.
They waited for him to come back.
His young wife waited for him and kept
the fire going. Seeing that he didn’t turn
up late in the night she decided t& bake
a damper made out of yams. She mixed
it up and opened the ashes of the fire
out. They were nice clear white ashes.
She put the damper in the ashes.
She turned away to get a bigger stick.
She turned away for about five seconds.
When she looked at the damper again,
she saw, in the dim light, that black
spots had appeared on the dough. She
stripped a bit of tea-tree bark off a log
near the fire and lit it to see what the
spots were. She saw that they were spots
of blood.
The girl went and woke grandfather
up without disturbing the others. When
grandfather came up he had a look at
the damper. He walked outside and
had a look at the camp from where the
blood had dripped. He saw, on the top
of the tea-tree bark humpy, the body of
the missing man with his body all
chopped about.
Grandfather spoke to the body and
asked what had happened and who had
killed him. The answer was, ‘Three
men.” Grandfather took the wife of the
dead man down to a different camp and
told the women to look after her.
Daylight next morning the old-man
and his clever mate took with them a
young feller. Grandfather led them to
the place where he had been told the
killing had happened. There they found
the body of the murdered man. The
body was chopped up and pushed into a
log.
The two clever-fellers told the young
feller to get the body out and bury it.
They said that they would be back before
he was finished. They disappeared into
the scrub.
It wasn’t long before them two clever-
fellers were back. The three of them


went back home again and reached the
camp before sun-down that night.
Later there were three young fellers
from the Richmond River tribe found
speared to death and their bodies
chopped up. -
My mother said that after this hap-
pened the old people from the other
side got talking about these three fellers.
They didn’t say anything to our people
but they knew that what had happened
was the law. As the saying is, “An eye
for an eye and a tooth for a tooth.”
The young feller who the two clever-
fellers took with them was a man who
was learning their powers. That young
feller would take over the power of the
Ngaloongirr when the old fellers passed
away.
When we see a black eagle cruising
round we always know. “Hello,” we
say, “something’s happened back home.”
It’s always news, a sort of message. A
willy-wagtail singing out late at night
round the camp tells us too. “Hello,
some bad news from back home,” we
say. Sure enough, inside a week we hear
of the death of a relation j from back
home.
GOLD AND GROG AND
PRETTY STONES
Told by Percy Mumbulla
Clemmy Penrith told me this yarn
in Nowra after he come out of
jail. He come to our camp an’
stopped there that night. He was
tellin’ us about the time he was over
in Western Australia. He Svas wanderin’
around the town lookin' for work an’
got on the booze.
Well, he travelled out to a place where
a lot of the dark people were camped
all about in their mia-mias. Clemmy
had a bottle of wine an’ a, plug of
terbaccer with him.
At first he got in with the young
fellers, but he found out he was doin’
wrong. He could see that there was a
lot of ole warriors an’ bugeens, clever-
fellers, walkin’ about there. He woke
up to himself. He asked the young fellers
about them ole people. They showed
him one ole feller. Clemmy went over
an’ started to get in with this ole bugeen.
’Course, the ole feller couldn’t speak
plain English. Clemmy was holdin’ up
the wine an’ showin’ him the terbaccer,
gammonin’ he was puffin’.
Clemmy broke that ole feller in to
smokin’. Once the ole feller got the
hang of it he was like a train —smokin’
all the time.
Clemmy gets his pint now an’ pours
the wine in it. He fills the ole feller’s
pint right up. Them two fellers are
chargin’ up now.
When Clemmy got used to the ole
feller's gibberish, the ole feller began to
put him on the right track. He says to
Clemmy, “Now look, you got to keep
your place. You see them ole warriors
walkin’ about draggin’ their spears on
their foot? Well, you want to be careful,
see. Don’t go runnin’ about with the
migais, the young girls, or them ole
fellers will put the spear right into you.
Be in your camp by dark an’ go to sleep
“Bless you, if it's a Water-shortage you re Worried about, forget it!”
early.” You know what young fellers
is for running about with migais in the
night.
Well, Clemmy took notice of this ole
feller. They was talkin’, an’ this ole
feller had a chunk of gold, he was
carryin’ this chunk about with him.
Clemmy asked him for this chunk of
gold and the ole feller give it to him.
And Clemmy was walkin’ about with
it, carryin’ it about.
Anyhow, Clemmy sees a big truck with
a white feller cornin’ to this place. This
truck had all sorts of grog on it, tucker
an’ all. He asked one of the young
fellers, “What’s this truck cornin’ here
for?” “Oh,” said the young feller, “that
mugai, white man, is fetchin’ tucker here
to give to us.”
This white man used to give all this
tucker an' grog to the ole fellers, the
ole bugeens. There was a lot of pretty
stones lyin’ about that place an’ this white
man was doin’ this to get all them stones.
He’s loadin’ the truck now, takin’ all
them stones. This white bloke got what
he wanted. Them ole bugeens, they didn’t
know the value of them stones. They’d
pick up a stone an’ chuck it away. They
let that white bloke take all the stones
he wanted.
That night when Clemmy was lyin’
down asleep, the ole feller came an’ took
the chunk of gold from under his head.
In the mornin’ Clemmy woke up. The
gold was gone from under his head. He
was lookin’ for this gold an’ he saw
the old feller with it. “Jove!” said
Clemmy, “that’s funny how that ole
feller come to take that gold. I slept with
it underneath my head.”
Well, Clemmy could see all them other
pretty stones layin’ about. He was lookin'
at all them stones. He picked out about
four good stones an’ put them in his
swag-bag an’ away he went at daylight.
He gets out about three or four miles
when he sees that truck cornin’ with the
dust flyin’. It was loaded up again.
Clemmy was sittin’ down waitin’ for
the truck to come up. The white bloke
pulled up. “Good-day, country-man,” he
says to Clemmy, “where you goin’ to?”
Clemmy told him he was goin’ to Mel-
bourne. “Ah, you got a long way to
go,” says this white feller.
Clemmy was sittin’ down havin’ a look
at them four stones. The white feller
had a look at them. He wanted them
stones. “Look,” he said, “I’ll tell you
what I'll do. I’ll give you this truck
loaded with grog, rum, beer, wine, ter-
baceer, matches, flour, tea, sugar, meat
—everything for them stones.”
“All right,” said Clemmy, “here you
are.” He gave him the stones. “Well,”
said the white feller, “you got the truck
an' all the grog an' tucker. I’m goin*
back now.”
Clemmy didn’t want the truck. He
couldn't drive it. Anyhow, the white
feller give him the truck an' all.
The white bloke sets out now with
them stones. Clemmy gets up on the
truck an’ takes as much grog as he. could
carry in a bag. He took it back to them
ole clever-fellers camped in that place
where the pretty stones were. He gives
the ole fellers the drink an’ tells ’em
about the truck, young fellers an’ all.
He takes ’em all back to the truck.
They must have had a harvest then, I’ll
bet. They got into that grog—chargin’
up. Clemmy said he was there for six
months with them blackfellers. Them ole
fellers were lyin’ around all over the
place, charged up. They were like logs,
like poisoned dorgs.
Well, Clemmy got on the booze an’
forgot all about them stones. I suppose
after all that grog he'd had the place.
He got out of it while his luck was in.
He wanted right or wrong for me an’
the missus to go back with him. He
wanted to take us back to get them
stones. Them stones were black an’ like
rainbow colors shinin’ in the night.
Beautiful stones they was. Them pore
ole dark people, they wouldn't know
what they was worth. They’d just pick
up one of them stones, look at it, an’
chuck it away.
I know them ole clever-fellers, them
bugeens. You wouldn’t catch me goin’
back to them parts. They’d put the spear
right into you. That place is out of
bounds for us. Soon as ever Clemmy
told us about them pie bugeens I knew
that place wasn’t for us.


What Malayans Think of Us
Young; Brother to " Tuan Besar”
By ALICE TAY ERH SOON
IN Malaya, Australians are counted
simply as Europeans. They look
European, th'ey are no less cut off
from Asian society than any other
European, they work in “European” occu-
pations, as. planters, civil engineers,
journalists, foremen-mechanics, in Euro-
pean-owned commercial companies or as
managers in go-ahead Chinese ‘concerns.
The only Asians they know are the
English-educated Asians who are begin-
ning to take over these posts. In the
dwindling European community of Singa-
pore and the Federation of Malaya the
few hundred Australians form a small
section of an overwhelmingly British
majority. They speak the same language,
wear the same clothes and sit in the same
clubs as the U.K, expatriate. The Aus-
tralian’s manners, when he first arrives,
are often a little freer ; his wife tends to
be prettier, younger and less asthmatic
than, her English counterpart ; the Aus-
tralian generally drinks more than the
“normal” Englishman and less than that
great Asian institution, the English or
Scottish drunk. But as the Australian
goes on working in British firms and
mixing in British clubs the differences
there are become less marked ; the Aus-
tralian in Malaya is generally far more
“English” than the Australian in Austra-
lia.
The Chinese or Indian who takes orders
from the Australian in the Malayan Civil
Service, who watches him stride aggres-
sively down Bugis Street, or waits on him
in a restaurant in Kuala Lumpur, gener-
ally does so with some underlying resent-
ment. But the resentment is not directed
at the Australian qua Australian. To the
Asian he is first and foremost an orang
puteh, a white man or European. The
attitudes the Australian will arouse are
not attitudes to Australians, but to Euro-
peans ; if he is treated as a distinct type
of European it will not be as an Aus-
tralian, but as a Briton (distinguished,
say, from the Dutch). The Australian
came to Malaya as a junior Briton: the
power standing behind him was England,
not Australia, the things he was part of
in Malaya were obviously British and
not obviously Australian. It is on these
British institutions —the old, European-
dominated Malayan Civil Service, the
British banks and plantations, the Euro-
pean department stores and agency
houses —that Malayan attitudes to Euro-
peans rest.
One must say “Malayan altitudes,” not
“The Malayan attitude.” Everywhere,
national attitudes are notoriously elusive
and rarely pervasive. They vary, as they
do in Malaya, with economic and social
position, educational background and
occupation. But in Malaya (as in so
many of the new “nations”) there is
culturally and socially no such thing as
a nation. Malayans are primarily
Chinese, Malays or Indians; the sem-
blance of political unity rests on a stale-
mate in the struggle for power rather
than on any “national consciousness” or
common “culture.” When Malayans
think, they do not think as “Malayans.”
They do not even think as Chinese,
Malays or Indians: they think as English-
educated Chinese, Chinese-educated
Chinese, or uneducated Chinese, as Eng-
lish-educated Indians or uneducated
Indians, as “aristocratic” or “political”
Malays or kampong Malays.
/"\f all the races in Malaya, the Chinese
are unquestionably the most anti-
European. They combine a deep con-
tempt for the European’s appearance,
manners, customs and smell with a
smouldering resentment of the European’s
power and ability to get things done.
The Chinese-educated Chinese stands at
the head of this resentment: he has been
Miss Tay, the author of this second
article in the series on Asian attitudes
to Australians, is a Malayan Chinese
barrister.
denied respect, position and the financial
fruits of his education by British political
power. The uneducated Chinese respects,
above all things, the Chinese-educated
Chinese: the degradation of the Chinese-
educated by the European is to him the
symbol of his own degradation.
The English - educated Chinese, of
course, is more ambivalent: - he has a
personal stake in British political power,
a genuine if limited appreciation of the
virtues of European civilisation, and an
interest in praising those who praise him.
But he, too, has been repressed if he was
able and made to feel repressed if he was
not. His uncertain grasp of European
culture, his lack of poise in European
society, his feeling of tottering between
two worlds, only accentuate his insecurity.
The result is a resentment less open, but
no less deep, than that of the vast
majority of the Malayan Chinese.
Among the Chinese, who form some
75 per cent, of the population of Singa-
pore and some 43 per cent, of the popula-
tion in the Federation of Malaya, the
Europeans (including the Australians) are
not liked, though with varying degrees
of intensity. The Chinese attitude comes
out most obviously, in the Chinese-
dominated, anti-colonial People’s Action
Party Government in Singapore, which
would sooner have investment from
China’s traditional, but still Asian,
enemies, the Japanese, than from junior
Britons in Australia. P.A.P.’s anti-
expatriate campaign in the Singapore
civil service made no distinctions, between
Britons and Australians ; one of the most
highly-publicised attacks involved a New
Zealander. Any attempt by Australia at
the present moment to persuade the
P.A.P. Government or a majority of
Singapore’s Chinese citizens that Aus-
tralia is not a white, European and pro-
colonial Power would be doomed to
failure. The Chinese, in or outside
Malaya, might at a pinch use Australia ;
they would certainly not trust her. In
Singapore, Australian academics and
experts could make a significant contri-
bution ; under the present dictatorial,
petulant and self-adulatory Governmenl
they will not get the chance.
The Chinese value their dignity fat
more than Indians or Malays. Chinese
life in Malaya is dominated by resentmenl
(including resentment of the European):
Indian and Malay life is not. To the
uneducated Indian his poverty is more
important than his dignity. The Euro-
pean is only one of the minor affronts
of the poor Indian’s life. Having a
European employer (as he always remem-
bers) is better than having no employer
at all. The educated Indian, traditionally
a member of the Malayan Civil Service,
is sensitive, extremely conscious of color
(whether accompanied by discrimination
or not) and justly prone to feel oppressed.
But he, far more than- his Chinese
counterpart), has come to feel at home in
British civilisation ; he has carved him-
self a niche as a minor official within
it: with all his resentment, he is willing
to serve. Superficially, Australians find
him more friendly, more articulate, less
sullen in his resentment ; but he alone of
Malayans will never forget the “White
Australia” bar. The Malays, negligible
in Singapore, set the political tone in the
Federation of Malaya. The kamponi
Malay, whose wife is the planter’s amal
and whose son is his houseboy, has
generally liked the British and the occa-
sional Australian as well. The “political'
Malay has ambitions for power ; at one
stage, during the war, it seemed to hin
that these could best be promoted bj
supporting the Japanese and helpins
them to repress The Chinese. Since the
war it is the British who have assured
his political future and protected hin
from Chinese encroachment. Whatevei
personal resentment he feels has been
swamped by political gratitude. The
Federation Government, handed inde-
pendence and power on a platter, feels
no political antagonism to Britain or to
Europeans as such. The Prime Minister
Tunku Abdul Rahman, having achieved
(with British help) some stability at home,
wants little more than goodwill (and
friendly trips) abroad. To him, and to
most of the Malays who support him
Australians are a friendly people who
supply Malaya with its best jockeys, and
Australia is a “nice” country.
Some Malayans, of course, can and do


distinguish Australians from other Euro-
peans and Britons. They come exclu-
sively from the English-educated classes
or from those who have had intimate
contact (as servants e.g.) with Australian
families in Malaya. The distinctions
they make may be interesting to Austra-
lian readers; they are of no political
importance in Malayan life.
Australians made their first group
T* impact on Malaya as soldiers (mainly,
indeed, as prisoners) in the Second World
War. It was a period when Chinese
resentment of the European had been
temporarily swept away by Chinese
resentment of the Japanese. Chinese
risked their lives to smuggle food and
Bibles into the prison camps and
treasured the smuggled notes that thanked
them for “the wee fishes.” The British,
they were sure, would return —in a week,
a fortnight, a year, two years. Mean-
while, they needed help. The Dutch, no
doubt, needed help as well, but few
Chinese felt any inclination or duty to
give it. The Australians, on the other
hand, belonged with the British ; but, the
helpers noted, they were different:
younger, more cheerful, far more in-
formal in their thanks. Superficially, it
was easier to like them. We came to
think of them as younger brothers of
the English, with all the carefree ease
that distinguishes the younger brother of
a Chinese family from the stern, stiff and
disciplinarian oldest. To those Chinese
who have known Australians in Malaya
this comparison still seems apt.
Any positive liking for the Australian
is confined to those who can also -appre-
ciate the virtues of the English. These
are not slow to note the traits in which
the English seem to them superior. The
younger brother is easier to talk to ; the
elder is more dependable. The Austra-
lian treats his houseboy more tolerantly ;
it was the Englishman who trained him.
The Australian paid him higher wages ;
the Englishman, years later, left him
money in his will. The Australians like
to feel that they are more at home with
“native” peoples ; but few (if any) Aus-
tralians have formed the ties with
colonial territories that thousands of
Englishmen have formed. Whether we
like him or not, the Englishman in the
colonies has become part of our lives
and we have become part of his. The
men whose statues stand in London
played their role in our history and in
our (English) school books ; the men who
built our public services still live in
retirement in Bath and Reigate ; at
Kemble this year I stayed with the
Anglo-Irish doctor who saved my life
when I was fourteen. Even now, Eng-
land is open to us without conditions;
Australia is not.
With independence this social and
cultural tie with the United Kingdom is
naturally losing its strength. Under
British political rule the English-educated
Asian was taught to value a United King-
dom qualification above all others.
American degrees were not recognised,
Australian degrees treated as inferior.
The severance of the formal tie with
the United Kingdom has coincided with
a mounting figure of Malayan students
seeking technical and University training
in Australia, both under the Colombo
Plan and under their own steam. Within
the section of English-educated Malayans
they now comprise the group most aware
of Australia and the Australians. On the
whole, their own attitudes to Australia
are favorable. They enjoyed the country,
liked the people and did not feel discrimi-
nated against as Asians. (The latter point
is less true of Indians than of Chinese
or Malays ; some Indians claim that dis-
crimination in lodgings, especially, is quite
frequent.) Most Malayans seem to take
more easily to Perth, Adelaide and Mel-
bourne than to Sydney ; they come back
to Malaya emotionally more relaxed,
somewhat more secure, and a little more
competent at the business of living. They
also come back with a marked tendency
to use Australians as an authority for
running down English education and
English ways.
'T'he latter tendency is revealing. The
best of the English-educated Asians
still go to study in the United Kingdom ;
it is usually the second and third brother,
or the intellectually weaker member of
the family, who is sent to the “cheaper
course” in Australia. On the whole, he
comes back less cultured, but more
aggressive than those who have been
in England—a walking advertisement for
Australian practicality, interest in family
allowances and refusal to live life the
hard way. If this is not a fair picture
of Australian life, it is the picture the
Malayan from Australia unconsciously
brings back with him.
Attitudes to Australians, logically, are
not the same thing as attitudes to Aus-
tralia. It is widely recognised in Asia,
for example, that there is a disparity
between the comparative racial tolerance
of individual Australians and the official
“White Australia Policy.” (The disparity
stands out in the red-faced embarrass-
ment of Australian diplomats whenever
Asians call to enquire about visas.) On
the whole, the “White Australia Policy”
is not the issue in Malaya that some Aus-
tralians think it is. It causes deep resent-
ment among Eurasians, who are generally
anxious to emigrate and like to think
that their standard of living and educa-
tion is European. The cultured Chinese
who wants to live in a “European”
country at all prefers to live in England.
For the Malay, Malaya is the Malay's
world, while the Indian’s indignation is
that of the professional moralist rather
than that of J;he man with a grievance.
Primarily, thus, Malayan attitudes to Aus-
tralia are Malayan attitudes to Austra-
lians, and these, as we have seen, vary
enormously. The consciousness of Aus-
tralians as Australians is still limited to
a small section in Malaya. The attitudes
the Australian will meet range from deep
resentment to good-natured liking: they
will rarely include admiration or respect
for his continent or his culture. To
many Malayans Britain is an enemy: to
all Malayans it is a Power. Australia,
so far, is not.
"Bah! Another radio-active professor ."


Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hatmax" Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
115 Pitt Street, Sydney. Telephone: BW 1771—8 W 8088
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
R. H. ALLEN, M. R. Li. DOWLING, P. R. LEVY, A. P,
REYNOLDS, N. R. COURSE (Melbourne Resident Partner)
Delfln House, 16 O’Connell St., Sydney—2s-5911 (20 lines)
Prudential Building, 150 Queen St., Melbourne —67-5957 (4 lines)
Telegrams and Cables: “Rosdale,” Sydney, Melbourne or Wollongong.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Union Carbide Australia, Ltd.
Selling-prices of a number of Union
Carbide lines suffered from the im-
pact of overseas competition last term.
Earnings eased, despite higher group
sales.
Formed in 1957 by the merger of
Timbrol, Ltd., with the Australian in-
terests of Union Carbide Corporation of
U.S.A. (on a 40 p.c,-60 p.c. basis), Union
Carbide Australia, Ltd., manufactures
industrial and fine chemicals, including
hormone weed-killers, deodorants, wood-
preservatives, paints, disinfectants, plasti-
cisers, asphalt flooring-tiles and D.D.T.
Other products include Eveready dry-
cell batteries, ore-grinders, metal-rollers,
etc. Headquarters are in Sydney.
Timbrol, Ltd., remains one of the main
operating subsidiaries. Eveready Aust.
Pty. is another important member of the
group, which is divided into chemicals,
consumer-products and plastics divisions.
A polyethylene plant at Altona (Vic.),
with an initial productive capacity of
15,000,0001 b. a year, is scheduled to com-
mence operations this year. The plant
is located next to Vacuum Oil Pty.’s
petrochemical complex, and the oil-giant
will supply the raw materials. A private
debenture-issue of £3| million has been
arranged to finance the project.
Lower selling-prices caused by intense
competition from imports, which fol-
lowed the relaxation of licensing and
other restrictions, and higher costs offset
the gains from improved group turnover.
Parent figures only were presented last
term. Net profit for the year ended June
30, 1960, was £81,2b 1 (or 19 p.c.) lower
than the previous term’s consolidated
earnings at £359,605. This was after pro-
viding £214,488 for depreciation (up
£11,735 compared with the previous
term’s parent figure) and setting-aside
£256,098 for taxation (formerly undis-
closed).
After paying the pref. divs, the profit
on the average ord. capital represented
an earning-rate of 16.5 p.c., compared
with 20.2 p.c. in 1959 and 1958 and 17.8
p.c. in 1957.
The steady 10 p.c. div.-rate absorbed
£215,078 leaving £139,027 to reserves,
which also benefited by £9106 profit on
sale of assets. Reserves were reduced
by £29,538 plant written-off and £13,688
unexplained reduction, following the
switch-back to parent accounts, and were
disclosed at £1,939,225:
Parent and Subsidiary.
f— Dividends —, To Re- Re-
Jne. Profit. Pref. , ——- —Ord. —, serves. serves.*
30, 5| p.c.
£ £ £ £ £
Profit sale land, £41,279 .. .. 323,828
’54..184,186 5500 10 p.c. = 86,031 92,655 416,483
’55..159,318 5500 10 „ „ 86,032 67,786 484,269
’56..117,503 5500 10 „ „ 86,031 25,972 510,241
Union Carbide Australia, Ltd.
’57..158,385 5500 10 p.c. = 86,032 66,853 577,094
Share-premiums, £816,655 .. .. 1,393,749
Assets-re valuation, £llB4 .. ..1,394,933
’58..439,575 5500 10 p.c. =215,078 218,997 1,613,930
’59..440,866 5500 10 „ ~215,078 220,288 1,834,218
Parent Co.
Profit sale-assets, £9106 .. .. 1,843,324
Plant written-off, £29,538 . . ..1,813,786
Unexplained reduction, £13,688 ..1,800,098
’60..359,605 5500 10 p.c. =215,078 139,027 1,939,225
* Subject to intangibles, £243,445 at June 30, 1960.
Increase in co. tax-rates resulted in the
tax-bill being £16,950 higher than pro-
vided for. This reduced net earnings to
£342,655, or 15.7 p.c. on the average ord.
capital.
Book-value of fixed assets was higher,
reflecting the installation of new equip-
ment at the Eveready round-cell bat-
teries plant in Sydney (recently trans-
ferred from Melbourne).
Long-term borrowings were concen-
trated in debentures. This could affect
the earning-rate in current term because
of the recently - introduced non-
deductibility of interest on borrowings
tax-wise. Debentures totalled £2,490,000
at balance-date:
-Paid capital— 1958. 1959. 1960.*
Pref £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Ord 2,150,783 2,150,783 2,150,783
Reserves .. .. 1,613,930 1,834,218 1,939,225
Loan .. .. 456,000 466,000
Debentures .. - 2,490,000
Overdraft .. 56,663
Advance debenture
subscriptions .. 636,000
Creditors, tax pro-
vision . . . . 838,313 791,871 1,352,666
Final dividends . . 110,289 110,289 110,289
£5,325,978 £6,089,161 £8,142,963
Land, buildings,
plant . . . . 1,999,550 2,043,472 2,311,668
Stock .. .. 1,894,104 2,065,373 2,324,855
Debtors, etc. . . 1,200,982 986,088 1,380,121
Cash, bonds .. 8,905 771,791 1,882,874
Intangibles .. 222,437 222,437 243,445
£5,325,978 £6,089,161 £8,142,963
* Parent only.
Creditors, stocks, book-debts and cash,
bonds, etc., were all higher. Liquidity
was high, with theoretical working-
capital at £4,124,895 (up £1,854,919).
Net tangible asset-backing works-out at
£39 9s. 4d. for each 20s. pref. and 355. 9d.
for each 20s. ord.
Prospects seem fair, but Union Carbide
must adjust its sales-structure to the
highly competitive market-conditions and
keep costs down. The Altona project,
scheduled to start operations in mid-
-1961, should be an important addition
to the group’s earning-capacity in the
long-run.
At the last sale in Sydney the
20s. ords. fetched 955. a unit, for an
immediate yield of 2.1 p.c., on the basis
of the steady 10 p.c. div.-rate.
Whale Industries, Ltd.
■flimALE Industries, Ltd., surfaced the
corporate horizon in 1951 with an
issued capital of £535,000. Of this,
140,000 ss. shares were issued in con-
sideration for the acquisition of Whale
Products Pty. (a co. formed in 1950 to
establish a whaling industry on the east
coast of Australia), Farm Margarine Pty.
(now inoperative) and Hi-Protein Pty. (to
market meatmeal and bonemeal as manu-
factured by Whale Products Pty.), and
2,000,000 ss. shares were issued to the
public. Capital remained unchanged
then until last term, the co. effecting a
two-for-five bonus-issue in December,
1959, to lift total equity £214,000 to
£749,000.
In the nine years since its formation,
Whale Industries has earned a solid
reputation on ’Change. Profits have
averaged 26 p.c. (on paid capital) since
inception, and divs., 6 p.c. in 1952, 10
p.c. in 1953, 14 p.c. in 1954 and 20 p.c.
from 1955 onwards, have been generous.
But against a background, generally, of
weakened prices, the ss. stock-units,
selling up to 235. 6d. a year ago (and up
to 18s. 3d. after the bonus issue), are
fetching only 10s. 6d. today. Yield is an
attractive 9.5 p.c. from a continued 20
p.c. div.
“Directors are concerned at the in-
creasing pressures on humpback stocks
by pelagic expeditions in the Antarctic
in Area V, from which our whales are
drawn. If these pressures continue it is
probable that the co.’s profits from
whaling could diminish.” In any case,
the co. is restricted to a quota (600 hump-
back whales in 1958 ; 660 in 1959 and
1960), so that expansion is effectively
limited in this direction —the catch-quota
system, introduced by the International
Whaling Commission (Australia is a
signatory to the International Whaling
Agreement), aims at conserving world
whale populations in order that the
whaling industry can continue on a stable
basis. Whale Industries, however, is pur-
suing a policy of diversification.
In association with the long-established
beach-miner Z.R. Holdings, Ltd., the
co. formed Tangalooma Minerals, Pty.,
to extract rutile, zircon, etc., from beach-
sands on Moreton Island (Q.). The pro-
ject, kicked-off in 1956, has been financed
mainly by advances from the two cos.
Repayment went well until three years
ago, when a sudden drop in mineral-sand
prices brought mining operations to a
halt.
At Sept. 30 last (Whale Industries’
balance-date) Tangalooma still owed
Whale Industries £59,975 (down £2525),
and whether this amount can be re-
covered is a matter for conjecture. The
most that can be said for the Tanga-
looma venture is: “We are in a strong
position to resume operations when rutile
and zircon prices reach a satisfactory
level.” A small but satisfactory profit


A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER, N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor, The National Mutual Life Building;,
291 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address: "NEVITTCO”
Rhone: 31 2761 (4 Lines) P.O. Box No. 18S7W
ELECTRIC
HYDRAULIC
LIFTS
ELEVATORS PTY. LIMITED,
877 Dowling Street, Waterloo. FF 3931.
Represented in all States. Telegrams:
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS for Express Lift Co., Ltd.,
Hydelec.
England.
came in last term, deliveries under long-
term contracts, from ore-in-hand, going
out during the year. v
In July, 1959, Whale Industries
acquired 35,000-acre Gurley Station (near
Moree, N.S.W.) carrying a fine flock of
Merino sheep, a Merino stud, a Poll
Shorthorn stud as well as a considerable
acreage sown to wheat, barley and oats.
Despite adverse seasonal conditions and
depressed wool prices, operations at
Gurley, last term, proved profitable.
But back to whaling:
Rarely venturing outside a five-mile
radius (it just isn’t necessary) of its shore-
based factory at Tangalooma, Moreton
Island, the co.’s fleet of three, catchers
hunts the humpback on its annual migra-
tory journey to the tropics.
Taking all things into consideration,
Whale Industries had a satisfactory go
of it last season. Foul weather slowed
down,catching operations and time at sea
from the firing of the first harpoon to
the flensing of the last whale was all of
73 days (only 63 days in 1959). The
physical condition of whales was not as
good as in the previous year, but ships
and processing-plant ran smoothly. There
was a 7 p.c. reduction in oil production,
but this was partly offset by increased
output of protein meals.
Last term saw little variation in the
prices of whale-oil and -meal. Profits,
sustained by Gurley income, rose £253
to £172,193. Ascertained after tax
£lOO,OOO (down £5000) and depreciation
£BO,OOO (up £10,000), the showing works-
out a healthy 23 p.c. on paid capital
(bonus-enlarged), against 32.1 p.c., 28.1
p.c., 27.5 p.c., 26.7 p.c. and 35.2 p.c. back
to 1955:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To Re-
Oct. Profit. r —' —Dividends — serves. Deficit.*
31, £ £ £ £
Premium paid for subsidiaries’ shares 31,500
Preliminary and establishment exes.,
etc., £45,062 76,562
1952 .. 69,431 6 p.c. = 32,100 37,331 39,231
Reserves.*
1953 ..105,722 10 „ ~ 53,500 52,222 12,991
1954 ..152,805 14 p.c. = 74,900 77,905 90,896
1955 ..188,434 20 „ ~107,000 81,434 172,330
Sept.,
19561. .143,266 20 „ ~107,000 36,266 208,596
1957 ..147,115 20 „ ~107,000 40,115 248,711
From prov. for deferred maintenance,
, £50,000 298/711
1958 ..150,364 20 p.c. =107,000 43,364 342,075
1959 ..171.940 20 „ ~107,000 64.940 407.015
Plus reduction intangibles, £31,500 438,515
Shares in subsids. revalued, £216,000 654,515
Reserves capitalised, £214,000 . . 440,515
Less excess of book-value over par
value of shares in subsids, £247,500 193,015
1960 ..172,193 20 p.c. =149,800 22,393 215,408
* After deducting intangibles, £31,500 at 30/9/’6O.
t 11 months only.
Stockholders took their usual 20 p.c.,
leaving £22,393 for transfer to reserves,
now £215,408 (down £223,107) the
excess of book-value over par-value of
shares in subsidiaries, £247,500, has been
set-off against reserves. Every ss. invested
in Whale Industries in 1951, has, so far,
yielded 7s. lid. in divs.
Apart from increased liquidity, the
book-values of assets and liabilities are
little changed:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1958. 1959. 1960.
Paid capital .. £535,000 £535,000 £749,000
Surplus .. .. 373,575 438,515 215,408
Creditors .. .. 11,463 54,952 37,964
Tax provision .. 165,089 150,245 166,654
Dividends .. 107,000 107,000 149,800
£1,192,127 £1,285,712 £1,318,826
Plant, buildings, ]
etc. .. 1- 359,331 771,956 722,569
Ships . . J
Shares, etc., subsid. 122,250 . 76,500 71,550
Stock .. .. 206,436 360,019 453,365
Debtors .. .. 159,295 34,739 41,347
Cash .. .. 313,315 10,998 29,995
Intangibles .. > 31,500 31,500
£1,192,127 £1,285,712 £1,318,826
Stocks-on-hand rose £93,346 to £453,365
and theoretical working - capital moved
forward £76,730 to £170,289. The book-
value of plant, buildings, ships, etc.,
declined £49,387 to £722,569.
Still dependent primarily on whaling
activities, prospects for Whale Industries
in the current term (catching operations
begin in June) depend largely on move-
ments in whale-oil prices. About 50 p.c.
of the catch involves forward selling
which is due to commence shortly, and
present indications are that prices will
remain much the same as those fetched
in 1960. The price of whale-meat, on
the other hand (for use as pet-foods;
overseas markets), has risen in recent
months and directors, as a result, are
considering, installation of additional
plant for proper processing and
packaging.
Diversification has undoubtedly added
strength to Whale Industries, especially
so in the instance of Gurley Station, and
shareholders can expect further moves
to add variety to a widening range of
interests. The co. made an unsuccessful
bid for Australian Wool Brokers and
Produce Co., Ltd., last term.
Meantime, at balance-date the ss. ords.
weighed-up a slender but not insubstantial
6s. sd. in net tangibles.
Westralian Oil, Ltd.
TI/Testralian Oil, Ltd., holds oil-
exploration areas in the Bonaparte
Gulf Basin (N.T.), the Fitzroy Basin
(W.A.) and in Gippsland (Vic.). The co.
operates mineral sands treatment- and
concentration-plants at Yoganup and
Capel (both W.A.). Last year Westralian
Oil sold a 50 p.c. interest in all its explora-
tion-areas to Oil Development, N.L., for
£20,000 “reimbursement.”
Sales for the year ended June 30, 1960,
totalled £7362 (up . £212). Stocks were
valued at £19,776. Operational expenses
swallowed-up £20,024 and factory main-
tenance and depreciation £7789, resulting
in a net operating loss of £675. Last term
the co. sold its investments (except £2OOO
in bonds) at £21,487 capital profit to pay
for plant and equipment. Non-operating
income yielded £2720. Surplus plant was
sold at a profit of £689.
Directors’ fees and non-operating
administrative expenses absorbed £22,400,
leaving total income and capital gain at
£9763. Accumulated loss was reduced
from £10,029 to £266.
Oil Development will spend £200,000
(including Government subsidy) on oil-
exploration in the Bonaparte Gulf over
the next three years. In addition, Oil
Development will take-up 200,000 2s.
Westralian shares at par and give Westra-
lian Oil a 20 p.c. interest in a lease held
in the Torquay area (Vic.).
Westralian’s mineral - concentration
camp at Capel operated on a part-
time basis through most of last term.
“Small orders” had been sold during the
year, and last August 8500 tons were sent
overseas.
Paid capital at balance - date was
£895,738 in 2s. f.-p. ords. Current assets
(including £19,776 stock at valuation)
amounted to £29,992 against £21,178
external liabilities. Fixed assets were
shown at a depreciated value of £407,236.
The 2s. f.-p. ords. last fetched Is. 6d.
in Sydney.


Shows
J. C. Williamson
Shows for 1961
THEATRE
You can blame Bernard Shaw, Lerner
and Loewe for the fact that 1961,. iff
common with 1960, will see fewer new
theatrical attractions on the J. C.
Williamson circuit than in many years
past.
“My Fair Lady” played in Melbourne
for almost two years, and will continue
in Sydney for many months to come.
It sliced three months
out of the playing time
at the Theatre Royal,
Adelaide, and next
month will invade Auckland, N.Z.,
where it will play probably four or five
times as long as any previous attraction
before moving down to Wellington and
Christchurch.
Clifford Odets’s drama of backstage
life, “Winter Journey,” now at Melbourne
Comedy Theatre, will visit the other Aus-
tralian capitals and probably New'
Zealand, in 1961. Meantime Googie
Withers is working On the idea of a
second play, probably a comedy, which
would also tour with “Winter Journey”
as a “package,” similar to the “Simon
and Laura”-“Deep Blue Sea” package
which proved so successful when Googie
and her husband John McCallum made
their Australian debut.
The Borovansky Ballet still occupies
Her Majesty’s in Melbourne, but this is
the last port of call on the current
tour. The company opened in Sydney
more than a year ago, played all Austra-
lian mainland capitals and all important
New Zealand centres. Under the Royal
Ballet’s Peggy van Praagh, the company
has reached new artistic heights, but it
has become increasingly evident that the
old system of tour and recess, tour and
recess is impracticable and that in order
to build standards and repertoire, at least
a nucleus of the company must be kept
together on a permanent 52-weeks basis.
This can only be done by way of sub-
sidies, and The Firm is working
strenuously in this direction.
It is possible that the Elizabethan Trust
may see in the Borovansky Ballet a cul-
tural group worthy of its support. This
surely would be the very type of activity
to which the Trust is dedicated.
J.C.W. in February will open two new
musicals—one English (from the French
original), “Irma la Douce”; the other
American, “Bye Bye Birdie.”
“Irma,” which currently is playing to
capacity houses in Paris, London and
on Broadway, is a charming, chic,
humorous slice of Parisian life —the story
of a prostitute, but a love story, never
unpleasant. It’s more like an adult fairy-
tale than a backstreets yarn. It satirises
the Oldest Profession and those who live
on the fringe of it, it hits with silken
gloves at French law courts, the gen-
darmerie, lawyers, and is also concerned
with a tale of young lovers, a fake mur-
der, marriage and having children.
The music is by Marguerite Monnot,
original French book and lyrics by
Alexandre Breffort, English adaptation by
Julian Moore, David Heneker and Monty
Norman. It was staged in London by one
of Britain's leading producers, Peter
Brook.
“Bye Bye Birdie” is a young, happy
musical; a family story of the effect on
a small community of Conrad Birdie,
America’s leading “rock” star, descending
on the town to kiss a fan goodbye. It’s
a publicity stunt, of course, but even the
parents take it seriously when there’s an
opportunity for them to appear with their
daughter and Birdie on the Ed Sullivan
show.
It was produced on Broadway by
dancer Gower Champion, will open at
the Comedy Theatre, Melbourne, on
February 25. Two American leads will
be brought to Australia for the show;
Frank Buxton and Pat Finly. “Birdie”
is the first musical by Michael Stewart
(book), Charles Strouse (music) and Lee
Adams (lyrics), and is the success of the
current Broadway season.
The only new straight play William-
son’s have definitely decided on for the
New Year is a delightful comedy in the
West End manner, by film and stage
director-author, Anthony Kimmins (he
was in Australia recently to film the
“Smiley” movies). It is enigmatically
titled “The Amorous Prawn,” but has
nothing whatever to do with the sex life
of crustaceous sea creatures.
In fact it’s a tale about a British Army
general who, about to retire, realises he’s
got very little out of the service in a
material way. His wife, and later the
'general himself, decide on a campaign
of highly organised cheating, whereby
they use Army facilities, supplies, accom-
modation and staff to make a nest egg
against the day of retirement. Of course
the plan founders from time to time,
specially when the Prawn arrives . . . but
that would be giving the gag away.
Peter Morrison
Elizabethans and the Palace
The Elizabethan Trusties want the
Sydney Palace Theatre because it is on
the spot, whereas the Elizabethan Theatre
is at Newtown, which is too far out of
town and away from restaurants and
taxis. Then, they believe, the public will
be more likely to come to good repertory
productions, like “Candida.”
But any move must be expensive. New-
town Elizabethan is leased until 1963,
and short of sub-letting it as a cinema,
which is most unlikely, or to other pro-
ducers, whifh is faintly possible, the
Trust would still have to pay the rent.
Then, the rent of the Palace is higher
than that of the Elizabethan (the Palace
seats 700"-800, the Elizabethan 1100 for
drama and 1400 for opera). Operating it
all the year would be expensive. If the
Trust could share it with another
entrepreneur, like Mr Garnett Carroll,
they might have two big seasons. More-
over, by keeping the Palace alive all the
year they would keep it in the public
mind.
Mr Neil Hutchinson feels that as an
original function of the Trust was to
co-operate with other managements, such
co-operation might at once ensure larger
and more spectacular productions, like
“West Side Story” and “The Merry
Widow,” and also bring in money—with
which (although he did not mention this)
to subsidise the- rarer productions
approved by those who would disapprove
of more popular productions.
All in all, the little old Palace is a
beautiful thought. Let us hope that, hav-
ing long been dear to the heart of well-
wishers of the Trust, it will not prove
dearer to their pockets.
The Trust’s plans for producing plays
in 1961 depend on the Palace deal.
“Jack and Jill”
Some of the leads in J. C. Williamson’s
pantomime at Sydney Royal must have
yearned for the quiet and repose of their
night show, “Artists and Models.”
Johnny Lockwood flowered from the
rather restricted field of his vaudeville
compering into all-round acting as Simple
Simon. Within a few minutes his young
audience belonged to him completely,
exchanging hand-signals and warning him
when desperadoes tried to steal the lollies
at the side of the stage. He even added
to his exhausting routines a demonstra-
tion of shooting to his feet from lying
on the floor.
The Flat Tops began as detectives
looking for the crooked sixpence and
ended as two bad boys in black silk knee-
breeches —all this besides their singing
act —and one of the Hi Fi trio discovered
depths of emotion unknown to rock-’n’-
roll as the evil witch. More frightening,
he was, than anything one has seen at
the Royal since Kaiser Bill in turned-up
moustaches and with helmet and armor
under weird limelight during the first
World War.
Looking back at pantomime, what
strikes you is the adroitness with which
the children’s enemies are turned into
comedians. In the kitchen scene Don
Williams as Twist (The Crooked Man)
is shown in a mortarboard scolding little
Mary Mary Quite Contrary (Bubbles


Platt). Dame Horner, excellently played
by Eddie Edwards, is silly old Mum,
going through riotously absurd routines
with dough and recipes. The Flat Tops,
as Johnnie Stout and Willie Green, stage
a crockery-breaking beano that could
hardly fail to please children continually
being warned against breaking things.
Then in the school-room scene is
celebrated the ancient rite of Simple
Simon being told to “point” while the
schoolmaster administers the immem-
orial clacking cane.
The happy inspiration of this show
was the adaptation of the Fountain
Fantasy from the nightly vaudeville to
the Waters of Wisdom, all playing to
music at the end of the first half: to
these waters came Jack (Monica Shear-
gold) with his wooden bucket, accom-
panied by Jill (Patsy Ann Noble), as sweet
a little 16-year-old heroine as ever divided
her time between recording hit-parade
pops and being mysteriously projected
over the audience singing in a flying
saucer. Rina Dahl, as their ballet-dancing
Good Fairy, was able to cope with every-
thing except the microphones, which
seemed to have been hexed for the whole
performance by some Bad Fairy, so that
now everyone was shouting and then
everyone would be almost inaudible.
The pretty troupe of child dancers, the
Beryl Ellis starlets, were probably at their
best in the minuet at the court of the
King of Sylvania (Robert Healey). There
was also a miraculously bad band re-
hearsal where Simple Simon played the
drum and Dame Horner achieved the
horn of the bass tuba as a helmet; and
merely thrown in as interludes were the
first-rate acts of Montego the one-wheel-
cycle juggler and the Hoganas, where the
girl performs on a slack wire held in her
partner’s teeth.
If one goes a little lovingly into details,
it is because, all-in-all, “My Fair Lady,”
“Music Man,” “The Crucible,” “Oedipus
Rex,” etc., notwithstanding, no better
show has been seen on Sydney stages
in 1960.
Ronald McCuaig
London Stages
An Arts Council Bursary is an incalcul-
able help to a young writer, for kudos,
as much as money, and it is to be hoped
Ray Mathew will not be the only Aus-
tralian writer to benefit from the scheme.
When it was learned that Frith Banbury
was to produce “The Life of the Party”
we looked forward to something excep-
tional. Mr Banbury is a shrewd judge,
having some years ago advanced (though
privately) a sum of money to a young
Cambridge graduate, Wynyard Browne.
“The Holly and the Ivy” was the result.
Mr Mathew hasn’t shared Mr Browne’s
good fortune. His play was disappoint-
ing. He succeeded in recapturing the
atmosphere of a Bohemian set. They
proved a repellent crowd. Whatever its
promise, a play is at fault when it pulls
people out of their seats towards the
exit. There was too much talk, learned
but pretentious, far too much promis-
cuity and too little development of the
characters.
Despite the intended universality of
the setting (there were no more than three
Australian identifications) some critics
expected an Australian background.
“P.H.” of “The Stage” was incredulous
and apparently is unaware of the King's
Cross which is not a railway terminal.
“To most people,” he wrote, “the exis-
tence of a Bohemian quarter in Sydney
seems somewhat ludicrous, like the idea
of a Latin Quarter in Wigan.”
It is to be hoped that Mr Mathew, now
writing another play, will not be put off
by the bad notices. He may well have
reached the conclusion of the other Ray
—Lawler —that the local or the particu-
lar theme may be more rewarding than
the universal.
Another poet, Christopher Logue,
enjoys patronage, in the backing by the
English Stage Company of his double
bill, “Trials by Logue,” at the Royal
Court Theatre.
Both Brecht and Sartre appear to
influence the first play, “Antigone,” the
one perfunctorily and unnecessarily, the
other quite powerfully. Mr Logue dis-
penses with comic relief, with Tiresias
(although a conscience-stricken guard
acts as substitute) and allows Antigone to
live.
There is undoubtedly a message, and
it has Marxist overtones ; but the play
resolves into a conflict between Antigone
(Mary Ure), who is self-willed and
womanish, and Creon (George Rose) who
is unsure of his power to command. The
play ends vaguely when Antigone, sen-
tenced to exile, refuses to leave.
Except for the language, which is
heightened prose, the classical elements
are written-down. Antigone and her sis-
ter Ismene (played with bruised tender-
ness by Zoe Caldwell) are dressed as
workhouse waifs, and the men in Russian-
type uniforms.
The second play, “Cob and Leach,”
a frolic about the prosecution of a young
couple for alleged indecent behavior in
Hyde Park, is guffawful in the grubbiest
Royal Court tradition.
Victorian Zoe Caldwell, after two sea-
sons at Stratford-on-Avon, makes her
first London appearance with an impres-
sive “double” and promises soon to be
well known to West End playgoers.
Herbert Holman
ART
Australian Chair Designs
Sensitivity to materials, simplicity of
design and an impression of remarkable
lightness characterise the chairs being
exhibited by their designer, Grant
Featherstone, at Melbourne Argus
Gallery.
Mr Featherstone has quite a reputation
as a pioneer of modern Australian furni-
ture design, which on the evidence of
this show is more than justified. The
materials include metal, fibre-glass,
plastic cloth and, of course, wood.
Nowhere do we get the feeling of strain-
ing for arresting effects unrelated to the
central theme of the particular chair;
Mr Featherstone has no truck with the
“featurism” which Robin Boyd has
identified and attacked in his book “The
Australian Ugliness” as perhaps our most
consistently recurring eyesore.
Whether the chairs pay due heed to
functionalism the reviewer was unable to
test; but feeling rather foot-weary on the
day he visited the Gallery, he saw many
a firm curvaceous example which he is
willing to bet would have catered to his
needs down to the last detail.
A. S. Jorgensen
Latvian Painters
Migrant artists continue to vitalise or
diversify Melbourne art, as witness the
Latvian painters on show at the
Athenaeum Gallery.
Part of the Australia-wide festival of
music and arts being conducted by the
council of the Association of Latvians
in Australia, the exhibition is distin-
guished by technical facility and joyous,
spontaneous color. Three impressionistic
sketches by Karlis Mednis lead the way
in impressive, if light-hearted, fashion.
Of the others the powerfully composed
landscapes of Leo Svikers, direct abstract
statements from Gunars Salins and
Gunardess Zilbejts, and a rich variety
of colors and shapes (and, one almost
added, sounds, for his abstract-expres-
sionist essays shout out at you) from the
excited brush of Biseneiks, command
most attention.
A.S.J.
Art from the Country
Because of the success of the 1960
Victorian Art from the Country Exhibi-
tion it is proposed toehold another in
1961 to coincide with the Ninth Wan-
garatta Arts Festival (April 11-20), and
sponsored by the Wangaratta Arts Coun-
cil, the Wangaratta' City Council and
the Council of Adult Education. The
exhibition will be held in Wangaratta.
Wangaratta Council is giving prizes for
the best local oil painting (£10); best
local watercolor painting (£10); and the


For the industrial officer, the union official and the lawyer
practising in industrial law
The Observer
■ \ /
- Industrial
Taw Reports
are an indispensable guide to the decisions of the Aus-
tralian industrial tribunals .
Published weekly by Australian Consolidated Press Ltd., The
Observer Industrial Law Reports are the speediest,' the most compre-
hensive and the most helpfully edited series of industrial law reports
available to busy men who deal with industrial relations.
Speed
The Reports appear first in summarised form, then in expanded form.
The summarised version of the Reports covers decisions received in the
week before publication. The expanded version follows within two or
three weeks pf the summarised version.
Comprehensiveness .
The Reports cover not only the decisions of the Federal industrial
tribunals but also the decisions of the industrial tribunals of New South
Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia and Western Australia.
Editing
The design of the Reports allows the reader to grasp the intention
and reasoning of decisions quickly and does not require him to study any
report at length for this simple purpose.
The design of the Reports also allows the reader to buy no more than
he needs. If he wants only the summarised information and does not require
the details of original text which appear in the expanded version, he may
purchase the summarised version of the Reports at a lesser rate than he would
pay for the summarised and expanded versions together.
For information about subscription rates, please write to:
THE MANAGER,
The* Observer Industrial Law Reports,
G.P.O. Box 2521, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
best junior local painting (oil or water-
color) (£5).
Other prizes will be the Develop Vic-
toria Council Prize for best oil art
books to the value of £lO ; and the Dean
Prize for best watercolor —art materials
to the value of £lO.
Definitions of “local,” and residential
restrictions, are rather complicated;
details, with entry forms and conditions
of entry, are available at the C.A.E. office,
107 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Sydney Show Exhibits
Entries for the national exhibition of
photography to be held at the 1961 Royal
Easter Show will close on January 13.
Judges for the four classes are:
Class 1 (Black and White Prints) and
Class 4 (Inter-State Inter-Club Competi-
tion) Dick Cheung, A.F.1.A.P., David
Moore, E.F.1.A.P., John Nisbett.
Class 2 (Color Slides) Bill Angove,
A. R. Eade, lan Wilson.
Class 3 (Color Prints) Keast Burke,
A.R.P.S., A.P.S.A., Max Dupain, S.
Woodward-Smith.
Entry forms are available from the
R.A.S. city office, 33 Macquarie Place, or
the Showground, Moore Park.
Entries of pottery have increased by
50 per cent., and this year’s arts and crafts
section will have a total of 2686 entries:
101? of needlework, 643 of crafts, 839 of
cookery and 186 from the blind.
NEW RECORDS
Victory at Sea: Victor Symphony
Orchestra under Robert Bennett (R.C.A.
stereo 5L16064). Orchestral suite from
the N.B.C. TV production in which
Rodgers turns from his “King and I”
and “Oklahoma” style to a symphonic
sweep of heaving oceans, naval clashes
and battle-calls; the title-piece is the
hymn of victory.
Schubert’s Symphony No. 7: Georg
Szell conducting the Cleveland Orchestra
(Philips G.L. 32). All the prismatic har-
monies, lush melodies and sparkling
rhythms in this greatest of Schubert’s
big forms are brought out in a reading
of remarkable vitality. Szell’s build-up
of the four-note theme of the final move-
ment from a barely-breathed statement
in the horns to its stunning climax is a
fine piece of artistry.
Brahms Violin Concerto: Isaac Stern
and the Philadelphia Orchestra under
Eugene Ormandy (Coronet KLC2734).
Stern, among the top five of the world’s
violinists, proceeds here to make foolish
Von Bulow’s complaint that this is a
concerto not for but against the violin,
in feats of virtuosity in which a, pro-
digious technique is served by superb
musicianship.
Great Strauss Waltzes: Frank Chacks-
field and his Orchestra (Ace of Clubs,
ACLAIO22). Ten of the most famous ;
they include the “Blue Danube,” “Voices
of Spring,” “Wine, Women and Song,”
“Vienna Woods,” “Emperor,” “1001
Nights” and those from “Gypsy-Baron”
and “Fledermaus.”


"Women
HIGH FASHION’S DOWNWARD PATH...SALES
M. Balmain
and Mrs Balmain
Next month M. Balmain of Paris will
launch his 1961 spring fashion collec-
tion on a waiting world. He may decree
skunk-trimmed organza for spring. He
may launch a tube line or a tulip line or
even a straight line. Who knows?
But on the same day Mrs Balmain*
a Sydney housewife, will probably decide
to have a day in town to see if there
are any bargains in the shops. She will
put on her best printed-rayon dress. It’s
a nice lively floral, because Mrs Balmain
likes something a bit bright; it makes
her feel more cheerful, love. It’s cut
with a flared skirt because Mrs Balmain
is rather short and fat, and the woman
in the shop told her that flares were “very
slenderising, madam.”
Mrs Balmain wears a hat. It’s a
hard-hitter with a depressed bunch of
flowers in front, the whole covered with
veiling as stiff and ugly as chicken-wire.
A Sydney original and a Sydney indispen-
sable.
What has what M. Balmain decrees got
to do with what Mrs Balmain wears?
The answer is nothing, nothing at all.
What does Mrs Balmain care about
what'M. Balmain says she should wear?
The answer is—just about as much as M.
Balmain cares what Mrs Balmain thinks.
In spite of all the hoo-ha the Paris
fashion collections cause in the world’s
press, in spite of the earnest efforts of
hundreds of'journalists to translate the
message into something the average
woman can receive, high fashion remains
an esoteric indulgence for the few.
The most that Mrs Balmain might do
is to glance at a photograph in one of
the afternoon papers and say to her
husband: “Gawd, Bill! How’s their
form? Who’d wear a thing like that?”
Paris couturiers don’t design for the
woman in the street because it would
never occur to them that women walk
around the streets. No elegant Paris
woman, certainly no high-class cocotte,
would be seen walking in public. They
are merely delivered to their destination
by chauffeur-driven car.
Most of the Paris dressmakers’ money
still comes from private clients. This is
true even of Christian Dior, the first
house to try for a world market. Many
■—or, for some houses, most —of the
private clients live in Paris. Another rich
slice of business comes from South
America and from that amorphous mass
known as the international set.
The private clients have to take their
pick of the collection, just as Mrs Bal-
main, bargain - hunting in Liverpool
Street, has to take her pick of about 200
printed floral dresses on racks.
The fact that so many women in one
city are choosing from the same collec-
tions leads to the tedious position of
perhaps five or six women at the same
grand bal or reception in the same expen-
sive dress. When you’ve paid several
hundred pounds for a dress, this hurts
more than when you’ve paid only a few
quid.
The only people the French dress-
makers will design for specially are
Royalty and perhaps a few international
figures whose publicity-value makes the
extra effort worth while. Balmain found
it worth his while to design 60 dresses
for the world tour of Queen Sirikit of
Thailand. Givenchy designs specially for
Audrey Hepburn ; but Elizabeth Taylor,
not notably elegant, has to buy from the
collections.
After the private clients in importance
come the manufacturers who buy
“authorised” copies. This is when the
first of Paris’s new dress ideas begin to
trickle through to Sydney.
Germaine Rocher, who has the largest
couture business in Sydney, David Jones’
Pierre Balmain salon, the House of
Youth’s shop, Elizabeth Lane, Mark Foys’
boutique and Farmer’s Little Shop will
have authorised copies of Paris designs.
These are exact in every detail. The only
trouble is that because of our seasons
they are technically six months out of
date. They’ll only be up to the minute
if they’re from the mid-season collections,
or perhaps a springweight suit in Paris
will serve as a winterweight suit here.
Exact copies are pricy, but the well-
heeled can afford them.
Eighteen months later, again allowing
for the season lapse, when women in
Paris have already burnt the dresses they
wore the previous season, a watered-
down version of the Paris line is trans-
lated into the more expensive ready-to-
wear clothes and is available in paper
patterns.
Of course, there are always a few
intrepid souls who try to copy Paris from
newspaper photographs. The ludicrous
results are seen at Randwick racecourse
on ladies’ day or in the more expensive
restaurants at lunchtime.
The following year the inexpensive
manufacturers who copy from the makers
of expensive ready-to-wear, rather than
from the Paris originals, produce their
watered-down version of a watered-down
version of Paris.
About this time Mrs Balmain decides
she’d like a new dress, but thinks she’ll
wait for the sales.
So, three years after M. Balmain
launches a fashion line in Paris, the
message gets through to Mrs Balmain.
It’s something that M. Balmain would
never recognise or own. But Mrs Bal-
main’s happy ; so what the heck?
☆ ☆ ☆
The Big Sell-out
“Shoppers Scramble at City Sales” is a
commonplace headline at this time of
the year. Yet any retail trader will tell
you that Sydney has not had a major
sale for over ten years.
A study of the advertisements will con-
firm this. Shoppers are invited to
Clearances, Bargain Fiestas, A New Year
Shopping Party, A Fantastic Giveaway
Sell - out never an old - fashioned
ordinary Sale.
The sale, where everything in the store
is reduced (except for a few proprietary
lines), or 10 per cent, discount given on
every purchase made, is frowned upon
by Sydney retailers. So is “the mark-
down” ticket which tells you that an
article had been 7s. lid. and is now
ss. lid. These do not appear in advertise-
ments today—except for foodstuffs —and
only on articles that have been too diffi-
cult to re-ticket.
The reason for this retail restraint is
that in the past the mark-down was
getting out of hand. Some shops began
to mark-down brand-new goods—or
appear to do so —and the retailers
decided to cut it out altogether. Today
-if a ticket shows two prices, one crossed
out, the reduction is almost certain to
be genuine.
Though the sale is taboo in Sydney,
the “clearance” is- a necessary part of
merchandising throughout the year.
Summer stock has to be cleared out
before winter goods arrive (and at least
some of the money tied-up in them has
to be released). The quickest way to
do this is to lower prices. So emerges
the clearance, the bargain bonanza, the
profit-slaughter, the price-massacre.
But by whatever name it is called, a
sale has a magnetic effect on the public,
particularly the female part of it.
Thousands of shoppers besieged city
stores for the after-Christmas bargains
this year—a milling, holiday, summer
crowd which spent as if the family purse
had suffered no loss at all over Christmas.
Being “good at sales” is important to
a housewife. She cultivates the art as
much as that of cooking or dressmaking.
The skilful work by one of two
methods. The .first adopts a direct
* The inhabitants of Balmain, an industrialised
Harborside suburb of Sydney, are noted for
a certain downright Australianism of outlook
and taste.


"I don't think Were doing it the correct Way, sweetheart."
strategy. She reads the advertisements
thoroughly, carefully marks the things to
be inspected, notes the time the store
opens (so that she can be there at least
a half-hour early) plots the position of
the departments to be visited, chooses the
closest entrance. She is first in the
advance on the escalator, direct in her
drive to the department. She assaults
the display with determination. She
carries off the spoils without pity for the
vanquished.
Sometimes she is canny enough to visit
the store not at the earliest hour but, say,
in mid-morning, when, experience has
taught her, fresh stock is sometimes put
out to replenish the displays. This is
tricky, though, and needs considerable
knowledge and skill.
Not so much, however, as is nefeded
by those who practise the second (in-
direct) approach. These play a clever
game, pitting their judgement of how
much the store must reduce certain goods
before they can get rid of them against
the possibility of their being snatched up
by someone else. They know that the
after-Christmas sell-out will not be a
complete sell-out. Perhaps the goods they
are after will not even be offered early
in the year. When they do appear they
must decide whether to wait or buy. If
the article is unusual in design it is less
likely to go quickly. If the weather is
too cold or too wet it may have to be
reduced still further. The bargain-hunter
watches carefully, gauging the right time
to pounce. It is rather like playing the
Stock Exchange; very exciting, and
calling for knowledge and skill.
Then, right at the other end of the sale,
is the amateur. She is not cool and
concentrated ; doesn’t know what she
wants to buy; is distracted by the
crowds, the scuffles, the spectacle of
husbands lining the fringes of the depart-
ment ; fascinated by the scene, but
unwilling to become part of it.
The amateur is affected by the sales-
crowd. She picks up a shoe that she
likes (though she did not intend to buy
a pair of shoes), sees that it is not her
size. Then she starts searching for her
size, and when she finds it in a pair of
poison-green suede pumps, buys it be-
cause she feels triumphant. This is sales-
panic.
Or she is attracted to a bolt of bright
material and clutches it while she tries
to think what on earth she could do with
it. An effort by someone else to take it
determines her, and she buys ten yards.
Worst of all, she becomes bewildered
by the crowd and starts examining dis-
plays that are not included in the sale.
As she has come to town to buy some-
thing, she buys an unreduced article.
Next week she is chagrined to see that
she could have got it cheaper.
Not a clever operator, this one. But
she loves the clearances.
And the retailers love her.
After the Ball
People who go to parties have a vested
interest in making them sound more
glamorous than they really are. To have
been invited is half the satisfaction. The
other half is in making Cinderellas
jealous.
The truth is that there is many a guest
at the ball, especially among the men,
who would gladly change places with
Cinderella, and relax before a nice fire,
dressed in comfortable rags. It's some-
thing that the inveterate party - goer
dreams about.
Parties always look better in retrospect,
especially when they have someone
imaginative to report them. It is said
that the ball on the eve of the Battle
of Waterloo (“Belgium’s capital had
gathered there her beauty and her
chivalry") was actually a rushed-up
evening-party in a converted coach-
house.
The ball given by Paul Poiret in 1911,
the Thousand and Second Night, sounds
wonderful even beyond imagination. In
Persian gardens hidden orchestras played
softly ; a famous artist juggled oranges
(this sounds authentic); luminous
liqueurs glowed in darkened rooms, and
the guests mixed their drinks rejoicing in
their colors; a gilded cage of harem
women (Madame Poiret and her friends)
sang gentle Persian airs ; the fireworks
blazed through the garden ; parakeets
and monkeys swarmed in the trees, and
so on.
But those painters who mixed the
liqueurs were probably unconscious
before the fireworks came on ; the artist
juggling oranges very likely tried to catch
a parakeet before the night was over ;
and the monkeys undoubtedly went crazy
with fear at the rockets and double-
bungers.
Similarly, anyone seeing pictures of
the Marquis de Cuevas’s ball in Biarritz
in 1953 would be justified in thinking
that it was a fabulous affair. Two-
thousand guests in 18th-century costume,
two ballets, two-orchestras. Merle Oberon
as a Greek nymph, a dancer making an
entrance on a camel, even the press-
photographers in satin knee-breeches and
powdered wigs.
The reality was that the two-thousand
guests stood up while the ballet went on
for two hours, the camel was bad-
tempered, the buffets were rushed, the
crush was appalling. Some people fell
in the water. Still, dancing went on till
6 a.m., and everyone who had been there
at least had something to talk about for
a while.
That’s the essence of it. If you are
invited, you’re “in.” If not, you’re
“out.” Of course you can go to a big
public Charity Ball if you wish. Sydney
turns on two or three of these during the
year, of which the most spectacular is
the Black and White. There are no
parakeets at this as a rule (not inten-
tionally), but there was a cageful of
pigeons last year, and one of them laid
an egg. Most of the 1200 guests who
went to the ball said that they had “a
simply marvellous time.” But could they
have said anything else? And what would
Cinderella think if they did?


SPORT
At the Davis Cup
By S. W. KEOUGH
A hint that the 1960 Davis
Cup Challenge Round at
Sydney’s White City would be
rather different from any other
played on these courts appeared
on the sloping walk down from
the clubhouse. A notice said:
“Ufficio Vendita Biglietti da
Questa Parte” (or words to that
effect). Broadly interpreted:
“Buy Tickets That-a-way.”
It was the sign that the
Organising Committee was ex-
pecting an invasion of Italian
spectators, but in the near-
capacity crowd which attended
each day, there were few
obviously Italian faces. Not a
“Bravo,” a “Bravissimo,” a
“Fortissimo” or a “Basta!”
floated up into the superheated
air. It was almost as if no
Italian contender were on the
beautifully shaven sward.
And, indeed, it was even
difficult to believe that Orlando
Sirola and Nicola Pietrangeli
were Italians. They don’t sport
a black hair between them ;
their complexions are fair
rather than swarthy ; and that
celebrated Latin temperament
which has impelled many a diva
at La Scala to lash out at an
offending conductor was not,
during the whole contest, in
evidence. The Italian team
proved, in fact, to be the most
happy-go-lucky bunch of
tennis-players in captivity.
The relaxed air they wore
throughout the match might
have given some people the
notion that they were not try-
ing hard enough ; that they
lacked the necessary fighting
spirit. Not so. Time and
again, each one fought back to
take games from seemingly
hopeless positions. They clearly
gave the best they were capable
of on the day.
Their attitude to the game
refreshing as a southerly
after a scorcher. For far too
long big tennis has become a
grim business ; to these visitors
it was a game to be enjoyed,
even though the world’s most
famous trophy was at stake. As
a result, it was tennis played in
the best sporting spirit; even
the usually dour Australian
players seemed to enter into the
spirit of it.
TVeale Fraser got away to a
poor start in the opening
rubber with Sirola, But the
initial uncertainty which caused
him to drop the first set 4-6
W as soon replaced by a confi-
dence born of superior ground-
strokes, surer overhead work
and, above all, a service which
in the second set began to
function sharply,
Sirola found it particularly
difficult to handle high-kicking
spinners which threw him far
out of balance while taking
them in the second court. And
Fraser’s placing of his vicious
first serves was masterly ; one
would be the customary bullet
serve that burnt up off the
turf wide out; the next would
scorch the centre-line chalk,
leaving Sirola with his racquet
hanging out to dry. By com-
parison, too few of Sirola’s
first services were going in.
This seemed strange in view
of the terrific physical advan-
tage he enjoys. His tremendous
upward reach should allow
him to slam down a flat-trajec-
tory service which, in theory
at least, would clear the net
and find the serving court.
That he was unable to do this
he acknowledged by using spin
to bring the ball down. His
serving presented no problem
to Fraser, who in the second
set assumed an easy command
to take the next three with
deadly consistency: 6-3, 6-3,
6-3.
The slight, red-headed Laver
and the powerfully built Piet-
rangeli seemed, throughout the
first set of their rubber, to be
more evenly matched. Multiple
set points alternated between
them until Laver broke through
in the 14th game to take the
set 8-6. Thereafter it was
almost all Laver, whose fleet-
ness around the court was an
invaluable asset.
NEALE FRASER
Backbone Like a Bow
Laver’s service, too, had
greater sting to it than his
opponent’s, and his volleys off
both forehand and backhand
were crisp and shrewdly placed.
The next two sets, 6-4, 6-3,
were an accurate indication of
the players’ merits.
"Ddr the vital doubles on the
A second day Queenslander
Roy Emerson joined Fraser
against the Sirola-Pietrangeli
combination which had brought
the Americans low in Perth.
Pietrangeli, however, failed to
reproduce the form which had
helped carry that memorable
day. He was the Italian part-
nership’s weak link. His ser-
vice had no bite to it, and it
was obvious that if one service
had to crack in the extended
first set it would be his. It was ;
and this failure did much to
rob the match of full excite-
ment.
Several close rallies at the
net set the spectators humming.
After the Italians lost the first
set, 8-10, they had to struggle
to hold a moiety in the second.
Then suddenly they tightened
their game, to come from be-
hind. Pietrangeli unleashed a
magnificent crosscourt drive,
and Sirola punched one straight
between the stranded Austra-
lians to take the second set 7-5.
Thereafter the Italians had
no answer to the jet-services of
Fraser and Emerson, their
amazing recoveries and mobi-
lity, and their vicious way of
burying all loose stuff over-
head. No pair of amateurs in
the world could have touched
them on the day, and with
Pietrangeli failing to back up
the hard-working Sirola the last
sets went easily to Australia :
6-2, 6-4.
'T'he delightful sporting atmo-
■*- sphere which prevailed
throughout the round was best
exemplified by an incident in
the 11th game of the second
set, when, following sharp ex-
changes with all four players
slamming shots at each other at
bewildering speed, a Fraser
shot missed the sideline by
inches but was ruled in by the
linesman.
The roar from the crowd,
who probably wouldn’t have
minded seeing the Italians take
the doubles to keep interest
keen for the final day, halted
proceedings.
Things were simmering
down, and the Italians, who
had not disputed the point,
were about to resume when a
voice yapped just as Pietrangeli


ot C tr«in" Dry-seed Pickl^
more bushels
■ v
u
1
! -
to the acre!
Whether it be wheat, barley or
oats you are sowing the one pickle
that gives you the greatest disease
control is ICI XERESAN' . . . follow
Departmental recommendations.
XERESAN' is a must for pickling
barley and oats . . . you must use a
mercurial dressing to control diseases of
these crops. XERESAN' the only
pickle for barley and oats!
Men ymt Wheat Under
call! DIMM...
*
*
MERCURIAL DRY-SEED PICKLE
Available from
HaigGiys
or your local ICI Supplier
every Yeat , mS "c
it s roue £**
voußtrjy o " ll
tom?.* 0 *
__ gf WOWING!
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LTD.
was about to resume serving.
As he waited patiently for
silence before delivering, the
other players moved around ;
the humorous Sirola gravely-
saluted the umpire.
Then Harry Hopman strolled
across and said something to
Fraser. The umpire called for
silence. Fraser drove the next
service yards over the baseline
to give the point to the Italians,
who, with the crowd, acknow-
ledged the gesture with plaudits.
A lthough the doubles had
clinched Australia’s vic-
tory and settled the location of
the Cup for another year, it
was patent that the final two
singles were not to be allowed
to develop into mere exhibition
matches. In <lum, they proved
to be the best rubbers of the
series.
Laver proved that the pugi-
listic axiom that the good big
man will always beat the good
small man had no application
to tennis. He reeled off a suc-
cession of drives from both
sides that clipped the lines with
monotonous consistency ; his
big serve worked to perfec-
tion. In one game he served
two aces against which
even Sirola’s great reach was
futile ; the big man, with the
smile that never left his face
whether he; was winning or
losing, pointed to the centre
line as much as to say: “Put
one there for a change, mate,
and give a man a chance!”
Laver shone, too, in his light-
ning reflexes, which even
allowed him to slam clean
winners off disturbing net-
cords. Sirola could find no
answer to the host of problems
set him by Laver, who ran out
an easy winner : 9-7, 6-2, 6-3.
The final rubber, between
Fraser and Pietrangeli, was not
only the best of the Challenge
Round but as good an exhibi-
tion of tennis as Sydney has
seen for some time. Here was
a Pietrangeli almost unrecog-
nisable from the one we had
seen in the doubles. . He is one
of the best-equipped stroke-
makers in the amateur ranks ;
his shots are produced with
classical authority. He is first
and foremost a singles player,
and it seems that the exi/gencies
of modern power-tennis have
forced him to abandon his
natural baseline game—a game
which many spectators would
like to see come back.
He at once gave notice that
he was a formidable threat to
Fraser by serving accurately at
half the speed again that he had
employed in the doubles. As
well, his backhand was under
thorough control, and his re-
turn of service almost im-
peccable.
Off the ground, too, he was
surer than he had been earlier.
And he gave nothing away ;
Fraser had to work for every
point he got —and these were
becoming harder to pick up in
the first two sets as the Italian
kept the pressure on. By the
time Pietrangeli had got the
second set under his belt at
6-3, after having won the first
11-9, the ball must have been
looking like a rock-melon to
him.
Service lapses, and a fight-
ing recovery by Fraser, lost
Pietrangeli the third set. But
he was not to be denied. Forc-
ing a blistering pace, he un-
reeled a string of full-blooded
drives, delicate drop-shots and
half-volleys and well-controlled
services to run out the winner
with a 6-2 final set.
'T'he varying styles of the five
players taking part made a
fascinating study. The 6ft 7in
Sirola strolls around, perfectly
relaxed, seeming not to hurry
at any time, but always manag-
ing to get there. Pietrangeli is
handsome, stocky, athletic,
serene except when he is
crouched to take service, when
he dances as if barefooted on a
hot stove, twirling his racquet
ceaselessly while waiting. Emer-
son has this trick, too, and after
making a shot, whether good
or bad, he invariably puts his
right hand in his pocket. He
has a slashing service and he
scoots around the court faster
than any of them. Fraser
bends his backbone like a bow
when serving. Beautifully pro-
portioned, he is the long-stay-
ing type, carrying not an ounce
of sheddable weight, and he
has the true champion’s gift of
always being in the right posi-
tion to make unbustled shots.
The smallest of the five, Laver
is imperturbable, serious, doing
everything with a snap-finish ;
the quintessence of capability.


The Demand for Quick Profits
By JOHN SCHOFIELD
T ord Rosebery heads a committee in England to
examine suggested reforms for two-year-old racing.
A report will be presented in April, and it is expected that
the recommendations will include changes in the rules so
that two-year-olds may be raced up to seven furlongs after
July 1 and over one mile after August 1.
Present rules stipulate the distance of two-year-old
races at no more than six furlongs, and prevent horses of
that age racing against older horses under handicap
conditions.
Breeders in England are perturbed at recent trends
which have placed emphasis on speed and sprint racing.
The recent December sale at Newmarket—the world’s
meeting ground for those seeking breeding stock —estab-
lished a record turnover, but overseas buyers were not able
to satisfy commissions for horses likely to breed racers
capable of running a bit of distance.
Chairman of the Thoroughbred Breeders’ Association,
Mr J. J. Astor, commented: “It is from the animals bred
to get at least a middle distance that we get not only our
best winners and our best stallions, but also 85 per cent,
of our exports in terms of money,
“Obviously we don’t want to eliminate sprinters, nor
to get away from speed, which, together with soundness,
are the basic essentials for racehorses, but at present the
demand for sprint-bred two-year-olds seems excessive.”
This question of two-year-old racing is vexed in all
countries, and becomes more so as racing costs to the
owner mount higher and higher. So many buyers of
yearlings look for an early return on their outlay that
studmasters are tempted to breed for early speed. Racing
committees, on which there are a generous complement
of commercial breeders, frame programmes to suit this
policy.
Naturally, if the emphasis is on the sprint-bred two-
year-old, it follows that sprinting races predominate among
events for older horses, even though it is accepted that the
crowd-drawer is the horse who can run a distance.
Fortunately there is a turning to longer races for two-
year-olds in Australia, particularly in Melbourne. The
change in policy is too recent to show any great effect,
but within the next year or two its impact may be felt.
New Zealand racing does not stress two-year-old events
at all. Perhaps that is why horses developed in New
Zealand come along as four-year-olds and five-year-olds
to dominate the long races in Australia, but New Zealand-
breds, bought as yearlings and raced in Australia, do not
achieve comparable success.
HT'he two-year-old filly Cometa was one of the most
interesting Randwick winners during the holiday
racing. Interesting because she maintained the record of
her dam, Alcestis, as a producer of winners.
Cometa is the 13th foal from Alcestis to be tried and
the 13th to enter the winning list. It is a remarkable
record, and there are two more foals, and possibly three,
to carry on the family tradition.
Alcestis is 20 years old. She is by Manitoba (imp.)
from Miss Eastern, by Chivalrous (imp.) from Miss
England, by Sea Prince (imp.) from Chersonese (imp.),
the last mentioned being the dam of Heroic, great as a
racehorse, greater as a sire and even greater as a sire of
broodmares.
. At the Easter yearling sales in Sydney there is a filly
by Star Kingdom (imp.) from Alcestis—a sister to Cometa
—and the old mare has running with her a colt by
Rawson (imp.).
Her last mating was with Genetout (imp.), who at 27
years is still a virile and commanding sire. It is the first
time Alcestis has been mated with Genetout, and if a
filly results her owner, Mr Reg Moses, will keep the
youngster to enter Fairways Stud at Muswellbrook.
Oeven-year-old Grenoble, although a stallion, does not
seem to be losing his brilliance. He won the Villiers
Stakes at Randwick just as convincingly as he won the
1958 Doncaster Handicap.
Grenoble is now raced by George Carr, whose father,
the late George Carr, picked Grenoble as a yearling and
bought him very cheaply because his sire, Bois de Rose
(imp.), was not particularly popular at the time.
Grenoble’s dam, Quest, was by Yaralla (son of The
Buzzard) from Mina G, a mare by Magpie (imp.) and
tracing back to Ingoda, the dam of King Ingoda, who won
a Melbourne Cup.
Bois de Rose was a son of the unbeaten racehorse
and top-class sire Bahram, and his dam, La Moqueuse,
was by the celebrated French sire Teddy. N
Thus Grenoble descends in sire line from Blandford,
carries a strain of Teddy, who had a profound influence
on world breeding, and through The Buzzard and Magpie
should inherit on his dam’s side very strong infusions from
Illuminata, acknowledged one of the truly great brood-
mares of the world.
It is difficult to launch an Australian-bred sire on his
stud career. Grenoble probably will be kept in racing
for as long as possible. There would not be any rush to
book to him, yet he is of good type, has proved himself
as a racer and possesses a pedigree designed, if ever there
was one, to sire middle-distance runners —one of racing’s
needs at the moment.
'T'his may be a record ; if it is not, it certainly, is well
worth putting up as one. On successive days during
the holiday racing at Randwick two-year-olds sired by
Edmundo (imp.) were winners.
Edmundo (imp.) has representatives for the first time
this season, and sufficient have won to stamp him as a
stud success. His winners at Randwick were Indian
Summer, Segovia and Nyad, and for three different two-
year-old representatives to win in one week surely is quite
out of the ordinary.
Edmundo (imp.) stands at the famous Widden Stud
which is now controlled by A.J.C. committeeman Mr
Frank Thompson. The horse is a beautifully proportioned
son of Owen Tudor, and, therefore, is a grandson of
Hyperion.
Edmundo (imp.) is a chestnut, and there is no dispute
about that. But, according to the text books a chestnut
horse, to be chestnut, should not have, any black hairs in
his coat. Edmundo (imp.) breaks “the rule.” He has
black blotches through his coat!
Latest of the Edmundo (imp.) winners, Nyad, may be
one of the best. Nyad won the fillies division of the Two-
year-old Maiden Handicap on Saturday in really good
style. Nyad is from the mare Race, a half-sister to
Rumyle, who was a good winner when he raced a few
years ago.


MULLENS & CO.
A. H. Urquhart, M. D. Passmore, K. W. A. Bridges, F. H. Mullens
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
16 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone
BW 8173 (3 lines) BL 5327
Cables and Telegrams
“EM DEC E LEX,” Sydney
PRING, DEAN & CO.
H. H. Dean, V. J. Berner, W. L. Hunt, J. A. Hudson,
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHAKE BROKERS
Level 9, Kindersley House,
20 O’CONNELL ST., and 33 BLIGH ST.,
SYDNEY
Telephones:
BW 4011 1
Bff 5505 j
6 lines
Telegrams Address: PRING STOCK EXCHANGE, SYDNEY
Cables Address: LINWAK, SYDNEY
Where are the "Institutions"?
During the two years to
September, 1960, the buy-
ing of ordinary shares by
investment - trusts, unit - trusts,
superannuation funds and life-
offices was a profound influence
in the unprecedented buoyancy
of the Australian sharemarkets.
There were other influences,
of course, in this freak share-
market, but “institutional” buy-
ing always turned out to be a
buffer that diverted upwards
again any momentary down-
ward trend in the price of
equity shares.
Over the past three months
the “institutions” seem to have
folded up their tents like the
Arabs, and as silently stolen
away from the sharemarkets.
When will they return?
The question is not easy to
answer without adequate in-
formation on a number of
points.
One point is: How much
new money is flowing into unit-
trusts these days? Without a
steady inflow of new money
the volume of sharebuying on
the Exchanges by unit-trusts
will be restricted, though at
present low prices for some
sound, higher-yielding equities
there will be a temptation to
switch from fixed - interest
securities to ordinary shares.
Another point is: To what
extent will the life-offices be
forced to change their invest-
ment policy under the Federal
Government’s proposed com-
pulsory-loan arrangements? In
outline, the Treasury’s pro-
posals imply a restriction on
the proportion of a life-office’s
funds (and those of a super-
annuation scheme) that may be
invested outside of Government
and semi-Government securi-
ties.
With regard to life-offices
and superannuation funds, it is
unlikely that at present the
Government edict is the full
reason for their keeping out of
the sharemarket. They are
staying out because of the fall
in prices, and have been wait-
ing for further falls.
This attitude is unlikely to
persist for long. Most shares
on ’Change are now far better
buying than they were four
months ago, when life-offices
were active purchasers, and a
number of shares are un-
doubtedly good buying, what-
ever the condition of the
market.
Although the sharemarket
for eight months ignored
the danger-signals that were
flying for most of 1960, in
the last quarter of the year it
anticipated the actions by the
Federal Government, and the
market broke heavily nearly
two months in advance of the
announcement of the Treas-
ury’s plan to counter inflation.
In the highways and by-ways
of the market it is now pre-
dicted that February and
March will be toughest months,
credit-wise, in the new year.
As this talk has been going
on for a few weeks now, ‘it
raises the question: To what
extent has the sharemarket
already anticipated the “tough-
ness” expected early in 1961,
and will a recovery in the
market take place before then
because of a previous discount-
ing of the future?
The 'Wales's View
'T'he Bank of New South
Wales has offered the
opinion that, in its belated
action against the 1959-60
boom, the Federal Government
has administered, “whether
consciously or not, a psycholo-
gical shock to business confi-
dence which has probably had
more immediate effect than its
hastily conceived and ill-
digested measures.”
The ’Wales thinks the Gov-
ernment showed some courage
in resisting a return to import-
restrictions, but that -it was
slow to make any move to-
wards higher interest-rates. “In
allowing both fixed-deposit and
overdraft rates to rise the
Government has made a move
of tentative realism which
could more usefully have
occurred months ago.”
As to new credit-restrictions,
in view of the previously exist-
ing brakes on lending, rein-
forced by low liquidity, “the
main effect of the new policy
is likely to be to sheet home
firmly to the Government the
responsibility of imposing prac-
tically a stop to any new lend-
ing.”
In assessing the immediate
future, the ’Wales says that the
effects of these measures on the
situation with which the Gov-
ernment is dealing are difficult
to forecast, since one is ad-
mittedly a stopgap measure and
another has yet to be enacted
and both must undergo serious
second thoughts. The higher
sales-tax on motor-vehicles is
likely to reduce demand tem-
porarily at least and will make
hire - purchase finance more
difficult. It could therefore
have some direct effect on
local production and on import
demand.
Together with higher interest-
rates in the banking system,
financial conditions for all pur-
poses will be much more strin-
gent. But the element of crisis
in the Government’s reaction to
a situation that has been obvi-
ous for some time has dis-
turbed confidence and may
prove the strongest conse-
quence.
Prior to the Treasurer’s state-
ment the investment boom was
weakening, the ’Wales says.
Conditions of financial strin-
gency were growing more evi-
dent, and stocks of raw
materials and finished goods
were showing the first signs of
accumulation. It could well
happen that the Government’s
actions might call before long
for a reversal on which Mr
Holt laid considerable stress
in his speech.
Yet in this confusing situa-
tion, a minor glimmer of
assurance appears that exports
may not fall quite so much as
was feared. In spite of their
drop, wool prices have steadied
and consolidated, and a heavy
wheat harvest might also offer
somewhat better prospects.
Such trends may help to hold,
but not improve, the position,
the ’Wales considers. “World
economic conditions generally
do not suggest that Australia
can easily avoid a readjustmeni
of its immediate sights.”
George Hudson
A concern that has had only
a modest dividend-record
during the building boom of
the past few years has been
George Hudson Holdings, Ltd.,
centred at Glebe (Sydney),
which established a name over
a long period for its “Ready-cut
Homes.” On a capital of
,£1,300,000 it earned £130,609
(up £3910) during the year to
June 30 last, after providing
£40,013 for depreciation and
£94,223 for taxation.
The disclosed earnings were
equal to 10 p.c. on capital, and
the div. was 7 p.c., as in the
preceding year, compared with
8 p.c. in the five years before
that.
Reserves of £1,103,334 are
partly offset on the other side
of the balance-sheet by intan-
gibles of £731,733, mostly
representing goodwill on con-
solidation.
During the term to June 30
there was a big increase in
stocks, etc. —up £614,209 at
£1,649,966. Debtors rose
£198,785 to £811,431. Fixed
assets were £107,045 higher at
£1,183,620.
A leap of £955,631 took place
in the total outside debt, which
rose to £2,082,902. Overdraft
at the end of the year stood at
£984,708, and there was a
secured loan from C.A.G.I.
amounting to £252,671.
The co. has been spreading
its activities. During the past
term it acquired the Wangan
Plywood Co. and Wangan Saw-
milling Co. at Innisfail, N.Q.
A housing project is under
way at Macquarie Fields, be-
tween Liverpool and Campbell-
town (N.S.W.).
There is a timber subsidiary
at Townsville (Q.) and engin-
eering and fibrous-plaster off-
shoots at Grafton (N.S.W.).
The main logging and milling
business is still in N.S.W.
The current term should be a
rather testing one in view of
the prevailing credit policy,
although the central bank has
indicated that easier conditions
will be available to genuine
homebuilders than to specula-
tive builders.


0
0
10 YEARS
P.A.
0 P.A.
4 YEARS
SHORT TERM LOANS
8%
12 months'
notice
7%
P.A.
6 months'
notice
6%
3 months'
notice
5*
P.A.
1 month's
notice
Interest Paid Quarterly,
Free of Exchange
For Prospectus, apply—
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ANY MEMBER of a Recognised Stock Exchange
THE COMPANY’S OFFICES,
Ground Floor, Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney,
Ph one: BU 5542.
CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT B
CORPORATION LJMITED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
5®
RENEWAL, INTEREST
RATES
apply to all investments
FUNDS MAY BE WITH-
DRAWN
in a personal emergency
UNDERWRITING BROKERS
RALPH W. KING & YUILL
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange).
CORRIE & CO.
(Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange).
LEONARD G. MAY & SON
(Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne).
REGISTERS: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Canberra,
Applications for debenture stock accepted only on one of the
forms of application attached to a printed copy of Prospectus
CUP and POST COUPON
CAMBRIDGE CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED,
Ground Floor, Cambridge House, 24? George Street, Sydney
Please send me, without obligation, a copy of the Prospectus
with Application Forms.
NAME I
ADDRESS —i—ii B - 4/l/’6l
The Outlook in New Zealand
New Zealand’s new National
Government is expected to
borrow heavily this financial
year.
For a start it will probably
raise an internal loan of £10'
million, a £5-million loan in
New York and a £ 10-million
loan in London.
If it does this it will be
following the recommendations
made by the Treasury to the
Labor Government in the dying
stages of its reign. Preliminary
arrangements had, in fact, been
made to raise about £25 mil-
lion.
The Government may wait
as long as possible in the
financial year to raise loans
abroad. Lending terms may
become more favorable later.
The United Kingdom autho-
rities gave permission, early
this year to raise £15 million on
the London market, but it was
not required, nor was over-
draft accommodation with the
Midland Bank, London, ar-
ranged in 1958.
Balance-of-payments
After a recent Cabinet-
meeting the Prime Minister,
Mr Holyoake, said that in-
formation provided by the
Minister of Finance, Mr Lake,
indicated, as things now stood,
a likely deficit of £25 million
in the public accounts this
financial year. There would,
as the former Minister of
Finance, Mr Nordmeyer, had
suggested, probably be a small
surplus in the Consolidated
Fund.
“The new Government has
a real economic headache. It’s
a headache I’m sure they don’t
understand,” said Mr F. P.
Walsh, president of the Federa-
tion of Labor.
The country’s economic ills
were mainly due to a fall in
overseas receipts, he said.
“On present trends the Gov-
ernment will be in serious
difficulties over the balance-of-
payments. I estimate the
balance of overseas reserves
will drop below £65 million.
“As a result, the Government
will be forced to borrow
overseas. Failing this, we will
not have sufficient money to
bring in raw materials to keep
our factories in production and
by next June I forecast we will
have unemployment in the
country.”
Wool Research
The Wool Research Organi-
sation of New Zealand is to be
the title of the new £lOO,OOO-a-
-year body set up by the New
Zealand Wool Board and the
Government.
. The executive of the organi-
sation is expected to hold its
first meeting at the end of
January. There will be four
members appointed by the
board, two by the Minister of
Scientific and Industrial Re-
search and one by the Minister
of Agriculture.
The constitution defines the
main object of the organisa-
tion as being to promote and
conduct research into the physi-
cal, chemical and biological
properties of our wool. It
will also study problems of
handling, storage, transport,
marketing and other related
matters.
With its income provided
jointly by the board and the
Government, it will establish,
equip and staff its own labora-
tories for this purpose. In
addition, the new body will
make grants for research on
breeding, feeding and manage-
ment as these affect wool, and
it will collaborate with others
working on processing and
utilisation.
Wire-works
A £1 million wire-drawing
factory, to be established in
Auckland, is expected ulti-
mately to produce almost all
N.Z.’s requirement of wire.
New Zealand manager fbr
Guest, Keen and Nettlefolds,
Ltd., of Birmingham, said the
works would save' £750,000
annually in overseas funds.
The factory would have the
latest machinery and would be
backed by the technical know-
ledge of the parent company.
A wide range of gauges in
bright and galvanised wire
would be made. Until rod was
available from a N.Z. iron-
and-steel works, supplies would
be guaranteed from the com-
pany’s own rod-mills.
The price of wire from the
outset would be no higher, and
possibly lower, than that of
imported wire from traditional
sources.
While the parent company
would back the N.Z. company
with finance and knowledge, a
substantial share of the equity
capital would be available for
N.Z. investors.
Factory Output
Record 1959-60 production
figures for N.Z. chemical fer-
tiliser-works reversed the de-
cline in output in recent years.
The fertiliser output in
1959-60 was 1,078,000 tons
valued at £10,812,000, com-
pared with 882,000 tons valued
at £8,854,000 in 1958-59.
The output of cement in N.Z.
during 1959-60 reached the
record of 575,000 tons —6.1 per
cent, more than in /the previous
year.
The record 1958-59 output in
the soap-and-candle industry
was bettered by 8 per cent.
In 1959-60 23,600 tons of soap,
valued at £2,807,000, was
manufactured, compared with
21,400 tons valued at £2,457,000
the previous year.
Production in N.Z. motor-
assembly works during 1959-60
declined as the result of import-
restrictions. The number of
cars assembled decreased from
26,103 to 24,434, and the
assembly of commercial
vehicles dropped from 8202 to
6155.
Hydro Mineral
Amount Oxide coppermine,
on the Mt Isa mineral
field, 85 to 100 miles north
from Mt Isa, in the old days
reckoned to be in the Cloncurry
district and originally out-
cropping as red-oxide of iron
and copper (cuprite), is the
proposed venue of operations
(leaching and precipitation) of


WYNYARD HOLDINGS
LIMITED
Offer to the Public An Issue of
1,795,960 Ordinary Shares of 5/- each payable in full
on application, in
The Wynyard Project
The object of the Company is to develop the
Wynyard Station leasehold site by the
construction of shops, Wynyard
House Office accommodation, a modern
first class hotel, and a car park.
The Directors are confident, in the future of the
development during its term of a 98-year lease in a
location unparalleled in Australia, providing security
of capital and increasing real estate value, together
with the assurance of substantial income derived from
shops on the entrances of the station, from offices, and
from an hotel and car park.
BANKERS: ENGLISH, SCOTTISH AND AUSTRALIAN
BANK LTD.
18 Martin Place, Sydney.
Of the Issue of 1,795,960 Ordinary Shares
of 5/- each, 995,960 have been
underwritten by:
WILLIAM TILLEY, HUDSON, EVANS & CO.
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
Applications fur shares will proceed only on one of the forms
of' application, contained in the printed copy of the Prospectus
which is available from the Registered Office of the Company, from
the Brokers, or from any member of a recognised Stock Exchange.
Phone 8X2850 or Post this Coupon to:
Wynyard Holdings Limited, 291 George Street, Sydney.
Please send me, without obligation, a Prospectus, relating to
proposed issue of shares.
Name
Address.
i $> |
ft :
Um
a''SS^OSp
j
frsjy&k
--..-, .- , "V < ', ■■
A happier choice for every occasion . . .
WINE
Fine wine adds pleasure to living . . . and you’ll
find no happier choice than Angove’s Wine of mature
perfection. Angove’s FINO DRY SHERRY, superbly
dry and appetising, is an excellent introduction to the
distinctive range of Angove’s TABLE WINES . . . each
the result of care and skill in wine making, combined
with the rich soil and sunshine of South Australia’s
glorious Murray Valley.
You will enjoy Angove’s Wine
APERITIF, TABLE AND DESSERT WINE OF HIGHEST
QUALITY: SHERRY. VERMOUTH, BURGUNDY, CLARET,
HOCK, RIESLING, SAUTERNES, PORT, MUSCAT
and ST. AGNES BRANDY of course!
ANGOVE’S LTD., RENMARK, S.A.
WINE MAKERS & DISTILLERS
BETTER BRANDY
ST AGNES BRANDY
Hydro Mineral Development,
Ltd.
The prospectus of the new
co, mentions that the Mount
Oxide mine in the past has
produced, all told, 35,000 tons
of copper-ore averaging 25 p.c.
copper. “The extraction of
this high-grade ore has left
large tonnages of semi-oxidised
ore which can be most econo-
mically recovered by leaching.”
The idea is to circulate water
through the mine workings to
obtain copper in solution which
is precipitated through the
medium of scrap-iron. No
chemical additives are expected
by chairman Frank Archibald
Close to be needed in the solu-
tion for several years. James
Wals e r, B.Sc., A.R.S.M.,
A.lnst.M.M., agrees that, of
the prospects looked-over by
the promoters, Mt Oxide is
“the most obviously suitable
for success and rapid return.”
Walser reckons that 10,000
tons of copper can be won from
the mine, and 1500 tons from
the dumps.
At £275 a ton the prospectus
indicates total profits of
£1,150,000 (before tax) from the
recovery of 10,000 tons of
metallic copper.
Equipment to circulate 100
gallons of water per minute
through the ore-body is being
installed, “and is expected to
yield a minimum of 500 tons
of metallic copper per year
and probably well in excess of
that amount.” On a range
between £260 and £3OO a ton
for copper, profits after tax
are put at from £30,280 to
£43,950 a year from the re-
covery of 500 tons a year. This
would be equal to from 23 p.c,
to 33 p.c. on the proposed
capital of £130,000. That is
allowing for redemption of
capital at the rate of £l3 per
ton of copper recovered.
The directors speak of 20 p.c.
dividends, with at least a third
of it tax-free.
Fraebairn Pty., Ltd., of
which members of the family
of Mr F. A. Close are direc-
tors and shareholders, is to
transfer the Mt Oxide leases
equipped “to the specifications
stipulated in the agreement of
sale and hand over fully operat-
ing and earning on or before
the 15th day of May, 1961.”
The consideration payable
for the mine and this equip-
ment is £llO,OOO in cash. A
royalty of £5 per ton of metallic
copper is also payable to the
vendor.
The public is being offered
514,000 shares of ss. each,
payable 6d. on application to-
gether with prepayment of a
call of 4s. 6d. a share. This
will bring in £128,500, if fully
subscribed. The 6000 shares
already issued would take
initial paid capital up to
£130,000.
After payment of preliminary
exes. (£5584, including £4284
for underwriting commission),
working capital remaining is
put at £12,916. The directors
may accept subscriptions in
excess of £128,500.
Underwriting brokers are
B. W. Rogers Brokerage Co.,
of 383 George St., Sydney.
This firm is not a member of
a Stock Exchange, and no men •
tion is made of an application
having been made to list the
shares.
A water-supply is needed to
enable closed-circuit pumping
through the old mine-workings.
Also required, says the prospec-
tus, is “some future additional
breaking of ore to allow air
and water circulation through
extension of known ore values
to maintain ore reserves for
attack by solution.”
On paper the proposition has
its attractive aspects. In prac-
tice much will depend on the
adequacy of the water-supply
obtainable through the pro-
posed damming of Cave Creek,
upon the efficiency and suit-
ability of the plant “handed
over fully operating and earn-
ing” by the vendors by May 15,
1961, and upon the absence of
unpredicted problems in the ore
and solution. As a standard
mining proposition Mt Oxide
was a high-cost show. The
hydro-metallurgical process
should reduce costs consider-
ably, but its exact potential has
yet to be demonstrated in this
far-west part of tropical
Queensland.


THE
MAN
ON THE
LAND
To Lift the Blight of Emptiness
By M. H. ELLIS
This'is the second of two
articles dealing with the
problems of developing
Queensland’s vast neg-
lected areas'. Last week's
article traced the extent of
the State’s widespread
stagnation ; this week’s
deals with remedies.
The problem of lifting the
blight of emptiness off
Queensland’s 465,000 square-
miles of scarcely-populated
lands in the north and west
has not gone unsolved over
the past 50 years through lack
of advice. Even before 1914,
experts, commissions, pastoral-
ists with long-term knowledge
and experience of the area put
forward the obvious remedies.
Sometimes the Government
even took preliminary action,
as when it approved the idea
of a Commonwealth-State rail
linkage with the Northern
Territory which would make
all the ports of Queensland
accessible to the cattle country.
But nothing ever came of the
schemes.
Generally speaking, all the
depressed country is cattle
country, save for the great belt
of Mitchell-grass sheep-lands
which rears up through the
very centre of the State,
shaped like a great carpet-
snake with its head projected
westward in the mineralised
Selwyns region as if it were
going to take a bite at Uran-
dangie.
Apart from this intrusion of
sheep—and mining—there is no
secondary industry in the
interior; no agriculture, no
dairying, no fruitgrowing,
though parts of the centre of
Queensland can grow magni-
ficent citrus-fruits. There is
not even an attempt at
afforestation that might alter
the climate, and little at
pasture - improvement worth
the name, despite large areas
that grow native clovers and
grasses that might be made
more nutritious by scientific
means.
The cattle industry of the
far west and north is run now
very much as*the Ford motor-
factory in Detroit would be
run without an assembly-line
and with a habit of buying and
feeding into the fuel system of
the factory in a three-monthly
period the whole of the fuel
used in the year, letting any
that the tanks cannot hold run
to waste, thus causing long
spells of idleness, chaos and
loss of production and
custom.
As an example of where this
sort of policy leads, the
Gulf country, of which the
human population has
dwindled to nothing, and
despair is sometimes the chief
exportable product, is a
moderate-rainfall area with an
annual fall of up to 37in.
But the rain falls mainly be-
tween December and March.
The rest of the year is deadly
dry. The grass becomes
withered and un-nutritious
when calving cows most need
it. Thousands of cows slip
their calves. Thousands of
animals die of hunger and
thirst. Tens of thousands of
others lose meat by the hun-
dred pounds —meat worth a
fortune in southern markets.
When the country is dry the
cattle cannot be moved because
only a four-month trek will
take them to good relief-
pastures (if available), and the
losses in droving on the hoof
out of such country are deadly.
Even when cattle are ripe for
sale and there is a high-priced
market, owners cannot take
immediate advantage of it
because of the long period it
takes to get stock to the point
of sale.
Losses are accentuated on
many stations, and in the pro-
cess of droving, by bad hand-
ling and working, by over-
eagerness to take risks and by
rough treatment in trying to
hurry mobs along.
Figures compiled by a
Queensland Government in-
vestigation authority after
World War II showed that on
various Gulf properties, over
a decade, from 15 to 27 per
cent, of calves branded did not
reach market, and the losses
over the whole of the herds
surveyed averaged about 14
per cent. —a mighty lot of
cattle in a million total, with-
out reckoning as well the loss
of flesh and condition, which
also represents real money.
So the obvious keys to the
situation in this district, as in
all others in the outback, are
swift communications on an
economic basis, and a base to
and from which cattle can be
moved, either for relief or for
final fattening.
With these measures goes
the reconditioning of the
breeding-country in the Gulf
and elsewhere, and cleaning-
out of the great rivers like the
Nicholson, Gregory, Flinders,
Gilbert and others so that they
may be made to hold the huge
torrents of water that flow
down them to waste in the
short summer season of rain.
They need barraging. They
need protection of timber from
evaporation.
But the essential on which
success depends is that large
expanse of country suited for
final fattening and holding—
the Channel country in the
west of the State from which
the journey to market or
abattoir is not too long and
tiring, and which is reasonably
accessible by rail.
'"There is nothing quite like
the Channel country in
Australia —or, for that matter,
elsewhere.
When the rivers that feed it
flood, the water spreads out
over the flat land, covering it
or irrigating it through a multi-
tude of small or large trickles,
according to the level of the
flood.
The flooded area, about 10-
million acres, is nearly as big
as Denmark and is as great
as the whole of the agricul-
tural land on which Egypt
produces three-million tons of
grain and cotton annually.
In good flood years the
country becomes a series of
broad, shallow lakes. When
the water recedes it leaves
WESTERN COMMUNICATIONS


behind huge acreages of
highly-fertilised bottom-lands
like those on the banks of the
Nile. On these a native local
clover, growing as tall as 18in.,
a magnificent fattenihg-feed,
springs up in profusion.
The region has all sorts of
good holding-fodder as well —
blue-bush and a great variety
of grasses, ranging from Mit-
chell to some very dry native
pastures.
Though the rain which pro-
duces the flooding is mostly
summer rain, it is autumn
before the waters reach the
Channel country, and winter
before they recede and give
place to the native clover and
winter herbage. Thus the feed
is available around the
channels when the rest of the
west and north is apt to be
dry and short of grass.
The Sunners Royal Com-
mission, soon after the last war,
declared (as noted in the first
article) that the lower stretches
of flooded land, where the
clover grows, will fatten cattle
at an early age and to “a
quality which the sown alfalfa
fields of Argentina cannot sur-
pass.... it would seem impos-
sible to find its equal in the
world.”
TpHE Sunners Commission
pointed out the import-
ance of the fodder-lands of
the Channel country to the
great belts of the cattle coun-
try along the Gulf—about
89,000 square-miles, of which
the western is the better half,
grassed largely with Mitchell-
and Flinders-grasses. The east
In recent tests con-
ducted by scientists at
the Idaho University,
U.S.A., a drug called
aureomycin was fed to
ewes for 60 days prior
to lambing. The drug
was administered with
the sheep’s salt supple-
ment, and was found to
reduce death losses.
The reported results
were a 50 per cent,
reduction in abortions,
and a 75 per cent,
reduction in losses due
to scours.
More and more graziers
these days are definitely
aware of the losses
that old - fashioned
methods of castrating
and tailing incur.
That’s why progressive
sheep-farmers specify
and use Elastrator, the
safest, surest most
humane method of
castrating and tailing
lambs.
is largely forest country which
could be ringbarked.
The commission also pointed
out that the population of this
area —shires of Burke, Car-
pentaria, Croydon and
Etheridge—carried 20,000 in-
habitants in the days of the
gold boom and before the
Great Northern Railway was
extended to Cloncurry. By
1940 the population had
dwindled to 2083. In 1958-59
it was only 1860.
And “while the population
has so steeply declined—
handicapping development—-
cattle numbers have remained
more-or-less stationary during
the past 30 years, the number
returned for the Cook and
Burke Pastoral Districts being
1,160,000 in 1914 against
1,072,000 in 1944.”
There has been little change
in the past 16 years.
r T~'HE Sunners Commission
recommended that the
Gulf country should be almost
entirely devoted to breeding,
and that the annual turn-off
of stores —like that of the
Northern Territory, which is
about 175,000, of which
63,000 cross into Queensland
—should be transferred to the
rich fattening-lands of the
Channel country, “where they
would be fattened the same
season, and transported to
market as prime-quality beef ;
other steers from the extreme
eastern side of the Gulf would
go to fattening-country in the
central north coast and hinter-
land.”
Trucking would be done to
a timetable from April to
July, when the Gulf and
northern cattle generally would
be in their best condition and,
if well handled, would reach
the fattening-ground in fresh
condition.
The report adds that “all
that has been said on cattle
production in the Gulf
country applies with equal
force—indeed, with greater
force —to the Northern Terri-
tory, which is purely a breed-
ing-area,” while the Channel
country is “perhaps the richest
natural fattening-pasturage in
the world.”
Each area, therefore, “pro-
vides what the other needs,”
and “the destiny of both areas
is bound up together.”
To link them, of course,
calls for swift communication.
The Sunners Commission, in
a day when railways were still
economic to build, plumped
for a line connecting the Terri-
tory and the Gulf country to
the Channel country, with
linkages to the coastal abat-
toirs through the existing three
railway systems —south, central
and northern.
In 1910 the Queensland
Parliament passed the Great
Western Railway Act, which
proposed to build such a line
(1282 miles); but though the
existing systems were extended
to meet its phantom course,
the main line from Camooweal
to Tobermory, in the south-
west, was never started.
HThe Federal Inland Develop-
-®- ment Organisation, which
embraces authorities not only
from Queensland but from the
shires of Broken Hill and
Cobar, is now advocating a
large-scale scheme of inland
co-ordination based on road-
transport of cattle and the
food-producing capacity of the
Channel country.
This plan would be operated
by an authority similar to the
Snowy River Authority with a
view to conserving the local
water-resources and bringing
water from the coastal ranges
by using heavy modern equip-
ment for tunnelling and
channel-digging.
The organisation believes
that the optimum number of
perhaps 800,000 cattle that
could be carried in good
seasons in the Channel coun-
try could be made permanent.
This, in fact, echoes the call
of the Sunners Commission
for the creation of an authority,
somewhat similar to the
Tennessee Valley Authority
in the United States, to be
called the South-West Channel
Authority and to be linked in
a definite way with the adminis-
tration of the Northern Terri-
tory.
The organisation also calls
for the building of a paved
“Pioneer Highway,” which
would be the communication-
or assembly-line of the scheme
and which would link the
existing “bittamen” in the
Northern Territory to a high-
way with an 18ft pavement,
wide and tough-enough to carry
double-decker trailers in sets
of three with a capacity of
about 160 head.
These young cattle, of
course, are too soft to stand
up to road droving, but they
are an ideal age for topping-
up, and the F.D.O. estimates
that they could be transported
at ss. to 6s. per 100 miles
(present costing).
The road would run from
Camooweal- via Daja r r a,
Boulia, Winton, Windorah to
Quilpie or Thargomindah, and
Cunnamulla or Bourke, skirt-
ing or crossing the Channel
country.
Along it the road-trains,
only 6in. wider and 6in.
higher than sheep-vans, would
carry the young stock.
It is envisaged that the
scheme would be linked with
cattle - improvement schemes
somewhat similar to that now
operated by the Hordern-King
Ranch interests at Brunette
Downs, and a land- and
pasture-improvement scheme.
The building of abattoirs for
country killing of stock for
Australian consumption would
be part of the plan. Export
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
Rainfall should vary from moderate to reasonably good
in a large part of Queensland during January, though patchy
and below normal in the far-western areas. Flooding is
indicated in the coastal districts and on the south-western
rivers. Heavy rains may be expected on the central and
north coasts during February, with a cyclonic disturbance
between Cairns and Townsville.
Moderate to good rains are indicated for the coast,
tablelands and,north-western areas of N.S.W. during January,
with best rains on part of the North and South Coasts. The
rest of the State should get only light rain. Apart from
a few isolated moderate falls, rains should be poor during
February, though there should be good general rains during
March, the heaviest occurring on the central coasts, central
tablelands and central west.
Victoria should get light patchy rains during January,
apart from good falls in the central division and Gippsland.
Falls should be poor during February, with predominantly
high temperatures. The southern areas should get mode-
rately good rains during March; there should be good
general rains in April.
Rainfall should be poor- in South Australia during
January and again in February, apart from some moderate
rain in the central districts. Good rains are indicated for
the interior during March.
There should be heavy rains and flooding in the
Kimberleys and the north-west of Western Australia during
January, with a cyclonic disturbance in the second half
of the month. Falls should be poor elsewhere and patchy
in February. Rains should be good in many areas during
March, best falls being in the lower south east.
LENNOX WALKER.


By every test . .
&
v
7
V
/A
X
Whether you are looking for
efficiency, simplicity, economy or
dependability, the Tilley Storm
Lantern represents incomparable
value for money. It gives you 12
hours of 300 candle power light
on only 11 pints of kerosene.
It gives years of reliable, trouble-
free service under all conditions—it’s wind and weather proof!
£6. 17.6 (freight extra outside metropolitan area)
REGD.
you can trust your Tilley
IT’S 100% BRITISH MADE
Obtainable from all good hardware stores throughout Australia. In case of difficulty
write for name of your nearest stockist to: —
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
1092 Mount Alexander Road, Essendon, Victoria.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company of
Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlement of claims
Directors:
ALFRED S. WHITE, Esq., Chairman; E. G. CONEN, Esq., T. K. MAGNEY,
Esq., A. G. PARKER, Esq., DOUGLAS WADLEY, Esq.
H. H. MOULTON, Esq., Managing Director, B. J. LANE, Esq., Manager.
’Phone: BU 7401. (Branches in all States) 16/20 Bridge Street, Sydney.
STOCK BROKERS—INVESTORS—
COMPANY SECRETARIES
Subscribe now to
JANUARY DECEMBER
ISSUES OF
THE WILD CAT MONTHLY
and be entitled at year’s end to a bound volume of all
12 issues, with collated index, at a greatly reduced price.
Subscription orders to :
Subscription Dept., Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney
Price (12 months), 22/6
stock would continue , to go by
train to the great coastal abat-
toirs at Ross River, Lakes
Creek and Brisbane.
According to the Common-
wealth Bureau of Agricul-
tural Economics, an annual
turn-off of 750 fat bullocks on
a station in the Red Centre
was transported to the railhead
at Alice Springs by road-train
in 1958 Tor £3375. Droving-
costs for this lot were calcu-
lated as a likely £1125 for
actual droving, £550 to cover
a 2 per cent, mortality-rate and
£2BOO as a “conservative value
of weight-loss, loss of bloom,
etc.” —a total of £4475.
Graziers near Alice Springs
told the bureau that it was
economic to pay £2 ss. to
£2 10s. a head for road-
transport of fat bullocks on the
140 ft-long trains of three
trailers now in use. But these
costs could certainly be re-
duced considerably if numbers
increased, stores were carried
as well as fats, and vehicles
and roads were redesigned in
the light of experience.
In the Alice Springs area it
seemed that the percentage of
cattle taken to railhead by
road-train last year would
amount to 80 per cent, of the
turn-off, or very nearly double
the figure of 1957-58.
The difference in time of
transport is amazing as be-
tween the old and the new
methods.
The Commonwealth Bureau
of Agricultural Economics
estimated on the basis of actual
experience that by road trans-
port it takes only 17 hours on
the bitumen to move cattle
from Vestey's Helen Springs to
Mt Isa railhead, and that,
allowing 24 hours’ rest at
Saline, they can be landed at
the Lakes Creek meatworks at
Rockhampton in four days.
The journey from Helen
Springs to Mt Isa on the hoof
would take 65 days, including
20 days of nerve - wracking
droving on the wretched
stretch between Camooweal
and Mt Isa. The total time
in getting the cattle to Lakes
Creek would be 68.3 days.
From the Barkly Tableland
and western Territory to the
Channel country takes up to
four months’ droving, which
delays the turn-off age and
affects weight and quality con-
siderably—this, apart from loss
through death and in weight
on the road.
'The Barkly is peculiarly
susceptible to the effects
of drought, being breeding-
country with no herbage and
without a great deal of shade.
In the great drought of
February, 1952, it was
reported that breeding-cattle
losses were 20 to 40 per cent.,
while losses of new-born
calves were from 40 to 80 per
cent., according to localities.
In 1958 reduction in brand-
ings through drought ran as
high as 70 per cent., and of
breeders as high as 50 per
cent. ; so that' the effect of
road-transport on the cattle
population and the prosperity
of the interior can be esti-
mated if there is an organised
base to which drought-
threatened cattle can be con-
veyed at reasonable cost and
within a few days or weeks.
The conclusions of the
bureau are that road-transport
of cattle would produce bene-
fits not limited only to cattle-
owners and -buyers.
The bureau writes that “for
instance, it might be antici-
pated that rural workers should
benefit through reduced freight-
rates, while increased activity
in small country centres would
lead to improvements in facili-
ties”; and that “at national
level benefits could be reflected
in increased national income
and increased export earnings.”
Apart from normal turn-offs
of fatteners, stock in drought
periods, or at any time, could
be transferred in road-trains
from the Northern Territory
and from any part of north,
central or western Queensland
to any district in the southern
States. And stock could be
transferred from the southern
States to the Northern Terri-
tory, or to any part of the
cattle country of Queensland at
any time.
T}inally (to quote the Sunners
Commission again), “the
splendid Channel asset, now
laying practically dormant,
would begin to pay dividends.
Small and large towns would
arise in inland Australia, for
a great number of men would
be required to implement any
programme of full develop-
ment for the area. There
would be life, movement, pro-
gress, instead of the lifeless
prospect which meets the eye
today.”
It appears to be time that
the Commonwealth and State
Governments jointly took a
hand and appointed a com-
mission to end all commissions
of inquiry in the area ; one,
in fact, consisting of practical
men pastoralists, transport
and water-supply engineers and
fodder-conservation experts—
who could evaluate the situa-
tion in terms suitable to the
atomic age, and who, when
they made their report, could
be employed to carry out its
recommendations.


OVERSEAS
Kennedy’s Views on Defence
Commenting that no fresh
decisions on nuclear
weapons and Polaris bases can
be taken by either the British
Government or by Nato until
the views of the incoming
Kennedy Administration are
known, Manchester “Guardian”
says that for that reason
Senator Kennedy’s recent
words on defence are being
studied with care:
“He is in favor of controlled,
multilateral disarmament, and
against unilateral gestures.
He is uncommitted on the
proposal to ' make Nato a
fourth nuclear Power, but he
is emphatically against undue
reliance on nuclear weapons
for the defence of Europe. He
is worried by the waste of
Allied resources in ‘futile
efforts’ by individual nations'
to create separate deterrents
(in which the Liberals are close
to his view, while some Con-
servatives still flirt with the
notion of a separate British
deterrent). He gives high
priority to bringing the Ameri-
can Polaris submarines into
service, but he has not made
any special point on consult-
ing Allies about their use.
“In office Mr Kennedy may
alter some of his views. For
years, however, he has taken
a personal interest in defence
and foreign policy. His atti-
tudes are well formed. Dur-"
ing the election campaign he
and Mr Nixon were invited by
the ‘Saturday Review’ to write
on Captain B. H. Liddell
Hart’s ‘Deterrent or Defence.’
Only Mr Kennedy did so, but
his article is a revealing one.
“Nearly half the review is
given to the concluding chapter,
on disarmament. The design
of an arms-control system, he
says, is as complex as the
design of a military system. ‘lt
must be approached with all
the professional skills we can
command: technological, mili-
tary and diplomatic.’ These
skills, he says, must be uni-
fied under the President’s
direction. Effective arms
control ‘will not come about
in a romantic moment of
human redemption.’ It will
come
because we have designed new
forms of controlled military
systems and methods of mutual
inspection; and because we have
persuaded the Russians that it is
in their interest as well as ours
to accept them and to make them
work.
“Mr Kennedy says that the
Russians will not take arms-
control negotiations seriously
unless they know that the West
has the military resources to
deal both with limited aggres-
sion and with nuclear black-
mail.
“On deterrents Mr Kennedy
borrows Captain Liddell Hart's
words to show that the notion
of massive retaliation does
Hamburg “Echo.”
“YOUR TURN NEXT, CHARLES?”
not, alone, offer effective pro-
tection. The theme of Liddell
Hart’s book, he says, is that
the West must be ready to
deter or deal with Communist
aggression, short of nuclear
war, by conventional forces.
“General Norstad’s current
strategy depends on early use
of nuclear weapons against
any substantial crossing of
Nato’s land-frontiers. He is
dangerously dependent on
nuclear weapons, because he
has too few others. Their use
may be suicidal. Yet the
British Government, with suc-
cessive Defence Ministers, has
been reluctant to urge any
change of strategy.
“In his article Mr Kennedy
goes on to set out five urgent
points for American defence
policy. The first is that the
American strategic deterrent
must be made safe from sur-
prise attack, and the second
that the Polaris and Minute-
man must be brought into ser-
vice as fast as possible. This
is because they are mobile, and
thus safer from surprise attack.
It is also because they
‘diminish the need for hair-
trigger decisions.’
“These, one may add, are
points that ought to be made
plain both to British oppo-
nents of the Polaris base in the
Holy Loch and to the Russians.
The world is given a greater
degree of stability by weapons
which are immune from sur-
prise attack. The Western
fear of another Pearl Harbor
is real, and must be so while
the Russians claim great
strength in long-range missiles.
The existence of a Western
strategic force, immune to
sudden destruction, gives time
for a cool reaction to any
crisis or incident.
“Mr Kennedy insists on the
need for giving Nato more
effective conventional forces in
Europe. This follows from
his acceptance of Captain
Liddell Hart’s view that limited
aggression must be met by
limited weapons. He con-
siders whether there should be
a Nato nuclear deterrent, but
he does not commit himself
for or against it. He is, how-
ever, wholly against the
development of a series of
separate deterrents by indivi-
dual European nations. This,
he says, would be wasteful and
futile and might increase in-
stability in Europe. Indeed,
he appears to contemplate the
possibility of a Nato nuclear
force chiefly because it might
help to prevent that waste and
futility. His assessment is a
shrewd one.
/‘The Europeans, including
the British, would, do well to
leave the nuclear effort to the
United States ; but, if they will
not do that, at least they
should avoid the folly of try-
ing to build a series of separate
nuclear deterrents. Here
Britain can give a lead, by
being ready to put Bomber
Command into a European
force.”
Malaya and Singapore
Singapore and Malaya are
Australia’s nearest Com-
monwealth partners, so rela-
tions between the two are of
special concern to this country.
A correspondent of London
“Economist” who has been
studying these relationships
remarks that they would be
Gilbertian if they did not
border on tragedy :
“North of the Johore cause-
way is the three-year-old
Federation, self - confident,
prosperous, flexing its muscles,
stepping with increasing bold-
ness into Commonwealth and
international affairs. Its Prime
Minister, Tunku Abdul Rah-
man, is the leader of United
Malaya’s National Organisa-
tion (U.M.N.0.), a party which
has branches south of the
causeway in Singapore, which
contributed a Minister to the


ficUßi in iJie
rniurc
Under the new partnership for working the
big bauxite deposits at Weipa, North Queensland,
operations are expected to be in swing by the
middle of 1966.
It is hoped that production of aluminium in
the Pacific area will be doubled in consequence,
by 1970.
There is little need to dwell here upon the
well-known details of this Consolidated Zinc-Kaiser
undertaking. It is to be triangulated on Weipa
itself, on a hydro-powered aluminium reduction
plant in the South Island of New Zealand, and on
expansion of the smelting establishment at Bell
Bay, Tasmania. Estimated spending on the project
is between £l3O-million and £l4O-million.
Other extensions may be made in Queensland,
but that is the plan in broad outline at present.
The dramatic fact behind all this is that it
originated in a part of Australia which until now
has been a wilderness. Weipa lies up near the top
of that strip of coastline which is a reserve for
aborigines for practically the whole western
length of Cape York Peninsula, and for thirty
miles inland.
The Presbyterial missionaries who built their
house on a rise within sight of the shore knew that
the country around Weipa was relatively poor; wild
game was never plentiful for the natives’ hunting.
Yet this same Christian mission stood literally
in the midst of the vast mineral wealth that now
excites international attention!
The moral is that wealth is where you find it,
especially in a country young, extensive and not
yet fully explored for the testing of its true potential.
The Weipa bauxite story has its parallels of
the past in the uncovering of gold, silver, copper,
lead, zinc, uranium and other minerals and metals
that have brought once desolate areas into rich
productive life.
It will have its parallels in the future. For,
much as we have achieved until now in the way of
national development, the years to come will be
proving that Australia’s real natural worth is still
only in the stage of being discovered.
previous Singapore Govern-
ment, and which is in opposi-
tion to the Government of the
People’s Action Party.
“To those old enough to
have been aware of world
events in, say, 1938, the stage
would seem set for a ‘last terri-
torial claim’ and for the
absorption of Singapore as a
twelfth State of the Federa-
tion. Despite speeches by
Singapore politicians to the
contrary, it is unlikely that the
British would in any way dis-
courage a merger. .
“But the progressively Con-
servative Government of
Malaya and its royal Prime
Minister, the Tunku, will have
none of it. The Socialist
(People’s Action Party) Gov-
ernment of Singapore knocks
in vain at the Federation door
and has been blowing wasted
kisses across the causeway.
The Singapore branches of
U.M.N.O. want the place in
the sun that union would bring
them. In their frustration they
are squabbling among them-
selves about leadership, and
are being slapped down by the
Tunku from over the border.
Seldom can so rich a terri-
torial gain have been so
brusquely refused. Seldom can
a Socialist Government have
so ardently proposed marriage
to a Conservative Government,
and in vain.
“The reasons for the Federa-
tion’s coldness are simple,
though their overtones are
complex. Singapore’s pre-
dominantly Chinese popula-
tion would upset the racial
balance in a united Malaya,
and would hasten the end of
today’s strong Malay political
control. There is also fear of
contagion from the near-
Communist elements that are
entrenched in the trade-
unions and the Chinese schools
of Singapore. And not least is
the personal discomfort and
distrust which the slower
country-bred Ministers at
Kuala Lumpur feel in the
presence of the quick-witted,
slick-witted Singapore Minis-
ters with their university firsts
and brilliant Parliamentary
oratory.
“In this situation it is not
surprising that the territories
are drifting further apart,
despite Singapore’s efforts to
become respectable in Malayan
eyes. True, the causeway is
still open, and citizens from
either side come and go
freely. True, the mainly
Chinese city of Singapore is
officially adopting Malay as its
language, has Malay street-
signs and notices in its Gov-
ernment offices, and has a
Malay Head of State. True,
Singapore’s Government is
purging its irresponsible ele-
ments, is wooing private capital
from overseas, and has an
efficiently realistic administra-
tion.
“But Malaya still imposes
duties on Singapore goods and
promotes its own industrialisa-
tion at Singapore’s expense.
The committee of officials of
both Governments which has,
at Singapore’s request, been
considering a joint industrialisa-
tion programme for some
months is noticeably cool on
the Malayan side and is un-
likely to produce more than
a mouse. Perhaps in rancor,
perhaps as a weapon for bar-
gaining, Singapore has chosen
as a first breach in its free-
trade policy to impose an
import-duty on soap. While
admittedly protecting a rather
inefficient Singapore industry,
the duty mainly hits at the
Federation’s more efficient
factories.
“There is still one currency,
but recent agreements enable
the Federation to break away
from the Malaya - Borneo
currency-agreement at short
notice, and it is known that
the newly established Malayan
Central Bank is anxious to
issue its own notes. There i 9
still one University of Malaya
in name ; but separation into
two divisions, in Singapore
and Kuala Lumpur, with
duplication of faculties, is in
effect denying the future leaders
of the two countries the com-
munity of intellectual develop-
ment which is necessary if they
are to grow together. .
“Clearly there is need for
cooler longer-term thinking on
both sides. Singapore’s Prime
Minister, Mr Lee Kuan-yew,
blames colonial history for
separating Singapore from the
Federation, and for not form-
ing a pan-Malaya union at the
time Penang and Malacca
joined Malaya. He says noth-
ing of the older artificial divi-
sion between British and
Dutch spheres of influence, or
of the fact that the Straits of
Malacca are the most un-
natural frontier in the world.
Not all the world’s navies
could enforce the myth that
transfer of goods across these
narrow waters between cousins
is smuggling and not trade.
Up to 1941, despite the colonial
political division, the move-
ment of Malaysian people
within the Malaysian archi-
pelago was wholly free, and
there was not much restriction
on the movement of goods.
It is post-war nationalisms
that have barricaded the old
colonial boundaries and made
Singapore’s position so pre-
carious.”


ABORIGINALITIES
Var Un Frut Flay
TPhe road was long and
straight and wide and clear,
and at first he was a spot in
the distance ; a hazard and a
danger to be marked, humped
dark in the sunshine so peri-
lously close to the speeding
road-bed. Closer, it was a suit-
case he sat on, a small one of
that mock-leather material that
children take to school.
Because he sat with his back
to the road, looking over the
thistled paddocks to the river
that wound under the hills,
marking its course in willows ;
because he made • his hitching
signals by ear, not troubling to
turn his head to the rushing
passage of the cars that blew at
his coat-tails, we felt ourselves
stopping for him, without being
conscious of decision, even a
little irritated that it seemed too
late now to put on speed again
and avoid the bore of moving
clothes and packages to make
room for him and face the need
of conversation.
He stood up gravely, nodded
in courtesy and, holding his
suitcase in front of him, got
into the car.
I asked him: “Where are
you going?”
“Please?” he said, leaning
forward in the back. There
was wind, and under way it was
noisy in the car.
I raised my voice: “How far
are you going?”
“Yes,” he said. “Go-ing
Cunburru.”
“Going to Canberra?”
“Ah,” he said. “Yes, Can-
burra. Nash-null capitull. Yes?”
“Yes,” I said, and wondered
about his accent.
“Where do you come from?”
“Please?” he said.
“Where—do —you —come
from? Which country?”
“Cundry?” he said. “Oh.
Frum Yurup.”
“Yurup?”
“Yes, please. Yurup.”
I thought about it. “Which
country in Europe?”
“Yurup cundry.”
A fter a while I said: “Do
you live in Canberra?”
“No live. Live Sudney. Go
for look, nash-null capitull.”
He seemed quite proprietary
about the national capital.
“Please,” he said, and pointed
to a frequent notice beside the
road.
“War on fruit fly,”- I told
“And I'll bet they Waste all their time painting pictures
and Writing poetry."
him. “Don’t let it travel with
you.”
“Please?” he said.
“War —on —fruit—fly.”
*‘Var un frut flay?”
“War on fruit fly.”
“Is var?” i
“Kill them,” I said. “Kill
fruit fly. Very bad.”
“Kill frut flay!”
“That’s it.”
“Vut is frut flay?”
“A fly. Gets on fruit. Gets
in fruit. Starts off as a worm.”
“No, it doesn’t,” my wife
said. “Fruit flies are horrible
little sticky things that eat
peaches.”
“They lay eggs,” I said.
“Worms come out of the eggs.”
“That’s coddly moth,” my
wife said. “Coddly moth are
nothing to do with fruit flies.”
I said: “They make worms.
There have to be worms. Other-
wise what would all the fuss
be about?”
“Please?” the man said.
I ignored him.
“On the notices,” my wife
said, firmly, “it says don’t let
them travel with you. In your
opinion, does that mean
worms? Because it doesn’t.
It means those horrible sticky
little flies.”
“Nobody said anything about
carrying worms with you,” I
told her. “Only that the flies
lay worms.”
“Lay worms,” she said.
“That’s a good one.”
“Lay eggs. The worms come
out of the eggs.”
We passed another notice.
“Var un frut flays,” our
passenger said. “Is bad.”
HChere was a stall up the road
with gay red tea-tables out-
side it. We slowed down.
“What are you stopping
for?” my wife asked.
I didn’t answer. I got out
and looked at the fruit.
“Nice day,” the owner said.
I said, “Yes,” and went on
inspecting the stall. After a
time the owner said, uneasily:
“The cherries are good.”
I thanked him.
The owner shifted on his
feet, then said: “Looking for
anything in particular?”
“Fruit fly,” I said.
“Fruit fly?” he said. “God-
damighty, there’s no fruit
fly here. What are you look-
ing for fruit fly for? You a
Government man?”
“No,” I said. “Do fruit fly
lay worms? Lay eggs, that is,
that worms come out of?”
The owner thought about it.
“Not sure,” he said. “That’s
a funny thing.”
“One does get worms in
fruit. Everyone does.”
“That’s right,” the owner
said. “Got an idea that’s the
old coddled moth though.”
“It’s fruit fly,” I said, losing
my head a little.
“Could be,” the owner said.
We didn’t talk much going
into Canberra and put our
passenger down at the War
Memorial. He seemed very
happy about the national
capital.
IVTxt day, over a bridge on
the Murray outside Albury,
we were stopped for inspection
at a fruit-fly checkpoint. There
was a big car drawn aside with
a strained-looking woman in it
and a lot of unhappy-looking
children doggedly eating fruit.
“How would you be?” their
father asked us. “I told the
wife you can't take fruit into
Victoria. She wouldn’t ha\e
it. Bought twenty-eight-bob’s-
worth up the road. They can
flaming-well sit there until they
eat the lot of it if it takes them
all flaming day.”
“War on fruit fly,” I told
him.
Hugh Atkinson.
* * * *
T once thought, like a recent
A correspondent here, that a
kookaburra which had been
caught in a rabbit-trap was not
seriously injured. No break
could be felt in the fleshless
part of the leg below the knee
where the jaws had closed, but
as the bird had knocked one
wing about in his threshings I
put it in a fowlpen, pending
recovery. That it wouldn't
stand on the trapped leg I
attributed to a little understand-
able soreness. The wing had
healed and I was thinking of
ending the hospitalisation when
I saw on the ground—a kooka-
burra’s leg. My first impulse
was to put the poor creature
out of its misery, but on
second thoughts decided that
the worst of the ordeal was
probably over. Released, the
bird flew away, and I never
saw him again ; but ever since,
my attitude to a trapped bird
has been: swift "and merciful
release.
Mackville.
* * * *
pRic Bedford (B. 7/12/’60)
has Kamilroi Station on the
Gregory River. When I was
on Kamilroi in 1947 it was on
the Leichhardt R. —“Harry L.”


The Aloes in the Bowl
That song-writer joker, the
bloke from London, he
says, “Life’s just a bowl of
cherries,” and the French
singer with his accent spilled
over the bowl like sugar lets
it go.
Pity they weren’t draped on
the dry ironbark log with me
last mail-day when the drover,
one leg thrown over the pom-
mel of his saddle, rolled a
smoke and said:
Young feller? I know him
well. Good-lookin’ in his way.
Curly hair, like yours a bit.
Good skin an’ that. Anyway,
such is life. His wife started
meetin’ this joker on the sly,
and finally they bolted. He took
it bad. Stopped even goin’ to
the billiard-room. Use to play
a fair stick, too —I forget his
break . . .
Anyhow, he come out of his
shell a bit towards the spring
and started to go to Piangil:
that’s where his wife grew up.
Then one day I struck him
in the street in the town here.
Not on his own, neither. He’s
stridin’ out ahead, and behind
him, hooped over a stick —like
this —and faggin’ away on a
Phillip Morris, comes this ole
tart. Must’ve been all of sixty
if a day.
I’m standin’ there just in
front of the Chow’s. She
croaks somethin’ at him before
they get to me, and he steadies
down, and she grabs his arm.
I knew him fairly well—a bit
of a mate, in fact. I pulls him
up and I say: “How y’u goin’,
mate?”
“Owyu, Tom?” he says.
I says: “I ain’t seen you
round lately.”
“No,” he says. “I’ve been
over at” —and be this time the
old sheila is pushin’ and primp-
in’ into the limelight.
“One o’ yer old mates,
luvvy?” she remarks. “Now
don’t be shy. Interduce me.”
He looks me fair in the eye-
ball and says: “Me wife, Tom.”
You know how you go on
the spur of the moment. Me
mouth fell open like a sugar-
bag. I gabbled something at
her, then I looked at him the
way mates will, and I said:
“Humm Elsie, Ted, but . . .
what about Els” —A slashin’
sort, was, y’know. One
o’ them . . . you know the
kind. His wife o’ course —the
first one.
“Chicken!"
He cut me short. He said:
“Divorced her. You must’ve
heard —everyone else did. That
football-coach. Arr, you know.
She did a flit with him. I
divorced her.”
He jerked his head at the old
girl. “This is her mother.
Y’might see the resemblance.”
He bends his head forward
then, and he looks me square
in the eyes, and I’m watchin’
him, and as I watch I see his
eyes go smoky kind-of, as
though you whittled a bit out
with the small blade of a
pocket-knife, and he says, soft:
“No mongrel-swine will ever
take this un off me. No one’ll
ever want to.”
Tf the Frenchie or the song-
writer joker had been rest-
ing on the other end of that
ironbark log I could have in-
quired why that particular bit
of fruit out of the bowl tasted
so bitter inside.
A.H.
* * * *
"VJY ex-Polish neighbors can’t
get over our off-hand atti-
tude to the common lily. In
Poland, they tell the lily is
a hothouse bloom, esteemed as
highly as an orchid here. With-
out doubting what they say, I
find it hard to think of the
tough old battler in the role of
a delicate and fragile flower—
especially after seeing colonies
of lilies growing wild on the
banks of numberless coastal
creeks; the bulbs, no doubt,
originally washed there from
homestead gardens miles away.
Nor is the lily’s toughness
confined to a mere ability to
fend for itself. A fire in our
neighborhood left nothing
standing of a fibro cottage but
a few charred studs and rafters.
A bare yard away from a
chaos of charcoal that had been
a wall a clump of lilies
bloomed. All the other flowers
in the bed were scorched-up or
wilted; the lilies showed no
sign whatsoever of their ordeal
by fire.
B. A. Ker
* • • •
'T'he Great Barrier Reef is
deservedly One of the
world’s wonders, but there is
considerable coral along the
western side of Australia in
similar latitudes.
Beginning at Pt Cloates, once
a noted whaling-station, a big
reef runs north almost to the tip
of North West Cape, the outer
terminal of the vast Exmouth
Gulf. North from Yampi
Sound, where the B.H.P. now
mines one of the earth’s
richest iron-deposits, the coral
begins again in large forma-
tions.
Searching hereabouts for
elusive uranium, we entered a
tidy 100 - acre inlet which,
seemingly, no one had bothered
to name. There we found
acres of delicate coral which,
in a sea with a normal 20ft.
tidal rise, had adapted itself to
standing up to 12ft. out of the
water during periods of low
tide, twice in every 24 hours.
Its surface was never dry;
about an inch of water streamed
over it incessantly. Apparently
it had evolved some system of
internal pumping that kept all
interior life refreshed.
Along the outer edge, where
the reef met the ocean, it fell
away in a slant, mostly of big
mushrooms of branched coral.
A hole knocked in one of these
blooms with a pick let out a
strong stream of water, which
soon dwindled to nothing, in-
dicating that the reef was
divided into compartments.
Drained of its water, the
mushroom began to break into
fragments of its own weight,
showing up myriads of tiny fish
of bright color. Yet before
injury this mushroom was
capable of sustaining the
weight of a man.
C.
Ayers Rock
I saw God sitting on the mountain’s crest,
Bowed was Wanambi’s head, as in the gloom
His bowl poured kapi to the earth below,
Life-giving rains that the red earth should grow
Rich fruits from old Kerungra’s womb.
1 sat beside Nginindi’s storm-worn pool
Where mortal man was baptised with divine
Storm-given kapi from the Gods on high ;
Within the storms a Rainbow of the sky
To bless the tribes who worshipped at his shrine.
Around me are strange stories, old as time
Graved with the wind . . . This wrinkled age-worn stone :
What allegories from other lands are here ?
Where now the tourists scramble, climb and peer
Down where Wanambi sleeps and waits alone.
I heard wild chanting from Lagari’s cave,
Where mirth resounded and its echoes pealed
From grim Wialburus peak, where peered the eye
Of stern Karuka, ready to defy
The Leru-Mulu with his kuditdj shield.
Now rise the Kunia horde beside the cleft
Where towering Nangu stood with quivering spear;
That dread Urumbu soars and over all
Comes crashing Kuditdj as the Welu’s call
“Death to the Mulu who. would rule by fear.”
“Kapi agalyu Wanambi!” they cry
(Strength in God’s waters), “Give, give all rebirth !”
Only the tourists’ tramping feet resound,
Only their voices from the cliffs rebound
To camp-fires glowing on the warm red earth.
Ayers Rock, N.T.
W. E. (Bill) Harney.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jACK&ON &
■, o's tn.uvAv
■ r PTYLTD
JacksonS O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TOPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
■COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED
Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AX D HIXTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), SIR EDWARD R. KNOX (Vice-Chairman),
R. J. VICARS, A. MURRAY JONES, HUGH DIXSON,
D. A. T. DICKINS, K. B. MYERS, A. E. STEPHEN
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of Every Description
/. O. LEWIS, General Manager.
Start the weekend well with
WEEKEND
1/- from your newsagent
Divorce Notice*
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—Is Divorce.
TO WILFRED GEORGE RANDALL.—
TAKE NOTICE that NORMA JOAN
RANDALL has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 174 of 1959 on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards and is
asking for the exercise of the Couits
discretion under Section 19 (2) (a) of
the Matrimonial Causes Act (1898-
1960) notwithstanding the Petitioner’s
adultery If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry in the Supreme Court Mint
Building Macquarie Street Sydney by
the 16th January 1961 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge
from ALAN BLUM k CO., Solicitors,
of 8a Piccadilly Arcade, Sydney.—
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
TO JONKHEER HUGO WILLIAM
GEYERS formerly of Safety Bay Western
Australia and 48 Newtown Hobart Tas-
mania.—TAKE NOTICE that your wife
JOSEPHINE SUAREZ GEYERS HAS
COMMENCED proceedings against you
in the Supreme Court of Western Aus-
tralia for Divorce on the ground of
your habitual failure during a period of
at least Three years immediately prior
to the commencement of the proceedings
to make periodical payments of main-
tenance under a Separation Agreement
between you and your said wife If you
desire to defend such proceedings or to
counterclaim you must file your defence
or counterclaim in the Central Office of
the Supreme Court at Perth within forty
clear days from the date of this publica-
tion In default of your so doing the
case may proceed and the Court will
pronounce judgment and make Orders
against you in your absence.—DATED
this 19th dav of December, 1960. —■
G. J. BOYLSON, Registrar.
RICHARD S. HAYNES & CO., of 25
William Street, Perth, Solicitors for
the Plaintiff.
TO CLARENCE DALLAS WHITBY.—
WHEREAS on the First dav of June
195.5 VALERIE JOY WHITBY issued
a Petition for the dissolution of your
marriage on the ground of your deser-
tion AND WHEREAS a sealed copy of
this Petition with Citation annexed was
personally served upon you.—TAKE
NOTICE that at the hearing of - this
suit VALERIE JOY WHITBY intends
to ask the Court to exercise its dis-
cretion in her favour under Rule 56a
and FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that if
you intend to defend this suit you do
cause an appearance to be entered either
in person or by your Solicitor in the
prescribed form at the Registry of the
Supreme Court of New South Wales,
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on
or before the Twenty-sixth day of
January, 1961.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Copies of “Reading for Pleasure”
(paperback), by Bennet Cerf, and
“Our Seventh Political Decade,
1920-1930” (dealing with Queens-,
land’s political history), by C. A.
Bernays.—4l.
Information Supplied
Fishing Festival
Organisers of an eight-day fish-
ing festival to be held at Tuggerah
Lakes, N.S.W., this month, say it
will be the world's biggest popular
fishing contest. The festival is
sponsored by Ampol Petroleum,
Ltd., with prizes totalling more
than £30,000. There are plenty of
entertainments for visitors when they
are not fishing. Variety concerts,
open-air dancing, a surf carnival
and a fireworks display will all be
laid on. But the most popular item
on the agenda is sure to be the
tagged-fish contest, to be held on
the final day. Fifty tagged bream
will be released in the lake and it
will be an open go to catch them.
Twenty of theift will be worth
£lOOO each and the other 30 at least
£lOO each. One unusual competi-
tion will b'e a “catch-a-shark”
contest for surf-club boat-cfews,
with the first prize a new surf-boat.
Information Sought
How is a patent applied for ?
What are the conditions of
acceptance ?
Applications for patents must
be made on prescribed forms and
lodged with the Commissioner of
Patents, Canberra. An application
must be supported b’y a declaration
setting out the facts relied upon
by the applicant, and accompanied
by a provisional or complete speci-
fication. If a provisional specifica-
tion is lodged a complete
specification must be lodged within
12 months. In the complete speci-
fication the applicant must furnish
such a disclosure of the invention
as will enable anyone skilled in the
art to which the invention relates
to practise it when the patent
expires (16 years).
The specification is referred to
an qxaminer of patents, who is a
technologist in the field concerned.
He reports on the entitlement of
the applicant to apply, the suffi-
ciency of the description and the
novelty of the invention. An
applicant may have to amend his
application if the examiner’s report
is unfavorable.
On the Commissioner’s accept-
ance, the application and specifica-
tion are advertised in the “Official
Journal,” together with an abridge-
ment, illustrated when necessary,
of one or more of the claims
appended to the specification.
Opposition proceedings may then
be initiated by_ anyone with a
specific trading or manufacturing
interest in the invention.
In the absence of opposition, or
if opposition does not succeed, a
patent is granted. Renewal fees are
payable after the first four years
and are payable yearly thereafter.
The High Court may extend the
term of a patent with regard to the
nature and merits of the indention
in relation to the public and to the
adequacy of remuneration received,
by The patentee. It can also order
the patentee to grant manufacturing
licences where the reasonable
requirements of the public have not
been met.
* * * *
Some information about the
current Scout Jamboree ?
This, the sixth All Australian
Jamboree, is being held at Lans-
downe, near Bankstqwn, New South'
Wales, from December •29 to
January 9. Organisation, which
began in July, 1959, is under a
Jamboree Council; camp chief is
Mr V. C. Fairfax, Chief Commis-
sioner for New South Wales. About
15,000 Scouts are encamped, from
all Australian States, from Papua,
New Guinea, and overseas
countries.
The 400-acre camp-site is
arranged into seven sub-camps, plus
a services camp, a Jamboree Chief’s
camp and a Lady Cubmaster’s
camp. During the Jamboree the
camp will resemble a complete
town, with all the services of a
town provided. These include a
fully-staffed hospital, a shopping-
centre, banks, a post-office, even a
special daily newspaper.
The camp is open to the public
■on the afternoons of December 31,
January 1,2, 4,5, 6,7, 8.
Visitors will be able to see the
Scouting displays and activities
which have been arranged. Scouts
visiting Sydney will be encouraged
to see as much of the city as they
can on days when tours or leave are
arranged.
Brief Answers
. 1.L.: The verse reads:
I do not like thee, Dr. Fell,
The reason why I cannot tell ;
But this I know, I know full well,
I do not like thee, Dr. Fell.
The author was Tom Brown (1663-
1704), and Dr Fell, the Dean of
Christchurch, expelled Brown but
said he would remit the sentence if
he translated the thirty-third epigram
of Martial:
Non amo te, Sabidi, nec possum dicere
quare;
Hoc tantum possum dicere non amo te.
The translation is said to have been
given impromptu... .K.S.M.: The
term “dog-days” is of Roman
origin. The Romans called the
hottest weeks of the summer (early
July to early August) canicula res
dies. Their theory was that Sirius,
the dog-star, rising with the sun,
added its heat to make the days
so h0t.... T.D.: The colors of
heraldry are: Or, gold; Argent,
silver; Gules, red; Azure, blue;
Sable, black; Vert, green; Purpure,
purple... . H.McS.: In Cassar’s
time the bust or painting was
generally accepted to be that of the
man’s son. There is no evidence
that the advent of photography has
changed such a view.... D.W.: A
proof spirit is one in which .495
of the weight and .5727 of the
volume is alcohol and the specific
gravity is .91984. When the mix-
ture has more alcohol than water
it is called overproof; when it has
less it is called underproof....
J.G.J.: No other members of the
family can be located, nor is any
record available concerning the
name of the property... .W.T.:
The “Clickmaster” was invented
by Wing-Commander M. V. Blake,
R.A.F. It is being marketed in
Australia by East Bros. Pty., Ltd.,
and sells for £8 10s N.H.: The
Gurgeena Plateau is in Queensland’s
Mundubbera Shire. It is a small,
isolated and fertile tableland about
1500 ft. above sea-level, between
Gayndah and Mundubbera....
W.T.: A parsec is a unit of dis-
tance used by astronomers and is
equivalent to 3.26 light years. ,


LETTERS
Sydney Opera House
Should the opening perform-
ance of the Sydney Opera
House be a symphony, a
celebrity concert or an opera?
Of course, it must be an opera,
but the selection requires very
careful deliberation. As the
new opera house should be
one of the world’s most interest-
ing architectural achievements
its opening must be a tour de
force.
The best way to “show off”
our new opera house is to
present in it a great spectacle
opera, which at the same time
must have beautiful and appeal-
ing music. Such an opera
would require a large aug-
mented orchestra, a large well-
trained chorus, a large number
of supers- for crowd scenes, a
full and varied range of lighting
effects, the use of the cycio-
rama, the most up-to-date
stage-machinery, props which
could probably include trees,
chariots and horses on stage,
beautiful costumes and, most
important of all, celebrated
operatic artists who would
really test the acoustics of the
auditorium.
A commissioned opera is out
of the question ; it is imperative
that we do not gamble with an
unknown opera. The group of
operas, for our first season,
should be carefully selected to
convince and lure the thousands
of opera newcomers who will
flock to see the opera house
and may be persuaded into
regular patronage in future
seasons. These operas should
also contain roles of various
calibres to meet the require-
ments of the great operatic
voices which will be engaged.
Most present-day composers,
unlike the great masters, are
unable to compose music to do
justice to great voices, and they
do not use the aria idiom which
is the best test for an operatic
voice.
Some great spectacle operas,
composed by the wo r 1 d’s
greatest opera composers, are
Wagner’s Die Meistersingers,
Bizet’s Carmen, Verdi’s Aida,
Verdi’s 11 Trovatore, Puccini’s
Turandot, Gounod’s Faust and
Moussorgsky’s Boris Godou-
nov.
With many important deci-
sions to be made it can be seen
that the opening of the new'
opera house in February, 1964,
is much closer than we think.
Those who will have to make
these decisions will have to be
on the job by the beginning of
1963. Shortly afterwards they
will have to decide on the
repertoire for- the season. A
chorus will have to be selected
by Australia - wide auditions.
This chorus, in order to be
ready by February, 1964, will
have to be rehearsed on a full-
time capacity for nine months.
At the same time a chorus-
master, vocal coaches, repeti-
teurs, small-part singers, lesser
principals, understudies, pro-
ducers, designers, stage-mana-
gers and wardrobe-mistresses
will have to be appointed.
The greatest problem will be
the selection of the overseas
stars we hope to engage. Who
will engage and contract
them? The question arises
whether it is better to engage
famous singers like Callas,
Weber and Hotter or to secure
those artists who are “making
their run.” Germany and Italy
abound with such singers whose
names may not be so worldly
prominent as those mentioned,
but whose performances are
equally high. An advantage of
securing them lies in the fact
that they are not in such
demand, so they require less
salary, and can afford to be
longer away from the European
circuit and can therefore give
more of their time to produc-
tion rehearsals than their more
famous colleagues. If we do
the wise thing and sing our
operas in English, we will have
to give these European singers
several months’ notice in which
to re-learn their roles in Eng-
lish.
The early decision on per-
formance-dates is necessary so
that visiting principals and
local principals, who will take
over their roles later, will know
of their commitments well in
advance. With the anticipated
demand for tickets, the box-
plans should be opened several
months ahead. All this eayly
programming will be necessary
to give time for co-ordinat-
ing the use of the orchestra for
ballet performances and Aus-
tralian Broadcasting Commis-
sion and celebrity recitals, all
of which will probably be
performed in the new opera
house. Our opera season will
not be a continuous six-nights-
a-week routine throughout the
whole season ; the chorus and
some of the principals would
find this too exhausting.
Tourists from both inter-
State and overseas will be very
interested in performance dates,
f
and country residents who have
conti lbuted so much to the
opera house should also be kept
in mind as audiences. Planned
programmes will enable them
to visit Sydney during the opera
season on special excursion
trams and buses.
Our weightiest problem is to
make people opera-minded. At
this early stage they must
believe and expect that the
opera house will be principally
used for an annual opera
season. After spending millions
of pounds on it we must not
show it off just on account of
its architectural success. Nor
must we think that if it fails we
can turn it into a mighty super-
mart or a giant petrol-station,
Having decided that we are
going to have the best opera
house in the world, we must
now begin to secure and main-
tain an audience for it.
A beginning can be made in
the high-schools, where pupils
should hear appreciation lessons
and special miniature perform-
ances to whet their appetites
for opera. The enthusiasm
which students gather is often
transferred to their parents.
Then the great audience-ball
has been set rolling.
Unfortunately, opera has
enemies. There are two types
bearing antipathy against opera.
The first type is ignorant of
opera, has never attended a
performance and believes that
he could not understand or
enjoy it. The other type either
has a low taste in music or fears
the competition to other forms
of entertainment. It has been
proved that the average person
can enjoy opera. Such people
flock to the hundreds of
opera houses throughout
Europe. Sadler’s Wells was
deliberately built in one of the
poorest areas of London to
supply opera to working-class
people.
Enemies of opera maintain
that opera does not pay. Of
course it doesn’t, but indirectly
it must be put in the same
category as education. Then
the tourist profits must be
counted. London is quite pre-
pared to spend three-quarters of
a million pounds every year to
keep her two opera houses
going. And what would Paris
or Milan be without their opera
houses?
, Whether our opera house
will become a success depends
to a large extent on the success
of the opening season. To get
the right kick-off depends on
early and effective organisation,


LET
CARRY THE
BURDEN
Established 1808 in Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen
many Battles, including
the Battle of Waterloo,
and has emerged from
them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT
MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England)
N.S.W. Branch:
Kindersley House,
Bligh - O’Connell Sts., Sydney
Chief Office for Australia:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne
start the day right !
m
m
m
V.O»»* C
WOt p
V. * v
yi** G
i
bE ma
c
1000 Different Whole World
Stamps 17/6 or 500 Different
For 8/6- Both Post Free.
R. C. Walker,
377 Bourke Street,
Melbourne.
Member Australian Stamp Dealers’
Association.
which should be in good run-
ning order by the beginning of
1963.
Cammeray (N.S.W.)
DOUGLAS C. PARNELL
CHILD DELINQUENCY
Parents and teachers must
both accept portion of the
blame for the prevalence of
child delinquency —but the
world at large must also accept
its share. It is often assumed
that, children were much
better behaved 50 years ago,
but that belief will not bear
analysis. The children at the
small country school I attended
were just as wild and wayward
as any children today, but
when we were detected in acts
of misbehavior or serious dis-
obedience we paid the penalty
—a good thrashing at home
or a good caning in school,
or both.
I can recall a teacher who
used to chase boys around the
schoolroom and in and out of
the blackboards, plying the
cane vigorously on whatever
portion of their anatomy he
could reach. He knew that
the effect of such rough-and-
ready treatment on other
potential offenders would be
most marked ; he knew, too,
there would be no tale-telling
at home, because that would
bring further punishment.
Despite this, we had our
wild times —we fought behind
the weather-shed when the
teacher wasn’t looking, smoked
roots instead of cigarettes
whenever we got the chance,
and occasionally “wagged it”
from school. As we grew
older, approximating to what
is now known as teenage, we
developed a sense of respon-
sibility and restraint which is
not nearly so prevalent
amongst the growing genera-
tion today. I think there is a
reason for this, too ; and I
think the world at large must
take the blame. In the past
50 years we have had two
world wars and we could easily
be on the verge of another.
Human life is not as sacred
as it used to be ; and there is
not the same sense of security
as theft was in my schooldays.
Many more people earn an
easier living now than when
I was a boy, and there is much
more of a tendency to regard
work as a necessary evil rather
than as a means of earning a
modest living by the sweat of
one’s brow.
You can’t upset world
balance as it has been upset
in the last 50 years without
paying the penalty, and that
penalty is the general attitude
of moral laxity and irrespon-
sibility which now prevails.
Young people don’t care to the
same extent as their grand-
fathers and grandmothers
cared —and when they ask you
why they should it is hard to
find a convincing reply.
Today we build boys’ clubs
and establish play-centres. We
buy expensive toys for toddlers
and TV-sets for teenagers, and
feel we have discharged our
full responsibility towards
them. But it doesn’t seem to
work. The remedy? I don’t
pretend to know.
M. F. DIXON
Glenbrook (.N.S.W. ).
DOWN WITH
EISTEDDFODS
Although some enthusiasts
bemoan the fact that eistedd-
fods seem to be on the way out,
there is one class of people who
are heartily grateful—the news-
paper reporters. The conscien-
tious reporter who worked for
a provincial paper and had to
report every session of the
local eisteddfod knew what
purgatory on earth was like.
The endless procession of
precocious little mummy’s
darlings strutting their ineffi-
cient attempts at dance-steps
intended for adults ; theumna-
turally neat schoolboys putting
“expression” into their recita-
tions ; the drawing-room sop-
ranos and bathroom baritones
screeching and bellowing their
way up and down the scale ;
the inefficient fingers fumbling
on the piano-keys and violin-
strings ! !!
From enthusiastic eisteddfod
secretaries I’ve heard all the
arguments about the cultural
value of such activities, but
I’ve yet to be convinced. The
really cultured person couldn’t
be bothered to compete in such
degrading circumstances. As
for the educational value of
them —I doubt whether one
musician or dancer who now
earns a professional living at
the game ever won at an
eisteddfod.
R. HARRISON
Marks Point (N.S.W.)
REFORM IN
EDUCATION
I agree fully with the con-
tention that there is a lack of
attention to basic subjects in
the school curriculum. But
there are more drastic reforms
in education that must be made-
before we can come anywhere
near to achieving the ideal.
That is, if we accept the ideal
as being to produce a person
who is not only in possession
of a wide basic knowledge but
who also has the ability to
think for himself and the
desire to go on learning and
is properly equipped to take
his place in society.
The most important steps
towards achieving this end ]
would suggest are:
1. The bringing of all
primary and secondary educa-
tion under an autonomous
commission free of State con-
trol, and representative of the
Government, teaching staff,
parents, and business and pro-
fessional circles.
2. The raising of teaching
standards so that every teachei
is required to possess appro-
priate university degrees and
is capable of interchange witl
teachers at other levels.
3. Consequent raising of the
status of teachers to that of
the university staff or profes
sional level, with commen-
surate salary and conditions.
4. Reduction of class sizes
5. Wider use of educational
aids such as radio, films and
television.
6. More attention to prac-
tical subjects that encourage
self-reliance in everyday living,
7. Introduction of an inten-
sive course of study in sub-
jects that will make the poten-
tial adult aware of his respon-
sibilities and rights as a mem-
ber of the community,
specifically: civil rights and
duties under the rule of law;
the marriage union, with
emphasis on parent/child and
husband / wife relationship;
the practice and theory of
motor-driving and road-safety.
8. Wider use and higher
standards of vocational guid-
ance, coupled in final years
with outside work in the field
chosen by the child as his
vocation.
I feel safe in suggesting that
these reforms will one day be
standard in this country, but
meanwhile there is a great deal
of apathy to be overcome.
There is a cry of “Where
shall we get the money?” and
at the same time millions are
being spent by Federal and
State Governments on pro-
jects far less important than
education. There is the petty
public-service outlook of the
Education Departments to be
overcome, and the one-eyed
attitude of the technologists.
But all these objections must
eventually give way to pro-
gress, as people and Govern-
ments alike realise that the
only lasting guarantee of
stability in the modern State
is a robust and independent
man-in-the-street who is cap-
able and desirous of thinking
for himself.
B. M. KELLY
Manly ( N.S.W. ).


The Night the Japs Hit Sydney
By W. N. PRIOR
The American Air Force
Colonel had been boat-
ing on Sydney Harbor.
It was not an unusual
pastime for a sunny, Sunday
afternoon, but what prompted
him to stay on board after the
strong westerly blew-up that
evening of May 31, 1942,
I will never know. I do know
that when the fireworks started
he made for Circular Quay,
clambered ashore and made
for the tunnel that runs from
the east side of the Quay
through to St James’s Station.
Constructed towards the end
of the First World War, the
tunnel had remained dormant
and forgotten until the late
Mr Joseph Cahill decided after
the last war to feed hisx trains
through it and complete the
city circuit. Forgotten, that
is, by all but the city defence
authorities who, in 1941, built
within it the nerve-centre of
the city’s air-raid defences.
The distance from the Quay
to the Fighter Sector, as the
defence H.Q. were called, was
a good quarter-mile—some
60 feet beneath the Mitchell
Library. The Colonel was
therefore a little breathless
when he burst into the Sector.
“What the hell goes on?” he
demanded, with some justifica-
tion—he was the Sector's C.O.
—“lt’s like the fourth of July
out there!” (How better to
describe ricocheting tracer-
shells and exploding depth-
charges?) With pleasure we
informed him that he had been
boating on a harbor full of
enemy submarines and un-
leashed torpedoes.
I had crossed the harbor
myself about an hour earlier
on the Taronga Zoo ferry. The
westerly made the harbor look
as though it was emptying out
through the Heads. I had sel-
dom seen it so rough. The
ferry had had difficulty berth-
ing as the wind and current
had slammed it sideways
against the Zoo wharf.
These same conditions, in
my opinion, saved the Ameri-
can heavy cruiser Chicago
from a Jap torpedo fired less
than half-an-hour later. At
the time of my boarding the
ferry a midget submarine was
lurking in Taylor’s Bay, the
neighboring bay to the east of
the Zoo wharf. As it must
have been on the surface, or
very close to it —the bay is
very shallow —it would have
been at about a 45-degree
angle to the westerly as it
attempted to aim its length at
the Chicago anchored off
Garden Island. It is now his-
tory that the torpedo narrowly
missed the cruiser and blew-up
a ferry berthed at Garden
Island, killing a number of
Navy personnel. Next day I
witnessed the salvage of the
self - destroyed sub. from
Taylor’s Bay. A part-ejected
torpedo was sticking out of
one of its two tubes.
On my arrival at the Quay
that evening I ran into Nellie,
the family maid. A young
country lass, who wept when
my brothers and I later sailed
overseas, she was almost one
of the family. She hurried on
to the ferry as I hurried off.
I only had time to chide:
“Nellie, you go straight
home! ” She was the only
female passenger that trip.
Halfway back to the Zoo
wharf, at about the same time
as I entered the Fighter Sector,
the ferry ran into the fire-
works.
The skipper stopped the
ferry and called the passengers
together. “What’s it to be,”
he said, “press on, or back
to the Quay?”
“Back to the Quay!”
shouted all the male passengers
in unison. Nellie stamped her
little 'foot. “To the Zoo,” she
cried. “I can’t be left stranded
in the city.”
Nellie was taken straight
home, passing, she swore, a
periscope on the way.
'T'hings were buzzing in the
Fighter Sector. The Navy
Liaison Officer kept us posted
about the war on the high seas
of the harbor. Jesus Villamore
(pronounced Yea-sus, which
reduced him in stature but
made it more comfortable for
us Christians), a Filipino air-
ace who had chalked-up a tally
of Japs over the Philippines
before high-tailing it south,
was Fighter (aircraft) Control
Officer on duty. I was Gun
Control Officer responsible for
calling out the ack-ack
defences.
Jesus and I got our heads
together. He was a very bright
boy. He recalled that midget
subs had penetrated Pearl
Harbor before the big air-
onslaught and concluded that
aircraft-carriers were sitting
off Sydney, out of radar range,
and dispatching their aircraft at
that very moment.
Out went the “Red” warn-
ing, and it stayed “Red” until
next morning, but not a target
came in sight. My only con-
solation for keeping hundreds
of ack-ack gunners at their
action-stations that cold, dark,
windy night is that I had to
suffer in the brilliantly-lit con-
fines of the Sector with little
to do but drink hot coffee and
flirt with the W.A.A.A.F.
The submarine raid was not
entirely unexpected. One night
about a week earlier I received
a report from a gun-site some-
where west of the Harbor
Bridge that an unidentified
aircraft had passed low over-
head heading east up the
harbor. The Sector had no air-
craft “movement” that tallied
with an aircraft in that posi-
tion at that time.
I ordered searchlights to
expose and identify. Search-
lights from Rose Bay and
George’s Heights picked it up
over the harbor and held it.
Reports were immediately
phoned in from a number of
gun- and searchlight-sites. All,
without exception, identified
the plane as a single-float,
two-wing American Sikorski.
The Chicago and a number
of other U.S. ships had
entered the harbor only a week
or so before. All carried
single-float Sikorskis. Our ack-
ack' crews had ample oppor-
tunity to familiarise themselves
with this easily identified air-
craft, as most days the planes
were airborne over Sydney.
Identification was therefore
fast, if a little hasty, that night.
More to reprimand rather
than to double-check, the
Sector immediately asked
Garden Island to contact all
U.S. ships and find the culprit.
First report came back from
the Chicago. Several officers
on deck had watched the plane
circle their ship at a very low
altitude, before it had been
illuminated by the searchlights.
Yes, it was a Sikorski. No, it
hadn’t left the Chicago. They
had wondered themselves
which 'of their ships was its
parent. Back came the replies
from the other ships. All
planes battened down!
By this time the plane had
left the harbor and was east
of the Heads, with our coastal
radar on its tail. I had been
busy looking up the Jap plane
silhouettes. And there it was
—a replica of the Sikorski!
The radar tracked it up the
coast heading towards New-
castle. I immediately sent out
a “Red” warning to Newcastle,
told them the aircraft was
hostile and gave out the order
—“Engage.” But the boys in
Newcastle were also frustrated.
The plane circled out at sea
just south of Newcastle, then
disappeared from the radar-
screen. We tried that difficult
addition, two and two, and
came up with —mother sub.


This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers o/:
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in: —
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY, LTD.
(A member of Commercial Union Australia Group)
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
F. S. WATSON, Manager.
It had selected its target for
the next weekend.
Years later a Sydney jour-
nalist interviewed the pilot of
that plane in Japan. He
boasted of his prowess in
avoiding our searchlights and
of his courage in flying about
so low. Courage, I grant him,
but I doubt whether he, even
now, knows of the fantastic
coincidence, if that is what it
was, that saved his life that
night. He was a sitting, single-
float, illuminated duck, flying
at not much more than the
speed of a duck.
Whether or not Navy Intel-
ligence was expecting a mother
sub. to dispatch her brood of
midgets following this enemy
reconnaissance has not been
recorded to my knowledge.
If the story I heard at the time
is factual —even part factual —•
then it appears the Navy was
also caught on the wrong keel.
'T'he Press, with which I had
associations, were called
to Garden Island and given
the facts, but asked not to
release them. Instead they pub-
lished, no doubt for the bene-
fit of the enemy, glowing
reports of the sinking of all
subs by the Navy. The fact
that at least two of the subs
showed clear evidence of inter-
nal explosions—witness the
two halves, from different subs,
on display at the Canberra
National War Memorial —and
that the heroic crew members
also showed evidence of self-
destruction, to wit, bullet holes,
did not deter them.
The withheld story, as I
recall it, concerns an old
retainer whose job it was to
row up and down the sub-
marine-net across the harbor
and report on its condition.
Towards dusk his old sea eyes
spotted a sub. caught in the
net a few feet below the sur-
face. A naval vessel was
lying across the entrance of
the boom some distance away.
In the choppy sea it took him
about 20 minutes to reach the
vessel. He breathlessly re-
ported his find.
Putting myself in the posi-
tion of the skipper, I would
undoubtedly have reacted as
he is supposed to have done —
suspected the old fellow of
having had a few too many and
sent him off to have another
look. Back to the sub. rowed
the veteran, but this time,
almost convinced himself that
his eyes had deceived him, he
plunged down his oar —and hit
something solid. Back again
to the Navy. Another 20
minutes! This time, perhaps
to humor him, he was accom-
panied by an officer.
In the meantime,- however,
the honorable gentlemen in the
sub. had taken the hint of the
probing oar. They blew them,
selves up. The Colonel’s fourth
of July celebrations were about
to get under way!
'T'he Submarines versus
Sydney story would not
be complete without mention
of the night, one week
later, another Jap sub,
(possibly the same mother
sub.) lay off Sydney and hurled
a few shells over “the Gap"
into the Rose Bay district. I
had just come off duty that
evening and had bedded-down
in Macquarie House, now the
American Club. When the
sirens sounded after the explo-
sions I dressed hastily and
hurried towards the Fighter
Sector entrance at the foot of
the (now-removed) Shakespeare
statue near the gateway to the
Domain.
Shakespeare was surrounded
by tommy-gun-toting Gl’s, al
at the ready. I was challenged
and identified myself. These
boys, fresh from the States,
could not wait to get into the
fight. Several cars drove up
Macquarie Street wearing their
regulation black-out blinkers,
This did not satisfy. The Gl’s
jumped them screaming
“Harlt! Put out those lights
and pull over.”
I wanted no part of this
comedy. Nor, I suspect, did
Shakespeare. I was about to
descend into the tunnel when
a large dark car raced past us
from the Domain and headed
across Macquarie Street.
“You missed him,” I jeered,
“Don’t worry, Lootenant—
the boys down Bent Street
will get him.” And get him
they did. I heard the called
challenge, heard it repeated,
then shots! This time I
descended —but fast!
A little later a phone call
came through the Sector switch
for my friend the Colonel. The
W.A.A.A.F. switch-operator
later reported the conversation
opener:
“Colonel, this is General
Fewtrell here—your men have
just fired on my car!”
That was not the end of the
incident. Weeks later I heard
of a patient in Sydney Hospital
suffering from a bullet-wound
in the leg, received the night
of the shelling.
I told the Colonel of the
injured man. It was the first
he knew of the matter and
called on the patient without
delay. I understand he and his
men behaved sympathetically
and generously —typical Ameri-
cans —towards this innocent
victim of Sydney’s mostly
comic war.


which that ripe and Rabelaisian
potentate came to our notice. But he
still plies the naturalist with enormous
glasses of neat whisky, topped off with
gin when the other bottle is finished;
he still takes delight in dancing, and
Durrell’s wife teaches him the samba;
he is still—as witness this brief
correspondence—as eager in giving and
receiving hospitality as ever;—
My good friend,
Would you like to come and have
a drink with us this evening at eight-
o’clock?
Your friend,
Gerald Durrell.
My good friend,
Expect me a 7.30 p.m. Thanks.
Your good friend,
Fon of Bafut.
So with the rest of the book. It is a
“sequel,” so lacks the surprise of fresh
territories, but it has none of the usual
let-down of a sequel. It is as good,as
reading “The Bafut Beagles” over
again, with the advantage that, if the
country and some of the characters
are familiar, the adventures and obser-
vations are new. ,
It reaches its high peaks, naturally, in
the misfortunes attendant upon collect-
ing, which are always pleasant for
other people to read about and pleas-
ant even for Durrell to contemplate
when they afflict his companions: like
the time his assistant, Bob, put his bowl
of clawed toads out in the rain to give
them a nice bath and they all flowed
oyer the top and, sharp-clawed and
slippery, had painfully to be picked up
again—and then Bob dropped the
bowl and spilt them once more, and
then the chimpanzee, Cholmondely St.
John, tipped them all out for the third
time.
There was also the most notable
occasion when Georgina, the baboon,
decided to share the small hip-bath
occupied by Sophie, Durrell’s secre-
tary; and stole Sophie’s clothes and
then, while Sophie was chasing her
round the garden, darted inside again,
put the clothes in the bath, dropped
forty cigarettes in on top of them and
proceeded to jump up and down on
the mess like a wine-treader stamping
out the grapes.
. And with this goes the most interest-
ing and usually amusing information
about snakes, hippos, owls, squirrels,
the chevrotain (which is a dwarf ante-
lope about as big as a rabbit) and the
Ceding habits of baby animals and
monkeys:—
I have had a group of five
monkeys, of the same age and
species, who displayed the most
Weird idiosyncrasies. Out of the
five, two had a passion for hard-
boiled eggs, while the other three
Were frightened of the strange white
shapes and would not touch them,
actually screaming in fear if you
introduced such a fearsome object
as a hard-boiled egg into their cage.
These five monkeys all adored
orange, but, whereas four would
carefully peel their fruit and throw
away the skin, the fifth would peel
his orange equally carefully and then
throw away the orange and eat the
peel.
The purpose of this expedition was
to collect animals for a zoo which
Gerald Durrell eventually established
on the island of Jersey. It makes
delightful reading, and is illustrated in
just the right mixture of comedy,
charm and sensitivity by Ralph
Thompson.
D.S.
House by the Sea
The house stood back from the street
with a crazy path and a tree ;
shadows of leaves on its walls
dancing, beckoned me.
Pillars flanking the porch
were bleached with rain and light.
Beyond the casements- swayed
curtains of silvery white.
Windows, curtains, porch
all so familiar seemed,
1 stood at the gate and thought:
Is this a place I have dreamed ?
Is this a house I know —■
mellow, quiet, old ?
part of a life 1 shared
in a tale that has been long told?
A wind crept up from the sea
like a breath of long ago.
... I shall not pass again,
so I shall never know.
QUEENSLAND.
E. M. ENGLAND.
Miss Strawberry’s
Cow
[From a series for children]
Miss Strawberry has a cow which looks
at me.
I do not like the cow which looks at me.
Yesterday I hid behind a tree
For fear her cow would stand and look
at me,
But there is something strange in how
she sees
For she can look right through Miss
Strawberry’s trees.
She looked at me with two enormous
eyes
As big and round and brown as Sar-
gent’s pies
And sometimes blinked her lids with
ugly lashes
Thick and coarse like mother’s scrubbing
brushes.
Then she began to move her massive jaws
To and fro like slowly swinging doors,
While the burry knot in her tasselled tail
Switched along her back like an ancient
flail.
Soon with forelegs bent she pawed the
ground
And made in front of her a little mound
Of dust in which she tried her wide
cocked horns
Sharpened on the points like a pair of
thorns.
Then she bellowed: such tremendous
sound
Rumbled like the thunder, shook the
ground,
That my sheltering tree began to sway.
What the cow did next I cannot say.
I took to my frightened heels and ran
away.
N.s.w.
ERIC C. ROLLS.
Food
Berries or fruit or both, food for the jaded
And genuine appetite, are guavas growing
Everywhere on the island, sunburnt and
shaded,
In paddocks and along lanes; at the back
of everything
Grow the large as redder than round as
ping-pong balls
To be had for the foraging, the veriest
taking,
The luscious pulpy tart and seedy
edibles —
Until, greedy for guavas, some come
poaching
With stained blouses and shirt-fronts,
looking for trouble
And more guavas; come stealthily with
no talking
Half-way down the slope all clay and
stubble
At the back of the oldest house where
no one’s living,
Until the spiders, big as guavas, dancing
Between the trees, disperse these at the
double.
N.Z.
BRUCE BEAVER.
For Skin-divers
Skin-diving in Australia. Edward Du
Cross. Angus and Robertson, 255.
The seas and oceans of this globe
comprise a far greater area than that of
its land-masses. Their deeps are
enormous. If Mount Everest, the
highest known mountain, were placed
in the “Swire Deep” in the north-west
Pacific, its summit would be covered by
the waters of the ocean to a depth of
3087 ft. Men are only just beginning
to explore the seas; but in Australia
alone “skin-divers” already number
between fifty and a hundred thousand.
“Skin-diving in Australia” is an up-
to-date, exhaustive and practical hand-
book for those concerned or interested
in the subject. It ranges from the


history and development of skin-
diving, both in Europe and in Aus-
tralia, the tactics and technique of the
art, identifies and illustrates the various
fish that will interest the spear-
fisherman, discusses sharks, their
nature, behavior and how “men-fish”
should behave in dealing with them.
It gives detailed instructions in the
use of such modern equipment 'as
self-contained underwater breathing
apparatus. Underwater photography is
fully and scientifically discussed. Also,
a most interesting chapter is devoted to
the history of the wrecks around the
Australian coast. Among these wrecks
was an early seventeenth-century Dutch
galleon, the “Gilt*Dragon,” which was
supposed to be a treasury ship or a
pay-master’s galleon.
Skin-divers have located and visited
some of these wrecks, bringing back
with them silver candlesticks, a brass
dolphin, a bottle of champagne (which
is now the home of a sea-urchin), an
iron piano-frame, copper coins and
pottery jars bearing hand-painted
scenes like: “Landing of the British
Forces at the Battle of the Crimea”
and “Pegwell Bay, Kent.”
Du Cross is one of the earliest mem-
bers of the N.S.W. Skin-diving Asso-
ciation, and is rated as one of Aus-
tralia’s most experienced skin-divers.
He writes with clarity and conciseness
and is concerned with the facts of his
subject and not its fantasy. It comes as
a surprise to find at the end of his book
a tribute, in poetic form, to the under-
water world.
Roland Robinson
Submarine Escape
Subsunk. Captain W. O. Shelford,
R.N. Harrap. 275.
Captain Shelford is uniquely fitted
to write on submarine escape, hav-
ing been the first qualified submarine
officer in the history of the Royal Navy
to have had charge of diving training
and escape experiment.
“Emergency —Subsunk” is the signal
sent through the Fleet when a sub-
marine is in serious trouble. In war,
when a submarine is sunk by her
enemies, there is little chance of any
organised rescue, but in peacetime the
crisis signal alerts the whole com-
mand. Results have not always been
commensurate with the effort
expended, as was shown in the loss of
the Thetis, Affray and Untamed, and
(to a less degree) with the Truculent.
The main fact which emerges from
Shelford’s book —he draws on the
experience of 21 of the world’s navies
—is that salvage of a submarine can
rarely be made in time to save life.
Submarine crews must therefore be pre-
pared to abandon ship on the bottom
and save themselves by the use of
escape apparatus. Even then, sur-
vivors will probably die of exposure
unless a search and rescue effort is
mounted at once. This was the prob-
lem Shelford’s team had to solve. The
answer had not been made any easier
at the outset by changing Admiralty
policy or by the slightly offhand atti-
tude to escape-aids held by command-
ing officers and first-lieutenants of the
old school. But now definite methods
of escape have been evolved and are
under constant review for possible
improvement.
The subject is heroic, but the booh
is written in the pleasant, matter-of-
fact way to be expected from an officer
of Shelford’s calibre. It gives full tech-
nical details of modern escape methods,
explained in layman’s language and
illustrated with well chosen photo-
graphs and clear black-and-white
diagrams (many of which are drawn
by the author).
R.G.
Rats in the Belfry
Cadwallader. Russell Lynes. Cape
17s.
This little book is presented as a
“diversion”: it concerns an assorted
society of talking rats who (mostly)
inhabit the home of Mr. A. Terrence
Cadwallader, a professor of English at
Columbia University who is, as it
opens, revising a manuscript on “Some
Aspects of the Literacy of Animals in
English Political and Social Satire: A
Study.”
In itself a graceful enough little
satire, “Cadwallader” lacks the bite of
“Archie and Mehitabel,” to which
masterpiece it owes almost nothing, but
it contains some of the charm of Mary
Norton’s marvellous fantasy for child-
ren, “The Borrowers,” to which it owes
so much that one cannot imagine it
would ever have existed but for Mary
Norton’s original inspiration.
The rats in “Cadwallader” take their
names either after the people whose
houses they inhabit or from places:
Cadwallader’s bride’s maiden name
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 624
Across
I—Any1—Any failure to catch the great Bradman gold-
digger? (9, 4) .
8— River of lava. (4)
9 He’d be a likely provider for 1-across. (5, 5)
14 — A soil broken down by this Frenchman. (5)
15 — It’s sweet, but not to be confused with 9-across. (8)
17 —Sound in the chorus. (4)
20—Buck a cry for a truce if playing
grain. (5, 6)
22—Tree. (3)
24 Fish underfoot. (4) '
25 — None like you ignorantly says
they’re stores for hops. (4, 6)
27 —A laureate study of a tee-
_ totaller? (6)
29 Ate with 5-down. (8)
30— Kicked to the editor. (4)
32—Bobby, what’s up with red-
heads. (10)
35 Bobb'y, what’s the arm in it. (4)
36 — A show which may not be staged
to adopt a familiar technique
in exciting amorous interest.
(4, 4,2, 3)
Down
1 — Stationery, but smashed pole
seven. (9)
2 An entertaining negress who has
almost everything in common
with 20-across. (5, 6)
3 Of so distressed a call. (3)
4 The French equal Jolson for
example at first. (4)
5 Asian tongue. (5)
6 Turf cad. (3)
7 Stuff Lindwall’s bowling. (5)
10— Place for a suicidal one to
interrupt a non-specialist. (3)
11— Quadruped fish-eggs. (3)
12— Crash discredited timber. (3) ”*•
13 — Bowing required by this
Cesario. (5)
16 —Duck parent possesses red-
skins. (6)
18— A string vote, (anagram) (11)
19— Hoop-la tension if too much for
this German literary man. (6)
21—Not the old-fashioned way of
speaking of Surrey’s home-
ground district in N.S.W. (6)
23 —Dracula or Bradman? (6, 3)
26 Latinised so on a Crete ver-
sion. (6)
27 — Peer at money. (5)
28— Negative alternative. (3)
29 — Yours Truly does an offshoot of
Esperanto. (3)
31 —Work with acid artistry. (4)
33 — Peevish may have this expectant
Dickensian. (3)
34 — 6-down with a good-for-nothing
blue. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 623


I*oo Kill'NT KK, lin.v •.'(>7l. (i.1'.0.. Sydney.
A service for renders. Thai difficult to
obtain volume. let us find it for you diction,
text hook, biography,, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print
bootks, Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.0., Sydney.
was Deborah Library, she having been
born in the library of Columbia Uni-
versity.
Deborah and Cadwallader are a pair
of committed intellectuals, avid
readers, searchers after Truth. Cad-
wallader's adventures here stem from
his perusal of Prescott’s “The Conquest
of Mexico,” which he fails to under-
stand because he cannot discover (even
from the Oxford Dictionary) what the
property of gold is that drives the
Spaniards round the world in its search
and leads to so much bloodshed. There-
fore. abetted by the beauteous Felicity
City, he sets out to explore the world of
banks and clubs in search of the mean-
ing of money.
This reader found Cadwallader’s dis-
coveries about the nature of money far
less amusing than a museum rat’s
explanations of art:—
You can make art out of any-
thing . . . out of marble or thread Dr
gold or paint or wood or glass or
anything but meat and cooked vege-
tables. Art is very hard to break or
lose, and it is most valuable when it
is very old or very new. Middle-
aged art is . usually less valuable.
Since art is very hard to break or
lose, some of the most valuable
pieces in the museum were statues
that got lost or broken or. even
better, both. A body without arms
was very valuable and a lost face
without a nose was still more valu-
able. Paintings that have been so
badly damaged that they have to be
repainted were highly prized . . .
Fine art was more valuable than
applied art because it often told
people things about themselves that
they didn't want to know, such as
how they really looked. Fine art
was a reminder of people’s failures,
which is why it was so much like
religion. It explained why people
spent as much on art as they did on
churches and then did their best to
avoid both. It also explained why
they revered dead artists but were so
often suspicious of live ones.
While on the subject of art. it should
be said that this book owes much to
its illustrator, N. M, Bodecker, who
has provided the most intricate and
beautifully drawn black - and - white
illustrations. Mrs. Cadwallader (the
human one) was a very lick-and-
p.romise housekeeper, and the drawings
of her cellar before and after the exter-
minator’s visit, whose remorseless
cleaning and tidying cost the rodent
Cadwalladers their nest, are perfect
supplements to the text.
Nancy Keesing
White Men and Brown
Naked We Are Born. Victor Carell.
Ure Smith. 225. 6d.
In collaboration with his wife Beth
Dean. Victor Carell produced two
books not long ago dealing with primi-
five races, “Dust for the Dancers”;
“Softly, Wild Drums.” In this new
collection of eight short stories located
in New Zealand, Australia and New
Guinea, he illustrates different aspects
of native life both before and after the
coming of the white man. The stories
are unequal in quality, but, despite the
variety of characters and environments
dealt with, they hang fairly well
together.
What Carell is concerned with is the
impact of white society on the culture
of simple folk. Yet if he is disturbed
by the destructive effect one has on the
other he does not idealise. His sympa-
thies are there, but they are not
romanticised. The natives murder and
cheat, they live precariously, die
violently. The aboriginal woman who
breaks a taboo is put to death: the
Maori princess who defies her father
sees her lover from another tribe killed
before her eyes. The best story is a
skilful piece of myth reading where a
young aboriginal is chosen by the elders
on behalf of the rain god to wrest the
spear from the sun and save the tribe
from drought.
What is common to the Maori, the
aboriginal and the Papuan is the sense
of belonging. Each is part of a tribe
within whose complex laws lie history
and security. Contact with the white
disturbs this framework, produces
youngsters who have forgotten the old
traditional skills and lost the joy in
playing. In the epilogue Carell cites
the example of Namatjira. who
attempted to bridge the gap between
cultures and became “something of a
lost pawn on the chessboard of modern
urban politics.” And there is the sad
comment one old aboriginal made to
Carell: —
“My people been better to live like
they always been before. It properly
bad when they go long to Alice
Springs. There they been losem
everything for soap and tobacco and
clothes. Then they been unhappy,
but it been too late. They been find
out how they been forget all things
that makem strong, that makem
properly man.”
This is an extreme view which finds
expression in only one story, that of
a white man’s marriage with an
aboriginal which ends in drunkenness
and misery. The contact may take other
forms: the patrol officer who cannot
comprehend the ways of his charges
gets caught up in native superstition
and loses his life; the Maori marries a
white girl and later dies on the battle-
field. In all these Carell is describing,
not advocating. What can one advo-
cate? As he suggests, some of the
questions are unanswerable.
Part of the difficulty here lies in the
people Carell is talking about. To
present them as convincing characters
in a changing society he has at some
point to get inside their heads. How do
they see their own world? This is
partly a matter of imagination, partly
of language. His efforts are not entirely
successful. The stories are interesting
and readable, but they do not compel
because the figures are stated in con-
ventional terms, in language that is
undistinguished and in places quite
melodramatic.
The book is attractively produced
with some decorations by Francis
Broadhurst, On the covers he has
really let himself go.
Douglas Terry
All Blacks in Africa
That trouble-making tour of South
Africa by the AH Blacks was barely
over when New Zealand writers,
cartoonists and photographers were
queueing up at publishing houses with
their MSS or pictures. Out of the many
accepted or rejected the earliest, most
readable and judicial is by Auckland
journalist Noel Holmes, who, with an
eye for a good heading, calls his book
Trek Out of Trouble.
In his modest foreword Holmes says
that his book, “written mostly in hotel
bedrooms,” is not exactly “deathless
prose.” It is better for its subject -it
rings true. His summary of the hot
spot of the Maori issue is masterly and
concludes with unblushing optimism:
“Provided nobody makes trouble, we
are going to look around us one of
these days and find there are no more
Maoris or Pakehas left—only New
Zealanders.”
The illustrations are of world’s press
quality and the production by Whit-
combe and Tombs in 'keeping.
Pat Lawlor
The Governess. Peggy Chambers,
Bod ley Head. 15s. 6d. A very gentle
tale. The author has obviously worked
painstakingly at recreating in close
detail the experiences of a young gentle-
woman obliged to be a governess in
London in the 1850's. Isabel Denison
finds some reward in the development
of her seven charges, but life is hard for
her. and it seems that Mrs Staveley. her
employer, is outrageously unapprecia-
tive of her labors.


:
■■ ■:■' : ■■ v\
mz
■m
. i
808 (BP PICK-A-BOX) DYER SAYS . . •
“when 1
you pick BP
you pick
the best!”
TRACTOR FUELS and
ENERGOL LUBRICANTS
used and proved all over the world
• BP PETROLS containing BENZOL • BP DIESOLEUM
• BP POWER KEROSINE • BP ENERGOL TRACTOR OIL UNIVERSAL
• A full range of BP ENERGOL oils • BP ENERGREASE
AVAILABLE FROM YOUR LOCAL BP AGENT
