

The Bulletin
May 10. 1861
and The Observer
THE 15-YEAR SWITCH
IN GOVERNOR-GENERALS
® e gistered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
Santamarla
on Dr Man nix
Martin Boyd
Expatriate
Denis Warner
on Laos


Architect approved . . . for the ‘low
look’ roof lines of today
ORB
STEEL SHEET ROOFING
i
-
mm
>*«
m*
ivJfiSC
-LffV
W^£:
jNi
S&*-
L-
In homes like the one above, the roof is the
key to the whole design. That is why the
architect specified today’s most decorative
modern roof deck Lysaght KLIP-LOK ! A
brilliant example of modern design, this new
steel deck is so simple, so functional, that its
use can cut roofing costs considerably.
Lysaght Corrugated and Lysaght Flat are equally
economical . . . equally versatile. Each has a
special place in the modern scheme of things.
Choose the Lysaght style that suits vour plan.
«
*****
just published . . . fascinating new guide to the
newest trends in the home design. Send for your
copy today! Fill in and post coupon below.
John Lysaght (Australia) Limited,
Port Line Building, 50 Young St., Sydney
Please send me, without cost or obligation, the
new Lysaght Portfolio of Low Cost Home Plan*.
NAME
ADDRESS
STATE
3 TYPES
TO CHOOSE
FROM
CORRUGATED: Lysaght Red
Orb Sheet, made especially
rigid for roofing purposes,
has almost endless applica-
tions in the building industry.
Available in all wanted widths
and lengths; also pre-painted
in aluminium where speedy
finishing is a factor.
FLAT: Essential for forming
guttering, downpipes, etc.;
also widely used for special
roofing purposes and effects.
*ICLIP-LOK! New smartly
ribbed, heavily galvanized
Steel Sheet with self-locking
shoulders for flat and near
flat roofing, and wall cladding.
In cost-saving unbroken
lengths to 50 ft.
* Patent No. 222046
m


socie ty
There’s some conceit or other likes him
well, When he doth bid good Morrow
with such a spirit. —Richard 111.
From These Prison Walls
As previously noted here, crime and
criminals in Melbourne get more like
the movies every year. The latest in-
stance, with overtones of a British farce,
occurred when a substantial section of
the wall around Pentridge Jail fell down.
It is four or five months since a prisoner
escaped from Pentridge. Escape has
been accomplished smoothly enough in
the past, so the reason for the hiatus in
the regular comings and goings must be
that none of the prisoners has had
sufficiently compelling business to warrant
the exertion.
So when the 200ft section of wall
crumbled and fell onto the roadway a
guard continued to keep an armed alert
about 100 yards away, and a police
telephonist who phoned the news of the
accident to the prison was greeted with
“Oh, yeah?” The Director-General of
Social Welfare, A. R. Whatmore, com-
mented that the inmates closest to the
collapse, convicts of 18 or 19, were in
bed but were not disturbed.
“Peasant!”
Animal Cracker
\ young man with a strange look in
his eye tells this story:
His fiancee met him the other day
with the news that she had been wakened
the night before by strange cries outside
her window and, looking out, had seen
a man driving six elephants along the
suburban roadway.
The young man had heard of circus
elephants being moved from one tent-
site to another in this way, but, scenting
fun, he chose to play dumb and kid the
girl about it —he pretended she was
having him on, asked what color the
elephants were, inquired about her health
generally, improvised a quick Freudian
analysis of elephant dreams, and so on.
At dinner with friends that night he
drew the others into the game, and they
kept it up so long that the girl got more
than a bit irked by it. So they dropped it.
That should have been that. But later,
as the pair were on their way to the
bus stop, a rabbit ran across the footpath
in front of them and disappeared into
someone’s garden. The girl’s hand
tightened on the young man’s arm: “Did
you see that?” The young man thought
quickly. “See what?” he asked inno-
cently, and renewed the dosage as for
elephants.
Their friends are now wondering
whether the engagement will recover
from the row that followed.
Doolittle Day
A/Tay 21 will be Liza Doolittle day in
Sydney. “My Fair Lady” will then
have completed a year’s run at Her
Majesty’s and seems set to go after Mel-
bourne’s time of 22 months. The second
“My Fair Lady” company is now in
Auckland and may fold in about three
months, but the Sydney company, with
return seasons, should have a life-span
of nearly four years.
“My Fair Lady” has already broken
all records for J.C.W.s (although seat
prices are considerably steeper than they
used to be). The long run is having some
effect on the Sydney cast, which hasn’t
changed since the opening—but as star
Robin Bailey says: “Consider the alterna-
tive ! ”
“One Day’s” First Week
T'he row Alan Seymour’s play “One
Day of the Year” might have been
expected to provoke among champions of
returned soldiers and Anzac Day hasn’t
come off. An almost perfunctory letter
to the “Sydney Morning Herald” de-
nounced the play’s attack on war, its
production, “The Doll,” and the dreary
suburban setting, and demanded a play
fit for heroes to live in.
It was answered by a young lady who
recapitulated Mr Seymour’s career,
upheld his play as a “thesis drama” and
considered that its conflict between
father and son was a more universal
situation than that of “The Doll.” Her
mention of the play’s reference to
Gallipoli as a defeat brought an
exquisitely soft answer from a veteran:
“I thought we boys did pretty good that
day. I have always credited my first
defeat in those years to Repat. in 1919.”
Last week the attendance see-sawed ;
on the fine Wednesday it was good ; on
the wet Thursday poor . . . Money in
general is fairly tight . . . And then
again the word may be slow in getting
around that the play is much better as a
comedy of Australian manners than as
a tragic shocker.
INDEX
Vol. 82
No. 4239
May 10, 1961
9 The 15-year Switch in
Governor-Generals 7
• Why lAm an Expatriate
(Martin Boyd) 12
Aboriginalities 28
Answers to Correspondents 59
Business, Robbery, etc. 50
Consumer-Observer 26
Letters 40
Look Back At Anger 14
Overseas 24
Personal 18
• The Politics of Arch-
bishop Mannix 15
9 Border Incident
(Short Story) 46
Plain English 6
Political Points 23
Red Page 10
Shows 35
Society 3
Sport 38
This Australia 19
Wild Cat Columns 54
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Ptv Ltd. Box 2521 G.PO. Sydney


The New Marxism
A correspondent who was too young
to have seen any of the Marx
Brothers’ films when they first came out
tells us that after seeing one of them
on television lately he was so delighted
that he joined a film society in the hope
of seeing more. The society eventually
showed “A Day at the Races” and our
correspondent was laughing his way
heartily through it when an older mem-
ber sitting in front of him turned round
and whispered: “Ssh! This is signifi-
cant!” Our correspondent is now wish-
ing that he had lived at a time when the
Marx Brothers were simply funny.
Grapeshot
For years the prototype of the wine
snob has been the James Thurber
character who holds up a glass and says
to his guests: “It’s a naive domestic
burgundy without any breeding. But I
think you’ll be amused by its presump-
tion.” Now it is time, at any rate in
Australia, for this figure to be replaced
by a man holding out a kitchen glass
full of tarry-looking stuff and saying:
“It’s a common table red I buy at a
little Italian place near the markets. Only
3s. 6a. a bottle, but it's as good as any-
thing you’ll get for Bs. 6d , don’t you
reckon?” Of course it is as full of sedi-
ment as grandmother’s home-made cough
mixture, it burns all the way down, it
leaves a taste of vinegar ; but you are
a snob if you don’t go for it. Your host,
of course, is not a snob. In fact, he hates
wine snobs. He might even quote Thur-
ber on them.
The same Thurber, however, in one
of his fables has provided a comment
which fits the inverted snob as well as
the reformed drinker it was written
about: “You might as well fall flat on
your face as lean over too far back-
ward.”
Transparent Solution
An American magazine shows a chair
in the fashionable calla-lily shape,
but made entirely of transparent plastic.
This, says the advertisement, is the solu-
tion for cluttered rooms.
Surely this hasn’t been taken far
enough? Can’t we have transparent con-
versation pieces for conversational
pauses? Can't we have transparent rooms
and transparent houses for married
couples who can see through each other?
The Russ Affair
JOTow long will it be before “First
Fleeters”—descendants of those who
arrived with Governor Phillip—manage
to work up the same sort of snobbery
about their status as America's Pilgrim
Fathers have? Lately, there has been
quite a controversy in the Sydney papers
about the arrival last Saturday of Edward
Adams, a great-great-great-nephew of
James Ruse, the first man to teceive a
land grant in the Colony. Several direct
descendants of Ruse wrote, saying they
did not understand why the immigration
Department was making such a fuss of
Adams, when nobody bothered about
them. But then, the new arrival is a
Pilgrim Nephew, and whereas there was
nothing so remarkable in the great-great-
great-uncle's visiting Australia with a
troop of soldiers to make sure he arrived,
the nephew has come out of his own free
will.
That was Society
There has been a remarkable improve-
ment in the condition of Melbourne
toughs during the last twelve months or
so. Anybody who goes about at scraps in
small halls, at pony races and at two-up
schools cannot fail to notice that the
hangers-on have a well-fed and well-
tended appearance that was foreign to
them a year or so ago. The half-pint
pugilists from the pushes, the gadabouts
at the training rooms, and all the riff-
raff who can do a bit of belting are out
of their rags and grime and wearing good
store clothes and umbrellas (strange is
the third-class pug’s affection for an um-
brella) , and looking as if in the full en-
joyment of four meals a day and fre-
quent beer. I ascribe the material re-
formation to the success of the two-up
schools, and the many and various gamb-
ling clubs, societies and associations. All
these have need of lads who can do a
turn of battering in an hour of need,
and the toughs are in constant employ-
ment. I know three amiables of the class
who are drawing retainers from one city
“school”. — “Bulletin”, May 10, 1906.
There was a great time in a Melbourne
suburb the other day when a local shop-
keeper took the hint from a recent bio-
graph picture and inserted an inch ad.
for a wife in the morning papers. By
eight o’clock the applicants started arriv-
ing, and as he took each one into his
room to examine her as to her qualific-
ations, there was soon a block. By ten,
he had put through about half-a-dozen,
and there were still 20 waiting. Mean-
while the crowd had got wind of what
was going on, and a couple of hundred
onlookers gathered round the shop and
criticised the applicants audibly. Then
the police arrived, and just in time, for
the applicants had suited to criticise each
other.
There was every probability of a free
fight, when the much-sought came out
and announced that he was suited. Eight-
een ladies at once rose to the occasion,
laughed contemptuously in the face ot
the bride-elect, and marched off saying
that the bridegroom was no gentleman,
and if they’d only seen him properly they
wouldn’t have bothered waiting. Most of
the applicants were past their first youth
and were not lovely, but they included a
couple of attractive, little, fringed sub-
urban girls of 16 or so and a staid widow
of 50. The bride was a bright-looking, in-
telligent girl, and the choice of the ad-
vertiser showed that he kept his senses
about him to the end.
— “Bulletin”, February 1, 1906.
Another health scandal in Sydney: Of
305 dwellings inspected by the Central
Board of Health in a Redfern area, 177
were unfit for human habitation! There
is not the slightest hope of keeping
Sydney reasonably clean until we have
a Greater Sydney Government. Sanitary
inspections by the paid servants of the
dirty little suburban councils is in one
respect a farce; in another it is a tragedy.
— “Bulletin”, July 30, 1903.
FOR THE BIRDS
“An attractive young girl was sabotaging
the Sydney City Council’s efforts to rid the
Town Hall of pigeons, throwing seed near the
hall and in the aldermen’s car-parking area,
said Aldeiman W, Slowgrove.”
When their girls’ pet sparrows died
Skelton and Catullus cried,
These are other days and regions:
Girls who feed the Sydney pigeons
In those Town Hall areas
Parking aldermanic cars,
Young, perhaps, perhaps attractive,
Are inimically active.
“What! Shall pigeons strut and pout,
Head on one side, chest puffed out,
A±nd be welcome thus to amble
Where the city elders ramble,
And to fly like temper high,
Spitting m a critic’s eye ?
“Revert, revert, the time is ripe,
Stenographic Miss, to type;
Leave the pigeons and the sparrows
To themselves, to push their barrows—
In which circumstances (ahem\)
We may be of use to them
With a licence and a beat
On some less important street !”
SWILLIAM


“I put it to you ... do We ‘maintain a speed-up self-government pro-Western
policy, become joint sponsors of an Indo-Asian disengagement zone pact
pending tentative negotiations with the great Powers to declare a non-nuclear
region; appoint a select committee to form a Soviet-Sino technical trade
alliance of non-aggression hands off whites, intra-zonal mutual co-existence
treaty ’ ... or don't We?"


PLAIN ENGLISH
Melbourne University:
The Central Issues
T et us try to be reasonable about it.
It is now three weeks since The
Bulletin published its first article
about the activities of a Communist-
led faction in Melbourne University.
Since then not one person has written
one letter to The Bulletin denying
one fact in that article. The friends
and sympathisers of those concerned
have privately pedalled some Mc-
Carthy-like smears that are as irrele-
vant as they are disgusting, and diver-
sions of other kinds have been
attempted. But no one has been
prepared to debate the central issues.
All that has happened is that the
husband of one of those staff members
concerned has sent members of the
University Council and of the Pro-
fessorial Board a memorandum of 11
foolscap pages. This memorandum is
oddly irrelevant to the main issues ; it
leads discussion up dozens of false
trails, but does not attempt to challenge
in detail anything written in The
Bulletin. What it does do is to warn
all parties that a lot of dirty linen
might be washed in a public in-
quiry. thereby perhaps intimidating
innocent people ; it suggests that in-
stead of a public inquiry there should
be a private attempt at “conciliation”
in which all parties could come out
with a statement denouncing The
Bulletin ! All in all, the document
gave more than one hint of despera-
tion.
The Bulletin articles were written
as part of a continuing discussion on
the possible role of Communists in
universities. Facts had been asked
for ; we finally gave some of those
available. This seems to have silenced
some of those who were most active
in discussion. To bring the discussion
up to date, here is a list of some of
the questions that seem to be relevant.
Perhaps someone would care to answer
them. They include some new
material.
1. Was a warning given to the Uni-
versity administration early in 1958
that Mr Geoffrey Sharp, a Communist
member of the Social Studies Depart-
ment, was to form a Communist “frac-
tion” in the University? As soon as
Mr Sharp was told in May, 1958, that
he would be acting director of the
department did he begin to engage ;n
factional politics in the department?
Did his faction attempt almost at once
to intimidate the head of the depart-
ment, and a staff member she trusted?
2. When the director went on leave
and Mr Sharp took over, did he in-
timidate a lecturer into resigning from
a committee associated with a politic-
ally conservative organisation? Did
he bully her in several interviews with
a political commissar’s interrogation
tactics, even attempting to prevent her
going to a Chancellor’s tea party?
3. Did he demand that staff mem-
bers should not communicate with the
head of the department? Did he
attempt to make majority decisions
appear unanimous in the minutes of
staff meetings?
4. Did he, while the director was
away, try to revolutionise the running
of her department, attempting to re-
place normal departmental procedures
with a kind of “collective”? When the
Chairman of the Social Studies Board
spoke up for the absent director, did
he—by threatening resignation and a
public inquiry—attempt to bully both
the chairman and the director into
submission?
5. Did he, in the directors’ absence,
appoint four young, inexperienced re-
search assistants and extend research
commitments beyond the means of
carrying them out?
6. On his return, did he refuse to
discuss his research activities with her,
so that she was forced to tell the Vice
Chancellor that she could not accept
responsibility for them?
7. Was one of these research pro-
jects so improperly conducted that the
hospital concerned refused to let Mr
Sharp’s interviewers (who included two
Communists) into the hospital and
would not allow its name to be used
in the report? Was the report ulti-
mately suppressed, although it cost
£2000?
8. Did he virtually take over Mrs
Cynthia Turner of the Criminology
Department, while the director was
abroad, finally producing a situation
in which both the director of the
Social Studies Department and the
director of the Criminology Depart-
ment had barely any control over her
lecturing or research?
9. Did he in 1952 engage on what
was supposed to be a one-year project
on delinquency which is not yet
finished, although money was supplied
for it annually? Did he in 1956
retire to Prague (where he lied about
conditions in Australia) to think about
this project. Did this apparently end-
less project bring him into contact
with police files, courts and prisons?
10. Was he a notorious Communist
even before he joined the Social Studies
Department? Was his M.A. thesis (on
“Class and Consciousness”) such a
crude Stalinist tract that it was at first
failed, although partly incorporated in
a two-volume Psychology Department
publication?
Co far this discussion has been con-
fined to the investigation of one
particular case at Melbourne Univer-
sity. There is no suggestion that that
institution should be impugned as a
whole. It is realised that university
administrations are loath to discipline
anyone these days for fear of cries of
victimisation ; it is also realised that
in this kind of situation there is often
a complex web of personal considera-
tions that sometimes cuts across the
central issues; that prudence some-
times attempts to achieve compromises
to avoid public scandal ; that there is
sometimes even a fear of intimidatory
counter-charges. But finally the good
name of an institution can be marred
by prudent hesitancy ; issues unavoid-
ably become wider to the detriment of
the institution. Already those close to
this case are asking:
1. Why was Professor Ruth Hoban
not allowed to have full control over
her department? Why, for almost
two years, has a hostile faction been
allowed to defy her departmental
authority? Why has public money
been wasted in unfulfilled research
projects? Why have non-academic
standover tactics been allowed to
triumph over academic integrity and
ordinary decency?
2. Did a Good Offices Committee
appointed to inquire into these scan-
dals find against the Sharp group?
If this is so, what happened then?
3. Did the University call in the
police when it was discovered that con-
fidential documents were taken from
a locked file in the office of the secre-
tary to the Chairman of the Board of
Social Studies? Or when the office of
the Chairman of the Good Offices
Committee was burgled as soon as the
committee’s hearings were concluded?
Or when a letter concerning one of the
principals was removed from the files
of the Department of Criminology
and Social Studies? Or when the study
of the Chairman of Social Studies was
twice disturbed? Or when the studies
of the director, the acting assistant
director, and the field-work adminis-
trator of the Social Studies Department
were entered and documents dis-
arranged?
By OBSERVER


The 15-year
Switch in
Governor-Generals
GLOUCESTER
Isolated
SLIM
Impish
The function, ceremony and cost of Governor-Generals
have changed radically since the war.
By ALAN REID
There is nowadays an air of rigid formality about Yarra-
lumla, the Governor-General's Canberra residence.
Sir William Slim was said to have taken a mis-
chievous delight in forcing protocol on the too easy-
going Australians, and some Canberra residents now claim
that since his regime began the formalities have been even
more strictly observed at Yarralumla than at Buckingham
Palace.
A night at Yarralumla goes something like this. First
you get your invitation to dinner. If you are a high-ranking
politician you get one frequently ; if you are a leading public
servant or chief of the armed services, fairly regularly ; if a
lesser bureaucratic light, occasionally ; if a plain Mr or Mrs,
only once in a while—but these are becoming a distinct race
in a Canberra where those who are not knights are either
admirals, generals or doctors of philosophy.
If you are a woman a mysterious voice comes on the
phone soon after you have received your invitation warning
you that long white gloves and a long frock are de rigueur, and
that you must arrive not a second later than 7.15.
You arrive. You are ushered into the beautifully high-
ceilinged and expansive drawing-room. You are handed a
drink. You hold it briefly. It is then snatched from your
hand. You are arranged in a semicircle facing the door.
On the stroke of 7.30 the Governor-General and his Lady
enter. The female guests sink to the floor in a curtsy. The
men bow from the waist. The Vice-Regal pair go round the
circle —which has been arranged in strict order of precedence
with people like the Prime Minister and Ambassadors at the
top and those without official positions at the bottom —shaking
hands. Another drink is served. This one you get time to
swallow. An aide-de-camp gives you the nod. His Excellency
(or her Excellency) wants words with you. You have the words
—pleasant words if they are with someone like the Slims or
the Dunrossils, all excellent conversationalists. The drinks are
whisked away.
You file into the dining-room, a long, charming room
that despite its size has a sense of intimacy. The candles are
glowing on the dark, finely appointed table. The ladies
unsheath their hands from their long white gloves without
taking them off (an interesting operation to watch if the gloves
are tight). The food is good, the wine—almost invariably
Australian— excellent, the service unobtrusively efficient, the
conversation usually stimulating. (The guests generally include
those who have travelled widely, participated in great events,
and on occasions have helped to make history.)
The dinner concludes.. The toast of the Queen is drunk
(in port). Everyone stands. The ladies prepare to go out
"nth her Excellency. (At this point the Dunrossils introduced
one curtsy more than the Slims extracted.) Two by two in
strict order of precedence the ladies withdraw, pausing at the
door to sweep a further curtsy to his Excellency. They disap-
pear. The men turn to cigars, old brandy, and conversation.
Later, they rejoin the ladies. Again the aides-de-camp flutter
from group to group, indicating whose turn it is to have words
w *th either of their Excellencies.
The evening finishes early and at a fixed time. At 10.15
you may be in the middle of a screamingly funny anecdote
to her Excellency. You become aware that one of the aides
is fixing you with a glassy and fishlike eye. Something is
wrong. You halt in mid-flight. Before you realise what has
happened you have been efficiently herded into the same semi-
circle in which you started the evening. Their Excellencies
go round again shaking hands. As they depart, the women
drop their third curtsy of the night (fourth if it was the
Dunrossils). The evening is over.
The Qualifications
'"Though a Governor-General is appointed by the Queen and
± is her representative in Australia, the Queen appoints him
on the recommendation of the Government of the day. When
the Prime Minister “goes shopping” for a Governor-General
he probably looks for these qualities: firstly, a man who can
carry the office with dignity ; secondly, a man of integrity with
a background of public service, administrative experience and
knowledge of and respect for Constitutional procedures (some-
times, however, this can be a nuisance ; Sir Isaac Isaacs used
to refuse flatly to appprove regulations for the Scullin Labor
Government on whose recommendation the King had appointed
him if he thought them loosely or sloppily worded. Himself
an eminent jurist who went to Yarralumla from the High
Court Bench, he kept sending them back until they were worded
to his satisfaction); thirdly, a man who has sufficient modesty
not to think it beneath his dignity to play the role of “squire”
to the Canberra community ; fourthly, a man of tact with
sufficient sophistication and political nous to know what politics
are and how to keep out of them.
Lack of tact (as well as failure to be properly briefed)
cost one British aristocrat the job when the late J. A. Lyons,
then Prime Minister, was “shopping around” for a Governor-
General in prewar Britain.
Lyons spent a weekend with the Englishman, who really
turned it on for the Australian. Lyons and his party were
met at the train with a brake to carry the luggage while a
big limousine transported them. The quarters were impressive,
the dinner sumptuous. Over cigars and excellent old brandy
the Prime Minister and his aristocratic host settled down for
a heart-to-heart talk.
Things were going swimmingly when the host asked
suddenly: “Many Roman Catholics in Australia, Lyons?”
Himself a Roman Catholic and the father of a numerous
family, Lyons described the achievements of his co-religionists
in Australia. “We have proportionately one of the largest
Roman Catholic populations in any of the English-speaking
countries,” Lyons concluded proudly. The noble lord shook
his head mournfully. “Watch ’em, Lyons,” he advised. “They
breed like rabbits.” That particular gentleman’s name does
not figure in the list of Australia’s 16 Governor-Generals.
As well as being the Commander-in-Chief of Australia’s
Armed Forces, the Governor-General is also the titular
head of the Commonwealth Public Service. He is entitled to
call upon any Commonwealth department for advice and


information. He takes neither advice nor instructions from
the British Government. He reports regularly to the Queen
whose personal representative he is, and he is also in almost
daily contact with the British Secretary of State for Com-
monwealth Relations, but this is only to maintain a liaison and
as a channel for the exchange of information.
If he wants advice on, for instance, a constitutional matter
he gets it from the Commonwealth Attorney-General through
the Prime Minister. In the rare circumstance when the
Attorney-General, because of his political interest in a matter
which is under the Governor-General’s review is not the
appropriate authority, he sends for the Commonwealth
Solicitor-General, who is a permanent public servant and, as
such, obliged by the nature of his office to be detached from
politics.
This constitutional aspect of the Governor-General’s
functions is undoubtedly his most important. He is like a
domestic watchdog, not needed while everything is all right
and Governments are observing the law. It is when things
are not right and Governments are not observing the law —in
this case the Constitution —that he would be called upon to
fill an active instead of a guardian’s role.
For example, he is given the responsibility for calling
the Parliament together. He does so on the Government’s
advice as to when and where. But there are points on which
the makers of the Constitution, fearing the development of
a tyrannical Government, permitted no discretion. A Parlia-
ment must be summoned to meet not later than 30 days after
the day appointed for the return of writs after any general
election. Parliament must meet once at least every year so
that 12 months shall not intervene between the last sitting
of the Parliament in one session and its first sitting in the
next session.
The New System
CPhe postwar years seem to have changed the character of the
Governor-Generalship. Before the war it always seemed
rather remote from both the Australian people and the
Canberra community. Lord Gowrie, who was Governor-
General from 1936 to 1945, seemed to feel unhappily isolated
from the world by the dignity of his position. Like a lonely
man he used to seize every opportunity to gossip with the
barbers and tradespeople who visited Government House.
Under the next regime that of H.R.H. the Duke of
Gloucester, Australia’s only G.-G. of blood royal, who was
G.-G. from 1945 until early 1947 —the Schreiber incident
may have shocked the Government into a revision of the
former isolationist policy. Brigadier Derek Schreiber was the
Duke’s Chief of Staff. He was a tall, lean Englishman who
while in Australia married Lady Clive, one of the Duchess
of Gloucester’s ladies-in-waiting.
Some bright brain decided soon after Gloucester took
up residence at Yarralumla that the Vice-regal curtain,
already down, should be drawn tighter. It was decided that
the domestic staff, most of whom had come with the Duke
and his staff rom England, should be discouraged from
mixing with the villagers (that is, with the people of Canberra).
They were not to be provided with transport to the village
(Canberra). If they insisted upon going, they were to proceed
over the five miles either on foot or at their own exoense —a
GLOUCESTER
The Shreiber Incident shocked the Government
McKELL
Above politics
DUNROSSIL
An extra curtsy
rather galling situation when empty cars were constantly
flashing between Yarralumla and the “village.”
No doubt some of the Australian workmen at Yarralumla,
who had watched former staffs get lifts into town when a
car was conveniently empty, acted as agents provocateurs.
Their attitudes undoubtedly fed the discontent, which came
to a head when Schreiber’s valet took a job as barman at the
Kingston Hotel for the reason so appealing to Australian
sentiment—“the pay's better.'’ Somebody claiming to speak
on behalf of Government House approached the manager
of the Kingston and warned him against giving the man
employment. The local Trades and Labor Council heard
about it, and it was on for young and old.
The Trades and Labor Council declared Schreiber “black,”
and Bert Gardiner, a very well-known Australian Workers’
Union personality in Canberra who had a gift for highly
picturesque invective, ensured Schreiber a place for days on
the front page of the world’s press including Colonel
McCormack’s anti-British “Chicago Tribune”—by describing
him as “a popinjay in pink pants.” (Schreiber belonged to a
fashionable regiment and wore a particularly colorful and
tight-fitting uniform.)
The incident did not do Government House much good.
I have always suspected that it influenced Ben Chifley soon
after into steering his own private secretary, Murray Tyrrell,
a permanent public servant, into the job of Official Secretary
to the Governor-General —a job that Tyrrell still holds.
'T'yrrell had risen from the public-service ranks. As a
-*• messenger on Air Minister Fairbairn's staff he would
have been in the air crash that ended the lives of Fairbairn,
Army Minister Geoff Street, Information Minister Sir Henry
Gullett and others at Canberra in 1940 if a man senior to
him had not taken his seat in the plane at the last moment.
Though non - political, Tyrrell had been associated with
politicians and politics for years. He had served both Labor
and non-Labor Ministers. He is earthy and has the invaluable
knack of being able to scent trouble long before it looms over
the horizon.
There have been no incidents since his appointment—on
the administrative level. But when Chifley recommended to
the King the appointment of Sir William McKell as Governor-
General and the King approved the recommendation, the storm
shifted right to the top level.
Sir William (then Mr) McKell was the Labor Premier
of N.S.W. His crumpled features and his facial twitch testified
to his performances as an amateur boxer in his early years, but
he had slugged his way upward through the Labor movement
probably more fiercely than ever he had swung a punch in the
boxing ring. As Premier of a Labor State he had fought
with practically every non-Labor personality in Australia and
with many Labor ones as well. Though he had been Premier
for years, he lived in Redfern, one of Sydney’s least pretentious
working-class districts, and had displayed no ambition to live
elsewhere.
Mr Menzies, and others almost as prominent, turned
handsprings. The appointment was disgraceful—purely politi-
cal. It was an unheard-of thing for a man to be shifted
overnight from being Premier of a State to the Governor-
Generalship. The Governor-General should be above politics.


COWRIE
Lonely
DE L'ISLE
The right type
How could Mr McKell, so recently involved in them, forget
his politics overnight? He was unsuitable. The appointment
was impossible.
Menzies. who has a strong sense of the fitness of things,
discontinued his attacks when McKell formally took over as
the Sovereign's representative in Australia. But the late Archie
Cameron kept going, and for years refused to have any
associations with McKell except the purely official ones forced
on him by his office when he became Speaker of the House
of Representatives.
If the attacks hurt McKell and his amour-propre, he gave
no sign. He acquired a dignity that was impressive. He
carried cut his official duties with poise and in a way that
made no Australian feel apologetic on his behalf. Men who
dislike him as a person, but who are in a position to judge,
have told me that they would place him among the “great”
Governor-Generals.
A highly experienced and practical administrator who as
State Premier had to know not only the policy but also the
detailed management of every State department, he insisted
upon being kept informed about what was going on within
the Commonwealth of which he was the titular head. He kept
himself informed as thoroughly as when he was Premier. He
made the Government’s task of dealing with distinguished
visitors from overseas to whom he acted as host at Yarralumia
much easier. He knew in detail the answers to their questions
and how best to frame those answers to serve Australia's
inteiests.
He set the pattern for future Governor-Generals by
travelling the Commonwealth tirelessly—bringing to the people
a conception of the office and its duties. He indulged his
national hobbies, which indeed all modern Governor-Generals
have been prone to do. As a Premier he was obsessed with
development and water conservation. As a Governor-General
—whose words are always listened to respectfully and who
does not have to say where the money to finance his pet
projects is to come from —he pushed them hard.
The Double Dissolution
TJut life at Yarralumia was no bed of roses for McKeil.
Midway through his first term —there is no fixed term
as such, but a kind of unwritten agreement that the appoint-
ment is for five years at least—the Chifley Government which
had appointed him was defeated at the polls. In came the
Menzies Government with the most bitter critics of his appoint-
ment within its ranks.
To Menzies’s credit he never showed by as much as a
flicker of an eyebrow that he had any suspicion of the man
whose appointment he had bitterly opposed. During the time
McKell had been Governor-General he had conducted himself
as a Governor-General, not as the party hack Menzies had
originally predicted he would be. Menzies was big enough
to revise his opinion. On the official level, Menzies treated
McKell with the deference that his high office demanded and
insisted that his followers should behave similarly; on the
personal level, a quite strong friendship developed between
the two men. Only Cameron—strong-willed, imperious and
stubborn —and a few irreconcilables refused to accept the
Prime Minister’s lead on this matter and maintained a guerrilla
campaign against McKell and Yarralumia while McKell was
its occupant.
But personal problems were not McKell's only worry,
n 1951 he became the second Governor-General of Australia
to grant a double dissolution. (Sir Ronald Munro Ferguson
in 1914 was the other.)
A double dissolution did not suit Labor in 1951. Though
Menzies was firmly entrenched in the House of Representa-
tives, Labor had a majority in the Senate and could thwart
the Government whenever it liked. It engaged in Parliamentary
processes designed to avoid creating a Parliamentary situation
in which McKell would have to grant Menzies’s double
dissolution without question.
Because of these manoeuvres, Chifley, probably advised
by Dr Evatt (then Attorney-General), claimed that the con-
ditions for a double dissolution had not been fulfilled and that
McKell would refuse one.
But McKell gave one. In retrospect it is easy to see why.
As a Parliamentarian, he had always insisted that a Governor’s
powers were limited and that he could reject the Government’s
advice only under extreme circumstances. The Government’s
advice was by no means extreme—merely a matter of inter-
pretation of a quite complex section of the Constitution.
He took the advice. He was satisfied it was correct, Menzies
went on to win a majority in both the Senate and the House
of Representatives.
/“Official milestones were not the only ones passed in this
1940-51 period. The Governor-Generalship had a domestic
crisis. Though better now than it was during this period, the
job is not nearly as lucrative as it looks on paper. The Con-
stitution which came into operation in 1901 set the Governor-
General's salary at £IO,OOO a year, and it has not since been
increased. It is tax-free, but right up to the war years the
Governor-General had to maintain Yarralumia, his official
residence, and pay other expenses from his salary.
Yarralumia is very different from the station homestead
that the Commonwealth took over in 1912 from the Campbell
family, descendants of “Merchant” Robert Campbell who
arrived in Sydney from Calcutta in 1798 and who established
the family in Canberra when he received a grant of 4000
acres at Duntroon in 1825 in compensation for the loss of
his ship Sydney (it had been commandeered by the Govern-
ment and wrecked on a trip to Calcutta to get supplies for
the starving colony.)
Then merely a large country house, it has since been added
to, until today it is a huge mansion with large, lofty, imposing
reception-rooms and well-appointed suites and bedrooms for
visiting royalty and V.I.Ps. it must cost a mint to maintain
and to staff, but there are no official figures. They appear in an
unidentifiable form somewhere in the estimates for the Prime
Minister's Department. The maintenance used to be handled
by the Treasury but after a bitter, well-hushed-up row
(apparently during the Slims' regime) over the Treasury’s
“parsimonious” approach, it was transferred.
A prewar Governor-General had relatively few official
visitors. He could maintain a comparatively small staff. He
had only intermittent claims upon his purse. He could
probably get by. But modern developments and air travel
have changed that. Guests have flocked in on him from all
over the globe. Visitors included Royalty. V.I.Ps. (like General
Nasution of Indonesia) had to be given accommodation, looked
SLIM
He added touches of his own


...
■ I
■
.■■.•• V-.'-
■
11 s
lH^llii;
f".- ;
; i ■:- <
Hi
wm
mmm
1 . wm
: /■'
:c r
mm
mmsww
V
*■■■•>•:.
Reflecting the vigour,
enterprise and
enthusiasm of a growing
nation.
A great
Australian enterprise
TH£
NATIONAL Ml/Tl/AL
CiAE ASSOC/AT/ON OA A/AS/A LTD.
(Inc. in Vic.)
HEAD OFFICE: 395 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE. PHONE 62-6541
SYDNEY: 350 GEORGE STREET. PHONE BL 1271
BRISBANE: 293 QUEEN STREET. PHONE 31-1711
ADELAIDE: 91 KING WILLIAM STREET. PHONE LA 2091
PERTH: 81 ST. GEORGE S TERRACE. PHONE 23-1341
HOBART: 119 MACQUARIE STREET. PHONE 2-2851
after and entertained. Dinners official ones became
numerous and enormous.
The position was reached in which if the Governor-
General had to maintain his establishment at Yarralumla only
a wealthy man who was prepared to devote a large proportion
of his private income to his job could afford to take the job.
So the Government took over an increasing share of the cost
of maintaining the Governor-General’s establishment. Nowa-
days he foots only a small proportion of his official costs and
though his personal expenses —uniforms, family’s dressing,
inescapable private entertainment, contributions and the like
—continue to be heavy, the Government hopes that with some
frugality he need not leave Australia poorer than he arrived.
The Government helped in other ways. Admiralty House,
the Governor-General’s official residence in Sydney, is a
charge on the Government. In the other States the Governor-
General stays with the State Governors. He travels free
wherever he goes. He uses an R.A.A.F. aircraft for V.I.Ps.
when he flies. Government House gets liquor and cigarettes
tax-free. The Commonwealth provides the Vice-Regal cars
and pays for their upkeep.
This was the situation when Sir William Slim took over
from Sir William McKell in 1953, and Lady Slim became
the Chatelaine at Yarralumla. Slim was as impressive a
Governor-General as Australia has had, at least, in modern
years. With a ramrod back and aggressive, jutting chin, he
was at once a soldier and a thinker. He believed that his
role was to give Australia leadership—the non-political leader-
ship that only a man detached from politics could give.
A beautifully lucid speaker with a fine turn of phrase, he
seldom made a speech that did not contain some provoking
and challenging thought. He believed in speaking his mind
bluntly though tactfully (except when early in his Governor-
Generalship he flew into the R.S.L. most untaetfully—a
mistake that he was too shrewd to repeat).
nPo a considerable extent, Slim followed the McKeil pattern.
-*• He kept himself thoroughly informed on every phase of
Commonwealth development. V.I.Ps. at Yarralumla did not
have to get their information on Australia secondhand from
officials —Slim had it mostly at his fingertips. Like McKell
he travelled the Commonwealth and set developmental targets
at which the nation could shoot. But as well as continuing
McKell’s policies he added touches of his own.
The word impish may seem an incongruous one to
associate with the stern-faced, beetle-browed and unflaggingly
dignified Slim, but 1 always felt he was rather impish in his
humor. It came out in his anecdotes and occasionally in his
behavior. He used to tell one story about sitting on a knoll
in wartime Asia with U.S. General Joe “Vinegar” Stillwell,
watching their armies stream past “in a state of disorderly
confusion.” for which (said Slim), “we were mutually respon-
sible.” Stillwell, who disliked the British, suddenly leaned
across and said: “General. lam rapidly being persuaded that
the Americans and the British had at least one ancestor in
common.” “And who would that be?” .Slim asked, politely.
“Ethelred the Unready,” said Stillwell.
Slim often indulged in this type of humor. I heard him
once tell a luncheon gathering at Yarralumla: “I am a very
vain man,” and gaze round, poker-faced, at the startled
expressions of his guests positive that they had misheard.
But despite the firm ceremonial Slim introduced there is
very little snobbishness about Yarralumla today. When the
Queen visited Australia, Slim personally “vetted” the guest
list for her Yarralumla Garden Party and would not accept
a guest list restricted to “blue bloods.” A full and true
cross-section of the community had to be represented, and
it was. You met there —and still meet at such functions—
ordinary people who do a lot for the community but whose
efforts on the community's behalf are seldom recognised.
This now seems to have become part of Yarralumla's fixed
policy.
On his record—a former member of the House of Com-
mons and Secretary for Air in the British Government —
Australia’s new Governor-General, Viscount De L’lsle, has
the right type of background and experience. It will be
interesting to see whether he makes as good a fist of the job
as his three postwar predecessors—McKell, Slim and Dunrossil.


A Modern Child’s Alphabet
BY DAVID SWAIN
O is for Students - the bit) increase calls
for emergency measures with ceilings and walls.
Tis for TV : it could be a boon
I
- if classes were run like a Western saloon.
U is for Upper House: it isn't mil run
but it could be of use, so it’s better them me.
\J is for Voting : it's so democratic -
if you choose to ignore it, a fine's automatic
\J\J s for Wool - if synthetics increase,
let's breed merinos with terykne fleece
is for X~Ray_- it shorn up those blobs
that executives yet in res/wnsible jobs.


Why I Am An
Expatriate
MARTIN BOYD
The Grand Tour in a perambulator
Martin Boyd here begins a series of articles by Australian
writers explaining why they prefer to live abroad.
By MARTIN BOYD
It is due more to accident than deliberate intention that
lam an expatriate, and Ido not really like being one. My
aim has always been to find a cosy region where I belong,
and where 1 can live with possibly smug self-sufficiency
among a few sympathetic friends. Until I was twenty-one I
would have liked it to be Yarra Glen, my home during my
schooldays.
But there were certain influences against this. For three
or four years before my birth my parents had lived in a
country house in Wiltshire, where my brother Penleigh was
born and from where he took his name. I was born in Switzer-
land ; so 1 am not even sure that in relation to Australia I
can be called an expatriate. In Rome, where I am now, I am
closer to my actual birthplace than in any other place where
I have lived.
In my youth it was a source of resentment to me that
I had only done the Grand Tour in a perambulator. I could
say that I had been to various great European cities, but wear-
ing napkins and sucking a baby's bottle. I wanted to remedy
this by doing it again with perceptions beyond warmth and
milk. At school the focus of all our education was Europe.
1 read English history, English poetry, and was taught Latin,
French and Greek. 1 wanted to see all the places which were
the scene of the events and emotions which provided the
substance of my reading, and of which my parents often spoke
—“olive-silvery Sirmio” and the Tennysonian lawns of which
they had such recent experience. Of course this education
need not have conditioned me to become a European any
more than any other Australian boy who attended a Church
of England school with a cathedral canon for headmaster —
our own G. Merrick Long, a man of splendid character and
wide sympathies to whom I am ever grateful. He certainly
did not want to Europeanise us, but it may have been due
to his imaginative power that the poets we read engraved their
imagery on my brain.
Also I had during my adolescence one or two vivid, almost
mystical, recognitions of other modes of life, one when I first
heard plainsong, which seemed to do something to my blood ;
another when some fragments of antique sculpture gave me
a passionate longing for the sunlit naked freedom of the
Greeks. My temperament as well as my early years made
me more allergic than my schoolfellows to these things. I
once said to my father:
“Why can’t we go and live in Italy, where they have those
marvellous blue skies?”
He replied, standing in a paddock at Yarra Glen: “You
won’t find a better climate than this anywhere in the world.”
But such aberrations were few. I normally thought of
myself as an Australian, and did not want to live anywhere else.
I wanted to go to Europe, but only to see the material evidence
of history and the haunts of the poets, and to come back within
a year.
When the 1914 war broke out, I was sent to get a com-
mission in the English Army, as my parents thought I could
oppose German militarism more comfortably that way than
as an Australian private. I spent four years entirely in the
company of English people, and became used to the English
“way-of-life,” at its most civilised in the mellow houses where
I spent my leave
Even so, when I returned to Australia I expected some
more superlative paradise which the unscrupulous propaganda
of the Government had promised to the surviving soldier. But
my only prospect was four more years of those examinations
which had burdened my life since the age of seven, and I could
not face them. My having been in the English Army put
a sort of film between me and my Australian friends. I was
idle and bored and after 18 months I returned to England,
exploiting still further the endless kindness and generosity of
my parents.
In three years I had a ghastly novel published, mercifully
under a pseudonym. It is terrible to think what the “Angry
Young Men” will feel when in their seventies they sit glaring
at their own names on their lust-in-the-scullery novels, then
inevitably superseded, possibly by a revived obsession with
love and flowers which is as endemic in human nature as a
tendency to squalor. I wanted to return to Australia, but
would not go until I was really successful ; so I stayed in
England. That is how 1 became an expatriate. I shall now
try to discover why 1 remain one.
At last, in 1947, I was really successful and 1 immediately
prepared to return to Australia. I brought out all my lares
et penates, eighteenth-century furniture and family portraits.
I acquired from my cousin the house built by my grand-
father, now nearly 100 years ago in the hills north of Berwick,
and thought vaguely that I was doing something of “cultural”
value by re-creating the atmosphere of an English country
house in the Australian bush. After all, this was what the
first settlers tried to do, as is evident from Hardy Wilson’s
drawings. I intended to stay there for good.
But I had little co-operation, either from those who might
have more, immediately benefited from what I was doing, or
from neighbors who might have been friends. These found
all their entertainment in Melbourne, and spent the weekend
sleeping it off in their country houses, indignant if anyone
came near them.
When I left England I said: “I am going to Australia to
lead a Mediterranean life. It provides everything necessary,
wine, sunlight and a warm sea.” But somehow the strong
bourgeois ethos of Melbourne inhibits this, and the material


conditions were for me powerless to overcome it. Perhaps
I knew the wrong people, the “Toorakites” with their social
obsessions, which are not mine ; though I have often been
accused of snobbishness by reviewers. In fact, my absolute
inability to treat anyone, duke or dustman, with regard to
anything but their human attraction for myself has been one
of my greatest handicaps in life ; and I believe that wealth
should only be held by those with good taste or a strong sense
of human responsibility. My other contacts were with young
artists and quasi-intellectuals, completely ignorant of Euro-
pean conditions, but hero-worshipping Stalin, who would have
liquidated the lot as “bourgeois romanticists.”
However, 1 enjoyed these three years as it was all lively.
Immediately I landed from the ship in 1948 I was struck by
the vivid life in the young Australian faces, after the underfed,
war-weary Europeans I had left. But at the end of that time
I wanted to see my friends in England, and I left for what was
intended to be a year's visit. 1 arrived in Cambridge in the
middle of “The Festival of Britain.” There were historic
scenes acted in John s gardens, massed choirs singing Bach in
King's Chapel, madrigals sung on the twilight river. All this,
combined with my reunion with friends, was something I
could not find in Melbourne —not at any rate in the same
setting.
From Cambridge I went to the South of France to bathe,
to sample the real Mediterranean life, dining on balconies
above the port with its blue fishing-boats, drinking the local
wine, floating in the warm sea. Why was this different and
to me more satisfying than Port Phillip Bay?
Was it because of the old buildings of the little town,
their faded pink walls, their green shutters and their pantiles?
Or because of the sunlit, wine-drinking, uninhibited lives of
the people, given a greater depth of color by their age-long
Catholic paganism? Young Englishmen or Australians when
they lead this kind of life are sweating the Puritanism out of
their systems. They are in a state of repudiation. The
Provencal has no Puritanism in his blood. He is in a state
of acceptance. Arabs, when they make coffee, leave the old
grounds in the pot, so that the aroma of past brews enriches
the new one. 1 think it is this aroma of the past which catches
Australians who come to Europe and stay longer than a few
months, especially as it is that of the countries where the basic
apprehensions of their race have grown through the centuries.
In the autumn of 1951 I was seriously ill, and, on recover-
ing, did not feel fit to return to the rather strenuous business
of running my Australian property with scarce labor, and I
have not been back since. This is still more how I became,
than why I am, an expatriate. I shall try to end with wider
considerations. As I stand as it were in the middle of the
Anglo-Australian see-saw 1 hope no one will be offended. The
following seem to me the disadvantages of living in Australia.
The most obvious is the distance from other countries.
For those who enjoy the aroma of past brews, to know that
in a few hours and at little cost one can be in Paris or Rome
or a hundred smaller, less-known but more beautiful places
is a constant satisfaction ; and for everyone MT makes a holiday
a complete change.
A disadvantage to the returning expatriate is that he is apt
to be received with suspicion. A Cornishman had a tame
seagull. After a time he grew careless of clipping its wings.
It flew away and rejoined its fellows who immediately killed
it. The returning expatriate is a bit of an escaped seagull. If
a certain type, only a small percentage but noticeable, think
one’s voice or manner is “English,” they immediately try to
put one down a dozen pegs. 1 have no objection to being
called “mate” or “chum” by a porter or a post-office clerk
as the intention is obviously friendly, but I do not like being
called “Jack" by someone half my age whom I have never
seen before. Four or five times during my last three years
in Australia I experienced this kind of insolence, which was
solely due to my aura of tame seagull. But this is a trivial
irritation one should be able to swallow.
It is more uncomfortable when stupid rudeness is shown
to visiting strangers. An English earl was at some reception in
Canberra. Another guest pushed up his waistcoat and said:
“Show us your belt, earl." This loutish idiocy was reported
as brilliant wit in a Melbourne paper. Don Salvador de
Madariaga, arriving in Australia, made a broadcast in which
he praised our good wines. A leading newspaper published
a letter the next day saying we did not want foreigners coming
here teaching our people to drink. It is the provincialism
more than the rudeness that is embarrassing. Incidentally, here
in Italy, where wine is the universal beverage and there are no
closing hours, I have never seen anyone drunk except an
English gentlewoman.
Tn my experience, Australians have far better manners than
A English people. Only the unpleasant Australian is rude,
but too often a middle-class English person, on being introduced
to an Australian, will make an implication slighting to his
country. All the same the proportion of agreeable and
unpleasant people is the same everywhere. The London bus
conductresses call one “lovey,” and at my age 1 should consider
this fortunate, except when, as often happens, they say it in
a tone of vicious impatience. So all this is no reason against
living in Australia.
Perhaps for me there is one real disadvantage, apart from
the distance. It is that though temperamentally 1 have more
affinity with the Australian than the Englishman, and feel this
strongly when I meet them here in Rome, my habit of mind
is more English ; that is, it can view the events of the last
30 years with more detachment and more first-hand experience.
Australians seem to me to accept too naively the noble
natures and high intelligence of English politicians, whose
blunders have butchered two generations of their young men.
They do not question the semi-divine wisdom of those who
have poured out their blood, tears and sweat, and ended up
with the Russians in Western Europe. They glory far too
much in excessive military occasions, towards which die English
preserve a ’slight cynicism.
' v A last word on “culture.” Those English people whom
I have mentioned are apt to say to us with a thin, superior
smile: “1 suppose you live over here because there is no
culture in Australia.” There may not be so much desiccated
culture dribbling out of the wireless from intellectual delin-
quents as there is in England, but 1 should think that there is
far more living creative culture. Australia has produced an
amazing number of fine painters in her short history, and will
doubtless become one of the great artistic nations. It is in
the same climate that the greatest art of Europe was born, in
Greece and Italy. In England today painting is turning into
carpentry and the London literary world is an Augean stables
—the latest London play is set in a public lavatory. Atnresent
the only culture worth coming to Europe for is the
past. It is to be hoped that the young Australian writers and
painters are not going to allow this degeneracy, the stink of
the decayed lilies of France, to infect their new, clean and vital
country.
Having written this, I may be asked: “Well, why don't
you return?” The reason is probably that it is too late to
change again, and I have to be satisfied with the eucalyptus
tree in the convent garden below my window.


LOOK BACK AT ANGER : Ashton on Governor-Generals
From THE BULLETIN, February 14, 1891.
A BURST OF AUSTRALIAN LOYALTY
GOVERNOR HOPETOUN (received at Croajingolongatarrayoukyan by an enthusiastic deputation consisting
of the principal boy of the district ): “Thank you, kind friends, I will telegraph this glad event to Her Majesty.”


The Politics of
Archbishop Mannix
By B. A. SANTAMARIA
Dr Mannix
Dr Mannix was already 71 years of age when I first met
him. I was then 20. The year was 1935 and my first
interview was arranged in order to seek the Arch-
bishop’s permission to establish a monthly newspaper
to be known as the “Catholic Worker.” This was in the
immediate aftermath of the depression. There was still,a high
level of unemployment in industrial suburbs like Brunswick,
in which 1 lived. Together with a few colleagues 1
believed that Catholics should strike a blow for the cause of
social justice. The proposal to establish the “Catholic Worker”
was the result.
I was accompanied on this interview by Val Adami, a
fellow-member of the Campion Society, a body composed
almost entirely of Catholic graduates and undergraduates of
Melbourne University.
Since I was a very junior and unimportant member of a
body which included highly qualified graduates, 1 was over-
awed by the occasion and needed the moral support of my
companion. The most we expected was a 15-minute inter-
view and probably some salutary advice on the futility of
trying to establish a paper on a capital of £15 —which was all
we had.
The course which the interview took puzzled me greatly
at the time and continued to puzzle me for many years. Today
it appears symbolic of Dr Mannix's whole attitude to many
of the questions which have been fiercely debated in the last
ten years.
The interview took place in the Archbishop's study at St
Patrick’s. The tall, lithe figure, which I had seen only in
press photographs, rose to greet us. The face was alert but
friendly ; the eyes intelligent and searching, making evasions
or indecision equally useless. His mouth was firm, but its
line was broken frequently by a humor which was as quiet as
it was unfailing. His air was courteous and completely
relaxed. The dominant impression was of that serenity which
is achieved only by those who have lived a long time ; who
have sensed the irony to be found in so many human actions ;
who have engaged themselves completely in great causes, but
retained that total detachment from the world and its events
which was Christ's injunction to His disciples.
When I mentioned my request, the Archbishop did not
express surprise. Neither did he discuss it. Instead, we talked
about all of the great issues of the day—the aftermath of the
depression, the war in Abyssinia, the significance of Hitler and
Nazism, the tragic events in Spain and, finally, the progress
then being made by the Campion Society in establishing itself
not only in Victoria but in other States. At the end of almost
two hours Dr Mannix rose, said that he was pleased to have
found the opportunity of discussing so many interesting topics
with us and held out his hand.
All my hopes were dashed. He thought our request so
puerile that he had not even bothered to refuse it! Without
much hope, I tried again:
“Your Grace, would you like more time to consider
whether you will give us permission to begin the ‘Catholic
Worker’?”
“I don’t need any more time. Nor do you need permis-
sion from me. If you think that you should begin such a
paper, you have every right to do so.”
This was more disconcerting than helpful. 1 was not then
aware of the existence of a principle which was to emerge so
graphically many years later —that the Church expected laymen
to show initiative and independence.
“But what is Your Grace's advice? Do you think that we
should try?”
"Of course you should try. The working people are still
enduring great hardships and they need friends who will stand
by them. If Christians don't try to mould public opinion, their
enemies will. The Pope wants laymen to do just what you are
proposing. 1 will give you all the help I can.”
This was more than we had hoped for. But now a sense
of responsibility supervened.
"‘Your Grace realises that we will make many mistakes?”
"1 am not afraid of mistakes. I am not the first to say
The man who makes no mistakes, makes nothing.’ So long as
you have courage and use common sense in what you do, I
will help you.”
We had a final question:
“Will Your Grace appoint an official censor?”
“Yours is to be an independent paper. It has no need
of an ecclesiastical censor, and I have no intention of imposing
one on you. If you yourselves feel that you need help when
matters of faith arise, the chaplains of the Campion Society
will help you. But I repeat that that is a matter for
yourselves.”
I have reported the actual conversation which took place
in 1935. reconstructed from notes which I kept at the time,
because the Archbishop’s basic attitudes emerged very clearly
—a be! ef that Christians must seek consciously to mould the
public life of the community ; that public issues are very often
clear issues ot right and wrong ; that Christian citizens, even—
and perhaps particularly—Bishops, have the duty to stand by
what they believe to be right ; that laymen have their own
duties and responsibilities. All of these beliefs were to be put
to the test 20 years later when the controversy concerning the
“Movement” was at its height. In the middle of 1955, when
the bitterness associated with the A.L.P. “split” had reached
its climax, I looked back to this first interview and discovered
a complete consistency between the Archbishop’s words in
1935 —when he was already 71 years old—and the policies for
which he stood, quite inflexibly, 20 years later when he was
over ninety years of age.
'T'he Daniel Mannix of 1935 was to the young men of my
generation the legendary figure who had led the struggle
against the conscription proposals put forward by the redoubt-
able “Billy” Hughes—and won. His place in Australian
history was guaranteed by the successful outcome of that
struggle. He became a world —as distinct from a purely
Australian —figure when the British Government forbade him
to land in Ireland in 1921, and sent a destroyer to intercept
the S.S. Baltic, on which the Archbishop was travelling to
Ireland, to take him into custody and to disembark him in
England. The characteristic Mannix sang-froid was never more
in evidence than on that occasion. “Not since the Battle of
Jutland,” he said, “has the British Navy scored a success
comparable with the capture of the Archbishop of Melbourne
without the loss of a single British sailor.”


The Archbishop’s participation in two public campaigns
of unrivalled bitterness —the conscription issue and the Irish
issue—created the sedulously-fostered public image of the
“turbulent priest” who was ready to pick a fight at the drop
of a hat and who was more at home in the rough-and-tumble
of politics than in the more restful and dignified pastures of
ecclesiastical leadership. I can only say that this picture is
not consistent with the Daniel Mannix of my own experience
over the last quarter of a century.
That experience is rather of a man who will readily state
his mind on public issues of every kind from “White Australia’
to six-o’clock closing, but who is nevertheless extremely
cautious, to the point of reluctance, to intervene in an issue
once it has become directly political.
Perhaps a relatively recent example will illustrate this
facet of his character. The Archbishop’s statement on the eve
of the 1958 Federal election was widely criticised at the time
as an example of his too-great readiness to intervene in directly
political issues. It was criticised as an unwarranted interven-
tion in the elections, and both Dr Evatt and Mr Calwell
attributed their party’s defeat to it. But it was in fact issued
only after prolonged hesitation and after the A.L.P. had
dragged the religious issue into the elections.
Two Sundays before the election (i.e., on November 9) a
number of persons known locally as members of the Com-
munist party and the Eureka Youth League, together with Left-
wing A.L.P. stalwarts, took up unaccustomed positions outside
a number of suburban Catholic churches —as well as the
historic Church of St Francis in the city—and distributed a
large number of leaflets printed in blue type. The leaflets were
addressed to Melbourne Catholics. What they said was simple
and straightforward. Cardinal Gilroy had stated that Catholics
were perfectly free to vote for the A.L.P. This was the correct
theological position Melbourne Catholics were therefore com-
pletely free to disregard the criticisms of the A.L.P.’s pro-
Communist policy made over a period by their own Archbishop.
This was a purely political preference and had nothing to do
with the morals.
Archbishop Mannix was well aware of the circulation of
these pamphlets in different parts of his own diocese. As
Archbishop of Melbourne, he would have been completely
within his rights in pointing out that he himself was the only
person responsible for giving advice on matters of conscience
to his own flock. He felt, however, that more harm than good
would be done in drawing public attention to a difference of
opinion and that Melbourne Catholics would not be over-
impressed by the importance of these leaflets once they con-
sidered their source.
The Archbishop’s attitude changed only on Thursday,
November 20, two days before the election. It was changed
by the A L.P. itself. On that day, the A.L.P.’s full-page
advertisements addressed specifically to Catholics appeared in
practically every daily paper in the capital cities. They were
authorised by the A.L.P. in each State. They must have cost
at least £IO,OOO in advertising space—so their importance to
the A.L.P. was manifest.
The advertisements, however, went to the heart of the
matter. The A.L.P. made its appeal to Catholic voters not on
political grounds but on grounds of conscience. It did not
limit itself to the advice already given—in effect, that Dr
Mannix’s fears concerning the pro-Communist orientation of
the A.L.P. could be ignored in the light of Cardinal Gilroy’s
statement that Catholics were free to vote for any party other
than the Communist party.
The A.L.P. now went further and said (in headlines):
“EVERY D.L.P. VOTER
SHOULD
EXAMINE HIS CONSCIENCE
on the question of his NO. (2) VOTE.”
The A.L.P. was no longer on the defensive. The Car-
dinal’s statement concerning freedom of conscience was now
being used, not to keep the issue of a vote for the A.L.P. as
an open question, but to make a vote against the A.L.P. an
issue of conscience because of the A.L.P.'s professed “family”
policy.
This nation-wide campaign of full-page advertisements was
vastly different both in extent and in content from the previous
campaign of leaflets. The Sydney “Daily Telegraph” obviously
realised this. Its editorial on November 19 was entitled: “Dr
Evatt plays religion.” The same issue reported an interview
Inilexible Liberal ...
With the Victorian Chief Justice, Sir Edmund Herring
with Cardinal Gilroy. “Cardinal Gilroy said last night that
he will take no action to prevent use of his name in A.L.P.
election advertisements. He said that although he deplored
the use of his name for political purposes, he would not request
withdrawal of the advertisement from the newspapers.”
It was only on the next day (Thursday) that the Arch-
bishop determined to issue his statement, which appeared in
the morning press of Friday, November 21—the day before the
election. The Archbishop began: “Amid the turmoil of the
election, one thing seems clear. Every Communist and every
Communist sympathiser in Australia wants a victory for the
Evatt party. That is alarming It should be a significant
warning for every Catholic and for every decent Australian.
“Hitherto, I have not deemed it necessary to sound a
note of warning. The Communists have long been falsely
suggesting that Cardinal Gilroy stands for comparatively
neutral benevolence. Ot course, the Cardinal ignored their
malevolent use of his name. But now that the Evatt party,
forgetting all about sectarianism, is trying to shelter under his
name in nation-wide advertisements and in pamphlets distri-
buted outside Catholic Churches to congregations on Sundays,
I deem it timely to recall the official attitude of the Cardinal
and all the Catholic Bishops ol Australia.
“Writing at a time when the menace of Communism was
not as press.ng as it is now, and writing, not in the presence
and heat of election time, but in the calm, restrained atmos-
phere of a national Pastoral Letter, the Cardinal wrote, and
all the Bishops signed, the following words: ‘At the moment
there is one outstanding issue for the nation and the Church.
It is the immediate Communist threat to the security of the
people and to the freedom ot religion in Australia.’
“The Cardinal, with the Bishops, went on almost propheti-
cally to say: ‘lt is very regrettable that highly-placed public
men, including some Catholics, seem to have closed their eyes
to the great issues involved in the present upheaval. They do
not appear to realise that they are forwarding the interests of
Communism.’
“It seems to me timely to recall these calm and weighty
words. It is needless to add that the Democratic Labor Party
—Protestants and Catholics alike —at heroic cost to themselves,
have stood —and stand —consistently for the principles espoused
in that Pastoral Letter Can the same be said of others?”
As a deeply interested bystander, 1 was struck throughout
by the Archbishop's obvious desire to keep out of the con-
troversy, although it was his own spiritual authority over his
own flock which was being directly attacked. His attitude
throughout was one of extreme reluctance.
The message to which Dr Evatt attributed his own defeat
was so completely lacking in pre-arrangement that it was
personally handwritten, not even on notepaper, but on the back
of a newspaper wrapper which had enclosed an American
liturgical magazine called “Worship”!
This experience, in which the Archbishop's attitude was
completely consistent with that evinced by him on every other
similar occasion of which I had personal knowledge, led me to
re-examine the historical records associated with the con-
scription controversy. Nothing in these documents has altered
my opinion that Dr Mannix had no intention of inaugurating
a nation-wide controversy or of leading a political campaign


Reluctant Politician ...
With a former Apostolic Delegate, Archbishop Marelia
on this issue and that, in fact, he was himself astonished at the
turmoil which developed around his name.
The Archbishop regarded military conscription as a
fatal disease of the national State. “The present war could
not have assumed such disastrous proportions,” he said, “it
could never have been stained with such horrors, if con-
scription had not prevailed in Europe.” Characteristically,
although he disapproved of the Hughes proposal, Dr Mannix
made no statement on the question until an Anglican Arch-
bishop had already urged a “Yes” vote from the pulpit of St
Paul’s. The fact that the Anglican Archbishop should take
this stand in the pulpit was not regarded by Hughes as an
unwarranted ecclesiastical intervention in politics. But when
Dr Mannix himself expressed the opposite viewpoint, the
reactions were immediate and devastating. With wry humor,
Dr Mannix pointed to the contradiction: “I was foolish
enough to think that when Protestant Archbishops and Bishops
had spoken on one side of the present controversy, I might
be allowed to speak on the other. What they had done in a
pulpit, I thought that a Catholic Archbishop might do in a
paddock. But I was mistaken.”
The violent anti-Mannix outbursts which passed for
public opinion prior to the referenda were part of a carefully
calculated political campaign. 1 am indebted to no less a
historian than Dr Evatt for a clarification of the real reason
for the bitterness of the controversy—not the desire of Arch-
bishop Mannix to play a political role, but the carefully
formulated strategy of Hughes to attempt to win the referen-
dum by mobilising anti-Catholic feeling.
In his “Australian Labor Leader” (3rd Edition, p. 410),
Evatt quotes Holman to establish this point. Holman wrote:
“Mr Hughes made his light definitely an anti-Mannix fight, as a
matter of tactics. Mannix, said he, is against the British Empire. Very
well, then, we are against Mannix. At one time it looked as if the
whole organisation of the campaign was very much less concerned with
the defeat of the Hun than with that of a turbulent Catholic prelate.
This was a mistake.”
This particular chapter in Evatt's work has always fasci-
nated me. It goes far to establish the point that the violence
of the Conscription issue arose not out of any “politicking”
by the Archbishop, but out of Hughes’ clearly defined tactical
manoeuvre to win the referendum by diverting public attention
from the conscription proposals themselves to the Irish origins
of the Archbishop. It is interesting to note that Evatt does
not agree with Holman’s assessment that this was a tactical
blunder on the part of Hughes and that the “tactics of
sectarianism” (Evatt, p. 410) did not pay. Evatt obviously
mclines to the opposite viewpoint.
The whole career of Archbishop Mannix bears witness to
his profound belief that there are clear issues of truth
a nd falsity, right and wrong, even in politics; and that
consecration as a Bishop increases rather than diminishes
Personal responsibility to support the right and oppose the
r °ng. Although separated by 40 years in point of time and
by 10,000 miles in point of distance, Dr Mannix’s support of
me Irish national cause in 1916 and of the Industrial Groups
a 'id the “Movement” in 1954 alike derive from that same
standard.
It is notable that Monsignor Mannix, while he was Presi-
dent of Maynooth from 1903-13, played no public role in
the popular agitation for Irish freedom. Some of his critics
have contrasted his commitment to the Irish cause once in
Australia with his silence, when he was still in Ireland, anc
have attempted to establish a charge of inconsistency. There
is, of course, no inconsistency at all. In Ireland Monsignor
Mannix was the president of a great seminary and his
appointed function was strictly educational. Once in Australia
he was an Archbishop, with all of the responsibilities of leader-
ship which that position involved.
Nevertheless, even at Maynooth, he showed his preferences
in a way at once amusing and diplomatic. In 1903, Edward
VII, on a visit to Dublin, expressed a wish to visit Maynooth
The President of the College was ill, and so it was the Vice-
President, Monsignor Mannix, who received the officia
announcement of the Royal visit.
The Archbishop of Dublin gave instructions that the King
should be treated with due ceremony. Monsignor Mannix,
however, was able to make the visit of the English King less
irritating to Irish feelings. Without discourtesy, he managed
to avoid flying the L T nion Jack over Maynooth. An acceptable
substitute—and one which delighted Edward VII —was to
decorate the suite reserved for the visit with the King’s racing
colors, and photographs of his racehorses.
if ☆ ft
As soon as a Bishop discharges the responsibility of leader-
ship on public issues, the nature of the attacks to which
he will be subjected is completely predictable. His enemies
will automatically accuse him of bringing religion into politics
and politics into religion. He will be accused of prostituting
his exalted office, of confusing and scandalising his people.
All of these condemnations have been attached to the name
of Archbishop Mannix practically from the moment he landed
in Australia in 1913.
A simple consideration suffices to evaluate this particular
criticism. If Dr Mannix had come out publicly in favor of
the Conscription proposal in 1917, w'ould Hughes have attacked
him for mixing religion and politics? If he had condemned
the violence of the Easter Rising in 1916, would he have
faced the same condemnation? If, in 1955, he had publicly
urged that the expelled members of the A.L.P. should accept
the destruction of the Industrial Groups as a decision which
could not be revised, would Dr Evatt’s attitude to the Arch-
bishop have been the same? The answer, in each case, is
fairly obvious. Yet each of these attitudes would have been
no less "political” than their opposites, which the Archbishop
actually espoused. A good deal of hard experience has taught
Dr Mannix one lesson —that the politician does not really
object to Bishops “interfering” in politics, so long as they
“interfere” on the politician’s side.
The essential liberalism of the Archbishop’s attitude
resides in his practical recognition of the fact that the right
of a Bishop to speak on a public issue involves as a corollary
the right of a member of his own flock to oppose him. A
very telling example is the Archbishop’s attitude to the
“Catholic Worker,” which has publicly and repeatedly attacked
his attitude to Industrial Groups. Dr Mannix’s dis-
agreement with the paper’s policy is, of course, widely known,
and in the great majority of Melbourne parishes the paper is
no longer sold at the Church door. But the Archbishop has
quite deliberately refused to place any ban upon it, and it
was until recently—and probably still is—sold at some churches
where the parish priest agrees with its policy. Similarly,
the Archbishop must be aware of the fact that a few of his
priests—one or two filling quite important positions in the
Archdiocese —do not support his policy in relation to the
National Civic Council and its activities. Not one of them
can assert that the Archbishop has ever directly or indirectly
tried to change his opinions or that his position has been in
any way jeopardised because of his viewpoint.
This inflexible liberalism is at once the most surprising
and the most adamant quality in his character.
It was typical of the realism of the Archbishop that on
the question whether there was an issue of conscience involved
in a vote for the A.L.P. he appreciated the position of those
Catholics who, despite the overwhelming evidence of collabora-
tion between the A.L.P. and the Communists in certain States,
nevertheless could not bring themselves to believe that such
collaboration was real. It was typical of his liberalism that
he made allowance for the conscientious position of those not
in bad faith


PERSONAL
SOME OF THE PEOPLE
As a tribute to Prime Minister
Menzies’s “great contribution to the
cause of university education,” the new
wing of St John’s College at Sydney
University will be named after him. The
rector of the college, the Very Rev. Dr
John Burnheim, said the Prime Minister
would open the wing on Sunday and
Cardinal Gilroy will bless the building at
the opening.
In Melbourne, the general-manager of
Penguin Books in Australia, J. S. Heap,
said that it would be a month before a
decision was made about contesting the
Federal Government’s ban on “Lady
Chatterley’s Lover.” The Anglican
Primate, Archbishop Gough, sent to the
N.S.W. Youth Advisory Committee a
pamphlet advertising obscene publica-
tions available in Sydney. Chairman
Adrian Curlewis described the pamph-
let as “frankly incredible,” and added
that he had heard of its circulation
among women in maternity hospitals.
Centre of a storm, Dr E. H. Hipsley,
of the Commonwealth Health Depart-
ment, who issued the booklet “Eat Better
for Less,” declared: “Man’s feeding
instincts are poorly developed. It is
quite wrong to assume that man can
instinctively choose a good diet.”
A passenger from Noumea to Sydney,
Paul Duflow, arrived with a genuine
shrunken human head. This upset the
Customs men, who impounded the head
until Duflow left. It was later flown to
Perth, where Duflow collected it.
Mr and Mrs Ron Stubbings, who
were married at Mt Isa during the week,
drove 350 miles to their wedding recep-
tion at Burketown in the Gulf country.
They had to be married at Mt Isa because
there is no clergyman at Burketown.
A 20,000 - mile motoring tour is
planned by Australian writer Nancy
Cato and her husband, Eldred Norman.
They will leave in the Patris with a
specially equipped station-wagon. They
hope to visit Greece, Italy, France,
Switzerland, Poland and then go across
Russia into China.
Former Labor Senator William
Morrow’s £50,000 Lenin Peace Prize
was reported to be worth nearer £5OOO.
Then Treasurer Holt suggested that, at
any rate, it may have to be spent within
the Soviet Union.
Warning by Dr Robert Speirs,
honorary anaesthetist at Sydney Hospital:
An average of two people a week die
under anaesthetic in N.S.W. “The more
one comes to know of the circumstances
surrounding these deaths, the less pos-
sible it becomes to regard them as
inevitable,” he said.
Bosun Esmond Knowles was swept off
the freighter Lake Eyre, battling in
heavy weather off the southern N.S.W.
coast. Sighted after spending more than
an hour in the rough seas, he was rescued
by third-officer Joel Hart, who dived
overboard to his help.
Brisbane’s dean, the Very Rev. W. P.
Baddeley, discovered when he was pre-
sented to the Queen in Rome that she
knew all about his visits to racecourses.
The dean attended the reception given
by the Australian Ambassador H.
McClure Smith, although, as an
Englishman, he could have gone to the
reception at the British Embassy.
Arrested in Brisbane, Zdanek Kempny
and John Mohr appeared in court in
Melbourne to answer a charge of
absconding from bail. They promptly
asked for bail, which was refused after
an hour’s discussion between magistrate
and lawyers.
In Sydney, an appeal against the re-
fusal of damages was lost because the
claim had been entered a day too late.
Charles John Prowse must have been
disappointed when told that a man be-
comes 21 at the first moment of the day
before his 21st birthday.
Visiting American violinist Isaac
Stern told an A.B.C. audience that Aus-
tralia was fortunate in having a Govern-
ment that took a direct interest in the
cultural development of the country.
By contrast, he said, the U.S. did not
directly support the arts in any way.
Miss Isabel Masters, who has been
headmistress of Canberra Church of
England Girls’ Grammar School for 15
years, will next year become headmistress
of Ascham, Sydney.
On Saturday a white stone shrine was
unveiled in the jungle of New Britain,
It was a memorial to Golpak,
paramount ruler of 4000 Mengen people,
who died in February, 1959, after having
served with the Australian Administra-
tion for 40 years.
Visiting: The British High Commis-
sioner to Canada, Sir Saville Garner.
Garner will take over the post of head
of the Commonwealth Relations Office
in London early next year. He was last
here in 1937.
English actress Stella Moray, here
to appear in “The Most Happy Fella,”
which opens at the Princess Theatre,
Melbourne, on June 9, was a professional
cross-country runner before she became
an actress.
Elisabetta, the youngest of the Faella
quads, died after an operation at the
Royal Children's Hospital, Melbourne.
Minister for Defence Athol Townley
gave the calming assurance that Com-
munist China would take five to ten
years to develop a nuclear weapon ; the
next day Sydney Stock Exchange chair-
man A. H Urquhart told a Legacy
luncheon meeting that “the shape of
Australia in 1970 is most appealing.”
William Raymond Moffitt pleaded
guilty in Sydney’s Central Criminal
Court last week to having stolen £53,416
7s. from Universal Guarantee Corpora-
tion by making out fictitious hire-
purchase agreements. But this neat
acquisition was put in the shade when
Henry David Wilson was named the
defendant in a writ, issued on behalf of
the Standard Insurance Company, which
claimed damages to the tune of £2
million.
• •
Into the Silence: —
In Canberra, at 88, the Rev. Dr A. J.
Waldock, from 1941-44 President-General of
the Baptist Union of Australia.
In Melbourne, at 69, Lieutenant-General
Edward Kenneth Smart, winner of the D.S.O.
and M.C. in World War I. During World War
II he was Australia’s military adviser to the
Pacific War Council in Washington, and was
then appointed Consul-General in San Fran-
cisco. From 1950 to his retirement in 1954
he was Consul-General in New York.
In Melbourne, at 88, Major-General Sir Julius
Bruche, former Chief of the Australian General
Staff. A distinguished veteran of World War 1,
Bruche became, after his retirement in 1935,
well known for his social and charitable work.
In Brisbane, at 67, Henry William Marchant,
Brisbane businessman and sportsman.


This Australia
RADIO
Sydney’s Radio
University
J. P. BAXTER
2 UV
FROM A SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT
When the first automatic typesetting
machines were introduced some
compositors took to them with axes.
Although some lecturers at the Uni-
versity of New South Wales have similar
fears of redundancy, it is doubtful
whether they will resort to the same
tactics when Radio 2UV goes into full
swing this month.
Operating on 1750 kilocycles. “Radio
University” is something new in Aus-
tralian university education. Although
nominally under the control of the head
of the University of N.S.W., Professor
Baxter, 2UV is the brain-child of
Associate Professor Derek Broadbent,
who is full-time Co-ordinator of Post-
graduate and Extension Studies..
The new radio station, situated at
Kensington University and broadcasting
initially within a radius of 20 miles, has
courses operating under two headings:
“Graduate Studies” and “Extension
Studies.” With Graduate Studies the
university plans to assist graduates unable
to attend the university by giving radio
lectures on engineering, control systems,
science and problems related to guided
missiles. Extension Studies is aimed at the
“intelligent layman,” and will cover such
subjects as drama, the history of Sydney,
architecture and, in general, most of the
subjects which are now catered for by
adult education institutes.
Thrift has been the keynote running
through the short history of Radio 2UV.
The present temporary station is in the
Chemical Engineering building, and, to
date, it has cost only £lOOO to get under
way. F 'oadbent managed to pick up a
war surpius radio transmitter for nothing,
and so far money has only been spent on
“allied equipment.” But £20,000 will have
to be found from university funds before
early 1962 to pay for new premises on
the top floor of the new Medical School
now being built. Broadbent is confident
that the £20,000 will be repaid “under five
years” from profits.
Costs of each course will range from
£3-£5 and lecturers will be paid roughly
ten guineas for each lecture. Lecturers
will not be drawn solely from the N.S.W.
University nor, for that matter, from
university circles only. “Outside experts”
will also be used, for example the well-
known British art critic John Steegman,
who is coming to Sydney later this year
to study Sydney’s Georgian architecture.
Radio 2UV will ask him to record a
series of lectures before he returns to
Britain.
Most radios cannot tune into a station
broadcasting on 1750 kilocycles, but
those who have even a slight knowledge
of radio will be able to adjust their sets
to the necessary frequency at a cost of
about ss. Failing that, a radio man will
do it for £2, or receivers can be hired by
arrangement with the university for
£1 10s. per course. Those people who do
not enrol with the university will not
make much sense of the lectures as it
will be necessary to have sets of lecture
notes to cover the course.
The advent of Radio University threw
the P.M.G. into a panic. The final letter
from the N.S.W. University negotiating
for a licence was received by the P.M.G.
in July, 1960. Precedent was missing in
this case and Radio University enthusi-
asts champed on the bit until the final
O.K. was given in February this year.
The graduate studies first series is “An
Introduction to Feedback Control Sys-
tems” given by the scheme’s originator,
Professor Broadbent, broadcast at 7.30
p.m. each Thursday. And the first
extension studies series is “Theatre and
Drama,” given by Robert Quentin,
broadcast at 7.30 p.m. every Wednesday.
When 2UV moves from its temporary
headquarters in the chemical engineering
building to more suitable premises the
broadcasting range and scope of the
courses will grow.
MIGRANTS
Italians Out
of Work
FROM A STAFF CORRESPONDENT
DR CARNEVALE
“Some go mad.”
Italian Consular offices throughout
Australia are filling up every day with
worried men with no jobs, no money,
nowhere to house their families, and in
many cases no understanding of English
to help them.
“An Australian knows where to look
for a job, and how to ask for it when
he gets there,” a Consular official
explained to The Bulletin. “It isn't
even quite so bad for migrants from
northern Europe, because most of them
speak at least some English, and find a
social atmosphere something like the one
they have known.
“But many Italians are arriving here
from the south of Italy, from farming
communities totally unlike anything they
find here. They speak not a word of
English and have large family commit-
ments. All they have is a desire to work.
“Perhaps they spend a few weeks in
the migrant camp at Bonegilla, and are
then sent to Sydney or Melbourne, to a
job in a factory. They find a house or
a few rooms somehow, through us, or
through the Italian community.
“Then, suddenly, they are out of work.
What can they do? They get £3 ss. a
week unemployment benefit for a single
man —perhaps £6 for a man with a large
family. And the orst period is during
the ‘our weeks or so that it takes before
the social-services benefit comes through.
“We have to do something. We give
them meal tickets to eat at city
restaurants, and a few pounds a week to
keep them under a roof of some kind.”
Occasionally Dr Carnevale, the Consul
in Sydney, comes out of his office to
calm down men who want money for
their families, or work—preferably work.
“I am in daily touch with the Com-
monwealth Employment Bureau,” says
Dr Carnevale, “and they do all they can
for us.”
One side effect of the daily queue that
worries the Italian Government is the
number of men who crack up and be-
come psychiatric cases. The worst are
sent to hospitals for observation. If they
show no improvement, the Italian Gov-
ernment quietly repatriates them. Fortu-
nately almost every patient, who might
have been seriously ill, makes a good
recovery when returned to his own
village,


POLITICAL POINTS
The “Mercury”
Steps In
RICHARDS, J.
“Mischievous”
By MUGGA
One of the locomotive drivers at Aus-
tralian Iron and Steel Proprietary
Limited, Port Kembla, was motioned on
by an assistant. He inched the loco on
a few more yards and stopped. He was
motioned on again. He inched it a few
more yards and then—crunch! The
smokestack had struck part of the root
and was superficially damaged. He was
immediately suspended by his foreman.
As he was walking back to clock-off he
was called back and asked if he minded
driving the engine back to the sheds as
there was no one else around who could
drive it. Obligingly he did so, so his
suspension was lifted. And when he had
safely parked the engine, he was again
suspended, it was later found that a sign
which designated the area as ‘ low ceil-
ing” was covered with dust.
This is only one example of cases
which frequently arise with some of the
12,500 employees of the Australian Iron
and Steel Proprietary Limited (a sub-
sidiary of 8.H.P.). At present, the unions
are negotiating with the company to
rationalise the position regarding suspen-
sions. In a town where men depend
mainly on the steelworks for employ-
ment, men prefer suspension instead of
dismissal for misdemeanors. At the
unions’ request, the company supplied
union officials with particulars of sus-
pensions of employees which had taken
place between 1957 and 1961. After
examining the material the unions placed
proposals before the Industrial Commis-
sion of New South Wales seeking to alter
the suspension clauses in the awards.
Everything v as going along smoothly
between the unions and A.l. and S. until
the “Illawarra Mercury” * (circulation:
13,000) decided to “write” the hearings
“up.” In its Wednesday, April 19, issue
the paper headlined on its front page:
“CHARGES AGAINST MEN AT A.L
AND S.” Then in a bold lead-in said:
“The A.L and S. today accused steel-
workers at Port Kembla of absenteeism,
sleeping on the job (after making a bed
first, in some cases), obscene writings and
many other misdemeanors.”
Almost as soon as the paper hit the
streets, phone calls were going on
between company and union officials and
members of the legal community. On
that same day the Industrial Commission
of New South Wales (Richards J., Beattie
J., and Kelleher J.) issued a statement
saying: “The heading and these two
paragraphs give a false representation of
what occurred before us. We think that
they are calculated to provoke industrial
unrest amongst the employees of Aus-
tralian Iron and Steel Proprietary Limited
and that they are mischievous.” The
statement goes on to correct the report
of the “Ulawarra Mercury” and con-
cludes by saying: “The Commission
takes a very serious view of the article
in the ‘Ulawarra Mercury’ and proposes
to give consideration to the question
whether proceedings for contempt of
court should issue.”
People of Port Kembla who are used
to this South Coast paper were not sur-
prised at this piece of journalistic
irresponsibility. The “Mercury” is re-
nowned for beating up stories. On last
Thursday, for example, it gave 44
column inches, set in black type on its
front page, to a story which had as its
basis an anonymous letter. The recipient
of this letter was Mr Robert Smith, an
employee at the A.I. and S. works at Port
Kembla. According to the “Mercury”
the letter “alleged that Smith was preach-
ing Communism and told him to look for
another job—‘FAST’.” The anonymous
writer went on to say “YOU WOULDN'T
LIKE TO BE PERMANENTLY
INJURED —WE KNOW WHERE YOU
LIVE.”
No one would expect Mr Smith not
to be upset at this threat, if it was
genuine, but the incident then begins to
get a little complicated. Mr Smith is
treasurer of an organisation calling itself
the “Rank and File Vigilance Commit-
tee of the Federated Ironworkers’
Association.” This vigilance committee is
a Communist - sponsored organisation
designed to defeat the present leadership
of the F.I.A. More than half of this
front-page “news-story” is devoted to an
implicit attack on the Ironworkers’ Asso-
ciation, which was the real purpose of
trying to make a sensation out of nothing.
But South Coasters were astonished by
the prompt action of the B.H.P. sub-
sidiary. Almost before the court's state-
ment was dry the company had roneoed
12,500 copies and put them with each
employee’s bundy card so that every
member of the three shifts operating at
the mill would be aware of the true
circumstances.
B.H.P. is renowned for its tight-lipped
attitude to public relations and it is not
too far-fetched to say that if it acted as
promptly as this in similar situations
there would not be half as many strikes
at its works. Whoever was responsible
for the quick action at A.l. and S. will
probably not be given a justifiable pat-
on-the-back, but reprimanded for taking
“hastily considered action.”
* Owned by Illawarra Newspapers Pty Ltd
with a nominal capital of 50,000 £1 shares
called to £52,000, the main shareholders are:
Henderson Holdings Pty Ltd (Northbourne
Chambers, Canberra), 15,562 shares; Junction
Holdings Pty Ltd (same address), 15,561
shares,
LABOR
Looking to South Africa
FROM A CORRESPONDENT IN MELBOURNE
A Melbourne automotive company,
having unsuccessfully sought skilled
panel-beaters and mechanics in Britain
through the usual migration channels,
inserted advertisements in daily papers
in Capetown, Johannesburg, Durban and
Port Elizabeth. From two insertions in
each paper it received 42 replies, enabling
it to fill the 30 vacancies announced. The
firm’s personnel officer claimed that the
replies indicated that all the applicants
were “hungry for information about
Australia.’’
Another firm—Hodd, Cuthbertson and
North (Pty Ltd) of Perth, who are in
the real-estate and hotel-brokerage busi-
ness—advertised in Capetown, Natal,
Johannesburg, Rhodesia, East Africa,
Bombay, Singapore and Hong Kong.
From single insertions it received 117
replies, the bulk of them from South
Africans. Some gave information about
capital they were prepared to bring with
them to Australia. The average figure
was £14,000.
Late last month the Commonwealth
Government announced that extra ship-
ping was being arranged to bring South
Africans here. Qantas admits to a back-
log of South Africans wanting to come
here and estimates that it will be moving
300 a month by July,
Now the Victorian Employers’ Federa-
tion is arguing vigorously that Australia
should start a large-scale publicity cam-
paign to attract South African migrants
an d help them more with fares, jobs
anc j accommodation. The federation’s
secretary, Mr S. M. Gilmour, points out
that rising prosperity in Britain. Ger-
many, Ffolland and Italy is drying up
the migration sources Australia has
tapped during the past decade. He be-
lieves that we should now look to South
Africa, where secession from the Com-
monwealth has “created a vast pool of
English-speaking people of British extrac-
tion and background anxious to make
a ne w life for themselves and their
families in a less troubled atmosphere
a nd with more assurance of future
security.” And these prospective
migrants, Mr Gilmour believes, are
mainly in the professional, technological,


There was a young man with a beard
Who said, “It is just as you feared:
Two owls and a hen,
Four larks and a wren
Have all built their nests in my beard.”
With apologies to Edward Lear.
managerial and skilled-worker groups—
the sort of people that Australia needs
most urgently.
Immigration Minister Downer has
replied rather obliquely to Mr Gilmour.
He is reported to hold the view that the
South Africans most likely to migrate
to Australia would be those favoring a
change in the South African Government
and a return of their country to the
Commonwealth. The implication was
that for long-range political reasons Aus-
tralia should not lessen the numbers of
South Africans opposed to Dr Voer-
word’s policies. Mr Downer’s views are
said to be based on “a conception of
the broad interests of the British Com-
monwealth, rather than merely of Aus-
tralia’s need for more population.”
The V.E.F. has countered this by in-
sisting that many South Africans wanted
to leave their country and “the longer
we delay, the greater the possibility that
they will go to some other Common-
wealth country. Already, large numbers
are reported to be leaving for Britain.”
It pointed out that South African migra-
tion to Australia was already rising (from
288 in 1957 to 1390 in 1960) and that
“many thousands more are eager, in fact
desperately anxious, to escape the atmo-
sphere of tension, suspicion and in-
security in South Africa today.” More-
over, a recruiting campaign could not
force South Africans to come here —it
could only present information to those
who might not be aware of opportunities
>n Australia.
There is still no sign, however, of Mr
Downer changing his attitude towards
launching Australian publicity in South
Africa. But it is now becoming apparent
that this is needed, not only to secure
suitable migrants but also to disillusion
some South Africans who see Australia
in the image of a more peaceful version
of their own country. The lack of
domestic labor, either colored or other-
wise, has come as a shock to some of
the recent arrivals. Others have found
that Australian price levels are far higher
than they expected. Already, South
Africa has provided examples of
“boomerang” migrants who have come
here only to return to their own country
in disgust. A cabled report from Durban
on April 28 said that about 100 South
Africans, Rhodesians and Kenyans had
arrived from Australia disgruntled about
the country.
Meanwhile it seems certain that there
will be more private ventures in this
field. The V.E.F. has alerted its members
to the possibilities of attracting labor
from South Africa. In Melbourne a
group of former South Africans are
planning to set up an association con-
cerned with making information about
Australia available to those of their
countrymen who find Dr Voerword’s
realm “no longer a satisfactory home-
land.”
SPECULATION
Land Prices:
Still Rising
Consider the success story of Mr
Richard S. (“Joe”) Thomas, of Mel-
bourne. In years gone by, Mr Thomas’s
father bought a property for each of his
seven sons and three daughters. Five of
the boys and the three girls sold their
farms and went into factories during the
war. Mr Thomas has just sold his land
to the Commonwealth Government —566
acres for £383,000 —but there is no capital
increment on factory work.
His farm was part of the acquisition
for the jet airport at Tullamarine, outside
Melbourne. The total cost of land
acquired to date for the project is £2.6
million and the biggest cheque has gone
to Mr Thomas.
Mr Thomas’s cheque will certainly
reinforce the current belief of investors
that manufacturing may sag, housing
may fall off, but you can’t go wrong
with land. Many of the investors in land
in the outer suburbs of Melbourne are
young. They have seen prices rise as
they have grown up, and they are con-
vinced that land values will never decline.
Although some land companies in Vic-
toria, together with a number of builders,
have bitten the dust since the credit
squeeze began, the price of land is still
going up.
There was no decline at the end of
1960 in the number of land dealings in
Victoria. The year was a record at
240,000 transactions, compared with
214,000 the previous year. Land sub-
divisions are fewer, but they continue to
succeed.
House-building has dropped, but the
price of land, which has perturbed every
Government, public authority and hous-
ing interests in Victoria, and must have
been one of the compelling factors on
Canberra last November, is expected to
continue to rise.


PRESS
Concealed
“Dynamite”
DR SIMMONDS
A caution
About 40 journalists, priests and two
nuns gathered last week in Belloc
House, Kew (Vic.) for the Seventh
National Convention of the Catholic
Press Association of Australia and New
Zealand. The priests were also practising
journalists, and so too were the nuns who
represented “Calvary,” a monthly pub-
lished by the Little Company of Mary
(popularly known as the “Blue Sisters”)
at Lewisham, N.S.W.
The association has 35 member pub-
lications, seven of which are weeklies with
a combined circulation of 142,000. The
four biggest monthlies have a total cir-
culation of 300,000. As the retiring presi-
dent, Rev. Father P. J. Hansen said, “Even
in the language of mass-circulation, this
is no mean set-up.” Members also in-
clude diocesan weeklies like the Brisbane
“Catholic Leader,” the highbrow quarterly
“Twentieth Century,” and the radical,
lay-produ;ed “Catholic Worker.”
The delegates certainly revealed a
highly developed news sense and a good
understanding of the tactics of preserving
an exclusive story. When Coadjutor
Archbishop, Dr Simmonds of Mel-
bourne, gave an address which has been
characterised as anything from “highly
controversial” to “dynamite,” those
present pledged themselves not to reveal
its contents until the State Catholic
weeklies had published the story. It is
understood that Dr Simmonds reiterated
—though in more precise terms than
formerly —his view that the split between
the D.L.P. and the A.L.P. is to be
deplored and cautioned Catholic news-
paper editors against aligning their
papers with the D.L.P. If so, the address,
coming so close to the Victorian State
elections, could well have wide political
repercussions.
Father Hansen, who until recently-
edited the weekly “Standard” in Hobart,
defined the first aim of the association as
being to help members to produce better
newspapers and magazines. So, for three
days, the convention discussed lay-out,
typography, sub-editing, feature-writing,
circulation, and all the other varied crafts
that go to make up the journalist’s and
publisher’s skill. Two working journalists
from Melbourne daily papers were called
in to give a critical evaluation of publica-
tions of the association.
The discussion ranged on to inter-
national news sources for Catholic papers.
The English-language news broadcasts
from the powerful Vatican transmitter
come at a very inconvenient time for
Australians, and the association was
pleased to learn that it was intended to
raise money in Australia to build another
Vatican transmitter which would be used
to beam news at more convenient times
for Catholics in Australasia and the
Pacific. At present the main source of
speedy reports on events of Catholic
interest overseas is the National Catholic
Welfare Conference News Service, sup-
plied from Washington by airmail. Some
papers, like the Melbourne “Advocate,”
have correspondents in London, supply-
ing mainly airmail copy with an occa-
sional cable.
The training of Catholic journalists, the
steep rise in postal charges introduced in
the Federal budget and the comprehen-
sive codes of publishing and advertising
ethics agreed upon at the previous con-
vention were other matters discussed.
During the six years the association has
been in existence circulation figures of
member publications have shown steady
increases. Comparison of files of 1955
and 1961 publications have convinced
members of the value of the association
in raising the quality of the journals pro-
duced. The association feels that it is
now well enough established to play its
part as a corporate body alongside other
newspaper and publishing organisations
such as the Australian Newspaper Pro-
prietors Council and the Provincial Press
Association. Father Hansen suggested
that it was perhaps the time for the
association to examine the question of
setting up a full-time staff to attend to
jt s growing work.
Delegates paid a visit to Raheen whe;e
they were received by Archbishoo
Mannix. He gave them an unscheduled
address, apologising that it was “rather
doleful.” The Communists were realb
conquering the world, Dr Mannix said
and while there were many people in
Australia fighting against Communism
there were too many people with
materialist views who were ready to take
what came.
PEARLING
The Death
of an Industry
HTML end of an era is near in the Northern
Territory. Pearling—last of the old-
time industries which gave Darwin its
name for color and adventure—is totter-
ing to extinction. Soon, unless strong
Government preventive action is taken,
the pearler will disappear—along with the
crocodile shooter and buffalo hunter, the
trepang fisherman and the sandalwood
getter, who faded a little time before.
And Australia will lose a lucrative dollar-
earning export trade.
In the peak years of the 20s and 30s,
30 luggers put out from Darwin at the
start of each dry season. By 1957 the
number had dwindled to 12. Last year
it was five. Billy Sing has sailed his
lugger to Geraldton (W.A.) and taken up
crayfishing. The Haritos brothers have
decided to confine themselves to catching
barramundi. A few weeks ago Curly
Bell and taciturn old R. Gonzales pulled
out. With unsold shell piled up in their
warehouses they announced that as far
as they were concerned pearling as an
industry was finished. This meant the
only luggers to go out into the Arafura
Sea pearling grounds this season were
two belonging to Nick Paspaley, president
of the now-moribund Darwin Master
Pearlers’ Association.
To a man, the pearlers blame the
Japanese fleet which operates in Austra-
lian waters with the permission of the
Federal Government. The retiring
pearlers claimed the Japs’ quota was too
high, that their activities were impossible
to police because the Naval patrol vessel
was too slow to catch them, that they
were denuding huge areas of high-grade
shell and that their low wage structure
made it impossible for Darwin pearlers
to compete on price.
Japanese have been active in our
northern waters for many decades. Before
the war their pearlers operated at will
along the entire northern coast. They
landed often, buying native women for
flour, calico, tobacco, sake and methylated
spirits. Entire tribes were debauched.
Generally, the easy-going aborigines liked
the diversion the Japanese provided. But
sometimes they retaliated. Anki Kinjo,
who was still diving for a Darwin pearler
last season, was the only Jap survivor of
two lugger crews massacred by chief
Wonggo’s Ballamoomoo tribesmen in the
Gulf country 25 years ago. Notorious
pre-war tribal killer Nemarluk led his
men to slaughter another entire lugger
crew. When the Japanese returned in
1953 it was only after solemn pledges that
territorial waters would be respected and
native women left alone. So far as any-
one knows, the pledges have been kept.
Even in the Darwin-based pearling in-
dustry, Japanese proved indispensable,
They provided nearly all the divers.
Darwin pearlers recruited them after the
war, mainly from Okinawa, but with a
few from the home islands. Cramped
quarters and primitive conditions aboard
the luggers kept white Australians away
—apart from the occasional adventurer,
The post-war R.S.L. pearling venture
failed for this reason. Sponge divers


brought out from Greece proved a com-
plete washout.
The old roaring days are gone forever,
when divers traditionally tried to steal
any pearls they found as “a perk,” and
hard-eyed pearl buyers had whispered
conversations, with hundreds of pounds
changing hands in back rooms of hotels
or gambling dens. Few good pearls are
found now. Certainly nothing out of the
ordinary has turned up in the past two
years. New materials for making buttons
and suchlike articles have knocked the
bottom out of the shell market. And the
Japanese are monopolising what remains.
The big hope for an industry which
once was an important dollar-earner is
the announcement in mid-March that the
Government has given the Paspaley Pearl-
ing Co. approval to grow cultivated pearls
at Port Essington in the Coburg Peninsula,
north-east from Darwin. Mr Nick Pas-
paley plans to go overseas to study culture
pearl operations and hire Japanese ex-
perts. An experimental raft —from which
the impregnated pearl oyster is hung in
the water in baskets —may be anchored
at Port Essington late this year to gauge
the effect of wet season weather and tides.
Paspaley —who hopes to interest other
pearlers in the scheme on a co-operative
basis —envisages ultimately a fleet of 30
rafts employing 30 or 40 aborigines and
other workers.
A culture pearl venture is already
thriving at Kuri Bay on the north-west
coast of Western Australia. The Japanese-
Australian company concerned in that
discussed extending operations to the
Territory two years ago but could not get
a long-term lease. Japan itself produced
50 tons of culture pearls last year. But
Mr Paspaley believes the Territory variety
may be much better as the local shell is a
lot bigger than the Japanese variety.
LAW
Anti-climax in
the Privy Council
FROM A CORRESPONDENT IN MELBOURNE
DOWNING, M.L.C.
A relief
need for appeals to the Privy
Council has been questioned for
years, but never so sharply as in Vic-
toria last week when the Privy Council
announced after five days’ argument that
it had no jurisdiction to hear appeals
challenging the validity of Acts in Vic-
toria and Queensland imposing licence
fees for the sale of liquor.
The chagrin of Frank Dennis, the chief
proprietor of Dennis Hotels Pty Ltd
(whose income from the sale of food is
probably much greater than from liquor),
can be appreciated. Eight months ago
the campaign against the Victorian Act
—which Dennis claims imposes not a
tax but an excise which the States have
no power to impose—had already cost
£15,000.
On the understanding that the Privy
Council would hear the appeal (which
had been narrowly lost in the High
Court), the Dennis interests, joined by
a Queensland publican, Charles White-
house, took it to London. The additional
cost is now £lB,OOO, and, on the judg-
ment, Dennis never had a chance of
winning. The result was an anti-climax.
As in so many recent Australian appeals
to the Privy Council, the real issue was
unargued and undecided.
Onto the appeal were fastened no
fewer than 15 British and Australian
counsel, including six Q.C.s and the
Attorney-Generals of the Commonwealth
and N.S.W. —Sir Garfield Barwick and
Mr R. Downing—both busy men. It is
clear that Sir Henry Winneke, the Vic-
torian Solicitor-General, should have
appeared, but not so clear how Professor
Zelman Cowan was needed away from
his post as Dean of the Law Faculty at
Melbourne University to represent West-
ern Australia. (Ironically, Professor
Cowan had already pointed out that the
record of the Privy Council in Australian
Constitutional cases has not been very
impressive.)
The Victorian Premier is cockahoop at
the rejection of the appeal, claiming that
his State had been saved almost £3
million in taxes. If the appeal had not
been rejected the States between them
would have had to hand over to the
Commonwealth approximately £lO mil-
lion a year for six years—the period
limited by the Statute of Limitations.
The Commonwealth is just as pleased
to have the status quo preserved. If the
unsolicited gift had been flung into its
lap it would have been compelled to
produce Commonwealth legislation and
machinery for the assessment and col-
lection of the hotel and club licensing
fees and for the policing of the licensed
premises to ensure collection. It would
have found little co-operation in the
application of the new law and a new
lot of enemies at election time in the
shape of disgruntled and uneasy licensed
victuallers.
Frank Dennis's next move is a proposal
to campaign at the coming election to
have licence fees fixed for petrol stations,
radio shops and chemists in order to
share out the burden of licensing fees.
FIRE HAZARD
Playford’s
Silence
/"\N April 14 a fire in a Housing Trust
W temporary home in the Adelaide
suburb of Centennial Park killed two
boys (aged two-and-a-half years and 18
months) and seriously injured their teen-
age mother. It was the tenth fire in a
Housing Trust temporary home since
April, 1956, and the fifth in which people
had been burnt to death. The death toll
is now ten - eight children and two
married women.
Since many hundreds of migrants and
other working people awaiting perma-
nent housing still live in homes similar
to those that caught fire, a Government
investigation of some kind has been
widely expected. But the Government
has remained silent. Several private citi-
zens have spoken critically of conditions
existing in the temporary homes. A
deputation organised by the Trades and
Labor Council called on Premier Play-
ford last week to urge action. But the
Adelaide press ran no report of what was
said. The silence remained strangely
unbroken.
It was left to the secretary of the
Taperoo Progress Association, Mr C. W.
Reed, to point to what seems a likely
cause of the fires. He condemned the
type of material with which the Trust’s
temporary homes have been lined. “It
has been shown,” he said, “that this
lining needs only a spark to ignite it
immediately. It has already been banned
for school and house building in Vic-
toria and New South Wales."
Other people have suggested that kero-
sene heaters or cooking appliances could
have started the fires. Carelessness may
have been another cause —in several cases
children were left alone at nights—but an
equal danger is apparent in the design
of the homes themselves. They have only
one door, making escape difficult.
Unfortunately the most recent fire
occurred at the very moment when the
Commonwealth Statistician was announc-
ing an all-time record in South Australian
home-building. The Housing Trust, has,
in fact, done a remarkable job. It has
made South Australia virtually the only
State in Australia without a housing
shortage. It has conjured up the com-
pletelv new and model tow'n of Elizabeth
ten miles north of the city—Elizabeth’s
population has reached 12,000 within five
years. It has maintained a building rate
of more than 3000 houses a year. With-
out this the Playford programme of in-
dustrial expansion could not have gone
ahead.
To keep up with demand the Trust also
built 2000 temporary homes in timber and
asbestos the kind of home that has
caught fire.
The Premier is believed to have assured
last week’s deputation that the last of
these houses will have been replaced with-
in the next year or two, and that it would
not be economic to make large-scale
alterations in the meantime.
On Monday the Housing Trust called
tenders for the demolition of 150 tem-
porary homes at Taperoo and Woodville.


OVERSEAS
Wedding in Fairyland
By DENIS WARNER
upon a time in the fairytale King-
dom of Laos, as some readers may
recall, there used to be two elephants.
One was named Royal Laos and the other
Pathet Lao. Wise men were called in
from all over to arrange the betrothal of
tame, shy little Royal Laos, who lived in
a palace, and the handsome and high-
spirited Pathet Lao, who was mostly to
be found in the jungles. Royal Laos lived
on a diet of cabbage (provided by her
rich Uncle Sam). Pathet Lao ate opium
poppies and things called dialectical
materialism given to him by two wicked
uncles named Ho and Mao. No matter
how much cabbage she got to eat Royal
Laos never ceased to be sickly. Some of
the wise men charged with her care felt
that her trouble was that she had too
much cabbage and they packed some of
it in trunks and sent it away for replant-
ing in their own little cabbage patches
in other lands.
Other wise men, who were supposed to
teach her to defend herself against un-
welcome suitors, stole her tusks and
turned them into objets d’art, which
brought a high price in the market places
in Bangkok, the capital of another fairy-
land kingdom and very important, indeed,
since every now and then other wise and
powerful men used to gather there to hold
an umbrella over Royal Laos and to shout
warnings at the unruly Pathet Lao. “You
will make a very fine mate for Royal
Laos, but you had better drop your
common friends and nasty uncles —or
else,” they used to say. No one, of
course, ever said “or else what?” since
that, as every child knows, is rude.
Now the Kingdom of Laos is a very
fine place, and one of its customs is to
have Courts of Love at which boys sing
to girls and girls are at first pretty
reticent about the whole business and
everyone lives happily ever after.
Pathet Lao and Royal Laos once held
one of these courts, and Pathet Lao, 1
regret, didn’t behave very well at all.
“Let’s cut out this bourgeois love play
and get down to business,” he shouted,
and all the wise men were very angry and
shooed him out into the woods where his
wicked uncles were waiting with more
bottles of dialectical materialism and fine
new sets of tusks.
By smoke signals and other scientific
means all the wise, strong men who
sometimes gather in Bangkok were called
together to decide what they should do.
Uncle Sam was all for giving Royal Laos
more cabbage while administering a
sharp kick in the rump to Pathet Lao,
new tusks and all. You’ve got no idea
what a fuss this caused. The wicked
uncles hissed off - stage. The River
The Manchester “Guardian.”
“PRESTIGEWISE HE’S WORTH ABOUT HIS WEIGHT IN SPACE!”
Mekong overflowed its banks. The wise
bonze of Luang Prabang hinted that
something would happen. A lion, who
was sitting in a corner in Bangkok, tut-
tuted in dismay and a Frenchman became
so excited that he drank his eau de
cologne instead of his Pernod.
But fortunately among the wise men in
Bangkok there was one old and experi-
enced fellow who was known in many
places as an honest broker, and in his
own country as Banyan Tree Bob (because
nothing grows in his shade). He revived
the Frenchman, pacified Uncle Sam and
even got an approving lick from the lion.
Distasteful as it might seem, said Banyan
Tree Bob, it was quite right that even
more wise men, including those dis-
reputable louts, Uncle Mao and Uncle
Ho, should be asked for their advice and
not only Pathet Lao and Royal Laos but
all their family and all their friends should
be invited to the big reception at which
the wedding vows should be exchanged
and after which Pathet Lao and Royal
Laos could live happily ever after. “But,
by Jove,” he added with a flourish of
rhetoric for which he is well and favor-
ably known to many people in many
lands, “if they don’t we should take
appropriate action.”
Everybody clapped. All the good
uncles were very pleased and all the
wicked uncles laughed behind their hands
and said they were very pleased. And
even poor little Royal Laos smiled wanly
and said she was pleased, too. Every-
one went off happily to their homes.
Everyone, that is, except Pathet Lao, who,
sad to relate, holds what might be
called progressive views on matrimony.
Now that he had fine new tusks he
thought he might try them out —on his
bride-to-be. The wicked uncles whispered
unprintable suggestions in his ears and
while everybody was congratulating
everybody else Pathet Lao flicked his tail
and set off down the road to Vientiane,
trumpeting like anything and going on
about how Royal Laos was really his and
let no man put them assunder. Do you
know, before the wise men could come
to the wedding feast Pathet Lao had not
taken Royal Laos—he had devoured her.
It is true that her ears and part of her
tail were still to be seen there on the
banks of the River Mekong and that
poor old Uncle Sam was saying that two
of Royal Laos’ ears were worth more
than ten of Pathet Lao’s tusks: but
there certainly wasn’t enough left for
Pathet Lao to take to bed.
That should be the end of the story,
of course. But this is a fairy tale and it
must end happily. While some of Royal
Laos’ old friends were shedding a tear or
two and silly people were saying that
Pathet Lao and his uncles had their eyes
on a lot of other virgin elephants in
other parts of South-East Asia, some of
the wise men discovered that what they
had once thought was Royal Laos wasn’t
Royal Laos at all.
“This is the true Royal Laos,” the
Frenchman cried as he led an elephant out


of the jungle. Some ignorant people
were suspicious. They thought the French-
man had had too much Pernod, or maybe
eau de cologne, again. And, besides, the
elephant looked awfully like Pathet Lao’s
half-sister, who had once said that she
would like to pick up Uncle Sam with
her trunk and shake him.
But all the wise men —except Uncle
Sam who didn’t care a bit for the shape
of her trunk —said they were sure she
was Royal Laos, and, of course, from
that moment Royal Laos she was. Trunk
in trunk she and Pathet Lao set off to
Moscow and Peking and a date was set
for the marriage feast. All the wise men
said they would be there.
Everybody lived happily ever after,
even the virgin elephants elsewhere in
South-East Asia who were looking for
husbands. “It is better to be consumed
in marriage than consummated,” said the
wise men and soon everyone realised how
logical this was. Uncle Ho and Uncle
Mao found they had lots of other nephews
like Pathet Lao and the wise men kept
on finding brides to be consumed until
one day . . . But that’s another story.
When Generals Disagree
By NEIL McINNES
Armies have often enough mutinied
after defeat in the field, but the
French Army rebelled briefly last month
because it had won a complete military
victory. For the Algerian war ends with
what the soldier must regard as a victory:
the armed bands of nationalists have
been swept from the field and driven into
neighboring countries on the other side
of impermeable electrified barrages,
where, if international law were more
than words, they would have been dis-
armed and interned two years ago. The
Suez expedition too was a military vic-
tory, especially for the French parachute
units whose brilliant capture of Port Said
was a classic of its genre. So too were
the military operations against Moroccan
and Tunisian nationalism, and the bloody
reduction of the Madagascar uprising. If
Indo-China ended in the symbolic defeat
of Dien Bien Phu, that was for the same
reasons as General Macarthur’s invasion
of North Korea was turned into a rout:
the intervention of the Chinese.
The trouble with all these military
victories was that they were useless and
so were at once turned into political
defeats. The French Army for 15 years
past has been sent to wars that could not
be won, or that, when won, had to be
lost immediately at conference tables in
Geneva, Carthage, the U.N. or in Evian.
If it is the role of the Army to obey
and to win wars, it is the job of politicians
to know which wars are worth winning,
which causes can be promoted by mili-
tary victories. The suppression of colonial
nationalism is not one of these. Vic-
tories so complete and spectacular that
they would end a war between European
nations have here to be renewed every
week for decades, and even then they
cannot quench the demand for independ-
ence. Democratic politicians—the same
who today are aghast that the Army
should repudiate its allegiance to the
State—have for years exploited recklessly
the frugal morality of the military caste,
the morality of unquestioning obedience,
to pursue a senseless anti-nationalist
policy that was bound to end in the
humiliation of a devoted and, on the
whole competent, officer corps. They are
scandalised that in the end some soldiers
should decide that politics is too serious
a business to be left to politicians.
An Army that counts among its heroes
Marshal Lyautey, the restorer of the
Moroccan monarchy, and General de
Gaulle, the liberator of Negro Africa,
was not pre-destined to engage the hope-
less and degrading struggle against Asian
and African nationalism. That decision
was taken by politicians whose exiguous
sense of honor allows them, as at Suez,
to be merciless to little Egypt while they
cringe before mighty Russia ; and whose
shortsightedness leads them to build the
very Army that one day must turn against
them. They politicalised the Army by
entrusting it with civilian administration
in colonies where order could be main-
tained only by arms ; they degraded it
by making it do the work of the police
and propagandists among populations
whose will to freedom was the real
support of nationalist bands ; and they
covered up the inevitable breaches of
military honor that followed, lest the
nation learn how dirty the repression of
nationalism had become. Having per-
verted every other article of the sum-
mary but ancient military code, they are
astonished when its fundamental article,
obedience, is infringed.
“The Army is the instrument of the
civil power,” they said as if this were a
fact of nature like gravity, when in reality
it is only a formal rule of modern states
that is respected only under certain con-
ditions —every one of which the poli-
ticians flouted. For these errors, the
politicians were pushed off the scene in
1958 and ever since the struggle has gone
on between two parts of the general-
officer class. The struggle was scarcely
about obedience to the civil power, for
this latter was represented by a soldier
whose whole career is based on an act
of indiscipline: the refusal in June, 1940,
to accept the armistice signed by a legally
constituted government, a felony for
which he was condemned to death by
Petain. Rather, it was about two opposed
ideas on how the Army should get out
of the era of empty “victories.”
One general, who happened also to be
President, offered to end the chapter of
sterile colonial wars as quickly as
possible and then to marry the antique
furniture of military thinking (glory,
prestige, national honor etc.) with the
weapons of the day (atom bombs, nuclear
striking forces, etc.). The new Army thus
formed he would place at the service of
an independent nationalist policy that
could find room for manoeuvre between
the two super-powers. A few other
generals such as Salan of Indo-China and
Challe of Suez preferred to cling to the
last colonial victory, the pacification of
Algeria, and ensure that for once it did
not lead to a political and diplomatic
defeat. Both of these conceptions are
typically militarist, and outside the
general-officer class they find equally
limited support: specifically, about as
many French civilians are anxious to keep
Algeria as are eager to have a H-bomber
fleet. The conflict between them, which
came to an open breach last month, offers
little scope for the people-versus-Army,
Flag-versus-the-Law demagogy that was
exploited to ensure the supremacy of de
Gauile’s conception of the Army's future.
Not that civilians were indifferent to the
upshot of the struggle. The Algerian
generals’ plans were so impossibly difficult
that they could only be implemented by
repressing numerous free institutions at
home, while de Gaulle's proposals will
reveal their immense cost in the more
acceptable form of debasement of the
money and reduced investment in educa-
tion, housing and productive industry.
The officer corps, broken, embittered
and politicalised by obedience to demo-
cratic politicians, failed to mend its
divisions even when the politicians were
out of the way. The normal methods of
settling disputes inside the military caste
—decorating, promoting and transferring
opponents —was unavailing against the
messianic lunacy that had been produced
in a section of generals by 15 years on
remote colonial battlefields winning use-
less victories. De Gaulle made Salan
the most-decorated soldier in France (no
chest could carry his medals and ribbons)
without reducing his opposition. The
officer corps’ way of resolving differences
having failed, each side resorted (not to
force: no blood was shed) to the most
convenient political myths available,
which in France of course means the
vocabulary of Jacobinism. The Algiers
clique claimed Danton’s “integrity of the
national territory” while de Gaulle chose
Robespierre’s “the People” ; actually each
side se font completely of these things
taken literally. Salan and Challe care
about as little for the white settlers as
de Gaulle does for the “masses” at home.
De Gaulle has chosen by far the most
dangerous political myth, since any
genuine reliance on organised popular
force in France today would lead to the
installation of the Communists in many
points of power, as it did during the
Resistance. Fie owes his victory to the
consummate skill with which he manipu-
lated this dangerous weapon ; the people
was mobilised just long enough to intimi-
date the factious generals, and then dis-
missed with brief thanks before it could
claim to have been the hero of the day.
The future of the Army, it had been
decided, lay with the atom bomb, not in
Algeria. Since the former, after all,
leaves more room for progressive develop-
ment of French society than the latter
(although, I repeat, at great financial cost)
the people have not been altogether hood-
winked.


FOR THE OBSERVER
A Cafe With a Hundred
Candles at Hunters Hill
Hunter’s Hill, a rocky forefinger of
land between the Parramatta and
Lane Cove Rivers, beckons the ferry boats
to a suburb with more tree-shaded gardens
and old cream stone houses than any
other of its size in Sydney. The munici-
pality has just finished celebrating its
centenary and the ex-president of the
Historical Society caused some gratifica-
tion at the civic reception by announcing
that Hunter’s Hill was, in the early days,
a favorite picnic place for Governor
Hunter.
The old mansions, their cellars and
attics, yielded up treasure-trove for an
Historical Exhibition which owners of
modern houses with no cellars or attics
came miles to see. Around the ballroom
of the Town Hall were the furnishings,
ornaments and objects in use in a com-
plete Victorian mansion, arranged room
by room. Parents could be heard explain-
ing to their young —often incorrectly—
what the early Edison wax recorder, the
mangle, the meat-chopper or the muffineer
were for.
Collectors stood wolfishly at gaze.
Nothing was for sale. If a child burst a
toy balloon the committee nearly had
heart failure thinking some irreplaceable
treasure had been shattered. Wax models
in beautiful old dresses stood haughtily in
the drawing and dining rooms. “We
wouldn't even have flowers that W'ere not
in keeping,” Mrs Dorothy Atkins of the
committee explained. “Pampas grass,
yes, or asparagus ; but they didn’t have
gardens then. When the tanks ran dry
water had to be rowed across the river.”
The catalogue listing these antiques
■Mso gave notes on the families which had
lent heirlooms. “Silver from the home
of Mr Justice Manning—beaded Victorian
purses made by Miss Marsden, daughter
of the Rev. Samuel Marsden (one for the
girdle and the other to be held in the
muff), painting of Lane Cove River by
Piguenet, one of Hunter's Hill’s first
painters ....
At the “Back to Hunter’s Hill” school
fete elderly ladies could be seen embracing
and exclaiming: “My dear, how delight-
ful to see you! And who are you?” or
agreeing that the photograph of Sir
Henry Parkes in the hall was the first
headmaster because they remembered his
beard. Motorists who stopped for petrol
at Heck Howard’s garage—the Howards
were early settlers —were likely to find
they had bought a history of Hunter’s
Hill on shiny paper (illustrated, cloth or
leather).
Everyone was taking part in the cen-
tenary ; the Bowling Club, the Tennis
Club, the Cricket Club. The Drama
Club acted a play “100 Years Ago” con-
cocted from the diary of Rachel Henning,
who lived in Hunter’s Hill in her later
years. There were the party for the
children, and one for senior citizens, the
“Back to 1861” ball, the Centenary coun-
cil meeting and civic banquet. Hunter's
Hill is famous for flower shows, so there
was a flower show and a photographic
exhibition.
The art exhibition —Hunter’s Hill has
more than the usual complement of
artists —had to be treated warily, par-
ticularly in the hanging of pictures. “It
made the Congo,” one helper said, “seem
like a health resort.” The opening was
enlivened by the announcement that a
nearby shop and dwelling were burning
down and owners of cars must please
move them. Whereupon the throng left
precipitously to watch the fire.
The procession alone would have justi-
fied the centenary. There were pipe
bands, marching girls, floats, young ladies
and gentlemen in period costume, riding
in carriages. The V.I.P.s rode in vintage
cars with brass headlamps to the park
a mile away where the winner of the
Princess competition was crowned.
The combined choral concert was the
event over which committees held their
collective breath. Would the sound
system and the floodlights work? Would
the massed choirs of 600 children be
rained on? But crowds came, the singing
of colleges, high schools and convents
was impressive and no night could have
been finer.
Everything was master-minded by Roy
Stuckey, 0.8. E., who has developed in
26 years as Town Clerk into the mainstay
of his municipality. “What are you going
to do with the birthday cake?” we asked
him when he showed us the towering
object ringed with 100 candles and taste-
fully decorated in icing with views of
Fig Tree bridge, an historic home, the
church and the Town Hall. “Well, I just
don’t know,” he said thoughtfully. “But,
after all, there’s 86 pounds of icing on it.”
The council, after a strenuous four
months, can at least reflect that there will
not be another centenary for a hundred
years and by that time someone else will
have to do the work. But Hunter’s Hill
rather thinks it has shown the rest of
Sydney, now breaking out in a rash of
municipal centenaries, how the thing
should be done.
KYLIE TENNANT
FOR THE CONSUMER
The Last Word in Luxury
24-Carat Gold-plated Bath Taps
Tn at least three Australian homes the
bathwater comes out of 24-carat gold-
plated taps. Gold-plated taps won a
special mention in Vance Packard’s “The
Status Seekers.” The taps are on view
at the Decorator Centre, which a Sydney
firm of importers, George G. Clarke, has
opened in the suburb of Edgecliff.
This centre will enable women with
expensive tastes and sufficiently-elastic
cheque accounts to choose their furnish-
ings from the most exclusive makers in
the United States and Europe, They
will be able to buy American wallpapers,
crystal light-fittings from France, pure
silk brocades, hand-woven in Italy.
Among the most luxurious items at the
centre are the V’Soske carpets, which
have already been exhibited in Sydney
and Melbourne. These range in price
from £3O or £4O for a rug to something
near £2OOO. The centre will also display
hand-crafted floor rugs from Sweden.
The most breathtaking of the fabrics
on display are by Scalamandre Silks, of
New York. These are traditional brocades
in 16th- and 17th-century patterns, in pure
silk, hand-woven in Italy. Scalamandre
supplied the fabrics used in the restora-
tion of Williamsburg. Other fabrics are
from Taco of France, which supplied the
brocades for the recent restoration of
certain rooms at Versailles palace.
The wallpapers are some of the most
exciting items at the centre, particularly
as the variety available in Australia has
not to date been really extensive. There
are wallpapers with a silk or linen finish,
which are completely scrubbable. Among
the most envy-rousing items are matching
silk wallpaper and fabrics for curtains.
Wallpapers to provide a setting for
antique furniture are flock patterns in
Adam designs.
The centre will also display ceramic
tiles in abstract patterns by Professor
Melotti of Italy. These are suitable for
home or garden use, but will probably
mostly find their way into business houses
and offices.


The idea of a decorator centre grew
lip in the United States, and it hasn’t been
developed completely in Europe yet.
There is one in most major American
cities, but the most noted is Jackson
Square in the old Barbary Coast area of
San Francisco. Jackson Square, really
only a street, consists of a number of
small shops, of some historic value,
which have now been turned into show-
rooms for a series of firms which show
exclusive furnishings for the house.
The centre at Edgecliff is the first in
Australia, and the manager, John Lane
(who came to it from Sydney’s men’s
shop, Richard Hunt’s) believes it will be
difficult for anyone to set up in opposi-
tion. “There are only a certain number
of places overseas where you can get
really exclusive and beautiful stuff, and
we have got the Australian rights to the
best of them,” he said.
And are the centre people convinced
there are enough people with enough
money in Australia to keep this sort of
place going? “If you waited until you
were absolutely sure of a thing like that,
you would never begin,” Mr Lane said,
“and then someone else would hop in
ahead of you.”
The Decorator Centre is not a shop.
It is merely a place to which an architect,
designer or interior decorator can take
his client to discuss furnishings and to
make some selections. In America the
decorator centres are not open to the
public, but, Mr Lane said, with a good-
humored sigh, they would certainly let
people visit the centre here, if only for
a time.
“It seems the best way to get people
used to the idea of a centre,” he said.
“After all, the people who have their
hair done or buy their clothes around
this area will, I hope, be our future
clients. I find that in the few rushed
weeks since we opened, talking to people,
showing them our things, and explaining
to them that we are not a shop and will
sell to them only through an architect,
designer or decorator, is very wearing
but very worth while.”
The centre carries samples of the
fabrics, wallpapers, ceramic tiles and
bathroom fittings which it imports. When
a client comes in, with her architect or
decorator (or, in many cases, it will be
an architect or decorator doing an exten-
sive job for a big firm, decorating offices
or public rooms, who comes) and makes
a selection, the centre then airmails the
order to San Francisco, New York, or
wherever the headquarters of the manu-
facturer are.
How do decorators view the centre,
which, on the face of it, merely exists
to take business away from them? “We
do feel that we can help the interior
decorator considerably,” Mr Lane said.
“In the first place, a centre like this
focuses attention on the best that is
available for decorating. At the moment,
the average interior decorator has to
carry quite an extensive stock from which
his or her client can choose. If the
decorators come here they don’t have
to carry that stock. We virtually do it
for them.
“Finally, we hope we may eventually
help designers to make the public realise
that decorators are not just people with
their heads full of expensive ideas, but
people whose job it is to help their clients
get the best value for their money. At
any rate, the Society of Interior Decora-
tors, which consists of Sydney decorators,
is solidly behind us. In fact, we are
associate members.”
Nun at the Wheel
Surely the car - driver who earns the
greatest sympathy from other drivers
is the very young nun negotiating the
nerve-wracking city traffic under the eye
of that most formidable back-seat driver,
the Mother Superior of the convent, who
wordlessly tells her rosary throughout the
journey.
Nuns driving their own cars have
become a commonplace in the postwar
years. The first Order to drive were
some American nuns who came to run
a T.B. hospital at Killara (N.S.W.).
No permission is required from the
Church before a convent acquires a car.
The Mother Superior can go ahead with
the purchase, providing she is satisfied
there is a need for a car and that the
Order can afford it. Owning a car can
enable a convent to overcome many of its
problems. It makes it much easier for
a shuttle-service for teachers to be run
between the Mother house and the parish
schools each day. It also makes it
easier to keep to the universal rule that no
nun may appear in public alone. Often
this meant that one nun had to waste
a good deal of time merely acting as a
companion. Now a nun out visiting
can be dropped off and picked up later.
Generally, the younger nuns, some
of whom, of course, have a licence before
they enter, do the driving. If necessary,
they go to a driving school. Apart
from the fact that a veil might occa-
sionally obscure traffic passing them on
their right, nuns are at no disadvantage
compared with other women driving. In
fact, because they always wear flat heels
they are saved that double-shuffle from
high heels to low and back again every
time they step into the car. Moreover,
their keener consciences might prevent
them making those small infringements
of the traffic rules which are half the
pleasure of driving. And there is always
that back-seat driver, telling her rosary.
Feiffer
hO dUMhi if LJM. HOD
K\)OU). VM l
WtP OP ML M 4
MLOLVAUCe AUP l
bOT,<4OU KWOIO.MW
Mcmge a pqe^e^r
A
pec*
OP
CARIA
$0 AU wouo mPM IT
mothers pm amp r wko
up eww to 6vR-
MOTHPfZ
WITH HPR Pi
W BBfORE l COULD LIKC
Oo IT, MU MOTHER EA 10-
"iiOU ARE THE
RBABoM that j
AM A MOTHER
EO out ARC
60IK>G TO
MAKE fHl<?
your houdah:
$0 MH MOTHER AMP MH
FATHER AMP tAE (JJEUT
TO A B\& ADVENTURE
MOVIE UJHICH T,HEU
bA\V I l/OOULP
emoh, CAUBO
'OM THE BEACH.'
MV 106 AAT W TH£
OAI CCMW BtCAObi MW
mother r omp.
BETTcR That
WAM AMP AMMHOW
*M COULO wont.
THPM loe OJftOT OUT
To BAT.
amp mcmsc it waa
m cueMATioM i
WA-b MAP£ TO Air
AT THfHfAP OF
WTABLS AMP
HAP TO CUT HIT
OU JM FOOO AMP
SOT m LAMB
CHOPS OM THf
Floor.- amp mm
MPTHPR 6AIP
<9£6f106 HflWlf
U)AA MPTHBR'A
PAM t COUiO
AT IBAST TRY
T«SW IV f c AM£ HPMF AMP
; smi pwt &\vt w
MOTHER HfR Pieft-
but 50 i am
m THe Q6CKOF
CARPS AMP MM
FATHER INObttZQ
AMP SAIP,"
K> THAT APPRO -
PR i Are t * 50
THORF WAS A
FIOHT. I TH/MM,
ABOUT MM FATHER'S
PRIMKIM6-
amp m
MOT MR.
u)Mreo 10
10)00) How
MUCH l
mm
um Cf\i o r
imz ge
MMfe
pm m
I He bumes
I'M
KU)M H)
C AM?


Vegetable Hunger
A man suffering from vegetable hunger
is in constant torment. He doesn’t
know what’s wrong with him ; he only
knows there’s something he wants and
needs. His hair is harsh, his skin is dry,
his finger-nails are brittle ; he has a
constant itch which he can’t scratch.
When he sees green vegetables he
knows what to do, and he doesn’t know
he’s doing it. I’ve seen a camp of
drovers from Western Australia, who
hadn’t looked a spud in the face for
months, go half-mad when I drove up
to them and unloaded a chaff-bag of
green stuff from the Austral Downs
(Barkly Tablelands) garden. Those eight
men wolfed into cabbages, eating them
before they touched the ground or reached
the pot; they chewed contentedly at
bunches of shallots, eating clods of dirt
and all; there was an ecstatic glaze on
their eyes as they crushed tomatoes be-
tween their teeth.
For myself, I’ve eaten raw English
potatoes, and no ice-cream has ever
equalled the delight and flavor of them.
I’ve chewed contentedly at some
miserable little lemons off a tree at Lake
Nash (Georgina River). They were as
wrinkled and warty as a gin-drinker’s
liver is supposed to be, and on any
market in the city they wouldn’t have
brought 2d. a dozen. But they were a
delight to me in my state of vegetable
starvation.
. Perhaps the best vegetable of the lot
is scurvy grass, sometimes called Boggy-
bri, and perhaps known to botanists as
Commerlina cyanea. It is regarded as a
weed. It grows from Queensland’s coast,
out past the western border. It’s a creep-
“Cuckoo ?”
ing vine with a purple flower, and it
comes prolifically after the wet seasons.
Some men say it’s a sort of spinach. I
don’t know about that; but Ido know
that when men are starved for vegetable
acid it touches the spot quicker than
anything grown in a garden or running
wild on the plains.
It’s no trouble to pick scurvy grass ;
the job is to prepare it. Epicures insist
that the leaves should be taken off
separately and the stalks discarded. Men
in need of its magic take it as it comes,
and throw the lot into the boiling water
in a billy or kerosene tin. And that’s
where a lot of them make a mistake:
the stuff boils away almost to nothing.
A kero, tin, say, of lightly packed leaves
will boil away to about a two-quart billy.
When it’s cooked, and that doesn’t take
long, its preparation is simple: squeeze
it between a couple of dishes to get the
water out of it; the steam rising will
take away other surplus moisture. And
what an unsightly mess it is! It looks
like a green poultice for an ulcered leg,
not a luxury for an empty stomach. But
after you’ve sprinkled it with pepper
and salt, and let the first delicious taste
roll round your mouth, you’d feel con-
tent to die while eating it.
Another peculiarity about Boggybri is
how little it takes to satisfy you, fill the
empty spaces inside, alleviate the long-
ings, supply what was needed. After
about three days, or a week at most, the
man who has been lapping it into him
with gusto will turn with repugnance
from it. His system dictates his tastes:
he has had enough of what that scurvy
grass supplies.
T>ig-weed is good for vegetable hunger,
too. It’s prepared in much the same
way as Commerlina. Only there’s a bit
of a catch about it. There are several
varieties, and an ordinary bushman
doesn’t know one from the other. Some
give a feeling of intense satisfaction;
others cause griping pains ; and some ...
I once saw about 100 hungry sheep
out of a mob of 6000 go mad on acres
of thick pig-weed. They stayed behind
when the rest of the flock moved on;
they were bloated, their legs high in the
air, and they were past caring if the
pig-weed was poisonous or not; they
knew!
HENRY G. LAMOND
RBORIGINALITIES
MOUNTAINEERING—
OUTSIDE-IN
'T'hf. average person’s subterranean ex-
perience is usually an hour’s con-
ducted tour along the concrete paths of
a tourist cave. He then voices the old
claim. “See one and you’ve seen the lot,”
and emerges with a sigh of relief into the
sunlight.
The experienced speleologist, however,
knows that, where caves are concerned,
though all things may seem the same, all
things are different.
Speleology is mountaineering outside-
in, at night. Underground exploration is
a most uncomfortable form of physical
endeavor, yet this conquering of a hostile
environment gives the speleo an enormous
satisfaction.
In the depths of the earth the true
explorer meets beauty and hardship
almost with reverence. The speleo’s aim
is to enjoy the beauty, revel in the struggle,
and to leave the cave as near as possible
to the way he found it. If he must have
souvenirs or mementoes of his caves, he
preserves them on color film taken by
flashlight.
In 1954, 26 French speleologists spent
142 hours underground in the Berger
Chasm in south-east France —a huge cave
with a total depth (vertical), between
entrance and final siphon, of more than
3750 ft. The party, including three women,
traversed 2506 metres of cave and reached
a total depth of 712 metres, remaining
underground for the whole six days.
Except for short rest periods in tents set
up beside the cascading, starless river, the
party worked under extreme conditions of
wet and cold.
By contrast the descent from the top
level of the Jenolan Caves (N.S.W.) to
the river level —where a party from the
Australian Speleological Federation spent
76 hours underground in the Mammoth
Cave endurance test in April—is about
350 ft. Multiply this by ten and you have
the depth of the Berger—not the world’s
deepest cave, but one of the top six.
Austria’s Tantalhohle has the reputa-
tion of being the most difficult cave in


Europe. The cave system is so vast that
it is necessary to camp underground for
several days to reach, and return from,
the remotest parts explored to date. A
copper-sheet and steel-frame hut has been
built inside the cave about 15,000 ft from
the entrance and about a day’s under-
ground journey with equipment. The hut
is kept stocked with tinned foods and
is connected to the surface by permanent
telephone, for this section of the cave is
apt to be cut off from the outside for
several days if heavy rain falls.
One of the delights of caving is the
siphon passage—a U-shaped tunnel the
bottom curve of which can fill with water
after surface rain. The average explora-
tory trip in the Tantalhohle is in the order
of 80 to 90 hours continuously under-
ground—even if the siphon passage
remains dry.
In 1954, the National Speleological
Society of the U.S.A. sent 64 speleos
underground in the Floyd Collins Crystal
Cave, Kentucky, one of the world’s
largest cave systems. Many of the ex-
plorers were underground continuously
for more than 160 hours. Some of the
crawlways, in fact, took up to 14 hours
to pass through. A crawlway is a small
tube through which the explorer at best
can crawl, and more likely has to
“reptate,” snake-fashion.
The Crystal Cave explorers learned
that living underground day after day,
without sighting the familiar, without
seeing the sun rise or set, plunged them
into a state of unreality. Some people
can adjust to such conditions, some
wander about in the cave as relaxed as
a stroller in Main Street; others can
adjust only if some pattern of regularity
is set up.
Lack of such a pattern in long cave
explorations can cause overwhelming
fatigue and frustration in even the
strongest and most experienced cavers.
The dampening-down of external stimu-
lus while underground intense dark-
ness everywhere outside the immediate
circle of your light, silence except for the
noise of your own movements, confusion
of direction and angle, misinterpretation
of dimensions, even difficulty in determin-
ing verticals and relative sizes—after a
long period produces weird physiological
sensations.
Some work is being done in Australia
on this theme, but a great deal of research
into the behavior of the caver himself
needs to be done. The results could tell
us much about the behavior of man in
strange environments.
E.L.
HUNTING CATS
T)id, the white cat, stalks a lark in the
short brown grass. There is a sug-
gestion of power in her advance, in the
immaculate lifting of each paw above
the grass and the exquisitely careful
putting-down of it, in the patience which
permits no more than a wary turning of
the head when the lark, with head and
tail bobbing nervously, runs off 10ft for
no reason at all. Then the lark stands
just too long on one side of a grass
clump with head up, crying “pipit, pipit”
while the cat on the other side of the
grass-clump gathers herself with marvel-
lous deliberation like the measured burn-
ing of a fuse —and the lark is engulfed
like a moth in a burst of flame.
This and the awful accuracy of her
mousing was all that we saw of Bid’s
hunting, so that when the remains of a
half-grown hare or a nearly full-grown
rabbit were found on the lawn in the
morning, Bid was credited with a fine
meal for no more than a short walk, a
half-hour’s patience and a heavy haul
home. But the rigors of her night hunt-
ing became apparent one day when I
stopped my car to watch a wild tomcat
jump a rabbit at the edge of the road.
It was a very big tomcat, brindled,
with narrow stripes running lengthways,
and heavy black tufts of whiskers. He
looked like a surly butcher with a
moustache ; but he moved as lightly as
a fly on a sawdust floor.
It was a very big buck rabbit. It
crouched with its back to the cat, some-
times eating, sometimes scratching its
ears.
The cat collected himself, he trembled,
he leaped and seized the rabbit by the
back of the neck. The rabbit did not
die, or even collapse. It went off like
a jumping cracker. It rolled beneath
the cat. Its vicious hindlegs raked strips
of fur from the cat’s belly. It kicked
and the cat somersaulted, still holding
onto the rabbit. The cat miaowed through
clenched teeth. The rabbit squealed.
Over and over they rolled in a confusion
of scattered fur and raking legs. The
rabbit at last was on its back again. It
doubled and kicked so hard that it lifted
the cat two feet into the air. The rabbit
dived down a hole and the cat landed
on his feet. He walked a few steps
painfully, then sat down. He scratched
behind an ear. He yawned. He began
to scratch his belly. He looked more
than ever like a big surly butcher.
ERIC C. ROLLS
That Was the Country.
Castlemaine (Vic.) has a population
of 5703 and boasts 49 hotels, the statut-
ory number being 11. Lancefield and
Romsey (Vic.) between them carry some
1019 souls, who periodically drain the
beer from 16 hotels. Mt Magnet’s (Wes-
tralia) record: population 286 souls;
number of pubs, six; and until last
month, it ran in addition a wine-and-
beer saloon. Within a radius of six miles
there is an additional population of 300,
with five extra pubs to supply their crav-
ings.— “Bulletin”, April 19, 1906.
Historical Cooktown, the romantic
port of the Far North, is to-day perhaps
the most defunct town on the Australian
seaboard. The battered dwellings, shabby
business-houses, pubs, Government offices,
surplus female population, and super-
fluous Chinese, tell a sad tale of vanished
prosperity. The pearling fleets have gone,
likewise the roaring days of the Palmer,
and tidings of rich finds and black
treachery ring through the streets no
more. The railway —white elephant of
some forgotten Government still sur-
vives, a sorry spectacle in the general de-
cadence. The line runs to Laura (67
miles), where a magnificent iron bridge
carries the rails over the Laura River.
Here the navvies abruptly ceased work,
years back, when the bottom fell out of
the Palmer, and since then the bridge has
lain idle, and looks like a costly monu-
ment in the wilderness. The train makes
the return journey twice a week—passen-
gers or no passengers. The little traffic at
the head of the line is mostly confined to
Chinese packers from Maytown, who
arrive regularly with small quantities and
return with provisions.
— “Bulletin”, November 12, 1908


The Red Page
Meetings with
Max Beerbohm
By NORMAN LINDSAY
Conversation with Max. S. N. Behrman,
Hamish Hamilton. 31s.
It was my rare good fortune to meet
and talk with Max Beerbohm in
London when I was there in 1909-10,
and he talked as he wrote, with a finished
clarity of phrase, and a modulation of
tone which made his talk unforgettable.
This book is a record of Behrman’s
talks with Beerbohm during the last four
years of his life. They took place at his
small house at Rapallo, where he had
lived since his marriage in 1910, only
returning to London at intervals for an
exhibition of his caricatures.
It is clear that Behrman wrote down
the conversations immediately after
leaving Max, as Boswell did after a
session with Johnson.
Words, to Max, were holy things, and
the English language a sacred heritage,
and he had no tolerance for any writer
who violated its ordinances or vulgarised
its idiom, as evidenced in his ruthless
parodies of Kipling and H. G. Wells.
To all the other writers in his “Christmas
Garland” his attitude is one of affec-
tionate malice, such as we all use when
recounting a humorous episode at the
expense of a friend. For Henry James
he had a strong personal affection and a
great admiration for his novels, but to
the end of his life he delighted in
caricaturing James in jibes which are
the subtlest criticism of his shortcomings
as a novelist. In one of these James is
pictured crouching at a bedroom door,
outside which are a pair of man’s boots
and woman’s shoes. That is precisely
just as far as James ever got in any
personal experience of sex.
But he pursued Wells and Kipling with
unrelenting detestation. At the time I
was in London, Wells was on top of
the world as a best - selling novelist
and propagandist of the Socialist
doctrine. I asked Max what he
thought of Wells as a writer, and with
a grimace of disgust he said, “I can’t
bear his style.” But it wasn’t only the
journalistic vulgarian in Wells, with his
crude trick of button-holing a reader with
the heart-to-heart ardor of a street-
corner evangelist that turned Max’s
fastidious stomach ; it was the monstrous
conceit of a third-rate mentality propos-
ing to take over the whole constitution
of mankind and the procedure of
existence and remodel it to a limbo
something worse than present-day Russia
at its worst. In his parody of “Perkins
and Mankind,” and his caricature of the
Spirit of Pure Reason crowning Wells
with a bowler hat as the President of
the New Republic, Max so stung Wells
that he retorted with a feeble caricature
of Max leading a pigmy Max by a piece
of string, with the title of “Max Beer-
bohm and his soul.”
Max’s antagonism to Kipling was of
quite another order from that against
Wells. It was inspired by Kipling’s brash
style, his pose of omnipotence, his big-
drum-banging for the British Empire, his
Oriental obeisance to machinery, and his
small-boy adoration of soldiers. While
all the rest of the world was acclaiming
Kipling as a stark realist who dealt with
life in the raw, Max was the first to detect
that substratum of the feminine in him
which wrote about big tough he-men
with the doting idealism of a lady
novelist of the Ouida type. In his criticism
of a play which dramatised “The Light
that Failed” (one of the silliest sentimen-
tal novels ever written) he affected to
accept Rudyard Kipling to be the
pseudonym of a lady novelist ; a pre-
Freudian deduction far ahead of con-
temporary psychology.
It is interesting, therefore, to find in
Behrman’s “Conversations” that in his
old age, Max developed a bad conscience
about his attacks on Kipling. Behrman
brought them up with a questionnaire,
and for some time Max avoided answer-
ing it. Finally he said of Kipling: “Fie
was a genius, a very great genius, and
I felt that he was debasing his genius
by what he wrote. I couldn’t refrain
from saying so. It went on and on.
Friends of his and mine kepi telling me
that he was pained and shocked by what
I wrote, but I couldn’t stop. You know,
I couldn’t stop. As his publication in-
creased, so did my derogation. He didn’t
stop; I couldn’t stop. I meant to. I
wanted to. But I couldn’t.”
But however ironic or sardonic may
have been Max’s viewpoint on his con-
temporaries, in himself he was the
kindest and most courteous of men. I
had good reason to make that attestation,
for the help and advice he gave me over
handling myself and my works in the
bedevilled publishing world of that era.
I was introduced to him by his friend
Reggie Turner with whom I had dined
the night before at the Odd Volumes
Club, as the guests of Ralph Straus, who
was producing my illustrated edition of
“Petronius.” Turner asked Straus and
myself to lunch next day at the Saville
Club, where I met Max. He seated me
next to him at the lunch table and asked
me what I was doing in London. I told
him of the “Petronius,” and that John
Lane had commissioned me to illustrate
an edition of Oscar Wilde’s poems. Max
said, “Oh, yes, Lane has built his busi-
ness by exploiting young talent. How
much do you think I made out of his
publication of my essays?” I couldn’t
guess, and he said, “Five pounds. I advise
you to get out of Lane’s clutches and go
over to Heinemann, who will treat you
fairly.” I did take that advice later, anc
Max told me of the poor way Lane hac
paid Beardsley for his “Yellow Book’
drawings, and that he had taken posses
sion of his originals, so that Beardsley
had been forced to make a pretence o
borrowing them for an exhibition, a
which they were sold. Lane’s version o;
that to me was that Beardsley had treatec
him very basely in taking and selling
drawings which were Lane’s property.
After lunch, we went to the billiard-
room and sat on one of the high forms sur-
rounding it and talked, and Max intro-
duced me to Will Rothenstein and Henry
Newbolt and G. S. Street, who were play-
ing billiards. It kept puzzling me to try
and account for why Max was paying all
this graceful attention to an unknown
youth from the Antipodes, about whose
work, such as it was, he could have
known nothing. I was more puzzled than
ever when he called Rothenstein over
and said, “Will, I want to introduce you
to a young artist from Australia. His
satyrs, unlike the satyrs of our friend
Sickert, have not been made at the taxi-
dermist’s.”
This pleasing compliment staggered
me, for where the devil could he have
seen one of my satyrs? A thing I had
completely forgotten was that when we
set about producing Hugh McCrae’s
“Satyrs and Sunlight,” with my illustra-
tions, it had been decided to send com-
plimentary copies to Max Beerbohm and
Charles Whibley, as two writers most
representative of English belles lettres.
The book was still being printed when
I left Australia, and I had no notion that
it had arrived in England, as Max never
mentioned it, nor did Whibley, when I
met him later. Whibley is forgotten
today, but in the nineties he had bulked
largely in the literary world as Henley’s
right-hand man on the “Observer,” and
for his essays, which were excellent.
But Max’s reputation is higher than
ever it was in his lifetime. There is no
taint in his prose or outlook of any
“movement” during his era, and his dis-
like of the “intelligentsia” which gener-
ates all such movements is a frequent
theme for his ironic derision. His basic
theme, especially apparent in his cari-
catures, is the timeless theme of Man.
He never caricatured women, but his
curiosity was never sated over revelations
or exposures of the male ego. Whenever
he wrote of individual men he had
known, we see how careful and exact was
his observation of idiosyncratic character.
Finally, Max’s rejection of all personal
publicity during his lifetime, and his
recluse existence at a small seaport on
the Levant, kept curiosity alive in all his
admirers over the conditions under which
he lived and worked and idled and
meditated the long years away. In
Behrman’s witty and admirably written
book we have at last a fascinating presen-
tation of Max’s private life, and a full-
length portrait of Max himself.


BOOKHUNTER
Dept. “I)” Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text hook, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.0., Sydney.
D. H. LAWRENCE MISCELLANY
HARRY T. MOORS
Interpretations of novels and stories, detailed studies
of his verse and discussions of Lawrence as critic,
philosopher, social thinker and prophet - - 43/6
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON MELBOURNE SYDNEY AUCKLAND
Branwell Bronte
The Infernal World of Branwell Bronte.
Daphne Du Maurier. Gollancz. 295. 9d.
I enjoyed reading this book: it is
written well and documented so
unobtrusively that its pace never flags,
and Branwell Bronte is, of course, a
most interesting and complex subject.
However, I suspect that many readers
may find the book intensely irritating
Miss du Maurier admits that a number
of her interpretations of fact are at
variance with the opinions of her pre-
decessors and that is fair enough, but
in some ways her methods are dubious
and thus suspicion is cast upon her thesis.
Her worst fault is her confirmed
allegiance to what Nigel Dennis in a
recent “New Yorker” has termed “The
Mustafelt Method”—no one is better
qualified than Mr Dennis to explain the
title:
Pundits of this school do all the ordinary
research that a decent biography requires,
but fill in any gaps of solid information
with “must haves”; e.g., “As he turned
away liom the desperate van Gogh,
Gauguin must have thought . . .” or,
“Confronted by the woman once destined
to be his bride, St Ignatius of Loyola must
have felt . . .” and so on. This tech-
nique .... not only has enabled the
lightest biography to become heavier, and
the heaviest to become impossible to lift,
it has made it easy for biographers to
pinpoint scores of obscure heroes who once
shrank from definition.
Another “great new tool” of research
according to Mr Dennis is “the highly
developed science of psychology which
enables us to pick up small hints and
expand them into full-size personalities.”
Daphne du Maurier uses both “tools”
hard:
These were the arguments Branwell must
have put to his family, and they were no
doubt accepted as reasonable.
Mrs Robinson —if the poem, which is
undated, was in truth addressed to her—
could read the vapid lines without a blush.
Perhaps the smile, and the mock bow with
which she would return it to the author,
were seized upon as a promise of better
things to come, of a secret understanding
that would make every commonplace
remark hereafter fraught with a double
meaning . . .
, This catalogue of “must haves” could
be elaborated endlessly.
Obviously a certain amount of specu-
lation in a biography of this sort is not
only allowable, but desirable: it is when
the author having presented a “must
have” immediately accepts her conclusion
as fact and upon that fact builds further
argument and speculation that one be-
comes dubious. Much the same allow-
ances have to be made for the device
of expanding small psychological hints
into full-scale theories. If one limits
oneself to the facts given in this book
and ignores most of the “must haves”
one can guess (but it is still only a guess)
at quite different reasons for Branwell
Bronte’s failure than those Miss du
Maurier puts forward.
The publishers claim that Branwell has
hitherto “been unaccountably neglected
by biographers of the period” which is
understandable, for he was the “failure”
among a notable family of “successes”-
a failed personality who would long have
been totally forgotten had he been born
John Smith to an undistinguished and
unremarkable family. But his sisters
were notable and he is genuinely in-
teresting in his own right. During their
childhood years everyone at Haworth
parsonage expected the highest possible
future for Branwell whose early, undisci-
plined brilliance is undeniable. All of
these extraordinary writers served their
literary apprenticeship as children, and
Branwell for a time led and directed
them all, even and especially Charlotte.
No one could omit an assessment of
Branwell’s contribution to the chronicles
of “Angria” from a serious study of the
girls’ work. His art work, in spite of
the fact that for some mysterious reason
he failed to gain his longed - for entry
to the Royal Academy, is by no means
contemptible. His talent as a poet was
pretty minor and, due to the conditions
of his life, fed so inwardly that it had
to wither, for he had no tremendous
inward spiritual source to nourish it ;
but it was a real talent for all that.
He was a small, short-sighted oddity
of a man (not unlike a Beerbohm car-
toon of Swinburne) who devoted much
of his imagination both in childhood and
afterwards to constructing a fantasy
figure, an ideal man, Percy, Earl of
Northangerland, as a mask for himself:
and a swashbuckling, wenching, warlike,
Byronic mask it was. He lived in an age
° f sudden death—not by war but by
disease — and the deaths of his family,
close friends, and not least of his mother
at an early age affected him terribly,
Parson Bronte was no Barrett of Wim-
P°^ e Street, but his God was a primitive-
Methodist God and his devil a primitive-
Methodist Satan and Hell was real Hell
to him ; although given all that, he was
a l° v *ng father who tried to be under-
standing and broad-minded—this at least
1S Daphne du Maurier’s picture of him.
it seems to me that Branwell Bronte
suffered chiefly from the time and place
of his birth: one can imagine that, in
London of the Yellow Book period and
c i rc i e , he might have attained the minor
celebrity he undoubtedly merited in his
own right. Whatever his personal and
psychological oddities were they might
have seemed less peculiar to outsiders
and i ess distressing to himself in such
a milieu as in a present-day city. In
anv event from the evidence of this
book it seems that many people outside
his own close circle had no idea of the
severity of his addictions to laudanum
and alcohol or of his alleged appalling
( and still mysterious) wickednesses It is
a sad > distressing tale and in setting the
book aside one feels almost that one
ought to apologise to Branwell s shade
f° r feeling that the appropriate phrase
is “Poor little man” when he would so
much have wished one to have said,
“How are the mighty fallen!”
NAMCY KEESING
Ronan Rides Again
Only a Short Walk. Tom Ronan. Cassell.
19s 6d.
HTom Ronan’s new novel is presumably
based on fact, since there have been
quite a few sinister bush characters who
have been what he calls “occupational
murderers,” wandering around the out-
back and making a living by killing
travellers, swaggies, etc. Mr Ronan says
that it is founded on research at the
Commonwealth Library. But it is, for
all that, unconvincing.
One reason for that is the deliberate
coarseness of phrasing and characterisa-.
tion which also marred, though it did not
destroy, Tom Ronan’s scarifying picture
of a cattleman in “Moleskin Midas.”
There he had the excuse that he was por-
traying a very coarse character who,
within his limits, if you didn’t take him
to be typical of all cattlemen, was fairly
convincing ; but none of the characters
in “Only a Short Walk”—even the mur-
derer —really seems particularly crude,
and the coarseness of the light in which
they move (if the term is permissible)
damages their credibility.
I don't know where Mr Ronan picked
up this literary device —-“Brighton Rock”?
“Love Me Sailor”? —but it really won’t
do. People don’t go around spitting on
cockroaches all the time —it is a very


difficult feat. And no barrister defend-
ing a murderer would dream of making
the most horrible allegations of homo-
sexuality, for which everybody in the
court knows there is no foundation,
against a constable giving evidence: the
more so since the accusation is entirely
irrelevant. No judge would permit it if
the barrister did try it. So where is the
reality of Mr Ronan’s court case, the
climax, so far as it has a climax, of his
novel?
Another reason for the lack of convic-
tion in the book is Mr Ronan’s obvious
departure from whatever facts he may
have studied: his lumbering attempts to
make the standard detective-story humor
out of the blunders and triumphs of the
young constable ; his over-dramatisation
of the plain-clothes sergeant who keeps
writing out his resignation when the case
seems to get difficult (actually no case
could be easier); and his childish pretence
that the witness who was practically on
the scene of the principal murder thought
that the sound of the murderer’s gun was
a match being struck. It is pretty hard
to believe, too, the picture of his tough,
inarticulate bush murderer quivering with
terror in a dive in Singapore when he
tries to make his getaway —psychologic-
ally it may be possible, but it needs
proving.
Finally there is an air of unreality
about the whole thing because of Mr
Ronan’s attempts to whip up suspense all
the way through when no suspense is
possible. It is not a mystery novel —the
murderer is known from the start —and
suspense could turn only on the mur-
derer’s fear of being caught. Since Mr
Ronan has him practically mindless and
confident even in his trial that he will
escape, there is no suspense.
Somehow, if they have minds, or if you
could turn the suspense on their victims,
or if you made a proper mystery story
of it, there ought to be a readable novel
in these bush murderers, but this is not
it. One can only hope that Mr Ronan,
who has great powers in describing bush
atmosphere and bush characters, wrote
“Only a Short Walk” merely as a pot-
boiler ; and that next time he will take
a much longer walk.
D.S.
Should We Care About Garbage?
You and Your Council. Ruth Atkins.
Law Book Co., 4s. 6d. A Cuckoo in
the Mayor's Nest. Ron Luke. Law
Book Co. ss. The Structure of
Local Government in England and
Wales. W. Eric Jackson. Longmans.
455.
"IX/hen one day the decline of the
’* utopian ideal of rational citizenship
is analysed a curious phenomenon will
be noted: the rationalists have found
their firmest bulwark in works dealing
with the greatest and the smallest units
of politics—in world government and
local government.
Leaving aside world government, the
argument about local government usually
runs like this: if there is no interest in
this field where the rational and active
citizen can successfully operate in a small
area on small issues, then how can the
conventional theory of democracy be
saved? The answer has been clear for
many years: There is no interest, and the
orthodox view is just plain wrong.
American writers, who do not have to
pretend that politics at the local level
can be carried out without machines or
“corruption,” have long ago left behind
these naive perspectives; British and
Australian ones stick to them.
It is for this reason, and not because
local politics are inherently uninteresting,
that works on local government largely
remain reference books and must be
appraised as such. On this perfectly
legitimate level, two of the three books
under review do an excellent job. Mr
Jackson’s work has long been recognised
as full of information, and this fourth
and completely re-written edition brings
it right up to date.
Miss Atkins’ 32-page booklet is pre-
cisely what it claims to be: “an informa-
tion booklet” which answers “some of
the usual questions about local councils,
their work and their possibilities.” It
gives the basic information about
N.S.W. very lucidly indeed. But even
she could not resist penning three pages
on “The Citizen and Local Govern-
ment” which contain such thrilling infor-
mation on the part you can play in local
council affairs as that you can “attend a
council meeting.... learn what council
does....take an active interest in local
elections” and so on. Though she is
pretty careful (“you may wish to
1earn....,” “there might be less to com-
plain about” if you did learn more about
councils) it might also turn out that the
more you did learn the more there might
be to complain about.
She gives no evidence that councils
would work “more effectively and more
wisely if they have behind them an alert
and interested public.” To the extent
that alertness and interest did exist, the
“effective” working of councils might be
upset. It is only because many people
cannot be bothered to organise and
become interested that the show can
carry on at all. A strong dose of apathy
is essential to the functioning of our
system.
However, all this is being unfair to
Miss Atkins. Even if one sometimes feels
rather irritated by her brand of civic-
mindedness, and sees not the slightest
reason why one should want to clutter
one’s mind with knowing “where and
how the garbage and waste from your
area is disposed of” it needs to be stressed
that she has done an excellent job of
compression. For those who do want to
ask questions about councils the formal
answers are here.
Mr Ron Luke’s booklet deals with the
lighter side of local government. It is
impossible, in principle, to review
humorous books: no general points can
be made, and it seems silly to announce
that one’s personal sense of humor does
or does not coincide with that of the
author. So an extract must suffice :
“Persons desiring to install petrol pumps
on any land must secure council’s per-
mission. Council, of course, gets the
good oil per medium of the time-honored
parish pump.”
But, perhaps, in many ways while
there is much less formal information in
Mr Luke’s book than in the other two,
a careful reading would tell you a little
more about what makes local politics tick.
HENRY MAYER
Calypso Cricket
With the West Indies in Australia, 1960-
61. A. G. (“Johnnie”) Moyes. Angus
and Robertson. 255.
■possißLY the choicest of all the cricket
■*- commentators on the Australian air,
not only because he knows acutely what
he is talking about but also because he
projects a personality which is wonder-
fully fair and firm and affectionate,
“Johnnie” Moyes has been able to make
several valued contributions to cricket
literature in his time.
His books on Bradman, for instance,
and his collected snapshots of great
cricketers of the past are both basic works
of cricket reference. But, unhappily, the
same cannot be said of his 200-page
coverage of the recent West Indies tour
of Australia, a rushed work in which
Johnnie’s command of written English
frequently collapses under the demands
made upon it by the most sensationally
colorful cricket events of modern times.
Evidence that the book was hustled to-
gether as the season went along is con-
tained in such things as the thumbnail
sketches of the Calypso players at the
beginning where, in introducing bowler
Alf Valentine, Johnnie says that “if he
can regain his form, Alf could be a
tremendous asset to the side.” A book
reviewing a tour should not contain such
speculation ; the tour itself, seen in retro-
spect, gives the answer whether Alf re-
gained his form and whether he was an
asset.
The book includes the score sheet for
every game of the tour, each match being
covered with descriptive matter in which
the author is soon through a small reper-
toire of adjectives—“lovely,” “superb,”
“superlative”—and he works them over
and over again, sometimes so losing belief
in the force of the simple adjective itself
that he has to prop it up with “really”—
“he looked really good,” “a really brilliant
catch, “a really distinguished piece of
work.”
It is a disappointment that the im-
mediacy of events goes out of his
method of conversational reportage when
it is committed to print. Events are
recorded ; their life and color are rarely
there. Now and again the enlivening
phrase comes along to lift the style to a
point to titillate the reader —Benaud and
Davidson, batting towards the thrilling tie
in the Brisbane test, had “as few nerves
as a false tooth.” But far too many of the
images, few as they are, fail to escape
fustian. “Sobers,” we learn, “wore the
purple robes as one of the kings of the
batting art.” Halcyon days get a men-
tion, too.
There are some curious omissions. Off-
spinner Lance Gibbs is given a more or


less kindly rebuke for displaying ill-feel-
ing when umpiring decisions went against
him. Rohan Kanhai’s shocking exhibi-
tion of petulance, when given out in the
Adelaide Test, isn’t mentioned at all.
Indeed, it might be said of the book as
a whole that the essential character and
personality of the players are not really
projected ; the names are there and what
was done is recorded against those names,
but the essence of the doers and their
deeds nowhere leaps up from the printed
words.
LINDSEY BROWNE
Tailors and Others
Breakaway Unions and the Small Trade
Union. Shirley W. Lerner. Allen and
Unwin. 41s. 6d.
“Solidarity for ever” must be the
ideology of trade union and socialist
movements. They must believe in the
existence of at least a potentially united
working-class, whose actual internal
conflicts are artificial, secondary and
temporary.
Flesh and blood workers agree on
some things and differ on others. To
point this out and ask for empirical
investigation of just how much solidarity
and diversity on given issues existed
among the proletariat was not to offer
anything very dramatic. There was much
more appeal in making speeches about
“the workers of the world”—so long as
you could add that any particular group
of workers who might threaten the
interests of those whom you talked for
were to be excluded. The Chinese, say,
just did not make the grade as brothers.
It was fine, too, in the 1920’5, to talk of
One Big Union, especially if you were in
the A.W.U., which fancied itself as the
big fish predestined to swallow the
minnows in the name of unity.
Dr Lerner’s book of four case studies
throws considerable light on what hap-
pens to “union solidarity” in practice.
She deals with the battle of a small,
militant, anti-Communist union against
the big general unions and the T.U.C.;
with the T.U.C.’s role in settling jurisdic-
tional disputes ; with the story of the
Communist breakaway tailors’ union ;
and with fission and fusion among the
Post Office Engineers.
The stories themselves are very com-
plex. This is no bedside reading, but
Dr Lerner has managed to give enough
human detail to put flesh on the bones.
The conflicts she recounts are not traced
to a single factor. Assumed solidarity
was upset by regional, religious, political
and occupational differences. She points
out that internal stresses are a function
of complexity which is bound to increase.
She is torn between a belief that soli-
darity is a good thing and a desire to
preserve the rights of individuals and
occupational groups within the unions.
She sometimes tends to be rather naive,
as when noting that in any union—or
other big institution —there is a conflict
between the demands of the leaders who
are interested in maintaining “the
union” as a powerful body and are thus
committed to trying to maintain nation-
wide rules and the demands of the
Worker on the spot interested in a rapid
settlement and his relative wage. “That
these two attitudes can conflict indicates
that there is something radically wrong,
for the maintenance of union power and
the solution to workers’ grievances are in
the last resort dependent on each other.”
This nicely begs the question as to what
sort of “union power” is to be main-
tained and how. For one of the most
striking things Dr Lerner brings out is
precisely that “workers’ grievances” are
very often directed against some aspect
of “union power” as much as they are
against “the bosses.”
“Breakaway Unions” contains a great
deal of material showing that minorities
within the union movement must fight not
only against their own union but also
against the Labor press, the T.U.C. and,
most importantly, the employers whether
private or public. The latter want
stability, peace and “no trouble,” and
have as little interest in minority rights
as such as all other members of the
establishment. In England Dr Lerner
shows the government has consistently
discriminated against small and break-
away unions. In Australia the whole
arbitration system is heavily loaded
against them.
It is therefore not merely a question
of an abstract dispute about the theoreti-
cal foundations of unity or diversity.
Big unions, administrators and
employers do everything to make the job
THREE POEMS
HOME OF MERCY
By Walter Lehmann
By two and two the ruined girls are
walking
At the neat margin of the convent
grass
Into the chapel, counted as they pass
By an old nun who silences their
talking.
They smooth with roughened hands
the clumsy dress
That hides their ripening bodies.
Memories burn
Like incense as towards plaster saints
they turn
Faces of mischievous children in
distress.
They kneel: time for the spirit to
begin
With prayer its sad recourse to dream
and flight
From the intolerable week-day rigor.
Each morning they will launder, for
their sin,
Sheets soiled by other bodies, and at
night
Angels will wrestle them with brutish
vigor.
FLYING FROM EUROPE
Six-thousand feet below, the fugue of
time
Unweaves. An army perished on this
plain.
Trapped without refuge. Now the
shuddering grain
Kindles above old weapons. Houses
climb.
Grip hard to climbing hills, nor does
the snow
Halt them, until horizon-cracking
peaks
Rise, pledged to a solitude that speaks
In whispers to tormented men below.
Sunset, like one’s lost life, is rich, is
gone.
This has to be, this must be, let it be.
Earthbound in dying light my sorrow
brings
Southward a changeling face grown
cruel upon
Europe. We fly too late, too high to
see
Saints and great miracles, the glint of
kings.
CARPE DIEM
“Carpe diem!” Your voice attests
This charity of solitude,
Ours as we like to use or waste.
You wait for me. This'moment rests
Like a dry wafer on my tongue.
It is my future that I taste.
Still between kiss and eyelid fall
There’s time to change, to turn this
day
Into unrealised regret.
Tasted and known, you will be all,
An everlasting hunger in
My body that will not forget.
Half-drunken with “At last!” the mind
Performs fantastic pantomimes
Of thought, conjures away tomorrow,
Hunts through its bag of tricks to find
Illusion’s water-into-wine,
Dissolves in smoke all future sorrow,
And prompts my sober tongue to try
Words unrehearsed, as if in cool
Mastery of intended pleasure:
“Carpe diem, my dear one, lie
Light in my arms and on my life.”
Far beyond memory or measure
Stretches the time of grief that I
Still, this one moment, might escape,
While my true tongue that has not
learned
Lying, and will not learn to lie,
Steadfast and dumb waits on my word.
I give my body to be burned.


Of people who have an anti-status quo
view in the unions more difficult. And
... . , . ,
yet, diversity, a refusal to become the
tool of an abstract “solidarity,’’ will
persist
A mono Dr T erner’s manv examnles
Among ur cerners many examples
one should pick out Mr X. Elected by
his Communist Tailors’ Union as a dele-
gate to a Moscow May Day romp, he
soon found his union executive severely
criticised by Moscow for having selected
a man: a woman delegate would be more
“proletarian.” The executive accepted
this as good “proletarian self-criticism”
and elected a woman. But:
Mr X. did not consider this as good
“proletarian self-criticism”; he was a
proletarian and he did not criticise himself
{ or havin | been f. ect .? d - f , elt , that . sin ?S
he was democratically elected, he should
go. Therefore, he denounced the Executive
Board’s plan to send a woman. When he
was informed that this was the Party’s
policy, he denounced the Communist Party.
His friends jn the union ra]lied to his
support and they all began to criticise the
Executive Board . . . and the Communist
Party-
. end . and others left to
1 a un i° n -
So long as men wifi persist in standing
u tbeir minor’ differences with
their bosses, whether these be unions,
governments or employers, there is some
hope left.
H.M.
“Greatest Living Irishwoman”
Lady Gregory. Elizabeth Coxhead.
Macmillan. 495. 9d.
A ugusta Gregory is remembered now
rather as a person in W. B. Yeats’s
poetry than as a person in her own right.
It was her son, Robert Gregory, whose
death as an airman elicited a fine elegy
from the poet. It was her house at Code
Park (three miles from Gort) in which
the poet lived and wrote, and Code
figures in many of his poems. It was her
knowledge of peasant speech and folk-
lore which helped Yeats in his prose and
plays and some poems.
If it is not survival through our interest
in Yeats that she has seemed reduced to,
it is survival through the reminiscences
of George Moore and Oliver St John
Gogarty, neither of whom is an utterly
reliable witness.
Elizabeth Coxhead, an English novelist,
has tried to rescue Lady Gregory from
this kind of survival at one remove. She
feels that the person whom Bernard
Shaw praised as a dramatist with a talent
like that of Moliere, and esteemed as a
fighter for good causes sufficiently to
call her “the greatest living Irishwoman,”
is too significant to be thus neglected.
She will probably succeed only to a
slight degree in directing interest again
to Lady Gregory’s writings as one of
the principal performances in the Irish
literary renaissance. Unfortunately, Lady
Gregory's chief talent was as an accom-
plished maker of one-act plays for the
Abbey Theatre. Almost all dramatic
work is highly perishable, and one-acters
are the least apt to sustain a reputation,
even though some may stay in the
repertory of amateurs for a while yet.
Above all she was a good fighter (but
not a virago), true to herself and her
friends. She displeased the Ascendancy
to which she belonged by her sympathy
with Irish nationalism and her hob-
nobbing with the Catholic people of all
grades. She was distrusted by the extreme
Irish nationalists and attacked by the
more wowserish Catholic pietists for the
racy freedom and realism of her plays.
She did more than anyone to organise
and guide the Abbey Theatre through its
great and fruitful and embattled years.
She fought unsparingly to get England
to give up the Lane collection of pictures
but in vain ; for England, so often
fair to others, has never managed to show
much fair play to Ireland. She fought
for Sean O’Casey against the disapproval
of the Government representative when
the Abbey Theatre became State-sup-
ported. She stuck to what she was, what
she wanted, what she believed —down to
her death-bed reply to her Catholic
nurses’ attempt at last-minute proseletys-
ing: “Never!”
Elizabeth Coxhead has composed a
good readable portrait, not clogged by
excessive detail, sympathetic but not
gushing or over-partisan. It makes agree-
able reading for anyone who has even
a small interest in the personalities of
Ireland’s flowering-time.
JAMES McAULEY
Marilyn
Marilyn Monroe. Maurice Zolotow.
W. H. Allen. Australian price, 375. 3d.
TPhe interesting thing about Bing
Crosby’s autobiography was that, far
from being a hoodlum who made good,
he had had a Jesuit schooling and always
won the prizes for recitation ; so it is
not surprising to find a little more than
the famous calendar-nude study behind
Marilyn Monroe’s rise to fame.
Not that she had a Jesuit upbringing.
Daughter of a woman of Scots and Irish
ancestry and a Norwegian, she was
started on a round of adoptions at the
age of five when her mother, a Holly-
wood film-cutter, went insane. A star
boarder alarmed her in one of her
adoptive homes, but otherwise all she
missed was family kindness, a father—
for which reason she always calls her
husbands “Daddy”—and a feeling of
being someone important, to which Mr
Zolotow ascribes her dream of appearing
naked before the admiring world.
Nor was she studious in the ordinary
sense ; but it is surprising to find that
among her effects when she was moving
from one flat to another in the days
when she was scratching for a living
were some 200 books, and especially
surprising when you read how easily she
is bowled-out at press interviews by ques-
tions about well-known books. But then,
she is not a critic, she is a specialist, and
specialists look in literature for them-
selves. She was found studying anatomy
because, she said, sex lay in the disposi-
tion of bones. When she got her first
contract as a starlet, she studied avidly
every course the studios offered young
actors.
The copious section of photographs
shows her as a bride of 16 and as a
hopeful model at 19. The difference
between these pictures of a very ordinary-
looking face and the picture of her as
a model at 20 are hard to credit. But
the point is, that there must be many
millions of girls of her appearance at
19, and at least millions of her appearance
at 20, who never become the pin-up girls
of a nation, let alone the sex symbol of
the world.
The difference must therefore be not
in the body but in the mind. Zolotow
repeats one word about her effect on
people ; she is “incandescent.” It is a
blinding effect which, he repeats also,
she can turn on like a tap. Before she
is photographed she will make the
cameraman wait while she turns it on.
She has mastered the idea that sexual
attraction is an illusion, and she has
made the production of that illusion her
business.
The book is interesting because it
brings out such points. Another con-
cerns the degree to which a film-actor
can be said to act. The question is
generally brushed aside: everything
depends on the director. But in this
book we see Miss Monroe in the studio
with her early acting - coach, Natasha
Lytess, Reinhardt-trained, and her later
acting-coach. Paula Strasberg, of the
New York Method school, on the side-
lines. After each scene, Miss Monroe
looks over to the coach. If the coach
shakes her head Miss Monroe demands
that the scene be shot again. And she
will insist on retake after retake even
if the director says that he was perfectly
satisfied six takes ago. Moreover, her
acting becomes a conspiracy between her
and her coach against the director. If
the director likes this very little, her
fellow actors like it less. Miss Monroe
has more stamina than they have, and
thus if an actor does well in an early
scene at her expense, he is liable to be
getting worse, retake by retake, as she
improves.
The book shows her thus to be much
more clever than, perhaps, she would
like the public to believe ; and it makes
some effort to assess rather than flatter
her. If her second husband, the base-
baller and businessman De Maggio,
could not get on with her it was not
that he was unreasonable; he merely
wanted to live a normal, regular life.
It is amusing to see how Zolotow builds
up the marriage to Arthur Miller, the
playwright. He shows Miller unable to
write a play to his own satisfaction, then
gradually dropping all his own interests
to look after the Monroe career, vetting
her publicity stills, pasting up her scrap-
book. It is clear that the book was to
end on a note of “Why shouldn't he?”
and with a blessing on this curious
marriage. Then bang goes the news of
the Miller - Monroe separation and
Zolotow has to add on an Epilogue.
RONALD McCUAIG


Shows
Message from
Heidelberg
Galileo. Sydney Independent.
Peer Gynt. National Institute of
Dramatic Art, Sydney.
The Student Prince. Sydney Tivoli.
Astronomer Galileo and care-dodger
Peer Gynt would have saved them-
selves a good deal of trouble if they
had had access to a simple truth that
every student of Heidelberg knows
that it’s love that makes the world go
round, and anything else stops it dead.
This higher learning of Heidelberg, as
it is communicated by Sigmund Rom-
berg’s “Student Prince,” could have
THEATRE
spared great Galileo the
pangs of fretting a life-
time away to prove that
the world goes round at
all, and Peer Gynt the wastage of kid-
ding himself that lifetimes are for going
round the world always on the run
from responsibility, scruple and any such
thing as love which might deprive him
of possession of self.
But, misguided as these two non-
Heidelbergers might have been, a decided
inclination to be German —Durer-style
German—was evident in the strong, hard
and heavy-whiskered portrait of the Pisa
scientist by actor Edward Hepple in
Brecht’s vignetted “Galileo” at Sydney
Independent on Wednesday, and no one
could have mistaken the severely German
production climate in which producer
John Tasker obliged Ibsen’s romancing
scoundrel to live during the N.I.D.A.
“Peer Gynt” at the University of N.S.W.
on Thursday. But, for all that German-
ising pressure on them, they couldn’t get
the Heidelberg message which came along
in lavender and mothballs with the Mel-
bourne National Theatre Movement’s
“Student Prince” at Sydney Tivoli on
Friday.
, Here, in this last, with stage sets having
cautious fun with the idea of dripping
candy down on to Romberg’s marzipan
melodies and a useful cast hard at its
eternal study of beer and moonshine and
the poignant loneliness of- being royal,
the world-spinning powers of love were
at last expounded—and, if that was not
enough, there was proof also that aristo-
crats can be charming to common girls
(“Galileo” argued the other way) and
that only the higher demands of noble
duty force men to abandon Their
inamoratas (“Peer Gynt” protested less
elegant reasons).
It wasn’t a bad sort of “Prince,” if you
gloss over any questions as to why it
should be revived at all, and the Story
°f a royal love for an innkeeper’s
daughter tumbled along traditionally in
its mood of “poor man’s Mayerling.”
But not even the telescope that got
Galileo into such soul-crushing bother
with the church of his time could have
been of much help in finding stars in
this “Prince.”
John Larsen cut a pleasant Scandi-
navian-looking figure as the prince
released for a little time from lonely court
etiquette—but his whole demeanor, after
he appeared in what looked like a grass-
green blazer for a start, was rather that
of a grammar school head-prefect. Wist-
fulness quite eluded the Kathie of Nance
Rasmussen, whose address and vivacity
were those of a principal boy of panto-
mime. Colin Croft had impressive pro-
fessional attack in his peevish pomposi-
ties as the prince’s valet, keen to see
Luna Park in other people’s toothy smiles
and to suspect that a flunkey with right
arm up has mixed starch with his
deodorant.
The orchestra, under Eric Clapham, did
not come up to scratch in one sense ; it
certainly came up to scratch in the other.
The choruses had some fine moments,
and did massed mark-time to their own
march rhythms and collectively swayed
the hips when waltzes were in the air.
Here was the message of Heidelberg,
indeed, and baritone Ormonde Douglas
as the old tutor in the gloaming of his
years, proved to be a successfully senti-
mental custodian for it. Much of the rest
reminded us too keenly that Heidelberg,
after all, is a Melbourne suburb.
The message of old Heidelberg that
students’ rooms are full of steins instead
of text books was quite ignored out at
Sydney’s Kensington university, where
students of the National Institute of
Dramatic Art made their often fascinat-
ing, always original attack on the prob-
lems set for them by the Ibsen classic —
that “reckless and formless” work which
Ibsen wrote when he, like Peer, was down
in Italy on the run from the suspicions
of his own Gyntish second-rateness which
Norwegian critics had given him at home.
John Tasker, as producer, had the
thoroughly sensible idea of decking out
his stage.in packing cases and raw-timber
platforms and letting the talk and the
costumes and the lights create the
picturesque illusion. If a producer has
to economise in stage decoration it is
always a better idea to show the
economies boldly and frankly and make
an artistic virtue of them, instead of try-
ing to conceal them with seamy make-
shifts in the hope that some small per
centage of the Cecil B. de Mille touch
might get through to the audience.
I found the attack of these students
on the play entirely gripping. The pro-
duction and their contribution to it had
pace and integration—and in such scenes
as Aase’s death and Peer’s election to
the emperorship of a rope-ribbed lunatic
asylum there was extraordinary vividness.
A certain shouting quality and a too
rapid brand of talk, the first creating
echoes in which the second was smudged,
were intermittently disconcerting.
Douglas Hall sustained the long and
testing role of the Mitty, whose dreams
come true, with remarkable skill and
variety of feeling. But for that habit of
trying to drive his lines too hard,
especially when Peer was a scallywag
boy, he kept the role attractively alive —
and his portraits of the smugly racketeer-
ing Peer of middle-age, full of pride about
his full ownership of self, and of the
black-habited Peer of old age, full of dis-
may at the discovery that self is nothing
and he a nobody, were highly persuasive.
But among all his adventures with
mountain demons and international
adventurers and a very seductive Anitra
(Dalvern Thom) during his masquerade
as a turbaned prophet of the Sahara,
nothing amused the audience more than
his bland account of his money-making
in China—he exported idols every
autumn and he exported missionaries
every spring.
Poor , old Galileo Galilei (1564-1642),
for all his ingenuity with pendulums and
telescopes and the laws of bodies in
motion, could find no such ready formula
for both offending the church and appeas-
ing it without damage to himself. Brecht’s
play, a dozen scenes as a cross-section
through the life of one of history’s
supreme seekers of truth, dispassionately
examines the life course of this man who,
under threat of torture from the Inquisi-
tion, disowned his own discoveries about
the solar system and reaffirmed scriptural
theory about the earth as centre of all.
It is powerful writing. The inference
which Brecht wishes to be drawn from it
is a bitter one. His “hero” is painted as
one of history’s contemptible cowards, a
wicked halter of human enlightenment.
Brecht, of course, shares the universal
human failing of expecting other people
to be brave enough to sacrifice life to
principle. It is so easy to be spendthrift
with other people’s lives. But the play’s
Galileo is surely worth hearing when,
hard and wise, he proclaims—“better a
tainted hand than an empty one!”
Doris Fitton’s production was coherent
and plausible, intermittently dragging. Of
the assorted cardinals Robert McDarra
was quite impressive; he had prelate
presence, and knew how to project the
pride and elevation of office without the
stuck-on arrogance which was evident
in Jeremy Muir-Smith’s cardinal and, to
a lesser extent, Brian Tapply’s.
Brecht himself, of course, wouldn’t
have approved of “The Student Prince”
any more than he approved of Galileo.
Brought up in the habit of being waited
on and of giving orders to servants,
Brecht would have found Prince Karl-'
Franz quite lacking in guts not to share
the Brechtian attitude to the upper crust
—“I did not like the people of my own
class . . . and joined the common people.”
But Prince Karl-Franz could have sung
away the discomfiture of it well enough ;•
after all, he wasn’t as uppity with the
common people as some kings are.
LINDSEY BROWNE


What’s in a Name?
Jones-Roberts Exhibition. Gallery A,
Melbourne.
lan Sime, David Rose Exhibition. Argus
Gallery, Melbourne.
What’s in a name? “Number One”;
“Parturition of Anti-matter”; “Number
Two”; “Gravid Familiar”; “Number
Three”; “Stop One: Around”; “Number
Four”; “Suppurant Ferry” . . . and so on.
Two Melbourne artists were respon-
sible for the above: Gareth Jones-
ART
Roberts for the uncomplicated
numbers (the abstract studies
and landscapes he is exhibiting
at Gallery A); lan Sime for
the rest, surrealistic abstracts and their
like, at the Argus Gallery).
If somehow the catalogues got
switched and in the confusion we
imagined we were looking at Mr Sime’s
“Number One” when in fact it was “Par-
turition of Anti-matter” would our
appreciation of that work suffer? I
believe that it is high time artists like
Sime, who go in for literary allusions,
came out from behind their obscuratanist
verbiose bushes and declared their inten-
tions. Otherwise the suspicion will be
that Ern Malley, disguised in a new
language, is on the rampage once more.
Without really knowing what Mr Sime
is up to all I can say of his exhibition
of 33 paintings, categorised as “Map and
Memory of a Daedalian Past,” “The
Second Coming of Anti-matter,” “The
Cold Finger of Tibs Eve” and “Knowing
at the Fingers’ End,” is that the artist
possesses a particularly strong sense of
the dramatic potential of color, that he
exploits this capacity vigorously and that
his literary vocabulary would seem to
exceed his painter’s by no mean distance.
Jones-Roberts, and Sime’s coexhibitor,
David Rose, being somewhat more down
to earth, present fewer difficulties. In oils
like “Rock Landscape” and watercolor
landscapes of the “Number Three” and
“Number Four” variety Jones-Roberts
evokes sharply the spirit of his subject-
matter and allows it to force its own
forms. The appeal is to the senses rather
than to the head and the result, though
lacking in the intellectual tension of a
Sime, has the compensating quality of a
gentle, yet vibrantly alive, lyricism.
He appears to be taking up a position
which recalls the work of Clifton Pugh
(see especially “Swamp Landscape,”
“Night Birds in Flight” and “Fighting
Birds”), working from the point where
formalised realism departs and pure
abstraction takes over.
David Rose unashamedly pays homage
to Picasso, Matisse and other modern
masters in his screen-prints, drawings
and oils. These deal mainly with the
human figure and here and there (34, 24)
his talent for organising shapes against
dramatically realised backgrounds makes
us forget the obvious defects in his
painter’s equipment.
A. S. Jorgensen
Daryl Hill Exhibition. Brisbane John-
stone Gallery.
This show of 70-odd oils and water-
colors is of no recognisable school or
style, not in itself a bad thing. But as
I see it I imagine myself the sole sur-
vivor of a plane crash in Outer Mongolia
with no map or compass and totally
ignorant of the language, if any.
The work goes away back aeons ago
beyond Lascaux and Altamira to the
twilight of man’s perceptions. To me it
seems pure Rivegauchisme, intelligible
only, if at all, in terms of left-bank argot.
These huge daubs of impasto color have
no relation to any method of human
communication that I know of. This
kind of art is known in the French press
as tachisme or stainism, and art brut or
crude art, in the sense of unripe or
unfinished.
But art should have at least two func-
tions which transcend such crudity : the
purely sensuous appeal and the intel-
lectual. Besides craft, however good,
there must be some adult significance.
Otherwise Goya and Rembrandt have
lived in vain.
The best that can be said of this work
is that it is full of color, which is never
discordant, in huge polychromatic
patches, and that the brushwork is
experienced. Apart from that it does
nothing for me except that in one or
two works there are faint intimations
of reality but not, alas, of immortality.
Curiously enough Hill has given
realist titles to his pictures, but if some
prankster had scrambled the titles and
numbers it would not have made the
slightest difference. There may be a
place and future for these somnambulist
efforts (and I have never been hostile
to innovation and novelty), but 1 am too
dull to see them, I am afraid.
J. V Duhig
Norman Lindsay Etchings. National
Gallery.
Judy Cassab. Macquarie Galleries.
Sydney has been having a lively
enough week in art, but the Norman
Lindsay show does not scintillate as it
should for the simple reason that the
Gallery owns only about 25 of his 201
etchings, with few of his greatest pieces
among them ; while the Judy Cassab
show on the whole was more a struggle
than an achievement.
Miss Cassab's struggle is simply that
of a vigorous realistic painter trying to
find a new statement through abstraction.
She emerges to quite a variety of distinct
achievements: in pure abstraction, as in
“Brown Abstract”; in semi-abstraction
as in her powerful tumbledown “Town-
ship” ; in her lighter, more graceful semi-
abstract gouaches. But her “Mountains”
are big slabs of paint rather than either
abstract forms or genuinely massive
mountains ; her harsh and cramped
“Mirage” conveys no feeling of desert
color and space ; her “Red Abstract,”
presumably a desert landscape, is like a
Clifton Pugh without the interest of
Pugh’s wild-life —in general, it is a
struggle.
The Norman Lindsay etchings were
mostly presented to the National Gallery
by Mrs Lindsay and by Mr B. J. Water-
house. They are, of course, worth see-
ing ; the show closes on June 1.
Judy Cassab is replaced today (Wed-
nesday) by a Lloyd Rees show at the
Macquarie ; and also opening today is
an exhibition by Robert Hughes at the
Clune Galleries.
D.S.
Mencken and the Monkeys
Inherit the Wind. Sydney Embassy.
This film is a characteristic essay in
the simplification and softening of a
great argument for great audiences of
opposed persuasions. Both sides are
shown to be human, sincere and religious,
each in its own way. Right, somehow,
triumphs, but not too triumphantly.
The co-authors of the stage-play from
which this film is derived disclaimed any
effort to follow the Monkey Trial closely:
FILMS
yet the main outlines and
people are those of the Day-
ton evolution case, and there
is no doubt that Frederic
March represents William Jennings
Bryan, the backblocks Fundamentalist
Senator, and that Spencer Tracy repre-
sents Darrow, the great lawyer and
defender of seemingly impossible causes.
Tracy and March are beyond criticism,
and there are a few moments, when
Darrow is examining Bryan on his belief
that everything in creation happened
exactly as the Bible said it happened,
when the force of Tracy’s acting is quite
overwhelming. Kramer’s production,
too, with its small-town Fundamentalists
singing and marching in procession
against the young schoolteacher who
wants to teach his class that men are
descended from monkeys, is even and
unemphatic and without any producer-
gimmicks except the spirituals that make
a theme-song under the beginning and
ending of the film.
But the greatest figure at the real trial
was not Darrow and not Bryan, but
H. L. Mencken. Mencken had more
gusto than any writer since Rabelais. He
was the champion of Dreiser and Sinclair
Lewis. He formed the mind of the
American middle class of his time. He
was the authority on what he called “the
American language.” He defended the
arts against preciosity on the one hand


and mob-cheapening on the other, and
was himself able to take the piano part
in a Brahms quintet. And as a lifelong
student of religion, he was one of
America’s foremost agnostics.
The Monkey Trial found Mencken in
his prime. It produced his acgount of an
orgiastic hill-billy religious meeting, also
the remark, after the death of Bryan at
the end of the trial, “At least we killed
the bastard,” and his famous obituary
on Bryan, perhaps the most brutal
obituary ever written.
It was this man whom Gene Kelly
was required to play as a slick, wise-
cracking newspaperman. Contemptuously
dismissed by even his friend Darrow
as a man who believes in nothing and
cares for no one, he strides out of the
picture, the only non-believer in the cast,
the scapegoat of the play.
j t • j thi th popularisations
/ “ Wcty 11 popularisations
°f great philosophical issues are falsi-
fied - Not that Mencken could be pre-
sented as a beautiful character ful f o£
sweetness and li«ht —he could he as
frightful as any $ the cruel dead gods
whom he mocked. But to minimise him
and what he stood for to the role of a
ch newsorint aaent - nrovocateur is
to f J lsify mere ', ‘ th £ fact which
is a crime against truth, but also the
feeling of the action which is a crime
against art. ’
_ . ,
For a p,ay whose purport is to avenge
tbe trutb tbat * s a P rett y indictment.
RONALD McCUAIG
Jazz on Sunday
The Blue Four. Melbourne Jazz Centre.
Some time ago Paul Marks joined with
the members of the Melbourne New
Orleans Jazz Band rhythm section to
MUSIC
form a group which has
become widely known
through their records as
“The Blue Four.” They
have now opened their first show, at
Jazz Centre 44 every Sunday afternoon.
Both Willie Watt, banjo, and Mookie
Herman, bass, are able to create melodies
on instruments usually used only for
rhythm. Herman extends the chord pro-
gressions, throws in a few well placed
slides and runs (you could almost call
them glizzandi) and voila ! a new tune.
Watt, the only banjoist in the country
to make full use of a mute, can provide
a rock-steady Marrero type rhythm and
in solos produces with complex fingering
melodies of often exquisite delicacy—the
mute is here used to get an atypical
softening of tone. Graham Bennett,
using only a snare drum, does a lot with
just brushes and fingers.
Marks is a strong man on guitar. His
singing has strengthened over the last
year, and he approaches a wide range
of songs, spirituals to bawdy, Elizabethan
to New Orleans, with equal conviction.
Songs such as “Salty Dog,” “Aint It A
Shame” (to take a drink on Sunday)
and the calypso “Stone Cold Dead in De
Market” are rendered with free-swinging
vigor. The musicians laugh among
themselves, the others join in the
choruses, Watt in an unexpected basso,
Bennett in a hilarious falsetto and
Herman in an indescribable near-mumble
which has been known to send the most
hardened musicians into screams of glee.
In blues and sadder songs the mood
changes completely. “Old Bill,” as
persuasively picked out by Watt, is an
old man dreaming far away. “Dink’s
Song,” classified as a blues by Alan
Lomax though it does not conform to
the normal verse pattern, is one of the
loveliest songs in the group’s repertoire,
always coming out as a moving expedi-
tion into nostalgia. Others in this vein
are “Black Girl” and such spirituals as
“Never Said a Mumbling Word.” It is
this type of song which reveals Marks’s
almost unique ability to get the listener
as totally involved as he is himself.
For folk songs he sings alone with the
guitar, such things as ‘Doomi-Um-
Aday,” in which the Jolly Jack Tar im-
plores his lady love to pull the string
hanging from her window and let him
in, and the Elizabethan “The Smith,” in
which the grass widow enjoins the young
blacksmith to tend her forge.
Musicians from various traditional
bands, Cliff Tierney, Paul Martin, Dick
Barnes and others, drop in and add zest
to an already excellent programme.
ADRIAN RAWLINS


Feuth in th e
Fnhure
\
Mother’s Day, to be honoured throughout the
world next Sunday, is one of the great civil festivals
of modern times.
Essentially it is an occasion for personal
remembrance, but as a corporate act it gives us
an opportunity to dwell once more on all that the
mothers of men have given to humanity in love
and devotion and sacrifice down through the years.
In that way its observance is something of a
measure of the worth we put upon ourselves.
By the standards it sets itself a nation must
rise or fall, succeed or fail. And whence do we
draw our personal standards but from the mothers
who bore us and first directed our steps by their
influence, teaching and good example?
The story of Australia, in this light, becomes
the story of Australia’s mothers. Its values are the
values fostered and developed within its homes.
For a mother lives in the faces and hearts of her
children; in their ambitions and achievements; in
the stream of life they carry on.
It has nothing to do with worldly wealth or
fame. It belongs in the realm of silent yet eloquent
giving of life, and to life; often humbly, always
faithfully given. That is a mother's noble mission,
and none of the wonders that man may contrive
will ever alter or detract from it.
The years may leave their mark upon us, we
may travel strange roads and sometimes turn from
the path that we had set ourselves; but surely none
of us can fail to find, in the memory of our mothers,
some recovery of the fresh zeal that once was ours
in childhood at their knee.
In the years ahead Australia will be needing
more of the qualities of courage that are in gift
bestowed and widely spread by its good mothers.
And Mother’s Day becomes a day when,
showing them our love or reverencing their
memory, we can also renew our faith in those
strong and simple virtues for which Motherhood
eternally stands.
Genetout Earned a
Place in Heaven
By JOHN SCHOFIELD
Statistics do not properly tell the story of the French stallion,
Genetout, who died last week at the age of 28.
They show that to the end of last season horses sired by
him had won 624 races and £313,000 in stake-money, which,
impressive though it may be, does not portray the consistency
with which this grand old horse gave winners to the turf.
Genetout (imp.) was brought here after he had won in
France and in Belgium. He found the going hard because there
were many good horses about when he raced in 1937-38, but
he won two races.
In due course he was sent to St Aubins Stud at Scone where,
in opposition to Hua, Manitoba (imp.), Beau Son and Ajax, he
got very few of the top mares, so that he had limited chance to
create a fashion around himself.
Later on Aluinn Stud was established near Denman, in the
Hunter Valley and Genetout (imp.) was patriarch. He remained
at Aluinn until recently when the stud Changed ownership and
Genetout (imp.) was taken by the former stud manager, Bert
Bogan, to a nearby farm.
The last crop by Genetout will be born after next August,
and will give him a record of having had a crop of foals for 22
successive years.
Every year horses by Genetout have run up from 40
to 50 wins, but he never had in any season as many runners
as other horses whose stock managed to win as many races.
His top son, Columnist, and several other sons were put
to the stud. His daughters are now prized as brood mares.
With the progeny of the sons and the produce of the mares the
family has won well over 1000 races in Genetout's lifetime.
A delaide’s Goodwood Handicap lived up to its reputation
when it was decided on Saturday. Again the favorite failed
badly, adding to the long list of costly reverses.
But this time the failure was so bad that the stewards
ordered that a swab should be taken for analysis.
This year’s favorite was Rain King, who was backed to
odds on in a field of 12 and finished an ignominious last,
although he had won at his previous four starts.
The winner was Mikadis, who thus scored his fourth win
in succession. Gay Roxby was second and Bomba third.
Trainer of Rain King, R. G. Burrows, discounted the suggestion
that someone nobbled Rain King, claiming that, except for a few
hours during the night, the horse was never unattended.
totalisator betting is having an effect on totalisator
turnover on Melbourne racecourses. Clearly, people are
staying away from the racecourse because of the convenience of
being able to bet with the totalisator agencies.
Racing clubs, of course, will get a share of the revenue from
this off-course betting, and in a way this may compensate for
the decreased course wagering.
But the point about it all is that off-course betting is not
the success many believed it would be, and, if the course turn-
over continues to fall, race-club executives may begin to wonder
at the possible outcome.
However, Victoria is committed to the system and the situa-
tion may be saved so far as revenue is concerned when country
centres are all established and off-course turnover is increased
sufficiently to give the clubs a worth-while rake-off.
TTeroic Victory is the evergreen among the sprinters of today.
Now approaching his ninth birthday he seems as good as
ever.
Last week Heroic Victory unexpectedly won the Newcastle
Newmarket Handicap, and, penalised 71b. for the success, he won
the Warwick Farm Flying Handicap.
Heroic Victory is now going to Brisbane for the Doomben
Ten Thousand.


Ah Trumper! Ah Yesterday! Oh Yeah?
/“■'randpa is a lovable old
scout even when you are
not believing a word he says
about the all-time batting
miracle that was Trumper or
the orbiting leaps of high-mark-
ing Bob Pratt or the lessons
that Opperman must surely
have given to Ixion himself be-
fore the god could bike-ride
upon the wheels of heaven.
Grandpas are like that. All
old men live on their memories
in a blessed twilight. Their
only heroes are the heroes of
childhood and, as the twilight
comes, it is both usual and
proper that the heroes of long
ago are pumped up bigger and
bigger as misty memory grows
dimmer. It is normal, too, to
disbelieve all this, because it is
so hard to tell what is pipe-
dream and what is truth. But
so many scores of thousands of
grandpas are saying the same
sort of thing—“old-time sports-
men were better and tougher"
—that one must not too hastily
assume that every one of them
is talking through his hat. Per-
haps, after all, the old-timers
really were better and tougher.
A few years ago, when
N.S.W.'s Rugby League ad-
ministrators decided not to
ask players to turn out on
both the Saturday and Monday
of a holiday weekend, the old-
timers-were-better brigade had
quite a picnic. In our day, the
veterans said, we would have
been happy to play every day
of the week. Maybe they
exaggerated, but this new one
match per weekend notion cer-
tainly did nothing to dispel the
veterans’ argument that ath-
letes these days are pampered.
'T'heir argument has been
quite w ell enough countered,
though, by some exhibitions of
modern courage, grit and deter-
mination that few achievement*
of past times can compare with.
Take the case of Jimmy Car-
ruthers’ defence of the then
newly-won world bantamweig.nt
crown in Sydney, for instance.
Emerging from a clash of heads
with American Pappy Gault m
the first round, Carruthers had
a gash over the eye which was
sickening to see especially
from the close-range of my
broadcasting box, where I was
busy assuring listeners that it
was almost impossible for Car-
ruthers to see the contest
through. Shockingly handi-
capped by the blinding effects
of his own blood, Carruthers
had the horrible realisation that
he had another 14 rounds to
go—and yet he stayed the
course to retain the title. Can
Grandpa discount that one?
Not long before this historic
demonstration of courage,
another Australian was answer-
ing the world’s grandpas from
the British Empire Games in
Canada. This was miler John
Landy whose coming encounter
with England's Roger Bannis-
ter was front-page news all over
the world. Landy, one of the
greatest sporting ambassadors
Australia has ever had, was
beaten, a bitter disappointment
to his fans—but disappoint-
ment turned to the proudest
admiration when it was learned
not only that he had run with
a badly gashed foot but that he
had gone to great lengths to
conceal it. He would have no
part in using the injury to
excuse defeat. How's that
Grandpa?
Out I’m right in there with
** Grandpa, too, when he gets
on with his angry yackety-yack
about the modern public’s way
of shrugging off old-time stars
with a patronising air. Names
don’t live on for no reason.
And, remember, the stopwatch
is not always or even often the
perfect guide in comparing past
and present performances.
Why, if you went by the best
times they ever clocked, a girl
like lisa Konrads would have
beaten the great Boy Charlton,
Amsterdam silver-medallist of
1928, by almost a pool-length
in a 1500-metre swim !
The point is that training
techniques then and now bear
no resemblance to each other.
And few people would not con-
cede that, given all the modern
aids to swimming (diet, meas-
urement and control of physi-
cal capacity, maximum train-
ing under expert supervision),
Charlton would still have been
a champion in modern times.
Similarly, if modern training
techniques had been available
to the high-jump winner at the
first of the a.d. Olympic Games
(E. H. Clarke, sft ll|in) he
would very likely have done
very much better than the mere
girl, Miss 1. Balas of Rumania,
who cleared 6ft at the
recent Rome Olympics.
■Crankly, it seems quite im-
possible to make valid com-
parisons as to the physical fibre
of the “ancients" and the
moderns. The old-timers lived
a more serene life. They were
much less publicised, and were
not driven by the goad that big
publicity gives to the moderns.
The whole approach to sport
was different. For instance,
athletes in the old days had a
constant fear of going stale,
whereas modern research in
training techniques proves that
the amount of concentrated
training done by the stars of
years ago was nowhere near
the maximum. Professor Frank
Cotton, the first scientist to in-
troduce a profoundly scientific
approach to training and to
measure the aptitudes of vari-
ous physiques, once told me
that there is no maximum :n
training —so long as the athlete
has the necessary amount of
compensating rest to restore
spent energy.
Professor Cotton instanced
the great Emil Zatopek, hero of
the 1952 Olympics at Helsinki,
as the first great product of the
change in training techniques.
Zatopek, in training, ran 15
quarter-miles a day, and he
believed that, if he had been
able both to run more and fit
in the energy-restoring rest as
well, he would have performed
better. Modern stars have the
benefit of thinking and re-
search like that —the very thing,
by the way, which strengthens
the loyalty of Grandpa for the
old-timers who performed so
mightily without such aids.
Dut the ancients - versus-
moderns argument will go
on forever. No one will ever
win it . .or lose it. Today's
moderns will some day be
somebody else’s ancients. Per-
haps the whole key to the
loyalty of old-timers to old-
timers is to be found in youth
itself, a time when all is ex-
citement and marvel in the
world—and it is human nature
to cling to that later on when
increasing age and cares begin
to give a somewhat more hum-
drum cast to the things that
excite the young. Or, perhaps,
the key is in old age itself, a
time of loneliness and un-
wantedness and underprivilege,
when there can be great need
to build up for oneself the rare
and precious and comforting
privilege of having seen a Car-
bine demolish all comers or a
Trumper bat his way to immor-
tality.
F.H.
“Try to look pleasant, mate ... We’re on TV.”


LETTERS
Melbourne University Communists
Sir,
It may not have come to the attention
of some of your readers that Mr Arthur
Turner, Reader in Jurisprudence at the
Melbourne University, last week circu-
lated an 11-page memorandum on your
articles on “Melbourne University Com-
munists at Work.” The memorandum
was sent to all members of the Univer-
sity Council and the Professorial Board,
to the great irritation of at least some
of them.
At its top this document bears the
extraordinary message that its contents
“should not be discussed outside this
group unless some responsible officer of
the University expressly gives consent
for this to be done.” This superscription
was completely unauthorised, although
University duplicating facilities were
used to prepare the memorandum which,
says Mr Turner, “amounts in a very
small degree to an endorsement of me as
a person who is believed to be acting in
good faith.”
The letter, as Mr W. C. Wentworth
said in the House of Representatives,
makes intimidatory statements about what
might happen at a properly organised
University inquiry. It does not in any
way argue a case ; it simply attempts
to enlist support.
Members of the University Council
had received copies of this extraordinary
memorandum before their meeting last
week when they appointed a sub-com-
mittee to inquire into the Melbourne
University Social Studies Department.
The fact that the appointment of this
sub-committee was kept secret, that it
consists of the same members who were
once before appointed to inquire into the
department, and that it arose from Mr
Turner’s strange memorandum are per-
haps among the reasons why Associate
Professor Ruth Hoban, head of the
department, is rumored to have placed
her resignation in the hands of the Vice-
Chancellor.
Mr Turner is the husband of one of
the people whose activities have been
discussed in the Sharp case. Although
Mr Sharp’s supporters tried to smear
Professor Crawford on the grounds that
he was acting under his wife’s influences
when he wrote to The Bulletin they
seem to be quite happy that Mr Turner
should intervene in this matter.
Jeffries Dallinger
Black Rock {Vic.).
Sir,
The Social Studies Society, consisting
of students enrolled in the Social Studies
Department of the University of Mel-
bourne, deplores the article entitled “Mel-
bourne University Communists at Work”
(B. 19/4/61).
Our members have been concerned by
the implication of this irresponsible
article, which includes many unverified
and illogical assertions. As students, we
would like to point out that the statement
“students emerged out of the blue lodging
complaints against Miss C’s teaching
ability” is misleading.
It has always been departmental policy
to allow students to come to the staff
with criticisms of teaching methods and
the course in general. In view of this
fact, it seems far-fetched to imply that
whatever complaints in 1959 there may
have been were Communist-inspired.
Controversy conducted in this manner
is likely only to needlessly harm indivi-
duals, both students and staff, and the
university as a whole, without contribut-
ing anything towards a real examination
of any issues which may exist.
Marjorie Spalding (President)
Kathleen Adair (Vice-President)
P. Sandford (secretary)
Social Studies Society,
University of Melbourne
Melbourne.
Sir,
One point seems not to have had its
due measure of regard in the Melbourne
University affair. The stories published,
which have not been denied, concern
two small departments. But in the first
story it was mentioned that there was
one large department which was the
centre of Communist influence from
which the infection spread.
If there is to be an inquiry, why not
make it a real and searching one?
Helen Hansen
Neutral Bay (N.S.W.).
Sir,
Those who have watched the course
of the controversy over Communists in
universities in The Bulletin will have
observed that in the weeks prior to the
recent revelations about Melbourne Uni-
versity there were plenty of letters from
various sources, predominantly academic,
tending to suggest that Communists were
quite satisfactory academic colleagues.
Since these revelations there has been
a very noticeable silence from those
letter writers. Where are Turner, Brissen-
den, Truman, Gollan, Wheelwright,
Shields, Benn, Churchward . . . ?
John Heesch
Springwood {N.S.Wd.
THE CHURCHWARD POLICY
Sir,
I wish to thank Mr Churchward
(Letters, 3/5/61) for finding the passage
on the Nazi-Soviet Pact for me. It reads:
“The ultimate objective of the Soviet
policy of ‘collective security’ followed
so steadily between 1933 and 1939 was
to safeguard Soviet territory and the
socialist order against the fascist
marauders. This was also the purpose
(and the justification) of the Soviet-
German Pact of 1939. For the essence
of this pact was that it was a non-
aggression pact under which Germany
guaranteed, at least for the time being,
not to attack the Soviet Union.”
Mr Churchward does not go on to
say that it gave Nazi Germany—“the
fascist marauders” a free hand in
attacking Poland, and thus made the
Second World War a certainty ; that, in
exchange it allowed the U.S.S.R. similar
liberties with Eastern Poland, the three
Baltic republics and parts of Rumania ;
that it also provided for the surrender
by the Soviet Government of numerous
German and Austrian Communists, in-
cluding Jews, to the Gestapo. The most
famous of these was Margarete Buber-
Neumann, the daughter of Martin Buber.
It is extremely doubtful whether facts
such as these have been made sufficiently
clear to Mr Churchward’s students at
Melbourne University, any more than
to the readers of his pamphlet. Judging
by his reading guides, it can hardly be so.
Until 1952, the course at Melbourne
University was referred to as “a com-
parative study of the political institutions
and movements of the U.S.A., U.S.S.R.,
Germany and Japan.” The reading list
was very poor, but it did include, if only
for reference, some Trotsky “The
Revolution Betrayed” for pass, and “The
History of the Russian Revolution” for
honors students. In 1953, the descrip-
tion was changed: “The Soviet Union.
Theories of Lenin, Trotsky and Stalin
on the proletarian revolution. The
dictatorship of the proletariat and the
relationship between the Soviet revolu-
tion and world socialism.” Trotsky dis-
appeared from the pass reading guide
altogether, and his major work on the
honors guide was replaced by an early
pamphlet, “The Lessons of October.” In
1954, he disappeared completely—so that
he was to be studied without any
reference to his own works.
For reasons at which one can only
guess, the book-lists for this course have
improved since 1959, and are now begin-
ning to approach the level of sophistica-
tion that might be expected of a univer-
sity course even though Schapiro’s
standard work “The Communist Party
of the Soviet Union” is not yet listed.
It has been necessary to refer to the
Arts Faculty Handbooks published by
the University of Melbourne for more
than a decade in order to establish the
point that the distortion and suppression
of historical evidence apparent in Mr
Churchward’s pamphlet exist also in his
academic work on these subjects.
The crux of the matter is not Mr
Churchward’s teaching but his profes-
sor’s policy. It is he who must approve
the above-mentioned reading guides and
the distribution of courses among his
staff. Does the Professor of Political
Science actively approve of these pro-
ceedings, or is he indifferent to them?
Or is he simply a titular head who reigns
but does not rule?
These are the fundamental questions,


and while their solution may be pro-
moted by this discussion in The
Bulletin, the contribution of a set
debate would be questionable.
A. W. STARGARDT
Camberwell (Vic.).
WHY COLLINSVILLE WAS
CLOSED
Sir,
The article entitled “The Collinsville
Crisis” (This Australia, 26/4/61) is, with
the following exceptions, a fair history
of the State coalmine at Collinsville.
It is far from correct to say that this
mine contains probably the best coking
coal in Australia. With ash content of
from 14 to 15 per cent, and over 1 per
cent, sulphur, the resultant coke is neces-
sarily high in both ash and sulphur and,
whilst an extremely hard coke suitable
for metallurgical works, it is not desired
by steel works and cannot compete with
coking coal of the South Coast of New
South Wales.
However, the most incorrect statement
is that Cabinet appeared to have shut
the mine down in a fit of pique. The
position is that the employees, and par-
ticularly the leaders of the Miners’
Union, were well aware that my Govern-
ment was making a genuine effort to
rehabilitate the mine and improve the
financial result, and also from numerous
discussions with such leaders that if the
extremely high losses could not be sub-
stantially reduced, the Government would
close and/or sell the mine.
Despite this knowledge, the employees
staged a three-weeks’ strike in February-
March on a health issue (high tempera-
tures) in an effort to shorten the working
shift, whether employed in a hot place
or elsewhere, against the interpretation
of the applicable rule given by the appro-
priate authorities, and eventually resumed
work on terms originally offered by the
management.
This strike substantially increased
losses. Then on the weekend of April
8-9 the management was refused four
men to work overtime to lengthen the
main haulage belt, work which must be
done at a non-production time, and over-
time which, under the award, the manage-
ment is entitled to work.
G. EVANS
Minister for Development,
Mines, Main Roads and
Electricity.
Brisbane.
NIGHTMARE IN HAVANA
Sir,
Re your Cuba coverage (B. 26/4/61):
1. “Observer” says about Fidel Castro:
“He had behind him . . . nothing.”
Castro had, in fact, behind him a largely
ragged and illiterate nation’s dream of a
better life. That said dream, in the
words of Cas t r o’s recently-defected
Education Minister, has turned into a
nightmare—that’s another story.
2. Late in 1959 I spent several weeks in
Havana, and was able to note the follow-
ing interesting fact, comparing actual
events in Havana with Castro’s TV-
versions: that Castro, who likes to picture
himself Messiah-styled, is an outright and
shameless liar.
“ We'll have to stop meeting like this, Nigel— my husband's
becoming insolvent !”
3. Today Fidel Castro is little more
than a mouthpiece for coolly-calculat-
ing Communists, notably Argentine’s
Ernesto “Che” Guevara.
AAGE KARUD PEDERSEN
Gladstone (Old.).
“IMPLACABLY EXECUTION-
EERING”
Sir,
Usually I reply only to reviews of my
own books —but Leonie Kramer’s Red
Page review of Evan Jones’s collection
of poems, “Inside the Whale,” was, in my
opinion, so implacably executioneering in
its effect that it would send shivers not
only through any author but through
many a critic as well.
I understand that Mr Jones is a young
man, and that this book is his first. Well,
at least Dr Kramer did not dispatch him
in any cavalier fashion. She jolted him
along in the tumbril for approximately
two-and-a-half Red Page columns, and,
as his head lay bleeding in the basket,
conceded to him, with a wintry residue
of grace, that he had “a certain lyrical
gift which could be developed ...” It
was touching, if rather late, to be told
this.
Although one may be compelled to be
a poet (even, perhaps, a bad one), one is
never compelled to be a reviewer. Such
voluntary murder, then, of a young man's
first book seems little short of criminal,
and if ever there were a code of ethics
in literary criticism, Dr Kramer would
here have been guilty of transgressing
them. There are ways in criticism which
can avoid misleading (and probably
false) kindness or courtesy without deal-
ing out extinction.
No one could justly ask Dr Kramer to
shed her formidability ; but, in this re-
view, the formidability appeared to be
crossgrained with, of all things, an almost
absolute unappeasability. Even if she
felt that Mr Jones stands at a disadvan-
tage among his apparent influences—-
formalism, and the circles of A. D. Hope
and James McAuley—should he have
been visited at such length by the force
of an opposing school of thought? (If
Dr Kramer’s examination of Mr Jones
in his particular school was not antithetic,
then it was pedantic.)
There is far too much literary may-
poling in this country. It is unfortunate
when the writers join the game; it is
worse when the critics do. Yet, new
writers generally have a very valid excuse
for the practice—the natural, valuable,
temporary ardors or postures of youth.
When Dr Kramer advises Mr Jones, at
this early stage, to free himself “fiom
slavery to his exemplars and heroes,”
such advice is either dangerous or un-
necessary.
DAVID ROWBOTHAM
Brisbane.
RUNNING THE TERRITORY
Sir,
I would like to reply to the articlo,
“How to Run the N.T.” by M. H. Ellis
(B. 5/4/61) on the following issues:
(1). Mr Ellis goes to great trouble to
prove why self-government now would be
a foolish proposition for the Territory.
Self-government has never been a serious
issue, though at recent Legislative Council
meetings, in exasperation, one or two
elected members have mentioned the
prospect.
When the elected members resigned
two years ago—the only time they have
taken this step, despite your writer's


I ■- stab s tsh"d 186fi
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jACKSON &
qSULUVan
;*>* PTYLTD J
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Walson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney. London, New York
LETTERPRFSS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
start the (!ai) right!
m
ammwm
wmm
h >: ' >■* "VT*
i p||4C
EHOE
NV
C«6^
RUPTURE I*AIN BANISH KK
New scientific principle MVO-
PLASTEX is result of years of in-
tensive research. Holds severest
rupture in complete safety Acts
softly as with fingertips. Why
suffer discomfort a day longer when
MYO-PLASTEX can give you per
mauent relief Immediately. Semi
for free booklet
M V O-riL A STE X CO..
T. E. Turner, proprietor.
152 Hereford St., I'.O. Box 1547.
Christchurch. N.Z
statement that they “resign or strike every
time they find themselves unable to get
their own way” —what they sought was
a vote for their Member in Federal Par-
liament and a “measure of constitutional
reform” within the Northern Territory.
They won the latter, but not the more
important concession of a vote for the
Federal Member, Mr Nelson, in the
House of Representatives.
(2). Mr Ellis notes there are now 22,000
whites and mixed-bloods and 15,000
aborigines in the Territory, and says
later: “It would not be outside possibility
that in 20 years’ time an aboriginal or
part-aboriginal could be the Territory's
M.P.” (presumably still non-voting).
Well, under present laws there is a
natural limit to how quickly the abo-
rigines can multiply. We cannot help
them, as to be found within a certain
distance of a native camp at night—let
alone with a native woman —is a criminal
offence.
The only way the Territory can advance
quickly is through mining or by encourag-
ing industries which will attract popula-
tion. If this is done quickly, the white
population will swamp the aborigines in
numbers very quickly. If, on the other
hand, the view is that the Territory must
be an easement of the national conscience
—a sort of museum where the aboriginal
must come into “his own,” regardless of
economic or political considerations--
then it won't matter what color the
Member of Parliament is in 20 years'
time He may be yellow, not black.
K. G. Willey
Darwin.
Sir,
M. H. Ellis states in his article “How to
Run the Northern Territory”—“Taxation
without representation is against all the
principles of democracy ; but self-govern-
ment without the local sources to govern
is equally undemocratic, especially in a
fluid community in which crises alwa>s
seem to arise over issues like the price of
beer.”
The present "‘crisis” is based on the
democratic principle that the local govern
ment is there to govern, and that the man
on the snot has a far greater and accurate
knowledge of what the people who elected
him want than all the civil servants and
Cabinet in Canberra. If the general
public had not wanted these measures
(which were part of the election mani
festo). they would not have voted fo>
these particular representatives. The two
measures are widely divergent, but both
are very much alive in the minds of the
inhabitants.
The bill relating to the supply of liquor
to aborigines touches the very heart of
common justice, and the Canberra opposi-
tion to it should make all voters in the
Commonwealth give very serious con-
sideration before they record their vote
at the coming Federal election. The S.P.
Betting bill is no worse, and in fact, con-
siderably better, than similar laws already
in operation in W.A. and Victoria ; both
of whose Governments had a “crisis” on
their hands before they managed to pass
the legislation. In any assembly where
the Federal Parliament has the power,
and consistently uses it, to veto bills
passed by that assembly, what other form
of protest can the M.L.C.s make than a
“walkout”?
Mr Ellis’s last paragraph. The lavish
expenditures of public funds. How lavish
are these funds? The Snowy Mountains
project has already cost over £200 million
to irrigate a comparatively few square
miles of N.S.W., Victoria and S.A. A
similar amount spent on water resources,
agricultural improvements and roads in
the Territory, over a similar period,
would have opened up vast areas for
closer settlement, relieved the housing
congestion of the Eastern States (by re-
settlement on the opened-up areas), and
made the Snowy Mountains project re-
dundant.
G. D. Gape
Haasts Bluff (N.T.).
BRITANNIA’S CLOAK?
AMERICA’S UMBRELLA?
Sir,
The article by B. A. Santamaria on the
Mountbatten visit (B. 29/3/61) demanded
close study. The need for re-reading,
dissection and analysis was dictated by the
implication that Australia was already a
republic, at least in outlook ; did not we
owe allegiance to the British Crown, and
was therefore free to attach itself to the
country offering the best protective media
in the event of world conflict.
Mr Santamaria sees in the visit of Lord
Mountbatten an attempt to woo this
nation from our Seato affiliations ; to
persuade us to get from under the
American umbrella and to take shelter
under what he regards as
pretty poor cover—Britannia's cloak.
Would Mr Santamaria know who had
invited whom in the first place? Could
he possibly know the subject matters set
down for discussion?
His guess as to the accuracy of press
reports would imply that the proposed
agenda was given out as a press release.
Well, it wasn't, and what was said and
determined at Lord Mountbatten’s meet-
ings is not even open to conjecture. Why,
then, the fear of Mr Santamaria that we
should break away from a nation already
fear-ridden and, from coast to coast,
living on nerves? Is it a good recom-
mendation to rely on a country of which
its own Senate Committee said was
“governed by greed and folly, unreason-
ing hope, fear bordering on a constant
hysteria, and the general unmoral be-
havior of the commercial and industrial
leaders?”
Has Mr Santamaria forgotten what
happened when Orson Welles's Mercury
Theatre put over a too realistic presenta-
tion of an invasion from Mars? Within
minutes several million American citizens
were reported as clinging to each other
sobbing fond farewells, or running in
diverse directions to avoid the supposed
death spraying from the Martian’s ray
guns. The highlight was probably that
of people who had already heard over
their radio that they were dead and buried
under the debris of their homes, sitting
in their lounges with wet bags over their
heads waiting for what they know not.
Would that be “fear, bordering on con-
stant hysteria?”
JOHN STOREY
Full art on (5.T.).


THE
MAN
ON THE
LAND
The Brigalow Kingdom
By M. H. ELLIS
/~Vne of the largest undevel-
oped series of fertile areas
in Queensland is the major part
of the brigalow country which
runs north-south in a strip,
widening as it gets southward.
In the north its boundary is
near Collinsville, inland and
northward of Mackay. In the
south it runs 200 miles into
New South Wales. Its westward
limits in the north are the 146th
degree of longitude, just west of
Charters Towers and Jericho.
In the south most of it is east
of 148. It grows in large irregu-
lar blocks covering altogether,
in a belt 200 miles wide,
23,000,000 acres, equal to half
Victoria and nearly the size of
England.
About a third of the area,
mostly north of the Moonie
River and south of the Dawson
River, with the belt that runs
up the Dawson Valley region
to the Fitzroy, has been cleared
and developed at least to some
extent, with striking results.
Much of it was pear-infested
for years.
Development of the rest, its
eastern fringes anything from
only 160 miles in the south to
40 miles in the north from the
coast, is only in its infancy.
It has the advantage that it
follows the river systems
Isaacs, Mackenzie, Comet,
Dawson, Moonie, Condamine.
In the south it is good wheat
land over a large part of its
area ; in the centre, nearer the
coast, striking results which
astonish the oldster who has
not seen this once seemingly
unproductive country for years,
have been achieved along the
northern portions of the Daw-
son-Don-Dee River systems,
where milo grows and Here-
fords and dairy cattle fatten in
what, 40 years-50 years ago,
used to be the haunt of scrub
cattle only.
Until the advent of modern
machinery and traction, hor-
mones and aerial sowing, it
was an impossible, or a long-
term, task to deal with brigalow
lands. Even now it calls for
large capital and a stout heart
in the man who proposes to
establish himself on 2500 acres
or so. Yet is is, overall, capable
of producing huge rewards if
regarded and developed as a
national asset, as a base on
which to add a spread of popu-
lation well-distributed over an
area 600 miles long and 200
miles wide with already exist-
ing lateral road and rail com-
munications, assured rainfall of
from 20 to 30 inches and easy
access to meatworks, ports and
dairy supply facilities ; also, in
central Queensland, to abun-
dant fertiliser and salt locally
producible.
This country, developed in
the centre and north as much of
it is in the south, would be an
immense, almost a vital adjunct
to the schemes for development
of western and Northern Terri-
tory cattle transport and fatten-
ing and population. It is, on
its outer edges very easily
accessible to that country with
the means to provide it with
reserve fodder and calf feed-
ing, as well as store-fattening
country galore. And it runs
right through the great sub-
coastal and coastal cattle belt
which carries already about the
greatest density of beef cattle
population in Australia —a den-
sity, however, very far indeed
from achieving its maximum
potential since so much of the
land in use is still under natural
grasses instead of under Rhodes
with accessory legumes and
grains of the sorghum variety.
It is also on the edges of the
great central sheep belt.
Only a few imaginative
minds have applied themselves
thoroughly to its problems.
Some of these have led private
concerns with capital resources
to begin the task of clearing on
a large scale on individual
properties.
An excellent and comprehen-
sive essay on its possibilities
and needs was written a few
years ago by Dr Skerman,
Senior Lecturer in Agriculture
at Queensland University, and
Sir William Payne laid great
stress on the need for its devel-
opment as a national project
in his report as Land Settle-
ment Advisory Commissioner
in 1959.
Brigalow is an acacia. It
grows mainly at altitudes be-
tween 500 and 1000 feet above
sea level, on plains land like the
Western Downs round Tara-
Glenmorgan areas where the
development of its country was
first essayed on any scale, or
on the lower slopes of foot-
hills in scrub formation.
As a fodder the tree itself is
a good stand-by.
There is now, in consequence
of Payne's report a new type of
brigalow lease under which
lessees are granted up to 10,000
acres under improvement
covenants and loans. A con-
siderable amount of brigalow
and belar scrub is being cut
down by private enterprise
and grassed with artificial
grasses or put under grain ; but
there is no hint in the pedestrian
reports of the Queensland
Lands Department that the
Government is excited about
the brigalow lands, or has any
conception of the prospect they
offer of creating a new produc-
tive kingdom and applying a
factor that might revolutionise
the fate of the whole of the
interior of the State. In other
words, Payne's dictum that
“owing to its situation in the
good rainfall belt and its im-
mediate potentialities, brigalow
country offers the best scope
for the development of a large
tract of country in Queens-
land,” seems to have fallen on
timid ears.
When the problem was
tackled in New South Wales
it was found, south of Goon-
Miwindi, that good brigalow
land carried six-fold its
previous holding of stock
and Dr J. Griffiths Davies
quoted instances in which some
brigalow land had carried an
excess over a beast to the acre
during a period of eight years.
Brigalow land potentialities
have always been known to
graziers ; but it has been diffi-
cult to handle. In scrub con-
formation, it is a substantial
tree that goes up to 60 or 70
feet; in open forest, it runs
about 35 feet maximum, and on
very poor land it is only whip-
stick.
Whatever its form it has a
uniform method of propagation
—by means of suckers which
grow perpendicularly from the
roots of existing trees ; so that
single trees produce clumps,
and clumps p r o d u c e dense
scrubs. And although it is good
“damper wood” and makes
a fine ash when burnt and many
a stockyard rail has been built
of it, it is not an important
timber tree. It is a shallow
rooter, tenacious and prolific.
Those who thought it could
be cleared out with ringbark-
ing and fire soon found their
mistakes. Clearing by this
method merely produced an-
other lot of suckers. More-
over,native vegetation of briga-
low country is not usually a
good bet when the brigalow is
removed So that even in the
days when ringbarkers charged
only five to ten shillings an
acre the work did not pay for
itself.
Today if ringbarking and
firing were any good for the
job and it were worth while
to pay the cost of anything up
to £2 an acre, it wouldn’t be any
“How interesting! I served my time with
Haddon Rig, too.”


%
whatever you choose
to drink...
GILBONNET
Pour 2 parts
Gilbeys Gin
over ice into a
glass. Add one
part Dubonnet.
Stir gently.
Add a twist
of lemon peel.
GILBEYS & TONIC
Pour a nobbier
of Gilbeys
Gin into a long
glass. Add
lots of ice and
a slice of
fresh lemon.
Top up with
tonic water.
Stir gently.
GrIJST
Q
m
don’t say gin... say
GILBEY’S
9233 -
good either: there are no avail-
able ringbarkers to speak of.
Now the methods used are
to pull down the scrub with a
couple of crawler tractors
joined by a chain, which can
cost up to £2 an acre or more
according to the nature of the
scrub, or spray living trees with
hormones to kill them and then
burn off the dead timber. The
latter method costs a bit more
but has its devotees who say
that it is more effective. When
the timber has been dealt with,
the land is ploughed for crops
or sown with Rhodes grass
from the air and with legumes,
which provide a good balanced
ration and great advantages
over the native pastures which,
even where they do well on the
ringbarked land, have a short
growing season and a very low
protein content in winter
months.
Dr Davies, writing on
New South Wales experience
declared that the ease of
establishment of int ro-
duced pastures (on briga-
low land) and the high produc-
tivity of the land, “ensures a
return even in the year of estab-
lishment to cover all costs in-
volved” and that, “with the
development of large areas of
improved pastures, stock num-
bers may ultimately be limited
by the -adequacy of stock water
rather than the productivity of
improved pastures.”
This is very true in the lower
rainfall region of the 20-30 inch
belt in which brigalow grows ;
for its geology mostly rules out
abundant and distributed sur-
face or accessible permanent
water.
Generally speaking the cost
of bringing a brigalow block
from pristine state to produc-
tion is round £lO at least an
acre —under present conditions,
indeed, in most areas more.
One might be inclined to doubt
the optimism of the advocates
of the development of the un-
promisingly looking belt if it
were not for the evidence avail-
able.
The Payne Commission
quoted the case of a single,
hardworking man with 3100
acres south of Goondiwindi on
the New South Wales side of
the border.
The results given represented
“returns from steady, routine
grazing with sheep only, no
cultivation,” obtained “after all
the usual troubles, difficulties
and losses incidental to sheep-
raising” over the 25 years 1934-
1958.
During the first 15 years 1700
acres of heavy brigalow under-
growth was treated and con-
siderable improvements made.
It must be remembered that
during a great deal of this
period 15d. was a phenomenal
price for greasy wool, even
though labor was still cheap
and plentiful—relatively.
In those years of improve-
ment—the figures were taken
from income taxation returns
—the grazier’s average taxable
income was £lOlO p.a. ; for the
10 years 1949-58 it was £6636
p.a. The highest gross income
taken off the area was £12,000
in 1951. The average gross—
not taxable—income from the
roughly a sheep to the acre
flock in the eight post-war years
was about £9700.
And —this is something to
make the State Government,
the Federal Department of
National Development, and
particularly the Federal
Treasurer, think: This little
property of 3100 acres, more
than half of which was covered
in thick brigalow scrub in 1934
paid £25,561 in taxation be-
tween 1951 and 1958 or an
average of more than £3OOO per
annum.
Another of several other
cases quoted by the Commis-
sion was that of a settler in the
Tara (Q.) area with 2585 acres
carrying 1400 sheep in all
seasons, plus 300 to 400 lambs
dropped in the spring, but sold
before winter with safety. This
farm has pit ensilage reserves
THE QUEENSLAND
BRICALOW BELT
THE BULLETIN, May 10, 1961


INVEST IN
HADDON RIG BLOOD!
m
YOU INVEST IN
YOUR FUTURE -
AND AUSTRALIA'S!
Almost 80 years ago Australian graziers began investing
in Haddon Rig blood. Today, their studs are the biggest
and best producers of wool, not only in Australia, but all
the world. At the 1960 Sydney Ram Sales, the world’s
record price for a Merino Ram was twice shattered by
Haddon Rig, and 130 Haddon Rig rams auctioned
throughout Australia averaged £668. What better
example of the Australian woolgrowers’ faith in the
value of Haddon Rig blood.
Now, with the 1961 sales just around the corner, it is
time for you to think of your future. This is your chance
to invest in Haddon Rig blood. But, no matter how big
or small your investment, you are assured that the
quality and value of your wood clip will rise with it.
Woolbuyers all over the world recognise the marvel-
lously soft handle of Haddon Rig wool. They admire its
defined crimping, its good elasticity, and easy spinning
qualities. This is the high standard all Australian wool-
growers should aim for with their wool. This is the
standard set by Haddon Rig Stud, and will be offered at
the Sydney, Brisbane and Perth Sales.
SYDNEY SALES. The usual outstanding Haddon Rig
team will be auctioned at Sydney on the sth, 6th and
7th of June.
Agents: Goldsbrough Mort & Co. Ltd.; Dalgety & Co.
Ltd.; Elder Smith & Co. Ltd.
HADDON RIG
WARREN, N.S.W. TELEPHONE: WARREN 74
EMU SPRINGS, TINTINARA, STH. AUST. PHONE: TINTINARA 40
2421/102
an d grows feeding crops. It
produced in 1958 net income of
£4OOO.
Sir Wm. Payne was insistent
in his report on the need for
adequate blocks as a condition
precedent to success. He stated
that old - developed, good
quality brigalow land in areas
from 2500-3500 acres in close
proximity to railway and
markets and in a good rainfall
belt, constituted sound closer
settlement ; that on green tim-
bered blocks, a margin of from
1000 to 1500 acres or above
these amounts in some locali-
ties, would be needed to justify
the outlay for clearing and
improvement estimated at £lO
per acre.
He made it very clear that
settlers on green brigalow coun-
try without adequate finance
without “inevitably fail even
on a recommended rental value
not exceeding 2\ per cent, of
unimproved capital value of the
the land—varied according to
areas.
He wrote:
Tim man with money esm suc-
ceed; without money he will tail.
Tlie State has a tint}' to assist these
Crown tenants to speedily develop
their lands. By lending money on
favorable terms, both the settler
mid the whole community are
helped. The State should have the
courage to hack its own administra-
tion. It is building up a very
valuable asset and ensuring con-
tinuous production . . . Recom-
mendations are made in this report
to lend these settlers a maximum
sum of £15,000, with repayments
over a 25-year period; the tirst five
struggling years at interest only,
with redemption and interest
spread over the remaining 20 years.
He added that the bringing
into production of these lands
was of great importance to the
whole of Australia and that
adequately developed they must
return substantial taxation to
the Commonwealth. The “State
would be stultifying itself by
every year’s delay.”
On the cases quoted, indeed,
brigalow lands should be worth
as much as £1 per acre per
annum in taxation, apart from
indirect and State taxes.
Seeing that clearing and grass
sowing are large scale opera-
tions for heavy traction and the
air and that a huge area of the
brigalow country, already
served by railways, is in dis-
tricts in which other types of
country—in t h e main—are
carrying the heaviest stocking
°f beef in the Commonwealth,
the clearing at least might well
be done as a national scheme.
Meatworks and ports are adja-
cent at the end of short hauls.
The chemical fertilisers of Mt
Morgan, at present being
lipped into gullies against the
chance of use in the future are
accessible.
It should be cheaper to
handle the whole problem of
clearing over a short term of
years as a national develop-
mental proposition in the same
way as the Snowy Mountains
scheme than as a piecemeal
proposition.
There should be thousands of
men from abroad with stock
and agricultural experience,
particularly in view of the posi-
tion of parts of Africa where
there is white settlement, who
would make splendid settlers.
But there are not thousands
who have £lO an acre for the
development of 4000 acres of
green brigalow, plus cost of
living, or even £lO,OOO, or who
can “struggle’’ for five years.
Private capital would think
twice about investing in a
wholesale scheme, having re-
gard to the fact that the land
is Crown land and its rental a
movable feast and the land
policies of future Governments
uncertain. Dr. Skerrnan, in
fact, thinks it essential the land
be made freehold.
But if the Commonwealth
and States were to set aside each
year for ten years a sum of
£l5O millions, the job would be
done at the end of the time,
with more than 7000 new farms,
up to a couple of million more
cattle, and/or some millions
more sheep and mixed farming
should be more generally ex-
tended westward.
And there is no doubt but
that completely improved farms
mass produced, in blocks to the
point of providing clearing,
fencing, water and temporary
homes would be a surer and
more profitable proposition for
the country as a whole and for
the tenant than the farm slowly
developed out of the tail-
timber - and - sucker stage by
individuals struggling for capi-
tal. The scheme might be
carried out by much the same
methods as those of the South
Australian housing trust.
Much land under brigalow is,
of course, being developed by
people already established who
find it a good investment to
extend their holdings where
possible. But more than that
is needed and large scale clear-
ing and improvement would
certainly pay for itself in view
of the fact that from the very
first season cleared and sown
land is calculated to produce a
living income and begin to con-
tribute to consolidated revenue.
Every year brigalow land
lies idle, as Sir William Payne
remarked, stultifies the Gov-
ernment. It also deprives it of
potential income and leaves
some of the national earning
power idle.


BORDER INCIDENT
Back from Australia, he disliked Italian Customs. ..
By MARY BELL
Rome before 9 a.m. Nobody’s favorite city. Everywhere
saturnine, shadowy-jowled Latins ; modern Romans
workbound with heavy-eyed reluctance ; half-awake
drivers troubled by stirring memories of chariot
races driving on their horns and motor-scooters’ hooters.
Rome kaleidoscopes past the cab, pale sunshine pouring
like thin, white wine from its gentian skies in apology for
nothing but heavy rain poured the last six days. Roman ruins
rally under the cosmetic effect of sunlight ; that breathlessly
blue backdrop dramatises weathered marble and makes it the
tourist’s moneysworth. But my lira have run out, and to be
liraless in Rome in lousy weather makes parting very sweet
sorrow.
Already I hear London office-cronies’ suffocatingly
superior Anglo-Saxon politesse. “But of course—November’s
much too late for Rome!” ’S’right, chums. See Naples and
die. See Rome in November and drown, or flatten your nose
to your pensione windows and wish you’d gone to Spain
instead.
Anyway, which of you had your first sight of the Trevi
Fountain in the glare of forked lightning? Or sheltered in a
church portico and contemplated the Vittorio Emanuelo
monument perforce for a full hour in a raging storm (cherish-
ing stillborn hope that a thunderbolt might mar its wedding-
cake enormity)? Or visited the Villa d'Este in a howling gale
to find its ecstatic fountains choked by technicolor autumn
leaves? Or roamed the Roman Forum with such liquidity of
mud underfoot that even the plagues of guides with lend-lease
American accents ceased to solicit? You take your choice.
High season and hordes of tourists, or out of season and
hateful weather.
We screech up outside the station. A great sleek heap of
concrete and glass, preening rain-washed facades in tourist-
poster sunlight. No more attractive now than on the night I
arrived when pints of rain teemed off its awnings and down
the neck of my plastic raincoat. It’s Rome’s contemporary
temple dedicated to efficient transport for affluent passengers,
As nothing else Italian is efficient and I’m not affluent, what
joy in it?
“Quanto ?”


eleven hundred lira? O brother, was I spotted for a new-
U chum the night 1 arrived! This same trip was 1500. On
ihe other hand, this illegitimate great-great-great-great-
orandson of a charioteer made it in half the time. But I’m
not being seen off coming and going. This bloke is going to
be beaten down. Some, my two most utilised Italian words.
“Troppo caro !”
Follows floods of Italian in the thick Roman accent that
passeth even my normal two per cent, understanding. I gather
j, e is no thief. He is an honest man with four bambini he
j o ves and must feed. It's still troppo caro. More magic words.
“Where is the tourist policeman?”
Suddenly the fare is 900 lira. I give him 950 and honor
js satisfied all round, or if it isn't, I can’t translate the more
vitriolic comments. It is part of the Roman circus. An unamus-
ing part if you have been on a diet of bread-rolls, cheese and
apples for three days for lack of lira.
Station shops flaunt lush autumn fruits and luxurious
fripperies to remind one of Rome. The vast station premises
boasts banks and bars and beauty parlors, stacked bookstalls
and streamlined restaurants ; baths, and for all I know, a
bordello. To affirm its identity as a station it has also a bewilder-
ing array of long, long bare platforms, fingering out from
the frankly commercial administrative block. All are deserted.
No trains. No people, To the naked eye, no station staff.
What of that Paris Express promised for 8.45 a.m.?
Deferential calculations reconcile the indicators, my watch and
the station clock. Twenty minutes to go. Time and money
enough to lug luggage streetwards to off-station shops with
off-station prices and buy a sustaining hunk of creamy
mozzarella. Friendly cheese, mozzarella. Tender enough to
help down tough bread rolls. Impressive pile of change is
enough for large capuccino and copy of “Figaro.”
Dack, baggage-burdened and camera-strangled, to board big
® streamlined express which has sidled alongside one long
sun-warmed platform. Spirits rise as ticket-puncher frowns
over Thos. Cook's vouchers, but graciously finds my reserva-
tion. Sink again as fellow-passengers filter in. One shabby,
ungenteel little man, darting-eyed and difficult to assess
passport-wise, but alas, clutching English edition of “Reader's
Digest.”
Not English, though, for sure. No Englishman ever wore
such pixie-pointed, dingo-yellow shoes. One —the only one —
truly plain Italian signorina with Byzantine madonna mourn-
fulness of expression. A mousey girl with mousey features
slightly tea-stained, mousily dressed, in dreary tweed skirt and
home-knitted jumper. Shattered, one more illusion . . . about
Mediterranean vivacity and color-sense.
Mousey girl is one of a matched set. Mousey Pappa in
best overcoat, mousey but forbidding Mamma and not quite
so mousey younger brother are in train. Mamma has instincts
of regimental sar-major, untrammelled by tears. Supervises
stowing of daughter’s baggage. Makes daughter check and
double-check passport, ticket, money. Reminds her, doubtless,
with one wet eye on little man and me, not to talk to odd
strangers of either sex.
Pappa and brother fidget in mousey, masculine redundancy
while Mamma and the Signorina snuffle and mutter further
farewells. I withdraw behind a canopy of “Figaro” and try
my damnedest to translate the biased story of yesterday’s
political crisis in France. Thanks be, no mousey aunts, uncles
or fiances swell the bunch of mourners. Unusual in this land
of tireless togetherness. A two-hour train journey by any
member can bring the whole tribe unto the third and fourth
generation into the departing one’s compartment as a farewell
deputation, and train staff has a tussle to disentrain them
before pulling-out time.
Suddenly, with no histrionics, the big train honks a
farcically small honk and goes, fleetly, unconcernedly,
through the wakening outskirts of imperial Rome, to dart up
the back seam of the boot of Italy towards its stocking-top
and southern France.
Soon mounting sun makes a winking mirror of the winter-
blue Mediterranean outside the window ; sends me scavenging
for sun-glasses and dozing dyspeptically behind them. Roll
on, French border, where my currency crisis will cease and my
fistful of 100-franc pieces will buy me a big-hearted breakfast
Anglais. Two eggs, ham, toast and marmalade ; and maybe
as a concession to Anglo-American relations frozen orange
inice to begin with.
I put from me the thought of another 22 hours subsisting
on close-textured Italian bread rolls and cheese currently
stowed in my shoulder-bag. Until the odd little international
type unfastens his executive-type pigskin briefcase, surely
designed to carry chemical formulas and proposals for industrial
mergers, and anti-climactically produces a vast newspaper-
swathed bundle of sandwiches. They are, my undernourished
olfactory nerve tells me, thick slices of mortadeila between
fresh crusty bread. I avert my eyes.
Mortadeila may not be prime meat, but it's the nearest to
any form of meat I’ve seen for several days. Too late. His
bright squirrel eyes catch my flicker of interest. On the
strength of my copy of “Figaro,” he offers me a sandwich
in French. Thank you, no. Me, I have a large apple to eat,
right here. I parry him in French of a fluency surprising, for
not until near-starvation could I munch mortadeila that thick.
And that does it. He's away. He has had his cue, and
he is dying to talk train talk. His French is heavily
adulterated ; a new and difficult accent for me.
“M’am’selle has made her holiday in Italy? And is she
sorry to be returning to Paris?”
“M’am’selle's” French becomes creaky after her first
spate. It is necessary to tell M’sieur that she is not French,
but Australian, and therefore her understanding of French is
not great. Squirrel Eyes beams. He gulps a mighty mouthful
of mortadeila, hoists one pixie-shod, dingo-yellow foot up
on to his lap and clasps his skinny gaberdine knee to keep
himself in this pose of contorted relaxation. He obligingly
switches to English.
"But that is better. English I speak also, better than
French or Italian.”
Yeah, Europeans are lucky, and apt, about picking up
languages. It’s part of having so many countries rubbing
frontiers on the map, whereas we in Australia . . .
“I have not learned my languages in Europe ; not really.
I am Maltese. So I learn English from the English Navy in
Malta, also my Italian, there.”
1 wonder what the English Navy may have learned
reciprocally.
“So where did you pick up your French?”
“Ah, that is not yet good! Now I work in the hotel in
Lucerne, so the French comes from the Swiss and the accent
is not pure.”
He's dead right there. But you must hand it to Squirrel
Eyes. He’s interested in people. He’s ready to patter to them
in any of the three most-spoken continental languages for
any number of miles. Inside a few minutes he has hooked
the plain Signorina in conversation, via Italian, English and
French. With a trained interviewer’s expertise he puts casual-
sounding questions that soon give us a profile of the Signorina.
She lives au paire with a French family to perfect her French.
Her English? That is fair. But for a diplomatic job one must
have two foreign languages. So she attends the Sorbonne part-
time and helps in a French household during term-time. This
has been her long vacation.
I murmur appropriate comments on the desirability of
residing in a country to best learn its language. We indulge
in strange triangular gossip, via English and French. It is
polite of them, for they could lapse into Italian at any
moment and isolate me in my corner.
Signorina tends to lapse into sniffles again at mention of
homes and families, so Squirrel Eyes inveigles her paternally
into the corridor to point out passing landmarks for him.
Glad of a rest from hand-picking my words and translating,
I return to “Figaro” and am still absorbed in it when the
compartment-door clatters open to admit the glaring sunshine
of the platform at Civita Vecchia and The Happy Wanderer.
At least nobody knows quite what is entering at first. A
left-over from Civita Vecchia’s last carnival procession
possibly: a gigantic pair of legs and an apparently headless
body topped by the world’s largest fibre suitcase. The Mardi
Gras figure blindly advances into the compartment. The vast
suitcase swings perilously, steadied by massive fists. A grateful
grunt and it lurches into the rack above my head and occupies
two-thirds of it.
Its proprietor is revealed at length and at last. He plomps
his 6ft. sin. down as gently as possible between the Signorina
and Squirrel Eyes. Sighs, as of a well-mannered draught-horse
relieved of its load. Here is a natural opener for Squirrel
Eyes’ quiz.


“A bit heavy, eh?”
The big bloke bends a friendly gaze upon Squirrel Eyes,
as a St Bernard might regard a miniature poodle. He bounds
up, lifts suitcase at luggage-rack level as though it were an
empty shoe-box and drops it back playfully. The thud must
startle passengers two compartments away. He grins.
“Aw, not so heavy. Just awkward. The handle—it's
broken.”
“Well, you must be going for a long spell if you're taking
so much clothing, friend!”
The Happy Wanderer is clearly the kind of material
Squirrel Eyes likes most to while away a tedious journey. The
amiable extroversion of him is as easy to read on his Slavic
countenance as the brightly printed shipping company labels
plastered on his suitcase. He has been around, and no doubt
has a tale or two to tell.
Soon Squirrel Eyes is drawing him out, translating fc me
in case I can’t guess well enough. How he’s headed for Paris
without a visa, only a visitor's permit for three months, but
hopes to wangle a job there and stay on. Not much work in
the home-town. Signorina listens enthralled. Our Happy
Wanderer is a far cry from Sorbonne students and mousey
family in Rome, and makes a tremendous impression.
Physically it couldn't help but be tremendous.
Squirrel Eyes seeks my support.
“Imagine —off to France on a visitor’s permit, no job and
not a word of French!”
“Good luck to him. Don’t think I'd be game to try it.”
At my drawl, the big bloke beams.
“You Orstrilian? I been in Orstrilya. Just come home.
It's-a bonzer place. Two years I been there. Done pretty
good.”
TT is accent is one for Professor Higgins. Richest, slow-
cantering outback back-drawl, overlaid on the music of
Italian. More of this unbelievable cross-breed argot I must
hear. Besides, a certain fuzzy nostalgia makes me warm to
the huge Happy Wanderer and his bucketings about the world.
“Where were you?”
“Been uppa da Snowy. She's-a great place! Beet cold-a-
ya know, but she's-a good job. Good tucker —and man, I
gotta roll to bring-a back with me. Dunno what-a the Customs
bloke say when he comes.’’
“But he can't touch you if you’re carrying travellers’
cheques. Or do they limit how much you can take out of
Italy?”
Happy Wanderer hands round American cigarettes, the
packet dwarfed by great sausage fingers. He flicks the cigarettes
up singly, jack-in-the-box style, like a true Woolloomooloo
Yank.
His smile for me is brotherly, benevolent; gilt-edged
with gold-crowned teeth. And indicates that a woman of my
age should quit hanging stockings up on Christmas Eve.
“I don’ have-a no traveller cheque, lady. I got sterling.”
With an old trouper's fine sense of timing, he waits for
the reaction of the other European passengers. Signorina
lifts demurely drooping head like a newly watered flower,
becomes dewy-eyed again, but with awe-struck interest.
Squirrel Eyes leans forward, tensed like a gun-dog. Our one
other companion, a hungrily handsome young Italian work-
man who boarded the train all but unnoticed in the shuffle
and shambles created by The Happy Wanderer and his hefty
suitcase, looks up for the first time from his paper. Ever
obliging, Squirrel Eyes translates for him, apologising for the
Anglo-Australian conversation which has left him out.
Basically it is an apology for me, the only non-Italian speaker.
Squirrel Eyes concedes, however, that I seem to understand
French
The hungry-handsome character whom I have tagged as
a Corsican brigand on holiday, seeing that he boarded at
Civita Vecchia, which is the hopping-off-and-on port for the
Corsican steamer service, flashes the distillation of all Italian
smiles. He addresses me in first-rate Parisian.
“It doesn’t matter, Miss, about the Italian. I speak some
French but no English. What will our friend here do if any
of us is a Customs officer in disguise?”
The Brigand has something. Happy Wanderer has just
made four total strangers unwitting accessories before the fact
of his intention to smuggle currency. Up-staging Squirrel
Eyes for the moment, I interpret back to The Happy
Wanderer.
“You’re lucky none of us is a Customs bloke in p] a j n
clothes. What’re you going to do with it when they board?
This route they often open cases and search pockets. And
you’ve only got a permit.”
Happy Wanderer smirks like an overgrown boy delinquent
“She'll be or-right ; I theenk-a some place like they never
look. Plenty time. We don’ get-ta Modane till mi'night.”
0.k., buddy. It’s your sterling, your permit from your
Government and your look-out. Besides, you're such an
amiable goon the Customs characters will probably not give
you a second glance. Still, on these frontier checks it’s cosier
to have a hard-covered passport than one of those fly-by-night
permit papers.
/Cigarettes of all nations circulate. American, English
ltalian, methylated-scented Gaullois. Illustrated papers and
magazines are swapped. All the small-change of enforced
companionship in a small compartment goes into circulation.
Squirrel Eyes, retired from the field as chief interpreter, con-
soles himself with a specially frank health magazine full of
photographic nudes donated by Happy Wanderer. Happy
Wanderer flirts with Signorina, from whom not a sniffle this
last 100 kilometres.
Corsican Brigand and I stretch legs across the aisle and
park feet on each other’s seats, by mutual agreement. Brigand
speaks Parisian French because he married a Parisienne who
now has no time to learn Italian on account of having two
babies. His vocabulary, he modestly admits, is about as"wide
as his four-year-old daughter's, and he can't write a word of
it, but he has a good ear for it.
The train takes great tacking stitches along the ragged
coastline of the Riviera dei Fiori, needling into tunnels at
frustrating moments and blocking out the best picture-postcard
vistas of villa-festooned cliffs and sky-thrusting cypresses
against sparkling sea. Eventually the brief madness of Milan;
the re-shuffling of passengers with maximum Mediterranean
verve. Much emotion, much confusion, much noise. By some
near-miracle no newcomer tries to force an entrance through
our extended legs and democratically disposed oddments of
luggage that won't fit in the racks.
Like old friends we settle back, relieved that no new
formalities need be observed, no wrongfully occupied areas of
seat and rack need be cleared for a stranger.
Happy Wanderer whisks Signorina off to the restaurant
car and buys her dinner. Squirrel Eyes, the Brigand and I
scruffle and grope in our newspaper bundles for humbler
sustenance and gnaw the miles away, feel envy and feed
frugally. I think positive thoughts to prevent myself lurching
with other restaurant-car-bound passengers and anticipating
that mighty breakfast.
One of these positive thoughts is how much “exchange”
the head waiter will grab for himself out of each of my
pounds sterling if he cashes my last traveller’s cheque. Bank-
rates in Paris will be better. Dusk thickens and carriage lights
wax brighter by contrast as we hurtle through anonymous
stations towards the French frontier.
TTappy Wanderer and Signorina return flushed with the
table d'hote menu and who knows what dalliance indulged
in in the swaying corridors. Happy Wanderer is most
consciously the globe-trotting gallant, the diner and winer of
strange signorine on slight acquaintance. But suddenly he
exhibits a great personality-change. He does not talk. He ceases
to laugh. He forgets to hand around American cigarettes. All
17 Or more stone of him fidgets in the one-and-a-half seats
in which he sprawls. (He has long since infiltrated half
of Signorina's seat, and she seems to like the arrangement.)
He sighs. His Piltdown man forehead furrows. He rakes
every square centimetre of the compartment’s panelling and
fittings from beneath bending brows. At last he has to confide
in us in his best Australian.
“Y’ know, I don’ see no place-a to put this money.”
Squirrel Eyes translates for Brigand and the whole com-
partment is agog to be in the conspiracy. Scratch any law-
abiding innocent abroad, nationality regardless, and revealed
is the smuggler born. Smuggling is the only Pan-European
sport. No closed season on contraband, saving narcotics,
which are not quite cricket. Everyone wants to be in the act.
“Where have you got it now?”
“Let’s all hold a bit for you.”


“How much are you allowed to have? I can carry ten
pounds, and I haven’t any.”
' Happy Wanderer savors being the pivot of attention, but
j, e ’ s been around and he’s cagey. He waggles one enormous
hand-sewn moccasin coyly.
“Well, y' see, I got it in my sock here, and lot-sa blokes
try that one. The Customs fellas could get me shoes off, then —
pff-t —they get me red-han’! Look, I show ya . . .”
Ochre moccasin comes off to show us. Money we do not
see; only his awning-striped nylon ankle-sock, taking
the double strain of the huge foot and a fist-size bulge under
the arch. There’s folding money and no fooling in that bulge.
“See: I got-ta two like that. An' I got a few other t’ings,
too. There’s a watch like—”
He hitches up both cuffs and there is a plutocratic gold
watch and gold band on either powerful wrist.
“—an’ a coupla rings I’m gonna sell.”
We know about one already. It’s been catching the
carriage light with its heavy-carat gold every time he moves
his hand. Now we know about the other two in his wallet.
The electric current of conspiracy steps up in voltage each
minute.
Squirrel Eyes cases the carriage and concentrates on small
items first.
“You’d better let one of us wear a watch for you —and the
ladies can put on the rings. Better not have them bulging out
of the wallet if they ask to see it.”
There is a general exchange of watches. Squirrel Eyes
swaps his veteran white metal job for one of the heavy gold
ones. Brigand puts on the other, awkwardly because he
doesn’t seem to own a watch. Signorina and I wear a heavy
ring each. They weigh like small handcuffs on the finger. I
decide to cover mine with fur gloves in case it slips off and
disappears in the upholstery.
The express crawls higher into the mountain cold. The
company snuggles deeper into overcoats, digs for gloves
or plucks its cuffs down muff-fashion over frozen fingers. The
heaters don't even make a race of it against the penetrating
cold, and every kilometre we climb the mountain wind finds
some fresh entree. Via carriage windows, under the seats,
overhead between the panelling, whispering draughts multiply,
chilling any ear unprotected by a coat-collar, stiffening neck-
muscles and making sleep out of the question.
Happy Wanderer fidgets still. His currency crisis is still
unsolved. He leaves the compartment, we think maybe to
cache his two rolls in the Gents. But no. He returns to tower
unhappily over us in mid-compartment, hands dug deep in
trouser-pockets.
“Da Customs blokes, they're two carriages away. I
reckon I jus’ better leave-a the lot in me overcoat, huh?”
He looks at us, craving reassurance from someone. All
he hears is the mountain wind hurtling the first flurry of snow
against the windows. To jerk us into action he brings out his
two rolls and displays them. They are not just fad wads.
They are mostly English fivers and tenners. There’s another
gust then, inside the compartment: a concerted sigh of shock
and unbelief from the four of us. Wages on the Snowy must
he good if it only took Happy Wanderer two years to get
himself so loaded. Or maybe he had a good run at two-up.
Suddenly the quiet Brigand takes charge. Perhaps he
inverts that stack of sterling into weeks of laboring on his
°wn low wages. Perhaps he can’t resist the lure of the
smuggling game. Perhaps he just can’t stand the Happy
Wanderer’s helpless fidgeting any longer. Anyway, there he
js on his feet beside the big bloke,'demanding his two rolls
from him. • . .
“For the love of God, man, stop dilly-dallying.. Give me
mat money quick, before they get here. Just keep something
ln your wallet to show.” •
Dumbly Happy Wanderer hands- them, over. - Brigand
hauls up his tapered trouser legs, stows half one roll around
calf-level and pulls the trousers down again. He points at
compellingly and indicates my tapered slacks.
“Alors, M’am’selle —vous aussi !”
{ don’t argue. The Italian Customs party is in our carriage,
couple of compartments away now. Clumsily I shove about
l 'o-vvorth of English fivers up either leg of my corduroy
sla cks. Brigand motions me to take a few steps up and down.
The slacks settle down and look their normal, travel-rumpled
worst, but no notes leak out, thanks to the tight-fitting ankle-
sections.
“Ca va! That’s in case you have to get up to get your
case down for the Customs. I’d better try mine, too.”
I sit again and watch the Brigand do his experimental
shuffle up and down between our feet. All is well. Everyone
begins to talk at cross-purposes to prove what a cool, uncon-
cerned crew we are. Happy Wanderer gets a fresh pack of
American cigarettes from his marquee-sized greatcoat and
offers them round with sweating hands.
Lighter-flames still flare as the Italian border police and
Customs men in quasi-military uniform, polished of belt and
bandolier, gilt-bedecked of cap, slide back our compartment
door. We fish for passports, permits, wallets. Passport pages
flutter, everyone says “No” to questions comprehended or not
with owlish innocence. The ladies’ man of the Customs duo
(they both are, but one noticeably more so than the other)
clucks his tongue over Signorina’s passport photograph and
assures us that they do not do us justice.
One suspects this gambit is laid down in the “Manual of
Training” for Customs officers in Italy. "Tell all female
travellers (especially non-nationals) (a) their passport photo-
graph is not a good likeness, or ( b ) the photographer did not
know his business, or (c) the photograph falls far short of the
original subject.” One or other of these gallantries pops up
no matter where the Italian frontier is crossed, creating great
upsurges of goodwill toward Italy in the breasts of arriving
and departing women tourists.
T 1 übber-stamps thump, to record indelibly and illegibly that
A -at 2358 hrs. on November 18 we have satisfied the
vigilantes of Italy’s border and are free to pass into France.
There is a blur of “pregos” and “grazies,” a bowing at waists
and a further roll and clatter of sliding doors and they go. The
next compartment door trundles open and our compartment
is noisily quiet with released breathing, relaxing tension. Again
everyone talks at once, irrelevantly.
“Quite nice fellows.”
“Didn't waste much time on us!”
“Don't think they're very keen on their jobs at this hour
of night and in this cold weather.”
“Ah, well, the French ones will be boarding in ten minutes,
and once they've checked we can all get to sleep.”
Sure we can, after the Brigand and 1 empty our pants of
this young ransom we’re wearing, and we all hand over Happy
Wanderer's assorted bijouterie. For now we can only sit,
smoke Happy Wanderer's Lucky Strikes, fiddle with passports
and wish that the French team would get on with their part
in the border-hopping ritual. I have a near-uncontrollable
urge to scratch my calf, but daren't disturb the sterling which
clings tackily to my skin like badly-applied plaster dressing.
Our carriage slides quietly alongside the Modane plat-
form, wind-driven snow mottling the windows. Ten minutes —
endless minutes—more to wait, trapped between innocence and
underworld activity. Now more rolling compartment doors ;
more polite questions and more polite ingenuous replies. No
gallantries about passport photographs. More rubber-
stamping. Doors growl closed again and they're in the next
compartment.
“They’ll leave the train in twenty minutes. We’d better
sit quietly till then,” directs the Brigand.
Happy Wanderer smiles the sheepish smile of one who’s
mighty relieved yet still concerned to see his roll reappear
out of our trouser legs. Presumably he knows how much he
had. We don’t. Minutes drag. Squirrel Eyes does a reconnais-
sance into neighboring carriages. He returns to give the all-clear
sign.
Brigand and I stand swaying as the train gathers speed
and fumble fistfuls of fivers from our trouser-cuffs like clumsy
conjurers. We toss them into the anxious lap of Happy
Wanderer. His large blunt fingers bundle them lovingly into
two thick rolls again. As the rolls grow Wanderer's grin
expands proportionately on his blunt, Slavic dial.
By the time his watches and rings are returned our Happy
Wanderer is his own man once more. He is even frisky enough
to while away the dark hours ahead making ..wkward passes
at Signorina. This must be acutely uncomfortable for them
both in that cramped corner, but Signorina seems quite
co-operative. He falls asleep, a giant, weary child, head on
her home-knitted sweater bosom.


Business.Rollery,Etc.
Growth Needs Capital
"Car too few people appreciate
the rapid rate and signi-
ficance of Australia’s economic
growth. Even fewer seem to
realise that economic growth
is a costly business.
Speaking before the Legacy
Club in Sydney on May 4, Mr
A H. Urquhart, Chairman of
the Sydney Stock Exchange,
rightly emphasised that capital
formation in Australia must
keep pace with the rate of
growth.
In plain language, we must
spend a smaller proportion of
our rising national income on
the various and appealing con-
sumer niceties, and invest more
in the basic industries. Indus-
trial exports must be increased.
Thus far, about 80 p.c. of all
Australia’s export earnings
have come from wool, wheat,
beef and other primary
produce.
A ustralia has remained basi-
cally a primary produce
exporter on the difficult and
changing world markets,
experiencing all the disadvan-
tages of the steadily deteriorat-
ing terms of trade. The annual
wool cheques must be supple-
mented by an increasing flow
of industrial export earnings.
For instance, as Mr Urquhart
rightly put it, Australia now
has “the lowest cost steel in
the world, and were it not for
the buoyant domestic demand
in recent years, the Australian
steel industry would have con-
tinued to compete in many
overseas markets, including the
United States.”
It is hoped that Australia
will become a substantial ex-
porter of steel by 1970. But it
must be realised that this will
involve a large capital invest-
ment —expansion of productive
capacity of steel and sub-
sidiary industries —and an
economic use of steel at home.
Tnvestment funds can only
come from corporate and
personal savings in the private
sector; these must be chan-
nelled more and more
into steel and other basic
industries. The rate of invest-
ment and spending on
consumer goods, particularly
the more inflationary durable
consumer goods (largely sold
on hire-purchase), must be kept
in proper perspective.
“In the six years from 1953
to 1959, Australian gross
national product increased
almost 50 p.c., compared with
32 p.c. for the United States,
38 p.c. for Canada and 68 p.c.
for West Germany,” Mr
Urquhart stated.
“By 1970, it is estimated that
our gross national product will
rise by 58.6 p.c., while the
United States’ increase is ex-
pected to be 60 p.c. Since
1953 to the end of 1960, Aus-
tralia increased its output by
almost 40 p.c., against only
15 p.c. by North America. We
will have to match or better
these figures over the next
decade.
“Although prices have
tended to increase in Australia
at a somewhat faster rate than
in North America, even after
adjusting for these price rises
the growth in real national
income over the past seven
years has slightly exceeded that
of both the United States and
Canada.”
To sustain this rapid pace of
economic progress, it is
essential to maintain an ade-
quate volume of investment,
contain consumption spending
and raise the earnings of
primary producers by diverting
more funds into agriculture.
Mr Urquhart pointed out
that in the postwar years
between 25 p.c. and 30 p.c. of
the gross national product was
devoted to investment. In
1949-1952 and 1954-56 about
30 p.c. of the gross national
product was used for capital
formation, and these were the
periods of rapid development
and full employment. In
1952-54 and in 1956-59, when
the rate of investment dropped
to about 25 p.c., some diffi-
culties in employment appeared
and the growth rate slowed
down.
The speaker's estimates may
seem optimistic, because the
investment of 25 p.c.-30 p.c. of
the gross national product
included some degree of capital
formation in the consumer
goods industries. Later on this
had accentuated an unhealthy
boom and emphasised the
basic disproportions plaguing
the Australian economy. Con-
sumer goods producers have a
tendency to accelerate infla-
tionary short-term growth and
soak in an exaggerated propor-
tion of credit available. Then
they are the first to suffer and
moan when the boom bubble is
pricked.
Presenting an attractive view
of Australia’s economy in
1970, Mr Urquhart stressed
that, “when our work force
will show a rapid rise ... we
must increase our investment
at least to the figure of 30 p.c.”
With this there can be no
dispute.
Unfortunately, not enough
is being said of the plight
of primary producers. The im-
portance of the agricultural
sector is woefully under-
estimated (not by the speaker),
despite all the lip-service paid
in the national press. Primary
producers have been losing far
too much capital and labor to
the durable consumer goods
sector. In addition, they have
been hit by higher costs, as
increasing consumer goods
investment and spending have
helped to force up the overall
cost structure.
Admittedly, the future looks
good. Prof. Cameron had
forecast two years ago that by
1956 15 industries will expand
by 30 p.c. to 60 p.c., 12 indus-
tries by 60 p.c. to 70 p.c.,
seven by 70 p.c. to 90 p.c. and
only mining (other than coal)
and coastal shipping by less
than 30 p.c.
It must be understood,
though, that economic growth
is not an autonomous, auto-
matic process, but must be
sustained by an ever-increasing
volume of investment. The
essential balance between the
rates of growth in component
sectors of the economy must
be preserved.
The fortunes of Australia’s
secondary industry, commerce
and the primary sector are in-
extricably linked. Serious
difficulties in one essential
section will cause disastrous
bottlenecks and breakdowns in
the others.
E.B.
Problems of Iron Ore Export
By M. F. DIXON
'T'he recent decision of the
-*■ Federal Government to
permit the export of 200,000
tons of iron ore to Japan from
N.S.W.’s Fineflour Creek, on
the Upper Clarence, points up
the national misfortune that,
apart from the conveyor belt
loaders at Yampi Sound and
Whyalla, both owned by the
8.H.P., no Australian port is
equipped to handle this product
quickly and economically.
Iron ore is an abrasive sub-
stance and does not flow freely.
A ship would have to remain
tied up at a wharf for a con-
siderable time before, say,
10,000 tons could be loaded
under the primitive methods
that will have to be used at
either CofFs Harbor or Bris-
bane, the two ports which the
Fineflour syndicate has in mind
for shipping the metal.
Coff’s Harbor is about 90
miles to the south of Fineflour
Creek. Brisbane is more than
200 miles to the north, in
either case, many culverts and


CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act of New South Wales, on
March 8, 19,~>0.
9i%
PER ANNUM
10 YEARS
PER ANNUM
4 YEARS
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
SHORT TERM RATES
Funds may be withdrawn in a personal emergency.
Increased interest rates apply on renewal of investments.
Interest paid quarterly FREE OF EXCHANGE
through the BANK OF N.S.W.
Obtain prospectus and application forms from all
branches of the Bank of N.S.W.; any member of a
recognised Stock Exchange; the Company’s Offices,
Ground Floor, Cambridge House, 249 George Street.
Sydney. Phone BU-5542.
Underwriting Brokers:
Ralph W. King & Yuill (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
Corrie & Co. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
Leonard G. May & Son (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
Trustee for Stockholders:
Bankers and Traders’ Insurance Company Limited
Investigating Accountants for the Underwriting Brokers:
Smith Johnson & Co.
Registrar: Bank of N.S.W. Nominees Pty. Ltd.
Registers: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Canberra
Applications for the debenture stock accepted only on one of the forms
of application attached to a printed copy of the prospectus.
“——CLIP AND POST COUPON” J
CAMBRIDGE CREDIT CORPORATION j
LIMITED,
Ground Floor, Cambridge House, 219 <
George Street, Sydney.
Please send me without obligation a copy j
of the prospectus with application forms, j
NAME !
ADDRESS ,
The
NORTHERN LIFE
Assurance Company of Australia Limited
{lncorporated in Canberra, Australia)
All Classes of Ordinary Life Assurance,
Superannuation and Annuity Policies Issued
HEAD OFFICE: 15 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone BL 5601 K. J. Hedley, General Manager
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you a price for the original.
Ridges unsuited to the carry-
ing of heavy loads would have
(o be strengthened or rebuilt
before they could be used,
phis would take a considerable
time, assuming the money was
available, and the councils con-
cerned say it is not. The Bris-
bane route alone has no fewer
than 30 culverts and six major
bridges.
Completion of the deep-sea
port which the N.S.W.
Government has been building
for 10 years at iluka, at the
mouth of the Clarence River,
could have made the syndicate’s
transport and shipping prob-
lems much less difficult. This
port has been designed for the
direct shipment interstate and
overseas of considerable quan-
tities of wool, wheat, meat,
minerals and other products
from the N.S.W. North Coast
and from the north and north-
west of the State ; but, at the
present rate of progress, the
N.S.W. Department of Public
Works does not expect it to be
ready before 1973.
Even then the proposed depth
of water on the bar will be only
25 feet. Shipping and com-
mercial men say this is inade-
quate and they are pressing for
a minimum depth of 32 feel.
At a recent conference of the
Northern Rivers and Table-
lands Federation of Chambers
of Commerce, it was stated that
the Clarence port, as now
planned, will fall far short of
minimum requirements. Con-
ference was advised by an oil
company, which is building a
terminal at Trial Bay (Q.), that
it would have preferred to build
the terminal in the Clarence
River had sufficient depth of
water been available on the
bar in 1960 ; but from informa-
tion received it was convinced
the new harbor would never
provide a depth suitable for
general-purpose tankers operat-
ing in Australian waters.
The N.S.W. Minister for
Public Works, Mr Ryan, has
replied to criticism by saying
that the depth of water “will
be adequate for its purpose’’
a nd that, if circumstances
Warrant, consideration will be
given to increasing it. Practical
men who have been agitating
for the building of uie port for
many years, say the time to
Provide for an increased depth
ls n ow, when the work is going
°n, rather than undertake it at
'nuch greater cost later on.
The estimated cost of the
Clarence River port when the
was commenced in
March, 1950, was £4,345,000.
Cp to June, 1960, only about
*1,500,000 of this had been
s P e nt and at the present rate
of spending is only £225,000
per annum. The United North
and North-West Better Com-
munications League which is
urging the early completion of
the work, wants the annual ex-
penditure increased to £750,000;
and although the Minister is
sympathetic, he has told the
League it all depends on the
amount of money made avail-
able to his department.
Come people on the Clarence
River who have watched
the slow progress of the work
during the past ten years, are
convinced the port will never
be completed. At a recent
meeting of the Ulmarra Shire
Council, on the lower Clarence,
Cr .1. Mathew said that in his
opinion there would never be
a good entrance to the river.
As fast as the sand is moved
it is being washed back again.
The whole scheme was a waste
of public money, he said.
Meantime ex-fighter pilot,
stock and station agent and
company promoter, John Ross,
head of Metro Minerals (which
is behind the Fineflour Creek
enterprise), is confident it can
be developed into a large and
profitable business.
Test drillings, he said re-
cently, have established the
existence of 200,000 tons of
high-grade ore ; and explora-
tory boring carried out under
the supervision of the N.S.W.
Mines Department to a depth
of 60 feet, have shown an
average iron content of 65 per
cent, with some samples show-
ing up to 72.4 per cent.
if only the transport and
shipping problems which con-
front the syndicate were less
formidable, Australia's export
earnings might eventually bene-
fit by more than the £lm.
optimistically mentioned re-
cently by the Minister for
National Development, Senator
Spooner, when announcing the
issue of the export licence.
Refineries Aid
Exports
T AST year, for the first time,
Australian exports of re-
fined petroleum products ex-
ceeded the volume of imports
of refined products. Exports of
petroleum products in 1960
were valued at nearly £22
million, compared with £IST
million for exports in 1959.
Australia still has to import
some petroleum products be-
cause the pattern of refining is
such that, while some products
are produced in excess of


★
sj&andX
RAND'I
There’s richer enjoyment in every glass
Australia's
Better Brandy
Pot-stiii BRANDY
There’s no drink at once so stimulating ... so
relaxing ... so cheering at all times' as good
Australian brandy. And no brandy offers you
richer, more satisfying enjoyment than St. Agnes.
All the skill and experience of careful wine mak-
ing, distilling and blending are combined in the
perfection of St. Agnes Brandy . , . winning for St. Agnes a
distinguished reputation for quality, both in Australia and the
world over!
Enjoy the
Better Brandy
stagings
BRANDY
Old Liqueur
or Three Star
ANGOVE’S LTD. of RENMARK, S.A. • WINEMAKERS & DISTILLERS
ASK ALSO FOR ANGOVE'S WINE
domestic demand, others fall
short of requirements.
The Petroleum Information
Bureau (Australia) says the
quantity of products imported
is dwindling steadily as new
units are added to refineries.
At least £BO million will be
spent in the next few years on
construction of new refineries
and additions to existing plant.
Plans include the construction
of a new Standard-Vacuum
refinery at Hallett's Cove, South
Australia and a refinery near
Brisbane for Amoco Australia
Pty. Ltd. a subsidiary of Stand-
ard Oil Company of Indiana.
A new lubricating oil refinery
is being built adjacent to the
Kurnell refinery, Sydney, for
Australian Lubricating Oil
Refinery Ltd and plans have
been announced for two other
lubricants plants, one at the
Kwinana (W.A.) refinery for
BP and the other at Shell's
Geelong (Victoria) refinery.
Other major expansion works
planned or under construction
include additions costing £l2
million to lift the capacity of
A.O.R.’s Kurnell refinery from
2.3 million tons to 3.8 million
tons a year, construction of a
£l7 million catalytic cracking
unit at Shell’s Clyde (N.S.W.)
refinery and a £2 million cata-
lytic cracker for BORAL’S
Matraville (N.S.W.) refinery.
When completed, these new
units will enable the refining
industry in Australia to pattern
its production on lines more
closely resembling the pattern
of domestic consumption.
speculator's Diary
Friday, May 5.
TTnfortunately the old say-
ing about anticipation being
better than realisation still re-
mains horribly true as far as oil
shares are concerned. Still, we
can’t blame the newspaper re-
ports about Australian Oil and
Gas. A re-reading of last week-
end’s newspapers gave a clear
impression that there was oil,
but not enough of it, in the
Cabawin well. So when I heard
that opening prices last Mon-
day morning were as high as
28s. I put my remaining hun-
dred shares on at a 255. limit.
I was lucky, as the market had
apparently already dropped
back to 235., but recovered to
255. or so before slithering
back to 15s. by the end of the
week.
This hundred A.O.G. shares
gave me a profit of £5l on top
of the £23 1 made on my first
hundred sold at 19s. 4yd. the
previous Thursday. So, in spite
of all my procrastination about
A.0.G., I still ended up mak-
ing £74 from a swift, if lucky,
innings. That makes it hard
not to be tempted back into oil
shares again when they next
have their flutter, doesn't it?
In the meantime, I felt 1
should steady my nerves with
some good solid stocks again.
First 1 had a look at Blue
Metal and Marrickvilie rights.
But somehow I got no further
than looking. Both issues still
have quite a while to run (par-
ticularly Blue Metal) so 1 will
bide my time.
What I did do was to buy
a couple of hundred Life
Savers after that stunning
interim report a week or two
ago. Here is a company which
dashed off a capital gain for
its shareholders of more than
900 per cent, during the 19505.
It has made an equally im-
pressive start in the 19605.
Late la:t year it gave out a one-
for-two bonus (the fourth in
six years!) and also made a
three-for-ten par issue.
At that time the board indi-
cated the dividend rate would
be reduced to 15 per cent. But
apparently the directors hadn't
the heart to treat their share-
holders in such a niggardly
fashion and have maintained
the 20 per cent. rate after all.
So I stepped in and bought 200
at 255. 6d. just before the
books closed for the interim
dividend of sixpence a share.
The only conclusion I can
draw is that during a credit
squeeze we must all need our
Life Savers (and our Master-
craft chocolates) more than
ever.
Perhaps the same applies to
our Pick -Me- Up sauces. I
see P.M.U. shares have sneaked
up to 90s. It was certainly nice
to see that P.M.U.’s directors
were satisfied with the im-
proved result for the latest
half-year. You will recall that
last year P.M.U. put aside a
tax provision big enough to
suggest a net profit of nearly
70 per cent, to capital. Per-
haps it’s worth mentioning that
James Hardie Asbestos, Kel-
vinator and Newbold General
Refractories are others in that
select little band of companies
which unashamedly disclose
tax provisions larger than their
declared profits. So why
bother conjecturing about
C.S.R. and Tooths, which don’t
disclose their tax provisions,
when there are obvious plums
like these about?
But I'm getting off the track.
My week’s profit was £5l, the
third good profit in a row.
Details of the transactions
were:
SOLD
100 A.O.G. at 25/- .. £122
BOUGHT
200 Liferavers at 25/6 £260
I his left me With £B4 cash
and the following shares:
-v, .. Cost Cur-
-No. ot Same of Total IVr rent
Snares Company Cost share I'riie
-00 Autill I{. i |u;; \z/- 13/3
100 Pick-Me-Up 414 sit; do/-
.>OO At erica 165 0/4 ?/_
300 Stocks Hold-
ings deferred 127 8/3 7/9
200 Tom Piper 235 2a/- 23/(5
400 Pioneer Con
c ' r ete 334 1(5/3 18/-
200 Hornibrook 234 23/- 26/-
200 Parbury
Henty ' 174 17/- 16/3
200 F. W.
Williams 275 27/- 30/9
200 Marrickville 225 22/- 22/6
25 Marrickville
rights 12/-
200 Alarley
Itelianee 160 1(5/6 17/0
200 David .1 >nes
notes 101 0/10 10 8
200 Conerete Ind.
eontribs. <:•« 0 5 10,10
100 N. 15. Love
eontribs. 04 4/8 5/9
200 A. G. Sims 55 5/3. 5/4
100 .John Lysaght 100 20/- 20/-,
500 Newcastle Ten
Pin Howling 125 5/- 5/-
200 Lifesavers 250 25/6 26/-
HThe Federal Government's
1 decision to sell half Aus-
tralia's shareholding in Tas-
man Empire Airways Ltd to
the New Zealand Government
for £1,014,250 is a generous
and farsighted move.
New Zealand acquires a
greater degree of control over
its airline, while Australia's
QANTAS is getting valuable
commercial flight rights in
Auckland, Wellington and
Christchurch. The new formal
agreement also gives TEAL
lights to fly to and through
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane
and Norfolk Island. To safe-
guard TEAL’S financial posi-
tion, a commercial arrangement
provides that the New Zealand
airline will be allowed to carry
more than half the traffic on
the Tasman.


/
Q
THE AUSTRALIAN
vmmcm+Tm^
4*
I.
Coming ...
THE AUSTRALIAN
FINANCIAL TIMES
A compact, weekly paper for the busy executive.
With Australia’s most comprehensive share
list, lift-out investment section, the facts
and figures every executive, banker, businessman
and investor needs at his fingertips.
Overseas service
from the world’s financial centres.
Read financial reports from special
correspondents in Britain, Europe, U.S. and
Japan. Articles specially written for their
Australian interest not just reprints from
overseas journals.
Big coverage of Australian Commerce
From Canberra decisions and proposals
affecting trade, industry and commerce.
From Sydney & Melbourne —accurate reports
from on-the-spot staff.
From industrial experts—surveys on industry.
Individual companies’ prospects and problems.
PLUS —new appointments, overseas visits,
people in the news.
MONDAY NEXT! and every Monday i 6
THE AUSTRALIAN
FINANCIAL TIMES


The WILDCAT
COLUMN
J, Gadsden Australia Ltd
Tabel Gadsden set up in business in
** Melbourne in 1875. He manufac-
tured small calico bags—for use in the
packaging of oatmeal, flour, etc. in
premises in a lane back of the old Royal
Mint.
label's venture prospered. Today as
J. Gadsden Australia Ltd, represented
in all States, it ranks one of the biggest
packaging combines in Australia a
growth co. in a growth industry.
The Gadsden empire comprises: —-
J. Gadsden Australia Ltd —the holding
co. formed in 1954 (with an initial paid
capital of £3,000,000) to acquire the
entire issued ord. capital of J. Gadsden
Pty.
J. Gadsden Pty —the main operating
co. with subsidiaries in its own right
(the Queensland-based Queensland Bag
Co. Pty, Wood Industries Pty and Russell
and McDonald Pty) and share interests
in Pish Canneries of Tasmania Pty
(packaging fish) and Paper Sacks Pty
(manufacturer of multi-wall sacks for
containment of cement, fertilisers, etc.).
At one stage J. Gadsden Pty operated
as far afield as New Zealand but the
N.Z. interests broke away, in 1950, to
form a separate and independent entity,
J. Gadsden (N.Z.) Ltd. This offshoot
has now merged (in March, 1961) with
compatriate Alex Harvey and Sons Ltd,
also of N.Z.
J. Gadsden (Q’ld.) Pty.
Vulcan Can Pty —taken over in 1955-56
for a share consideration involving
200,000 10s. ords.
Packs Ltd (extruding and converting
polythene)—taken over in 1956-57 for a
share consideration involving 174,680
10s. ords.
Gadsden - Hughes Holdings Ltd-
formed originally in 1951 ; a merger of
J. Gadsden Pty (the Gadsden interests in
N.S.W.) and Richard Hughes Pty ; taken
over by J. Gadsden Australia Ltd (com-
pletion of the full circle) in 1958-59 for
a share consideration involving 3,221,076
10s. ords.
Gadsden-Hughes Holdings Ltd sub-
sidiaries, All-Packs (Aust.) Ltd (printed
cellophane and polythene packages) and
Gadsden-Hughes Ltd.
And James Robertson Pty (can manu-
facturer) —taken over in 1959-60 for a
share consideration involving 880,000 10s.
ords., each at a premium of 4s.
Products, and activities ranging an
increasingly wide and comprehensive
field—include plain and printed cans (for
use in packaging foodstuffs, beers, paints,
etc.), black-iron and terneplate drums
(honey, oil, etc.), calico and hessian bags
(foodstuffs), paper and multi-wall paper
bags (cement, fertiliser, etc.), stockinette
wraps (for use in the meat trade), crown
seals (for use in the bottling trade),
canvas goods and Venetian blinds, and
extrusion, printing and conversion of
polythene (flexible polythene packaging).
The co. has a valuable contract with
Rothmans of Pall Mall (Australia) Ltd
under which it produces packaging for
the popular Rothmans’ cigarettes.
In 1955-56 Gadsden concluded an
agreement with the American Can Co. —
the largest can manufacturing co. in
the world for exchange of technical
information on all phases of tinplate
printing and can manufacture. And the
co. is now partnered (since last term)
to W. E. Smith Ltd in a joint venture
styled W. E. Smith - Gadsden Pty. A
newly constructed and jointly owned
factory in Brisbane turns out corrugated
and solid-fibre packaging components.
The co. has also formed an association
(again during last term) with the world-
wide Van Leer organisation and produc-
tion, under the auspices of Australian
Packaging Industries Pty, is under way
in factories at Altona (Vic.) and Gran-
ville (N.S.W.). Products include steel
drums of capacity up to and including
44 gallons.
Paid capital of J. Gadsden Australia
Ltd, held exclusively in 10s. ords., was
£5,837,461 at June 30 last (balance date).
Since then, books closing on Lebruary
15, the co. has effected a one-for-eight
par issue—the second such issue since
assumption of public status; the co.
effected a one-for-eight par issue in
1958-59 —to lift paid capital £729,683 to
£6,567,143. Issue proceeds will be used
in financing further expansion. Bank
overdraft has been reduced.
The Gadsden business has been trans-
formed during the past five years.
Benefits are apparent in the profit table.
Sales reached record levels last term and
performance was the best to date. Net
profit came home a much improved
£622,611 (up £105,681 or 20 p.c.) after
setting aside £404,480 (up £98,968 and
closely aligned to profits) for tax,
£333,084 (up £61,528) for depreciation
and writing off £116,190 (up £59,887) to
interest on fixed loans:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. , Dividends—, serves. serves.*
£ j).c. £ £ £
Profit sale assets, £4223 . . 683,865
Tax overprovided, w/back, £2739 . . 686,604
1957 .. 355,878 8 = 254,987 100,891 787,495
Profit sale assets, £29,477 .. .. 816,972
Tax overprovided w/back, £4528 .. 821,500
1958 .. 347,047 8 = 254,987 92,060 913,560
Profit sale assets, £27,468 .. .. 941,028
Tax under-provided, £1842 .. .. 939,186
Note issue expenses w/cff, £36,774.. 902,412
Prelim, exp., subsid., w/off, £1466 900,946
1959 .. 516,930 8 = 395,825 121,105 1,022,051
Profit sale assets, £29,991 . . . . 1,052,042
Tax overprovided, w/back, £6579 . . 1,058,621
Provision doubtful debts, £55,000 .. 1,003,621
Share premiums, £176,000 . . . . 1,179,621
1960 .. 622,611 8 =466,997 155,614 1,335,235
* Subject to intangibles, £649,669 at June 30, 1960.
Earning rate is an unimpressive 10.7 p.c.
(on average ord. equity) compared with
10.5 p.c. (average), 10.9 p.c. and 11.2
p.c. in the three years back to 1957.
But . . . “It probably is not generally
appreciated that the can-making industry
is not one in which a high rate of profit
is earned on individual items” . . . and
further . . “The canning industry is
a highly competitive one and this in
turn exerts pressure on the can makers.
The policy adopted by your directors
is therefore to seek volume of produc-
tion and to price the company’s products
as keenly as possible.” Earning rates can
be expected to improve, however, as the
giant complex settles down and as newly
acquired functions become fully inte-
grated. Gadsden is engaged in a pro-
gramme of consolidation as well as
expansion.
Div. rate remained steady last term,
the 8 p.c. handout absorbing £466,997.
Reserves, bolstered by share premiums
£176,000 (see profit table), jumped
£313,184 to £1,335,235 ; after sending
£55,000 to provision for doubtful debts
-—set aside in view of the difficulties
facing the fruit-canning industry in South
Australia. Gadsden operates a huge can
factory at Berri (S.A.) in the heart of
the fruit-growing area. Reserves are
subject to intangibles, £649,669, at close
of the accounts.
Balance-sheet figures illustrate growing
stature and massive strengths. The book
value of land and buildings (in at 1953
sworn valuation or cost, plus additions at
cost or valuation) is up £254,817 at
£2,532,800. The book value of plant (at
cost or valuation, less depreciation) is up
£686,135 at £3,156,367.
1958. 1959. 1960.
Paid capital ..£3,187,340 £5,391,419 £5,837,461
Reserves . . 913,560 1,022,051 1,335,235
Outside interests 71,938 68,593 68,836
Notes .. .. 1,000,000 1,000,000
Mortgage . . 435,000 600,000 567,000
Deferred liability 815,000
Redeemable prefs. 142,000 123,500 105,000
Deposits . . 1,238,097 1,209,766
Overdraft .. 824,301 70,293 618,420
Creditors . . 529,995 849,320 572,624
Tax provision . . 182,956 327,208 441,248
Final div. . . 159,367 203,909 233,498
£7,261,457 £10,894,440 £11,989,088
Land, buildings 1,557,628 2,277,983 2,532,800
Plant . . . . 1,684,284 2,470,232 3,156,367
Investments . . 3,403 3 25,005
Stocks .. .. 2,375,309 3,935,369 3,555,179
Debtors .. 1,208,400 1,925,174 2,068,645
Cash . . . . 537 622 1,423
Intangibles . . 431,896 285,057 649,669
£7,261,457 £10,894,440 £11,989,088
Note - issue finance 8 p.c. registered
unsecured notes maturing April 30, 1967
—aggregates £1,000,000, deposits at call,
£1,209,766 (down £28,331) and mortgage
liability, on freeholds, £567,000 (down
£33,000). The 5 p.c. redeemable prefs.
settled £18,500 to £105,000. Theoretical
working capital appears to be ample (at
£2,549,691) though the drop last term
of £622,597 probably influenced directors’
decision to raise further equity (the one-
for-eight issue). Stocks are massive
(down £380,190 at £3,555,179); book
debts also (up £143,471 at £2,068,645).
Overdraft climbed steeplv to reach
£618,420 (ud £70,293). Creditors fell
£276,696 to £572,624
The overall ramifications of Gadsden
are very extensive and varied. Diversifi-
cation is essential bearing in mind the
part seasonal conditions play in vhe
packaging industry. The co. appears to
be a striking example of deferment of
div. benefits to shareholders because of
a temporary need to conserve funds, in
Gadsden’s instance, to help meet a
phase of heavy capital investment, both
by takeover and by extension of the
parent’s original business. Improved
benefits are certain pending completion
of the present growth explosion.
The 10s. ords. are currently trading


JOHN N. ROBERTSON
member of the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKER.
Temple Court,
422 Collins Street, Melbourne C.l.
Telephones: 67 4804, 67 2465
Telegrams & Cables:
ROBFALK, MELBOURNE
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
It. H. ALLEN, M. R. L. DOWLING.
P. R. LEVY, A. P. REYNOLDS, N. R.
COURSE (Melbourne Resident Partner)
Delfln House, 16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Building, 150 Queen St..
Melbourne. 67-5957 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables: •Kosdale,” Sydney
Melbourne, or Wollongong.
A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER,
N. VV. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor,
'L'lie National Mutual Life Building
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO"
Phone: 31 2761 P.O. Bos
(4 Lines) No. 1887 H
For the investor
who looks
before he leaps
THE
WILD CAT
MONTHLY
is the best
available
company guide
ANNUAL SUBSCRIPTION:
22/6 from
THE BULLETIN
NEWSPAPER CO.,
PTY. LTD.,
252 George Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
around 16s. 6d. to yield an immediate
and not unreasonable 4.9 p.c. They have
had a fairly stable market over the past
two years ranging generally about the
17s. mark but with occasional bursts to
20s. Net tangible asset backing at June
30 was 11s. 2d.
A.E.I. Ltd.
■p ecord orders were received but rising
labor costs, higher company tax rates
and the removal of import restrictions
dampened profit margins. Consolidated
net earnings slipped down. The ade-
quately covered, but modest, 5 p.c. divi-
dend rate was maintained.
Incorporated as a public co. in Vic-
toria in September, 1955, A.E.I. Ltd had
its beginnings in Australia in 1898 when
it was formed as Australian General
Electric Co., a branch of the well known
General Electric Co. of New York. In
1931 General Electric Co. and several
English electrical appliances manufac-
turers formed a private co. (trading
under the same name) to operate an
Australian offshoot.
In 1955 the U.S. interests sold their
holdings to Associated Electrical Indus-
tries (of U.K.), which then incorporated
A.E.I. Ltd as the Australian subsidiary
with a paid capital of £4,000,000 in
20s. ords.; 1,050,000 20s. ords. were
offered to Australian investors (at 4d.
premium a share) to secure public listing.
The principal shareholders in the English
parent include Metropolitan-Vickers Elec-
trical Co. Ltd, British Thompson-Houston
Co. Ltd, and Siemens Edison Swan Elec-
tric Co. Ltd.
The A.E.I. group represents in Aus-
tralia the shareholders in the English
parent, as well as Hotpoint and Ferguson
Pailin. Factories in N.S.W., Victoria and
Queensland manufacture a wide range
of generating and transmission equipment
and domestic appliances. The group also
distributes Ekco TV receivers. In addi-
tion to the operating Australian Electrical
Industries Pty there are two other sub-
sidiaries : Arrow Switches (Aust.) Pty and
Hard Metals Pty.
The value of orders received last term
“was the highest ever recorded.” Total
value of orders in hand at October 31,
1960, was said to be £4,000.000 higher
than at the same time in 1959. Output
of industrial motors and transformers
continued to expand, “but the rate of
expansion tends to be retarded by
shortage of certain classes of skilled per-
sonnel.”
Hotpoint domestic appliances were sell-
ing well. Street and flood-lighting sales
improved. Turnover in Mazda lamps and
lighting fittings for installation in new
office buildings and factories was satisfac-
tory.
The subsidiary Arrow Switches (Aus-
tralia) Pty improved its sales, but higher
costs and severe competition prevented
a corresponding rise in earnings. Hard
Metals Pty extended its range of pro-
ducts and improved its profits slightly,
in the face of strong competition. Its
premises were extended and additional
machines installed.
In the previous term A.E.I. had
encountered “difficulties with one cus-
tomer” in the motor traction field. Last
term “this was resolved by negotiation
and the amount outstanding was re-
ceived.” However, the final settlement
involved a substantial payment by the
company and £45,408 was drawn from
reserves.
All in all consolidated net profit for
the year ended October 31, 1960, slipped
down by £BOO3 to £265,223, after pro-
viding £293,698 for depreciation (up
£36,601) and setting aside £200,097 for
taxation (up £12,701):
Parent and Sdbsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
Oct., Profit. f —-Dividend—— x serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1955* ..404,354 f 590,832
Add adjustment accrued income, £1662 592,494
Unexplained addition, £940 .. .. 593,434
1956 ff. .367,232 7j p.c. = 300,000 67,232 660,666
To prov. long-service leave, £20,750 639,916
Design costs charged against reserves,
£40,577 599,339
1957 ..307,666 p.c. = 300,000 7,666 607,005
To redesign, etc., £41,979 . . . . 565,026
To provn. long-service leave, £140,683 424,343
1958 ..239,872 5 p.c. = 200,000 39,872 464,215
To redesign, etc., £25,000 . . . . 439,215
1959 ..273,226 5 p.c. = 200,000 73,226 512*441
Expenses in recovery of traction motors
debt written-off," £45,408 .. 467,033
1960 ..265,223 5 p.c. = 200,000 65,223 532,256
* 13 months for operating co.
f Div. of £196,875 paid by operating co. before
formation of parent co.
ft 13 months for subsidiaries of operating co.
This was equivalent to an earning rate
of 6.6 p.c. on the unchanged average
capital, and compares with 6.8 p.c. in
the previous term, 6 p.c. in 1958, 7.7 p.c.
in 1957 and 9.1 p.c. in 1956.
The steady 5 p.c. dividend rate was
adequately covered. Reserves benefited
by £65,223, rising to £532,256.
Current term may prove difficult,
despite the handsome orders in hand.
Severe credit restrictions have resulted
in a shrinking of effective demand. Com-
petition is becoming sharper, and the
Government has thus far refused to con-
sider reintroduction of some degree of
imports control. The business seems
overcapitalised, and a bit short of ready
liquid funds, at the same time.
Last term accommodation provided by
associated companies had risen by
£1,044,918 to £4,114,918. Bank over-
draft was £116,783 higher:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1958. 1959. 1960.
Paid capital .. £4,000,000 £4,000,000 £4,000,000
Reserves .. 464,215 512,441 532,256
Minority interest 97,884 103,794 109,400
Mortgage . . 720,000 705,000 690,000
Unsecured loan 50,000 350,000 350,000
Owing to associ-
ated cos. . . 3,502,207 3,070,402 4,114,918
Overdraft . . 436,261 553,044
Creditors . 1,033,737 1,004,235 1,586,823
Sundry provisions 218,637 207,948 195,690
Tax provision 179,475 199,979 203,222
Final div. . . 100,000 100,000 100,000
£10,366,155 £10,690,060 £12,435,413
Fixed assets . . 2,761,421 2,968,712 3,230,716
Owing bv associ-
ated cos. . . 24,789 23,098 63,717
Stock . . . . 4,496,035 4,187,446 4,657,317
Debtors, etc. . . 2,688,020 3,472,303 4,449,430
Cash . . . . 395,590 38,501 34,233
£10,366,155 £10,690,060 £12,435,413
Creditors rose by £582,588. On the
other hand inventories swelled by
£469,871 to £4,657,317, accounting for
well over half the theoretical working
capital of £6,502,201. Book debts looked
massive at £4,449,430 (up £977,127).
Arrangements for the sale of Ekco TV
and radio were altered during
the year. A.E.I. is now a non-exclusive
distributor, as the manufacturer has set


MANLY
Inches off your waist instantly
FLATTENS front
SUPPORTS back
IMPROVES postur•
SMARTENS looks
and SLIMS !
ONLY the “ Manly" will
INSTANTLY pull in your
waist 3-sin. INSTANTLY
relieves fatigue backache,
lumbago, sciatica. INSTANTLY
feel fitter, look smarter. Finest
2-way Stretch Washable Elas-
tic Fabric (Pre-Shrunk). ALL-
DAY comfort sitting, stand-
ing, playing. Extra detachable
Supporter FREE. Hundreds of
delighted testimonials.
Send 70/-. State waist size (next to
Aust. Notes or M.O. skin), to
General Medical Supplies, 152 Hereford
Street, Box 1547, Christchurch, N.Z.
m
FINANCE & INVESTMENT
COMPANY LIMITED
SHAREHOLDERS' FUNDS, £891.419.
TANGIBLE ASSETS, £3,184,264.
INTEREST RATES FOR DEPOSITS
(NOW CALLED UNSECURED DEPOSIT NOTES)
WITH RIGHT OF RECALL
ON 30 DAYS’ NOTICE
APPLICATIONS must be made
on the form enclosed with the
prospectus, which is obtainable
from
Members of the Stock Exchange
ANY BRANCH OF A.N.Z. BANK
The Registered Office of the Com-
pany, William & Crown Sts.,
Sydney. Telephone FA 0322.
Financing world-
famous products
distributed by
The Hastings
Deering Group
of Companies.
FORD
Cars and Trucks
FORDSON
Tractors
A.E.C.
Trucks & Buses
CATERPILLAR
Diesel Tractors
in Queensland
HYSTER
Fork Lift Trucks
JOHN DEERE
Agricultural
Machinery
LISTER
Engines
GROUP SALES
IN 1960
£14,757,281
MAIL THIS COUPON
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE &
INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
G.P.O. Box 4333, Sydney.
Please send me, without any obligation on my part, pros-
pectus dated 1/4/61, giving full details of your terms
deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS
HD82.8 •
up a sales and service organisa-
tion in Australia.
At the moment, producers
and distributors of TV re-
ceivers and electrical con-
sumer goods are going through
a difficult period. The share-
market has adopted a cautious
view of A.E.l.’s scrip.
At the last sale in Sydney
the 20s. fully paid ords. were
traded well below par at 12s.
6d. a unit. The immediate
yield is 8 p.c. on the basis of
the current 5 p.c. dividend
rate.
Net tangible asset backing
works out at 225. Bd. for each
20s. ord. unit, on the basis of
consolidated accounts.
York Motors Ltd
/Consolidated net profit of
York Motors (Holdings)
Ltd increased 16.6 p.c. in the
year to November 30 last, but
directors report a drop in turn-
over for the first quarter of the
current term. However, the
interim div. is now returned to
1\ p.c., the same as last year’s
final, suggesting a 15 p.c.
yearly rate coming up —last
year the full div. was lowered
from 15 p.c. to 13| p.c., the
interim going out a reduced
6f p.c.
York Motors was formed in
1939 to acquire the issued
capital of York Motors Pty
(established in 1932), the main
operating subsidiary today.
Shares were granted quotation,
in the first instance, in 1947.
Paid capital was then £312,000.
Subsequent issues, in 1948
(78,000 20s. ords., one-for-four,
at a premium of 20s. and
10,000 20s. ords., to employees,
at a premium of 205.), in 1950
(80,000 20s. ords., a one-for-
five bonus and 200,000 20s.
ords., one-for-two at par) and
in 1952 (226,666 20s. ords.,
one-for-three at par) have
lifted paid capital to £906,666.
The 20s. ords. were converted
into ss. stock-units in 1954.
The York Motors subsidiary
network is as follows:
York Motors Pty and York
Motors (Sales) Pty—N.S.W.
distributors of Rolls-Royce and
Bentley, Studebaker and
Peugeot cars, N.S.U. Prinz
mini-cars and Willys Jeeps and
trucks —and offshoots Castle-
reigh Traders Pty (wholesale
purchasing subsidiary) and
Glasgow Investments Pty (hire-
purchase subsidiary).
Lancaster Motors Pty and
Lancaster Motors (Wholesale)
Pty Sydney co-distributors
and Parramatta district distri-
butors of Morris cars and
Morris - Commercial trucks,
Wolseley and Riley cars and
Nuffield tractors.
Glasgow (Wholesale) Pty
(formerly Rose Motors Pty)—
wholesale purchasing sub-
sidiary.
Dominion Motors (Q’land)
Pty—Queensland distributors
of Rolls-Royce and Bentley
and Fiat cars, Oliver and
Holder tractors and Goodwin-
Barsby and Aveling-Barford
road machinery, etc.
And U.K. Motors Pty and
U.K. Motors (Wholesale) Pty
—Queensland distributors of
Austin cars and trucks.
Gross trading profit last
term, from all sources, plus
miscellaneous revenue, jumped
£199,513 to £1,688,417; pre-
tax profit, £67,892, or 33 p.c.,
to £273,447. The improvement
is reflection of increased turn-
over and reduced expenses
achieved in the motor-vehicle
distributing subsidiaries. The
h.-p. subsidiary disappointed.
Aggregate turnover of the
motor-vehicle distributing sub-
sidiaries totalled more than
£9 million (an increase of
almost 6 p.c.). Consolidated
net profit came in finally a
much improved £171,505 (up
£24,408), after tax £101,942
(up £43,484), depreciation
£24,996 (down £ 1000) and
expenses £1,389,974 (up
£132,621; an increase attribut-
able to higher h.-p. overheads ;
expenses, generally, were much
reduced):
Consolidated Figures.
Re-
Nov., Profit, r- —Dividends— ■, serves.*
£ £ £
’51..929,256 30 p.c.=204,000 1,989,300
To staff fund, £20,000.. 1,969,300
Less net adjustments, £4B 1,969,252
’52.. 480,521 30 p.c.=223,833 2,225,940
Add net adjustments, £689 2,226,629
’53..413,100 30 p.c.=272,000 2,367,729
’54.. 502,364 30 ~,,272,000 2,598,093
From stock re-
serve, £200,000 . . 2,798,093
’55.-440,630 30 p.c.=272,000 2,966,723
Added intangibles, £19,807 2,946,916
’56.. 240,539 224 p.c.=204,000 2,983,455
Tax underprovided, £4796 2,978,659
Capital profits £29,906.. 3,008,565
Intangibles vv/oft', £5167 3,013,732
Reductions spec, re-
serve, £12,203.. .. 3,001,529
’57..263,333 20 p.c.=181,332 3,083,530
Note-issue expenses,
w/off, £15,903.. .. 3,067,627
Reduction contingency
reserve, £6903 . . 3,060,724
Capital profits, £49,222. . 3,109,946
'58..209,671 20 p.c.=181,332 3,138,285
Less franchise-termina-
tion losses, £21,302 .. 3,116,983
Capital profit, £64,704. . 3,181,747
’59.. 147,097 15 p.c.=136,000 3,192,844
Capital profit, £1942 . . 3,194,786
’60..171,505 13J p.c.=124,667 3,241,624
* After deducting intangibles written
out of the accounts in 1958.
The reduced div. took £124,667.
Reserves finished up a massive
£3,241,624 (up £48,780 and
more than three times aggre-
gate ord. equity). Earning rate
works out at 18.9 p.c. as
against 16.2 p.c. in the preced-
ing term (when profits tumbled
£62,574 to £147,097) and 23.1
p.c., 29 p.c., 26.5 p.c. and
48.6 p.c. back to 1955.
In N.S.W., sales of Morris
and Wolseley vehicles showed
considerable improvement and
profits from the Peugeot fran-
chise, acquired in 1959, were
very satisfactory. In Queens-
land, U.K. Motors showed
improved results through in-
creased sales of Austin cars
and trucks, but Dominion
Motors disappointed. It is
hoped, however, “that the
acquisition of the State-wide
franchises for Fiat cars and
Holder light tractors will help
offset the declining sales of


Your banker
or stockbroker
knows
m
•••'«
■■■:■ *
HOW TO APPLY:
Applications accepted only on forms attached
to the Prospectus. Available from
REID MURRAY ACCEPTANCE LTD.
403 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 67 1924
Any branch of the
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Any member of a
RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE IN AUST.
Or Joint Underwriting Brokers
TOLHURST, HENLEY, MUNCKTON & CO.
401 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melt}.
CUTTEN & HARVEY
97 King William Street, Adelaide
408 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of Stock Exchange of Adelaide Ltd.
YOU CAN
SAFELY
INCREASE
YOUR INCOME
WITH
REID
MURRAY
Acceptance Limited
£1,000,000 ISSUE AT PAR
P.A. for 8 and 10 years
Registered
First Mortgage
Debenture Stock
PAID-UP CAPITAL
£6,000,000
INTEREST RATES
GUARANTEED BY REID MURRAY HOLDINGS LTD.
heavy tractors and agricultural
machinery.”
The h.-p. subsidiary boosted
business and at one stage
looked a winner—results for
the first six months indicating
that profits would be in excess
of those of the previous year
—but losses on repossession in
the latter part of the year,
aggravated by the fall in used
vehicle prices (stemming from
Federal legislation), plus in-
creased cost of borrowed
funds, upset expectations —
h.-p. profits declined. The co.
is now adopting a more selec-
tive approach in granting
credit.
In August, 1960, Renault
(Australia) Pty took over dis-
tribution of its own vehicles in
N.S.W. (similar steps were
taken in Vic. and S.A.), but
York Motors retained distri-
bution of parts. In addition,
and also during last term, the
Britstand and Harman fran-
chises for Queensland were
relinquished. It is claimed that
“the absence of these three
franchises has not adversely
affected profits.”
Balance-sheet figures illus-
trate growth of the h.-p. func-
tion (Glasgow Investments),
increased h.-p. activity, and
funds raised—or channelled
from other sources —to finance
this activity:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1959. 1900.
Paid capital . . £906,666 £906,666
Reserves . . 3,192,844 3,241.624
Overdraft . . 245,809 421,755
Notes, etc. . . 1,200,000 600,000
Debentures . . 803,850
Deposits . . 696,299 893,649
Creditors, etc. .. 600,852 641,744
Unearned income 472,751 699,963
Tax provision . . 59,385 103,065
Staff fund . . 20,031 19,097
£7,394,137 £8,331,413
Freeholds, etc... 521,550 501,021
Plant . . . . 169,939 170,247
Stocks . . . . 1,828,419 1,905,931
Debtors . . . . 467,822 497,879
H.-p. accounts.. 4,044,302 5,195,124
Investments . . 59,272 59,272
Cash etc. . . 302,833 1,939
Intangibles . .
£7,394,137 £8,331,413
Outstandings under h.-p. and
mortgage loans rose £1,150,822
to £5,195,124 —the amount
loaned on mortgage for land
and home finance representing
only a small part of this
increase. Provision for un-
earned income was boosted
£227,212 to £699,963—reflect-
ing, in large measure, a ten-
dency toward longer-term-
type mortgage loans.
Total borrowings jumped
£401,200 to £2,297,499 with
interest-bearing deposits up
£197,350 at £893,649, registered
first - mortgage debentures —-
£237,800 in short-term stock
and the balance, £566,050, in
long-term stock—in at £803,850
(raised entirely in the year
under review to establish funds
sufficient to redeem maturing


6i p.c. notes ; to provide addi-
tional liquidity as well) and
registered notes down £600,000
at £600,000 in 8 p.c. paper
maturing 1963.
Theoretical working capital,
providing further finance, de-
clined £454,343 to £1,239,185,
cash dropping £300,894 (utilisa-
tion of monies, £300,000, pre-
viously on deposit at short
call), overdraft climbing
£176,446. Inventory control
had stocks little changed (up
£77,512 at £1,905,931).
York Motors took over
Rosebery Mills Pty last term
(a languishing textile manu-
facturer) and with it accumu-
lated losses amounting to more
than £lOO,OOO ; valuable from
a taxation point of view. The
deal, involving acquisition of
valuable freeholds at Rosebery,
N.S.W., has enabled relocation
in the one centralised premises
of some similar but previously
scattered activity ; this, in turn,
has facilitated a more healthy
consolidation of interests with
possible reduction of over-
heads. Freeholds no longer
required —the McEvoy Street,
Alexandria, premises and the
Nickson Street, Surry Hills,
premises—have now been sold.
Turning to the future, and
more especially to the imme-
diate future, York Motors’
trading has improved since
withdrawal of the sales tax
increase on February 22 last —
sales tax on motor vehicles was
stepped up from 30 to 40 p.c.
in November, 1960.
New vehicle registrations
throughout Australia for
March were 45 p.c. higher than
for February (a good sign),
but still 12 p.c. lower than for
March, 1960. It must be
remembered when considering
the increase in March registra-
tions “that some motor distri-
buting organisations have
found it necessary to sacrifice
profit to increase sales in order
to reduce over-stock situations
and prepare for the introduc-
tion of new models.” York
Motors is said to be an excep-
tion.
New releases, the Studebaker
1961 model and the Morris
850, are hailed with enthu-
siasm (it is claimed) by the
York Motors clientele. Two
new branches have been
opened in Brisbane with ex-
pectations of bigger turnover.
Dominion Motors has in-
creased business —per medium
of the recently acquired fran-
chises for Fiat and Holder
light tractors —and it is hoped
that sales of heavy tractors and
agricultural machinery will
improve with the breaking of
the long Queensland drought.
The volume of h.-p. busi-
ness (Glasgow Investments) has
been reduced in the first four
months of this financial year,
but March figures show im-
provement. A tendency to
accept better paper has con-
tributed to greater group
liquidity.
Management is fully alerted
of the difficulties it faces in
the current term —the incalcul-
able consequences, now partly
revealed, of governmental
legislative interference and its
impact on the motor-vehicle
and h.-p. industries —and is
striving, the more so, to main-
tain sales ; the cost problem is
also under strict surveillance.
But managerial effort aside, the
ss. stock-units, trading around
95., still look a risky venture.
Profits are certain to be down
when final reckoning is made.
The only solace in present
investment is a possible return
to the 15 p.c. div. rate. On this
basis purchase poses imme-
diate yield of 8.3 p.c. Return
from a 13| p.c. div. is 7.6 p.c.
Net tangibles weighed up a
solid 225. lOd. at close of the
accounts.
COMPANY NOTES
Latec Investments Ltd
T atec’s decision to defer
payment of the p.c.
interim dividend is disappoint-
ing. The interim dividend
was declared last February,
when the directors had
reported that consolidated net
profit for the half year ended
December 31, 1960, increased
by a solid £120,061 to £250,106,
after providing £159,496 for
tax (up £86,026).
Shareholders were given no
intimation that they would
receive a deferment notice
instead of the dividend cheque
in their mail. Unless the posi-
tion has deteriorated rapidly
since last February, placing
Latec Investments in a really
embarrassing position, the diffi-
culty with paying a 1\ p.c. in-
terim dividend could have been
foreseen then, and the intended
deferment intimated to share-
holders.
Instead, the board announced
a 108 p.c. jump in the half-
yearly consolidated net profit
after tax, and launched a new
subsidiary, Trans-Continents
Holdings Ltd (with a paid
capital of £100,000), which
immediately proceeded to float
£1,000,000 deposit notes, bear-
ing a modest 6 p.c. p.a. interest
rate. The notes were “fully
guaranteed by Latec Invest-
ments Ltd.”
An urgent necessity to “con-
serve liquidity” was given as
the reason for deferring the
payment of the 1\ p.c. interim.
This may indicate that the
Trans-Continents Holdings note
issue, coming at a difficult
time, was not nearly as suc-
cessful as expected. The plain
hint of inadequate liquidity
could mean that Latec’s
ambitious diversification pro-
gramme has somewhat out-
paced the group’s immediate
expansion capacity.
Directors have promised to
keep the situation under con-
stant review, and pay the
interim dividend as soon as
possible, “without affecting the
company’s present successful
trading operations.” Assets
are reported to total more than
£2O million. This sounds a lot
more encouraging.
Although Latec’s organisa-
tion does not seem to be in
any great danger, it appears
that the group has not been
able to weather the current
credit tempest as easily as it
might have seemed at first.
The board’s treatment of the
interim dividend issue seems
disappointing, compared with
Latec’s excellent past earnings
and dividends record.
General Industries Ltd
at eneral Industries Ltd has
acquired Admiral Inter-
national Corporation’s share-
holding in Admiral of Australia
(Pty) Ltd, which is now a
wholly - owned subsidiary of
General Industries Limited.
General Industries will “re-
tain its association with Ad-
miral of Chicago with a ten
year know - how agreement,
under which the company will
continue to receive technical
assistance on electronics, air
conditioning and refrigeration,
thus enabling the continued
development in Australia of
Admiral products.”
Mr Clarkson, the managing-
director, said that it is pro-
posed to associate more closely
Adm l r a l’s merchandising
activities with Metters Limited.
“This should result in a reduc-
tion in overheads and savings
to the group,” and will facili-
tate expansion of the appliances
division, which requires more
space at Bankstown.
A preliminary report states
that consolidated net profit of
General Industries Ltd for the
year ended February 28, 1961,
improved by £83,623 to
£415,002. This indicates an in-
crease of 25 p.c. over the
previous term. Sales rose by
about 10 p.c.
OIL AND MINING
Clarence River Basin Oil
ATarence River Basin Oil
Exploration Co. N.L. re-
ports that gas testing at Clifden
No. 2 bore at Grafton (N.S.W.)
disclosed 96 p.c. methane at
509 feet.
The flow was described as
“only medium.” Drilling re-
commenced on April 28 and the
well has now reached 577 feet.
Traces of gas were encountered
at 546 feet, 570 feet and 576
feet. The well is drilling ahead.
Oil Development N.L.
AUL Development N.L. re-
ports that preparations are
now being made at Penola
Well No. 1 in South Australia
for testing of certain zones,
which have been selected from
the results of the electric log-
ging carried out recently.
“Some gas cutting of the mud
was evident when cleaning out
the hole in preparation for
running the electric logs.”
Wapet
\X7est Australian Petro-
’ * leum Pty plans for further
oil exploration operations in
Western Australia include a
marine seismograph survey, in-
volving approximately 450
miles of line. The survey wili
be carried out in parts of fix-
mouth Gulf and adjacent
waters.
Two seismic parties will un-
dertake new reconnaissance and
detailed surveys in both Can-
ning and Carnarvon Basins, and
these may result in new drill
sites. Plans have been finalised
for the drilling of a strati-
graphic test well at Eneabba
(160 miles north of Perth), as
soon as roads and location can
be constructed to permit opera-
tions during the coming winter
season. The depth of the test
well “may be as great at 12,000
feet, and a target date for
soudding has been set at June
15.”
Technical staff has been
increased by the addition of
an exploration superintendent
from overseas. Further staff
additions are expected to in-
clude a geophysical specialist to
head a review team, which “will
assure the maximum benefit
from a co-ordinated study of
geophysical, geological and
drilling results.”
This year Wapet's explora-
tion programme will be con-
ducted under a new corporate
agreement. The interest pre-
viously held in Wapet by
Texaco Overseas Petroleum
Company (TOPCO), a wholly
owned subsidiary of Texaco
Inc., has been taken over by
two other participants, Cali-
fornia Asiatic Oil Company
(a wholly owned subsidiary of
Standard Oil of California),
Ampol Exploration Ltd and
Shell Development (Aust.) Pty.
California Asiatic now holds
40 p.c. of the share capital,
Shell 40 p.c. and Ampol 20 p.c.


FOR SALE, owing to ill-health,
an old-established solicitor's prac-
tice in Sydney, full price £lOOO cash
Write for an appointment to No.
10561, C/o The Bulletin, 252
George Street, SYDNEY.
UNIVERSITY APPOINTMENTS
University of Melbourne
Applications are invited tor a
position of LECTURER or
SENIOR LECTURER in ECONO-
MIC GEOGRAPHY. Applicants
should possess an honours degree
or its equivalent in Economics with
a special interest in Economic
Geography.
Salary scales: Senior Lecturer,
£A2480 x £A9S - £A2950; Lecturer.
£A 1660 x £AIOS - £A2360; with
provision for Superannuation on the
E.S.S.U. basis. The initial salary
will be determined according to
qualifications and experience.
Further details and conditions ot
appointment may be obtained from
the Registrar. University of Mel-
bourne, Parkville, N. 2, Victoria,
and applications should reach him
not later than 30th June, 1961.
F. H. JOHNSTON.
18/4/61. Registrar.
Divorce Notice*
LV THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOU L’H WALES—In Divorce.
10 LESLIE ALBERT BELL late of
Brisbane Gueenshind and Svdnev New
South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that
EDWARD NEIL MARLOW has tiled
a Petition for Divorce No. 3480 ot
lit.)9 on the ground of his wife's adultery
with you If you wish to defend the
suit you may enter an appearance on or
before the 7th dav of Julv 19(il at the
Divorce Registry Mint Building Mac-
quarie Street Sydney. A copy of the
Petition may be had without charge
from MESSRS. E. R. ABIGAIL & CO.,
Solicitors, of 117, Pitt Street, Svduey.—
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 26-27 of 1960.
To BRIAN ROTHWELL FOTHERSGILL
—TAKE NOTICE that MARY RIIODA
FOTHERSGILL has filed a petition for
divorce No. 2627 of 1960 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney by the 11th day
of July, 1961, and obtain a free copy of
the petition from Joseph H. McDou'gall
& Co., Solicitors of 2!) Bligh Street,
Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—Ik Divorce,.
TO WILLIAM HAROLD THOMAS late
of 28a Catalina Avenue Ashburton in
the State ot Victoria.—TAKE NOTICE
that PEGGY PHYLLIS THOMAS ha.-
tiled a Petition for Divorce No. 1229 ot
1958 on the ground that for three years
and upwards you have been a habitual
drunkard and habitually left your wife
without means of support. If you wist)
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
Macquarie Street Sydney bv the 12th
day of July 1981 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from J. C
PAYNTER, Solicitor, of 107 Elizabeth
Streep Sydney, or from MESSRS. CRAN-
ITCH KENNEDY A WINTER, Solicitors,
199 a Macquarie Street, Liverpool.—
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —In Divorce.
TO MARGARET ANN TAYLOR late
af It Scwebel Street Marrickville New
South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that
WILLIAM DUNCAN TAYLOR has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 3629 of 1960
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three (3) years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court Mint Building
Macquarie Street Sydney by the 26th
June 1961 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from ABRAM
LAN DA V CO., Solicitors, of 9-13 Bligh
Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
Legal Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
ELLEN HOLDEN DECEASED
PURSUANT to an order of the Supreme
Court of South Australia dated the
25th day of November 1960 and made
in the matter of the estate of ELLEN
HOLDEN (late of 210 Hanson Street
Adelaide in the State of South Aus-
tralia! whereby the. following inquiry
was directed, namely. An inquiry
who upon the death of the intestate
ELLEN HOLDEN became beneficially
entitled either absolutely or contin-
gently to any property of hers as to
which she died intestate and for
what estate and interests and in what
shares or proportions, and if any such
persons are since dead, when they died,
and if any such persons died having
attained an absolute vested interest,
who are their personal representatives.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that all
persons claiming to be next of kin of
the said deceased and entitled under
the said inquiry and all persons claim-
ing to be the issue or legal personal
representatives of any person who has
since died and who is claimed to have
been the next of kin of the said de-
ceased are to send by post prepaid to
HERBERT LEWIS ABBOTT of Shakes-
peare Chambers 123 Waymouth Street
Adelaide in the said State Solicitor
within 60 days after the date of publi-
cation of this advertisement their full
Christian and surnames, addresses and
descriptions and full particulars of their
claims in writing together with support-
ing evidence AND IN DEFAULT thereof
they will be peremptorily excluded from
the benefit of the said order. DATED
this 22nd day of March, 1961. —
GEORGE H. WALTERS Deputy
Master of the Supreme Court.
Note:— ELLEN HOLDEN (called
“The Deceased”) died at Adelaide,
South Australia on the 4th day of Sep-
tember 1904 aged 76 years and was
then residing at 210 Hanson Street
Adelaide South Australia. The deceased
was born at Adelaide on the sth
day of Mav 1878 and was the child
of HENRY BENJAMIN HOLDEN and
LUCY HOLDEN ( nee SMITH). The
said HENRY BENJAMIN HOLDEN
and LUCY HOLDEN are believed to
have been born in Suffolk England and
to have married in Ipswich England
in 1870. They are believed to have
come to Australia in 1876. Apart from
the deceased there were three children
of The said marriage namelv GEORGE
HOLDEN HENRY HOLDEN and ALICE
HOLDEN. So far as known the de-
ceased’s nearest next of kin at the time
of her death are the following persons
who claim to be first cousins in the
paternal line CHARLOTTE ANNE
HOLMAN and JANE ELIZABETH 1)U
RIEU both of South Australia. The
deceased died intestate and left pro-
perty in South Australia.
Personal
How old Tom Parr, the Shropshire lad,
lived to be 152 : how President Eisen-
hower, U.S.A.. recovered from coronary
thrombosis ; how England may win the
next Tests in Australia ; how women may
retain that schoolgirl complexion all
their days, without make-up, and be as
fit as they look; all this and more is
to be found in “Rheumatism and mental
depression, etc.,” 4/- post free from
PETER F. SOMERVILLE, 7 Upper
Norwich Road, Bournemouth, England.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
i Same and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom
patty. MSS. should be addressee
to the Editor; they wilt be con
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may he
shortened or altered as the Editm
thinks necessary
D.W.: As you find the Damon
Runyon style easy to write we can
only conclude that Damon Runyon
found it harder. .J.C.S.: You
were better on the electricity than
the roadmaking or the fishing....
H.N.: Being dismissed is too sad
a story while “Evocation” isn't
one... .8.C.: Slight.... R.A.W.:
“We look back on it now and
laugh” was a good opening, but
not justified.... P.V.T.: Curious
people you get to hear about....
D. Pretty miserable. ..A.F.:
Such violence. .J.S.: Maybe it's
History, but not Ourstory....
E. A dagger that makes a killer
ol whoever picks it up might be
better employed as a corn-cutter.
Anon: The drawings sound
interesting. The poem doesn't say
enough about them F.W.M.:
Tut.. .. H.L.8.: The crow nearly
flew in . ... A.V.H.: Yes, it’s
poetry ; but not outstanding....
.... H.W.: None of that huge pile ol
typescript is the little thing we
want. . . .C. 8.: So they went to a
funeral.... R.T : Just because he
was a Jap you can’t tie an unlikely
stoiy to him. .. . M.C.H.: You got
home safely from the horror film —
there's just no percentage in it....
V.W.: Comic monologue 60 years
old ... .R.E.8.: Old-fashioned story-
telling about elsewhere.... P.Y.:
No fantasies about golf—there’s
enough on their scorecards....
“The Bulletin” Crossword No. 642
Across
I— Publications’ half-truths are halved. (11)
7—He drinks, but not tea like this tea. (3)
9 Right is hardly the description of its start in life; it’s
left. (9, 4)
10— Bootlicker appears during today. (5)
ll Flooring a wounded lion. (4)
12—How a record may be if included in the greeting. (2-2)
13— Renegade and I love propor-
tion. (5)
14 — Animals mention the article on
one who has a famous after-
noon. (5)
16 — Shipping which turns the
stomach. (3)
17 — High priest of Shiloh. (3)
18 — South turned up with -me and
white horses. (5)
19 — The girl with this may be very
fast —not quite 100 m.p.h.,
though. (5)
21 — The woman would throw off the
outbuilding. (4)
22 — Heroic literature is dead
wrong. (4)
24— Flora includes such industrial
impertinence. (5)
26 When the bank-managers hugged
by a glamor-girl client it’s reason
enough for him to make no
further advances. (6, 7)
27 — Bashful youth may have his
fling. (3)
28 — Sees tangles in eyries. (6, 5)
Down
j,—Court no square sisters here-
in. (7, 8)
2 Unfading one, mother managed
yours. (11)
3 Bear children? Society can’t bear
these! (5, 4)
4 Learn to be damaged about the
kidneys. (5)
5 Notch in false teeth. (9)
6 The environment of this creature
is over 50. (4)
7 Elegance is to be expected of this
piggery catalogue. (7)
8— The big ones follow not mum—
how dishonest! (7, 8)
14 — How’s 9-across to start to
fish. (9)
15— Tuoba? (5, 4)
20—Mr Lisle confused these Hour-
producers. (7)
23 —An inch between blocks of
seats. (5)
25 — A valley in dire need. (4)
26 — Why go after business it
shy? (3 )
Solution to Crossword No. 641


will
your
m
*
.
mmn
m
retirement
. . be a time of relaxed pleasure? Or
will it involve the unhappiness of financial discomfort? Why not
see the M.L.C. about making certain of your future.
The M.L.C. offers a Personal Superannuation guarantee which, with generous bonuses and low pre-
mium instalments, takes absolutely the best care of your retirement. You can also ask about add-
ing Accident and Sickness benefits to your basic policy too. These benefits can protect your income
from loss caused by accidents or sickness.
Think about it. Act on it now. Call or write to your nearest M.L.C. office for more information on the
Personal Superannuation Policy.
L.C
THE MUTUAL LIFE AND CITIZENS’ ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in New South Wales)
And for Fire and General Insurance
THE M.L.C. FIRE AND GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY PTY. LIMITED
MLC94.63
