

The Bulletin
"You’ll Get No Promotion...” (page 34)
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
February 8, 1961
Price 1/-
THE SQUATTOCRACY
liegiFteied in Australia for transmission by post aa a newspaper.


The Red Page
Four Australian Novels
GIRLS AND GRAPES
Green Grows the Vine. Nancy Cato.
Heinemann. 18s. 9d.
South Australian vineyards are the
venue of Nancy Cato's third novel,
upon which converge a rich girl look-
ing for life in the raw, a married girl
seeking self-expression and an Italian
migrant girl with her eye on the main
chance.
The main chance turns out to be the
foreman in charge of the grape-pickers;
he is vastly attracted to the rich girl
looking for life in the raw, and she
considers he is just about raw enough,
and goes rowing and swimming with
him. But the Italian girl knows a trick
worth two of those; she gets the fore-
man to accompany her to the barn,
becomes pregnant and then he has to
marry her.
The husband of the married girl
seeking self-expression takes a similar
course; all of which leaves the rich girl
unaccounted for. Most praiseworthily
Miss Cato drags her back from the river
at the last moment; a way of rounding
ofi a novel which she pursued toe easily
in hei first book.
The background to all this, of vine-
yards and grape-district society, is
knowledgeably blocked in. with a
caustic picture of penny-pinching land-
ladies of grape-pickers, expert treat-
ment of the actual picking (how to
bend back the stem so that it cracks,
how to wear gloves to prevent blistering
forefingers, how wine-stains, removed
with lemon for the district dance,
return embarrassingly when washed
with soap), and very pleasant scenes
of river parties and evening parties,
with Australian dialects and intonations
carefully observed and presented.
R. McCuaig
FULL OF WHACKO
Tlhe Storms of Summer, John Iggul-
den. Chapman and Hall. 225. 6d.
Reviewing the film “The Sun-
downers,” “Time” magazine remarked
that it “is what the Aussies would call
a bonzer bit of borak. full of the old
whacko.” If you like to omit the
“bonzer” you have a reasonably
accurate and exceedingly concise criti-
cism of “The Storms of Summer.” an
extremely poor novel overall, although
it contains patches of enough promise
to make one wish for its author’s sake
that it had been rejected by publishers,
reconsidered by the author, tidied up
and extensively altered.
It is. as it stands, a peculiar hotch-
potch of adventure, romance, social
questioning and poor taste. It concerns
a young student architect who returns
for his long vacation to his father’s
farm on the N.„S. Wales South Coast,
where he becomes entangled with a
couple of girls and ensnarled in the
problems of fishermen in violent dis-
pute with Italian trawlers from further
down the coast. New South Wales
readers will recall that a few years ago
a very ugly situation in fact developed
between Australian and Italian trawler-
men in this part of the world.
Charles Desborough, the young
architect, finds himself very improb-
ably cast as mediator. Charles makes
a couple of friends among the young
Italians—and one must report, in fair-
ness to the author, that the hackneyed
situation of Charles, plus Italian girl,
is not in the book's catalogue of melo-
dramatic situations. But Mr Iggulden,
bending over backwards to be fair, is
more offensive than any of the tough
Australian fishermen ever manage to
be. He has Charles converse with the
Italians in a sort of pidgin. Charles
explains he spends most of his year at
school. Understandably Frankie (an
Italian) says: “Pretty big boy for
school . . . !”
“Well . . . it’s a sort of school. You
know . . . where people learn to be
doctors and engineers. Architects . . .
people like that. You learn how build-
ings are made. That's what I do.
Takes five years. You understand?”
“Okay.” said Frankie. “You go to
d’ school.”
And very polite of Frankie. 1 felt,
who could probably have told Charlie
more about the nature of a university
than he understood himself.
As for the Australians, they slouch
around calling each other “sport.”
“mate,” “y’ bastard.” saying “ya”
when they mean “yes,” using all the
cliche slang that overseas readers are
supposed to find incomprehensible, and
being, even when allegedly educated,
ashamed to speak as much as tolerably
well —except for Charlie’s city friends,
who bleat like pansies to show they
are city types.
As far as I am concerned the
dialogue, bad as it is, makes for the
book’s chief interest. There are num-
bers of Australian writers who
periodically agitate about Australian
publishing and invite others of us to
sign petitions to Parliamentarians, and
who allege that it is a dreadful thing
to be forced to try to sell books on a
world market because inevitably the
dialogue is bound to be castrated of
all its virile Australianess. Whether
Mr Iggulden or his publishers hit upon
“phutten” I don’t know, but surely
nothing else has been subtracted from
this supposed South Coast speech. If
one indifferent book like this can crash
the barrier of English publication one
should only feel heartened as to the
fate of many of the undoubtedly good
Australian novels which are being
offered for publication overseas.
Nancy Keesing
UP COCKEY’S CREEK
A Straight Farrow. Frank Kellaway.
Cassell. 21s.
Lust, hatred, sudden death, flood and
tire in a tiny Australian valley, and
the effect of these elemental forces on
the isolated community of backward
smallholders who live there, already
suffering from inbreeding and risking
the normal hazards of gossip, malice
and emergency midwifery: this seems
an ambitious target for a first novel.
The saga of a half-aboriginal sun-
worshipper keeps the chronicle of suc-
cessive misfortunes together, just as
the influence of this old man on his
neighbors brings them to some form
of unity. Arty Strong tills his fifteen
acres with horse and plough, driving
a straight furrow and believing in
“staying in my own paddock.” but fate
draws him into each disaster and. in
the end. he suffers most of all.
Mr Kellaway has tried too self-
consciously for “realism.” recounting
every' conversation in precise detail
until it becomes tedious, but his
descriptions, if over-violent, are vivid.
Proof-reading could have been
bettered. There are a couple of slips
of no particular account, but one on
page 25 will make Australian readers
smile. “Col” Swabrick could only
have been promoted to colonel with
benefit of an English publisher.
QUEENSLAND CATTLEMAN
Cattleman. R. S. Porteous. Austral-
asian Publishing Co. 19s, 6d.
Prize novel in the Brisbane “Courier-
Mail” Queensland Centenary Award,
this is the life-story of Ben Mcßeady,
once a drover’s boy. who came up the
hard way—selector, cattle-lifter. Light
Horse troop-sergeant in War 1. grazier
—to become a wealthy, self-made beef-
baron and owner of a successful
racing-stable.
The book, which is set in Central
Queensland, opens with Ben, aged 82,
seriously ill in hospital, and develops
its theme by , means of a series of flash-
backs. As his relations and friends
come to visit him the old cattleman
relives his many adventures, which
(Continued on page 27)


The most advanced silo yet introduced!
new
oRa
1-purpose
* Patent Pending 55007/59
Years ahead, with
full-size “walk-in” door
at no extra cost.
£
m
❖
■
ii m
mm
3
ww
11
111
w»
m£wi
ft# m»» > «»»*♦
II
n
i
<**•
«v «»*■»»»»
/'••:'■ :
UIL
&»»**
♦HNH
«P*
ii
: • 5
'' '■ ■
EACH FEATURE CAREFULLY PLANNED TO SAVE TIME AND MONEY!
© Fail-Size "Walk-In" Door (silos from 1,200 bushels upwards)
enables the silos to be emptied and cleaned with a minimum of
time, effort and discomfort.
• Easier, Faster, Cneaper Erection.
• Vertically Rigidised Walls and 6-Ply Horizontal Ribs for
added strength.
• Revolutionary New Robust Positive-Action Bagging Outlet
complete with bag holder and steel cover.
• Sampling Outlet and Auger Chuie in bottom bulkhead behind
door.
• Improved Centre and Side-Filling Hole Assemblies complete
with hinged lids and positive fastenings.
© Wider Turned-Down Eaves on Roof Panels.
© Fully Rodent-Proof Construction.
ALL THESE PLUS THE FOLLOWING OPTIONAL EXTRAS!
Cuts overall costs up to £lOO
• Eosy-to-install Heavy-Gauge Steel Floor ... suitable for
conical or flat bases.
AUGERS
Highly efficient vertical Grain
Augers designed to centre fill
all Lysaght Silos from 1,200
B. to 3,700 B. are available.
Prices; £97. £lO9, £ll6.
(F.O.R. Newcastle.)
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LIMITED
Offices in Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Fremantle.
S3SXC


The Bulletin
FEBRUARY 8, 1961
Vol. 82
No. 4226
INDEX
COYER STORY
The Squattocracy xi
CURRENT AFFAIRS
Plain English
Conflict in the A.W.U.;
Sweated Asian Labor ;
Wheat to Red China 8
Political Points 11
DEPARTMENTS
Aboriginalities 32
Personal 16
Service and Information 59
Society 6
FEATURES
W.A.’s Day of Disaster 26
Australian Schooldays. No. 2:
M. H. Ellis 50
FICTION
The Cats of Venice, by Hal
Porter 45
The Map, by Thelma Forshaw 48
FINANCE
Business, Robbery, etc.
Fabulous Minster 40
Give the Marketeer a Go! 43
Wild Cat Pages 56
LETTERS 53
MAN ON THE LAND
“You’ll Get No Promo-
tion ” 34
Keyline Assessment 34
Report from Crohamhurst 35
OVERSEAS
“Let Peter Have It, Dear” 19
Castro Fights the Church 22
Overseas Pointers 21
REVIEWS
The Red Page
Four Australian Novels 2
Verse 28
Shows 23
SPORT
Sport on Your TV Screen 37
The Cynic is Spoiling Sport 38
John Schofield 39
WOMEN
Melba Man; Men’s Hats;
Flowers 30
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street,
Sydney ; Box 2521; Phone: BU 5971.
The Difference
With Rockwell
'JTfERE is something of a squashy mess in the attitude of many people
about whether we should let George Lincoln Rockwell, the American
Nazi, into this country if he wants to come. The mess seems to fall into
three main pools of thought: there are those who oppose the idea of
preventing people from coming into Australia for political reasons but want
Rockwell excluded because they disagree with his politics; those who support
the idea of keeping visitors out for political reasons; and those who, while
quite happy that people who are undesirable on health or criminal grounds
should be excluded, feel inclined to let Rockwell in lest we seem to be
maintaining a political control on entry.
The only people capable of thinking that both entry into the country
should be free and that Rockwell should be excluded are, of course, the
Communists and their fellow-travellers and dupes. It requires a very special
kind of mind to engage in this kind of double-think. To this attitude there
is only one answer: politically, Rockwell is an empty, trouble-making
nothing. He has no political significance. Australians are not so demoralised
or stupid that they have to be protected from this ratbag. If they were, we
should have already developed a local variety.
But if we were to exercise political control and enforce it to some point,
the people whom it would be necessary to exclude would not be the lunatic
fringe, but those very Communist heroes who now come in and out of this
country at will, the blood of their own countrymen on their hands and the
desire to smash the democratic institutions of Australia in their minds.
But men from Russia and China are invited here, and their visits paid for by
enforced levies on our own trade-unionists, who can be described without
any cant as enemies of the Australian people. These are the ones who—if
anyone were to be barred —should be kept out of the country.
B UT there is no suggestion from this publication that they should be —or
that any other person should be prevented from visiting the country for
political reasons. People who believe in the political control of visitors do
the democratic cause some harm. If there was some foolproof way of
keeping Communists out it might be worth trying. But there is not. They
could still swarm in like flies. To set up any system of control would involve
a lessening of democratic ideals without offering any practical advantage.
It would be an encouragement to arbitrariness that would be bound to result
in the kind of blunders that bring a Government into contempt.
There is, however, one very real reason for excluding Rockwell, and it
is to be hoped that the Government would invoke it if necessary. That is that
he already has a court record for public disorder and incitement to violence.
He deliberately attempts to cause people to hit each other —and has succeeded.
We do not have a second thought about turning away from this country those
who have robbed, bashed, murdered or raped. This man is a deliberate
despoiler of the peace, and he should be used as roughly as any other person
who deliberately breaks the laws of his own country. We should not treat
him as a political martyr, or as a political case at all, but as a public
nuisance. And if we took that line we might have a second look at some of
our other visitors.


"NOW IS THE HOUk..."
[The Kanimbla, second-last of the formerly large interstate fleet of passenger-liners, has been sold to overseas buyers,
he last— the Manoora —will be sold if a suitable price is offered. High operating-costs have made passenger-vessels
unprofitable on the Australian coast.]


Society
The Prize-giving Art
'T'he Trustees of the N.S.W. Gallery
haven’t greatly added to their popu-
larity by increasing the Wynne Prize
(previously £4O) to £2OO this year, to
attract better entries, and then splitting
it up into two first-equals. Was that what
they were arguing about when they
delayed the announcement of the award
from noon to 1.30 p.m? The Archibald,
now £7OO, has never been shared ; it
should be just as unthinkable to split the
other awards.
{<> $
Moomba*s Cats
r ast year the organisers of Melbourne’s
annual Moomba Festival antagonised
the city’s booksellers, publishers and
litterateurs by supplanting the Book Fair
in the Lower Town Hall with a nature
and horticultural display. This year
year they’ve unleashed a storm among
Melbourne’s cat-lovers by changing the
arrangements for the Moomba Cat Show.
Celebrants at last year’s fiesta were
able to disport themselves at a display
of some 200 assorted cats and kittens
in a marquee, this contribution to the
mad March gaiety having been organised
by the Feline Diseases Research Fund.
This time the Moomba authorities have
turned their backs on the fund and set
up a special Cat Show Committee to
arrange a display of pussies.
There has been a spirited protest from
the fund’s organiser, Mrs C. B. Purnell,
who alleged that members of the govern-
ing councils of the Cat Fancy of Aus-
tralia and the Cat Fancy of Victoria had
got at the Moomba people and persuaded
them to “steal” her cat show. To add
insult to injury, the Cat Show Com-
mittee nominated Mrs Purnell as trophy
steward.
“This means,” said indignant Mrs
Purnell, “that I would have to become
some sort of professional beggar, seeking
donations for prizes and then writing out
the prize-winners’ cards. I won’t do it.”
Mrs Purnell also complained that the
new arrangements would mean that
proceeds of the 1961 cat show would
“go into Moomba’s coffers and not to the
welfare of Melbourne’s cats. It is wrong
that while hundreds of cats are starving
in Melbourne’s parks and gardens the
proceeds from the show should go to
Moomba.” She announced that the show
would be boycotted, not only by the fund,
but by the Pacific Cat and Kitten Club,
the Australian Cat Club and the Southern
Siamese Cat Club.
Undaunted by the threat of these
battalions of cat-owners, the Moomba
secretary, Mr J. L. Callanan, plunged in.
“The Feline Disease Research Fund is
“ Granted, dear , but it's STILL the Captains table!”
unpopular with the others, and any show
sponsored by it would attract restricted
entries,” he claimed. He also alleged that
Mrs Purnell had agreed to act as trophy
steward for the cat show. “If she now
wants to withdraw, all she has to do
is resign at the next meeting.’’
Said Mrs Purnell: “All I agreed to do
was supply a list of suggested trophies.”
Anyway, she added, the show will be
a fiasco.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ • ♦♦♦
A Tree is Spared
Tn his latest travel-book Colin Simpson
praises the tree-conscious people of
Europe, and gets in a little satire about
the axe-happy authorities of Sydney. No
doubt he would be interested to know
of a place where, faced with the problem
of putting a shop-awning over a footpath
which boasted an avenue of tall trees,
the architect had the awning made with
a large square indent in the front through
which the tree could grow and flourish.
The tree now stands many feet higher
than the awning.
The city where this laudably tree-
conscious gesture was made? Sydney.
The locale? Kings Cross.
❖ ❖ ❖
The Opium Survivor
/'''eorge Toong, of West Melbourne,
” was an opium addict for 67 years.
He first started smoking the drug soon
after he came from Canton to settle in
Brighton (Vic.) as a market gardener at
the age of 22. Apparently during his
long delinquency he always had access
to sufficient supplies to enjoy two pipes
a day ; and only twice were his dreams
interrupted by the police.
His second conviction was about nine
months ago, when he was fined £lO in
North Melbourne court. George took it
very badly. By this time he was a
naturalised Australian, and it lay heavily
on his conscience that he had broken the
laws of the land which had given him
citizenship. He not only resolved to
break his habit of a lifetime, but actually
succeeded ; it is believed to be one of
the few recorded instances of a veteran
addict escaping from the hold of opium.
The retired fruiterer lately told of his
struggle—“six months of agony.” He
says he feels better for it, though, and
has put on two stone in weight. As
far as health is concerned, George
Toong, who is hale and hearty at 89, may
have more to fear from that rapidly
acquired weight than from the drug he
puffed for so long.
SOCIETY STILL OPEN
ZpEADERS are reminded that the
Society pages are still open to con-
tributors of short, bright paragraphs
about city life in Australia. Pen-names
have been dropped, but rates of payment
have been lifted. All MSS. should bear
the contributor’s name and address.
Contributions will now be paid for on
publication; no claim need be lodged-
Outstanding claims for contributions
over the past year should be made as
soon as possible.


Elfin Whimsicality
Translated
“pccE Eduardus Ursus scalis nunc
.t' tump-tump-tump occipite gradus
pulsante post Christophorum Robinum
descendens.”
Cicero? Pliny? No fear. A. A. Mtlnet
is the author, and the quotation comes
from that well-known classic “Winnie
file Pu.” The Hungarian-born, Brazilian-
domiciled translator, Alexander Lenard,
had to pay the cost of the first edition
(Dutton, U.S., MCMLX) himself, but it
sold quickly at 111$, and Methuen’s
English edition has now hit the Australian
market at XXs. IXcl. For bed-time
stories for budding Latin scholars the
book seems as if it might have its
moments, though parents could have
trouble policing a ban on cribs.
♦j* +♦+ ♦>
Monkeying About
The imported Rhesus and Cynomolgos
monkeys used by the Common-
wealth Serum Laboratories for produc-
tion of anti-polio vaccine had a rough
“ Listen, Moffat! Why don't you GET LOST!”
trot during Melbourne’s recent hot
weather. Caged in compounds at the
City zoo and at Broadmeadows for inten-
sive dietary and medical treatment, the
monkey colonies thrive best at 75 to
80 deg., and several died when the tem-
perature went up into the hundreds.
Oddly enough, the cages have adequate
heating apparatus for Melbourne’s
winter, but no answer to its summer.
At about £BO a monkey (captured in
Malaya and flown here for quarantine,
scientific feeding and medical use), heat
losses plus deaths due to natural causes
can mount to a sizeable figure.
Incidentally, the anti-polio vaccine has
been short lately—due, however, not to
monkey fatalities but to destruction of
batches of the serum considered not
altogether safe for human use.
That was Society
Of the second batch of 33 Australian
youths just admitted to the Military Col-
lege at Duntroon, eight are from N.S.W.,
three each from Tassy and South Aus-
tralia; one from Bananaland; and no less
than 18 from Victoria. Westralia, which
supplies none at all, is, in most things,
good Australian —there is none better —
but wages are high and work plentiful in
that State; and a “military career” evi-
dently makes no appeal yet to the local
youngster. — “Bulletin”, January 30, 1913.
Electric .streetcars without rails, but
deriving their power from an overhead
wire, are to be tried on Sydney branch
lines to Potts Point and Darling Point.
The new idea may be a good one or it
may not. It is not going to do away with
unsightly poles and dust, and it remains
to be seen whether it will do away to
any extent with noise.
— “Bulletin”, January 30, 1913.
The latest news about Australia’s mis-
placed and misbegotten capital is that it
will probably be called “Myola.” Myola! !
It sounds like one of the sweetly pretty
names that you see on suburban cottages —
the kind of cottage that has two yards of
grass and a small, fat dog in front, and
four yards of vegetables and a fowl at
the back. “Myola” is generally occupied
by a young couple with one baby, and it
stands between “Hazel Dell” and “Maud-
ville”. The house opposite is “Ethelberta”.
Why not try some vigorous, upstanding
name with a sort of brass-trumpet sound
in it—“ Barabbas” for instance? There
would be something loud and imperish-
able about the City of Barabbas.
— “Bulletin”, February 13, 1913.
A chimney-sweep named Winter sued
Captain Somepumpkins for 255. for work
and labor done, the work including the
clearing of smoky flues. The captain ad-
mitted that he had agreed to pay the
price, but he defended the claim because
the sweep took advantage of his inexpert
knowledge. The work occupied only two
hours, and the idea of paying a mere
chimney-sweep 255. for two hours’ work
was monstrous. And, anyway, Captain
Somepumpkins lives in Toorak, and the
blessed Constitution would peter out if
Collingwood were allowed to triumph
over Toorak. So the court said that 1 Os.
was a fair thing; and Toorak breathes
heavily again.
—“ Bulletin”, February 20, 1913.
Advt. from Brunswick (Vic.) “Argus”,
a church paper; —“Brunswick—B rooms,
8 beds for 8 gentlemen; 5 duchesses pro-
vided.” The peerage is indeed seeing hard
times. —“ Bulletin”, March 20, 1913.
A man and his lady recently went down
to South Melbourne to bathe. They had
on bathing costumes under their walking
raiment, and having shed the latter, they
took to the water. A horrified J. Hop wit-
nessed this proceeding, and when he had
recaptured his breath he told them they
would hear more anon. What they heard
was the shocked voice of a J.P. saying it
would be £2 and costs. The charge against
them was that they had undressed in a
public place, contrary to the municipal by-
laws. If this decision holds good, the dam-
sel who goes to the water’s edge in a
kimono will be liable to prosecution if
she there discards it. In fact, it may yet
happen that the tenderfoot who does the
journey to the water’s edge in sandshoes
will be pounced upon and fined in the
interest of morality or anti-Socialism, or
the One Thousand and Ten Command-
ments, or something.
— “Bulletin”, February 13, 1913.
GUEST-ROCM
“There is also a generous parking space for
visitors off a 60ft-wide tree-lined private
approach drive.” —Article on new Harbord
(N.S.W.) home-units.
There’s not much room for visitors in
small home-unit flats
Where even the householders can’t
indulge in swinging cats,
So what a pleasing thing to say when
visitors arrive:
“So nice to call! Don’t crowd the hall
\ — we’ll park you in the drive.
There’s Latin in one bedroom; the
other’s full of Rock ;
There’s TV in the living-room; and then
there comes The Knock ;
The bathroom fills with visitors, the
kitchen’s like a hive,
Unless you say, “Good day, good day!
We’ll park you in the drive.”
Often, a visitor myself, on many a
crowded night,
The pressure smeared my lips with rouge
and somehow made me tight ;
But now there’s an alternative, and easy
to contrive:
“I won’t come in ; l will not sin—just
park me in the drive.”
So here’s to happy Harbord, whose
housing unit boasts
That visitors will take the knock, and
not the hapless hosts ;
Where householder and ma-in-law at last
can meet and thrive:
“Well, well, it’s Mum! How nice to
come ! We’ll park you in the drive."
SWILLIAM


PLAIN ENGLISH
Conflict in the A.W.U.
Tom Nicholson Pearce Dougherty,
58-year-old general secretary of the
A.W.U., a union with a membership of
180,000 and assets worth millions of
pounds, has struck another blow at Clyde
Robert Cameron, M.H.R. for Hindmarsh.
The A.W.U.’s annual convention has
passed a motion debarring Federal and
State Members of Parliament from hold-
ing any official position —honorary or
paid—in the union. The new rule, to be
implemented by December 31 this year,
affects three people: Mr Dougherty him-
self, who is a dedicated abolitionist mem-
ber of the N.S.W. Legislative Council;
Mr D. H. McKee, M.H.A. and an
A.W.U. Executive member in South Aus-
tralia ; and Mr Cameron, who is vice-
president of the South Australian branch.
The fight between Mr Dougherty and
Mr Cameron began 20 years ago when
Clyde Cameron became A.W.U. State
secretary at 26 ; and the pair have ex-
changed blows over the gigantic body of
the union ever since. Over the last two-
and-a-half years the tempo of the feud
has quickened. On May 14, 1958, during
a debate in the House of Representatives
on the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill,
Mr Cameron chose the occasion to use
the national forum to launch an attack
on secretary Dougherty and his “tyran-
nical” reign of the A.W.U.
“Any union rule that allows a czar
at the top to dismiss a branch official
because he has taken direction from
below instead of from the top is, in my
opinion, tyrannical, and should not be
permitted in a civilised country.” Pre-
sumably referring to Mr Dougherty or
one of his friends, he later said: “I once
knew a union official who said, ‘The
rank and file, if they like, can have the
privilege and enjoy the fun of electing
the officials, but I shall sack them’.”
Referring again to the “hierarchy” of
the A.W.U., he said: “It is true that
today a few unions—fortunately, a very
few —literally control their officials with
a rule of terror. It is a form of tyranny
the like of which no civilised country
would tolerate for very much longer.”
Mr Dougherty’s reply was slow and
deliberate. He had the A.W.U. expel
Cameron in July, 1959, and after a series
of long and costly legal battles, which
went as far as the Privy Council, Mr
Cameron won. While the expulsion
moves were in progress the astute Par-
liamentarian set up a “Council for Mem-
bership Control” and challenged 18 of
the “tyrannical” rules of the A.W.U. in
the Industrial Court. Although only
winning on nine counts it was victory
for Clyde Cameron and a humiliating
defeat for “Big Tom.”
Mr Cameron’s victory, however, may
be short-lived. Mr Dougherty has sworn
to “get him,” and at this year’s A.W.U.
convention nine motions were directly
aimed at Cameron. One from Lans-
downe Shed, Queensland, said: “That the
34 members of the A.W.U. move a vote
of no-confidence in Clyde Cameron and
that he be dismissed from his position
as vice-president of the South Australian
branch immediately.”
“Big Tom” did not want anything
quite so obvious, so he chose a motion
which would force Cameron to leave
anyway. He will have to resign from
the N.S.W. Legislative Council himself,
but the £5OO a year sacrificed will be
worth it to get rid of such an implacable
enemy. Anyway, he regards the abolition
of the Council as certain and won’t have
any regrets at leaving “the most exclusive
club in the world.”
The new A.W.U. rule may also affect
all those Parliamentarians who attend
A.L.P. State conferences as A.W.U.
“delegates”; a fact which may have been
overlooked in the heat of battle. (Mr
Calwell, for example, has attended Vic-
torian A.L.P. conferences as an A.W.U.
delegate.)
Mr Cameron’s answer to “Big Tom’s”
latest move is to declare that under the
rules of the union he would continue
as vice-president of the State branch
until the annual general meeting in July,
1962. So, at the end of December this
year, “Big Tom” will have to repeat his
earlier unsuccessful move and expel
Cameron. Who will win the battle
nobody can guess; but the arena in
which the next round will be fought
looks like being the courts.
Sweated Asian
Labor
The Immigration Department has
promised to investigate instances of
exploitation of Asians employed by other
Asians in Australia. This follows the
disclosure in Melbourne that a 31-year-
old Chinese migrant had worked in a
Little Bourke Street grocery-cum-
butcher’s shop at £6 for a week of up
to 100 hours. At one stage the migrant,
whose name has not been released, was
coerced by his Chinese employer into
making false entries in a time-book. He
claimed that two elderly Chinese were
also employed on meagre wages for up
to 100 hours a week. Eventually the
young migrant rebelled and took a job
in the Victorian Railways ; if he can get
a residence permit the railways are keen
to keep him on as an interpreter.
The Immigration Department will
probably find that its own procedures
have made it an unwitting accomplice
in some of these cases of sweating which
have been going on in Chinese restau-
rants and stores. The department allows
Asian workers to enter Australia on
temporary permits to take up “approved”
employment. This is defined as work
which cannot be done by Australians—
such as Chinese cooking. The initiative
in bringing Chinese workers to Australia
comes from the Chinese businessmen who
employ them. Apart from sticking to an
“approved” job, the migrant must be
engaged under Australian award rates
and conditions.
In the past the Immigration authorities
have been zealous in policing the condi-
tion relating to “approved” occupations,
but have not been so active in seeing that
awards were observed. A worker who
complained about his conditions could be
threatened with the sack —and with de-
portation to follow, since he had left his
“approved” occupation. This threat
would often be sufficient to keep the
migrant working his 100-hour week;
bad though he found his conditions, pre-
sumably they were better than in Hong
Kong, where possibly he had no em-
ployment at all.
The Asian worker’s chances of leaving
an employer and finding “approved”
work with another were slender. The
young Chinese involved in the recent
Melbourne case tried this, but found that
Chinese bosses were operating a system
of blacklisting. Whether the migrant
went into smoke with friends or obtained
a non-approved job, he would be liable
to deportation just as soon as the Immi-
gration officials caught up with him. This
was usually fairly quickly.
Immigration can point out that respon-
sibility for policing labor conditions rests
with the State authorities. But these
would not have an easy task in the face
of language difficulties and the great
isolation of the Chinese community.
Halfpenny
Hitler
TN 1958 a U.S. Naval Reserve Com-
mander took some time designing an
emblem. He chose an unfashionable
symbol, a swastika, placed it in a circle
of white set in a field of red, then super-
imposed over the swastika the globe and
wreath of the United Nations.
Such a symbol would not make sense
even in “Mad” comics, but the Com-
mander explained that “By putting th e
United Nations within the swastika we
symbolise that the world is with us and
the Jews are on the outside.”
The American Nazi party had it 9


Fiihrer, George Lincoln Rockwell, and
he had shaped its emblem. All that was
needed now was violence —and publicity.
Rockwell began by disseminating anti-
Semitic literature, but when he was dis-
missed from the Naval Reserve for his
civilian activities shortly after the out-
break of swastika daubings early in 1960,
he became more active. His most spec-
tacular effort to attract attention was a
request to hold a rally in Union Square
on July 4. The Commissioner of Parks
approved the application, but Mayor
Wagner, with 150 Jewish War Veteran
commanders from all over New York
State marching on Park Row, quashed it.
Wagner said it was not a question of
free speech but of law and order.
Accusing Rockwell of aiming to “incite
riot by preaching.... a philosophy of race
hatred and extermination by violence,”
Wagner warned that “the people of this
city will stone Rockwell out of town”
and “no police-force can stop a riot from
starting.”
The “New York Times” commented:
“We regret the Mayor has panicked
before a miserable and contemptible hate-
monger.” A few hours before Wagner's
announcement, 42-year-old Rockwell was
mobbed by 150 people while being inter-
viewed for TV. Before the crowd
charged forward yelling “Kill him” this
father of four managed to boast that
the American Nazi party was growing
every minute and now had 30 members,
to lament that he had spent 4000 dollars
of his own money to “awaken the Ameri-
can people,” and to explain that he did
not want to exterminate anyone except
Communists. He added that “80 per cent,
of American Jews are part of the Com-
munist conspiracy.”
Since then Rockwell has constantly
been in and out of courts. The record
reads: June 28, injunction filed to re-
strain Rockwell from engaging in sub-
versive political activities; June 28,
warrant out for Rockwell’s arrest for
seeking to incite riot; June 30, Interior
Department removed Rockwell from
Smithsonian Institute grounds, which are
off limits for public assemblies ; July 3,
Rockwell and 16 others arrested for dis-
orderly conduct (brawling during a meet-
ing) ; August 4, Rockwell released from
a Washington hospital as being mentally
capable to face Washington trial ;
August 30, Rockwell fined 100 dollars in
Washington for disturbing peace at
rallies on July 3 and 24.
Rockwell’s most successful recent pub-
licity stunt was to picket, in Boston last
month, the film on Israel, “Exodus.”
About 1500 people hurled stones and eggs
at him, but, as on other occasions, the
police saved this advocate of violence
from the crowd.
Rockwell, if brought out by the Aus-
tralian Nationalist Workers’ party to
address anti - Communist demonstrators
in Sydney Domain on May 1, would
doubtless come out with similar
opinions to his: “America for the
whites, Africa for the blacks and
the gas chamber for traitors... .we
shall try the Jews as war criminals.
We will pay them back for everything
right from the Old Testament. An eye
for an eye? Ten Jews for every white
man should be about enough. They have
committed treason to the white races.
You people in the British Commonwealth
have been sold out to the Jews since
Disraeli... .The world is running towards
a race crisis. It will come in 1972 with a
tremendous world-wide uprising. That
is when we will gain power. I realise
I don’t have the genius of Hitler. We will
probably get our leader from Germany.
The Germans have had years of ex-
perience. They have young men coming
up.”
Wheat to
Red China
Tn spite of the Australian Wheat Board’s
decision not to reveal amounts of
wheat sold to Red China, it has leaked
out that Peking’s purchases during the
past month are well over a million tons ;
the latest sale is valued at about £27
million. Board members with long
memories say that the recent deals remind
them of the period following World War
II when single sales of a million tons
and more were made to Britain and the
Allies.
Although the board has agreed to help
save Peking’s political face by not pub-
licising the deals, it is difficult to main-
tain secrecy about such large-scale busi-
ness. In any event, the wheat cargoes
must show up on export manifests of the
ships taking it to China ; at some later
stage the overseas-trade figures of the
Commonwealth Statistician will reveal
both the volume and value of the wheat
involved.
According to the board’s chairman,
Sir John Teasdale, the Chinese are buy-
ing on irrevocable credits established at
a Melbourne bank ; these credits are paid
Anarchy on the Waterfront
At the outbreak of World War 11,
12 large passenger ships and in-
numerable cargo vessels were compet-
ing on the Australian coast. Last
Wednesday the remaining passenger
ship, the Manoora, was offered for
sale. On January 31, the British-
owned Australasian United Steam
Navigation Company, Limited, an-
nounced the sale of its cargo fleet;
and over half-a-dozen lines have opted
out of interstate trade since the war.
Reasons given for the closing-down of
the companies are the high costs of
maintaining the ships in Australian
waters. Two factors for the high costs
have been given in all cases: insuffi-
cient waterfront labor, particularly in
Sydney, Melbourne and Fremantle;
and lack of co-operation from the
Seamen’s Union. Strikes over issues,
most of them trifling, have harassed
shipowners for years, forcing costs up
and losing business to interstate
transport operators and the improving
railway services.
Shipping-agents point out that cus-
tomers will no longer risk sending
goods by sea which may take one,
two or three weeks to reach their des-
tination, depending on the whim of
Mr Healy of the Waterside Workers’
Federation, or Mr Elliott of the Sea-
men’s Union, or the directions of the
Australian Communist party. An
extra day in port for an average
vessel of 5500 tons costs shipping com-
panies £6OO, plus the incidental ex-
penses of crews’ wages, marine
insurance, victualling expenses and
fuel. For the year ended June 30,
1960, 806,133 man-hours were lost in
Australian ports through stoppages.
Taking an average year —from July,
1957, to August, 1958—65 authorised
stop-work meetings were held and 192
unauthorised ones. Mr Justice Ash-
burner, commenting on these, said:
“The ecomonic effect of authorised
stop-work meetings during working-
hours is serious enough ; the holding
of unauthorised meetings causes even
greater dislocation and loss.”
An example of the cavalier attitude
adopted by the wharfies’ leaders was
the walk-off last month of 3000 Sydney
wharf-laborers who tied up 34 ships for
four hours. They walked off (or were
marched) because some men had been
suspended the previous Friday, mak-
ing themselves ineligible to work for
penalty-rates on Australia Day. The
men incurred suspension when they
refused to finish loading a ship in their
meal-hour: the ship in question had
to catch the tide or wait 12 hours for
the next; meanwhile frozen cargo
waiting for it in Brisbane would
deteriorate on the wharf.
Mr Justice Foster said recently that
a Seamen’s Union official (Mr James
Brennan) in a Newcastle dispute had
shown “a high-handed abuse of
power” in preventing a coastal coal-
ship sailing for two days. The dispute
arose when the chief-officer of the
Lake Eyre refused a request from the
secretary of the Seamen’s Union that
shore painters and dockers, instead of
the seamen, should move the ship dur-
ing the weekend. Mr Justice Foster
said it was easy to understand that the
seamen wanted as much leave as pos-
sible in their home port, but the ship-
owners’ reluctance to employ shore-
workers not qualified as seamen to
move the vessel to a new berth was
also understandable. He added that
there was no doubt that under the
award employers had the right to move
the ship.
How long the Communist-led mari-
time unions can do what they like on
Australian waterfronts, nobody
knows. But that they can, anl are,
successfully disrupting a major indus-
try requires little if any documentation.


in cash to the board before each ship
leaves port.
Defending the board’s policy of secrecy
over the wheat sales, Sir John suggested
that Peking’s objection to publicity arose
from the fact that it was buying on an
f.o.b. basis and was therefore obliged to
find the shipping to take the wheat from
Australian ports. “If the Chinese authori-
ties publicised the volume of the ship-
ping requirements, then inevitably the
kindly Christian ship-owners of the world
would seize the opportunity to raise the
charter rates. That is the aspect which
concerns the Wheat Board.”
This heavy-handed attempt at irony is
a poor piece of economics. The ruling
rates for charters of tramp freighters are
determined in open market on the Baltic
Exchange in London in the same way as
world commodity prices. Like any other
prices determined in a free market,
charter rates fluctuate from day to day in
accordance with supply and demand. It
would be surprising if the board itself
is not a subscriber to the regular reports
on shipping rates which are cabled to
Australia.
The Chinese demand for shipping space
must eventually make itself felt and will
tend to make the rates firmer. This is
an economic fact, in no way dependent
on the attitudes of ship-owners, Christian
or otherwise.
One place where the wheat deals are
certainly getting no mention is in the
local Communist press. Normally the sale
of an ounce of anything to China or
Russia arouses the Communists to a
frenzy of enthusiasm, but not this time.
It must be very frustrating for the com-
rades to be forbidden to make propa-
ganda out of Australia’s biggest single
trade deal with a Communist Power.
Woomera’s
Future
"views that Britain urged the use of
Woomera rocket-range, together with
a free gift of the Blue Streak rocket, on
the European “space club” at the Stras-
bourg conference may seem at first sight
to raise hopes for the future of this
expensive base, which lost its main reason
for existence last April when the Blue
Streak programme was abandoned. But
until the final result of the conference is
made public, optimism must be tempered
with caution for several reasons.
There is no doubt that many Western
European nations are willing to join
Britain and France in forming a space
club which, by pooling resources, could
make the smaller nations into a third
force in the international space race and
cut out some of the tensions of present
Russo-American monopolistic competi-
tion. This European satellite-launching
project will come into existence because
it fulfils a need. Nor is there any doubt
that Woomera is the most economical
centre for such joint-research as the
nations plan to carry out; all the equip-
ment is available on the spot, and there
is plenty of room all round both on land
and sea for experiments of any kind,
At the same time certain Western
European nations do not favor being
permanently tied to a research-centre so
far removed from Europe ; they would
prefer a base elsewhere, possibly in the
Sahara.
At the opening of the conference,
M. de Rose, the chief French delegate,
made this point quite clear. Woomera
would be suitable as a launching site
at least in the first stage of the project,
he said ; but it was quite conceivable
that if European countries decided to
co-operate in commercial application
they would choose launching sites in
their own territories.
M. de Rose added that capital is avail-
able in the form of work done by Britain,
Australia, France and other countries
and that the time to exploit this capital
is now.
For the moment, then, it looks as if
Woomera may be used for the first stage,
which will take away the threat of its
becoming almost completely valueless as
a base in the immediate future.
Then there is the question of the
suitability of the Blue Streak rocket.
Mr Thorneycroft has been touring
European capitals to press its claims;
but it is permissible to ask whether
Britain may not be a little too obsessed
with it. Is its performance really going
to be as good as is claimed? After all,
Russian missiles can put 6| tons into
orbit, and we do not yet know the
capabilities of the American Centaur.
Is the Blue Streak likely to be acceptable
as the space club’s main effort in the first
stage? It probably will be, and this again
will be to our temporary good.
It seems surprising, therefore, that Aus-
tralia, whose future is so closely involved
both in the use of the range and in the
capabilities of the rocket, does not appear
to have been directly represented at
Strasbourg, either as a member or—like
Canada, Turkey and Eire —by observers.
It is surely a strange view for the Federal
Government to take that Australia,
which has more at stake than any other
nation in the whole project (not excepting
Britain), does not need a representative
because Britain is expected to speak on
her behalf.
And what will the Americans have to
say about the project? Early last year
the Eisenhower Government put an end
to any idea the British then had of giving
the Blue Streak secrets—which could
endanger the security of their own
missiles —to other countries, especially to
West Germany, so soon after the failure
of their Summit hopes. Ideas may have
changed with the Presidency; but, if
these objections are still valid, America
could easily neutralise Britain’s free-gift
offer.
Voice from Kuala Lumpur
'T'he most outstanding personality at
the recent Australian Institute of
Political Science Summer School at
Canberra on “Australia and Asia”
was undoubtedly Professor Ungku
Aziz, of the University of Kuala
Lumpur. With enormous charm and
fluency he stamped indelibly on the
minds of his audience his picture of
the Malayan village—a microcosm of
the huge and multifarious traditional
Asian society—and the difficulties of
stirring it into economic growth. With
the same urbanity he sharply criticised
colonial policy for creating an un-
balanced economy, and chided visiting
foreign experts and foreign-educated
Malayans for their lack of touch and
interest in the grassroots problems of
development. If he seemed in some
cases to be overdoing it a little, it was
at least a valuable counterweight to
the atmosphere of naive and patronis-
ing do-goodism which sometimes came
to the surface of the school's pro-
ceedings.
Professor Aziz appeared somewhat
too ready to ignore the administrative
experience of other countries or dis-
count it as irrelevant, and his narrow
practical approach proved a poor
foundation for the erection of more
general ideas. This came out most
clearly in his attempts to define
“exploitation” in a non-emotional
sense, and “poverty” in relative terms
—a pointless academic exercise when
dealing with a society in which gross
and immoral exploitation and grinding
poverty are integral features. Pro-
fessor Swan was quick to point out
the place of “exploited” surpluses in
providing the capital accumulation
required for economic growth. The
important task is to divert these sur-
pluses from conspicuous consumption
and waste into investment in produc-
tive capital—and to increase them
rather than to diminish them,
But the major themes of Professor
Aziz’s address were his rejection of
spectacular global solutions to Asian
backwardness and his emphasis on the
necessity for a multitude of small
innovations at the local level. In the
face of this practical wisdom and of
his devotion to the humbler of his
fellow-countrymen, the criticisms of
parochialism and theoretical weakness
seem rather carping. Asia needs edu-
cators at least as much as scholars, and
Professor Aziz can imbue his
students with his own high degree of
s ° c ‘ al “piousness he will be doing
much to help provide that responsible
and efflcient^^e which js the greatest
need of the new nations. Most of his
audience were moved to contribute to
the well-conceived A.I.P.S. fund for a
scholarship to place another Malayan
student under his guidance.


POLITICAL POINTS
TROUBLES IN W.A.
After a stoppage of five weeks, includ-
ing three weeks’ holiday break, mine-
workers in Western Australia have
returned to work. At Collie the num-
ber of men to be employed will drop
from 1100 to 500 due to the Govern-
ment’s decision to buy cheaper and
better coal elsewhere. The 600 men at
Collie are now awaiting Premier Brand’s
guarantee of other jobs—the men who
are not found employment will be
entitled to receive the State basic wage
of £l4 ss. weekly for six months.
Although the coalfields are becoming
normal, a wharf feud at Fremantle has
caused 20 strikes, walk-offs and stop-
work meetings since June 1 last year.
The feud is between the new Foremen
Stevedores’ Union and the Waterside
Workers’ Federation. The W.W.F. are
angry that the foremen (ex-waterside
workers) have broken away from their
control and are now an independent
entity. One foreman, explaining why
they broke away, said: “Once a water-
side worker accepted promotion to be-
come a foreman the federation would do
little for him. It continued to take his
union fees, but it would not let him
hold office in fhe union. It just
wanted to keep him under control and
use him in its fight against authority.
To the federation the foreman was an
agent of the boss and therefore to be
kicked whenever possible.”
At the moment, as a result of the
feud, a strike is in progress, because of
the refusal of lumpers (pressurised by
W.W.F. officials) to work on jobs with
the foremen.
• •
NEW BANK ASSOCIATION
Members of the 2300-strong Bank
Officials’ Association of S.A. have voted
overwhelmingly in favor of forming one
Australia-wide association for bank
officers. The Western Australian branch
has also recorded a similar vote, and if
other States follow suit, as expected, Aus-
tralian banks will be confronted with a
53,000-strong association when salaries
and other issues are being negotiated.
• •
SHOCK DECISION
Everyone is inclined to look cynically
at committees set up to investigate Parlia-
mentarians’ salaries. An inquiry is held,
heads are nodded wisely, and after a
respectable period increases are recom-
mended which are quietly accepted by
politicians. However, the State Parlia-
mentary Salaries Inquiry Committee in
Brisbane recommended no increase in
backbenchers’ salaries. Increases recom-
mended were: Premier, £750 to £5201
]os.; Deputy Premier, £4OO to £4101;
Ministers, £l5O to £3851 ; Opposition-
leader, £5OO to £3501 ; Deputy-leader,
£250 to £2751. Several allowances have
been increased; but the recommenda-
tions are a surprise to all —especially the
expectant backbenchers.
• •
WOOL EXPORTS LESS
Wool exports in the first six months of
1960-61 were worth only £153,307,000
compared with £189,505,000 in the cor-
responding months last year. Volume
of exports had fallen from 756,000,0001 b.
to 692,000,0001 b. Main buyers were
Japan, £43,128,000 (£44,461,000 in the
first six months last year) ; United King-
dom, £29,475,000 (£42,355,000); France,
£18,820,000 (£21,777.000); Italy,
£11,312,000 (£16,717,000); Belgium,
£8,906,000 (£10,527,000); Germany,
£7,2 4 1,0 0 0 (£11,032,000); Russia
£5,807,000 (£4,556,000); United States,
£5,376,000 (£6,874,000); mainland China,
£3,572,000 (£4,319,000).
• •
BATTLE BREWING
There is likely to be a full-scale battle
when Labor’s Federal Caucus assembles
for the next sitting of Federal Parlia-
ment in March. Labor-leader Calwell
and veteran Eddie Ward will team up to
defend the White Australia policy of the
Labor party. Dr Cairns of Victoria said
in Melbourne last week that while Labor
was still committed to a W.A.P. he and
many ether Labor members disagree
with it.
Mr Calwell was so upset about Mr
Cairns’s statement that he sent a tele-
gram to the Melbourne “Sun” from the
Strathmore en route to Fremantle
reaffirming W.A.P. Mr Calwell also
replied to an attack by the Dean of Mel-
bourne, Dr Babbage, who had said of Mr
Calwell and the Labor party: “Mr Cal-
well has long since ceased to be guilty
of an original idea.”
• •
BAD TIMING
It is hard to understand why the presi-
dent of the Australian Metal Industries
Association, Mr Alan Browne, should
choose this particular time to state that
though manufacturers supported the
policy of full employment, overfull
employment was “most dangerous to our
economy.” In Queensland State Cabinet
has called for an urgent report on works
that can be launched to relieve pockets
of unemployment throughout the State.
In Sydney last week it was reported that
roughly 3000 electrical workers had lost
their jobs in television - manufacturing
and associated industries because of the
Federal Government’s credit-squeeze.
• •
DRIVE FOR EXPORTS
An export-incentives plan with tax con-
cessions for export manufacturers is
expected to be announced this week by
Federal Cabinet. The plan is likely to
liberalise company-tax for manufac-
turers joining in the export drive. This
would be done by tax rebate on capital
expenditure and publicity which could be
shown as contributing to developing
overseas markets. The other proposal
will be the granting of concessions in
payroll-tax.
• •
PERSUASIVE
A Mr A. G. Hebblewhite, who describes
himself as “Co-Trustee/Administrator of
the People’s Union, Research Publicity
Group,” in an advertisement in one of
Sydney’s dailies states that “The Upper
House alone prevents legislation to
achieve immunity for the Reds.” The
advertisement goes on to say: “Lenin’s
Anglo-Saxon plan provides for domina-
tion of Labor Governments by an outside
executive. To legalise militant pressures
on all our people in conformity with
Communist plans “THE UPPER
HOUSE MUST GO.”
• •
MORE PROBLEMS IN VICTORIA
The rail-service grants dispute, which
gave Victoria 47 trainless Sundays and
cost railwaymen thousands of pounds in
wages, was settled by a compromise agree-
ment. The settlement agreed to by the
unions and Premier Bolte, who seems to
replace Sir Arthur Warner when the
going gets sticky, are that railwaymen
be offered the choice of one of the fol-
lowing : full superannuation ; a service-
grant for men with not more than four
units of superannuation ; no superannua-
tion but a service-grant and a retiring
gratuity. Now that the pressure has been
lifted off the railways a Victorian State-
wide blackout is threatened this Friday.
The proposal for a 24-hour stoppage was
put at a Trades Hall Council disputes-
committee meeting by representatives of
the Federated Engine Drivers and Fire-
men’s Association. The dispute is over
the refusal of the State Electricity Com-
mission to grant the unions their full
claims on wages and conditions. Whether
or not there is to be a strike was not
known when this page went to press:
that there will be one sooner or later is
almost certain. A meeting of 400 New-
port power-station employees called on
union officials to inaugurate a campaign
“to take place no matter how long or
bitter the struggle in view of the S.E.C’s
unfavorable reply to our demands.”


”It most &e shockingly hot
PofL ThoSS PooK.
Fallow $ —’
PLAytNG crjckjet against
THS kJBST INPIANS.
yks } P&AK, ;
/ Jv\ 4'm Nor ?u/\yiMCr
CRjCK&T ToPXy '
; O
y&o r


THE SQUATTOCRACY
By M. H. ELLIS
Originally— and the definition still
lives in the dictionary—the Aus-
tralian squatter was a “person who
settles on Government land with
a view to eventual ownership.” That was
a polite way of putting it. Generally
speaking the early squatter squatted on
any land of which owner did not heave
him off with a muzzle-loader.
There was unlimited land. There were
no fences. The equipment of a squatter
at first consisted of himself, a horse or
two to make him mobile, some flour
and sugar, a convict shepherd or so if
he could get them, some dogs and a flock
of sheep —his own or somebody else’s —
to drove. And, of course, a bullock dray.
Thus equipped, he went forth into the
wilderness, settled down on the best land
he could get, if the Government had not
already granted him a few thousand or
hundred acres, and stayed put until he
established a title or was thrown off by
authority or somebody bigger than him-
self.
Originally it was neither respectable
nor popular to be a squatter. But eventu-
ally the class became a recognised institu-
tion and the word signified wealth,
privilege, a seat in the Legislative Coun-
cil, a drag to take one to the races and
membership of the Australian, Mel-
bourne or Queensland Club.
From being a submerged and depressed
and ragged section of the community
living in bark huts, floored with cow-
dung and antbed and clearing one’s drink-
ing water with ashes in an oil-drum, the
squattocracy became recognised as the
wealthy froth on the Australian brew,
traditionally a stratum of society which
was robbed by romantic bushrangers, and
enjoying manorial privileges and opul-
ence by courtesy of the sheep and
shearers that worked for it.
There were, of course, other large land-
holders than squatters in the very early
days, persons with an indubitable right
to their land, but very soon these and
the squatters became generically fused
together, and the happy day came when
every squatter had both a title and a clean
conscience about tenures, like the rest.
The graziers, as in most countries,
whether they grew sheep or cattle, became
ultimately the aristocrats, the great land-
owners, the repositories of the country’s
stability. But their pre-eminence became
utore marked in Australia than elsewhere,
ev en in the gold-rush era, because wool
was the staple produce of the continent,
the one stable market commodity of
Which the price remained relatively
steady over the years and for which the
demand was such that it could be almost
treated as a currency ; this, even in the
worst of times. Australian wool was not
°uly the lifeblood of Australian pros-
perity but of British trade for a long
period.
The curious fact about the history of
squatterdom has been its adaptability to
conditions, no matter how they might
change or what the political outlook
towards it. If ever a political party went
out after a class with a waddy, the Labor
party and its forerunning radicals of the
Parkes school did after the squatter from
the beginning of political time. It
stripped them of privilege and political
power, it skinned them of their land. It
hung taxes round their necks like a
garland of lead strung on stinging
nettles. But the squatter always has
found an answer that has baffled the
socialist destroyers, mainly because he is
a man of many parts and of great variety.
There is nothing more false than the
tradition which he himself (as especially
his women-folk) are prone to foster after
his land and wealth have been in a family
for a few years, that he is a man of
ancient lineage with blood the color of
the outside of a muscatel grape and
enough quarterings to the coat-of-arms
which he has conjured out of some
heraldic cap in London with a large
guinea-colored bait.
The truth about the squatting class on
the average in Australia is that most of
it has come up the hard way, survived
the hard way and shown intelligence,
foresight and grit in the face of adversity.
The Father of All Squatters, of course,
was John Macarthur, who
approached Australia’s shores with pro-
motion from an ensigncy in the Durhams
to a lieutenancy in the New South Wales
Corps as his passport. He was the first
man definitely to find his way to this
continent with an avowed intention of
building his future on the land. And he
was the first man on the continent to
use land in the true, Australian pastoral
way with an ambition that raised the envy
and anger of people like Governors King
and Bligh, outraged both that he should
have “such flocks as no man ever had
before.”
He also inspired—typically of squatter
history—the predatory hatred of the
hungry inhabitants in general when he
flatly refused to allow them, in a time of
famine, to eat his Spanish wool-bearing
sheep which formed the germ of Aus-
tralia’s future. He was a true squatter
since he sat firmly on his chosen land
and developed it for 18 years before he
had it formally granted.
He lived to be one of the great squires
of a fast developing pastoral land, his
headquarters at Camden the prototype
from which the average woolgrower
copied his methods ; the home of experi-
ment in agriculture and animal hus-
bandry, a centre of culture where the
latest books from the libraries of London
and Paris came in special bindings, one
of the original homes of Australian
botany, the locus of organised rural
schooling conducted on the estate accord-
ing to the principles of the learned Bell.
Here Cicero was read aloud and the
thoughts of Seneca expounded to atten-
tive sons. Hither came Verge to build
a mansion house with spacious drawing-
rooms and library and a honeycomb of
quiet bedrooms up above among the
possums, while below the wagons rolled
right into the great cellars where the
wine lay cradled, bottle on bottle, up to
the scented ceiling.
Here dinners were served on crested
porcelain and the wine poured in fine
glass, sometimes with a pause to use
the snake-stick on the verandah.
Here the ladies corresponded with their
friends abroad about the doings at the
Court of St James, or wrote long letters
to the son fresh out of the Peninsula
whom one had brought to Botany Bay
40 years ago apparently dying in the hold
of a convict ship in a six by six cabin
with slime running down the walls ; a
son who was now secretary to the Lord
Chamberlain:
“The Marquis has certainly shown you
very marked attention... .in my early
days I have heard the beauty of his
mother celebrated... .Did you ever hear
the Marquis or his mother the Dowager
Marchioness mention Lieutenant
Foster?.....”
Thus went the letter of Elizabeth Mac-
arthur in 1830 to her son Edward, “sent
to Parramatta by cart only,” a letter in
which she turned from discussion of the
works of Madame de Genlis and the fate
of the unfortunate Orleans family away
on the other side of the world to the
“desperate set of bushrangers” who had
been plaguing their dearest friend close
at hand and the provenance of Australia’s
first woolshed in which “tomorrow the
shearers commence with the lambs.”
That letter, finished because “it is
nearly dark and I cannot read by candle


lioht” illustrates the fact that the early
squatters and their families were devoted,
no,. merely to the art ot growing wool,
which they developed and to which few
if any of them had been bred in the
pristine ace but also to the art of gracious
living and a’love of education and culture.
b
It was in the country, much more than
in the towns that the love of beauty, ot
the pleasures of the mind were nurtured
in the early days. And its beginnings on
the continent were established not by
those who brought the material of wealth
and culture with them, but in the main
by men and women to whom the oppor-
theiMiomelands and^whoTatued'^the
more when they had earned it.
This hp?n true all throuch Aus-
This has been true all through
tralian Dastorai history. Macarthur came
tr. Australia his main assets as he once
to Australia, his main assets as he once
is said to have quipped, a severe illness
and a debt of £500.” He left a gracious
home with booklined rooms and oil-
paintings on the walls side by side with
indigenous art.
D'Arcy Wentworth came a poor off-
shoot of a linendraper in a decayed Irish
family which once had owned a great
name in Ireland as in Yorkshire, by a
pierhead jump.
u lira itin(r ttw*
He was a young doctor walking the
hospitals Of London and in hIS days Off
bringing welcome grist to the mill with
small amateurish excursions on High
Toby on a borrowed horse and some-
body else’s stand-and-deliver pistol. Yet
his son was not only a great statesman
and orator, the father of the Constitution,
but a King of Squatters with lands
stretching out to the farthest reaches of
the never never and a wealth that was
lavished on Roman marbles, French ait
and the library of a man of letters which
would not have disgraced the shelves of
a don of All Souls.
All through Australian pastoral history
the same threads run. and the same
sequence follows. Those who succeeded
best were the men of not much back-
ground, with little money, but of great
drive, intelligence, latent culture and
pride that did not balk at the thought of
menial work.
r T' I HE McCaugheys were small farmers
and weavers in the North of Ireland,
the Falkiners squireens in Kerry. The
Leslies were Etonians with little capital.
A host of great pastoral families can
be mentioned descended from younger
studious crofters.
Or they were men
who came out to official positions and
drifted into the pastoral industry so soon
as they could find some land which they
worked with sweat of brow and toil of
hands.
Sometimes even, in times of stress, like
Sir Arthur Hodgson, the old Etonian
who had been superintendent of the
million - acre Australian Agricultural
Company’s affairs, they were not above
wheeling their own meat in a barrow
from door to door to make an honest
penny during the “hungry ’forties.'' But
wherever the squatter succeeded in estab-
lishing himself the amenities and the
towns followed.
It was not only the basic culture of
literature and art, fine furniture and fine
living that the early class of pastoralist
brought into Australia, for it was he
who established the industrial arts both
by his work and his demands. The con-
ditions dictated that each estate must be
made self-contained.
We find all the great landholders of
the very early days ekeing out their
grazing and their farming with other
occupations. The Coxes, the Rileys, the
Kings and a dozen more of the very
early days, when grazing was limited to
narrow bounds, were always on the door-
step with their tenders when bricks were
wanted for new churches and Govern-
ment buildings. William Cox, the founder
of the great dynasty of stud - sheep
breeders, supplied most of the bricks for
St Matthews Church and some for many
another historic building.
He built the first road over the Blue
Mountains. He built Windsor Court
House and other homes in the town and
his sons matched his mansion at Claren-
don with their great manor houses at
Hobartville —perhaps the stateliest of the
early great homes worth preserving along
with Camden Park —and Winbourne at
Mulgoa.
His trained men on his great farm
which employed 100 convicts took with
them into the interior, when the family
turned to grazing there, all the arts of con-
struction, nailmaking, furniture making,
the art of the brick kiln. And the same
might be said of most of the great kings
of the range who lived isolated and
dependent on their own resources.
Amid the roadless bush and in the
plain they dwelt isolated for months
together dependent on their own re-
sources whether at Duntroon, or on the
great station of the Ryries on the
Monaro, or on the Hunter or New Eng-
land or later on the outer Barcoo.
There, the redoubtable John Webber,
M.L.C., and his even more redoubtable
wife, lived in stately isolation amid the
wild Kyabras and the even wilder Ero-
mangas whose principal local industry
consisted of stealing each other's lubras,
preferably on station property.
Thither a couple of decades after
Burke and Wills had passed, and on the
track of the Duracks, the Webbers carried
the art of gracious living, even though
the blacks and the mosquitoes showed


an inclination to devour those who prac-
tised it, and well-meaning attempts to
induce the black domestic staff to wait
at table at a dinner to distinguished
visitors in the then red-and-blue livery
of the Salvation Army rather than in no
raiment at all, failed miserably.
The dusky handmaidens appeared
carrying the marrowbones, the opening
course of every “never-never” banquet,
garbed only in the gay red coats of
General Booth’s warriors, explaining
naively the absence of nether garments
to the assembled banqueteers with un-
answerable logic: “Him bin bitem tail
belong me.” Only they didn't say “tail.”
It is singular whenever a great pastoral
career began with opulence it nearly
always failed. Only the exceptions proved
the rule. It is singular too that the names
of great pastoral institutions formed on
a basis of monopoly, died while the
names of their employees often became
famous. It is singular, too, that most
pastoral empires based solely on acquisi-
tiveness, disappeared. Witness Jimmy
Tyson’s.
The vast properties of the Australian
Agricultural Company, formed in 1824,
the dream-child of John Macarthur, who
afterwards tried to commit infanticide
upon it, gradually dwindled leaving little
solid behind. But the names of its em-
ployees live in pastoral and cultural
history—the Dangars with their stately
homes, the Whites with a dozen stations
of the Hunter, and with their cultural
tradition, including that patron of art
and literature Harry White of Beltrees,
whose immense collection of Australian
stamps is one of the most valuable and
referred-to possessions of the Mitchell
Library in Sydney.
today, are the pastoral families
™ of A. B. Spark and Potter Mac-
queen, M.P., of Segenhoe, who brought
fortunes with them to Australia?
Forgotten, for all the wealth and dig-
nity of the founding fathers of their
estates.
Not one in a thousand on the Hunter
could possibly recall the name of the
original squire of Segenhoe in its palmy
days when Governor Bourke was saluted
with gunfire as he approached the station
between serried horns of regimented
pack-bullocks, but the name of Peter
Macintyre, his manager, is plastered on
the countryside up to the river that
forms the Queensland border and the
legends of the family prowess live in
the lore of every corner of the New
England.
The pastoral families of Australia
once dominated politics. There are
those who wonder whether they do not
dominate them now a son of the
station, Lord Casey, is not unknown.
Certainly, the most vocal members of
the Federal House are apt to come from
pastoral stock—men like young Mr
Killen. But their power failed in the
State houses with the rise of secondary
industry and commerce and the gradual
decay of Upper Houses to which they
Were chosen in an earlier day as by right.
Yet they are a virile breed. They
nave adapted themselves to the chang-
es conditions and the age of democracy.
"Run for your life — Earthmen!”
When the days of the “vast open spaces”
went and it was no longer possible to
conduct the wool industry with a few
shepherds, a lot of dusty second quality
sheep, a bank overdraft and a rousing
army of turbulent blade-shearers, they
met the changes gallantly.
The shearing machine and the motor
car changed the lives of the outbackers.
They took to them like ducks to water,
expanded their usage, fathered the com-
mercial road transport, now the bug-
bear of State Governments, changed their
modes of living, adopted the refrigerator,
and the aeroplane when it arrived, with
enthusiasm. They met the challenge of
the carved up estate by turning their
properties into highly organised, scien-
tific business organisations with every
acre producing and carrying more sheep
and cattle and every sheep and meat-
producing animal carrying more and
better flesh to the limit.
The great stations are no longer great.
They are not vast fenceless expanses that
shear their quarter-of-a-million sheep.
They have become sheep and meat
factories with their own scientists, their
own chemists, their own business sys-
tems. And no matter how socialism has
assailed them they have always come
up smiling with a better brand of car,
a new kind of wide hat, and a remedy
which makes one acre do the work that
five once did and one sheep the work of
several.
The age of the shepherd king has gone
and the age of the shepherd businessman
has come. As the vanguard in the spread
of comfortable living, as the patron of
art and the handicrafts, as the producer
of basic wealth the country owes a tre-
mendous debt to the squatter whatever
his early faults and his reputation in an
age gone past, when to keep alive in
drought and depression it was often
a case of “dog eat dog” if one were to
survive.
The squatter classes’ own abilities
were and are not limited to their own
profession or to the patronage which
has done so much to keep art and
architecture, chefs and racing trainers
and jockeys above the breadline.
They have produced from their own
ranks many men and women who have
proved that the contemplation of dust
and Bathurst burr, drought and dried up
water-holes does not inhibit (abilities
normal to intensive civilisation.
Rolf Boldrewood began life as a
squatter. Out of the squatting commu-
nity came Banjo Paterson, Mrs Camp-
bell Praed, Mrs Aeneas Gunn, Mary
Hannay Foott, Patrick White. King’s
School has one squatter scion, Geelong
Grammar another who like being school-
masters.
At the end of the list of the arts the
roll of pastoral names distinguished in
war is legion: Chauvel, Glasgow, Ryrie,
the Macarthur-Onslows of seven genera-
tions the first of which was commissioned
at the end of the American Civil War
the last well after World War 11.
The squatting blood, in fact, has inte-
grated itself into that of the national
pool of ability very well. It has not the
influence in business that it used to
have since heavy industry seriously took
the field in the Commonwealth and
manufacture became an important factor
in the economy.
But its representatives, both of the
pioneer pastoral families and of newer
vintages, do pretty well, taking all things
into account, in the business community.
Major - General D enz i 1 Macarthur-
Onslow, the lineal descendant of Aus-
tralia’s real squatter, for instance, is a
member of 23 Boards of Directors. Or
is it 24?


PERSONAL
The Music of
Padre Mcllween
Throughout the protracted siege of
Tobruk, where the 9th Australian
Division and ancillary troops from the
U.K. held off a force of Germans and
Italians of up to five times their number,
the role of the defenders was largely
given to offensive patrolling. In that
treeless, barren waste where any wind
would raise a dust-storm to blot out the
scorching sun, living conditions were
primitive. The defenders, living in the
pitiful trenches they had scratched or
dynamited in the hard earth, were
severely rationed for food, water, clothing
and ammunition.
That the morale of these men remained
high throughout was one of the most
astonishing features of the campaign—
especially to those who claimed Austra-
lians were essentially shock troops, not
fitted for defensive roles. And the state
of morale was due in no small part to
the presence of Padre Mcllween, the
2nd A.l.F’s most famous chaplain.
During the five months he was “incum-
bent” at Tobruk, Padre Mcllween went
among the men, the fighting and the
resting, the wounded and the dying, with
little regard for his own comfort and
safety. He wrote letters for them, sat
with them in their dusty slit-trenches and
talked to them of home. He recited the
poems, mostly Australian, they wanted
to hear. At night he would be at the
perimeter wire to give a word of en-
couragement to outgoing patrols, and
would be there to welcome them, wish a
kerosene-tin of scalding tea or coffee,
when they returned.
In a place that never ran to a phil-
harmonic orchestra, the pleasure given
by his battered gramophone and stock
of cracked and chipped records was per-
haps the best-known trick in his box
of good works. In perimeter posts, in
rear areas, in the hospital in town, in
his Red Shield House, thousands of men
listened to the old favorites, which in-
cluded a liberal sprinkling of the famous
hymns.
Where scrounging was a fine art he
ranked with the best of them. When
an Australian orderly who had charge of
some 50 wounded Italian prisoners asked
Mcllween when he was going to visit
his patients, Mcllween replied: “When
1 can get some Italian records.” And out
of the debris in the dug-outs and caves
he found enough to make good his
promise.
The gramophone of Padre Mcllween
was called Tobruk’s Secret Weapon. It
was, without a doubt, the greatest single
adjunct to the defenders’ morale. It now
resides, together with a number of bomb-
blasted records, in the Australian War
Memorial, Canberra.
Arthur Mcllween was born on a small
sheep property at Brodie’s Plains,
Inverell (N.S.W.), on June 29, 1886.
While he was still a child his family
moved to Tingha, where Mr Mcllween
had a share in a tin-mine. At 14, Arthur
left school to work underground, and
by the time he was 25 he had become a
shift boss.
Meanwhile, influenced largely by the
example of his father, he had decided to
join the Salvationists, and in 1911 he
entered the Salvation Army Training
College, Melbourne, emerging as dux of
the college.
When the First World War broke out
his instant application for enlistment was
denied by his superiors on the grounds
that he was “too reckless.” They were
not piepared, they said, to accept respon-
sibility for sponsoring him. They no
doubt recalled the incident during a pub-
lic inspection of the battle-cruiser Aus-
tralia in Port Melbourne a few months
earlier when Mcllween, overcome by an
urge to achieve what a younger visitor
had failed to do because of giddiness,
scaled the mainmast in the full uniform
of a Salvationist captain.
In 1916 he married another Salva-
tionist, Lieutenant Elizabeth M undell,
and for a time he found it a little easier
to shut his mind to the voices that seemed
to be calling to him from France. But
PADRE McILWEEN
With Tobruk’s Secret Weapon.
during the heavy Allied reverses of 1918
he could resist the call no longer. He
enlisted in the A.I.F. as a private. By
the time he had reached Capetown, how-
ever, the war in Europe had ended.
Back with the Salvation Army, which
chose to ignore his temporary defection,
he began a tour of duty in which he
held 12 field appointments —four in Vic-
toria and eight in N.S.W. During the
bubonic plague of 1919, he was stationed
in Dubbo (N.S.W.), a town hard hit by
the scourge that followed in the wake of
the war. Here the suffering of those
about him caused him to put aside
routine Army work and dedicate himself
entirely to those who needed help.
Before being posted to Sydney as Chief
Side Officer at the Salvationist Training
College, he was successively in charge
of Salvationist divisions at Toowoomba
(Q.) and Armidale (N.S.W.). As Terri-
torial Evangelist in 1938-39 he ranged
the country from Albury and Hay in the
south to Cairns and Mount Isa in the
north, preaching in hundreds of halls
and from as many street corners. He
was in Gladstone (Q.) when he heard
that the Germans had invaded Poland.
Padre Mcllween was 53 when the
Second A.I.F. was raised. It was thus
extremely unlikely that he would get an
appointment as chaplain to the forces
outside Australia—and he wanted no part
of those voices that had haunted him
throughout World War I. The first Red
Shield Commissioner to leave Australia
with the Second A.1.F., he sailed for
England with Brigadier Morsheacl’s 18th
Brigade.
A fter Tobruk, Padre Mcllween served
briefly in Palestine and Syria before
being recalled to Australia in 1942. On
the troopship coming home, his battered
gramophone worked overtime.
The circle of Diggers who knew him
widened when he was appointed Divi-
sional Red Shield representative at Bur-
wood (N.S.W.) and started visiting the
113th A.G.H. at Concord military hospi-
tal. Here he conceived the idea of pro-
ducing, with the help of an artist friend,
Christmas calenders and Mother's Day
cards for distribution to patients. He has
continued sending literature of this sort
to servicemen in hospitals, to troops in
Korea and Malaya, as well as to every
inmate of the civil prisons of N.S.W. and
Queensland.
His duties were now extended to in-
clude those of secretary for Prison Work
in N.S.W., with responsibility for mili-
tary detention camps. These duties, his
official work up to his retirement on
June 29, 1951, gave him sound training
for his subsequent' work in civil prisons.
At this time Padre Mcllween never
had less than 1500 home addresses of
prisoners. He paid hundreds of visits
to their relatives every year and wrote
a prodigious number of letters for them.
Once he successfully pleaded with the
authorities to grant leave to a man serving
a long sentence to enable him to attend
a sister’s funeral. The prisoners thought
as highly of Mcllween as the soldiers
had done.
Not surprisingly, Padre Mcllween’s
long and active association with service-
men is apparent from his speech. He


will talk of the 2/9th Battalion (18th
Brigade) as "his own mob.” And to
hear him talk about Tobruk is to hear a
dyed-in-the-wool Tobruk Rat speaking in
the idiom of the Australian soldier.
Nor did “his own mob” forget the
value of his help and friendship. Soon
after the war the 2/9th Battalion Asso-
ciation made him its first life-member.
Initiated by the Queensland branch of
the Rats of Tobruk Association, a fund
was opened, and generously subscribed
to by ex-Tobruk men from all over Aus-
tralia, for money to help buy a home in
which Padre Mcllween might enjoy his
retirement.
• •
Picture of Judy Cassab
This year’s Archibald Prize winner,
Judy Cassab, is a handsome, lively
woman who should be just as effective
a sitter as artist. However, although she
has a preference for painting artists and
won the prize with her portrait of fellow-
painter Stanislaus Rapotec, she has never
been painted. Nor has she. since student-
days in Hungary when she couldn’t
afford models, done any self-portraits.
Miss Cassab, who came here in 1949,
began entering the Archibald nine years
ago. After some counting on her fingers
she works out that her winning entry
was her sixteenth try. Other portraits
entered included as subjects Mr Justice
Maxwell, Warwick Fairfax. Sir Frank
Packer, Andrea, Chips Rafferty and Jim
Bendrodt.
She is at the moment perhaps Sydney’s
most “fashionable" portrait painter. She
is not as well established as Dobell and
cannot, as he does, choose her sub-
jects rather than be chosen. Nor is she
in the category of the official - type
portrait-painters. Her portraits are for
those who want something more than
a photographic likeness and will 'pay
about 200 guineas for it.
The commission from P & 0.-Orient
to paint Princess Alexandra to hang in
the Oriana set the seal on Miss Cassab’s
career. The Duchess of Kent later asked
Miss Cassab to paint her and also her
younger son, Prince Michael of Kent.
Miss Cassab got her first foot in in
London with a portrait of Rene Moulard,
Princess Margaret’s hairdresser Rene is
a handsome exuberant Frenchman who,
says Miss Cassab, sang and recited poetry
throughout the sittings. High among his
talents is a gift for publicity, and Miss
Cassab’s portrait of him in a blue ski-
sweater was duly noted by smart Lon-
doners. Commissions to paint Hugh
Gaitskell, ex-model Barbara Goalen. the
editor of “The Queen,” Mr Jocelyn
Stevens, the second Lady Beatty (the
American one) and Cabinet Minister
Peter Thorneycroft followed.
In 1959 she had a one-man show in
London. At present she is working
towards an exhibition in Sydney in May,
mostly of abstract landscapes—products
°f a trip to Central Australia a year or
so ago. The exhibition will go to London
in October, and Miss Cassab with it.
“I shall do some more paintings, just
in case any sell in Sydney,” she says.
Miss Cassab lives at Woollahra (Syd-
ney) with her husband and two school-
boy sons. The walls of the house are
lined with her own pictures, some finished,
some in train. She hangs the unfinished
ones to "get the feel” of them. She
seldom attempts to sketch her own family.
“I used to paint the children when they
were younger, but I rarely finished them,”
she says. "The pictures used to turn out
too sweet —all pinks and blues.”
Nora Heysen is the only other woman
to win the Archibald.
• •
Into the Silence:—
In Canberra, at 67, one year and a day
after he had been sworn in as Governor-
General of Australia, William Shepherd Mor-
rison, Ist Viscount Dunrossil
Educated at George Watson’s College, Edin-
burgh, and Edinburgh University. Lord Dun-
rossil served with the Royal Field Artillery in
France during World War I and was awarded
the Military Cross. In 1923 he was called
to the Bar, and in 1929 elected M.P. for
Cirencester and Tewkesbury division of Glou-
cestershire. He attained Cabinet rank in
1936 as Minister for Agriculture and Fisheries,
and later held office as Minister of Food, Post-
master-General and Minister of Town and
Country Planning. In 1951 he was elected
Speaker of the House of Commons, a post he
held with great distinction until appointed
Governor-General of Australia.
His term as Speaker must have accustomed
him to long and boring speeches, and made
him wary of them, for during his short time
in Australia Lord Dunrossil’s speeches created
a deep impression by their brevity, frankness
and sincerity. And it was probably his up-
bringing on a Scottish farm that lay behind his
interest in Australia’s pastoral industries. He
travelled widely throughout Australia, visited
New Guinea last year and, despite recurrent
illness, met and endeared himself to many
Australians.
In Melbourne, at 84, G. Jervis Manton,
bookseller and publisher’s agent. Manton spent
20 years with Ingram and Son, educational
booksellers, before establishing his own busi-
ness in 1917. Twice president of the Victorian
Institute of Advertising, and from 1950 to
1953 president of the Victorian Booksellers’
Association, Manton was also for 20 years
chairman of the council of Malvern Grammar
School.
In Sydney, at 54, Cecil Battersby Lane,
secretary of the Bread Manufacturers of N.S.W.
since 1949, and secretary of the Associated
Bread Manufacturers of Australia and New
Zealand since 1955.
At Nagambie (Vic.), at 63, Richard Henry
Francis, secretary of the Australian Dairy-
farmers’ Association and the Australian Dairy
Industry Council, and general secretary of the
Queensland Dairymen’s Organisation.
The Australian Novelists
4. FRANK HARDY
Frank Hardy
wrote nothing for
two years after his
trial (and acquittal)
for criminal libel
over “Power With-
out Glory.” “I dried
up,” he says, “and
to get back into
practice I wrote, as
an exercise, an auto-
biographical account
of that period and
the difficulties I had
getting the book
published and the
trial.”
This book he calls
“The Hard Way”—
but he cannot get it
published in Australia. Halstead
Press, Angus and Robertson’s
printers, were preparing to publish it
for the Australasian Book Society
when it was decided to drop it. “I
made the alterations their legal ad-
visers insisted upon,” says Hardy, “but
it was no use. After that other
printers seemed to think it was too
dangerous.”
Now "The Hard Way” is being
published in Britain by the Bodley
Head and will be in Australia within
a few months.
Hardy, who lives with his wife
and three children in a waterfront flat
in Maniy (“I’ve been a seaman all my
life and like the sight and smell of
it”) is. he says, not worried about
getting ideas: “J have too many going
at once.”
He has two books of short-stories
coming out this year —one about
events in a Victorian country town
during the depression —and is becom-
ing involved in a
play. (His earlier
play, “Black Dia-
monds,” is to be
staged at the Brecht
Theatre in Berlin in
a few weeks’ time.)
The new play is
set on a coastal ship,
and the theme is the
clash of aims and
personalities when a
stowaway, or “ring-
bolter” (the play is
called “The Ring-
Bolter”) is brought
aboard just as the
union delegate is get-
ting the crew ready
to stage a demon-
stration in Port Adelaide.
To work on this play Hardy has had
to drop a novel about the sea that is
half-finished, and put back his plan
for a trilogy on Henry Lawson and his
times.
This big novel project has replaced
his earlier ambition to write a great
“human comedy” about Australian
life. “That was a youthful misconcep-
tion that I made, and I think Balzac
did, too. I just haven’t the experi-
ence of every stratum of life to write
properly about it.”
Hardy makes enough to live out of
the steady sales of “Power Without
Glory”—now published in eight
languages—and from overseas sales
of short-stories.
“And if things get too tough,” he
says, looking out to sea, “I get my
seaman’s ticket out of the drawer and
go back to work for a couple of
months.”


ft
*
ft
*
%
ft
*
4
ft
a
Hercules said:
"No rest
for the weary”
After those twelve Herculean labours he
really deserved a rest.
But his expression indicates a considerable degree
of perplexity. It’s obvious that there’s still something
on his mind. Had he been over-taxed?
If you are perplexed about the very real problem
of how to arrange a regular tax-free saving and
investment plan, ask any A.M.P. Fieldman for a copy of “How
Taxation Savings Enhance Life Insurance as an
Investment”, or get one from any A.M.P. Office.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Chairman: C. G. CRANE • General Manager: H. B. G. WALKER
A.M.P. members enjoy the unquestioned security afforded by funds of £500,000,000 which the Society seeks to invest to the greatest benefit to member *.


OVERSEAS
“Let Peter Have It, Dear”
By “OBSERVER”
President Kennedy’s announcement
that he hopes to speed up the
American defence programme has been
treated by commentators of a certain
kind as another example of American
“provocation.” This is part of the view
that for the Americans to do anything at
all—except offer concessions—is irrespon-
sible.
Although it has its Australian expo-
nents, this view is held particularly
widely in the United Kingdom, where it
gets mixed up with good taste. Out of
sheer pique, some Englishmen are happy
to criticise every American action as
brash, immature, and so on, not at all
the kind of thing you would expect from
a country really experienced in diplo-
macy. But in addition to this natural
irritation with a stronger ally there is
the feeling, now ingrained in some British
attitudes to foreign affairs, that it is
really a bit ungentlemanly to squabble
with one’s opponent about unimportant
details, especially if he is a low-class
grasping sort of fellow. The gentlemanly
thing is to decide that what is being
squabbled over (Quemoy, Berlin or
whatever) does not really matter and
that if it is going to make them happy,
they may as well have it. The house
rules are, as a writer in “The Twentieth
Century” put it: “Let Peter have it,
dear, if he’s going to be silly about it.”
The attitude comes from that middle-
class niceness that has been such an
influence on progressive opinion in the
United Kingdom and that makes pro-
gressive opinion of a certain kind pecu-
liarly senseless when faced with schemers,
graspers and bullies. “The Times” is
riddled with it; that is why it has so
consistently displayed a policy of appease-
ment towards all the tyrants, from Hitler
to Khrushchev, when—from sheer
wooden-headed good breeding—it did not
know what they were really up to.
“The Twentieth Century” writer has
an explanation for it. Many British
people, he points out, just do not under-
stand the significance of what he calls
“conventions.” A convention is “any
claim by one side that is accepted by
another” and putting up their claims —
and denying them —is what whole
stretches of the Cold War are really
about. At a stage of history like the
present when neither side can go to war
(unless one side disarms), establishing
claims, or denying them, is the principal
activity of foreign policy. Issues are not
judged on their “merits,” but as part of
the struggle for power in piling up claims
and reducing the claims of one’s oppo-
nents. “Conventions” can be private or
public, public conventions being the more
dangerous because “the people” and their
“leaders” have a lot more face to save
when everyone knows about them.
A number of examples of public con-
Justus, in “The Minneapolis Star”
“ALL SET"
ventions in practice come from Berlin.
In 1948 Russia made the claim that the
land route to Berlin could be closed at
will. There was no particular reason
why this should be so, but since we did
not test it by sending an armed convoy
to Berlin, the convention became
accepted that the Russians could do as
they chose on land. By later enforcing
the Berlin airlift, however, we established
a right to do what we liked within an
air corridor. Probably the only reason
why our right to communicate with
Berlin was limited by the air corridor
was that we did not put it to the test
on the roads.
When Khrushchev made his Berlin
threats in 1958 we found a problem in
maintaining the air corridor. Jets could
be used economically on this route only
if they flew above 10,000 feet. The
Americans announced that they had the
right to fly aircraft above 10,000 ft. The
Russians protested, trying to limit the
convention. And a number of British
commentators who get this idea of diplo-
macy from the Public School and the
middle-class nursery, found the American
claim wild, rash and unnecessary.
The U 2 incident was a perfect example
of a private convention. In 1956 the
Americans began sending planes over
Russia that were too high to hit. By
keeping quiet about it, the Russians
privately accepted as a convention the
private American claim that it could spy
on Russia in this way. But by publicly
attacking the U 2 flights last year, Khrush-
chev challenged the convention. And
world opinion which argued the rights
and wrongs of the case —as if anyone
could work out what they were —forced
the Americans to cancel the flights tem-
porarily. In the game of conventions
that was one up to Khrushchev.
Taken in this way, to criticise Mr
Kennedy because he wants to strengthen
America’s defences is fundamentally to
support the convention that America
should be weaker than Russia. Very few
people would bluntly urge that America
should be weaker than Russia, but their
minds are so filled with false analogies
about foreign policy that that is what
they are prepared to imply. Given this,
the new President could not have opened
his batting better.
Indo-Pakistan Unity?
By LOUIS FISCHER
“\/V HAT does China want?” I asked.
* * “China wants to swallow us,” re-
plied the highly placed Minister in
Nehru’s Cabinet. He added something
equally significant. “The menace of
China,” he said, “is generating more
This article is condensed from
Louis Fischer s “Russia, America
and the World” which was
published in New Yorl{ three
weckj ago.
patriotism in India than the Kashmir
issue or Pakistan ever did.”
China remains an immediate as well
as a long-range problem to India. The
Nehru Government has reinforced its
military stations near the China border
and is attempting to bolster the three
tiny States of Nepal, Sikkim and Bhutan,
which lie high in the mountains between
India and China and may, because their
people are more Tibetan-Mongolian than
Indian, become the first targets of a
further Chinese military-political push
southward into the Indian sub-continent.
But far more drastic measures are
needed to meet the continuing challenge
of China. The situation requires India
and Pakistan to combine their armed
forces for mutual defence against the
Chinese. An inspection of the map re-
veals that the Chinese conquest of addi-
tional Indian territory could imperil the
survival of Pakistan. Equally, a Chinese
invasion of Pakistan would put India
in jeopardy. India and Pakistan are one
by geography, economy and race, and
the case, consequently, for joint defence
in the face of China’s bellicosity is
unanswerable. Speaking in Kashmir,
Vinoba Bhave, Gandhi’s spiritual heir,
said, according to “Bhoodan” magazine
of October 21, 1959, “I am happy that
General Ayub Khan (the President of


Pakistan) has made an offer of common
defence. But I would like to add that
common defence is not possible without
a common foreign policy. India is fol-
lowing a policy of non-alignment. Hence,
if Pakistan continues to remain a mem-
ber of other alignments like the Baghdad
Pact, how can there be a common de-
fence?” The point is well taken. Defence
is nowadays so large a part of foreign
policy that effective common defence
requires a common foreign policy.
As a member of the Baghdad Pact
(which, since the defection of Baghdad,
has become CENTO) and of the Far-
Eastern Alliance, or SEATO, Pakistan
is aligned with the Western Powers
against the Communist alliance. India
is non-aligned. This creates a foreign
policy gulf obstructing the co-ordination
of Indian and Pakistan defence. From
the point of view of peace and prosperity
in Asia and of the struggle against Red
imperialism a common Indo-Pakistan
defence is more desirable than Pakistan’s
membership in alliances which have little
reality and more important than U.S.
bases in Pakistan. It takes courage to
give up what seems like a bird in the
hand, but the reward would be consider-
able. It would alter the temper of the
entire Afro-Asian world. A strong Asian
front would be established against aggres-
sion in Asia. Seen in this perspective, and
in view of India’s alarm over Chinese
aggression the West and the world would
gain by scrapping the policy of arming
Pakistan which most Indians mistakenly
regard as an expression of American
hostility toward them, and concentrating
instead on reinforcing the inner defences
of both Pakistan and India.
American arms aid to some countries
is a disguise for economic and budgetary
assistance. The Congress in Washington
eagerly opens its purse when asked for
military assistance to foreign countries
but is more reluctant to allocate funds
for development. Having grasped this
transparent truth, certain governments
request and receive arms and finances
for defence. Thus relieved of military
expenditures, they use the money saved
for other purposes. India does just the
opposite. She received economic aid from
the United States and uses the money
saved for the purchase of armaments.
In effect, therefore, the United States has
been arming Pakistan against India and
India against Pakistan. This is not an
intelligent way to make appropriations,
defend nations, fight Communism, spread
democracy or fortify peace.
'T'he addition of Pakistan to India, it
might be argued, would only multiply
the headaches. This is a superficial view.
India and Pakistan as separate nations
confront myriad towering problems. But
the waste of two defence systems, of two
conflicting foreign policies, of two econo-
mies competing in futile enmity, of two
water systems, and of railways that lead
nowhere will have been eliminated. The
Kashmir issue, which has bedevilled
Indo-Pakistan relations for more than a
decade, also would vanish. Kashmir could,
by self-determination, be a third member
of the confederation, indeed the con-
federation capital—a sort of Washington,
D.C. This is very different from the
independence for Kashmir proposed in
the past by some circles. An autonomous
Kashmir might have become a bone of
contention between feuding India and
Pakistan. But with the two countries
joined for mutual benefit, Kashmir would
serve them as a bridge rather than a
battlefield. An independent Kashmir,
moreover, might have tempted Russia or
China to intrigue and infiltrate and fish
for influence and footholds from which
to menace both India and Pakistan.
Kashmir in a confederation will inhibit
the northern imperialists.
Confederation would correct the 1947
blunder of allowing religious policies to
sever India from Pakistan. Many officials
and citizens of both countries have dis-
covered that the expected benefits of
bisection were illusory. Their disappoint-
ment reveals more clearly than elsewhere
the chasm betwen the grim reality of
national independence and the dreams
of golden glory which preceded it.
Today, however, nobody would, and
nobody can, turn back the clock to
colonial dependence. It can only be
advanced to some form of interdepen-
dence between the two neighbor-brothers.
In 1949, in fact, Nehru said publicly in
New York he would have resisted parti-
tion had he anticipated the dire results
that flowed from it.
'T'he World Bank, one of the least-
J known and most-effective agents of
20th century internationalism, has made
a mammoth contribution to the settle-
ment of the Kashmir issue and thus to
Indo-Pakistan co-operation. Five of the
great rivers of the Indus River basin—
the Jhelum, Ravi, Sutlej, Chenab and
Beas—rise in India-held Kashmir and
are indispensable to the life of Pakistan
and India. In April, 1948, India, because
of the Kashmir mess, cut off the waters
from these rivers that feed the canals
of Pakistan. Long negotiations between
the two disputants yielded no fruit. Then
the World Bank quietly appeared on the
scene and proposed the construction of a
tremendous intricate and fabulously ex-
pensive system of dams, storage reser-
voirs and canals which, without diminish-
ing India’s water supply would satisfy
the needs of Pakistan. Years of patient
poring over blueprints, budgets and
memoranda followed until, in 1960,
mutual accommodation was achieved.
The new water network, to be completed
in ten years, will cost more than a billion
dollars. The United States, Great Britain,
West Germany, Canada, Australia and
New Zealand, plus India and Pakistan,
have undertaken to furnish this sum, and
the World Bank will manage it. Much
of the expense and heartache would have
been avoided had there been no partition,
But this is stale water over old dams.
The important thing is that the rivers
and canals say, “Unite.” Commonsense
says, “Unite.” China’s policy says,
“Unite.” Survival says, “Unite.”
“The reason why Communist China is
committing aggression against India is
that it wants to secure ‘positions’ on
India’s natural frontiers in order to make
India completely vulnerable.... China
has a feeling that if India, Asia’s only
remaining bastion of democracy, could
be humbled and humiliated, it would be
easy for her to subjugate the rest of the
continent.... It is planned strategy to
impose Communist ideology on unwilling
people.” These are the words of Asoka
Mehta, leader of the Socialist party,
and a partisan of Nehru’s foreign policy
of non-alignment.
China’s advance to the mountain passes
that open into the Indian plains may,
London “Daily Mirror
“ DON’T RUSH US—YOU CONGOLESE HAVE GIVEN US A DIFFICULT
PROBLEM TO WRESTLE WITH ”


therefore, enlighten the Indian Govern-
ment and people on the rude reality of
W orld affairs. After China’s penetration
into Tibet and India, Nehru wrote in an
article published by the New York
“Times” on March 11, 1956, “Geography
made India, in her long past, almost a
closed country. Surrounded by the sea and
the mighty Himalayas, it was not easy of
entry.” This is bad history. India has
been invaded more than 20 times since
antiquity. Yet Nehru’s foreign policy
was moulded, to a considerable extent,
by the illusion of inaccessibility. Nehru
has drawn some of the consequences
of the awakening. Reacting to events
and to angry public opinion at home,
he has expressed not only dis-
approval of China’s acts but distrust of
Chinese words Chinese Prime Minister
Chou En-Lai “told me,” Nehru reported
in Parliament on April 27, 1958, “that
while Tibet has long been a part of the
Chinese State, they did not consider
Tibet as a province of China.” Nehru
would not lie about his talks with Chou,
who was obviously seeking to mislead.
Tibet is today a province under Chou’s
heel.
'The Indian Prime Minister may now
accord Western foreign policy a little
more understanding. “The tensions and
conflicts which we see in the world
today,” said an Indian spokesman of
Nehru, addressing an American audience
in May, 1960, “are due to the fact that
we (meaning you) are not prepared to
tolerate and live with people different
from ourselves and systems of govern-
ment which we do not approve.” This,
to put it plainly, is untrue, and it is
about time, after their experience with
China, that Indians see the light. Western
antagonism to Russia- is due not to
ideology but to Soviet imperialist expan-
sion. During and immediately after
World War 11, the Western Powers made
the same mistakes that India made in
relations with China after 1954: they
hesitated to assess correctly the ugly facts
of life ; they appeased ; they rearmed
reluctantly and haltingly. The Indian
Government showed more than tolerance
of China’s different system of govern-
ment (as America did of Russia’s) and
more than tolerance of China’s aggression
(as the West did of Moscow’s). But Mao
and Chou were not deterred. Perhaps
they were even encouraged by Nehru’s
softness and non-alignment.
At the height of India’s —and Indonesia’s
—trouble with Mao, Khrushchev urged
the inclusion of both those countries in
summit and other high-level delibera-
tions. Such gestures were naturally inter-
preted in New Delhi as reflecting a diver-
gence between Russia and China which
justified India’s continued aloofness from
a Western alignment. It may indeed have
been the purpose of Khrushchev to
create that impression. In these circum-
stances the West would do well to help
and wait but not to push. India embraces
approximately half, and with Pakistan
more than half, the population of the
underdeveloped Afro-Asian world. This
makes India a central and perhaps the
most delicate problem of our aching
w orld. It should not be hurried.
Overseas Pointers
EUROPE
FRANCE
A major conflict between the French
Communist Party and the livelier mem-
bers of its central committee is evident
following the condemnation of M. Servin,
the party’s organisational secretary, and
M. Laurent Casanova, one of its
leading intellectuals. They have been
accused of “opportunism” following their
criticism of the party’s referendum cam-
paign policy. It seems that five other
members have also been condemned: M.
Jean Kanapa, writer and philosopher,
three former Parliamentarians, M. Jean
Pronteau, M. Andre Souquieres and M.
Maurice Kriegel - Valrimont, and M.
Jean-Pierre Vigier, one of the party’s
outstanding younger intellectuals. With
this move M. Thorez has cut himself off
from renovating forces, because it was
these men, mostly 15-20 years younger
than M. Thorez, who were appealing for
more initiative. Following these condem-
nations a number of party members re-
fused to attend the meeting of the central
committee, one of them being the writer
M. Louis Aragon, a supporter of M.
Casanova. The events seem to bear out
the saying of some West European Com-
munists : “Stalin never died —he just fled
to the West.”
ITALY
Signor Feltrinelli, Milanese publisher
of Pasternak’s “Dr Zhivago,” has made
the following statement regarding the
Soviet imprisonment of Mrs Ivinskaya
on the charge of secretly pocketing royal-
ties from the book: “The sum of 100,000
dollars wholly or partly changed into
roubles and transferred to Moscow was
drawn on the funds which were kept at
the disposal of Mr Pasternak in the West
on the basis of an order by Mr Paster-
nak entirely written in his own hand,
dated December 6, 1959, that reached the
West in March, 1960.
“This order, that I saw with my own
eyes, was handed over by the same per-
son whom Mr Pasternak designated as
the one to whom the sum should be
entrusted. I know that the operation was
duly performed on March 10, 1960. Such
are the facts. I presume that the delay
of some months that occurred before the
sum reached Moscow was due to the
understandable difficulties encountered by
Pasternak's emissary in finding the
equivalent in roubles and in having
them transferred.
“It is my opinion that Olga Ivinskaya
cannot be held responsible ; neither for
the transfer of the sum nor for its
eventual destination. On the one hand
the order of transfer was given by Paster-
nak alone, on the other hand it was
Pasternak himself who wanted the sum
converted into roubles delivered either to
himself or to Mrs Ivinskaya. It cannot
be excluded that it was Mr Pasternak’s
will that Mrs Ivinskaya should be con-
sidered. as his heir. I trust that the
Soviet authorities will take into account
the circumstances recalled above that are
all based on documentary evidence.”
VATICAN
As an answer to Moscow’s People’s
Friendship University where 500 Africans
are now being trained in Marxism the
Vatican is to found an African university
in Rome for young African laymen.
MIDDLE EAST
IRAQ
The Arab League meeting in Beirut at
the beginning of February took place
against a background of increased Egyp-
tian interest in Africa. It seems Israel is
of secondary importance to President
Nasser at the moment but he must still
reckon with Jewish influence throughout
Africa. Addressing the U.A.R. National
Assembly on January 23 he made much
of Ghana’s adherence to the Casablanca
conference condemnation of Israel but
Israel is so strongly represented in Ghana
it is doubtful if President Nkrumah would
go beyond words in supporting Nasser.
Morocco has already paid, in internal
discord and international disapproval,
for supporting Nasser’s Casablanca de-
nudation of Israel. The restrictions which
followed Morocco joining the Arab
League in 1956 —severance of all con-
nections, even postal, with Israel and
prohibition of organised emigration-
have proved particularly irksome because
of the Moroccan Jews’ extreme poverty.
It was thought that Tunisia, the “devia-
tionist” among the Arab countries, might
draw closer to U.A.R. as it is also com-
bating Jewish African influence but
it has now questioned whether the Casa-
blanca conference achieved anything.
The Arab League meetings, whatever else
they might do, are certainly effective in
advertising the differences among Arabs.
ISRAEL
Mr ben-gurion, 74, has resigned as Prime
Minister of Israel after a Cabinet crisis
over an inquiry into an unsuccessful
security operation in 1954 during Mr
Lavon’s term as Defence Minister.
AMERICA
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
Dictator Rafael Trujillo’s assault on the
Catholic Church seems to have been
successful. Papal Nuncio Lino Zanini
inspired the Dominican bishops to attack
Trujillo at the beginning of 1960, but
since then the dictator has kept the church
under constant pressure by radio slander,


threats to priests’ lives, deportations and
an attack on the parochial school system.
Six bishops recently wrote asking for a
truce and Trujillo’s Government replied
with a suggestion that they could add to
Trujillo’s list of titles : “The circumstances
are propitious for you to support the
initiative to grant his Excellency the title
of ‘Benefactor of the Catholic Church.’ ”
AFRICA
CONGO
The politically divided Congo will shortly
be unified by inflation. The major infla-
tionary pressure is that of the mercenaries
who are already being paid three times
as much as the United Nations troops.
The trouble originated six months ago
when Mr Lumumba rewarded the Army
mutineers by elevating all corporals to
captains and all privates to the rank of
n.c.o. It reached a critical point when,
on January 14, Colonel Mobutu’s 5000-
strong Thysville garrison mutinied for
extra pay and rations. Their demands
were granted despite the decision, taken
only a week earlier, to introduce austerity
measures. Colonel Mobutu's troops then
discovered they were being paid 4000
francs a month against Mr Lumumba’s
Stanleyville troops’ monthly 7000 francs.
And the Stanleyville troops have dis-
covered that Mr Lumumba’s Kivu troops
are paid 10,000 francs monthly. Mr
Lumumba’s administration has met ex-
penses out of the reserve put by to pay
for the next African-grown cotton crop.
Lumumba’s highly paid troops do not
even keep order —their lawlessness has
caused a further exodus of whites from
the Kivu tea plantations which formerly
employed 20,000 people. To counter-
balance the consequent fall in tax revenue
the municipal administration broke open
the vault of the central bank at Bukavu
and took 50m. francs (£350,000) but
Congolese francs do not count for much
now. For that reason transport in Kivu
and the Orientale province is breaking
down: as Congolese money no longer
buys petrol in Uganda and Ruanda-
Urundi.
ASIA
CHINA
A Breakout of 700 starving farm-
workers from the Tungkum commune
ended disastrously: 20 succeeded in
reaching Macao, the rest were shot or
sentenced to long periods of hard labor.
The break-out was attempted after
rations were repeatedly slashed. Refugees
are arriving in Macao at the rate of over
100 a day—six times the normal number
—and the island, which has a population
of 200,000 now accommodates, in addi-
tion, 150,000 refugees. The latest arrivals
have told of raids on rice warehouses in
Southern China and of 1000 farmers
staging a hunger riot. The Communists
blame nature for the widespread famine
but, apart from other aspects of an agri-
cultural policy even more wrongheaded
than Russia's, they destroyed the spar-
rows which would have controlled insects
now ravaging crops. The communes’
current slogan is “It is patriotic not to
eat your full ration.”
Castro Fights the Church
By GEORGE SHERMAN
“TFe no longer search for a way to
live with the Castro regime. We
search for a way to die with honor.”
This was a Roman Catholic priest speak-
ing in the privacy of his study, and
his words express the deep depression
which has spread through the Church in
Cuba. “It is impossible to live here.
Our reputations are slandered, we have
no position, no money, no influence. The
Church needs all these things to live.”
The Roman Catholic hierarchy joined
combat with the State about six months
ago on the issue of Communist infiltra-
tion. At that time nuances blurred the
struggle. The Church claimed it was not
opposed to the Government or its revolu-
tionary reforms, only the growing Com-
munist influences here. Today the battle
lines are clearly drawn. For the Roman
Catholic Church, at least, Fidel Castro’s
Government is synonymous with Com-
munism. Priests and bishops denounce
Government policy from the pulpit. The
Government, press and revolutionary
groups attack the Church and intimidate
its followers.
The struggle is not spectacular be-
cause the opponents are unevenly
matched. Although approximately 85
per cent, of Cubans are baptised Catho-
lics, the vast majority have only a formal
adherence to the Church. Over half the
1,000 priests in the island are from Spain.
Only two seminaries for the training of
Cuban priests exist here. Catholic
devotees are centred mainly among the
middle and upper classes in the cities.
The Government has pursued a shrewd
policy of divide and conquer. It appeals
to the “revolutionary” masses and lower
clergy against entrenched wealth and
the hierarchy. By and large the have-
not masses have sided with Dr Castro.
And the Church is further crippled by
the fact that the 300,000 Cubans who
have fled the country are drawn mainly
from those groups who were its chief
support. All Roman Catholic printing
presses have been confiscated and their
publications suspended. The newspaper
of the Young Catholic Workers organi-
sation (JOC), one of the Church’s main
influences among the working class, has
been banned. The Church no longer
receives time on television and radio
stations, which have all been taken over
by the State.
The 77-year-old Archbishop of San-
tiago de Cuba, Monsignor Enrique Perez
Serantes, has taken the lead in writing
pastorals against the regime. He has
greater prestige than any other clergyman
for he once saved Fidel Castro’s life in
the days of the Batista dictatorship and
was a staunch supporter of the revolution.
But the Archbishop could not even
get his latest pastoral letter printed. It
called upon all Christians regardless of
church affiliation to join the struggle
against Communism.
The Government is not physically try-
ing to close the churches, but to isolate
them from the main stream of society.
Roman Catholicism is to remain as a
religious ornament to adorn the new
totalitarian order. Those who want to
participate in its purely religious rites may
do so —at their own risk. But the mean-
ingful social influences of the Church
are being steadily eliminated.
Roman Catholic schools show the most
drastic effects of this intimidation. Fewer
parents have either the money or politi-
cal courage to send their children to
these private schools. The largest and
best known Catholic school in Cuba, the
Collegio de Belen, on the outskirts of
Havana, has seen attendance drop from
1400 to 700 during the two years of the
revolution. Belen school is over 100 years
old with an international reputation for
scholarship. Fidel Castro himself re-
ceived his secondary education here from
the Jesuits.
But his Government has reversed its
previous tax leniency toward religious
educational institutions. The taxes on
Belen school have jumped from 200
dollars annually to 32,000 dollars last
year.
The great danger for the Government is
that persecution of the Roman Catholic
faith will gain the Church sympathy it
did not previously have. It remains the
one independent institution left in Cuba,
no matter how circumscribed its activi-
ties. Tension is mounting here with the
growing effects of austerity and the
deepening conflict with the United States.
If Dr Castro’s system begins to falter,
he has himself shown the Cuban people
one rallying point inside the island for
their opposition.
—“ Observer” Foreign News Service
Morse in Los Angeles “Mirror News-
“ANOTHER ARCH OF TRIUMPH?"


Shows
Perth’s Ist Live TV
TV
The choice of Christopher Fry’s “A
Sleep of Prisoners” for the first live
telecast by the National Station in Perth,
received with raised eyebrows in some
quarters, was justified by its
triumph. The intimate dia-
logue, the limited all - male
cast, the circumscribed time
and space, made one quickly aware that
in fact this play is ideally served by
television ; and Raymond Menmuir,
using St George’s Cathedral for setting,
and the skilled artistry of lighting
directed by Michael Altria, achieved a
production that must rank with the best
in live television.
The cameras made admirable use of
cathedral light and shade ; many of the
close-ups, as well as the long slanting
shafts illuminating the long shots, were
Rembrandtesque, heads for an instant
standing forth defined and vital from the
shadows. Also notable were the cross-
fades and angle changes, achieved so
smoothly that continuity flowed with
unceasing rhythm. The carved stonework
of the pulpit, the golden points of the
dark wrought-iron chancel screen, lifted
the dream sequences away from the crude
timber bunks and trusses of mattress-hay
against which the four war-prisoners re-
sumed their waking (or sleeping) lives.
And in the moment when pale diffused
light trembled about three of them in
their symbolic ordeal by fire (typified by
the fiery furnace of Nebuchadnezzar), the
altar cross, far away down the chancel,
was for a second brilliantly and sharply
defined.
I saw the same play produced in the
same setting some years ago ; an im-
pressive show that has now paled beside
close-seen expressive faces and voices
resonant yet clear in the most quick-
spoken and obscure passages. In one way
only does a stage presentation score:
the provision of a programme that helps
the uninitiated with the sequence of the
prisoners’ dreaming, to use the clues that
Fry provides for the labyrinth of his
allegory.
Fry attempts to define the attitudes of
men towards life and death, and perhaps
explore the terrible necessity of blood
sacrifice, whether rendered or made, that
seems eternally to ride mankind. Man-
kind in the literal sense: like Beckett’s
“Waiting for Godot,” this is an essentially
male drama. Eve receives but passing
mention and only old Tim Meadows, the
man of earth, appears to have had a wife,
now dead. What women think about war
and killing lies beyond either the Old
Testament or contemporary expositions
of Fry’s prisoners.
Ron Haddrick as Private David King
brought realistic force and terror, hate,
agony, and even a moment of rough
jnasculine tenderness, to combat the
imaginative courage of Private Peter Able
(Philip Clarke), that so unnerved him.
Paul Nayton (Corporal Joe Adams)
achieved a nice balance between Adam,
Joab, and n.-c.-o. As old Tim Meadows,
James Bailey, puzzled yet matter-of-fact,
tried faithfully to watch over and succor
the younger men. Well selected for type
and variety of feature and voice ; alone,
in twos or threes, or grouped in ever-
changing pattern, utterly absorbed, the
four actors brought dynamic force to
their performance.
H.D-B.
Dobell—Kennedy—Charm
Despite his shyness William Dobell
was attractively articulate on Channel
2’s half-hour interview session. En-
couraged to talk about themselves, artists
and actors usually sound shop-obsessed
and egotistic. Language, for the artist
and the actor, is an exercise in self-
esteem. Dobell naturally and gracefully
avoids this impression. His simplicity
and unpretentiousness were accentuated
by the rodomontade of Robert Hughes,
whose thinking processes are tortuous
and over - intellectualised for an inter-
viewer.
But Dobell looks at television when
he is “nervy,” calls his little paintings,
inspired by the idiot-box, doodles and
not abstracts, refers to his portrait sub-
jects as “chaps”; was not once guilty
of name - dropping, artiness, or even
affected self-denigration. Russell Drysdale
is an intellectual and William Dobell is
not, yet both of them are endowed with
an unmistakable honesty of mind ; both
of them gain in stature in front of the
television camera.
A restless, frenetic, untidy occasion,
the Presidential inauguration of John
Kennedy contrasted oddly with the
statuesque orderliness of British Royal
occasions. From the televiewer's point
of view the show was stolen by the frail
old figure of Robert Frost, America’s
greatest living poet. Tormented by the
wind and the cold, unable to control his
papers or his thoughts, he was pathetic,
comic, and yet the most impressive
human being of them all.
The Kennedy inauguration was also a
peak in commercialisation in South Aus-
tralia. Although something of a semi-
religious occasion, the telecast was
broken on three occasions by the “Adver-
tiser’s” Channel 7 for blocks of com-
mercials. It is singularly repulsive to
have President Kennedy cut off for a
Pepsi-Cola jingle. I checked with Rupert
Murdoch’s Channel 9, and found that
station’s policy is to run commercials
only before and after programmes which
are classified as “public service” broad-
casts ; the Khrushchev series, for
example. But will it be possible to break
into Her Majesty’s Christmas broadcast
with a plug for Coles’s cotton briefs, or
a brand of toilet paper on Adelaide’s
Channel 7? There doesn't seem to be
any reason why not.
For a television critic a hair shirt is
less distressing than the A.B.C.’s light
entertainment. From a fierce sense of
duty I submitted to a half hour of the
Lorrae Desmond Show. The olde worlde
amateurism could have been tolerable,
but Miss Desmond’s charm chased me to
the off-dial. Melbourne's effort in the
same genre was no better. “Two’s Com-
pany” was quite right—as the televiewing
gooseberry 1 departed post-haste.
Max Harris
THEATRE
“The Merry Wives of Windsor”
“The Hollow”
“The Merry Wives” is a difficult play ;
Mr Alexander Archdale said so at the
end of the National Theatre presentation,
as part of the Festival of Perth, in the
Sunken Garden. Or perhaps Mr Arch-
dale was getting in first: after the striking
success of Moliere's “Miser,” Falstaff and
the merry wives were not enlivening.
Produced by Raymond Westwell with
practically the same cast, the set, despite
signposts to Windsor and Frogmore,
strategically placed banners, contraptions
suggesting doors and balconies, and a
stout tavern table, carried no conviction
of either street or chamber. Nor could
a noble belly and large upturned
moustaches above his beard endow Mr
Archdale with the rich humor, the gusto,
the deep fruity voice of Falstaff. He
often looked more pained than put out;
although his strut and resilient cockiness
provided much mirth, he never attained
real zest.
Joan MacArthur, the English actress,
gave the best performance. Her Mistress
Quickly was beautifully understated;
vapid yet crafty, matter -of - fact yet
shrewd, she used a flat country voice and
motionless pauses with cunning effect.
Adept in accent and gesture, Neville
Teede as French Dr Caius created a
nice contrast to English character.
Mistress Page coped gracefully with a
part too old for her. Joan Bruce made
a striking Mrs Ford (the medieval dress-
ing was attractive throughout); Ric
Hutton (Master Ford) and Michael
Laurence (Master Page) were no more
than adequate, but as Master Slender,
Richard Hearder, in a vast yellow gown,
had his moments.
Hastening from the ruses and excur-
sions of Shakespeare’s gay citizens in the
Sunken Garden to the crimes and com-
plications of Agatha Christie’s Angkatell
family at the Patch Theatre, a reviewer
might be tempted to digress into social
comment. Miss Christie sets “The
Hollow” in the Garden Room of a house


so named, situated much the same dis-
tance from London as Windsor. Amid
cross-currents created by devotion to
ancient estates, idle passion and jealous
love, not to mention the ambitions of a
film star and a sculptress, dramatic ten-
sion rises (who will be murdered?) until
a shot fired by an unseen hand fells the
victim. Thenceforth the exposure of
character, motive and reaction sweeps
forward with vigor. No matter how
typed Agatha Christie's people may be,
her portraits are based on observation
and experience and their personalities
shrewdly conveyed in conversation and
action. Nor does she neglect satire on
contemporary life.
Produced by Arthur Marshall, the com-
pany was well cast and gave a smooth,
well-teamed performance. As sculptress
Henrietta Angkatell, Eunice Hughes
moved and spoke with conviction ; Elsie
Wares successfully eddied thither and yon
as Lady Angkatell, one of those vague
yet commanding Englishwomen who
beneath a charming incompetence
manage to keep a firm grasp on essen-
tials. As suppressed, adoring Gerda
Cristow, Gloria Emery showed nice
restraint in contrast to her aggressive
husband (David Crann). Miss Christie
used a pair of servants (as well as a
film star) to point contemporary changes,
and against the stiff-backed feudalism of
butler Gudgeon (Brian Sallur, whose
badly fitting coat was the one serious
blot), Pat Donohoe scored as a modern
housemaid thoroughly sure of her gang-
ling democratic self beneath a stiff con-
ventional uniform.
H.D-B.
ART
Adelaide Art
Something new has turned up in
Adelaide with the opening of a small
gallery in the suburbs. Rona Adams,
an artist himself, has done a neat job
of converting part of a pleasant old
stone house at 1, Alison Street, Glenelg,
into a gallery that he calls the Pequeno.
Mr Adams aims later to have exhibitions
of the work of young artists, from inter-
state as well as from South Australia,
but he has opened with works by eleven
established S.A. artists.
The paintings are mostly non-repre-
sentational, and in fact this show reveals
the weakness of abstract painting in S.A.
With the exception of Lawrence Daws,
who has only two sketches on view, these
are good average specimens of the artists’
work, but they mostly give one the im-
pression that the artist, or somebody else,
has covered that ground before. Ostoja-
Kotkowski in particular seems to have
less and less to say, to be using nothing
but long, easy brush-strokes and to have
too many souvenirs of Paris in his studio.
W. Dutkiewicz has four paintings, far
and away the best being the mosaic-like
but beautifully flexible “Monsoon.” Anne
Pfitzner (like Anton Holzner, who is un-
fortunately not represented at this show)
specialises in an exceedingly gloomy
palette and heavy, grumbling forms, yet
there is a distinction and dignity about
her painting, however heavy the demands
it makes upon the eye.
Jacqueline Hick has the human figure
to herself, with four confidently handled
works, some of them containing several
studies. With her sense of satire and
her capacity for deep feeling, she is one
of the best in Australia of the vanishing
tribe of artists primarily interested in
the human predicament. Her work de-
serves to be far more widely known
than it is.
The pottery on view is all provided by
Alex Leckie, clean, dusky pieces that com-
mand immediate respect. His largest
work, a clever chimney pot called Ned
Kelly, handles the old legend with
suspicious ease.
Geoffrey Dutton
Sydney Art
Though it was still possible last week
to feel the force amidst the turgidity of
Gerard Havekes’s paintings at David
Jones and to taste the pleasant primi-
tivism of his pots, the rest of Sydney
They Can Play it, But They Can’t Write it
heard of an Australian com-
' poser who has been ranging
enough in thought, rich enough in
temperament and obsessed enough in
creative hunger to put forth an ample
body of work, whether or not there
could be absorbed and searching
hearing for it either here or abroad?
The answer must be “No” where,
if our musical culture even remotely
approached the “world standards”
often claimed for it, the answer should
not fail to be “Yes.”
At this moment, in a country which
is capable of supporting close to a
thousand orchestral concerts each
year, some four or nine people should
be feeling the drive to get a symphony
down on paper, or a tone poem, or a
concert overture or a dance suite.
These few triers ought to be enjoying
reasonable expectations of an audience
and an income if their thought is rich
and their technical discipline intense.
Four or nine? Are there any at all?
Probably not.
Why not? There must be special
frustrations at work in this country
since, apart from Portugal and a few
of the Central and South American
republics, Australia is the only branch
of the Western world which has not
yet produced a composer of signifi-
cance in world thought. What are
these frustrations? Let us look at
three of the points mentioned ; intense
technical discipline, richness of
thought, need for recognition and
income.
On the first point, it is abundantly
clear that Australian conservatoriums
are not equipping students to compose
at any level higher than that needed
to pass examinations, and that the
students themselves might not be alto-
gether exempt from the Messel charge
of laziness.
Composition is an art of great diffi-
culty ; some inspiration and an
enormous amount of tedious desk-
work in getting the inspiration down
on paper. Anyone who undertakes it
knows of the enormous battle that
goes on between what he wishes to
do and the reluctance of ideas to
realise themselves on paper. It is a
struggle which cannot fail to frighten
off anybody who has been inade-
quately equipped by our music schools
with the technical apparatus of com-
posing.
Richness of thought? People who
have had to circulate among Aus-
tralian musicians will have been dis-
mayed by the prosaically narrow
thought range of many of them. With
so few it is possible to talk of painting,
or books, or trends in philosophy, or
nuances of poetry —all of them part
of the background from which con-
siderable composers in other parts of
the world condense their music. Our
students have no artistic climate in
which to think, to grow and to strike
sparks off each other.
Expectations of audience and in-
come? Practically none! From time
to time the A.B.C. and the Australian
Performing Rights Association con-
duct competitions for composition as
token recognition of the need to help,
but these bring to light, for the most
part, only works which are given two
or three performances and then for-
gotten. There’s no bread and butter
in that. Composing, an art requiring
the full-time dedication and tenacity
of those who practise it, remains here
at the level of a handyman’s weekend
hobby.
Australia cannot lay claim to any
depth of musical culture until these
things are changed. The changes must
be, first, in the teaching of composi-
tion where students can find not only
tools of trade but great adventures of
imagination and, second, in the mar-
keting of Australian composition.
Any sort of “tariff protection” in
art is repugnant in many ways, but,
with so many orchestral concerts
each year, there should be ample
scope for the A.B.C. to feature Aus-
tralian composition in its public pro-
grammes much more generously than
it does now, even if the works are
only in the smaller orchestral forms.
It is common practice in America for
symphony orchestras to include some
American work in almost every pro-
gramme—if these works are not
always engaging, the market is made
for composers who do have something
to say.
A living is possible in America for
a composer who wants to make one.
Why not here?
LINDSEY BROWNE


ar t was a very tentative beginning for
1961.
There is no catalogue for the A.C.I.A.A.
exhibition at Farmer’s and even when
you have ascertained that the initials
stand for the Australian Commercial and
Industrial Art Association there is no
perceptible reason for holding the exhibi-
tion. Except for some posters of wild-
flowers, a book on Broken Hill, and a
line-drawing of some quality here and
there, the exhibits are the usual run of
commercial art, advertising or displaying
cosmetics, cars, clothes, the wrappers of
gramophone records, etc. They neither
represent the best in this field nor cover
anything like the full range of it.
A much better though not wildly
exciting show is at the Macquarie Gal-
leries where twelve “Melbourne Print-
makers” display lino-cuts, etchings and
lithographs. There is little essentially new
in social realism or derivations from
Chinese and Japanese prints but in them-
selves the works of Noel Counihan and
Nancy Clifton, Christine Aldor and
Lesbia Thorpe are pleasing enough.
Wendy Rendell has a suave “Rockscape,”
Robert Grieve a thoughtful “Owl,” and
Mary Mac Queen happily explores the
often-explored world of the circus.
D.S.
£SOO Prize
The Sydney Journalists’ Club 1960
award of £SOO for a painting illustrating
a passage from Australian literature was
won by Eric Smith, of Sydney, with a
large, semi-abstract landscape, more or
less in the style of his previous successful
entries in the Blake Prize. It illustrates,
in scintillating technique, a “jewelled”
sunrise in Patrick White’s “Voss.” The
judges were Norman Schureck, William
Pidgeon and Douglas Stewart.
Eric Smith has lately painted a series
of similar illustrations to “Voss” and the
winning picture is exhibited with the
others at his one-man show at David
Jones’s gallery, opening today. (Wednes-
day.)
FILMS
Three French Documentaries
M. Marcel Chicoteau, erudite and hos-
pitable Consul for France, held a recep-
tion at the Sydney Hotel Australia to
show three French documentaries. The
standard of direction and production of
all three was superlative. My preference
went to the third, “Neiges,” shot at
French winter-sport centres, because the
commentary, given in French, seemed
less self-conscious than that of the others.
In this film, too, the cameramen had the
gift of a series of perfect natural back-
grounds, of which they took full advan-
tage to provide pictures of the highest
artistic merit.
The other two films, one showing the
Riviera and the second the French
nuclear research station at Saclay, were
’mpressive in their different settings.
Apart from all the jollity and junketing
°f carnival and carefree Cote d’Azur
atmosphere of beach and villa, my eye
Was caught in the Riviera film by a
couple of shots of the transparent Medi-
terranean water, and I made a mental note
to go back to those parts as soon as
possible simply to see and feel it again
in real life. All nuclear reactors look
very much alike, but the beauty of the
Saclay countryside and the devotion
shown on the faces of the young scien-
tists and technicians made the record of
this one just that much different.
Rollo Gillespie
“The Virtuous Bigamist”
When Fernandel as the middle-aged
commercial traveller returns at dawn to
his scrubby city flat and pours milk into
a saucepan and fades out looking at
you across the stove you can see he is
yearning for the farm and the pretty,
pregnant girl (Giulia Rubini) he took
back to her father, pretending they were
married. The reviewer looks back, too,
and thinks, well, it was a pretty thin
picture; but of course there was the
brightly colored farmyard, and the fine
French farmhouse interior with its
beautiful furniture, and old grandma
playing draughts with the commercial
traveller’s chocolate samples, and the
continual feeling that something was
about to happen ; but the only one who
got any real excitement out of it, the
man who got the girl into trouble, was
not exhibited ; he was probably whooping
it up in the other French film, “The
Cousins,” at the Savoy. (At Sydney
Palladium.)
“The Wackiest Ship in the Army”
Jack Lemmon as an American naval
lieutenant was forced to take a comic
schooner with a comic crew, and a very
young officer (Ricky Nelson) being
groomed for stardom in about 30 years’
time, from an Australian port to Port
Moresby, to land an Australian coast-
watcher as replacement to one the Japa-
nese had liquidated. An Irish girl, Patricia
Driscoll, played an Australian girl at an
American base with a forced Cockney
accent, whereas such Australian girls as
the American soldiery were capable of
patronising had forced American accents,
like Mae West with adenoids. All this
wrongness was redeemed by Chips
Rafferty as the comic, laconic coast-
watcher ; under expert direction all the
Australianisms he has been cultivating for
so many years arrived on timing ; they
not only sounded right, but they had
that quiet, underground humor that rings
the bell without seeming to have hit it.
(At Sydney State.)
R. McCuaig
“The Time Machine”
This machine of H. G. Wells’s, fore-
runner of many more pretentious time-
and space-vehicles, takes us on a bright,
technicolored, amusing and often exciting
journey into the future, starting from
the very beginning of this century. After
several stops which, in not unlikely
fashion, occur when a war is in progress,
the final destination finds man divided
into two hostile groups, those who live
above, and those who live below the
ground. Interest wanes towards the end,
largely because of the failure to find
suitable monsters —it has been a long
time since a good monster appeared on
the screen. Australian actor Rod Taylor,
in the starring role, does a sound job,
and seems certain to go on to better
things. (At Sydney Palace.)
Charles Smith
NEW RECORDS
The Most Happy Fella: Songs from
the Frank Loesset musical (Coronet
KLLI63O). Singing, solo and concerted,
by the Broadway cast, with Robert
Weede, an especially happy fella, in the
lead. Loesser's treatment of Sidney
Howard’s Pulitzer Prize winning comedy-
drama at times comes close to opera-
buffa.
Dvorak’s Symphony No. 5: (“From
the New World”): Berlin Philharmonic
Orchestra under Ferenc Fricsay (Deutsche
Grammophon LPM18627). As engaging
a reading as could be wished of one of
the most popular of symphonies. In the
Largo the English horn playing is of
exceptional beauty.
Connie’s Greatest Hits: Blues singer
Connie Stevens (M.G.M. 027564). The
slush on the sleeve, written by the Mayor
of Teen Town, rates Connie a wizardress
of song. She’s pleasant enough, and in
this album of a dozen pops both vintage
and modern she hits the hits quite a
wallop.
Hugo Winterhalter Goes Latin:
Winterhalter and his Orchestra (R.C.A.
L 10950). In this collection of 12 Spanish
and Latin-American tunes Hugo demon-
strates how Iberian rhythms should go ;
he certainly has the right string players.
A Mighty Fortress: The Morman
Tabernacle Choir (Coronet KLC2742).
Wonderfully balanced singing by one of
the world’s greatest choirs in 22 hymns.
The pianissimos of close on 400 voices
constitute some of the finest choral sing-
ing yet recorded, and it is all informed
by fine devotional fervor.
Vienna Philharmonic Pops: Orchestra
under Clemens Krauss (Ace of Clubs
ACLA99). The spate of Vienna waltz
music of the Strauss brothers, Johann
Jr (the “Waltz King”) and Joseph, con-
tinues unabated. These polkas, marches
and waltzes, all gracefully played, simply
had to include “Blue Danube” and the
“Annen” polka ; but the other five are
less hackneyed examples of the ballroom
music of the early 19th century.


Disaster Day in the West
By HENRIETTA DRAKE-BROCKMAN
Western Australians have bitter
reason to recollect the fire and
flood of Dorothea Mackellar’s
famous poem “My Country.' 1
Within 24 hours, on January 24-25, three
timber-towns were razed by forest fires,
and up north at Onslow, 700 ft of the
long deep-sea jetty was destroyed by wind
and wave in a cyclone that, blowing
inland, poured rain off the Hamersley
Ranges in streams that rose as high as
75ft in the head gullies and cut off all
road communication with the blue-
asbestos mines at Wittenoom Gorge.
The rain, driven south by the high
winds, came 24 hours too late to save
the south-west towns ; the preceding hot
winds indeed sent the flames roaring
along the tree-tops on a 25-mile front in
what is one of the most dramatic and
terrifying of all natural spectacles.
Miraculously there was no loss of human
life in either disaster, and the rain extin-
guished the fire, relieving hundreds of
exhausted firefighters.
The chief centre destroyed was Dwel-
lingup, a timber-mill town situated in
some of the finest jarrah forest in the
State. In actual property damage it is
presumed the worst disaster in State
history. The mill was virtually destroyed
with practically every other building that
housed or supplied the 450-odd inhabi-
tants. One garage exploded, tanks flying
200 ft into the air, the flames even higher.
In a night of horror, women and children
ran from ditch to ditch, finally to cluster
with wet bags over their heads in any
open space available. One woman spent
hours spraying water on such a group ;
she is still haunted by the screams of
terrified children. Two medical teams
were sent from Perth to Pinjarra to cope
with badly heat-burnt eyes. The remark-
"This is not exactly a merger,
gentlemen — it's a sub-merger !”
able lack of fatality appears due to the
fact that as the flames leapt from the
forest to the towns, no one waited to save
possessions. The majority escaped with
what they stood in. Vehicles were burnt
where they were abandoned. In Dwel-
lingup alone losses are roughly assessed
at £250,000. Millar's sawmill, at the
nearby town of Nanga Brook, was totally
destroyed ; only three houses were left
standing. The smaller centre of Holyoake,
an old mill town where pensioners and
others continued to live, has been gutted
and is unlikely to be rebuilt. It is esti-
mated that in addition to the Dwellingup
community, another 400 have been left
homeless.
When police and Red Cross workers
first managed to reach the towns they
had difficulty at first in persuading dazed
people to leave, but without water or
food, clad in blackened rags, in the end
they went. Pinjarra and Waroona soon
looked like towns in a forward battle
area. Hotels threw open their doors,
St Joseph’s Convent, hospitals, church
halls were filled with exhausted people
sleeping almost where they could crawl.
The Railway Department sent down 15
coaches. Even before any appeal was
launched, gifts of clothing and house-
hold utensils poured into Red Cross
centres. Within 48 hours the fund opened
by the Lord Mayor of Perth reached
£21,000. People stood in queues at 'the
Perth Council Chambers to hand in
donations and during a TVW telephone-
appeal money poured in at £lOOO an
hour.
But there was a less pleasant side
Thousands of “sightseers" set out for the
district, and police were obliged to set up
roadblocks to prevent anyone not holding
a permit from entering.
AN estimated 500,000 acres of State
forest has been ravaged by fire.
Some orchard properties have been
destroyed. People let loose their stock
and poultry, and took with them what
dogs they could find. At Nanga Brook,
brush kangaroos and rabbits joined
humans sheltering under mill sprinklers
until all alike were forced out into the
open. One serious loss is the fire-
forecasting records belonging to the
Forestry Department, held at the big
divisional headquarters at Dwellingup.
Officers of the department stated that
although they were prepared for big
trouble and were able to warn everybody
on outlying properties, the intensity of
the fire exceeded all expectations.
Throughout the south-west, the populace
stood by to help. Before the rains fell,
hundreds of volunteer firefighters
crowded Government departments: some
were taken to the fires in buses ; women
organised canteens. After a visit to the
area the Governor, Sir Charles Gairdner,
requested Western Command to send
Army personnel to help the firefighters.
The unit immediately dispatched did a
fine job before the wind-driven flames
took charge. The Premier, Mr Brand,
summoned Cabinet and appointed a State
Emergency Service to co-ordinate police,
medical and other services. Now all
evacuated people have been billeted in
the district or departed to stay with rela-
tives and friends. An army of State
officials and business representatives are
back in the devastated towns assessing
damage, paying claims, and the wearied
people, clad in donated garments, are
turning their minds to rebuilding homes
and lives.
During the blaze, smoke hung in a
pall over the south-west with a radius
of 100 miles, rising more than 3000 feet
into the air. This was followed by a
great cloud of steam after the rains fell.
The mixture drifted up to Perth, becom-
ing dangerous to traffic on the night of
January 25.
Down on the coast, at Manduran, great
flights of birds, too exhausted by heat
and smoke to fly further, landed on open
fields, on beaches, even on roads.
A thousand miles to the north, the
port of Onslow is assessing damage by
flood. All jetty berthing facilities have
been swept away by the cyclone and
the road into the town washed out; only
communication by air is possible. On
an open coast, Onslow jetty, jutting half
a mile into the sea, has sustained much
damage by cyclone. Built in 1925, it was
the first long jetty in Australia to be
constructed in concrete, piles and decking.
Very soon after completion it was as
badly wrecked as now, and the end re-
built in wood. It is probable that it
will now cost more than the original
outlay of £lOO,OOO to repair the present
damage.
During the blow, huge waves swirled
over the sea - wall flooding most of the
houses, obliging residents to spend the
night crouched on tables or other high
spots. A dozen or so cars were completely
submerged. Housing losses have been
comparatively slight, but the power-
station is damaged, the water-supply
broken down, only about 10,000 gallons
of fresh water remain to supply the 340
inhabitants. Street trees are stripped of
leaves, telegraph-poles flattened, every-
thing covered with a thick coating of
red dust made sticky by flying spray,
driven by wind rising to 240 miies per
hour.
The State vessel Kabbarli rode out the
gale at Port Hedland and has been dis-
patched to establish communication and
off-load perishables if possible. As in the
early days, goods will be transhipped
into lighters or other craft and an attempf
made to bring them ashore. Meantime,
food is being sent by air.


vary from cattle-duffing (this caused his
enlistment to avoid arrest) to fighting
in Palestine and from a bare-knuckle
scrap with a half-caste stockman to a
battle of wits with a bank-manager over
a loan he needed to buy the station
from which he first started collecting
cleanskins to increase his own herd.
There is Biddy, the aboriginal girl
who shared his first primitive hut and
stayed on, after he married Anne, to
become a family retainer; and there
are his memories of Anne, who died
many years before this tale begins.
There are his sons, both dead; his
married daughter, who has definite—
and, to his mind, inflated —ideas about
her position in life, and her husband,
whom he loathes; his beloved grand-
daughter; and a chorus of matron,
sisters and nurses, to give the necessary
hospital atmosphere. With the local
bishop and a sympathetic doctor
thrown in—to say nothing of several
other minor characters—this adds up
to a sizeable cast; but the author
manipulates his drama adroitly and
produces a readable and credible
account of the life and death of a bold,
outspoken, single-minded and courage-
ous man.
R. S. Porteous has contributed many
short stories to “The Bulletin” and
other periodicals—in fact, it is as a
short-story writer that he has really
made his name. This third novel of his
(his second prize-wdnner) shows from
the manner of its writing where his
strength lies, because each chapter is,
in effect, though linked to the rest, a
separate story. Generally speaking, the
characters are larger than life; but the
book loses little from this, because the
author’s aim is to portray scenes which
he understands and knows thoroughly.
R.G.
Literary Prizes
“ADVERTISER” COMPETITIONS
As a contribution to the Festival of
Arts in 1962, Adelaide “Advertiser” is
offering £2OOO prize-money for compe-
titions covering a book, a short story
a nd a poem. The book may be fiction,
history, biography or travel.
The book prize-money is £1250 first,
£4OO second and £lOO third; short
story, £lOO, £4O and three awards of
£lO each; poem, £5O, £2O, £lO.
Entrants in all sections must be Aus-
tralian residents or native born “or the
works be on an Australian subject or
with an Australian background.”
Judges are to be announced. Closing
date, December 31, 1961. Details and
entry - forms from the “Advertiser,”
G.P.O. Box 392, Adelaide.
MILES FRANKLIN AWARD
The Permanent Trustee Co. of N. S.
Wales says that it is not getting enough
entries for the Miles Franklin Award:
which is £5OO, and nothing to do for it
except send in a copy of a published
play or novel to the Co. and to each
of the judges.
A £5OO prize is being offered for
the best publication during the year
ending December 31, 1961, which
meets the following conditions laid
down in Miles Franklin’s will: —
“... .such prize shall be awarded for
the novel for the year which is of the
highest literary merit and which must
present Australian life in any of its
phases and if there be no novel
worthy of the prize in the opinion
of the said judges then such award
may be given as such judges may
advise to the author of a play for
either stage radio or television or
such medium as may develop but not
for farce or musical comedy....”
The judges are: Dr Colin Roderick,
88 Abbotsford Road, Homebush,
N.S.W.; Miss Beatrice Davis, c/o Mrs
F. J. Bridges, 128 Cammeray Road,
Folly Point, N.S.W.; The Librarian,
Mitchell Library, Sydney, N.S.W.; lan
Mudie, 54 Moseley Street. Glenelg,
South Australia; G. Williams, 36
Oberon Street, Blakehurst. N.S.W.
All entrants must submit, or arrange
for their publishers to submit, direct to
each of the judges, one copy of the novel
or play which they propose to enter for
the award within two months of the
publication thereof, and one copy to
the Permanent Trustee Co. All entrants
are to notify the Permanent Trustee
Co. within 28 days of the publication
of the published titles of the entries
which they submit to the judges and of
any changes of their addresses. Further
details can be had from the Manager,
Permanent Trustee Co. Box 4270,
G.P.0., Sydney.
The last date for the receipt of pub-
lications for the 1960 award will be
February 28, 1961, the extension
having been allowed to enable novels
published by December 31 in any part
of the world to reach the judges for
assessment.
Previous awards, each of £5OO, have
been made to Patrick White’s “Voss”
(1957), Randolph Stow’s “To the
Islands” (1958) and Vance Palmer’s
“The Big Fellow” (1959).
Phoenix Infrequent
Denis Johnston’s Collected Plays. Two
volumes, Jonathan Cape. Each
265. 6d.
A collection of plays by Denis John-
ston? Younger theatregoers may
respond: “Who is Denis Johnston?”
Older ones may muse: “Ah. yes, what-
ever happened to Denis Johnston?”
He achieved a certain notoriety with
a technically revolutionary play at
Dublin’s Gate Theatre in the late
’twenties, followed it with a more con-
ventional essay on the troubles which
followed the Troubles, and then seemed
to fade from view, to emerge, phoenix-
like, a quarter of a century later as a
writer for the American magazine
“Theatre Arts,” engaged in a snooty
controversy with Sean O’Casey.
One had, with insufficient evidence,
formed the impression that Mr John-
ston had sold out whatever talents he
had to do hack work of little merit. A
collection of his plays, then, seemed
faintly absurd. What plays? When did
he write these plays and where were
they performed?
In his own prefaces to the plays as
published in this collection, the author
writes frankly of the very few perform-
ances some of his works have had in
the English-speaking theatre. One has
only to begin reading them to state at
once, without equivocation, that this
has certainly been the theatre's loss.
Here is that avis rara, a neglected
important playwright. From that early
experiment in the ’twenties his develop-
ment has been steady and impressive.
The first hotchpotch of a play, “The
Old Lady Sayc No!” has all the
exasperating excesses of the icono-
clastic student playwright: deliberate
incongruity and incoherence, a jumble
of techniques ranging from the hazily
poetic to the staccato expressionist with
some old Irish folksong thrown in.
He plays with every theatrical device
that will help him eschew “realism”
and “naturalism.” Copious stage direc-
tions (a sure sign of a young man’s
play) suggest use of scrims, grotesque
lighting effects, song and dance. The
theme is highly parochial with refer-
ences and overtones merely enigmatic


to anyone outside Dublin. It is an
exuberant piece of theatrical anarchy
many authors would have preferred to
leave at the bottom of the drawer, the
kind of play that most playwrights of
any salt try at least once and then
usually want to forget. One’s main
reaction may well be little more than
irritation, and, as it is the first play in
a two-volume collection, a suspicion
that Mr Johnston is going to prove only
a talented dilettante.
This, happily, is not so. The remain-
ing plays bear testimony to the develop-
ment of a large and generous talent.
Year by year, down those many years
in between, Johnston has matured and
polished his obvious gifts, throwing out
much of the pretentiousness of his first
experiment. But, miracle of miracles,
he has not become merely a reliable
professional writing “good, safe plays.”
Each of the plays has a strong and
challenging theme, each is vigorously
un-“safe,” in fact, box-office seems to
be his last consideration, and each
reveals an extraordinary freshness, the
more potent because his natural zest is
disciplined to work within a firm, com-
pact frame.
In short, he seems to combine the
freshness of vision he had as a young
writer with the sweep and authority of
a truly professional practitioner. (The
plays are beautifully built with, despite
the wild Irishness, few wasted words.)
Above all, Denis Johnston can create
people who almost leap off the page in
their vitality and richness. One had
forgotten that the theatre could be so
humane and so exciting.
A further asset must be noted —and
what a great one it is in an Irish
writer; he sees the Troubles of 1916
and their political consequences of the
’twenties without the usual befuddled
glow of sentiment and false patriotism
that finds only glory in the wastage of
men. “The Scythe and the Sunset”
seems to me to tell the truth, for once,
about the Dublin street battles of 1916
when the English bombarded the city.
His rebels, conservatives, detached
observers and strictly a-political com-
mon garden human beings who just
don’t want to be involved, are given to
us in the round, none of them glorified
into heroes, and yet none of them
debunked.
He seems able to see each person
with absolute clarity, stripped of pre-
tensions, and yet not to dislike them
as our Petulant Young Men do. It is
an example of an extremely local play
that has universal meaning. This, one
feels, is what war is, what rebellion is,
anywhere. After years of spurious
romanticism about the glory of those
times, Denis Johnston’s play is objec-
tive, adult and thoroughly refreshing.
Of the other plays I liked especially
“Strange Occurrence in Ireland’s Eye,”
a firm, honest examination of a legal
injustice, based on an actual case and
pertinent, I should think, wherever the
law is respected and presumed to be
impartial. “The Dreaming Dust” is an
experiment in non-chronological story-
telling, a device which has exercised
many modern playwrights for the
extra suspense and power to be gained
from withholding information until the
most telling moment even though that
moment in terms of the characters’ lives
comes before other events witnessed in
the play. It tells of the odd, seemingly
platonic love affairs Dean Swift had
with ladies of his acquaintance.
That Johnston is a master of what is
usually thought of as the “theatrical”
was demonstrated as long ago as 1931
in the death of Blake in “The Moon in
the Yellow River.” The amusing pre-
face to this play describes the discus-
sions of this scene with the strictly
regulation mentalities of certain Broad-
way entrepreneurs. Most of the pre-
faces are funny (and informative) and
lack the pontifical “the-idea-for-this-
play-came-to-me” posture of most
preface-writing playwrights.
The rewarding works of this phoenix
of the theatre are certainly performed
too infrequently. Some of them at this
A Dry Season
Here in the solid spacious glare
Of this day’s moment’s dancing air
The delicate high call falls down to me
Of the lonely crow inland and the gull
from the bitter sea
Wandering down the silent centuries of
night
— Dream-time of moon’s fears and the
fires of starlight —
Wandering into this swaggie’s dawn and
out again
To the hopes and terrors,
Veined and veiled with rain,
Of tomorrow’s never-never;
And memories and guesses crawl and
hover
Like the blind bee, the blossom's lover,
In the leafy caverns of the flowering gum,
Till once more this thought into the mind
will come
As sunlight smites the rock once more
As the sea-wave over and over ramps on
the shore
—The wave that washed by Tasman,
Cook, de Torres —
And crashes now in the mind
Like the crashing gears of lorries
On. the uphill grind:
This land, yesterday, tomorrow and
today,
Was what it was, is now, and will be
what it may.
n.s.w.
RICHARD BARTON.
Pacific Islanders
Down the gangways of the island trader:
men from Niue, slim, with long lank
haircuts ;
burly men from Tonga; Samoans;
Fijians;
the women broad-hipped and laughing ;
everyone
in brightest shirts and skirts trooping
ashore,
shivering first lessons of the April
breeze —
here is a climate far from the back block
isles.
What have they crossed weeks of water
for,
leaving the motherly palms, the frangi-
pani airs
of their blue-set homes ? Friends greet
them with
“Fakalofa f” “Talofa!” but what have
they chosen
in choosing to become cogs, springs,
screws
for the strict machines of the cities ?
Well.
they speak missionary English, know at
least
one word by heart: civilisation. It is on
the maps.
They go their ways to jobs, cling, comfort
together
in borer-riddled villas, open the home
mail
of addressed coconuts, kits of decaying
fruit,
godsends of green bananas from affec-
tionate outposts :
the some who come for money in chancy
streets,
the some in search of the feel of a larger
fate,
the some by reason of naturally drifting
feet,
and a few odd fellows who wish to hear
no longer
the continual thundertalk that, godwise,
the Pacific.
oracular with heavenly intercourse, makes
in
relentlessly and ceaselessly breaking on
and shaking round the palm-tufted wind-
sighed coral-stops.
N.Z.
GLORIA RAWLINSON.
The Straits
Sea is a young woman, here ; fresh and
clear
And slender waisted. Never quite sure
Which way the tide sets —which is pure
Love, or an eddy of muddied lust. Fear
Of shipwreck, of cul-de-sac channels,
Crosswinds, and sailors in navy blue
flannels ;
Departure of the Transvaal out of
Capetown,
Or a comedown to niggling fishermen
Littering her tide with bottles and bait;
Or joy at a regatta: crack sailing till
sundown,
Then launches and lights, and ten courting
men
From whom she may choose and make
one wait.
So, she changes course, chops about,
But ends up running straight, leaving none
in doubt.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT.


BOOKHUNTER
Dept. “D” Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—Action,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.0., Sydney.
late date when there are so many new
directions in the contemporary theatre
may lack a little of that extra voltage
needed to excite modern producers. But
theatres in this country, especially Little
Theatres with a reputation for doing
good work, should investigate these two
volumes. At least three and possibly
four of the six plays are worthy
material, having rich acting roles,
strong themes and, in the author’s
lively dialogue, much entertainment
value.
Alan Seymour
Nabokov Again
The Real Life of Sebastian Knight.
Vladimir Nabokov. Weidenfeld
and Nicolson. 18s. 9d.
Those who have followed the steady
revival of pre-“Lolita” Nabokov, with
its attendant publicity, will hardly fail
to prick up their ears on discovering
that the central figure of this one (first
published 1941) is a novelist of middle-
class Russian family who fled West
during the Bolshevik revolution and
eventually wrote a number of compli-
cated and highly subjective novels in
English, using parody of worn literary
styles “as a kind of springboard for
leaping into the highest region of
serious emotion.”
The quoted words come from the
narrator of the novel, Sebastian
Knight’s half-brother, a businessman
who believes Knight to have been a
truly great writer (he has died a few
months before the book begins), and
who is out to show that the world had
a very wrong idea of his relative, got
chiefly through a catchpenny bio-
graphy written by a former secretary.
Being non-literary, the narrator pro-
vides a further interest for Nabokov
fanciers; he does not write in the
elaborately parodistic style that has
come to seem a Nabokov hallmark;
except for occasional lapses into almost
schoolgirlish adulation of his hero, his
prose is discreet, well-mannered, unob-
trusive.
He has more than his share, how-
ever, of Nabokov’s technical skill.
Picking up random leads from the dead
man’s trail books, letters, the
memories of friends and enemies, even
the infamous biography—he gradually
develops the outlines, then the sub-
stance, of the real man whom nobody
could claim to have known. His aim
is to locate a human soul, to “find and
follow its undulations.”
The attempt is ingenious enough in
itself; the only trouble is that the
located soul is not a very interesting
one, and its undulations hardly seem
worth following. In the literature of
the past fifty years we have met a few
too many Sebastian Knights with their
precious sensibilities, their treasured
“differentness,” their scorn of the pub-
lic world, their dark love-affairs with
lionising ladies who do not understand
them, their romantically incurable
diseases.
Nabokov would no doubt dismiss
such remarks as irrelevant. He has
said that for him all that matters about
a novel is that it should give a particu-
lar kind of “aesthetic ecstasy,” and the
present novel is in a way a polemic
against the view (which helped the
world to misunderstand Sebastian
Knight) that novels should reflect the
struggle for existence and the move-
ments of society as well as the subjec-
tivities of their main figures. As sug-
gested, “The Real Life of Sebastian
Knight” provides a certain “ecstasy”
by its intricate and controlled struc-
ture. But that is all it provides.
John Abernethy
In South Africa
The Tame Ox. Jack Cope. Heine-
mann. 20s.
This is a collection of 13 short stories
about South Africa and its people.
Jack Cope emerges from it a versatile
writer with a formidable technique.
The stories are tightly organised and
highly polished. They make excellent
reading.
The title story tells how a college
principal, a Zulu, is honored by the
whites with an honorary degree. By
extremists among his own people he is
labelled “a good boy,” a “tame ox,”
because he is on the side of modera-
tion and tolerance, although he himself
knows he can only travel through his
world third class. At the official uni-
versity ceremony the Zulu disregards
the distinguished European group on
the platform to entertain the locals with
a wild primitive dance, “like a black-
maned lion among the herds,” because
he feels they expect it of him.
The other stories also deal with
simple situations, and illustrate Cope’s
skill in relating universal themes to par-
ticular circumstances. A settler in
Kenya, for example, unable to recon-
cile himself to his own failure, murders
his nagging wife; a lonely little white
boy sees his pet cobra shot to bits by a
panicky father who doesn’t know its
fangs have already been removed; a
colored girl throws her new-born baby
out the train window because she
hasn’t a ticket for it.
There’s plenty of meat here. Situa-
tion and mood vary, but given the
tension and conflict within South
Africa today the stories are remarkably
free of rancor or bitterness. Cope has
plenty of sympathy for the native, but
he doesn’t make a polemic out of it.
This makes for a certain amount of
impartiality, but at the same time it
falsifies imagination. Cope does not
probe too deeply; his view of the world
is essentially a comfortable one. He
is interested in presentation, in tech-
nique, pitching the story to a sophisti-
cated audience, tailoring the job so
that it is free of disagreeable elements.
This comes out pretty clearly in the
way the stories conclude; with few
exceptions they end happily. This is
not a weakness when the logic of the
narrative is followed, but to shape it
that way for the sake of tidiness
softens the impact and leads to distor-
tion. But read them just the same. He
is worth watching.
Douglas Terry
Reviewed Briefly
Nature. Edited by James Fisher and
Sir Julian Huxley. Macdonald Illus-
trated Library. 735. Dealing with
“earth,” “plants” and “animals,” this
large and lavish volume, excellently
illustrated in color aid black-and-
white, is designed for intelligent older
children, who should find it fascinat-
ing. It amounts to a picture of the
evolutionary history of the earth, and,
though it is inevitably a bit formidable
when it gets on to genes and chromo-
somes, on the whole it maintains a good
balance between instruction and in-
formative entertainment, so that it can
be read with ease. It is crammed with
enough out-of-the-way but highly rele-
vant facts about everything from
lichens to kangaroo-rats to make it
worth while for adult as well as child
readers.
* * * *
Away From Home. Rona Jaffe.
Cape. 20s. The author sets out to
explore an essentially modern problem
from which an excellent book could
have been made: the problem of the
many rootless people, sent by Govern-
ments or by big business organisations
to countries where they are foreigners,
and where they must face stresses and
strains that would have been unknown
to them in familiar surroundings. Miss
Jaffe has not risen to the challenge of
her promising theme. Her narrative is
almost entirely concerned with the
marital difficulties of her group of
expatriates in Rio, and her treatment
does not often rise above the super-
ficial bright gloss of a magazine story.


Women
MELBA MAN...MEN’S HATS...FLOWERS
"El Flammo”
Just as the Americans want their ships
to be as much like hotels as possible,
they tend to have in a ship’s dining-
saloon a “head waiter” as well as a chief
steward.
In the dining-room on the liner Mari-
posa, where there are waitresses instead
of stewards, and the sight of the sea is
carefully shut out —its smell filtered out
by air-conditioning, its very sound sub-
merged in a ceaseless ground-swell of
piped background music the head
waiter is a gregarious, outgoing, all-
American named Victor Bennett.
In Sydney on his last trip for a while,
Victor relaxed and reflected on his life
in the spotlight—in his case the glare
from a chafing-dish well charged with
flaming alcohol. (Victor is a specialist
at cooking beside the table, and has just
published a book called “Chafing Dish
Magic.”)
“Some people want to be remembered
for this or that, their Crepes Suzette or
their Cherries Jubilee, but I want to be
remembered for my peaches and my
bananas. Flambee, of course.”
Victor’s most famous single accom-
plishment is to relate the story of how
Peach Melba was invented, at the same
time making it with appropriate bravura:
“It happened at the turn of the century,
and there’s only one way 1 can tell the
story, because it's the true way. You
can check a hundred recipes in a cook-
book, but you’ll never find the real story
of how they happened. But this did
happen.
“Melba was appearing at Covenant
Gardens (sic), and staying at a hotel
called the London House. At this hotel
all the staff were enamored of Nellie
Melba the maitre d., the chef, the
works. So one night the chef decided he’d
make a gigantic cake for Melba. Honest
to God, that cake must have been Bft
high. They asked Melba to accept it, and
she said to send it right up to her room.
“But back in the kitchen a waiter
coming past with a huge bowl of peaches
tripped and annihilated that cake with
peaches. Boy, the chef went red, then
green, then chartreuse. But the maitre d.
had an inspiration. Send it up as it is,
he said, and we’ll call it Peach Melba.”
While he tells the story to an enthralled
group of ladies from Chicago or Min-
nesota, Victor gets his halved peaches
sizzling in a pan, then extravagantly
dashes in dark rum, Cointreau and sliced
almonds. (“The secret is to pour the
stuff as if it’s out of season, but actually
not too much goes in. I can feel every
drop—but it’s still a good way to eat
your alcohol without looking like a
lush.”) When the flames die down he
ladles the aromatic mixture over ice-
cream.
“I do my peaches maybe 20 times
during the trip across the Pacific. It
doesn’t cost the customers a thing. It
goes with pulling out the chair, pushing
it in and lighting your cigar. Anything
you want, you just got to ask for it. The
menu is long enough to start with. When
they put it in your hand you think you’ve
got the Dead Sea Scrolls.”
Victor started washing dishes and peel-
ing vegetables in his lather’s Italian
Restaurant in San Francisco. One day,
when he was 16, his father said: “Here’s
the front-door key. Your mother and I
are going to South America for a while.
It’s all yours.”
Victor managed well until a smart
customer asked for Cafe Diable.
“Well, I wasn’t going to be outsmarted,
so I grabbed a chafing-dish my father
had lying round the place and put in
some coffee and a cinnamon stick. Then,
like I’d seen in the movies, 1 grabbed a
bottle from behind the bar —this was
1933, and they had ready-mixed Martinis
and Manhattans for restaurant-keepers
who didn’t have any liquor licence —and
tipped a lot in and struck a match.
Boom! I nearly set Pop’s place on fire,
but the customer finished up with his
Cafe Diable.”
Victor has since specialised in chafing-
dish cooking, and is known among his
staff as “El Flammo.”
“You know, I visited Pompeii twice,
just to see if I could find a chafing-dish-
among the ruins. And I sure did. It’s
the oldest cooking-utensil known to man-
kind—just a metal bowl with a handle
for holding over a flame. Even the
Chinese had it; they still use it for all
their cooking.”
Victor once had a restaurant created
for him in San Francisco to resemble
a ship’s dining-room—Joe Paoli’s “Palace
de Palate.” Victor left the Matson Line
for a while to preside there, because Joe
Paoli had promised to make him “a ship
you can walk away from every night.”
Victor wore a full Navy captain’s uni-
form. “I’ve been saluted by all kinds
of brass, right up to admirals,” he recalls.
Now Victor is going into a new place
being built to his specifications in San
Francisco at a cost of £150,000. He
would also like to open a place in Sydney.
“Don’t get me wrong. I think it’s a
great country —the R.S.L. out at Canter-
bury made me an honorary life-member,
the first American to be honored like
that—but where can you go in Sydney
to eat?”
Victor is due to publish a cook-book
in collaboration with Alexander Mac-
donald, the Sydney columnist.
“The only thing bothers me is that
Alex insists on putting in a recipe for
cooking people that he found in an old
book. It starts off: ‘Take a young
Saracen, and cut off the right arm.’ Do
you think that would be a boy or girl?”
Victor’s passion for authenticity in
cooking will probably not let him rest
until he has tracked down the Saracen
recipe. He recently wrote to Khrushchev
for confirmation of his long researches
into the origins of Beef Stroganoff.
“Khrushchev sent me back a letter, and
a copy of a beautiful Armenian cook-
book. So I had to marry a Russian girl
to figure it all out, because I can cook
anything you want from anywhere, but
I don’t speak a damned word of any
language except my own, and that not
too good.”
☆ ft ft
Le chapeau,
c’est I’homme
At last men’s fashions seem to be on
the move. launty hats with narrow brims
are bobbing up all over town, and
although the legions of the hatless are
still superior their ranks are suffering
from defections every day.
The changes in hat styles are part
of the overall change in the silhouette
of men’s clothes. Wider-brimmed hats
went with the wide line of the padded
shoulders and spreading lapels of the
double-breasted suit, which, under the
influence of English and Italian tailors,
is giving way to a slender, narrow line
with tapered lapels and narrow trousers.
Small hats complete the new silhouette.
Restrained as it is by feminine stan-
dards, the trim on the new hats is quite
important. On straw hats from Italy,
bands are elaborate while remaining in
good taste. A “panache” at the side is
becoming standard ; a little cluster of
acorns and a miniature wheat-sheaf is
now acceptable to young men who would
formerly have rejected it contemptuously.
On beach hats, which sometimes
accustom their wearers to fancy trims
for everyday, the elaboration is almost
getting out of hand. Straw fringe and
shells and wickerwork are all common-
place ; in fact, there is often little dif-
ference between a man’s beach-hat and
a woman’s
In felt hats for day wear, where
exaggeration is considered out of place,
the “p anac h e” (synonymous with
swagger) in the form of a heraldic or a
feather emblem is still asked for by 80
per cent, of men buying medium- to
high-quality hats.
Silk binding on brims is out, the brims
being either unbound or with a felt-
welted edge. Average brims are as narrow
as 2in. ; sometimes they get down to
The telescopic crown (flat on top
with a circular crease) or the tapered
crown with a centre crease are the
smartest for town wear, the brims being
curled up at the back and sides according
to the wearer’s “personality.” Colors are


subtle and varied —usually in browns,
greens, greys and burgundies.
In casual hats the Tyrolean style is out-
standing. This style, by the way, is the
origin of the modern hat.
It first became known in the 1850 s
when the slouch felt of the Tyrolese
peasant was worn to signify a protest
against the silk-hatted dandy. In fact,
the wearers of “the democratic hat,” as
it was called, were persecuted in Ger-
many for many years. Up to that time the
topper —whether of beaver-fur or silk—
had been the only wear. If a man did
not wear a topper (and even well-to-do
chimney-sweeps did) he wore a cap. The
Hungarian patriot Kossuth wore the felt
hat (turned up all round, and with two
ribbon-tails at the back) in the early
1850 s and typed it as the hat of all
those, both in America and England, of
the revolutionary spirit (no matter how
diluted).
Psychologists have all sorts of theories
about the symbolism of men’s hats. Some
say that the more uncomfortable the hat
the more “upper class” it becomes. The
masses will make for comfort, but
noblesse oblige. This, they say, is why
city types wore the hard, uncomfortable
bowler, and toppers are still the correct
wear for such people as ambassadors,
Melbourne Cup race-goers and fashion-
able bridegrooms.
Another angle of the psychologists is
that what a man puts on his head indi-
cates not so much what he is as what
he wants to be. This is obviously not
true of those who wear crowns, witch-
doctor’s headdresses or the judge’s black
cap. But where toppers, homburgs,
snap-brims, caps and Italian straws are
concerned, there might be some truth
in it.
What, then, of the enormous numbers
of Australians who go hatless? Do they
want to be nothing? This is a vogue
which started among the leisured classes
on the Riviera in the early ’thirties and
has been developing without a break in
Australia until the past few years. It
may mean that Australians wish to be
leisured. Psychologists see a deeper
motivation.
When a man wears nothing on his
head, they say, he is aiming at anonymity,
striving to get away from class-distinc-
tions. When he puts on a cap or hat
he identifies himself with some particular
stratum of society, and the trend has
been away from this over the past 30
years.
All through the ages, however, back
to primitive times, hatlessness has been
a sign of helplessness. This is why a
man lifts his hat to women, the aged,
the important and so on. He is saying
m effect: “I am without defences in
your presence.”
However, if bareheaded Australians are
really trying, subconsciously or other-
wise, to be classless and helpless, they
are certainly making much less effort
lately: the ranks of the hatted (and
therefore armed, aggressive and class-
conscious) are steadily increasing.
Of course one may accept the more
Pleasing (and more likely) theory that
men’s hats are much nicer now, and that
men are wearing them simply to improve
their appearance.
We Still Buy Flowers
Although the flower trade can take in
its stride such natural changes in fashion
as the disappearance of the buttonhole
tor men or the decline of the shoulder-
posy, it is often dismayed by some of
the fads which (if only temporarily) set
back the popularity of flowers from time
to time.
One of these was the driftwood craze.
It is rather a pity that some of our most
artistic women used driftwood for decora-
tion when it first came in, for it caused
the less-gifted to imitate them. Only the
artistic should attempt driftwood. It
needs a very well-developed aesthetic
sense to distinguish between a beautiful
piece and just any old bit of lumber.
After driftwood came dried grasses
elaborately arranged. Honesty and gilded
guava-pods, bits of wheat, an autumnal
hydrangea, two peacock-feathers (if you
weren’t superstitious) and a cluster of
shivery grass made an arrangement which
could remain on the mantlepiece for
months without attention. Being dead
to begin with, it could not get much
worse—though it could, and did, get
dustier.
Next came cacti. As dainty indoor
gardens or monstrous outdoor plants,
they created a fashion which died, say
the flower-people, when the cacti them-
selves did. Few people knew how to look
after them, and ironically the laziest
gardeners, who neglected to water them,
kept them longest.
Indoor plants, which followed cacti,
are still with us. They had quite a serious
effect on the cut-flower trade; many
public buildings, banks, insurance-offices,
theatres, hotels, which formerly had had
elaborate displays of fresh flowers two
or three times a week, now employ a
gardener who concentrates on philoden-
dron, aspidistra, coleus and Saintpaulia.
When plastic flowers first came onto
the market, about three years ago, every-
one was astonished by the cleverness of
their workmanship, though actually they
were as much like real flowers as wax
figures in shop-windows are like real
people.
It was bad luck for fresh-flower
growers that plastic flowers arrived just
when they were suffering from a bad
season. Too much rain had followed a
drought, and the price of fresh flowers
was sky-high. The public shied off and
made for the plastic copies, which, though
expensive enough in all truth, still lasted
indefinitely.
But it wasn’t long before plastic flowers
began to go the way of nearly all
novelties. Great masses of newer and
cruder copies arrived in the shops and
were displayed in cloying profusion. They
became cheaper, and people bought them
for every nook and corner of the house.
Copies were made in quantity of the
most delicate and difficult flowers to
imitate (such as lily-of-the-valley), and
it was forgotten that only discretion and
artistry could make these flowers accept-
able. The result is that, though appa-
rently at their peak now, plastic flowers
have nowhere to go but down.
Still, they have done one disservice to
the fresh-flower trade: people still think
of nature’s flowers as “too dear.” This
the trade denies. A wreath for a funeral
costs little more now than it did ten
years ago. Four-shillings still buys a
bunch of flowers for the hall.
In spite of the competition from all
over, fresh flowers are still popular with
Australians, though they buy only about
one-third of the amount they bought in
immediate post-war days.
They are, however, more selective now,
and will choose carefully a variety of
flowers to make up an arrangement,
rather than just take a bunch of mari-
golds or shasta daisies (flowers now out
of fashion, by the way). This is the result
of the wider knowledge that has grown
up of the fundamentals of flower-
arrangement. Even at schools lessons are
given in this irt, magazines follow it up,
and anyone with particular interests joins
one of the several flower-clubs that
flourish in all the capital cities as well
as many towns.
"I Won! I won! I Won! Four of a kind!”


ABORIGINALITIES
Catchpole’s Folly
“A lavatory,” said the Major, “a
convenience, and a damn fine one!”
We were looking at a little platform
that projected over the north end of the
wharf. It was old and weathered, but
still firm and strong, though not more
than 3ft square.
Past it ran the river—the great, wide,
brown river, strewn with sandbanks and
snags and flood-lodged tree-trunks. And
two miles away was the distant tracery
of the railway bridge at the heads ; the
bridge which had finished the job started
by floods and silt, and turned what had
once been the finest timber port on that
part of the coast into an isolated back-
water. Now all the trade passed through
the big deep-water port 30 miles away.
The old wharf was deserted except for
the Major and me. We stood and looked
at the little platform.
“Catchpole, the harbormaster, had it
built,” said the Major. “A thing of
beauty, it was ; all green paint, and a
little domed roof. Not a draught any-
where and a fine polished-blackwoocl
seat. There was a little shelf hinged on
the back of the door, too, to rest a
book on if you wanted to lead. Catch-
pole used to spend an hour there after
every meal, to get out of the washing-up.
Used to disappear there when the chatter
at home got too much for him, too. Had
nine daughters, you know.
“Used to be damned unnerving for
anyone on the wharf ; never knew when
he was in there and when he wasn't. If
he was in there, and something was going
on that he didn’t like, he'd just poke his
head out like a jack-in-the-box, and shout
like mad. ‘Catchpole’s Folly,’ they used
to call it.
“Must be twenty-five years ago when
it all happened. The Juanita used to come
up the river every couple of months to
back-load timber for the mainland. Big
auxiliary schooner, she was. Ugly as
sin, built like a tug-boat, with stumpy
masts and a bloody great bowsprit. Old
Herb Jensen was her Master, and he
never hit it off with Catchpole.
“Catchpole was a strict water-wagon
Methodist, and Jensen used to spend all
his time in port up at the pub. Then
when she was loaded up, the Mate would
give a blast on the foghorn, and Jensen
Would come lumbering down the road.
His voice was about three shades louder
than the foghorn, and when he was about
a hundred yards away he’d roar at them
to cast off. Then, just as he hit the end
of the long plank they used to lay between
the wharf and the stern he’d yell for full
ahead. Didn’t like laying alongside a
wharf once he’d left the pub.
“ A nyway, one day the Mate, who’d
got a bit sick of having to do all
the work in port, took him at his word,
and the screw was already churning when
he made the plank. Got about halfway
along it, and the whole bloody issue,
plank, Jensen and all, ended up in the
river. I'll never forget the look on
Jensen's face as he went under!
“The Mate was doubled up in the
wheelhouse, laughing his head off and
trying to get a look at the old boy as
he came up, and not worrying about the
wheel at all ; so there she was, ploughing
alongside the wharf at full ahead. Then
there was a great juddering crash that
shook her to the keel and nearly tore the
wharf piles out by the roots. The Mate
woke up then, of course, and swung on
the wheel like mad. But it was too late.
“By that time the old tub had travelled
the whole length of the wharf and, just
as the Mate began to work her away, it
happened.
“She spiked that little green lavatory
fair and square on her bowsprit, lifted it
clear of the wharf, and sailed off down
the river with it stuck there.
“By this time a launch had come up
and hauled old Jensen out cf the river,
spluttering and cursing, and chased off
after the Juanita.
“At the beginning Jensen was as mad
as a meat-axe, and swore he'd kill the
Mate, but by the time they’d caught her
and he’d taken a look back at the wharf
and seen Catchpole jumping up and down
and tearing his hair, he was laughing
enough to choke himself.
“The last they saw of the Juanita as
she cleared the heads, Jensen was out on
the bowsprit, wet clothes and all, running
a line through the bobstay and lashing the
lavatory down nice and firm.
“Damn near broke Catchpole's heart,”
said the Major. “It was the joke of the
coast. Jensen carried the thing on his
bowsprit for over two months, till he
lost it in a blow off Round Cape.”
The Major paused.
“The Juanita never came in here
again,” he said. “Broke up a couple of
years later out west.”
We turned away and walked back
along the wharf.
“Damn fine lavatory,” said the Major,
“Damn fine.”
J. S. McQUEEN.
The Bulletin, February 8, 1961
Selling Native Birds
/''Vne evening last month a young
woman strolled into a pet - shop in
the Melbourne suburb of Glenhuntly
and bought a kookaburra for £4 ss. and
a magpie for £2 10s. Next day she took
them to Healesville sanctuary, opened the
cage and waved them to freedom.
She was a member of the Royal Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
The society secretary, Miss V. E. Carter,
explained: “We bought the birds as a
protest against them being held in
captivity.”
Not long after, Mr Justice Sholl of
the Supreme Court of Victoria delivered
a judgment about another kookaburra
(this one had cost £6 10s.) and magpie
(£1 155.). He upheld the decision of a
Stipendiary Magistrate who had dis-
missed charges against a bird-deaier who
had sold the birds to Fisheries and Wild-
life Department officers last March.
The S.M. held that as the kookaburra


and magpie were lawfully acquired in
South Australia, section 41 of the Game
Act, which does not prohibit inter-State
sale of birds, provided a valid defence.
The judge said that although many
people no doubt would regard the bird-
dealer’s trade as an unpleasant one, what
he did appeared, in the present rather
confused state of the legislation, to have
been lawful. “The Game Act is very
much in need of careful revision,” the
judge added.
The State Government immediately
promised to revise the Game Act where
necessary, and at the same time
announced that negotiations on a Minis-
terial level were taking place between the
Governments of Victoria and South Aus-
tralia. Assistant Chief Secretary Lindsay
Thompson said the S.A. Government was
preparing legislation “to tighten the per-
mit system under which certain types of
native birds could be trapped.” This,
he said, would make it difficult for people
to traffic in these birds. In Victoria,
permits for the trapping of native birds
were issued only for scientific purposes
and for the collection of birds for
zoological gardens.
So far, so good. But there could be
another hurdle—section 92 of the Com-
monwealth Constitution. Its key words
are: “Trade, commerce and intercourse
among the States, whether by means of
internal carriage or ocean navigation,
shall be absolutely free.”
Some think that could still allow native
birds to be imported from one State to
another and then legally sold.
They Walked Here
A lthough it is now about 30 years
since the so-called mystery of how-
the aborigines reached Australia was
solved beyond any shadow of a doubt,
and although the explanation has long
been accepted in other parts of the world,
there are still some otherwise well-
informed Australians who speak of
natives coming here in canoes or on rafts
across hundreds of miles of open sea.
Actually the original inhabitants of
Australia came by the simple expedient
of walking on their own feet, except for
the crossing of a few sheltered straits on
rafts or in small canoes,
The present-day map seems to make
this claim absurd, but for a very long
period, which ended only some 10,000
years ago, the geography of the world
was vastly different from what it is today.
The cause was the final phase of the
last Ice Age.
During this period great sheets of ice
built up over the northern portions of
America, Europe and Asia, eventually
covering millions of square miles and
attaining a depth of up to 10,000 ft. There
was a similar but smaller build-up of ice
around and on Antarctica, extending as
far north as Tasmania. This ice could
only come from the sea ; so as it built up,
the ocean levels sank. Eventually the seas
fell to 260 ft below their present levels.
All over the world, oceanographic sur-
veys now reveal the locations and the
contours of those former shorelines. The
British Isles were joined to Europe ; only
a narrow channel separated Spain from
North Africa ; Australia and the Philip-
pines were joined to South-east Asia by
almost continuous bridges of low-lying
land ; New Guinea, Tasmania and Kan-
garoo Island were all joined to Australia
in the same way.
nPHis period of intense cold also set
human beings on the move. In Asia
they moved south to warmer climates,
reaching the jungles of what are now
Burma, Thailand and Malaya, forcing the
little curly-haired Negrito forest peoples
to flee ahead of them, or to find a
sanctuary in mountains or on outlying
peninsulas.
Thus we find colonies of Negritos
today all along the migration routes, from
Malaya to the Andaman Islands in the
Bay of Bengal, Timor, the Philippines,
New Guinea, the Solomon Islands as far
down as the New Hebrides, and on the
Australian mainland. They were in Tas-
mania when European settlement began.
The bigger and stronger peoples who
followed them became our present-day
aborigines, whose racial stock is also
found today in northern Japan (the Ainu)
and in Ceylon, where they are known as
the Vedda. They are also to be found in
parts of New Guinea (the Kia-Kia), and
there is one remnant in central Borneo.
When the world’s climate grew warm
again the great ice-sheets melted and the
ocean levels rose to what they are today,
submerging all those low - lying land-
bridges and turning New Guinea, Aus-
tralia and Tasmania into separate islands.
H. A. LINDSAY.
That Was the Country
The immigrant can settle down to it —
sometimes. Two youthful and inexperi-
enced Londoners, stranded in Sydney
through a blind faith in immigration
agents, last June wandered towards Israel
with their payable property, and then
trained it to Wagga. From Wagga they
tramped it to Yanco, without blankets, in
three days. They had one pay to collect,
when the big July rain caused a shorten-
ing of hands and after silencing the hash-
house, their joint capital ran to a blanket
apiece and two spins in the two-up ring.
Then they “joined the troupe”, and
“broke down the River” to get a shed.
They had no idea of what “the troupe”,
“breaking down the River”, or “getting
a shed” signified, but they preferred them,
with their accumulated possibilities, to
hanging round the works, sponging on
boarding house keepers. They tramped,
without getting work, through Kooba,
Tubbo, Kerarbury, Benerembah, Bringa-
gee and Wyvern, and back to Narandera,
Lockhart and Corowa. When they even-
tually did snap up a job on a Murray
station, they heard complaints regarding
wages, tucker, accommodation, the jack-
eroo, and sundry minor details, and they
suggested a deputation as the most likely
means of obtaining redress. Two others,
besides themselves, out of a total of 13,
lined up, and they were all promptly
sacked.— “ Bulletin”, January 30, 1913.
I nominate the chap who sews behind
a chaff-cutter as the solidest grafter within
the four seas. Between Ganmain and
Coolamon a bag-sewer does from 600 to
900 a day, putting in about 27 stitches
per bag. Sewing, say, 87 bags an hour for
10* hours is pretty hefty toil; but that is
the easier half of the job. The sewer has
to stack those 87 bags per hour, and 5
P-m. finds him tossing them 12ft high,
a nd doing it at the rate of two a minute.
Incredible, but true. He gets insulted with
eight bob a day and tucker for this per-
formance. — “Bulletin”, February 13, 1913.
Giving evidence before the Royal Com-
mission on Sydney’s food supply, the
Government dairy expert made it clear
that practically all the South Coast and
Camden districts were infected with tu-
bercular bacteria. It is cheerful informa-
tion, as most of Sydney’s “p ure country
milk” comes from these localities. But,
apparently, the expert is not anxious to
stamp out this horror. He admits that the
tuberculin test is absolute, but would
only apply it to suspicious cattle—what-
ever that may mean—because if it were
applied generally, and “30 per cent, of
the cows reacted, the economic loss would
be about £1,000,000, if the animals were
destroyed.” So it is more humane, in the
expert’s opinion, to kill off infants and
infect healthy men and women than to
interfere with the beastliness of private
enterprise. — “Bulletin”, February 20, 1913.
This week ends the close season for
wild ducks in Victoria, and in a day or
two the gradual extermination of the
State’s most toothsome feathered race will
be advanced another stage. In general the
birds are becoming fewer every year. Pro-
bably the fact there is no close season for
the sale of dead N.S.W. ducks in Vic-
toria accounts for public indifference and
ignorance on the subject. Wildfowl seem
doomed to disappear from the face of the
less uninhabited States of the Common-
wealth, though they will presumably get
reasonable measures of Government pro-
tection in Queensland and the Northern
Territory ere “sport” can do its worst,
Even this hope will be blighted if fashion
should decree a craze for wild duck and
goose plumage in women’s hats.
“Bulletin”, February 20, 1913.


THE
MAN
ON THE
LAND
"You'll Get No Promotion..."
HThere is a curious similarity
between the misadventures
of the original “Forgotten
Army” in Burma during War II
and the present plight of Aus-
tralian woolgrowers. Beaten
back time and again, not for
want of skill, courage or deter-
mined leadership among the
fighting units, but by weight of
circumstances beyond their
own control, these men felt the
same frustration (magnified,
as always, by the distorting
glass of war) the ordinary
grazier knows today.
Things got so bad that a
complete reorganisation was
the only way to save disaster.
When that reorganisation
brought about analysis, it was
found that the circumstances
beyond our men’s control were
due to two simple factors:
misappreciation and lack of
initiative on the part of the
higher direction. Misapprecia-
tion magnified the threat and
potentiality of the opposing
forces and so allowed the
enemy an initial advantage
which he did not deserve ; lack
of initiative hampered any
attempt to redress the balance
in our favor.
Reorganisation brought to the
top Admiral Mountbatten and
General Slim—who set about
putting right these basic fail-
ings. Once these were faced
and cured things began to tick.
To the Fourteenth Army—no
longer “forgotten”—Slim gave
a motto which was by no means
original but perfectly plain for
everyone to understand: “The
difficult we can do immedi-
ately, the impossible may take
us a little longer.” Then he
put his thinking-cap on, decided
how to work, told his men what
to do, encouraged them to do
it in the spirit he had taught
them and awaited the inevitable
result. It was all over bar the
shouting from the moment he
started, and ultimately he was
able to sit down and write the
best and most modest of all
war-books, explaining how his
men had done it all.
So far, the similarity between
Slim’s Burma campaign and the
International Wool Secretariat’s
wool-promotion campaign can-
not be carried beyond the
second stage. There has been
a complete reorganisation and
the ball is now at our feet,
because Australia, the world's
largest wool-producer, has been
given the responsibility of
directing world promotion
policy.
Reorganisation must have
brought reassessment, without
which we can never unravel
this tangled skein. It would be
surprising if that reassessment
has not disclosed the presence
of those two old familiar com-
panions of failure—misappre-
ciation and lack of initiative.
But it’s no good crying over
split milk at this stage. What
is needed is a fresh approach
to the whole question of pro-
motion.
First, it must be accepted that
synthetics are here to stay and
that, in certain circumstances
they have not over-stated their
claims. For some goods they
are a substitute for wool; and
because they are cheaper, all
the talking in the world will not
persuade the public—final judge
in the matter —that they are not
more acceptable. In certain
other circumstances, there
really is no substitute for wool,
and it’s here, following the
principle of exploiting success,
that effort is needed.
Assuming, as we must, that
synthetics have come to stay,
it is logical to argue that wool
is unlikely ever again to reach
peak-prices, because synthetics
will determine the ceiling-price
of wool. On this hard fact we
shall have to base our calcula-
tions.
That seems to be a true
appreciation of the present
world-situation for wool, and
promotion will have to follow
this line if it is to be of any
real use. That means that the
campaign will be won by care-
ful planning and hard thought
not by increasing expenditure
on unprofitable approaches
which may lead to further
failure.
There’s plenty of scope for
initiative. The Asian market
alone, if it could be developed,
would consume Australia’s
whole wool-clip. Then there’s
the old, wise adage: “If you
can’t beat them, join them.”
Used in combination with syn-
thetics, wool can impart some
of its characteristics to fabrics
which are by no means as
costly as pure wool.
The need for wool-promotion
seems to be to find a man like
Slim to sit down and think
about the matter, issue clear
instructions about how to solve
it, encourage others to carry
out these instructions and then
await the inevitable result.
Such action would be bound to
succeed, so it seems that the
first step Australia could take
towards improving wool-pro-
motion throughout the world
would be to find a man of that
calibre. Of course, there's
always the chance that Field-
Marshal Lord Slim, who has a
lot of time for Australia, might
accept an invitation to do the
job himself.
Keyline Assessment
The Geographical Basis of
Keyl i n e . J. Macdonald
Holmes. Angus and Robert-
son. 6s. 6d.
'T'his is the first scientific
appraisal yet published of
P. A. Yeo m a n s’s Keyline
method of land-use, although
its principles and practice have
been on public display since
1952. The author, who is Pro-
fessor of Geography at the
University of Sydney, has writ-
ten this booklet (52 pages, with
11 photographs and seven
diagrams) as a geographer and
in support of Yeomans’s geo-
graphical analysis of his prob-
lems. He is careful to explain
that he has refrained from
detailed discussion of the bio-
logical, nutritional and health
aspects of Keyline and that the
book is not a full exposition
of the plan, but limited to that
side of it on which he is
qualified to speak.
Taking as his start-point the
concrete example of Yeomans’s
two properties, Yobarnie and
Nevallan, at North Richmond
(N.S.W.), Professor Macdonald
Holmes defines Keyl i n e
broadly: “The basic idea is
to make nature assist the farmer
instead of his engaging in con-
flict with nature, to his econo-
mic loss.” He explains how
the geographical setting of
primary valleys, primary ridges
and, occasionally, secondary
valleys, with their Keylines and
Keypoints fit into the pattern;
describes the significance of
land-shape—smaller shapes are
integrated to form a larger
whole, and this pattern persists
and repeats itself indefinitely;
and outlines the development
of water resources and the
siting of dams.
In his chapter “Other Factors
of Geographical Importance,
he analyses the relationship
between precipitation and
water-flow, and between soil-
erosion and water-flow, c° n '
eluding:
Surely there was a better way to
clear land than ruthlessness, 8 1
and total destruction. Wind-bie
and tree-barriers would have d
of economic advantage and
would have protected wild n >
nature’s helpers against insect-p •
Was it necessary, in convert &
Australia’s forest environment


5A
ROOf
100% Australian-
made from Aus-
tralian Material
LYSAGHTS ESTABLISHED 1884
WIRE NETTING • FENCING WIRE • BARBED WIRE
WIRE NAILS
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK for Our MARKER
in every Roll of Netting
m —i
*
mm
11 1 H HlMilii Hi Mil
Ht
s§lfl
n
«
c»
iHi
. .?■
; : 3i
iM
Wm
' flsß
ZINC OXIDE
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
IYSAGHT BROS. & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Reg’d Office and Works, Blackwall Pt. Road,
Five Dock
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
grassiand environment, to com-
nletely expose the soil-surface to a
Lewed and vigorous attack by
nature’s elements and all the forces
f renewed denudation? Was it
necessary to convert a reasonably
permanent landscape to something
yery much less so? Australian
rivers are now rising higher with
flood-rains, but they are retaining
their water-flow and volume for
shorter periods than in times past.
I think this could be attributed to
wrong methods of land-clearing and
farm-management, and also to the
quick run-off that comes from roads
and streets —a factor not present in
early settlement times.
Keyline has an additional contri-
bution to make. Chains of high-
level Keyline dams, creek dams and
other types of dams, together with
Keyline irrigation, tree-clearing and
hillside tree-planting are lessening
the flood-water entering our larger
rivers. I am of the opinion that the
strategically planned farm-dams of
Keyline in increasing abundance on
our sloping country must eventually
make a major contribution to flood
mitigation.
An interesting theory, this—
particularly in view of the way
men’s minds are now turning
towards the increasing control
which the availability of fresh
water will exercise over the
future pattern of industrial
development, distribution of
population and standards of
jiving throughout the world.
A chapter on Keyline geo-
metry briefly explains Yeo-
mans’s system of cultivating
land along the various patterns
made by contours and the
control of water-flow. There
is a d e t a i 1 e d description of
farm-dams and the Keyline
pattern of flow-irrigation. The
concluding chapter gives the
author’s assessment of Keyline :
It is surprisingly difficult to break
through the solid wall of prejudice
that surrounds conventional agri-
cultural practices and those whose
business it is to maintain them,
yet, despite severe apathy, Yeomans
has anxiously and pragmatically
offered to permit any scientific and
economic investigation of his prin-
ciples and practice of Keyline. He
claims, and I believe rightly, that
he can show rational proof of all
aspects of Keyline planning and
complete landscape-development,
but that full scientific proof is
outside his field. This proof can,
and should, be undertaken by the
appropriate scientific authorities,
it for no other reason than that
Australian rural development at
the moment is in a very parlous
condition.
As he explains in the course
of his booklet, Professor Mac-
donald Holmes first became
associated with P. A. Yeo-
mans’s work at Yobarnie
through his own research on
behalf of the University in
land-use and soil-erosion:
blearing of my interest in soil-
conservation methods, Yeomans
invited me to Yobarnie early in
1945. It was not easy in that
year to get things moving quickly
nor was it easy to get the specialised
machinery to do the type of work
required, nor were men available
who could readily appreciate the
new ideas of contour-fencing. Much
of the first work was done by our-
selves at weekends and odd times
. . . Much of our work went on con-
temporaneously. The gullies were
smoothed and the holes filled in
with materials from nearby pockets
of earth. Contour-terraces were
cut out of the raw sub-soil and
shales on the hillsides, and were
graded to allow water to flow into
the dams, which were even in that
year all equipped with four-inch
pipelines beneath the walls, a fore-
runner of the present lockpipe
system.
During that year and the next,
about 12 or 13 irrigation dams were
constructed. Visitors who came to
see the soil- and water-conservation
and irrigation in those early years
were apparently very impressed with
the work and immensely intrigued
by the flow of water from the four-
inch pipes beneath the walls of the
dams.
Having seen the idea develop
and having contributed his own
thought and labor towards
attainment of the grand design,
Professor Macdonald Holmes
admits that he is not impartial
in the matter. Indeed, in such
circumstances, it would be un-
reasonable to expect a cold,
impersonal assessment of the
scheme which he has watched
throughout its evolution. The
booklet does him the more
credit, though, because it ex-
plains in simple, readable form
why he originally reversed his
opinion from soil-conservation
to Keyline construction and
bases the reasons for this
change of thought on the prin-
ciples of his own particular
science. This is where the
value of his writing lies. If a
scientist of Professor Mac-
donald Holmes’s standing can
be obliged to alter his ideas,
there is evidently much for lay-
men, and even for experts in
other fields, to consider.
It is not too far from practicality
to suggest that our State Conserva-
tion Departments should reconsider
their functions and replace con-
servation policies and techniques
by the more necessary ones of
development. This could well mean
a new combination of the Public
Departments of Agriculture,
Forestry, Water Conservation and
Soil Conservation. The matter is
of sufficient importance for Aus-
tralian State Governments to initiate
new policies of rural planning and
land-development.
To all who have the econo-
mic welfare of Australia at
heart —farmers, scientists, or
men and women who value the
future of this land enough to
give serious thought to what we
shall hand on to our descen-
dants—this booklet is essential
reading. It is important as a
supplement to P. A. Yeomans’s
own publication “The Chal-
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
Rainfall should be patchy in most of Queensland during
February, with heavy rains and flooding on the central and
north coasts and a cyclonic disturbance between Cairns and
Townsville, Moderate to reasonably good rains are likely
in March, heavy on part of the north coast and with good
falls extending into the far-western areas.
Moderate rain is indicated along part of the N.S.W.
coast and on the Northern Tablelands during February, when
temperatures are likely to be high, although the rest of the
State may have only poor rainfall. General rains are likely
during March, with heavy falls and flooding on the Central
Coast and the Central Tablelands, and in central-western
and north-western districts. Reasonably good general
rains should continue in April and May.
Victoria should have only poor rainfall during February,
when temperatures are likely to be predominantly high.
Moderate to good rains are indicated for the central
division, Gippsland, north-eastern districts and the west
coast during March, with general rains following in April.
Moderate rain is likely in the central districts of South
Australia during February, though falls may be poor else-
where. Good rains are likely in the interior and lower north
during March, though light elsewhere. Good rains should
follow in the agricultural areas during April.
Western Australia may have only patchy rains during
February, apart from good falls on the north-western,
s.-w.-central and south coasts, along part of the Gascoyne
and on the southern Coolgardie goldfields. General rains well
above average are likely during March, with heaviest falls
on the north-west coast and along the Gascoyne.
Tasmania should have light to moderate patchy rains
during February, with heavy falls on the west coast. Similar
conditions should follow in March, with good rains starting
in April.
LENNOX WALKER.


SYDNEY GREASY WOOL FUTURES
EXCHANGE LIMITED
16 O'CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
FLOOR MEMBERS
R. G. BAILEY & CO. (AUST.) PTY. LIMITED,
35 Pitt St., Sydney
K. V. CHAPMAN & COMPANY PTY. LTD.
55/65 Murray St., Pyrmont, Sydney
A. DEWAVRIN FUTURES PTY. LTD.
174-176 George St., Sydney
DREYFUS & CO. (AUST.) PTY. LIMITED
30/32 Pitt St., Sydney
CLIVE HALL PTY. LIMITED 13 Phillip St., Sydney
MESSRS. HAUGHTON, BUXTON (FUTURES)
PTY. LTD 24 Jamison St., Sydney
HERBAUX & MASUREL (AUST.) PTY.
LIMITED 11 Phillip St., Sydney
KREGLINGER (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
10 Loftus St., Sydney
LEMPRIERE (AUSTRALIA) WOOL FUTURES
PTY. LTD 24 Jamison St., Sydney
W. P. MARTIN, WHITTINGHAM (WOOL
FUTURES) PTY. LTD 52 Pitt St., Sydney
J. W. McGREGOR & CO 5 Bond St., Sydney
G. H. MICHELL & SONS LIMITED,
30 Grosvenor St., Sydney
NICHOLS (FUTURES) PTY. LTD.
17 Castlereagh St., Sydney
SIMONIUS, VISCHER & CO 44 Bridge St., Sydney
WILCOX MOFFLIN LIMITED .... 15 Phillip St., Sydney
For information regarding futures
trading write to any of the above firms
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANC
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720)
Assets exceed £173,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
Kindersley House, Bligh/O'Connell Streets, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton, Manager for Australia.
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
There is one really
practical way to ensure
that a wife brings variety
and interest to her cook-
ing—see that she always
reads the Kitchencraft
pages in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price NINEPENCE ONLY
each week.
start the day right I
i .HfcVlMO
s e ß *V"
lenge of Landscape,” but even
more significant in its own
right, as a statement of facts
and scientific deductions on the
value of a system which might
well guide the pattern of future
development throughout the
Commonwealth. Keyline has
proved its worth and is here
to stay, because it provides a
logical solution to drought and
erosion which still bedevil agri-
cultural expansion. This exam-
ination of a revolutionary but
fundamental approach to land-
planning gives scientific reasons
for practical success. Its
greatest value could be as the
answer to many technical con-
troversies which have clouded
the issue for so long, because
it explains the relationship of
land-shape, climate and soil-
climate not always under-
stood by scientists, even —and
the reason why the principles
and practice of Keyline can be
adapted anywhere, not just
to specially chosen localities.
Timely and very much to the
point, Professor Macdonald
Holmes’s publication packs a
mighty punch in its small
compass.
ROLLO GILLESPIE
Britain Self-centred?
peaking to the British
Farmers’ Economic Society
at Oxford (Eng.). C. R. Kelly,
M.H.R. for Wakefield (S.A.)
strongly criticised Bri t a i n’s
policy of fostering its own agri-
culture by means of subsidies
at the expense of Australia and
New Zealand primary industry.
He said that last year £275m.
went to bolster home-grown
food in Britain, and that this
was a major factor in Austra-
lia's trade deficit.
Mr Kelly, who flew to Eng-
land at the request of the
Society, is spending some time
in England and plans to
examine, among other things,
the process for desalinating
water, possibilities of hover-
craft for Australian conditions
and use of agricultural tele-
vision. On his way back he
will call in on the F.A.O. in
Rome and then may go on to
India.
N.S.W. Junior
Farmers' Award
rpre 1960 Ampol award for
the best Junior Farmers’
club in N.S.W. went to the club
at Yarrowitch, in northern
N.S.W., between Walcha and
Wauchope. Ungarie club was
second and Williamtown third.
The Yarrowitch club, which
has a membership of 22 boys
and girls, has only been operat-
ing for three years, but the
judges reported that: “Without
doubt the strength of this club
lies in its practical project
activities.” Club members have
won several State champion-
ships, including both cattle
raising and vegetable growing,
and they have been runners-up
in sheep, wool and beef cattle
projects. Their activities in-
clude first - aid lessons, film
evenings, field days, radio
speaking and debating, road
safety and inter-club visits.
This year the members
helped in repainting the local
public hall and in planting
trees on the recreation ground.
For a future project they have
decided to conduct a detailed
survey of the productivity of
the surrounding district.
Farm Hints
MTUld or black oats are per-
* * sistent and can germinate
in conditions unfavorable to
more useful cereals. A high
percentage of healthy plants
have been grown from seed of
wild oats held for 18 years.
That is why a paddock
apparently cleared of the pest
by grazing and cultivation will
produce a further germination
which will grow as prolifically
as ever.
The only effective control so
far devised seems to be fre-
quent rotation between crop-
ping and pasture, with heavy
grazing of the pasture. If stock
cannot cope with the growth,
mow the surplus before there
is any chance of it seeding.—
“Mullengah.”
* * *
Moss on roofs or lawns can
be got rid of by the use of
chlorinated phenols at the rate
of loz to 30 sq yds. These
will kill the growth, though
unless thrift is improved in
lawns or playing-fields reinfes-
tation will recur. The prepara-
tions are slightly poisonous and
should not be used where there
is a risk of contaminating
water. They are also best used
in dry, hot weather, because
rain within a day or so of appli-
cation spoils their effect.— 4 Sun-
downer.”
First entries in the Jersey
classes in Sydney’s 1961 Roya
Easter Show have come from
Adrian B. Poole, Ll an "?’
Jerry's Plains (N.S.W.). M
Poole, who has entered i
head, is a regular exhibitor a
the Royal Easter and last yea
won five prizes with his entrie.


SPORT
Sport on Your TV Screen
Those who follow sport on
television fall naturally
into two distinct groups
the staunch advocates of a par-
ticular sport who, irrespective
of the sport’s merits or demerits
a s a televiewing medium, can
be depended upon to consume
it avidly, and the much larger
group who measure the sport
on their screens by the yard-
stick of pure entertainment. If
it lacks interest, they un-
hesitatingly reach for the knob.
How do the various sports
show up when the entertain-
ment test is applied to them,
and what makes some sports
more attractive than others on
TV?
Tennis
Big tennis seems to hold a
universal appeal. The reasons
are fairly clear. The circum-
scribed court area makes for
an easier concentration of
cameras with a consequent
presentation of much greater
detail than is possible with
some other sports, notably foot-
ball.
The modern power game of
big-serve, net-rush and volley
admirably lends itself to tele-
vising, and in doubles especially
spectacle is laid on with slam-
whacking high-speed volleying
when all four players are only
a few yards apart. Booming
services and walloping smashes
show up with the same clarity
as the delicate drop shots and
half volleys.
Close-ups of the players add
their modicum of interest. But
above all it is a sport in which
the dramatic tension, built up
during close struggles and
manifested by spectator-buzz
(turned off as if by a master
tap into pin-drop silence as the
serve r is about to slam one
down at game-, set- or match-
P°int), never fails to communi-
cate itself to the TV viewer.
Cricket
As with tennis, big cricket
attracts not only the male
J'mwer who has played the
§ame or has always taken an
interest in it but also women,
w ho a re viewing it i n ever
leasing numbers—and in a
Purely masculine sport that
s Poaks for itself.
The present series of Tests
ugainst the West Indies has
|! en cricket on TV its brightest
mp for years, quite reversing
Pc decline which set in with
the last dreary series here.
Thundering speedsters, bumpers
whizzing around the batsmen’s
ears, and the reintroduction of
forceful and enterprising shot-
making and fast run-getting,
have set an electrically-charged
atmosphere, and viewers have
responded accordingly.
Here again, highly skilled
camera work has paid off,
especially in those phases where
the telescopic lenses have taken
the viewer right out among the
players. The spectator at the
ground unquestionably gets a
better over-all picture of events,
but the TV cameras, from their
commanding vantage - points,
pick up details that he often
misses.
Athletics
Track and field sports have
a somewhat limited appeal.
Many viewers find it hard to
work up any enthusiasm watch-
ing runners jogging around a
track or heaving a hammer.
Yet there can be compensating
comic sidelights: the pained
expressions unleashed by con-
testants en route or at the
finish ; the pole-vaulter rushing
towards the camera and the
bar, all teeth and eyeballs ; and,
not least, the funny hip-roll
adopted by the heel-and-toe
experts seemingly as an aid to
maintaining the rhythm of their
walk.
Golf
The televising of big golf in
Australia got away to an in-
different start, when galleries
streaming across fairways and
packed four deep around the
greens often prevented the
viewer seeing play-detail. That
position has been remedied
long since, and the pictures
thrown on the small screens
during the last Ampol tourna-
ment were evidence of a more
imaginative approach to the
admittedly sticky problems in-
volved —it was, in fact, an
enormous success.
Televised golf revolves auto-
matically around the big names.
This is made crystal clear in
the World Professional Golf
series—recorded by American
television. The series has a big
following in Australia, and not
only among golfers. One thing
the films make clear is the
importance of a personable and
knowledgeable compere and
these have a first-class one in
Bob Crosby, himself no mean
golfer ; he plays off three.
A helicopter is used to give
aerial shots of the layout of
the more interesting fairways.
Ground cameras fade-out and
come in from every possible
salient point to present the
best over-all picture of shot-
making. The fascination here
derives mainly from watching
craftsmen using their special
tools with superlative skill.
The Ring
Boxing, being concentrated
into a restricted space, televises
well and gets a good following,
especially the toe-to-toe slug-
ging variety. The sessions of
exploratory jabbing and cover-
ing up aren’t so hot. Wrestling?
Mostly we see the canned
variety from the U.S. Watch-
ing these human mammoths
lumbering around the ring
glowering at each other and the
ref. and making it painfully
obvious that the whole show
assays about 98 per cent
mummery and two per cent
mayhem, is tantamount to
standing in front of an open-
mouthed hippo at the Zoo —
you simply can’t help yawning.
Football
Rugby and Australian Rules
football are among the most
difficult sports to present with
success on TV owing to the
ball being so often in the air
and quick-action play cover-
ing a very wide area. But the
fast open game can notch its
quota of thrills on the screen.
The whistle-and-scrum stuff is
always a flop.
The fact that the ball spends
most of its time on the sward
being dribbled along, and that
the code has the least number
of players, gives Soccer a big
advantage from the TV view-
point. Moreover, the weaving
patterns wrought by a skilled
player with the ball at his toe
always presents a fascinating
picture.
Perhaps one of the most
pleasing features about watch-
ing football on TV arises on a
wet, winter day. Watching
them slithering around in a
sea of mud while you are
ensconced in a comfortable
lounge-chair, it is comforting
to reflect on how comfortable
you are and how uncomfort-
able they are.
Horses and Cars
Horse-racing on TV, except
for the brief burst on Mel-
bourne Cup day, is almost a
complete wash-out. The racing
clubs don’t like it, the punters
go to the course or to the s.p.
shops and the general public
seemingly don't care if it is
never shown.
The thrills and chills of car-
racing transfer fairly faith-
fully to the TV screen, the
success depending heavily on
the various angles from which
the race is shot. There have
been some first-class presenta-
tions of this sport, and though
at present the newly-opened
Warwick Farm course in Syd-
ney is closed to the TV men, it
is hoped that the ban will be
lifted shortly.
Water Sports
On the water motor-boat
racing and its natural corol-
lary, water-skiing, are achiev-
ing high TV popularity. The
former thrills with roaring
speed and almost air-borne
boats ; the latter attracts for its
gracefulness and skill.
Swimming championships
show up very well on TV,
especially in the sprint and
middle-distance events, the
diversity of styles employed
being a strong attraction. But
the degree of interest to be
derived from these races is
qualified by the need to clarify
who is racing in what lane,
either before or during the
race, for the flurry of churned-
up water enveloping the swim-
mers makes recognition on a
21-inch screen almost impos-
sible.
Surf carnivals are restricted
to a great extent by the surf
conditions. If the sea is flat so
is the presentation. But with
a big sea running the thrills
can be piled on, especially in
the surf-boat races.
The national television chan-
nels, which handle the lion’s
share of sport, cast their nets
far and wide to haul in some
olf-beat winners at times. They
went aloft to capture some of
the best shots ever in low-
level gliding aerobatics and
delayed - action parachute
jumping—and it all came over
with splendid clarity.


Ftuffi in ihe
Fninre
In the personal mail that reaches me there is
much to interest the mind, delight the heart and
revive good memories.
One such letter came recently from an old
and very dear friend in England who visited
Australia last year and plans to be with us here
again in October.
“What an exciting country is yours!” he wrote.
“Were I young, with an engineering, science or
physics degree, I would be out there at once. My
bread would be assured for life. My butter would
depend on myself.”
His note arrived in the very week the Federal
Government announced that Sir Kingsley Norris
would be undertaking a six-months’ tour of British
universities to encourage more graduates to come
out and make their future in Australia.
This special extension of Australia’s drive for
migration is wise and timely. For, high though the
content of skill has been in the migrant intake of
the past fourteen years, our country needs all the
university-trained citizens it can possibly attract.
The friend whom I quote, by the way, has no
reason to regret the course of his own career. He
is an eminent leader in British industry, and during
the last war he was Parliamentary Under-Secretary
for Air.
Yet here is a man who says, “Yours is the
country, and if I were younger that is where I
would be.”
Well, there are hundreds of thousands of young
men and women living in this same Australian
setting right now. They may not possess university
degrees, but they are educated and trained, or
studying to qualify in a chosen calling.
Around them are priceless opportunities, in a
country forming to its strength in the most impelling
age in human history.
What they make of it will have to be earned,
for an opportunity is only as good as one’s ability
to seize and exploit it to the utmost.
And the truth holds for each one of us,
whatever our age: as Australians, the bread is ours;
but what goes with the bread will depend on our
personal quality.
The Cynic is Spoiling Sport
By FRANK HYDE
A ustralians revel in the
knowledge of a reputa-
tion for fanaticism in sport.
This charge, though usually a
friendly chiding, has some
basis. It indicates a trend
which could wreck sport for
sport’s sake in this country.
Over a period of years we
have developed the chronic
critic, the cynic and the disbe-
liever who believes only that
any variation in form indicates
that something “smells.”
A few years ago I was one
of three judges of the big fight
between Australian welter-
weight boxing champion
George Barnes and American
Ramon Fuentes. As I made
my way to the ringside an
acquaintance asked jokingly if
I knew then what the result
would be. Although this sug-
gestion of a “fix” was only in
fun it struck a chord in me
which has often reverberated
during my long association
with sport.
Suspicious minds are fed on
unusual happenings, exagger-
ated half-truths and reversals
of form, which finally incul-
cate in the fundamentally
honest follower of sport the
idea that everything is not
above board. The tie in the
First Test of the current cricket
series could not possibly have
been stage managed, but the
suggestion has been made. The
uncertainty of sport is one of
its greatest attractions.
Often at boxing contests one
hears the analysis of people
who have backed a loser, their
ideas and opinions warped by
the losmg of a few shillings.
The blending of different
styles, luck, opportunity—all
play their part in determining
the winner, but the last thing
the cynic doubts is his own
judgment, and accusations are
aimed at the boxer whom they
believe did not try, or the
trainer or manager who is sup-
posed to have won a fortune
by his charge losing the bout.
Usually the object of the deri-
sion is in the dressing-room
heartbroken by his failure or
his inability to produce his best
form.
The great pity of this sus-
picion in sport is that it does
incalculable damage to the
youngster who grows up be-
lieving that there is an element
of roguery in all sports and that
there is no moral obligation to
give of his best at all times
no matter what the result.
Variations in form are noth-
ng more than indications that
human beings are involved,
with all their variable strengths
and weaknesses of mind and
body.
In football in particular one
of the attractions of the sport
is the uncertainty of the result
many times determined by
reversals of form. It is this
uncertainty of the result which
provides some of the lure of
the game and is normal rather
than abnormal.
I have bitter memories of
my own experiences when as
captain-coach of North Sydney
Rugby League Club I led my
team on to the Sydney Cricket
Ground to oppose Newtown in
the Grand Final in 1943 in
front of over 60,000 excited
fans. In four previous matches
that season we had beaten
them three times and drawn
once, but in that Grand Final
we were not only beaten but
annihilated.
The disappointment of the
defeat and letting the sup-
porters down was bad enough,
but the accusation of being
part of a swindle was the
greatest cross of all.
When these false notions of
sport become fixed in people’s
minds they are difficult to dissi-
pate, and innocent actions are
construed as suspicious activi-
ties. In 1932 one such indict-
ment was disproved dramati-
cally. The occasion was the in-
ternational heavyweight box-
ing bout between one of
America’s top heavies, Ernie
Schaaf, and the Italian Primo
Camera at Madison Square
Garden.
The bout had been a tame
affair up till the 13th round,
when Schaaf suddenly col-
lapsed. Hoots and catcalls swept
through the big arena. The
crowd was certain that this was
part of an act to build Camera
up for a heavyweight title bout.
The boos came louder as
Schaaf was carried up the aisle
on a stretcher —-they wanted it
known they were not falling
for this fake. Ernie Schaaf
died that night. It was a tragic
way to answer his accusers and
possibly the only way to rid
some of them of their obses-
sion.
Sport and its exponents are
worthy of the dignity of our
trust, even if only in apprecia-
tion of the many opportunities
offered for our lavish indul-
gence in it. We have as a
nation a natural aptitude t° r
sport, also the advantages ot a
grand sporting climate. Spur
should be fun. Let’s keep »
that way.


Off-course Betting —A Referendum Issue?
By JOHN SCHOFIELD
Just as we thought—off-course betting is to be introduced
into caucus discussions by the Chief Secretary, Mr
Kelly, who hints that the question could be put to a
referendum. A good way out, indeed, for a Govern-
ment keen enough to gain the pot of gold but not prepared
to risk unpopularity by further extending gambling.
There will, of course, be a lot of spadework before
any satisfactory system of off-course betting is evolved.
It is a complex problem and needs the widest possible
inquiry.
Starting-price betting grew naturally, and all the rules
that “govern” it originated from the bookmakers. Condi-
tions are arbitrarily imposed by them. The rules are
there for the protection of the layer of the bet, not the
taker.
Take for instance the world-wide acceptance that the
odds for a place are one-quarter the odds for a win.
Bookmakers invented that one, and it has been so long
used that no one ever questions its fairness.
But is it fair? Take a field of nine runners. The
backer takes one-fourth of the straight-out odds that his
horse will finish 1, 2 or 3 —that is, that the horse will
be in the first third of the field. Suppose there are 30
runners ; the punter takes one-fourth of the straight-out
odds that his horse will finish in the first 10th of the field,
not, as the unversed might think, in the first third, which
would be the first ten horses.
The mathematics of place-betting show an advantage
to the backer when there are eight starters, equality when
there are nine, and the further the field increases the
greater the advantage to the bookmaker, even up to 20
per cent, and more.
When there are eight starters the theoretic odds are
7 to 1 against any particular horse winning, that is one-
eighth for each horse. Similarly the chance of any horse
finishing in the first three is three-eighths.
That makes it 7 to 1 for the win, 5 to 3 for the place,
but, as the bookmaker will pay 7 to 4 for the place, the
punter gets slightly the better of the deal.
Nine starters with equal chances become 8 to 1 for
the win, 2 to 1 for the true odds for a place, and this is
the price the bookmaker does pay for the place bet.
Then look at the figures for a field of 21. The true
win odds are 20 to 1 for the win and 6 to 1 for the place,
hut the bookmaker pays 5 to 1 for the place, which means
16 per cent, his way!
Of course all this is theory, and makes no allowance
for the obvious fact that the bookmaker has to load his
Prices to make his profit, but this, and scores of other
angles, might well be examined by a properly representa-
tive committee of inquiry.
, In fact such an inquiry would give the people a proper
Picture to guide their voting should it be decided to have
a referendum.
High’s owner, Mr Brian Crowley, may be wise
restricting the colt to sprinting until he gains a little
more age and racing experience.
Sky High, brother to Skyline, and, like that horse, a
1 berby winner, is not a true stayer. There seems no pur-
pose at this stage in trying to make him one. As a four-
year-old it may be different.
When he was a two-year-old Sky High relied on his
early speed to win. Like most of the stock by his sire,
Star Kingdom (imp.), he did best when running along
in front.
He was relegated into minor places in the Canterbury
Guineas, Rosehill Guineas, A.J.C. Derby and the Caulfield
Guineas. He ran only moderately in the W. S. Cox Plate
in which Tulloch created an Australian time record of
2m. 1 1 / 10s. for one mile and a quarter.
Those performances did not suggest a great chance
in the Victoria Derby, but, to the surprise of most people,
Sky High led all the way to beat the A.J.C. Derby winner,
Persian Lyric, by threequarters of a length.
Sky High began racing again on Saturday when he
won the Lightning Stakes, a weight-for-age race down
the straight five furlongs at Flemington.
It was a top-class sprint performance because the
pace was on all the way, and Sky High had to withstand a
strong challenge by the dual Doncaster Handicap winner,
Tudor Hill, after first beating off My Peak, who had raced
with him from the start.
Sky High is programmed to run in the Futurity Stakes
at Caulfield later in the month, and then the Newmarket
Handicap may be attempted.
Sky High should be the ideal horse for those races,
possessing the requisite speed to hold his place whatever
the pace set early, and the stamina to deal with challengers
in the last bit.
There is a lot of. money to be won with a sprinter in
the next few months. The Daily Telegraph Doncaster
Handicap carries £lO,OOO added money, and its mile
course should come easily to Sky High.
Then in Brisbane in June there is the Stradbroke
Handicap (7f.), with £lO,OOO added, and in July the
Doomben Ten Thousand (6f. 127yds.) with £10,500 added.
Perhaps the Newmarket Handicap may be bypassed
in favor of the much richer stakes later on.
'"There is one aspect of betting which needs attention.
A Its urgency was exemplified last Saturday at Canter-
bury Park when a heavily backed horse. Grand Prix, was
withdrawn from the race on the instruction of the stewards
just a minute or two before the start was due.
People who had coupled the previous winner, Endure,
with Grand Prix on the doubles totalisator got their money
back. They had completed the first part of their contract
and there was no reward.
Treasury officials and the racing clubs have been
seeking for some time a solution to this obviously unsatis-
factory rule of doubles betting.
One of the suggestions is that all the money bet in
doubles ending with a scratched horse —whether they be
bets coupling the winner of the previous race or the losers
—should be divided between those who selected the winner
of the first “leg.”


Business, Robbery, Etc.
Fabulous Minster
Grapevine rustlings, usually
so reliable in the past, are
again suggesting good things
from fabulous Minster, Ltd. It
has been probably the greatest
manufacturing success, from
the investor’s viewpoint, in
post-war Australia.
So great has been the expan-
sion in production by Min-
ster (through its chief sub-
sidiary, Westminster Carpets
Pty., Ltd.), that a year or so
ago some investors began to
think that output might be
growing in excess of demand.
Since then a fourth produc-
tion-unit has been brought into
operation, but reports are that
demand for the co.’s carpet is
still greater than the enlarged
output. On September 20,
1960, chairman W. G. Keigh-
ley told shareholders that
“additional output has been
absorbed by our Australian
and Canadian customers and
demand is still increasing.”
Export to the west coast of
North America, particularly
Canada, has become an import-
ant factor in the co.’s turn-
over. Westminster carpet is a
product which can be exported
competitively and profitably
from Australia because of the
comparatively small labor in-
gredient in the cost of produc-
tion. The co.’s Dandenong
(Vic.) plant is the nearest thing
to automation yet seen in the
carpet industry.
The small labor cost, com-
bined with growing efficiency
and output, have enabled the
co. to keep the price of its
carpet stable since 1951. Its
competitive cost, combined
with its durability and appear-
ance (it is a rubber-bonded,
non-woven article of haircord
appearance), have made it the
largest-selling pile - carpet in
Australia. Floor-coverings
represent a major part in
home-furnishing costs.
In addition, the co. has
always had a strong connection
with the motor-trade. West-
minster carpet can be cut into
shapes that don’t need sewn
edges. It was originally sold
mostly to car-manufacturers.
The co. owns subsidiaries
which produce rubber disper-
sion (used for bonding the
carpets and for sale outside),
flock-coated fabrics, pumps,
ball-mills and valves for the
mining industry and other
products.
A revolutionary development
in 1959 was the establishment
of Gamma Sterilisation Pty.,
Ltd., which employs radioactive
cobalt to sterilise the co.’s
imports of Asian goathair and
the raw materials of other
manufacturers on a charge
basis. This is the first com-
mercial enterprise of its kind in
the world. The possible preser-
vation of food for export with-
out refrigeration is being in-
vestigated.
Westminster Carpets Pty. was
a pioneer among the manufac-
turers at once-rural Dande-
nong. It acquired several acres
of land, but has been spreading
"I see no need for dramatics, Cottrel ."
so rapidly that it recently
acquired “some additional land
within the Dandenong district
with a view to coping with the
proposed expansion of certain
of the co.’s activities.”
The year to June 30, 1960,
was exceptionally profitable:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Re-
June Profit. , — —Dividend —• serves.t
SO, £ £ £
1956.. 15 p.c. = 92,155* 538,137
Net profit sale fixed assets,
£33,521 571,658
Three-for-four bonus-issue,
£462,512 .. .. 109,146
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. 99,146
W/off intangibles, £9025 .. 90,121
1957. 15 p.c. = 161,880 188,375
Net loss sale fixed assets,
£11,547 176,828
To staff fund, £23,785 .. 153,043
W/off intangibles, £5OOO .. 148,043
1958. 15 p.c. = 161,880 355,924
Profit sale fixed assets, £2270 358,194
To staff fund, £15,306 .. 342,888
Net intangibles w/off, £212 342,676
To provision for increased
cost of plant, £25,000 .. 317,676
1959.. 452 20 p.c. t= 215,840 655,288
To staff fund, £18,084 .. 637,204
Provision for stock-fluctua-
tion, £58,000 .. .. 579,204
One - for - two bonus - issue
£539,598 39,606
1960.. 20 p.c. = 269,799 541,391
Provision increased cost plant
replacement, £25,000 .. 516,391
t Subject to intangibles, £2Bl, 30/6/’6O.
* Includes dividend paid to former share-
holders of subsidiaries.
After providing £132,122 (up
£40,213) for depreciation and
£495,212 (up £153,891) for
taxation at pre-Budget rates,
net profit was £218,130 higher
at £771,582 and represented 57
p.c. on the bonus-increased
average capital. Out of this
£18,084 was transferred to the
staff fund, £58,000 to provision
for stock- fluctuation, and
£25,000 to provision for in-
creased cost of plant-replace-
ment.
From a net figure of £670,498
the 20 p.c. distribution on a
bonus-increased capital called
for £269,799, and was more
than twice covered. A net
£410,699 was carried to general
reserves (£516,391). Part of the
specific provisions beforemen-
tioned are also probably true
reserves.
The Budget increase in com-
pany-tax increased the co.’s
liability by an additional
£34,365.
Balance-sheet figures show a
written-down plant account and
strong liquidity:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1959. 1960.
Paid capital .. £1,079,196 £1,618,794
Reserves .. 655,288 516,389
Creditors . . 260,822 106,274
Plant replacement
provision .. 25,000
Staff fund .. 40,000 40,000
Tax provision .. 347,659 499,703
Final div. .. 107,920 161,879
£2,515,885 £2,943,039
Freeholds .. 455,279 566,964
Plant, etc. .. 836,263 683,929
Stocks .. .. 783,667 1,099,329
Debtors .. 290,249 338,597
Cash, etc. .. 150,146 253,939
Intangibles .. 281 281
£2,515*885 £2,943,039
Plant is shown at £1,130,456,
less £470,653 of depreciation
and reserve. Office equipment
at £24,126 net. Plant has been
mostly made to the co.’s plans
and under the engineering
supervision of manager Jack
Dews, who introduced the
Westminster process to Aus-
tralia.
Stocks at £1,099,329 were un
£315,662. These largely repre-
sent imported goat-hair stocks
and are an insurance against
shipment problems. Cash hold-
ings were £103,793 higher at
£253,939 in spite of outlay on
plant and freeholds during the
year, and provide ready money
for further development.
A takeover of Bolton’s Trad-
ing Co., Ltd., N.S.W. distribu-
tors of Westminster, and E. R.
Fovell Pty., Melbourne has
just been effected for 42,157
Minster shares.
Westminster Carpets Pty., the
original company, was formed
on November 29, 1946, and
financed the original plant-unit
and factory to production with
a capital of £250,000. Produc-
tion began on July 12, 1949.
No further cash has been
asked of shareholders in spite
of quadruplication of capacity,
and more than five times the
original capital has now been
paid to shareholders in divi-
dends.
The year before conversion
into a public co. on December
12, 1952, paid capital was
doubled by a one-for-one
bonus-issue financed from re-
valuation of assets.
In the 1956-57 term there was
a three-for-four bonus-issue.
A third bonus-issue, one-for-
two, was made in March, 1960.
The dividend-rate, which had
risen from 15 p.c. to 20 p.c. in
the 1958-59 term, was kept at
20 p.c. on the bonus-increased
capital.
The sparkling bonus-issue
performance means that the
investor who put £lOO into
the original float and retained
all bonus-issues now has 1050
shares of 10s. each at no fur-
ther cost to himself. On the
market these are worth just
under £3OOO. And, as men-
tioned before, he has received
his original outlay back over
five times in cash dividends.
The board of Minster, Ltd.,
has never been talkative, but
the grapevine at the moment
has it that the half-year to
December 31 was excellent,
and there is talk of further
bonus-issues inside the next
two years.
What is more definite is that
the co. seems to be selling more
production each month in spite
of the setback in the motor-
trade. Its profits are still rising.
And its directors are confident,
if not garrulous. Even the
optimists, however, are of the
opinion that any future bonus-
issues will be in a lower rati
than hitherto. That is to h
expected as a matter of oi din-
ary arithmetic.


3*
Your Estate, whether it consists of real
estate, a business, or investment holdings,
may attract much higher Death Duties than
you think —leaving far less than you
imagined for your beneficiaries.
Expert advice on Estate Planning, and the
setting up of a Family Trust, designed to
meet your personal requirements, can
result in appreciable savings through
reduced Tax and Death Duties, and help
conserve your assets, both during your
lifetime and afterwards.
Appointment of the Company as Trustee
of the Family Trust ensures competent
counsel and management of all matters by
specialists—at moderate charges.
Why not examine, without delay, the advan-
tages of such an arrangement—in a
confidential discussion of your financial
affairs?
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria)
333 Collins St, Melbourne, C.l.
20 O’Connell St., Sydney.
398-402 Queen St., Brfsbane.
Also at Newcastle, Albury, Toowoomba,
Rockhampton, Townsville and Charleville.
UT35a 82. N
The market is backing
present high earning-capacity
and know-how, future possibili-
ties in overseas markets, and of
eamma-sterilisation locally.
° jf the Federal Government
agrees to the taxation incen-
tives suggested by the Export
Advisory Council, Minster,
Ltd., should certainly benefit.
Net tangible backing for the
10s. shares is 13s. 3d. on book-
values. (There has been no re-
valuation since 1951.) At 575.
for the 10s. shares the investor
obtains an immediate yield of
3.5 p.c. on a 20 p.c. div. basis,
with an earnings yield, accord-
ing to Bulletin computations,
of 10 p.c.
"Rights" in 1961
tn the last two months of 1960
A “rights” to new share-issues
were a drug on the market.
Following announcement of
disallowance of certain interest
items (for taxation purposes) in
respect of borrowings and con -
vertible-note issues, it became
obvious that there would be a
greater number of share-issues
in 1961, especially as banks put
more and more pressure on in
the calling-up of overdrafts.
So far in 1961 “rights” issues
have been going off better than
could have been expected in
November and December,
1960. And rights that could
have been picked up for a
penny in those depressed
months often show a consider-
v able profit now.
This applies particularly to
Ready Mixed Concrete, where
the rise has been of the order
of 3s.
Another case of recovery has
been Davis Gelatine.
Current issues of rights going
; well include those of Repco,
the big motor-parts enterprise.
They have steadily firmed as
dosing-date (February 20) of
the issue approaches.
Clyde Industries’ issue of ss.
°rds. at a premium of 4s. are
selling freely and firmly at
1 around 4s. 6d. Closing-date is
February 15.
Demand for Permewan
Wright rights (£1 shares at
255.) is keen at around Bs.
Although there was a slight
tokening in J. Gadsden scrip
s lowing announcement of the
one-for-eight issue, soon there
w as recovery. Applications
are due on March 22.
, Deposit and Investment’s big
issue of eight-million ss. shares
at a premium of 2s. 6d. has had
a lengthening market as the
; have gone by. In the
| a tio of one-for-one, applica-
t!°ns are due on February 28.
, A big issue which came on
last week is that of Olympic
Consolidated Industrie s—
-2,635,588 ss. shares, in the
ratio of one-for-ten, at par. It
closes on March 10. Opening
quotations have been com-
paratively strong at 2s. Bd.
Go 11 i n Holdings, Ltd., is
making a one-for-four issue of
ss. ords. at par. The old £1
ords. were recently split into ss.
units, and have moved up from
7s. to Bs. The new-issue shares
are payable in full by March
23.
Oil Search, 80 p.c.
/Consideration payable by
Oil Search, Ltd., to BP
and Vacuum interests for being
allowed to lift its shareholding
in Australasian Petroleum Pty
from 15 p.c. to 80 p.c. had not
been disclosed at the time of
going to press. As agreement
on the new deal for Oil Search
has been arrived at only in
principle, the exact cash (or
other) consideration for the
transfer of the required number
of A.P.C. shares now held by
BP and Vacuum to Oil Search
may not yet have been deter-
mined.
Since the overseas cos. would
have abandoned the field in any
case, the Department of
National Development will
probably have considerable say
on the terms of transfer.
Oil Search will have about a
million pounds in kitty. But
this won’t go far in oil-drill-
ing. Whether new overseas
partners will be invited in is the
interesting question. Unless
there is an oil-strike on the
mainland (or in Timor) to
stimulate interest in oil-search
generally in this part of the
world, it would seem difficult
to visualise Oil Search’s own ss.
shares going much above their
present level of 2s. 6d. in the
sharemarket.
One thing, however, should
not be overlooked. The pro-
posed capital rearrangement
will mean that, should Oil
Search shares at any time go
to £l, the market valuation of
the field will be in the vicinity
of £32 million, whereas under
the old arrangement it w'ould
have implied a figure of around
£l5O million.
Export Boosters ?
/Canberra reports are to the
effect that something is to
be done by Federal Cabinet
about rebating payroll-tax in
proportion to the increase in
export income, and to some
exemption of company-tax on
export profits or allowances in
respect of capital-expenditure
aimed at promoting exports.
Companies already geared
for export are the flourmillers
(particularly John Darling,
Allied Mills, Gillespie’s and
Geo. Fielder), food-processors
and -canners, the steel industry,
the woollen-textile industry and
such concerns as Minster, Ltd.,
Associated Leathers and Ralph
Symonds.
J. Gadsden Rights
**
T)ig expansion, largely
financed on a takeover
basis or by note-issues, has
been a feature of the activity
of busy J. Gadsden Australia,
Ltd., lately.
Consolidation as well as ex-
pansion seems to be indicated
in the announcement of the
latest issue. Part of the idea
is to reduce the bank-over-
draft.
The new issue is one for
eight, at par, and will bring
in £729,683, lifting paid capi-
to £6,567,143.
Canisters, plastic bags, card-
board boxes and other con-
tainers are clearly big business,
And one of J. Gadsden’s con-
tracts is the job of making the


QUEENSLAND
INSURANCE
Co. Ltd.
Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE &
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies
throughout the World.
Invest in
The Longest Established National
Hire-Purchase Company
in which the Bank of New South Wales
has a 40% shareholding
DEBENTURE STOCK
(NEW ISSUE)
Short
Term
12 months 5%% p.a.
9 months 5%% p.a.
6 months 4%% p.a.
3 months 4Va% p.a.
Long
Term
6to 10 years 7% p.a.
5 years
4 years
3 years
2 years
6 3 /4% p.a.
6V2% p.a.
6Va% p.a.
6% p.a.
Application for Debenture Stock can be accepted only
on the printed form included in the prospectus
obtainable from the Bankers to the issue
Bank of New South Wales (All Branches)
any A.G.C. Branch, and your Stockbroker.
PAID-UP
CAPITAL
£6,875,000
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
Corporation Limited
142 Phillip Street, Sydney • BW 2673
Branches and offices throughout Australia
Underwriting Brokers: lAN POTTER & CO
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
SOUTH WARES— Ik Divorce.
TO WILLIAM ROBERT J-OIM
FARROW whose address is unfcnow.
TAKE NOTICE that LORNA V-EfiOMW
FARROW lias filed a Petition ,
Divorce No. 35 of 1961 on the gr°““ e
desertion without just cause or
for three years and upwards.
wish to defend you may enr
appearance in the Divorce
Supreme Court Macquarie Street .
by the 17th day of April t
obtain a copy of the Petition
charge from MESSRS. J- 10
BLACKMORE & CO., Solicitor’
Martin Place, Sydney.—O.
HARMS, Registrar.
major portion of Rothmans’
cigarette-pack requirements.
J. Gadsden took-over Gads-
den-Hughes Holdings, Ltd., in
1959, which had not long pre-
viously established new con-
nections by share-issue itself.
There are now ties with the
U.S. Can Co. and the Van
Leer international packaging
organisation, as well as with
W. E. Smith, Ltd., in a joint
venture in Brisbane. New
factories are also being built
in Perth, Granville (N.S.W.)
and Altona (Vic.).
In the term to June 30 last
consolidated net profit was
shown at 10.7 p.c., and the
customary 8 p.c. div. was paid.
The 10s. shares have had a
fairly stable market over the
past two years, with occasional
spurts to 205., but more usually
around 17s. There was a
slight weakening on announce-
ment of the new issue. Pur-
chase of the scrip, cum rights,
at 16s. 6d. would give an ex-
rights price of 15s. 6d., and a
yield of 5.2 p.c.
Permewan Rights
T)ermewan Wright, Ltd., in
recent years has been
depending less on its traditional
sales of fodder, which has been
in quieter demand because of
good seasons, pasture-improve-
ment and mechanisation of
farms. Merchandising has be-
come the sheet-anchor of the
co.’s trade, though there has
been some development in the
handling of seeds for pasture-
improvement.
The co. now operates 28
stores in Victoria (including
three in Melbourne and a furni-
ture-warehouse in Richmond),
16 in N.S.W. and one at Mt.
Gambier (S.A.).
Steps have been taken to
build-up the purely retail trade,
including establishment of
P.W.’s own h.-p. company.
Heavy lines, such as wire, net-
ting, iron, superphosphate,
farm machinery, jute and
building-materials, still consti-
tute a large and profitable
portion of the co.’s trade ; but
it is subject to fluctuations. To
help stabilise earnings, greater
attention has been given to
“shelf” lines of groceries, hard-
ware and apparel. Self-service
and self-selection have been
introduced. The most modern
P.W. country stores are at
Dubbo and Albury.
Diversification has helped to
stabilise earnings, which, never-
theless, are variable, largely
according to seasonal condi-
tions and prices for pastoral
produce. For the last decade
the div. has not been less than
11 p.c. or more than p.c.
(the current rate).
The co. had a good run
during the booming 1920’5, but
then had a very in-and-out ex-
perience up to 1945.
Since then the distribution
has never been lower than 10
p.c. and large reserves have
been built up, partly from
share-premiums, partly from
undistributed profits and con-
tingency provisions written-
back, and also from the re-
valuation (by £379,153) of free-
holds in 1956.
At January 31, 1960, reserves
totalled £1,243,250, against a
paid capital of £700,000 (now
to be increased to £805,000).
For the term to January 31,
1960, net profit was equal to
14.4 p.c. on capital, commit
with 11.1 p.c., 17.2 p.c P a
11.7 p.c. in the three precedi!!
years. In the 1958-59 term h
' 2 dl > was cove! ,!
by disclosed earnings, but there
was a compensating canital
profit on the sale of assets, P &
Although taxation proyi
sions are not out of the wav j n
relation to disclosed earnings
there does appear to have been
adequate past provision f or
contingencies, as indicated by
the writing-back of £BOOOO
from doubtful debts reserve
in 1959-60. e
At the moment the co is
making a 15-for-100 cash issue
at a ss. premium on the £1
ords. The rights are selling
at Bs., making 335. on a
fully-paid basis, against 345. for
the old ords. The yield on the
basis of 335. for the f.-p. ords
would be 7 p.c. on a 12| p.c!
basis.
The money will be useful
to maintain expansion as well
as to reduce outside indebted-
ness (£2,190,844 at 31/ 1/1960)
necessary mainly because of
the obligation on the co. to
carry large stocks (£1,268,635
last term) and finance cus-
tomers (debtors were
£1,324,020).
F. J. Walker
At 265. for the 10s. stock-
units, purchase of F. J.
Walker shares would currently
give a yield of 5.7 p.c.. assum-
ing that the 15 p.c. rate is con-
tinued this year.
At that price they look worth
buying. The yield is good,
and prospects satisfactory.
Although* 2\ p.c. of the total
distribution was described as
bonus last term, there appears
to be a fair chance of its con-
tinuance in the current year,
since net earnings in 1959-60
were shown at a conservative
18 p.c. on average capital.
Most of the co.’s meat busi-
ness is conducted in N.S.W.,
where new retail outlets have
been acquired from time to
time. One important recent
acquisition was Silvesters
smallgoods factory and shops,


*
s
PER ANNUM
5 YEARS
i
PER ANNUM
10 YEARS
PER ANNUM
Registered Office:
321-5 Chapel Rd., Banks-
town. UY4035.
ANY BRANCH OF AUS-
TRALIA & NEW ZEALAND
BANK LTD.
ANY MEMBER OF A
RECOGNISED STOCK EX-
CHANGE.
REGISTERED FIRST
DEBENTURE STOCK
9 SHORT TERM
12 mths. notice... 8% P.A.
6 mths. notice 7% P.A,
3 mths. notice 52% P.A.
Investments in short term are for
an indefinite period.
Repayment is obtained by giving
the notice selected on the applic-
ation form.
• LONG TERM
10 to 20 yrs £% P.A,
sto 9 yrs 81% P.A.
4 yrs- £% P.A.
ASSETS EXCEED £20,000,000
INTEREST PAID QUARTERLY
Trustees for
Debenture Stockholders
THE M.L.C. NOMINEES PTY. LTD.
The Applications will be accepted
only on printed form attached to
the Prospectus.
WHERE TO INVEST
Invest at any H. G. Palmer show-
room in N.S.W., Victoria, Queens-
land, South Australia and A.C.T.
• UNDERWRITING BROKERS
N.S.W.: Bernard Curran & Co., 9
Hunter Street, Sydney.
VIC.: Vinton Smith, Dougall & Co.,
401 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q'LAND: Ernest H. Corser, Hender-
son & Hale, 334 Queen Street,
Brisbane.
S. AUST.: Woodhead, Needham &
Tolhurst, 35 Grenfell Street,
Adelaide.
TAS.: H. W. Bayley & Co., A.M.P.
Chambers, Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
W. AUST.: Geo. H. Newton, Fuller
6 Co., 105 St. George's Terrace,
Perth.
POST THIS COUPON TODAY!
To: H. G. Palmer (Consolidated) Ltd.,
321-5 Chapel Rd., Bankstown, N.S.W.
Please send copy of Prospectus to:
Name
Address
Give the Marketeer a Go!
By “SELLIT”
niNCE the war, the accountant
j and production-man have
ieigne d with unmolested
power.
Company-directorates have
be en concerned almost exclu-
sively with the problems of
taxation, profit-margins, hidden
reserves 'and increasing produc-
tion.
On a seller’s market the
marketeer tended to become a
mere order-taker; a listener to
complaints which were treated
with highhanded disdain by the
factory, anyhow ; an allocator
of goods on a quota system.
In most industries conditions
have changed. The buyer’s
market is raising its fearsome
head, and competition is mak-
ing its uncomfortable presence
felt The marketeer should be
coming into his own.
But is he?
Let’s take a look round and
see some of the extraordinary
things that happen.
I A big hardware business
'suddenly woke-up to the fact
that for 18 months or more its
competitors had been giving it
an unmerciful thrashing. Their
sales-people had been crying to
high heaven, but the board had
keen far too busy trying to
make their balance-sheet look
good by figure-management
rather than by good old-
fashioned pre - war sales-
management.
The awakening was rude ;
the heresy-hunt intense. The
hoard took a long, thoughtful
look at the sales-organisation
and decided really to get crack-
intensify sales-training,
heat the big drum on sales-
promotion and advertising and
stir-up hell generally.
AH good, sound thinking—
Wil they sprang their gag-
line.
.They appointed their finan-
-1 C| al director to take-over their
sales set-up!
]^ ow > here was a man with
. atl allegedly keen financial
® ln d, with no sales-training,
jr a stubbornness of
\ aracter that projected his
! Vn personal views into the
at) Jtract science of selling.
n short, a man who was by
mperament and training
10t % unsuited for the job.
W ow could he succeed?
. hat is more important,
f w could a board of directors,
Powered with the spending
shareholders’ moneys and
ar §ed with the responsibility
‘flaking profits, embark on
such a peculiar line of
thinking?
The answer, of course, lies
hi the dangerous conditions of
a seller’s market. For years
the only people the board
attached importance to were
the financial and production
people. They were the only
people they knew. And, after
all, sales was one of the depart-
ments which seemed to have
carried on for a long time
without being of very much
importance, so what could be
more logical than to appoint
one of their members whose
ability they knew and
respected? The fact that his
ability lay in the direction of
finance rather than sales
seemed not to worry the board
one iota.
Disconcerting as the facts
are, the directors know they
are still taking’a licking from
their competitors and are well
down the list in order of sales
—in unhappy contrast with
their once-proud claim to the
number-one position.
A nother very big manufac-
turer of a consumer line
enjoyed a seemingly unassail-
able market position. In spite
of all the signs and portents of
an impending change in the
type of product acceptable to
public taste, this big-shot com-
pany was content to wait and
see.
Until a newcomer came into
the field, took the initiative that
should have been the big-
shot’s, and set about demon-
strating what aggressive mar-
keting really is. They grabbed
themselves a substantial slice
of a profitable market.
For the big company it was
a costly experience for its
shareholders, an embarrassing
one for its directors, and a
damaging one for its prestige.
And all so unnecessary.
Even charity can be a suf-
ferer. There is the case of a well-
deserving organisation which
realised, very earnestly, the
need for publicity in relation
to its aims. And which, very
earnestly, set about the selec-
tion or a public-relations and
publicity officer to obtain that
publicity.
And which, very earnestly,
discarded all thought of find-
ing someone skilled in the
science of publicity and
appointed instead, still very
earnestly, of all people, an
accountant!
Thev’re still wondering, very


Estab'ished 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
3?
JACKSON &
OSULLTVAN
PTYLTD c\
TRADE MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS •: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
FOR SPEED
CONVENIENCE
CONTINUITY
HAVE
f
DELIVERED BY POST
Subscription Form elsewhere in
this issue.
The
NORTHERN LIFE
Assurance Company of Australia Limited
{lncorporated, in Canberra, Australia )
All Classes of Ordinary Life Assurance,
Superannuation and Annuity Policies Issued
HEAD OFFICE: 15 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone BL 5601 K. J. Hedley, General Manager
earnestly (all of them), why his
efforts didn’t work.
\ll7e can go through case-
’’ history after case-history;
through the kaleidoscope of
falling sales-graphs, reduced
dividends, the inevitable
heresy-hunt and the inevitable
scapegoat, sackings and re-
organisations, and read the
same sorry story of human
error.
It is just such complacency
and conceit that lie behind so
many avoidable commercial
catastrophes.
It may well be argued that
men who have substantial posi-
tions in progressive companies
surely could not be stupid.
That surely they must be
worthy of the positions they
occupy. That surely the com-
pany’s record and history
means that these men are
intelligent and competent.
It means, of course, nothing
of the sort. Otherwise why
would a company in No. 1
sales position slide to No. 3,
possibly No. 4? Why would
a company allow a newcomer
to slip right in under its neck
and grab a nice slice of profit-
able business? Why would a
charity fail to gain the support
i; undoubtedly deserved?
There are swarms of highly
paid executives and directors
today who are costing industry
immense sums of money, who
are sacrificing the gains made
by shrewd predecessors, by
their complacency and the
inability to realise that times
and markets undergo constant
change.
TV/fARKETiNG is a tricky,
abstract business. Like war-
fare, it does not always follow
a predictable pattern. As in
warfare, people engaged in
marketing, if they are success-
ful, look to the teachings of
history to guide them in plan-
ning their strategy and adapt
those teachings to modern
conditions.
It is because of its inexact-
ness that the science of market-
ing attracts the amateur like
horseracing gathers its
devotees.
Any mug-punter can venture
an opinion on a certain horse.
He can back that opinion with
money. And occasionally he
can pull it off.
But the bookmakers make a
consistent and healthy living
because they study their game
and make their books accord-
ingly.
An accountant or a produc-
tion-man can venture an
opinion on a merchandising
problem, and, if he’s strong
enough, have that opinion
backed with shareholders’
money.
Hence we have the picture
of a decision being made on
the form and presentation of
a product by, say, a solicitor,
an accountant, an engineer and
very often no marketing repre-
sentative. Or, if there is one,
he is so often overruled by the
others.
The product and its presen-
tation thus often take the form
which appeals to the personali-
ties of board-members, but
which may be so far off the
line of the middle-class, con-
suming public as to be
disastrous.
Motivation - studies in
America have shown -up
tragedy after tragedy costing
hundreds - of - thousands of
stockholders’ dollars.
/"\ne of the most susceptible
segments of the marketing
cycle to meddlesome and illogi-
cal interference is advertising.
It has an irresistible fascina-
tion for all sorts of people,
and “experts” are liberally
sprinkled round the board-
room of probably every
organisation.
And these experts will tell
you, without the bat of an eye-
lid, that “my wife thinks we
should do so-and-so,” and with-
out any show of embarrass-
ment will trot-out the draft
of an advertisement which he
himself has prepared.
And the director who has
pulled this piece from his
pocket will usually fight for his
ideal with all the fervor of a
small boy whose catapult is in
danger of being wrested from
him by an unfriendly bully.
To see his own words in
print means more to him than
any worry about shareholders’
funds going down the drain.
Sales-leaders remain sales-
leaders because they have
marketing-men making mar-
keting decisions, and boards
who will uphold those decisions
and wholeheartedly support
them.
Co we find there are two large
hindrances to efficient
marketing in Australian indus-
try today.
One is the type of organisa-
tion, well and efficiently
administered and staffed •
most departments, but with!
sales-orgamsation run b 3
misplaced amateur. y a
The other has a marketing,
man in charge of sales wh 1
operation is rendered usele
by the decisions of a bo£
which is quite incompetent
making marketing decisions.
What is the result of thise
two prevalent faults?
Basically the result can mean
a wrong and unhealthy market
ing attitude. It can mean the
design and presentation of a
product out of line with con-
sumer requirements. It can
mean monstrously inefficient
merchandising and advertising,
It. can mean an unforgivable
wastage of shareholders’
money.
It can mean a marketing
policy good enough to struggle
along against mediocre local
competition but hopelessly
unreal enough to keep a pro-
duct out of a profitable export
market in which, with efficient
and aggressive methods, it
could taKe its place.
Incompetence gives rise to
indec.s.on and weakness, in-
excusable defects in these days -
of increasingly tierce competi-
tion.
So, if you, as an investor,
are looking at a company with
the idea of supporting it with
capital, take a long, hard look
at its marketing set-up,
Remember, the days of beaten
paths to better mousetraps (if
they ever existed) are certainly
non-existent now. The best of
products will lie idle on
retailers’ shelves without good
marketing.
Make sure the company p
invest in has the machinery 1®
taking the goods to the con-
suming public.
Oxygen for Steel
As indicated in B. 2/11/60,,
zV- S. G. Rowe, chairman.
of Commonwealth h’dudn ;
Gases, has confirmed tM
C.I.G. will supply only part ® j
the oxygen required by ,
Port Kembla (N.S.W.) ftee (
works, and is finalising a » i
term contract to this eftec •
The additional oxygen »
quired by the steelwor
changing over to the Jr >,
cess will be provided y
steelworks’ own Integra P
Information is that ■ (
will produce all its own ™ .
at Newcastle and Why ■ s
The Linz-Donawitz P r0 ® 1
of steelmaking is neW , jjf
tralia, but seems to na h,
assured future.


THE CATS OF VENICE
By HAL PORTER
t enice, late May, eleven
)\ ante meridian, the
I V weather divine, the
canals already a little
|whiffy- and abob with rotten
oran ges, and chucked-out
bunches of carnations spread-
ing like broken fans, and early-
[tourist droppings: Chianti
(bottles and blobs of cotton-
wool. Along the Grand Canal,
gondola mooring-poles were
Jet being varnished, gilded, or
painted in barber-shop stripes,
but the orchestras of the Quadri
and Pavia Cafes in St Mark’s
Spare—the reception-room of
| Europe—purposed playing out-
I side from noon, as though the
[season had really begun.
Six canals and six bridges
away from the Square along
jhe Schiavoni Esplanade, a
grubby white liner Thalatta
lad released on the Esplanade
id the City three hundred
yards of Spaniards decorously
tarrying gentian-blue plastic
satchels with SBARRA in
advertising white letters on
Item. Led, but not appearing
to admit this, by two smart-
alecs in berets who had been
there before or were brazen,
tk two-by-two queue of new
sloes, and dark eyes busy suck-
ing in their money’s worth,
advanced towards the Square,
It Mark's Canal on their left.
Just beyond the Arsenal
ferry-landing, maddened gon-
doliers came at them like revo-
lutionaries, harshly spruiking,
Mny-armed and flailing, flash-
sng teeth white as garlic and
Wen as brass. It was not a
[P to soothe or be relished.
,° Sne waited inside the glass
of the Pensione Bucintoro
01 Jhe final Spanish back had
, j ’ and opened the door,
wdcame out.
? Beautiful? She
fl ad the appearance of
son °f beauty. straight .
,|,l, ’ bll § b t- and pale-eyed,
L e ,^ ut forthright make-up,
® en ly modern legs.
, e was better dressed than
Englishwoman,, though in a
lad , ersornew hat English ; she
far tn° mucb discretion and
obvious , mU a h taste ’ k was
ajAm’p. dless as bad ly as
!sL, f e 1c a n woman. Her
k ' ,?, r exa mple. Her hand-
piecesnf r bad no bits and
Slitter. She could have
' • • Jwenty-six? Twenty-
nine? Thirty-three? She began
to walk. She did not slap five-
to - one - o’clock feet on the
paving-stones like a Teutonic or
Nordic woman ; she did not
enact progression trot-trot-trot
like a Gallic one ; she walked.
She decisively took the oppo-
site direction to the Spaniards,
she passed the liner on her
right ; in a haze also to the
right, the Lido and the horizon
and the Adriatic pursued their
purposes. Within five minutes
she was in the Public Gardens,
never tourist-ridden, designed
it seemed, not to attract.
The Gardens were Monte
Carlo-ish, early twentieth-cen-
tury. Curly paths were hung
over by unseemly trees and
edged by unseemly shrubs and
led to unseemly rockeries or
reeking lavatories. Under the
trees, writhing from the shrubs,
gesturing atop of the rockeries,
contorted outside the lavatories,
were old statues of deities,
classic heroes, amazonian
seasons, whose bulging eyes of
grime expressed unutterable
anguishes for snapped-off
hands, noseless faces, scarred
draperies, lichened swords and
cornucopias of dirty fruit.
Neither frantic gesticulations in
marble nor bold fronts of
marble muscles and breasts
had protected them from the
brutalities of silken air and
velvet time. Above their
marble moustaches, newer busts
of opera-composers and nine-
teenth-century patriotic fire-
brands glared Lido-wards.
But there were more eyes,
many more, than the many
marble eyes.
Cheated on branch and rockery
and plinth and bust-shoui-
der and chipped pedestal and
broken-toed goddess’s foot,
silent and still, were cats.
They watched her reach,
watched her dust with her
handkerchief, watched her sit
on, as if she were quite and
composedly alone, a cast-iron
bench that could have been in
any public garden in the world.
As she lit a cigarette the cats
watched.
From where she sat she must
have —she could have —seen
thirty, maybe forty, immobile
cats. Their faces, larger
pansies, were bold, quietly
hungry, and deceitfully at rest,
for one knew that they brewed
restlessly within. They digested
intentions. They electrically
conveyed a shaping purpose
each to each, and to all. They
were as hard-boiled as im-
mortals ; they sat, claws con-
cealed, like immortals, to watch
her.
They were under a compul-
sion. They seemed, all of
them, and even she, at her
second cigarette, to abide some
moment. This future moment's
arrival was not to be impeded—
how could trite and unforesee-
able fate be? —by the senseless
and fairly furtive chasing and
ducking about and throaty
chirping of children so very
cheaply well-decked-out that
they seemed on the point of
being dirty and ragged.
She sat on, self-possessed,
and for long enough to light a
third cigarette, and be touched
on her unwrinkled elbow by
the shadow of Verdi’s marble
chin ... or was it Garibaldi’s?
Then, as though chosen by an
undercurrent of voting, as
though destined, as though per-
mitted, one of the cats rose
and began to pick its way to-
wards her with a calm ferocity
of hunger and a noiseless deli-
cacy.
Her eyes became deeper in
color, and yet wonderfully
clearer. She could be sensed to
ripple, within —one drenching,
colorless ripple. Her smooth,
smooth throat arched and
stretched itself as she raised her
chin to blow out smoke towards
the sky to which she said, clear
and soft, and moreover sweet-
and-sour, “I hear you coming
with your clattering boots.”
Silently the cat came nearer.
It stopped thirty-four inches
away. She leaned fractionally
forward and spoke, “Perhaps
yes ; perhaps no ! ” Then she
said, “How stupid of me! You
are not cat but gatto. Forse
the si; forse che —no! ” and
threw the cigarette in the cat’s
beautifully decorated, beautiful,
hard little face.
~lVot bothering to observe the
111 result of this wilful yet
seemingly required action, she
got up ; she walked out of the
Gardens, St Mark’s Canal now
to her left.
She passed the liner with its
name in Greek letters, the Pen-
sione Bucintoro, she hurried
decisively over the six bridges
on two of the stairways of
which she passed priests in
descent, lifting their skirts like
Edwardian women, she dis-
regarded the squawking gon-
doliers, the stalls selling maps
of Venice and views of Venice
and destructible toys and mini-
ature plastic gondolas and the
dangled expensive rubbish of
Muranese bead necklaces, she
gave the Bridge of Sighs no
look, and Adam and Eve no
look as she rounded the Ducal
Palace, and came to St Mark's
Square, and sat at a Quadri
Cafe table.
She ordered, as though it
were an affectation she con-
doned without absolutely ap-
proving, a Fernet Branca. She
put her handbag on the table.
While it was thus horizontal
she opened it to withdraw,
adroitly, a packet of cigarettes
and a lighter. Each calm move


had purpose. As in the Gar-
dens she exhaled the mood of
dispassionately waiting, of
readiness.
Soon, very soon, he sub-
tracted himself from his friends,
and came, and no one could
have heard him come with the
Quadri orchestra playing
“Santa Lucia” and the Lavina
orchestra men gabbling as they
waited to outdo with “A Rever-
dici, Roma,” and the pigeons
whirring in hundreds, and
photographers crying out at
the noisy tourists, yet her eyes
became deeper in color, and
clearer, and she arched her
smooth, smooth throat as she
tilted her head to blow smoke
towards the sky in an echo: I
hear you coming with your
clattering boots.
TTe sat at the next table. No
more than thirty-four
inches separated them. She was
now looking, doubtless with
interest, towards —oh, the Bell
Tower, the pigeons, Florian’s
Cafe opposite anyway but
himwards while he ordered
his rhubarb - scented muck:
“Rabarbaro!” in a voice, tenor
rather, to be heard. Otherwise,
why so loud?
Then, in English, very very
careful, and humble, but seduc-
tively certain:
“Do . . . you . . . moind . . .
if . . . Oi . . . smoke?”
She took a sip of her Fernet
Branca with a controlled and
graceful gesture.
Scarcely less loudly, more
seductively* his horrible lighter
out, his horrible cigarette be-
tween fingers as preparedly
scrubbed as a surgeon’s, he
said again:
“Please, excusa me. Do you
moind if Oi smoke?”
“Yes,” she said.
“But you are smoking.”
“Yes,” she said, not having
looked at him. “A cigarette.”
She added, informatively,
towards the Bell Tower,
“Tobacco. Virginian. Players.
Terete in shape.”
“Excusa me,” he said, not yet
lighting his cigarette. “Oi think
so, you are English. Oi am
clever at knowing this. Oi am
roight?”
“No.”
“May Oi ask then?”
“No.”
Pigeons, or Florian’s, or
something engrossed her. She
sipped idly, idly. Her profile,
albeit engrossed and at the sip,
was perfect.
“But you have the English
voice. The English cigarettes.
The English beautiful flesh.”
“An English voice, English
cigarettes. A beautiful .. .
thank you . . . English skin.”
She spoke towards a Japanese
woman being very Japanese in
kimono and obi. She spoke
abstractedly, a gentle indifferent
governess.
Then, as one taking a first
pawn, he lit his cigarette. Its
smoke could not, to her, have
smelt like tobacco-smoke. The
clearly expressed exhalation
was accompanied by the sound,
which she must have recog-
nised, of a self-satisfied Italian
crossing his legs: there is no
sound like it.
“Oi think you are English,
and joke me.”
“I am Australian. South
Australian. Which is a quite
different kettle of fish from
South Italian. Married. Over-
educated. Mother's name Eliza-
beth. I abhor turnips. I am
expensive to run.”
“Ah! It is your first toime
in Venezia, Oi think.”
“I like to think it’s my fourth
time in Venice. I said I was
expensive to run.”
“You like to come to visit?
You have noice husband who
leaves you alone?”
“My husband is—of course,
of course—ninety-four - years
old and a crashing bore. You
will readily understand that.
You would like him. When he
comes off duty—he’s first violin
in the Pavia orchestra: —you
must meet him.”
“You loike . . . Venice?”
“I like Venice. The place.”
“Can you seek your way
about alone, a beautiful lonely
woman?”
T'MD she pause to contemplate
a governessy findl
“Certainly,” she said.
“Will you not lose yourself?”
“No. Oh, no.”
She drank, as though secretly.
A fraction of smile slid on to
the side of the profile farther
from him. She waited, as
though secretly waiting in all
the hubbub and circling about,
for something obvious, des-
tined, platitudinous . . . not to
be impeded . . . how could
tepid and foretellable fate be?
“Oi should loike to lose-a
moiself in your beautiful arms.
You are most beautiful. You
make-a moi blood boiling.”
She smiled at those pigeons
not crawling along tourist arms
and not beating the air but
milling and mincing madly in
currents as if they had buses
to catch.
“B o i l,” she said, and,
“Really? I feel like the
faggots under a witch's caul-
dron.”
Had she not been the sort
of woman who was cool as a
bread-knife one would have
said that, suddenly, at this
point, she became a shade
radiant, decorously illuminated
with the first symptoms of an
untypical excitement.
“Shall Oi come with you
where you are living, and you
shall correct moi English, and
we shall make love?”
“No.” It was offhand re-
fusal ; she was carefully taking
a long time to stub a cigarette
as though utterly grinding out
a spider.
“Why no?”
She delicately drank her heel-
tap. She delicately cleared her
white throat. She spoke to-
wards the . . . well, she had
not once turned in his direction.
“Unaccustomed,” she said,
“Absolutely unaccustomed as I
am, you Latin galah, to public
speaking and, Jehovah knows,
one could be no more public
than here and now —and yet
how private and cosy we lucky
twain are! —I emphatically give
you another, No! For why?
First, because I do not like
thee, Dr Fell. Secondly, be-
cause I am not a tart who has
reduced her fees. Thirdly,
because, like your concupiscient
brothel-trained brethren, you
are an amorous confidence man
seeking a sop to vanity, and
because you have an hysterical
preoccupation with what you
call love.”
TTaving, at least, heard the
last word, he became un-
fazed in reality though he had
not deigned to reveal fazement.
He uncrossed his legs and re-
crossed them the other way;
he blew out a lot of smoke ;
his voice prepared deepness to
dictate truth to a half-witted
stenographer.
“Love,” he stated, “is loife.”
Many golden teeth came in
sight to adorn this revelation.
“Go hon,” she said and,
lighting a cigarette. “Do you
maind terribly if Ai smoke?
Ai just know some ge„ ts -
laike it in a gel.
“Oi have planty love ”
F “^. IOV , e ’ StUdeiltofo "rfai r
Enghsh tongue. Well, J
Indeed, and fancy , hat J
One could not have guesJ
Planty love, eh? Let m e 1
an old wedded hag, give v ™,
for free, you underTi?
httle advice. Give it to women
of. your own race. There are
planty, planty pretty gi r i s aJJ
over Venice .. . pard
Venezia. Italian too. The clip!
joints are chockablock”
“No.”
“ That is my word.”
“No, Oi give moi specialty
love to you . . . only to you”
“I knew,” she said, “I should
have worn a hessian jibbah
Only to little me! Call me
ingrate, call me looker in the
mouths of gift horses.”
“Yes, yes,” he said. “Oi
give-a gift of love because you
are beautiful foreigner.”
For the first time she turned
to look at him, and directly,
and blandly, unsmiling
although almost not so. The
I.avina orchestra had soared
into “One Fine Day.” What
eye saw, what ear heard . ..
Veal cutlet drenched in choco-
late sauce?
“Foreigner? You are no
more Venetian than I am.
Sicilian? You mean you think
I have more money than I have.
And fewer morals.”
He gave her, directly endiigh
into her directness, his Mona
Lisa look. Doubtless expected
to have effect in ratio to length
of existence, it lingered on
and on, and she meticulously
examined it, entitled to, for,
though hundred-hand, it was
hers. Italian men are conceited
bitches as Mona Lisa obviously
was: was that what she arrived
at —again, anew? She arrived
at somewhere that caused her
to gesture the waiter into the
cafe for another drink, while
he put the Mona Lisa expres-
sion into words.
“It is not money. Oi have
planty lire.” He smacked at
his chest. “Planty. You are
most beautiful. Oi am crazy
of you.”
“About, Croesus. Planty lire,
eh?”
“Yes, yes. Oi need-a prac-
tise for English. Oi needa you.
Oi come with you. We prac-
tice together. Oi make-a tne
joy for you and the happing
Oi needa too the exercise o
love.” .
“Heigh-ho!” she said, an*
“ ‘No,’ ” she said wearily, no,
no, no. But he is not, y°
foolish girl, an in t e 111 g e
subject; he understands
No!’ ”
“Why no? How always no.
How is it you say no.


„» 9 k-a English. Oi am gooda-
fw. You think so? And
Jell-dressed in very beautiful
fashion-wear.
apparently she could not
A resist a second turning to
lim, /second survey.
could not have seen the
arroW . pointed orange shoes
ff j t h tasselled laces, the sock-
ets stripe-encircled like Alice
j„ Wonderland’s stockings, the
She turned her eyes politely
away, and farther away to
where, on the other side of the
square, something or someone
caused them to focus as if, at
last, at long long last, they saw
someone or something.
“Anent your fashion-wear,
Giorgio,” she said much more
brightly than hitherto, “I must
say I’ve scarcely, in Australia,
Down Under, seen gayer on
any—but any —of your com-
patriots, those espresso-bar-
boys par excellence. And many
have I seen for, believe or
believe not a garrulous
foreigner, they are Australia's
largest import. Isn’t that ab.
fab.?”
“You see!” he said, making,
unseen by her, a presumably
Continental gesture of both
hands, each two-ringed. “Oi
am very good lover. Very
strong. Very man. Very gooda
lover. You know? Troi me.”
For the third time she turned
to him, vivaciously, very. The
waiter put down her drink.
Even though radiant she ob-
served this.
"Oh,” she said, and her eyes
shone, and her smile was glitter-
ing, and she took up her drink
with a flourish, “oh, do excuse
me. I must drink this. You
have undone me. You have
upset me, now. Oh yes you
have, you have, you /u.vcinating
creature. It’s a dream. Venice!
Southern skies! And you—
your warmth, your childlike
charm, your carefree spirit,
your quickness of perception,
your humanity! But I bore
you. Everyone says this to you.
Ob, how utterly you fascinate
me! But . . . ”
Here her smile fled into the
She seemed distressed
almost to tears.
Out . . . oh, saddest of
words .. . t OO ] a t e ; Alas, too
ate ' 1 feel I can confide in
) (I am waiting for my
He spoke, for the last time.
Ven though his lighter would
ot work, and his last cigarette
e neld was bent, he spoke with
J'nned conviction, and she
a ched him with her Mona
L| sa expression.
I am better than your
T,. er ' You do not troi me.
hot me.”
Oh, no!” she said. “No,
little man. He is taller than
you. He is handsome. No
gold in the toothie-pegs. No
need for built-up heels. A won-
derful lover. I a -dore him.
Name—Lyle.”
She watched him, he mute as
a haddock, in his bile-green
mock-suede jacket, fumbling
his broken-down lighter out of
sight and his bent cigarette and
his lost face.
“You!” she said. “ Gatto!
Forse che si? Forse che no,
gatto!” and flicked her cigarette
towards his beautiful, hard
little face.
TVot bothering to observe the
result of this wilful yet
seemingly required action, she
swung away from him, and
raised her shapely arm straight
aloft, and gently stirred the
hand with its wedding ring and
large solitaire engagement ring
at the other woman wading out
of the surf of pigeons.
“My dear,” said the other,
pseudo-breathless and spark-
ling, “I’ve been trying to get
across the square for days.
That frightful Mamie. Pigeons
all over her. Little claws caught
in the blue rinse. Photo-
graphers three deep. I must
have a dirty big beer.”
She sat at right angles to her
friend, so that had she wanted
to look at him, the man in the
bile-green, and the stove-pipe
black trousers, she had only to
look at him. She seemed to
have no need to. He was any-
way everywhere, and certainly
not out of the box.
“My dear, I had to be rude
twice. Where’s that bloody
waiter? Mamie Whatever told
me, in American, that she
came from Pasadena, Cali-
fornia, You Ass Ay. Which, l
suppose, is in America. I said,
my dear, I was terribly, terribly
sorry. Ah, he arrives—what
are you drinking? I’ll have a
beer.”
“A double Scotch. Water.”
“My dear. I’ll have two beers.
Two beers, Giorgio. And you
heard what madam said. Vite,
boy, vite. You look radiant,
my dear.”
“Yes,” she said, again drain-
ing a Fernet Branca heel-tap.
She turned farther aside from
the persisting man. “Yes. You
know,” she raised her voice,
“Italy would be quite enchant-
ing were it not for the Italians.”
“I see, my dear. I saw. I
could hardly not,” said the
other and leaned confidentially
on the table, and interlocked
jetty eyes with her friend’s
bright pale ones, and also raised
her voice, “My dear, do you
think he sets his own hair? I
can always tell from the nape.
When he goes away ... if he
goes away . . . I'll look. Un-
T.V.VIEWING ROOM
OPERATING
THEATRE -t
“It Wasn't as good as the treatise!"
less, of course, he backs away.
Is he, my dear, already stand-
ing or still sitting? So hard to
tell.”
She swept her eyes blindly
across him like a stroke of ink,
across the face harder now in
the mould of one who came
from the north of Italy, prefer-
ably Turin, and spoke fault-
less Tuscan, and understood
not a word of English, and had
a lighter that worked.
“My dear, even that didn't
get rid of Mamie Pasadena,
You Ass Ay. I had to insult
her mink. Is übiquitous the
word? Anyway it goes every-
where like a plastic mac. My
dear, I said to her, ‘My dear,
if one has enough money to
buy mink one has no need to
buy mink, my dear.’ She could
have pushed me in the Canal.
My dear, don’t look now,
you’re not being followed.
Lover-boy leaves us. His dear
little tapering legs take him
away.”
watched. Still watching,
A the rims of drinks resting
on their lips, they saw him
reach his group of friends.
Without gesticulation, he told
them something. For a second,
twenty eyes turned, across the
distance, at the two Australian
women and unflickeringly re-
garded them, and for that
analysing second only. Then
the legs in tight-fitting cloth
balletically disposed themselves
subtly differently and the eyes
slipped elsewhere.
Presently, another of the
young men ran a comb through
his curls and, as though chosen
by an undercurrent of voting,
as though destined, as though
permitted, picked his way to-
wards a braceleted young
woman . . . German? . . .
dressed with uneasy boldness
who had settled herself, un-
certainly at ease, by herself, at
a table.
“Oh, I hear you coming,”
said the woman who had
ordered double whisky, “with
your clattering boots.”
She said this softly, wearily,
a shade regretfully. Her mouth
twitched. She could be sensed
to ripple, within —one drench-
ing colorless ripple, almost a
shudder. She quickly lifted
her drink.
Before it reached her lips,
she did lightly shudder.
“Darling,” she said to her
beer-drinking friend, as she
put down the whisky and
nibbled at her wedding ring,
“do you hear the cats at night?
Hundreds of them?”
“My dear, cats?”
“Cats. Hundreds. Making
love. The breeze blows the
. . . the din from the Gardens.
All day long they wait. Then,
night-time hundreds and
hundreds of screaming cats.”
“My dear, nothing wakes
this one once its closed its little
tipsy eyes. But nothing.”
“Cats. I can't sleep.” She
looked towards the graceful
pretty young men. “1 wish, I
to God Lyle would come back
from Milan. Today. Tonight.
Another week of this! God!”
Her eyes grew darker ; she
drank deep ; this time she really
shuddered.


The Map
By THELMA FORSHAW
WE had known the Kleins
all our lives —in fact
one of my mother’s
brothers was married
to a sister of Mrs Klein’s —and
on Saturday afternoons my
mother and I would walk two
miles to visit them, sharing a
little bag of boiled lollies on
the way. This we did regularly,
until the war.
I was only fourteen then, and
I envied the warm romping
litter of the twelve Klein child-
ren, being an only child myself,
and my mother a rather lonely
widow.
The Kleins were crowded
into an ordinary three-bedroom
cottage in Annandale the
main bedroom given over to
the parents and the youngest
baby—the other two rooms to
the five daughters and the
smaller children. The big sons
slept under the house among
bicycles, tools, old cartons and
jam tins in what seemed a
rather dank and eerie atmo-
sphere.
We would enter the Kleins’
kitchen, after stepping over
little scrolls of baby-dung on
the back-stairs, to be met by a
symphony of blowflies making
merry around a huge bowl of
sugar on the table. Mr Klein
would be drunk again and he
would greet us with a roar of
guttural welcome.
He had been born in Ger-
many but had been in Australia
long enough to father a large
tribe of children by an Austra-
lian wife. Perhaps the Kleins
thought it unfair when he was
interned at the beginning of the
war. Perhaps that was the
reason for The Map.
He was tall and thin, with
stooped shoulders and a fringe
that, ran all around his head
like a monk’s. He lacked four
front teeth, and with the two
prominent canines and his
sunken cheeks he looked like a
raffish and unshaven Dracula.
Whenever I saw him he was
wearing a grey flannel singlet
with sleeves, and a pair of
rough working-man’s pants
precariously held about his
loins by a leather belt. These
pants slid down to an alarming
degree as the afternoon wore
on, but all that happened was
that the bulging knees appeared
somewhere near his shins, and
he remained—astonishingly—
decent. It was probably a very
long singlet.
He clumped about in blucher
boots, gargling and whistling
conversation through the gap in
his front teeth. 1 remember he
used to drive one of those big
brewery carts drawn by two—
or was it four? —voluptuous-
looking draught-horses, and the
young Kleins, for all their hap-
hazard diet, grew lusty on huge
cans of brewer’s yeast brought
home by their father.
Mr Klein drank with gusto,
and when under the weather
would address himself to a
faded mezzotint of the Lady
of Shallott which hung on the
kitchen wall. He would try to
explain the story of the picture
to us, while his wife drummed
her fingers on the table and
muttered out of the side of her
mouth: “Ho, he won't believe
this in the morning when I
tell him.”
“'s La’ of Sh'lott. Goin’
down der riffer to die. Ver’
shick gurl.” Swaying and hitch-
ing at his trousers, he would
point it out to us, while I stifled
giggles behind my hands. But
my mother, a mischievous
woman and Irish, would egg
him on: “Yes, Heinrich, go on.
Tell us about the Lady of
Shallott, love.” She would
mimic him rapturously when
she got home.
Jessie, the wife, was an Aus-
tralian —a short and vastly-fat
female who left the care of her
younger brood to her two
eldest daughters while she held
forth to her visitors on political
and economic questions of the
day. It must have been hard
on her having a brilliant sister
who was a headmistress, and
perhaps she tried to “keep up.”
She had grand ideas. “Heinie
is a great musician,” she would
tell us, and sometimes she
would make him play for us
with his gnarled fingers on the
out-of-tune piano. Her eldest
girl had been sent to study law,
but failed and had to give it up.
There she would stand by the
open oven-door with the gas
going full-blast, her dress lifted,
warming an immense behind.
It was common knowledge that
she wore no bloomers and this,
too, delighted my Irish mother.
Round us seethed the child-
ren. Infants clad in little
singlets and bare-bottomed like
their dam, would race in and,
clambering on to the long
benches that ran either side of
the big kitchen - table they
would snatch up chunks of
bread-and-butter which they
plastered thickly with sugar.
It was they who left little
scrolls of dung on every step
and over which we picked our
way when entering the house.
Out into the cold of the winter
afternoon they would scuttle,
cavorting noisily in the middle
of the road, kicking up the
horse - manure and munching
their bread-and-sugar. Every
one of them survived. Even
the swarming flies did not
menace their health. Perhaps
it was the yeast that toughened
them.
Eventually, into the kitchen
would stagger Mr Bolton, Hein-
rich's best friend and neighbor.
In no time a quarrel would
start and Mr Bolton (or Mr
Klein) would be knocked to the
floor. They did this regularly
every Saturday, and once Mr
Klein had knocked out Mr
Bolton’s front teeth. This
caused me to wonder if that
was how Mr Klein had lost his
front teeth. Oddly enough,
they became good friends again
immediately after they'd had
their fight.
White-headed boys, wheeling
bicycles wandered in and out,
got something to eat and, idly
mounting their bicycles would
pedal off again down the hall
through the open front-door.
Then came that Saturday
afternoon of the war when we
arrived as usual, stepped over
the dung on the back-stairs
and entered the kitchen—to be
confronted by The Map.
M r Klein gargled - and -
whistled a greeting, then rolled
off with Mr Bolton for more
grog. It was lessie, slatternly
and unbloomered, who stood
in front of the enormous map
of Europe on the wall and who
triumphantly pointed out to us
the flagged pins which marked
Hitler's progress across the
Continent.
My mother sat stunned under
the passionate flow of pro-Nazi
lyricism that had taken the
place of lessie’s old political
harangues.
The semi-nude infants stuffed
themselves on bread-and-sugar
as before, the flies whined, the
gas-stove roared and the Lad)
of Shallott hung there waiting
for Mr Klein’s besotted com-
mentary. But The Map glortiy-
ing Hi 11 e r’s march across
Europe dominated them all.
My mother took me home
earlier than usual that day, an
we never went there again-
But I like to think that, alon=
with Mr Klein’s “great ntus-
cianship” and Anna's La
course, it was just an attec
tion. The desire to be differs
Am I wrong, I wonder?


mm
ANOTHER YEAR OF
PROTECTING AUSTRALIA'S
m
LIVES, INDUSTRIES AND HOMES
* ASSURANCES IN FORCE EXCEED £5 00 MILLION!
The 84th Annual Report of the T. & G. shows excellent results for the Society’s policyholders.
NEW BUSINESS
Once again, the new business secured during the
financial year was a record in the history of the
Society. 54,689 policies were written in the
Ordinary Department, with premiums exceeding
£2,300,000 and sums assured of more than
£63,000,000. The aggregate new business exceeded
that of the previous year by over £10,000,000.
The Accident Department premium income
increased to £673,000.
ASSURANCES IN FORCE
The Assurances in Force in the Ordinary and
Industrial Departments have increased to
£502,000,000. That the T. & G. was entrusted
with the responsibility of providing this great
mantle of protection is striking evidence of the
esteem in which the Society is held.
SECURITY
The financial position of the Society is unassail-
able. The assets which are held in trust to meet
payments to policyholders as they fall due
increased by £12,500,000 to £165,000,000.
SERVICE
The Society places the greatest importance on
rendering the maximum service to its members.
During the year £11,600,000 was paid to policy-
holders, making a total of more than £75,800,000
for the last 10 years.
STAFF SUPERANNUATION
During the year a large number of industrial and
commercial organisations took advantage of the
splendid benefits and conditions available under
T. & G. Staff Superannuation and Group Assur-
ance Schemes.
ADDITIONAL SERVICES
T. & G. Fire and General Insurance Company
Limited and T. & G. Nominees Proprietary
Limited continued to make satisfactory progress.
Already the annual premium income of the Fire
and General Insurance Company Limited has
exceeded £175,000, and this does not include a full
year at all Branches.
%
3\tutnal Jjfe Society
The Australasian Temperance and General Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited
(Incorporated in Victoria, 1876)


Australian Schooldays—II
In a Kurrajong Hat
By MALCOLM ELLIS
My schooldays began in
a dray. My father
was an Inniskilling
Dragoon who went
West into the Territory and
the Channel Country, met the
floods of “Ninety” and the
Depression of “Ninety-three’’
head-on on the Warrego and
emerged from the wreckage like
a lot of others without even
the eight boys who were vouch-
safed to the famous B. O.
Plenty.
His assets at the end of his
tussle with nature were one
dray (with tilt), one mare
named Bloomer (17 hands),
one wife two boys (lean),
several goats, some poultry, a
dog, and a couple of washing
tubs which were useful when
crossing creeks.
The only other thing he had
retrieved from the wreckage
was incurable optimism and he
set out through the Moonie
and Dawson country north-
ward, confident that there was
a rainbow’s end somewhere in
Central Queensland.
It was during this hegira that
my mother, a highly educated
woman all of sft lin high—
she subsequently died of her
privations at the age of just on
100 —decided that a smattering
of Kamilroi and Pitta which
even D. H. Lawrence would not
have printed and an ability to
catch snakes and goannas
seemed insufficient culture to
see even an Australian through
life.
So she taught me to read out
of Pope’s “Iliad” and to recite
out of Scott and furnished my
mind from the copious pages
of Charles Dickens whom she
had once been taken to see at
Gads Hill as a little girl.
The money" that has been
lost on bets that I could not
recite the first canto of
“Marmion” entire would pay
the salary of Dr Coombs for
half a century. I was not
taught to write. Nobody, after
seeing my first pot-hook, ever
had the courage to try.
Arriving at an interesting
timber-getters’ camp on the
Queensland Central Railway,
now known as Tryphenia (then
“77 Mile”), where all the timber
getters were so educated that
they could smell a royalty-
collecting inspector ten miles
off, and the sawmill-owner
Jimmy Dido Norton ran his
plant with a boiler made out
of a square ship’s tank, I was
sent to the provisional school
which my father persuaded the
Government to open. It
assembled in the shade of a
quandong tree.
The master, an old boy of
Lancing College with a name
now associated with Royalty,
had conveniently fallen off a
goods train one morning, and
had at once demonstrated that
he had high scholastic qualifica-
tions, the main one of which
was an ability to make mead
from black-bee honey which
was guaranteed to send even the
toughest axeman out for the
count.
I do not remember that he
taught his pupils anything but
the art of getting something
out of life without work. He
had a commendable habit of
having his own mead for break-
fast with gratifying results to
his only class.
He usually arrived to meet
his pupils in a cheerful mood,
when he would address them
somewhat as follows: “Well—
hie boysngirlhs shong this
morning will be Eton Bo’song.
Come on Et’n Bo’shing
shong.”
And having waved his arms
a bit he would retire to an
adjacent tree and conduct a
series of lyrics, until he went
to sleep after setting a curricu-
lum from the First Royal
Reader which his pupils
promptly abandoned for the
pleasures of the adjacent lagoon
bank.
There they shot parrots or
communed with an ancient
forty-niner who had run away
from a ship and who gave in-
teresting lectures on the art of
scalping as practised by the
fastidious lowas, illustrating his
theme with a ball-to-ball
account of the operation as he
had seen some of them perform
it on his mother.
I often wished there were a
photograph of the class of
Seventy-Seven Mile, ’97, in all
its galatea, calico and mush-
room and kurrajong hats (the
two very black abos. integrated,
included), singing the “Eton
Boat Song” under the quan-
dong tree. It would have done
the heart of Gladstone (for
whose death we had a holiday
in ’97) a mort of good. At
night my mother filled in gaps
in our erudition by making us
read aloud stories from Lane’s
“Arabian Nights,” and chap-
ters from Charles Dickens.
Tn time, we were transferred
to a new and larger school
of about 400 pupils fifty miles
away at Mt Morgan, then the
greatest single gold mine in the
world. The headmaster was
justly reputed to have been a
sergeant-major in the British
Army. From memory the edu-
cation there consisted entirely
of drawing maps of Ireland,
learning “The Wreck of the
Hesperus” by heart and being
chased by Chinamen who suf-
fered from a strange delusion
that they owned their own
watermelons.
Followed another change to
Red Hill School, in an outer
suburb, where there was rarely
any caning, teaching was in-
telligent under the gentle hand
of Daniel Baldwin —intelligent
enough to land one with one of
the six £3O a year bursaries
given by the State, which
assured free board and tuition
at one of the six Grammar
Schools which provided—out-
side denominational schools —
the whole secondary education
for boys in Queensland at that
time.
Against the background of
Commonwealth Scholarships in
these degenerate days £3O a
year might seem likely to have
little temptation for the schools
themselves, but judging by the
pleadings for patronage of the
schools embodied in telegrams,
competition for pupils must
have been intense. This again
is a strange contrast to the
present when it is easier to get
a Members’ Ticket for Sydney
Cricket Ground than entry into
one of the overcrowded great
or little public schools of the
Commonwealth.
The winner of my brain and
body was Brisbane Grammar
School which my mother chose
for me because its headmaster,
R. H. Roe (“The Skipper”)
was obviously a good and pious
man, being from Dorset and a
nephew of Bishop Heber the
revered author of that grand
old hymn, “From Greenland’s
Icy Mountains.”
I often wonder what the good
man, who was an Oxford blue
with a double first, brought up
as a scholar under Jowett at
Balliol, thought of the strange
figure in a kurrajong hat that
was left on his doorstep one
morning early in 1904, as the
result of his application for me.
He was a tall, good looking]
unworldly man, with a beard
which gave him a Christlike
appearance; an idealist who
combined a reverence for the
classics with an aptitude for
mathematics, a leaning towards
the Oxford Movement and a
religious devotion to the ideals
of education, and to the dictum
of Dr Gordon Stables of the
“Boys’ Own Paper” that every
morning should begin with a
nice cold shower. He presided
over a school of about 250 boys
from a school boarding house
in which about 30 miscellane-
ous exiles from the wilds, most
of them with names famous in
the history of exploration,
grazing and the goldfields, ex-
ploited the aptitudes and high
spirits acquired in the wide-
open spaces in a manner which
made tolerance of others’
foibles imperative and checked
violence only on the verge of
first degree murder.
It was no place for a rather
shy youngster without much
contact with civilisation who
objected strenuously to begin-
ning a quiet night by haying a
large rock attached to his big
toe with a bit of fishing line
and then heaved out the nearest
window, and to meeting the
rosy dawn with his hair
attached to his pillow with
birdlime and a tomcat romp-
ing round in a biscuit tin under
his bed. Fortunately, having
gone through this ordeal during
initiation, and having become
versed in the art of climbing
down a rope fire escape to
forage for hot pies, we a
learnt to take things as they
came in a place in which every
element seemed incongruous.
The school, only 34 years oH
had the air of having bee
imported, entire and P re t aD
cated, from an English court
town in which it had exis
in somnolent dignity since


, century. Its traditions
Jed moss-grown. Its cur-
jjptn was that of an English
Jjjar school. Its masters
L have been selected by a
jjittee consisting of Arnold
[Rugby, Rudyard Kipling
L Dean Farrar. They were
J English save three—two
Ljjt Australians and a
L staff officer who had been
|| e( j from his mountainous
fjatry by goitre.
Us boarders marched to
lurch a t All Sairits on Sunday
morning, nearly all being
gleans, under the stern eye
oftheir bearded janitor, George
Iflatt, with school ties and
silver ’badges up and boaters
jjjjned with lemon juice and
iuged with light blue and dark
Hue bands. Nobody would
ever have guessed that some of
|em had an expertise in re-
lieving thruppences from the
toiection plate which would
lave put Dante the magician
in shame or that others pro-
Ledto spend a lazy afternoon
lithe front windows of the
I dormitory heaving red hot
jranies into the right-of-way
Itlow, in the path of pious old
sntlemen wending their way
to teach Sunday school. Some
rf these, as they paused to
retrieve an extra offering from
Providence to swell the contents
fthe plate, looked as they
lose, as if they felt that the
Devil must be walking only a
use in front.
The staff matched in decorum
tie Sunday appearance of
Heir pupils. They were the
epitomes of what model Eng-
lish masters of tradition should
it,well hung with honors from
lie older universities of Eng-
Isnd for the most part.
The second master, F. S. N.
("too”) Bousfield, was Win-
der and Lincoln and looked
fe George Reid in one of his
more dignified moods. He hid
wonderful classical knowledge
ifhind an informal vocabulary
(Ain’t you a scholar?’*).
The snow capped writing
ter Jimmy Cowan was
complete 1 y ambidextrous
‘fd could write normally
T either one hand and
lade-down with the other
i° r even backwards. He
M a straight bat with
fibolical cunning on a per-
fclly sticky wicket. The
f ers a H looked as if they had
,"? e out of English school
action.
jTffiY were poorly paid by
modern standards, but they
w )|P to the school motto,
.!* Stne Lahore,” to the hilt
: j he thing I remember most
3 about them was their
i‘ er devotion to the job
. of hours, weather
| holidays. With a small
school there were more and
closer contacts between master
and boy than is possible today
in schools that run to round
1000 pupils. And when a
master fastened on to rich ore,
he worked it for ali it was
worth until he had produced an
assay of scholarships.
Goodness knows, the poor
fellows needed to work in any
case, and to be versatile as well,
in an age when it was necessary
to take ten subjects to secure
a first-class pass in the Sydney
University Senior Examination
which was the forerunner of
today’s Leaving Examinations.
The versatility was essential
because a limited staff had to
teach a variety of subjects
which ranged from mathema-
tics to Greek, which was com-
pulsory for the sixth form and
a “must” for anybody who
wished to earn one of the three
annual exhibitions to Sydney
or Melbourne University.
They taught with verve and
imagination, while giving an
almost equal devotion to sport
which was virtually compul-
sory, and to the Cadet Corps,
which numbered all of 70 and
turned out generals galore.
Its commander .was the Head-
master but its chief of staff and
organiser was George (Bobby)
Gross, the exiled Swiss Staff
Officer, for whom the Corps—
apart from the school German
plays which he invariably wrote
—was life itself. During my
day his rifle team won the Earl
of Meath’s shield twice against
the great public schools of the
Empire with Australia, the
United Kingdom, South Africa
and Canada competing. And
if his team had dropped dead
before the match was shot off
he could have turned on an-
other one just as good.
He did not live to know that
1100 of his boys would serve
in World War I, that some of
his later favorites would die on
Gallipoli in the first hours of
the landing, that his memory
would live through the long
string of generals and distin-
guished officers whom he
trained —Lavarack, R. E. Jack-
son, J. K. Cannan, Victor Sell-
heim, Eric Plant, Boase, Cecil
Foott, and others. He died of
cancer at 59 in 1909.
The most astonishing fact
about the queer old place,
which boys left usually much
later than they leave school
today and at a standard com-
parable to the first year at a
modern university, now seems
to me both the capacity of the
men whom it attracted as
masters and the practicality
which seemed to stem from a
strictly classical education of
the English public school type.
Also, the catholicity of abilities
of its products who earned
distinction in almost every field
in a greater world. Its scholars
ranged from Fred Paterson (a
Rhodes Scholar and prominent
member of the Communist
Party, the only Communist in
Australia ever to sit in a Par-
liament) to the first Australian
educated citizen to serve as a
Governor of his home State—
“ Joe” Lavarack.
Around my day or before it,
it produced among a maximum
of 250 pupils, Will Lawson
and J. J. Hilder, Alfred David-
son, General Manager of the
Bank of New South Wales, J.
D. Bell, a President of the Cam-
bridge Union and later Speaker
of the Queensland Assembly, T.
J. Byrnes, Premier in his early
thirties and dead and a legend
of scholastic, legal and political
brilliance at 37, Ross Philp,
one of the Petrov Commission
Judges, J. O. Lukin, the Com-
monwealth’s first Bankruptcy
Judge, John D. Story, father of
secondary education in Queens-
land, for many years Honorary
Vice Chancellor of the Univer-
sity of Queensland, of which
he was a prime founder, after
whom the Story Bridge is
named, Sir William Payne, a
great land administrator; in
medicine men like Argyle
Campbell, assistant to the
famous physiologist Professor
Schaefer in Edinburgh in the
days of his greatness and Sir
Alexander Murphy, now a Past-
President of the Australasian
College of Surgeons ; Charles
Powers of the High Court,
Malcolm Newman, Controller
of Mineral Production in the
Commonwealth during World
War 11, one of the Australian
builders of the tin industry in
Malaya and now Chairman of
the Mt Morgan Company, over
the revival of which from the
dead he presided. And there
was Rear Admiral George
Moore who commanded the
Australian R.A.N. Squadron
and became ambassador to the
Philippines and J. G. Balsillie,
first Australian Director of
Radio Telegraphs in 1911, the
first man to send or receive
wireless signals in a moving
train.
All these specialists, the
little school drew out of its
classical hat. But there was
wider versatility among the
denizens of its queer architec-
tural halls —the Great Hall was
a reminiscence of Balliol in Ox-
ford and some of the rest an
echo of old Charterhouse where
“The Skipper” had imbibed his
early learning.
An example? What price
U. E. Parry-Okeden who cap-
tained the Queensland Inter-
state XI in 1896 and the A.I.F.
XI in Egypt in 1916 and, in the
interval, took part in the
Alaska Dog Team Derby in
1907, became a noted amateur
steeplechase rider in N. S.
Wales and, last time I heard of
him, had achieved the crowning
glory of membership of the
Mundubbera Shire Council, out
by the original “black stump”?
“It might be famous architecture and all that—but why
does it have to be so old-fashioned?"


"Strength Through Selective Financing"
nnna
IU
FINANCE & INVESTMENT
COMPANY LIMITED
FINANCING ONLY THE
PRODUCTS WE SELL
HASTINGS DEERING ARE THE LARGEST FORD DEALERS IN AUSTRALIA
FORD FALCON
(with unprecedented sales requiring new finance accommodation)
Full range of FORD CARS
Full range of FORD TRUCKS
Full range of FORD TRACTORS
ANNUAL
SALES
1959-60
£6,500,000
A.E.C. Trucks & Buses
(throughout the Commonwealth)
CATERPILLAR, JOHN DEERE, HYSTER,
McCulloch
(Authorised Dealer in Queensland, Northern Territory,
New Guinea)
ANNUAL
SALES
1959-60
£6,500,000
Total Annual Sales, Year 1959-60 £13,000,000
HASTINGS DEERING GROUP SALES FOR 25 YEARS £120,000,000
Our Company is one of the most economical and profitably operated finance
companies, because our business is SELECTIVE in financing only the products
we sell.
8% A YEAR FOR 3 YEARS AND OYER
7\°/o P.A. FOR 2 YEARS 6% P.A. FOR 9 MONTHS
7% P.A. FOR 18 MONTHS P.A. FOR 6 MONTHS
b\°/o P.A. FOR 12 MONTHS 5% P.A. FOR 3 MONTHS
• APPLICATIONS can be accepted only on the application form attached
to the Prospectus, which can be obtained from all Branches of the A.N.Z.
BANK, all Members of the STOCK EXCHANGE or all HASTINGS PEERING
Companies and Branches in New South Wales and Queensland.
MAIL THIS COUPON
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE & INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
G.P.O. Box 4333, Sydney.
Please send me, without any obligation on my part, prospectus dated
1/9/60, giving full details of your terms deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS
HD/114
OR TELEPHONE FA 0322


LETTERS
For and Against the New "Bulletin"
j' ra a new and young reader
y have been very pleasantly
irprised with the amount and
quality of stuff your paper
presents. Certainly it’s the best
job’s-worth on the bookstall,
jut why must it have such
j dowdy cover? To look at it
f0 u’(i think it was actually
overpriced ! Among the im-
ported weeklies, etc., our own
Bulletin should still be one of
|e most eye-catching. It isn’t.
]t looks neglected, and so, too
often by its would-be readers,
(specially the younger ones, it
js-merely because of the
. cover!
I This is, first, because of the
j (leap paper—surely you could
I use, say, semi-gloss paper, like
I most Australian periodicals
lave nowadays, without raising
tie price?
And then, although your
tover designs now seem very
apt and varied, if you really
rant to re-establish the Austra-
San National Newspaper, then
please vary the color a bit —
we’re tired of telephone-book
pink.
With these improvements,
together with changes already
made, The Bulletin will both
lie and look the proud voice of
contemporary Australia it used
lobe.
James Quixley
Coburg (Vic.).
Sir,
: I notice that nearly all the
letters discussing The Bulletin
Ganges have been written by
elder readers. What about the
younger generation? I’m a
teenager who has been reading
I® Bulletin for three years,
‘ed the main attraction to me
* JS the late lamented Abo.
J“d Society pages, where I
Wd learn more about the
other fellow.” My friends
* I liked your paper because
? didn’t try to sell us any-
lnt( It was a “Dinkum
?, SSle ” paper and a pleasant
i ® from the American and
fwh copied papers that most
l gers read. However, with
°f the Abo. and
Clet y pages and changes such
Letters for The Other
‘•tow’s Mind, this free Aussie
!j has been dropped for
s eonventionaJ stereotyped
Oner as found in any paper.
. another reader has said, the
( friendship has gone. The
new Bulletin has lost its
appeal to the younger people
who, after all, will be the main
readers tomorrow.
(Miss) Lorraine Welch
Caringbah (iV.S.JF.).
Sir,
I am an average Australian
and have subscribed to The
Bulletin for the last 30 years.
For a long time before the
recent changes I was in the
habit of skipping about a
quarter of the reading matter.
For the last few issues I have
been reading more and more
of the various articles, etc., and
the January 18 issue I read and
enjoyed from cover to cover.
As a sort of clue to my
mentality, I take the liberty of
asking you to keep on with
your Cryptic Crosswords and
the special issues covering
Royal Shows in the various
States.
James Grayson
Winton ( Q .).
Sir,
I cannot remember the time
when our family did not take
The Bulletin. My father said
he took it for the financial
columns. Our female friends,
in whose homes the paper was
not allowed, when visiting us
immediately retired behind the
piano to read unseen. I was
thrilled when, aged 20, The
Bulletin published the first
poems I ever sent it (it pub-
lished one fairly lately, too).
I still take it every week, and
may continue to do so, but I
dislike everything about its new
form. At an age when most of
one’s friends are dead or dying,
it is sad to lose another.
Ruth Bedford
Edgecliff (N.S.W.).
Sir,
I am now a secondhand
reader of The Bully. Once at
Circular Quay I went to buy it,
and a fellow worker said:
“Why do you want to buy that
Fascist rag?” On another
occasion, after I had become
a service pensioner, I asked a
newsagent to leave it, and was
greeted by the reply: “What
do you want with that bloody
thing? No one reads it now.”
I persisted with my request,
and finally I noticed he was
selling about six. This occurred
between Gosford and Avoca
Beach (N.S.W.).
Then it began to pall; it
seemed to become too stereo-
typed ; its venomous attitude
towards Evatt, Ward et al. I
found nauseating at times ; and
it has always expressed a high
regard for Franco. Anyway,
there are plenty of Fascist-
minded folk in this “Land of
Freedom,” as H. G. Wells
found in 1938 when he alluded
to Hitler and Franco as the
“Mad Dogs of Europe.”
I thought the January 4
edition one of the best yet;
have been able to read Alan
Reid any time; approved article
on “Catholic Discords,” also
the index. I think that the winds
of change will tend to promote
more freedom of thought and
opinion, although that does not
mean it should develop into
what the old Bulletin called
the “flapper press,” as exempli-
fied by the Lee Sharron stuff.
W. C. Smith
Opossum Bay (Tas.).
Sir,
I am glad to see The
Bulletin still following the
tradition of publishing Austra-
lian poems and articles by
Australian writers, but these,
especially book-reviewers, seem
to be preponderantly Sydney-
siders. Should not the National
Australian Newspaper have
more interstate writers on its
list of official contributors?
Nancy Cato
Hope Valley (S.A.).
[Geoffrey Dutton (S.A .) and Pro-
fessor T. Inglis Moore (A.C.T.) are
two interstate reviewers who have
lately contributed. We hope to have
others. Articles, stories, paragraphs
and verse are, of course, published
from all over Australia. —Ed.]
Sir, i
The “new” Bulletin to me,
a freelance who has lost a
regular market, is valueless,
and the general opinion among
my friends is that it has already
lost its individuality and gained
a too-professional touch which
makes it difficult to tell which
of the new owners’ many pub-
lications one is reading. The
people who formerly read and
quoted The Bulletin with
respect are now inclined to
dismiss it, along with all the
others, as the work of staff-
writers earning their bread and
butter.
I am sadly aware, however,
of the poor state of the circu-
lation figures, and am holding
my own fire till I see whether
the new policy is successful in
sending them soaring.
S. J. Armstrong
Inver ell (N.S.W.).
Sir,
You developed into a
national institution largely be-
cause you blended individuality
and identifying yourself with
the daily life of the Australian
people in a way that no other
journal was able to achieve.
This was due mainly to the fact
that, to use your own genial
hyperbole, you were written
by one-half of Australia for the
whole of its people.
I don’t think your contribu-
tors ever let you down ; and
your few spasms of recession
were due to curious unreal and
rather fatuous attitudes on
foreign policy, resulting from
“I wish I'd Written that!"


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£A363,000,000
•
Offices :
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years to
be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
Send for illustrated Bulletin
to the sole manufacturers:
6UTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
liaiml Magnetting Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
et~. Makers of Classifiers,
\\ ater Filters, Steam Valves,
ete
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2/,-
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
errors of judgment in an un-
accustomed field.
You were never lavish in
your rewards to your contribu-
tors, but the freelances who
filled your columns were well
satisfied with the cigarette
money you doled out to those
who had not forgotten to claim
it because, like myself, they
felt it an honor to have some-
thing published between those
two old pink covers.
If you adhere to the two
principles mentioned above,
and in particular remain close
to the real Australian spirit,
the format is perhaps of small
consequence, although I cannot
understand why changes were
necessary, there being, in my
opinion, no clash here between
progress and tradition.
Fred Aarons
Exeter (N.S.W.).
Sir,
On the face of it, the new
Bulletin, while it may have
much to commend it, is un-
likely to have new writers
springing up from everywhere,
for the simple reason that
(apparently) their opportunities
are to be restricted to much-
diminished Society and Abo-
riginalities items. The Letters
pages, though interesting
enough, will certainly not be
as remunerative to contributors
as the former Other Fellow’s
Mind feature, and it looks as
if the Personal page is also to
be denied them.
Clement FIosking
Killara (N.S.W.).
Sir,
Like most of the older
readers, I claim some 35 years
of constant reading, and miss
the old form of The Bulletin,
but I feel that it will develop
a new personality and maintain
its claim to be Australia’s
National Newspaper.
I was pleased to see the
slogan “Australia for the White
Man” wiped from the record.
It always struck me in a way
never intended by the pub-
lishers —“Kill off the Aborigi-
nals.” I can hear the cries of
horror of the previous pub-
lishers at this interpretation,
but at least I have not the
constant reminder before me
of our treatment of the blacks
some 80 to 100 years ago.
I note with interest you in-
tend to be sceptical of humbug
and that you intend to face up
squarely to unpleasant facts —
fair enough.
Get your leader-writers out
of the habit of bending their
knee when the name of R. G.
Menzies is mentioned and wipe
from your apprentices’ training-
manual the requirement that
they touch their forelock when
they see or hear the name of
the Australian Liberal Party.
K. J. Gleeson
Crow’s Nest (Q.).
Sir,
“Rebellious and rambuncti-
ous” —yes, you certainly were,
and quite rightly so in those
days of privilege based on
social injustice. No doubt you
helped build the present Aus-
tralian democracy, which, with
all its faults, is a vast improve-
ment on the old order.
John Ainsworth (B.
18/1/’61), who thinks you are
“still a mouthpiece of the
most reactionary elements in
Australia,” must be a youngish
man who did not know you
half-a-century or so ago. When
your name for the employer
class was “Fat” and when you
referred to the Empire as the
“Vampire”—eh?
And how right you were in
one matter, anyway—your con-
demnation of the Boer War.
Although you refrain from
doing so, you might well say
today “I told you so,” as you
watch the Boers about to take
out of the British Common-
wealth not only the two former
little republics but the Cape
and Natal as well.
It is nice to see you reprint-
ing pars from the ’Nineties —
hope you will go on.
O. C. Charles
Adelaide.
Sir,
I should like to congratulate
The Bulletin on its new form
and modernisation. Your Over-
seas articles are excellent.
Don’t think your racing is
up to the old standard. I en-
joyed browsing through the
more numerous notes on per-
formance and pedigrees, etc.
Aboriginalities and Society,
though excellent still, have not
the scope of bygone days.
Missed “Australia for the
White Man” at first, but after
some consideration decided it
is best deleted. The words
themselves had no real value,
and must have caused unneces-
sary bitterness and resentment
among possible readers, both
foreign and resident, whose
skins are of a different hue to
our own.
Charles Shann
Torrens Creek (Q.).
GOVERNMENT BY
BUSINESS?
Sir,
I notice in Political Points
that Derek Montefiore-Castle,
through the pages of the “Aus-
tralian Liberal,” advocates the
formation of a Government
run by business manage
Shades of the late but § not
lamented Horatio BottomC
That was the very banner h e
flew from his own political
bandwagon, propounding
exactly the same arguments 6
“A Business Government bv
Business Men!” Before, during
and after World War 1
stumped the U.K. with this
slogan and managed to have
three or four members elected
on that ticket. When a news-
paperman asked Asquith (I
think) what he thought of the
political chances of the Business
Men’s Party, he made a very
sour reply to the effect that he
thought very little of them
indeed. During his long pro-
fessional career as a lawyer, he
said, he had spent the most of
it trying to extricate scores of
leading businessmen from the
tangles, mistakes, and financial
snarls into which they had
blundered. The Business Men’s
Party was sunk without trace
in England when Bottomley
was jailed for fraud.
EDMUND BARCLAY
Umina ( N.S.W. ).
AUSTRALIA FOR THE
WHITE MAN
Sir,
As the writer of the letter
which first noted that The
Bulletin had dropped its old
motto “Australia for the White
Man,” may I reply to “Obser-
ver” (B. 25/1/’61)?
It is dishonest to describe
Australia’s immigration policy
as merely one of restriction
Most countries impose restric-
tions, some of a racial nature.
It is how they are restrictive
that matters.
Whatever the political
pundits may say to the con-
trary, there is no such thing as
a multi-racial society. A society
is a single entity. A multi-
racial society can only exist
where there is one religion and
one set of marriage customs,
etc., and in which intermarri-
age between races carries no
stigma on either side.
There are, and can be, multi-
racial communities. But such
communities are only viable
States if one race has political
control. This creates second-
class citizens and can result in
bloodshed.
It is idle to deplore ‘color-
bars” or prejudices based on
skin pigmentation unless allow*
ance is made for the fact tna
the vast majority of the peop e
of the world are ignorant 0
the views of anthropology
and unversed in semantics.
Most people divide the races


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ARTHUR ROBERT McIVOR late of
Cronulla.—TAKE NOTICE that DON-
ALDA HELEN McIVOR has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 3271 of 1960
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court Mint Building
Macquarie Street Sydney by 31st
March 1961 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from A. J. P.
HALL & HALL, Solicitors, of 90 Pitt
Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept., NEW SUB. / RENEWAL
The Bulletin Newspaper, (Please cross out one)
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please find enclosed my cheque! money-order f 0r .......
months’ subscription to The Bulletin.
RECIPIENT:
ADDRESS:
DONOR:..
ADDRESS:
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 125.; \ year—£l 6s. Post
free. British C’wealth: £3 3s. 6d. Foreign: £3 16s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight— Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British C’wealth: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to “The Bulletin” or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
A world into white, yellow,
J an d black, placing the
0 f their own skin first,
f,j s merely a convenient
Jol to embrace religion,
! r j age customs, traditions,
J 0 f thousands of years'
jjost Australians support the
‘ n t restrictive immigration
‘, |v They probably regard
J|ja the words of The
;, ileT in leader of January 18
‘ 3t ding foreign affairs) as “an
Jde of enlightened self-
iterest.”
jut so long as Australians
ptinue to call a spade a spade
j be known as the “White
Mralia” policy. Whereas
jost countries take their res-
ided immigration policies
d granted, we talk a lot
jout ours, not because we
link it is wrong but because
Bare afraid. One of the best
inters to fear is to nail the
»lors to the mast!
CRASTER C. M. USHER
busby (N.S.W.).
i,
Selling our restrictionist im-
migration policy to the Com-
■wealth of Nations and the
kid needs firstly a good case
li secondly a self-explanatory
ame that does not offend.
He case for keeping a
dole continent from having
minorities (either in control or
bbjugation) is so strong that
heeds no apology. We should
therefore call our policy “The
No-minority Policy.”
Anyone questioning that
olicy can be shown almost
'try continent, including the
di-contincnt of India, where
tolerance towards minorities
is brought turmoil.
Minorities form when
®pks difficult to assimilate
Ate themselves by differing
tbits of life, food and religion.
™ly Australian legislators
iised that Chinese would not
sly blend, when they clashed
® miners on the goldfields
■ w ith uncanny foresight
Jtroduced the White Australia
4cy for economic reasons.
®lory has demonstrated how
tiomic prejudices grow into
wlerance, then into violence.
“ ls not from a feeling of
superiority or ancestor-
,s% but from a practical
filiation of what British
European stock have done
Australia that makes us
, We have a right to choose
t Emigrants.
M. J. MATTNER
w»ood (N.S.W.).
The Bulletin, along with
Jay r ecent changes—some
iSo me bad —has dropped
its motto: “Australia For The
White Man.”
Apparently our national
paper reasons that to avoid
criticism from non-Australians
and the “We Are Asians”
group, we should call a spade
a spoon. Surely this isn’t a
truly national outlook.
Perhaps you could inform
your readers as to how people
criticising “The White Australia
Policy” get such a good cover-
age in the daily press. The
coverage is so regular it must
be organised. Who is running
the propaganda machine?
C. W. SILLER
Brisbane.
Sir,
Your affirmation of faith in
the White Australia Policy
saved your paper by just one
issue from losing a reader of
20 years’ standing.
But I cannot agree with your
statement that color (plus facial
characteristics) are not import-
ant in assimilation. Possibly
more than any other factor
they ensure that people will
remain apart in their own
national groups instead of inter-
marrying and becoming one
race.
P. RYAN
Wagga ( N.S.W. ).
SYMBOL OF DEATH
Sir,
It may have been a typing
error on my part, but in my
poem “Family Portraits”
which, by the way, was number
nine (IX), not sixty (LX) —on
page 29 of B. 18/1/’6l, the last
line should have read : “He was
so small, and the ocean is so
deep.” The ocean being a
symbol of death, eternity,
nothingness, not that particu-
lar piece of sea at that particu-
lar time, should not be referred
to in the past tense.
NANCY CATO
Hope Valley (5.,4.).
CRICKET IMPERIALISM
Sir,
Lindsey Browne’s Test com-
mentary (B. 25 /1 / '6l) plays a
kind of Imperial hob with
royalty. “Emperors?” he says.
“Oddly enough, if you exclude
little wicket-chucker - down
Solomon, there is only one man
in the team with an emperor’s
name —Alexander ...”
Solomon was a King; so also
was Alexander of Macedonia,
surnamed the Great, and a
whole crowd of lesser Alexan-
ders. But there were three
Roman emperors named Valen-
tine, all overlooked by your
reporter. Is this cricket?
OLAF RUHEN
Mosman ( N.S.W. ).
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
C.Y.: Franklin: Please send ad-
dress Durga Lall: Say it here:
. ...R.McD.: Not bad at all, but
how does it add to the delight of
human existence? ... .C.Y.E.:
Thank you for the happy thought
about the pin. Both those poems
also had their point... .R.L.W.:
You’re inclined to be turgid but one
line at least should appeal to many
—“Full-steam with joined impetus
the merger sweeps” G.C.C.:
Your lines in “Country Wedding”
fall easily as confetti. Solidify....
T.C.1.: Write us an article about
that 5ch001...-P.R.: One good line
—“Precocious and cruel as a
needle”... .P.D.M.: They show a
feeling for boats and the sea. Ever
tried short stories? ... .R.G.: “Song
is a Mirror,” “The Unicorn” and
“Pastoral” came close. Try them on
one of the magazines
Come in and bring
THE ARCHIBALD PRIZE
I call it really noble,
That our artist William Dobell
Did not enter for the prize,
Which he won already trice.
He may be too busy, Time now
costs more,
Commissions piling, so whatfor?
May be, it is, he wants to claim,
Satisfaction, having reached Fame.
Now he leaves, all the chances there
To other fellowartists “au pair.”—•
Well, whatever the reasons, other
big names
Should also decline Art Prize
Racing Games,
They should not compete by non-
entry at all,
So chances may to new ones fall.
THE RELIEVER
He’d worked at every station from
Girgarre to Galah
And shunted in the fog in Mel-
bourne yard,
Got wet up to the belly in the
snow way up at Shelley,
But he reckoned it’s not windy at
Blowhard.
He’d seen a dust storm cook the
town of Chinkapook
Where the flamin’ crows die
daily in the heat;
There was only one place hotter, he
said old son you gotter
Hand it to the summer in Yaa-
peet.
’Twas at a plaot called Cressy that
he met a girl named Bessie
And he reckoned he was very
slow indeed;
He took twelve months to land her
when she went to Yackan-
dandah
And now they’re living with their
dozen kjds at Speed.
He no doubt was some reliever, and
I think his name was Weaver,
But whether his tale is true or
just plain hooey
He was just the sorter bloke who’d
tell you for a joke
That “The Daylight” ran at night
through Carapooee.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Waltons, Ltd.
Sydney’s “gay divorcee” had a profit-
able year, which was highlighted by
a one-for-five bonus-distribution of scrip.
The gift-issue absorbed £732,902 of the
share-premiums reserve. The co.’s proper-
ties were written-up. Current business is
reported to be satisfactory.
Founded in Sydney in 1926 [under the
name of Cash Orders (Amalgamated)
Ltd.] Waltons is a leading retailer, and
operates a chain of 57 retail and mail-
order stores in the eastern States. A
wholly-owned subsidiary, Waltons Credit
Corporation, Ltd., was formed in 1958
to handle the group’s h.-p. sales. Last
term Waltons Acceptance Corporation,
Ltd., was launched.
Waltons’ management has consistently
plugged hard at mail-orders and credit-
retailing. This policy has helped to
minimise some of the characteristic diffi-
culties being encountered by big retail-
houses, confined to the inner-city areas
and vulnerable to changes in public
transport routes.
During 1955-59 Waltons was associated
with Sears, Roebuck and Co., a huge
American retailer, and traded under the
name of Waltons-Sears, Ltd. This asso-
ciation was terminated in 1959 by mutual
consent. Last term Waltons was on its
own, doing well.
An interesting feature of the co.’s acti-
vities is its profit-sharing scheme, operat-
ing through the staff pension-fund. As
the fund’s assets are mainly in the form
of Waltons’ scrip many employees are
shareholders, keenly interested in im-
proving earnings.
In the latter half of last term
Waltons took - over Treadways, Ltd
(Melbourne retailer with branch-
stores in the City, Prahran, Collingwood
and Brunswick), Kiernan and Co. Pty.
(furniture dealer in Collingwood, Vic.),
R. H. Gordon and Co., Ltd. (Sydney
retailer), A. J. Swane (Hardware) Pty., of
Bankstown (N.S.W.), and Crowes Pty.
(Brisbane furniture and home-appliances
dealer). In addition, a furniture and
appliance store was opened at Caringbah
(N.S.W.) and a retail site acquired at
Dandenong (Vic.).
Waltons issued 2,250,000 ss. ords. plus
449,998 ss. 6 p.c. conv. notes in acquisi-
tion of Treadways ; 756,000 ss. ords. in
acquisition of R. H. Gordon ; and paid
cash for A. J. Swane (£250,000), Crowes
(£150,000) and Kiernan (undisclosed).
After balance-date Croydon Home Furni-
tures Pty. was acquired in Victoria for
106,210 ss. ords.
Turnover was satisfactory, particularly
in the last six months. Consolidated nef
profit for the year ended July 31, 1960,
was £205,973 (or almost 32 p.c.) fatter
at £847,451 after charging £96,501 for
depreciation (up £7903) and providing
£391,731 for taxation (up £245,728):
Parent and Subsidiaries.f
, Dividends N
Ist 2nd To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Pref.Pref.Ord. Total, serves. serves.*
£ p.c. p.c. p.c. £ £ £
’57..578,072 10 6 15 471,234 106,838 2,114,859
To staff fund, £40,000 .. .. 2,074,859
Share premiums, £547,335 .. .. 2,622,194
Debenture expenses w/off, £42,723 .. 2,579,471
Less added intangibles, £114,754 .. 2,464,717
’58..627,778 10 6 15 533,699 94,079 2,558,796
To staff fund, £42,286 . . .. 2,516,510
Share premiums, £35,280 .. .. 2,551,790
Add reduction in intangibles, £2069 2,553,859
’59..641,478 10 6 15 578,109 63,369 2,617,228
To staff fund, £40,000 .. .. 2,577,228
Asset revaluation, £1,195,696 .. 3,772,924
Reserves capitalised, £732,902 .. 3,040,022
Decrease intangibles, £393,974 .. 3,433,996
’60..847,451 10 6 121 625,818 221,633 3,655,629
To staff fund, £48,045 .. .. 3,607,584
* After deducting intangibles, £313,747 at
31/7/’6O.
f Excluding Waltons-Sears Credit Corporation.
After paying the pref. divs. this was
equivalent to an earning-rate of 17.1 p.c.
on the higher average ord. capital, com-
pared with 16.7 p.c. in the previous year,
18 p.c. in 1958 and 18.6 p.c. in 1957 and
1956. This does not include the net earn-
ings of Waltons Credit Corporation, Ltd.,
shown at £181,544 (up £88,826) for the
year ended July 31, 1960.
Following the bonus-issue last April,
the ord. div.-rate was reduced from
15 p.c. to \2\ p.c. The actual div.-
cheque received by ord. shareholders was
£44,443 higher at £596,906. Reserves re-
ceived £221,633 and also benefited by
£1,195,696 asset-revaluation and £393,974
decrease in intangibles.
The one - for - five bonus - handout
absorbed £732,902, and £48,045 was
transferred to the profit-sharing staff
fund. This left accumulated reserves and
undistributed profits at £3,607,584, sub-
ject to £313,747 intangibles.
Paid capital was raised by £732,902
ss. bonus-ords. and £739,926 ss. ords.
issued to finance the takeover of Tread-
ways and R. H. Gordon. The 3,441,000
ss. “A” ords., formerly held by Sears,
Roebuck and Co. were converted to ords.
and offered to Waltons’ shareholders at
11s. a unit. Subscribed capital at balance-
date amounted to £5,512,085 in 150,000
20s. cum. first prefs., 225,000 20s. 6 p.c.
redeemable cum. second prefs. (12,500
second prefs. were redeemed during the
year) and 20,548,340 ss. ords., all f.-p.:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1958.* 1959.* 1960.*
Ist Pref. .. £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
2nd Pref. .. 250,000 237,500 225,000
Ord. .. 3,631,957 3,664,507 5,137,085
Reserves .. 3,226,300 3,284,949 3,921,331
Outside interests 45,560 35,500 75,825
Debentures, over-
draft 7,681,193 6,404,596 7,640,721
Notes .. 815,739
fCreditors, etc. 4,877,265 4,054,367 3,913,352
Tax .. .. 150,078 471,565
Due subsid. .. 338,409 483,329
Final divs. .. 281,316 284,713 331,818
£20,482,000 £18,599,461 £21,962,436
Freeholds .. 3,786,415 3,809,376 6,681,662
Plant, etc. .. 918,128 907,017 878,711
Deb.-sinking
fund .. 225,216 290,529 358,759
Shares other cos. 57,491 31,194 9,811
Shares subsid... 2,000,000 2,000,000 2,000,000
Stock etc. .. 2,855,757 2,718,489 3,151,905
Debtors . . 9,861,679 8,050,534 8,484,253
Owed by subsids. 22,634
Cash .. .. 67,524 84,601 60,954
Intangibles .. 709,790 707,721 313,747
£20,482,000 £18,599,461 £21,962,436
* Excludes accounts of Waltons-Sears Credit Corp.
f Includes provision for taxation and contingencies.
During the year the co. issued
£815,739 6 p.c. ss. convertible nm
iQ« fo w Ve at fl? ma , tu ™« July'si
1965. This was followed by a n n lf ’
four issue of 5,982,486 7 p.c 5 S c lor '
notes one-for-four at par, last Nov°em
ber. The notes are paid to 2s. 6d th
balance to be called “as required ” \
stock- and note-holders participated ° h
Debentures and bank accommodate
(shown together) were higher. Creditor!
increased only slightly. Freeholds rn
from £3,809,376 to £6,681,662 followin'
the write-up and acquisition of n J'
properties. Stock and book-debts wer!
considerably higher.
Liquidity was satisfactory. Theoretical
working-capital amounted to £7,723,011
Recent credit-restrictions may’damneti
the earning-rates, particularly on h-n 1
sales. Otherwise, future prospects look
attractive. ,
At the last sale in Sydney the 5s ords
changed hands at 9s. lid. a unit. The
immediate return is 6.3 p.c. on the basis
of the present 12| p.c. div.-rate.
The ss. f.-p. conv. notes fetched 6s. Ud
a unit, for an immediate yield of 43
p.c. The 2s. 6d.-paid conv. notes were
traded at 3s. lid. each.
Net tangible asset-backing works out
at £59 17s. lOd. for each 20s. first pref.,
and at Bs. 4d. for each ss. ord. unit. The
second prefs. are not listed.'.
Malleys, Ltd.
TyjALLEYs, Ltd., is poised on the brink
1 of more expansion, recent moves
initiated by the co. presaging increased
activity on an expanded front. Govern-
mental deflationary policy (introduced
last November) affecting, inter alia,
building and consumer-durables, is bound
to slow anticipated rates of growth, but
prospects are still attractive (medium to
long-term prospects).
Malleys had its origin in a small sheet-
metal business founded in 1884 by tb!
late Francis Malley, and, “going public”
in 1919, the co. now has a capital in the 1
vicinity of £1,367,000, of which £30,000 1
is held in £1 9 p.c. cum. first prefs.
(Capital at balance-date, June 30 last,
was £1,098,641.) In addition to the
manufacture of sheet-metal products for
the plumbing and building trades, the
group turns-out ventilation equipment,
washing-machines, refrigerators, electric
stoves, wash-boilers, kerosene room-
heaters, domestic cisterns, porcelain-
enamel baths, bath-heaters and numerous
other lines fabricated mainly from sheet-
metal. The co. is one of the largest of
its kind in Australia. a
Energetically broaching the problem of
increased turnover, Malleys has expanded
its interests in the domestic-appliance
field considerably during the last fe w
years. A licensing arrangement was con-
cluded in 1954 with the Whirlpool Cor-
poration of St Joseph, Michigan
(U.S.A.), for local manufacture of Whirl-
pool washing-machines. The co. took-
over Colda Home Appliances, Ltd'
(N.S.W.), in October, 1958, for 163,928
£1 ords. at a total premium of £81,964
Colda turns-out domestic refrigerators)
washing-machines and lawnmowers. 1
July, 1960, the licensing arrangemen
effected with Whirlpool were extended


A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. F. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Fife Building:,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 312761 P.O. Box
(4 Fines) No. 1887 W
Telegraphic and Cable Address:
“Hatmax” Sydney.
Hattersley & Maxwell
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone: Bff 17U—BW 8088.
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
K. H. ALLEN, M. R. L,. DOWLING,
P. R. LEVY, A. P. REYNOLDS, N. R.
COURSE (Melbourne Resident Partner).
Delfln House, 16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
25-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Building, 150 Queen St.,
Melbourne. 67-5957 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables: “Rosdale,” Sydney.
Melbourne, or Wollongong.
Davis, Rothweil & Co.
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange )
193 Summer St., 48 Fitzmaurice St.,
Orange 4054. Wagga 2436.
117 Pitt St., Sydney. BL 1855 (3 lines)
Telegraphic and Cable Address:
“BETEP,” Sydney.
,j e manufacture of refrigerators, air-
ditioners, dishwashers, laundry-dryers,
jnd electric-ranges and similar pro-
(IS.
4t the same time, and providing much-
id finance, Whirlpool, eager to sub-
\ equity in the Malley venture,
5 j to make an initial unsecured loan
1050,000 for a three-year term at an
Lst-rate of 6 p.c. per annum. At the
Lion of three years from the date of
by Malleys of the loan-money
li'lpool will have the right to convert
[{or d. shares at a premium not to
| R ed 12s. 6d. per share.
Whirlpool will be entitled to rank pari
w ith ord. shareholders in respect
I an y capital changes which might
ujtuate during the three-year loan
jiod, but advantage cannot be taken
[liiis entitlement unless the loan-money
converted to share capital.
And now, since the close of the
uncial year, shareholders in United
(dal Industries, Ltd., have accepted
(leys’ offer to acquire their co.—three
lords, of Malleys for every four £1
ijs, and/or prefs. of U.M.I. The deal
|tis Malleys into Queensland, where
pi, an old - established co., manu-
lacmres household appliances and sheet-
ttlal products, including stoves, hot-
ater systems and stainless-steel sinks
id drainers.
'To provide finance for future plans—•
(large-scale development of the Whirl-
ol licence, plus extensive additions to
■facturing capacity—Malleys enlisted
Beholders’ aid, September 29 last, a
ufor-five par issue, U.M.I. share-
irs participating, bringing in
11,728. The co. also arranged a mort-
ige loan of £300,000 with the A.M.P.
ociety, the loan including funds, £42,400
lhalance-date, already advanced.
IHeadquarters of the Malleys group are
iSydney, with factories at Alexandria
|dAuburn (Sydney suburbs); factories
I also established in Queensland and
pria. The sales —and distribution —
Wex spreads to all States with
*«ies operating in W.A. and Tasmania.
Mded stature, plus a relentless sales-
*> plus acquisition of a ready-made
Queensland lifted Malleys’
®ver to new heights last term ; this
lie a very keen competitive struggle.
Wngs finally came home an im-
£226,902 (up £12,059). They were
pained after tax, £124,851 (up
L and depreciation, £112,283 (up
but reckoned on group assets
•’ainst parent assets in the previous
H:-
Parent Co.
<~ Dividends —^
.to Pref ' To Re ' Re ‘
£ ® £ C ‘ f — serves, serves.*
Lx l2 2 '°o 10 p.c. = 90,471 79,841 407,059
~5-off subsidiary assets, £17,550 389,509
K 2700 10 p,c. = 90,472 84,391 473,900
,B ' 2 2700 10 p.c. = 90,472 86,800 560,700
Parent and Subsidiary.
intangibles, £67,576 .. .. 493,124
.Requisition losses w/off, £6317 . . 486,807
i-issue expenses w/off, £4452 .. 482,355
i'Premiums, £81,904 .. .. 564,319
270° io p.c. = 106,864 105,279 669,598
faction intangibles, £4451 . . 674,049
I' tissue expenses w/oif, £4451 .. 669,598
Ms saie assets, £lOOO .. .. 670,598
’, J - 2700 10 p.c. = 106,864 117,338 787,936
Wucting intangibles, £85,807 at 30/6/’6O.
lates t result works-out a slightly
improved 21 p.c. on ord. capital, after
allowing for the prefs.—l9.9, 19.6, 19.3,
18.9, 15.7 and 5.5 p.c. back to 1954 —
and after payment of divs. allows trans-
fer of £117,338 to reserves. Ord. divs.
have been held at 10 p.c. since 1956.
Together with £lOOO surplus sale assets
and note-issue expenses partly written-
off, £4451, reserves rose, in all, £118,338
to £787,936 ; that is, after deduction of
intangibles (£85,807 at balance-date).
Balance-sheet figures illustrate growing
capital investment and at the same time
a temporary decline in liquidity, a situa-
tion which has now been remedied:
Paid capital— 1958. 1959. 1960.
Preference .. £30,000 £30,000 £30,000
Ordinary . . 904,713 1,068,641 1,068,641
Reserves . . . . 583,352 759,856 873,743
Notes . . .. 500,000 500,000
Mortgages .. 45,600 44,000 42,400
Overdraft . . .. 388,909 559,696 753,015
Creditors* .. 309,294 295,508 345,503
Tax provision .. 119,683 126,182
Final divs. .. 45,236 53,432 53,432
£2,307,134 £3,430,816 £3,792,916
Freehold properties 422,279 675,279 727,460
Plant, vehicles, etc. 516,835 796,932 900,762
Stocks on hand . . 799,365 1,042,168 1,191,118
Debtors . . . . 543,800 822,408 884,903
Cash, Govt, bonds 2,173 3,771 2,806
Goodwill & patents 22,682 90,258 85,807
£2,307,134 £8,430,816 £3,792,916
* Includes tax provision until and including 1958.
The book-values of freeholds and plant,
both conservatively stated, the one up
£52,181 at £727,460, the other up £103,830
at £900,762, are in at 1951 valuation,
plus additions, less depreciation. Fixed
assets were last revalued in 1951, a one-
for-two bonus issue going out during that
year. Mortgage liability (A.M.P. Society)
declined £l6OO to £42,400.
Theoretical working - capital slipped
£39,273 to £800,755, bank overdraft
rising £193,319 to £753,015 and creditors
rising £49,995 to £345,503. Stocks and
debtors, reflecting increased business,
were both up, at £1,191,118 (up £148,950)
and £884,963 (up £62,555) respectively.
The £1 ords. presently selling around
355. 6d., yield an immediate and not
unattractive 5.6 p.c.; the prefs., fetching
285., return 6.4 p.c. At June 30 ords. had
a net tangible backing of 345. 9d.; prefs.
of £62 17s. Bd.
A. Goninan & Co., Ltd.
T ast September the energetic and
prosperous Newcastle founder and
engineer again delighted its scripholders
by making the fifth bonus-issue during a
decade.
The one-for-three gift-distribution (as
at August 30, 1960) lifted the one-class
paid capital to £497,630 in 12s. f.-p. ords.
To spread the jam-and-butter thicker,
directors decided to pay a p.c. div.
on the bonus-scrip, although the issue
was made after the close of accounts.
The normal dividend remained steady at
20 p.c. p.a. (including a 5 p.c. “bonus”).
Established at Broadmeadow, near
Newcastle (N.S.W.), in 1905, A. Goninan
and Co., Ltd., is an ironfounder and a
manufacturing and construction engineer.
The co. operates a profitable subsidiary
(Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co.,
Ltd.), from which it collected £19,000
in divs. last term.
Trading conditions improved. Gross
profit for the year ended June 30, 1960,
was £27,925 higher at £365,745. Net
profit rose by £13,990 to £158,942, after


Consult the man who
can advise you on
your investments...
He will tell yon how to increase your income. Invest in Cambridge Credit Corporation
Limited First Mortgage Debenture Stock.
Iji
0
2
r.A. 10 YEARS
YEARS
P.A
INTEREST PAID QUARTERLY
FREE OF EXCHANGE
SHORT TERM RATES
B%P.A. 12 MONTHS* NOTICE
7%p.a. 6 months* NOTICE
6%P.A. 3 MONTHS* NOTICE
5%P.A. | MONTH S NOTICE
RENEWAL INTEREST RATES apply to all invest-
ments FUNDS MAY BE WITHDRAWN in a
pmona) emergen'y
CAMBRIDGE CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
mw
m
CCS)
For PROSPECTUS and APPLICATION FORMS, app'
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
ANY MEMBER of a Recognised Stock Exchange,
THE COMPANY’S OFFICES, ■ ,
Ground Floor, Cambridge Honse. 24!) George St., W
’Phone: BIT 5542.
2nd Floor, 110-114 Collins St., Melbourne. ’Phoue.ua,'
—UNDERWRITING BROKERS—
RALPH W. KING & YUILL
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
CORRIE & CO. ,
(Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchau H )
LEONARD G. MAY & SON
JtaXli VJ .IN LIIXV JLT YX. JI. v I UV „Tip|
Members of the Stock Exchange of Melhoi
MELBOURNE,
REGISTERS: SYDNEY,
ADELAIDE, CANBERRA.
Applications for the debenture stock accepted 0
one of the forms of application attached to a i
copy of the Prospectus.
providing £30,320 (up £5289) for deprecia-
tion and setting-aside £96,000 for taxation
(up £16,000):
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. , Dividend—, serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1953. .111,925 15 p.c. = 44,796 67,129 254,778
1954. .162,650 20 „ „ 59,728 102,922 357,700
1955. .160,737 20 „ ~59,728 107,009 464,709
Assets revalued, £200,0u0 .. .. 664,/09
1956. .160,484 20 p.c. = 69,051 91.433 756,142
Reserves capitalised, £74,551 rQ '
1957. .177,184 20 p.c. = 74,645 102,539 784,100
1958. .181,367 20 „ „ 74,645 106.722 890,822
1959. .144,952 20 „ „ 74,645 70,307 961,129
1960. .158,942 20 ~ ~90,195* 68,747 1,029,876
* Includes 12| p.c. paid on 1960 bonus-shares.
This was equivalent to an earning-rate
of 42.5 p.c. on the average ord. capital
employed, compared with 38.9 p.c. in the
previous term, 48.6 p.c. in 1958. 47.5 p.c.
in 1957, 43 p.c. in 1956 and 55.8 p.c.
in 1955. The steady 20 p.c. div.-cheque,
plus the 124 p.c. payout on the new
bonus-shares, absorbed £90.195. Reserves
benefited by £68,747 rising to £1,029,876
(free of intangibles).
Liquidity was satisfactory Creditors
and provisions, current stocks and book-
debts were higher. Investment in the
subsidiary was disclosed at £94,992 (un-
changed), plus a £46,877 loan:
1958. 1959. 1960.
Paid capital .. £373,223 £373.223 £373,223
Reserves .. 890,822 961,129 1,029,876
Creditors and pro-
visions .. .. 262,766 259,570 311,903
Final div. .. 46,653 46.653 62,203
£1,573,464 £1,640,575 £1,777,205
Freeholds .. 266,180 267,255 259,596
Plant .. .. 164,986 160.463 211,399
Shares subsid. . . 94,992 94,992 94,992
Shares other cos... 14,786 18,342 18,934
Stock .. .. 426,595 516.787 609,933
Debtors . . . . 415,858 370.692 410,377
Owing subsid. . . 15,134 27,940 46,877
Cash, Consols, etc. 174,933 184,104 125,097
£1,573,464 £1,640,575 £1,777,205
Book-value of fixed assets increased.
Net tangible asset-backing worked out at
395. 9d. for each 12s. f.-p ord. unit (in-
cluding the bonus-shares), on the basis
of conservative book-values.
With its high earning-capacity and an
excellent div.-record, A. Goninan is an
attractive investment. The only reminder
of a difficult period in the co.’s history
is the 12s. face-value of its scrip. In 1938
Bs. was written-off each 20s. unit to wipe-
out the accumulated deficit. Those days
are now far behind. Prospects look good.
At the last sale in Sydney the 12s. ords.
fetched 565. a unit, for an immediate
return of 4.3 p.c. on the basis of the
20 p.c. div.-rate.
Australian Stock Breeders Co., Ltd.
Queensland meat production for the
year to June 30, 1960, was 332,400
tons. Beef and veal output was 271,600
tons, about 35 p.c. of the total Australian
production. Of this, 111,500 tons was
exported, representing 59 p.c. of total
Australian overseas sales of beef and
veal. Owing to drought conditions in
the last term the Sunshine State’s pro-
duction and exports were below the
1958-59 level. Strong demand for Aus-
tralian beef, particularly in the U.K.
and the U.S., has steadied the market.
The 1952 15-year Meat Agreement with
the U.K. affords some protection against
fluctuations in demand.
Incorporated in 1915, the Brisbane-
centred Australian Stockbreeders Co.,
Ltd., is a prominent cattle-runner and
operates five breeding-properties and a
stud and fattening-property. The co.’s
cattle-empire stretches from the back of
Cairns (N.Q.) to the hinterland of the
Gulf and covers some difficult- stock-
country. Most natural pastures are poor.
The co. has been steadily improving its
properties. New water-tanks assure at
least a minimum supply of water
Less than average rain fell last term,
and production and turnover was slightly
lower. Brandings on all stations totalled
16,038 (up 222). Herd-cattle at Novem-
ber 30, 1960, declined by 459 to 79,044.
Stud-cattle was reckoned at isos
94) u;) Wowi
Satisfactory prices pushed-un
profit for the year ended NovemL ?!
1960, by £2540 to £48,942: 30
( Dividends . To Bo
Nov., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. servp ' Re-
£ p.c. p.c. £ n es ' s «ves,
1957.. 32,309 6.2 8 15,383 16 Q9 fi J
1958 43,683 6.2 8 15,383 28,m jgJJ
Adjustment in value of Thorntonia U ’ 6t
cattle, £33,182
1959.. 46,402 8.2 10 19,711 ' 26,69 i sft ’o
1960.. 48,942 8.2 10 19,711 29,231 3
This was after setting-aside £17,462 f 0
depreciation (up £3582) and providin
£68,654 for taxation (up £6872). At'te
paying the unchanged 8.2 p. c . pref
charge, net profit was equivalent to 3( :
p.c. on the average ord. capital compare
with 34.5 p.c. in the previous term, 33'
p.c. in 1958 and 23.6 p.c. in 1957.
The ord. div.-rate was steady at 10 p t
Reserves benefited by £29,231 and ros
to £209,706 to support an unchan®
paid capital of £216,414.
Balance-sheet showed little variation
Paid capital—- 1957. 1958. lftfig iq«]
Pref. .. £107,249 £107,249 £107,249 £lo7oi
Ord. . . 109,165 109,165 109,165 10«
.Reserves . . 92,3 0 2 1 20,6 0 2 1 80,475 20970
Loan, mortgage 105,000 105,000 148,750 lflfJ
Overdraft . . 118,607 92,554 102,446 10999
Creditors, etc. 11,058 10,450 34,127 4i’os|
Final divs. . . 15,383 15,383 19,711 1971 J
£558,764 £560,403 £701,923 £7441|
Freehold and
leaseholds. . 262,335 267,412 356,040 394,0*
Livestock . . 246,608 249,105 303,816 308,6*
Stores . . 37,279 30,009 30,771 24,8*
Cash, debtors,
etc. . . 12,542 13,877 11,296 16,56
£558,764 £560,403 £701,923 £744,1
Fixed assets were higher. Liquidity wa
satisfactory.
At the last sale in Brisbane the 18
ords. fetched 295. 9d. a unit, for a
immediate yield of 3.4 p.c. on the basi
of the 10 p.c. div.-rate. The 20s. pref
were last quoted at 30s. a unit.
Net tangible asset-backing works-oujt
at 295. 2d. for each 10s. ord. and 795. 51
for every 20s. pref. /


SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Information Sought
was the Havana Charter ?
flu Havana Charter was the
x o f the United Nations com-
Le established in 1946 to draw
' draft of an international trade
liter. It was laid aside in 1948,
the U.S.A. indicated that
L would not ratify it, and it has
£ been superseded by G.A.T.T.
ftneral Agreement on Taritts and
K •
did the Rosella get its
pint!
! Hie Rosella took its name from
1« Hill (Parramatta). in the
L days of settlement the parrot
»»'known as the red, or eastern,
Pella was frequently seen in the
lose Hill district and its name
me first “Rosehiller,” which
„ was altered to Rosella. Ihe
{)« now applies to the eight
fades of the genus platycercus,
liii are widely represented
oughout Australia.
' *
low can l make butter at home
|lit mil approximate the quality of
may-made butter ?
( Salicylic acid is used as a com-
Jwciai preservative in butter-
jilting, but it is not recommended
in tome-made butter. The absence
111 preservatives such as this and of
Isleurisation (pasteurised milk is
■necessary and may make the
liter harder to churn) mean that
It product will never be quite the
[me as factory-made butter but
■ould, in fact, be better flavoied
p have a better grain.
tike cream when separated or
Rimmed, should be kept in a pot-
h" or china receptacle and stirred
®y day until churned. It kept
» a refrigerator at a low tempera-
®it will not ripen to the proper
swing temperature (54 to 62deg.
F.), and it should be kept in a cool
room. When slightly acid it is
ready to be made into butter,
either by stirring with a clean
wooden paddle oi in a churn. The
churn should be only half-full:,
slowly turned at first and the lid
removed occasionally to ventilate
the cream of its gases. As soon
as butter forms in the shape of
small grains stop churning, draw oft
the buttermilk and pour in cold
water repeatedly tor washing, until
it becomes clear. Insufficient wash-
ing, with buttermilk left in, is a
cause of badly made butter, but
over-washing spoils the delicate
flavor.
Press the butter into a mass with
wooden butter-pats, lift it out onto
a wetted board or into a basin and
work it smooth with the pats, add-
ing salt to taste to | oz. to
the pound. With the pats, form into
blocks, wrap in greaseproof paper
and store in the refrigerator.
Cleanliness is very important, and
all utensils used should be scalded,
then dipped in cold water to pre-
vent sticking. Keep the cream
moving, don’t store too long at
room temperature, and never touch
the butter with the hands.
• • • •
Who wrote the following verse?
Land of Dingoes, Dagos, Flies,
Of blighted hopes and blighted
eyes;
Art thou hell, in Earth’s disguise,
Westralia? . . .
The author is unknown, but the
verse seems to be a parody of the
“Bushman’s Farewell to Queens-
land,” which begins:
Queensland, thou art a land of pests,
From flies and fleas one never rests,
Even now mosquitoes round me
revel,
In fact they are the very devil.
There are many versions of the
“Farewell,” the one quoted being ,
from “Bill Bowyang’s” “Australian
Bush Recitations.” Its origin is dis-
puted, but it bears a similarity to"
the following verse by “Frank the
Poet”:
Land of Lags and kangaroo,
Of possums and the scarce emu
The farmer’s pride but the prisoner’s
Hell,
Land of Bums —Fare-thee-welil
• • • *
Before the 1958-59 English tour
of Australia, Bencmd had taken
barely tOO wickets. Where did the
next 100 come from ? What are
Benaud’s full Test figures, both bat-
ting and bowling ? What are David-
son s figures ?
During the last English tour
Benaud captured 31 wickets. On
the Australian tour of India and
Pakistan he added 47, and the re-
mainder of the second 100 he has
collected on the present West Indies’
tour. Excluding the present series,
his complete lest figures ate as
follows:
v. England, 495 runs av. 18.33; 5i
wickets av. 28.74.
v. S. Africa, 453 runs av. 37.75;
40 wickets av. 24.10.
v. West Indies, 268 runs av. 33.50;
19 wickets av. 26.26.
v. India, 91 runs av. 15.16; 29
wickets av. 19.58.
v. Pakistan, 84 runs av. 28.00; 18
wickets av. 21.11.
On the 1956 tour of India and
Pakistan his combined Test figures
were 23 wickets at 16 89 and 53 runs
at 13.25. On the same tour David-
son’s figures were one wicket tor
42 and 16 runs once out. David-
son’s full Test figures are as
fallows:
v. England, 441 runs av. 23.21;
37 wickets av. 25.56.
v S. Africa, 127 runs av. 21.16;
25 wickets av. 17.08.
v. India, 93 runs av. 18.60; 29
wickets av. 14.86.
v Pakistan, 90 runs av. 45.00; 12
wickets av. 24.83.
• • • •
What is xerography ? What are
some of its uses ?
Xerography is an electrostatic,
photographic method of duplicating
documents. It is used as a cheap
method of duplicating legal docu-
ments, books that are out of print
and engineering plans and specifica-
tions. It has been used to duplicate,
in niagnified print, books for the
partially blind. One offshoot of the
process, xero-radiography, is taster
and less expensive than the con-
ventional x-ray, and the pictures
produced are not sensitive to radia-
tion..
* • * *
What is a method for making any
material waterproof ?
In a bucket of soft water put hait-
a-pound of sugar of lead and half-
a-pound of powdered alum. Stir at
intervals until the mixture becomes
clear, then drain ott into another
bucket and immerse the material.
Leave it tor 24 hours and hang to
dry without wringing. Oils Kins
cannot be waterproofed by this
method. There are many commer-
cial watei proofing compounds avail-
able, and it would probably be
simpler to use one of these.
• * * •
Recipes for crystallising pa-paw
and pineapple ?
For both fruits: prepare in small
pieces for quick cooking, or larger
ones if desired. Make a syrup of
lib. of sugar to a quart of water,
boil for ten minutes, then place the
iruit in the syrup and boil till soft-.
The pineapple will take slightly
longer than the papaw. Drain
the fruit, place on white paper,
sprinkle well with sugar and dry
slowly in an oven with the door
open Turn the pieces occasionally
and add more sugar. Store in jars
in a cool place.
“Answers to Correspondents”
appears on Page %,
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 629
Across
■-One’s not- far from times like these. (10)
•jut of the barrier and lacing nothing fortissimo. (3)
pts nothing to look over an ancient language. (5)
i 12—But it’s not a little test to determine who’s
; Cleverest with a blade razor. (9, 11)
■'-tied ts after him for formal occasions. (3)
14 —Indies shattered the team bat-
ting. (6)
16 —Flower Snake what carries bricks
by electric light. (8) s
18 —A funny fellow who has no
hope for a traveller on the
Oregan trail, for instance. (8)
20—Centre for treatment. (6)
23 — A bit of a bounder whose skill
declines in “The Doll.” (3)
24 Geneiates a valued stone in
supports. (10)
25 — No longer thoughtful, dear.
(9)
26 — Hen stratum. (5)
28— An inquiry as to whether you
live for painting, etc. (3)
29 — Score a hit on a military estab-
lishment, pack up and go,
(6, 4)
Down
1— A tonic fuss. (3)
2 It’s good for the hair reins
tangled by a disorderly siren. (5)
3 A whale concealed a fldwer. (6)
4 Tent suit, (anagram) (8)
6 Word far from being somewhat
withdrawn. (7)
7 Feature to lower the tempera-
ture with a fur. (10)
8 — Sympathy when somebody dead
wins the lottery? (5, 4)
lb —Business women who have child-
ren in senseless states. (5)
12—Presumably it has the opposite
effect to 7-down. (4-6)
15 —Pig rondo composed with a
limp look. (8)
17—Donald (not Donalda) and one
very good character who believes,
pleasure is the highest good. (8)
19 —Mixed up Roger with a Santa-
maria man. (7)
21 — In necessitous circumstances.
(5)
22 — The identical Diana has Satur-
day abroad. (6)
26 — What George Washington never
told Trygve. (3)
27 — Who slept long with a thought
for those w'ho sleep eternally.
(3)
Solutions to Crossword No. 628


There's a
GOODYEAR TYRE
•for your fciftcf of cfriyihg*
..
11
I
i
3
m
r
v
% A
d
GOO9YEA3 IMPEiOM NYLON
The finest car tyre ever made in Australia.
The deep, tough tread adjusts instantly
to every condition of driving. Built with
3.T nylon cord for greater strength and
safety—many more recaps too.
GOODYEAR CUSTOM SUBURBANITE
On mud, day, grass—unmade as wei! as
made roads, the deep, tough tread of ttfts
tyre wears long and evenly—gives smooth
riding on the highway. Built with .Good-
year 3.T super-rayon cord.
GOODYEAR WiNTERTREAD
A rugged tyre with a seif-cleaning tread
70% deeper than ordinary tyres to grip
in mud and siush! For sure, safe traction
anywhere, anytime depend on Wintertread.
Built with 3.T super-rayon cord.
GOODYEAR CUSTOM SUPERCUSHJON
The deep, tough, twin-tread gives safe,
smooth, non-skid traction and long/ even
wear. 8640 biting edges grip the road
for positive starts and stops. Built with
3\T super-rayon cord for greater strength,
more recaps.
LOOK AT THE TREADS of these tyres see the
deep, tough, husky look. Each tyre gives
the best possible service in the use for which
it is planned. Goodyear treads are safe,
long-lasting treads. Goodyear tyres are
built with 3.T cord either nylon or super-
rayon. The 3.T process is exclusive to
Goodyear; it triple-tempers cord like steel
for greatest strength and stamina. And,
because it is stronger, when the tread is at
last worn smooth, the Goodyear 3-T tyre
will take more retreads than any other tyre.
WORLD'S GREATEST 'KNOW HOW.' Goodyear is
the world’s biggest rubber company and,
having built more tyres than anyone else,
knows what it takes to give you a tyre with
more safety, performance, and value.
Ask the mcsii who knows tyres best . . .
See your Goodyear Dealer,
Garage or Service Station—ask
him to show you these tyres
and recommend the one that
will give you better performance
at lower cost per mile than any
other,tyre. Goodyear 3.T tyres
cost no more than ordinary
tyres—so insist on Goodyear.
Your present tyres, if smooth
but sound, may make a down
payment on a new tyre or a
new set of Goodyear tyres.
TTiTT
Ask your Goodyear
LOOK FOR THIS
Dealer
SIGN
