

The Bulletin
Registered in Australia for trans-
mission by post as a newspaper .
K
December 30, 1961
END OF THE YEAR


FOR SPEED
(First issues off the press)
CONVENIENCE
(Right to your mail-box)
CONTINUITY
(No chance of missing out)
HAVE
Th 'Bulletin
DELIVERED BY POST
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
NEW SUB./RENEWAL
(Please cross out one)
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper,
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please find enclosed my cheque I money-order for
months’ subscription to The Bulletin.
NAME:
ADDRESS:
RATES (A/asia): 1 year—£2 125.; | year— £l 6s.
Post free. British C’wealth: £3 3s. 6d. Foreign:
£3 16s.
N.Z. CURRENCY (Remit to Box 965, Wellington,
N.Z.): A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d. ; year—
19s. 6d. British C’wealth: £2 3s. Foreign £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether
the subscription is paid direct to The Bulletin
or any newsagent in Australia or N.Z.
TH E B U L LETI N
IS AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
NEWS MAGAZINE-
-52 pages of top-flight information. The press,
the radio, TV will dish you up the headline
news . . . but The Bulletin has time to bring
you the news inside the news.
AND IT’S PACKED WITH
ENTERTAINMENT
Nearly every facet of modern life is reflected
in The Bulletin’s pages, so no wonder
anyone can find a little of himself—or herself
—in The Bulletin.


TEARING OFF A STRIP
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; Phone: 27 5971.
yol. 82
No. 4272
THIS AUSTRALIA, 1961
IT WAS NOT the best of years for
wine, women and Mr Menzies. but
it was a good one for uplift. It
started in the West when the
doomed off - course Bookmakers’
Association tearfully thanked gamb-
lers for “friendships far greater than
mere business contacts” and cursed
the soulless totalisators that were killing
off-course bookies by Act of Parlia-
ment. The Labor party was also
upset about it: Who would replace the
bookies as contributors to party funds?
Then the Country party was upset: a
Royal Commission showed bookies
had contributed £2OO to its party
funds. The party president pleaded
ignorance of the tainted source; had he
only known the truth he would have
scorned the money. (When last heard
of, the nefarious bookies were reported
to be still at it using steel slits for look-
outs.) Meanwhile the shameless
Northern Territory Legislative Council
legalised off-course betting in Tennant
Creek, and it was Mr Hasluck’s turn
to be upset. He refused to ratify such
decadence. Perth followed up its early
initiative by banning pin - ball
machines, and a lot of loose-end youths
were upset.
Slower in movement but deeper in
thought. New South Wales set up a
Youth Policy Advisory Committee to
fathom the causes of modern youth’s
decline. (Dr Gough blamed hideous
magazines and books, Dr Kinsella
blamed hideous philosophies taught in
the universities and Professor Messel
blamed laziness.) Not to be left out
of the Uplift Crusade, the Tasmanian
Government closed down Ma Dwyer’s
famous pub and South Australia
banned a new edition of Ern Malley’s
poems. In Victoria, after a girl called
“Jill” “revealed” that her Italian
fiance had hired her to 4000 New
Australians, the Government rushed
through a Prostitution Bill increasing
the penalties for procurers. (Later
“Jill” revealed her hoax.) Mr Arthur
Rylah warned sporting clubs that if
they charged admission money on Sun-
days they would feel the full weight of
the law. The election soon followed.
POLITICALLY, the Victorian
Liberal Government won its election,
but the N.S.W. Labor Government lost
its referendum to abolish the Upper
House. The Opposition said that if
the Upper House went, before we knew
where we were, dental mechanics
would be licensed ; and the Dental
Mechanics’ Association called for
donations to help the Government in
its struggle against the enemies of pro-
gress and dental mechanics. In
Queensland Premier Nicklin said poli-
ticians would not get a rise in salary,
but gave himself and the Leader of
the Opposition one.
INDUSTRIALLY, the year got off
to a determined start when an elephant-
driver and a chimpanzee-keeper in the
Melbourne Zoo refused to join the
Miscellaneous Workers’ Union and
the union in protest closed the zoo for
the first time in 113 years. In New-
castle a rigger stuck a pin in a crane—
a job strictly reserved for members
of the Amalgamated Engineers’ Union
—and in no time a strike erupted, the
year’s biggest until Mt Isa. In New
Guinea a Department of Labor report
said Papuans were too immature to
understand trade unions, and the
Pacific Islands Regiment went on
strike for higher pay. (Australian
soldiers have so far been too immature
to follow their example.)
On the ABORIGINAL front, white
men continued to be arrested for
associating with aboriginal women,
and in Queensland Mr Jim Jacko was
caned for running away with one. Miss
Winifred Atwell discovered a color-
bar in Bowen which had formerly
escaped detection by both white and
aborigines, and the Press sleuthed one
out in a Brisbane hotel to the astonish-
ment of the manager and colored
guests.
It was also a good year for
INQUIRIES. N.S.W. was the easy
winner: it had a Youth Inquiry
(already mentioned), an Education
Inquiry (which decided to accept the
decision of the 1957 inquiry), an
Electoral Districts Inquiry (which
abolished a seat won by the Country
party from the Labor party and
created a new one which Labor sh aid
win), a Health Inquiry (which
urged reform of Callan Park asylum),
a Rent Inquiry (which favored higher
rents and has been shelved). The
Homosexual Inquiry seems to have
sunk without a trace.
There were a few RIOTS —migrants
at Bonegilla (“Your barbarian system
is Stone Age”), aborigines at Papunya
(“We will kill you all”). Greek foot-
ballers at Darwin (“No more me!
Back to Europe!”); a few MARCHES
—a Civil Defence march on the Blue
Mountains, a Civil Disobedience march
on Canberra and a citizens’ march into
the desert by the people of Carnarvon
to escape a flood which didn’t arrive.
“The Age” conducted a correspond-
ence on whether Australians have a
soul.


OLDE TANNER’S ALMANACKE FOR 1962
JANUARY
Election campaign resumes in Federal Parliament.
Calwell stands on his record. Haylen leads ban-the-
bomb march to D.L.P. headquarters. Oil discovered
in Maribyrnong, Morton. Bennelong and other touchy
electorates, Menzies surprised.
APRIL
Chimpanzee pirates American rocket on sub-orbital
flight. Flies to Cuba under slogan—Castro Is Top
Banana. Lord Russell out-manoeuvred by being
induced to sit down on road laid with fresh cement.
Federal election resumes.
FEBRUARY
Khrushchev greets Kennedy, Macmillan, de Gaulle,
Adenauer. Soekarno, Nehru and Jackie Kennedy.
Sharkey greets Mao. Border incident in Berlin. Billy
Graham lands on moon. Sheds light.
MAY
Election deadlock from leakage of D.L.P. votes to
communists. Senator Cole very surprised. Speculators
claim undue favoritism for big cities in green belt
releases. All Australia declared one big green belt.
MARCH
Kennedy greets Khrushchev, Adenauer. Macmillan, de
Gaulle, Nehru, Soekarno. Mao greets Sharkey. Border
incident in Berlin. Angola siezes Bechuanaland. South
Africa surprised.
JUNE
Japan renames Greater East Asia Co-prosperity sphere
Common Market. Invites Australia to join. Menzies
travels to London to explain to Britain that Empire
preferences will be maintained.


JULY
Due to sudden attention of Federal Government to Qld,
W.A. and N.T., Vic. swings to Labor, unseating Holt.
McManus, Menzies. Commentators point to lack of
development in Southern States. Bolte dances wth head-
waiter. Tasmania seizes Heard Island.
OCTOBER
Colonel Spry reduced to rank of corporal. Mugga eats
his own words. Elizabethan Theatre puts on untried
play by Australian author. After three weeks
unparalleled success play taken off. Bolte wins new
Federal election. Castro siezes New Zealand.
AUGUST
Tshombe seizes U.N. headquarters, Lake Success,
announces definite evidence of cannibalism in Security
Council. UNESCO placed under house arrest and
representatives recalled from cushy jobs.
NOVEMBER
Albania expelled from British Commonwealth. Sharkey
surprised. Lee Gordon appointed director of Sydney
Opera House. Barry Jones, the new Prime Minister,
stands on his record.
SEPTEMBER
Dargie wins Blake Prize with portrait group of D.L.P.
executive who form new Federal Government. Mr
Haylen surprised. Dr Cairns siezes Mr Holt. South
Africa expelled from Africa. Cartographers surprised.
DECEMBER
Jimmy Carruthers wins a fight. Britain expels France,
Germany and Italy from Common Market. New
Federal election campaign cancelled due to New
Guinea’s seizure of Australia. Menzies surprised.


These Liberties
TASMANIA
Hackman v. the State
We have asked a Bulletin correspondent in each State to select what he considers to he the most
significant civil liberties case in his State in 1961.
FROM A LAUNCESTON CORRESPONDENT
f\N April 19 last, Leonard Hackman,
of Dilston, appeared in Launceston
Magistrates’ Court on what his counsel
termed a “second-string” charge, framed
because “stock inspectors had failed to
find evidence to support a more serious
charge.”
Hackman, a 45-year-old Yorkshire ex-
serviceman, it was alleged, had failed
to supply the inspectors with information
relating to semen used for the artificial
insemination of cows, as required by the
Stock Act. Mr D. T. Oldham, P.M.,
reserved his decision on defence counsel’s
submissions on the validity of the charges.
His decision has not yet been announced.
In the meantime, with the case sub
judice, controversy has died down, and
the early widespread support for Hack-
man in his battle against departmental
red tape and indifference has lapsed.
Hackman, who had been building an
extensive business as an artificial insemin-
ator, has taken another job.
The merits of the court-case against
Hackman cannot, of course, be discussed.
It was based on the evidence of Angus
Joseph Bramwell, stock inspector, who
said that he had been ordered to try
to gather proof that Hackman was con-
travening the Stock Act. He and another
inspector trailed Hackman to a farm and
afterwards intercepted him. It is claimed
that Hackman refused to answer
directly the questions they asked,
and would not allow them to
search his car or his house. Hack-
man’s counsel submitted that the inspec-
tors should have warned Hackman, as
police would have done, before question-
ing him. They had questioned him about
having bovine semen and, when they
failed to get evidence of his having it,
they prosecuted under sections which
provide penalties for refusing to answer
questions or produce documents relating
to the practice of insemination.
Before the prosecution was launched,
Hackman had been the centre of a heated
dispute between a section of dairy-
farmers and the Department of Agricul-
ture. He came to Tasmania after serving
as an artificial insemination technician
with the Milk Marketing Board in Eng-
land, and joined the State’s then experi-
mental A.I. organisation. In November,
1958, he resigned to start his own com-
mercial A.I. service. His supporters claim
that after he had bought his equipment
he was told that the Artificial Breeding
Board would not license him under the
Stock Act unless he was employed by a
committee of farmers. A committee was
formed, but Hackman’s supporters claim
that the arrangement broke down because
the Department of Agriculture used the
Artificial Breeding Board “as its medium
for issuing unworkable instructions” with
which neither the committee nor he could
comply. By mid-1960, it is claimed he
faced withdrawal of his licence and the
stopping of semen supplies from N.S.W.
In fact, his licence soon afterwards was
withdrawn, according to the Minister of
Agriculture, “because of his repeated
failure to comply with the board’s
instructions on the forwarding of
records.” Mr Hackman claimed that his
licence had not been withdrawn —it
should have been re-issued on July 1,
1960, but was not. However, he had
continued working until October for the
department - approved and recognised
Launceston A.I. Centre without any
official protest.
It was at this stage that a committee,
claiming to represent 200 dairyfarmers
who had employed Mr Hackman’s ser-
vices, began to agitate for a change in
the rigid attitude of the Agriculture
Department, insisting that vested interests
and obstinacy were depriving them of
the essential services of a skilled operator.
They engaged in one of the biggest news-
paper and public controversies seen in
Tasmania for years.
This was abruptly stopped by the
prosecution.
In luly, Mr W. H. M. Fry, M.L.C.,
sought in the Legislative Council to have
a select committee set up to inquire into
the operations of the Artificial Breeding
Board and the effectiveness of A.I.
organisation in Tasmania. Early this
month the Council appointed the com-
mittee. On it devolves the broad issues
of determining whether Len Hackman
received justice from his masters.
VICTORIA
In Time for Christmas
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
/~vn December 19 —just in time for the
Christmas traffic rush —the Bolte
Government proclaimed the Crimes
(Breath Test Evidence) Act making it
obligatory for motorists suspected of
drunken driving to take breathalyzer
tests with a penalty of a £2O fine if
they refuse. The accused can only avoid
the penalty if he can persuade the Court
that he had good and substantial reason
for his refusal. He may also opt for a
blood test instead of the breathalyzer
test. The act provides that breathalyser
readings shall be admissible as prima
facie evidence in trials relating to a
variety of motoring offences.
The act was strongly opposed by the
Victorian Bar Council and the Law
Institute of Victoria, representing the
State’s solicitors. In Parliament it met
able and tough opposition from the
Labor party, while Parliamentary mem-
bers of the L.-C.P. later divided 24 to
21 over the issue of immediate procla-
mation.
The basic objection to the bill “is that
is disregards the principle that no person
should be compelled to incriminate
himself.” The words are those of the
Bar Council which went on to say that
it could be used to compel the citizen
“to furnish evidence against him in a
variety of proceedings for offences and
crimes, including prosecution for man-
slaughter.”
The Bar Council also said that “if it is
once conceded that compulsory self-
incrimination is a proper method of
obtaining evidence for the purpose of
making out that those offences or crimes
have been committed, an exception to
the principle has been established so
radical that the. principle itself is
immeasurably weakened, if not utterly
destroyed ... It is always easy to argue
that proof should be facilitated, but it
is well to remember that this argument
was and still is used in police States to
justify the most extreme procedures
against accused persons. In the end com-
pulsion is used not only to obtain the
true evidence, but to obtain the evidence
expected by the enforcement officer.”
When Mr Bolte replied by accusing the
barristers of “living in the horse-and-
buggy days” and of having a vested
interest in the matter, the Law Institute
repeated the warning that the Bill


departed from the principle that no man
shall be compelled to incriminate
himself.
These sermons received handsome
space in “The Age” which has given
strong editorial support to both com-
pulsory blood and breath tests. One of
Mr Bolte’s own supporters, Mr Christie
(L.-C.P. Ivanhoe), in the course of an
attack on the Bill in Parliament agreed
with Mr Stoneham that “The Age” had
a big hand in the Government’s decision.
“The campaign in ‘The Age,’ ” Mr
Christie said, “appeared to be similar to
the great crusade for protection on which
‘The Age’ seemed to have based its
reputation.” Mr Christie thought there
were other matters more deserving of a
crusade. Another Government Member
to attack the Bill was Mr Wilcox, secre-
tary to the Parliamentary L.-C.P. Mr
Wilcox, a lawyer, asked that the Bill be
referred to the Parliamentary Statute
Law Revision Committee for investiga-
tion. He warned that Victoria would be
the first in the world to make breath
tests compulsory and that it would
permit police to take persons into
custody without having to arrest them
or lay charges.
In the Upper House, there was another
full-scale debate, with the Labor leader,
Mr Galbally, warning that the legislation
would provide a harvest for the legal
profession. Enough has emerged to
support this claim. Recently Dr Keith
Bowden, a former Government patholo-
gist, stated on TV that reactions to the
breathalyzer machine were not specific
to alcohol. He produced a capsule which
he said contained “a small quantity of
medicine.” Crushed in the mouth, he
said, it would produce a breathalyzer
reading showing a high alcohol intake
even though the suspect might not have
had any drink. The medicine could be
bought at any chemist’s.
Dr Bowden confessed that his faith in
compulsory tests had been shattered by
studies he had made abroad. The use
of non-alcoholic substances to boost the
alcohol content of the breath could pro-
vide effective defence against the breath-
alyzer. Apart from Dr Bowden’s
un-named medicine, drivers with false
teeth can temporarily rig a high reading
by swilling spirits around their plates.
(Readings of 0.4 per cent can be rigged
in this way—at which level a person is
presumed dead).
Quite apart from rigged readings, there
are other loopholes and technicalities
which will no doubt be exploited when
breathalyzer cases start reaching the
Courts in the New Year. Among these
are questions of the type of machine
used (some have been obtained from the
U.S.A., but the Government is now look-
ing at a Swiss model) and the training
and qualifications of the pretentiously
named Police Breath Analysis Section.
A motorist can always evade the test if
he is prepared to pay £2O, but Mr Gal-
bally deserves the last word: “Individual
freedom was never secured by legisla-
tion.”
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
The Black Rebel from Lucindale
FROM AN ADELAIDE CORRESPONDENT
Oouth Australian history was made
this year by a black-skinned, slow-
spoken rebel from a roadworkers’ camp
near the south-eastern township of
Lucindale.
He is 52-year-old George Koolmateri,
a widowed aboriginal tractor driver. In
his attempt to get the same rights as a
white man, he became the first aboriginal
in the State to appeal against a decision
of the Aborigines’ Protection Board to
keep him a non-exempt aboriginal under
the board’s thumb. His appeal was dis-
missed by an S.A. magistrate.
George Koolmateri’s case has become
a cause celebre for many. His solicitor
is able Adelaide lawyer-politician Mr
Don Dunstan, whom some envisage as a
future State leader of the Australian
Labor party. He is immediate past
president of the Federal Council for
Aborigines’ Advancement. Under his
guidance the ramifications of the case
have now spread outside the State, and
the Australian section of the Inter-
national Commission of Jurists has
appointed a sub-committee under Mr
J. J. Davoren, Q.C., to investigate it.
The man about whom the case
revolves is a very unimpressive one.
George Koolmateri never went to
school. But he has never lived on or
depended on a State aborigines’ reserve.
For the past 10 years he has lived in a
10ft by 12ft galvanised iron hut at a
Highways Department camp. He owns
his own car and helps his sister with an
occasional pound or two out of his
wages. She lives close to the nearby
township of Meningie. Before becom-
ing a tractor driver George was a fisher-
man, rabbiter and stoneworker. He is
tall and heavily built. He was once
convicted of being unlawfully in the
possession of liquor (an offence for a
non-exempt aboriginal in S.A.), once for
driving an unregistered motor vehicle
and once for shooting a duck in a bird
sanctuary.
When he was refused permission by
the Aborigines’ Protection Board to be-
come an exempt native, and decided to
institute an appeal, he probably put the
Aborigines’ Protection Board on a spot.
Not only had a native never lodged an
appeal, but until July this year there
were no regulations which prescribed the
time and manner for the hearing of an
appeal. State Executive Council passed
regulations in July to prescribe these
requirements—about 22 years after the
original Act had been put into force.
The appeal was then heard by Special
Magistrate Mr D. L. Richards. Under
cross-examination, Koolmateri said he
wanted to be an exempt native so that
he could get his future old-age pension
as did white people—from the local post
office. He added that non-exempt
natives had to get their pensions from
the police station and wait for the local
police officer to hand them out. Evi-
dence given by a local police officer was
that George had told him, in effect,
“that he wanted to be able to get liquor
without penalty.” To many white men,
also, this would be a natural enough
want if they were in the same predica-
ment.
There is no doubt that up until now
Koolmateri has made little use of the
Aborigines’ Protection Board. Accord-
ing to the S.A. Protector of Aborigines,
Mr C. E. Bartlett, who gave evidence
in court, he had controlled his own
affairs throughout his life, apart from
some assistance when his car was
damaged and possibly assistance in hav-
ing a medical or hospital bill paid.
In dismissing Koolmateri’s appeal,
Mr Richards said an applicant had to
show that he was able to fend for him-
self in obtaining food, shelter and medi-
cal attention to become exempt. A
native should also realise the prudence
of saving money when in work in case
he became unemployed. Thirdly, the
native should appreciate the danger of
supplying liquor to his fellow-
aborigines. Mr Richards said the
evidence fell short of establishing this
—for example, Koolmateri’s failure to
save money.
The reaction from Mr Dunstan was
immediate. In giving the Press notice
that he would refer the case to the Inter-
national Commission of Jurists, he made
these points. One: The judgment, a
bitter blow to aborigines in S.A.,
has established a standard which
would affect all future applications for
exemption. Two: The law now said
that it was not enough to be in regular
and good employment and live and con-
duct one’s affairs in the manner of one's
workmates. Three: Unless an aboriginal
established that he owned a house and
land or a substantial bank account, he
could not escape the restrictions of the
Aborigines’ Act. Four: There was no
provision in law for appeal from the
judgment, and it seemed the only way
to air the matter was to seek the aid of
the International Commission of Jurists,
which was concerned with the mainten-
ance of the due process and the rule of
law. Five: Koolmateri had to prove
that he appreciated the inadvisability of
supplying liquor to other aborigines, and
this was an offence with which he had
never been charged.
Mr Dunstan summed up his case thus:
“The judgment established that a native
not only has to show a better standard
than his workmates but also has to prove
that he will not commit an offence with
which he has never been charged—and
this is impossible for anyone to do.”


“ Girls, look! They've struck cars, furs, jewellery, votes!"
NORTHERN TERRITORY
Second Class Citizenship
FROM KEITH WILLEY IN DARWIN
Resentment at being kept “second-
class citizens” is widespread in the
Northern Territory and for most Terri-
torians 1961 has been a year of further
disillusionment. By twice disallowing
the N.T. Legislative Council's Licensing
and Lottery and Gaming Bills, the
Federal Government undermined the
constitutional reforms it had granted
two years before.
People here are not—as they have
been portrayed at times in Canberra—
wild-eyed firebrands who demand “self-
government now” while continuing to
draw heavily on Commonwealth finance.
In fact there is no movement for Terri-
tory Statehood. The area's population
is too small, its earning power too
insignificant. Territories Minister “Oom
Paul” Hasluck finds many, even in
Darwin and Alice Springs, to agree with
him when he says (as he often does)
that “He who pays the piper calls the
tune.” The aims of Dick Ward, Tiger
Brennan. Neal Hargrave and others of
the north's political leaders are merely
te modest ones of a vote in Parliament
and some local control over legislation
concerning internal Territory matters.
The Government’s expressed view is
that, with only 12,000 names on the
electoral roll, the population is too small
to warrant full parliamentary represen-
tation. (The Territory member in the
House of Representatives has no voting
power). The case for the north, put
once by Ward in the Legislative Council,
is that: “It is a disgrace for any British
community that a citizen should lose
his franchise the moment he crosses a
State border into the Territory. In New
South Wales or Victoria a man may
have all the rights and responsibilities
which go with being an Australian. Once
he enters the Territory he becomes a
second-class citizen.”
The struggle for political representa-
tion has been a long one and reflects
little credit on any past Government,
Liberal or Labor. Back in the 20's the
Territory’s (non-voting) seat in the House
of Representatives was not won until
after Harold Nelson and other respon-
sible citizens had been gaoled for
refusal to pay income tax. In the Federal
sphere there has been no advance since
then.
A few years after the war a Labor
Government set up the Legislative
Council—but only after a long and
bitter struggle, with the N.T. Develop-
ment League playing a major role. The
Council, as created, was a colonial-style
rubber stamp. The seven Government
members (Public Servants nominated to
the job) consistently voted as a bloc to
swamp the six elected members. The
end of what Tiger Brennan called “the
game of sixes and sevens” came three
years ago when the elected men—Ward,
Brennan, Hargrave, Paddy Carroll, Len
Purkiss and Bill Petrick—walked out
and resigned in a body.
Mass meetings and demonstrations
followed. In Alice Springs an official
function to be performed by Minister
Hasluck was boycotted, while angry
citizens held an uproarious protest meet-
ing on a vacant town lot nearby.
Finally, after a full-scale conference in
Canberra, the Government granted what
seemed to be sweeping constitutional
reforms. These changed the structure
of the Council to eight elected and six
nominated members, with three non-
official nominated members holding the
balance of power. These last, though
nominated by the Government, are not
Public Servants. To the Government
side’s evident chagrin they frequently
ranged themselves with the elected mem-
bers to form a majority in the House.
This year the Government faced crisis.
The twice-rejected Bills, about which so
many thousands of words have been
written in recent months, are quite mild
and reasonable. They would end the
“six months’ minimum” sentence for
supplying liquor to wards and give magis-
trates discretionary power in fixing
penalties ; and legalise controlled S.P.
betting in Tennant Creek and a few other
isolated settlements.
The Bills were passed by the Legisla-
tive Council last year, disallowed in
Canberra ; passed again by the Legisla-
tive Council this year, and again dis-
allowed in Canberra. Rightly or wrongly,
most Territorians blame not Cabinet but
their old foe, Territories Minister
Hasluck, who is regularly lampooned in
the Legislative Council as “Oom Paul”
and “Father” and subjected nearly every
meeting to a “This Man Must Go”
campaign by Tiger Brennan.
Rejection of the Bills has again brought
the Federal Government into head-on


collision with a group of men who
despite (or because of?) their lack of
political rights and power, have the
ability to make noises far more strident
and effective than their numbers might
seem to warrant. Early last month the
elected members, in retaliation against
the fate of their two Bills, moved to
take over control of the Legislative
Council. With two of the nominated
non-official members on their side, they
had the numbers. They announced plans
to reject every Bill not introduced
through an elected member.
After days of intense lobbying from
the Government side, and backed by a
veiled threat from Mr Hasluck (“Govern-
ments do not lightly allow their business
to be taken out of their hands,” he
rumbled ominously from Canberra) the
nominated non-official members decided
to change their protest to the milder
form of a written plea to the Prime
Minister.
Early next year the issue will come
up again and this time the elected mem-
bers are confident they will have the
numbers all the way. Though not so
spectacular as some of their efforts in
the past few years, the move to take over
control of the Council is the “rebels’ ”
most significant approach yet. At best
the Government would have to intro-
duce all its Bills through elected mem-
bers. At worst it could lead to dissolu-
tion of the Legislative Council and
general uproar.
The Territorian’s desire for the same
rights as other Australians is a very
real and popular issue. Denied the right
to vote or own land, hag-ridden wherever
he turns by officials and red tape, he
feels he is treated as a child to be
rewarded by “Father” when he is good
and spanked when he is naughty. This
anti-Canberra “agin the Government”
obsession is non-political, it overrides
the parties.
In the Federal election, despite the
country’s near-record swing to Labor,
Independent candidate Tiger Brennan
won majorities in every part of the
Territory except for Central Australia and
the Darwin suburb of Stuart Park and
may yet unseat the A.L.P.’s Jock
Nelson to become the only Indepen-
dent Member in the House of Represen-
tatives. Tiger campaigned mainly on the
issues of constitutional reform. (He
promised his following: “If being a
nuisance will achieve anything I will
become the greatest nuisance any Gov-
ernment ever had.”).
To a great extent anti-Canberraism
has become a political philosophy in
its own right. Dick Ward, most eloquent
speaker in the Legislative Council,
lambasted the Commonwealth Govern-
ment last month and described its con-
nection with the Territory as “50 years
of broken faith.” The Territory was
not ruled by the Commonwealth Govern-
ment, he said, but by the Common-
wealth Public Service. “The Minister is
interested in the Territory primarily
because it has an aboriginal population,”
he said. “On every visit here he has
been preoccupied with matters connected
with aborigines. He is forced to rely on
his Public Service advisers for every-
thing else because he has not been here
enough or seen enough to enable him
to shape properly the policy for the
Northern Territory ...
“There has never been any sign of any
plan of any force which would develop
the Territory at the rate it should. The
position is like that of a man who has
carved himself a piece out of the jungle.
Each year he keeps the jungle back
and perhaps gains a little more ground.
But there’s no real attempt to conquer
the jungle. Likewise there is no plan of
any moment for Territory development.
“Even if five or 10 million pounds had
been prised off the vote for the Snowy
Mountains Authority and used to build
the north-south railway it would have
been worthwhile.”
Turning to the official (Public
Servant) members of the Legislative
Council, he said: “Until they cease to
be Council members and there is an
elected body with enough imagination to
break away from Public Service con-
servatism there will be no progress . . .”
QUEENSLAND
A Busy Year
FROM JOHN HIGGINS IN BRISBANE
CfiviL liberties took a caning in Queens-
land throughout 1961, mainly from
the continual incursions of the Nicklin-
Morris Government, which is generally
regarded as having given impetus to the
anti-Menzies landslide of December 9.
The year began unhappily on the legis-
lative front with the implementation of
the State Transport Act of 1960, one of
the most authoritarian pieces of legisla-
tion ever placed on Australian Statute
Books. Among other things, the Act
repudiated compensation for franchise
holders ; provided for the raiding of
homes and offices by transport police
without warrants and the compulsory
questioning of witnesses without legal
assistance ; and denied access to Courts
of Law to aggrieved hauliers against
decisions by the Minister or Commis-
sioner. The Act also introduced dis-
criminatory taxation —applying to an
area outside a 25-mile radius from the
headquarters of transport depots —and
this discriminatory trend in legislation, in
itself a dangerous thing, was extended
throughout the year.
The year 1961 has also seen the State
Government invading the city parking
field, creating “parkatareas” in near city
suburbs in its frantic quest for funds.
In the field of liquor and betting it
reached extraordinary levels later in the
year with the S.P. 3etting and Liquor
Bills.
In Queensland now you can drink dur-
ing two two-hour sessions on Sunday,
provided you are more than 40 miles from
the G.P.O. In effect this means that you
can drink in Southport but not in Red-
cliffe, in Toowoomba but not in Ipswich.
You can get a drink in golf and bowls
clubs but not at cricket or tennis or foot-
ball clubs. The S.P. Betting Bill, to come
into force early next year, has similar
discriminatory trends, mainly applying to
areas 25 miles from a racetrack. Race
clubs are to be given help to establish
a tote service to replace operators. (Both
Bills, incidentally, were introduced despite
a long history of violent criticism by
present Cabinet Ministers —when they
were in Opposition—to an extension of
liquor or betting facilities.)
Promised a Bill of Rights in 1957 by
the Nicklin-Morris joint policy, Queens-
land is still waiting for it. The Bill was
introduced a couple of years ago, hur-
riedly withdrawn and pigeon-holed
permanently.
On the credit side of the ledger, a few
isolated blows were struck on behalf of
liberty. A young man named Anthony
Francis Cavanagh, who pleaded guilty to
a crime he never committed, subsequently
received a Royal Pardon. The State still
waits to see the result of inquiries into
the manner in which his “confession”
was extracted from him. Another young
man named Ray Roberts was forced to
resign from the Post Office because he
had disclosed improper use of Govern-
ment cars to a newspaper. After a major
hubbub, he got his job back—and his
boss was demoted and sent south to the
hinterlands of Federal Public Service.
Up in the remote north, aboriginal Jim
Jacko had the dubious satisfaction of
seeing a missionary reprimanded by a
Magisterial Inquiry into his caning for
having absconded with a young girl.
Before the inquiry, Home Affairs
Minister Dr Noble had defended the
missionary ; after the inquiry, he told the
public he had been misled on certain
matters. The same Minister early in
the year defended the administration of
Westbrook Boys’ Home ; later in the
year he had to table a Magisterial Report
describing the institution as a breeding-
ground for criminals and upholding
allegations of sadistic brutality.
Several policemen were sacked from
the force after departmental inquiries
into alleged offences varying from civil
to criminal. Most of them were
reinstated on appeal. The New Year will
see the State’s gendarmerie moving into
impressive new buildings, which include
a powder-room for women police.


THEY SAID IT
IN 1961
“I believe that God is truly neutral.
He looks down from heaven and does
not intervene.” — Khrushchev.
“We are spending huge sums of
money on rockets and atom bombs—
and they are not for slicing sausage.”
—Khrushchev.
“I confess that I am worried, but
I am not afraid.” —Macmillan.
“I am not confident, but I am
hopeful.”—Macmillan.
“I don’t think we ought to rush
the Common Market.” — Macmillan.
“I was an expert on migration
problems.”—Eichmann.
“I have the same feeling as
Pontius Pilate: that I am not guilty.”
—Eichmann.
“My powers as the Head of the
State are far less extensive than those
exercised by the majority of Presi-
dents of the American States.”—
General de Gaulle.
“The revolution has no time for
elections.”— Fidel Castro.
“They are a bit short of democracy
in Cuba.”LoßD Attlee.
“I am still just an ordinary mortal.”
—Major Gagarin.
“It would have been far worse if
they had sent the dog.”— Macmillan
on the British welcome to Major
Gagarin.
“We did what God wanted u„ to
do.”— Dr Verwoerd.
“I am not Dr Verwoerd. I am not
an apostle of apartheid—although I
have my own immigration policy.”
--Menzies.
“I think Australia will be out of
the Commonwealth next year on her
White Australia policy and the United
Kingdom the year after.”— Sir Edgar
Whitehead, Prime Minister of South
Rhodesia.
“I would not like to be Verwoerd’s
neighbor.”— Nehru.
“I am a seething mass of confi-
dence in the future of this country.”
—Menzies.
“There are a lot of pessimists in
this country at the present time.” —
Sir Garfield Barwick.
“One does grow weary of chasing
the sitting hen.”— Calwell.
“Sorcery is still the biggest single
influence in this Territory.”—The
Northern Territory Director of Native
Affairs.
“Let us give the aborigines the
Federal vote. It won’t do any harm,
and it won’t do any good, but it will
look better.” — Dr C. R. A. Huxtable.
NEW SOUTH WALES
In the Asylum
BY PETER KELLY
Mew South Wales has had a disgust-
ing record in its treatment of mental
patients, and the most amazing case of
civil liberties in N.S.W. this year was the
bringing to light of the conditions in
the Callan Park Mental Hospital. Callan
Park is the largest asylum in Australia,
situated in spacious grounds about five
miles from Sydney.
Even as far back as 1923 there was
a Royal Commission because of
numerous allegations of the shocking
conditions in mental hospitals. Looking
back, this Commission appears
to have done little. In July, 1937, 14
years later, the Health Minister of the
day, Mr FitzSimons, told Cabinet that
he would like to see an inquiry into the
“lay administration” of Callan Park. No
more was heard.
Again, in 1948, a newspaper reporter
got a job as an attendant at Callan
Park and later wrote his experiences up
in a series of articles on conditions in
the Park. They attacked the obsolete
accommodation, poor quality of the food,
inadequate clothing issues, understaffing
and the lack of proper treatment, and
alleged some cruelty in the treatment of
the patients. As a result, a Public
Service Board inquiry began hearing
evidence in July, 1948. Some of this
inquiry was public but quite a lot of it
was not. In its report, the board said
there were overcrowding of patients and
a shortage of staff but the food was
ample. The allegations of cruelty were
“entirely unfounded.”
Then in March. 1949, the Liberal
Opposition in the State House asked for
a Royal Commission to investigate
N.S.W. mental hospitals. The Govern-
ment refused, but in May it released a
report by the Deputy Inspector-General
of Mental Hospitals, Dr G. L. Ewan,
which criticised the shortage of doctors
and over-crowding in mental institutions.
Again, in September that year, the
Opposition asked for a Parliamentary
Select committee to investigate the
administration and conditions in mental
asylums. This, too, was refused. In 1950,
the next request for a Royal Commission
into Callan Park was made by Mr K.
McCaw, the Liberal member for Lane
Cove.
This too arose out of a series of articles
published in a magazine, this time “Aus-
tralian Monthly.” The articles were
written by a journalist who worked for
six weeks as a probationer attendant.
The Government again refused the re-
quest for a Royal Commission. In June,
1953, the “Medical Journal of Australia”
joined in and criticised the overcrowding
in the State’s mental institutions. In
1954, another series of newspaper articles
attacked conditions in Callan Park. Five
doctors who had resigned from the State’s
mental hospitals spoke out again. Statu-
tory declarations were given to the then
State Health Minister, Mr M. O’Sullivan.
Again most of the allegations were denied
by the authorities and the Government
refused requests for an inquiry.
The Stoller report in 1955 probably
had the greatest effect on the apparent
official callousness and inaction of suc-
cessive Governments and Government
departments. Dr Stoller was the director
of the Mental Hygiene Department and
in his report he again mentioned the
overcrowding and the shocking facilities.
In 1957, the Inspector-General said in his
report that overcrowding was now worse
than it had ever been 10 years ago. That
was in 1957, but what is the position
now?
The Royal Commission which had
been set up on March 10 of this year,
under Mr Justice McClemens, had its
report tabled in Parliament on September
10. Its findings were, to say the least,
horrifying. While a few minor improve-
ments had been made over the years
(although not enough to justify the
numerous inquiries, reports, etc.), the
picture of Callan Park emerged as an
18th century asylum. Mr Justice Mc-
Clemens said in his report: “My general
conclusion about Callan Park is that,
owing to the war and to financial strin-
gency, nothing material was done until
1955, In spite of attempts to better it
since, Callan Park is too big, too over-
crowded, its standards of accommoda-
tion low, its emphasis mainly custodial ;
owing to lack of staff and amenities there
is little active treatment or rehabilitation.”
One incident from the Royal Commis-
sion itself is worth telling, because it
indicates the atmosphere surrcv.nding the
Royal Commission’s hearings and gives
a picture of what conditions are like in
Callan Park.
Mr Justice McClemens, making an
inspection, “fortuitously” saw one of the
single rooms in the Hospital, occupied by
a Mr Richard Clarke. “When I saw Mr
Clarke he was lying on a bed made up
on the floor in a room which was no
better than a prison cell; the blanket,
which had been pushed to the foot of
the floor-bed on which he was lying,
had what appeared to be bloodstains on
it; flies were walking over him ; along-
side him, lying on a mattress on the


floor, was a dirty rubber sheet which was
badly stained ; a dirty towel was wrapped
around his left wrist; the whole room
smelt of wine and there was blood on
the sheet underneath the blanket; the
bed was wet.” Mr McClemens wanted
to have a photographic record of this and
accordingly sent for a Police Department
photographer. He also ordered the
patient not to be touched until after the
photograph was taken. His order was
disobeyed and the patient’s condition
was cleaned up, thus destroying the “evi-
dence.”
Dr H. R. Bailey, who was the Medical
Superintendent of Callan Park Mental
Hospital at the time of the Royal Com-
mission, and who did much to bring to
light the shocking conditions at the
hospital, resigned in September, this year.
His supporters alleged it was an act
of reprisal and victimisation by “the
authorities.”
Personally, I am pessimistic enough
to think that, despite the excellence of
the Report and its thoroughness, it will
be a long time before Callan Park is
improved. There is always the possi-
bility that there may be another Royal
Commission next year into why the re-
commendations this year were not carried
out. Then we could have a Royal Com-
mission into that R.oyal Commission . . .
Royal Commission . . . Royal Com-
mission . . .
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
A Legal Education
FROM A PERTH CORRESPONDENT
'T'eranji and Youanda knew nothing
about the white man’s laws when they
left their tribal country on the fringe of
the Canning stock route in Western Aus-
tralia to look for food. They quickly
found out about both when they speared
four head of cattle on sprawling Christ-
mas Creek station, on the bend of the
lazy Fitzroy River in the Kimberley
country, many hundreds of miles from
their own hunting grounds.
They were eating their kill when a
police Landrover appeared in the pindan.
They backed away in fear from a thing
they had never seen and when they were
arrested and brought into the Fitzroy
Crossing police station to be charged they
were car sick all the way. So were the
eight children who were accompanying
them in a tribal party.
When they appeared in court the next
day to be charged with illegal killing of
cattle they were dressed only in loin
cloths tied up with belts of human hair.
They did not understand the charge read
out to them because there was only one
native present in court who understood a
smattering of their language and his
knowledge of English was not sufficient
to explain the charge to them.
Not till Native Welfare Department
officer Harvey Tillbrook appeared on
their behalf was the charge broken to the
lesser one of being in possession of beef
suspected of being stolen. Magistrate
A. L. O'Brien fined the men £5O and
solemnly sent them to goal for 50 days
because they did not have £5O.
A month later, the Lieutenant-Gover-
nor of W. A., Sir John Dwyer, signed
papers for their release on the recom-
mendation of acting Justice Minister
Arthur Griffith, who said they were being
let go because the Native Welfare Depart-
ment had agreed to look after their
welfare. However, said Mr Griffith, such
killing of stock could not be permitted
to go unnoticed by the law.
So Teranji and Youanda were
“released,” fatter and reportedly happier
than when they were found by the police,
to go back to Christmas Creek station
and work as gardeners in the station
homestead. How they fared in an occu-
pation which must be as foreign to them
as white man’s justice has not been
recorded.


THE COMMUNIST PARTY
After Albania
By MUGGA
Tp ven in the Communist Party the ques-
' tion of civil liberties sometimes crops
up. The latest manifestation is the emer-
gence of a large but still secret group
inside the party which is fighting for free
speech about matters of communist doc-
trine. The party leaders have still not
permitted any discussion of Mr Khrush-
chev’s well-known “secret” speech to the
22nd International Congress in which he
denounced Stalin and his crimes. Nor
have they admitted in any of their publi-
cations the differences which exist
between Mr Khrushchev and Mao Tse-
tung.
Here is the unsigned circular sent out
this month by the dissident group in their
well-meaning if naive and futile fight for
free speech :
Melbourne.
“Dear Comrades,
A large percentage of the rank-and-file
members, and an important section of the
leadership, particularly in this State, are
disturbed regarding current trends within
our Party.
Our Constitution makes provision for
a Special Congress to be called. Rule 10
states: ‘Special National Congresses
shall be convened by majority decision of
the Central Committee or upon a request
from Party organisations representing at
least fifty per cent of the Party member-
ship.’
The present leadership has failed to
observe the following principles of demo-
cratic centralism, as set out in Rule 9 of
the Party Constitution, in particular (b),
(c) and (d).
As a direct result of the leadership's
failure to comply with these conditions
the following matters now require imme-
diate and full-scale discussion before a
Special National Congress, the agenda of
which must include statements and full
discussion of:
(a) How our leaders stand on the
question of the attacks on Stalin
currently being made by the
Communist Party of the Soviet
Union.
(b) How the ideological differences
between the C.P.S.U., People’s
China and Albania affect our
Party, and what policy should be
pursued as a result.
“ —and heres a hand my trus-ty friend”
(c) How the basic principles of demo-
cratic centralism can be reintro-
duced into our Party and not
merely sections (e) and (f) of Rule
9, which require the lower level
organisations to carry out higher
Party decisions.
(d) The real reasons for the expulsion
of Comrade McDonald. [A refer-
ence to McDonald’s demand for
discussion of the Sino-Soviet split.]
(e) The reason for the serious defeats
suffered by the Party in the recent
trade-union elections. [A reference
to C. Fitzgibbon’s victory in the
Waterside Workers’ Federation.]
(f) The full scope and reason for
leakages of inner Party matters to
sections of the Capitalist Press.
(g) The blows delivered to the Peace
Movement by international events.
[A reference to Soviet nuclear tests
and Soviet and Chinese war-
mongering.]
No mention of most of these vital
matters has been made in any reports as
a result of the 19th National Congress.
The serious doubt, therefore, has arisen
that they were deliberately avoided by
those who organised that Congress.
These times and issues are vital to our
continuance as an effective force in
Australia.
Therefore, the strongest efforts must be
made to bring about a special National
Congress.
Get your Branch to vote on it now.
Let your leaders know your dissatis-
faction.
FOR A SPECIAL NATIONAL
CONGRESS IN 1962.”
'T'he immediate cause of the tension is
the stand of the Stalinist leadership of
Messrs Sharkey and Dixon, who have
backed the Albanian leadership of Enver
Hoxa and the Chinese in their fight
against Mr Khrushchev and his followers.
Rank-and-file members are asking why
the Australian political committee sent a
telegram to the 20th congress of the
Albanian party congratulating on their
stand the Albanians, who were almost
unanimously condemned as murderers
and torturers by the 22nd congress of
the C.P.S.U. by the communist delegations
throughout the world who attended the
congress.
The Australian leadership is attempting
to hide the documents from the 22nd
congress which have brought to light
further details of Stalin’s tyranny and
mass murders, including the frame-up
“trials” following the Kirov assassination
in 1934.
This circular will lead to a major
explosion in the coming year, and if
the leadership is not changed there will
be quite a few resignations. My guess
is that there will be a change in the
eadership, but it will probably be too late
stop a wave of quiet resignations.


PLAIN ENGLISH
What Goa Means
TN one sense, India’s seizure of Goa
- L should surprise nobody. This is
not the first time a powerful country
has conquered a weaker neighbor, and
it will not be the last. Indeed, there
may even be some sense in the claim
that India has shown surprising
patience over the past 14 years. The
British and French withdrew from
India; what is so special about their
rights that the Portuguese should stay
on? Only an insignificant proportion
of Goans —about 2 per cent —speak
Portuguese. There was no pretence
of self-determination in Goa. Almost
every intelligent Goan had to leave for
India if he wanted to advance in his
career. Racially and culturally Goa
is part of India and was, in fact, a
foreign colony: it was as if Portugal
possessed, say, Darwin.
But to look at the situation in these
broad terms is to miss the main point.
There may have been nothing surpris-
ing about the fact of conquest, but in
its timing it was certainly surprising,
and may possibly be disastrous, herald-
ing a new era of world instability. As
far as India itself is concerned, its
action in Goa robs it of its main argu-
ment against Chinese encroachments
on Indian territory. As China and
Russia, which are so ardently support-
ing India, know, if India has the right
to “restore” Goa to its motherland.
China can “restore” parts of India to
the Chinese motherland—as it did with
Tibet. No doubt the explanation for
the timing is that Mr Nehru had to
think about winning the February
elections by giving his voters some
anti-Western bread and circuses. But
given his own fears of China, this
display of strength is really a display
of weakness.
But this is only one aspect. In the
present tense world India’s action will
obviously become a precedent for
“anti-colonialist” adventures wherever
a weak neighboring pocket of power
can be found. Obviously it will be a
precedent for Indonesia in West New
Guinea. There are also Oman and
Kuwait in the Middle East. (Already
Iraq, with an eye on Kuwait, has
“blessed the just action” of India, and
the League of Arab States, forgetting
in its excited anticipation of further
plunder even to pay the usual canting
lip-service to “liberation” and “inter-
national peace,” described it straight
out as “a victory of the peoples of
Africa and Asia” over the Europeans.)
There are Hong Kong. Macao. British
Borneo. There are small States in
Africa and South America. Almost
anything can be “liberated” and
“restored to the motherland.”
This is not to say that if such a
new era does emerge in the world it
will be all India’s fault. But it will
have the responsibility of kicking it
off —all for the sake of the February
elections. It is an ironical comment on
democracy that in the only Asian de-
mocracy, apart from Malaya, political
leaders have to jeopardise the world’s
safety to keep political power.
The Good Old Days?
A/fR MENZIES has now answered
the charges levelled against him
and has agreed to modify some of his
policies. This is all to the good pro-
vided that with a working majority of
one in the House, and a hostile Senate
after June 30, he is not forced to sub-
mit to various pressure groups at the
expense of national development.
Businessmen, bankers, trade unions,
economic experts should no doubt all
be consulted and their opinions care-
fully weighed. But they cannot, and
should not, be allowed to run the
country. Yet the present unstable
political situation provides such pres-
sure groups as the manufacturers,
importers, dairyfarmers and the rest
with a golden opportunity to exert an
inordinately strong influence on the
Government. More likely than not,
Mr Menzies, harassed by the Opposi-
tion, will try to liven up the economy
—and get rid of unemployment—by
reviving the very inflation-prone parts
of the private sector which had to be
restrained in November, 1960. Con-
sumer-goods industries are the quickest
to recover buoyancy, particularly if
public works spending is increased at
the same time. This is the easiest way
out, and also the best way to get back
into some voters’ favor. It is also
fraught with grave inflationary
dangers.
Another ominous indication is the
Prime Minister’s proclaimed willing-
ness to “discuss with manufacturers the
problem of tariffs and imports.” There
is nothing wrong with “discussions.”
This has been done by the Tariff
Board for years. But it may be
disastrous if the Government is forced
to create artificial economic buoyancy
and then try to shelter it with drastic
import restrictions. If this happens
Mr Menzies will, in fact, capitulate
and retreat completely from his earlier
attempts to ensure balanced growth.
Insignifican t
nrHE artistic movement which
centred around Norman Lindsay
in Sydney of the 1920’s has been called
the Renaissance that did not come off.
The Australian theatre movement of
the 1950’s is another Renaissance that
did not come off. With the establish-
ment of the Elizabethan Theatre Trust
and the success of “Summer of
the Seventeenth Doll” it seemed that
there had been a decisive break-
through, that at last we were to have
a hardy, flourishing indigenous drama.
Those hopes have since been dashed.
Last season in Sydney, for instance, was
disastrous: a new theatre for intelli-
gent works closed after a month and
“The One Day of the Year” was
taken off when interest about it was
growing. Work goes ahead on the
Opera House, but nobody knows how
it will be filled, and our reservations
about the Elizabethan Theatre Trust
have grown since the success, in
Adelaide, of a play it rejected: Patrick
White’s “Ham Funeral.”
Anyone surveying the intense
activity of the numerous theatre groups
in Australia must be struck by the
devotion of those engaged. But with
all this effort we are scarcely advanc-
ing towards a local drama which pro-
vides both analysis and amusement.
One of the reasons is our small popu-
lation, for only large cities with regular
influxes of tourists maintain many
quality theatres playing to full houses.
Another reason, according to Eunice
Hanger in her Forum article in this
issue, is that when a playwright does
produce a good script he has little
chance of it being presented because
the selection of plays is so inept.
Local theatre cannot do without Aus-
tralian writers and Australian drama-
tists cannot do without local theatre.
Yet both keep working away without
benefit of each other’s experience. It
is a guaranteed way for both to be
insignificant.


THE RED AND THE BLACK
By GEORGE COOK
In its attempts to infiltrate aboriginal organisations and use them for its own
purposes, the Communist Party's main enemies are the Christian groups which
have traditionally promoted aboriginal welfare. The struggle for power
between the communists and the Christians has to date rarely come to a head.
But in Queensland this year there was a showdown.
ONCE the meeting got under way the test of strength
was not long in coming.
We were in the Society of Friends’ House,
North Quay, Brisbane. It was the June 5. 1961,
meeeting of the Queensland State Council for the Advance-
ment of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders.
My attendance was the result of a last-minute call for
help from an executive member, Mrs B. Langford. The
problem was that, since constitution of the council stated
membership was open to all. the communists had joined in
force. They lost no opportunity of using the council as a
platform for bitter and constant abuse against Church and
State to the consternation of other members, many of whom
had dropped out as a result.
I had relayed Mrs Langford’s message to organisations
to which 1 belonged, including the Queensland Labor Party,
U.N.A.A.. R.S.L. and the National Civic Council, as well
as to individuals I knew, particularly Presbyterians and
Methodists. Mr Noel Wilson relayed it through the
Liberal party and other organisations to which he
belonged. (Inevitably our call was to people already busy,
and the short notice found many otherwise engaged.) Our
decision was to support the Rev. Mr J. Sweet, the Presby-
terian minister in charge of Aboriginal Welfare Work,
who was a regular attender.
The issue which brought the test of strength to a
head was the alleged “flogging” of an aboriginal. Jim
Jacko, by a Lutheran mission superintendent. The resolu-
tion was that we. the Queensland State Council, protest
about the “flogging” to the State Minister for Health and
Home Affairs. Mr Sweet opposed this on the grounds that
the council had as yet no real evidence of its own, only
someone else’s allegations, to base such a protest on, and
this was insufficient. When the vote came the comrades
were defeated by one vote, 13-14, with ten abstaining.
This was the first defeat the comrades had suffered
for a few meetings, and they took it badly. They moved
that other items on the agenda be deferred to the next
meeting. Obviously their plan was to return with reinforce-
ments to the July meeting at which a new secretary was to
be appointed.
The next trial of strength came 10 days later, on June
15, when the Federal Parliamentary Select Committee on
Voting Rights of Aborigines opened its proceedings in
Brisbane. The “Courier Mail” published those listed to
give evidence next day, and this list included those known
to me as communists. The Select Committee had to be
informed and I volunteered to give evidence.
On June 16, the four witnesses who preceded me
were Mr J. E. Fitzgerald (Secretary. Seamen’s Union of
Australia, Queensland Branch), Mr Alex. Macdonald (Sec-
retary. Trades and Labor Council of Queensland), both
members of the Queensland State Committee of the Com-
munist party, Mrs K. J. Cochrane, representing the
communist-front Union of Australian Women, and Mrs
K. Walker, featured in the communist paper “The
Guardian” as the spokeswoman for aborigines.
In my evidence I reported on communist influence in
the Aboriginal Welfare Organisations, quoted the political
record of these four preceding witnesses and drew attention
to the fact that evidence was not being given by the Aus-
tralian Workers’ Union, which had more aboriginal mem-
bers in Queensland than all other unions combined.
Subsequently I was informed that my message had been
received by the Select Committee “loud and clear.”
The stage was now set for the third trial of strength
at the July council meeting. On our side, many prevented
in June by the short notice stated they would be there. Just
how many the communists could recruit we did not know.
We held a preliminary meeting at Mr Sweet’s invitation in
the Presbyterian Assembly Offices at which we decided to
support a Mr J. Cranitch for secretary on Mrs Langford’s
request.
The July council meeting saw the Society of Friends’
meeting-house full. The attendance was double that of
the June meeting, and with recruitment being through
many different Christian denominations and organisations,
many were unknown to each other. The procedure was
the same, namely to support Mr Sweet, and the voting on the
first test vote was 50-20 our way against the communists.
Nevertheless, by way of a resolution that the council
be represented at the official inquiry into the Jacko case
the comrades were able to indulge in their usual tirade
against the Government and the Christian missions before
their resolution was defeated. Mr Cranitch was duly
installed as secretary at this meeting, the communist
nominee withdrawing.
The list of affiliated organisations read out at the
meeting sounded like a roll call of communist auxiliaries,
including the Union of Australian Women. Realist Writers
and communist-influenced unions such as the Painters’
Union. Plasterers’ Union, Waterside Workers’ Federation
and the Queensland Trades and Labor Council. Com-
munists present included State committee member Wally
Stubbings (a Waterside Workers’ delegate). Mrs Daisi
Marchisotti (a full-time Communist party functionary
specialising in work among New Australians and aborigines)
and Mrs Cochrane (a Union of Australian Women
delegate).
Our intention at this stage was to eliminate the
known communists and continue the council in existence.
1 accordingly gave notice to amend the constitution at the
next meeting to read: Membership is open to all “except
those who are dedicated to the overthrow of constitutional
government by revolution.”
After the July meeting an examination of the minute
book by Mr Cranitch revealed a dismal succession of
attacks on the Government and the Christian missions,
over alleged atrocities, and the obstruction by the com-
munists of efforts to get down to cases and assist individual
aborigines. My amendment would not cope with com-
munists who were there as delegates from organisations,
and in particular unions which were affiliated with the
Australian Labor Party. Wally Stubbings, the communist


leader, was there as a delegate from an A.L.P. affiliated
union, and an amendment which would not debar him
would be useless. The executive therefore decided to
recommend to the August meeting that the council disband,
and at the same time they decided to form a new organisa-
tion named OPAL from which communists would be
excluded and in which unions would not be accepted as
affiliated organisations.
The comrades, prepared for a personal attack on me
over my amendment, were disconcerted by the submission
of the executive resolution to disband the council. They
were rescued by known A.L.P. supporters present who
attacked the executive recommendation on constitutional
grounds. In the end the resolution to disband was carried
37-30, all known A.L.P. personalities present voting with
the communists.
The Justice Department was notified of the disband-
ment and asked to administer the disposal of the assets of
the council. On November 10. the certifying officer pub-
lished a notice of his intention to do so, a month being
allowed for objections. Needless to say, objections have
been lodged by the communists and the communist-front
affiliated organisations. OPAL has since been launched
with wide backing from all major Christian denominations,
Rotary, Y.W.C.A., W.C.T.U.. St Joan’s Alliance and other
Christian organisations. A feature of all its meetings is
that they are always opened with an inter-denominational
prayer. It is already assisting Mrs Wilding to maintain a
hostel for aborigines in Brisbane, and arrangements are in
hand to extend this work. The policy is for the Christian
denominations to take aboriginal families of their own
denomination from the hostel into a parish and the
aboriginal family to be there assimilated into the com-
munity under the care of their fellow-Christians.
T”HE comrades were not long in recovering from the
A shock of the August meeting. Within a week, executive
members received a letter signed by communist Max Julius,
“on behalf of my client, the Waterside Workers’ Federa-
tion.” demanding that they take no action on the August
resolution. The comrades and a few others continued to
meet happily under the council’s name, but their joy was
shattered by the Justice Department notice dated November
10. Now admitting that their meetings in September,
October and November were unconstitutional, they
attempted to convene a special meeting of the council on
December 11 to remove the executive from office.
In the event, this meeting was also unconstitutional
because many council members received less than the
prescribed notice and at least one of the executive they
tried to remove did not receive a notice at all. I went along
with some other members to advise the gathering formally
of the defect of the notice. To a very frosty audience 1
said we could have a nice friendly chat together about
aboriginal welfare, but we could not be a meeting of the
council due to the defect in the notice.
Nevertheless, they went ahead, going through the
motions of not only removing the old executive but of
electing a new executive and of validating all past monthly
meetings by confirming their minutes. The meeting was
run on true Trades Hall lines, all pretence of drawing-
room manners being dropped. At one stage I was debarred
from making notes by the chairman’s ruling under penalty
of expulsion from the meeting. At the end of the meeting
Mrs Langford, who also attended, was pursued out of the
building by a communist who demanded she hand over the
notes she had taken. She courageously refused.
The desperate attempts of the communists to continue
the council confirms the high priority they give to subver-
sion among the aborigines. Their objective is to be
regarded by the aborigines as their only true friends. Their
method is to clamor about alleged injustices, all the while
censuring the Government and the Christian missions, but
carefully avoiding the time-consuming work involved in
assisting individual aborigines. They have, however,
managed to retain a few members of minor Christian
denominations as a result of their allegation that the closure
of the council was the work of Catholic Action. These are
not sufficient in prestige or number to give them an adequate
respectable front. Meanwhile, OPAL is flourishing, and
will do really worthwhile work in the care and assimilation
of aborigines into our community.
Change In Official
Monetary Policy
A.N.Z. Bank Chairman’s
Statement
“The Government’s deci-
sion to influence the borrow-
ing activities of the non-bank
financial institutions consti-
tuted a significant modifica-
tion to monetary policy,” said
the chairman of A.N.Z. Bank
Limited, the Hon. Sir Geof-
frey C. Gibbs, K.C.M.G., in
the Bank’s Annual Report
for 1961. “It may portend
some alleviation of the un-
realistic situation of recent
years, whereby the full weight
of credit adjustment has been
borne by the trading banks
and their customers.”
Sir Geoffrey also said:
“The past 12 months have
witnessed a substantial change
in the pace of economic
activity and a reversal of the
high growth rates which had
characterised the housing
and consumer durable sectors
of industry. The removal of
pressure on the balance of
payments was achieved at
the cost of a substantial in-
crease in the number of un-
employed and a decline in
the level of activity in pri-
vate industry. However, by
deferring the long-term prob-
lem of excessive demand for
imports the Government was
able to realign policies and
thus pursue once more Aus-
tralia’s national objective of
extending domestic activity
and increasing employment.
Export Diversification.
“One of the most favour-
able interpretations of re-
cent events is that they have
concentrated attention on the
balance of payments prob-
lem/’ Sir Geoffrey con-
tinued: “Development of a
more diverse range of export
activities has assumed in-
creasing importance in view
of the persistent adverse
movements in Australia’s
terms of trade, following the
tendency in recent years for
export prices to fall while the
prices of imported manufac-
tured goods rose slightly.
This adverse movement in
prices has offset increases in
the volume of goods ex-
ported.
“But probably the most
important requirement for
success in the export field is
to ensure that the increase in
Australian costs and prices
is kept to a minimum, so
that the competitive advant-
ages, which have been a fea-
ture of the pastoral industries
in particular, will not be dis-
sipated.”
Continuing Development
Discussing recent changes
in the level of activity. Sir
Geoffrey commented: “From
the longer-term aspect, the
Australian economy can be
expected to maintain a rapid
rate of development. Provi-
sion of adequate services for
the expanding population
will require a continued high
level of investment in the
public sector, as well as
further development of in-
dustries servicing the local
market.”


TIGER, TIGER
BURNING BRIGHT
"I'll do some pushing myself"
By KEITH WILLEY
"TIGER” BRENNAN
Hasluck-baiter
ROTUND, cigar-smoking Harold “Tiger” Brennan
was narrowly defeated by the Northern Territory's
sitting A.L.P. Member, “Jock” Nelson, but he will
be back fighting in the next elections.
Tiger is the Territory’s most colorful and rambustious
politician. He also is an inveterate Hasluck-baiter, who
dubbed the Minister for Territories “Father” and “Oom
Paul,” and is on record as saying: “The Territory will not
progress as it should until this man (Hasluck) is removed.”
An exuberant, bouncing type of man. he is a bachelor,
likes a drink (half-Scotch) and a bet. He is a tireless worker
and lobbyist and is in the top bracket as orator.
He was born in India 56 years ago. Gold rushes at
Tennant Creek and the Granites lured him north in 1935,
and he has lived in the Territory ever since, apart from
six years away with the Army engineers during the war.
when he had charge of camouflage for General MacArthur
in the Philippines and won the U.S. Medal of Freedom.
He still describes himself as “a humble prospector,”
and knows the Territory as do few men. He has prospected
for wolfram around Wauchope. tin at Maranboy. He holds
lead and zinc leases out on the Bulman River. For years
he was chief prospector for Consolidated Zinc.
But all that time, as he went about his business in
odd corners of the outback, something kept needling Tiger.
“Those nincompoops in Canberra kept pushing us around,”
he said. “I felt that blinking frustrated I decided to get
in there and do some pushing myself.” Six years ago, as
Member for the bush electorate of Batchelor, he entered
the Legisltaive Council. There those bristling mustachios
and rolling denunciations of the status quo quickly became
features of a by-no-means tranquil chamber.
He stood for Federal Parliament as an Independent
by choice and by conviction. “As far as the Territory is con-
cerned. party politics are out. No party considers the
Territory,” he said. “In this year’s Budget Queensland and
West Australia got big votes. We got next to nothing.
This year’s appropriations were only £BOO.OOO more than
last year’s. But £300.000 was not spent last year, and that
goes back into kitty, so we get only a £500.000 rise.”
He and his friend, the Member for Port Darwin. Mr
Dick Ward led the six Legislative Council “rebels” out
three years ago when they resigned en masse and forced
Canberra to accept far-reaching Constitutional reforms. On
that occasion he proved his total honesty. A Government
member had jibed at him as “the member for Consolidated
Zinc.” So he resigned his good and lucrative job as that
company’s chief prospector.
For the past three years he has devoted himself full-
time to politics. Immured like a mole for long periods in
the elected Members’ room of the Legislative Council, his
burrowings have gone deep. He comes up with some
surprising information accurate and often deeply
embarrassing to the powers-that-be. His researches into
the Federal Budget and the various select committees which
pop up in the Territory like mushrooms have been more
careful than those of any other Member —Government or
private. And that care has paid dividends. Recently he
has been studying the political evolution of Ghana and
Sierre Leone in the hope of finding a parallel for the Terri-
tory which Canberra would accept.
Backbenchers of the House of Representatives already
know Tiger almost as well as do the crocodile hunters of
the South Alligator, the miners of Maranboy and Burrundie,
the beachcombers of Borroloola —all of whom come within
his vast council electorate of Elsey. Had he been sent to
Canberra. Tiger would have retained his Legislative Council
seat. And Legislative Council reform is the major plank
of his election platform. He pledged himself to battle
“tooth and nail” for:
• A Northern Territory Administration with responsi-
bility only to the Minister and not to the “Department of
Territories Secretariat.”
• Legislative Council reforms: A fully-elected Coun-
cil* —Members to be paid the same as Members of the
lowest-salaried State House (about £1750 a year). Eleven
seats —five for Darwin, two for Alice Springs, four for out-
back areas. Internal financial control by that Council and
divorcement of it from Native Welfare, which he sees as a
Commonwealth responsibility. A Cabinet of four or five
Members elected by Councillors as Ministers of the Crown,
responsible for supervising Government branches and
introducing Bills.
9 Completion of the north-south railway.
• Good all-weather roads at regular stages to bring
cattle in to that railway.
• Export abattoirs in Darwin.
• Substantial freight subsidies on fertiliser, steel
fencing posts and wire.
• Improved medical and educational facilities (“when
you see what they’ve got in Canberra you realise what a
sad-sack area this is”).
9 Full voting rights in Parliament for the Federal
Member.
9 Bringing the Territory under the Commonwealth
Roads Aid Act: “Out of the £44 millions made available
this year the distributing formula would have entitled the
Territory, if it had been a State, to millions —on the
basis of area alone —for development roads off the bitu-
men.” Instead the Commonwealth has granted the
Territory £418.000.
Although narrowly beaten this time, he will be battling
again next time. “Reform, reform, reform,” will be his
catchcry again; If he wins, the Government will have a
fight on its hands, and the House of Representatives will
gain an unusual and dynamic recruit.


TWO DISASTERS,
ONE ENIGMA
A very young poet meets three writers,
each famous in his own fashion
By DAVID MARTIN
DAVID MARTIN
“My fault”
IT was important for me to see Arnold Zweig. as import-
ant as it can be for a very young poet, hardly yet a
beginner, to meet a great writer and to get some
encouragement. In those days, and perhaps even now,
he meant more to me than any other novelist of our time,
for he had written “The Case of Sergeant Grisha.’ And
“Grisha” is of all modern war books the most powerful
and the deepest, not excluding Barbusse's “Under Fire. ’
That he wrote prose and I was hoping to write verse
did not bother me. He was a master of language and
imagination, a humanist, a man cast in a big mould. He
would look at my scribblings—though I didn't think they
were scribblings —with generous eyes. He would say that
1 had talent but much to learn yet. would talk to me about
the noblest and most exacting of all professions, would
criticise and open perspectives. This was certain; the only
problem was to find the courage to approach him. Which
was not a small thing.
He was living on top of Mount Carmel, in a beautiful
house overlooking Haifa Bay. 1 was working at the bottom,
in Haifa port ... a longshoreman, a wharfie. a stevedore.
We went there every morning in a truck belonging to my
kibbutz, Kwutzath Hayam. then still only a scatter of tents
and huts near the huge silver tanks of the oil refinery which
dominate the scimitar of dunes, stretching all the way to
Acre. It was the year of the Troubles. 1936. the year of
the Haganah. of the roadblocks, the fires at night and
the emergency policemen in black lambskin fezs. In the
day we loaded oranges, at night we guarded the railway line.
I used to look up at his mountain and compose letters.
Sehr geehrter Herr Zweig! Or. perhaps better. Lieber
Genosse Zweig, for. if anyone, he was a comradely being.
But in the end. if 1 remember rightly. 1 chose the more
formal address. It was a short letter, but attached to it
was a big sheaf of handwritten poems, including the one
which pleased me best. It was about a gas attack. Why
a gas attack? I had never seen one. and the only person
1 knew who had gone through it was an uncle 1 had not
seen for a long time. It was not even a symbolic gas attack,
though it was symbolic for me in other ways. So the letter
was posted, registered.
The answer came back almost by return, written. I
thought, by Mrs Zweig. Yes, it would give him pleasure
to receive me. Unfortunately, the weekends were rather
crowded. A morning of the following week was suggested,
or of the week after.
All waiting has an end. I rang the bell in the door-
gate let into the tall, surrounding wall. It was opened by
a young woman who made herself known as Dr Zweig’s
secretary. She explained that some visitors had arrived,
but that he would soon be free; he had not forgotten about
my coming. Would I care to wait in the study?
She took me through the garden where, in a shady
corner, some people were sitting in deck-chairs, talking
animatedly. I was too nervous to look closely, but I
noticed that there were at least two women. Into the house
we went, and into his study. 1 recall it as a high, cool,
rather dark room with many books and, I believe, a large
map or globe, or perhaps some kind of mural or wall
design. There I waited —with sweating palms.
1 did not know what to do with myself. The books
were in German and some in English, but apparently none
in Hebrew. Distantly I could hear the voices from the
garden, occasionally rising as if several people were talking
at once. Instead of making me feel more at ease, it had
the opposite effect. There were people who did not mind
raising their voices in Arnold Zweig’s presence . . . but I
would not be one of those.
The door opened at last and he came in. The first
thing that struck me was that his eyes were so bad as to
make him partially blind; they were hidden by heavily
tinted glasses. Even in his own room he seemed to move
with a certain caution.
We shook hands. I apologised for taking him away
from his guests.
He told me who they were: people from an American
film company interested in one of his novels. He launched
himself into the difficulties one had, working from Palestine,
off the beaten track. I must have made some silly remark
about it not mattering where a man like Zweig. who
belonged to the whole literate world, lived, because he
explained that this question of residence was a real problem
for any writer, and especially for him.
The Jewish public, he said, was not very interested in
his work. He had written about the country, but they
still regarded him as a German in exile. They did not at
all understand his motives, his attitudes. For instance, he
had co-operated with the “Brith Shalom,” a group of
academics and professional people who wanted to build a
bridge to the Arabs, but it had been misunderstood. Every-
thing was on too small a scale and too intense. Yes. And,
naturally, the hard light was no help.
He had read my poems. I would realise, no doubt,
that he was most essentially a novelist, a teller of stories.
What was it in “The Case of Sergeant Grisha” that had
had such an influence on me? The pathos of Grisha him-
self —and his final execution. Aha! He agreed that
“Grisha” was his most successful book, possibly more
effective than that other one. “Education Before Verdun.”
With so much violence in the world, readers were getting
tired of war books. But a man who had gone through
the war would always return to it in his writing.
About this gas-attack poem of mine. I could not
know much about war. obviously, and the best thing was
always to write from life. Wasn’t it a bit like Ehrich
Weinert’s things? Was I interested in prose as well? Had
I tried it? So many themes everywhere, especially for young
writers. Reportage. A real future for that . . . But with


feeling and intuition, not merely dramatic facts alone.
Still, another big problem, making the switch to Ivrith.
For himself no Hebrew, needless to say, only German. But
like all emigres, cut off from the homeland of the
language . . . life is always a struggle.
He was trying to hide that he was nervous about the
people in the garden, and I have forgotten how long the
interview lasted. It can't have lasted very long because he
hardly mentioned my poetry, for which today I am glad.
He was talking about himself, only about himself, all the
time, courteously, to the point and even frankly. 1 should
have felt flattered, and I think I was for an hour or two
after it was all over. At any rate, I do know that the
real let-down came only in the evening, when I was making
my notes, back in the tent.
I made up my mind that from then on I would seek
writers not, as it were, in their trousers, but between the
covers of their books, where the full truth about them is
revealed. Only a great soul could have produced “Grisha”!
A few months later 1 again wrote to Arnold Zweig.
To tell him that a group of us. seven, were going to Spain,
where Madrid was under siege. We found it hard to scrape
fares together. He sent back a friendly letter and a good
donation.
CTNCERELY I believe that it was my fault, but my
second encounter with a famous writer was almost as
disastrous as the first. It cannot be otherwise, for Egon
Erwin Kisch was loved by all who knew him well —the
then Attorney-General of Australia did not really know
him all that well!—and. while I know that I was disgrace-
fully self-conscious. I probably did not impress others as
in the least shy.
This was in ’37. in Madrid, at a writers’ conference.
I was no “writer” and had no business being there, though
my first poems to be published in a worthwhile journal
had just appeared in “Weltbuehne,” whose editor, the
Nobel Prize winner Kurt Tucholski, was languishing in a
concentration camp.
My recollections of the background to the meeting
with Kisch are no longer as clear as they are for the
encounter with Zweig. but 1 seem to remember that it
came during the summer, roughly at the time of the
Brunete offensive.
I went only very briefly, and more or less on the spur
of the moment, passing through the capital, not to sit in on
a formal session but. if possible, to look round among the
writers. Some of those in uniform I knew, but the others
were all strangers, except Stephen Spender, whom I had
cursorily come across in the rear. A friend pointed out
Egon Erwin Kisch. looking very Central European and
jovial and rather plump, sitting at a table, talking.
By and by, as others drifted away, I introduced myself.
Kisch had heard of me, 1 think through Ludwig Renn, and,
1 understood, had been shown a swag of my poems which
were planned for publication in book form, a project which
eventually fell through. 1 would have liked to ask him
about some problems in connection with this.
But he was not in the mood. Exactly like Zweig. he
kept talking about his own work, and especially about
“Australian Landfall.” I had read “Landfall.” still one
of the most shrewdly diverse and entertaining books about
a far-away country for which, in the middle of a European
civil war. I didn’t care a fig.
But he kept on and on about it. very expansively: a
marvellous conversationalist. He liked Australia! As to
myself. I grew more and more fidgety and frustrated, for
I was very nervous at the time. It was a dead loss to a
selfish youth.
Finally there was a break and Kisch turned his impres-
sive head to me. “By the way, what do you think of
“Australian Landfall”?
Something ruptured. I stood up and said:
“A damned good book. The only thing about it I
can’t work out is how a fat pig like you managed to jump
over the railing of that ship and down on to the quay in
Sydney.”
There was an awful silence that could have lasted
15 seconds. Then he laughed and put out his hand:
“Ja, ja! Well . . . tell us something about yourself.
What did you do before the war?”
CjINCE then 1 have met a few writers, here and there,
privately and in public, and, like other people, some
are more interesting in public than in private. The most
astonishing and stimulating was Hugh McDiarmid. the
“Lucky Poet” who is the Scottish Renaissance. And the
on& to whom 1 owe most gratitude is Miles Franklin. But
the one I shall write about is Ernest Toller.
Like Zweig and Kisch. I met him only once, which
1 mourn. It was in London, late in 1938. just after Spain.
My motives were absolutely good; 1 wanted to talk about
nothing but the world to the poet-playwright who had
written “Masse Mensch.”
He had come to address some big rallies, but I had
not been to any of them, though 1 had heard about his,
almost too dramatic, platform technique. The appoint-
ment had been arranged at the suggestion of a lady who
had been his secretary once, with the final initiative
coming from him. It reached me in the form of a phone
call from the Savoy Hotel to my boarding house among
the whores of Maida Vale.
Yes. he was staying at the Savoy. He was earning
royalties, one of his anti-Nazi plays had been turned into
a film; he did not have to stint himself. When I got there
the room doors were slightly ajar and there was the sound
of splashing water.
“Can 1 come in?” 1 enquired, first quietly, then
loudly.
A shout came from inside: “I am having a shower.
Come right through into the bathroom.”
A naked man stood there, water flowing over his
body as over the statue of an athlete under a fountain.
He had not broad but magnificently shaped shoulders and
limbs. Handsome like a mature Apollo, laughing and
stamping joyfully.
“Sit down!”
I sat down on a bath stool.
Then, there under the shower, he started to recite a
poem. A poem which I had never heard recited half so
well. A poem of my own. published obscurely in a German
language paper in New York.
“Terrific!” I said, moved like a girl.
“Come here.” said he.
I approached the rim of the bath and, wet as he was,
we embraced. A most unteutonic thing.
He did not come out from under the shower for
another ten minutes, and all the time we talked about
poetry and he was reciting snatches, mostly of old ballads.
“You see.” he kept reassuring me. “I have so little
time! Off to a meeting when I’m dressed, and tomorrow
morning I am leaving London.”
I can remember him only like this, reciting poetry
naked, so glowing, so alive.
When the news came that Toller had suicided I could
not believe it at first. That man—killed himself? But it
was true enough. The lady who knew him, his old friend,
told me that, ever since childhood, he had been in the
habit of carrying about with him in his pocket some crusts
of bread, out of fear that, one day, he would not have what
he needed.


A KALEIDOSCOPE OF 1961
IN TIMES LIKE THESE
By DONALD HORNE
TO sum up what kind of a year it was overseas you
have to cheat a bit. The year seemed to begin in
December last year, and with a few crises still on
the boil (and the West New Guinea crisis likely to
blow up in our faces) it is too risky to include details of
what is happening this December.
If we run the year from last December to November of
this year a neater pattern emerges —a pattern in which the
Soviet held the diplomatic initiative, in which strains tested
the strength of both the free world and the communist
world, in which stability crumbled a little further in Africa
and South America and in which—in Asia —we suffered
defeat.
Asia first. Britain and France had their way in Laos
and the new American administration me-tooed a policy
of neutrality which came too late to mean what it said.
The year ended with no member of it any longer really
believing in SEATO and with the gravest threats against
the survival of an anti-communist Government in South
Vietnam.
We have been kept talking on Laos because the com-
munists do not want to make a final issue of it while their
present tactics may help them to pick up South Vietnam
as well. As is often the way with aggressors, the com-
munist campaign in South Vietnam has no surprises. It
is to disperse anti-communist forces by guerilla terrorist
tactics so that either the administration falls to pieces or
a final coup de grace effects a quick victory against a
paralysed Government.
This may not happen, but on past form it is the most
likely eventuality. By the end of the coming year our
friends in South Vietnam may be imprisoned or dead and
all of former French Indo-China may have passed into the
communist sphere of influence. A glance at a map and a
modern history book show that this is a matter of the
gravest importance for Australia. There are few Aus-
tralians who could find South Vietnam on a map or know
what part of a history book to look up.
'THE possible emergence of a Malaysian Federation pro-
vides some hope for a temporary stability in at least
one part of South-East Asia—but this is a perilous plan
that could always fall to bits. Morale in Thailand still
appears strong as the Thais prepare themselves for what
may be their coming battle against communist aggression.
If there were a frontal attack this would force Ameri-
can intervention which, combined with Thai strength,
would settle the matter. But there will not be a frontal
attack. The communists are playing their game carefully
and obliquely in South-East Asia so that no simple step
in the offensive is so great that it would precipitate an
American decision to intervene.
On the brighter side, continued Chinese aggression on
India’s borders is continuing to awaken the Indians from
their neutralist slumber, and the economic leap forward of
Japan is now accompained by a decline in internal com-
munist infiltration that promises well for Japanese stability.
However, President Soekarno is embarking on a further
stage of his West New Guinea adventure and seriously
threatening a whole section of Australian foreign policy,
but who cares about that?
Internally, communist China is still floundering from
one tyrannical inefficiency to the next as the regime keeps
control—and will continue to keep control—of an unhappy
people. But after a year there has probably been an
increase in the number of Australians who would like to
see us enter a kind of Greater Chinese Co-Prosperity
Sphere. Mr Calwell is committed by his party’s decisions
to recognise Communist China and support its admission
to the United Nations; there are men in his party who
might be described as being (whatever their intentions), in
effect, agents of communist China; the Australian Com-
munist Party is lined up with communist China in its
brawl with the Soviet and is using its front organisations
as propaganda agencies for communist China; while on
the political Right wheatgrowers, woolgrowers and business-
men dream of profitable deals (that would prove illusory).
In the wider field of Soviet world propaganda, or
“diplomacy” as we still call it in our quaint, traditional
way, Mr Khrushchev has not shaken anything off the tree,
but he has done all the shaking. His manufacture of the
“Berlin crisis” put the Western Alliance through some of
its most demoralised moments as some Western statesmen
began to wonder what they could give him so that we
could keep what we had (in some way that would probably
mean that it finally wouldn’t be worth keeping). Then he
turned off the heat, perhaps because he thought that a rest
might finally bring him a concession; and it might, at that.
His thrust at Finland towards the end of the year seemed
to serve the same kind of purpose.
Although the demands on Berlin and the subsequent
brutal resumption of nuclear tests superficially turned
opinion against him (after the Paris conference fiasco a
belief in co-existence and summit diplomacy was not
strong in the West) a cool, second look may show that,
although Mr Khrushchev did not destroy the Western
Alliance, he may have shaken it more than appears in the
present lull.
The British in particular show many outward signs of
demoralisation. The Civil Disobedience lot were not many
in numbers, but they were a symptom of a great deal of
sheer nervelessness in Britain. With the Empire now almost
disposed of (Tanganyika’s departure might not even have
been noticed if Prince Phillip had not presided over it),
and with the Commonwealth becoming such a very strange
affair, the British may finally pass into the emotional crisis
that has long been expected of them. However, the applica-
tion for entry into the European Economic Community —
delayed as it was —may provide effective occupational
therapy.
TT was one of the flukes of political life (of a kind that
A Australians are now learning about) that over a signifi-
cant part of the “Berlin crisis” West Germany did not
have an effective Government. Dr Adenauer did a pretty
strange deal to keep himself in power, and threw out some
principles and friends in the process. Although one admires
his steadfastness, one also wonders if it would not have
been better if West Germany had already begun to experi-
ment with life without Adenauer.
The answer is probably that it could do very well


indeed, but the same cannot be said so confidently about
de Gaulle and France. While de Gaulle was the real hero
of the Western Alliance this year, France itself, although
outwardly stable, could always just blow up as the OAS
build their underground parallel State apparatus and
enforce their wishes with plastic bombs. The kind of
“stability” they would enforce would be of the terrorist
kind internally; in foreign affairs they would probably
prove dangerously ratbag.
For once one can also give an unfavorable report on
the stability of the other side. The uneasy compromises
of last year's Moscow conference, the denunciations of
Stalin at the Twenty-second Bolshevik Congress, the split
with Albania and the open attacks by China should not be
exaggerated, but they were symptoms of the end of mono-
lithic world communism and the beginning of polycentric
world communism.
What that is going to mean finally no one knows, but
when the defeatists start talking of Western weaknesses it
is now worth remembering that there are many tensions
in the communist world. The Russians and the Chinese
have the tensions of holding down their own people by
terror and of holding down their colonies in Eastern Europe
and Asia; to these are now added the tensions of competing
for the favor of the world’s communist parties. If the West
could only forget its fears it might yet find that history
was on its side.
The tragedies of Congo, of Algeria and South Africa
dramatised the new and murderous instability of Africa.
Apart from Berlin, it was Africa’s year. (It was also South-
East Asia’s year, but nobody talks much about that.) And
for those who want to have the full score of worries there
is the pretty sure prediction that this coming year, or the
next year, or some year soon, it will be South America’s
year. Communist infiltration and underprivileged discon-
tents may soon explode in South America.
Apart from its intervention in the Congo, the United
Nations continued to be a debating chamber of pressure
groups with the Afro-Asians now making all the running.
Discussion on nuclear disarmament, or even the control
of nuclear testing, went backwards during the year. And
to some Americans it was the year in which they did not
buy a fallout shelter because it would be useless against the
firestorms caused by 100-megaton bombs (and in which
one expert worked out that a 1000-megaton bomb detonated
at satellite altitude would incinerate six American States).


FORUM
TEARS ON
THE TYPED PAGE
Why we can't see "The Virgin of Treadmill Street"
By EUNICE HANGER
SET for the first scenes of David Ireland’s “Virgin of Treadmill Street”
is a modern lounge-living-room in the top floor of Eagle Towers, com-
plete with bar, record-player, room-divider, polished floor and several tata-
mis, low tables in the fapanese-American style, lounge seats, Hokusai prints
on the wall, a glass-enclosed cloc\, flower arrangements to match the prints,
bookshelves, a Nigerian head, etc. A huge expanse of glass forms the win-
dow, part of which slides on castors, and through which we see other tall
bindings and the harbor. There are floor-length drapes at one end of the
room, near the door to the corridor and elevators, and a door right, to Gay’s
bedroom. The television set is on, facing away from the audience, with the
bluish flicker visible and volume right down. No one watches it.
The characters are a woman of middle
age, Wilma, and Boyd, the young beat
type who is in love with Gay, the young
woman who lives with Wilma and her
husband, Manny. Manny is a cripple in
a wheel-chair. Gay was taken in by these
two at the age of fourteen, and is some-
thing between the bohemian city working-
girl with rich parents and an expensive
education, and a beatnik with nympho-
maniac tendencies ; she has great vitality
and an audience would love her if a
good actress played her: a bad actress
could not play her at all. She is not
in this scene, which is the first meeting
of Wilma and Boyd. In the two earlier
scenes the audience has seen Gay with
Manny, Manny with Boyd, and then Gay
with the two men and at last alone with
Boyd. Wilma has come in just at the
end of the last scene, when Gay is still
strung up from her scene with Boyd,
and Wilma has realised how serious Gay
is about this particular affair.)
In the opening scene Ireland describes
Wilma preparing for Boyd’s coming in:
Boyd is knocking at the door to the
lounge. Wilma, still in trousers, is
sitting with the light behind her. She
will manoeuvre Boyd into a position
facing the light and at a height disad-
vantage.
She straightens the lines of he"
clothes, adjusts her position.
ilma: Just a moment.
She moves her briefcase into a more
prominent position on the low coffee
table, makes sure there is nothing for
Boyd to fiddle with, nothing to fall
back on. Moves the deepest chair into
position opposite her, one in which
he will have either to sit on the edg^
or slump helplessly back. She fixes
some things for her own fiddling and
relief: a book, cigarettes, ashtray, etc.
She issues a command:
Wilma: Come in!
Boyd: (inside now) Why the wait?
Wilma: But my dear boy, I had no idea
it was you. It could have been —any-
one. Anybody. Sit down, there.
He sits, tries sitting on the edge,
finally slumps back to the depths.
Wilma: Is that comfortable for your
head?
He lifts his head away from the
fabric of the chair, as he was meant
to do. She moves her chair closer,
sitting above him.
Wilma : Let me confide in you. I’m an
awful duffer for names. I’m horribly
afraid I’ve forgotten yours.
Boyd : Boyd.
Wilma: Boyd what?
Boyd: It’s not important.
Wilma: Oh, but it is.
Boyd : What about what I do for a
living? Money? Aren’t you going to
ask me that?
Wilma: Does it matter? I'll have it
here (the briefcase). I look into—all
Gay’s friends. Let me see . . . Do for-
give my thinking aloud, won’t you?
You see, it’s hard to get Gay’s friends
sorted out. You are here to see her,
aren’t you? Yes. Do you come from
the country?
Boyd: City.
Wilma: Well-known people?
Boyd: Every tomcat’s famous in its own
alley. (Wilma leaves it where it
dropped.) My alley is Treadmill
Street.
vVilma: Indeed?
Boyd: As if you didn’t know.
Wilma: Yes. Are you the one with that
appalling dandruff? Gay called him
the abominable snowstorm .... Are
you?
Boyd : I heard you.
I think it is plain that this is tough
writing. One imagines Elia Kazan’s eyes
lighting up. Opportunity knocks at the
door.
Power to entertain an audience, grip
it, keep it awake, keep it asking, wonder-
ing, gasping: this is what a stage show
must have. Too often we forget, think
of theme, message, depth, and forget
we have to entertain. The power to
entertain depends partly on the live actor,
human and fallible. It depends on what
the audience can see —decor, movement,
the appearance of the actors. It depends
on what is said, and how. It depends
also on something less tangible, the way
all these jell so as to constitute meaning
of some sort, meaning that may be as
impossible to define as the meaning of
a good abstract painting. This is what
matters most, but as it is impossible to
define, being in any case different for
every play, let us concentrate on what
can be defined, and talk about the actor,
and the visible and audible matter of a
play, as if they were separable.
■Cor the actor this scene is opportunity
to realise imaginatively and to
convey a character that is not easily
imagined and conveyed. An actor (I am
using the one term for both sexes) given
the chance to play Wilma or Boyd ought
to thank heaven fasting. Suggestions are
there, and whether the actor follows
method or old-fashioned technique he has
plenty to go on, plenty to help him find
the character in the lines and the business
described.
Wilma is going to play a scene in which
she is quite unsympathetic. She is cal-
culating, before Boyd comes and all the
time he is with her. The preparation after
he has knocked underlines it for the
audience, and she is not expected, by the
playwright, to ease over the unpleasant-
ness of the character or make her more
“convincing” or “natural”—as the stupid
actress will be likely to do. She is,
heaven be thanked, not a common type,
but a rarely nasty one, and the nastiness
must not be made tolerable except in the
theatre sense: that is, she must be un-
sympathetic but interesting, exciting, to
an audience. She has the lines to do it
with. They all pay.
She reveals first the hypocrisy of pre-
tending he is welcome, trying to make
him feel comfortable, while we know she
has planned his discomfort. She pretends


to have forgotten his name, only to
humiliate him, since if she has his details
in the briefcase she is not likely to have
forgotten his name. She is unpleasant
in suggesting that Gay has many friends
as important as he is, that she cannot
guess he is a city boy, that she does not
know at once whether he belongs to the
upper or the lower income bracket. She
is downright and aggressively rude with
the speech about “the one with dandruff.”
She is never dull or negligible, never say-
ing lines that simply move people round
the stage.
Boyd is given plenty of material also.
He is young and helpless enough to fall
into her trap about his seating arrange-
ments, and to be answering the questions
for the most part, not asking them. But
though he has no social poise he knows
this and does not care, which restores
to him the equality Wilma has tried to
remove, if it does not actually give him
an advantage. Rough, monosyllabic when
it is possible, he uses to the full the
strength he derives from the fact that he
really does not care a hoot what she
thinks of him or what she says. His
ironic—
What about what I do for a living?
is crude irony, but its bluntness is suit-
able to his youth and bitterness, and
makes us feel with him. Treadmill Street
is the slum-alley that runs along one
side of the ground floor of the large
building, and when he names it he is
flinging his poverty in Wilma’s face.
Unschooled in the wit-battles of society
people, he deals with her outrageous
rudeness about the dandruff in his own
rough way, and it is perfectly effective.
He says nothing in answer to the ques-
tion, and when she repeats—
Are you?
he says—
I heard you,
and she can go no further with it. She
has to change the subject and offer to
put music on the player for him.
Again, Boyd has had nothing dull to
say or do. Every line, every implied bit
of business with his sitting down and
his moving on the chair as if he were
Wilma’s puppet, has paid a dividend,
theatrically.
X/ - isually , the thing is interesting. The
’ set itself, luxurious and reeking of
wealth, with some beauty and tastefulness,
and with a city skyline beyond the window,
a view of the harbor, the sense of height
—this is attractive, though set alone will
not hold an audience for long. But there
should always be in this room something
of the sinister. The height should be
sickening, and fear of the height a con-
stant factor. (You would not know this
from the little scene quoted above: but
you have had it earlier, and it would still
give its color to this scene —you might
even feel that Boyd could conceivably
attack Wilma and throw her out the
open window,)
Though there is not much movement
in this short scene, all that there is is
significant, the kind of movement that
draws not a laugh but a small grunt or
smile of recognition from individuals in
an audience. All the things named have
theatrical value —the chairs, the light, the
briefcase. The talk is of the concrete
things that are there, not of abstractions.
The feel of the room is given more
evocative description later in a scene
where Manny is alone and calls it —
“a soulless glass and concrete cell, a
little space rented from eternity, where
one spent body looks back on its life
and says: What happened? What do
Ido next? When do I start to live?
. . . But it’s all over .... I haven’t
even had time to get to know myself.”
Above all, it is the speech that makes
this a live play. What you expect does
not come. The stock response comes
only from Wilma, and always as part
of her hypocrisy, her deliberate nastiness.
Boyd speaks always from an individual
quality he has, from his differentness
from anyone else. It is so through most
of the play—no character is stock, no
speech is stock dialogue. You could not
have taught anyone to write dialogue
like this. Cliches are there, when it is
right that the characters should use them.
But they are the characters’ cliches, not
the playwright’s. The speech of this
quoted scene is all short speeches—single
words, phrases, short sentences, questions.
The play contains also some long
speeches, spoken to other characters or
in soliloquy. The same quality of un-
expectedness informs them, and they are
interesting at their most unreal: for I
suppose we must admit their unreality in
a sense —we do not usually talk aloud to
ourselves, or have time to finish long
speeches before other people cut us off,
at least in private life. Thus a conven-
tion must be allowed for here, and the
playwright makes it worthwhile:
Manny : (He is at the open window, a
bottle in his hand which he has already
held as if to drop it, sweating at the
height of the drop, imagining himself
in the place of the bottle.)
Down there, the weather’s tears on
cold window-panes look in on frigid
wives, obscenely dressed. People in the
street, our people, walk aimlessly,
punished for every innocence their
faces show, stumbling blindly into the
solitude you find in the midst of the
bright talk, an outer face for show,
and an inner face not even their mirrors
know. With pleasure, with indiffer-
ence, they shake the cold hand and
look deep into the incestuous eyes.
They look for news of the massacre
behind . . the statesman’s talk of
freedom, justice, progress. Their eyes
are trained to look without a flicker
on man-eat-man.
(He drops the bottle. A long wait,
he listens for the crash. It comes,
muted, echoing, final. He sits there,
pale and sweating, until his fear drives
him from the window, awkwardly, in
panic.)
Down there. Amongst the garbage
tins.
This is soliloquy, and not the first we
have had from Manny in this play. It is,
after all, natural enough that a cripple,
left alone a great deal, should have the
habit of talking to himself. But we do
not ask whether it is likely or not, natural
or not. The point is that it is exciting,
live, interesting, thrilling. The Jacobean
playwright excited and delighted us with
imaginative words, poetry that carried
incredible action on its wings. The
speech in this play is often unlikely, if
we think of real life as we know it. But
it relies on violence, strength of pas-
sion, magnitude of the forces involved,
to justify the unlikely articulateness of
the characters, in some places, and the
unlikely brevity and economy in others.
Uneven in quality, it is so good in the
best parts that we should be petty to
quarrel seriously with the worst, which
are only a little inferior.
'T'he play has not been produced yet, and
so far as I know is not under con-
sideration by any company or director
of a theatre. Why would it be? The
harbor mentioned as visible from the
windows of the set is Sydney Harbor,
and the play is by a Sydney playwright
with no means of achieving production
unless he can persuade someone in an
amateur theatre to do it: which is not
easy, amateur theatre directors being
handier at saying they want to do
locally-written plays than at turning to
and really doing them. Let’s do them
justice while we are at it: one play by
David Ireland has in fact been put on
on Sydney, and was liked, and praised,
and patronised by full houses for a good
long run. But his next play, from which
these excerpts are taken, has been ignored
by the judges of competitions, and there
seems no way in which the playwright
can reach his audience.
We have all been grumbling, the last
two or three years, because the promise
of “The Doll” seemed to have been unful-
filled : that is to say, we first rejoiced
that one play that was unmistakably ours
was well received by us ; we expected it
to be followed by others, which would
also be ours and well received by us ;
and somehow the “others” seemed less
ours, and were certainly less well received.
Some of us have said, “They are not
picking the right plays”; some,
“They are not producing and acting
them rightly”; and some, “The play-
wrights are no good: Lawlor’s “Doll”
was a flash in the pan, an accident, not
a herald of the dawn, as we thought.
They can’t write plays.”
We are all, you notice, saying They.
We are all passing the buck. I suspect
that the pronoun should be We. A few
people have assumed the onerous respon-
sibility of making the choice among play-
scripts, but more have turned their back
on it, waiting till someone else reads a
script before looking at it, and accepting
someone else’s opinion. Of the few —
people who read competition-scripts,
people who read for their theatre, to plan
programmes, people who read scripts to
see whether they may publish them —
what likelihood is there that they will
judge wisely if they are busy, over-tired
people with too many scripts to read
in a hurry?
The proof that they do not always


judge wisely is in this script from which
I have quoted, and in others from which
I have not quoted. Not all the neglected
scripts are as good as this one ; but they
are so good that if they came from the
typewriters of Tennessee Williams or
Brecht or Sartre or lonesco or even
Wesker or Shelagh Delaney people would
be putting them on, and loving it.
The great need in Australia at the
present time is for a medium through
which the amateur theatre can be put in
touch with the plays available, in such a
way that some direction can be given to
the judgment of scripts. While the
amateur theatres continue to regard
“Blithe Spirit” as the ideal play, and to
test a new script by rule-of-thumb laws
that may have applied to the well-made
play 20 years ago but certainly do not
apply now to any of the writers listed
above, the Australian playwright with
anything alive about him will not be
done here. Someone has to tell them how
to read scripts so as to know comedy
when they read it, to recognise what will
be entertaining when played, to see the
tears of things on the typed page.
LETTERS
THE PARSON BOWS OUT OF
POLITICS
Sir,
My attention has been drawn to your
issue of December 2, 1961, in which a
Perth correspondent, in an article entitled
“The Parson Bows Out of Politics,”
makes reference to myself.
Writing of the Rev. Mr Keith Dowd-
ing’s career, your Perth correspondent
says: “Many consider he would have
made the Labor Senate ticket in N.S.W.
but for his friendship with Mr Alan
Dalziel, who figured prominently in the
Petrov Commission.”
Is your correspondent seeking to infer
that my friendship was of such a
nature as to cast a stigma on Mr
Dowding and thereby cause him to lose
what “many” consider were his chances
of Labor Senate selection in N.S.W.? If
so, let him state the nature of this deleteri-
ous influence which my friendship
exercised on Mr Dowding’s political
prospects. If your correspondent cares
to specify his general assertion, which he
has made no attempt whatever to sub-
stantiate, to a point where the harmful
effects of my friendship on Mr Dowding
politically can be particularised, I will
have much pleasure in contesting the
issue in a Court of law.
Who are the “many” who, according to
your far-distant correspondent in Perth,
“consider, etc.”? Are these “many” or
numerous persons resident in W.A.,
N.S.W. or elsewhere, and what is the
factual basis upon which your anony-
mous correspondent arrives at his esti-
mate? Will your correspondent define
the methods he employed to gather these
“many” people’s opinions of the effect of
my friendship on Mr Dowding’s
political career?
Having used the smear technique to
convey by inference that Mr Dowding’s
association was harmful to his Senate
prospects, the Petrov Commission, at
which I was a witness on three separate
occasions, was dragged in to give color
to the snide attack. However, the article
does not have the decency to state that
the three Supreme Court Justices in their
report said: “There is no evidence that
Dalziel improperly gave any information
of a secret or confidential character to
any Soviet official, either wittingly or
unwittingly” (p. 273 of the Commission’s
report). At least I was able to appear
before three Justices of the Supreme
Court and come out of the proceedings
with my integrity unimpaired. Does your
correspondent wish to suggest otherwise?
The article, after its defamation by
implication, failed to mention that at
the time of the Petrov Commission I was
a communicant member of the congre-
gation of St Columba Presbyterian
Church, Woollahra, of which the Rev.
Mr Keith Dowding was then minister.
Not only was he, and still is, a good per-
sonal friend, but he was also minister of
the church at which I worshipped.
The article also failed to check and
publish the fact that Mr Dowding had
no clear or definite political ambitions at
that time. It is unlikely that his mem-
bership was sufficient to give him the
requisite continuity in the A.L.P. to make
him eligible to contest an N.S.W. Senate
pre-selection ballot. I communicated with
Mr Dowding this week and he assured
me that at the time in question he had
no Senate aspirations in N.S.W.
A final word: Mr Douglas McClelland,
a member of the N.S.W. Executive of the
A.L.P., has been a close personal friend
of mine since before the Petrov affair.
Our friendship, well known in official
Labor circles, continued through the days
of the Petrov Commission and is as
strong as ever today. Yet this did not
prevent Mr McClelland obtaining Labor
pre-selection for the Senate in this year’s
general election, with likely election to
the Upper House of the Commonwealth
Parliament.
A. J. DALZIEL
Cammeray (AA.IT.).
HANDSOME IS AS HANDSOME
DOES
Sir,
I suppose it is just that critics should
be criticised. People are quick to point
out errors of perception in the critic’s
appreciation. I think it is just as impor-
tant to jump in and point out the correct-
ness of a critic’s appraisal.
Anton Vogt said that Mauro Bolog-
nini’s “II Bell’ Antonio” “is unquestion-
ably a major work of cinematographic
art” (Bulletin, December 2), No
“ Profile, Ramses, profile !”


Estab'ished 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON *
-O'SUU.IVAV
PTY LTD
THAOE MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Walson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Papei Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AN 15 LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOK BINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
•‘JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today's values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
73 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
It any “Bulletin” illustration
takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you
a price for the original.
All the
family
will love
■4
8 only
Euaybody's
one else seems to have noticed
this: our critics successfully follow over-
seas opinions and praise the big names,
but few show much ability to discern
fine points in unknown works. When
Bolognini’s “Notte Brava” was shown in
Sydney earlier this year it was passed-off
as another Palladium dago show. Fellini’s
“Dolce Vita” shown up town at a more
respectable theatre got the full treat-
ment. Yet Bolognini’s “Notte Brava”
used much the same imagery as we
find in Fellini’s films, and was as great as,
if not better than, Fellini’s last work.
Visconti, Antonioni, and Fellini have
got their praise for leading the Italian
new wave: perhaps some people will
take some notice of Anton Vogt and
realise that Mauro Bolognini is an artist
worthy of considerable attention.
G. R. THOMS
Dulwich Hill (N.S.W.).
THE JAZZ EUCHARIST
Sir,
May I comment on the Jazz Eucharist
(Bulletin, December 2). Surely there is
something in the juxtaposition of these
two words “Jazz Mass” which will sound
preposterous or even obscene to a good
many people who would hesitate to class
themselves as pillars of orthodoxy.
The ritual of the church service has
always been associated with beauty,
tranquility, peace and meditation; and
it is difficult to see how this is to be
improved upon by the introduction of a
music which has largely been associated
with sweat, sex, marihuana and booze!
That the main function of jazz rhythms
is to provide physical stimulus few would
deny, and physical stimulants have no
place in a church service—unless it is
being re-designed to meet the demands
of a be-bop mentality in which case it
is likely to prove self-defeating.
The cultural heritage from Tallis,
Gibbons, Palestrina and Bach cannot be
replaced by New Orleans and Harlem
without some unpredictable and possibly
unpalatable results.
Perhaps the logical conclusion to this
kind of innovation would be to have a
“fixer” for the organist, and rock and
roll in the aisles.
MAURICE MEARS
Herberton (Queensland)
THE PRESS, THE PRESS, THE
AWFUL PRESS
Sir,
If anyone had asked me who Peter
Hastings was (Bulletin, December 16)
—but nobody has —I would have confi-
dently said he was a promising poet
unearthed by The Bulletin. On reflec-
tion I might have said, No, I’m think-
ing of someone else. Peter Hastings is
a rock and roll singer who appears at
the Stadium in a purple lame suit. Now
at last I have got him straight. Peter
Hastings is ONE OF THOSE. You
know, a journalist.
But Peter Hastings doesn’t apparently
care at all for his colleagues. They’re
nasty, vulgar fellows who ask Governor
Nelson Rockefeller all sorts of insensi-
tive questions at the wrong time; or
they are terribly snobbish sort of chaps
who sidle up to the Gov. and are
“flatteringly obsequious.”
Now the search for Michael Rocke-
feller must have been a harrowing busi-
ness for his family. And I am not
suggesting that the Press should become
a closed shop like the B.M.A. or the
Bar Council with never a criticism of any
part of it by any other part.
I am just fascinated to know how Mr
Hastings gets his day’s work done. I
should like to see the stories he sent
back from Hollandia when he could
“scarcely repress a smile” at the “mean-
ingless messages” which his colleagues
sent on the Rockefeller search.
T. A. SKARRATT
Cronulla (N.S.W.)
PROFILE OF A CAMPAIGN
Sir,
Have just read the query voiced by
J. M. C. King of Parkville (Vic.)
(Bulletin, December 23) as to what
methods other than “placards, songs and
handbills” are available to students. May
I suggest that he have patience, he will
surely grow up given time, and mean-
while those listeners who through force
of distance are denied hearing any poli-
tician speak can enjoy the broadcast with-
out the irritation of having a barrage of
senseless interruptions from these same
students.
ALICE A. IRWIN
Coal Point (N.S.W.)
IN THE NEW
Sir,
May I protest at Mr L. Tanner’s cheap,
cynical mud-slinging at The New Theatre
(Bulletin, December 16) which has done
so much to maintain theatrical standards
in this country.
J. GOODWIN
Bega ( N.S.W. ).
Sir,
Mr Leslie Tanner’s cunning attempt
to put over the image of The New
Theatre as an amusing, harmless group
of misguided souls should deceive
nobody. It is a communist front. In
the event of a communist takeover of
Australia they will be The National
Theatre and in their “amusing” way will
be as silent about Australian liberty as
they were about, say, Hungarian liberty.
E. CARLTON
Melbourne.


OUT and ABOUT
The Spirit of Carnevale
Reaches Melbourne
TPhe Melbourne Exhibition Buildings
were last week the setting for a ball
for the first time since before World
War I, when the Beaux Arts Ball was
a great annual social event. Last week
the Contemporary Arts Society organised
the “Spirit of Carnevale Artists’ Ball”
for the National Gallery and Cultural
Centre appeal. The ball was the first
big function for the appeal in which the
general public participated.
The oldest ballgoer was octogenerian
Edric Henty, of Victoria’s pioneer
family. The most impressive costuming
was provided by Myers display depart-
ment’s 40-strong court of Louis the
Fifteenth. There were few costumes on
specifically artistic themes, although
there were two tableaux dealing with
funerals, complete with coffins. The
only art school to send a tableau was
Swinburn Technical College, and their
Cleopatra, shapely, enticing and so much
more authentically aged than Liz Taylor,
was well protected by an endless entour-
age of high priests, courtiers, guards and
handmaidens.
The ball came about more through
the diligence of business leaders than
artists, although David Boyd, Albert
Tucker and lan Sime did a lion’s share
of the hard work. But there were no
more than a dozen artists at the ball.
Darwin's Dog Problem
TAarwin’s R.S.P.C.A. president, Snowy
Toogood, ranks locally as “the dog’s
best friend.” At the last Legislative
Council election he announced he would
stand for Fannie Bay on a “Be Kind to
Dogs” ticket; withdrew at the last
minute when he decided he could not
afford the time from his pet-shop. For
years he has run a one-man unpaid
pound. Every week sees at least a dozen
strays brought to him to look after or,
if necessary, destroy. The other day he
broke at last. “I can't turn the poor
things away,” he said, “but this is send-
ing me bankrupt. When IS the Govern-
ment going to build a pound in Darwin?”
This is a question often asked in the
Territory’s capital, which has Australia’s
biggest dog problem, with mongrel
packs outnumbering the human popula-
tion in some suburbs. One reason is
the number of people who serve two-year
terms here, then abandon their pets
when they go south. Darwin has no one
with responsibility for keeping down the
number of strays. The police act only
after a specific complaint.
In the outer suburbs, scavenging dogs
are as wild as dingoes. Every week the
hospital treats its quota of bite victims.
Mr Toogood has warned: “Unless some-
thing is done, they will kill a child one
day.” For years Administration and the
City Council have been arguing over who
should build the pound. As a result,
nothing has been done.
"Roughing it in the Rubble"
Tust when we thought we had every-
** thing we discovered the Gourmet
survival kit advertised in the American
magazine “Playboy.” The kit, gift-
wrapped, costs nine dollars ninety-five
cents, and includes caviar, pate de foie
gras, champagne jelly, French-fried
grasshoppers, boiled quail eggs, green-
turtle soup—even, the advertisement says,
an effervescent headache potion for those
who can’t control their appetites. Free
with purchase is a recipe-book for
“Roughing it in the Rubble,” which sets
out all the things a space-age playboy
needs to know.
Fourteen Years’ Experience
■pouRTEEN years’ experience stand
behind 17-year-old Sydney girl Patsy
Ann Noble, who is playing the lead in
the Phillip Theatre's Christmas show
for children, “Alice in Wonderland.”
Patsy Ann sang “In My Sweet Little
Alice Blue Gown” at the Ashfield Town
Hall when she was three. Since then
she has consistently sung and danced on
stage both as a professional and amateur.
Amateur appearances included playing
the Duke of Plazatoro in “The Gondo-


Hers” when she was at St Brigid’s School,
Marrickville. At the age of 14 years and
nine months, with her Intermediate cer-
tificate, she left school and went on tour
from Cairns to Tasmania with the “Inter-
national Follies,” in which her parents,
comedian Buster Noble and dancer Helen
de Paul, also appeared.
In the past 18 months she has become
one of those rather terrifying and
baffling items, a teenage idol. She has
a recording contract with E.M.I. and a
“verbal” contract with Brian Henderson,
who directs “Bandstand” on Channel 9.
Patsy Ann would like eventually to
become a musical-comedy star. At any
rate, all her ambitions are centred around
the entertainment world. “Some of the
young singers come out of offices and
say they just sing ‘for kicks,’ ” she said.
“I don’t understand that. I’m in enter-
tainment because it’s the only job I know
and the only life I know.”
One Flag Fewer
A Cooma correspondent reports a run-
ning battle between Yugoslav
factions as to which flag will fly to
represent Yugoslavia among the flags of
all nations whose citizens have helped on
the Snowy River Scheme which fly at the
entrance to Cooma Park.
So far, it is reported, the anti-
communist faction has made off with
three communist flags. Now at nightfall
the Yugoslav flag is lowered and stored
for the night while the other flags fly
on regardless.
San Fran cisco Gets Steamed
Up
'T'he question of whether a local high
school should get its students from
all over the city or only from its sur-
rounding district aroused such interest in
San Francisco recently that the eventual
decision of the Board of Education —to
keep the school “all-academic” and in a
position to select the brightest pupils
from the whole of San Francisco —was
announced in two-inch headlines in the
“San Francisco Examiner.”
The education board voted to keep the
school, Lowell High, all-academic after
a dramatic meeting at which more than
50 people spoke, most of them in favor
of keeping the school open to bright
pupils from all over the city.
One teacher at Lowell, who spoke to
the meeting, said: “Schools are for kids.
They are not for faculties, and they
should be run for kids. Talented
students educate each other. They need
the competition of one another. Bright
students are born all over the city in all
kinds of homes.”
Although N.S.W., if the Government
follows the recommendations of the
Wyndham report, is threatened with the
elimination of selective schools, no one
so far is sufficiently agitated to organise
a full-scale campaign as was done in San
Francisco .
That Was Australia
“W.N.”: Recently stayed at a back-
block pub, and on approaching the
bar-door early next morning was sur-
prised to hear the publican holding forth
as follows behind the empty bar:—
“A dhrink is it yer want. Well, ye’ll
not get one, yer loafin’ scoundrel. I
give yer four yisterday, and yer never
paid me. “Yer’ll pay me termorrer,
will yer? Well, orlright; I’ll give yer
this one, but don’t present yer carcase
at the counter agin ter-day.” And while
uttering the last sentence he took up a
glass and half-filled it with rum, and
drank it himself. I thought the old chap
had the “D.T.’s” but upon inquiry
learned that the incident was merely a
but of strategy to deceive the “old
woman,” who kept a strict guard against
his repeated attacks on the rum bottle.
She was in the adjoining room, and would
have appeared in an instant upon hear-
ing the rattle of the glass, or the
pop of the cork, if Patsy had not gulled
her into the belief that he was merely
ministering to a customer.
—“The Bulletin,” February 15, 1902
“The old, old trouble: —
A Gentleman, with an income of five
hundred a year, age twenty-five, tall,
dark-complexioned, with military mou-
stache, wishes to correspond with a young
Lady, with a view to matrimony; age
must be under twenty-four, complexion
no object. Address 8.G.5., Post Office,
Goodooga.
“The Bulletin” hereby warns every female
of the above “ad.” When a man has
a military moustache it is eight-to-one
that he is a hairdresser’s assistant. The
hairdresser’s assistant has a better mou-
stache than anybody else, because he
has the run of the cosmetic bottles when
his boss is out, and the genuine military
man usually has about eight distracted
hairs and some stubble. Therefore,
women, especially women with coin,
should look with suspicion on the suitor
who wears his wig under his nose. The
lady who marries for a moustache might
as reasonably marry for four hoofs and
a tail —in fact, the chances are that she
gets the hoofs and the tail thrown in,
anyhow. —“The Bulletin,” October 1, 1892.
Feiffer
CUB m ARUIB
HU6BADP,
PCIMT6P CUT
TO MB THAT
em iooro 1
saip eouweo
mcny m
m MCTHBE.
00 HB SBMT MB
BAC< ItfT o
AMAWBIB AUP
l IdORKF P
0M IT FOR
A WAR.
BOX WHBM l THOP6HT
i m sexree
Af?k)fß,M4 HUSBAMP
?omo our to
mb THAT eveßO
MRO l SAIP
eoomv mcxw
LK6 m FATHER..
ho He eeux ms
BACK mo AtiAlMs
amp i ooomv
0M If FORA
war.
BUf wm 1 XHOO6HX
1 m BBTTBR
ARMIB'HBB
mmv- ppiMigp
CUT THAT 81/BRM
tOORP I BAIP
SOUMPBD 6XACXJ4
m m
ANAIW.
eo h e hap mb
cmoe amawsts
amp 1 toom?
0M IT FOR A
WAR- AMP l
WAB SURF 1
m 6BTTBe.
m ifo cvez
BIX MOMTHB
aiop ewm
mv 1
SA4 60W5
6MCTM
m w
mmv.
mt mm
I'm cum


FOR THE OBSERVER
Disaster at Daylight Downs
“TTOw’s the new shearer shaping?” you
ask the Old Boss at the before-
dinner drink time.
If you can get him talking there is a
chance of a second crack at that bottle of
scotch before he puts it back in the cup-
board.
“He’s one of the best shearers ever to
load a machine on Daylight Downs. ..
clean as a whistle .. . dolls 'em up beauti-
fully. Oh, that reminds me, he asked me
to send a telegram for him. Have a drink
while I phone this through.”
“Hallo, Mrs Kennedy. How are you?
Will you take a telegram and tell me how
much it costs? I want to charge the new
shearer. . . Yes, I took old Tom in to the
train today . .. His wife’s very sick. No,
no trouble at all to pick up another
shearer in town ... Indeed you can't be
too careful who you pick up these days.
He seems all right, well-dressed and no
sign of a drink on him. Beautiful shearer,
too. - Well, Mrs Kennedy, here it is . . .
‘The Manager, Tribune Newspaper,
Market St, Sydney. Please send three
copies Tribune each issue for month to
Daylight Downs, Come-By-Chance,
signed Dick Robertson.’ ”
For a few moments the telegram's con-
tent does not hit the Old Boss. He gasps
into the phone: “Hold that telegram, Mrs
Kennedy, I’ll phone you back.”
Pouring a whopper whisky, as big as
yours, he takes it into his office next door.
There is no more kindly, generous
squatter in the back-country than the
owner of Daylight Downs. But he has one
obsessive, dominant hatred : communism
and communists. You can feel the torment
of soul as the Old Boss sits in his office
pulling his .303 through and gulping that
grog.
“What I’ve always dreaded has
happened. I've got a communist on Day-
light Downs. He’ll breathe Marxism ail
day down my ewes’ ears and at night
poison my decent team. Must be well-
known to that paper too ... No money
sent. I just can't sack him ’cause he is a
comm . . . His shearer mates would bail
up on that one. I’ve admitted he is a gun
tradesman. I ll just have to put up with
it, that’s all, but never again will I engage
a stranger. I’d better phone Mrs Kennedy
to send that wire off, and I’d better put
that bottle away, too . . .”
The Old Boss loved shearing time. Too
old for hard work, he pokes about the
shed all day, watching the shearers, look-
ing in the wool-bins, branding a bale for
the presser. No one resents him. He loves
smoko time, too with its yarns and jokes
with his shearers.
The shearers, too, like coming back to
Daylight Downs each year. A lot of
good cutting sheep, a decent thoughtful
owner in ways shearers appreciate. The
Old Boss always “threw in the meat’’
(did not charge the mess for meat);
brought fresh milk and fruit from the
homestead each day; and was punctilious
with the mail in and out.
Three days after Robertson starts the
mail arrives. The Old Boss, as usual,
places the mail on each shearer’s stand,
usually with a little quip: “Why don't
you send a cheque home?” or “1 see
Mum hasn't forgotten vou.” But he
places the bundle of papers on Robert-
son's stand without a word and handles
the package as gingerly as a shearer would
a scabby-mouthed lamb.
Smoko comes and the shearers squat-
ting on the wool-room floor read their
letters and open their forwarded local
papers for a quick look. Robertson opens
his bundle—the sight of three Tribunes
spread over his wool-room floor is too
much for the Old Boss. He ups and goes.
He does not come inside the shed for
the next fortnight. Instead, he sits all day
on the rail of Robertson’s letting-go pen,
praying for an unsewn, badly cut hogget
or hamstrung one . . . sacking stuff. Every
sheep pops out unscratched, impeccably
shorn.
It starts to rain and ,ets in prope.-!>
for days. No work, roads impassable. The
shearers are stranded in the huts. The
two radios run out of batteries, the boys
quickly get through the few paperbacks.
There is not a pack of cards on Daylight.
The overseer comes and tells the Old
Boss that one of Robertson’s enormous
suitcases is chock-a-block with elementary
communist literature and glossy magazines
and that the whole team, in their boredom,
are lying in their bunks reading up big.
This really gets the Old Boss down. He
sits in the office all day cleaning that rifle,
and looking in the graziers’ manual he
knows so well for a clause, he knows does
not exist, about subversive literature
being brought on to a station property.
‘’Why not do some counter-propa-
ganda.” I suggest. “Why don’t you send
“Does this mean goodbye, Edward ?”


a mob of those old magazines you’ve got
stacked in the office down to the huts?”
“Great idea,” he roars, “where’s that
overseer?” He sends so many magazines
down that the four-wheel-drive vehicle
gets bogged. After a week it fines up and
the boys return to work, and vote 'em
dry.
It’s only two days to the cut-out and
the rams are brought in—enormous,
horny, powerful creatures. Robertson per-
suudes his shearing mates to jack up for a
caser each ‘.o shear the commercial travel-
lers, way above the award. The union rep.
and Robertson corner the Old Boss down
near Robertson's letting-go pen.
“No fear," the Old Boss roars. “I won't
pay you above the award for the rams. . .
I didn't ask you blokes to take less when
I gave you all those quart-pot lambs to
shear die! I? Sheat on or I'll declare a
cut-out—the minimum's shorn—and you
can ail whistle for your money.” Despite
Robertson's professional persuasiveness at
the meeting, the men decide to shear on.
Robertson, with nearly a hundred quid on
the books, does not want to be the bunny
and is forced to join the rest of the team,
Now the Old Boss has bred these rams
himself and he loves ’em with a major
passion. He just must see them shorn! As
he enters the shed he sees Robertson up-
ended on the floor by a powerful ram.
Despite his good tradesman's instinct of
not hurting a sheep, Robertson, as he gets
up, angry with the ram's recalcitrance,
his own sprawling indignity and the
recent defeat, bashes the ram’s mouth
viciously with the back of his machine,
The Old Boss, almost screeching with
delight, storms over. “You can hang up
straight away, Robertson, no one's going
to knock my sheep around like that...
I'll write it out straight away; I'll ring for
a taxi and you can get off Daylight
Downs.”
That bottle stood out triumphantly for
an extra 20 minutes that night!
TRAVEL
The Land that is Top
TVTepal is a bottle-department-sized land
sandwiched between mighty China
(formerly known as Tibet) to the north
and mortified India to the south. To
the east lies a bit more India and to the
west lies
Kashmir which belongs to India.
Kashmir which belongs to Pakistan.
(Please delete phrase which does not
apply at time of reading.)
Until a few short years ago, Nepal
was a sleepy cloud-kingdom lying in the
lama-strewn valleys of the Himalayas.
Then two things happened. Thing num-
ber one: a military coup which, con-
trary to rumor, was NOT instigated by
a bored “Time” magazine correspondent.
Thing number two: Lowell Thomas.
Of the two, it was probably the coming
of Lowell Thomas that left the country
all shook up. Before you could say
“Cinerama Holiday,” Katmandu was as
up to date as Glebe Point.
Nepal is ruled by youthful King
Mahendra and Queen Ratna. They are
learning How to be Top.
The day 1 arrived they returned from
the U.S.A. with loans, guarantees, aid
and a JacKie Kennedy hairdo. They
waved regally to their subjects and left
for Peking to negotiate some loans,
guarantees, aid and a road from Lhasa
to Katmandu.
Meanwhiie, back in New Delhi, ageing
Mr Nehru lay down and kicked his legs
A road from Lhasa is an open invitation
for the Communist Chinese to keep on
walking . . into India!
Keep calm, Mr Nehru, l say. From
my own experience I can tell you that
the Chinese will never invade from Kat-
mandu. They’d never find the way.
1 know.
p a tna was under water when I arrived
in my third-class luggage rack from
Benares. I waded away from the station,
bent on finding the road to Katmandu.
I was side-tracked at once by the Patna-
Regal. They were showing Ava Gardner
in “Bhowam Junction.” And it was
Sunday!
Through all India and Ceylon, Sunday
films were my undoing. I missed trains,
buses, meals, ever unable to resist the
out-and-out novelty of seeing the silver
screen flicker into'life. On a Sunday!
(All Australians are affected in this
manner, I am told.)
After “Bhowani Junction, I found the
Tourist Bureau. It was closed. I found
a hotel. “Katmandu,” I cried. They
directed me to the office of the Indian
Airline Corporation. “There is no road
to Katmandu,” he told me with convic-
tion. “You will have to fly. There is a
plane in three hours. Here is your
ticket. Give me £4 12s. lid. (in rupees,
of course).”
I stayed at the Hotel Aroma. The
price (3s. 6d. a night) was as fascinating
as the name. The proprietor was very
upset when I told him there was no road
from India to Katmandu. "Nonsense!”
he exclaimed. “I know someone who
travelled on it once . . .”
Sure enough. There IS a road from
Katmandu. A bus meanders through
the clouds, across the Himalayas (or
some of them) to a village beginning with
G. where Nepal's own railway begins
—all 30 miles of it. From there a train
travels to Raxaul, at ten miles an hour,
on the Indian border, and you're on
your own!
I reiterate, Mr Nehru. The Communist
Chinese will never find the way.
Big things are happening in Katmandu.
Embassies, consulates and legations are
springing up left, right and neutral.
America gave the Mahendra an Over-
seas Mission and a high-school college.
The Overseas Missionaries came in a
iimousine and had the Cabinet to tea
High-school college students rioted and
burnt down a cinema.
It gives you a warm feeling to see an
undeveloped country beginning to take
its place in civilised society.
The British gave the King a library
and sent experts to tell the Government
how to build a Royal Nepal Museum.
To cement relations, they sent Queen
Elizabeth.
Japan, not to be outdone, sent
Akihito. That was when the U.S. and
China started sending invitations, and
where I came in.
Katmandu is a five-star city on a par
with Granada, Hong Kong, Venice. San
Francisco, Istanbul. Turn the corner
from New Road and you're back in
“Doctor tells me my appendectomy is to be televised .”


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£A363,000, 000
•
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOCRNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND anb
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Marco Polo time. Cobbled squares are
littered with statues, idols, mosaics, foun-
tains, shrines, temples, bells, sacred
drums, houses with fantastically carved
wooden windows, palaces, bazaars and
post offices that don’t sell stamps.
Tibetan monks and refugees offer
tourists gold Tibetan calendars, tur-
quoise-studded drinking bowls, yak-skin
purses. Nepali hillmen and hillwomen
strap baskets to their foreheads (but only
when National Geographic photo-
graphers are around) and walk 20 miles
or more to market with potatoes, string-
beans and crab-apples. They wear
pressed goat-wool jackets made, simply,
in four pieces. The three-quarter sleeves
are smart, smarter, smartest, and a black-
wool fringe at the back adds a touch of
gaiety to this otherwise stark outfit. (If
one ever hits Sydney, it could become
the rage.)
You can take a bus or hire a bicycle
to visit nearby Patan or Bhatgaon, home
of the ten-year-old “Devi” or living god-
dess, or you can hire a Sherpa and start
looking for yetis. Everybody does.
An American-sponsored Sydney man,
who has been looking for yetis since 1955,
recently quit Nepal, commenting:
“There ain’t no such animal.” His
sponsor, not put out one whit, said:
“Well, if there ain’t no yetis in Nepal, we
might just as well look for them in Cali-
fornia,” and that’s what they’re doing
now'.
The bus to the railhead beginning with
G. left at 6.30 a.m. I found myself
sitting beside a middle-aged British
missionary, Miss Crackling. She was
travelling to Calcutta to attend a
“Friends of Kalimpong” reunion. At the
same time she intended to seek advice
from mission headquarters. “It’s the
Government,’’ she said petulantly. “Every
time we make a convert, what do you
think they do? They arrest them for
treason and throw them into prison.”
Oh, yes, and Nepal has Mount Everest.
The Mount Everest climbed in 1953 by
Mister Hillary and Mister Norkay. Miss
Crackling told me a charming story that
had done the rounds of Katmandu at
the time. It seems that when Sir
Edmund painfully, breathlessly, finally
gained the summit, he was greeted by a
Buddhist lama spinning his prayer-wheel.
“How did you get here?” gasped Sir
Ted. “Oh, the usual way,” replied the
lama nonchantly. ‘But —don’t tell me
you WALKED!”
DON WHITE
ABORIGINALITIES
Ghosts of the North
TThe 500-mile tip of far North Queens-
land, from Normanton on the Gulf,
to the jungle-clad Atherton Tablelands,
west of Cairns, is a land of ghosts. Time
stands still in the outback, and one does
not expect progress in the desert. Bui
up in the Gulf country, where the earth
is clothed once more with timber and
grass, and clouds pattern the blue skv.
one looks instinctively for a more genial
civilisation. Instead, time has turned a
somersault backwards.
Never was there such a savage mis-
nomer as this atomic age when beheld
through the grim perspective of places
like Georgetown and Forsayth and
Einasleigh. Croydon, once a bustling
gold-mining town of over 36,000 people,
with 61 pubs and a Chinese joss house
to lend it savor, is a relic of another
era. There, as at Normanton, the old
wrought-iron lamp-brackets lean for
lornly along the wide, empty streets.
Everywhere one is compelled to think in
terms of the past.
Normanton's graves are covered with
sea shells bleached white by the sun.
Big golden-lipped pearl-shells, trumpets,
cowries, spiders and others lie about in
profusion. Many are scattered in the
grass by wandering cattle. The children’s
graves (and as always in these remote
outposts, they are many) are without
exception surmounted by the complete
framework of an iron cot. The signifi-
cance of this is open to interpretation.
Alt too often the past speaks in riddles.
But this is the present. A blustering
south-easterly whips up the dust along
Normanton’s main street as we draw
water from the ancient well (in the main
street) by bucket and windlass. As 1
pour the precious stuff into our cream-
can, I remember the ringer back in the
desert country and how he rebuked me
for throwing away a quarter of a cupful.
Our cream-can has held water from
Toowoomba, Birdsville, Alice Springs,
Darwin and Camooweal. Without it we
would have perished.
It is hard to leave these new friends
of the lonely places. But after 5000
miles of travel it is just as hard to stay
in the one place for long. Ninety miles
of emptiness, and the mullock heaps of
the Croydon field. Again the ghosts of
the past rise to confront us. There are
some of the living who still have hopes
for Croydon. Reeves, storekeeper at the
Golden Gate, is one of them. It is to be
hoped his dreams come true, for the
North deserves some recognition.
It is good to see cloud again at the
Tablelands. Real cloud, that brings with
it the scent of rain from the sea. We
camp in a bull-ring in the scrub. It is
a northern rain forest, but well known
to us. We stand and listen to the talk
of the trees, for the wind is high and
the rain falls gently onto our upturned
faces.
The lights of Cairns evoke no response
from us. Homeward bound, it is our
turn to yearn for the lonely places. We
fill the tank at a service station. The
four four-gallon drums on the hood rack
remain empty, for the need of them is
over.
Apathetically, I watch the attendant.
My apathy vanishes as 1 see him reach
for the water to fill the bag hanging
below the radiator ; for this is a sure
sign of one well versed in the ways of
the drylands. He walks around and peers
in at the rear window. Not inquisitively,
but with a certain questing air. He sees
the blackened camp oven, the battered
cream-can, the swags and crocodile skins.
He introduces himself as a ringer from
Camooweal. We cry on one another’s
shoulder. The sight of our old bus has
brought it all back, and he is homesick,
too, for the old, dilapidated, dusty towns
and the freedom of the outback.
R. A. MONCRIEFF


REVIEWS
THEATRE
A Precarious Balance
The Rope Dancers. Morton Wishen-
grad. Independent Theatre. Sydney.
A long with other people in Sydney
Aa who care passionately about theatre,
this critic has been concerned for most
of 1961 with the efforts of the Indepen-
dent Theatre to find itself a worthwhile
play with which to make money and stay
alive.
I have attacked the theatre for several
of their choices—for bad plays not only
lose money, they lose reputations as
well. 1 also differed with the theatre
when they had a magnificent property in
the Tennessee Williams comedy “Period
of Adjustment,” a play which should
have earned a fortune, but was spoiled
by woeful production.
There seemed to me a clear indication
of the sort of play the Sydney public
likes to see 2ft the Independent, and tw'o
or three times I put this view forward.
It was that the Independent did best with
dramas of substance—“ View From the
Bridge,” “Inherit the Wind,” “The
Crucible,” for example—and that, if
they wanted to make money, plays of
this calibre would seem the best bet.
Strong plays of this kind suit the
very considerable talents of director Peter
Summerton and the Independent com-
pany very happily, and if critical acclaim
counts for anything at all with theatre-
goers, then this current production of
‘The Rope Dancers” ought to prove
just the winner the theatre needs.
Not that the play is a master work—
it has serious flaws and an unworthy,
spurious ending—but it does have impor-
tant saving graces. For one, it storms
the heavens, and the high climber who
falls has more merit in theatre than the
trivial though perfect leap over a boulder.
For another, the play clothes the actors
with the essential stuff of theatre ; the
big scenes are full of guts, giving the
players magnificent opportunity to show
their art and their lives.
A young girl is torn apart by the
broken marriage of her parents. The
father is a non-earning charmer, a writer
who has lost confidence ; the wife is a
clean woman in conflict with her sexual
desires.
On one night she played a whore to
her husband, and has lived in torment ever
after. She joyed in playing the whore,
and this she cannot face. She will not
look at her dark side, will not recognise
that light only exists by contrast with
dark.
The eleven-year-old girl was born with
six fingers on one hand, and the mother
keeps the hand in a mitten, and keeps
the girl away from school and play-
mates. For her, it is a mark from God
to punish her for the lust she felt for
her husband.
An earnest young doctor, called in
when the child has an attack of St.
Vitus’s dance, amputates the extra finger
—but the child dies. We are left with a
strong impression that this sacrifice is
necessary for the man and the woman to
live together again happily, and that they
in fact do go on to a reconciliation of
flesh and mind, keeping a precarious
balance on life. Any resemblance to
“The Wild Duck” is, I am sure, quite
accidental.
In such a plot there is plenty of room
for high-grade hokum, and “The Rope
Dancers” undeniably has plenty of
hokum. The death of the child is
unnecessary, and does grave damage to
the play just when it seems that the
writer is moving to a finely-wrought
solution on the best level. We are moved
by the torment for love and communi-
cation between the man and his wife, we
begin to feel dimly yet stirringly that
this torment can be resolved practically
and satisfyingly—and then the child
dies. It is a pat device, and brings the
audience back to melodrama with both
bang and whimper.
Amongst it all, some pretty fine per-
formances came through. Miss Verity
Marina gave us quite universal insights
into a woman’s life and love, in a remark-
ably sustained study of a housewife
divided against herself. Mr Max
Osbiston could have been extraordinarily
trite as the charming wastrel-writer—
but instead he showed us how a creative
spirit can dissolve when starved of love.
Miss Belinda Craven, as the young
girl, offered us a pure piece of nature —
for this critic, who dislikes child actors
on principle, it was a magnificent role.
Sad, grave-eyed, retreated into a cave
of her own, this little girl tore the
heart. I could not understand why Mr
Summerton did not use the extraordinary
force presented in the closing scene of
Act I —the little girl skipping furiously,
chanting a strange rhyme—as a leitmotif
through the play. As a scene of closed-
in agony, this was one of the most
powerful bits of theatre in recent
memory.
Mr Summerton's production wrung
great things out of the play, and if the
spell loses power after leaving the
theatre, it is the fault of the play, not
the acting and the production.
One point I would bring to Mr
Summerton’s attention: the plot climax
of a play is not the same as the spiritual
climax. These tw'o important moments
ought to be clearly distinguished by the
producer, so that neither is robbed of
effect for the other.
In “The Rope Dancers,” I felt at
several moments in the last act that
Mr Osbiston and Miss Marina were
holding back their power for the plot
climax (the death of the child) rather
than spending their resources properly
on the spiritual climax—the search for
truth between husband and wife—which
they w'ere acting out.
If Mr Summerton repairs this, and
obtains a more subtle change of rhythm
between acts, the play will come through
even more strongly.
KEVON KEMP
Christmas in Canberra
Old Time Theatre Hall. Theatre
Players. Canberra.
Sticks and Stones. Canberra Repertory
Theatre.
Tt is constantly said that you have to
make your own fun in Canberra at
Christmas. Well, this year, that is not
true—Canberra Theatre Players and
Canberra Rep. have both opened new
shows which will help anyone who sees
them into the festive mood.
The Theatre Players’ “Old Time Music
Hall” riots through a programme of old
favorites like “Daisy” and “Waiting at
the Church,” interspersed with some
dancing and dramatic items in period.
Hall and stage were gaily decorated in
Victorian style and the costumes were
of the Theatre Players’ usual high stan-
dard : charming in line and color, authen-
tic in detail and just absurd enough in
respect of feathers, hats, black tights
and striped bathing costumes to be lightly
satiric without spoiling the atmosphere.


Pick up a better return
with complete security
W&x'vx.'i
P.A. for 8 and 10 years
with
REID MURRAY
Acceptance Limited
Reg. First Mortgage Debenture Stock
SHORT TERM NOTICE STOCK
7
y*<%
P.A. on 12
mths. notice
'4SLO/ pa - on 6
fflths notice
MBS Of ~ 0,1
nrths. notice
&°/o P.A. at calf
Applications accepted only on forms at-
tached to the Prospectus. Available from:
REID MURRAY ACCEPTANCE LTD.
403 Bourke Street, Melbourne. G 71924
Any branch of the
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Any member of a
RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE IN AUST.
Or Joint Underwriting Brokers
TOLHURST, HENLEY, MUNCKTON & CO.
401 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melb.
CUTTEN & HARVEY
97 King William Street, Adelaide
408 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of Stock Exchange of
Adelaide Ltd.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £7,000,000
R M A . za V
GUARANTEED BY REID MURRAY HOLDINGS LTD.
When an entire cast is as vital and
talented as this one, it is impossible to
single out individual performers. But
a music hall must depend for its success
primarily on its musician and its com-
pere. So special credit is due to Ted
Knox at the piano and Brian Docherty
as compere. Between them, they got the
audience “in," joining in songs, hissing
villians, applauding virtue. Well before
the interval, there was no longer any
need for the planted interjectors—spon-
taneous contributions from the audience
were coming in nicely. Brian Docherty
coped with everything (including Jaffas)
with easy, comic pomposity, and at the
same time kept the whole joyous affair
from going below the level of appro-
priate Victorian “naughtiness." So it
really did justify its producer’s claim of
being “entertainment for the whole
family."
Canberra Rep. fulfilled one ambition
of its producer in presenting a revue,
“Sticks and Stones," with Alan Harvey
as producer and also actor and writer
of some of the items. Some of the
material was new and everything was put
over with gusto by a small but versatile
team. Taken as a whole, the show felt
the need of some connecting thread of
action or sustained target for its satire:
taken as seperate items, most of it was
very good tun. The audience obviously
preferred those contributions which ful-
filled the usual aim of revue, light-
hearted local and contemporary satire ;
they enjoyed the hits at the Public Service
and M.P.’s (unfailing revue material),
the Canberra Lakes, its new statue of
Ethos and references to local celebrities
and grievances. The outstanding per-
former was Elizabeth Webb, whose
charm and personality enlivened an
astonishing variety of roles, from poison-
ing Borgia to rustic singer.
So between these two, if Canberra
residents want to do a show this Christ-
mas, they can no longer complain there
isn't anything worth while.
HOPE HEWITH
FILMS
A Pat for Presley
Blue Hawaii. Sydney Prince Edward.
1C i.vis Presley, the sloppy boy, has
become a cleanout, lively young
man. The ecstatic, rock ’n’ roll, throb ’n’
sob voice has become a well-controlled
instrument. Best of all, the non-actor
has learnt to act: not dramatically or
even romantically, but comically. “Blue
Hawaii" is delightful entertainment,
because Elivs has become an excellent
comedian.
I had expected a sentimental script,
but found instead a playful one. The
islanders are there, thoroughly American-
ised. The plot is as expected. The family
wants the boy to have the right job


and the right girl, but he has his own
ideas about both, and of course he gets
his own way. Naturally, too, the guitars
strum often ; and inevitably Elvis sings
with or without provocation. But when
all this has been granted there is a sus-
tained gaiety in “Blue Hawaii” which
is both unexpected and refreshing. It
has genuinely funny situations, and
genuinely witty dialogue. Presley’s timing
is superb.
Those that went looked like Presley :
well-adjusted, pleasant people, whom I
would be glad to meet even in Hawaii.
I wish I could say the same about the
booze ’n’ sex tourists of my own genera-
tion, on any cruise to a Pacific island.
ANTON VOGT
ART
One Way Trip?
The Perth Prize. Perth Art Gallery.
Tohn Olsen’s “Up and Down the Sea
** Port” won this year’s Perth Prize, oil
section ; and Thomas Gleghorn’s water-
color “Arnhem” took off the “other
media” prize. Olsen’s panel is a big, busy
bouillabaisse of marine forms, all in clear,
cheerful Mediterranean colors. A large
octopus limb in the top right-hand corner
gives the clue for reading the picture, and
the rather arbitrary and formless details
of the canvas can all be read off con-
sistently enough as marine life, once the
clue is taken. The total effect is attrac-
tive and immensely lively, and though
there are large passages of rather tire-
some doodling en gros, there is enough
vitality to make the whole thing come
across as an organic unit. This vitality
sets Olsen’s picture apart from the rest
of the show. Leonard Hessing’s “The
Illusion of Place No. 5,” which invites
comparison with the prize-winning pic-
ture, is very much less vital ; a static,
complex, black form on yellow, perhaps
an underwater reef, and above it the
cross-section of the innards of a Heath
Robinson steamboat, the whole embel-
lished with sea-snakes. Over both of
these paintings, with their abitrary, arch,
nursery decoration, the spirit of Herbert
Read breathes; benevolent and avuncu-
lar ; “issues from the hand of God, the
simple soul to a flat world of changing
lights and noise.”
Thomas Gleghorn's watercolor has the
usual abstract-expressionist ambiguity
of form, though part of the picture can
be read easily (but, I suppose, mistakenly)
as coalmine pit-head gear. It is painted
with a seriousness that is almost deadly.
For my own part, I preferred the Margo
Lewers’s “Bridge,” a watercolor of con-
siderable charm and ambiguity.
For the rest, a heavy pall of abstract
expressionism hangs over the show,
splendidly broken by the lightnings of
Hodgkinsin’s “Burning Peace” and “Time
of the Last Cicada.” The first of these
is an intense composition in oily, sooty
black on sulphurous yellow, and is won-
derfully calm and peaceful where it has
no obvious right to be. The second is
a schema, as it were, of a vertical Chinese
painting, in beiges and browns ; it is a
picture of no particuar thing, but the
Pic ffonic form of an indefinite number of
possible paintings. These two works pro-
vide an exceptional justification for the
abstract expressionist style, which other-
wise bids foul to become the deadly
orthodoxy of Australian painting. A
kind of anti-academy producing anti-
paintings is as bad as an academy pro-
ducing post-Raphaelite genre pictures,
and the downfall of a bad abstract is as
resounding as the downfall of a bad
Brangwyn, though it can be hushed up
more easily. Examples would be odious,
and silence sometimes gets a critic a
reputation for a kind heart.
Among the less outre paintings the
most successful are two canvasses by
Guy Grey-Smith, both painted with
meticulous attention to design and sur-
face texture, “South of Roebourne,” an
aerial map in yellow, red and green, and
“Still Life with Quinces,” a Cezanneish
composition marred only by the very
curious drawing of the flower bowl.
Robert Juniper’s “Western Landscape” is
as dull as its subject, a large, rather naive
ox form on a map of the west. It lacks
the decorative charm of this artist’s earlier
work, and the strength of the new
“tough” pictures in the Perth Group
show. Phyl Waterhouse's “Queensland
Copper Country” redeems the pledge of
representative painting, with a Boydish
folded landscape of soft peach and buff,
and shares with Henri Bastian’s primitive
“Cooktown” the task of reminding us
that direct statement is still possible in
painting. Walter Tolloy and Harold
Greenaway (“The Happy Knife”) alone
of all the exhibitors achieve expression
without total abstraction —Tolloy shows
us a pigeon cage and a tree against the
monotonous brick wall of a bush barn, and
the painting sucks us in, into the cage.
If the finish of this painting were a few
degrees better it would be immensely
more effective. Two questions have
obsessed me since I visited the show:
has abstract expressionism killed finish
along with drawing? And can one make
one’s way back from anti-painting to
painting, or is there only a one-way trip?
PATRICK HUTCHINGS
Healthy Experiment
Contemporary Drawings and Sketches.
Barry Stern Galleries. Sydney.
A mono the varied exhibits at the Barry
Stern Galleries one is surprised to
see the work of Georges Roualt, Karl
Hofer, Leger, Klee and Cezanne who is
represented by a fine, early etching
“Anuers sur Oise” of 1873. The flavour
of the rest ranges from post-impression-
ism to the flurries of dribble abstraction,
showing no unanimity of aim among
Australian painters but a great deal of
healthy experiment. Perhaps there is no
distinctive school of thought which will
dominate future developments in art, only
individuals whose work expresses vary-
ing degrees of strength, imagination or
purpose. That is how it should be.
The skilled hand and eye of Thea
Proctor remains as keen as ever in her
two nude studies. More distinctive,
dominating the figurative works here with
an authoritative insight, Godfrey
Miller’s drawing suggests that the time
will come when he will receive wide-
spread recognition overseas as one of
the really significant figures in Austra-
lian art. No one here can match his
superb insight into the human figure.
Dorothy Thornhill’s vigorous “Sofala”
reveals a little known aspect of her work
while others like O'Brien, F. Hinde,
Friend and Elaine Haxton elaborate well
known personal themes. The Sidney
Nolans, now very popular with the
collectors, hark back to things seen very
often over the years, here and overseas.
As well as the abstracts of T. Lynn, T.
Gleghorn, R. Fluke, Salkankas and
Laverty, there is interest in two
Kubbos drawings. This show has much
to reward the casual visitor and many
things merit a second look.
J. HENSHAW
Potpourri of Styles
Tamnaib Chuawiwat. Y.M.C.A. Gal-
lery. Brisbane.
'T'his Siamese lad is unusual; he is an
art student of a few years’ standing
and can work in any style or medium.
His pen drawings are clear, careful and
exact. He can paint portraits in a
literal way, he shows a big figure in
chiaroscuro, trivial little photographic
watercolors, two or three rather wonder-
ful landscapes in pure impressionism,
rich in color and solid in design, semi-
abstract things such as a building job
criss-crossed with scaffolding, done in a
chequer pattern of all colors and, finally,
pure abstract. In all these styles he is
very, very clever, and indeed his copies
of the abstracts rival the contemporary
masters themselves. Whether this is
deliberate pastiche or not, he makes the
prevailing mode of the adventurous
young at the moment look almost con-
temptibly easy ; he has the idiom off pat.
When he matures and settles into an
individual style he will be worth watching.
J. V. DUHIG


AUSTRALIAN CHILDREN’S
LIBRARY
The Jacaranda Press is preparing to
launch an Australian Children’s Library
and would be pleased to receive manu-
scripts suitable for children of all ages.
The Editor, Box I I 73P G.P.O. Brisbane.
The Red Page
BOOK OF THE YEAR
RUSSEL WARD —historian
'T'here was no difficulty in deciding
A which was the best book I had
read in 1961. Margaret Kiddle's “Men
of Yesterday” will probably always
remain the classic history of the Vic-
torian Western District in the 19th
century. Nothing could be more unlike
the scrappy scissors-and-paste affairs
which usually masquerade as district or
regional histories. This history of a
district gives the reader more insight
into the history of the pastoral industry,
Victorian and even general Australian
history, during its period, than do most
works addressing themselves specifically
to the latter subjects.
The result of even the most voluminous
digging in the source-material can be, and
too often is, a document which possesses
all the life and charm of an immensely
complex and accurate butcher's bill. Miss
Kiddle loved the country of her forebears
with a disciplined passion, which enabled
her to limn it to the life.
Finally, most Australian writing has
tended to associate native —as opposed
to generalised British—patriotic feeling
with uncultivated, working-class or
radical elements in Australian society.
This book, more movingly than any
other I know, shows how deeply Aus-
tralian “those wealthy squatters” also
were —or became.
CLEMENT SEMMLER —A .B.C.
Tl eflecting on the brilliant triviality
A’- of Bloomsbury with its collective
migraine. I imagined before starting to
read “Sowing” (the first volume of
Leonard Woolf's autobiography), earlier
this year, that it would be just one more
in the tradition of Mgr. Knox's descrip-
tion of Port-Royal—“an indefinable
spirit ‘here's tae us and wha’s like us’
dominates their interminable biographies
of one another.'’
Instead there emerged a vivid set of
memoirs of Woolf’s first 24 years (1880-
1904), remarkable because of his ability
at this distance to analyse and fix the
emotions of himself and his contempor-
aries of those years which wme, of
course, the end of the Victorian era.
And in the recollections of his set —
the Stephens, Stracheys, Maynard
Keynes, Clive Bell and the others —
there shines the stiff sunshine of
the age’s self-confident and superb energy,
unmatched since the Renaissance; of
course you had to lack too tender a
social conscience or over-much imagina-
tion. This is the great quality of Woolf's
book—he, as the son of Jewish parents
(and perhaps because of it) was born
with a sensibility denied his more
brilliant and brittle friends; and it is
appropriate that his early reminiscences
of them foreshadow the weaknesses of
the work of his own wife Virginia as well
as Strachey and Forster —their blank
indifference to nine-tenths of what con-
stitutes the human condition, Johnson’s
“pain of being a man.”
Equally fascinating are his recollec-
tions of that miraculous aggregation in
1902 at Trinity College, Cambridge, of
the most formidable minds of his genera-
tion —the philosophers Bertrand Russell,
G. E. Moore, Whitehead and McTaggart.
“Growing,” which takes him on another
seven years, has just appeared—this
could well be the autobiography of a
decade.
JOHN OLSEN —painter
TAavid Douglas Duncan's “Picasso’s
Picassos” is for me the finest art book
published this year: not only does it
contain 24 color reproductions but over
500 half-tone prints of works most of
which have never been published before-
These “buried” treasures without a doubt
reassert Picasso's position as one of the
great masters of all time.
The book has all the facets of the
maestro’s hybrid personality, sweet and
tender, bestial, significantly vulgar,
sympathetic, but always there is a con-
cern for humanity. For it is his Spanish
sense for the state of man that makes
Picasso burst forth from brilliant eclec-
ticism to passions that are universal and
beyond style.
Mr Duncan ladles his subject with
sugary sentimentality. Family man, lover
of dogs, cats, pigeons and all animals,
tolerant, and kind to children —hell! just
a boy at heart. In short, what emerges
would be an excellent TV programme
called “Life with the Picassos.” But don't
be deterred by this, they are only words
anyway and Picasso’s images tell much
more of basic impulses. This book with
its beautiful reproductions demonstrates
the pregnant power and complexity of a
state known as genius.
BARRY O. JONES— TV personality
AAartin Mayer's “The Schools” is the
recor( j Q f two years of observing
teachers in schools in the U.S. and
Western Europe, and it avoids the self-
righteous justification and special plead-
iog which is such a dreary and repetitive
feature of educational books. Our local
educationalists doggedly follow exploded
American pseudo-scientific methods of
about 1956 vintage, just before the re-
action against Dewey-Thorndike style
“progressive education” began. Thus
‘The Schools” will probably be damned
as reactionary by some Australian
teachers.
THOMAS W. SHAPCOTT —poet
T remember two books of verse
which 1 most certainly will re-read.
A. D. Hope's “Poems” and Francis
Webb's “Socrates.” 1 feel almost
guilty about having to set this pair
up in my private arena for a grand
final, they are poets with quite opposed
aims. But if I am going to have it out
to the last, my choice falls to Webb,
because 1 hold with him that poetry
should generate excitement and mystery,
that clarity and precision need not be the
only window, that language can snap us
alert.
Say that Hope is more disciplined and
certainly more coherent, that his best
poems are more truly exciting for their
mastery and penetration and their sense
of real and purposeful achievement. Yet
I feel at one remove. With Webb I am
moving and groping and believing. What
does it matter if there are too many
incomplete or incoherent poems? The
man has a vision and I for one am
grateful for being permitted to struggle
for it with him.
S. MURRAY SMITH -Ed., “Overland”
HPhe best book 1 have read this year is
A E. H. Carr's “What Is History?” As
clear as Snow's “Science and Govern-
ment”, it digs deeper than Snow. Carr
shows the futility of attempts to separate
one’s discussion of the individual from
the society in which he lives, and con-
vincingly demonstrates that the function
of history is to help man shape hi?
present and future environment.
GAVIN CASEY —novelist
ATavier Herbert in “Soldiers’ Women”
sermonises and has no restraint
in his long slabs of barber-shop
philosophy. He preens himself and run?
to too great length on the details of the
clothes of the women and the small
intimacies of their toilet. He doesn’t
always know whether to gloat over or
shrink from the evils which abound in
his world. He finds, and reveals with
excessive howls, gruesome goings-on
anywhere he looks.
But for me the total effect of his
torrent of anger, fear, remorse, sour
dislike, sympathy and tears was tremen-
dous —quite comparable with the impact
of his “Capricornia.”


A Fear of Metaphysics
RODNEY LIVINGSTONE
This book* provides fresh evidence, if
such were needed, that Europe has
nothing to teach the English. “Commit-
ment” is a European term ; Mr Mander
has been to Europe. He has written a
book on Berlin, he is writing one on
Brecht and he has read his Sartre,
Heidegger, Kafka and Rilke. Had he
applied this to the British Left-wing
literary tradition, a trenchant analysis of
the latter’s limitations and permanent
crisis might well have emerged. But the
fear of metaphysics and almost any
general ideas seems so deeply engrained
that only after systems have been dis-
mantled and concepts adulterated can
European ideas be imported. Mr
Mander’s introduction ought to be care-
fully studied by all who wish to retain
the exotic charm of Existentialist thought
while excluding its more stringent though
less accessible substance.
What is it like to be committed? For
Sartre, commitment (engagement) is the
assertion of man’s freedom in a state of
slavery. He describes it like this: “We
were never more free than during the
German occupation. We had lost all our
rights, beginning with the right to talk.
Every day we were insulted to our faces
and had to take it in silence. Under one
pretext or another, as workers, Jews, or
political prisoners, we were deported en
masse .... And because of all this we
were free .... Because an all-powerful
police tried to force us to hold our
tongues, every word took on the value
of a declaration of principles. Because
we were hunted down, every one of our
gestures had the weight of a solemn
commitment .... And the choice that
each of us made of his life was an
authentic choice because it was made face
to face with death, because it could
always be expressed in these terms:
‘Rather death than ’ ”
Whether religiously or politically moti-
vated, it makes an absolute ethical
demand. “For the secret of man is not
his Oedipus complex or his inferiority
complex: it is the limit of his own
liberty, his capacity for resisting torture
and death!” (Sartre.)
It was necessary to say all this because
Mr Mander omits to do so, except in
very abstract terms. What Mander does
give us is (1) a good picture of the Left-
wing literary field as one Left-winger sees
it; (2) long analyses of Auden, Orwell,
Angus Wilson, Arthur Miller, Osborne
and Wesker, the chief interest of which
lies in his frequently perceptive explica-
tion of actual works and his ability to
relate these to the social scene ; (3) those
who do not know Thom Gunn will find
a valuable introduction to an interesting
poet.
But he refuses to define “commitment”
and claims that meaning will emerge from
his practical criticism (like a rabbit out
of a hat). The “practical” is a universal
cure and no contradiction is too expen-
sive for Mr Mander. Thus he uses Iris
Murdoch to demolish Sartre’s attempt to
“connect in a great equation literature,
meaning, truth and democracy.” Now
while Sartre may be muddled, only a
counter-theory will suffice to refute him.
And certainly only a critic who has
worked out the relationship between
literature and society (as Mr M. has not)
can use “socialist” and “reactionary” as
terms in literary criticism (as Mr M. does).
The nearest he gets to a definition is
this: “Commitment stands, then, for a
basic cast of mind, the fundamental con-
victions of a man, still perhaps in pre-
philosophical, pre-conceptual form, to
which he has come in the exercise of this
existential responsibility”—i.e., he cashes
in on its pre-conceptual nature and pro-
duces the sort of constipated truism one
begins to expect from the bees in the
honeycomb of the “New Left Review.”
Such vagueness (which does trouble
Mr M., too) naturally breeds confusion
in practice. Thus we read (of John
Braine): “The truth is that the author
is too committed to his own creation, as
in the case of Jimmy Porter. The ambi-
valence of the novel is reducible to the
formula: lack of commitment.”
He has a number of rough critical
tools. Typical is the conflict he sees
almost everywhere between Marx and
Freud (or, as he puts it: God and
Mamman). One can see (it is not even
original) that Arthur Miller’s “Death of
a Salesman” (and many other American
works) suffer from an excess of Freud,
but it must be pointed out, firstly, that
many committed writers have made good
use of Freud (e.g., T. Mann); secondly,
that what Mander shows with regard to
Miller is much less convincing as he
applies it to Auden and A. Wilson ; and
thirdly, what is so terribly uncommitted
about Freud anyway? There is a real
problem here ; Mr Mander has not gone
into it. Hardly anyone has and some-
one ought.
His own commitment is strangely
feeble. “If you don’t care you’ll die,**
says Wesker. Does Mr Mander care?
Or is he just the latest Oxbridge gift
to socialism? Why defend Auden now?
In other contexts this may be valuable.
But commitment is Auden’s weak point—
at any rate, Leavis, Orwell, Alvarez and
Mander think so. Note Mander’s
defence. He quotes:
“Pardon the studied taste that could
refuse
The golf-house quick one and the
rector’s tea:
Pardon the nerves the thrushes could
not soothe
Yet answered promptly the no-
subtler lure
To private joking in a panelled
room,
Pardon for these and every flabby
fancy.”
Mander sees this as Auden’s existen-
tial struggle resulting in a rejection of
youthful mistakes. “The maturing poet
sees that those ‘flabby fancies’ must be
rejected. But it is the state of the world
rather than any inner event that has put
an end to this prolonged English adoles-
cence . . .” And we thank heaven that
it took only the depression and Nazi
concentration camps to show Auden
what a silly boy he had been. If this is
commitment, it is quite unrelated to
Sartre and it becomes clear that to aban-
don Sartre’s philosophy is to abandon
his grip on authentic experience, too.
But if Mander falls over backwards
to save Auden, he is uncompromising
about Orwell. Orwell is “grotesquely
unfair,” he has his good points but also
his “obsessions”—e.g., “snooty, refined
books on safe painters and safe poets by
those moneyed young beasts who glide
so gracefully from Eton to Cambridge
and from Cambridge to the literary
reviews ...” I would not have thought
this obsessive or excessive, but I can
understand that Mr Mander (Eton, Cam-
bridge and the “New Statesman”) might.
I feel less compunction in saying this,
because he analyses Orwell in like
manner: “And unfortunately we know
that Orwell himself was an Etonian (who
did not go to Cambridge and is said to
have regretted it afterwards).” Is Mr
Mander fighting out his own little intes-
tinal war here? If so, he must realise
that not all private struggles are signs of
an authentic commitment.
* The Writer and Commitment. John
Mander. Seeker and Warburg. 31s.
Auction Room Poignancy
The Lovely and the Damned. Otto
Beeby. Robert Hale. 18s. 9d.
Land of the Living. John Hearne.
Faber & Faber. 18s.
The Christening Party. Francis Steeg-
muller. Rupert Hart-Davis. 20s.
Midcentury. John Dos Passos. Andre
Deutsch. 21s.
Tn “The Lovely and the Damned,”
-V Sydney journalist Otto Beeby leads
us from the scene of Betsy Deakin’s biga-
mous marriage to a drunken marine in
an English inn to the decks of the First
Fleet setting sail for Australia in the
year 1787. The author displays consider-
able skill in fusing romance and adven-
ture with the bare facts of history. He
has a narrative gift that carries the reader
along in the current of an exciting and
active story of the people—convicts, pas-
sengers and officials —who accompanied
the First Fleet to Sydney Cove when it
was nothing but land and water.


BOOKHUNTER
Dept. “D.” Box 2671, G.P.0.. Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.O. Sydney,
One might object to the spasms of
sentimentality which motivate the “nice”
actions of the tougher characters —yet,
it is true that the “tough” and his female
counterpart are notoriously sentimental.
Mr Beeby subscribes to the whore-with-
a-heart-of-gold viewpoint, and this gives
his characters an ordinariness which in-
vests them with the sub-life of everyday
people.
There is evidence of careless editing,
(e.g.): “making abeyance” (obeisance);
“looked about almost overtly” (covertly);
“rear” instead of “real”, and some others,
though the pace of the story will carry
most people over them.
“There are two types of second-rate
writer—those who write badly and those
who write too well.” West Indian nove-
list, John Hearne, belongs in the latter
category, and his number is legion. He
is one of the many literate, sensitive
and intelligent people who write ex-
tremely well, and who aspire to be recog-
nised as “serious” writers, yet who fail
to communicate anything more than sen-
sitivity and intelligence.
Sophistication is the usual accompani-
ment of these qualities, a hygienic kind
of sophistication which never walks
where angels fear to tread. It shuns
all that is gauche and naive like the
plague. These writers fish with a dainty
skill in the seas of Man’s Condition and
often bring up diverting things, but it is
the less knowing who bring up a
haul to pop the eyeballs.
There is lots of determined bed-going
in “Land of the Living” (let’s face it,
it’s Part Of It All) in between race ten-
sions that lead to some guerilla war-
fare. Both are scrupulously described
and analysed, yet, 1 admit rather guiltily,
I remained unmoved. I felt 1 should
have responded more to so much —im-
peccability. Are some novels too good
to be true?
An auction room poignancy hangs
over Francis Steegmuller’s period-piece,
“The Christening Party.” In an
Edwardian setting, (or the American
equivalent), a seven-year-old boy observes
his mother suckling his new-born baby
brother, and is shocked and bewildered.
A question forms in his mind, which is
only vaguely answered by his father.
Throughout the book’s progress, this
question is directed next to his great-
uncle, the Bishop, who misconstrues what
the boy has seen, and finally, and satisfac-
torily, to a young aunt. The boy’s tension
builds up to the day of the baby’s
christening when his Irish-American clan
gathers for the occasion. His fear and
dread is criss-crossed by the tensions and
smouldering feuds of the adults as they
meet.
The opening chapters of the story
promise a novel of some depth and in-
sight, but it soon changes course to
reminisce along in the vein of the “New
Yorker” “genealogy,” where the oddities
of parents, aunts and uncles are arranged
into a sort of literary coat-of-arms by
the proud author.
I often wonder how such families feel
about their blabber-mouth kinsmen, who
delight us with these intimate revelations
of delinquent uncles and wanton or ec-
centric aunts.
“Midcentury” is a hoarding-size pro-
file of the U.S.A. by John Dos Passos,
and has the air of a mountain giving
birth to a mouse. It looks elephantine
like many American novels, and begins
formidably with a long free-verse poem,
which is mystifyingly followed by what
looks and reads like a collection of news-
paper headlines, advertisements and
snippets of articles on various subjects.
“Hallo,” I thought, “ ‘Ulysses’ rides
again.” But a straightforward piece of
journalism on General Douglas Mac-
arthur banishes that blasphemous
thought. The tone throughout is that of a
pamphleteer rather than a creative
artist. Ploughing along, the awful
truth dawns that Dos Passos has put to-
gether a “lazy man’s novel” generated by
the bright idea that all those articles
and profiles, and the opening chapters
of two aborted novels, if put together,
could be arranged and shaped into a
mosaic which might capture the Ameri-
can ethos of our time. I suppose it does.
THELMA FORSHAW
A Long Line
The Best Poems of Hugh McCrae.
Angus and Robertson. 255.
“ILXo! Ho! The fine fellow
Topped on the willow—
Dipping his black and white
Into the yellow.”
So Hugh McCrae, himself the fine
fellow and singer incarnate, celebrates
the Camden Magpie. And the line of the
singer is the longest in English poetry.
It is relatively unbroken: first come
those gentle lyrics, devotional and secular,
of no known author’s hand, written for
the rich and the poor alike. Then come
the Chaucers, Herricks, Lovelaces, Blakes;
we sway to the grotesqueries of Beddoes
(surely influential in some of McCrae's
poems) or to the raptures of the priest
Hopkins.
America gives us John Crowe
Ransom, whose taste for the archaic and
the chivalrous is paralleled in McCrae’s.
Australia is rich in the singer. There are
John Shaw Neilson and Mary Gilmore;
David Campbell's modest but passionate
commitment to the country life and
landscape has given our country some of
its purest music; and nearest of all to
McCrae is the relative newcomer Ray
Mathew, the witty and kindly singer of
town and suburban life. For McCrae's
poetry, though it swarm with satyrs, hang-
men. princesses, mediaeval lechers, et al.,
tends centrally to the suburban ear and
rhythm:
“Safe in the house with my boyhood’s
love,
And our children asleep in the attic
above”
or
“The quiet Christ
Leading his children surely through the
dark
By the clear lantern of His wounds ..
or
“Child to early child
Cooeeing and calling; blind windows open
eyes
And in the air the bitter fragrance floats
Of someone’s gardener’s pipe”
or
“And from the distance slowly grows
The rattle of the country train.”
He tells us bluntly enough, “I am the
one and only pleb,/ Who still conserves
the canaille ebb: / And pleased of this
I am as Punch.”
The fundamental experiences and
needs of men are pretty well at one; so
perhaps the singer may follow a pattern
of sorts. Something of a poseur he is
and must be; for the sunlight playing
about his head is so unique. He must be
the complete technician, skilled as
McCrae in manipulating that very silence
that follows word or stanza. Always—
perhaps no more in our times than in
others—the pressure of conformities
threatens him and his way of breathing.
That is why he tends to shape for him-
self a personality in which to live and
write. Such a selfconscious formation
of personality may be dangerous: it may
result in a mere mask, or, run to seed, it
may distort the rational and emotional
integrity of experience and thinking. But
though the sociologist may find healthier
our antics (one eye upon our consciences
whilst the other furtively charts each
embryonic sense of order), these aren't
quite so interesting as the singer’s. Pit-
falls galore await him: the facile, the
repetitive, the pastiche.
True, McCrae walks into some of these,
but strolls urbanely out again. Human
love is one of his concerns, and in the
face of his charity death is no threatening
thing: “Men have a solace for their
pain; /Earth gives them all her breast
again.” Some of his sultrier labors to
express the fleshly ardours of love may
be uneasy, but unforgettable is such a
music as this:
“She laughs and weeps ... Is it because
Only tonight she gave herself to me?
The new bud frightened to be glad . .
The child’s first vision of the insatiate
sea.”
McCrae’s poetry teems with rare
(sometimes almost rarefied) images, with
words picked up wholesale. The centaurs


and stallions engage; the Mimshi Maiden
is happily abducted by the princely tiger;
ana ragged conceits and belly-laughs are
on amicable terms with tender music in
the unfinished play “Joan of Arc.” I
think all of these strange bedfellows
roost happily together. Some of Norman
Lindsay’s friends have given me delight-
ful pictures of McCrac the man; I was
never so fortunate as to meet him in the
flesh. Now let all of us, the laborious
and conscientious intelligentsia, take a
sly holiday with him, conducted by R. G.
Howarth in this beautiful volume of selec-
tions. But first we must open our hearts
and be quick about it; for Slessor thus
addresses McCrae:
“We live by these, your masks and images,
We breathe in this, your quick and
borrowed body;
But you take passage on the ruffian seas,
And you are vanished in the dark
already.”
FRANCIS WEBB
A Little Up in the Air
Manna. No. 4, 1961. “Christian
Education.” ss.
“1VT ANNA ” is an attempt by a group of
■*■*■*■ Catholic academics to provide a
publication for discussion of the rele-
vance of Catholic doctrines to current
problems. It aims at being academic in
its tone and standard of discussion. The
present issue devoted to “Christian
Education,” is in effect a symposium
designed to bring out the basic questions
confronting Catholics in Australian
education today, in the light of doctrines
and controversies from ancient times
down to the present.
The central problem is the perennial
one of the relations between religious
and secular education. Dissatisfaction
with the educational achievements of
their own institutions is endemic among
Catholics. Ideally, they feel that a
Christian education ought to produce
not only a scholar and a gentleman, but
a saint. The saint should radiate the
power of the Gospel, the gentleman
should transform society into a Christian
community, the scholar should show how
all Creation hangs together in a compre-
hensive synthesis. No matter how sophis-
ticated they may become about the con-
crete possibilities of realising the ideal,
Catholics can never feel at ease with any
compromise that involves abandoning
the quest for perfection.
Almost all the articles in this sym-
posium are concerned with interpreting
education in theological terms, most
laying heavy, stress on the need for an
integrated view of life and habits and
attitudes in accord with this view. There
are interesting comments on past efforts
to achieve these goals, and some sugges-
tions about how they ought to be con-
ceived at present. The most general and
characteristic fault of the contributors
is their lack of attention to the concrete
needs and possibilities of the present
situation, and of different groups within
it. There is also a good deal too much
of un-analysed terminology, as there is
in most writing about education. The
most satisfactory articles are the histori-
cal surveys, notably George Russell’s on
Monasticism, and Fr. Ryan’s on The
Jesuit Contribution.
Dr. Suttor takes the opportunity to
reiterate his thesis that sound Catholic
thinking is being undermined by a world-
wide current of thought, whose single
distinguishing feature is that it envisages
the possibility that one concept some-
times gives place to another more ade-
quate one. The fact that it is possible
for the sort of confusion that is woven
into this article to find a place in
“Manna” is one measure of the distance
that has to be travelled before the prob-
lems of Christian education are thought
through. But a start has been made.
J. BURNHEIM
Nothing Like It Before
At the Cross. Jon Rose. Andre
Deutsch. 225. 6d.
,
CWdney s a savage city, full of bastards,
ji bve hundred miles away. It
hardly needs the miles to reveal a true
Melburnian speaking. Fortunately for
us, Jon Rose—-16 years old and able to
Ses to seeT^f'Pa*
of the Southern Hemisphere”) and take
What come? hemisphere ) and take
He is smuggled acrc:s the border, a
husband and wife team fight over him,
there’s a time in jail, a job in a tatty night-
club, some drug-trade, a pro, with a
heart of gold, an encounter with a shark
■ ■ • an ear lier book, Peppercorn
Days, Mr Rose gave us his childhood.
Here, like a love-offering, is his war-time
youth—a passive hysteria that ends with
him trapped in Victoria by 18 years and
conscription, trying “desperately at the
same time to keep the colors of Sydney,
the lights of the Cross, and Bella in her
new dress, in the picture screen of my
mind ”
Sydney haS been » CTOwded ‘wo V«rs
m thlS , breathless > crowded, drunken
and nostalglc book of thanlcSj Mr RoSfc
has caught a great deal of the events,
the people, the emotions which made
those years seem to him life itself—only
larger than life.
Actors, impressarios, prostitutes, per-
verts, tramguards and taxidrivers,
Americans ... a thousand peop' 2 flicker
across the screen of his mind and they
have that same cinematic reality we get
from old newsreels; they flash light
back into the reader’s memory. “Yes,
I remember ... Yes, that reminds me
. . .” Like a good reminiscer, Mr Rose
makes his audience want to reminisce.
His very inability or unwillingness to
analyse or develop his material in a way
that might produce art, the suspicion of
dishonesty and the fact of equivocation
that convicts him of autobiography—
these things give his scenes an air of
truth, true as far as they go, and leave
the reader with the flattering conviction
that he can read between the lines, can
guess what nastiness is in the asterisks,
can take the scenes farther than they go.
More important critically, Mr Rose’s
camera-eye for detail is as astonishing
as it is haphazard; furniture, fashion,
money, morals ... images of these things
leap suddenly from the context of cliches
and with such effect that they do re-
create Mr Rose’s world. Even those virgin
minds that have never experienced his
city must by the end of the book believe
tha there was once such a fast, exhaust-
ing, unquestioning, roaring Western town,
as brash and bumptious as Mr Rose
himself.
I know only one other work that
suggests this city—the Cusack-James
“Come in, Spinner”—and in that novel
the exigencies of plot and the fixed moral
attitude of the authors defeat the brilliance
of their witty wicked city scenes, making
them seem unreal, fiction indeed. For
reality, one needs Mr Rose’s naivete, his
acceptance of anything the moment offers,
his belief that nothing interesting to him
could be uninteresting. Childishly, com-
pulsively he talks and one listens fascin-
ated through the longueurs and decep-
tions as one listens to bar-room mono-
logues until one suddenly cares about
both subject and narrator.
And really Mr Rose is interesting.
Everything seems to be about to happen
to him, anything seems able to happen
around him. Always he is there, waiting
to be happy or sad, startled or delighted.
The drag party, the prison, the picnic at
Bondi —it all has to be told because it
was wonderful and nothing like it has
ever happened before; this is the kind
of faith which dazzles elders. Let us
hope Mr Rose records his London with
a similar enthusiasm.
RAY MATHEW
SHORT STORY COMPETITION
The Society of Australian Writers,
London, has announced that its 1961/62
Sir Thomas White memorial award shall
be for an original unpublished short
story not exceeding 5000 words. Prizes
are £lOO, £35 and £lO, and the closing
date for entries is February 28, 1962.
Entry forms may be obtained from the
Society, Australia House, Strand, W.C.2.


Continuing our series on the early Governors
BRISBANE:
The Stargazer
By M. H. ELLIS
GOVERNOR SIR THOMAS BRISBANE
WHEN Governor Lachlan Macquarie returned to
Sydney from Port Macquarie one November after-
noon in 1821 and found Sir Thomas Brisbane
pacing up and down in the Botanic Gardens, the
event marked an important upward step in civilisation,
though it might not have been evident on the moment.
Sir Thomas was a fine-looking, soldierly man whose
appearance belied both his somewhat delicate health and
his quality as a scientist. He was the first knight to govern
the colony of New South Wales. He was the first eminent
scientist to reside in Sydney Cove. There had. of course,
been astronomers and scientists here before him. There
had been explorers like Bligh and naturalists like William
Paterson who had earned their fellowships of the Royal
Society through the influence of Sir Joseph Banks, and much
more easily than this coveted distinction is earned today.
So far. however. Australia had never had any scientist
of the calibre of Sir Thomas Brisbane, K.C.B. Moreover,
apart from his attainments, he ushered in another era in
antipodean vice-regal life: he was the first Governor of an
Australian colony to come possessed of substantial private
means and to be able to indulge his somewhat expensive
personal and very useful scientific tastes at will.
He was a member of an old Scottish family of Largs
in Ayrshire, the rock-bound town where the Scots defeated
King Haakon’s Norwegians at the end of September. 1263.
He was born in the ancestral Brisbane House —the accent
is on the second syllable—on July 23, 1773, of a father
who had fought at Culloden and lived to read at the age
of 92 of his son's campaigning in the Peninsula. His
mother was a Bruce of Stenhouse, and he seemed, because
of his apparently delicate health, to be destined for a
sedentary civilian career. He matriculated at Edinburgh
University, but in 1789. when aged 16, a commission was
found for him in the 38th Regiment and he was sent with
it to Ireland.
There the lady whom his predecessor in office and
fellow-Scot called “that slippery goddess Fortune.” dealt
him his first ace: he met and became the friend of young
Arthur Wesley (as he then spelt his name), an infantry
lieutenant four years older than himself and presently aide-
de-camp to the Lord Lieutenant and about to become the
youthful member for Trim.
After that meeting things happened quickly. Captain
Brisbane, now the 53rd. aged 20, was off to Flanders with
the Grand Old Duke of York and his 10.000 men four
years later. He was wounded. He was in battle after
battle Valencienes. Dunkirk. Nieuport, Nijmegen—and
in the retreat down the hill to Bremen. At barely 22 he
was a major and on his way to the West Indies with Sir
Robert Abercromby, Macquarie’s friend and patron.
There is a tale that it was during the voyage that he was
moved to study astronomy when his ship went off its course.
It is a good yarn, but scarcely likely to be true. He saw
more fights than stars in the next three years before he was
invalided home in 1798—in St Lucia, St Vincent, Trinidad.
Porto Rico, San Domingo. And he was not at home long.
A 27-year-old lieutenant-colonel commanding the 69th
Regiment, he was packed oft' to Jamaica, then to India.
That country really dealt with him at last. His 30th
birthday saw him back at home at Largs on half-pay, a
fevered wreck, happily building a famous observatory and
preparing to give up the rest of his life to science as one
feels that he would have liked to do at most stages of his
career.
However, he had only seven years of this civilian
respite. Then his friend Wesley, of Dublin days, now a
Viscount and a Lieutenant-General, sent for him and made
him first his Assistant Adjutant-General and then a
Brigadier-General commanding the First Brigade in Tom
Picton’s hard-fighting Third Division. Under Picton’s
Government he had served in Trinidad. He led his brigade
all the way in the bloody but triumphant drive to France.
He was at Vitoria, where he is reputed to have remarked
that this was a glorious place for an observatory—there
were plenty of people seeing stars there that day.
He fought at the battle of the Pyrenees, at Nivelle.
Nive, Orthez and Toulouse. He was mentioned in
despatches. He took his hard-bitten brigade to Canada and
commanded them at Plattsburg as a Major-General only
40 years old, returned sad at missing Waterloo and sadder
still perhaps at the death of his bluff old commander,
Picton. on June 18, 1815. He was to erect for him a
municipal monument in the form of the town of Picton in
New South Wales. Last came the occupation of France,
where he commanded a division and was invested with a
K.C.B.
TT is strange that this active career should have run with
A increasing fame as an astronomer. Wellington said of
him that he “kept the time of the Army.” The Royal
Society of Edinburgh, of which in later years he became a
long-term president, made him a member while he was on
service in Spain. He became a Fellow of the Royal Society
in 1810 as he went to Spain.
After the age of quiet had come in Europe he settled
down in the house and room in which he was born and
in which he was to die a very long time afterwards. He
married, in 1819, Maria, daughter of Sir H. A. Makdougall.
whose name he added to his own in 1826.
From 1819 there seems to have been something of a
political fight in progress to have him appointed to succeed
Macquarie as Governor of New South Wales, and at last,
in 1821, probably through Wellington's influence, it was
done. He came to a rapidly changing colony and remained
here from November, 1821. till 1825.
He had friends in New South Wales, for young Edward
Macarthur, the first Australian to volunteer for active


service from Australia in the Peninsular War, had served in
his brigade in Spain and he remembered it.
He came hard on the tail of the Bigge Commission,
with the great changes in status of the colony imminent and
great expansion going on. The Home Government during
his reign adopted Bigge’s recommendations and great
landed estates began to be formed.
The pastoral industry expanded beyond the Blue
Mountains and up the Hunter Valley. The Australian
Agricultural Company got its million acres. Great adven-
turers like Thomas Potter McQueen, M.P., founded their
stations —Segenhoe and many more. The Goulburn Plains
became dotted with homesteads. The Murrumbidgee and
the Murray were discovered and crossed. Port Curtis was
explored. Oxley sailed into the Brisbane River and settle-
ment followed at a spot which was first called Edenglassie
and then Brisbane. Civil law was established and a Chief
Justice replaced the Judge Advocate.
Politics raged in the County of Cumberland and the
embryo of the first tiny and primitive legislature was born.
Wool at last came into its own. Young William Charles
Wentworth came home with a roar and the freedom of the
Press was conceived, to the credit of either Brisbane himself
or his lassitude. Coalmining began to develop on organised
lines at Newcastle.
But all through this ferment, with convicts arriving in
fresh clouds and being treated, in accordance with the new
Home policy, with a new sternness, Brisbane seems to
have lived serenely at Parramatta, a well-intentioned, dreamy
man whose mind was always out among the constellations
and who was content to leave the management of his affairs
to the Colonial Secretary, that obstinate official who had
been appointed in Macquarie’s day, not because of his
ability but because he was a returned officer, a brother to
Henry Goulburn, the Under-Secretary to the Colonial
Office, for whom “something must be done.”
TAONE it was. He was a gay fellow with a waspish sense
of humor, one who dearly “loved a pun even seriously.”
but who lost his sense of humor when it impelled him to
try to compel John Macarthur and his family to join the
annual muster of inhabitants among “a throng of wretches.”
on pain of their losing their labor, land and indulgences.
“Reptile! Damn him!” cried the Perturbator, who
on another occasion muttered that he might make Goul-
burn, like Bligh, feel the need of a feather bed to
hide under. But generally speaking with Fennell, the aide-
de-camp, or Lieutenant Ovens, or Piquant, the chef. Goul-
burn could say, “L’etat, e’est moi” and get away with it.
For Brisbane’s mind and will were with the mag-
nificent sets of instruments which he had brought to New
South Wales, the production of the great firm of Trouton
and Reichenbach. He might have been by intention of the
Government ruler of the soil of New South Wales, but
what astronomer could resist the temptation to soar into
the heavens?
His intimate lieutenants were not Goulburn and
Fennell and Ovens. They were his astronomer assistants,
Ruemker and Dunlop —the latter the keeper of his observa-
tory at Parramatta, who continued to be its curator for 17
years after its master had left the colony.
Together the three reaped the stars and put them on
their map. In the roughly three years they were at Parra-
matta they bagged into the “Brisbane Catalogue” no less
than 7385 southern stars, while Ruemker got himself a
comet —Encke's, to wit —that came wandering in.
Not that they eschewed the good vice-regal life.
Brisbane was a constitutionalist. He interfered less
with liberty than any previous Governor. He resented criti-
cism less. He did his duty as chairman of the new Lesisla-
tive Council which began to sit about the middle of his
period. The first Acts passed by a legislative body in
Australia were put through. It is perhaps not surprising
that the ceiling of the chamber later became decorated with
gold stars.
J-JE went about socially, but with an absent-minded air.
He did not preach, lecture or interfere with his subjects,
driving them on to extra merit and personally supervising
their morals and industry as earlier Governors had done.
Yet, paradoxically, the colony was more full of pro-
gress, of ferment, of contention, of striving to change
Government policies and of local self-government than
ever before.
Evolution moved at a pace out of keeping with popu-
lation and resources. Its trends were incongruous with the
fact that never in the 30 years that had gone before had the
official English conception of the colony been more firmly
anchored to the purpose of making it a convict repository,
into which an ever-increasing flood of turpitude was poured
and in which, by stern decree from Westminster, discipline
would become ever more cruel.
What spleen the population had against authority it
vented on the Colonial Office or, at close range, on that
universal bete noir, the “stubborn and mulish” Major
Goulburn:
Freeman ami bondmen, man and boy,
Arc all agreed! I’M wager
They’d sell their last slop shirt to buy
A ticket for the Major.
So sang the emancipists at their Australia Day dinner
of 1824: but though they yearned to replace the existing
Government and “bring back the Old Viceroy.” Mac-
quarie, they sang their aspirations without rancor towards
the courteous stargazer at Parramatta.
When he sailed away they gave him an address in
which they stressed his mildness and impartiality and the
fact that “never, in the distribution of the patronage of the
Crown or in framing new laws or ordinances,”" had he
“allowed himself to know the high from the low or the
emigrant from the emancipist.” All orders, they said, had
been equally protected and equally recognised by him
and no temptation had ever caused him to swerve from
the straight path of simple rectitude, or to give one class of
His Majesty’s free subjects an undue preference over the
other. However, in England he was reaping castigation
for policies mainly devised by Goulburn.
He sailed, and, with his eye still on the heavens, he
set himself the task of pointing the prow of his ship for
Cape Horn. 8000 miles away, and brought the vessel, on his
own calculations, within a few minutes of his reckoning.
The rest of his long career was scientifically "dis-
tinguished. Honors were heaped on him. A gold medal
for his work among the stars of the south, Presidency of
the British Association, Presidency of the Edinburgh Royal
Society (succeeding Walter Scott) for 25 years; a G.C.8.. a
baronetcy, promotion to general came to him, though his
life was marred by the loss of all his four children during his
own lifetime. He died on January 27, 1869, in the same
room he was born in and six weeks after the settlement on
Moreton Bay called Brisbane had become the capital of a
new colony.
Thus, though he came to govern New South Wales when
its population was only 26,000, including the northern
settlements, half of them convicts under durance, there are
still a few old people who were alive when he was, and a
good many more who must have known those who knew
him. In the length of their lifetimes the village called
Brisbane has grown into a city holding 25 times as
many people as the whole of the Australian mainland
when the vice-regal astronomer sailed away.


it in.
*K
I
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters
Ideal for farms, stations and for
hot-water systems, and household
requirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last a
lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of “Curvi-
linear” Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic
Machines and Ellison Switch Gear.
Business, Robbery, Etc.
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Growth for Growth's Sake?
“Tn the world of today there is a great emphasis on the rate
of industrial and business growth, which often is taken
as virtually the sole measure of a country’s success or failure.
However, sometimes this becomes a belief in ‘growth for
growth’s sake’ and, although a nation’s material progress
depends essentially upon the development of its basic resources
and the growth of its industries, other economic factors and
the vital non-material elements of a nation’s life tend to be
disregarded. This narrow attitude is highly undesirable . . .”
This is the opinion of the National Bank of Australasia’s
economists, published in the December issue of the Bank’s
“Monthly Survey,” which gives a generally optimistic assess-
ment of Australia’s present economic position and its growth
prospects.
The Bank points out that “all the evidence suggests that
there is a negligible risk of Australia’s long-term growth and
development undergoing any fundamental, adverse change,
although it has certainly suffered some interruption this year . . .
It is particularly important that there should be energetic
development of primary industry and natural resources, in the
production of raw materials, and the provision of basic services.
Over the past year there has been some change of emphasis
from, broadly speaking, the consumption product to the more
basic industry and service. This could be to our ultimate
advantage, provided that the existing slack in the economy is
taken up before too long.”
All this is quite true. The Bank is also right in saying that
we need to bend our efforts afresh to the development of basic
resources, upon which further sound expansion of less-essential
production and activity can be built. The “Monthly Survey”
points out that economic growth has continued in a number
of cases. Figures for the latest three months show that the
output of electricity was 2.9 p.c. higher than last year, black
coal production had risen by 7.2 p.c., steel production by
5.9 p.c. and superphosphate by 7 p.c. Rural output in 1960-61,
helped along by an excellent wheat crop, increased by 7 p.c.
and for the three latest seasons was on the average 50. p.c.
higher than before the war. Productive capital expenditure
by private enterprise, as estimated by the Bank’s economists,
was equivalent to about 10.6 p.c. of national production in
1960-61--a higher ratio than in any year during the fifties.
It is just as well that the National Bank has decided to cheer
us up at Christmas. But the Bank’s implied fears that
Australia may adopt the policy of “growth for growth’s sake”
alone are unjustified. For many years far too much emphasis
has been placed on durable consumer goods—the electrical
domestic goods boom was swelled by the great television boom,
the motorcars boom, the land boom, the hire-purchase boom,
and so on.
It was extremely difficult to attract sufficient capital to the
basic industries, particularly to the rural sector. Although the
rural sector’s output rose considerably, it still trails far behind
industrial output and, moreover, suffers from the steady
deterioration in the terms of trade. Now it faces the loss of
some of the traditional export markets in the United Kingdom.
True enough, some of the consumer goods industries were
severely hiT by the credit squeeze and many pockets suffered.
There is nothing wrong with consumer goods—they provide
many of the pleasures, of a high standard of living. Disregard
of consumer goods accounts for many of the privations endured
by the population in totalist economies.
However, it is equally true that consumer industries can
develop safely only when there is an adequate rate of growth
in basic economic output. Otherwise, the whole structure is
like a house built on sand. This is no time for complacency —
inflation has been slowed down and exports are slowly rising.
But Australia is facing a period of political instability and
renewed pressure of costs. At this stage the philosophy of
“growth for growth’s sake,” if it does exist, presents no danger.
EUGENE BAJKOWSKI
DEPRECIATION OF BUILDINGS
Tax Allowance Plea
'T'he vexed question of more realistic depreciation allowances
on income-producing assets, carefully ignored by all the
parties during the last Federal elections, has come up again.
Mr W. J. Bryant, president of the Master Builders’ Federation
of Australia, has called for urgent consideration of a tax
allowance for depreciation on income-earning buildings. Mr
Bryant said that “leaders of industry agree that buildings are
just as important a factor in the conduct of a business as the
plant and machinery on which depreciation is already allowed.
A tax allowance for depreciation of buildings would provide
an important stimulus in the drive for greater efficiency and
productivity.”
Mr Bryant added that “in view of the urgent need to boost
our exports, the significance of a tax measure of this nature
is doubly apparent.” He also felt that a depreciation allowance
would encourage owners of industrial plants and office blocks
to replace their buildings with more modern and efficient
structures, reducing production costs in the long run.
No doubt Mr Bryant —and the National Obsolescence
Council, which has been steadily campaigning for higher
depreciation allowances —has a strong case in hand. It is
to be hoped that the recent election shock will force the Federal
Government into an early consideration of a more progressive
policy on depreciation. Inadequate depreciation allowances
seriously impede the rate of new capital formation, the key
factor in the nation’s overall rate of economic growth.
The Government should also be bold enough to consider
introducing differential depreciation allowances for various
industries —favoring the basic industrial producers. For
instance, it may be imprudent to suggest that depreciation


A*N*Z BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
ABRIDGED
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
AS AT
30th SEPTEMBER, 1961
(Excluding Inter-Bank Balances)
(Expressed in Australian Currency)
ASSETS
£A
Coin, Bullion, Notes and Cash at
Bankers 19,393,446
Balances with and Cheques in course
of Collection on Other Banks 32,767,107
Money at Call and Short Notice 10,878,250
Treasury Bills 3,239,749
Statutory Deposits with Central Banks 42,643,559
Investments 115,617,904
Bills Receivable and Remittances in
Transit 75,362,512
Loans and Advances to Customers and
other Accounts 232,873,161
Liabilities of Customers for Acceptances
and other Engagements 37,769,851
Bank Premises 10,922,705
£A581,468,244
LIABILITIES
£A
Paid up Capital of Australia and New
Zealand Bank Limited 12,801,000
Reserve Fund and Profit and Loss
Account Balances 12,435,496
Current, Deposit and other Accounts 518,461,897
Acceptances and other Engagements for
Customers 37,769,851
£A581,468,244
GENERAL MANAGER’S OFFICE FOR AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND, FIJI, PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA:
394-396 Collins Street, Melbourne
PRINCIPAL OFFICE IN NEW ZEALAND:
196 Featherston Street, Wellington
HEAD OFFICE: 71 Cornhill, London, E.C.3
C. R. Darvall, General Manager
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A D. 1720)
Assets exceed £177,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
Kindersley House, Bligh/O’Connell Streets, SYDNEY
F. H. Egerton, Manager for Australia.
allowances be lifted on all classes of income-producing build-
ings—here there is an opportunity to give more encouragement
to the more essential sectors of the economy, speeding up their
rate of capital formation and helping them to attract fresh
capital resources through the sharemarket.
UNITED STATES
Infer national Trade Fairs
Two large international trade fairs will take place in the
United States in May and July-August next year. The
American Consulate-General in Sydney says that the Sixth
Annual United States World Trade Fair, sponsored by the
New York City Department of Commerce, will be held in
New York on May 11 to 22, 1962. The Fair will be divided
into four major divisions: international trade and tourism,
consumer goods, light industrial products, and food and
beverages. Organisers say that “the Fair is primarily designed
for the transaction of volume business and the public will not
be admitted during trade sessions.” However, the public will
be given an opportunity to visit the Fair on specified days and
hours which will not interfere with commercial buyers.
Retail sales will be prohibited, with the exception of some
retail samples. The cost of space will be approximately £1 15s.
per square foot. Applications are handled by the Commercial
Section of the U.S. Consulate-General in Sydney.
The Fourth Annual Chicago International Fair, spon-
sored by the Chicago Association of Commerce and Industry,
will be the highlight of the city’s 125th anniversary celebra-
tions. Products exhibited will cover commerce, industry,
agriculture, transport and international trade in the Western
Hemisphere. Exhibits will range from food, textiles and house-
hold goods to heavy machinery. At this stage 320,000 sq. feet
is available. In 1961, 26 overseas countries participated, and
the roll-up totalled 29,000 registered buyers and 653,169 general
public. Applications for space should be sent direct to the
Chicago International Trade Fair, 30 West Monroe Street,
Chicago 3, Illinois. A descriptive brochure is available from
the American Consulate-General.
The U.S. Consulate-General also informs that an Ameri-
can company, Transportation Parts Co. of New York Inc., of
Hicksville, Long Island, New York, is looking for Australian
representatives to handle its exports of replacement parts and
equipment for automotive and agricultural vehicles.
INDONESIA
Big Peking Loan
A lthough it is itself hard pressed for investment capital, the
Peking Government is lending Indonesia 129.6 million
Swiss francs, at two per cent, a year, for the construction of
cotton mills and weaving plants. The loan will be disbursed
over four years, starting December, 1961, and will be repaid
over 12 years, beginning two years after the mills are in
operation. “International Financial News Survey” says that
the loan is part of the recent economic agreement between
Indonesia and Communist China.
Coming at a time when China is desperately short of
foreign exchange, and is also faced with near-famine condi-
tions, the low-interest loan is an indication of Peking’s long-
term plans for the economic penetration of Indonesia.
It is probably also intended to bolster up the Indonesian
Government economically at the height of the present political
crisis over West Irian (Dutch New Guinea). Ironically, it
was not so long ago that Peking had bitterly denounced
President Soekarno and the Djakarta Government for its take-
over of the economic interests of overseas Chinese in Indonesia.
At that time Chinese merchants were virtually eliminated from
Indonesian rural retail trade, and many large Chinese import-
export and banking enterprises were forced out of business.


PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
K H. ALLEN. M. K. L. DOWLING,
F. R. LEY V, A. P. REYNOLDS, N. R.
COURSE (.Melbourne Resident Partner).
Delfin House, 16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Building, 150 Queen St.,
Melbourne, 67-5957 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables: “Rosdale,” Sydney
Melbourne or Woolongong.
A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. E. NEVITT. A. C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members bf Brisbane Stock Exchange')
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Fife Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Rhone: 31 2761 PO. BOX
(4 lines) No. 1887 W
John N. Robertson, Thompson
and Co.
Members of the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS,
Temple Court,
422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Telephones: 67 6154, 67 6155
Telegrams and Cables:
ROBFALK, MELBOURNE
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Bradford Cotton Mills Ltd
HTHE lifting of import restrictions and
the effect of the credit squeeze were
felt with particular severity by the cotton
textile industry —one of the sections of
the economy least guilty of contributing
to the inflationary trends of 1960. The
sudden flood of low-priced goods,
followed almost immediately by the
drying-up of consumer demand, had a
disastrous effect on some Australian
producers in this field.
But the doyen, Bradford Cotton Mills
Ltd, again demonstrated its great internal
strength and came through remarkably
well. First established in 1927, and con-
verted to public status in 1935, Bradford
Cotton Mills Ltd has weathered similar
storms in the past, and is now unques-
tionably the leader in its particular field.
Main activities of the group are in New
South Wales but it also operates in Vic-
toria and Queensland. Head office and
a spinning plant are located at Camper-
down (Sydney) while at Newtown —a
few miles away—is the plant engaged in
dyeing, sanforising, finishing and knit-
ting jersey fabric.
Victorian activities are located at
Abbotsford and Footscray where the co.
is engaged in spinning, weaving, dyeing,
doubling, sanforising, waterproofing and
rotproofing. Similar activities are con-
ducted at Bendigo, where the group’s
wefting tyre-cord plant is located. Activi-
ties in Queensland are on a smaller
scale —confined to the manufacture of
ribbons and printed and woven labels at
Toowoomba.
The real centre of the group is in the
Newcastle area. Kotara, one of the
outer suburbs, is the site of the fine
spinning mill built at a cost of nearly
£l4 million. This mill began producing
cotton yam of a type not previously
manufactured in Australian late in 1961.
Rutherford, in the Hunter Valley, is
also the centre of a large section of the
company’s activities.
Last term opened on a very hopeful
note. Operations for the greater part of
the period justified the belief that before
the year closed worthwhile reductions in
the selling price of yarn and woven
fabrics would be made —and this from
a company which had absorbed almost
the whole of its increased costs of pro-
duction over the previous seven years.
All the major units were working at
full capacity on a three-shift basis, with
an efficiency and productivity rate well
ahead of anything previously experien-
ced. Labor turnover and absenteeism,
a bogy in other industries, were not
evident, for in November, 1960, consid-
ered the peak period for these problems,
absentees throughout the group’s work-
force were only 3.5 p.c., while labor
turnover in the five months to November
when it is realised that about half the
averaged only 3 p.c. —a creditable result,
employees are women.
At the end of February the group
looked set for a near record year, with
profit ahead of the previous correspon-
ding period. At one stage bank accounts
were actually in credit — compared with
an overdraft of £1,764,897 at June 30,
1960.
But from then on conditions worsened
and there was a serious downturn in
every section of the business. Produc-
tivity fell away, costs of production
increased and profit margins disappeared.
With all competitors in a similar position,
some goods were sold at prices below
cost.
Thus it is not surprising that profit for
the year was down, but it is equally
worthy of note that the fall in money
value was only 19 p.c. Sales for the
year were lower. Group profit before tax
was down £198,715 to £805,266 —a little
below the 1958-59 figure—after charging
all expenses and fees and providing
£480,893 for depreciation (down £56,828).
After setting aside £354,761 for taxa-
tion and contingencies (down £91,501),
profit available for appropriation was
£107,214 lower at £450,505.
After allowing the £9186 due to pre-
ference shareholders the result was equal
to an earning rate of 11.1 p.c. on the
higher average capital employed for the
period, compared with 16 p.c. the pre-
vious year, 15.5 p.c. in 1959, 17.2 p.c.
in 1958 and 18.7 p.c. in 1957.
Reserves received £45,247 and also
benefited by the £215,317 premium on
the share issue early in the year, but were
reduced by £21,011 provided for long
service leave and £41,370 obsolete plant
written off. They now stand at
£3,252,191:
Bradford Cotton and Subsidiaries.*
f — Dividends •, To Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. Reserves, serves.f
£ £ £ £
1959.. 6 p.c. 121p.c. 435,081 102,000 2,973,103
To staff fund, £7OO 2,972,403
To long-service provn., £17,079- .. 2,954,724
Plant scrapped written-off, £38,114 . . 2,916,010
Surplus on acquisition of subsidiary,
£17,088 .. 2,934,298
1960.. 557.719 6 p.c. 12ip.c. 438,009 119,710 3,054,008
Share premiums, £215,317 .. .. 3,209,325
To long-service provn., £21,011 . . 3,248,314
Plant written-off. £41,370 .. 3,206,944
1961.. 505 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 405,258 45,247 3,252,191
* Excluding outside interests. f After deducting
intangibles, now written-off, and excluding deprecia-
tion and amortisation reserve ( £4,716,096).
During the year the company increased
its capital by an issue of 3,439,062 ss.
ords. at a premium of Is. 3d. on a one-
for-four basis. This lifted paid up capital
to £4,474,499 including £153,104 in pre-
ference shares, and provided £1,074,707
in fresh funds. In addition, in Novem-
ber, 1960, the co. issued £1,250,000 1\
p.c. registered unsecured notes maturing
Feb. 28, 1971, with the co.’s option to
redeem them at a premium in 1969 or
1970 on giving six months' prior notice.
Most of this went into expansion,
principally the fine spinning mill at
Kotara, the largest single textile unit
owned by the company. Total outlay on
capital equipment during the year was
£1,352,000 bringing the total to well over
£3 million in the last three years. Plant
modernisation at Kotara and Footscray
involved a substantial capital outlay,
which did not contribute to the 1960-61
result. Benefits will be felt early in 1962.
Book value of fixed assets reflects the
heavy capital investment in plant and
machinery: long term borrowing at
balance date was £3,150,000 with
£316,667 still owing on the purchase of
freehold.
Theoretical working capital rose
£1,433,587 to £3,873,293. Stocks, reflec-
ting the general slowing down in the
economy, were slightly higher at
£4,073,244. However, by the end of
last October they were down to


CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act of New South Wales on the Bth March* 1950.
(ASSETS EXCEED £9,000,000*
aof
2/o
PER ANNUM
5 OR 6 YEARS
REGISTERED *
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE
STOCK
PERIOD
INTEREST
9Vz% P.A. 5 or S years
9% P.A 4 years
BVi% P.A. 3 years
8% P.A 2 years
7Vz% P.A 12 months
6V2%P.A._. ..6 months
REGISTERED
REDEEMABLE DEPOSIT
NOTES
Funds may be withdrawn in a personal emergency
Applications for Debenture Stock and Notes accepted only
on form o. 1 application attached to prospectus, obtainable from
Any BRANCH of the Bank of N.S.W.
OR
The Company's Offices:
SYDNEY: Cambridge House, 249 George Street.
MELBOURNE: Cambridge House, 411-413 Lonsdale Street.
BRISBANE: sth Floor, T. & G. Building, 137 Queen Street.
ADELAIDE: Ist Floor, Da Costa Building, 68 Grenfell Street.
NEWCASTLE: Cambridge House, 767-773 Hunter Street,
N?weas+le West.
OR
Any Member of a Stock Exchange
Underwriting Brokers:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
CORRIE & CO. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
LEONARD G. MAY & SON (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
_____ CC.IIB/M
THERE'S MORE FOR ALL THE
ONLY I"
FAMILY IN
new „
Everybody's
£3,300,000. Overdraft at £1,817,726 was
£52,829 higher:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
1959. 1960. 1961.
Paid capital .. £3,564,296 £3,592,166 £4,474,499
Reserves .. 2,973,102 3,654,008 3,252,191
Outside interests
Notes .. .. 1,000,000 1,000,000 2,250,000
Depreciation re-
serve .. 4,244,766 4,716,096 5,027,907
Mortgage loan 975,000 950,000 925,000
Overdraft .. 1,503,012 1,764,897 1,817,726
Deferred
creditors . . 380,000 348,333 316,667
Creditors .. 1,576,570 1,958,623 762,742
Staff fund . . 151,951 174,901 201,326
Tax reserve*.. 341,126 459,753 374,380
Final div. .. 217,793 219,534 166,645
£16,927,016 £18,238,311 £19,569,083
Freeholds . . 2,522,240 2,968,895 3,835,461
Leaseholds .. 13,404 14,422 15,111
Investments .. 12,024 12,024 12,024
Plant .. .. 7,604,096 8,400,457 8,675,084
Intangibles .. —- 36,617
Stock . . .. 4,378,255 3,974,486 4,073,244
Debtors .. 2,097,597 2,868,027 2,921,542
£16,927,616 £18,238,311 £19,569,083
* Includes unspecified contingencies.
Sundry debtors were also fractionally
higher but creditors at £762,742 were
down nearly £1.2 million due principally
to lower purchases of raw materials from
overseas.
Net tangible assets backing, based on
consolidated figures, is £32 10s. for each
ss. 6 p.c. cum. first pref., £2O 9s. 9d. for
each ss. 6 p.c. cum. second pref. and
9s. 2d. for every ss. ordinary share.
Short term prospects for the company
are uncertain. The new term certainly
did not open very auspiciously.
The only bright spot was the rayon
division, where the plant is getting back
to three-shift work at full capacity.
The long term view is good—in retro-
spect, dividend has never been less than
10 p.c. p.a. since flotation in 1935.
Of course there are a number of
imponderables in the future—Japanese
competition, the effects of the European
Common Market, the rate of recovery
from the credit squeeze. But directors
are energetic and capable.
Last sale of the ss. ords. in Sydney
was at 7s. 2d. to show an attractive
dividend yield of 6.9 p.c. and an earnings
yield of 7.7 p.c.
OIL AND MINING
Australian Oil and Gas
HPhe oil strike at Moonie Iso. 1 well in
Queensland caused a speculative
buying rush on the Sydney Stock
Exchange early last week. On Monday,
December 18, 1961, the ss. A.O.G. shares
were traded at 395.-40 s. a unit, jumping
by over 13s. 6d. since the market closed
the previous Friday. Nearly 34,000 ss.
shares changed hands in the first hour
of Monday’s trading.
A 58-minute preliminary production
test on December 17 produced a flow of
clean 47 gravity (A.P.1.) oil at the rate
of 1765 barrels a day. The oil flow was
accompanied by a gas flow at an estima-
ted rate of 175,000 cu. ft. a day. The
test was carried out at an interval
between 5805 ft. and 5840 ft. No water
was recovered.
The Moonie No. 1 well is being drilled


ALL SAINTS’ COLLEGE
BATHURST, N.S.W.
Established 18 74
Headmaster is a member of the Head-
masters’ Conference of the Independent
Schools of Australia.
STAFF REQUIRED FOR 1962:
1. Physical Education and Games Master
2. Laboratory Assistant to maintain equip-
ment under the direction of the Science
Master and possibly to teach some
junior classes and perform other
duties. Somebody with a fair know-
ledge of Science and the ability to
handle normal repair work in labora-
tories would be suitable.
For full particulars apply immediately to
the Headmaster.
HELP
LEGACY
all the year round. Donations: 169
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. BM2OOI.
Positions Vacant
ALL SOULS’ SCHOOL,
CHARTERS TOWERS, N. Q.
Masters required to teach:
1. Book-keeping. Typing and general
middle school subjects.
2. Latin and English.
Duties commence First Term, 1962.
Resident or non-resident; housemastership with
free flat available for suitable man. Apply
Headmaster.
Divorce Notices
Matrimonial Cans*-; AH, 19.'>9
IX THE SCPRKM K COURT OF
NEW SOtITI WALKS
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
To JOYCE LORRAINE BILLINGTON (nee Nilan)
whose present whereabouts are unknown. TAKE
NOTICE that your husband MERVYN BRI CK
HI LLI NOTON has commenced an action against you
for dissolution of marriage (Matrimonial Petition No.
3804 of 1901) on the ground of your desertion willi-
out just cause or excuse for a period of not less
than two years. If you wish to defend this action
you must file an answer to this suit or an address
for service in the Registry of the Supreme Court
of New South Wales on or before 20th January
1902 and you may obtain without charge a copy
of the petition and Notice of Petition from Messrs.
B. J. MACREK & CO., Solicitors, 380 South Terrace.
Bankstown, b.v their Sidney Agent H. C. Borland
Esquire, 114 Castierea'gll Street, Sydney. -C. A- H.
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SI PR EM E COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES -In Divorck.
To EDNA MA-Y HANKS. TAKE NOTICE that
RAYMOND ALBERT HANKS has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 309.1 of 1901 on the ground of
desertion. If you wish to defend you may enter
an answer in the DivoreC Registry, Mint Building,
Macquarie Street, Sydney by the 23rd day _of
February 1902, and obtain a copy of the- Petition
without charge from GEOFFREY SEE GILLJS k
CO., Solicitors, 2s -Martin Place, Sydney. -C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SI PREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES In Divorck.
To NEVILLE ERNEST SARGENT. TAKE NOTICE
that URSULA GERTRUDE SARGENT has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 1881 of 1901 on the grounds
of cruelty and drunkenness. If you wish to defend
you may enter an answer in the Divorce Registry,
Mint Building. Macquarie Street, Sydney by the
23rd day of February 1902, and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from GEOFFREY
SEE GILLIS & CO., Solicitors, 28 Martin Place,
Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
Divorce Notices
Matrimonial Causes Act. 1950.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES 1 x Divorce.
To FREDERICK JAMES HALVA late of 8a
O’Shannessy Street, North Essenden, Melbourne,
Victoria. TAKE NOTICE that ENA GENE Vl V E
SAEVA lias tiled a Petition for divorce No. 1378 of
19til on the grounds of desertion, separation and
Cruelty. it you wish to defend you may tile an
Answer in tiie Divorce Registry, Mint Building,
Macquarie Street, Sydney by the- 16th day of
February 1!>62 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from JONES, JONES & JONES,
Solicitors, 76 Clarence Street. Svdnev, New South
Wales.- C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.'
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
To: CLAUDE POWELL, address unknown.--TAKE
NOTICE that THELMA IRENE POWELL has tiled
a petition for divorce No. 8172 of 1961 on the ground
of desertion. If you wish to defend you may enter
an Answer in the Divorce Registry. Supreme Court,
Mint Building, Macquarie Street, on or before the
16th February, 1962 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from J. H. WOLFE,
Solicitor, ot 52 Phillip Street, Sydney.—C. A. 11.
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES. In Divorce.
To WILLIAM HENRY COOK address unknown. —-
TAKE NOTICE that LJ LI EDNA COOK has filed
a Petition for divorce No. 2245 of 1960 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards. If you wish to defend
you may enter an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Mint Building, Macquarie Street,
Sydney, by the 16th February, 1962, and obtain a
copv of the Petition without charge from Messrs.
D. ‘ JOHN DWYER and CO., Solicitors, of 52
Phillip Street, Sydney. —C. A. 11. HARMS, Registrar.
Matrimonial Causes Act, 1959
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
To CORA SYBIL FRA PE formerly of Glenmore
Flats, Glen Street. .Milsons Point. TAKE NOTICE
that EDMUND BAYNTO.N ERAPE has filed a
Petition for divorce No. 3659 of 1961 on the ground
of Separation. If you wish to defend you may-
enter an answer in tile Divorce Registry Supreme
Court. Mint Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney
by the 20th day of February 1962 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from HUNT A
HINT, Solicitors, 15 Bligh Street, Sydney.—
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
by Union Oil Development Corporation,
a fully owned subsidiary of Union Oil of
California, in association with Kern
County Land Co. and the Australian-
owned Australian Oil and Gas Corpora-
tion, which holds a 20 p.c. net profit
interest in the joint venture. The well
is about 20 miles south of Cabawin No.
1 well in the Surat Basin, some 200 miles
west of Brisbane.
The Minister for National Develop-
ment. Senator W. H. Spooner, has
described the flow as “extremely
promising.”
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 673
Across
I —Animal with a mother managed this craft. (9)
s—Young5—Young animal with an islander. (5)
B—This8 —This makes a Chinese puzzle taste mutton. (7)
10- “Brass" who has his leg near broken. (7)
11 — Waggish lellows engaged in
physical training as a substitute
for paper. (9)
13—Sofa is broken by these clods. (4)
15 —Great greetings when Porthos
disported himself with Indian
money. (8)
17—Cure for unbleached linen. (4)
19 — Plucky sport. (4)
20 — Rotund Reginald again sub-
jected to friction. (8)
22 — Operatic number. (4)
23 — Flora making the ship of the
desert sail backwards. (9)
25 State one place for chemical
research on a mother. (7)
26 — The opposite thing in poetry. (7)
27 Flour-pale parent takes a pen. (5)
28 — Noblemen spoil tombs. (9)
Down
1 — Minced hooligan reacted dis-
tressfully. (3, 2,5)
2 Walks over a noblewoman. (8)
3 Queer spirit. (3)
4 The dark thing is remodelled. (5)
5 Famous American entertainer is
a choir-leader. (6)
6 Munchausen without his yash-
mak? (4-5, 4)
7 Ducks a Scandinavian boy. (4)
9 —Badly torn drone has fricasseed
brains with these English. (13)
12— Irene transformed this boy. (5)
14 —Dances the surroundings of
hngernail paces. (10)
16 —Salt mutton lor a lather ol
Jewry. (5)
18 —Garment turned up with some
paramour under fifty. (8)
21—Sickness for two women, one of
them a relative. (6)
23 — Seek possession ol anything, by
right. (5)
24 — Stinger was piano. (4)
26 —She is Germanised in one
hour. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 672


MAKS ....
CENTRIFUGAL PUMP
.
Ic
«P
■
,
>•;. - ■•• < -.
->; .
W 4
irrxw a* *
■ ■ 11
. •■
*
*f |
W
The MARS 8/6 “DRYWELL”-Gravity/Suction
PUMP
SIZE RANGE: TYPE RANGE
' GRAVITY
SUCTION
- GLAND
CORROSION RESISTANT
_ HEAVY SOLIDS & SLURRIES
SPLIT CASING
RUBBER & HARD
METAL LININGS
EASILY MAINTAINED • HEAVY
DUTY • INTERCHANGEABLE
ACCURACY • HIGHLY EFFI-
CIENT GRAVITY/SUCTION AND
GLAND TYPES
All Industry’s Pump for
CHEMICAL MINING SAND AND SLURRIES
OPEN CUTS RECLAMATION
BEACH SANDS DREDGING
UGAR MILLS REFINERIES POWER STATIONS
IMMEDIATE DELIVERIES
REPLACEMENT PARTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE
GENERAL HANDINESS. Though “Granola” is metallic, it is plastic and has hot
to be stocked in an assortment of sizes. The same uniform diameter rolls are used
for packing a \ in. spindle or a 12 in. rod. '
DURABILITY. “Granola” is a metallic packing and woven packing cannot be
compared with it for long life. Hence the trouble and expense of frequent re-
packings are obviated.
ECONOMY. There is no waste with “Granola”. Nothing has to be thrown away.
When re-packing becomes necessary fresh “Granola” is added to that which
remains in the box. Ideal for Gland Type Pumps. ... .
GOOD MAINTENANCE. “Granola” keeps the rod “like silver'’, and scoring is
excluded. It does not harden or char under high temperature.'
EVERY APPLICATION. “Granola” in 3 grades, for saturated and super-heated
steam, hot and cold water, sea water, acids, gases, and most fluids, and semi-fluids.
“Granola” is made up in uniform plastic “slicks” which can be moulded to any
convenient thickness for feeding into a stuffing box. When the 'gland is screwed
down a compact metallic ring is formed.
Where woven packings are used, the addition of a central ring of “Granola” will
give more “body” and much longer life. It will also reduce friction to a minimum.
IN 2 lb. PACKS and 14 lb., 28 lb. and 56 lb. BOXES
PHONE OR WRITE FOR LITERATURE
“GRANOLA” PLASTIC
METALLIC PACKING
Roughly Moulded—rfor feeding into a small
Stuffing Box
MARS Machine Tool Co. Pi v. ltd.
. *■ L r - T-.
BRIDGE THE VALLEY, BRISBANE
■REPRESENTATIVES:
NEW SOUTH, WALES: Alfred Snashall Pty. Ltd., P.O.
80x—39,-"Q.-Vv Building, Sydney.
VICTORIA: Thomson >& Carroll Pty. Ltd., Ampol House,
-*• ' (itl» Uloor, "Elizabeth st.V • Melbourne, Victoria.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Mining Supplies (S.A.) Pty. Ltd*
622 South Road, Edwardstown, South Australia,
