

The Bulletin
and The Observer
COMING WAR
■ WEST NEW GUINEA
MELBOURNE
UNIVERSITY
COMMUNISTS
AT WORK
THE NEXT P.M.?


in 1849,; read transport
% | /% // ' ' ' ' '''"'s 'v
was like this
i
, !
m
fm !
: ! '|i -s
biiii
iti
I
*-■ 's' -ten
r
r
u
Bn
irj
h
KVi
/ v'
">
t
h.
rnn
Vi
f
7
1 ' ■
.__ ' :•* . • • • •
J 1368
MODERN A.M.P. POLICIES are geared to modern
needs. A.M.P. now offers Fire and General as well as
Life insurance. This enables our representatives to give
you a complete service covering all your insurance needs.
Australia’s LARGEST and oldest
life assurance organisation
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
A.M.P. members enjoy the unquestioned security afforded by funds of £500,000,000
which the Society seeks to invest to the greatest benefit to members.


Society
Back
While Russia waited in suspense for
the recovery of its spaceman a
scene of equally heart-stopping tension
was observed in the Sydney suburb of
Palm Beach,
As breakfast aromas drifted through
the bottlebrush trees and across the
machine-mown lawns, and the first
Holdens began to roar from the car-
ports, a middle-aged man could be seen,
in his dressing-gown, crouched behind
a gum-tree in front of his house. He
held the end of a piece of cotton, at the
other end of which he had assembled,
after rummaging through the rusty tool-
shed of his childhood memories, the
paraphernalia of box, stick, and trail of
seed that he seemed to remember had
never failed
He waited, for nearly half an hour,
sweat beading his face, until at last the
biue-and-red parrot, the prince of his
wife's aviary, recently escaped, slowly
ate its way along the trail of seed and,
with infinite slowness, and frequent
capricious hesitations and pretences of
flying off for ever, finally ventured far
enough under the box for the triumphant
jendng away of the stick and the
exultant shout, loud enough to be heard
in Moscow: “HE’S BACK!”
Turnabout ?
TMews that the forthcoming Horwitz
edition of Lawson Glassop’s “We
Were the Rats” is a toned-down version
will probably bring a grin to the austere
face of Sydney’s Mr Justice Dovey ; for
he, as W. R. Dovey, K.C., was counsel
for the defence when, on April 24, 1946,
Angus and Robertson were fined ten quid
for publishing “obscene literature” as
represented by this book. Under Dovey’s
cross-examination Police Sergeant Roy
Munro, who had declared that the book
was “offensive to delicacy and chastity,”
revealed that he wasn’t sure about
"Any friend of the Major is a friend of mine!"
Shakespeare’s Christian name ; that he
had not heard of Lord Byron and didn’t
know if he was on the staff of Lord Louis
Mountbatten ; and, among other things,
that he had never heard of “Don Juan”
or “Lady Chatterley’s Lover.” —Though
what Judge in Divorce Dovey would do
about Lady Chatterley if she came : nto
his court these days is an interesting
speculation.
Recherche du Temps Perdu
A bout 6 p.m. on April 12, when the
rest of the world was being plunged
into a future age of space, Sydney was
plunged back into the dark of the ’forties
with a power-failure that blacked-out
80 per cent, of the city ; and one-half
of a middle-aged couple got into trouble
by remarking to his wife: “I’d forgotten
how nice you look by candlelight!”
Beautiful
A mournful colleague came in with
a broad smile that would not fade
all day. At a zebra crossing not far
from The Bulletin office he was waved
on by a sedan full of policemen and
policewomen. Halfway across he was
deliberating whether to raise his hat to
the police sedan when he was challenged
for the rest of the crossing by a sedan
coming from the other direction. Then
the challenging driver saw the carful of
police ; and if ever brakes went on and
a car slid on its hind legs to a stop in
2ft from 30 m.p.h. . . . “It was beautiful,”
the mournful colleague said. “That’s
what it was: beautiful!”
The Appropriate Schweppes
Ohares in Schweppes, recently floated
in Melbourne as a public company,
have been rising a few pence each day
on their issue price of 55., and on April 10
they jumped 6d. to 10s. 6d. Now they
cost upwards of 12s.
Chequemate
Spurning indirect incentives like the
future security of mum and the kids,
the possibility of a rainy day, or provi-
sion for old age, Australian Landtrusts
(N.S.W.) Pty Ltd came straight to the
point when every one of thousands of
prospects found a Landtrusts cheque for
£37 in his mail. No need to tell mum ;
no need to wait for old age or a rainy
day . . . But why was the cheque not
on a bank, but on Australian Landtrusts?
And what was this business of inserting
the payee’s name in a cut-out window?
The plot unfolded underneath ; the
INDEX
THE COMING WAR IN WEST NEW GUINEA? Pages 6 to 10
• Melbourne University
Communists at Work 11
9 The Next P.M.? 14
•3 The Mystery Message at
Anzac 23
Aboriginalities 28
Business, Robbery, etc. 36
Consumer-Observer 26
Letters 44
Look Back At Anger 54
Man on the Land 47
Personal IS
• Phillip the Founder
(Part 2) 24
• The Intelligence Clown
(Short Story) 49
Political Points 22
Red Page 30
Shows 39
Society 3
Sport 42
This Australia 19
Wild Cat Columns 54
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Piv Lid. Box 2521 G.P O . Sydney.


cheque was the top of an advertisement
which explained what fell into the laps
of real Landtrusts investors every six
months. That was, as they say, the
pay-off.
No Hors-d’Oeuvres
Only pressure from friends and
relatives of concentration-camp vic-
tims prevented the Victorian Jewish
Board of Deputies from launching an
exhibition about the rising in the War-
saw ghetto, which showed terrible
concentration-camp pictures, with a cock-
tail party, to. which the Lord Mayor had
been invited.
Minor Problem
Major Yuri Gagarin's excursion could
create, among other things, a minor
problem for Partridge and Fowler. News-
paper reports have labelled the Major
“the world's first spaceman.” But if we
call the first earthman to go into space
a spaceman, what do we call the first
man from outer space to reach earth?
The Fall Since Squizzy
npHERE was a time when Melbourne's
criminals ranked among the world’s
top brass and those of the other Aus-
tralian capitals were small-time, but ever
since Squizzy Taylor and Snowy.Cutmore
shot each other to death, the Victorian
hierarchy has been diminishing in
stature, wit and originality. The best
crimes now seem all too familiar to
anyone acquainted with successful films
or TV serials. The smooth operators
based in the West End, Florida or
California now show the backward Aus-
tralians how to do it.
The theft of £31,000 from a Mayne
Nickless delivery truck last month was
remarkably similar to the one in the
English film “The Lavender Hill Mob”;
and an episode from the TV series “The
Untouchables” was very nearly repeated
in the Melbourne suburb of Moonee
Ponds last week.
When the manager arrived at the bank
at 8.15 a.m., a gunman was waiting to
hustle him inside and demand that he
open the strongroom. The gunman pro-
posed, in the best TV tradition, to lock
up the staff as they arrived.
But not only did the unobliging
manager, Alexander McLaren, refuse to
open the strongroom despite threats;
he shouted to the first assistant to arrive
to get the police. The gunman fled.
True, this McLaren fellow seems to
have had no real idea of what is expected
when a gunman calls ; but old Squizzy,
for one, would never have called when
the staff was arriving:—no matter how
easy it might look on TV.
That was Society
Sydney University Debating Society
the other night, set its wits to work to
discuss whether The Bulletin justified its
existence, and decided that it did not.
The Bulletin feels pretty good. To be
even so far suspected of justifying one’s-
existence as to suggest the question is
rather a compliment. Nobody asks
whether the Sydney Telegraph justifies
its existence.—' “Bulletin”, June 8, 1905.
A case of distress in a city slum re-
cently coming under the notice of the
charitable, the services of a doctor and a
trained nurse were secured. Things were
soon set right. The cheery little nurse
bought a broom and vanquished the dirt
of generations, put some flowers on the
table, tucked the sick mother and the new
baby in for the night, bought a new
kettle and left it singing on the newly
polished stove, and admonished the in-
mates what they were to do pending her
arrival the next day. She left her forgot-
ten purse on the dresser. Next day she
found that all but the baby had enjoyed
a gay old “drunk” on the contents of
the purse, winding up with a “refresher”,
got by pawning the kettle.
— “Bulletin”, January 26, 1905.
It is time that Australia stopped the
silly brand on post office letters: “On Ilis
Majesty’s Service”. It should be printed:
“On Australian Commonwealth Service.”
That would serve plain, honest truthful-
ness and encourage the national senti-
ment. — “Bulletin”, September 1, 1904.
The Warden of Trinity College, Mel-
bourne, offers a prize of £5 for the best
epigram on the subject of a White Aus-
tralia. The Bulletin weighs in with the
suggestion that it was a policy devised by
good white men, at a time when things
were looking blue, to prevent a land
which is occasionally green from turning
black. — “Bulletin”, November 17, 1904.
Rabbits, K.C.M.Geese, sparrows, Scotch
thistles, briars and snails do not exhaust
the list of pests imported to Australia
from the dear old Mother country. There
is also the British breakfast which
starts with an oatmeal mash and finishes
with bacon and eggs. No oil subject of
the Empire considers himself properly
British and respectable for the day until
he has swallowed bacon and eggs. But
in a land where the glass climbs up to
lOOdeg. in the summer, bacon and eggs
as a breakfast food are almost murderous.
But they’re British, and that suffices.
Australia has hardly begun to think for
itself in the matter of food.
— “Bulletin”. January 19, 1905.
NO ORIENTAL MYSTERY
“If we create a Chinatown in Sydney it
should be on modern lines and not based on
Chinese mysticism. It should not be an area
where hoboes eat and where pak-a-poo is
played.” —Alderman R. E. Murphy.
In Mr Murphy’s Chinatown
The streets will blaze with light.
No torn and sleazy blinds pulled down,
But even dim sims polished bright;
And Standard Soup will end the
wrong
Of feudalistic Short and Long.
Their skirts slit upwards to their thighs,
Paddling to and fro,
No pretty girls with almond eyes
Will play with you at peek-a-bo,
Or friends of Doctor Fu Manchu
At evil games of pak-a-poo.
There must be no more opium
Of the populace ;
The fictional elysium
Is banned from our enlightened days:
Confucius say: “The perfect rose,
How often it is on the nose.”
SWILLIAM




The Coming War
in Dutch New Guinea?
What is to be Done
By DONALD HORNE
Australia should promote an
International Control
Commission to guarantee the
independence of West
New Guinea
INDONESIA’S demand for West New Guinea is almost
certainly illegal; it is undoubtedly immoral; and —as to
running the place—it is impractical as well. It is an
imperialist demand, based on aggressive ambition; and
it probably springs from the need to seek adventure abroad
to atone for unbelievable muddle at home.
Its legality will never be tested. The Indonesians refuse
to submit their claim to the International Court, or any
other form of international arbitration. Its morality is
impossible to defend: the Indonesians reject outright any
suggestion that the West New Guineans should determine
their own destiny. As to practicality, the Indonesian claim
is absurd: they have not enough money or expertise to run
their present disordered empire; if they seized control of
West New Guinea the inhabitants would be left to rot.
These legal, moral and practical arguments against
Indonesia’s claim are accepted by nearly all Australians,
including those who oppose Dutch control or cynically urge
appeasement of Indonesia. It is on the questions of what
Australia’s interests are in the area and how they can best
be preserved that Australians differ. Some feel that we have
no right to express an opinion at all; others feel that it is of
no importance to us who controls New Guinea. Some feel
that giving West New Guinea to Indonesia would make
Indonesia our friend; others that we should offer to federate
West and East New Guinea, or support a United Nations
trusteeship of the area, or fight the Indonesians to the last
Dutchman. Some feel that we still have 10 years to make
a decision, some that we have 10 months; some that we
have until next week. Among those who regularly give
thought to the issue there is an increasing note of panic.
VI/TTHOUT panicking about it, the Australian Govern-
YV ment must make a decision very quickly, to regain
some kind of diplomatic initiative—and next week would
not be too early. What the Government should do is to
call an international conference at which it would urge the
following three proposals:
(a) That a Control Commission of several relatively
disinterested Powers (examples would be New Zealand, the
Philippines and India) should be formed to offer to take over
the control of West New Guinea from the Dutch, stagger-
ing the takeover over a period of two years, and that this
Commission should be responsible for seeing that the New
Guinean elite took over the development and administra-
tion of West New Guinea for the next eight years, and then
arranged a plebiscite in which the West New Guineans
would decide their destiny.
(b) That Australia would act as treasurer in finding
the money for running West New Guinea (not all of it out
of our own pockets), would be primarily responsible for
providing training facilities, and be generally called on as
an expert adviser by the Commission.
(c) That the independence and neutrality of the area
would be guaranteed by as many nations as we could get
to put their pens to paper.
The purposes of this plan are twofold:
(a) It would maintain the independence of the area and
allow the people living in it to decide their own fate.
(b) It would make it diplomatically impossible for
Indonesia to effectively claim West New Guinea.
The plan is full of difficulties. Here are some of them:
(a) The Dutch may not agree to it. They would prob-
ably welcome the plan: they will accept any solution which
guarantees self-determination.
(b) The Indonesians may not agree to it. They won’t.
But we have to realise that the Indonesians will accept no
solution except annexation. What we need is a solution
which would make annexation impossible.
(c) No South-east Asian countries may agree to it.
West New Guinea is too hot for these countries to touch
while the Dutch still control it. But the plan outlined above
is an honest offer, with no strings. The “anti-colonialists”
would be hard put to it to argue that the West New Guineans
should be subject to the rule of the Indonesians, rather than
govern themselves.
(d) Nobody would put up the money. The Dutch
might very well still put up some money. We would, for
once, just have to find it. If we want a peaceful develop-
ment of the island of New Guinea we are going to have to
pay for it. We may as well start now.
(e) The administration wouldn’t work. That is really
beside the point. One cannot demand perfection in these
matters any longer. The Dutch are busy handing West
New Guinea over to the West New Guineans anyway. If
the takeover from the Dutch were staggered and Australia
offered expert facilities and advice this would keep order
as well as anything else.
(f) The effects on Indonesia would be disastrous. They
would be our enemies for ever. They would go Communist.
They would get West New Guinea later anyway. The
answers to these three assertions are: Diplomatically, there
is no such thing as “for ever”; whether or not they go Com-
munist has nothing to do with what happens to West New
Guinea (and is all the more reason for keeping them out);
they may eventually get used to the idea that they are not
going to get West New Guinea.
These are not the only objections. There are objections
to the practicability of any plan. As a practical guide, an
important test is: what are the alternatives? And in this
case they are pretty grisly. Here are some of them:
(a) Trusting in the United Nations. This is a most
perilous risk. If we do nothing but that, President Soekarno
may rig up some “provocations” on the Hitler pattern and
send a “volunteer force” on the Communist pattern. The


United Nations would order a cease fire; there would be
conferences and so on, and the upshot might very well be
that he got what he wanted in a “compromise” solution
from which there was no way out. With the Soviet veto
the Security Council is useless and a two-thirds vote is hard
to get in the General Assembly on a colonial issue.
(b) Fighting. The Dutch haven’t got enough forces in
the area, and we haven’t got much of an army. Even if
it was a long, drawn-out guerilla process pressures at home
might make it impossible for the Dutch to run their own
Algeria. There is also the point that diplomatically it is
hard to fight a minor war now unless the Communists
are in it. But if we fail diplomatically we may have to inter-
vene militarily —if there is any point in it at all —even if it
temporarily inflames opinion against us.
(c) Asking for a United Nations Trusteeship. An
independently arranged Control Commission would keep
the area out of the cold war and give the Indonesians no
lever to use against it. But if a U.N. trusteeship is set up
it may merely perpetuate the dispute and worsen it by
letting other interested parties into it. A U.N.-administered
New Guinea could become another Congo.
(d) Giving in. If questions of legality and morality
are put aside it can be suggested that it is in our interests
to pacify Indonesia by letting her have West New Guinea
thereby getting an Indonesian guarantee not to interfere in
East New Guinea and strengthening “responsible,” rela-
tively pro-Western elements in the Indonesian Government.
This could be a cogent, if cynical argument —except that
the Indonesian guarantee would be worthless, and on these
kind of questions there are no responsible elements in the
Indonesian Government. We would still be on the hook.
(e) Federating “Melanesia.” This ingenious and prob-
ably worthwhile idea is no immediate solution.
(f) Leaving it to the Dutch. In a couple of years the
Dutch may already have produced an elite that can speak
up for itself. But it will be terribly weak —and two years is
too long to wait.
(g) Partition. West New Guinea could be cut in half
and shared out, but that would also seem to be perpetuating
at least half the problem.
(h) Military guarantees. Military guarantees would be
part of the plan outlined in this article. But with the United
States vieing with the Soviet for “anti-colonialist” votes it
is not likely to give a guarantee to the Dutch alone.
(i) Doing nothing. This is sometimes a policy of
superb wisdom. But not this year. Not in West New Guinea.
Given the alternatives, the plan outlined here is well
worth trying. The Indonesians are going to spend a month
or two in diplomatic activity; if that does not work, and no
significant Power has committed itself to act against Indo-
nesian invasion, they will probably try invasion. Our plan
would take the diplomatic initiative; it would reduce the
morality of Indonesia’s claim to laughable proportions; if
it worked it would prevent invasion.
It is a “compromise” solution. But it may be the best
workable compromise offering. And it gives a grat deal
less away than the compromises that may otherwise be
thrown up before the dry season ends this year in West
New Guinea
The Last and Loneliest
The main theme of all conversations is uncertainty
By PETER HASTINGS
M. W. KAISIEPO.
A strict morality.
SITTING on the terrace of Annex VIII of the Hotel
Oranje (1 to VII straggle up the steep hill behind; IX
I never even found) you gaze down and across the
tremendous panorama to Humboldt Bay. One’s imme-
diate impression is that nature must have been dissatis-
fied with Monte Carlo and decided to do it again on a
giant scale. The black densely forested Cyclops mountains
tower 6000 feet above you while below, Volkswagens,
Voluos and Minibuses tear around macadam roads which
wind and twist in precarious fashion along the foothills
to end in gravelly culs de sac or finish in a forest clearing.
Where in Monte Carlo villas and roses overhang the Grande
Corniche above an azure sea. in Hollandia grey monocrete
Dutch colonial homes with red roofs shrink timidly from
lush, overgrown tropical gardens which threaten to slip
down the sides of the precipitous hills.
Below the homes and roads, Hollandia stretches inter-
minably along the western side of the bay —warehouses,
garages, a few stores, the administrative centres, depressing
Papuan housing settlements, the Jacht-Club with its vile
smell of cooking and its Dutch flag hanging limply from
the mast and, of course, the Docks. The Docks are a fea-
ture of Hollandia as the arcades are of Sydney. They
were built by the liberating Americans and together with
the military and supply stores and the signal stations
were all that the returning Dutch had to work on in 1945.
Dutch hearts in West New Guinea rest fondly in Manok-
wari or even Serui, in the West, for they are towns with a
hfe of their own. But in 1945 the docks were in Hollandia
and the Dutch brilt an administrative town around them.
Today the docks are like town wards. You may live
in Dock 1 or Dock 111 or Dock VII and your dock
determines your social and economic status and whether
and on what occasions you will be received by impassive
Governor P. J. Platteel in his astonishing, modern, vulgar
Government House perched high on a hill above the mean-
dering town. But whether from the huge open frames
of his great reception room or from the terrace of Annex
VIII your eyes return again and again to the blue and
grey misted bay across which —a creaming wake behind
them —surge powered lakatois making for the tiny fishing
villages which nestle in the shallows of green humpbacked
islands dotting the bay.
But this is only the outer harbor. Separated by a
narrow spit is an inner harbor stretching as far as the
eye can see. Behind that is Lake Sentani where on week-
ends Dutch families go for picnics to boat, swim or charge
around on water skis. Over all this the heat drips down
like a sullen curse and the diffused light glares back off
the water or strikes at you unexpectedly from the side of
a building or from the red, raw earth. Now and then the
sun emerges from the wispy cirrus and the haze hanging
over the far distant eastern shore clears suddenly to re-
veal beaches, bays and jungle and another range of jagged
mountains. Two of them which rise conically to pierce hot
cotton-wool clouds mark the boundary between Nether-
lands New Guinea and the Australian Trust Territory. It is
quite meaningless distinction to those who live there in
settlements and villages and travel bacf md forth in search


of food or brides. For them there is no
boundary and no question of separate
sovereignties and rival claims. It is not
even New Guinea but the land which has
always been theirs.
But because their future and ours are
now fatefully linked and because of
things like Indonesia, self-determination
and the United Nations —things of which
they have never heard and will only come
to understand with painful slowness —we
found ourselves in Hollandia.
“'T'he poor bloody Dutch have no
-*■ friends,” an Australian delegation
member said to me over a tepid Heine-
ken’s the third afternoon in Hollandia.
“They’re completely alone. Nobody
wants to give them guarantees on any-
thing, but everybody is quite content to
let them do the dirty work. No wonder
they’re fed-up.” We were discussing the
alleged statements of Dr Bot which had
been making world headlines but which
were only just generally known in Hol-
landia. He had been quoted as saying
that any Indonesian attack of more than
1000 men could not be handled by Dutch
forces in New Guinea and that Holland
would “expect” aid from Australia,
Britain and the United States. As it
turned out he had said something like
this in a private, background briefing to
an American correspondent in The
Hague. The correspondent breached con-
fidence and filed it from Hollandia on
the Monday before the opening of the
New Guinea Council. He also got it
wrong into the bargain. It was finally
corrected, but not before Dr Bot went
through some agonising periods assuring
the Australians that it was not a diplo-
matic lurk designed to pressure Aus-
tralia and America into giving guarantees
of military and other aid. As it hap-
pened, on the logic of the situation, the
Australians needed little persuading. We
have consistently refused military guaran-
tees for the very good reasons that we
have no force to back them with and we
have no wish to provoke Indonesia.
The Dutch are well aware of this and
equally aware that calculated indiscre-
tions of this sort merely exacerbate an
already touchy situation. But neverthe-
less the whole incident highlighted the
difficult situation which the Dutch find
themselves in. Their aims in West New
Guinea are very simple. At enormous
cost and in the face of tremendous pres-
sure they are determined to create in
their part of New Guinea the structure
of self-determination within, if neces-
sary, 10 years. They know as well as the
rest of the world that it is an almost
impossible task and it should take 50
years. Their motives are mixed. The
primary motive one feels in talking to
intelligent Dutchmen is pride. They are
a proud race with a splendid history.
They lost their East Indian empire. Were
they to retreat ignominously from the
last, loneliest and least lovely of their
possessions? Apart from oil there were
never any economic considerations of any
magnitude. And now the oil has stopped
flowing.
There were also pressures at home —
and in the Territory—to keep them there.
The pressures of the Catholic and Pro-
testant Churches who run the missions,
the pressures of people who genuinely
believed that if it were right for the
emerging nations of Asia, including Indo-
nesia, or those of Africa, to press for
self-government, then it was right to pre-
pare the primitive New Guinean for the
same end. Not least there was pressure
from Australia which had no wish to see
a power vacuum occupied by Indo-
nesians. The simplest way out for the
Dutch, consistent with the needs dictated
by all these reasons, was to create as soon
as possible the very antithesis of colonial-
ism. It was quite impossible to work
from the bottom. The bottom in New
Guinea —especially West New Guinea —
is 200,000 years behind.
TJut they could start working from the
top and by a series of crash pro-
grammes in education, social welfare and
political exercise create an elite. It is
not a word liked either by Canberra or
Port Moresby. Unfortunately it is the
only accurate word to describe what the
Dutch are doing, and what they are doing
is the only possible thing to do under
the circumstances. Australians in Hol-
landia termed it “window dressing” and
“mere show.” This indicated a certain
lack of sophistication because there are
realities behind the Dutch experiment
which are beginning to show up already.
The political motive behind the opening
of the Nieuw Guinea Raad is simple and
sensible. Quite apart from the reality
which the Raad represents it is the start
of something which the nearer Asian
countries cannot ignore, or only at the
risk of standing convicted of monstrous
hpyocrisy. It is also the beginning—a
very faint beginning—of a national con-
sciousness on the part of the few sophisti-
cated Papuans. It is the Dutch belief
that the inauguration of the Councils in
Hollandia and Port Moresby have given
them a sharp—and with luck —all but
unassailable edge in their dispute with
Indonesia.
HPhe Dutch are not worried by infiltra-
tion on the West Coast which they
maintain is unsuccessful and carried on
by a relative handful. They do worry
about their Indonesian population scat-
tered about the coastal towns and the
outer islands. They have no worries
about their large Indo-European popula-
tion which enjoys Dutch citizenship and
which will mostly return to Holland,
especially the younger generation, as
Papuans are trained to take over their
jobs. Least of all they worry about the
effects of radio propaganda and infil-
trators on the coastal New Guineans.
Certainly the Papuans to whom I spoke
were emphatically pro-Dutch and anti-
Indonesian.
For the leaders of the new Council
there is now a very real degree of politi-
cal power and manoeuvre. It is a new
and heady feeling and they are enjoying
it. The last thing they wish is to have
it taken away from them by Indonesia.
For men like Jouwe, Kaisiepo and
Wonsiwor there is a future under Dutch
tutorship scarcely to be dreamed of 20
years ago. They are, putting it bluntly,
on the gravy train and they are deter-
Whats What
The People
pHERE are 700,000 Papuans in Dutch New Guinea,
although the Administration is only in regular contact
with 270,000 of them. But 400,000 are registered. There
are 18,000 Europeans and 18,000 Asians, most of whom
are Indonesian officials, teachers or oil company employees.
In 1956, when there were 311,400 registered natives,
215,000 were listed as Christians, 17,000 as Muslims, 2200
as Confucianists and Buddhists.
Administration and Production
■pARLY this month the New Guinea Council began
functioning. The representatives from the towns were
elected by a direct vote and those from rural areas by
indirect vote or were appointed. Twenty-three of 28
members are Papuans.
More than half of the district officers are Papuans and
more than half of the officials are non-Dutch.
Most of the Papuans live in villages based on sub-
sistence agriculture, hunting and fishing. Coffee, rubber,
coconuts, nutmeg and cocoa are grown commercially. Oil
production has been declining since 1955. There are
750,000 pigs, 2125 cattle and 50,000 poultry.
Education and Health
50,000 Papuan children are receiving
elementary education in about 1100 schools. There are
also 13 secondary schools and 17 vocational schools.
In the areas under administrative control there is one
doctor to every 8000 people, and in areas controlled by
village welfare workers infant mortality has been reduced by
50 per cent. There are 19 hospitals and 85 medical officers.
Two hundred thousand Papuans live in houses regularly
sprayed with insecticide and receive anti-malaria tablets.
Racial or Cultural Ties
'T'HERE is no censorship of films, no color bar and no
A drink control in Dutch New Guinea.
Racially the Papuans belong to the “melanodermic
race,” which also inhabits the Solomons, New Hebrides,
New Caledonia, the Bismarck Archipelago, the Admiralty
and Fiji Islands. They have no racial or cultural ties with
any Asian country.
In fauna and geography it is part of Australia.


mined not to get off it. They talk gravely
and intelligently of the problems ahead,
although at times one wonders whether
they comprehend them all. They are
prepared to bargain and compromise to
get what they want because they know
that given sufficient time nothing on
earth can stop them getting it. What-
ever “it” may turn out to be.
What they want is vaguely expressed
and the problems they face are over-
whelming. The western end of New
Guinea is a good deal poorer than the
eastern side. Its climate is bad and its
geography depressing. It is composed
of a series of tiny coastal towns of a
faintly exotic eastern flavor, some deep-
water ports and a vast geological night-
mare in the interior comprising long,
narrow valleys, barren snow-capped lime-
stone peaks and a people so primitive
the wrapping paper from a packet
of cigarettes is treasure for which people
will murder one another.
It is the uncertainty of where West
New Guinea is heading that strikes one.
You find this a dominant theme in con-
versations among the Papuans and Indo-
Europeans. Several times I had the
chance of talking to leading members of
the Raad and it cropped up again and
again. Herman Wonsiwor —the nomin-
ated member who runs a successful
export business in Hollandia —was most
vocal about it. He had reason to be for
in a country of no experience he is an
experienced businessman. He is a jolly
little man in whom the whitest of teeth
shine from the blackest of faces. He
speaks a rapid, idiomatic American Eng-
lish and is fond of dirty jokes. The
invading Americans took him from Biak
to Japan after the war and he cottoned-
on quickly. “Sometimes I wonder,” he
said, “where we are going. We don’t
want the goddamned Indonesians. We
need the Dutch. But what then? What
are we going to export and where?
When I was in Japan on a business trip
last year the Indonesians got hold of me
and said: ‘Look here, bud, don’t kid
yourself that we’ll stand by and let you
export to Asia when the time comes.
We’ll try and stop that. We wouldn’t
import from you either.’ So you see
what we’re up against. We need com-
munications here as much as education
and we need money for export industries
as much as anything.
“The Dutch are spending £11,000,000
a year. They have a top of about
£25,000,000 in a few years time. We
need double that. And what about Aus-
tralia? Is this to be one island or isn't
it? Should we work out an economic
programme for an integrated New
Guinea or not? Can we set up an export
field in rubber, coffee, timber and, maybe,
minerals dovetailed in with the economy
in Eastern New Guinea, or is that just
a dream? I guess all we can do is keep
going. I’ll tell you one thing though—
there isn’t a single educated Papuan this
side who wouldn’t fight the Indonesians.
That's just one little bargain we won't
buy.” He scratched himself and laughed
in his shrill way. Reaching for a bottle
of Heineken's he said comically, “God
it's hot.”
Sitting across the table was Kaisiepo —
the Raad’s first deputy chairman and
so far undisputed leader of the Dutch
New Guineans —and Nicholas Jouwe.
Kaisiepo is a stern, intelligent man whose
politics are based on a strict morality he
enjoys as a minister of the Dutch
Reformed Church. Jouwe is something
else again. He is a ruthless tactician, a
spoilt man who smells power. He is
trusted neither by the Dutch nor by his
fellow-Papuans. He is able and flexible
and fond of grandiloquent phrases.
When I asked him about the feeling on
the Dutch side about a future union of
New Guinea he replied dramatically:
“New Guinea is one from Sorong in the
west to Samarai in the East.” This, one
felt, was all very well, but how could it
be brought about? “I don't know,” he
professed frankly. “All I can say is that
we feel this way. That the leading natives
on the other side feel this way . . .” He
nodded towards Somu Sigob, the tough
little ex-sergeant-major who is elected
member in Port Moresby for New
Guinea Coastal. Sigob nodded gravely
back. “We write to one another,” he
said daringly, “we have communications
and we discuss these things. But the
Australian Government is not keen. We
know that.”
He continued: “One island will have
to wait. Now it is a matter for educa-
tion and communications. We have so
much to do and . . ” (was he going to
say it? He was.) “ . . o little time.”
But one should not underestimate Jouwe
or the fact that he is pattern of what
is to come. He already acts like a
politician. He is charming, multilingual,
condescending and officially and tactically
often inaccessible. He approached the
Governor a fortnight ago foi a loan of
£BOOO to build a home commensurate
with his new status as Second Deputy
Chairman of the Raad The Governor
refused politely. But a week later he had
the money from the Chinese. I won-
dered with what encumbrance of interest,
but could not find out. Jouwe excused
himself politely from that interview and
left me with Wonsiwor, Kaisiepo and
other members of the Council.
Wonsiwor had the last word and Sigob
from Australian New Guinea listened
intently. “I do not trust Jouwe, for all
his ability,” he said, and Kaisiepo nodded
solemnly. “We had a business together,
but he wouldn’t work. He doe« not
understand management. What he wants
is power. He is very able and he sees
the things which must be done. But
there will be trouble between the Dutch
and him before we are through, and I
do not think we can afford that. Despite
what you hear and despite what they say
about the Dutch in the outside world
they are our friends, the only ones we
have. While the Dutch are here we can
go on building even if it is too quickly.
Without them we will be swallowed up.”
Suddenly he burst into his shrill laugh
for he is a man with a lively sense of
humor. Turning to me he said: “It’s a
hell of a problem, isn’t it? You'd rather
live in Australia, wouldn't you?” He
turned to the others and translated in
Malay, embellishing the remark and
improving it. In the far distance the
Governor’s cream yellow-stacked yacht
moved slowly across the glittering bay.
Who Said What
“We will not fight to the last Dutchman.” — Dr Bot,
Dutch Secretary for Home Affairs, 9/4/61.
“We cannot say for certain that there will not be
incidents. But we do not intend armed aggression.”—
General A. H. Nasution, 9/3/61.
“The time will come soon to exclude West New Guinea
from the composition of the Kingdom of the Netherlands.”
—Mr Khrushchev, 8/1/61.
“I can assure you we will not start a war to gain the
territory.” — Brigadier General Suadi, Indonesian Ambassa-
dor to Australia, 6/4/61.
“Shout merdeka (freedom) until the Dutch in West
Irian can hear you. Shout merdeka 17 times.” — Dr
Soekarno, 8/12/60.
“An armed conflict between Indonesia and Holland
cannot be ruled out.” — Dr Subandrio, 3/12/60.
“Australia and Malaya are in the same boat —this
quarrel is too close to us.”— Tunku Abdul Rahman,
2/12/60.
“Mr Menzies is not so important at this stage. He will
be later on.”— Tunku Abdul Rahman, 27/11/60.
“The Dutch Government is willing to subject its policy
in Dutch New Guinea to the scrutiny and judgment of the
United Nations.”— Professor Jan de Quay, Dutch Prime
Minister.
“The Netherlands Government does not give the
United Nations a blank cheque in this respect
(sovereignty)”.— Dr Luns, Dutch Foreign Minister.
“West Irian is ours! Ours! And mark my words we
will get it. Why doesn’t Australia understand this? —Dr
Soekarno, 30/10/60.
“If West New Guinea passed to Indonesia it would
be incorporated into their territory, and the native inhabit-
ants would lose, once and for all, any opportunity of deter-
mining their own future Let us wait until they are suffi-
ciently articulate to express their desire foi self-
determination, as one day they surely will be. — R. G. Casey
“Friends and Neighbors —Australia, the U.S. and the
World.”


Getting off the Hook
To stimulate discussion we have asked
Denis Warner to present a different view
from The Bulletin’s on the future of Dutch
New Guinea
In the view of most Australians the
least desirable solution to the West
New Guinea problem is that this
territory should pass into Indonesian
hands. It is better, almost all of us feel,
that the Dutch should remain until the
people have the capacity to govern them-
selves, and that thereafter the territory
should either become free and sovereign,
or perhaps form part of a greater inde-
pendent Melanesian federation.
Unfortunately, in the New Guinea
situation what we would prefer and what
is likely to happen are not the same
thing. If in 1949 we had had the fore-
sight to anticipate the winds of change
and had not complacently assumed that
both the Dutch and ourselves were com-
fortably settled in for a century or more,
we could have had some influence on
the future course of events in West New
Guinea. The Indonesians were friendly
and pliable at that time. There was a
chance, even, that they might have estab-
lished a working relationship with the
Dutch which would have been beneficial
to both. Peking and Moscow had not
yet succeeded in inflaming the under-
developed world against “imperialism
and colonialism.” And President Soe-
karno had not worked either himself or
his people into the emotional state in
which national integrity and pride are
directly linked with the campaign to
“liberate” West New Guinea
Since then Dutch and Indonesian rela-
tions have been entirely destroyed and
are never likely to be restored. The
major Communist Powers have seen in
West New Guinea the opportunity to
create major mischief, involving both
Seato and Nato Powers and the delicate
relationships between the West and the
under-developed world. The Indonesians
have developed both the military strength
and the emotional fervor to seize West
New Guinea, or at least to make a
sizeable amphibious landing stick. And
the addition of new African and Asian
members to the United Nations is fast
winning them sufficient support to ensure
the two-thirds majority vote they need
to bring the Dutch to the conference
table.
What, then, should Australia do? In
what way are our security and our best
interests likely to be assured? The Dutch
are moving heaven and earth to prepare
the people of West New Guinea for self-
government at the earliest possible date.
They have set what appears to be an
irreducible minimum of ten years on
the period this is likely to take. Few
people who know anything of New
Guinea will quarrel with the assumption
that ten years is an absolute minimum
unless we are to be faced with all the
tragic consequences of premature inde-
pendence that we have seen in the Congo.
Let us assume, first of all, that the
Dutch can hold off the Afro-Asian bloc
in the United Nations and miraculously
persuade Mr Kennedy that his wisest
course here is the preservation of the
status quo, that the Indonesians (though
goaded and armed by Moscow and
Peking) refrain from attacking, and that
in 1971 the independent, sovereign State
of West New Guinea is proclaimed.
Would this settle the problem once and
for all? Most decidedly not. This new
government would be immediately
branded as a Dutch “puppet” and no
significant Afro - Asian voice would be
raised in protest if the Indonesians
fomented a revolution to bring about
its downfall, or, with the Dutch con-
veniently out of the way, marched in.
r T'HE reality is, however, that the Dutch
are not likely to be able to stay —or
to be prepared to stay —for anything like
ten years. On the contrary, if in the
unlikely event that nothing shatters the
peace of the area before September of this
year, the probability is that the General
Assembly vote will then go against them.
The Dutch believe they have enough
men and equipment in New Guinea to
throw back an attack by a battalion or
so. In the event of a heavier assault
they would need assistance. And, since
we have strongly encouraged them to
stay in New Guinea, they would turn
naturally to us. If we failed to help,
we would be guilty of letting an ally
down. If we did become involved mili-
tarily, we would at best find ourselves
embroiled in a war at our back door
and with our nearest neighbor. No doubt
our air and sea forces could do some-
thing reasonably effective in a few days:
but it would take at least three months
to move a brigade into West New Guinea
and by this time we would be confronted
with the task of dislodging a well-
entrenched enemy.
We would, of course, be tossed out
of Malaya. Our Asian allies in Seato
would be enormously embarrassed. The
Communists and neutralists would stone
our embassies and boycott our trade.
All of this, no doubt, would be transient.
Time heals everything. But it would
clearly establish Australia’s “separate-
ness” and that would scarcely be cal-
culated to help either our relationships
with Asia or our capacity to influence
events there.
At the worst, Peking and Moscow
might seize the opportunity to send major
aid, perhaps even “volunteers” to help
Indonesia, and, by their mutual demon-
strations of support not only present
us with a war that would be beyond
our capablities to fight and designed to
complete the process of securing our
nearest neighbor as a partner in the
Communist bloc, but one in which
another wedge could be driven between
the peoples of the under-developed
countries of the world and the West in
general.
T et me add that I do not regard
• L ' this situation with equanimity.
Indonesia has the largest Commu-
nist party outside the Communist
bloc. It is turning more and more
to the Soviet Union for economic
and military aid: it has recently mended
its broken fences with Communist China;
and President Soekarno in his latest
speech attacking imperialism and
colonialism is right back in his old
party-line form.
If there is a chance that this drift
towards Communism can be halted—and
men like General Abdul Haris Nasution,
who is visiting Australia this week, still
stand in the Communists’ path—we and
other Western Powers will need to make
up the lost ground very quickly. We
cannot do it while Peking and Moscow
parade themselves as Indonesia’s true
friends and we seem to stand in the
path of what, to I Jonesians, seems to be
their legitimate national aspirations.
Whatever we do, we are likely to see
the Indonesians in West New Guinea.
Even if they move in with our
acquiescence we have no assurance that
they will not, and in the fairly near
future, come under Communist rule and
proceed rapidly with the subversion of
our New Guinea areas. A year ago we
might have got somewhere with the idea
of a united Melanesia or some sort of
trusteeship, while the peoples of New
Guinea made up their own minds.
Myopia, ignorance and the contemptuous
idea that we can spit in the winds of
change have led us to this pretty pass.
We can now either disengage—“get off
the hook,” as I suggested in a recent
Observer article—or persist to the bitter
end in a policy whose failure does not
seem apparent even now to the bumble-
puppies of all parties in Canberra.


Melbourne University Communists
at Work
r J“'HOSE who point to the influence of Communists in the Universities are
often attacked because they do not provide enough “evidence.” A
number of facts about the influence of Communists in Melbourne Uni-
versity have now come to the attention of “The Bulletin.” In this
article we give some of the facts of recent happenings in the Univer-
sity’s Social Studies Department.
The story begins in 1952. In that
year the Head of the Social Studies
Department—let us call her Miss
A was on leave, and in her
absence a well-known Communist, Mr
B, was employed as research assistant.
He came with a good testimonial from
the head of another Department who,
though not a Communist, had so many
Communists on his staff at that time
that the Department had a Communist
party branch of its own.
In 1953 he was appointed Lecturer.
Miss A, an able professional woman
with no interest in politics at that time,
seems to have been impressed by what
she thought was Mr B’s burning interest
in sociology “with a somewhat leftish
tinge.”
In 1955 he married a former tutor in
his original department and obtained
sabbatical leave for one year to go
abroad. He claimed that he was going
away to think hard and undisturbed
about his study on juvenile delinquency.
He and his wife then proceeded to
Prague. His wife spent the year there
working for a Soviet-controlled youth
organisation.
A few months after his departure Miss
A received a letter from Prague, in
which he informed her that for a number
of personal reasons he would be unable
to finish the research as promised and
that his conscience impelled him to ask
Miss A whether it would not be proper
for him to resign. Miss A responded
promptly and generously, asking Mr B
not to resign and expressing full con-
fidence in his integrity. He did not
resign.
In Prague
M\ B was also busy in other respects.
At about the same time events were
taking place in Australia of which Miss
A seems to have known nothing. The
Communist Government in Prague
°rganised a drive to pressure Czech
living in Australia into return-
mg to Czechoslovakia. People living
under Communist police terror were
torced to write letters imploring their
relatives to return and some Czechs in
Australia were visited by Communist
agents and threatened. The drive was
supported by a violent press and radio
campaign against Australia, and the
regime commissioned one of its scribes
to write a book which exposed Australia
as an inferno for the wage-earner (it
caused considerable hilarity on both sides
of the House when it was discussed in
the Federal Parliament in 1958).
A Czech in Western Australia re-
ceived one of those typical “letters
from relatives” which included a
cutting from the leading Pil s e n
newspaper “Plzenske Noviny.” The
cutting reported that our Mr B,
described in it as “lecturer in economics
from Melbourne University,” had visited
the Skoda machine and armament works
in Pilsen and addressed a group of young
workers about conditions in Australia.
He delivered his address in July, 1956,
at a time when Pilsen, like other indus-
trial centres behind the Iron Curtain,
was seething with workers’ discontent,
which was to break out a few weeks later
in open revolt.
Mr B, according to the paper, told
his audience that in comparison with
other capitalist countries Australia was
better off because of the good work of
the Communist party which, despite its
numerical weakness, directed work in the
trade unions in co-operation with the
Labor party. Until recently there was
no insurance against accidents and in
their old age workers still got so
little that many of them died of hunger.
Only very recently trade unions had
succeeded in enforcing workers’ compen-
sation. Free medical treatment did not
exist at all in Australia. Equipment in
factories was obsolete in comparison with
equipment in Czechoslovakia. It was
being renewed only as a result of pressure
from the workers. A worker could afford
a car only if he were to lay aside his
whole wages for two years. Comrade B
then promised that he would help set up
contacts with an Australian youth
organisation.
The Faction
Tn August, 1956, he and his wife re-
A turned to Australia via Siberia and
China. Miss A seems to have known
nothing of his Prague activities. Nor
did she know that by that time and
shortly after, Mr B had built a faction
of sympathisers consisting initially of
three other staff members and a person
in the Criminology Department (which
is, in many ways, closely linked with
Social Studies). This faction could always
act in a completely co-ordinated manner
and count on the support of pro-
Communist groups in the University.
In 1958 Miss A got married and was
planning to go on sabbatical leave for
a year. The question arose who would
be acting head of the Social Studies
Department in her absence. In March,
1958, a member of the University staff
received a letter from a formerly very
influential member of the University
Communist Party who resigned from the
party in 1957. The letter contained a
warning that Mr B and a few others were
to form a faction to strengthen the Com-
munist party’s position in the University
and this was ‘ not to the benefit of the
University.” The recipient of the letter
discussed its content with a few people
and eventually decided to show it to the
University administration. A few weeks
after this and a short time before Miss
A was about to embark on her leave,
Mr B went into action in the Social
Studies Department.
“The Case of Miss C”
TV/f iss C, an Englishwoman and a
personal friend of Miss A, was
attacked at an informal staff-meeting in
May. At the same time students emerged
out of the blue, lodging complaints
against Miss C’s teaching ability, though
Miss C has been known for years as an
excellent teacher and her classes were
among the best attended in the Depart-
ment.
At the informal staff-meeting Miss C
was denounced as “incompetent” and
“unpleasant.” Miss A’s protests were
ignored. At a subsequent formal staff-
meeting Miss A herself was attacked for
administrative arbitrariness. The demand
was made that she should cease to be
head of the department in the normal
sense and become a kind of secretary,
accepting the policy directives of the
staff.
Miss A perceived that something was
happening, but she did not yet know
what it was. She had never taken an
interest in the political activities and
beliefs of people who had hitherto
seemed pleasant colleagues. It is not quite
clear whether she reported the incident
to the administration before going on
leave. In any case shortly after this
incident Mr B was appointed Acting
Director of the Department.


Soon after Miss A left on her leave
overseas, he called a staff meeting at
which he demanded an undertaking that
nobody would communicate with Miss
A about departmental matters except
himself. Miss C refused to accept this
demand and although she was subjected
to ill-mannered attacks, she persisted in
her refusal. It was, therefore, with some
surprise that she read in the minutes
that the decision not to communicate
was passed unanimously. She protested
and was told that from now on majority
decisions would be recorded as unani-
mous. Miss C was not prepared to
ignore the meaning of words in common
usage, and insisted that unanimous
should mean unanimous. Another meet-
ing was called devoted exclusively to a
redefinition of the word “unanimous”
into “by majority.” One of Mi B’s first
moves was to try to cut off Miss A from
all information except his own.
Miss C still proved persistent. She also
committed other offences: she was a
member of a committee on leadership
training associated with the National
Council of Women, a politically conser-
vative body, and she attended a Vice-
Chancellor’s party despite Mr B’s rule
against it. Mr B then informed her that
“the staff” was not happy about her
affiliations and subjected her to a tough
and long interrogation in her room as he
sat across her desk. He dropped all pre-
tences of speaking on behalf of the “staff”
and demanded of Miss C that she should
discontinue to do things embarrassing to
“me.” She resigned from the politically
conservative committee on leadership,
giving ill health as her reason. She did
in fact become ill and apparently did
not bother Mr B any more.
The New Order
Having tried to establish that staff
meetings represented “unanimous”
views of the staff, binding on the head of
the Department, it only remained to gain
complete control over Departmental re-
search and to eliminate the power of
the Chairman of the Social Studies
Board. The former was done by passing
a directive that in f ture any research
undertaken by anyone in the depart-
ment which met with the disapproval
of “the staff” would be discontinued. In
other words the head of the Department
would be transformed into a legal mouth-
piece of an organisation controlled by
others. This decision was communicated
to Miss A.
To eliminate the powers of the Chair-
man, Mr B wrote a long, nagging letter
to Miss A in which he threatened to
resign, to force her to break off her
leave, and to cause an inquiry (“the
ultimate disaster for any department”)
if she did not accede to his request that
the Chairman’s power be reduced to a
formality. At this point Miss A was
thoroughly alarmed and she began to
realise for the first time what she was
faced with.
When Miss A returned she found her
department reorganised. Four “research
assistants” had been put on the staff by
Mr B and he claimed responsibility for
six “research” projects involving more
than £6OOO. He refused to discuss these
projects in detail and claimed that he
should run them himself.
Again, while Miss A was away the
department was moved to two houses out-
side the University grounds (the old house
was earmarked for demolition), and while
it is normal for departments to have their
own telephone exchange, Mr B had in-
stalled for himself a second telephone
exchange in addition to the departmental
one in one of the two houses. A rela-
tively small department thus had 18 tele-
phone lines, nine of which were in Mr
B’s control. He also got permission to
hire a junior secretary of his own choos-
ing to operate his nine-line switchboard.
Miss A, startled at this expenditure for
which she would be held accountable,
issued an order that the switchboard be
removed. That afternoon Mr B fronted
her outside the Women’s College and
demanded in a most menacing manner
that she cancel her order, adding that
if she did not “something horrible will
happen to you next Friday afternoon.’’
At this point Miss A was in constant
touch with the administration which
agreed that she should transfer depart-
mental documents to a safe place. It
also set up a good offices committee
consisting of several members of the
professorial board.
The expensive research projects which
Mr B had undertaken in Miss A’s absence
were departmental ones, for which Miss
A was accountable if anything went
wrong. One of these was commissioned
by a well-known Victorian centre which
looks after a certain class of handicapped
people. All that the superintendent of
that centre knew was that the acting
head of a respected University Depart-
ment would be supervising it. A public
institution undertook to provide £2OOO
for the research and a big public hospital
opened its gates and agreed to supply
Mr B and one research assistant with
records and patients. When Miss A
returned she found that the money had
been overspent and that Mr B was ask-
ing for more. He also admitted that the
report could not be delivered to those
who commissioned it on time. Since he
had hitherto failed to deliver any of his
research reports (including his own, on
delinquency, begun in 1952), the addi-
tional money was refused.
A New Kind of Research
Tt transpired that Mr B had brought into
the hospital interviewers other than
those whose entry was permitted by the
hospital authorities and that some patients
had been subjected to very strange
methods of interviewing. When the
hospital superintendent noticed this, he
turned Mr B and his team out, forbade
them to use in any way the data which
they had obtained, and informed the
University authorities. It was sub-
sequently discovered that Mr B’s
strangers included two members of the
Communist party, paid per interview.
It appears that Miss A was placed in
the position of having had to answer for
the actions of Mr B’s associates over
which she had no control. The final re-
search report was quite unrelated to what
those who commissioned it wanted to
know. It attempted to prove that the
class of people under investigation was
the victim of prejudice engendered by our
social system, and that they had to suffer
from inhuman employers and corrupt
public institutions. It is not quite clear
what happened next. Since the report
had to be submitted officially by the
university it appears that a number of
independent judges were asked to read it,
and they seemed to have realised its use-
lessness and in the end no report was
submitted to the people who had com-
missioned it and the losses (£2000) had
to be cut.
A short time after this fiasco Mr B
and his associates sent a long memoran-
dum to the Vice-Chancellor accusing Miss
A of incompetence and demanding an
investigation into the management of
the department. They also announced
that they had had no confidence in some
people on the good offices committee of
which it had previously approved. The
Vice-Chancellor then appointed a com-
mittee to advise him on the Social Studies
Department.
The total cost in public money of his
various research projects amounted to
about £6OOO. This does not include the
indirect cost of activities, such as wreck-
ing and paralysing other people’s work
and getting the university administration
to make numerous new appointments,
and the salaries paid to inexperienced
research assistants.
Who is to Blame?
Tt is quite clear that what is at issue is
not Mr B’s beliefs, not even his teach-
ing, but his all too familiar type of
organisational activities. And this type
of politics simply cannot and must not
be tolerated at a university, since it con-
stitutes a direct attack on academic free-
dom and integrity. Yet it is also quite
clear to people familiar with the case that
the main reason why the university
administration did not institute disciplin-
ary proceedings against the faction, why
they allowed them to bring a department
to the verge of dissolution, was the fact
that the delinquents included Com-
munists.
It would be unfair to describe the
attitude of the university administration
to all this as one of helplessness. It tried
to ease Miss A’s predicament, without
resorting to disciplinary measures, by
making a senior appointment in the
department which strengthened her posi-
tion. It is also interesting to speculate
what would have happened if Miss A
had not been a person of integrity and
strong character and if she had co-
operated with the faction. What would
have been the fate of Miss C for instance?
With the warning example of the Orr
and Ward cases before their eyes the
Melbourne administrators were, natur-
ally, not very keen to take steps which
would enable the Federal Staff Associa-
tion to hurl charges of “witch-hunting”
against them. The people to blame for
the situation at Melbourne University are
not its moderate and well-meaning
administrators but those among the
academics who help to consolidate a
dangerously unreal image of Communism.


If your plans feature the ‘low
look’ roofline . . . take a look at
ORB
LYSAGHT
STEEL SHEET ROOFING
la
Of.
«••••••••• ■
iy
.
ilr fc
ill
" * jppf 3
ill
i ...4*
BJ
jMff
Mi
Saw--
ni
i
: '-;f
::xg, ; v.:
V X..
***
j<*V- * S , V * *' &
When you are specifying a roofing material,
cold fact is the only criterion and today,
every known fact points to Lysaght Steel Sheet
as your logical choice.
Its durability is a byword. It is quickly and
easily erected. Maintenance costs are negligible
and today you have the choice of THREE
versatile sheets which harmonise perfectly with
the modern trend to low-pitched roof design . ..
******
■. ii*» *****
i
Just published . . . fascinating new guide to the
newest trends in the home design. Send for your
copy today! Fill in and post coupon below.
«*n »
John Lysaght (Australia) Limited,
P.O. Box 24, George Street North, N.S.W.
Please send me, without cost or obligation, the
new Lysaght Portfolio of Low Cost Home Plans.
i
• NAME -
3 TYPES
TO CHOOSE
FROM
CORRUGATED: Lysaght Red
Orb Sheet, made especially
rigid tor roo'ing purposes,
has almost endless applica-
tions in the building industry.
Available in all wanted widths
and lengths; also pre-painted
in aluminium where speedy
finishing is a factor.
FLAT: Essential for forming
guttering, downplpes, etc.;
also widely used for special
roofing purposes and effects.
*KLIP-LOK! New smartly
ribbed, heavily galvanized
Steel Sheet with self-locking
shoulders for flat and near
flat roofing, and wall cladding.
In cost-saving unbroken
lengths to 50 ft.
* Patent No. 222046
M/


The Next P.M.?
John McEwen’s strategy in the gamble for the next Prime
Ministership is based on his knowledge that he holds
weak cards.
By ALAN REID
If, as gossip in the political bazaars
has it, John (“Black Jack”) McEwen
is playing for the big prize of the
Prime Ministership, he is doing so
with calm, easy detachment.
Circumstances probably help to pro-
duce this attitude. There are too many
ifs and buts in such a complex game.
For a start, Mr Menzies, now 66, will have
to pull out of the Prime Ministership
within the next five years, otherwise age
-—McEwen is now 61 —will probably put
the Prime Ministership permanently
beyond McEwen’s reach. The Liberal-
Country party coalition has to win the
next Federal elections or the Prime
Ministership will pass into Labor custody.
But these are comparatively minor
factors. As McEwen is well aware,
Menzies could easily pull out in the next
five years, by which time the man who
has already been Prime Minister for a
record-breaking term will be over 70.
McEwen also knows that the Liberal-
Country party coalition has good pros-
pects of retaining the Treasury benches
at the next Federal elections. The coali-
tion has the largest majority in the
House of Representatives held by any
Government in Commonwealth history.
It would require a big political landslide
to send the Government crashing—and
there is as yet no sign of one developing.
But there are a dozen other factors
that could put McEwen out of the Prime
Ministerial picture. McEwen knows this
—and because he has obviously thought
this particular problem through, two
things emerge fairly clearly :
(1) He is prepared to accept philo-
sophically that he holds some very weak
cards in a bid for the Prime Minister-
ship and that these cards are unlikely to
improve.
(2) His strategy (probably based on
his awareness that 1 e holds weak cards)
appears to be to gamble on his own
merits rather than an offensive against
and an undermining of rivals.
That he can be both philosophical
about his difficulties and hold urbanely
to such a seemingly unenterprising
strategy is a measure of the capacity that
the years have given him to discipline
his earlier aggressive ambition. This
devouring ambition—combined with a
strong opportunism probably helped
turn him from a penniless boy into a rich
and powerful man, but it undoubtedly
impaired his political judgment at crucial
moments in the past and made him a
less able political tradesman then than
he is today.
McEwen’s weakest card in a bid for
the Prime Ministership is that he is
Country party. Although he is the
Country party’s Federal Parliamentary
leader (which makes him Deputy Prime
Minister), the Country party is the junior
partner in the Government. The Liberals
have 57 members in the House of Repre-
sentatives ; the Country party only 20.
Normally this would put McEwen out
of the picture. If Menzies retired, the
Liberals would elect a new leader of their
own who would automatically succeed
Menzies.
But things are not quite normal. The
Liberal-Country party coalition has been
in power a long time —nearly 11 years.
As well as giving individuals a chance
to show their strengths, a lengthy period
like that can also show up unexpected
weaknesses.
Take Treasurer Harold Holt, the
Liberal party’s deputy leader. Apart
from his extensive personal claims
through experience, political shrewdness
and the like for consideration as a future
Prime Minister, his post entitles him to
be considered as Menzies’s heir-apparent.
But a powerful section of the Liberal
party has for years had curiously per-
sistent reservations about his suitability
for the top post. Senator William
Spooner (N.S.W.) came within an ace of
beating him for the deputy leadership
when Sir Eric Harrison resigned that job
to become Australian High Commis-
sioner in London. For a Senator, how-
ever influential, to get so close to toppling
a recognised party leader for such a posi-
tion (which traditionally belongs in the
House of Representatives) was remark-
able ; and the vote must have reflected
feeling against Holt as much as regard
for Spooner.
This Liberal-party group has always
been a potential threat to Holt's Prime
Ministerial prospects, and recent events
in the economic and financial field have
undoubtedly strengthened this section’s
anti-Holt feelings, and possibly even
added to its numbers.
Twice on major economic issues
recently—on the abolition of import
controls and on the credit squeeze—
McEwen for Trade and Holt for the
Treasury have differed in Cabinet. On
both occasions Holt carried the day, but
in the long run the victory was McEwen’s.
Oometimes a politician does better if
someone else’s standing goes down
than he does if his own standing goes up.
That could be what has happened in
McEwen’s case. But over recent weeks
the increasing inclination by Liberals to
excuse the fact that McEwen is Country
party has been very noticeable. “Jack
might be Country party, but he under-
stands the importance of secondary
industry,” they assure you earnestly.
“You can't describe Jack these days as
sectional in his outlook.”
This kind of public image of himself
undoubtedly suits McEwen. It provides
him with his one real chance to make
the Prime Ministership.
And in some ways the public image
is not far nowadays from the actual
image. McEwen has come a long way
since he entered Parliament in 1934, a
rawboned young countryman with a
mind as narrow as a bridle-track, bel-
ligerent, ambitious, opportunist, and
firmly convinced that people on the land
could only do well if city folks were
doing badly (a view still held by many
of the older primary-producers of
McEwen's vintage).
His growth in stature over the years
makes a fascinating study. He is a man
who can be said to have been educated
by Parliament. His formal education
ended when he was 13. And in his early
days in Parliament he belonged to the
pure “cow-cocky” type of politician—the
type that has no interest outside wool,
wheat or butter and is not even concerned
with the national significance of these
industries but exclusively with price.
Over six feet, still as black-haired as
an Indian, a non-smoker and modest
drinker who looks younger than his age,
McEwen has developed polish and con-
siderable urbanity. But you can still
sense the inner toughness.
His formal biography suggests a boy-
hood that was far from easy. Born in
Chilton (Victoria), he was orphaned
early, his mother dying when he was a
baby and his father, a Wangaratta
chemist, when he was seven. He was
cared for by his maternal grandmother,
left school at 13, and became a messenger
boy until he found his way through night |
school into the Crown Solicitor’s Office j
in Melbourne at 15 years of age.
By this time, World War I was on.
McEwen enlisted when he was 18, but ’
the Armistice ended his brief career as
a soldier and he never left Australia.
Demobilisation found him restless and
determined never again to work for a!
boss. He applied for a block of land j
under the Soldiers’ Settlement Scheme.;


He got a dairying block of 80 acres at
Stanhope. The legend is that his capital
consisted of a horse, gig and 50s. in cash.
While many of his fellow soldier
settlers went broke, McEwen shifted
shrewdly from dairying to sheep, experi-
mented with grasses and kept going while
others went bankrupt. He now has 3000
acres so lush that at times the property
has carried 20 sheep to the acre. He
went in for seed production, importing
the original seed from the United States.
The McEwen farm is now recognised
as one of the most specialised irrigation
areas in the Goulburn River Valley.
He got his first taste of politics early
by becoming spokesman for the soldier
settlers of the area. He was only 21
when he helped organise and led a
deputation which served notice on the
owners of the local cheese factory that
unless the factory was sold to neighbor-
ing farmers the farmers would cease
supplying it.
The result was a triumph for the direct
action that McEwen was to decry in
later years when the direct actionists
were urban strikers. The ultimatum was
successful embarrassingly so. The
owners agreed to sell. But neither
McEwen nor his soldier-settler associates
had the price. When the money was
finally raised, McEwen with a £25 invest-
ment became the largest shareholder and
the chairman of directors.
Ouch activities inevitably led McEwen
into the ranks of the Victorian
Country Party. This was a very peculiar
party. In some ways close to the Labor
party, it was hostile to the Federal
Country Party. It had overtones of
Douglas Credit. It advocated monetary
reform. In some ways it was completely
opportunist.
McEwen was 34 when he was elected
to the Federal Parliament. It was later
claimed that he was supported by the
Victorian Country Party for the seat on
the understanding that he would not join
the Federal Country Party. But within
a very short time he was in the Federal
Country-party room. He wanted to be
a Minister —the Lyons Government was
in power—and he knew he could not
be one if he remained outside.
Everyone sneered. A few people men-
tioned “transparent opportunism.”
McEwen could not have cared less. He had
an objective—and he achieved it. Three
years later he was in the Lyons Ministry.
The powers that were —the suspicion
is that one was Sir Earle Page, then
leader of the Federal Country Party, who
could smell a potential rival—tried to
fob him off with an honorary Minister-
ship. McEwen was not (and is not) the
type to be fobbed off. He insisted
doggedly upon a portfolio and got it,
administering the Interior Department.
The Victorian Country Party promptly
expelled McEwen from its ranks.
McEwen at once set out to show that
not only did he not fob off easily but
he did not expel easily. He formed his
own Victorian Country Party, affiliated
with the Federal Country Party. About
one-third of the older group joined him,
a nd, having thus safeguarded himself in
his seat, he proceeded to justify Sir Earle
Page’s fears. He set out to take ove-
Page’s job as leader of the Federal
Country Party.
In Page he met a foe of equal, if not
superior, calibre. It was circumstance
rather than McEwen that cost Page the
Country-party leadership in 1940. Page
had attacked Menzies so bitterly after
Menzies had succeeded to the Prime
Ministership on Joe Lyons’s death in
1939 that when war came and pressure
developed for a Liberal- (then U.A.P.)
Country party Government Menzies
would not agree to the Country party
joining up if he had to swallow Page
as a Minister. The Country party wanted
in, so Page had to go.
But in going Page made sure that he
kept McEwen out. With Page’s support,
the late Archie Cameron defeated
McEwen for Country-party leadership by
one vote. Because of Page's action both
then and later, when Artie Fadden
succeeded Archie Cameron as Country-
party leader, McEwen had to wait 18
years before he stepped into the job that
had once been Page s.
The period in Interior McEwen re-
vived assisted passages tor British
migrants and administered the inflow of
the refugees from Hitler’s Germany—
was formative. McEwen acquired in a
more rudimentary form some of the
administrative techniques that were later
to become almost his trade sign.
He decided to limit himself to policy
decisions. Once these decisions were made
he would restrict his interference in pure
administration, which he would leave to
the professionals (the public service), to
(1) checks to ensure that the adminis-
trators were strictly to his policy, and
(2) a watchdog role to see that his policies
were being administered efficiently.
This approach has its weaknesses. It
throws the responsibility for administra-
tion as distinct from policy back on the
department’s permanent head, where it
rightly belongs. It could be disastrous
if the permanent head were either weak
or inefficient. But McEwen has either
been lucky or shrewd in those he selected,
His last permanent head in Trade, Sir
John Crawford (now at the Australian
National University), was probably the
most brilliant public servant Australia has
produced in recent years. His present
permanent head, Dr Alan Westerman, is
shrewd, earthy, energetic and able,
But the approach also has its strengths,
One of them has shown up strongly in
Trade. While Trade was administering
import controls—a very hot potato, as
the right decision could mean a fortune
for one man, while the wrong decision
could mean financial ruin or hardship
for another—McEwen refused to see
lobbyists, even lobbyists representing
some of the most powerful interests in
Australia. His view was that the officers
made the administrative decisions,
These Ministerial attitudes freed the
administration of import controls from
much of the atmosphere of “pressure”
that existed before. They had also an
important secondary effect. While
Treasury, remote in Canberra, has to
form j ts judgments insulated from in-
dustry and commerce, the senior echelon
G f the Trade Department were in the
marketplace almost daily, compelled by
the McEwen policy to listen to the end-
[ess gripes of manufacturers, importers,
employees and union representatives
about their difficulties because of imports,
restricted credit, labor shortages, tariff
shortcomings and investment problems.
This seems to have helped McEwen, in-
experienced outside the primary industry
field until quite recently, to keep his feet
closer to the ground than some of his
JOHN CRAWFORD AND JOHN McEWEN
Shrewd in his selections


Ministerial colleagues with wider personal
contacts with commerce and industry.
TJut these things were still far in the
future for the McEwen of the early
19405. It was then that he got his chance
in an arena in which he had, unexpectedly,
had a secret yearning to participate. He
became briefly Minister for External
Affairs.
Though his term was brief, lasting only
a few months, it produced the action of
which he is—again unexpectedly—most
proud. He believes that he changed the
whole course of the Pacific war.
He saw France overrun and the Vichy
French start negotiating with Japan on
the question of Japanese bases in French
Indo-China. He believed that Japan was
also moving to get bases in New
Caledonia. If that happened Japan would
be across the lifeline between Australia
and the U.S. —fatal if war with Japan
ever came. He saw Menzies and per-
suaded him to urge British Prime Minister
Churchill into getting the Free French
forces of General de Gaulle, then head-
quartered in London, into organising a
rebellion that would put New Caledonia
under Free French control.
The rebellion was prepared. McEwen
(a not inappropriate choice in view of
the success of some of his own rebellions)
organised the Australian end. H.M.A.S.
Adelaide sailed into Noumea on the day
the Free French element of the island
took over its administration, and New
Caledonia thereafter was safe for the
allied cause and became a base from
which the U.S. launched its early offen-
sives in the Pacific.
But McEwen was not long in Govern-
ment after this. He was not particularly
prominent in the intrigues that led to the
overthrow of Menzies as Prime Minister,
the subsequent downfall of the short-
lived Fadden Government. But it was
impossible for a man of his temperament
to stay completely aloof. He contributed
his quota to the involved manoeuvres and
back-stabbing that then went on.
Opposition was a testing time for
McEwen. Though he had never grown
a bushel of wheat in his life he became
the Country party’s main spokesman on
wheat. He made his mistakes. He
opposed the Labor Government's wheat-
stabilisation scheme, only to see the
wheatgrowers vote solidly for it. But he
stuck firmly to his self-appointed task.
He believed that whoever held the wheat
seats ruled Australia, and he set out to
win these seats over to a non-Labor vote.
Today Labor does not hold one of these
once important constituencies.
Time kept broadening him. Originally,
almost peasant-like in his suspicion of
those outside his own narrow little circle,
and never conceding altruism or honesty
to a political opponent, he gradually lost
these attributes, though he continued to
fight viciously and with malice all
enemies, real or imagined.
A heavy speaker who never lets one
word suffice where he can use half a
dozen, his speeches nevertheless are effec-
tive mainly because of the way he
marshals his arguments.
VS/hen the wheel turned and the Liberal-
’ * Country party coalition returned to
power in 1949, McEwen was deputy to
Arthur Fadden as leader of the Country
party He was a rival against Percy
Spender for the External Affairs portfolio
in the first Menzies Cabinet after 1949.
He missed out, but became Minister for
Commerce and Agriculture, and fifth in
the order of Cabinet seniority.
The first balance-of-payment crisis in
the early 1950 s enabled him to branch
out. Export restrictions were introduced.
They were then administered by Customs.
Customs is a routine rather than a policy
department. Things got into a bit of a
mess. In 1956 Menzies decided to form
a Department of Trade which would
handle problems of industry and com-
merce and import controls. He put
McEwen in charge. A new empire was
born.
At first there were grumbles and
derision. McEwen was Country party —
capable, but a hick who had specialised
in primary production all his life. How
could he be expected to handle the much
more complex and varied problems
associated with industry and manufac-
ture?
McEwen not only handled them ; he
got a competent grasp on them. His
administrative techniques remained the
same but they were refined and more
positive. On policy he went to infinite
pains to clear his mind and to examine
all viewpoints before he made his deci-
sions. But again he left the day-to-day
administration to his bureaucrats. And
he had good bureaucrats. Trade started
to rival Trearury as an economic influ-
ence.
Treasury’s win, on the question of
whether import controls should be aban-
doned immediately or slackened gradu-
ally, cut Trade back a bit in prestige.
Crawford, McEwen’s permanent head,
whom he trusted and leaned upon heavily,
decided to quit the public service for the
academic life for which he had always
had yearnings and departed for the Aus-
tralian National University.
But as the veterans of 1949 kept on
leaving—Harrison for London, Spender
first for Washington and later for the
International Court, Casey for the House
of Lords, Fadden for private life, and
Page for the back benches McEwen
kept on, until today he, Menzies and Holt
represent the only survivors from the
1949 Cabinet.
This triumvirate produces some odd
effects. Holt and McEwen are not in-
frequently on different sides of the fence
in Cabinet, with Menzies the final arbiter.
Menzies, I am told, does not like to revise
a viewpoint in McEwen’s presence, while
Holt almost invariably supports the Prime
Minister. The outcome is that McEwen
finds both ranged against him.
The McEwen of a few years ago would
be intriguing to alter this position. The
McEwen of today is more patient and
more inclined to accept the inevitability
of some things. He appears to view the
position philosophically and with calm.
But that is not to say that he does
not keep a cold, keen eye open for
his own advantage. He saw Curtin’s
illness while Curtin's deputy, Frank
Forde, and Dr. Evatt (then Labor’s Ex-
ternal Affairs Minister) were abroad give
Chifley the opportunity to impress his
personality as Labor’s temporary Parlia-
mentary leader upon the House of
Representatives and thereby succeed
Curtin as Prime Minister. As Deputy
Prime Minister, McEwen has stood four
times, while Menzies has been abroad,
at the seat at the centre table in the House
of Representatives and each time he has
obviously been trying to do a Chifley
with a fair measure of success.
TTolt must know what McEwen is doing.
You can see him watching McEwen
thoughtfully, and he never lets him get
far ahead. If McEwen has something to
say on a major subject, you find that
it is not long before Holt is also on his
feet, putting in his bit.
And McEwen maintains very friendly
relations with the Liberal backbenchers.
Even in the small things he looks after
them. Labor members complain that
McEwen is the worst Minister to deal
with—that he lets letters go unanswered
and ignores their complaints and repre-
sentations. But you do not hear the
Liberals making such complaints. And
unless the unexpected happens and they
go into Opposition their votes will one
day decide who shall be the next Prime
Minister.
Some of them have actually approached
McEwen and suggested that he should
switch from the Country party to the
Liberals. Some in the Liberal machine
have made the same suggestion.
But McEwen is not the type who sacri-
fices a bird in the hand. He is leader
of the Country party. That makes him
an important figure. If he switched he
might one day become an even more
important figure—but “might” is the
operative word.
And he is not denigrating Holt. If
Holt is criticised he defends him, insisting
that he has done a good job in most
difficult circumstances. By building up
the performance of his most fordidable
rival he makes his own performance, to
those who consider it superior to Holts’,
even more meritorious.
.It is a very interesting and highly
civilised contest.


REUNION
‘‘Steward! There’s a D.F.C. in my soup!”
“ —After ‘Jerry’ moved to there —/ ordered ‘A’
company over to here—then l etc. . .”
7 warn yon 10 meet an old male of mine, dear
—we flew together in the war.”
'7 married a naval officer — he’s now on
the ‘Melbourne.’ ”


PERSONAL
Suits for the Millions
Asa young man, he watched the never-
ending lines of black - faced men
clattering through the narrow, gas - lit
streets of the Yorkshire mining towns,
eyes staring redly from coal-grimed faces,
clogs clattering on the cobbles. 1
Underground for anything up to 12
hours a day, six days a week, they had
only Sunday, perhaps, to get out of the
towns onto the wet, grey moors —just
one day to exchange the caked black
weekday work-clothes for something re-
sembling the attire of ordinary men.
But who could afford it? Henry
Price, watching the miners, ready to
learn to use a tailor’s needle, thinking
of the woollens he could buy in quantity,
decided to offer something a man could
feel like a man in, and still afford —a
suit for 50 shillings.
That was half a century ago. The
Fifty Shillings Tailors became the biggest
success ever in the British men’s-wear
industry, spreading through the industrial
cities during the ’twenties, flourishing in
the depression, and surviving today, with
the cheapest suit still not much more
than 150 shillings.
The young man who made the first
50-shilling suit went aboard the liner
Arcadia in Sydney last week, after a
month’s holiday in Australia. Only now'
Sir Henry Price is 84
“Of course I can remember what it
was like,” he said briskly, before he left.
“But I don’t really give interviews now,
you know. In any case, my chief interest
now is flowers. I’m out of suits these
days.”
Sir Henry has already sent 20 camellia
plants back to his garden in Sussex, and
is taking with him a few hibiscus. While
in Sydney he was shown some of the
sights by Paul Jones, the flower painter.
“I’ve seen the aborigines throwing
boomerangs at La Perouse ; I was in the
ring at the Show with the wood-chop-
ping ; I’ve picked up a koala, and I’ve
spent day after day sitting on the beach
at Manly, just looking out to sea.”
More than anything, he was amused by
driving along the Wakehurst Parkway to
Palm Beach. “When Wakehurst came
out here to be Governor, I bought his
place in Sussex Wakehurst Place.
1 hey’ve just had some kind of Gallup
Poll, and everybody says it has the best
garden in England. So that’s pretty
good, eh?”
And so, his pink-and-white face beam-
ing cheerfully under his white hair, Sir
Henry Price, founder of the Royal Insti-
tute of International Affairs, massive
benefactor of the World Refugee
Organisation, the man who made the
miners of West Riding feel at least part
human, set sail for home and a well-
earned potter among his camellias.
• •
Bridge-Builder
hen King’s Bridge, the new span
* * across Melbourne's Yarra, opened
last week the man who nursed it through
to completion, resident engineer Travers
(“Sam”) Butler, was absent. He has
only one lung, and when a man born
in 1894 has one lung, a wife, three
daughters and a cold, he has no chance
whatever of getting out of bed to join
festivities.
Sam Butler is one of the oldest boys
of Hobart’s Hutchins’ School. He served
with the Garrison Engineers in Tasmania,
enlisted in 1914, was transferred to the
12th Battalion, and was in France when
he heard the news that he had been
chosen as a Rhodes Scholar. A B.A.
(Eng.) of Oxford and a B.Sc. of Tas-
manian University, he has been working
at successively more important engineer-
"He'll be out in a minute , he's just finished feeding his birds!"
ing projects for the Country Roads Board
for most of his life.
Though the King’s Bridge job post-
poned his retirement from the Country
Roads Board, it also gave him a fore-
taste of it —while the job was in progress
he had a very comfortable couch in the
engineers’ shed.
• •
Unorthodox Musician
Tames Barton, of London, is not quite
** as grotesque a case as the Tivoli
entertainer who, some years ago, declared
that left-handedness was so irrevocably
part of his nature that he could only
play the piano by lying flat across the
big lid and letting his arms dangle down
to the keyboard from there, with the
facile left-hand so placed as to attend
to the treble and the clumsy right hand
spread for light duty on the bass. But
Mr Barton is, nevertheless, something
of a musical oddity, a performer of a
kind who has perhaps never been seen
in Australia before —a violinist who bows
with his left hand and lingers with his
right.
Possibly many a youngster feels dis-
posed to begin on the violin in this
unorthodox way, but the tendency is
usually bounced right out of them at
the very first lesson and most of them
readily accept that what’s good enough
for Heifetz, Oistrakh and Stern is good
enough for them.
Mr Barton didn't have any such
bouncing to put him “right”: he was
a self-taught violinist for his first two
years, and by the time (aged 13) he came
seeking high-level teachers his instructors
found his method much too firmly im-
planted and developed to be disrupted
for the sake of mere orthodoxy. And
so it is that Mr Barton, who is second
violinist in the Allegri Quartet, now tour-
ing Australia, remains a southpaw to
this day.
Proficient on the piano (which he does
not play in the manner of the afore-
mentioned Tivoli artist) and on the
French-horn, Mr Barton, now 32, forti-
fies his spirit for music with an extra-
ordinary amount of outdoor activity. He
swims by the mile, he walks by the league,
and he motor-cycles by the light-year.
• •
Into the Silence:—
In Sydney, Claude Bruce Douglas, Gallipoli
veteran and winner of the M.M. in France.
He was a son of the late Sir Adye Douglas,
Tasmanian politician.
In Sydney, at 80, Harold Deykin Goode, the
last Mayor of Goolwa (S.A.), where he ran a
general store, before Goolwa was absorbed into
the Port Elliot District Council. He was an
authority on Murray River history.
In Brisbane, at 53, Cyril M. Goy, member
of Queensland’s Public Service since 1923.
In Brisbane, at 75, E. W. Davis, Labor
member for Barcoo in the Queensland Parlia-
ment for 18 years. He had a long association
with the A.W.U., for which he was appointed
an organiser in 1928.
In Brisbane, at 53, Lloyd Scurfield Roberts,
Queensland Minister of Public Works and Local
Government. Born in Toowoomba, Roberts
lived most of his life in Mackay, working for
an insurance company and as an estate-agent-
He served with the A.I.F. for six years in
War 11, part of which he spent as a p.o.w.
He entered Parliament in 1950 after defeating
Australia's only Communist member, Fred
Paterson.


This Australia
The Cockatoo Falls Silent
The flocks of screaming cockatoos that
presumably gave the island its name
(if, in fact, ever lived there) have
long since gone. And now, soon, the
clang of steel that drove them away may
also be silenced. Cockatoo has launched
its last warship. The largest island in
Sydney Harbor, Cockatoo lies in mid-
stream in the Parramatta River, opposite
Hunter’s Hill. Its shores are edged with
creaking wharves, its flanks gouged into
leaking dry-docks, its flat areas covered
with huge sheds and machine shops.
To the unusual number of visitors
who landed on Cockatoo on Saturday,
April 8, the only notable sign of the
present was the new anti-submarine
frigate Parramatta, nearing the end of
her fitting-out at the eastern end of the
island. As the people landed, they wended
their way through the deserted buildings,
past the great open workshops, with
their massive mangles for shaping hull-
plates.
Turning a corner, they saw, rising
straight and slim, the knife-like bows of
a graceful grey ship, trembling on the
greased and sloping ways, while all about
her men fussed and poked, checking her
keel suspiciously to see that she did not
take it into her head to go for a dip
without permission.
This was H.M.A.S. Stuart, an anti-
submarine frigate, bearer of a famous
name. (The first Stuart, built in Britain
during World War I, and transferred
to the R.A.N. in 1933, became the leader
of the “Scrap-Iron Flotilla,” the group
of over-age destroyers which, among
other remarkable wartime achievements,
kept supplies flowing into Tobruk during
the siege.)
As the spectators —mainly dockyard
workers and their families, bright in
weekend clothes —gathered on the hill-
side, climbing to vantage points over-
looking the slipways, the naval band in
its little sheep-pen in the shadow of the
Stuart began to play rousing music. Out
on the Parramatta River three tugs nosed
into station across the current, ready to
shepherd Stuart when she splashed into
the river. A racing eight, stroking easily
downstream, rested on their oars to
watch.
Then the official party arrived at the
ways. They had come up from the city
on the ferry South Steyne and the
Admiral’s barge. There were two or
three hundred of them —many of the
men in white naval uniforms, most of
the women in garden-party dresses. As
they filed into the decorated enclosure
under the bows of the Stuart, a little
group of men watched from a small
enclosure, off to one side. These were
the veterans of the “Scrap-Iron Flotilla.”
Forward stepped the wife of Senator
Gorton, Minister for the Navy.
Deliberately she named the ship, and
with scissors snipped the ribbon holding
back the bottle of champagne. As the
band struck up “Rule, Brittania,” and
the tugs hooted and thumped the water
reassuringly with their screws, the Stuart
slid smoothly and almost silently into
the water.
The watching people began to stream
away, back between the silent buildings.
For many of them the future was uncer-
tain. After nearly half a century of
ship-building, the slipways that the
Stuart had vacated had no naval orders
in sight.
Back on the South Steyne, tables had
been laid between decks, and the official
guests sat down to champagne and
buttered scones, while the wake for
Cockatoo began. Mrs Gorton was
praised for her skill in launching the
Stuart so successfully, and she replied
at length. Then the Chief of Naval
Staff, Vice-Admiral Sir Harold Burrell,
reminisced fondly about some of the
33 naval ships that had come from
Cockatoo.
The Cockatoo directors lamented the
loss of work for their dockyard. The
next hundred bottles of champagne were
opened (on Cockatoo, surely?—it can
hardly have been on the taxpayers), and
the Navy brass drank sympathetically,
but offered no salvation. They knew,
as the Cockatoo men knew —in fact,
every one there knew that Cockatoo
has no place in the building of an atomic-
age Navy. Now it is nuclear submarines,
which are too expensive for Australia
anyhow, and fast submarine hunters,
which can be built more cheaply overseas.
The Cockatoo directors, above all,
must have known the score: they are,
in fact, only in charge of an outpost of
a world-wide British group, Vickers
Armstrong, which, as part of Britain’s
naval strategy of securing its position in
the Far East, took over Cockatoo in
1938, when its order-books were empty.
To a significant degree, Australia’s
naval policy still depends upon Britain’s.
And Britain is now much less interested
in naval construction and repair yards
in the Pacific. As for commercial ship-
building, Cockatoo’s very tradition of
precise and perfect naval work may prove
an insuperable handicap in this fiercely
competitive field.
What Price Labor’s Peace?
'T'he Left wing did not do well at last
week’s meeting of the A.L.P.’s bi-
ennial conference, which is Labor's
supreme policy-making body—but it did
better than its Right-wing opposition.
Hopelessly outnumbered the Left wing
nevertheless came out of the conference
with its forces intact and practically un-
scathed.
The only Leftist to emerge with skin
missing was pro-unity-ticket A.L.P.
Federal secretary Mr F. E. (“Joe") Cham-
berlain, who on Sunday night on TV
asked innocently: “What is a unity-
ticket?” (A truly remarkable query
from a man who, as senior A.L.P. execu-
tive officer, is responsible for administer-
ing Federal A.L.P. policy, which expressly
bans unity tickets and sets out precisely
what the party considered unity tickets
to be.) But it was only skin that Cham-
berlain lost. His wounds were superficial,
not serious.
Chamberlain set out to run the con-
ference as though he were still Federal
A.L.P president. Even his Leftist friends
did not like that. He had monopolised
the field as the Left wing’s leader for
years. Was it not time they got a
guernsey? So they joined the Right wing
in tearing verbal strips off Chamberlain.
Conference gossip was that Jack Duggan,
anti-unity ticket and Labor’s Parliament-
ary leader in Queensland, tore off the
largest strip. He is credited with having
told Chamberlain in open conference to
“grow up” and to have made several
remarks that were reminiscent of those
made some time ago by Labor’s Par-
liamentary leader in Western Australia,
Mr A. G. Hawke, about Mr Chamber-
lain’s dictatorial leanings.
But this was all good clean fun in which
both Right and Left wings could indulge,
and it helped disguise the fact that con-
ference was avoiding the basic issue—
unity tickets. The Left wing did not
want them discussed for one very good
reason —of the 36 delegates (six from
each State) probably at least 24 or more
were opposed to unity tickets. If the
Left wing had had a majority it would
have had unity tickets legalised, thereby
possibly destroying Labor electorally but
virtually making a present of an even
larger slice than it has at present of the
trade-union movement to the Communist
party.
The Right wing did not want unity
tickets discussed for another reason: its
leadership was weak and “did not want
trouble.” Main pressure to refrain from
grasping the nettle which Dr Evatt said
“must be grasped or the A.L.P. destroyed”
came from Parliament House (the confer-
ence sat at the Kingston Hotel, a couple
of miles distant). Labor leader Arthur
Calwell did not want the nettle grasped
Nor did one of his senior advisers, Senate
Opposition leader Nick McKenna. Cal-
well, a Victorian, was undoubtedly scared
of further trouble if any move was made
to enforce the A.L.P. ban on unity tickets
in his home State., which has been con-
doning them with almost insulting open-
ness. Trouble in Victoria, he argued,


would lessen Labor’s already slender
chances at the Federal elections due at
the end of this year or early next year.
Other Labor personalities disagreed
with this assessment. Their view was
that if unity tickets-now the symbol of
A.L.P. collaboration with the Communist
party-continued, Labor has not a hope
oC winning the next elections. But if con-
ference pissed a resolution instructing
the A L P. Federal Executive (Labors
governing body between biennial confer-
ences) to enforce A.L.P. policy on unity
tickets, Labor might have a hope. Their
view was that Victoria—and Chamber-
lain—would not fight but fold up. Vic-
toria was an executive without a rank
and file. [This analysis seems strongly
supported by the investigations of an
organising committee consisting of the
deputy Opposition leader in the Senate,
Senator Kennelly, Senator Felix Dittmer,
and Senator James Ormonde, which found
that the Victorian A.L.P. branch member-
ship had dwindled almost to vanishing
point.] Chamberlain’s strength came
from his association with the Victorian
section, which maintained its ascendency
over the rest of the movement by bluff
and with the threat “either leave us alone
and free to defy official Labor policy or
we 11 provoke a fresh split in Victoria by
fo ™ n S an industrial Labor party. Firm
actlon . now - this group forecast and the
ru nnng sore (as Evatt also described
tlck f s >. would be ‘leaned up by
the lime elections came round. I might
cost ‘ he Communis party control °f
several unions. But why should that
worry Labor.
The “peace-at-any-price” school carried
the day. The N.S.W. A.L.P. president, Mr
C. T. Oliver—probably the most bitter
opponent of unity tickets at the confer-
ence (he is N.S.W. secretary of the Aus-
tralian Workers’ Union, which was re-
cently rebuked by Mr J. Egerton, a power-
ful member of the Queensland A.L.P.’s
inner executive, for having the gall to
ask the A.L.P. to enforce its official policy
on unity tickets)—was persuaded into
inaction. Though he and the anti-unity-
ticket group had the numbers—over-
whelmingly— at the conference to en-
force compliance with what Labor pro-
fesses as its official policy on this issue,
they were asked to defer action “until
the numbers are better.”
The Left wing was understandably
jubilant. In circumstances where they
could have expected to be annihilated
they had survived to fight another day.
As for failure to deal with unity tickets
costing Labor the next elections, they
couldn’t care less. Their fight is in the
A.L.P. machine. They do not mind how
long they have to wait to get a Labor
Government into office. (Chamberlain's
“principle before seats” is just another
way of saying this). And when the next
Labor Government takes office they want
to control it completely.
(From Alan Reid in Canberra)
Memorial To “Banjo”
iy/TR T. W. Mitchell, M.L.A. for
Benambra in the Victorian Par-
liament, has suggested that what
he calls a “suitable memorial”
should be erected to poet A. B.
(“Banjo”) Paterson. Mitchell, who
is the husband of writer Elyne
Mitchell and whose electorate and
sheep station are on the southern
slopes of the Snowy Mountains, dis-
covered recently that the ashes of
Paterson were in Sydney’s Northern
Suburbs crematorium.
Mitchell suggested that Paterson’s
remains should be transferred to St.
Andrew’s Cathedral, Sydney, with a
suitable plaque. “A poet of his stand-
ing in England would have his remains
interred in Westminster Abbey,”
Mitchell declared. Otherwise, he sug-
gested, Paterson’s ashes could be trans-
ferred to an appropriate spot on the
Snowy River. “I knew ‘Banjo’ Pater-
son personally,” Mitchell said, “and it
was my father who took him on his
first trip to Kosciusko. It was listening
to old Jack Riley’s stories when they
spent the night at his hut at Groggin
that gave ‘Banjo’ the idea of ‘The Man
from Snowy River ’ ”
Dr. Colin Roderick promptly said
that he would be 100 per cent, behind
any move to have ‘The Banjo’ honored
with a plaque in St. Andrew’s
Cathedral, and in 30 seconds flat came
up with a suitable quotation for the
plaque, from Paterson’s poem “Over
the Range”:—
“We shall meet with our loved ones gone
before
To the beautiful country over the range.”
It seems indisputable that of all Aus-
tralia’s popular poets, Paterson is the
one whose memory is least honored.
There is a stone memorial at his
birthplace at Narrambla, near Orange
(N.S.W.), but it is surrounded by bare
paddocks and sometimes suffers from
neglect. There is also a “Banjo” Pater-
son Park at Yass (N.S.W.), with a
memorial. This is all.
By contrast, Adam Lindsay Gordon,
Henry Lawson and Henry Kendall
have been well served. A statue of
Adam Lindsay Gordon was erected in
his memory and unveiled near Parlia-
ment House, Melbourne, in 1932. Two
years later his bust was placed in West-
minster Abbey. A replica of this was
unveiled in the National Library, Can-
berra, in 1950. Memorials also exist
a t Coleraine and Brighton (Vic.), at Mt.
Gambier (S.A.), and at Cheltenham
(Eng.), where he was educated,
TT _ ,
. Lawson easily leads all other
Aust t ral l ! a 1 n poets in th L e vanet y of ways
wh,ch h,s mem ° r y has been honored,
A monument to him by George Lam-
kert, is in Sydney s Outer Domain , at
Abbotsford on the Parramatta River
tnere 1S a tabl . et near the site of his
cottage. T ]^ re V 5 a j” 6 ™ 0 ™ 1 s f at at * be
Church of England, Mudgee (N.S.W.).
A P Longstaff is in the
National Gallery. And each year there
are to his birthplace at
Grenfell v , bIS § rave at
Waverley (I'TS.W.), and other cere-
monies at Como (N.S.W.), Foots-
cray anc * Geelong (Vic.),
Henry Kendall has a town on the
N.S.W. North Coast named after him
and, thanks to the efforts of Louisa
Lawson, Henry’s mother, the wooden
cross over his grave in the same ceme-
tery as her son’s was eventually re-
placed by a more elaborate memorial.
Wound for
Tasmania
r T'HE Federal Minister for Transport and
Shipping, Mr Opperman, dropped a
brick in Hobart on April 10 when he
innocently referred to conferences taking
place between Federal and State Govern-
ments on plans for major national works.
Tasmania had not been invited to these
conferences.
Premier Reece quickly and heatedly
reacted to the implied slight. He was
astonished as well as hurt, for Deputy
Prime Minister McEwen only a few
weeks previously had told him that the
Government proposed to have talks with
the States. Mr Reece immediately
replied to Mr McEwen that Tasmania
would participate.
No further word reached Mr Reece.
Indeed, Tasmania was not even told
that the talks had begun, and would have
remained in the dark longer had it not
been for Mr Opperman’s chance remark.
“I can hardly believe that any Federal
Government would be so foolish as to
pass Tasmania by deliberately when con-
sidering proposals to expand production
and exports,” said Mr Reece.
Deliberate or not, the omission of
Tasmania from the conferences has
deeply wounded Tasmania’s Cabinet
Ministers. All Tasmanians are quick to
resent any overlooking of their State.
Even today officials of one airline pale
when mention is made of a map engraved
on an ashtray they distributed years ago.
The map was of Australia —with Tas-
mania omitted. The latest injury has
been deepened by the Federal Govern-
ment’s failure immediately to respond
to Mr Reece’s published condemnation
of its oversight.
Mr Reece recognises that the talks
centre around priorities for national
works which may all have been agreed
upon already, and concedes that all the
works —for instance, on the Mount Isa
railway and developmental roads in the
Centre —may be planned for mainland
States. It is believed that £125 million
is involved, so it would not have been
unreasonable to expect that the range
would have extended to Tasmania.
Mr Reece has pointed out that Tas-


mania does not lack potentialities. His
eyes are concentrated on the huge iron-
ore deposits still under detailed investiga-
tion in the Savage River area of the West
Coast. Whether development of this
field comes within the definition of
national works to be undertaken entirely
or mainly by the Commonwealth has
not been revealed from the agenda for
the Commonwealth-States talks, but Mr
Reece maintains that Tasmania should
in any event be at the conferences.
W.A. Fires:
Who Pays?
the township of Dwellingup was
partly destroyed, early this year, by
the most disastrous bushfires in the history
of Western Australia, the State’s citizens
donated £120,000 towards its rehabilita-
tion. The State Government also pro-
mised aid and set up a relief committee
to administer the distribution of funds.
Three months after the fire Dwellingup
citizens are bitterly criticising the Govern-
ment and the relief committee for lack
of action. They say the Government has
done very little towards restoring the
town’s timber-mill to full production and
that basic facilities like the hospital are
still out of action. On the other, they
have expressed complete confidence in
the administration of the public donations
by the Lord Mayor’s distress fund.
The physical appearance of the town
appears to bear out the criticism.
Blackened chimneys still dominate the
skyline and only two private houses are
being built. The State timber-mill is
still working at half capacity, and the
railway staff are living in tents beside the
gutted station.
Most of the inaction seems to have
been caused by insufficient funds for re-
habilitation, combined with an un-
certainty among the townsfolk as to
whether the town will ever regain its
former level of activity. It is plain that
the town will never regain its former
level of population. Dwellingup was a
popular centre for old-age pensioners,
and most of them have now gone to live
in the larger town of Pinjarra about 15
miles away.
Though the district has received about
£370,000 in relief—made up of an insur-
ance pay-out of £297,000, £66,000 from
the Lord Mayor’s distress fund and
£II,OOO in Government funds for the
relief of immediate distress —it is clearly
insufficient for the job of restoration. At
least half the insurance payment went to
Government institutions, and most of the
town’s citizens were seriously under-
insured or not insured at all. Even if the
Lord Mayor’s fund pays out its remaining
£30,000 to Dwellingup—it distributed
about £20,000 to victims of the Carnarvon
and Karridale disasters —it will not go
anywhere near meeting the damage bill
for homeowners.
The situation raises an important ques-
tion. If a town is destroyed by an act
of nature, who is responsible for com-
pensation where insurance is not sufficient
to cover it? The State Government has
accepted responsibility for restoring the
farms and orchards surrounding the town,
but it seems to be sitting pat on the issue
of compensation to homeowners. The
Federal Government has made it clear
that it will only contribute to the relief
of immeditate distress.
Though most homeowners and busi-
nessmen in Dwellingup can scrape to-
gether enough cash to start rebuilding,
they are faced with the prospect of going
into debt to do it. That is why they are
bitter and why some are seeking legal
advice on the possibility of suing the
Government for damages, blaming the
“WE ALL KNOW THAT A BUILDING TODAY IS NEVER BUILT FOR WHAT YOU SAY
IT IS GOING TO COST.” Professor Ashworth, chairman of the judging panel which selected the winning design for
the Sydney Opera House.


Forests Department for not burning off
properly around the town. If their move
succeeds, the State will face a very big
pay-out on the disasters of 1961.
Contradictory
Pressures
ON the very day that Premier Sir
Thomas Playford was congratulating
South Australia on its economic progress
during the past 20 years —the period,
incidentally, for which his Government
has been in office —the secretary of the
S.A. Parent-Teacher Council, Mr L. E.
Kiek, was totalling up the names on a
nation-wide petition he has organised
for a better deal in education.
Sir Thomas, though a teetotaller, was
responding in jovial mood to the toast
of “Our Parliaments” at the official
dinner of the 57th annual conference of
the Associated Chambers of Commerce,
which spent all last week criticising and
urging changes to Federal Government
policy. However, sitting quietly at home,
Mr Kiek —with the support of 35,843
signatures to his petition—declared that
the S.A. and other State Governments
had just not been able to cope with
problems brought about by the tremen-
dous increase in population.
For that reason, Mr Kiek said, our
educational standards were falling. S.A.,
which he described as having once been
“one of the world leaders in education,”
had slipped to the bottom for lack of
financial aid. He suggested that the
remedy on a national scale might cost
the Commonwealth anything up to
£100,000,000 a year.
At the same time conference delegates
were insisting that governments must
right now start pruning their expenditure,
and not expect private enterprise to take
all the knocks in the present credit
squeeze. In fact, the Adelaide public
was being given in one week a sharp
picture of the contradictory pressures
now being exerted on Canberra.
(The pity was that Mr Menzies kept
clear of this bullring until the weekend,
when he flew in from Canberra to receive
an honorary law degree at Adelaide Uni-
versity. Several conference resolutions
were aimed specifically at his fiscal
policies.
Though little that was new or unex-
pected came out of the conference, it
represented the current thinking of
businessmen on a national scale. It may
have overlooked Mr Kiek’s crisis in
education, but it did remind the Federal
Government that it was time to get busy
on many issues that cannot be postponed
much longer, notably the development
of Northern Australia, and the creation
of a properly financed commission to
assess its potentialities.
All the same, in a relaxed atmosphere
of S.A. brandy and cigars after that
official dinner in the Agricultural Show-
ground, delegates were able to listen
benignly to Sir Thomas’s soothing
assurance that “this country has a great
future and should not be dismayed by
temporary setbacks from time to time.”
POLITICAL POINTS
HThe Country party, much to its
embarrassment, is still receiving
more than its share of publicity in
Western Australia. Royal Commis-
sioner Wallwork’s report on bribery
allegations have revealed how the
Country party received £2OO from the
Premises’ Bookmakers’ Association.
A few weeks ago the Country party
denied any knowledge of the payment
and only when pressure was put on it
did it admit anything. In a letter from
London to Country-party chairman,
Mr E. H. Lewis, Deputy-Premier
Watts said he received the £2OO from
Mr E. P. Oldfield, M.L.A. for Mt
Lawley, but thought that the donation
was anonymous. The Deputy-Premier
explained that he saw nothing unusual
in anonymous donations being
received by political parties.
4» «
TThe current issue of the Leftist bi-
monthly, “Outlook,” provides a
rather odd picture of Socialist thought.
In an otherwise thoughtful editorial
it says: “Indonesian claims over
Western New Guinea have been
accepted by a good many Socialists,
because Socialists very properly have
supported the nationalist independence
movements in the former colonial
countries.” If some Socialists support
Indonesia just because the Indonesians
were anti-colonialists and nationalists,
then they are unable to distinguish
between Socialist imperialism and
“capitalist” colonialism. Whatever
“okay” words Socialists use to describe
Indonesia and its policies, its claims
over West New Guinea are nothing
more than colonialist.
In its second editorial, commenting
on the suspension of Mr G.
McDonald, a Melbourne Building
Workers’ Industrial Union organiser,
from the Communist party, it refers
to “. . . the increasing appeal of
Trotskyist ideas among the working
class.” What the devil is their evi-
dence for that ? Just where are
“Trotskyist ideas” becoming accepted
in the working class? Apart from a
few Trotskyists in the 8.W.1.U. and
the Victorian Railways Union, where
else are Trotskyist ideas displaying
their increasing appeal to the “working
class”?
• •
A ustralia’s new Governor-General,
Viscount de L’lsle, in an inter-
view in London was asked: “Part of
your job in Australia will be making
speeches. Do you like making
speeches?” He replied: “I much
prefer making them to listening to
them.”
• •
A recent incident illustrates the way
members of Communist-front
organisations behave and the corrosive
influence they have in liberal-demo-
cratic societies. When Mr Ernest
Platz, a nember of the Victorian
A.L.P. and a leading member of a
Communist-front organisation, the
Jewish Council to Combat Fascism
and anti-Semitism, went to Israel
early this year I wondered what
propaganda concoctions he would
bring back with him. His first suc-
cess came when the Melbourne
“Herald” took up his story that two
former associates of Adolf Eichmann
were believed to be in Australia. How
did Mr Platz discover this? He had
managed to get a letter from Dr
Evatt with which he secured an inter-
view with Mr David Ben-Gurion—
despite the attempts of the Israeli
Ambassador in Canberra to dissuade
Mr Ben-Gurion from seeing Platz.
And you know how Prime Ministers
talk with every Tom, Dick and Harry
of the Victorian A.L.P. What could
be more natural than Mr Ben-Gurion
telling this Victorian A.L.P. member
that Eichmann’s (unnamed) associates
were in Australia? Why should the
Israeli Prime Minister bother to go
through the usual diplomatic channels
to tell Australians about Nazis when
he had Mr Platz at his side?
The next success in Platz's propa-
ganda campaign was when some of
Sydney’s evening papers found out
that Major-General Haim Laskov was
coming to Australia. Why was he
coming? He says he is coming for
the United F~ael Appeal—but, as we
all know, he is really hunting Nazis.
Included in the same report, one news-
paper said: “A member of the Mel-
bourne Jewish community had said the
Israeli Prime Minister, Ben-Gurion,
had told him Eichmann had named
two former associates now living in
Australia
If there are Nazi war criminals in
Australia —and we have yet to dis-
cover any 16 years after the war has
finished —their whereabouts won’t be
revealed by A.L.P. members of Com-
munist-front organisations. AFhough
Mr Platz may be a Jew, the Melbourne
Jewish community still refuses to
allow his organisation, the Melbourne
Jewish Council to Combat Fascism
and anti-Semitism, to affiliate with its
Victorian Jewish Board of Deputies.
If this is an example of the irrespon-
sible way its members benave, I hope
they continue to refuse to give
respectability to this front organisa-
tion.
By MUGGA


The Mystery Message at Anzac
A leg-pull changed the fortune of war
By CECIL MANN
Here, for the first time in print, is
the inside story of a fantastic
mystery message which came
through on a signals line on
Gallipoli one near-midnight in May,
1915. One mention of the message, ill
precisely correct terms, can be read in a
footnote in Dr C. E. W. Bean’s Official
History. Dr Bean did not miss much
in the way of significant detail, and it is
possible he knew more about the message
than appears in his footnote. Anyway,
this is his note on it:
The evidence of an impending attack [by
the Turks] appeared to be strengthened
by a telegrraph message mysteriously
received on the niglit of May 17 at the
signal office of the Ist Australian Division
from an artillery line connected with one
of the brigades. This, purporting to come
from the enemy, foreshadowed an attempt
on the following day with mines and big
guns to drive the garrison of Anzac into
the sea. Until discovered several years
later to have been a hoax, the incident re-
mained a mystery to Australian intelli-
gence officers. It was often instanced as
the only one of all the supposed cases of
secret enemy activity' in the lines for which
a simple explanation could not be given.
That, obviously, leaves a good deal
still in the dark. What was the exact
nature of the “hoax,” and who hoaxed
whom, and how, and why?
The answer under all those heads is
that “hoax” is too solemn a term. Even
though it did not seem so at the time,
that “telegraphed message mysteriously
received” was, in fact, straight light
comedy all the way. It was, to begin
with, nothing more solemn than a typical
Digger legpull, perpetrated to take a rise
out of the chap on duty in the brigade
signals possie up at the top of Shrapnel
Gully. It came off fairly well, too, and
a lot better where it was also heard by
the one on duty at Divvy Headquarters
down and along the Beach.
The first reaction of both hearers was
downright suspicion, as well it might
have been, considering the quality of the
“message.” As any trained Morse opera-
tor would do, the one on the job at the
top of Shrapnel Gully jotted it down as
it came, in “bad Morse. ’ It w r as also
in bad English, bad spelling, and bad
language. Here it is, verbatim, in all its
simple purity:
You Australyan bastad soljers tomoref
we drive you into sea. Tomorer big gun
and the mine. You Australyan bastad
soijers.
TTp at the top of Shrapnel Gully the
duty operator heard the first reaction
from the Beach come instantly dot-dash-
ing back: “All right, Abdulla, tomorrow
you’ll be well ...” (The rest of this
retort can be taken as read.) His own
first reaction was similarly suspicious, but
the ones he suspected were nearer at
hand —two chaps working the brigade
post with him. in eight-hour shifts. He
ducked out and along the 20 yards or
so to where they bunked under a
groundsheet.
But they were both there, coiled up.
Suspicion changed to doubt. With the
authority of one stripe, he shook them
up, put one in charge of the post, and
took the other with him to have a look
along the line on which the mystery
message had come in. It was, as Dr
Bean mentions, an artillery line. There
was only a hundred or two yards of it,
connecting the brigade post with a
scratched-out observation post used by
artillery only in the daytime.
No sign of anyone there either. They
stumbled their way back. The one-
striper—he was commissioned later on,
in France, and highly decorated —told the
chap back at the post how game their
mate was: “Just kept on ahead, looking
around everywhere!” The other w'as
properly impressed, and said so. He was
in a special position to relish it, and he
relished it for a long time. It was not
until a good two years later—also in
France—that he got round to sharing it
with the victim.
As that victim will cheerfully admit—
anyone with his row of gongs can admit
anything—it was his second thought that
was wrong. The pair of them had tugged
his leg well and truly. They had got
on to the line close to their groundsheet,
and had dived back and coiled up before
he reacted. No doubt they would have
enjoyed it for a day or two, and then
broken it gently to him. What silenced
them was the surprise developments
next day and afterwards.
■COR meanwhile, that same night, the
■*- key-puncher down at the Beach had
also had second thoughts. He passed the
mystery message on. In the morning
(May 18) there was a good deal of buzz-
ing around. A plane from the offshore
island of Imbros came over Anzac having
a look. This was remarkable because one
had come over the previous day —aerial
inactivity was like that at the time. As
Dr Bean records, the plane on May 17
sighted nothing suspicious ; but next day
(the day after the “mystery message”) the
plane that came over spotted unmistak-
able signs of an impending Turkish attack
on a huge scale.
According to the “Official History”
that second plane came over to direct
some naval shooting ; but it did have a
particularly close look around, and the
inference drawn by those directly in-
volved was that the “mystery message,”
having caused a flap that morning among
the heads at Anzac, was certainly passed
over to Tmbros, and thus was mainly
responsible for the close observation
which discovered what the Turks were
actually all ready to spring.
At any rate, on that May 18, Anzac
was alerted from end to end. The follow-
ing message went its way round the
lines:
In view of information received and aerial
reconnaissance, heavy enemy attack must
be expected tonight.
Tt came the next day (May 19), the on-
slaught that was turned into slaughter :
the worst disaster the Turks ever suffered
at Anzac. And surely, in view of all
this, is it too much to claim for that
Digger leg-pull that it played a vital part
in changing the fortune of war back there
at the old address, at Anzac?
On the side of frenzy, the “mystery
message” has its fierce aftermath in the
wildest drama of mass killing in the
entire Gallipoli campaign. At Anzac,
only First Lone Pine —the early August
show —matched it in wild frenzy, though
the frenzy there was in hand-to-hand
fighting. This earlier show of May 19
was death by bullet, with Johnno the
Turk on the receiving end. Five days
later there had to be that temporary
armistice just to go out there and help
him bury his thousands of slain. It adds
to the fantastic that Johnno thought a lot
better of our chaps from then on, and
that every Digger had a better regard for
Johnno!
As for the comedy of it, even our rhere,
in that burial of death under the hot sun,
there was Johnno driven to protest that
filling up with his own dead a perfectly
good trench that he had wanted to use
was not altogether in accord with his
equivalent of cricket! Or again, in the
thick of the killing, the Digger sitting up
on the parapet for better shooting (as
many did, to their death) and shouting
across over his hot rifle when the Turk
survivors of the massacre at last began
to falter and fall back: “Play you again
next Saturday, Abdulla!”
It would be a fair sort of match at
any time, with or without any “mystery
message.” Perhaps next time we might
win it.


Phillip the Founder
THIS is the second in a series of profiles of the early Governors of N.S.W. M. H. Ellis, who is
writing the series, is the editor of Volume One of the Australian Dictionary of Biography.
By M. H. ELLIS
Even when he had landed the 1500
people in his fleet safely in Botany
Bay after an eight-months voyage,
his companions did not realise the
qualities which led the Reverend Mr
Butler to repeat what a Naval captain
had said about Phillip:
Upon my soul, Butler, I do think God
Almighty made Phillip on purpose for the
place, for never did man know better
what to do, or with more determination
see it done.
He was a strange product in his age,
because of the unerring foresight with
which he saw what the nature of the
community must grow to be and the
relentlessness with which he pursued an
ordered plan.
He regarded the colony as a sort of
ship-on-land to command with all the
sternness and autocracy necessary and
allowed at sea, then as a shipwrecked
community in which the inevitable hard-
ship must be shared by all alike. The
reader of his personal letters is apt to
feel, both from his calligraphy and his
diction, that he is dealing with a modern.
It is with a sense of shock that one dis-
covers that he was not a modern save
in his innate humanity and fairness.
In the long periods of near-starvation
in the foundation years he shared the
privations of convict and soldier, eating
exactly the same ration as the rest. He
is humane. He turns the blind eye of
a seasoned man of the world of cosmo-
politan experience to the concupiscence
of the convict camp which he knows he
cannot control.
He punishes severely when necessary,
but he does it in a measured way with
his mind rather on the deterrent effect
than on punishment. He tries to be fair
and just, yet he maintains his partiality
for marooning evil-doers— on Pinchgut
Island.
His dealings with the aborigines make
a curious study. They are naturally ner-
vous and feral in the presence of things
strange. Therefore, they must be tamed
as the wild horses or dogs must be tamed.
He catches one of them. He cleans him
up. He puts clothes on him. He has
him in the house and feeding in the
corner of the room at dinner-time as he
would a pet spaniel. He allows him out
on a lead and talks to him and plays
with him. And when the simple savage
goes bush, he is a little hurt as if a pet
hound, who had earned his faith, had
deserted him to join the dingoes.
When he deals with mobs of savages,
he behaves much as an inexperienced
townsman might approach the wild cattle
of Carpentaria that will come right up
to the unfamiliar motor-car to gaze at it.
To show them his peaceful intentions he
approaches them without so much as a
strap in his hand.
When one of them, on the sort of
primeval impulse which sometimes moves
small boys to stamp suddenly on a
strange but harmless insect, puts a spear
through his shoulder, he feels only as
the townsman in Carpentaria might feel
if one of the wild cattle poked a horn
into him. He will allow no vengeance.
There is no shooting. The spear is pulled
out —it has gone right through him. The
wound gradually heals —it might well have
been fatal. The small lean figure, suffer-
ing its pangs and those of an aching
rheumatic side earned in sleeping on wet
ground during his explorations, goes on
with his ceaseless work, while at the same
time he sees to it that pains are taken
to make the natives among whom he has
been wounded realise that he and the
white invaders mean them no harm and
that he bears no malice.
Unfortunately, he is forced to modify
this policy. There are murders and
atrocities by natives —hunters speared by
shadowy forms rising swiftly from behind
hollow logs, thefts by blacks who fail to
understand the principles of private
ownership. This must be stopped. So
one day Brown Brother encounters a new
Phillip—a tight-mouthed little man who
is outraged because Lieutenant Dawes, a
scientist, insists on rebelling against a
vice-regal order to go down to Botany
Bay and thence bring home in a bag a
few native heads which can be hung up
as warning to marauders in the same way
that a farmer might hang up dead crows
to frighten other crows off his grain. Or
like he himself hangs up convict male-
factors on gibbets on Pinchgut for all
to ponder on.
TTe stands out above other men in his
power of decision, his carelessness
of popularity save as an instrument of
government, his impersonality in differ-
ences with his officers, his steadfastness
and optimism and self-sufficiency in the
worst of circumstances. He is an un-
swerving follower of the adage: “If you
want a thing well done, do it yourself.”
He lands at Botany Bay with a bat-
talion and a half of tired men and women
fresh from a long and rough voyage.
He must land them according to orders
even if Botany Bay is unsuitable. It
isn’t. There is no delay. His experi-
enced eye runs northward over the chart.
Here, a few miles away, is a wide jagged
inlet, called by Captain Cook Broken
Bay. It may be the mouth of large river,
and, if it is, along its banks will be
agricultural land on which he can farm.
He himself gets into one of three boats
at once and on a bright sunny morning
they row northward along the cliffs from
which natives wave to them. He peeps
in between the cliffs of what seemed to
Cook to be an unimportant boat harbor,
and what he sees leads him to turn
into it. He finds there “the finest harbor
in the world, in which a thousand sail of
the line may ride in the most perfect
security.” He examines its coves. He
picks one that exactly fits the specifica-
tion for a site he had written in Eng-
land two years before. He returns to
Botany Bay to turn the fleet northward
into this haven. Two large French ships
are in the offing. A muddled or irreso-
lute mind might have panicked a little
at the sight. Not Phillip. He can leave
the Sirius and Hunter behind to sort out
relationships with the French.
His first task is to get the settlement
established and consolidated in a good
defensive position difficult of approach
against resistance, and fit to live in.
After that let events take their course.
He works with feverish haste, but in good
order. At the head of the inlet he has
named Sydney Cove, near modern Mac-
quarie Place, where the trees are th'n,
he first places a guard, sets up his
administrative headquarters, puts in a
redoubt. He plants all his fruit trees
with himself and the military between
them and the convicts. He lands the live-
stock where the landing will not interfere
with the preparation of the camp. He
sites the women’s camp as strategically
as he has the orchard, where he will at
least be between them and the jolly tars
of the transports and victualler ships
who must infest Port Jackson for several
months while they empty their holds and
recondition their ships.
All the convict main body with the
Marines Guard and the hospital are
landed on the west side of the cove, away
from the administrative centre. It is all
neat and logical. The only thing that is
not logical is that, save for a flat of
eight or nine acres, there is no land
adjacent to grow grain, no animal manure
and, if there were, only one free man
who can be called a farmer and a few
farm laborers. There are not even free
superintendents to act as warders and
supervise the convicts, and the Marines
refuse to do this duty and their officers
object to sitting as judges in courts of
justice.
He has little co-operation. But this
does not worry him. Under such circum-
stances he might well have yearned to
keep with him his trusty Lieutenant King.
But he sends him off to occupy Norfolk
Island in February, no doubt with its
strategic value and the lingering La
Perouse in mind.
When it is obvious that nothing can
be expected of the land around Sydney
Cove to produce sustenance for the next
year or so, he parts with the Sirius and
Captain Hunter, too, sending the ship
off, leaking, not properly re-conditioned


after her long voyage from England, to
sail around the Horn and down through
unknown waters among the Antarctic
icebergs to circle the world to Cape Town
an d back with supplies. He sends off the
tender Supply with his other naval com-
mander, Captain Ball, who had dis-
covered and named Lord Howe Island
on his way back from placing King on
Norfolk Island, and he in his wallowing
craft encircles Australia for the first time
on his voyage to Java for succour.
Meanwhile he personally does every-
thing. He controls the settlement.
He deals with recalcitrant Marines
officers. He tries to get work out of the
convicts and grain out of the land. He
never ceases in his attempts to discover
the great river which he sees as possible
salvation. Less than two months after
he lands, he goes to Broken Bay by boat
and comes back overland in the rain,
this little 50-year-old captain with the
web-feet of the sailor and no experience
of any part of a terra jirma less ordered
than the age-old fields and glades of the
New Forest in Hampshire. He sleeps on
- the ground and contracts a rheumatism
of his right side that eventually cripples
him after plaguing him with pain all
the rest of his life. But all he finds is
another capacious harbor —Pittwater he
calls it—and towering cliffs which, as
he says in almost exactly the modern
phrase, are strictly for “the birds.”
He plunges into the interior, going
over the rocky gorges and cliffs beyond
Middle Harbor. He finds his river. He
sees the Blue Mountains towering over
him, the first time the white man has
viewed them. He leads the first party
up Richmond Hill and surveys the rich
agricultural lands of Hawkesbury of
which he has dreamt. But they are too
• far away from the coast yet awhile to
I be exploited. He goes up the Harbor
from Sydney to the site of Parramatta
and out to Prospect Hill. Now, he has
found a region in which the trees are
| wider apart and where grain may be
grown and carried easily to Sydney
Cove in a few hours by water. He moves
there himself in charge of the work, to
establish local agriculture, and none too
soon. Things are desperate. Scurvy and
hunger have plagued them all the year.
The blacks hold something like a siege
round them at Sydney Cove. The ocean
appears to be empty of sails and all
else. Even the fish all seem to swim
i out to sea. The convicts become so
weak that they cannot work more than
three hours a day. It is, by autumn,
1790, a race with death.
The Second Fleet, in June, 1790, brings
supplies and the first contingents of the
New South Wales Corps, but it also
P r oves to be a horrible reservoir of
death and disease. Its coming, and chat
°f the Third Fleet with its sickly 2000
the next year, only adds to his burden.
Yet he never falters in his optimism,
never complains, never mentions his own
Phght save as an inducement to others
to abide by his example and stick it out.
Y pessimist like the mournful Dr Harris
may “positively give up all hope of ever
returning to his native land.” Others may
ra| l bitterly at the “hobbyhorsical”
The Sirius in Botany Bay
nature of the local Government, at the
vile flattering accounts the Governor is
sending home and bemoan a fate which
condemned them to live ‘little better
than a leper” on “diabolical morsels”
and to go so hungry that puppy dog
was a luxury. Officers may meditate that
if it came to a race for survival between
themselves and the convicts, their
swords would win their lives for them.
Governor or no Governor. There were
times when nearly everybody agreed with
Harris that Sydney was “the most
miserable place l ever beheld . . . one
which must sooner or later be relin-
quished,” and when a quarter of the
population were actually in hospital or
lying in the rain, without even the
blankets that villains had filched from
the sick by night.
There were periods when the convicts
were so hungry that half the ripening
corn in the fields was spirited away in
the night to be eaten green and cause
outbursts of fatal colic. There was a
time towards the end of this period when
most of those who rebelled against work
in the fields through hunger were too
weak even to flog back into industry.
But in the five years he remained,
Phillip established settlement. He left a
Sydney which was at least a stable little
town. He established Parramatta in the
midst of fields and farms, which had
been dug by hand, with cheap buckling
hoes, out of a region which had never
had so much as a pick driven into its
soil and in which the ground seemed
all ironbark roots. He laid out settle-
ments at Toongabbie, at Prospect Hill,
surrounded like Parramatta itself, with
fields and orchards. He did all this
without plough, oxen, or horses, or
manure of any kind, and without skilled
assistants. Even after the Sirius, their
only hope of rescue or succor, went
ashore a total wreck on Norfolk Island
and everybody else was panicking, his
messages for home were: “We shall not
starve though seven eighths of the colony
deserves nothing better.”
Without the means of obtaining fresh
beef or mutton —there was none at all
in the first three years and more —and
with the weekly ration down at times
to 31b. of flour, lylb. of beef or 17oz.
of salt pork, he made the best of what
labor he had and presently when he
began to grant lands, found more merit
generated by his own encouragement of
ambition among the convicts than he
had expected. But he continued to the
end to preach the need for intelligent
free settlers.
TIE still kept on until worn out at last,
bone-weary with begging in vain for
help and settlers, a few of whom w'ere
already on the way, for permission to
make grants and assign servants to
officers of the Government already on
the spot, the acceptance of his plea to
be allowed to resign because of the state
of his health turned him homeward in
the Atlantic at the end of 1792. He
carried with him Bennelong and another
aboriginal, the first Australian natives
to make the voyage to England.
He also took with him the last con-
structive and ordered vice-regal mind
that was to be applied to the Govern-
ment of New South Wales for two
decades to come and in 1812, looking
back over that period of shabby indisci-
pline, nest-feathering and incompetence,
Governor Macquarie was to write,
almost 20 years after the founder sailed
from Port Jackson, that '‘no works or
public buildings of the least consequence,
. . . except the (unfinished) church at
Sydney, was ever undertaken oi erected
since the departure of Governor Phillip,
who to do him justice did a great deal
with small means.”
There were no flags out for him
when he arrived in England ill, suffering
from his aching side and the effects of
his shoulder wound. There was a shame-
faced air about his reception, a faint
odor of disapproval by the new layer of
civil servants who had come into office
and who sounded slightly resentful that
so much had been done on his personal
initiative to override the consequences
of their own obstinate neglect and
blundering and lack of foresight.
Face, however, must be saved. So they
gave him a pension of £SOO a year —not
enough to keep him in a position fitting
to his status, or far above the breadline,
but just enough to suggest that they and
he had not failed in a minor enterprise.
At the date on which he resigned his
Governorship, October 10, 1793, ten
months after he had sailed from the
Port Jackson which he had first explored
and the day before his 55th birthday,
he went on naval half-pay. But in the
stressful days of 1796 after war had
broken out anew with France, he was
back at sea.
His end was normal to an age when
flag officers rising by seniority through
ail the grades to Admiral were two-a-
penny along the English coast. He
became a commander of coast guards,
Inspector-General to the whole force
round the shores of the British Isles.
Having become virtually a cripple
through a stroke, he died an admiral at
Bath in 1814 and was buried in the
churchyard at Bathampton, where his
grave was for many years forgotten and
weed-grown.


FOR THE OBSERVER
An Outpost of the
“Vogue” Empire
In shared bed-sitting rooms all over
London, Australian girls, stirring a mess
of soft roes in a saucepan over the
shilling-in-a-slot gasring, or dolefully
drying underwear in front of the one-bar
radiator, ask each other, why isn’t there
a “glossy” magazine in Australia. In
most cases, one feels, these girls would
return home, would suffer the higher
wages, better climate and easier living
of Australia, if only there were a “glossy”
magazine to guide and sustain them.
Well, they can come home now, be-
cause there is a “glossy” magazine here.
“Vogue” Australia, an outpost of the
Conde-Nast empire, is established and
doing well —better, in fact, than the
founders ever hoped.
A “glossy” magazine, really, is only a
state of mind. Technically, it is merely
the paper on which the magazine is
printed. The contents are irrelevant. To
the girls in South Ken. or Swiss Cottage,
the absence of a “glossy” meant that
Australia had not yet reached a certain
standard of sophistication.
Magazines like “Vogue” are often
condemned as “escapist,” which is a
ridiculous word meaning nothing. But
they do feed aspirations. There can
hardly be a woman, either strong-minded
or weak-minded enough to thumb the
pages of “Vogue” and not at the same
time tighten her stomach muscles, sit
a little straighter, make resolutions about
chipped fingernails, lipstick colors and
muddy complexions. “Vogue” Australia
feeds aspirations, but they are the
aspirations of girls who have lived oi
Will live in bed-sitting rooms in South
Ken. or Swiss Cottage. “Vogue” Aus-
tralia won't change the Australian
woman. The Australian woman, her
income, way of living and way of shop-
ping have changed “Vogue.” “Vogue”
Australia is as sophisticated, or as
unsophisticated, as the average Austra-
lian housewife or businessgirl.
“Vogue” got its first foothold in Aus-
tralia by way of Australian supplements,
printed in England, and attached to the
regular issues of British “Vogue” on
sale here.
Two years ago New Zealander Bernard
Leser came to Sydney, via England and
the United States, as general manager
and to prepare the way for Australian
production. He was followed a year
ago by Rosemary Cooper, who was
editor in London of “Vogue” Export.
Miss Cooper, who had made previous
visits to Australia, established herself in
a Harborside flat and began to search
for an editor so that she herself could
return to England.
In the magazine’s modest offices in an
old building in York Street, Sydney,
Miss Cooper must often have felt she
was indeed at the furthest ouipost of
empire. However, she kept the flag
flying. One custom which Miss Cooper
carried over from London was wearing
a hat at her desk. In New York and
London this is regarded as a symbol of
the executive’s standing, although the
day-long wearing of heavy fur hats
through a capricious Sydney winter must
have been something of a trial for Miss
Cooper. (The same device used to be
used by the journalists on the women’s
pages of Australian dailies so they could
be distinguished from the typists. It has
fallen into disuse now. Anyone can pick
the typists. They are younger, prettier
and much better dressed.)
Miss Cooper had a long search for an
editor. At one time she admitted she
was somewhat disappointed with the
talent available in Australia. However,
the chief difficulty “Vogue” had in
recruiting staff probably stemmed from
the fact that the prestige job has very
little appeal in Australia. In London or
New York a “Vogue” or “Harper’s
Bazaar” editor can murmur, “I do hope
you have a private income,” and the
recruit will realise she will be paid about
half as much as she might get on another,
less elegant magazine. “Vogue” or
“Harper’s Bazaar” will tell a photo-
grapher that the magazine is a “wonder-
ful showcase,” and he’ll accept a small
fee and make up his income from
cosmetic advertisements.
Australians, however, tend to estimate
jobs in pounds, shillings and pence, and
“Vogue” is not exactly generous. The
editor’s job was pretty well hawked
around journalistic circles in Sydney and
Melbourne and was turned down by a
couple of well-knowns (or that’s their
story) for one reason or another.
However, a very happy solution to the
problem was found in London in the
person of Joan Powe. Miss Powe, who
arrived home about a month ago, is a
lively, handsome woman who worked
for “The Australian Women’s Weekly”
before going to England in 1949. In
London she worked for a variety of
papers and should prove exactly what
“Vogue” Australia wants.
“Vogue” Australia had four issues last
year and will produce six this year. It
will also produce two issues of “Vogue”
New Zealand. In two or three years
“Vogue” Australia will probably be a
monthly.
It now has a net base average sale of
38,000 and, Mr Leser believes, each
issue is read by about 200,000 people.
A monthly glossy can do better than the
average magazine in this respect because
people who mightn’t read much of it
themselves leave it lying round on coffee
tables where casual visitors pick it up.
The secret of “Vogue’s” success here
is not based on anything more high-
falutin’ than merchandising. Bernard
Leser believes that his magazine goes
to women in the “medium to upper in-
come group,” to women with “medium
to higher intelligence” and to women
from, approximately, teenage to middle
age.
“We know that many of the young
women who read our magazine come
from modest backgrounds,” he said,
“They want a magazine which will put
them right, fashion- and taste-wise. In
this country we cannot depend on the
‘carriage’ trade as we can in England,
France and America. We cannot depend
for circulation on women who lead a
gracious, idle life.
“We do cover fashion events like the
Paris openings, but purely as a service
to our readers. We would also have
articles on beauty or something like that,
for prestige reasons. However, we regard
the main part of our task as the move-
ment of merchandise. Our job is to see
that the fashions which appear in our
pages are in the shops for local con-
sumers at the time our magazine is on
the streets.”
“Vogue’s” method of merchandising
is fascinating. It is a full-time job for
three people, and they may at times feel
that this foot-slogging work is very dif-
ferent from most people’s idea of work
on a fashion magazine, and very different
from the idea they themselves had when
they first asked for a job.
The procedure is that a member of
“Vogue’s” staff goes to visit a manufac-
turer —say, Joe Blow. She looks at his
new fashion range, makes a selection and
then arranges for the garments to be
photographed. At the same time, she
makes it clear to Joe Blow that there is
no certainty that any of the photographs
will be used. He gives “Vogue” a list
of the stores which will be stocking his
fashions. “Vogue” then checks with the
store (choosing only one shop in each
capital city from Joe Blow’s list) that
it intends to buy the Joe Blow fashion
which has been photographed. “Vogue’
gives Joe Blow the date on which


“Vogue” will be on the street and checks
with him that the garment will be in
the shop on that date. “Vogue” checks
again with the shop to make sure the
garment will be on display on that date.
Then, and only then, does “Vogue” go
ahead and put the photograph of Joe
Blow’s design in the magazine.
It sounds a laborious process and it’s
almost foolproof. The only fools it isn't
proof against are those who don’t buy
the magazine the day it hits the streets,
who don’t notice Joe Blow’s fashion in
“Vogue” until they pick up the magazine
a couple of weeks later, but who, when
they go into the shop and it doesn’t have
the Joe Blow model in their size, are
just as mad as if “Vogue’s” three mer-
chandising people hadn’t put everyone
through those hoops. Still, it is the
nearest that anyone will ever get to
avoiding all the ill-will which misleading
editorial display of fashions cause to
shops, manufacturers and magazines.
FOR THE CONSUMER
Beauty and Ugliness from
One Pair of Hands
Turn over almost any attractive piece
in a knick-knack shop and you will see
“Made in Italy.” In the postwar years
Italy, as far as ceramics, jewellery and
other crafts are concerned, has been
rather like an atomic power whose
missiles always get off the launching pad.
Every year Italy comes up with something
new, which nearly everybody proceeds
to copy.
With all this, it's rather surprising to
realise that most of Italy’s arts and crafts
still come from tiny family factories,
and that, away from the sophistication
of Milan and Turin, most work is done
without benefit of a trained artist. Mr
A. Cowdrill, merchandise manager for
Proud’s, says that searching for stuff
in Italy can still take you well off the
beaten track. Proud's has just had an
Italian exhibition, which will be repeated
in a slightly different form at the Sydney
Trade Fair in August.
For example, all alabaster comes from
Volterra, a tiny village in the mountains
behind Pisa. Volterra has one building
dated from 32 B.c. “There is one man
in the village now who acts as a sort
of middleman,” Mr Cowdrill said, “but
when I first went there eight years ago
I used to have to go out into the open
country literally in pursuit of the
alabaster workers. Alabaster is a soft
sort of marble which is cut with tools
exactly like a carpenter’s. The workers
are family units and generally work
under a tin-roofed shed. When they’ve
worked out one section—alabaster is
practically endless, like coal—they simply
move the shed another hundred yards.
Father generally rough-cuts the blocks,
th e younger children do the easy cutting,
an< J uiother or the more skilled workers
do *h e polishing. There are no artists,
as suc h- The family follows traditional
designs, modifying them as the mood
takes them. It is impossible to re-order
with any optimism.”
. , ~ ,
Mr Cowdrill said that Venetian glass
was another industry which still con-
sisted mostly of small workshops,
although the larger factory was develop-
ing rapidly. “We buy most of our stuff
from Cenedese, of Murano,” he said.
“Cenedese has become a millionaire in
the postwar years, Italian taxation laws
being what they are, and the demand
for Venetian glass being what it is, too.”
Although many tourists are convinced
that glass from Murano is far superior
to Venetian glass, they are actually the
same thing. Most of the glassmakers
of Venice have in the past 100 years
moved across to the island of Murano
because of the enormous fire risk which
their ever-burning furnaces create in the
city. A furnace-owner who caused a
fire would almost certainly be bank-
rupted by the heavy penalty. One or
two glassmakers who find the temptation
of being close to the American tourists
irresistible take the risk and stay in
Venice.
One of the amazing things about Italy
and Italian crafts is how the most
beautiful and the ugliest objects can come
from the one small factory, or even
from the one pair of hands.
Mr Cowdrill said that the porcelain
factory of Richard Ginori near Florence
was the largest he had ever seen. Yet
out of between 600 and 700 samples,
which is the range of dinnerware, he was
able to select only one pattern which he
considered would be suitable for the
Australian market. The others were too
elaborate and decorated for today’s taste,
although, Mr Cowdrill said, they sold
well in America. Mr Cowdrill said that
eight years ago at a Milan trade fair a
persuasive Italian talked him into in-
specting his stock. “It was the most
awful junk I have ever seen, but there
was one coffee cup I liked, ’’ he said.
“Anyway, the chap was so ingratiating
I ordered about 8000. To date, we have
sold 167,000 of those cups, but not
another thing from his factory.”
Feiffer.
WHAT PIO l PC ft At
wa*
T(tt M£.' JU, I
APHIf IT If ’
(T li>A*
MMIS.
T(u ne:
rmer it
MU HOO
l/fune
fmtr
If ?
fcJHAf C\C l VO? IS IT THAT
wv cwt scoze aw pom re
iio feme 7
16 THAT
10HAT'6
60TH60106
m ? J
weemm. r ukc
m rtcr
to ttw To -
QtST in) Terns. *
u)ifH AU, The
THIIO6S W 00
gerree thaw
ME, H9MT IT
a u mT
m me t>
PO ON6
thim deme r
f of. Mxme.youType
i m i'
CDOiQ
wt m
AS MU //
w novae Ttßmn
MEAT/ MUCH
NEATER THA.O "jTcn
I EVER CAM Af «
ft.'amp WteJL C
AV£RmoU6Y
WAtIOER/ )
AMP IF IT IOAWf Foe Those
Tioo W6AKS IM M ARM I '/
I'M MOU'P “
U MAKIM6 AT .
UAST A 4
MUCH MPMW/
HO3W,
whv
6£f
UPSCT^
uARRY!
mr oo v A
HD'J w<
wee ‘
POIN6 f


ABORIGINALITIES
The War in
Tobacco Valley
TTe seemed to be straight from the
salons of Rome and was out-of
place in this half-wild town. Every man
who struts this rutty street wears high-
heeled riding-boots, skin-tight pants to
match and observes the niceties, when
visiting the town, by flinging a shirt over
his sunburnt chest. That’s the dress in
this street, and any Alec who waltzes
round in stove-pipe pants, velvet shoes
and knee-length coat breaches social
etiquette.
I struck him first at the Chinaman’s,
bent over a cheque-book. He must have
been enough of a local to cash cheques:
he was probably growing “weed” along
the Dumaresque with his countrymen.
The Italian and his woman —if he’s
fortunate enough to have one —tend and
cure tobacco from the Severn to Yelar-
bon. They drive the dour and casual Aus-
tralian alike mad with their wants, share-
cockyin’ the land, shame him with their
industry and return to Italy rich men
before they’ve time to learn the language.
Well, some of them anyway. This one
had an air about him, with his fine
clothes, which seemed to set him way
ahead already.
Life is fairly uncertain. When the
street had emptied out a bit, and the wide-
brimmed blokes and their families had
settled in the theatre, and half the busi-
ness houses were dark, I spotted him
again. He was the centre-piece in an
open-air tableau, gaining an audience fast,
as only this spectacle can. Bashed and
bloodied, his fine clothes filthied and
torn, he was flat on his back in the door-
way of a dry-cleaning joint.
But he was far from dead. His feet
were flying in a kind of unseated bike-
race, by which uncertain method he kept
at relative bay three snarling Australians.
In a mopoke-hoarse voice he kept calling:
“Poh-leece! Poh-leece! ”
By this hour, the “poh-leece” were
bracing up the wall of the picture-palace,
as is fairly customary with police on a
Saturday night, and the plaintive peals
for help were drowned by the crash
of the screen six-guns. But it filtered
through to the billiard - room over
the street. “Snooker” Sevil, a dead-
eye if ever there was one, lined up
the black, but was bowled the length of
the table in the exodus. In a moment the
street was a river of men. The Italian
was on his feet again and the fight
writhed and twisted. In a flurry of hay-
makers it moved swiftly into the gilt and
chromium of Little-Joe-the-Greek’s res-
taurant. The Italian dived beneath
Little Joe’s waving arms, backed into
the cleared centre, and for a moment
there was peace. Not that Little Joe was
any obstacle, for not a month before,
he’d warned a rowdy bunch: “I no muck
about! I have trouble with you, I go
for d’ knife. See!”
“How, Joe?”
“Lika da this!”
He had flicked a knife-blade ahead of
"If you've finished with my motor mower , Smithy ”
him, poised like a striking snake. One
of the mob bent and made a roliin«
charge, and next thing Little Joe thudded
into the juke-box.
So it wasn't Joe that caused the lull
It was the Italian. In a second he’d flu n »
off what remained of his coat and shirt
No longer was he the dandy. He looked
three stone heavier as he advanced.
“Now,” he said to the crowding mob
in the doorway. “I fight you. But I
fight one at a time. In the light . .
He stood, fists up, waiting. The mob
looked from one to the other. But the
three adversaries had vanished. Then,
sauntering casually, the crowd moved
back to the pool-room.
' VI/ ELL ’" to mate > w h° lives
here and knows everyone. “That
was a queer turn. Hardly in the Aussie
tradition, three to one in the first place,
then dingoing out. Why didn't the mob
even it up in the first place?”
“Huh! Try it if you want to die.
They’d tear you to pieces. Here’s
different. There’s a war on —an’ that’s
the way they fight. Up the river a week
or two back there was about 50 of that
feller’s countrymen into half a dozen
Australians drinkin’ at the pub. Nearly
tramoled 'em to death.”
“Women?”
‘Not that time. They just don’t like
each other. Aw, no, mate, this ain’t no
ordinary blood-nose yike round here,
Full-scale international bloody brawl on
here.”
ART HAUSLER
THE SCREAM IN THE
ORCHARD
Ttearing what I swore was the call of
the Screaming-woman Bird (tawny
frogmouth), I went out into the orchard
to investigate. For frogmouths never
scream in the daytime.
Although excessively loud, the racket
appeared to be ventriloquial coming
from all directions at once.
At last I traced it to a papaw tree
which had been stumped—i.e., cut off
4ft above ground and allowed to branch.
The 71b. milk tin sealing the stump had
4ft of snake’s tail protruding from it.
The noise suddenly stopped, and the
mystery was explained. A green tree-
frog had taken up residence in the tin
and the snake had gone in after it. The
frog’s screams —frogs do scream when
caught—had been amplified by the tin.
Standing-off (the snake at first sight
appeared to be black), I noted the tell-
tale blue segments at the scale base and
went in bare-handed to add another
green tree - snake to my collection.
Ahaetulla punctulatus, though known as
the “green” tree-snake, may be black,
brown, green, olive, or (rarely) a
brilliant amethyst, but has a dead give-
away to the naturalist: the base of each
scale is blue. Of the family Colubrinae
(harmless snakes), he’s a useful member
of the community and a fairly good
mouser. My only reason for removing
him from the orchard was his taste for
frogs and small nestlings. Weighing-up
the profit-and-loss I think that my finches,
doves and frogs are too valuable to be
killed off.
J.O.


THE ANT-LION'S SHARE
Those confirmed prohibitionists, ant-
lions, have often made me wonder
how they get on for a drink—assuming
they need a drop to keep them going.
I’ve seen their nests, and blown them
o ut, within feet of high-water mark on
the eastern Queensland coast; they make
similar traps and seem equally at home
from that 70in rainfall region right out
to the country about Boulia in the west
with its sizzling temperatures and scant
10in annual fall.
One place where l took particular note
of them was on a bare claypan patch
on the high downs of the Barkly Table-
lands. They were in the 15in fall there ;
but the thermometer was over lOOdeg. on
the cork of the waterbag ; the air was
so dry it was crisp enough to snap if a
man bent it; and those bug-like insects
had only a scant covering of dust to shield
them from the sun ; and the winds poured
in over endless leagues.
Though there are tons of ants —blacks
and reds —along the watercourses and in
the coolibahs on the Barkly, out on the
downs they just don't gather; they're
rare. But that collection of lions' holes
on the claypan would indicate that hunt-
ing was good. Any wandering ant, far
from home, attempting to thread its way
through that maze of conical holes, would
surely blunder into one of them. Once
in, the fellow at the bottom would prevent
the ant from ever escaping up those
slippery-sided walls: he’d bombard the
escapee with dust if it looked like making
it up. Once it floundered to the bottom
the ant-lion’s strong claws would snap
off its life ; then a probe would be in-
serted to suck out its juices.
More than likely, the victims, rare
though they might be, would supply the
lion with all the moisture it needed for
support until it changed into a lace-
winged fly to start a new cycle. But
from where, about five miles out from
water, with a nine-month rainless period
a certainty, did the ant get its drink?
Presumably it needed a drink occasion-
ally in that 140 in evaporation area.
Without definite proof. I reckon the
ants get their drinks from the grasses —
not from the stuff on top, which is tinder-
dry and brittle as glass, but from the
storage of moisture in the roots.
As manager of a station, I was having
some necessary pits sunk for certain out-
houses. In one pit, about 6ft x 6ft and
down nearly 6ft. 1 was surprised to note
some Mitchell-grass roots. Though it
was nearing the dry end of a dry year,
those roots were pulpy, apparently carry-
ing any amount of sap. Looking about
further, I noted some ant tunnels. In
fact, an odd ant or two missed its foot-
ing and fell to the bottom of the pit.
Red blokes, they appeared to be sleek,
well-fed, in good condition. Apparently
the grass-roots supplied them with drink ;
and the ants handed on the requisite
ration to the lions.
I decided on the spot that there were
a whole lot of things I'd sooner be than
an ant-lion.
HENRY G. LAMOND
That Was the Country
Sofala, on the Turon River (N.S.W.) ,
and the scene of certain events in Boldre-
wood’s “Robbery Under Arms”, besides
being famous for its early diggings, etc.,
is the most peculiarly-built town in
N.S.W. The main street is about half a
chain wide, and the lanes abutting on it
are so narrow that through some two
horsemen cannot ride abreast. The houses
are literally packed together; some night
a fire will break out and demolish the
whole lot in double-quick time. From a
township, in the early days, of 15 or 20
hotels, and with a population of 20,000,
Sofala has dwindled down to two pubs
and a total of 300 inhabitants. The two
dredges support what remains of the
town, and when they depart Sofala will
join Tyre and Nineveh, and other lost
properties of the sort.
— “Bulletin”, June 8, 1905.
The inebriate who pervades the bush
drunkery has a profound scorn for city
manners. Struck a wayside pub one hot,
dusty evening and inquired for the bath-
room. The publican sarcastically observed
that “he would have had one built if he’d
known I was coinin’,” and showed me to
the horse-trough. Several drunks, who
were listening, appeared to regard my
desire for water as a personal grievance,
and for hours afterwards they kept on re-
marking loudly: “It's time yer went and
had yer bath. Bill" or “Wait till I finish
curlin’ me ’air.’’ Later on, when they
found I had left my boots outside the
door to be polished, they came and
pulled off the blankets to examine me
closer. I kicked one in the stomach, and
threw the rest outside before they realised
things; but 10 minutes later they returned
with a bottle of whisky, and explained
that they had thought I was “a blarsted
new-chum!” —•“ Bulletin”, May 11, 1905.
Most outback publicans do their own
killing, to their neighbor’s discomfiture.
But it works out all right in the end. “I
had dinner at Hogan’s today,” remarked
one of my acquaintances, “and I’ll swear
I ate my own meat.” “I hope the change
agreed with you,” said his hearer.
— “Bulletin”, October 29, 1898.
ONE MAN’S MATE
IT WAS 4.15 in the morning. The
stationmaster and his assistant at the
junction were doing some returns.
“ ’Ere, get these, will yer. Bill. Are yer
there, Bill? ’Ere, Bill, get these, will yer.”
“Yair. All right.”
The stationmaster began to read:
“Truck number 4372 C ex Darling 'Arbor
. . He read a full sheet of figures and
destinations and loadings in a monoton-
ous sing-song: “ 'Ave yer got that?
“Got what?”
“Gawd! Didn't yer get it?”
“Nah.”
“You was supposed to write ’em down. ’
“Aw.”
“Git one of them forms there —no, one
of them others yair, that’s the one.
Orright now. Are yer ready? Well, ’ere,
get this. Truck number 4372 C ex Darling
’Arbor . . .”
E.C.R.


The Red Page
A Glimmering
Mouse of Cards
By DONALD HORNE
British Foreign Policy Since the Second
World War. C. M. Woodhouse.
Hutchinson. 495. 9d.
TT is easy enough to enjoy a book
* like this if you have the kind of
compulsion that makes you want to
go on remembering the difference be-
tween the Pflimlin Plan and the Pleven
Plan. In fact I read myself to sleep
with it for several nights. Every “crisis”
of the last 15 years (except most of the
South American ones) is ticketed and
for anyone whose interests are likely
to demand a quick way of remember-
ing what A.M.F.O.G.E. meant this
chronicle is as good as any other.
But it is more interesting than that.
It is delicately larded with assumptions
about what British foreign policy is—
so delicately that you don’t really pick
up the flavor of it unless you pull the
larding strips out and chew them
separately. If you take the trouble to
do this you get a very strong flavor
indeed —of optimism about Russia and
indifference to Asia that is worth
examining in detail, since there is no
doubt that Mr Woodhouse represents
at least one opinion in the British
Foreign Office and it is the kind of
opinion that has no relevance, except
a hostile one. to the interests of Aus-
tralia.
Throughout a very “soft” view is
taken of China. British recognition
is mentioned as if it were a matter of
“realism” and form. The facts that
there are no normal diplomatic rela-
tions between Britain and China and
that to China “recognition” involves
recognition of its claim to Formosa
and that a seat on the United Nations
means the exclusion of Formosa are
not mentioned. It is quite extraord-
inary how consistently the British—
and those Australians who take the
British line —gloss over the real facts of
recognition. Otherwise China occurs
now and again rather shapelessly. In
the last paragraph it assumes a slightly
menacing shadow for half a sentence
but evaporates in the second half of
the sentence and that’s that. Some
of the tone towards China can be
understood from this sentence: “. . . .
the American attitude towards Com-
munist China had grown increasingly
hard, while some of their allies be-
came increasingly uneasy and inclined
to share the Indians’ qualms about
the division of Asia.” Britain is re-
corded as me-tooing every American
statement or action in the crises of
the 1950’5, but more in the form of
someone standing by an ally, than
following a matter of principle.
The full horror of the mixture of
short-sighted cupidity and sheer non-
sense that makes up this kind of Bri-
tish attitude to our part of the world
comes through in the chapter devoted
to small states and new nations. The
Middle East (“the most vital area of
all in the post-war period”) and Africa
are given a good, detailed running over
and the dangers of Soviet intervention
in those areas are not ignored. How-
ever when it comes to Asia there is
no mention at all of Chinese inter-
vention (although it has been marked
by successes that the Russians have
not yet scored in the Middle East) and
there is an extraordinary summing
up:—
By comparison with Africa, Asia
was lucky in the post-war period
.... once the situation was accepted,
it seemed to make relatively little
difference to the vital interests of
the Western Powers, which were eco-
nomic. Trade continued to flow in
the channels to which it was accus-
tomed, despite independence ; though
where independence was accom-
panied by Communism, political
barriers were sometimes deliberately
put in the way.
Laos had to be held, because if it
fell to the Communists, Thailand might
go—and then Malaya, which is what
matters. Just as the British seemed
to do nothing during the Japanese War
except fool around with Burma, their
policy in South East Asia seems to
be concerned mainly with safeguarding
their trade interests in Malaya. “The
strategic interest of Britain in the area,
and therefore the purpose of Britain’s
participation in Seato, is to defend
the economic interest: access to the
raw materials, and trade routes to and
from their sources, and beyond them
to and from Australia and New Zea-
land.” That economic interests might
be related to political policy is not
mentioned.
In a short term way all of this is
of a piece with the central assumption
of the book, that one of the two main
tasks of British foreign policy is “to
remain a great commercial power,”
(the other, of all things, is “to main-
tain the English language .... in its
place as the first in the world”!). With
Kuwait alone supplying half of Britain’s
oil and holding in reserve more oil
than the North American continent,
it is easy to understand Britain’s
continued preoccupation with the
Middle East; and her political and eco-
nomic commitments in Africa keep her
preoccupied there. But Asia is now
simply a great trading post where Com-
munism is only significant when “politi-
cal barriers [to trade] are deliberately
put in the way.” The fact that this
policy is short-sighted, indeed stupid,
even from its own point of view makes
it hard for Australians to accept its
existence. But there it is—and thank
God for America!
On the world view (which means in
this context primarily Europe and the
Middle East, with Africa as an appen-
dage), while there are at least a num-
ber of mentions of Russia, there is a
certain fastidiousness in talking about
the cold war as a political struggle
which, if lost, would mean the end of
Britain, not to mention the English
language. It is surveyed a little dis-
tantly as a mechanistic struggle between
two alien powers. “A tragic cycle of
action and reaction was set in motion,
to which it was increasingly difficult to
trace an origin or foresee an end.”
Regret is expressed for “the open antag-
onism of the U.S.A. and U.S.S.R.
which had turned the Security Council
virtually into an instrument of the
cold war.”
The Americans are seen as rigid, in-
flexible, undiplomatic. “In March and
April 1959 American aircraft were
deliberately flown to Berlin at heights
exceeding 10,000 feet which the Soviet
authorities declared to be illegal and
provocative .... In many respects
the Americans seemed to seek the
reputation of being tough and uncom-
promising, just as Soviet leaders did.”
This irritating piece of British imagina-
tion, trumpeted notoriously at the time
by “The Times,” brings out the essen-
tial triviality of the British view that
the Americans are too “truculent.”
The Pentagon was not showing its
toughness when it flew planes at that
height: it was establishing its right
to do so. Jet aircraft had taken over
since the Berlin airlift; if there had
to be another airlift jets would be
used and they fly above 10,000 feet.
If Khrushchev’s truculence had forced
a second airlift British jets would have
been flying above 10,000 feet, too, in
another slightly grudging me-too.
Mr Woodhouse goes into a bit of a
wobble on summits. At first he states
the “cynical” view: “such conferences
are themselves means of conducting
operations in the cold war .... to take
up positions in the eyes of the world, to
reject facts and charges, to make one’s
opponents appear foolish and obstruc-
tive, or even to trap them.” Suddenly
he toes the line and finds in the last
outburst of summit diplomacy (the
British-inspired one) “a changing pat-


tern of relationships.” There is a
“trend towards flexibility and away
from rigidity .... a great increase in
two-way traffic.” All of this in the
“improved international atmosphere”
where “coexistence between the two
blocs had come to stay”;—
For Britain in particular the out-
look was encouraging, since Britain
was not a power that wishes to
bring about radical changes in the
world but to live with the world as
it was. British policy .... is not to
achieve objectives but to protect
interests.
Protecting interests is, of course, a
pretty fair kind of policy. If British
diplomacy (apart from its linguistic
role) is concerned primarily with pro-
tecting Britain’s commercial interests
and to hell with, say, Australia’s in-
terests in the political position in Asia,
that is a policy which Britain might
legitimately follow. But she can hardly
expect us to follow it. Our whole
existence is staked on that particular
table. So, in a longer run, is Britain’s.
This whole British policy of “self
interest” is a glimmering, beautiful
house of cards. The great purpose of
any foreign policy is not primarily
commercial (however vital that may
be) and certainly not cultural: it is
to survive. And a policy of disengage-
ment from the cold war is for Britain
a policy of slow suicide. Except in
Asia—which is too far away for Bri-
tain to seriously think about —it is not
even really followed. It is a dream
arising from pique that it is America
that finally sets the pace in the non-
Communist world. But it is a dream
that lurches now and then dangerously
near reality.
Detective Stories
r FHE other afternoon a young man
A appeared with the manuscript of a
detective story under his arm. “I am
writing this purely for the market,” he
said. “I like to know that if I spend
some time on a story it is at least going
to get into print. I’d put a paper-
weight on it if I were you. It’s so light
it will blow away.”
“Hold on,” I said. “Don’t despise
detective stories. They're just not
another branch of novel writing, you
know. They’re myths.”
The young man brightened up.
“You mean the detective is a culture
hero?”
“Not quite. You’ve read Raymond
Chandler’s apologia for the detective
story?”
“Superficial.” The intelligent young
man added that he preferred the detec-
tive as a culture hero.
“No, let's trace it. At first I was
inclined to think that the great popu-
larity of detective stories was due to
the concealed death wish in readers,
that the hero of every detective story
was the corpse. Everyone in an over-
driven civilisation has this death wish,
and the detective story satisfies it. Then
I went on to study the patterns and
problems of detective stories—the
actual unravelling. I realised that many
people who read detective stories had
problems that appeared to them insol-
uble. When they read this form of
fiction they knew that before they laid
down the book the problem of who
killed the victim would be solved.
They were able to project their own
problem into this symbol problem
which was going to work out. Then
I asked myself if there wasn’t another
factor. Who gets killed oftenest?
“The sacrificial virgin!” the young
man caught on quickly. “She is young,
beautiful . .
“But not usually virgin.”
“She often turns out better than she
was supposed to be at first.”
“Granted. But at least she is flaw-
lessly beautiful. She is the sex or
fertility sacrifice. But how would you
account for the rich aunt who has a
crowd of relatives waiting for her to
die? The old queen of the hive being
killed?”
“She represents outworn power,
doesn't she? And that goes for the rich
old man. He is the ancient god-king
who dies when he loses potency.”
“Right! Back to the mystery
religions. How many times do you
find that the killing is done to protect
a secret? There are dark caves and
winding passages—all the pre-birth
symbols which the mystery religions
used, holding their rites in the bowels of
the earth.”
“I want to get back to the culture
hero,” the young man said impatiently.
“What about Lord Peter Whimsey and
Campion? What about Perry Mason?”
“O.K. They're culture heroes if you
like. The British aristocracy repre-
sents some outmoded traditional idea
of power, much the way children play
kings and queens. But the detective
represents a divine order compared to
the police, who represent an earthly
order. Perry Mason is so often opposed
to the police that it becomes funny.
What is he? A Fury in a fast car
uncovering wrong-doing earthly law
has overlooked?”
“Say a messenger of the gods. The
Greeks would have understood. The
gods punished hubris —overweening
pride and conceit. Every criminal
undiscovered is the presentment of
hubris.”
“I’ll give you that one. Try this:
Why are American detectives so
violent? Why do they smash people
and get battered themselves and wake
up perfectly supernaturally healthy
next morning to gargle their teeth
with whisky? The whisky alone would
put me to bed for the day.”
“Well, they really are superhuman.
But the violence? Let’s see —got it!
Remember your ‘Golden Bough’ and
the combat between the priest king—-
that’s the wily old criminal—and the
challenger, the detective? The young
man always wins in the end —the detec-
tive.”
We were pleased with the game we
were playing.
The young man said, “What about
Sherlock Holmes, the omniscient, the
master of disguise? Remember Ches-
terton’s remark that it is the criminals
who have the immemorial respect-
ability of bears and wolves and when
the detective follows them to their den
it is he who is the sport, the divergence
from humanity and its usual behavior.”
“To Hell with Sherlock Holmes—
he’s just another messenger of the
gods. Have you ever noticed how
insignificant murder is visually? Look
at TV. Even the kids get bored. But
reading about a murder the man-
behind-the-eyes projects his own
horrors into it. That’s why it’s more
satisfying to read about a murder. My-
self I prefer to find the corpse on the
library hearth-rug in the first chapter.
Then I like an ordinary heavy-footed
official cop to plod from clue to clue,
breathing heavily and brushing the
dandruff off his collar. None of your
frills and brilliance, just sheer hard
work.”
The young man was waiting to
interrupt. “Why do women write so
many detective stories? They’re usually
full of wacky characters.”
“That’s silly. Why not say, why do
women write at all? They’re probably
more interested in people, that’s all.
Men prefer a social pattern.”
“My story,” the young man said
modestly, “is a Social Pattern. It’s all
about blackmail and people cannot go
to the police because it would destroy
their reputation to have it known. The
first murder does not happen until half-
way through the book.”
“The secret is preserved, eh? The
mystery religion of social respectability
is intact. By the way —one murder
isn’t enough, you know; except for the
perfect form of the long short story.
To sustain the interest to full novel
length you need the Subsequent
Murder and the Climacteric Mur-
der . . .”
“What about the substitute murder
in which someone else is substituted for
the victim, just as in ancient religion
a horse or a slave was substituted for
the king? Anyway,” the young man
glanced at his watch, “give me a ring
and tell me what you think of it.”
“I will,” I said, scowling, “I will.”
Kylie Tennant


LEARN TO
WRITE
SUCCESSFULLY!
Many Stott Students pay for their course
before completing: it.
Stott Students are taught how to write
stories that sell and are advised by the
College of the names and addresses of
reputable Literary Agents in various
countries who may be trusted to handle
Students’ MSS to the best advantage. If
YOU have a story to tell, learn how to tell
it. This lucrative field of Authorship is
wo'ting to pay well for good work.
Stotts Correspondence College
- i.nuers Lane, Melbourne; 149 Castle-
reagh st., Sydney; 2S!O Adelaide St., Bris-
bane; 21 Grenfell St., Adelaide; 254 Murray
St., Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
TO STOTT’S; Please send me, without any
obligation, .vour Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
(SB 861)
AGE
“Prodigious Vitality”
Australians. Nine Profiles. John
He.herington. F. W. Cheshire. 30s.
“THE profile writer suffers from too
many handicaps. He should ideally
have the insight of a novelist yet he
canno. invent situations to illustrate
his ins gh s. He is supposed to have
the ob ectivity of an historian yet he
cannot pass judgment with the his-
torian's detachment. At the very least
he is supposed to be honest yet anyone
who react Peter Hasting’s article in a
recent “Bulletin” about his experiences
as an interviewer knows what trouble
that can lead to when the subjects are
still alive and their vanity is scratched.
It seems inevitable that at some stage
or other he will be charged with being
malicious or stoogey or dull or just
plain mistaken.
Nevertheless it is trade worth fol-
lowing. Who after all would wish that
the “New Yorker” had never invented
it? And as Norman Lindsay says
in his preface to this book by John
Hetherington. what a pity it is that
there was no profile writer around a
generation back to leave us profiles of
A. G. Stephens. Tom Collins. Arthur
Streeton. Henry Lawson and the rest.
Hetherington avoids most of the pit-
falls of the trade in these nine profiles.
If he has a weakness it is gentleness —
excusable since most of the subjects
are friends of his, but a weakness all
the same when the real theme of the
book is “Prodigious Vitality” (words
Hetherington seems particularly fond
of). One feels that such Prodigiously
Vital men as George Vasey who led
the 7th Division on the Kokoda Trail,
Hugh D. Mclntosh who among a dozen
other entrepreneurial feats introduced
American-style fight-promoting to
Australia and Australian style milk
bars to England, or Damien Parer who
revolutionised battle photography and
introduced the technique of standing
between enemy fire and Australian fire
in the Western desert in order to re-
cord the real expressions on men’s
faces in battle —that such men and
others like them could not be the ami-
able chummy chaps Hetherington often
presents. Vitality of this kind surely
involves such a degree of un-matey
tension that without a warts-and-all
picture one feels cheated.
But if Hetherington does not take
us to the heart of the mystery he always
gives us enough to whet the appetite.
As well as the people mentioned he
also deals with Harry Hopman, Phillip
Law, Chester Wilmot, Sir Keith Mur-
doch, Alan Marshall and Peter Russo.
He always gives the facts about their
public character and achievements and
incidentally provides a picture of Aus-
tralian life principally in the ’thirties
and ’forties.
The one profile where Hetherington
drops his formula must be mentioned.
When writing about Sir Keith Murdoch
he forgets all about gentleness and
produces a chapter which is the most
readable of all but is at the same time
the most superficial. It is also the most
bitter. Yet he knew Murdoch well.
Is this what happens when a gentle
man really rubs up against Prodigious
Vitality?
P.C.
Three Poets
Poems. Wilfrid Noyce. Heinemann,
18s. 9d.
The Collected Poems of Andrew
Young. Illustrated by Joan Hassall.
Hart-Davis, 31s.
The Drunk in the Furnace. W. S.
Merwin. Hart-Davis, 15s. 6d.
'THESE three books represent the
A work of two “professors” and one
“amateur” of poetry to use those words
in a slightly archaic sense. Wilfrid
Noyce, the “amateur,” is better-known
as a mountaineer —a member of the
successful Everest expedition.
His poetry recalls very much the
sort of thing that several hundred years
ago educated gentlemen delighted to
write —were almost expected to write.
Noyce is too intimately aware of
mountains to write very well of them:
awe of and respect for their grandeur
overcome him. or his talent and
vocabulary are unequal to his inten-
tion, but (rather like the Elizabethan
soldier poets who wrote so well of
women and so little of war) he has
pleasant and even quite profound things
to say about kindlier places than the
Himalayas and about people.
Andrew Young has been writing
pleasant short poems descriptive of
the English countryside for some 50
years. His output is large, and this
volume is definitive for those of his
shorter poems that he wishes to pre-
serve. It includes also a long radio
dramatisation “Nicodemus” in which
his strong religious feelings are far less
tellingly expressed than by implica-
tion in the lyrics which, read in num-
bers, add up to a most impressive
statement of belief and mystical con-
jecture.
Young possesses, too, a good, strong
wit that aids and enhances his Words-
worthian eye—“ From their long
narrow beds/Asparagus raise reptilian
heads”—and a care for structure and
language that scarcely needs Leonard
Clark’s introductory samples of his
revisions of some poems to make it
obvious. Joan Hassall's wood engrav-
ings, as in any book she illustrates,
decorate the text most beautifully,
fittingly and unobtrusively.
W. S. Merwin is an American poet
who, according to the blurb, surprises
his publishers by writing books of
poetry that sell quite well. In a sense
it is truly surprising, because Merwin’s
poems are by no means easy to grasp
immediately, and the forms he employs,
sometimes tight and traditional, some-
times looser and sometimes clumsy, or
varying within a quite short poem,
often seem to be struggling, oddly at
variance with the poems they contain.
But the point is, probably, that they
contain genuine poetry and that, unlike
some other American poets, when
Merwin has said what the poem has
to say he finishes just there. Then
there is the matter of his vocabulary,
hardly colloquial, but easy, of his time,
and large and varied.
Merwin’s themes are diverse —he
writes of the sea, the city, the land-
scape (often a rather harsh, poor, rural
landscape), but almost all his scenes
are peopled and his main interest,
however indirectly expressed, is in the
human condition and frequently in the
continuity of human experience which
he views with pity, irony and. even
when he finds humanity sordid, respect.
His vision of people, his objectivity
about them even when he is most
speculative, reminded this reader of
Thomas Hardy—Merwin has much of
Hardy’s almost mystic honesty.
Nancy Keesing


Greene in the Congo
A Burnt Out Case. Graham Greene.
Heinemann. 20s.
Mr Greene tells us in his dedication
that this book “is not a ‘roman a
clef,’ but an attempt to give dramatic
expression to various types of belief,
half-belief and non-belief in the kind
of setting, removed from world politics
and household pre-occupations, where
such differences are felt acutely and
find expression.”
We have, of course, long since ceased
to expect pleasant settings from Mr
Greene, but this one, a leper-mission on
a river in the Belgian Congo, is particu-
larly nasty, especially when portrayed
with his usual vivid economy of descrip-
tion. And what is “a burnt out case”?
It is a mutilated leper who, though cured,
retains in his sub-conscious mind “the
mark of injury.” Such a one is the
native servant, Deo Gratias, with neither
fingers nor toes, who longs inarticulately
for “Pendele,” the place of childhood’s
innocence. More searching is the purely
spiritual mutilation of his master,
Querry, the famous ecclesiastical archi-
tect who under the pressure of worldly
success has progressively lost his religion,
his life-work, and his capacity to love
and suffer, even to laugh: he exemplifies
the quotation from Dante at the head
of the book, “I did not die but nothing
of life remained.”
Querry has chosen at random to bury
himself in Africa, and we meet him first
as he writes in his diary, “I feel discom-
fort therefore I am alive,” while the
mission boat chugs uncomfortably up
the river, “thick, yellow, khaki colored.”
The mission doctor who meets the boat
has also abandoned faith, but has found
a substitute in a mystical view of
evolution, and in service to humanity.
Dr Colin is one of Mr Greene’s best-
drawn characters: alone among the lead-
ing people in the book, he is not centred
on himself as is Rycker, the “spoilt
priest,” or the scrupulous ill-adjusted
Father Thomas, or the journalist Parkin-
son who has forgotten truth, “a man
who carries his corruption on the surface
of his skin like phosphorus, impossible
to mistake.”
It is the odious Rycker, unwhole-
somely pre - occupied with mystical
theology, who first conceives the idea
that Querry’s spiritual emptiness is
really a sign of sanctity, “the dark night
of the soul”; he has surely fled to the
jungle to serve God through lepers, a
latter-day Schweitzer! This gives Parkin-
son his opportunity. “The Recluse of
the Great River—this is the name the
natives have given to the strange new-
comer to the heart of Darkest Africa!”
The story will have “widest syndication.”
Querry’s peace is shattered ; like his leper
servant, he dreams dimly of Pendele,
the place of lost innocence.
The working out of these ideas is
subtle ; every word of the characteristic-
ally mannered dialogue—and the book
is mostly dialogue—contributes to the
final denouement. But Mr Greene’s
wonted originality here fails him. The
comparison of leprosy with moral corrup-
tion is surely platitudinous, and the
As Much
in Your Anger
As much in your anger as when you
turn
Your head to hide a tear or hide a
smile,
Though grief is sweet and mockery
I’ll not scorn,
Though it scorn me, when you lend
each your style
Of pensive water-gazing till the pool
Clears where the thought went naked
—no, anger I’ll
Swear is your triumph, it’s irrational,
And you who are always, like water,
clear
And cool in your opinions, are not
clear at all.
Then it's my turn to turn, to shut an
ear,
For words are nothing ; only under
words
May 1 recall the context of that tear,
That smile that hinted, Strictly for the
birds,
An hour ago, before your grief and
spleen
Set up this splendid nothing on the
boards.
And since your love burns brightest
when I’ve been
Negligent in love, I swear, my dear,
If 1 could love you more, it would be
then.
A.C.T.
DAVID CAMPBELL.
"Comfort Me With
Apples”
Bring me comfort from a red tree
With your hand under my head
Your fingers swelling my dress:
Love is a sickness within me.
Pacing my thronging blood
With apples cool and sweet
I will swallow their white food:
Peel them and let me eat.
QUEENSLAND.
C. Y. FRANKLIN.
City Beaches
Here in the heat we lie
Tanned strangers side by side,
The classic boys, gold - brown and
flexing muscle,
Bikini girls arch-bosomed in their
pride ;
While silken waves
Sing every symphony, beat every beat,
Black eyes and brown and blue flick
softly down
To win the mute response alive and
sweet.
And cradling sand
Smells strong and salty as the sea,
but fire
Mingles in the grains, and sweating
skin
Delicately winces, and desire
Warms the body slowly as the sun
Kindles eye and soul. Sun-lovers lie
Ranked and close, glance subtly at
their chosen
Or stare upwards like slaves to
summer sky.
Down in the water there are sparks
and flame
Falling from the sun and sharks re-
turn
Silver-keen as swords below the froth ;
But no one thinks of them. The
lovers burn
Enjoying it, and yawn along the shore
And kiss with stealth and smilingly
clasp hands,
And shut their minds to misery and
winter,
And press their cheek to the delicious
sands.
Transistors, thin as flakes, croon
lonely tunes,
But no one’s lonely here. The sen-
suous light
Allures each soul and body into webs
Of glitter-magic, and the gull’s calm
flight
Prints arcs of radiance across the
brain,
And slumbrous voices sound like
music of
Whispered spells on beaches long ago
When man and woman took the sun
and love
With innocence and passion, when the
free
Lay in glow and laughter by the sea.
Down in the water shells are sharp as
blades,
And sharks roll over, grinning, and
the swell
Blackens in the emerald of its core —
But no one thinks of that. The
bathers tell
Tranquil tales along the blaze of noon
And plan the brilliant triumphs that
will come
When summer deepens to eternal
bronze
And surf sounds on a rock the golden
drum.
So many fathoms of the ocean wait,
So many miles of beach where,
drugged in dream,
They lie flat on their backs and know
themselves
Translated into tenderness and gleam.
N.Z.
PAULA HANGER BIRCH.


READ
THE NEW ECONOMICS
for a scientific analysis of economic
problems with constructive proposals for
their resolution.
Published monthly—annual subscription
£2/2/-.
Initial copy free without obligation.
Apply Hon. Secretary, New Economics
Association, 160 Whitehorse Road,
Blackburn, Victoria.
BOOKH U N I E R
l>" Itox S«7l. fi.r.O.. Sydney.
\ service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
lee only it successful.
BOOK SCOUT
J-ree search service for your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.0., Sydney.
denoument is even hackneyed. From a
psychological study worthy of Henry
James, the book descends to the level
of a contrived melodrama, when Querry
and Rycker’s wife spend the night talking
together in an hotel bedroom, and
Rycker, falsely believing that Querry is
the father of her child, takes a violent
revenge.
We have met Rycker’s wife, Marie,
before in Mr Greene’s work; she is
Helen Rolt in “The Heart of the Matter,”
ruthless in her seeming innocence. Mr
Greene specialises in such women ; to
him, the female of the species is certainly
more deadly than the male. We cannot
always tell what he thinks of his charac-
ters, but here he is unmistakable. When
Querry finds out the depth of Marie's
betrayal, “he was confronted with an
egoism more absolute than his own.”
The parallel with “The Heart of the
Matter” is close. Querry, like Scobie,
dies with a half-finished sentence on his
lips, though more enigmatically. Was he
still seeking Pendele, or was it the King-
dom of Heaven? And, as in “The Heart
of the Matter,” the book ends with a
P ries t defending both victim and culprit:
“We don't know enough about Rycker
to condemn him,” says the Mission
Superior.
Tense, swiftly moving, told with techni-
cal mastery, this book is absorbingly
interesting. But will Mr Greene ever
again give us anything so good as “The
Power and the Glory”?
CATHERINE MACKERRAS
Exploring the Universe
Radio Astronomy. F. Graham Smith.
Pelican. 10s. 6d.
you look at the sky at night you
see points of light. The planets are
exceptions; they look like little discs.
These points are due to radiations from
very hot bodies. It is interesting to think
about this radiation phenomenon.
Suppose we have an aerial of the sort
used for radio. If we feed it with electric
oscillations of the frequency of the power
mains (50 cycles/second) very little power
will radiate and the aerial can’t be
detected easily. As the frequency goes up
it gives off long radio waves which are
easily found with an ordinary radio set,
then short waves. If we go on up we will
detect it with aTV set. Later only very
special radio sets will find it. Then it
will feel warm —it will be radiating infra-
red rays or heat.
As the frequency rises it will become
visible: first red, then orange, then green
and finally bluish, violet and finally in-
visible again. Special detectors will pick
up ultra-violet and so on. All these
radiations are electromagnetic ; some are
visible, but only a few. Actually visible
light is only a tiny part of the total
spectrum of radiation possible. The pic-
ture we see with our eyes or with our
telescopes of the heavens tells us only
about those bodies which give out visible
light. Astronomers have found out a
remarkable lot about the universe with
this source of information only.
Since the war some wonderful methods
of working with very short radio waves
have been found. Radar depends on
such waves and needs extremely sensitive
detectors. When a radar set is pointed
at the sky it detects signals ; it picks up
radio stars. One of the pioneers in this
exciting field was John Bolton of Sydney,
who published his observations in 1947.
By using radar receivers we have acquired
new eyes with which to explore the
heavens.
As might be expected, our sun is a
powerful transmitter and radio methods
have helped a lot in understanding the
nature of the source of all our energy.
The mysterious sunspots and the fantastic
flares of the solar corona are beginning
to make sense. When we look away from
our solar system to the galaxy we find
many radio stars ; some are also visible
stars but many are not. So we are getting
a better picture of the galaxy in which
we live.
In 1054 Chinese astronomers saw a
new star burst into the heavens, what we
now call a supernova. This is today the
Crab nebula, a very powerful radio star
which has been closely studied. Because
its date of birth is known, its study throws
light on the origin of other nebulae.
Very precise methods of studying the
radio heavens have now been developed.
The Mill’s cross developed in Sydney is
one such achievement; Jodrell Bank also
has wonderful apparatus. The result of
all this is a thorough exploration which
has thrown much light on the distribu-
tion of matter in the universe. Such work
may well help to settle the debate between
the idea of a creation date when the
universe burst into being and has gone
on flying apart ever since (expanding
universe) and the self-creating steady-
state universe which has been advertised
in recent years.
Less exciting but quite interesting is the
way radio techniques have shown that
the moon has a fairly steady temperature
below the surface and is covered by sand
or dust; that the clouds of Venus are cold
but her body mighty hot; that Jupiter
has terrific thunderstorms.
This book by Dr Graham Smith is an
account of the adventures of radio
astronomers, who are quite a new sort of
scientist. The findings even at this early
date are really exciting.
W. G. WHITTLESTONE
Pasternak
The Last Summer. Boris Pasternak.
Penguin. 4s. 6d.
¥>rimarily a poet and a translator, Boris
-* Pasternak has given the West few
chances to evaluate his contributions to
letters. (Russia itself is hardly more
favored, at least with larger works.) And
“The Last Summer” is peculiarly in-
adequate to relieve the deficiency. It is
obviously part of an unfinished work; no
more than an introduction. In common
with other Russian translations it suffers
additionally from difficulties which have
been underlined by Edmund Wilson, in
that the Russian grammar, with its limita-
tions of tenses, actually forces a different
interpretation of past time upon the mind,
and that this is not easily adjusted in
translation.
The nature of the fragment brings
more obscurity: Serezha, the protagonist,
comes to stay with his sister, rests until
her husband comes home, and in a
dream - state, half-waking, recalls the
events of a summer of some years before.
The book ends with his rest period.
Clarity is still further in hazard because
at this stage of the work Serezha has not
emerged as a character interesting in him-
self ; nor has he made contact with people
or situations which lift his confused
remembrances into an interesting
category.
My first clear reaction was to classify
Pasternak as a writer who occupies a
position exactly and exquisitely antago-
nistic to that held by John O'Hara, with
his gift of total recall and his abjuration
of metaphor. But a better comparison
is that which may be made with William
Faulkner. It seems to me to provide the
key of the problem, locked since Paster-
qak’s death last year, of why he made no
attempt to carry on with this long-estab-
lished project; of why, indeed, his com-
pleted novel output was practically limited
to “Dr Zhivago.”
For Faulkner circulates his subject,
driving in from the circumference of an
observatory circle to its centre, pinning
his subject in such a way that there is
no escape, probing and analysing in a
drive which becomes increasingly effective
with its progress. Pasternak, from the
centre, moves outward, as the ripples
move outward from a disturbance in the
ocean until they are lost. His energy
and our interest dissipates ; beautiful as
the effect may sometimes be, its eventual
and swift diffusion is obvious from the
moment of first contact. And not only
is the entire work played diminuendo;
each smaller segment within it seems to
have been given the same treatment.
OLAF RUHEN




Dilatoriness with Decimals
/"Tear indications are urgently
needed as to whether the
Commonwealth Government
intends to so ahead with plans
for the introduction of decimal
currency in Australia or not.
So long as the Government
delays in giving any clear clue
on this question, all manner of
Australian enterprises, from the
makers of accounting machines
to the publishers of school text-
books, are immobilised because
they cannot afford the losses to
be involved in making the
wrong guess.
Quite apart from the question
whether the introduction of
decimal currency here is desir-
able or not, there can be no
question at all about the over-
whelming need that Australian
business has for an announce-
ment as to what the Govern-
ment intends to do in this
matter so that it can lay its
plans accordingly. This has
been known ever since the find-
ings of the Decimal Currency
Committee became known
many months ago, and still the
Government delays.
There is no reason to doubt
the Federal Treasurer, Mr Holt,
when he say that the introduc-
tion of decimal currency is “a
complex matter which requires
careful examination,” but
surely there has already been
time enough for “careful
examination," especially as re-
ports on the currency-changing
experiences of other countries
in recent years are available
for study, and have been so for
a long time.
Tn the post-war period, nine
-■-countries have made a change
to decimal currency—including
India, where the problem of
illiteracy might have been
thought to set up insuperable
barriers to effective currency
change, and South Africa,
which had internal and inter-
national problems sufficient to
have excused postponement of
currency change till quieter
. times—and still Mr Holt speaks
of “difficulties” as if a com-
pletely new area of experience
and action confronts him.
The confusion his delay is
causing in a wide field of Aus-
tralian activities is occasioning
losses and inefficiency which
are a quite ridiculously wasteful
“overture” to all the savings
and all the increases in effici-
ency that the decimal system,
once introduced, is expected to
achieve.
T>ossibly it is Mr Holt’s atti-
tude that Australia should
do nothing until the attitudes
of Britain and New Zealand
on decimal currency are clari-
fied. but how does he justify
this temporising in the light of
the fact that the Common-
wealth Government has already
expressed its approval of deci-
mal currency “in principle” and
has already set up an expert
committee to show how the
conversion can be carried out?
The practical consequences
of delay on this question are
well known to all business
organisations. In industry and
commerce, many firms are
anxious to mechanise their
office and accounting opera-
tions in order to increase
efficiency. They know that if
they go ahead with mechanisa-
tion before the decision is
made, they could well find
themselves facing the prob-
lem of reconverting their new
machines from £.s.d. to deci-
mals, at a cost that for big firms
could run into many thousands
of pounds.
According to a newsletter
from the Victorian Employers’
Federation, “this enforced
delay means that they must
continue to operate at a lower
level of efficiency, so long as
they are kept in doubt as to
which currency they will be
operating in in the future.”
“There is also an organisa-
tional factor involved,” the
newsletter continues. “It is not
merely a question of deciding
which sort of machines shall
be used, but also one of deter-
mining office procedures. One
of the advantages of decimali-
sation is that in some instances
it can lead to the elimination of
some calculating operations. If
we remain with £.s.d. this elimi-
nation cannot be achieved. If
decimals are introduced, re-
planning of procedures will be
involved. This type of plan-
ning cannot be undertaken in
the present uncertain situation.”
Tn education circles, there is
mounting concern at the
time being wasted in teaching
schoolchildren the present
monetary system which, if the
Government is serious about
introducing decimal currency
at ail, they will never use in
adult life.
“Decimal currency is not a
sectional issue that will benefit
one section of the community
only,” says the Victorian Em-
ployers’ newsletter. “Its ulti-
mate benefits in direct savings
and in increased efficiency will
be spread throughout all sec-
tions of the community. Added
to all these factors, is the fact
that the longer we delay the
more expensive it will become
to make the changeover. Con-
versely, the quicker the conver-
sion is made, the greater the
economic advantages to be
obtained.
“What are we waiting for?”
L.B.
Tax-choked H.P.
HThe Commonwealth Govern-
ment can expect practic-
ally no revenue at all from its
decision to tax borrowings
made by hire purchase com-
panies from the public, above a
certain allowed figure—simply
because, not being able to
afford the tax, the companies
will cut their borrowings to a
level at which they escape it.
Although it is true that the
Government's measures were
not introduced as a revenue-
raising device, but as a restraint
on public expenditure on con-
sumer goods, home-made and
imported, it is questionable
whether this “suffocation” of
the instruments of hire pur-
chase really avoids more total
economic damage than it
generates. At a time when
higher productivity is being
asked of every Australian work-
ing man, it could be folly to
quench his own economic in-
centives by putting such things
as motor cars, television sets
and washing machines frustrat-
ingly out of his reach. If he
is to work harder, it is his right
to know that he is working
harder for the things he wants
life to give him.
The hire purchase problem,
of course, is currently—and
necessarily—under review by
the Commonwealth, which per-
force must give an attentive
ear to such comments as those
made the other day by the new
chairman of the N.S.W. Divi-
sion of the Australian Hire
Purchase Conference, Mr R. E.
Honey.
“Hire purchase companies
cannot afford to pay tax on
money borrowed from the pub-
lic,” he said. “Our members
will not pay this tax —for the
simple reason that if they did
their profits would be auto-
matically reduced. The more
taxable funds they borrowed,
the more their profits would be
cut. This means that com-
panies would incur a loss in
any new business involving
them in taxation. They would
not be able to pay adequate
dividends to shareholders, and
their whole financial structure
would be endangered. This is
a simple arithmetical fact which
we have demonstrated, I be-
lieve, to the satisfaction of the
Federal authorities.”
ATr Honey said that confer-
ence members as a whole
had tapered off their borrow-
ings since November 15 to
avoid paying the new taxation.
This had forced them to curtail
business severely, “perhaps
more severely than the Govern-
ment anticipated.”
“The effects can be seen in
retrenchments in the motor and
electrical industries, a decline in
motor vehicle registrations, and
a fall in hire purchase outstand-
ings in January,” Mr Honey
added. “This, of course, was
intended by the Government
when it introduced the present
interim legislation. However,
we feel that the Government
has now achieved its objectives
and that there is accordingly no
necessity to introduce perman-
ent legislation to correct a
situation which no longer
exists.”


QUEENSLAND
INSURANCE
Co. Ltd.
Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE &
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies
throughout the World.
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters
Ideal for farms, stations and for
hot-water systems, and household
requirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last a
lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of “Curvi-
linear” Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic
Machines and Ellison Switch Gear.
Revolution in Buss Strait Shipping
By F. G. N. EWENCE
This week two new bridges
reach across Bass Strait as
the “container” ship South Esk
and the roll-on, roll-off cargo
ferry Bass Trader make their
first voyages from Melbourne.
They supplement and follow
the remarkably successful
vehicle and passenger ferry,
Princess of Tasmania (the
“Pot”). Like her, they are run
by the Australian National
Line.
Within a little more than
three years, at least seven new-
age vessels will be moving
vehicles and cargo almost un-
touched by human hands be-
tween Tasmanian and main-
land ports. No one could say
that the watersiders didn’t have
it coming to them. Tasmanian
sea communications to a degree
have been exempted from the
full malice of maritime unions,
but Tasmania more than any
ether State has suffered from
waterside sloth, cargo loss and
unpredictable disruption.
Air transport can and does
move urgent freight, to such
an extent that Launceston Air-
port has become Australia’s
third biggest cargo handler, but
air-freighting is expensive and
has to be selective. It would
be a lucky shipper who could
move cargo by air across the
strait for £4O a ton. Timber,
farm produce, machinery and
the heavier and less valuable
cargo may be left to rot on the
wharves.
Couth Esk’s coming has
given timber shippers their
first freight reduction in
memory—a cut of about 20 per
cent. (£1 a cubic ton) between
Northern Tasmanian ports and
Melbourne. The saving is
already effective, as William
Holyman and Sons anticipated
it with their conventional
timber ships last month. The
Princess of Tasmania gave
shippers no immediate rate re-
ductions, but they have en-
joyed substantial indirect
economies from reliable, punc-
tual and frequent cargo move-
ments.
Exclusively on the Mel-
bourne - Devonport run, the
‘Pot” carried 20,309 passen-
gers’ cars (many of them new
vehicles on delivery to Tas-
mania) and 11,528 commercial
vehicles in the year which
began with her maiden voyage
°n October 2, 1959.
The Australian National
Line’s general manager, Mr F.
J. Mercovich, said in New-
castle the other day that road
transport operators had been
queueing up for months to use
the Bass Trader, due to sail on
April 18 from Melbourne on
her first commercial voyage.
She will carry 63 loaded 32ft
semi-trailers, 22 14ft cargo
containers, timber packs and
unit cargo, and will relieve the
pressure on the “Pot,” which
must give priority to cars and
cannot take all commercial
vehicles offering.
Bass Trader will cross the
strait six times weekly, serving
Burnie, Devonport and Bell
Bay (one of Launceston’s deep-
water, down-river ports) in
rotation. She has two revolu-
tionary lightweight die s e i
engines which may readily be
removed for overhaul. The
engine undergoing service is
replaced by a third engine.
Stabilisers make the crossings
safe for wheeled cargo in rough
weather, a berthing propeller
in the bow speeds ner docking,
and her cargo can be unloaded
and a new cargo put aboard in
seven hours. In that time,
prime movers may take trailer
units to their destinations and
return with loaded trailers for
the outward voyage.
A ship of the Trader’s type is
not an efficient cargo
carrier. Her displacement is
3900 tons and she is rated at
1590 deadweight tons, but the
tare of the cargo - carrying
vehicles is considerable, even
without their prime - movers.
Her quick turn-around, free-
dom from pillage and cheap
cargo-handling more than com-
pensate for this on short voy-
ages.
South Esk, built as a bulk
wheat carrier, has been con-
verted to carry six-ton packs of
timber and general cargo in
standardised containers. She
has three 15-ton cranes to lift
and stow cargo. Timber packs
or containers are lowered
through the hatch, and then are
moved within the hold on plat-
forms. Her principal running
is likely to be between Laun-
ceston and Melbourne.
The William Holyman, now
building in the Newcastle State
Dockyard, is a 2000 deadweight
tons container ship. She has
been ordered by Holyman and
Sons, of Launceston, and is
the first Australian vessel de-
signed specifically for con-
tainers. The William Holyman
will have no winches, masts or
derricks. Four level luffing
cranes of 14 tons each will
operate through four folding
hatches into the one hold.
They will load or unload the
vessel in four hours, in stagger-
ing contrast to the delays
suffered by conventional ships,
which take about 10 days (if
all goes well) for the Mel-
bourne-Launceston round trip.
William Holyman will cater
specially for the large timber
trade out of Launceston, oper-
ating from King’s Wharf, 40
miles up the Tamar, on Laun-
ceston’s doorstep. She will
enter service later this year.
r>EFORE the end of 1962, the
Union Steamship Co. will
have a new ferry and a new
bulk carrier on the run between
Hobart and mainland ports.
Union’s managing director, Mr
H. H. Dobie, said in Hobart
recently that tenders would be
called in Australia and Britain
for these vessels during May.
One will be a 5500-ton
vehicle ferry and container
ship, exclusively for the
Hobart-Melbourne service, the
other a 2500-ton bulk carrier
to take cargoes such as news-
print to mainland ports. The
ferry is a bold venture, as the
journey is long for a vessel of
the type. In roll-on, roll-off
ferries, the savings in cargo
handling must be equated
against reduced carrying capa-
city. As the operating range
increases, the ship becomes less
and less attractive in its econo-
mics compared with a conven-
tional vessel.
That is why the A.N.L.’s
decision to build a big vehicle
and passenger ferry for the
Sydney-Tasmania service must
have involved protracted study.
This vessel, due in mid-1964,
will be of about 7000 tons
gross, with a service speed of
17 knots. She will take some
36 hours between Sydney and
Hobart, but considerably less
on the run from Sydney to her
alternative port, Bell Bay. Her
280 passengers will require
more elaborate accommoda-
tion than is provided for many
of the 334 passengers whom
the Princess can carry on her
14-hour strait crossing. The
Sydney ferry will carry about
150 vehicles, and it is probable
that she may be used for north-
ward runs from Sydney in the
winter.
The new ships are opening
eyes to the fact that Tasmania,
in many ways the pantry of
Australia, is no longer isolated
from the bulk of the Austra-
lian population. She is, indeed,
in the middle of the “popula-
tion crescent” stretching around
the coastal regions from Ade-
laide to Newcastle, and her
northern ports are as much on
the trunk shipping routes as
ports on the opposite side of
Bass Strait. The water which,
moat-like, has so seriously iso-


I-stab'ish°ri 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
■JACKSON &
. o'SUL UV'AJv
PTYLTD C
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney. London., New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS. BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
•‘JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
IS
THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE
CO. LTD.
branches throughout the
Commonwealth with repre-
sentatives and agents in
country centres.
Transacting
FIRE
MARINE
ACCIDENT
GENERAL INSURANCE
Hunter and A. Mcwilliams,
O’Connell Sts., Manager
Sydney.
lated her in the past from the
remainder of Australia is now
becoming neutral, if not actu-
ally favorable.
Home-made Research
VjUHiLE Australian industry
** should be placing greater
emphasis on the value of re-
search, it is clear that many
Australian enterprises are rely-
ing on overseas research and
shirking the responsibility of
doing it themselves.
“Sooner or later —and the
sooner the better —Australians
must develop their own skills
and techniques,” said the chair-
of the Sydney Stock Exchange,
Mr A. H. Urquhart, in his
address to members at the an-
nual meeting. “Aided, then,
by these special skills and tech-
niques, Australian exporters
should aim at markets where
our products can be tailored to
meet specific requirements.”
This need of research on the
spot was emphasised also by
the chairman of ihe Joint Coal
Board, Mr S. F. Cochran, in
his annual report. Where im-
proved coal production in
N.S.W. since the war has
largely been made possible by
research “purchased” from
U.S.A., it is important, accord-
ing to Mr Cochran, that this
dependence should not con-
tinue to the extent of exclud-
ing intensive local inquiry into
technical problems.
“The N.S.W. coal industry
. . . would not be playing its
full part if it were to depend
to too great an extent upon the
results of fundamental and
applied research abroad. Coal
is not a uniform substance ;
there is a tremendous variety as
between different seams and
different locations of the same
seam in Australia alone ; and
an equal, if not great, variety
as between different countries.
For this reason, we need our
own research activity if only
to supplement the results of
research abroad.”
Tankers Galore
'T'anker fleets now comprise
more than 30 per cent, of
the world’s merchant shipping.
The fleets are still growing in
number and individual size.
The average size of the
modern tanker is 18,000 tons
deadweight and nearly 200 of
the tankers are 40,000 tons or
more. The two largest, one of
104,520 tons and the other
of 106,400 tons, came from
Japanese shipyards in the last
two years. Two more of these
giants, each of 106,500 tons, are
being built in the United States,
Speculator’s Diary
Friday, April 14
r T''HE bears suddenly seem to
have gone underground for
the winter and the bulls look
ready to stampede again. It’s
not hard to find the reasons.
All the new issues are being
absorbed with remarkable ease;
a lot of tax has now been paid ;
credit is likely to become a
shade easier ; the London and
New York stock markets have
been booming ; and the econo-
mic outlook in Australia is
beginning to look brighter
again. So lam ready to plunge
into the fray again with some
old 1959-60 style zest.
But first I had to make that
promised review of my present
holdings in the light of their
interim reports. There is no
doubt that the interim report
season has been a good one for
me. Antill Ranger spoke of a
substantial profit rise and re-
mained pretty confident about
the rest of the year. Motels of
Australia’s report was in much
the same vein. Pick-Me-Up,
with tax provision earnings of
nearly 70 per cent, last year,
reported a still further rise in
sales and profits! My other
canned food stock, Tom Piper,
was also doing better, particu-
larly on the local market
apparently.
Wattyl, another stock with
an attractively high tax provi-
sion, also had a record half
year, although I’m finding it
increasingly hard not to take
my 33 per cent, profit here.
Meriea bumped the dividend
rate up sharply to a 10 per
cent, rate after a good profit
increase. Stocks and Holdings
still managed to earn 44 per
cent, to capital and sounded as
confident as ever.
On the blue metal-concrete
front. Pioneer Concrete all but
maintained its 40 per cent, earn-
ing rate and, what was even
more important, said profits
had continued to rise since
January 1 despite the downturn
in building. Bayview seemed
equally happy with the situa-
tion in Melbourne.
Hornibrook put the dividend
rate up to 10 per cent, and
revealed orders worth a healthy
£13.5 million. Marriekville
Holdings, as usual, was doing
better than ever and not even
the news of a premium issue
set the shares back much.
On all but one of these
stocks I am well in front, as
the table below shows, and that
is more than satisfactory as all
of them have been bought since
the dark days of November.
The exception is Stocks and
Holdings but, with a dividend
yield of 10 per cent, and an
earnings yield of 22 per cent.,
the price must rise soon.
The only stock that has let
me down is G. E. Crane which
reported lower, but satisfactory,
profits. Parbury Henty was
also a disappointment with
its cautious report, while F. W
Williams has still to break its
news and we probably won!
hear from Marley Reliance at
all in view of the takeover.
As far as G. E. Crane was
concerned, I decided to sell at
£5 12s. 6d. as that just gave me
my money back after taking
the £2 10s. dividend into
account. The sale also gave
me enough money to pay my
broker the £B5 I owed him and
still have £195 to spend.
With that I did the obvious
and bought right s —David
Jones, Concrete Industries and
N. B. Love. I bought all of
these last Monday which
meant that I just caught the
rising market in time.
Details of the week’s trans-
actions were:
SOLD
50 G. E. Crane at
£5/12/6 .. .. £2BO
BOUGHT
200 David Jones’ rts
at 4/10 .. .. £lOl
400 N. B. Love rights
at lid £94
200 Concrete Indus-
tries rts at 6/11 £96
The first two took care of
my £195 almost to the penny
after paying 5/- application
money on the David Jones’
notes and 3/9 on the N. B.
Love shares. Fortunately I
have until April 26 to pay for
my Concrete Industries.
The shares I now hold are:
Cost Car.
No. of Name of Total Per rent
Shares Company Cost Share Pr> te
200 Antill R. £123 12/- 14/3
400 Motels of A. 145 7/- 9/-
100 Pick-Me-Up 414 81/0 86/6
400 Wattyl 140 7/3 10/6
500 Meriea 105 6/4 7/1
300 Stocks Hold-
ings deferred 127 S/3 7/6
200 Tom Piper 235 23/- 24/3
400 Pioneer Con-
crete 334 16/3 16/S
200 Hornibrook 234 23/- 25/6
200 Parbury
Henty 174 17/- 16/3
200 F. W.
Williams 275 27/- 31/3
200 Marriekville 225 22/- 25/-
200 Marley
Reliance 16!) 16/6 I</J
300 Bayview 240 16/3 19/6
200 David Jones .«
notes 101 9/10 16/M
200 Concrete Ind.
rights 96 6/11 ?/'
400 N. B. Dove
contribs. 94 4/8 5/M


Shows
"The Seasons”
Haydn’s “Seasons” is one of those
multi-cantata works which, being mis-
taken for authentic oratorio
by the big choral societies,
usually receives the sort of
regimented, ritualistic oratorio-
style presentation which effectively nulli-
fies the spontaneity, freshness and dewy
disarmingness of the whole pretty in-
vention.
Certainly this was the conflict always
in evidence in the thoroughly respectable
and ordered performance of the work
given at Sydney Town Hall by the
Hurlstone Choral Society and the
Sydney Symphony Orchestra under
Adelaide’s Norman Chinner music
that is virtually conversational in its
manner of communication was being
delivered as if army drill were its true
climate. Frankly, wouldn’t it be a happier
inspiration, if very great numbers have
to be used in the work, to allow all the
women to dress at will and so impart some
atmosphere of secular informality and
hospitality to a work which is wholly
secular and wholly hospitable?
The choir performed adequately
enough, although, as usual where numbers
are great, suppleness and sprightliness of
rhythm were absentees. In no chorus
was this more apparent than in the num-
ber detailing the arrival of a summer
storm, thunder and all, for here the
voices were far too many for the “heaven
save us” drama to come through with
picturescue agitation, and the rhythms
were stiff as tombstones. Far better, no
doubt because of the slower beat and the
hymnic accumulation of tone required,
was the “God of Light” chorus which
brought the Spring section of the work
to an end. This whole number was
wonderfully full-throated.
The orchestral performance was no-
where less than competent; seldom more
than that. One rather had the idea that
the players found their casting as “bound-
ing lambkins” in this little passage of in-
strumentation or as low-down fish or as
buzz bees in the next naive and boring.
Haydn himself is supposed to have had
a certain contempt for this “Frenchified
stuff’ in Van Swieten’s adaptation of
James Thomson’s famous poem ; but one
can never hear it without feeling some-
thing of the delight that Papa Hadyn had
m playing such picturesque nursery games
with the resources that his most sophisti-
cated art gave him.
The solists were Valda Bagnall as the
Jane, Stewart Harvey as the Simon, and
Raymond McDonald as the Lucas —a
formal bunch of rustics. Miss Bagnall,
s, nging with sweetness and accuracy, is
still to be numbered among those women
artists for whom singing is not quite the
rr ? Us ic itself, but a decorative and
Picturesque activity. Mr Harvey, one of
Australia's most reliable singers, found
me baritone part’s tessitura a shade low
MUSIC
for him to project the part with full
confidence. Mr McDonald’s tenor was
secure and appealing, though with con-
siderably less color and sheen than in
earlier years.
Lindsey Browne
BRIAN BROWN RETURNS
Melbourne lost its oldest contemporary
jazz group when the Brian Brown
Quintet disbanded last year. Brown was
the first Australian musician to work in
the heartfelt though cerebral idiom estab-
lished by Charlie Parker. The so-called
“modern jazzmen” who preceded him
played slick monophonic stuff ; a super-
ficial impersonation of the real thing
which was little more than an extension
of Swing cliches and riffs with a few
more chords thrown in.
Brown gathered four other musicians
who knew and felt the jazz idiom ; when
the five instruments played the music
had five voices. Sometimes two instru-
ments sang in unison but never did they,
as the Swing bands did, use five or more
instruments as one voice.
Brown’s group immediately won the
respect of jazz musicians and soon built
up a sizeable following among Mel-
bourne jazz lovers. Their performance
last year in the Myer Music Bowl con-
cert during Cup Week showed that they
equalled many American bands. Thus,
the reappearance of three members of
that group, Brown himself on tenor sax.,
Dave Martin, piano, and Stew Speer,
drums, plus Dave Tolley on bass, is
noteworthy. The group plays every Sun-
day afternoon at Basin St. Jazz Centre in
Alan Lee’s Jazz Rehearsal.
Brown has developed his style after
listening to new men; his chief in-
fluences appear to be Getz and Rollins,
though his playing is never copyist. He
has a smoother melodic line than Rollins
and a more reflective quality. His play-
ing is moving, pungent at times, always
musical. Martin, in his solos, pursues
a more jagged, percussive line with
quick clusters of chords. Speer, the
potentate of Melbourne drumming, is a
jazzman to whom the word perfect can
be honestly applied. He keeps a steady
basic beat going alt the time, on sizzle
cymbal during tenor leads, ride cymbal
for piano solos, and makes an economic
use of bass, snare and cymbal embellish-
ments express all that drums should
express. Tolley is a most competent
bassist with a good tone and masterly
control of tempi.
Adrian Rawlins
ART
CEDRIC FLOWER
This artist shows 28 oils and water-
colors at Brisbane’s Johnstone Gallery
This really is a most gorgeous show by
an artist of no school, no coterie, no
obvious derivation. He has no gimmicks,
no obsessions, no psychology: he paints
with the object not of making social
commentary or expressing moods or
apocalyptic visions but simply, and how
strange!, to give pleasure. All the pic-
tures, except a couple of watercolors, are
a riot of color and only two are of
formal constructive design. They are the
work of a gentle but firm, strong-minded
sophisticated primitive in actual style,
with just a touch of amused satire.
The work has the directness and fresh-
ness of a bright childhood. Three lovely
things give us a record of terribly well-
behaved children, one of a big girl with
a cat (No. 1) serious and sure of herself
and, I am sure, a model child and no
trouble to her nice parents. In No. 9,
her little sisters are out for a drive in a
one-horse chaise ; they wear wide hats
and freshly starched white pinafores, still
free from wrinkles and stains. In No.
2 another sister is reading by herself in a
garden and is no doubt improving her-
self. A friend in the garden of her
father’s stark rectory with doors shut
and all blinds and windows down is
lying on her tummy—naughty thing—
also reading most likely an improving
book.
All these little girls are serious and
Christian and come out of illustrations
of moral books suited to the modest
tastes of the fans of Mrs Humphrey
Ward and other improving contemporary
writers. One other little girl, also in
starched pinnie is having an awful time
with two magpies evidently having
mating-time tantrums; she is running
away screaming from a horrid landscape,
to suit the mood of the subject, of
cactuses, brambles, rocks, nasty hillocks
done in a harmony of all the possible
colors that an artist ever put on a
palette. A still life of mixed flowers in
a vase of the period, circa 1840, came
straight off a sampler of the period, each
petal, each leaf meticulously painted in
with a glowing effect.
All this suggests an essential simplicity
—which would be quite wrong, as
Flower has a sweet imagination. Only
in that way could he get the accurate
note of the record he aims to show. This
is well illustrated by two travel ex-
periences. One is a room in Florence,
twin beds in repulsive black lacquer with
inlaid gold decoration, a round marble-
top table with an empty chianti bottle,
two straw-bottomed chairs and lest we
forget, the open window shows the
Duomo. A Paris sketch, a bistro with
bald patron in shirt-sleeves talking to a
gendarme ; the flat on the top floor has
a lonely geranium pot in the window
box. How nostalgic! Everything every-
where is flooded with light, and a huge
range of color is used, not to imitate life
or Nature but simply to make a beautiful
pattern and a beautiful picture, to give
pleasure to the eye.
Flower can paint formal stuff. “Yamba
Harbor” in a most pleasant zig-zag


rhythm with a range of softly undulating
hills above water in a light it reflects
to the sky, and “Country Town” in a
serene but ascetic open rectangle, show
Flower as he could easily be, a very
correct formal artist.
This artist is unique and gives immense
pleasure ; I have rarely enjoyed anything
more.
J. V. Duhig
ADELAIDE ART
The Royal S.A. Society of Arts
Autumn Exhibition reinforces one’s
suspicions that at the moment there are
more galleries, competitions and exhibi-
tions than artists’ works to fill them. And
yet there are waiting lists for galleries,
and young artists complain of neglect.
Whatever the reason, the standard of
this Autumn show is seasonably withered.
In the absence of freshness, there is
at least professionally competent work
from L. Dutkiewicz, Ruth Tuck, Brian
Seidel and Ostoja-Kotkowski, although
the latter’s big “Leda and the Swan” is
as empty of passion as it is calm in
its paint. Most professional of all are
two visiting Victorians, Douglas Bush
and Phyl Waterhouse, with big figure
studies, one almost dispensing with paint,
the other using it cloyingly. Amongst the
local newcomers, Isobel Wallman and
S. R. Ball are worth noticing, especially
for their crisp use of a highly selective
color range, even if both of them at this
stage clearly show the derivations of
their work.
Young and little-known artists really
do get their chance at the Pequeno
gallery at Glenelg, where even if the
quality has been uneven the enthusiasm
permeating the place is always refresh-
ing. The latest exhibition is of paintings
by Ron Adams, Michael Alexander and
John Wood and Ludwig Dutkiewicz.
Apart from the accomplished work of
Dutkiewicz, Ron Adams’s paintings stand
out from the rest by their strong, clear
brushwork and the fact that they have
some ideas behind them. It is hard to
assess his individuality when he attempts
so much variety, but “Discussion,” with
its sun-and-sand light, and “Solitude,”
with its neurotic intensity, give good
leads for future development. His most
ambitious painting, “Crucifixion,” suffers
from a facile imposition of design.
Michael Alexander’s work is either messy
in the old Kokoschka style, or else rather
painfully posed. John Wood is best
when he allows himself a good clean run
of paint, as in “Singing Laborer”; other-
wise his construction is too weak for
the weight of paint. His woodcuts are
neat, with much more movement than
the oils.
An artist from N.S.W., Cecily Mitchell,
is showing flower paintings at the Peel
Street Gallery which are so well done
that they allow one to use the dangerous
word “exquisite.” The best of her work,
such as the paintings of coral-tree flowers
or marram grass, would be fit illustra-
tions for some of the journals of the
great explorers. Nature is presented with
no ornament, but art has arranged it.
Geoffrey Dutton
A FLOWER OF EVIL
It was perplexing to be more impressed
by an Italian black-and-white delinquent
film than by two magnificent colored
Russian ballets and an ambitious colored
Western.
The “Othello” and the fairytale “Morn-
ing Star” ballets at Sydney Gala both
made fine use of color and film mobility.
In the fairytale the quick transformations
of the evil fairy into a beautiful woman
and the magic the djinn worked upon the
unfortunate lovers, in “Othello” subdued
and noble color and excellently mimed
storytelling, equalled the precision and
verve of the dancing. But you were
watching a fine dancer rather than a
great Othello: when Chabukiani substi-
tuted a black loincloth for a white, much
as a judge might put on a black cap, you
knew Desdemona was going to get it, yet
you feared that before strangling her he
would go into a long dance expressive
of his feelings at this interesting moment;
and this, alas, he did. And the five or
six brilliant solos by rival brides in
“Morning Star” left the rest of the story
looking like a poor relation.
“The Unforgiven,” at the Regent, tried
to humanise the Western with love-
making in the hay and a family party
on the ranch rather than drinking,
gambling and shooting in the town ; but
as Elvis Presley was a tragic half-caste
in a recent Western Audrey Hepburn had
to be an Indian maid, unbeknownst, in
this one. Soon the lovely warm pioneer
sets were smeared with a lynching, and
Injuns were biting the dust because they
wanted to take little Audrey back to
the tepee and Burt Lancaster had other
plans.
In “Night Heat” at the Palladium no
one tried to be tragic, ambitious, noble,
uplifting or quaint; it was a completely
inedifying story of two young men who
picked up two young tarts as a front for
disposal of stolen rifles in a stolen car.
Their fence was burying his mother; the
tarts took them to another fence, who
bought the rifles; then the young men
behaved badly with the tarts and left
them by the wayside, only to discover
that the tarts had stolen their money
An Art Prize Fails
Tn the U.S.A. there are all sorts of
tax dodges specifically designed
to enable rich people to buy works
of art on condition that, having en-
joyed them, and acquired social status,
they leave them to the local gallery.
The bait is so cunningly presented that
the millionaire usually builds a gallery
if there is none available. Big business
also dispenses a stupendous amount
of tax-free loot through great Founda-
dations such as the Ford or Guggen-
heim.
In Australia there are almost no
rich people by American standards.
Nor is business all that big. Never-
theless, business here has done a great
deal to sponsor art: one need instance
only the “Women’s Weekly,” Helena
Rubinstein, Caltex, Dunlop. Eut t ere
are some awful perils, as at the recent
and in most ways successful South
East Festival of Arts at Mount Gam-
bier, South Australia. The innocent
sponsor who received a slap in the
face was the Radiata Pine Association
of Australia, who offered the hand-
some prize of £250 for an oil paint-
ing ; no strings attached.
There were few entries, partly be-
cause the competition was little
advertised throughout Australia (the
fault of the Festival, not the Radiata
Pine people), and partly because there
are now so many art prizes that artists
are getting blase.
The second stage of the shambles
came with the scatteration of the
judges, Mr Paul Beadle, Mr Len
Annois and Mr Wallace Thornton.
Mr Beadle departed for New Zealand,
to be Professor of Fine Art at Auck-
land ; Mr W. Dutkiewicz was
appointed in his place. Then Mr
Thornton missed his plane connec-
tion in Melbourne, so Messrs Annois
and Dutkiewicz met head on.
The entries were poorly hung in the
land sales room of Elder, Smith Ltd,
and at no stage were open to the
public. The judges could not agree.
Mr Annois said that no entry was
worthy of the prize ; Mr Dutkiewicz
wasn’t too impressed either, but he
couldn’t bear to see all that money
going to waste, so proposed a Cruci-
fixion by a young Adelaide artist, Ron
Adams, as his choice.
Another Adelaide artist, Mr Francis
Roy Thompson, who had accom-
panied Mr Dutkiewicz to Mount
Gambier, offered to mediate, but as
he had not been advertised as a judge
it was not considered correct that he
should be one. The chairman of the
Arts Committee, Mr M. Karklins,
then announced that no prize would
be awarded.
The only happy people might be
thought to be the Radiata Pine Asso-
ciation, who saved their £250, but in
fact they are the unhappiest of all.
They get neither advertisement nor
credit out of the whole business, and
one cannot imagine that they will be
too eager to offer any more such
prizes.
There are no villains in this piece,
only bumblers. But what emerges is
that business firms that survive by
efficiency cannot be expected to be
the patrons of inefficiency. All
throughout Australia there are painful
examples of slaphappy amateurism or
professional jealousies behind the
fa9ade of patronage. It looks as if
the 1960’s are going to be the Decade
of the Festival, when every town from
Marble Bar to Mug Mug Wug will
be getting together to have fun with
culture. Good luck to them, as long
as they remember that expert advice
is needed as much for the arts as for
the town sewerage.
GEOFFREY DUTTON


Returning to look for the girls, they got
j n to a fight with three rich young men
w hose convertible they were about to
steal ; then they accepted the rich young
men’s invitation to a party, where they
me t Mylene Demongeot . . .
It moves on with the inconsequence
of a day and night on the town ; but
there is not a false note, and it is good-
natured. Brialy, who left a sour taste in
the mouth in “The Cousins,” does not
in this play ; and there is a scene of
children souveniring an aeroplane wing
like ants carrying off a dead cicada —
altogether it is as though some amused
genius like Mozart’s had smiled on this
film and purified it.
Ronald McCuaig
THEATRE
“THE ROSE TATTOO”
Canberra Theatre Players produced
Tennessee Williams’s play about a
Sicilian widow in Florida whose loyalty
to her roving husband springs from her
superstitious peasant nature.
The play’s strength is its vitality of
dialogue and characterisation, and its
use of visual symbolism to convey the
author’s sex-steeped atmosphere. Its
weakness is a lack of unity, especially
in the first act, which is not concealed
by the use of a dual set, inside and out-
side the widow’s cottage shown simul-
taneously by transparencies or frames.
It is also weak at the crisis, where the
widow accepts her husband’s infidelity ;
this is conveyed over a telephone almost
as old as the device itself.
The main parts in the Canberra pro-
duction were filled with vitality and con-
viction: Joyce Glynn as the widow,
Serafina; Carolyn Glynn as her
daughter; Edward Knox as the drunken
truck driver ; John Kerr as the young
sailor lover. The portrayals of Serafina
and the truck driver were temperament-
ally Southern rather than actively Sicilian,
but they were alien to the American
characters, and were deeply and sincerely
felt.
Joyce Goodes, the producer, adapted
the original play to what is literally a
little theatre by scaling it all down ; the
gay, pathetic litter of the widow’s cottage
was there, but suggested by fewer dress-
makers’ dummies, less bric-a-brac ; the
neighbors who peeped and shrieked over
the back fence were fewer and so were
their children ; the glimpse of the Florida
embankment was merely suggested.
The production did not make as much
as one had expected of the music and
noises off, and the tropical qualities of
the set were largely sacrificed in the
course of scaling down. However, all
this was not much missed: one wonders
*f Tennessee Williams had not over-
loaded his symbolism in the first place.
Hope Hewitt
“THE CONSTANT WIFE”
A J.C.W. representative issued a
lengthy press statement why Adelaide was
to be on the receiving end of Mr
Maugham’s 50-year-old “comedy.” The
Mmi, he claimed, is determined to
resist to the bitter end the present cult
"Well you know what they say, cold hands, Warm heart. "
of dust-bin drama. They are not going
to inflict sordid and uncouth realistic
plays on an unwilling public. The present
cult is a passing phase and should rightly
be ignored.
It’s all very well to be uppish about
“Look Back in Anger” but “The Constant
Wife” is more immoral and emotionally
depraved, looser and more cynical in its
attitude to sex and marriage than any
dustbin drama I’ve come across. This
particular observation is only occurring
to us now: that so much drama between
Wilde and Rattigan exploits libertinism
and immorality with a casualness that
now proves to be faintly shocking and
distinctly immature.
Maugham’s comedy of Edwardian
adultery, lacking the wit of Wilde, the
ideation of Shaw, or the robustness of
English farce, produces only sparse
giggles. A solid set of antique furnish-
ings, grand piano and all, failed to endow
the play with retrospective interest, as an
Edwardian piece.
As ever Googie Withers was in there
battling, doing her usual polished and
professional job. Clement McCallum and
the rest of them pavanned it all around
her, to little effect. There was an air of
nonentity about everything.
Max Harris
“ALL MY SONS”
All Arthur Miller’s plays are cut from
the fabric of United States’ thinking and
living ; none more so than the tragedy
of the Keller family enmeshed in sen-
timentalised family devotion and ruth-
less business interest. Unlike “The
Crucible” and “Death of a Salesman,”
“All My Sons” fails to lift a particular
situation to universal heights.
Well-presented at Patch Theatre, Perth,
the plot hinges on the refusal of Joe
Keller to hold back faulty aeroplane parts
manufactured at his plant because that
would have ruined him, depriving his
sons of their birthright. One son is
reported missing in the Pacific zone. Joe’s
wife Kate refuses to believe him dead ;
and for three years she sacrifices the
whole family and his fiancee Ann Deever
to her determined pretence. The remain-
ing son Chris has been in love for years
with Ann. When Ann comes to disperse
Kate’s illusions it also becomes clear that
Keller has allowed Ann’s father, his part-
ner, to take the rap for the engine faults.
Deprived of his son’s respect, Keller
shoots himself.
Nancy Nunn brought warmth to a part
in which Miller fails to make it clear
whether Kate’s pretence was that of a
very selfish woman to protect herself, or
of a wife who loved her husband beyond
her sons and strove to protect him.
Perhaps the producer should decide.
Arthur Parham kept sympathy alive for
Keller as the exposure of his moral tur-
pitude proceded. Gerry Atkinson (Chris)
and Margaret Gill (Ann Deever) under-
stood the nature of their shifting emo-
tional responses. A light American accent
was sufficiently maintained by the entire
cast; an excellent paved patio set took
full advantage of Patch’s deep stage ; but
the unmistakable Australian slouch of all
the young males slightly embarrassed
producer John Gill’s sound direction.
VICKERS PLAY-READING
At the Dolphin Theatre, Perth, the
Graduate Dramatic Society presented a
one - night active reading of a new play
by F. B. Vickers, whose first novel “The
Mirage” attracted considerable attention.
Mounted and dressed, this reading for
the first time filled a need frequently ex-
pressed by West Australian playwrights.
Mr Vickers says that “The Grass Shows
Green” must be regarded as a play in
the making ; as in his novel, he deals with
the Australian black-white problem, this
time using the clash that can arise between
traditional aboriginal law, white law, and
the evasion of white law by self-interest
and power in high places. The Somerset
Maughamish personal complications
make for interesting theatre, and the
choice of a situation possessing true
dramatic tension suggests future possibili-
ties. Dorothy Lyall produced.
H.D-B.


TtUffll lit Ike
Every country, at some stage in its history,
comes to a flashpoint of heroism that lights its
legend for future time.
Such a point for this nation was reached when
the Australian-New Zealand Army Corps landed
at Gallipoli on April 25, 1915. And on Anzac Day
next Tuesday we will be honouring again the
memory of all the men and women who have given
their lives in Australia’s defence.
Churches will be filled, shrines will be decked
with wreaths, veterans will parade. These are the
externals of a country’s corporate remembrance—
and for many the expression of a timeless inner grief.
Forty-six years now separate us from the dawn
when our troops stormed the Gallipoli beaches.
Those who then offered their lives have been
followed in sacrifice by others in scattered theatres
of war.
The price of all this is to be measured in
more than the numbers who died in the field, or
afterwards. Its cost must reckon also the good
Australian lives these servicemen would have
engendered if they had been spared.
The service of which they proved themselves so
supremely capable would have been multiplied in
their children, and their children’s children.
This, I believe, is a worthwhile thought on
Anzac Day; for it should heighten our sense of
the debt we owe to those who died defending this
country while they themselves were young.
It is directed particularly to the youth of
Australia, to whom Gallipoli and later campaigns
were events that took place before they were born.
To them I would say this: There is nothing of
the glorification of war in the commemoration of
Anzac Day. It is to be hoped, for your special
sakes, that the world will never again witness war’s
terrible carnage.
But you in your careers can give Australia
the same selfless service as was poured out to
it by those we honour now. And in doing just
that, you will have captured in your own young
lives the true spirit of Anzac.
Tulloch Unlucky in
His "Melba Farewell”
By JOHN SCHOFIELD
is happy. The Sydney Turf Club got a crowd
nearly 6000 greater, Caltex (who sponsored the race) got
its money back in prestige alone, and racing fans saw one of
the best races in memory.
The occasion was, of course, the Caltex Quality Handicap
at Rosehill last Saturday in which the Victorian-owned and
-trained New Zealand-bred Savage beat Tulloch, who was racing
for the extra £2OOO required to enrol him as the first horse to
win £IOO,OOO in Australia.
If Tulloch could talk he would, for certain, be the only
one to complain. Failure to win the race postpones his retire-
ment to a stable and paddock and a polygamous existence at
the stud.
Instead Tulloch is to go to Adelaide on Saturday to contest
the following week a ten-furlong weight-for-age race, the prize-
money for which is increased to make certain that if he should
win the £IOO,OOO mark will be attained.
Tulloch from 50 starts has had 33 wins and has been placed
16 times, and unplaced only once. Stake-money now is
£98,973 10s. If he does not win in Adelaide he will be entered
for the big races ia Brisbane in June and July. Who knows;
the way things are turning out he may still be kept in racing,
the equine Melba.
'T'here was one really satisfying feature about last Saturday's
race. The “knockers” of the event were set back on their
haunches, shocked into silence.
Far from being the “benefit” for the Tulloch stable, the
race was a keenly-run all-out affair in which the champion was
beaten after a fighting finish reminiscent of some of the greatest
Australian horses.
In one more stride Tulloch would have regained the lead
taken from him by Savage about a furlong from the winning-
post. In fact, had Tulloch’s head been down and Savage’s up,
instead of the reverse, Tulloch was winner
Savage was one of the best of his three-year-old season
in New Zealand, but lost form, and, because of this, Melbourne
trainer Theo Lewis was able to buy him for £2OOO for his present
owner, Mr C. O. Jennings. Savage returned to form last spring
when he won the Werribee Cup and went on to string together
six successive wins, most of them in country Cups.
Savage was fourth in the Invitation Stakes at Randwick in
which Persian Lyric beat Tulloch, but was withdrawn from the
Sydney Cup, instead running in the Sandown Cup in Melbourne,
and winning handsomely.
Last Saturday he met Tulloch 31b. better than at Randwick,
and this time there was no mistake. When Tulloch was sent
into top speed near the three furlongs Savage was smartened
up to begin his run, too. At the top of the straight Tulloch led
with Savage close up in second place and from then on it was
a duel that brought from the crowd an uproar that drowned
the course announcer calling the race through the loudspeakers,
TThe grey Martello Towers —now almost pure white although
still only a four-year-old—returned to racing and was third
in the Flying Handicap at Rosehill on Saturday.
Martello Towers, the best of the three-year-olds in the
spring of last year, suffered a breathing infirmity for which an
operation was performed. The test of its success was Saturday’s
race, and although Martello Towers was beaten he pulled up
soundly, and with no apparent “roar” in his breathing.
In the old days horses with “broken wind” were treated by
the insertion of a stoppered tube in the windpipe. Before the
race the stopper was taken out and a hole about the size of
sixpence aided the inhalation of adequate air.
Nowadays a delicate throat operation brings back into
function the muscles of the throat that control the intake of air


Look Out for Soccer!
By GEORGE CRAWFORD
Will soccer, with the support
of the rapidly increasing
immigrant population, ever be-
come a major football code in
Australia? This is a big point
in sport speculation, particu-
larly in Sydney where soccer is
making rapid progress.
Rugby League, Sydney’s
major football code, is starting
to feel the impact of a serious
challenge for the first time in
53 years. The future of soccer
is worrying Rugby League men
much more than the efforts Vic-
torian football leaders made a
few years ago to get the
national code firmly entrenched
in Sydney.
Although 30,000 Sydney-
ites turned up to see Colling-
wood and Richmond play at
the Sydney Cricket Ground in
one of the most wildly stormy
days for years, Sydney people
were not inclined to take the
efforts of the Victorian foot-
ball apostles seriously. This
is not so with soccer. And so
far soccer is a head in front
in the Sydney battle. The next
five years should tell whether it
will become a major Australian
sport or not.
1 have been a Rugby League
writer for 30 years. At the
same time I have held more
than a passing interest in
soccer. Because of this I am
fascinated in the battle, which
I feel will snowball into a big
affair. Soccer has its head in
front just now because Rugby
League officials, after having
seen their game survive many
years of unchallenged supre-
macy, have become too com-
placent.
The Rugby League men know
■ that 37,770 boys from
Sydney’s primary, high and
denominational schools played
their oval-ball game of Rugby
League last winter. They point
out too that Rugby League has
become firmly entrenched in
the high schools —something
that the “old school tie” boys
°f a few years ago had said
Would never happen. Fifty-
one Sydney high schools will
Play Rugby League next year.
This is an increase of 11 on
last year. That, on the face
v alue, looks a healthy state of
affairs.
But, in the meantime, more
youngsters than ever are kick-
!nß the round soccer ball about
Sydney's parks. You see them
°n almost every park. And
attendances at Sydney’s soccer
matches have increased at least
three-fold in the past couple
of years. The soccer officials
keep poking their game “under
the noses” of the Australian
public. From Easter Saturday,
April 1 till Sunday, April 9
soccer promoted matches on
six of the nine days, including
a Wednesday night Cup match
under floodlights. On the
Easter Monday, Rugby League,
in its complacency, failed to
present a counter attraction to
soccer. And on Sunday, April
9, soccer’s Cup Final day, the
Rugby League again failed to
provide a worthwhile counter
on a nearby ground. The
Rugby League was content that
day to play pre-competition
trial matches in Sydney’s outer
suburbs.
The true position is that
Rugby League is holding its
Australian support. But it is
not making any effort to get
the rapidly increasing immi-
grant population interested ;n
its game. While this state of
affairs continues, soccer will
become bigger and bigger as
the immigrant population in-
creases. The Rugby League,
in its complacency, has missed
a big chance in not having
public relations men in immi-
grant hostels with films to show
the new arrivals the Rugby
League game. The immigrants
have been allowed to coast
along thinking of the only foot-
ball game they know —soccer.
'T'he immigrants, some of
them seemingly with plenty
of money, have spared no effort
to get soccer going in a big
way for their personal enter-
tainment as well as for the
handful of soccer-minded Aus-
tralians and others open-
minded enough to have a look
at the game. This enterprise
has resulted in a steady flow
of top-class European and
British players being brought
to Australia. Some world-
famous players like Austrians
Leopold Baumgartner, Walter
Tamandl and Andi Saghi are
among them. No really top-
class British players have
arrived yet. But they will come
in the near future as Britishers
already here send home reports
of the opportunities available.
British soccer, particularly m
England, is not in a happy
state at present. Players are
clamoring for higher and higher
wages, which club officials find
hard to pay because of a slump
in match attendances. England
enjoyed a post-war soccer
boom because the public, after
six years of austerity and
restrictions, went eagerly after
entertainment.
AA/ith that boom over, players
"’in search of more money
than is available for them could
not be blamed for becoming in-
terested in new pastures. The
only new pastures available for
them are in the rapidly expand-
ing Australian soccer scene.
This is because Australia is the
only country not affiliated with
the F.I.F.A. —the controlling
body of international soccer.
F.I.F.A. disqualified Australia
a few years ago for grabbing
European players without
clearances, or without having
paid transfer fees. While this
disqualification remains any
big-name British player could
walk out of his club and come
to Australia. He would auto-
matically come under disquali-
fication, but that would not
mean a thing while Australia
itself is under disqualification.
A ustralian soccer people
should not be in a
hurry to get that disqualifica-
tion lifted—not for another 10
years or so. In that time the
disqualification could be the
means of making soccer a really
big-time sport here.
One thing stands in the way
of big soccer expansion in
Sydney. Sydney is short of big
playing fields, and municipal
councils and the State Govern-
ment departments watching
Sydney grow are not paying
nearly enough attention to
sporting facilities. Rugby
League has most of the big
grounds tied on leases.
A very interesting angle has
occurred to me in this soccer
expansion. I am convinced
that years ago when soccer was
a Cinderella sport we under-
rated our Australian players.
In my opinion none of the big-
name importations of today, in-
cluding Baumgartner. Tamandl
and Saghi, are as good as Aus-
tralia's top pre-war players like
Reg Date, Jack Hughes, Ray
Bryant and Jimmy Osborne.
Go further back and you can
include “Judy” Masters, Billy
Maunder and “Tichy” Thomp-
son of the 19205.
Asa spectator sitting beside a
group of old Australians at
a recent floodlit soccer match 1
overheard a debate in which
Baumgartner as a centre-for-
ward was compared with Date,
Maunder and Masters. The
majority agreed that Baum-
gartner would rank only fourth
on this list behind Maunder,
Masters and Date in that order.
Still Baumgartner and the
other modern players are
attracting vastly bigger crowds
than the old Australian stars
did. But it is the crowds, not
the standard of players, that
will eventually decide whether
soccer becomes a major sport
or not.


LETTERS
What Canberra does to Diplomats
Sir,
Reading Alan Reid’s interest-
ing and amusing article (B.
5/4/61) I only felt vaguely
annoyed at the first few points,
dealing with the social and
public lives of diplomats in
Canberra. It was not so much
what he said but the things he
left unsaid, and the tone seemed
to convey ever so delicately that
we are a bunch of shady
characters, living it up on the
fat of the land and getting away
with murder, or at least park-
ing tickets.
Not so. The immunity
system is only a courtesy, ex-
tended to all diplomats abroad,
including your own, and makes
the recipient naturally feel
honor-bound to observe and
respect the laws of the host
country possibly even more
faithfully than he would in his
own land.
At home I might cheerfully
park in a forbidden zone, keep-
ing my fingers crossed and
hoping for the best. If the
worst happened and I got
booked, I would just as cheer-
fully pay the fine and be
done with the whole business.
Abroad, however, I would face
a polite but curt letter from the
traffic department, addressed to
the Head of our Mission, who
in turn would give me a very,
very dirty look accompanied by
an acid lecture on how badly
I had disgraced my country.
In fact, this feeling that our
countries are judged by our
behavior is a heavy respon-
sibility and quite a restraining
influence 24 hours a day.
Of course, there is always the
odd bad egg who does not play
the game according to rules,
but after all, when a bank-
manager runs off with the kitty,
that does not make all bank-
managers automatically sus-
pect.
Possibly many of us are run-
ning houses much larger than
the ones we had at home—and,
oh, how I long sometimes for
our snug three-room flat, swept
up and dusted down by 10
o’clock in the morning, without
having to grapple with recalci-
trant domestics!
Our car, admittedly, was half
the size of our present one, but
it also had four perfectly good
wheels and got us where we
wanted to go, not where we had
to. Tax-free liquor is very
nice, but come to think of it,
who drinks most of it in the
long run?
So you see all those so-called
privileges are very small dabs
of jam on a diplomat’s daily
bread and butter. And it is a
bread - and - butter job. Don’t
judge a diplomat’s efficiency by
the number of hours he puts in
at his desk. Apart from his
more obvious duties, he comes
to a foreign place to learn as
much as there is to learn about
every possible field, including
cricket, and also to impart
to those he contacts the tradi-
tions, culture and experiences
of his own country. That is not
necessarily done between nine
and five with a tea-break.
You’d be surprised how much
is accomplished at those boring
cocktail parties.
Perhaps there was once
glamor attached to diplomacy.
If so, it must have been before
my time. The abovementioned
items hardly seem to compen-
sate for homesickness, parting
from friends and relations and
living a normal private life in
beloved and familiar surround-
ings. Anyone who is seeking a
diplomatic post in the hope of
landing a soft glamorous job
ought to have his head ex-
amined. On the contrary, I feel
that diplomats should have a
vocation for their work much
as clergymen, doctors or
teachers. Only an idealist,
prepared to serve his country
at great personal sacrifice need
apply.
I know when I go back
home, I shall be very kind and
gentle and understanding to
that odd creature the Foreign
Diplomat. He is only a glori-
fied gypsy, a stranger in a
strange land.
DIPLOMAT'S WIFE
Canberra.
COMMUNISTS IN
UNIVERSITIES
Sir,
Your feature (15/3/61) on
Communists in Universities has
just been brought to my notice.
In it you falsely attribute a
statement to the Federal Coun-
cil, concerning the Russel Ward
case. This statement, which so
offended you, actually occurred
in a “Sunday Mirror” editorial,
which was reproduced in the
March issue of “Vestes,” to-
gether with other articles and
press correspondence which the
case evoked. All this material
was quite clearly labelled as to
its source ; there can be no pre-
sumption that the council
approved of any or all of it,
especially as the issue contained
a signed statement by officers
of the council, clearly setting
out its own position.
Having thus misrepresented
Federal Council, you then go
on to malign it, by adducing
this statement —made by a
newspaper , not the council-
as one reason why the council
is unlikely to conduct a
thorough investigation into
appointments procedures.
This is too much, even for


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£A363,000,000
•
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
start the day right?
T
■m
teat.
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2/-
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
your journal. May we have
an apology, please?
E. L. Wheelwright
General Editor,
Vestes, Journal of the
Federal Council of
University Staff
Associations of
Australia.
Sydney.
[The statement complained of was
that the attitude of the University
of N.S.W. was alleged to “smell
of McCarthyism, totalitarianism,
and the bigotries of the Middle
Ages.” This statement, as Mr
Wheelwright says, appeared in “The
Sunday Mirror” and was quoted in
"Vestes” along with a number of
other press statements. It was not
the intention of The Bulletin to
suggest that the Federal Council
had made this ridiculous assertion,
although there was an ambiguity in
wording in The Bulletin article,
which we regret. The point is that
the official journal of the Associa-
tion went out of its way to reprint
“The Sunday Mirror” editorial and
in general gave a most biased selec-
tion of press comments on the Ward
case, even going so far as to pub-
lish replies to statements without
publishing the statements that were
being attacked.—Editor.]
NO CHEERS FOR
BISHOP REEVES
Sir,
R J. Lacey (B. 5/4/61)
writes of “the undoubted
reliable evidence produced by
Bishop Reeves” (re South
Africa). He also quotes the
Rev. Trevor Huddleston with
approval.
As a priest of the Church of
England who has made a
special study of these two
clerical brethren of mine, I
state with reluctance that I am
not prepared to accept them as
impartial witnesses.
When Mr (now Bishop)
Huddleston wrote his book on
South Africa, “Naught For
Your Comfort,” it was widely
publicised. However, the de-
vastating reply to that book,
“You Are Wrong, Father
Huddleston,” by Alexander
Steward, is virtually unknown
and difficult to procure.
Regrettably, Bishop Reeves’s
association with pro-Com-
munist causes is well known ;
°nly recently he appeared on
a public platform in London
jvith well-known Communists.
Like Mr Huddleston's book,
Bishop Reeves’s book on the
Sharpevilie tragedy has been
widely publicised. Yet I have
s hll to see any of the criticisms
°f the many errors of fact in
w hat is obvious and blatant
Propaganda.
The Australian press has
recently featured the fact that
rne South African Govern-
jrrent’s prosecution of a num-
per of European and native
•ndividuals has failed. It has
quoted statements praising the
integrity and impartiality of
the South African judiciary. In
spite of this, I am still waiting
for the report of the findings
by a member of the same
judiciary, Mr Justice P. J.
Wessels, to find some place in
our Australian press.
This report is on Sharpevilie,
and I find its suppression very
disturbing. The findings, which
I have before me, flatly con-
tradict R. J. Lacey’s statements.
After hearing all the evidence,
Mr Justice Wessels states that
he does not agree that there
was reckless and indiscriminate
firing into the crowd. Further,
he says:
The allegation that the police
fired into the fleeing crowd cannot
be accepted. It also cannot be
accepted that 70 per cent, of the
casualties received wounds in the
side or the back... .There is no
reason to believe that any police-
man fired merely to disperse the
crowd. There is also no truth in
the allegations that no sticks or
other objects were found on the
ground after the crowd had dis-
persed.
It is possible that the police
were in error when they fired
in what they considered to be
self-defence. But the police
had a very vivid memory of
what had happened only a few
weeks before when nine police-
men were torn to pieces by an-
other “peaceful” crowd of
natives at Cator Manor. Why
did the press of this country
not feature this massacre?
It is virtually impossible for
those of us who have never
lived in South Africa to express
worthwhile opinions on South
African realities (although we
have in recent times read of
Australian ecclesiastics en-
deavoring so to do). Most
critical opinions merely reflect
what is often distorted and even
dishonest press reporting. For
example, press reports have,
over the past two years, sug-
gested that all Anglican clergy
in South Africa condemn the
policy of separate race develop-
ment as completely immoral
and unethical. This is just not
true.
Eminent Anglican leaders
like Bishop Basil Peacey, a man
who has had 27 years of mis-
sionary experience among the
Bantu people, strongly support
separate race development. I
also advise that Bishop Waiter
Carey’s writings be studied for
a balanced picture of a difficult
problem.
The time has arrived when
critics of South Africa ceased
helping, even if unconsciously,
what must be regarded as a
world-wide campaign of sub-
version and eventual destruc-
tion of the non-Communist
world.
(Rev.) Norman L. Hill
Fitzroy (Vic.).
WHAT THE LEAGUE OF
RIGHTS STANDS FOR
Sir,
May I suggest that you
obtain someone more factually
reliable than “Mugga” to write
your Political Points. In his
sneering attack upon me in
your issue of April 5, “Mugga”
writes that I am president of
the Australian Social Credit
Movement. I know of no Aus-
tralian Social Credit Move-
ment. At no time have I been
president of a Social Credit
Movement anywhere.
If “Mugga” had done a
little real research he would
have discovered that the Vic-
torian League of Rights was
expanded into the Australian
League of Rights 12 months
ago. He would also have
known that the lecture in the
Croatian Hall, Sydney, to
which he refers, was given
seven months ago and not
recently as he implies.
“Mugga’s” reference to the
League of Rights as a “weird
body” is merely a further re-
flection upon his own disregard
for fact. The league’s objec-
tives —loyalty to the Crown,
support of Constitutional Gov-
ernment and free enterprise,
and opposition to all forms
of totalitarianism, particularly
Communism—have, of course,
been often termed “weird.”
But it is something new to see
this point of view expressed in
The Bulletin.
The nearest “Mugga” gets to
some accurate reporting is
when he states that I said in
my lecture in the Croatian Hall
that “the United Nations is a
major instrument in the hands
of the Russian Communists
against the West.” “Mugga”
finds this viewpoint “startling.”
Obviously his political
education has been severely
restricted. He could make an
excellent start towards over-
coming his limited knowledge
by studying back copies of The
Bulletin.
The Communists do not sup-
port any project which they do
not believe they can use to their
own advantage. The United
Nations was created with the
active support of Stalin. The
establishment of this organisa-
tion was one of the major ques-
tions discussed at the Yalta
Conference. Alger Hiss, the
secret Communist agent who
played a decisive role in the
promotional work associated
with the U.N., was the first
Secretary-General and helped
to draft the Charter. Molotov
and Hiss made the “deal” that
the head of the United Nations
military establishment would
always be a Communist. A
large number of defectors
from the Communist world


&Soi ■.■■■ ■’■
dl 16,065 FOR 2 HADDON RIG SIRES. Mr. Donald
MacDonald (Bairnkine, Walgett) and Mr. Neilson Mills
(Burraboogie and Wahwoon, Hay) with the world's most
valuable rams purchased at the 1960 Sydney Sales.
(Country Life photo)
Two famous studs make
outstanding investment
in Haddon Rig blood
For nearly 80 years, graziers throughout Australia
have made long-term investments in Haddon Rig
blood to maintain or improve the standards of
their own stock.
At the Sydney Sales in 1960, two Haddon Rig
sires smashed the world’s record price for a
Merino ram. A total of £16,065 was paid for
two rams.
These two famous studs, Bairnkine and Burra-
boogie, showed their confidence in Haddon Rig
blood.
These prices indicate the Australian woolgrowers’
faith in Haddon Rig blood.
One of the largest wool buyers in Australia,
having their own pastoral interests, are users
of Haddon Rig sires and ewes. Wool buyers
recognise the high value of Haddon Rig wool,
which is strongly crimped, with good elasticity,
easy spinning characteristics, and has soft,
pleasant handle, giving good drape in the finished
goods.
Haddon Rig is one of the nerve centres of
Australia’s most vital industry; so much of
Australia’s prosperity relies on high-grade wool,
and so much relies on the standard set by Haddon
Rig.
With classing completed at Haddon Rig, details
of the Sydney Sales team will be announced
shortly.
Yet Haddon Rig blood is not necessarily expen-
sive. Many graziers have made small but sound
investments in Haddon Rig blood, thus ultimately
raising the value of their wool clip, by purchasing
Selected and Flock rams.
HADDON RIG STUD
Warren, N.S.W. Telephone: Warren 74
2255/102
Missing Friend
WOl'I.I) FRANCES OI.CORX or an.y*
knowing the whereabouts oi FRANCIS
OLCORN, formerly of Kutherglffl
farmer, please contact R. W. SHELLABI)
& SON, Solicitors, Davlesford.
Divorce Notice*
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —lx Divorck.
TO WILLIAM ANDREW PENNY 1«
of Westmead.—TAKE NOTICE that
MARGARET MARY PENNY has filed l
Petition for Divorce No. 742 of
on the ground of desertion If you wii
to defend you should file an answer ®
tiie Divorce Registry Mint Build™?
Macquarie Street Sydney within R
days of the publication of this Noticei
and obtain a copy of the Petition and |
Notice of Petition without charge ft®
E. G. SAYEGH, Solicitor, 133 Pi"
Street, Sydney,—C. A. H. HARMS
Registrar.
TO JOHnTicARTHUR formerly of U
Mansion Point Road Gravs Point N e ®
South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE that
ELLIS JAMES McCARTY has cot
menced proceedings against his
RITA MEG McCARTY in the Supteßi,
Court of Western Australia for Divorce|
on the ground of her adultery with J Ol,
IF you desire to defend such proceed.]
ings you must file your defence in “*
Central Office of the Supreme Court >
Perth within FORTY clear days ft®
the date of this publication In default
of your so doing the cause may procee
and the Court will pronounce Judgme®
and make a decree against you in J O6
absence.—DATED this 27th day “
March, 1961.—G. J. BQYLSOft
Registrar. ,
FRED CURRAN & FERRIER, Fort®
Place, Perth, Western Australia, hOl
citors for the Plaintiff.
have testified that Communist
leaders regard the United
Nations as a major instrument
for advancing their strategy.
If the United Nations were
not serving Communist pur-
poses, the Communists would
soon withdraw from it. But
why should they when, as the
European nations retreat pre-
maturely from Africa, and new
“nations” are given represen-
tation in this modern Tower of
Babel, the Communists progres-
sively obtain an increasing
number of votes they can
manipulate for their own pur-
poses?
Professor S. de Madariaga,
the famous Spanish liberal, has
pointed out that “The United
Nations Charter is in the main
a translation of the Russian
system into an international
idiom and its adaptation to an
international community ....
U.N.O. bore upon its brow
from the very beginning
the mark of Moscow.” An in-
creasing number of prominent
Americans are beginning to
demand that U.N.O. be aban-
doned and replaced with an
association of non-Communist
nations. My league strongly
supports this action.
ERIC D. BUTLER
National Director,
The Australian League of
Rights
Melbourne.
A GALLERY SURVIVES
Sir,
Thank you for your kindly
obituary for the South Yarra
Gallery on your “Society” page
of March 22. Thank goodness
the obituary was premature.
The gallery is not closed ; on
the contrary, it is wide open
and, 1 trust, will remain so for
many years to come. A way
has been found to enable me to
continue to offer the hospitality
of my home for the display of
works of art without violence
to the by-laws of the worthy
city fathers of Prahran.
VIOLET DULIEU
South Yarra Gallery,
South Yana {Vic.).
WRITE AUSTRALIAN!
Sir,
I was disgusted to read in
the March 29 issue the head-
line “Rustlers Ride in Queens-
land.” The article then goes
on to speak of round-ups on
Milo.
Has The Bulletin lost the
Australian character which it
was so proud of? What would
be wrong with calling them
duffers, poddy-dodgers, moon-
lighters—or just plain cattle-
thieves?
H. SCHOLES
Beerwah ( Q .).
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under .
taken re contributions voluntary
submitted; and no MS. will j, {
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be address
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered )or publication on ifa
understanding that they may
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
A.D.: “Would you also indicate
the rate of reward your newspaper
pays for such articles?” No, you
might feel encouraged....F.N.;
Ditto G. 8.: All that melodrama
and still you didn’t kill him..,,
8.5. P.: Another old man on a park
seat... .J.J.S.: “Ranch”—where do
you get your raw material? At
the pictures? ... .J.R.: All talk...,
1.C.E.: Likewise no fantasies about
D. H. Lawrence —you'd only blur
his 0wn....U.H.: Girls should not
pretend to be sailors 8.K.:
No, whatever it i5....M.8.: Corny
dialogue... .L.G.8.: Arguments
with bakers don’t count unless they
lead to murder... M.L.: One of
those nice simple stories no one
wants to hear... .J.K.: Tripe about
tramps J.S.: A brief innings:-
Fast and dashing cricket, that's the
order of the day,
Why stick to older players, who's
beards get in the way?
Give the younger blood a go, and
brighten up the game.
It also gives the boys a chance, of
making cricket fame.
....C.C.: Hardly a poem, but it's
a thought..-. .M.H.: They're quite
good for her age. Let her read
the annual “Australian Poetry"
anthology.... D.H.T.: Not a bad
sonnet but a bit mixed.... E.P.:
Don't know where you could place
them.... P.A.8.: “Is there much
scope for writers of poetry today?”
Well, there are the literary maga-
zines.... M.F.: “How can I
improve?” Keep reading; keep
writing... .J.M.R.: It seems tore-
echo that Canadian airman's sonnet.


THE
MAN
ON THE
LAND
The Channel Country and the Pioneers ' Highway
By ROLLO GILLESPIE
Flying over the Channel
Country of south-western
Queensland during the wonder-
ful season of 1951, the Minister
for National Development
(then Mr R. G. Casey) de-
scribed the network of channels
as “the world’s only example of
a vast irrigation scheme created
by nature.” This area, which
stretches over the soutn-
western corner of Queensland
and into n.-e. South Australia
and n.-w. N.S.W., is “Kidman
country,” where Sir S. Kidman
made himself the cattle king
of Australia. Yet ten days
ago when we flew over the
area from Thargomindah to
Bouiia and then back through
Windorah and Eromanga to
Bourke (N.S.W.), the country
looked harsh and lonely, a
desert crossed by wide, sprawl-
ing riverbeds with a maze of
sluggish, half-filled channels,
and crisscrossed by very rare
stock-routes. Homesteads are
few and far between, and town-
ships generally over 100 miles
apart. Suffering from drought,
as this country has since 1958,
the land no longer looks, as it
was once described, a “Garden
of Eden set in the midst of
gibber country and red-sand
ridges”— though it does so in
years when the rivers are flood-
ing and watering the plains
and when the 6-inch to 10-inch
rainfall is enough to bring out
the growth of grass on the
higher ground. It was hard to
believe what the country could
really produce in the way of
feed until we went out to May-
held Station (a few miles west
°f Windorah) and saw the
native sorghum growing sft
high where the Cooper had
lately flooded its channels. Then
We understood why this area-
-10,000,000 acres in estimated
extent—is the richest fattening
country in Australia.
Topography
The Channel Country is the
are a, south from Bouiia and
cast of Bedourie and Birdsville,
included in the inland river-
system of western Queensland.
Here the rivers Georgina,
Diamantina, Cooper (which in-
cludes the Thompson and Bar-
coo), Bulloo and Paroo —fed
by tributaries which have their
sources in areas of relatively
high monsoon rainfall spread
out in their lower courses into
a network of shallow channels.
When these rivers periodically
flood, their waters spread in a
wide, slow-moving torrent over
the channels and inter-channel
areas, which may be as much
as 50 miles wide.
Summers here are long and
hot, lasting from October to
March. Winters are mild,
though there is a brief frost
season—longer and harder in
the south-west of the area than
elsewhere.
Soils of the channels and
swampy ground, where the
rivers disperse when flooded,
are of heavy, grey clay, which
contracts during dry periods
between floods and forms ex-
tensive cracks. These soils are
very fertile and there is little
leaching of plant-nutrients
beyond the reach of roots.
The valuable fattening feed
of the channels consists of
the native sorghum, never-
fail, pepper-grass, channel blue-
grass, Flinders-grass and, in the
Georgina channels, clover (Tri-
gonella suavissima). Timber
along the channels is mainly
coolibah and gidgee, which
occurs as thin, fringing belts
along the waterways.
Soil of the flood-plains is
normally reddish-grey loam,
sometimes covered with gravel
and pebbles. Unlike the chan-
nels and swampy ground, these
flood-plains respond to rains as
well as to flooding. Button-
grass and Flinders-grass are the
dominant species and are both
good fattening feeds. Never-
fail grows there, but there is no
sorghum or clover, nor is there
any timber.
Beyond the limits of the
flooded country extend gravel-
covered, pebbly downs, which
make up the bulk of the coun-
try between the rivers. Soils
here are brown or light-red
clay and the vegetation is Flin-
ders-grass or button-grass, both
of which (even when dry) will
fatten cattle. There is almost
no timber on the downs.
Bare clay pans also exist in
the area, though there are not
many of them and none are
very extensive. Soils of these
claypans are almost impervious
to water. In the lower reaches
of the Georgina and Diaman-
tina there is red-sandhill coun-
try which forms the eastern
fringe of the Simpson desert,
where generally the herbage is
of less value as stock-feed
—mainly spinifex and cane-
grass, which can maintain
stock in drought times when all
other feed is exhausted.
Effects of Drought
The whole of this area
richest fattening land in Aus-
tralia during lush seasons —is
badly affected by drought, and
droughts occur in present con-
ditions once in each decade and
last for about four years. Rail-
ways which stop at Winton,
Longreach, Yaraka, Quilpie
and Cunnamulla, serve the
sheep-country to the east of the
main Channel Country but
railheads are poorly connected
by lateral roads with the main
cattle-fattening areas of the
western inland. North-and-
south connection is simply by
stock-route, and to give some
idea of distances it is only
necessary to say that it takes
13 weeks to walk a mob of
cattle from Camooweal (gate-
way to the breeding-areas of
the Barkly Tableland) to Win-
dorah.
As a result of this lack of
communications, the Channel
Country has been left in almost
the same condition as it was
100 years ago. Beef-cattle pro-
duced in the North waste on
stock-routes.
In the present drought it is
estimated that £4O - million
worth of cattle have died in
waterless devastation, simpiy
because they could not be got
out into the higher-rainfall
areas of N.S.W. Unless these
stores can be got out (which, m
present circumstances, is almosi
impossible), their bones are
simply left by the side of the
track—worthless to anyone, but
a national loss to Australia,
where we are seeking to build
up a beef-cattle industry.
It was as a result of seeing
the few emaciated cattle which
managed to straggle through to
N.S.W. in 1958, when the
present drought began, that B.
P. P. Lewis, of Derrymore,
Gilgandra (N.S.W.), and other
N.S.W. and Queensland
graziers decided that the time
had come, in spite of almost
complete public apathy, to do
something positive about curing
these conditions.
A public meeting was con-
vened at Bourke on April 29,
1960, at the instance of the
organised pastoral industry of
N.S.W., supported by commer-
cial, financial and citizen
bodies, and on a national, non-
party-political basis, with the
aim of awakening Australia—
and particularly the Common-
wealth Government —to the
need for developing and popu-
lating inland Australia.
Present Action of F.1.D.0.
The meeting at Bourke re-
sulted in the formation of the
Federal Inland Development
Organisation (F.1.D.0.), which
pledged itself to defeat drought-
hazard and to conserve and
develop the pastoral, agricul-
tural and mineral wealth of the
inland, by bringing the matter
forward on a Federal basis.
This development of the wealth
of our country involves, as can
be well imagined, construction
of adequate highways to give
access to the areas which have
suffered until now from our
(possibly unwitting, because
never fully comprehended)
“Empty Inland” policy—which
particularly affects the Channel
Country. It also calls for the
fullest possible economic use of
water, by conservation in the
coastal rain-belt and develop-
ment of irrigation and hydro-
electric power, coupled with
diversion inland of excess
flood-waters to provide these
for storage and guaranteed,
regulated flooding of the flood-
plains.
The first objective of the
Federal Inland Development
Organisation is construction of
a bitumen highway (to be
called the Pioneers’ Highway),
at least 18ft wide and up to
military H.D. standards, cap-
able of carrying a double line
of traffic and connecting the
Barkly Highway at or near
Camooweal with Bourke in
N.S.W., so that a link, running
through the Channel Country
connects the summer-rainfall
areas of the North with the
winter-rainfall areas of the
South, giving access to the
South (and to the ports of Sid-
ney and Melbourne) for the


THE
ORION INSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT AVIATION
N.S.W. BRANCH: 19 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
I KI.EI’HONES * BU 4387 L. F. THORPE, Manager.
produce of the North, and
allowing return-freights of the
supplies, building materials and
other stores essential to any
proper and planned develop-
ment of the North. Moreover,
this highway, when built, will
connect the cattle - breeding
areas of the Barkly Tableland
with the fattening areas of the
Channel Country and also
allow the movement of store-
cattle out of the Channel Coun-
try into higher-rainfall areas to
the South in time of drought—
and of stock from the South to
the North. Defence aspects of
the Pioneers’ Highway hardly
need stressing, because the
present lack of proper strategic
connection between the North
and the South is generally
apparent to the public ; but the
important fact is that such a
link will allow full settlement
of the underpopulated territory
which we can hardly feel justi-
fied in holding in that state for
much longer, while Asia starves
—and we have not yet fully
developed our own vast land.
This idea, which sprang from
the sight of the devastation
caused by drought, has deeper
implications—some of them, on
the narrow view, running coun-
ter to the interests of Queens-
land and the ambitions of in-
dividuals and companies, but
all, on the broad view, helping
Australia to reach its destiny.
There is little need to discuss
these implications here at this
stage. As Churchill said : “Dif-
ficulties will always speak for
themselves.” Generally their
protagonists can be left to
argue vociferously against any
really constructive effort —yet,
so long as that effort is well
founded, it will eventually suc-
ceed on its own merits.
The idea of the Pioneers’
Highway seems very well
founded, and, as members of
F.1.D.0. insist, it is a national
responsibility and should be
paid for out of Federal Gov-
ernment funds. At time of
writing, it looks as if this may
be done and that at least part
of the estimated £l5 million
needed for its construction may
be made available for work to
start almost straight away —
which is important, because
unless this link is built soon we
shall find it difficult to justify
our retention of the North. If
the money is made available,
there will be rejoicing in the
inland.
What the Inland Thinks
A party of 14 of us met in
Bourke on April 4 and next
morning set out in four light
aircraft belonging to and flown
by the F.1.D.0. men. We put
down at Thargomindah, where
a public meeting was held that
afternoon. This town, popula-
THE CHANNEL COUNTRY
Showing the Pioneers’ Highway (marked by double line)
with alternative route Windorah-Eromanga-Thargomindah-
N.S.W. Border (marked by single broken line). Stock-
routes and other tracks shown by dotted lines; sealed roads
by thick black lines.
tion 150, is centre of the Bulloo
Shire (extent 26,000 square-
miles, population 800). With
a road, said shire chairman
George Ker, of Nor 1 e y
Station, they couldn't say how
many more fats they could
turn off than they do at
present. A resolution was
passed unanimously that the
highway should be built as
soon as possible.
We moved on next day to
Boulia, flying over the line of
the proposed highway, across
the Cooper and the Diaman-
tina (by Diamantina Lakes). In
this shire, which has an area
of 23,000 square-miles and a
population of 750 (with 250
living in the town of Boulia and
20-odd in Urandangie), a simi-
lar resolution was passed.
At Windorah, ideas were
exactly the same, with the
proviso that the building of
the Pioneers’ Highway must
not prejudice completion of
the State road now under con-
struction to Quilpie, the rail-
head from which Windorah
draws all its supplies. Ero-
manga, where we called the
next day, had the same views.
Both shires passed unanimous
resolutions in favor of the
highway.
It is true that these districts
are only sparsely inhabited, but
the effect of their primary pr 0 .
duction on the Australian
economy is very high in rela-
tion to their population. This
is not generally recognised by
the greater part of the popula-
tion of our Commonwealth,
many of whom have travelled
overseas before they have had
a look at our own back coun-
try—hardly through their own
fault, but simply because there
is no way of getting there with-
out travelling over roads which
few would wish to take for
pleasure, or by air. Neverthe-
less, it is an important factor
which must be borne in mind
by those who value the future
of the Commonwealth.
Unless a north-south road
is built through the Channel
country very soon, linked to
the lateral roads which must
also be laid across the land to
the railheads, loss of stock in
the Northern Territory and far-
western Queensland is bound to
continue. Yet, because of their
sparse population, these districts
have very small voting powers
compared with the rest of the
country, and only by the co-
operation of those who live in
more densely settled areas,
with greater security of liveli-
hood, can their claim for
development really be pressed
effectively enough to stir the
politicians into action and keep
them moving once they have
started. It is never convenient
—and hardly ever politic—to
spend public money where
votes do not reflect the result.
But here, in the Pioneers
Highway, is one case where
Federal money must be laid
out urgently if we are to be
able to develop our country
to its full capacity.
Conclusions
The Snowy River Scheme
has shown what Australia can
do on a Federal basis to over-
come hazards of nature and
terrain in the inland of our
more closely settled South.
A similar scheme, working
under a Federal authority
similar to the Snowy Moun-i
tains Authority, seems the best
and quickest way to develop!,
the North, which (to our own
cost) we have neglected too
long. The time for starting
this development is now, if we
are to be sure of being able to
keep the country, because if)
we go on doing nothing muck
longer, someone else —whether.
it is the U.N. or some aggressor
—will take the matter right out
of our hands for good and all
Where a large proportion of
the human race is seriously
undernourished, it is no longej
permissible for large areas ®
undeveloped country to be leu
unpopulated.


THE INTELLIGENCE
CLOWN
By GEOFFREY BINGHAM
A story of the beginning of World War II in Malaya
Kwun Lim is dead, but as vivid in my mind as he was
the night I met him at Port Dickson. That place is
very beautiful, and more so at sunset. It is then the
Tamil children sport nakedly on the beach whilst their
heavy-breasted dams wash in the surf, and the early evening
has a sort of translucence, so that the Chinese may be per-
ceived swimming, and the lovers lying on the beach. And
ln a way, in spite of the cries, there is a silence.
In that silence Larry, Tod and I walked down the brown-
gold of the beach. Larry paused because he heard a gramo-
phone shrilly giving out a waltz of Strauss. We knew Larry
liked the lilting stuff of Strauss, and so we stopped with him,
and listened, and it was indeed tender, for all its shrillness in
that warm and hushed evening.
Near to the gramophone sat Kwun Lim. He was half bent
over it, following the rhythmic sweep of the black disk, but
J looked up at us and said, grinning from his dark eyes,
losef Strauss, eh?”
Strauss,” 1 said, and he nodded, as though all the
orld knew Josef Strauss was good.
Tod, who preferred a mouth-organ to a violin, wanted to
walk on, but Larry would not let him. He had that hunger
servicemen have, soldiers who are civilians at heart, for the
evidences of culture. We were tolerant enough. Kwun Lim
motioned us to sit, which we did, I beside Kwun Lim, and
the others near to two Chinese girls who were Kwun Lim’s
companions. This Kwun Lim talked to me, the conversation
slipping from the war to a theme which was strong with him,
Chinese nationalism. Straits born, he had never been to China,
but believed strongly in his race. It was more than interesting
to listen to him, for he had fervor where we were lazy, a
conviction where our thoughts on politics were vague.
A fter a time Kwun Lim said we might like to return the
next evening, and we said we would, and the two girls
assented shyly. They were delicate, like all high-born Chinese,
but human enough when it came to Tod and Larry. Tod
was a larrikin, a short, dark, scrubby sort of fellow, but
Larry was almost beautiful, his face having perfect features


and blue eyes fringed with long
upcurved lashes. He should
have been a woman.
We said we would be pleased
to return next evening, and
would have left them then
only that drums, somewhere,
commenced playing. There is
something about Malay drums,
or any native drums for that
matter, which hold the atten-
tion, for it seems the dark
people have a fine articulation
through them. You may hear
drums laughing, or drums
weeping, drums making merry,
or drums sorrowful, and all
without much imagination
being necessary. Now we were
solemn and stirred enough, a
trifle uneasy perhaps, for
behind their beating was an
urging, an invitation with
enough of carelessness to
assure us they were not the
funeral drums.
“Malays,” Kwun Lim said.
“Circus. Rouging.”
We nodded. The thumping
seemed far away, but had the
strange effect of actually stir-
ring the blood, as though
rational living counted for
little against its beating rhythm.
Behind the noise was the faint
shrill wail of some instrument.
Tod and Larry were as rest-
less as I was, and they kept
looking at me, inquiringly,
until Kwun Lim laughed and
said, “Perhaps you would like
to visit the circus and view it,
eh?” His speech was polite,
tender almost, a manner with
Kwun Lim.
“Yes,” I told him, “we
would.”
The two girls melted away
into the shadow of their beach
bungalow. We moved through
tall coconut palms, until we
struck a bitumen road. The
whole night, the palms, the
trees and the bitumen were
richly silvered by the moon.
Kwun Lim took us through it,
along the road into plantation
rubber, through pardi fields,
and then more jungle until we
heard the drums coming to-
wards us, and when we met
them they were beneath flaring
petrol lamps, and it was all a
circus as Kwun Lim had said.
A circus. No matter where
in the world that is, there is
gaiety about, and here the
children thronged, laughing
and shouting, and as we
approached the large tent Tod
threw a handful of copper half-
cents amongst them, and they
screamed with delight. Larry
and Tod threw more cents, and
while the children shrieked
wildly, and scrambled, I had a
chance to catch sight of the
man who thumped the drums.
He pummelled methodically,
and seeing the drums did not
cancel their magic.
The drummer was a short,
thick-set Malay who laughed
as he drummed, his lips parted
and his white teeth showing.
He was bare from the saronged
waist up, and his torso was of
incredible strength. A thin,
sad-faced youth sat behind
him, cross - legged, a long-
stemmed violin beneath his
chin, and he played at it, softly,
sweetly, with a strange melan-
choly. He seemed to have no
part in the gaiety of the circus,
except it were to sharpen the
contrast of melancholy and
joy.
■pROM the jungle, the pardi
and the rubber-trees came
the crowd, their brightly
colored sarongs making a mot-
ley. The women swayed,
daintily erect. The men
laughed and chuckled, the
sleek, well - dressed village
youths chattered over the latest
kampong gossip. They were
all children, enjoying the fun.
Kwun Lim, Tod, Larry and
I were pushed through the tent
opening. The canvas bulged
and was still. The short fat
man who had thumped at the
drums rose as the epitome of
all life’s enjoyment, clapped his
hands to make silence, and
shouted something in Malay
which set the people laughing,
the men uproariously, the
youths in guffaws, and the
women giggling decorously.
The violin began to be merry,
although its musician remained
sad. The thick man sat among
the drums and pummelled for
merry life whilst the audience
nodding knowingly, as though
there were nothing in the
world more to be enjoyed.
Then the circus man rose
from his drums, and with a
run at the stage, jumped on to
a crossbar, stood upright,
swayed and walked as any
tightrope-walker. For this he
was applauded, but he flicked
the enthusiasm carelessly aside.
Now he slipped beneath the
bar, and hung, suspended, cling-
ing to a chain with his strong
white teeth. The applause
deepened.
This was a mere introduc-
tion. Now he clapped his
hands and a beauty appeared,
a soft Malay woman. She
stepped on to his lowered palm.
Without seeming effort he
raised her to his shoulder, held
her while he clapped his free
hand on his thigh, as a rooster
claps its wings, and at that bid-
ding another woman appeared,
and he raised her to shoulder
height. The women stood on
his shoulders whilst he sum-
moned two more, and these he
raised, breast high, whilst the
audience lost itself in a fury of
admiration.
I was really excited. “Very
good,” I said to Kwun Lim.
Kwun Lim looked disinter-
ested. He was staring at the
circus man, shaking his head.
“He doesn’t like him,” Tod
said to me.
That was difficult to under-
stand. A man who appeared
more without guile than this
circus Joe would be difficult to
find. He radiated good humor
and carelessness of life. Now
he discarded his lovelies, leapt
upon a bicycle, and sped
around the stage board, lifting
his cycle so that he rode on
one wheel, and when he
pivoted he was as the angels
upon a needle point, and a pur-
veyor of joy to us.
We had overlong been
serious. From the day of our
landing some sort of a shadow
had hung over us, and mirth
did not come easily. It may
have been a faint sensing of
the truth that we were to
become a ghost force. In any
case we pinned our troubles
on to this man and found com-
fort in his happy, ugly face.
At the end of the act the
people became excited. It was
to be their dance, and the sad-
faced youth awoke at his
violin, but continued his
strange dreams in the music.
The short fat man leapt from
the stage and flourished among
the drums. The stage beauties
reappeared and swayed seduc-
tively before the audience. The
shy village men gathered
courage, climbed on to the
stage, and selected their part-
ners. The dance began, a sway-
ing movement, a dance in
which the partners never
touched or embraced, but
advanced and retreated, re-
treated and advanced in tan-
talising manner, miraculously
avoiding actual contact.
When the first dance died
Tod climbed on to the stage;
his heavy Army boots clumped
on the boards to the amuse-
ment of the crowd. One of
the women chose him, and
rejected a local youth who was
greatly discomforted, and this
earned the boisterous cheers of
the people. Tod, a joke at
first, soon showed he could
dance in the grand manner.
Another male touched Tod’s
partner in passing, and thereby
earned a sharp stinging slap in
the face.
The crowd watched, hoping
Tod would make a mistake,
and he did, and the audience
roared when the Malay woman
smiled and only made a pre-
tence of slapping. The youths
laughingly objected, and the
violinist seemed stirred to an
urgency of music, a pande-
monium of rhythm which for-
ever cast out any blue devils
we had.
Tt was Tod who always had
■*- the blue devils. He was a
man who knew the fate hang-
ing over him. He vowed, even
before the Japs arrived, that
they would get him, and yet
he was never afraid, only
gloomy in a powerful way.
Rarely did he smile, but to-
night, when the dance finished,
he laughed happily and came
down from the stage, his face
glowing. I felt grateful to the
short dark man of the circus,
but when I looked at him he
was not laughing, and that I
could not understand.
Then he did laugh. He came
forward, bowed, and informed
us that the great acts of the
night were about to proceed.
He selected three six-inch nails,
wound a handkerchief about
them singly and, holding hand-
kerchief and nail between his
teeth twisted until the nail
snapped. Another nail he


INSURANCE
FOR YOUR
PROTECTION
•
Union Insurance
Society of Canton Ltd.
(Incorporated in the British
Colony of Hong Kong).
A British Office. ASSETS
EXCEED £20,000,000.
Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8
O’Connell Street Sydney.
Telephone BW 8131
(4 lines)
H. G. Cray, Manager.
through his arm, and
ff hen he withdrew it there was
blood. Finally he took a strong
beer-bottle and smashed it over
bis own head.
These acts were not faked,
a nd in genuine admiration we
threw him five-dollar bills.
The crowd was hysterically
appreciative; all but Kwun
Lim. He refused to contribute
or be entertained. The Malay
seemed not to have seen our
contributions, and stared down
at the ground.
Tod was the first to declare
it a good night. His blue devils
were gone, all right, disbanded
into the silver night. We
talked eagerly with the first
contact of the cool air. Kwun
Lim, alone, was silent. When
finally he spoke there was no
enjoyment in his voice.
“He is no good, that one,”
he said.
“No good. What do you
mean?” said Tod. He was
wary of Kwun Lim, and he
liked the small Malay.
“No good,” repeated Kwun
Lim. “You, when you danced
with the woman. He did not
like that.”
I had seen the look, too.
“If ever there was a man hated,
it was that one,” said Kwun
Lim.
Tod began to look depressed.
I had a moment of anger for
the circus man. The light
faded from Tod's eyes and he
seemed tired, more tired than
I had seen him. “You’re
dreaming,” he muttered. “He
* was out for fun, that fellow.”
BFe lost sight of Kwun Lim
after that, for about a
week, and the circus man we
might almost have forgotten,
hut I think Tod remembered
him often. That week there
was a rumor of war with
Japan, and we rushed south to
! defend the coast. But the coast
was peaceful, dotted with the
small fishing craft of the
natives. The sea was emerald
usual.
It was not until we returned
k> Port Dickson that we met
Kwun Lim, and this time, with
mm, was Charley Teo.
Charley Teo was a small,
‘mrk Chinese, the physical
counterpart, almost, of Tod.
was a Chinese Communist,
nnd because of that wore his
hair long. He had no political
counterpart in Tod, and later
they W ere to have many
jurious arguments, in spite of
heir affection one for the
other. Charley Teo’s long hair
gave him some wildness of
appearance, but like most
mnese he was gentle enough,
specially at heart. It was only
hen we spoke about Japan
that he became really angry,
ferocious almost.
“Nippon!” he said that first
time we mentioned Japan. His
eyes were growing wild, and
widening. “Nippon! ” He
drew a finger across his throat.
“Nippon—skut!” He almost
spat the phrase.
The sudden ferocity startled
us, and Kwun Lim went on to
explain. He, too, had an
intense hatred of the Japanese,
and had he not hated them
there would have been no story
of him, or the way in which he
fought, and the manner in
which he died.
“Nippon,” he said, “Nippon
killed Charley’s parents. Killed
his mother first, and after-
wards his father.”
Charley Teo would not let
him talk on. “Nippon,” he
said fiercely, “I shall kill.”
He meant it, too. After that
he stared down the long
swerved beach, and we knew
he was scarcely aware of our
presence. “They came in the
night,” he said quickly, his
voice becoming excited as he
remembered what he could
never forget. “They came
after my father, for they hated
him with all the people, but
we would not tell them where
he was. He was down in the
ricefields, hiding, for it was no
use fleeing that night.”
Charley Teo stared at me, and
I saw the agony in his eyes
which explained forever why
he fought the small yellow
men. “They did not even ask
my mother,” he said. “They
ran her through with a
bayonet.” Charley Teo thrust
his hands forward, urgently,
nervously, imitating the ter-
rible thrust. “My sister,” he
said, “yes, they did it to all
the young women who could
not run. I, I was young then,
and very small. They took
hold of me and began to
laugh. One of them offered me
chocolates. He could speak
Chinese.
“‘Your father?’ he said.
‘Where is he? We want to see
your father.’
“I could not tell them. I
wouldn’t tell them anything.
The man with the chocolates
hit me across the mouth, then
he kicked me in the stomach,
so that I could not even
scream. After that they
brought my father in, and a
Nipponese officer took two
pencils from his pocket, and
he placed one each in my
father’s ears, and then he
clapped them together with his
hands.”
Palm Beach at Port Dickson
is a lazy gentle sort of place,
a pleasure resort, but it seemed
lonely and uncannily quiet that
evening when Charley Teo
talked. He told us about his
uncle, how they had poured
water down his throat until he
was white, how they had
pushed a hose up his rectum
and exploded him in the belly,
still living. We wanted to be
sick, then, but Charley Teo
could only talk on, until his
tone was dead, and he had
forgotten the pain he had wit-
nessed.
Kwun Lim nodded as each
atrocity was recounted, and
when Charley Teo finished, he
said, looking at me, “When
Nippon comes you will give us
a rifle, eh?”
I looked at him, but it was
Tod who spoke first; he was
angry, and almost sick. “Of
course you will, Tony,” he
said. “We’ll get you both one,”
he promised.
I thought then that we might
never see this strange pair
again, and I said we would get
them rifles all right. I thought
then that I would like to fight
with those two small men, and
never dreamed it would be so,
and under strange circum-
stances, as strange, perhaps, as
the world has known. “Yes,”
I said, “we’ll give you rifles,
and bayonets, too, if you want
them.”
Kwun Lim’s eyes gleamed,
and Charley Teo grinned when
he heard the last, and his smile
was a trifle fiendish.
\*7e met the circus man again
’ * in August of that year,
when we moved to Mersing.
In that coastal village there is
a little of all Asia. If there is
romance in mud and smells,
then it abided at Mersing.
There was the sea which was
silver, and the mud, silver also
with the dawn sun upon it,
stretching up to the village
which was almost on the
shores, and which went skirt-
ing along the Mersing River.
Malay police-boys and firemen
and militia-boys strutted pom-
pously, their buttons ashine,
and lording it over the cringing
Tamils and the humble coolies.
At night the village blazed with
lights and the colors of the
sarongs and saris. Mahjongg
counters clapped noisily in the
Chinese homes, and intrigue
might have moved in every
shadow, but we discounted
such fantasy.
There was a native theatre
which showed films with a
Filipino soundtrack, and on
its hard benches the Tamils
spat betel-nut and cracked
bugs. Opposite, a small squat
Malay sold omelettes. He
crouched in the smoke, a priest
of sorts attending his own
rites. In the gloom of his


smoke and the magic of his
fires it was difficult to see him,
but he made a good omelette,
and often used six eggs for
one.
Next door to him was
another stall, tended by a quiet
Chinese and his small wife.
This Chinese was tall, and the
tales about him were many.
He had been a captain in the
Chinese wars against Japan,
and we wondered why he
should be selling refreshments
in Mersing, for Mersing is
almost the end of the world.
His ice concoction was made
of pineapple cubes, sweet
syrup, grated ice and thick
milk. Tod, when he ran short
of cents between pay-days
could always obtain credit. We
came to like that Chinese cap-
tain, and no less the omelettes
that the Malay manufactured.
Him we called Smoky Joe. He
was like any hamburger mer-
chant, for he wore the white
cap which showed he had been
to Mecca.
And we might never have
thought differently of our
Smoky Joe, only that one night
we saw the tall Chinese rub-
bing his arm, pushing the
sleeve of it upwards. Tod saw
the mark first, a mark we had
seen on Charley Teos’ arm, the
sign of the Communist.
“That’s the mark Charley
Teo wears,” Tod said suddenly.
We might have thought no
more of it, but Tod nudged me
sharply. “Look at Smoky Joe,”
he said.
In the midst of flipping an
omelette Smoky Joe had
paused, and a look of in-
credible hatred came across his
face as he stared at the tall
Chinese. As the captain slowly
rubbed his arm the short man
worked himself into a passion
of fury. His face was actually
distorted and he shook, in
angry spasms. Larry saw this
sudden and amazing change,
and he said to Tod, in an even
voice, “Who’s that happy
man?”
Tod gathered from the tone
of Larry’s voice that it was no
ordinary question. He looked
hard into the smoke, and as
he did a native clamored for
attention, and the small man
shut down on his rage, and
was, in a moment, as cheerful
as before.
Tod went to the counter,
and when the Malay w'ould
have served him with an
omelette he shook his head
roughly. “No,” he said. “No
egg-”
Smoky Joe smiled benignly.
“You Circus Joe, eh?” said
Tod.
The short man shook his
head, and smiled again. “No
spik English,” he said.
“No spik English!” Tod said
unbelievingly. He waved his
arms. “Port Dickson. You
speak English. Circus.
Rouging.”
The small man smiled, as
though, perhaps, he were a
mute. He knew nothing of
Tod’s conversation.
“You know!” Tod chattered
angrily at him, but the Malay
only smiled again, turned and
served a waiting Tamil.
Tod came back to us. “The
rotten little runt,” he said.
“It’s that circus fellow all
right.”
Every night the tall Chinese
sold his ices, and we came to
eat them and watch, but the
Malay did not again betray
himself. We would not eat
his omelettes, and when next
we spoke to him we had
burned Mersing to the ground ;
that is, nearly to the ground.
A ll natives were evacuated
from the area, and they
went in their thousands, some
in lorries, and others riding
bicycles laden with food, cloth-
ing, and animals. Pigs
squealed, fowls objected,
women wept, and the terrible
stream of them flowed towards
Kluang which was out of the
area. They took with them
some of their smells, but Mer-
sing when they left it was silent
and unhappy.
The business of evacuation
did not concern us. We were
laying line communications,
and it was then we saw our
Smoky Joe, a dark squat figure
evading evacuation. We fol-
lowed his creeping figure
through the tall rough lalang
grass. It was Tod who was
filled with unholy delight.
“Ah,” he said, when we
caught up with the native.
“Smoky Joe, eh? Old Smoky
Joe.”
Smoky Joe smiled affably,
saluted us, and bowed only a
trifle sheepishly.
“Don’t want to go with the
rest?” asked Tod airily.
Smoky Joe waved his hands,
and shook his head. He did
not understand the words.
“Ah!” said Tod disgustedly.
“No spik English, eh? You
rotten little liar, Joe.”
The Malay nodded, smiling.
But there was a faint nervous-
ness beneath the smile.
“You go to Kluang, eh?”
said Tod, pointing back to the
village.
Smoky Joe shook his head in
violent negation. “Very bad,”
he said in Malay.
Tod unslung his rifle, with-
drew the bayonet from the
scabbard and fixed it. With
mock ferocity he advanced on
the man who sold omelettes.
I swear, then, that I caught a
glimpse of hatred in that man's
eyes, but it may have been fear
growing, for he suddenly
dropped the bundle he held and
fled towards Mersing. Tod,
amazed, stared after him, and
then, putting down his rifle,
he stood and laughed. His
laughter followed the small
man, who, if he heard it, must
have writhed in hatred and
humiliation, for there was
venom in Tod’s laughing, and
hate, too.
“Do you really think that
was Circus Joe?” he asked us,
and we knew he had never
forgotten that night.
Larry stared at him, his
fringed blue eyes calm, and
grave. “It’s him, all right,
Tod,” he said, “and he’s up to
no good, running off like that.”
When the last native had
gone from the village, and
there were only guns snouting
out to sea and bombers seeking
us out, we thought we had seen
the last of him and, for all we
knew, of Kwun Lim also, and
his strange companion.
Kwun Lim’s departure I
really regretted, for there is in
many a man a desire to weave
some complete pattern from the
threads which come continually
to his restless hands, and I
had believed that Kwun Lim,
more than anyone could have
given purpose and sanity to
life. I remembered he had
often called me “Tony, my
friend!” and had seemed to
mean it.
It was during a bombing raid
that we saw another native go
running into the jungle. Bombs
or no, we chased him. I would
have shot him in anger, only
that there was something
strange about the man as he
turned and stared at us, a
superb sort of defiance in his
attitude and, if nobility exists
in rags, then nobility.
He came towards us, dis-
regarding Tod's rifle and my
pistol. Larry rose slowly out
of the mud, and he recognised
Kwun Lim before I did. He
nodded, a trifle suspiciously,
and said, “You, Kwun Lim!”
“Kwun Lim!” I almost
shouted, and the man in
tattered clothes nodded and
said, “Tony, my friend.”
TTE stood there grinning, and
for the life of me I could
not forbear to smile. It seemed
strange, seeing him in the blue
of the peasant Chinese, no san-
dals, even, upon his feet, and
his skin which had been deli-
cately smooth and almost white
now hardened, a rich chocolate
where it was not torn or bleed-
ing. His hair was as long as
Charley Teo’s, and unkempt.
Only his smile showed him to
be the same Kwun Lim we
had met at Port Dickson when
Strauss was played, but Strauss
seemed far away from Mersing
and the bombers overhead.
“Well, Kwun Lim?” I said,
knowing he would have to say
something.
Kwun Lim looked first at
Tod’s weapon. “There is no
need for that, Tod, my friend,
he said. “I am unarmed.”
Tod muttered to himself, a


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
'/nrorporated by Royal Charter At) 1721 h
Assets exceed £173,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
Kindersley House, Bligh/O’Connell Streets, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton, Manager for Australia.
trifle ashamed, and lowered his
rifle. .
Kwun Lim turned to me:
“Tony, my friend. I am here
to find out about the Japanese.
I have come from Quantan. I
was at Ipoh, first.’
“At Ipoh,” I repeated.
“At Ipoh they had to flee to
the hills,” he said, speaking to
himself, more than to us.
“There are many still there,”
he said, “but Charley Teo came
away, and I also. I went
straight to Quantan. There are
many dead, there.”
“So I am here, Tony,” iie
said. “I watched the Japanese
coming to Endau. Now I have
to go to Singapore.”
“Brigade Headquarters
Kwun Lim,” I said firmly.
“You’ll have to go there.”
He stared at me. unbeliev-
ingly. Nor did I wish him to
go to Brigade Headquarters.
“If you are Intelligence,” I
said, “then it will be all right.”
“They will not understand,”
he said quickly. “Your
Brigadier and the others. You
see, it is different with us.” He
gazed about, appealing to Tod
and Larry.
“The circus man,” said Kwun
Lim suddenly. “He is still here,
eh?”
Tod started and stared at
Kwun Lim. “What circus
man?” he said harshly.
“He sold the omelettes to you
all,” said Kwun Lim. “He
was by Kai Lun.”
Kai Lun was the Chinese
captain. “How did you know
Kai Lun?” I asked him.
“At Quantan we met,” he
said softly. “They want Kai
Lun, these Japanese, but they
will not get him. He knows
your friend. He is no good,
that Malay, Tony.”
“Let him go,” said Tod
suddenly. He was resting on
the tip of his rifle, smiling at
the guerilla. “He’s all right,”
he said.
“All right!” repeated Kwun
Lim shrilly. “And what about
my rifle, Tony, eh?”
We laughed at his audacity,
- but remembered the solemn
promises we had made.
“Not now, Kwun Lim,” I
said, “but when we get some
We will give you one.”
“Thank you, Tony my
friend,” he said, and his eyes
softened as he took a step for-
ward. Then he said, earnestly,
to me, “Tony my friend, there
are too many. They will drive
us to Singapore. Then we will
fight together. You and I,
Tony.”
I did not want to believe him,
about the drive to Singapore,
but I knew I did want to fight
with him. “We’ll fight to-
gether, Kwun Lim,” I said,
“but you’d better go now,
quickly, or the guards will
see you. They are everywhere.”
“I know,” Kwun Lim said,
grinning. He slipped into the
jungle and was gone.
found Smoky Joe, all
right, and we had begun
to doubt Kwun Lim, and won-
der whether or not we had done
right to let him go. Finding
Smoky Joe was, I suppose,
confirmation of Kwun Lim’s
integrity. The small Malay we
found on the beach, and we
might not have found him had
our lines not be out somewhere
along that strip of sand. He
must have known the mine-
fields well to have escaped
them, but then he was no fool,
that one.
I suppose it was right we
should have found him on a
night as beautiful as the silver
night at Port Dickson. He
was crouched over a cable, and
the shadow of the coconut
palms almost covered him. He
was listening, earphones on his
head, and paper in his hand,
but he was not writing. He
must have cut our lines time
and time again, but we had not
discovered him until now.
Larry we had left at the
truck, and Tod and 1 stood
watching him. Tod was hold-
ing my arm, and his anger
made him grip me tightly. Ever
so slowly he released his rifle
from the shoulder. Smoky Joe,
this Circus Joe, did not hear
him. He was huddled over his
instrument.
We raced forward together,
and the squatting man leapt to
his feet, a parang in hand. I
remembered the night of the
circus and his strength. He
threw the phones from him and
brandished his , weapon. The
long-rusted steel might have
served him a little, but we
could, either of us, have shot
him before it did. He saw that
too, and heard Tod snarl,
angrily, bitterly:
“Drop that, you black runt!”
The Malay dropped his
parang and stepped back a
pace. Anger and disgust
showed on his face when he
recognised us, but there was no
fear. That interested me, be-
cause I wondered what lay
beneath the surface of this
squat native.
Tod had his rifle pointed at
Smoky Joe, and that man stood,
immovable, in the moonlight.
He was a solemn figure.
“No spik English, eh?” said
Tod sneeringly. His voice
sounded furious as he repeated
it. “No spik English, eh?”
The thick man stared at him.
dully, as though not caring to
comprehend. Tod came for-
ward but the other man did not
retreat. He stood staring at
Tod.
There was a silence, for
neither Tod nor I knew what
we would do in that moment,
yet I sensed it was Tod’s affair,
and not mine. I knew he hated
this Malay, not because of his
race, but because of the
mockery of his circus night,
the happiness he had beguiled
Tod into feeling, the mental
peace he had given him, only
to make the awakening realisa-
tion even more bitter, because
it was not true. Such reason-
ing seems strange, reconsider-
ing it under normal life, or
what is known as normal life,
but then it seemed obvious and
natural enough that Tod should
have hated, and because of such
a reason.
Tod flicked his rifle upwards,
a gesture of scorn. “Traitor,”
he gibed.
The squat man stared at him
but did not speak. “No under-
stand,” sneered Tod.
The Malay dropped into the
sand, crouched and huddled.
His parang was before him,
but he did not touch it. He
was a queer figure where the
moon was now brilliant upon
him. He might have been
withdrawn into himself, think-
ing.
Tod stood, waiting. We both
knew Tod might kill the man,
but Tod was not done with
him.
“You’ll die, Smoky Joe,” he
said, and then it did not sound
melodramatic.
The native shook his head.
There was no fear in his eyes
when he looked up and said,
in good English, “They will
take me to a camp. The Japan-
ese will free me, later.”
Tod jerked at that speech.
“No you won’t,” he said. “You
won’t go to any camp. The
Japanese will never come,
either. You’ll be dead before
that, Smoky Joe.”
The small man knew the
enmity that existed between
them, as a pair. He knew too,
that Tod might kill him, and
we both wondered, then,
whether he would be afraid. 1
was keen to see whether or not,
it was a dusky veil that lay
between the educated Malay
and his forbears ; whether or
not ideas counted more than
primitive feelings.
'T'he Malay moaned a little.
1 He grasped his parang,
leaning forwards on it, and
rocking. Tod smiled thinly at
this display of fear, but the
Malay did not continue. He
stood, still holding the parang,
and he spoke quietly, angrily.
“You British are dogs,” he
said. “You are snakes. It will
be good when Nippon comes.
Then we will have peace. We
will have our lands back again.”
He had tensed himself, but
when he saw Tod pointing his
rifle, aiming it at his heart, he
dropped the parang, and stood
still. He said, simply, “Take
me to your commanding officer,
then.”
No, Smoky Joe was not a
coward, nor a frightened man.
He was clever enough however,
but yet not clever enough for
Tod. He understood the
psychology of us, related to the
moment. We could not shoot
him in cold blood because he
was helpless.
Tod said, smoothly enough:
“You are a traitor. Nippon
will never come. You are a
coward. You are frightened.”
The simple sentences had
their effect. The man’s face
distorted, and he gabbled in
Malay, some words of English
bubbling through. He would
have rushed Tod, there and
then, but as he picked up his
parang, and made to run for-
wards, Tod shot him through
the heart, and he dropped dead.
The sentries came running,
and Tod said, a trifle dazed as
he spoke, “Kwun Lim was
right, Tony.”
“Kwun Lim was right,” I
answered in the same kind of
voice.
The first sentry to reach us
was still challenging, even when
he saw us, and then, when he
saw the Malay, he said: “Hell!
You shot him?”
“Yes,” said Tod, very quietly.
“We shot him.”


LOOK BACK AT ANGER: "Hop” on Governors
From The Bulletin, December 6, 1890.
"WHO DARES TO LAUGH?"
“A young man has been sent to gaol for a month at Adelaide for hooting Governor Kintore.” —Daily Paper-
HIS EXCELLENCY : “I say, gardenaw — didn't I heah a sound of dewisive laughtaW just now?”
GARDENER: “You did, my Lord, but it's only a bird called the Kookaburra —very
common in these parts!"
HIS EX.: “ Well — aw—get a gun and — aw—make an exawmple of the creachaw."


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Mac. Robertson (Aust.), Ltd.
Founded in Victoria more than 80 years
ago, Mac. Robertson (Australia) Ltd
acquired public status in June, 1950. The
group occupies a prominent position in
the confectionery trade and is the largest,
by far, of the Australian-owned choco-
late-, confectionery- and cocoa-manufac-
turers.
Manufacturing activities are concen-
trated at the group’s large Melbourne
factories; the wide range of confectionery
iis distributed through subsidiaries in the
five mainland States and through agents
‘in south-east Asia, Japan, the West Indies,
New Zealand and the Pacific Islands.
iNew products are launched periodically
enabling adjustment to changes in con-
sumer-tastes —a dominant factor in this
active and prosperous yet highly competi-
tive industry. The co. through a subsidi-
ary, Colorprint Pty, is designer, printer,
[lithographer and package specialist.
| Mac. Robertson, seeking independence
of violent fluctuations in the price of
! cacao beans, at present purchased on the
world market, has established an experi-
mental cacao-plantation, “Wanaru,” at
Lae, New Guinea—there are 408 acres
planted to cacao trees at “Wanaru,” hopes
are high, and croppings, so far, though
[small, have been satisfactory. The plan-
tation, not yet self-supporting, profit-wise,
could prove remunerative in the current
term, subject, that is, to favorable grow-
ing conditions and satisfactory prices.
Meantime West Africa continues the
main producer of cacao beans. The
extent of price variations —very much the
Achilles heel of the Mac. Robertson
'organisation—and their impact on pro-
duction costs is vividly illustrated in
recent years. Gold Coast beans fetched
«>7O a ton in 1954, tumbled down to
in 1956, and recovered to £440 in
Confectionery producers are hard
Put to pass on cost-increases to the con-
sumer, competitive markets and the sheei
impossibility of frequent price changes
making adjustment difficult. In 1958 the
Price of beans fluctuated between £440
an d £338 a ton ; in 1959 between £3BO
and £295 ; and last term there was a
gradual easing-down from £276 to £237
rue price is currently around £202 a ton.
I, atest results are the best achieved in
| e group’s long history. The co. im-
proved its share of an expanded market
urnover, in the 12 months to December
’ 1960, was the highest ever written
ud consolidated gross trading profit, also
was £285,491 higher at
• 59,699. Income from investments
Pi? a bit higher at £63,664.
e| hng, handling, distribution and
administrative expenses aggregated
£1,332,892 (up £125,498 and reflection
of intense competition) and depreciation
and amortisation £177,389 (up £29,172).
All sudsidiaries traded profitably. But
Mac. Robertson boosted profit - margins
as well as profits. Increased cost of
materials, especially sugar (up 10 p.c.)
and to a lesser extent packaging materials,
labor and overheads, was more than offset
by lower prices appertaining cacao beans
and cacao butter, plus increased efficiency,
plus in some instances “small increases in
the selling prices of sugar confectionery.”
Consolidated net profit was finally un-
wrapped, a candy-crusted record-breaking
£310,159 (up £47,238, or 18 p.c.) after
providing £199,923 (up £85,009) for
tax:
Parent and Subsidiary.
, Dividends N To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Pref. , Ord. serves. serves.*
£ £ p.c. £ £ £
Tax overprovided, £.31,032 .. .. 770,570
Legacy from founder, £00,276 .. 830,846
Subsidiary assets written-up, £19,759 850,605
1953.. 238,022* 15,000 8 = 137,910 85,112 935,717
Profit sale assets, £5851 .. .. 941,568
Tax overprovided, £47 .. .. 941,615
1954.. 890 15,000 8 = 137,910 89,980 1,031,595
Profit sale land, £63,500 .. ..1,095,095
Less added intangibles, £17,526 .. 1,077,569
Investment written down, £6020 .. 1,071,549
Less sundry adjustments, £32 . . 1,071,517
1955- 15,000 8 = 137,910 93,830 1,165,347
Tax underprovided, £22 .. .. 1,165,325
Prov. accrued long-service leave,
£26,000 .. 1,139,325
1956- 15,000 9 = 155,148 77,436 1,216,761
Tax overprovided, £4597 . . . . 1,221,358
1957.. 15,000 10 = 172,388 93,924 1,315,282
Tax overprovided, £982 . . . . 1,316,264
1958-252,304 15,000 10 = 172,388 64,916 1,381,180
Capital profit, £81,405 .. .. 1,462,585
Tax overprovided, £ll4 .. .. 1,462,699
To staff fund, £12,075 .. .. 1,450,624
1959.. 15,000 10 = 172,388 75,533 1,526,157
Tax underprovided, £1971 .. .. 1,524,186
Staff fund overprovided, £5OO .. 1,524,686
1960.. 15,000 10 = 172,388 122,771 1,647,457'
* After deducting intangibles, £886,676 at 31/12/60.
The earning-rate on ord. capital, allow-
ing for pref. divs. (£15,000), is up sub-
stantially. At 17.1 p.c. it compares
favorably with 14.4 p.c. in the previous
term and 13.7 p.c., 15.4 p.c., 13.5 p.c. and
13.4 p.c. back to 1955 —paid capital com-
prises £300,000 in 20s. 5 p.c. cum. prefs.
and an unchanged £1,723,882 in 10s. ords.
The steady 10 p.c. ord.-div. was, neces-
sarily, well covered, and reserves
benefited £122,771, or 39.6 p.c. of total
profits, aggregating £1,647,457, net of in-
tangibles (£200,000 goodwill and £686,676
excess cost over par value of shares in
subsidiaries), at close of the accounts.
There were few changes in the balance
sheet, liquidity remaining satisfactory.
Stocks jumped £261,467 to £2,410,053 ;
overdraft £187,272 to £414,158:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1958. 1959. 1960.
Pref £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Ord 1,723,882 1,723,882 1,723,882
Reserves .. .. 1,581,181 1,726,158 1,847,458
Loan, etc. . . 228,825 228,825 228,825
Overdraft .. .. 288,940 226,886 414,158
Creditors, etc. . . 503*845 953,691 960,422
Prov. long-service
leave .. .. 53,290 72,168 79,757
Tax provision .. 325,906 219,822 321,817
Final div. ... 103,433 103,433 103,433
£5,109,302 £5,554,865 £5,979,752
Land, buildings, etc. 844,397 874,154 961,994
Plant .. .. 1,044,524 1,137,656 1,137,954
Plantation .. 89,558 110,978 116,207
Shares in other cos. 480,316 482,362 512,335
Stock . . .. 1,876,425 2,148,586 2,410,053
Book debts .. 569,520 596,949 631,019
Cash .. .. 4,562: 4,180 10,190
Goodwill .. ~ 200,000 20.0,000 200,000
£5,109,302 £5,554,865 £5.979,752
Mac. Robertson’s investments in other
cos., of which £219,348-worth are listed
on ’Change, were disclosed at £512,335
(up £29,973 and in at cost or valuation).
The co. holds, inter alia, a 35.09 p.c. share-
interest in Australian Licorice Pty (manu-
facturers of Meloine, a standardised
invert sugar), a 22.07 p.c. interest in Life
Savers (Australasia) Ltd, 23.35 p.c. of the
issued-capital of Maize Products Pty
(producers of glucose, cornflour, starch,
etc.) and 34.67 p.c. of the share-capital
of Gibson Confectionery Pty (W.A. con-
fectionery - manufacturer). In addition,
there is a 50 p.c. shareholding in Waxed
Papers Pty and 47.26 p.c. in Mac.Robert-
son-Miller Airlines Ltd (operating com-
mercial airlines in Western Australia
with an interest in Air Beef Ltd).
The current term started off with lower
sales in January and February, due to
heat-wave conditions in the south of the
Commonwealth. This follows the normal
pattern of seasonal fluctuations and the
board is not alarmed, anticipating that
“sales during the remainder of 1961 will
be satisfactory.” Expenses may be
heavier —stepped up wage-margins and
increased overseas competition—but lower
bean bills should more than offset.
Mac. Robertson’s scrip fetched up to
265. eight months ago; that is prior
the credit squeeze—the shares drifted as
low as 18s. 9d. in December, 1960. The
co. has just announced plans for a one-
for-five bonus issue “following a con-
servative writing-up of the value of in-
vestments in subsidiary cos.” The bonus
issue will lift ord. capital £344,776 to
£2,068,658, on which the directors hope
to maintain the present annual div.-rate
of 10 p.c. Pref. divs. are to be raised
from 5 p.c. to 6\ p.c. Latest trading has
the ords., cum. bonus, at 21s. 6d. to yield
an immediate and theoretical 4.7 p.c.
Investment poses prospect of slow but
steady growth with possibilities, for the
speculator, of sweet-tooth capital gains
—though in this sense the market offers
better bargains pending share-market
recovery.
Net tangible asset backing is conserva-
tive but substantial; for the 10s. ords,
19s. 6d. ; for the prefs, £l2 4s. 9d.
McDonnell and East, Ltd. (Q.)
hphe Queensland store-owner’s sixtieth
year in business was marked by a
one-for-six issue of 59,500 20s. ords. at
a premium of 10s. a unit. Net earnings
were higher and a special 2\ p.c. “bonus”
was added to the steady 12£ p.c. annual
ordinary dividend cheque.
Incorporated in Queensland in
November, 1901, and reconstructed and
re-registered in May, 1920, McDonnell
and East Ltd retails clothing, furniture
and domestic appliances from freehold
premises in George Street in the centre
of Brisbane. Essentially a draper for
quite some time, the co. now has a sub-
stantial mail order business.
Competition remained strong, but
McDonnell and East succeeded in ex-
panding turnover. Gross profit from
trading rose by £34.462 to £469,175.
Income from investments amounted to
£2377. The co.’s financial year closed
on January 31, 1961. This makes the
results look encouraging as trading in
the last quarter included over two months
of the credit squeeze period initiated by


A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C, DKAI'KK.
N. W. C. IIKAI’DK
(Members of Hrixbnne. Slock tiichonge )
STOCK ANI) SHAKEDKOHEKS
(ironn(l Floor,
Die National Mutual Fife Ituilding
297 tiucen Street, Urishune.
Telegraphic Address: "NEVITTCO"
Phone: 31 27«1 P.O. Ilo*
(I Fines) No. IXX7VV
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members ot the Sydney Stock Exchange
R. H. ALLEN, M. R. L. DOWLINO
P. R. LEVY, A. P. REYNOLDS, N. K.
COURSE (Melbourne Resident Partner)
Delfln House, 16 O'Connell St.. Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Building, 150 ()ueen St.
Melbourne. 67-5957 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables: “Rosdale," Sydney
Melbourne, or Wollongong.
the Federal Government’s and the Re-
serve Bank’s deflationary measures. Of
course, satisfactory Christmas trading
helped.
Net profit for the year ended January
31, 1961, was £12,767 higher at £75,959
after charging £326,131 marketing, selling
and administrative expenses, providing
£18,462 for depreciation of fixed assets
(up £1,764), paying £2OOO directors’ fees
and setting aside £49,000 for taxation
(up £10,000):
, Dividends .
Pref. To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. 8 p.c. /—Ord. serves, serves.
j? £,£,£,
1952.. 28,449 720 8 p.c.- 15,846 11,883 222,025
Reserves disappear, £11,528 . . . . 210,497
1953.. 29,823 720 8 p.c. = 22,882 6,221 216,718
Reserves disappear, £9182 .. .. 207,536
1954.. 19,591 720 8 p.c. = 22,882 203,525
From tax reserve, £11,331 net .. 214,856
1955.. 30,211 720 8 p.c. = 22,882 6,609 221,405
1956.. 41,149 720 10 „ ~28,602 11,827 233.292
1957.. 43,405 720 10 „ ~28,602 14,086 247,375
1958.. 47,367 720 12i „ ~35,753 10,894 258,269
1959.. 47,572 720 121 „ ~35,754 11,098 269,367
Assets revaluation, £300,000 .. .. 569,367
Share premiums, £17,752 .. .. 587,119
To staff fund, £10,758 .. .. 576,361
1960.. 63,192 720 12ip.c..= 37,973 24,499 600,860
Share premiums, £29,432 .. .. 630,292
1961.. 75,959 720 15*p.e.= 55,763 19,476 649,768
* Includes 2J p.c. anniversary bonus.
This represented an earning rate of
20.2 p.c. on the higher average ordinary
capital (after paying the preference divi-
dends) and compares with 20.6 p.c. in
the previous term, 16.3 p.c. in 1959 and
1958, and 14.9 p.c. in 1957, 14.1 p.c. in
1956, 10.3 p.c. in 1955 and 6.6 p.c. in
1954.
The basic ordinary dividend rate was
steady at 12} p.c., and was covered
1.6 times. To this, McDonnell and East
added a 2} p.c. jubilee “bonus,” to mark
the sixtieth year of trading.
The total ord. dividend cheque
absorbed £55,763. Reserves benefited by
£19,476 and by £29,432 share premiums,
rising to £649,768 (free of intangibles).
The one-for-six issue, at 10s. premium
on each 20s. ord., raised paid capital
at balance date to £380,752 in 9000 20s.
8 p.c. cum. prefs., 357,036 20s. fully paid
ords. and 58,864 20s. contributing ords.,
paid to ss. a unit.
Liquidity was satisfactory. Creditors
and current stocks were a bit lower, but
book debts rose by a small margin:
Paid capital—- 1959. 1960. 1961.
Pref £9,000 £9,000 £9,000
Ord 286,027 303,779 371,752
Reserves . . 269,367 600,860 649,768
Calls in advance 17,454 16,432
Mortgages .. 98,202 97,002 34,900
Notes .. 84,291
Overdraft .. 83,333 60,000
Creditors . . 117,853 127,970 117,269
Staff fund . . 13,500 17,058 17,058
Tax provision .. 38,750 47,137 54,680
Final dividends.. 19,312 21,532 35,061
£935,344 £1,241,792 £1,450,211
Freehold property,
plant .. .. 298,737 594,671 735,749
Stocks .. .. 416,893 375,539 361,796
Debtors .. .. 216,288 206,962 218,912
Cash, etc 3,426 64,620 133,754
£935,344 £1,241,792 £1,450,211
Cash, etc., increased. Fixed assets
appeared at much higher book values.
A new item, £84,291 8 p.c. registered
notes increased the co.’s loan capital.
Calls in advance amounted to £16,432.
Official statistics show that the total
value of retail sales (excluding motor
vehicles and parts) in Queensland for
the December quarter of 1960 rose from
£195.7 million to £226.3 million, repre-
senting an increase of 6.4 p.c. (8.6 p.c.
in September quarter and 9.3 p.c. in
December quarter a year ago). Current
fiscal stringencies have slowed down the
growth rate, but the overall money value
of retail sales in the State has risen.
At this stage, future prospects look
reasonably encouraging, although the
unfavorable economic climate could yet
exercise some dampening influence on
the company’s trading. On the whole,
McDonnell and East seems to be in good
financial form.
Sharemarket rating continues to be
high. Despite the slump in share prices
and the share issue during the year,
McDonnell and East’s scrip last changed
han.!s in Brisbane at 445. 6d. for each 20s.
f.-p. unit. The immediate return is 5.7
p.c. on the basis of the steady 12} p.c.
basic dividend rate.
The 20s. 8 p.c. notes fetched 255. 6d.
each, yielding 6.3 p.c. p.a. The con-
tributing shares, now paid to 10s„ were
last traded at 265. 3d. a unit.
Net tangible asset backing works out
at 545. Bd. for each fully paid 20s. ord.
Miller Anderson Ltd
'T'urnover was said to be “encourag-
ingly higher.” Sales reached a “new
record figure.” However, costs continued
to rise and net earnings were only a
shade higher. The ordinary dividend rate
remained steady.
A well established Adelaide retail
draper and general outfitter, Miller
Anderson Ltd, was incorporated as a
public company in South Australia in
1927. The Sydney-based Marcus Clark
organisation holds a major share interest
but the amount of shares in public hands
qualifies the company for sharemarket
listing.
The first 20 years of the company’s
operation brought only modest returns
to ord. shareholders. Things shaped out
better in 1954-58, the profits peak being
achieved in 1955. In 1959 net earnings
slipped down to about the present level.
The co. is concentrating its efforts
stimulating turnover but earnings p ra ,
gress has been hampered by rising ex. i
penses, some of which are outside the
board’s power to control. The higher I
company tax rate further reduced the
net profit.
Net profit for the year ended Januan
28, 1961, edged up by £433 to £31,762,
after “making provision for taxation
depreciation, renewals and replacements!
and other contingencies for the year"
which added up to £30,720. Tax provi-
sion proper was disclosed at £lB,OOO (un
£7800).
After satisfying the preference divi-j
dends requirements, this represented an
earning rate of almost 11.5 p.c. on the
average ordinary capital employed
during the year:
f Dividends —,,
Jan. 31, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. Resenei,)
£ p.c. p.c. £ £
1949 .. 31,175 7 7 12,950 60,9541
Unexplained addition, £5249 .. 72 203 ’
1950 .. 28,165 7 7 12,950 8741!
1951 .. 35,985 8 8 20,000 103 40!
1952 .. 35,137 8 8 20,000 118540
1953 .. 33,325 8 8 20,000 131865
1954 .. 37,516 8 8 20,000 149381
1955 .. 41,726 8 10 23,400 167,7(1!
Assets revalued, £263,373 .. .. 43108)
1956 .. 39,092 8 10 24,250 445,982
1957 .. 35,373 8 10 28,500 452,795 i
From tax provision, £7OOO .. .. 459,795
1958 .. 39,404 8' 10 28.500 470,68! 1
1959 . 31,883 8 10 28,500 474,082
To staff fund, £9OOO .. .. 465,081
196 0 .. 31,3 2 9 8 10 28,5 0 0 467,911
1961 . . 31,762 8 10 28,500 471,1!!
This compares with 11.3 p.c. in the
previous term, 11.5 p.c. in 1959, 15 p.c,
in 1958, 13.1 p.c. in 1957, 18.5 p.c. in
1956 and 20.8 p.c. in 1955.
The ordinary dividend was steady at
10 p.c., and was covered 1.1 times.
Reserves benefited by £3262 and were
disclosed at £471,173, free of intangibles.
Liquidity was satisfactory, and was
aided by a new deposit scheme intro-
duced during the year for shareholders
and customers. Long term deposits, a
new item, were shown at £77,900.
Bank accommodation was almost!
halved. Stocks and book debts were
higher. Otherwise, the balance-sheet did
not change much:
Paid capital— 1959. 1960. 1961.
Pref. ;. .. £BO,OOO £BO,OOO £ 80,0.09
Ord 221,00 0 2 21,0 0 0 221,DM
Reserves . . 474,082 467,911 471,US
Long term deposits ■ —. 77,901
Mortgage . . 160,000 152,000 144,001
Convertible notes - 48,0 0 0 48,01)
Overdraft . . 61,3 7 4 1 34,56 2 70,411
Creditors, etc. . . 75,835 92,516 134,408
Tax provision . . 48,690 33,297 32,561
Final divs. . . 14,250 14,250 14,25)
£1,135,231 £1,243,536 £ 1,2 93,702
Freeholds . . 641,509 687,419 653,029
Furniture, fittings,
etc 66,112 90,958 108,887
Stock .. .. 285,758 312,724 350,861
Debtors . . . . 141,3 9 0 1 51,8 23 180,15*
Cash .. ~ 462 612 M
£1,135,231 £1,243,536 £1,2 9 3,70!
Net tangible asset backing works out
at a solid 625. Bd. for each 20s. full)'
paid ord. unit.
The programme of modernisation of
the selling departments has continued!
during the year and has resulted “in a
generally more efficient and appealing
store,” improving business prospects
Current term’s results depend largely on
general economic conditions in the State
Miller Anderson’s resilience during th £
first ten weeks of the present credit
restrictions seems encouraging.
At the last sale in Adelaide the 20s


Your banker
or stockbroker!
knows
•
m.
m
•*; - i
HOW TO APPLY:
Applications accepted only on forms attached
to the Prospectus. Available from
REID MURRAY ACCEPTANCE LTD.
4113 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 67 1924
Any branch of the
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Any member of a
RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE IN AUST.
Or Joint Underwriting Brokers
TOLHURST, HENLEY, MUNCKTON & CO.
401 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melb.
CUTTEN & HARVEY
97 King William Street, Adelaide
408 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of Stock Exchange of Adelaide Ltd.
YOU CAN
SAFELY
INCREASE
YOUR INCOME
WITH
REID
MURRAY
Acceptance Limited
£1,000,000 ISSUE AT PAR
P.A. for 8 and 10 years
Registered
First Mortgage
Debenture Stock
PAID-UP CAPITAL
£6,000,000
INTEREST RATES
BK%
P.A.
5 YRS.
7 i / 2 r<
s%
0 P.A.
0 P A.
4J4*
m
0 P.A.
0 P.A.
2 YEARS
1 YEAR
6 MONTHS
3 MONTHS
.... AT CALL
\ MURRAY HOLDINGS LTD.
t ds. fetched 31s. 3d. a unit, for
“ immediate yield of 6.4 p.c.
rhe 20s. 8 p.c. cum. prefs. were
last traded at 245. a unit.
COMPANY NOTES
W G. Palmer Consoli-
dated) Ltd
HG. Palmer (Consoli-
dated) Ltd, Sydney-regis-
tered electrical retailer and hire
purchase financier, is making
M issue of £500,000 registered
lirst debenture stock. Interest
rates vary from 9 p.c. p.a. for
7to 20 years fixed to 4| p.c.
p.a. at call. The issue is jointly
underwritten by Bernard Cur-
,ran and Co, Sydney ; Corser,
Henderson and Hale, Brisbane ,
Woodhead. Needham and Tol-
Jhurst, Adelaide ;H. W. Bayley
land Co, Hobart ; and G. H.
Newton Fuller and Co, Perth
[(all stock and sharebrokers),
[The debentures are protected
Iby a trust deed.
I Paid capital of H. G. Palmer
i5£1,824,082 in 830,000 10 p.c.
cum. 20s. first prefs. and
3.976,330- ss. ords.
I Consolidated profit before t2\
’for six months ended December
131, 1960, was reported to have
increased by £68,117 to
£375,436, compared with
1307,319 for the corresponding
period in the previous term.
I Directors repor t that earnings
for the quarter ended March 31,
11961, were satisfactory despite
"hardening in sales and highly
competitive conditions.” This
'result “reflects income from a
wde range of the co.’s activi-
ties.” Demand for products
(retailed under the “H. G.
Palmer" brand name is said to
he improving.
j Consolidated net profit for
the full year to June 30, 1961
iW as £301.494, representing an
earning rate of 36.8 p.c. on the
average ordinary capital em-
ployed during the year after
Paying pref. divs. This com-
pared with 62.7 p.c., 74.2 p.c.
and 52.6 p.c. looking back to
(all on smaller capital).
Last term the co. paid a 12i
P c ' ordinary dividend (10 p.c.
m 1958).
Proceeds of the latest deben-
ture issue will be used to re-
nnance maturing notes and
debenture stock, and to finance
* e group’s activities. “The
t°' has no immediate plans for
further development and will
c °ntinue to consolidate its
P re sent activities, which at
Present include 70 retail stores
nnd 14 service divisions
throughout Australia.”
Interest payable by the co.
011 debentures will not be


BgjgPgggWS
if i
J FIRST
\ DEBENTURE
\ STOCK /
Assets
Exceed
£24,000,000
Your investment
backed by the
resources
of-
Australia's
largest Radio, TV and Electrical
Retailers.
INTEREST PAID QUARTERLY
YOUR MONEY EARNS
THESE LIBERAL RATES
SHORT
TERM
3 MONTHS
NOTICE
5*% P.A.
6 MONTHS
NOTICE
7% P.A.
12 MONTHS
NOTICE
8% P.A.
LONG
TERM
4 YEARS
8% P.A.
5 AND 6
YEARS
Bi% P.A.
7 TO 20
YEARS
9% P.A.
Applications will be accepted
only on the printed form
attached to the prospectus.
Trustees for Debenture Stockholders:
The M.L.C. Nominees Pty. ltd.
Investments in short term stock ore for on indefinite period. Repay-
ment is obtained by giving notice selected on the application form.
WHERE TO INVEST:
• Registered Office
321-5 Chapel Rd. f Bankstown,
N.S.W.
• Any H. G. Palmer Showroom
• ANY BRANCH OF:
Australia & New Zealand
Bank Limited.
The National Bank of
Australasia Limited.
• Any member of a recognised
Stock Exchange.
Underwriting Brokers:
N.S.W.: Bernard Curran & Co.,
9-11 Hunter Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA: Vinton Smith, Dougall &
Co., 401 Collins St., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Ernest H. Corser, Hen-
derson & Hale, 334 Queen Street,
Brisbane.
SOUTH AUST.: Woodhead, Needham
& Tolhurst, 35 Grenfell St., Adelaide.
TASMANIA: H. W. Bayley & Co.,
A.M.P. Building, cnr. entrance Collins
and Elizabeth Streets, Hobart.
WEST AUST.: Geo. H. Newtown,
Fuller & Co., 105 St. George's Terrace,
Perth.
POST THIS
COUPON TODAY
To: H. G. Palmer CConsolidated) Limited,
321-5 Chapel Road, Bankstown, N.S.W.
Please send without cost or obligation one copy of the
prospectus to;
NAME
ADDRESS
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
Head Office: 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
’Phone: BW 1011, BW 1012, 8W4991
DIRECTORS:
SIR CAN ROBERTSON (Chairman), S. E. A. STIRLING,
JAMES H. STEPHENSON, R. G. GALE, RAYMOND S. GOWARD, C.B-E-
A. C. MAITLAND O. S. PETTERSEN
(Managing Director) (Manager)
Branches and Agencies in all States.
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION MERITS YOUR SUPPORT.
deductible taxw i s e. Retail
trade in general has felt the
effect of the Government’s de-
flationary measures, particu-
larly in Melbourne and Vic-
toria. However, the co. has an
adequate financial structure and
the future looks promising
enough.
Another Lend Lease Con-
quest
1 end Lease Corporation
Ltd has made a takeover
bid for Light Concrete Hold-
ings Ltd, manufacturer of pre-
stressed lightweight concrete.
The Lend Lease offer, which
has been recommended by
Light Concrete directors, in-
volves the issue of four fully
paid Lend Lease ss. ords. plus
a non-renounceable right to
take up for cash, at 2s. 6d. a
unit premium, one ss. Lend
Lease ord., for every ten ss.
Light Concrete ords. New
Lend Lease shares will rank
for divs. as from July 1, 1961.
Light Concrete ords. were last
quoted in Sydney at 4s. 9d. for
each ss. unit. Paid capital is
£284,000.
The takeover offer underlines
the continuation of Lend
Lease’s long term policy aimed
at control of its supply sources.
Light Concrete was floated
about eight months ago and
has not had time to present an
annual set of accounts. Pro-
vided the hopes put by some
experts into prestressed light-
weight concrete constructions
are justified, this takeover
should prove to be an astute
move by Lend Lease directors.
M.L.C. Raises Bonuses
'The M L.C. Assurance Com-
-1 pany’s compound bonus
rates for the year 1960 are the
highest to date. The co. has
added £12,850,000 to participat-
ing policies. This represents a
substantial rise over the
£10,700,000 added the previous
year. Sums assured under
M.L.C. policies now exceed
£7OO million, including the 1960
bonus.
Interest earned on the funds
of the Ordinary Branch im-
proved from £5 ss. 9d. per cent.
in 1959 to £5 11s. 2d. p ercw
in 1960. The corresponding r j!
for the Industrial Branch
from £5 3s. Od. per cent
£5 Bs. 7d. per cent.
Retailers Acceptance
13 etailers Acceptance
(Q’ld.) Ltd is making!
£250,000 issue of registered
first - mortgage debentures,
offering a maximum interest
rate of 9| p.c. for six to ten
years. This represents a t
increase of \ per cent, over
the maximum rate offered with
a £200.000 debenture issue
which closed last November
with subscriptions totalling
almost £700,000.
Directors say “the proceedsl
of the issue will be used to
continue the profitable activi-l
ties of the company.” The*
latest published figures of the,
company for the six months
ended December 31, 1960, dis-
closed a profit of £63,752
before tax, an increase of 2)
p.c. compared with the same
period in 1959.
The interim dividend was
steady at 7 p.c. Directors say
that record profits for June-
December period indicate “the >
14 p.c. dividend rate can be I
easily maintained.” )
Profit for the full year to
June 30, 1960. was £115,077
(£67,447 after tax), equivalent
to an earning rate of 27 per
cent, on capital employed.
The company’s policy is “to j
concentrate resources on short-
term lending so as to tie in I
with its borrowing policy.
Average repayment on loans'
on security is approximately
2j years and on hire-purchase 1
2f years. The company is lend-
ing money on security over
plant and other business assets
and on mortgage, as well as 1
providing hire-purchase finance ;
for household furniture and j|
appliances.
The issue opened on Monday,
March 27. Retailers Accept-
ance (Q’ld.) Ltd is a subsidiary
of Retailers Acceptance Ltd,
Sydney, hire-purchase and)
finance co.
Underwriting brokers at l ,'
Ralph King and Yuill, and
Lionel A. McFadden and Co
Sydney, and Lance Jones and
Co., Brisbane.


j? r jgrite Ltd
piGRiTE Ltd, through its
i refrigeration associate, R.
r Wickers Pty Ltd, has been
appointed representative in
Australia of Cincinnati Sub-
2ero Products, of Ohio, U.S.A.,
a leading producer of ultra
low-temperature refrigeration
equipment used in metallurgy,
biology, meteorology, rocket
research, aircraft production
and steel products.
The managing-director of
Frigrite says that “access to
Ihe research and production
facilities of Cincinnati Sub-Zero
Products will enable R. R.
Wickers and other companies
in the Frigrite Group to solve
j piore economically the special
.problems involved where ultra
'low-temperature refrigeration
is needed."
OIL AND MINING
Pacific Island Mines Ltd
Paid capital of Pacific Island
P Mines Ltd. the Papuan-
registered gold prospector, was
lifted to £49.148 in £5 fully paid
ords. at October 31, 1960, in-
cluding 1000 £5 ords. issued to
Austral Malay Tin Ltd.
' The co. is prospecting for
gold in the Misima and East
Imgubinaina areas of Papua.
Reconnaissance and detailed
costeaning is being carried out,
sod a pilot plant is in opera-
tion. Bulk sampling in the
pilot plant has commenced.
Directors say that “the plant
is confirming the original con-
cept that the Misiina deposits
can only be satisfactorily
evaluated by a pilot plant
operation. This was demon-
strated by the treatment of a
sample of porphyry over
burden, which resulted in the
recovery of coarse and wire
gold, equivalent to some 15s
per cu. yard. The porphyry
had hitherto been regarded as
barren because previous pan-
ning tests on small samples had
invariably given negative
results. Values of this order
maintained throughout the
overburden would greatly en-
hance the open cut potential
of the deposits.”
The plant was reported to
have disclosed the presence of
coarse and wire gold in lode
material where panning had
previously detected only tine
mustard gold. “These results
highlight the nature of the gold
occurrence in the Misima field,
which renders conventional
sampling methods misleading.”
Directors feel that tesearch
has shown that the “Misima
field will respond to systematic
prospecting methods, and that
there is ample scope for such
work.” The field is expected
to be resolved into at least four
or five major lode groups, with
a large aggregate tonnage.
“Following the promising
results of our own work, and
the Bureau of Mineral Re-
sources mapping programme
completed in 1959, there seems
little doubt that Pacific Island
Mines has an important gold
held in its possession.”
Net expenditure on the
development account for the
year ended October 31, 1960,
amounted to £8645. Current
assets were disclosed at £23,466
(including £13,618 cash and
£9050 term deposits) against
£2252 external liabilities. Fixed
assets were in at a book value
of £BBBB. Total assets were
disclosed at £51,401, including
£3742 share issue expenses and
£2225 preliminary and forma-
tion expenses.
In capable hands, Pacific
Island Mines may prove to be
an interesting spec. At the last
sale in Sydney the £5 fully paid
ords. fetched £5 15s. a unit.
Santos Limited
CJantos LiMErED is making a
new one-for-two issue of
2s. 6d. shares to stockholders
on the co.’s books on May 12,
1961. The ords. will be issued
at par, payable in full on appli-
cation.
The issue, underwritten by
Cutten and Harvey, Adelaide
brokers, will raise paid capital
to about 7,683,750 2s. 6d. ords.
Combarngo Well
A ssociated Australian Oie-
fields N.L., Associated
Freney Oil Fields N.L. and the
Papuan Apinaipi Petroleum Co.
Ltd in a joint announcement
say that the National 55 rig has
been moved to Combarngo
structure, 30 miles south-east
of Roma and 70 miles north-
west from the Cabawin No. 1
well (Queensland). Combarngo
No. 1 well is scheduled to com-
mence before the end of. April,
and is expected to be drilled to
a depth of over 6000 ft.
E. N. Avery, chairman of
Associated Freney and Associa-
ted Australian, says that the
new drilling “may have the best
chance of finding oil of any
well yet drilled by the com-
pany.”
Australasian Petroleum
TNireceors of Australasian
Petroleum Co. Pty Ltd and
Island Exploration Co. Pty Ltd
announce that arrangements
have been made to undertake
marine seismic reflection
traverses in the entrances of
the Eurama and Fly Rivers in
Papua.. These surveys are
expected to start about mid-
April and are being undertaken
on the advice of Oil Search
Ltd's technical consultants,
DeGolver and MacNaughton.
Oil Development N.L.
/"Nil Development N.L. re-
ports that the Penola Well
No. 1 in South Australia
advanced 260 feet to a depth of
4540 feet. Core was taken
between 4390 and 4400 feet.
The section consisted mainly of
mudstone and siltstone with
some sandstone. The well is
drilling ahead.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 639
Across
1-Be holding all tone interrupted by some mother fancier
of Terpsichore. (II)
f-Recede. (3)
S—What Caesar might have put on to Georgia. (4)
.’-Executed girl keynotes, modern and ancient. (7. 3)
"'-Think highly of Esmond and abound. (6)
12—Fish to make the curious ball
rise. (3, 5)
14— Turning of the East adver-
sary. (3)
15— Amber streak affected this
tradesman who is not a minor,
being less restricted than 23 and
25 across. (6, 5)
17—What makes Forte (if cowardly)
always ill? (6, 5)
20 — One turn of the engine cloth
taken by him. (3)
21 — Step term, (anagram) (8)
23 and 25—Head of the Record
Office who knows how to drive
a good car. (6, 2,3, 5)
26 — Before backing a terrifier of
Sicilians. (4)
27 — Continental XI shows some
spirit. (3)
28 — Be with a unit of work-girls in
schooners. (4, 7)
Down
1 — Swimming is a paralysing experi-
ence for an operatic heroine.
(9, 6)
2 Overweight and crook? Quite
the contrary in well-planned
premises. (9)
3 Mother interrupting the alterna-
tive Persian poet. (4)
4 ft may be called up to fly in
Melody Park. (3, 7)
5 When the sun sinks Menzies, no
more or less than a silver coin
is required. (4, 3)
6 One part of the ear upset Philip
IPs mistress (5)
7 —Oolretaw and Nedolluc? (6, 9)
10—Wave for an old Russian
city. (4)
13 —Twisty activity is suggested, 100
being taken from the cask shape
rock bearing minerals. (3, 3,4)
16 —Eye trouble 1 strike at
w'ildly. (9)
18 — Grotesque route is changed. (5)
19 — Bring up what might be brought
up by an advancing general. (4)
22 —Saying it it’s a theme. (5)
24—It makes some paving
slacken. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 638


FOR SPEED
(First issues off the press)
CONVENIENCE
(Right to your mail-box)
CONTINUITY
(No chance of missing out)
HAVE
DELIVERED BY POST
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
NEW SI It. RENEW AL
(Please cross out one)
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper,
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please find enclosed my cheque I money-order for
months’ subscription to The Bulletin.
NAME: ........ .................
ADDRESS: ... .........
RATES (A/asia): 1 year —£2 125.; | year —£1 6s.
Post free. British C’wealth: £3 3s. 6d. Foreign:
£3 16s.
N.Z. CURRENCY (Remit to Box 965, Wellington,
N.Z.): A/asia: 1 year —£1 18s. 6d. ; \ year—
19s. 6d. British C’wealth: £2 3s. Foreign £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether
the subscription is paid direct to The Bulletin
or any newsagent in Australia or N.Z.
TH E B U L LETI N
IS AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
NEWS MAGAZINE-
-6o pages of top-flight information. The press,
the radio, TV, will dish you up the headline
news . . . but The Bulletin has time to bring
you the news inside the news.
AND IT’S PACKED WITH
ENTERTAINMENT
Nearly every facet of modern Fife is reflected
in The Bulletin’s pages, so no wonder
anyone can find a little of himself —or herself
—in The Bulletin.
