

The Bulletin
Registered in Australia for trans-
mission by post as a newspaper.
September 16, 1961
I<
■ union
[HOW TO RIG ▲BALLOTS


FOR SPEED
(First issues off the press)
CONVENIENCE
(Right to your mail-box)
CONTINUITY
(No chance of missing out)
HAVE
DELIVERED BY POST
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
NEW SUB./RENEWAL
(Please cross out one)
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper,
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please find enclosed my cheque I money-order for
months’ subscription to The Bulletin.
NAME: ...... ....
ADDRESS:
RATES (A/asia): 1 year —£2 125.; f year—£l 6s.
Post free. British C’wealth: £3 3s. 6d. Foreign:
£3 16s.
N.Z. CURRENCY (Remit to Box 965, Wellington,
N.Z.): A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d. ; \ year—
19s. 6d. British C’wealth: £2 3s. Foreign £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether
the subscription is paid direct to The Bulletin
or any newsagent in Australia or N.Z.
TH E B U L LETI N
IS AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
NEWS MAGAZINE-
-52 pages of top-flight information. The press,
the radio, TV, will dish you up the headline
news . . . but The Bulletin has time to bring
you the news inside the news.
AND IT’S PACKED WITH
ENTERTAINMENT
Nearly every facet of modern life is reflected
in The Bulletin’s pages, so no wonder
anyone can find a little of himself —or herself
—in The Bulletin.


TEARING OFF A STRIP
By Lovell Jones
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; Phone: 27 5971.
Vol. 82
No. 4257
Mr Khrushchev’s Aching Heart
NOW that the Geneva nuclear tests conference has adjourned
indefinitely because the Russians have made continued dis-
cussion worthless, what happens next? The West has made
it clear that it is prepared to ban nuclear tests in the atmosphere.
Mr Khrushchev has announced that he has been compelled “with
an aching heart” to resume tests because the Soviet has not set off
as many nuclear explosions as the West (the present score is 69 to
190) and he feels he has a right to an equal number. He does not
explain why even if this is so he has to conduct tests in the
atmosphere and not underground.
It is on this point that to those who are interested in avoiding
the dangers of atmosphere tests and who on our side isn’t?
Mr Khrushchev should seem an utter fraud. It is to be hoped that
this theme is taken up loud and long at next week’s United Nations
session. Is there any reason why whatever is decided about under-
ground tests the nuclear nations should not at once outlaw
atmosphere tests? To us there is no reason. To Mr Khrushchev
there are several.
He is not interested in partial bans. He is interested in scaring
Western and neutralist opinion by any means that comes to hand,
and atmosphere tests will do as well as anything else. He is afraid
of partial bans because he fears that they may weaken the desire for
“peace.” He wants us to live in a state of terror so that a concession-
ary policy finally seems the only policy that can be adopted by res-
ponsible human beings. That is why he has brushed aside all talk
of partial test bans, or complete test bans and called demagogically
for “general and complete disarmament” only a few weeks after he
boasted of plans for a ioo-megaton weapon.
T HE Americans will probably come up with a great deal of earnest
expert stuff about test detection at the U.N. meeting. They will
probably show that bans on some nuclear tests can be satisfactorily
policed without infringements of national sovereignty. All this will
be useful evidence of good intention and let us hope that it will be
of practical importance some day, but for the moment it is a waste
of time. To Mr Khrushchev nuclear test bans are simply part of his
general “peace” racket by which he hopes to demoralise us all.
In this context it was pleasing to read that Mr Nehru almost
single-handed urged moderation on the recent congress of 25 neut-
ralist nations in Belgrade. He successfully cut down the amount of
anti-“colonialist” ranting in the congress’s resolutions, although the
delegates made much of it in their speeches, no doubt for the con-
sumption of the newspapers back home. He insisted that anti-
Western feeling be at least made subsidiary to the desire for peace.
This is of the utmost importance. The West is the camp of peace. It
is only their increasingly out-dated prejudices that prevent the neut-
ralists from realising this, and acting as if it were so.


This Australia
THE A.C.T.U.
The Balance Sheet
at the Conference
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
PAT CLANCY
The whip
IT was the word “the” that brought
Mr Pat Clancy, the Communist sec-
retary of the N.S.W. branch of the Build-
ing Workers’ Industrial Union, to his feet
a few minutes before the A.C.T.U.
biennial conference ended at the Pad-
dington Town Hall last Friday. The
president, Albert Monk, had just read
the usual formal letter from the Opposi-
tion Leader, Mr Calwell, asking for
A.C.T.U. support in the coming elections
and referring to “the three branches of
the Labor movement,” that is, the
Federal Parliamentary Labor party, the
Federal A.L.P. Executive and the
A.C.T.U. Clancy pointed out that there
were other branches of the Labor move-
ment, “and quite important branches,
too.” Would Mr Monk consider drop-
ing the word “the” before the words
“three branches”? How this was to be
done in Mr Calwell’s letter was not
explained, but Mr Monk said that he
would consider it, and Clancy returned to
his second-row aisle seat from which he
had acted —with success —as Communist
party whip throughout the 4j days of
the congress.
His party achieved significant objec-
tives. The 18 absent unions were barely
mentioned and the congress’s rejection of
a Monk-Souter motion for a penny a head
levy to pay increased affiliation fees to
the I.C.F.T.U. must mean, unless the
confederation remains very tolerant, the
expulsion of the A.C.T.U. from the
I.C.F.T.U. As W. P. Evans, the junior
vice-president, pointed out, rejection of
the Executive motion would logically put
the A.C.T.U. in the same position as the
unions who had withdrawn over the
levy.
But Mr Monk and the Executive lost,
because, as has so often been the case in
Australian trade unionism, some tradi-
tionally Right-wing unions inspired by
isolationism, joined with the Com-
munists. The result of all this was that
the long-standing Communist aim of
A.C.T.U. disaffiliation from the I.C.F.T.U.
is well on the way to being achieved by
the back door.
The other major Communist victory ©f
the conference was the establishment of
the industry groups within the A.C.T.U.
as constituent groups with powers of their
own, Previously the only function of
the industry groups had been to divide
the affiliated unions into six divisions for
the election of six representatives to the
Interstate Executive. At congress Clancy
moved a motion which instructed the
Executive to call regular meetings of the
industry groups at least twice a year.
Despite strong opposition from the
A.C.T.U. secretary Souter, who spoke of
Executive representatives being bound
hand and foot, the motion was carried
again with the support of Right-wing
unions. The significance of the establish-
ment of the industry groups with virtual
independent status within the A.C.T.U.
is that the Communists will control three
of the groups: transport, metal trades
and building, and possibly a fourth,
food. The groups will provide useful
propaganda sounding boards.
The Executive did gain its victories, but
probably only because of restraint by
Communist floor leaders. Besides its main
victory was off the floor in the arrange-
ment of the agenda. The peace motions,
all couched in usual Communist jargon,
were listed last on the agenda and were
never reached. Similarly the “inter-
national socialism and penal clauses'’
agenda items were listed well down and
never came to debate. In the light of
this the consistent tardiness in opening
the sessions (never less than half an hour
late) began to appear as a deliberate
Executive policy.
The other key test was the elections for
the Interstate Executive. There things
ended up with much the same mixture as
before —with three Communists and one
hard-core dependable party-liner on the
16-man Executive. The Communists are
G. Dawson, building group; Tom
Wright, metal group ; A. McDonald,
Queensland Trades and Labor Council,
and the hard core party follower is M.
O'Brien, representing the transport group
and filling the late Jim Healy’s place.
Tom Wright, of the Sheet Metal
Workers’ Union, was elected unopposed
to fill Albert McNolty’s place represent-
ing the metal trades group.
This last election was interesting be-
cause until the eve of the conference
Arthur Horsburgh, an A.L.P. chairman
of the Amalgamated Engineering Union,
who is usually regarded as a Communist
tool, had been dropping broad hints that
he intended to run, but was brought
rapidly into line when his three-man
Commonwealth Council, by a majority
vote of Communist Southwell and
A.L.P. Hennessy against Right-winger
Shearer, directed him not to stand. It will
surely interest A.E.U. members in the
coming A.E.U. elections that the A.L.P.
Hennessy used his vote to ditch his own
Federal President, and an A.L.P. man,
in favor of a Communist.
THE WHEAT BOARD
After the China Deal
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
An obscure roneoed journal produced
in Melbourne has raised some crucial
questions concerning the Australian
Wheat Board’s dealings with Red China.
The publication is the September issue of
the “Australia-China Society Bulletin,”
issued by the society’s secretary, Mrs Zyk,
of 64 Broadway, Camberwell. It states
that the society will hold its annual dinner
on October 1, this being the anniversary of
the foundation of Mao’s regime in 1949,
and that the speaker will be Mr C. J.
Perrett, sales manager of the Australian
Wheat Board.
Nobody would suggest that Mr Perrett
is a supporter of the Communist party or
of its front organisations. It would be
fascinating, however, to learn the reasons
why Mr Perrett, from having sold wheat
to China, has now slipped into the position
of lending prestige to a body which is a
local mouthpiece for Peking propaganda,
If Mr Perrett has any doubts about the
Australia-China Society’s role he need
only study the bulletin in which he is
billed as its star speaker at the dinner,
Elsewhere in the news-sheet it is re-
ported that an eleven-man Chinese trade
delegation spent a large part of August
j n Melbourne where it was entertained
several times by the society, as well as
going to a concert put on by the
“students’ Chinese Cultural Club of Vic-
toria.” China, like the Soviet bloc


countries, arranges its foreign trade
through a number of import-export cor-
porations, each handling a group of
related goods. (The Chinese corpora-
tions include ones dealing in animal pro-
ducts, chemicals, foodstuffs and so on.)
According to the “Australia-China Society
Bulletin,” all China’s import-export cor-
porations were represented in the delega-
tion which “was largely ‘hosted’ by the
Australian Wheat Board.”
If this is so, then a number of sus-
picions must arise about the board’s
claim that its dealings with China have
been simply concerned with disposing of
Australian wheat. In the first place, is
it within the board's powers to play host
to Chinese trying to buy, let alone sell,
other goods? How much has it spent on
playing host to Chinese salesmen of gin-
seng root, tung oil or vacuum flasks?
Trade experts predicted that after buy-
ing so much Australian wheat, the
Chinese would try to use these deals as
a lever to sell more of their own goods
here. In fact, the Australia-China Society
Bulletin quotes the delegation as saying
that “the problem now is to ensure that
trade was genuinely two-way.”
If the balance of trade between our-
selves and China (or any other nation)
favors us, then our economic position is
thereby strengthened. It is certainly no
business of the Wheat Board to concern
itself with China’s problems of placing
more goods here. If, in fact, it has
played host to a delegation representing
comprehensive Chinese trade interests
then many of the worst fears about the
recent wheat deals are being realised.
If Mr Perrett is speaking to the October
1 dinner knowing the character of the
Australia-China Society then the situa-
tion is still more alarming.
The news-sheet also announces publica-
tion of a commentary on the Tibetan
revolt by B. Burgoyne Chapman, vice-
president of the society’s Queensland
branch, and quotes this from it: “This
1959 rebellion involved nothing national.
It was a revolt of serf-owners to maintain
a hideous serfdom ...”
UNIVERSITIES
The Unintenfional
Publicity Stunt
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
J. P. BAXTER
“Complete confidence”
At first everyone assumed it must be a
publicity stunt designed to make sure
that the daily papers would give the maxi-
mum space to the student editor’s demand
for the resignation of the Vice-Chancellor
of the University of N.S.W. and for a
Royal Commission into the university
Why else would a student appointee, the
Director of Student Publications. Mr D.
Roache. ban the latest issue of the
students' paper “Tharunka”? But the
resignation of the complete staff of the
newspaper, and the students’ demand for
a special meeting of the Students’ Union
Council to discuss the dismissal of the
Director of Student Publications, and
Mr Roache's attack on the editor, Mr I.
Davison, convinced even the most cynical
that the ban was not a stunt but a true
example of high-minded censorship.
Mr Roache claimed that the editor had
ted a fast one and had
that the issue would not be printed until
a day after d wa f. ,n f act P r | n e • n
othei words the edi oi was tying o ge
the paper into circulation before Roache
would have a chance to censor it. It
was only after a reporter of a daily paper
saw an advance copy of “Tharunka” and
rang him to get his comments on the “sub-
versive” editorial that he woke up to
what was happening and rushed to the
printery to see what was going on. One
glance was enough. He seized all copies.
But only the available copies. The
editorial staff had already taken the
first 1000 off the press and begun to cir-
culate them. Few student papers have
hit the streets in such fortunate circum-
stances.
Xhe Students - Union Council called a
. , .. ,
s P e ™' mee ""« to D d, f uss '£ e “ se °"
Monday night. Professor Baxter had
meanwhile announced from his sick-bed:
have complete confidence in the presi-
dent of the Students Union and his
executive and the student body generally”
—a confidence that was not misplaced
since at the Council’s meeting, despite a
gallery of anti-Roache-ites, the motion to
dismiss Mr Roache was rejected in favor
G f one endorsing his actions. “Tharunka”
j s a ff er a j[ a Council paper and its anti-
Baxter editorial did not represent Coun-
drs views The council did however
decide to release the banned copies with
a leaflet inside each one saying that the
opinions in it were not necessarily the
council's
The old staff members of “Tharunka,”
angered by all this compromising, have
refused to withdraw their resignations and
they now claim they will bring out their
own opposition paper, to be financed from
secret sources. Even if it only lasts one
number it, they say, will be “sensational.”
RELIGION
The Bishops and
Church "Oddities"
FROM GOODWIN EWENCE IN LAUNCESTON
At the Synod of the Church of England
in Tasmania recently a motion
was carried requesting the Bishop to
arrange for official replies “whenever
the doctrine or discipline of the church
is in danger of being misrepresented.*’
The laity has naturally asked what was
the need for the motion, seeing that the
mover was careful to say that it was not
intended as a criticism of the press,
“which is generally accurate and fair.”
And the mover, the Rev. D. L. J. Pearce,
rector of St Peter’s, Fingal, is a little
surprised that the motion was passed
without amendment, because there had
been considerable discussion as to how
the Bishop was to carry out the assign-
ment given to him.
He is, however, convinced that the
bishops must be ready and quick to
interpret its policy. The “occasional
oddities” of the church, he told The
Bulletin, however accurately reported,
could easily be misunderstood. People
did not always understand that there was
considerable freedom of expression
within the church, and were disturbed
when they read of something that a
church dignitary had said in apparent
contradiction to their established ideas of
doctrine and discipline. They might, for
instance, be very disturbed by some state-
ment by the Dean of Canterbury, not
realising that he was only, as it were,
rector at Canterbury Cathedral, and that
his political views were his own.
Again, there had been a recent criti-
cism in “The Anglican” of church
schools, Mr Pearce said. People did not
necessarily understand that this journal
was not “official.”
“This may seem academic and rarefied,
but there is an area of weakness in the
church's external defences,” Mr Pearce
said. “It is the job of the press to report.
When interpretation of the church is re-
quired we should be ready to hop in and
do it.”
The church in Tasmania has recently
become something of an “oddity” in
itself, thanks to the insistence of Tas-
manians on being more Australian than
the Australians. When the bill to give
effect to the constitution of “the Church
of England in Australia and Tasmania*’
and to repeal the Church of England
Constitution Act, 1927, was before the
Legislative Council, Mr Davis queried
the words “in Australia and Tasmania.’
“We are part of the Commonwealth,*
he said. “Sometimes we complain be-
cause we are left off the map. Surely the
bill should refer to ‘the Church of Eng-
land in Australia.’ ”
He successfully moved the amendment
of the wording, so that while other States
may include Tasmania in, Tasmania
firmly includes itself out.


MIGRATION
Deporting the Pearl Divers
FROM A DAEWIN CORRESPONDENT
JAFFA MADUNNE
Out
"P arlier this month the Minister
for Immigration, Mr A. R.
Downer, rejected for the third time two
Malayans’ plea for permission to remain
in the Northern Territory and. become
Australian citizens. The Prime Minister
to whom they had made a final appeal
for mercy wired them that he could not
intervene.
One of the men concerned, Daru bin
Saris, has lived in Australia for 12 years,
the other, Jaffa Madunne, for nine years.
They were brought out as indentured
labor in the pearling industry to work
for Darwin master pearler Jimmy Gon-
zales at £35 a month. Malayans and
other Asians were needed, because con-
ditions on the luggers were so primitive
and ill-paid that white Australians
would not stomach them.
Nine years ago five Malayans brought
over at the same time as Madunne were
so disgusted with the setup in the in-
dustry that they deserted, stole a car
and drove it to Katherine, thus forcing
the Government to deport them. “They
asked me to join them,” Madunne told
me recently. “I wasn’t too happy about
my working conditions either, but I
was under a contract and I didn't want
to break the law.”
The Government’s decision has its
ironic twist. If the pearling industry—
which Daru and Jaffa helped keep alive
for so long as diving tenders —had neld
up for only another three years Daru,
at least, would have completed the 15
years he needed to qualify for citizen-
ship. But pearling collapsed, and this
season Jimmy Gonzales, the pearler who
took over their indentures a few years
ago, has gone croc shooting instead.
Australia no longer needs Daru and
Jaffa and has ordered them out of the
country.
The effect on the Malayan people of
the Federal Government’s stand can
be imagined. The effect in polyglot
Darwin —with its big Indonesian, Chinese,
Filipino and other minorities—is no less
heavy. A group of young people here
have got up a petition which they will
send to Canberra urging mercy for Daru
and Jaffa. So far they have collected
1,600 signatures in Darwin alone. The
member for Port Darwin (Mr Dick
Ward), uncrowned leader of the non-
public Service section of the NT Legisla-
tive Council, this week described the
Federal immigration policy as “dread-
ful” and said the treatment of the two
Malayans “made one feel ashamed to
be an Australian.” He said the Terri-
tory was so often treated as being sepa-
rate from the rest of Australia that there
seemed no reason why the men should
not be allowed to remain in Darwin, with
their friends.
Both have jobs—one at £l6 a week,
the other at £l7. They are staying with
Australian citizens Mr and Mrs Sallum
bin Sallik and Ali bin Salleh, all born
in Malaya, at Sallum’s store in Winnellie
suburb. Both Sallum and Ali served in
the AIF. Ali is crippled with wounds
he received while fighting behind the
Japanese lines with the commando “Z”
force. Many other naturalised Malays
live in and around Darwin.
There is one way Daru and Jaffa can
stay—and some leading citizens have
advised them to take it. That is, to marry
Australian girls. Both are divorced from
their Malayan wives and have nothing
to return to there. But Madunne said:
“Though we want to stay in Australia so
much, we are not going to marry just
anyone to avoid deportation.”
The Government, facing so much
popular support in the Territory for the
two men, is now moving The
latest word is that they must be out of
the country within days. If they are
not, their old employer Gonzales may
forfeit a £4OO bond. Friends of Jaffa
and Daru appear to have exhausted
every avenue after appeals to the Minister,
the Prime Minister and the Governor-
General have failed.
“When we left Malaya it was under
British rule,” Daru and Jaffa said today.
“Now the country has changed. We
would be strangers in our villages. If
we must go back after all these years
it will be as beggars on the streets of
Singapore.”
Meanwhile the North Australian
Workers’ Union (2500 members) has
threatened direct action if the Malayans
are deported.
EDUCATION
The Wages of Teaching Girls
FROM A PERTH CORRESPONDENT
HThe first industrial dispute in the his-
tory of Western Australia’s private
schools came to a head last week when
the teachers of Perth’s genteel girls’
schools came out of the seclusion of their
classrooms to fight for higher wages in
the shirtsleeves atmosphere of the Arbi-
tration Court.
Contestants in the action were the
Industrial Union of the Independent
Schools’ Salaried Officers’ Association of
W.A. and the management of St Hilda’s
Church of England Girls’ School and
other independent schools. The case
was heard during the school holidays, and
the teachers and heads of schools packed
the courtroom.
Teachers’ advocate, Mr G. Wall, who
is a senior master at the top-ranking
Hale Boys’ School, told Conciliation
Commissioner Schnaars that arbitration
had been forced upon teachers by the
actions of the Miscellaneous Workers’
Union in obtaining an award for school
staff other than teachers and the attempt
by the union to amend its constitution to
cover teachers.
Following the M.W.U. bid to bring
private teachers within its industrial
scope, a union had been formed about
15 months ago to include all salaried
officers at private schools. The manage-
ment of the girls’ independent schools
had decided to introduce a uniform
salary range for teachers about 12
months ago, but no attempt was made to
get in touch with the union regarding
pay rates and other conditions or to find
out what it thought was fair and reason-
able. When the union sought details of
the conditions from Dr V. Summers,
president of the Headmistresses’ Associa-
tion, it was told they had not been
agreed to by all headmistresses.
However, the union felt the real rea-
son the details were not given was be-
cause there was opposition to any change
in the system of private agreements for
teachers. Under the new policy there
were substantial increases in some cases,
not because they were generous but be-
cause the previous salaries had been
unreasonably low. Prior to this year, one
teacher with 30 years’ service was getting
only £BOO a year and another with 20
years’ service was getting £43 2s. a
month.
The new salaries introduced this year
were determined by the employers alone
without reference to the union. Though
they conferred parity on all schools for
the first time, they did not establish a
clear salary scale, and, in the union’s
opinion, were below what could be con-
sidered fair and reasonable.
The union is now seeking a salary


scale which would give a teacher with a
university degree and teachers’ certifi-
cate and maximum service in a secondary
school approximately £l5OO a year, about
£3OO more than the present scale. It is
also seeking sick leave and long service
conditions similar to the State Education
Department. The respondents to the
union case will begin their submission
and evidence on Monday.
CIVIL DISOBEDIENCE
The March on
Canberra
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
Y)Ghile the Russians were putting their
finishing touches to their new Pearl
Harbor and preparing to drop their
nuclear bombs at the very time their
representative at Geneva was arguing
earnestly at Geneva about how to put an
end to all nuclear tests, Earl Russell's
British Committee of 100 was busily
negotiating with the Australian “peace”
movement. The Committee of 100 had
planned a monster “civil disobedience
campaign - ' to culminate next Tuesday
with a march on the Holy Loch Polaris
base, when it suddenly struck them: what
good would it do world peace if the base
were kicked out of Scotland and immedi-
ately set up somewhere else? Clearly
world-wide co-ordination was necessary.
So they wrote to Mr W. (Lenin Prize)
Morrow of the N.S.W. Peace Council
suggesting collaboration: “We feel it is
absolutely necessary that there should
be mass non-violent action in every coun-
try which possesses nuclear weapons or
where bases are situated.”
The suggestion was immediately wel-
comed in Australia where despite the
formation of all sorts of paper organisa-
tions such as the Committee for the
Abolition of American Bases in Victoria,
the movement has not exactly got a mass
following. Mr Leslie Haylen, M.P., was
particularly enthusiastic and suggested
that on September 19 when the British
are marching on Holy Loch there should
be a civil disobedience “motorcade” from
Melbourne and Sydney to Queanbeyan
(“a town near Canberra”), whence they
should all march on Parliament House,
Canberra —a distance of seven miles.
Englishmen have been known to walk
hundreds of miles in the interests of
peace and if necessary are willing to walk
from Calais to Moscow, but seven miles
seemed enough for Mr Haylen: after all
they may have to walk back to Quean-
beyan to get their cars.
Volunteers, however, are asked to
march from Sydney. All the marchers
are advised to carry band-aids, elastoplast,
and talc.
What happens after this gesture of civil
disobedience? Perhaps Mr Haylen will
march to Peking, where he has received
so much literary inspiration in the past?
"SO LONG AS IT'S OUR STRONTIUM 90 AND NOT THEIRS"


MEDICINE
For the Unemployed
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
H. F. ROBERTON
The next step
“\\7 ell,” she explained, “Last Tuesday
* * I walked two miles into the doctor’s
surgery and arrived at the beginning of
surgery hours. There were a few people
there, not many, so I sat down and waited.
The nurse took my name and then told
me there was not much chance that
doctor would see me today so 1 walked
home and returned the next morning.
The same thing happened. It just did not
make sense, the waiting room was not so
crowded as that. As I was going home
the penny dropped. 1 had visited Dr X
some weeks ago and had not been able
to pay him. I suppose he just saw no
reason to treat me for free.”
The story behind this explanation is
that Mrs Smith was expecting a baby in
six weeks’ time and she and her husband
had only been living in the district since
the beginning of the year. Mr Smith lost
his job and they were forced to leave their
rented flat and move into an old shed on
a block of land owned by a relative. With
three children it was not possible to keep
up his Hospital and Medical Fund con-
tributions as the entire family income was
£6 2s. 6d. from the Social Services and
£1 ss. per week Child Endowment.
Finally Mrs Smith attended the Out-
patients' Department at the nearest Public
Hospital —eight miles away. She was
examined and immediately rushed to a
city maternity hospital for blood trans-
fusions as it was found she was suffering
from a serious blood condition.
Th:s, of course, is a dramatic and pos-
sibly isolated incident but it is not
unusual for a man to lose his job, allow
his fund payments to lapse and then illness
hits the family. His child is hospitalised
and heavy doctor's and hospital bills are
incurred. Most of the big public hospitals
understand the problem and do not expect
payment under these circumstances but
the doctor's account must be met. Yet, a
man, in spite of belonging to the fund
for years, loses all benefits after he is two
months in arrears with the fund (except
for 6s. per doctor’s visit which the Com-
monwealth Government will meet under
these circumstances for a further two
months).
It is assumed anyone can attend the
outpatients’ department of a public hos-
pital and receive free medical treatment.
In fact this is not always so and often the
fares to the nearest hospital may be in
the vicinity of 15s. and in any case a
long trip to the hospital by public trans-
port is often impossible.
This is not a one-sided problem as it
is hard to expect a doctor in a low income
area to carry too many bad debts. As
one woman medico in such an area said:
“I have about £3OOO owing to me from
patients and I don’t suppose they will ever
be able to pay ; nevertheless, when they
come to me I can't turn them away. How-
ever I don’t have a family to keep and I
make a good enough income to live com-
fortably.” But what about the doctor
who is heavily committed himself ? There
must be a limit to the number of consul-
tations he can give without payment.
Certainly, if his patient is a member of a
Medical Benefit Scheme, the doctor will
be paid 16s. per visit and can then perhaps
afford to allow the remainder to lapse.
The difficulty here is that a big per-
centage of the fund’s members have their
payments to the fund deducted from their
weekly pay packet, thus if a man loses
his job it is unlikely that he will continue
his payments for two reasons: 1, He is
not in the habit of making the weekly
payment himself ; 2, He is in no position
to do so on £6 2s. 6d. per week unem-
ployment benefit.
Is there any solution? Several possi-
bilities come to mind which would bear
consideration. The Medical Fund could
introduce a scheme whereby in the case
of acute hardship (defined here in terms
of unemployment or sickness), it allows
a contributor one month’s free insurance
for every year he has been a member of
the fund So if a man was a financial
member of the scheme for five years
prior to his period of unemployment he
would automatically be entitled to benefits
for seven months from his last payment.
The difficulty in this suggestion is the
fund's obligation to long standing con-
tributors and it might force a general
increase in monthly payments. This
seems to be an actuarial problem and
only the administrators of the fund could
assess the feasibility of such a plan.
If this is not possible perhaps the pay-
ments could be made as part of the
Social Service programme. The Com-
monwealth Government might be able
to subsidise or make the contributions
for an unemployed man, providing he
had been financial with the fund for a
given period.
The next step is for Mr H. F. Roberton,
Minister for Social Services.
UNIONS
A Communist Come-back ?
FROM MUGGA
Tn the triennial national elections on
November 17 the Communists are
making a strong attempt at a comeback
in the 43,732-strong Federated Iron-
workers’ Association, the third-largest
union affiliated to the A.C.T.U. In all
there are approximately 250 positions to
be contested in the nine branches —about
28 are paid full-time officers, a few part-
time paid ones and the rest are the usual
committee positions. For 15 years, up
until 1952, the union was under tight
Communist control, and it was only after
a long and fierce battle that they lost
their biggest “plum” in Australian
industrial life. They have never resigned
themselves to this loss.
The chief vehicle for a Communist
return is a body calling itself the Rank
and File Committee, with a front-ranking
of Labor men, but in effect controlled by
Communist party members. The com-
mittee is most active in Wollongong.
And, according to locals, there have been
strange comings and goings in the affairs
of this group involving Mr R. Connor,
the M.L.A. for Wollongong-Port Kembla,
and Mr Ted Harvey, the Communist
secretary of the South Coast Trades and
Labor Council.
It appears that some time in May or
early June the Communist party fraction
in the Rank and File Committee on the
South Coast held a meeting to discuss
their approach to the committee and the
tactics to be used in the Ironworkers’
elections. Briefly, the party decided to
“assist” the Rank and File Committee as
much as possible, but only to have the
party connected to it by the action of
individual party members. At least, that
was their original intention.
Accordingly, Mr Harvey got in touch
with two Labor members of the Rank
and File Committee, Messrs Chorley and
Smith (both Ironworkers and members
of the A.L.P.) and informed them that
the South Coast Trades and Labor Coun-
cil would help them in every possible
way to depose the present leadership of
Mr Laurie Short and his men. The
“deal” was that in the event of success
Chorley and Smith would agree to the
affiliation of the F.I.A. to the South
Coast Trades and Labor Council which
the F.I.A. left in disgust years ago.
Messrs Chorley and Smith agreed and
consequently a “Rank and File Informa-
tion Bulletin” was printed by the South
Coast Trades and Labor Council and
was written by one of Mr Harvey’s
friends, Mr Bill McDougall, the


“ Was she Wearing that Drysdale when she came in ?”
full-time Communist secretary on the
South Coast and not an ironworker.
For some reason or other, after talk-
ing to Harvey, Chorley got in touch with
an ex-Communist, Mr W. Petersen, a
member of the Underra A.L.P. branch,
and as a consequence Mr Rex Connor
saw Mr Harvey and discussed with him
the question of a unity ticket being run
by the Rank and File Committee. Mr
Connor was not in favor of running a
unity ticket, and wanted to run a team of
A.L.P. men against the F.I.A. officers.
Mr Harvey pointed out that this was
hardly sensible, as the F.I.A. was run-
ning an A.L.P. team —a fact which could
hardly have escaped Mr Connor's atten-
tion. Mr Connor was dissatisfied with
his talks with Harvey, so he then tried
to do business (whose, exactly, is hard
to work out) with Mr McDougall. But
McDougall, obviously, would not agree
to an A.L.P team running in the elec-
tions, and was just as reluctant as Harvey
to have Communists excluded.
Why a Labor member of Parliament
wants to back one A.L.P. team to oppose
another one is a little hard to fathom.
But perhaps it is not unconnected with
the fact that he will be hotly press.. ! to
retain his pre-selection against Mr Barry
Egan next month. But what Mr Connor
and Messrs Chorley and Smith don’t
know is that at the next meeting of the
Rank and File Committee more Com-
munists than usual will be present to
ensure that the A.L.P. members on that
committee are out-voted.
ADVERTISING
Snide Publishers
FROM FRANK ROBERTS IN BRISBANE
Businessmen in nearly every capital city
in Australia have been taken down
consistently by people like Douglas David
Gilmour, who has just begun a four
months’ sentence in Boggo Road Jail.
Gilmour, 31, married, five children, was
a “phone salesman” for Consolidated
Publications Pty Ltd, publishers of the
Queensland Police Journal. In this occu-
pation he used to ring businessmen and
ask them to take advertising space. If
they agreed, but had no particular message
for policemen he’d suggest one implying
their support for road safety. Gilmour
collected a commission on these sales.
Later he suggested to his employer that
messages supporting the National Heart
Campaign would be a better gimmick
than road safety, which he felt had been
over-used.
Gilmour then began to represent him-
self as a policeman in his sales pitch,
asking for donations to the campaign,
to be acknowledged in advertising space
in the Police Journal. He bought a
Racing Calendar and rang bookmakers,
trainers and jockeys, at least 13 of whom
from Mario McCarthy on weighed in
to the tune of £l2O. Their cheques were
made out to the publisher and Gilmour
collected a phone salesman’s commission
on them. Other cheques more cannily
made out to the campaign were for-
warded to it. Naturally enough when
Gilmour's employer realised what he was
doing with the gimmick, he was tired.
More recently he pleaded guilty to 13
charges of false pretences and was sen-
tenced.
Less honest publishers than Gilmour's
employer would have regarded him as
a very smart salesman, and merely would
have warned him to say he was “speaking
for” the police, keeping within the law.
Such “publishers,” usually very difficult
to find in the phone directories, abound
in most of the larger cities and their
operatives take firms and business people
for hundreds of thousands of pounds
yearly They exist because so many
small organisations have a real need for
a journal to distribute among anything
from 200 to 2000 members. Printing for
such circulations is too costly, and when
someone offers to publish a small maga-
zine freely, in return for the advertising
rights, the tendency is to accept gladly
and not ask too many questions.
The snide publisher's operatives then
“sell” advertising space in the publication


at £2O to £5O a page, proportionately
more for smaller spaces, on a 20 to 25
per cent, commission. Their pitch is
usually an appeal to help the organisation
by taking an advertisement. Small busi-
nessmen with soft hearts are their main-
stay, but some companies go on to the
“sucker lists,” mostly those which handle
their own advertising, or do very little
and know very little about its costs and
processes.
At best the “suckers” receive about
£2-£5 worth of advertisement for their
£2O-£5O, on circulation, but generally they
get much less because the phone sales-
men do not stop when they have enough
advertisements to fill any one issue. They
continue selling, and one set of advertise-
ments may go into 500 copies or less that
month, another set into the next 500, and
so on.
in this light, Brisbane’s Mr Gilmour
was just unfortunate. He was only doing
what many others have done, and are
doing, safely. But he chose an honest
employer and made the fatal mistake of
suggesting he was a policeman when he
could have said with impunity that he
was “speaking for” the whole Queens-
land Police Force.
The racket could be stamped out if
all organisations policed the advertising
in their journals, checked the prices being
paid by advertisers, and supervised the
printing to the extent of spot checks to
ensure that the same advertisements
appeared in all copies. Business people
could avoid being robbed by agreeing to
advertise only if promised a written state-
ment of circulation and a guarantee that
their advertisement would appear in all
copies, with the right to spot check the
printing. When so proposing they should
hold the telephone receiver well away
from the ear, because few “phone sales-
men” will appreciate their caution.
LAW
The £1 Million Fraud Proseeufion
FROM A MELBPURNE CORRESPONDENT
’T'he preliminary hearing in one of the
biggest fraud prosecutions ever
launched in Australia ended in the city
court recently. Sums totalling about
£1,000,000 pounds were involved in the
charges which related to two vending
machine companies, but the case was also
big in another sense: it lasted 58 days,
setting a new Victorian record for a
Lower Court hearing. The transcript
ran to over 4000 pages.
The hearing opened on June 5, but on
June 29 the Stipendiary Magistrate, Mr
Dillon, used his powers of discretion to
close the court to the press. He did so
after rejecting claims by counsel for the
accused that newspaper reports had been
inaccurate. Mr Dillon said the reports
were inaccurate, but after further submis-
sions by counsel that press reports could
prejudice any later proceedings in
superior courts, he excluded the press.
The marathon then went on behind
closed doors until the conclusion of the
crown case on August 18.
Six men were charged with conspiracy
to cheat and defraud the public in con-
nection with alleged activities of two
companies—North American Vending
Machine Co. Pty Ltd and Vend Rite ”ty
Ltd—between January 1, 1959, and
January 10, 1961. The six were: Victor
Jerome Varney, 31, director, of Toorak ;
Zdnek Kempny, 32, salesman, of Beau-
maris ; Stanley Welsh Kerr, 41. sales-
man, of Sydney ; George William Boyd,
41, Gardenvale ; John Joseph Mohr, 31,
salesman, of Brisbane ; and John Howard
Kinnear, 50, solicitor, of Balwyn.
“ Astronaut? Sub-orbital? Space probe? What on earth are
you babbling about, man ?”
The Crown claimed that North Ameri-
can had a paid-up capital of 255. and
Vend Rite 10s. Mr R. L. Gilbert (for
the Crown Law Department) said about
a million pounds had been raised from
the public, but as far as could be ascer-
tained all that remained was about
£30,000 of debentures in a company,
about £2OOO-£3OOO in a bank account, a
number of vending machines for
cigarettes, peanuts and bubble gum and
some coin-operated billiard tables. One
act of obvious fraud, Mr Gilbert said,
was when £240,000 was passed over to
Varney upon his resignation as managing
director of North American in April,
J 960.
After the Crown case ended Kinnear
and Kerr gave evidence in their own
defence. Kinnear testified that he had
had nothing to do with the administra-
tion of the companies. He had drawn
up the articles and memorandum of
association of North American, but
received no fees as director or trustee.
On two occasions he had received sums
of £5OO from Varney, but realising that
there might aricc a conflict between his
and Varney's interests, he had sent the
money back. Character evidence for
Kinnear was given by seven barristers,
including Mr Reg Smithers, Q.C., presi-
dent of the Victorian Bar Council. Kerr
denied conspiracy and said that North
American had 3050 vending machines.
Mr Dillon discharged Kinnear and
committed the other five for trial. Boyd,
Varney and Kerr were allowed bail of
£lOOO with a similar surety each.
Kempny and Mohr were refused bail.
Mr Dillon said he was satisfied that
Kinnear knew little or nothing about the
activities of the companies. “He merely
regarded his duty as being that of co-
signatory of the interest cheques —a
confidence and belief sadly misplaced.”
The magistrate went on to say that if
Kinnear had any illicit agreement with
Varney it was impossible to imagine him
accepting a situation by which Varney
got £200,000 and he got virtually nothing.
He criticised Kinnear for the off-hand
manner in which he signed minutes and
documents of the company and for treat-
ing the position of trustee as one of no
great significance and creating no
responsibility. “I am satisfied that
Kinnear was in breach of his legal duties,
both as director and trustee,” Mr Dillon
added. As far as the other five were
concerned, Mr Dillon said the evidence
raised a strong and probable presumption
of guilt.
Kinnear, a former mayor of Camber-
well, wept quietly as Mr Dillon dis-
charged him. Only a week earlier he
had been unanimously elected vice-
president of the Camberwell Chamber
of Commerce.


PLAIN ENGLISH
The G.M.-H. Lay-offs
'T'he motor vehicles industry, which
relied heavily on hire-purchase
finance and outran other important
sectors of production, was a natural
target when the Government decided last
year to slow down parts of the economy.
The people who ran it might reasonably
have expected some unpleasantness, both
for their companies and for their
employees.
Even if the Government had not
imposed credit restrictions the industry
was in for some kind of trouble. By
last November production of motor
vehicles as a whole had run too far ahead
of real effective demand. Excessive
reliance on h.-p., very low deposits and
high trade-in terms had obscured the
picture by temporarily extending the
market ; but the industry’s rapid growth
had undoubtedly meant that it would
soon be producing more vehicles than
Australians could afford to buy.
For both these reasons —Government
policies and the industry’s own problems
—General Motors-Holden's were bound
to retrench some staff this year. But
there are strong criticisms to be made
of their latest stand-down of 8400
employees.
For one thing, G.M.-H. has refused to
bring down its prices, although stocks
are piling up. There is no doubt that
lower prices would liven up the market.
One company has preferred to bring
down its prices rather than sack em-
ployees and has found its turnover going
up almost immediately.
A i though the expansion of G.M.-H. in
Australia has been accompanied by a
splendid growth in allied industries and
employment, the particular circumstances
of its origin in Australia make it vulner-
able to attack. It started off with a small
preference capital raised in Australia and
relatively modest borrowings mainly
provided by our credit system. It was
thus floated on Australian capital,
although Australians have no equity in
the company and it transfers dividends
as it sees fit to its parent in the United
States. It enjoys considerable advan-
tages on a strongly protected market.
There is not any quarrel with all
this. But surely in return one might
expect some attempt to think in national
terms and to play our game when funda-
mental economic adjustments have to be
made. As it is, and despite its pregnable
position, G.M.-H. has left itself open
to the charge of being a foreign company
playing politics in our country. Strong
pressure has been put on the Federal
Government to reduce the sales tax on
cars and generally give car manufacturers
special treatment. Rightly or wrongly
the temporary lay-offs—widespread and
panic-inspiring—are taken by some to be
part of this campaign.
What G.M.-H. should do is to re-
think their position fundamentally. They
will have to do this sooner or later if
the Government has decided never to
return to some of the excesses of 1960.
Car purchasers have reaped some benefit
from technological progress in the
industry; perhaps it is time they also
became entitled to direct gains such as
lower prices.
Certainly, temporary lay-offs solve
nothing. The actual saving in operating
costs is small when related to profits in
the industry. And it obscures the real
labor requirements of the industry ; it is
merely staving off the day of decision.
Of the 8400 men now stood down some
might have been better off if told plainly
that they must find jobs elsewhere. The
rest would certainly be better off if kept
employed. This would not only have
been fair play, it might also have been
good economics. With realistic car prices
there would be no need for chronic
stand-downs.
With even their best Australian friends
now telling them, G.M.-H. should be
made to understand that no one except
the demagogues begrudges them their
huge profits ; and no one suggests they
should sell at a loss. But an accom-
modation to a slightly lower rate of
profit, a greater acceptance of Govern-
ment policy and a more uniform labor
policy will restore them to the esteem
in which they have so far been held.
After all, the General Motors Corpora-
tion is not facing bankruptcy.
Up to Mr. Monk
TVTewspapers such as “The Age” are
doing little service to either Aus-
tralian trade unions or Australian demo-
cracy by worrying too much about
AC.T.U. “unity.” “The Age” is the
worst offender, with its suggestion that
the 18 unions that refused to pay the
levy had rejected “a compromise pro-
posa'” (when none existed) and its extra-
ordinary assertion that “an exchange of
visits with overseas countries is healthy
and stimulating.” There is no need for
us to get into a panic about the A.C.T.U.
split for the moment. It is entirely up
to Mr Albert Monk what happens next.
If he is now forced to realise that his
duty lies along the paths of anti-Com-
munr.ni he can easily restore the 18 unions
to financial membership by letting the
issue rest for the moment, then later using
his majority to enter into a rapproche-
ment. But he can only do this by dis-
playing that he is an anti-Communist.
If, on the other hand, he gives them notice
as A.C.T.U. members he slams the door.
In their present position as unfinancial
members they can merely wait and see ;
but if they are excluded from the A.C.T.U.
it is most likely that, for their own pro-
tection. they would be forced to set up
some kind of a committee which might
later grow into a rival organisation.
Mr Monk seems to have forgotten one
important possibility. This year the
Queensland elections of the Amalgamated
Engineering Union may put that union
under strong anti-Communist control. If
Mr Monk has not by that stage made up
his mind, or has made it up the wrong
way it is not impossible that the A.E.U.
may walk out of the A.C.T.U., and take
some other unions with it. And that
would split the union movement,
18 unions who refused to pay the
levy have not done so for frivolous
reasons. They have clearly taken up
this issue as a trial of strength on the
whole question of Communist union in-
fluence and they are going to watch Mr
Monk for some sign of a change of heart,
His performance at the recent A.C.T.U.
Congress gave them none. He attacked
church leaders ; he attacked the Menzies
Government, the “rebel” unions, the em-
ployers, even the I.C.F.T.U. Perhaps from
his point of view all of these attacks were
fair enough. But while he was about it
why didn’t he attack die Communists
who dominated the unions that had sent
180 delegates to the Congress?
“Unity” in itself means nothing. The
fact that a small majority of the A.C.T.U.
members are not Communists also means
nothing. “The Age” is wrong when it
suggests that the “moderate” union
leaders have taken up the burden of keep-
j ng the A.C.T.U. free of Communist
domination. That is a burden they have
neV er taken up. At Congress after Con-
greSs the attackers have been not the
“moderates” but the anti-Communist
unions that have refused to pay the levy.
“Unity” would begin to mean something
if the “moderates” were game enough to
unite themselves with the “rebels” against
the Communists. That is the only unity
worth having. And it could be celebrated
by expelling from the A.C.T.U. alto-
gether a scandalous outfit such as the
Communist-led Seamen’s Union with its
criminal associates and gunmen.


A SEVEN YEARS' ITCH?
The Retreat of Queensland Censorship Board
By PETER COLEMAN
Queensland literature
BOARD OF REVIEW, which has
just issued its Seventh Annual
Report, is one of the most extra-
ordinary organisations in Australia, and
possibly one of the queerest censorship
authorities ever: its operations may be
unconstitutional —if they are ever shown
to be an interference with interstate trade;
its decisions to ban certain publications
are usually ineffectual —because they are
made after the publications in question
have sold out; and its long-term influence has been nuga-
tory. Yet it was launched with the highest moral hopes, it
has survived a change of Government, it still enjoys wide-
spread popularity (from women’s societies, churches and
clergymen, school committees, debating and literary clubs),
and its members are serious-minded volunteers who believe
they are doing work of the utmost importance (helping
defend “the civilisation of the West,” according to their
latest report).
Since it does so little harm and does not cost very
much (a little over £lOOO a year in fees, plus a few running
expenses) it is not an organisation to worry about, but it is
a curiosity whose operations are worth tracing. It was
established in 1954 after one of the periodic nation-wide
campaigns to clean up popular publishing. This was the
time when romantic and crime comics were causing the
most concern, with popular magazines and glossy novelettes
runners-up. Protected from American competition by
import controls, about 72 million comic books were being
produced each year by Australian publishers. It was a lush
period and attracted not only large companies but a number
of disreputable fly-by-night firms and comics speculators
who dabbled in comics in the time left over from speculat-
ing in shirts. An increasing percentage of these comics
were of the crime-and-horror type which had begun their
boom in 1948 after the American Supreme Court had struck
down a New York statute banning them.
The campaign “to do something” about them had the
support of all sorts of women’s societies, church groups,
trades and labor councils and politicians. It provoked the
bigger publishers to produce Codes of Ethics and the State
Parliaments to pass new legislation. The legislation took
two forms: in Victoria and N.S.W. publishers now have
to have licences which they risk losing if they publish
objectionable matter: a possibly useless measure which has
never been tested, since the bigger firms might be able to
divide their work among several subsidiary companies so
that if one is delicensed its work can be immediately
unloaded on to another. The other type of legislation,
adopted by Tasmania and Queensland, was to set up State
Censorship Boards with power to prohibit objectionable
literature from entering these States. The Tasmanian board
has only banned a handful of comics and never approached
its duties with the crusading zeal of its Queensland counter-
part —though perhaps it was saved from having to bother
by the Queenslanders’ willingness to set the pace and stick
their necks out. In any case, a ban in Queensland meant
loss of a big market and amounted almost to national
censorship.
The Queensland board consists of four men. one woman
and a secretary. It meets every fortnight. It concerns itself
mainly with publications for children and young people.
It says it wants to help educationists to “train the young
mind in a sincere appreciation of wisdom, moral strength
and beauty” and supplement positive “education in the true
and the beautiful, through home, school and church, thus
providing an invisible but permanent armor against what
the Scriptures call ‘the fiery darts of the wicked.’ ”
In its first year it started with a bang by banning 47
publications, mostly crime and love comics. At no time did
it warn publishers or give them an opportunity to show
cause why the publications should not be banned, and at
no time did it give precise reasons. In fact, until the courts
ordered otherwise, it assumed that in appeals its counsel did
not have to give reasons and that the onus was on pub-
lishers and distributors to give reasons why something should
not be banned. A stream of publishers began pilgrimages
to Brisbane to try to get a clear idea of the board's standards
—but all they got were appeals to their consciences.
Using techniques of this kind, it succeeded in knocking
out of business a number of the disreputable fly-by-nighters
in the comics trade and in being a real nuisance to the
others: the loss of the Queensland market was not a joke.
Since that first glorious year or two. however, the
board’s wings have been severely clipped. It has gradually
had to concede a publisher’s right to be warned in advance
so that he may show cause why a publication should be
banned; it is now aware that if it is challenged in court its
lawyers have to show precisely why something is objection-
able. realising that in a series of cases courts often treated
its reasons as matters of mirth; it has been alarmed by the
argument that its operations may be taken by a higher court
to breach Section 92 as an interference with interstate trade;
finally its reason for existence may be passing away since
most comics and novelettes are now imported as a result
of the lifting of import restrictions, and imports are censored
by Federal Customs.
'T'AKING each of its main targets in turn —comics, maga-
A zines and novelettes —one can trace its failure in each
one. The main comics case is the Romances
case of 1955. Late in 1954 three Sydney
publishers produced eight comics with
names like “Real Love.” “Love Experi-
ences.” “Darling Romance,” etc. On
December 20 the board banned eight of
them in Queensland. The publishers, who
had not been consulted, were Convinced


that the comics were innocuous, decided the board had this
time gone too far, and that they were bound to win the case
if they contested the ban in court. They appealed to the
Supreme Court of Queensland. For the first time in Aus-
tralia and perhaps in the world, a superior court listened to
days of argument and a series of witnesses, in order to
decide whether romantic comics would deprave their
readers. It was also the culmination of 100 years of agita-
tion against penny dreadfuls and love stories—the culmina-
tion and the final absurdity.
The board produced a State psychiatrist who testified
that the comics portrayed the idea that romantic mis-
behavior need not involve harmful results —an unrealistic
proposition which would make unstable female adolescents
more unstable still; and a Matron of a Salvation Army
Girls’ Industrial Home who testified she had seen girls in
her Home reading comics of this kind over and over again
with the result that they became defiant, unco-operative
and excited in the presence of males: such reading retarded
their rehabilitation. The publishers produced two
psychiatrists and a public librarian who testified the comics
would not deprave readers and might even do them some
good by sublimating their romantic cravings.
The Full Court’s decision favored the board, holding
the magazines to be “objectionable” within the meaning
of the Objectionable Literature Act. The
then Chief Justice of Queensland thought
the way they condoned pick-ups was par-
ticularly objectionable. “In my opinion
adolescent girls of 13 to 16 years of age
who permitted the youths or young men
the intimate physical contacts with them
profusely illustrated in this literature, in
the circumstances of place and time de-
picted or otherwise indicated in it. would
incur a very serious risk of having more
intimate sexual relations with their male
associates, not in marriage and not ending in marriage.”
One judge, Mr Justice Hanger, dissented: he held that “the
environment of all normal adolescents today, except a
cloistered few, including as it does films, film advertise-
ments. etc., would render them immune to any stimulus
presented by these periodicals.”
The publishers then appealed to the High Court,
where the majority of the judges supported Mr Justice
Hanger’s dissent. They did not examine the comics, they
said, until after listening to all the arguments and reading
the witnesses’ evidence, and “when we did turn to the pub-
lications their actual character proved quite unexpected and
produced almost a sense of contrast.”
Since their judgment provides a formula for publishers
anxious to keep within the law, it may be useful to quote
it at length: “The theme of them all nearly is love, court-
ship and marriage. Virtue never falters and right triumphs.
Matrimony is the proper end, and if you are not told that
happiness ensues, it is the constant assumption. They are,
of course, intended for feminine readers. The pages con-
tain nothing prurient, lewd or licentious. The tone is the
complete contrary. The vehicle for this romance and senti-
ment is the only too familiar crude drawings with the inset
print of dialogue, usually issuing from the lips of the figures.
Needless to say, there are adventures, hazards, threats of
violence and escapes to excite the apprehensions of a fond
reader. Whatever sensations are aroused by the narrative
must be short-lived. For a story seldom occupies more than
a dozen pages. There are, of course, bad men and they are
sometimes wealthy. But invariably the heroine escapes from
them by the aid of the strong, embracing arm of a good
young man upon whom fortune is yet to smile.
“Why, then, has this literature been considered unduly
to emphasise matters of sex and exhibit a tendency to
deprave? It is because the lovers are depicted as loving
passionately. They embrace and they embrace closely.
Their kisses, though pure, are full and perhaps prolonged.
Their feelings for one another are intense, and joy and
happiness are represented as coming from a love that is as
deep and passionate as it is devoted. Moreover, the eyes
of the heroine are drawn with lids either drooping or unduly
raised, and her lips, though drawn in black and white, are
obviously rosy as lipstick can make them. There is. too, an
evident though crude attempt to infuse the subject /ith
glamor, in the modern technical sense of that term. Another
element frequently recurring is love at first sight, and love at
first sight is at times aided by the tacit acceptance of the
‘pick-up’ as an ordinary social practice. The convention that
requires formal introduction seems safely to be ignored by
the heroines, and there is no reason to suppose that it is
observed in the circles in which they and the expected
readers move.
“The stories and the pictures bear every mark of Ameri-
can origin. The drug store and the campus may be the
place of meeting, and the scenes through which the story
takes the lovers thence are American and so is the idiom of
the simple speech in which it is told. The whole atmosphere
resembles that of the American cinema. The reason why
these otherwise virtuous narratives have been held unduly
to emphasise matters of sex and to be likely to be injurious
to morality is because again and again they depict or
describe love scenes in which the parties kiss and embrace
and display an ardent passion one for another. This does
not appear to us to be within the range of any reasonable
application of what is meant in the definition of ‘objection-
able’ by the phrases ‘unduly emphasises matter of sex’ and
‘likely to be injurious to morality.’
“What they contain is an affront to the intelligence of
the reader, but hardly a real threat to her morals. The
stories are extremely silly, the letterpress is stupid, the
drawings are artless and crude and the situations are absurd.
But we are not concerned with the damage done to the intel-
lect, or for that matter to the eyesight, of the readers of
these foolish periodicals.”
The board, in other words, had been made to look
foolish, its witnesses and its procedure discredited. It
was also forcefully driven home to them that although they
saw themselves as comprising a representative group of
citizens protecting the ordinary community standards, these
standards were not so easy to determine: two dissenting
judges on the High Court agreed with the board, and had
to use such words as “bestial,” “brutal” and “venereal” to
express their attitudes to the comics, whereas the majority
thought the whole thing a joke.
'T'HE board’s come-uppance in its second
A field of endeavor—popular magazines
—came with the decision to ban the weekly
magazine “Weekend” in November, 1957.
This ban was never in fact imposed (in the
board’s opinion some “clandestine source”
leaked the decision to the publishers), and
before the ban was gazetted the publishers sought an
injunction against the board and the Queensland Govern-
ment Printer to restrain the publication of the ban in the
Government Gazette.
At times the hearing, before the new Chief Justice,
Mr Justice Mansfield, seemed like a farce based on an
account of a Massachusetts witchcraft trial. By taking
each article in turn in the magazine and twisting innuendoes
out of each of them, the board’s counsel was able to charge
the magazine with everything from hypocrisy to a tendency
to destroy the concept of woman as queen of the home.
When he alleged it tended to lower the moral standards of
those who read it the Chief Justice replied: “I have had to


Name
your Scotch .
• •
m
m
m
m f£r*
Distii-«- erS '
C 1 PT. 6 FI- OZS
COMMONWEAITH
THERE’S NONE FINER!
BY APPOINTMENT
TO HER MAJESTY
QUEEN ELIZABETH II
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS
WM. SANDERSON & SON LTD.
read it, and I do not think I am any worse off than I was
before.”
“Your Honor is the Chief Justice of Queensland!”
“I am not the only person who would have, what 1
think I have, a moral standard.”
“There are not too many.”
The issue was never completely argued, as the matter
was settled by agreement out of court to withdraw the
attempted ban. But the Chief Justice’s irony about the
board’s extremist attitudes combined with Sir Garfield Bar-
wick’s arguments seem to have frightened the board out
of further attempts to ban national magazines.
npODAY its main target is the third category of objection-
able publications—glossy novelettes. It seems to be par-
ticularly down on Carter Brown of Sydney: in the last year
it has banned four of his novels (making a total of six), but
since the board only meets fortnightly and it takes some
days to have its decisions gazetted, these novels are usually
sold out before the bans become operative. In any case,
American novelettes are again dominating the market,
and these are a matter for the Federal Customs.
At first the board was not prepared to accept Customs deci-
sions. “Initial Customs approval of entry into Australia
affords no immunity under the Queensland law,” it declared
in its 1960 report, and last year it banned two American
novelettes which had been approved by Customs.
Since then the State and Federal censorship authorities
have held a conference, and perhaps the Federal authorities
made it clear that they regarded Queensland’s over-riding of
its decisions as stabs in the back which make them all look
silly. In its latest report the board says it “does not desire
to create the impression that it considers the Customs
Department in the exercise of its threshold censorship has
become lax. The recent Federal and State Ministerial con-
ference on censorship has led to happy co-operation between
this board and the Commonwealth . . .” It seems that here,
too. the board's wings have been clipped.
In its seven years of operations then it has had to retreat
in its three lines of attack. Where it has not retreated it has
been ineffectual, its only real success being to knock out of
business a few comics speculators in its early days. No one
doubts the board's good faith and good intentions, but its
failures suggest that it is out of touch with real people, who
a : not as easily depraved by reading as it imagines, and
that it overestimates the influence that words and illustra-
tions have nowadays on readers. Maybe 100 years ago
certain words could drive some people off their heads, but
words have now lost their value to move us. The highest
courts and common observation have agreed that popular
publications do not deprave in the way the board imagines,
and if the board is as convinced as it says it is that our
civilisation is sick, perhaps it could give the time and thought
it now dedicates to censorship to the reasons for this sick-
ness instead of concentrating on one trivial manifestation.
It might also reflect on the fact which surely has some
significance that those parts of the world which completely
ban all comics and glossies are the very parts where terror
and slavery make up the “normal” way of life.
Perhaps, in view of its defeats, one should give the
board the last word. Its head may be bloody, but it is
unbowed. In its 1960 report it moved out of the juvenile field
into adult literature: “As to adult fiction,” it asked, “must
the adult population expect to go on indefinitely reading
and asking for sordid stories in the name of freedom? What
must an adolescent generation think of its adults if it is so
anxious to preserve its rights to read sex-soaked literature?
It is all very well to attempt to defend these publications on
the grounds that they are serious literature, that they seek
to hold the mirror up to nature and so on, but there comes
a time when one begins to doubt the good faith of those
who fight so strenuously for this alleged serious literature.”


PORTUGUESE TIMOR
THE COMING DISASTER
By KEITH WILLEY
RELATIONS between Portugal and Indonesia, which
have been severely strained since the Angola blood-
bath. have now taken a turn for the worse with the
emergence of a “Freedom Movement” in the Indo-
nesian half of Timor. The movement has no official back-
ing from the Djakarta Government and has so far confined
itself to printing pamphlets calling for support of the more-
or-less non-existent “freedom” struggle in Portuguese
Timor. The Indonesian Army is investigating the organisa-
tion's activities, and President Soekarno is wary of any
involvement which might weaken his legalistic claim
against the Dutch for possession of West New Guinea, but
the danger of a flare-up is real. Angola has roused a tide
of anger in Asia, and when the Indonesian Foreign Minister,
Dr Subandrio. recently warned Portugal that Indonesia
opposed colonialism everywhere, he made pointed reference
to Timor.
What case have the Portuguese in reply? Despite a
long Catholic tradition among the rulers, almost all the
natives follow their ancient animist cults. Polygamy is
widespread among the chiefs and the few others who can
afford to keep more than one wife. There are not half a
dozen doctors on the island, and venereal disease among
the natives is estimated as high as 80 per cent. Timor is a
mountainous country, but it has few roads and —outside
Dili and the Timor Oil Company concession at Suai —one
solitary vehicle, which belongs to Senhor Ricardo, the hotel
proprietor at Baucau. Every time a Portuguese official
passes them the natives must —and do —humbly salute. They
live in utter poverty and deaden their worries by constantly
chewing betel-nut. which keeps them in a semi-drugged
condition,
Several times in the past few years armed Indonesian
bands have crossed the border and burned native villages
in Portuguese territory. Twelve who were captured in such
a foray a couple of years ago “disappeared.” In palmier
days (that is, before Angola) Portuguese officers would boast
to visitors, not too guardedly, about what happened to those
12. but now that Indonesia has shown interest in their fate
the subject is no longer mentioned around Dili. Though
few in number (less than 1000 as against 500,000 natives),
the Portuguese have firm control on their own side of the
frontier, and take a strong line in the present crisis.
When Indonesia’s unhappy Consul in Dili. Tengku
Hussin, flew into Darwin this week to catch a plane for
Singapore, where he has a new appointment in the
Indonesia Consul-General’s office, he was eager to talk.
During his term on Timor the Portuguese, he said, had
virtually sent him to Coventry. They refused to talk to
him or mix with him socially. At official functions he was
pointedly left off the list. Secret agents followed him every-
where. Just about the only person in Dili who would speak
to him was the Australian Ambassador. After some months
of this his wife could stand it no longer and went home to
Indonesia to wait out the balance of his term. His son
followed when the Portuguese refused to allow Mr Hussin
to bring a tutor in to teach the boy. He described the
situation on the island as “very tense.”
By contrast Major Carvalho, who arrived in Darwin.
Angola-bound, on the same aircraft as Mr Hussin, was in
a chirpy mood. While Chief of the Military Staff on Timor,
Major Carvalho s chief claim to Australian fame was the
barring of a Darwin journalist from visiting the island after
writing a critical article about the Timor soccer team.
Major Carvalho is a slightly-built man with a hearing aid.
(His ear was injured when “a gun blew up during training
in Portugal’' years ago.) The 200 troops who left Lisbon
recently for Dili were “replacements.” not “reinforcements.”
he said. While admitting that Portugal’s 450 years of occu-
pation had produced little in the way of development, he
claimed conditions on the Indonesian side were “even
worse. (But this is not borne out by Darwin residents
of Indonesian origin who have relatives in Timor. They
talk of many natives crossing into Indonesian territory to
escape poverty and Portuguese repression.)
The ties between Timor and Australia are loose, and
not very deep. Australia gave refuge to many Portuguese
who lied the Japanese invasion, and other Portuguese helped
Australian guerrilla troops who held out in the mountains
for years. But there was another side of the story. An
official Portuguese Administration remained in office
throughout the Japanese occupation. Many members of
that Administration regarded the Australians as “the first
invaders”—and there is no doubt our men carried out
some atrocities, probably under extreme provocation. A
European visitor to Timor last year—now settled per-
manently in Darwin—was told by a prominent Portuguese
businessman that Australians were “white aborigines” and
that a powerful clique of old residents celebrated the day
the Australians left after the war as “Liberation Day.”
As far as Indonesia is concerned, there is no doubt the
Portuguese would resist any invasion, but. equally certainly,
an all-out Indonesian bid would over-run the colony
within weeks. There are no roads in the interior—and,
even if there were, Portugal has no vehicles to spare any-
way. There are no military aircraft, although there has
been talk of enlarging the one small airstrip at Baucau.
Indonesia’s powerful squadrons of Russian jet planes would
rule the skies, undisputed by so much as one solitary ack-
ack gun. As far as a navy goes. Portugal's strength in the
area consists of the frigate Goncalvos Zarco. which chugs
on a regular round of Timor. Macao and Goa.
Portuguese Army units in Timor are weak. They
consist of a handful of regulars—some half-armed native
police —whose chief interests are gambling, cock-fighting
and women—and a picturesque force of native cavalry
mounted on Timor ponies and equipped with swords and
spears. What the attitude of the Timorese population
would be to an invasion—“official” or “unofficial”—is
unpredictable. But they are close racial kin of the Indo-
nesians.
Recently Portugal has shown some belated interest in
this seedy colony. There has been talk of a programme
to extend and improve Dili Harbor, and a party of officials
from Lisbon is now on the island studying plans for
economic advancement. All these are things which should
have been done a long, long time ago. and even now they
are barely at the talking stage.
Barring miracles of a type which seldom happen to
colonial regimes in this day and age, the future of Portuguese
Timor seems likely to be a tragic one.


LUNCHTIME
IN
THE
PARK
“Goodness, I came away
without my crusts ! Could
l have some of yours ?”
“Did you see him in the ‘Outcasts’? He
was the MOST!”
“This open air certainly gives one
an appetite.”
“Darling, they’re cooing our song!”
“Do you mind if 1 look over your shoulder ? I can
NEVER get MY phlox to grow like yours.”
“The spring, the spring,
tra-la-la-la-la-la-la I”


The Story of the ETU Case
HOW TO RIG
UNION BALLOTS
Australians are perhaps more familiar with ballot-
rigging than are people in Great Britain. But the
recent Electrical Trades Union court case, after which
the union was expelled from the British T.U.C., is the
greatest scandal in British trade union history. This
article is a documentation of how exactly the fraud
was perpetrated.
IN February, 1960, the two National Scrutineers of the
Electrical Trades Union signed a document declaring that,
in the election for General Secretary, Frank Haxell, an
avowed Communist, had obtained 19,611 votes against the
18,577 votes of his opponent, Mr John Byrne, a strong anti-
Communist trade unionist.
On June 28, 1961, in the Royal Courts of Justice in
London. Mr Justice Winn in a 35,000-word judgment, after a
trial lasting 38 days, declared Mr Byrne the lawfully elected
General Secretary. The judge held that Frank Haxell, together
with four other card-holders of the Communist Party, all
members of the ETU, had “conspired together to prevent by
fraudulent and unlawful devices the election of the plaintiff
Byrne, in place of the defendant, Haxell.” The two National
Scrutineers were dismissed from any charge early in the case,
the plaintiffs disclaiming that there was any suspicion upon
them.
Since the National Scrutineers were absolved from any
kind of blame for the declaration that Haxell had won the
election of December, 1959, how was it that a judge of the
English Queen's Bench Division concluded that the balloting
had been “rigged”? The story begins with the constitution
of this “great and important” union and the way in which,
according to the Rules of 1958, it conducted its elections.
There are about 240.000 members of the union. They are
organised in branches ; some are local town branches, some
consist of the electrical workers in a particular plant. Each
branch elects its own officers, of whom those relevant to this
matter are the Chairman, the Secretary and the two Scrutineers.
Branches within a geographical area elect members to serve
on an Area Council. Each Area in turn elects one member to
serve on the Executive Council. The whole membership votes
to elect National Officers such as the General President, General
Secretary and Assistant General Secretary. Of the total number
of members about 2000, it is generally agreed, are Communists
—1 per cent, of the total.
Communists and their sympathisers have in fact been
elected to eight out of the 11 seats on the Executive Council,
and to almost all the senior National Offices. How the Com-
munist 1 per cent, were able to elect to office a man whose
political views were rejected by the 99 per cent, was brought
out in the evidence in the Byrne/Haxell case.
It is important at the outset to make one important point.
Frank Haxell, whatever may be said about either his politics
or his methods, is admittedly an experienced trade union official.
This survey of the recent judgment given against
some of the ETU leaders, and the events that led
up to it, has been compiled by Peter Benenson and
Louis Blom-Cooper.
Under his General Secretaryship the union’s influence and
resources have grown. There may be different opinions about
how wisely that influence has been wielded, or those resources
spent, but many members of the union, when voting for a
General Secretary, must have taken Frank Haxell’s experience
and ability into consideration. This much said, it emerges
clearly that there were not enough such members to give him
a majority.
On an average, about 20 per cent, of the union member-
ship vote in an election for General Secretary. To win,
therefore, a candidate needs something like 20,000 votes. A
Communist candidate can count on those of his 2000-odd
fellow Communists ; he can also count on a certain number
of members who are sympathetic to Communism, a number
who vote quite regardless of politics for the most experienced
candidate, and a greater number quite unversed in politics
who have the traditional habit of trade unionists —particularly
marked in Britain—to vote for the sitting member in prefer-
ence to a newcomer. When all these groups of voters had
been added together by Frank Haxell and the four men involved
with him, Haxell realised, the judge concluded, that he had
not a sufficient number of supporters to be assured of a
majority. Yet, the events which followed produced an actual
majority of “allowed” votes for him, a majority of 1034 votes.
The way in which members of the ETU vote for National
Officers is similar to that in many other trade unions. Branch
Secretaries indent to the Head Office for the number of ballot
forms required. Each member who is not more than five
weeks in arrears with his subscription is entitled to vote ; the
Branch Secretary indents for all those eligible, whether or not
they in fact vote ; often he indents for his total membership
not knowing who may or may not at that moment be eligible.
At Head Office a list is compiled of the requirements of all
the branches, and this list is sent to the printers. In this
election Mr J. Humphrey compiled the preliminary list. He
is a Communist, appointed (not elected) as “office manager” by
the Executive Council.
THE RIGGING
His preliminary list was an “estimate” of the requirements
of each branch. In due course the actual indents arrived, and,
as Mr Humphrey must have foreseen, contained a smaller
aggregate than his estimate ; this was because a number of those
otherwise entitled to vote had in the meantime fallen in arrear
with their dues, gone abroad, passed the age of 65 or died.
The difference between the estimated total and the actual figure
was 26,833. Instead of countermanding this excess, Mr Hum-
phrey instructed the printers to deliver them, not directly to the
branches as was usually done by the printing works in Man-
chester, but to St Pancras Station. There Mr Humphrey him-
self collected them in his car and took them to Hayes Court,
the union headquarters. He put them in a locked room, to
which only he had a key.


(1) Southampton
When the ballot forms arrived at each branch from the
printer, each bearing the code number of that branch, it was
the Secretary’s job to issue them by post to the members.
The non-Communist Secretary of the Southampton Central
Branch, for example, posted all the ballot papers which he had
received to members at approximately 10.30 a.m. on Saturday,
December 12, 1960, having completed the addressing of the
envelopes on the previous evening. At the same time he
posted his own ballot form to himself, to check the time
of delivery. There being no postal delivery on Sunday, it did
not reach his home until Monday morning ; he found it when
he came home from work shortly after noon. He also, to
his surprise, found four other printed envelopes containing
completed ballot forms all postmarked “Southampton: 6.45
p.m., 13th December” (Sunday). He knew that these four
ballots could not have been sent out by him on the Saturday,
because these could not have reached the members until
Monday morning.
When the Court looked into the numbers of forms ordered
from the printers for this branch, it was found that there had
been 387 on the “estimated” list, of which 306 on the “actual”
list were delivered by the printers to the Branch Secretary.
The surplus of 81 was among those which found their way
to the room at Hayes Court, of which Mr Humphrey had the
key. The Court found that the four ballot forms which reached
the Branch Secretary on that morning came from that extra
supply of 81. The clear inference being that they had been
issued to Communist supporters in the Southhampton Branch
from the union’s headquarters.
(2) Woolston
Much the same thing happened at the Woolston Branch.
There, the non-Communist Secretary worked on addressing
and filling the envelopes together with the Branch Treasurer up
till 9.50 p.m. on Sunday, December 13. Up till that time
none had been posted. When the Secretary returned home
from work on the Monday evening, he found, to his amaze-
ment, four completed ballot forms already “returned” to him
by postal delivery. He knew that these forms were not those
he had issued, and he reported the matter to headquarters. In
due course a National Officer, George Scott, whom the judge
exonerated from the charge of conspiracy, was sent down to
investigate. He was specifically asked whether there was any
possibility of a leakage from the printers. He replied, “I would
not think that there is any possibility of that.” Upon investiga-
tion by the Court it was found that, in fact, the printers upon
instructions printed extra forms for this branch, and delivered
them to St Pancras Station, as stated. In all this it is appro-
priate to point out that there is no suspicion that the printers
acted in any way improperly: they were a commercial firm
acting upon instructions from their customer in the ordinary
way of business.
(3) Belfast
How the extra ballot forms found their way from the
locked room at Hayes Court to Communist members up and
down the country is to some extent a matter of speculation.
But not entirely, as the investigation into the ballot at the
Belfast Branch showed. This branch at its September meeting
had nominated John Byrne for General Secretary ; at the same
time (23 votes to 3) it nominated its own Chairman, Mr Pike,
for election as an Area Official. When the envelopes were
opened and counted by the two Branch Scrutineers, they were
found to give Frank Haxell 127 votes and John Byrne 41.
More significantly, their own Chairman received only 60
as against 109 for his Communist-supported opponent. In
previous elections at which John Byrne had stood against either
Frank Haxell, Frank Foulkes or Robert MacLennan, the
Communists had never received more than 32 votes. Of these,
on the average, 25 to 30 were returned to the Branch Secretary
by post ; the balance was brought in, as the rules provide, and
handed over at the branch meeting. On this occasion about
90 votes were received by post. Of these, according to the
Secretary, 48 were brought to his attention during the scrutiny,
all of which had the same date postmarked under “Belfast.”
Upon the Court’s investigation it was found that the Acting
Assistant General Secretary, Robert MacLennan, flew to
Belfast on union business on December 8. In the words of the
judge: “This case is, in my judgment, one of fraudulent rigging
by the use of ballots knowingly carried and delivered by Mr
MacLennan.”
Southampton, Woolston and Belfast are all branches
where the Secretary was known to be an honest man, and
therefore it was necessary to do the “rigging” at headquarters.
There were other branches where the secretary was a Com-
munist supporter. Here there were simpler opportunities for
fraud. At the Preston Branch the Scrutineers called out the
result: Byrne 52, Haxell 101. The judge found that the
Secretary had fraudulently written down in his minute book
again Frank Haxell’s name, not 101 votes, but 191, and had
altered the “0” to a “9” on the Scrutineers’ return by adding
a tail. This was a case where alteration of the records could
be proved by witnesses. In other instances where proof was
not sufficient, suspicion remains strong.
Returns of the voting at each branch, in order to be
accepted by the National Scrutineers, have to reach Head
Office not later than the first post on the fifth day after the
meeting of the branch at which they are counted. Returns,
each of which has to be countersigned by the Branch Chair-
man, Secretary, and both Branch Scrutineers, may be disquali-
fied if they arrive late. Disqualification is not compulsory,
since the National Scrutineers are given a discretion, being
permitted to show indulgence to a branch which has not erred
on a previous occasion. Clearly, the way the National
DRAMATIS PERSONAL
Judge:
Mr Justice Winn.
The Plaintiffs:
John Byrne, declared the validly elected General
Secretary ;
Frank Chappie, a candidate for the post of Assistant
General Secretary, who alleges, in another lawsuit
waiting to be heard, that false ballot forms were
introduced.
The Defendants:
*Frank Foulkes, General President.
*Frank Haxell, the General Secretary declared to have
been elected by “rigging.”
MacLennan, Assistant General Secretary since
Oct., 1955.
James Cosby, EC (Jan., 1948).
Ivor Davies, EC (Jan., 1960).
James Feathers, EC (Jan., 1955).
*John Frazer, EC (Dec., 1954).
Samuel Goldberg, EC (Aug., 1955).
John Hendy, EC (Jan., 1957).
Ronald Sell, EC (Jan., 1960).
H. West, EC (Jan., 1958).
A. C. Batchelor, National Officer since July, 1956.
George Scott, National Officer since November, 1955.
*J. Humphrey, EC (until Dec., 1959, then appointed
“Office Manager”; dismissed by John Byrne since
the judgment).
J. W. Rengert and Charles Shipman, National
Scrutineers,
and THE ELECTRICAL TRADES UNION.
Counsel for the Plaintiffs:
Gerald Gardiner, Q.C., and Jonathan Sofer (instructed
by Lawford and Co., solicitors).
Counsel for the Defendants:
Neil Lawson, Q.C., Ralph Milner and Bernard Marder
(instructed by Seiffert Sedley and Co., solicitors,
agents for Maurice A. Tarlo, of Hayes Couit, the
ETU’s solicitor).
EC = Executive Councillor (with date of appointment).
*Found to have conspired together.


Branch
Date of
meeting
Postmark
Head
Office
Receipt
Stamp
Previous
Breaches Majority
Dis-
allowed
Clapham
14 Dec
18 Dec.
21 Dec.
1
Haxell
*7
Edinburgh S
14 „
17
21 .,
2
Haxell
Elstree
14 „
17 „
21
1
Byrne
X
Wellington
14 „
17 „
21 „
2
Byrne
x
Burton
14 „
17 „
Illegible
21 „
1
Byrne
X
Norwich
14 „
21 „
1
Haxell
✓
1 orquay
14
17
21 ..
1
Byrne
X
Aldershot . .
15 „
18 „
21
1
Byrne
X
L.S.E. 7 ..
15 „
Illegible
21 „
2
Haxell
J
Oldham 1 ..
15
Illegible
21 „
2
Byrne
X
Wilmslow ..
15 „
17 „
21 „
1
Haxell
J
Worthing
15
18
21
1
Haxell
V
Bradford
• 15 „
17 „
21 .,
Haxell
J
{IYSAGHTS^
PROOF
100% Australian-
made from Aus-
tralian Material
LYSAGHT’S
ESTABLISHED 1884
WIRE NETTING • FENCING WIRE • BARBED WIRE
:E
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK for Our MARKER
in every Roll of Netting
& t| ||§|
“• , - -*-*-*■■
. :. :i::zz:..: ..•• , * a ? *>~~ lZ~y~ .'■'z
asw* wwviaiM;^^
Bk*shr
W®
*.*
IsS
h-rnJtm-
301X0 Ml
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
'.YSAGHT BROS. & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Reg’d Office and Works, Blackwall l’t. Road,
Five Doek
SPECIFY "LYSA6 HT'S" WIRE. WIRE NETTING. ETC.
Scrutineers exercise their discretion depends on the informa-
tion about previous transgressions. This, on the occasion of
the Byrne/Haxell election, was supplied to the Scrutineers by
Frank Foulkes and Robert MacLennan, who read the infor
mation out in respect of each branch whose return had arrived
late.
Considering the intense interest in the affairs of the ETU
amongst its own members, and considering that, rightly, the
union has a reputation for being efficient in the conduct of its
business and firm in the application of its rules, it was with
some surprise that the Court learned from the defendants that
217 branches had sent in their returns late. Of these 69 were
“first offenders,” and consequently not disqualified. Of the
remaining 148 late returns, 109 were in fact disqualified on
the strength of information supplied to the two Scrutineers
about previous transgressions of the rules. Of these 109, it
emerged that 106 were branches which had voted in the
majority for John Byrne ; the remaining three had each given
a small majority to Frank Haxell.
From the 106 pro-Byrne branches a number of Secretaries
gave evidence at the trial that they had in fact posted their
returns well within the required five days. Since these branches
had a particular interest in securing John Byrne’s election, it
is not surprising that their Secretaries had anxiously complied
with the rules. Yet the envelopes which had allegedly con-
tained their returns, when produced to the Court, all showed a
postmark dated more than five days after their branch meeting.
Another type of fraud appears from a list showing the
date of the meeting, the date of the postmark and the date
of the Head Office receipt stamp of 13 branches whose returns
were allegedly received on December 21 (a Monday). Despite
the fact that there were Christmas deliveries on both the pre-
vious Saturday and Sunday, they were all date-stamped “out
of time” on the Monday. In additon, the list shows whether
there had been a previous transgression by the branch, and
whether there was a majority lor Byrne or Haxell. (See table
next column.)
Of these 13 late returns which reached Head Office on
December 21, 1960, out of time, the National Scrutineers,
upon the information supplied to them about previous breaches,
disallowed all the pro-Byrne branches and admitted all the
pro-Haxell branches.
TO THE POST—ETU STYLE
Other lists were submitted by counsel for John Byrne
to show three separate itineraries which might have been
taken by a car of which the driver had the intention of going
round the country posting the (printed address) envelopes at
such times that they would arrive at Head Office late. When
these envelopes were receipted with the Head Office stamp, the
original envelopes were destroyed. It was not possible for
counsel to prove who might have gone round the country
in broad arcs, posting envelopes as they went, but Gerald
Gardiner asked some searching questions as to where National
Officers of the union were at the relevant time, Frank Haxell
was asked, “Where were you on December 30, 1959?”
A.: “With my wife.”
Q.: “Where is that?” A.: “Where is my wife?”
Q.: “Where do you live?” A.: “I am in the process of
changing.”
Q.: “Where did you then live?” A.: “I have not any
permanent place at the moment . . .”
The judge’s comment was: “The defendant Haxell was
unconvincing to the point of seeming a sorry figure in the
witness box when asked where he had been at the material
time. I noticed a nervous grin and a shift of stance.” And
the judge went on to say: “The defendant Frazer is, in my
judgment, no less likely than Mr Haxell to have posted some
of the envelopes.”
The last chapter in the Byrne-Haxell election took place
in February, 1960, when the Executive Council received the
Scrutineers' report. It came upon an item in the agenda marked
“December, 1959, Ballots.” Robert MacLennan, Acting
Assistant General Secretary, read the report and added (what
the Scrutineers had not said), “F. L. Haxell elected.” At this
moment John Frazer at once interjected, “Move.” Ronald
Sell, another pro-Communist member of the Executive Council,
followed immediately by seconding. This is how the judge
reconstructed the sequence of events which followed: Mr
Foulkes asked : “Those in favor? Against?” and then recorded
the voting (8-3) even before Mr Chappie had said, “We are
entitled to have a Scrutineer’s report which includes . .
no doubt he was going to say “which includes the disqualifica-
tions.” Mr Justice Winn concluded that Frank Foulkes
“deliberately put the motion prematurely in order to stifle
discussion of the disqualifications.”
So much for what happened in the election of 1959. It
is now judicial history, and even if the five men proceed to
appeal against the order made by the judge neither they nor
their counsel can expunge one word from the record.


FORUM
RACE PREJUDICE
AND RELIGION
An Australian Inquiry
By A STAFF CORRESPONDENT
there are a series of old-established cliches about
the attitudes of the various religious and racial groups in Aus-
tralia, there have been few, if any, serious or scientific studies of
just what these attitudes actually are. The gap is particularly
noticeable and deplorable in the field of Australian racial
attitudes, since as Australia becomes more and more of a multi-
racial society it becomes increasingly necessary to know what sort
of tensions this is likely to involve. Some light, however, has been
cast on the question by a paper Dr F. K. Knopfelmacher read
at the recent conference of psychologists in Sydney. Called “The
relation between authoritarianism, ethnocentrism and religious de-
nomination among Australian adolescents A it gives an account
of an investigation he conducted into the racial attitudes of
Melbourne schoolboys.
’T'he background of the investigation is
-*■ a famous Californian study already
established in the minds of many psycho-
logists as one of the basic planks of
Orthodoxy. The Sacred Book is “The
Authoritarian Personality” published in
1950. The studies that culminated in the
book were financed by a group of liberal
Americans who wanted to know what
sort of people were potential Fascists,
that is, pre-Fascists who would become
Fascists in a period of crisis. The re-
searchers, led by Else Frenkel-Brunswick,
used a variety of psychological tests and
came to a variety of conclusions of which
the ones relevant here are: (1) that one
can definitely correlate certain personality
types with specific social and political
attitudes, and can confidently predict that
one particular personality type is destined,
as it were, from infancy to become a
Fascist or pre-Fascist; (2) that this Fascist
or authoritarian personality is a cluster
of these basic traits: it is tough-minded,
pessimistic, superstitious, conventional,
paranoid, patriotic, sado - masochistic,
dominant-submissive, intolerant of am-
biguities. racialist (or more precisely,
ethnocentric); (3) the chief index of this
personality’s Fascist potential is its aggres-
sive attitude to racial minorities such as
Jews, Negroes, and Southern Europeans.
Authoritarianism and racialism are, in
other words, inseparable,
The Californian study has been criti-
cised on a number of grounds, notably
because it denied authoritarianism among
Leftists and because on some of the tests
Communists got low scores for authori-
tarianism, when it should be obvious even
to Californian psychologists that they
represent the extreme of authoritarianism
in world history. The Californian group’s
questionnaires were sometimes worded in
such a way that although they were able
to catch, say, Ku Klux Klan members
they could not catch Communists. Despite
criticisms of this kind however the F-scale
(F = Fascist) still has the status of magic
with some psychologists and recently was
used by a New Zealand psychologist when
testing teacher trainees for authoritarian-
ism ; he concluded on a plainly scarifying
note that Catholic trainees have ominous
Fascist potential.
Dr F. Knopfelmacher, of the Mel-
bourne University Psychology Depart-
ment, suspected the F-scale on theoretical
grounds, and also because on what he
calls “newspaper-reading grounds” it had
struck him that, at least on the question
of racial prejudice, Catholics may in fact
be far less authoritarian than other religi-
ous groups.
He therefore devised an experiment to
test 353 fourth-form Australian-born Mel-
bourne schoolboys between 13 and 16|
years of age (by which time their basic
personalities and prejudices would be
formed) from five middle-class denomina-
tional schools: Anglican, Catholic, Jewish,
Methodist and Presbyterian. To test the
boys’ Californian-style authoritarianism
the F-scale was used, though references
to sex were excluded to secure the co-
operation of headmasters. To measure
their racialism, their attitudes to Italians,
Greeks, Germans, Asians, British, Hun-
garians and Poles were measured by two
well-known tests (a Bogardus test of
social distance and a Likert-type four
item ethnocentrism scale).
Out of a number of results one of the
most interesting was that although Catho-
lics scored highest on the F-scale authori-
tarianism test they scored lowest on the
racial prejudice test. There was a high
correlation between (Californian) authori-
tarianism and racialism in all the groups
except the Catholics, who were not only
low racial prejudice scorers but tended
to be less racially prejudiced the more
authoritarian they were. Another interest-
ing result was that Jews were the most
racially prejudiced.
How does one explain these results? In
the case of the Jews, dislike of the Ger-
mans for obvious reasons explains some-
thing ; but even leaving out the Germans,
Jews were still the highest scorers. The
tendency to see all Germans and East
Europeans as potential anti-Semites may
be a part of it; so may the traditional
Jewish disapproval of marrying non-Jews;
the Israeli nationalist propaganda which
dominates the Jewish press ; and the in-
fluence of Jewish denominational schools
(Jews from non-Jewish schools were less
ethnocentric.) One must of course re-
member that prejudice is not necessarily
neurotic and may in fact be based on a
realistic appraisal of the facts: there need
be nothing neurotic about, say, a Jew
who has a prejudice against Nazis, or a
South African negro who has a prejudice
against whites.
Comparing Australian and American
Jews, Dr Knopfelmacher said: “The
difference between Jewish attitudes to
ethnic minorities in Australia and the
U.S.A. may be due to different cultural
profiles of the two communities. The
cultural life of the Jewish communities
in the U.S.A. is manifold, active and rich.
American Jewry has been in the forefront
of significant liberal activities in the field


of labor, ethnic and'religious tolerance.
Jewish research foundations endowments
have pioneered some of the most signifi-
cant ventures in action research geared
to the promotion of ethnic tolerance,
inter-racial understanding, and anti-totali-
tarianism. Speaking as a relatively new'
participant in Jewish communal activities
in Australia 1 have gained the impression
that no educative and cultural effort even
remotely approximating the American
exists in the Jew'ish community in this
country.”
As for the Catholics Dr Knopfelmacher
pointed out that for the last 30 years the
Catholic Church had made strenuous
efforts to combat racial and ethnic preju-
dice. The Catholic Church had adopted
an extremely friendly attitude to non-
British migrants—an attitude reflected in
all Catholic publications and in Catholic
political organisations, from Mr Santa-
maria’s National Civic Council to the
anti-Santamaria “Catholic Worker” group
in Melbourne. During the recent vice
racket scare in Melbourne Catholic lay-
men and churchmen w'ere the first to
protest against the exploitation of the
incidents by some police officials, jour-
nalists and politicians who were using the
scare for the purpose of a group libel
against Southern European migrants.
Catholics schools, too, being under the
general supervision of the bishops would
transmit the ideology of ethnic tolerance.
Both cases —liberal-minded Jews who
may be racially prejudiced and authori-
tarian Catholics who may be racially very
tolerant show that the Californian
theory linking authoritarianism and
racialism (so that where you get one you
must get the other) is false. Dr Knopfel-
macher concluded that since one cannot
predict political behavior from a psycho-
analytic study of personality patterns and
since in any given political movement
there may be all sorts of personality types,
“as so often before the psychoanalytic
mountain has given birth to a mouse and
the really significant work will be left to
the sociologist and the historian.”
He went on to question the Californian
idea of “authoritarianism.” “The man
with strong ideological and institutional
loyalties is not a potential totalitarian if
his beliefs and institutions are not totali-
tarian. It might as well be pointed out
that there exists a well-argued theory of
totalitarianism which claims the opposite
of what is implied by the theories of the
Californian group. According to that
theory the pre-totalitarian personality is
one that has divested itself of strong
traditional group loyalties and ideologies,
that has become alienated from prevailing
notions of loyalty and morality, and that
it is this type of alienated person on which
totalitarian movements are built. The
emptied out ‘open’ mind is incapable of
inner-directed commitment and becomes
available for unrestricted manipulation by
the wielders of totalitarian power and
propaganda machines. It might perhaps
be added that there is not much direct
hard empirical evidence for this theory
either, yet it has at least the merit of not
trying to sell itself through irrelevant
scales and counterfeit statistically pseudo-
grounded terms.”
Finally Dr K ndpfelmacher had this to
say: “The Catholic Church itself is a very
complex organisation with a very high
degree of internal specialisation. It en-
compasses a large variety of institutions
which require personnel with entirely
different talents and temperaments. This
fact tends to be obscured by Freud’s
primitively monistic theory of religion
and by the claims of some Catholics who
insist despite evidence to the contrary that
Catholicism is monolithic. The complex
and variegated institutional network of
the Catholic Church indicates that there
is more than one set of psychological
mechanisms conducive to Catholic reli-
giosity—that there is more than one
psychological road leading to Rome. And
there are many and diverse “typical”
Catholic institutions. The Catholic Church
presents us herself with an invaluable
collection of "typical” Catholic case his-
tories in her hagiographies. The lives of
the saints show that even in the restricted
sample of religious virtuosi of the Catholic
Church we shall find almost the whole
panorama of human typology. St Francis
and Ignatius Loyola. St Vincent and
St Dominic. Jean d’Arc and St Therese.
Since hagiographies are traditionally
drawn upon for purposes of moral ex-
ample and exhortation it can be seen
that, personality-wise, there is something
there for everybody. It is also important
to note that there might very well be
strong variations in the psycho-social
climate generated by different religious
orders in their schools. The Christian
Brothers might induce a different set of
socially significant attitudes in their
schools than say the Jesuits or Marists.
Also Catholicism has absorbed different
regional and ethnic sub-cultures which it,
in turn, helped to shape. Different types
of Catholicism have come into existence
despite the underlying unity of belief. To
what extent are the theologically non-
essential regional accretions of Catholic-
ism causally dominant in the formation
of typically Catholic attitudes? Thus, in
our own culture, it is quite possible that
the dominant Irish type of Catholicism
will change or vary under the impact of
Catholic migrants from Europe and their
cultures.”
“Mummy, when can I Wear one of them?


LETTERS
TV and Public Interest
Sir,
In the Greater Union Theatres Ltd
section of the “Wild Cat” pages
(Bulletin, September 9) your contribu-
tor states: “ . . . costs of putting on a
single performance of a play on TV are
high compared with costs of making a
film of the same subject which can be
shown not once, but again and again.”
Against this statement I quote what
Roger Manvell had to say in his book
“The Film and the Public”:
“ . . . Dialogue is still the mainspring
of television drama, and a full-length play
can be mounted for as little as £l5OO to
£2OOO (excluding overheads for studio
maintenance and the full-time staff). A
film production . . . can cost anything
between, say, £lOO,OOO and £400,000.”
Studio maintenance and a full-time staff
would not cost you more than £lOOO an
hour and in fact your contributor could
hire a studio complete with two cameras
and a crew for as little as £6O an hour.
Therefore, the complete cost of a tele-
vision production is around £3500 against
a film cost of £lOO.OOO to £400,000. The
odds range from 30 to 100-1 against your
contributor.
He also states: “ . . . in the main it
(TV) exploits the vulgar and obvious. The
TV industry has shown an almost con-
temptuous disregard of the public interest
vet this seems inevitable with profit motifs
the yardstick of culture.”
Well, first and foremost the public is
not interested in culture. A few examples
of this would be the rows and rows of
empty seats for the best play produced
in Sydney this year—“ The One Day of
the Year,” the sparse attendance and an-
tiquated paintings at the Art Gallery and
the failure of films like “Kanal,” “Ashes
and Diamonds” and “The Young One” to
attract audiences. ,
In fact TV is very concerned with
public interest, it has to be. The advertis-
ing agency sponsors shows on the number
of people who are going to watch and
although the programmes between 7.30
and 10 p.m. every night may be obvious
and vulgar, that’s what the public watches
and, horrifically, what it wants.
Your contributor goes on to say: “The
final fate of the (motion picture) industry
must rest not so much in the methods of
portrayal as in the inherent quality of
the subject matter portrayed.”
I thin* your contributor should phone
one of the cinema networks in Sydney
and ask them when they will be distribut-
ing “Macbeth,” “Virgin Spring” or “Come
Back Africa” in the suburbs.
You would be lucky if they have even
heard of these films, let alone considered
them for distribution. The industry's
only hope of making money is in titillat-
ing rubbish like “World by Night” or
overblown American make-believe as in
‘Oceans Eleven. ’
The public does not want culture or
quality—it wants, as the catch-phrase
goes, “a womb with a view.”
M. AVRIL
Manly ( N.S.W. ).
TANNER DEFENDS
Sir,
Replying to Mr Masterton (Bulletin,
September 9) I regret that my targets have
been so monotonous. I have no particular
interest in either Mr Calwell or Mr
Khrushchev.
I just take my slobs where I find them.
LES TANNER
Sydney.
IRISH IRELAND
Sir,
V. Buckley’s “Irish Ireland” (Bulletin,
September 2), is full of quarter truths.
He states that the Irish of the 19th
century were the “weepiest, wailiest and
most simpleminded” they had ever been.
The continual unrest and coercion that
prevailed throughout the 19th century,
plus the horrors of the Famine made
for toughness not softness.
Should V.B. be referring to 19th-century
Irish poetry, there was an undue measure
of sentimentality in both English, Ameri-
can and other verse of the period.
Probably V.B. is only acquainted with
the 19th-century Irish poetry of the polite
variety written for “nice” people like him-
self.
But there was a whole collection of
Irish ballads and verse which told the
brutal truth —verse which would very
likely shock both V.B. and The Bulletin.
D. KINVARRA
North Fremantle (W.A.).
SAY TO ME, RONALD!
Sir,
Thank you for “Say to Me, Ronald!”
It is one of the most satisfying pieces of
work I have read. Every word was in
the right place.
Mr Porter’s detractors need to read
much more than they do ; perhaps then
they would be able to appreciate his work
which 1 consider is as good as that of
Kersch and Saroyan.
JOSEPHINE E. O'LEARY
Flinders Park (S.A.).
HEADMISTRESSES AND
HUMANISTS
Sir,
Your correspondent, J. D. Moors
(Bulletin, August 12), states:
“The moral standards of the young
people of today are not as strong or as
firm as they were 20 years ago.”
I take it that he does not mean what
he says, that he is comparing, to their
disadvantage, the young people of today
not with their pre-natal selves but with
the young people of 20 years ago.
This appears to conflict with his later
statement that:
“The Bulletin should give a lead . . .
to (sic) point out that many modern
parents are wholly unfitted intellectually
or by temperament to face up to the
situation.”
On his own showing, these intellectu-
ally inept and temperamentally unsuitable
parents were, 20 years ago, the possessors
of firm and strong moral standards.
Does Mr Moors want to convey that
morality and intelligence are incom-
patible? If not, what is he trying to say?
T. G. WILSMORE
Perth [W.A.).
WHO PUT THE ARSENIC IN
THE CHOCOLATE?
Sir,
In your article on Kinsella, Gough and
others (Bulletin, August 19), entitled
“Who Put the Arsenic in the Chocolate,”
your correspondent introduced the term
“Catholic linguist” in order (presumably)
to make some sort of paradoxical or
ironic point about the effect of Dr Kin-
sella’s performances on the Catholic
community. The term, as used in the
article, is thoroughly misleading and will
add to the welter of confusions that
surround the topics you sought to clarify.
Even the use of the label “linguist” or
“linguistic philosophy” (from which your
correspondent derived his “Catholic
linguists”) has little to recommend it and
is well-nigh useless in describing the
attitudes of contemporary philosophers.
It is not, however, to the philosophical
assumptions of your correspondent that
I wish primarily to draw attention, but
to his serious misrepresentation of certain
facts he hoped to deal with in the article.
This misrepresentation occurs in his
references to hostility between “Catholic
linguists” and “Catholic Thomists”;
“Catholic linguists” and the Aquinas
Academy, etc.
Whatever it is that a “Catholic linguist”
consists of, it is clearly not the case that
membership of this beast is even particu-
larly pertinent to Catholic criticism of
Dr Kinsella’s position, Dr Gough’s out-
burst, Dr Rumble’s obiter dicta, or the
activities of the Aquinas Academy. In
fact, many Catholics who have been
strongly critical of all these have had no
special interest in philosophy at all, but
have reacted unfavorably to all four items
on quite general grounds. Other Catho-
lics have been critical of just one or
some of these four on similar general
grounds. Their criticism has stemmed
from a certain view of the value and
scope of academic freedom, a particular
attitude towards the Church’s role in the
intellectual life of a pluralist society, and
so on.
Furthermore, some Catholics who are
philosophers and who happen to be
Thomists are unsympathetic to the philo-
sophical viewpoints of Drs Gough,
Kinsella, Rumble and Woodbury (the


last-named is, contrary to your corres-
pondent’s information, the Principal of
the Aquinas Academy). Not only that,
but these Catholics, and some Catholic
“non-philosophers,” were out of sym-
pathy with much of the work of the
Academy long before (on your corres-
pondent’s account) there were any
“linguistic philosophers” in Sydney.
Your correspondent’s confusions in
this matter may account for the fact that
he has missed the point of the corres-
pondence in the “Catholic Weekly”
between Mr Small and others. If I under-
stand it correctly, Mr Small was not
defending anything so narrow as “a
Catholic’s right to be a linguist,” but a
Catholic’s right to be a genuine philo-
sopher of any sort. He laid down certain
qualifications for being a genuine philo-
sopher and claimed that a Catholic
philosopher could, and indeed, should,
meet them. It was around these quali-
fications that the debate went on.
In conclusion I would like to stress
that I am not criticising your corres-
pondent because he is not a philosopher
or because he is not a Catholic. I do not
think such qualifications are needed for
a journalist to write an article on dis-
agreements among Catholics on philo-
sophy or matters connected with
philosophy. What is necessary, however,
is that he be aware of the facts in all
their complexity and that he avoid the
easy simplifications that lead to distor-
tion. Your correspondent’s obsession
with tags and factions (which has become
a typical feature of Bulletin journalism)
militated against the fulfilment of either
of these conditions.
A. COADY
Carlton {Victoria).
A GUIDE TO CLUB-LAND
I would have no argument with the
enjoyable article, “A Guide to Club-
Land” (Bulletin, Sept. 2), if the author
was interpreting historical incidents for
an artistic purpose. However, as Mr
Ellis pretends to state a historical truth
when he writes, “The Australian in
Sydney ... is the only club that can
boast that two of its members once
fought a duel,” it is necessary to challenge
its authenticity.
The Melbourne Club can also claim
to have had a duel fought between two
of its members. On either January 1 or 2,
probably in the early hours of 2, during
the revelries at the club, Peter Snodgrass
challenged William Ryrie to a duel with
pistols. In spite of the impression given
by TV, pistols were not readily available
in those days, and one of the seconds
had to ride to Heidelberg to obtain a
pair from Mr Joseph Hawdon. Snod-
grass, either through nervousness or the
effect of alcohol, pulled the trigger before
he raised the pistol and blew the nail
off his big toe. The duellers decided that
honor was satisfied, but the spectators
returned a thumbs-down decision. They
did not disperse until they fired all the
ammunition at Dr Thomas’s “topper.”
Snodgrass, undeterred by the wound
gained iii his affair of honor, was
involved in a second duel in 1842 with
Redmond Barry. Again Snodgrass fired
prematurely, so Barry obliged by sport-
ingly firing his pistol into the air.
It could be that Snodgrass and Ryrie
were not members, but merely present at
the celebrations on New Year’s Day Eve.
This is not the impression gained from
the two sources I was able to consult.
H. N. NELSON
Numurkah {Vic.).
SILENT WRITERS
The space below is reserved for
the usually vociferous academics
whose policies were attacked in our
two articles “Slamming the Door”
(Bulletin, August 26) and “No End
to the Orr Affair?” (Bulletin, Sep-
tember 2).
UNLUCKY DIP
Sir,
Margaret Henry, author of “Unlucky
Dip” (Cassell), is not a pseudonym for
any “well known lady novelist”
(Bulletin, August 26), but a real person.
She is a young writer, wife of a veterin-
ary surgeon in Gympie, Queensland, and
mother of three young children.
(Mrs) CLARICE McNAMARA
Gordon ( N.S.W. ).
WHAT STUDENTS THINK
Sir,
Actually your acute divination of
“What Students Think” ought to be dis-
regarded, although a silence, however
appropriate, would undoubtedly be put
down to the proverbial and now proven
(?) apathy of students. However, you
should perhaps be complimented for
approaching the standard of similar
surveys and tests in magazines such as
“Post,” “People” or “Weekend” in super-
ficiality and naivete. It is not the element
of truth in your article to which I object,
but rather what seems like its deliberate
distortion.
It is only too obvious that very many
of the students’ answers quoted are quite
intentionally ridiculous and facetious.
Yet they are evidently assumed to be
honest opinions. Surely the quotation
from the “Time” magazine reader about
Eisenhower and some of the comments
about Professor John Anderson and the
“New Wave” demonstrates beyond doubt
the facetious intentions of the students.
It is astounding that it should be believed
that those who named “Peyton Place,”
“Lolita,” “Little Lord Fauntleroy” or
“Biggies Flies West” as the best novels
they had read recently were serious. And
why is it “ponderous” to find difficulty
in predicting the state of our world in
ten years’ time?
C. F. K. JAESCHKE, Arts I
Indooroopilly ( Qld .).
WHO STARTED THE RABAUL
RIOTS?
Sir,
The article by V. H. Friedlander
(Bulletin, September 2) gave a clear and
accurate account of the native character
not only in respect of the Rabaul area
but of New Guinea generally.
In his reply Mr Ryan, whilst agreeing
in the main with Mr Friedlander's obser-
vations, is at fault by referring to the
native wage as being 345. per month.
Such is not the case and as a consequence
your many readers will base much of their
criticisms of the position on the assump-
tion that the figure quoted is correct. It
will give readers quite a wrong slant and
make it seem that a cause of unrest must
be the slave-like wage paid to natives.
Mr Ryan surely knows that in addition
to his wage the native is housed, fed,
clothed and given hospital treatment free.
A close examination of the economic
needs and his wages undertaken with
those of Australian laborers would reveal
that the native is well off. It takes
approximately three or four natives to
do the daily work of one laborer in Aus-
tralia.
J. McKENZIE
Redland Bay ( Q .).
THE ORR CASE
Sir,
Professor R. D. Wright persists in his
habit of making incorrect statements with
a patronising air of authority which
must mislead persons who are accustomed
to assume that a professor has some
knowledge of subjects he discusses in
public.
In attempting to justify his misquota-
tion of Professor Taylor, who truthfully
and accurately stated that Professor Orr
was not used by the Tasmanian University
Staff Association as a witness before the
Royal Commission, he says (Bulletin,
September 2) “Mr Solomon has strange
ideas of Commission practice if he thinks
a witness can be ‘used' by other wit-
nesses.” What nonsense from a man of
intelligence! Parties whose interests are
likely to be affected by the finding of a
Royal Commission, who themselves are


If you have
money..
earning less
than 4 1 p. a.
It’s time to
consider a
‘Short Term’
Deposit
at the ‘Rural’
Make sure that your money grows
on Interest Bearing Deposit at the
Rural Bank.
4°/ 0 p.a. from 3 to 11 months,
4J% p.a. for 12 months.
Enquire at any branch of the
RUEAL BAM
FOR EVERY CLASS OF TRADING BANK BUSINESS
“makes money work”
HEAD OFFICE: Martin Place, Sydney.
invariably witnesses before the Commis-
sion, equally invariably supply to the
Secretary to the Commission a list of the
witnesses they desire to use. These per-
sons are then subpoenaed by the Com-
mission and their evidence led by coun-
sel for the parry in question. Surely
Professor Wright does not really imagine
that such parties merely sit around biting
their fingernails and dolefully murmuring
“Gh dear, I do hope they call So-and-so
as a witness. ’ In what a world of fantasy
Professor Wright must live!
The fact is that Professor Orr, as
Professor Wright himself says, was “called
by the Commission, he went into the box
and his evidence was led by the counsel
assisting the Commission.”
Professor Wright’s other statement,
upon which he relies to accuse me of tell-
mg “the Big Lie,”—that is, his statement
that he “was overseas from March, 1955,
to February, 1956”—has no more rele-
vance than the fact that he may have
been on a milk diet at the time. The
attacks were not confined to Australia:
at the time Professor Wright refers to
they were appearing in publications in
the United Kingdom, which showed a
remarkable interest in events in this little
community.
I genuinely thought Professor Wright
belonged to that section of the academic
community which believed that the find-
ings of the Royal Commission amounted
to a censure of the University Council
and that it should have been dismissed.
If I was in error, I apologise to him. But
1 do not wish to misquote him or read
more into his letter than he really meant.
If he merely meant —as is the literal
interpretation of his words —that he did
not take any part in “fomenting dissen-
sion,” then I accept his assurance and
commend his restraint. One could wish
that his fellow-academics had emulated
him in carrying out the expressed wish
of the Commission that a spirit of com-
mon sense should have been allowed to
prevail by “men of goodwill.”
H. J. SOLOMON
Cartwright’s Point,
Taroona ( Tas .).
TYING THE LOOSE ENDS
Sir,
Few people are attacked more readily
or more rashly than Australian publishers.
In his brief review of Christopher Hill,
“The Century of Revolution, 1603-1714“
(Bulletin, September 2), Mr A. G. L.
Shaw deduces, from the absence of Pro-
fessor George Yule’s study of “The
Independents in the English Civil War”
from the list of books and articles “for
general reading,” that Mr Hill has neither
heard of it nor read it, and then denounces
“the failure of Australian houses (and the
English ‘so-called’ agents), to put their
titles widely on the English market.”
Let Mr Shaw examine his own copy
once again ; there is no question of an
.“agent” —this volume was published in
London by Cambridge University Press,
and in Australia by Melbourne University
Press. Both publishers shared a common
printing, Cambridge taking the larger
portion. This seems a reasonably effective
way of putting this particular Australian
book on the English market.
And to help Mr Hill find it, there were
lengthy reviews in “The Spectator,”
“Times Literary Supplement,” “Time
and Tide,” “The Listener,” “The
Baptist Times,” “London Quarterly,”
“History Today,” “Theology,” “Notes
and Queries,” “History,” ‘ British Book
News,” “Oxford Magazine,” “Church
Quarterly Review,” and various other
church journals. There were also Con-
tinental and American notices.
Mr Hill probably felt it was too
specialised, in both subject and treatment,
for a list intended “for general reading.”
On this point, however, Mr Shaw is fully
entitled to disagree. It is a pity that so
much of so brief a review should be
devoted to so unfounded a complaint.
G. F. JAMES
Manager,
Melbourne University Press.
Parkville, N. 2 (Vic.).


OUT and ABOUT
TEMPUS FUGIT
We must bide our time,
said the babe to the boy ;
For ihe simple truth,
said the man to the youth,
Is that it isn't fair,
said the corpse to the worm.
Anton Vogt
Adelaide’s Gastronomic
Problems
A delaide now has some good restaur-
ants and hotels, but another gastro-
nomic problem has arisen. Where can
organisations which hold weekly lun-
cheons meet? Aid. A. H. Gerrard of the
city council said recently that at present
there were only a city restaurant, which
had too many pillars, the huge and
draughty Freemasons’ Hall and the rail-
way dining-room. The railway dining-
room can be used only on Thursdays,
because that is when the fewest trains
arrive in Adelaide.
It has been suggested that the restaurant
which the council is building in its South
Parkiands, among the sunken gardens,
miniature lakes, piazzas and terraces,
should be enlarged to “fill the need.”
However, some aldermen think the res-
taurant should be used by people visit-
ing the gardens, and not for regular meet-
ings.
A New Liquor Act
for Queensland?
Queensland’s dire need for more
revenue and more free-spending
tourists seem certain to give the State a
less old-fashioned Liquor Act some time
this financial year. At present it is not
possible to drink with your meals in a
cafe, have a counter lunch in a hotel, or
buy a bottle of wine from your grocer.
Members of golfing, bowling and other
clubs are not supposed to drink on Satur-
days, and travellers, however bona fide,
are limited to the hours of 12-2 p.m. and
5-7 p.m., 'f they can find a publican willing
to serve them. Hard liquor is forbidden
to anyone under the age of 21. with onus
on the hotel.
The Minister of Justice. Mr Munro, has
promised to introduce a fairly comprehen-
sive amendment to the Liquor Act before
Christmas, after he has considered the
many proposals for reform which have
been suggested.
The State’s tourist resorts are likely to
be given the most relief and it is expected
that licensed cafes will be “tried out"
along the coast, with perhaps a limited
number in Brisbane. Bottle licences for
grocers are not considered part of the
Queensland way of life.
For Brisbane, the fact that even blue-
nosed Melbourne has licensed cafes and
hot counter-lunches will be tempered by
the knowledge that most Queensland city
and suburban hotels have enviable pro-
visions for their customers.
The question of a suitable age limit
is the Minister's thorniest one. The
Caucus meeting decided against reduction
from 21 to 18 years, but the idea is
favored in some quarters on the grounds
that youth denied is youth challenged,
that the regulation is impossible to police,
and that it is better to have the wild ones
in the hotels and under surveillance than
holding prolonged beer parties out in the
scrub.
"Credit Control" is Booming
/'Ane of the “booms” created by the
credit squeeze has been in firms
specialising in “credit control" —a euphe-
mism for debt collecting, repossessing or
tracking bad debts.
The hire purchase company supplies a
“credit control" outfit with the necessary
information about its defaulting customers
and then stands back and waits. It is up
to the “credit control” officers to collect
what they can and repossess what they
can't The fee amounts to about 15 per
cent, commission on the debts recovered,
and normally little or nothing on re-
possessions.
Although there is plenty of business
around, “credit control" is highly and
bitterly competitive. We had a chat with
a typical “credit control officer.” In his
late forties, well worn by life and fond of
his beer, he is a kind and gentle soul.
During the war he was an officer in New
Guinea, then had a number of good jobs
in the early postwar years. Soon domes-
tic and business troubles came —he has
tried his luck as a storekeeper, country
salesman, a metropolitan salesman with
an electrical goods and TV supplier, a
truck driver.
Now he is with a “State-wide” debt
collecting agency, working on a modest
salary and commission. His firm supplies
the panel-van, which he is allowed to use
at his discretion. He works long hours
and weekends. Half his time is spent
on canvassing for new business. Most
“Lunch is ready.”


of the other half is helping defaulting
hire-purchase buyers find the means to
pay some instalments —on greatly eased
terms.
In his work he finds surprisingly little
hostility and bitterness. “People don't
normally try to run away and hide once
you have caught up with them,” he says.
They often offer him a drink, and then
take him out to a run-down garage and
point out the car which has to be re-
possessed. It is usually a wreck, almost
unsaleable. So he tries to convince them
to pay something. He is successful
enough to make a living although he does
not like his job.
Occasionally there are moments of
bitter irony—when he has to repossess a
car or a TV set from a customer of his
selling days.
Victorian Uplift
TJ J. Samuel’s “Wild Flower Hunter,”
published by Constable, gives a very
vivid picture of a Victorian woman. Miss
Samuel recounts in detail Ellis Rowan’s
adventures among primitive tribes in
Queensland and New Guinea in search
of wildflowers to paint. However, the
description of Mrs Rowan which really
appeals is given by her niece, Lady Casey,
in the foreword.
“Her expression was sad, fixed.” writes
Lady Casey. “This was because, at the
time I knew her, at the beginning of this
century, her face had been ‘lifted’ before
her return from America where she had
lived, painting, for many years. ‘Lifting’
was then a new operation by which the
lines of an ageing face were smoothed
out by taking little tucks in the flesh,
where they would not show. Aunt Ellis
had this done not only to improve her
appearance but no doubt also because it
appealed to her initiative and sense of
adventure. Moreover, it must be admitted
that most of the Ryans were gullible and
could be persuaded into the strangest
enterprises.”
After all. we know of many Victorian
women, the Mary Kingsleys and Gertrude
Bells, who ventured among strange people,
but not many with these strange vanities.
Home on the Range,
at Cobbitty
Australia’s first “Teen Ranch” will
shortly be built, rather incongruously
perhaps, in the postcard-pretty, historic
district of Cobbitty, just south of Sydney.
Twenty-one acres of land, adjoining the
old Church of England there, have been
bought, and the ranch will open on
January 1 with American Redd Harper
(“Mr Texas”) here from Hollywood for
the ceremony.
The ranch at the moment is only a very
ambitious idea in the minds of Australian
Douglas Gibb and Canadian Donald
Newman. In 1955 Gibb, a long-time
stalwart of the Open-Air Campaigners,
sold his house, gave up his iob as a
management consultant and took his
family to the United States and Canada,
where for three years he studied non-
denominational youth camps. Two years
ago Douglas Newman and four other
Canadians sold their houses, gave up their
jobs, and came to Australia to help Gibb
found a Teen Ranch here.
In January only two bunkhouses, one
for girls and one for boys, and a dining-
room will be ready. However, the ranch
is planned to accommodate 270 girls and
270 boys, as well as a motel for adults,
a chemist shop, bank, post office, hobby
workshops, milk-bar, a “tabernacle” with
seating for 2000, a swimming-pool and
extensive playing-fields.
The non-profit-making company, which
will run the ranch, already has £30,000
in donations from the public. This
month a series of rallies will be held in
and around Sydney with American negro
singer, Jimmie McDonald, billed as “the
male Mahalia Jackson” as the guest artist.
The organisers of the ranch are a bit
unhappy about its American flavor, but,
they point out, that is the way young
people want it.
“You’ve got to admit that Australian
cowboys aren't very colorful,” Douglas
Gibb said. “They're practical, but they’re
not colorful.”
However, although the inside of the
administrative block with its sheriff’s
office and jail, will be American in flavor,
the outside will fit the Australian land-
scape more precisely.
At present, the organisers are having
an old baker’s cart converted to a replica
of a Cobb and Co. coach and they have
got hold of a couple of old sulkies (one
has come by rail from North Queensland).
Another project is to get a couple of
aboriginal boys from mission stations to
visit the ranch and show the guests how
Australian cowboys work. It is also
planned to have a weekly “gold rush” by
casting brass filings into the river and
letting the children fossick for themselves.
The organisers say that the ranch will
cost between £5 and £8 per week, all
inclusive fthis includes daily horse rides).
Accommodation will vary from the com-
fortable to the “luxurious.” Voluntary
helpers will be trained by the organisa-
tion. Each eight children will have their
own “counsellor.” There will be a daily
non-denominational service.
Gibb said that unlike most American
camps which were open only for the
summer holidays Teen Ranch would be
open all the year round. Outside of
holiday periods, it was proposed to run
“rehabilitation” programmes for first
offenders. They, with the consent of
their parents and guardians, and with
the approval of the Child Welfare Depart-
ment, would be given a three weeks’ free
holiday at the ranch.
Market Research
A Sydney hostess recently found that
what was intended as a simple parlor
game turned into what might be a signi-
ficant piece of market research. The
hostess clipped advertisements and
slogans from several papers and maga-
zines but omitted the brand names.
“There were 17 pictures, all from well-
known advertisers,” she said. “The best
result was five.”
That Was Australia
Tiie law in Westralia is a cast-iron
affair, with the instincts of the jailer and
the jail-flogger in its little soul. The
other day a Perth paper, Western Table
Talk, published a little poem—-one of
those casual scraps of love-verse, which
every editor gets by the bushel from all
manner of known and unknown corres-
pondents. The initials of the various
lines made a stupid and utterly indecent
acrostic, and some lynx-eyed person who
was on the look out for indecency —
probably the writer himself—made the
matter public. Then the hog-law of
Westralia swooped down upon the gulled
proprietors and committed them for trial
for “issuing an obscene print.” Of course,
it was obscene, and, obviously enough, it
was issued by somebody, and if the issue
can be fixed on anybody by legal evidence,
that person is doubtless punishable by
the strict letter of the statute. But in
a decent community such a matter would
have been passed by. There are always
fools who love to hide obscene acros-
tics and the like in apparently innocent
contributions. No editor has time, when
he accepts a contribution, to make sure
that the first letters of each line when
read downwards or upwards, or the
second letters, or the third, or the twelfth,
or the last ones, or certain letters when
read crosswise from the beginning of
the top line to the end of the bottom
one, or when read the other way, don’t
make up some indecent or libellous state-
ment. Therefore every editor is liable
to be taken in by the dirty and inane
humorist, who writes this kind of elephan-
tine mirthfulness. No one seriously sup-
poses that the proprietors of Western
Table Talk inserted this particular item
knowing what was imbedded in it. It
wasn’t humorous; it was so carefully
concealed that not one reader in a
thousand would ever notice or recognise
it; and no sane journalist would run the
risk involved when there was absolutely
no profit of any sort to be made out of
it. Moreover, it isn’t absolutely certain
that the author knew what was in it. At
all events, an enthusiastic digger-up of
unconsidered trifles once showed the pre-
sent writer a particularly profane and
indecent acrostic concealed in a hymn
in a volume which a highly-respectable
sect uses, or lately used, every Sunday,
and as he presumes the hymnist didn’t
compound that out of an unclean imagi-
nation, the inference is that acrostics do
sometimes grow by accident. Anyhow,
the action of the W.A. Law department
has brought to the knowledge of almost
everybody a piece of casual obscenity
which would otherwise come under the
notice of very few, and its yearning after
morality produces more smellful conse-
quences than the original alleged im-
morality itself.
— “Bulletin” May 29, 1897.


FOR THE CONSUMER
Seven Thousand
Birthdays a Day
Tf you think Australian toymakers are
a jolly crew of apple-cheeked dwarfs,
banging away with their tiny hammers
and plying their tiny needles in some
Walt Disney toymakers’ shop somewhere,
you’ve been reading the wrong sort of
fairy stories. Toymaking is a big indus-
try in Australia. You are likely to find
a toymaker doing a bit of special plead-
ing with the Tariff Board, or off overseas,
trying to persuade the citizens of other
countries to float Australian-made plastic
ducks in their baths.
At the moment, when other industries
are feeling rather sick, the toymakers
are relatively healthy. In the first place,
the credit squeeze has not so far affected
them greatly and probably will not affect
them this Christmas. Local toymakers
wake each day to the refreshing thought
that 7000 children have a birthday each
day in Australia. Most of the parents
of those 7000 children obscurely feel that
just because things are tough, it is no
reason why the children should suffer, too.
- Iso, the trade, after the shuddering
shocks of, first, increased competition
from Japan, and last year, the taking away
of all import restrictions, has nonetheless
survived. This survival in itself has given
the toy trade a fair amount of self-
confidence and a more precise idea of its
capacities and weak spots.
A spokesman for the industry said at
the recent Toy Fair in Sydney that ist-
ralia was now producing more than 50
per cent, of the toys sold on the local
market. England is the biggest competi-
tor with Japan and Germany each taking
smaller but significant slices of the market.
The spokesman said that the area in
which local toymakers could most easily
compete in price and quality was in
durable toys, particularly those made of
steel (blessings on the 8.H.P.!). Aus-
tralian toys, such as trucks, wheel toys
and playground equipment, often use the
same grade of steel as that used in a
motor-car. These toys can compete with
anything which comes from overseas, and
can survive the buffetings and bashings
of a succession of small children.
Australia, then, can compete with toys
which demand that a high proportion of
the cost goes in material. Where it cannot
compete is with novelties, battery-operated
toys and anything which needs a great
deal of labor to assemble.
The spokesman for the industry said
he was inclined to think that after the
first flush of enthusiasm for this type of
novelty when it came freely on the market
here, both parents and children were now 7
less interested.
He said that the local industry, in
general, concentrated on toys which had
durability, which the child played with
(as opposed to the novelty which,
generally, the parents just looked at and
were amused by), and which adhered
to certain safety regulations, such as the
use of lead-free paints and design with
rounded rather than sharp edges, where
possible. Most Australian toys can be
repaired, or at least returned to the
manufacturer when the buyer has a
complaint.
The Toy Fair held in Sydney was the
first of its kind. Its object was to show
retailers what was immediately available
for the shops. Orders will be delivered
as quickly as possible, so that the shops
will be able to begin receiving lay-bys for
Christmas. This is a large part of the
toy trade, and retailers dare not have their
Christmas stocks in later than September.
Normally, the Toy and Games’ Manu-
facturers’ Association has a convention
and exhibition in either Melbourne or
Sydney in January. At this exhibition
the manufacturers show buyers what wit!
be ava.lable for the following Christmas,
before the buyers go overseas and get the
same, or a similar, thing there.
What will be available this year ?
Basically, a salesman at the fair said,
toys never alter. There are |ust changes
in presentation.
Plastics now make up 5U per cent, of
the output. Moulded Products make
more than 150 different plastic toys, some
of which are exported to New Zealand
and the islands. One game has been sold
in Germany.
The big thing in model trams this year
(and model trains are one of the big
things in toys) is a model steam engine
which emits smoke. A salesman for
Cyclops said that the “smoke oir was a
German idea which his firm had patented
here. He said that next year there
would be something even more exciting,
but he couldn’t give the game away to
his competitors now. The salesman said
that jokes about adults playing with
toy-trains had a basis of truth.
He knew of at least 15 people in Aust-
ralia who own model train equipment
valued at £2,000 or more. For them
their trains were, generally, their only
hobby and relaxation.
The salesman said that his firm these
days had to make a big effort to keep
the clothes in which dolls were dressed
up to date. A bigger problem was the
hair-style.
He said one of the biggest changes in
toys was the acceptance by small girls of
a teenage doll, dressed just like big sister.
Dolls, traditionally, had always appeared
“That will be three pounds, five and ninepence.”


younger than their owners. They were
dressed as babies and treated as such.
However, the teenage doll, which was a
flop on the market in 1957, was now
widely accepted.
The teenage doll, along with high-
fashion clothes and up-to-the-minute hair-
styles had discernible breasts. This is
a great departure from the traditionally
neuter European doll (which, because of
its inaccuracies, has always been regarded
as an evil thing by African children). The
development of dolls with sex character-
istics is something which many educa-
tionalists would like to see, but it’s not
the sort of thing which the trade, occupied
with changing over from the pony-tail
to the beehive hairstyle is likely to worry
about much at present.
The trade looks forward confidently
to making extensive lay-by sales to
prudent parents in the next few weeks.
Most of the rest of the Christmas busi-
ness, one salesman said, is done in the
three days before Christmas Day.
“Parents decide they can't afford to
buy anything, then at the last minute
they rush in and get a lot of stuff they
can’t really afford on extended credit,”
he said. “It’s just as well for the industry,
I suppose, that they do. I feel that 50
per cent, of toys are bought because
children want them. The other half are
bought because the parents felt they were
deprived in their childhood, and are
determined that their children shall have
everything. Most expensive toys are
not bought for children, really, but to
reassure parents ”
PATRICIA. ROLFE
Feiffer
V Ko> a amm
\mi%Q (DA TIFF
Z4J(7 P£ATH tf£o66ie
ir canx be au,
t«at emzue,
(MOiO i- IKT
IT to
86.
THATS WHAT
reap-tf mr uhdbß'
Cj[h NO- rap IMSTAMce,
m
PR€&-
Uncivil au
wufe me ok
1655 6£COR€ f A fl£R*
f ecriv f&e Mr
cap peivr
ML M
NEOS 6
mt-
stmt! m $
a m op pesty
eOHB I^FORHATJOM
h(6 To Be cm
" iiaxevat
I f WOUIO
cornet
M
tmt-
mcuyi awp
ALL THIS W
about political
-
aeTAJNIYf Ate.
mr ro ee m
m MOST DAMtRGM
mm \%jhs mm
FROM ,
WItHJM!
mcmtia
Dm w wm
jU AROUND
WO OWO'
cm* tux
aium& fZm&U!
me i Mi!
AW THAT'S’
ww I
ouf mvtem
OF CUBA F
VKFMt WO
iMfeu-
mi 1
OOM i nomr
m wm tauous
aw wmvttv
,o{tck
DESIGN
"Very Sordid
and Very Crummy"
A n audience at the Art Gallery of
N.S.W. sat up sharply on their
“uncomfortable” chairs when Sydney
industrial designer Gordon Andrews told
them that, as far as design was concerned,
Australians live in a “very sordid and
very crummy State.” “This is a rich
country,” he said, “but we are lazy and
timid, and so far have done nothing, or
virtually nothing, in design.”
It is apt to give an audience a feeling
of insecurity to be told that the very
chairs they are sitting on just don’t
measure up. “They are terrible,” declared
the ebullient Mr Andrews. “They don’t
support you anywhere they are supposed
to. I don’t know why the gallery bought
them.” He then indicated the Sheraton
reproduction chair which he had occupied
on the platform. “And that’s no better,”
he added. “I know. I’ve been sitting
on it”
Mr Andrews joined the director of the
Industrial Design Council, Mr Colin
Barrie, in addressing the society. Sand-
wiched between their talks was a color
film from Finland, showing how that
country relates good design to everyday
life.
“That is another of our excuses,” Mr
Andrews said. “We say we are a young
country, we are a small country. But
many countries which have smaller
populations than we have do good
original work in design. Just look at
Finland. Five or six years ago nobody
had really heard of Finland in relation
to design. Then that small country
staged a series of international exhibi-
tions. Now she is one of the big names
in design.
■ “There is at present a wonderful
exhibition at Turin, housed in a magni-
ficent new building. We are not repre-
sented there. We will say we didn't hear
about it in time. So far, we have had
one small show at Lausanne and that
is all.”
(The pavilion at the Lausanne Fair was
designed by Mr Andrews. Although his
claim may lack modesty it is a fair one.)
Mr Andrews said that design really


boiled down to whether a thing was right
or wrong, balanced or unbalanced.
“There is a lot of mumbo-jumbo these
days about customer motivation and
market research,” he said. “These just
come down to understanding people.
“Someone who goes into a shop to buy
a refrigerator should just have to think
about what he wanted that refrigerator
to do, to hold so many pounds of food,
and so on. And a designer should just
give him something that does the job.
“It's like looking at a pretty girl in
the street. Nowadays we can't just say:
‘That's a pretty girl.’ We have to worry
about her vital statistics, see if they add
up to what they should. Anyone should
know what a pretty girl looks like.”
Mr Andrews said that Australia was
lagging far behind in the training of
designers. “1 was in Japan recently,” he
said. “They are turning out 100 fully-
qualified designers a year there.
“We can’t go on copying other coun-
tries for ever. There is going to come
a time —and perhaps it has come —when
Australia will not be able to find overseas
markets, simply because the goods she
wishes to export are merely copies of
things which those countries produce for
themselves.”
Mr Colin Barrie said that if Australians
continued to copy overseas designs at
random we would “deny ourselves a
future.” “We will never be able to com-
pete on world markets,” he said. “We
will always only be able to export to
certain countries.
“Second-hand thinking leads to second-
hand management and you gradually
lose all power of invention,” Mr Barrie
added.
Mr Barrie said the matter of design
did not affect only our ability to export.
Good design should be available to every
Australian in every article of daily use.
It should extend to our capital equip-
ment and to agricultural machinery.
“There should be a basic concept of
quality,” he said. “This does not mean
only for expensive goods. Even inexpen-
sive goods should be instantly recognised
as being of a certain quality.
“We cannot get a standard acceptable
to the world unless we give it to our-
selves.”
Mr Barrie said that what was needed
was an “image of Australia.”
“We are getting away from the
boomerang approach,” he said, “but we
still have a long way to go.”
Mr Barrie said that his council believed
in, and would work towards, the educa-
tion of children through primary, second-
ary and tertiary grades to an appreciation
of good design and its importance in
their lives.
“Most people leave school with no
idea of how to choose good or bad articles
for daily use,” he said. “They cannot
clearly envisage how they intend to use
an article and whether what they see in
the shop is suitable for their purposes.”
FOR THE OBSERVER
Who's Who of
Hate and Love
■JV/Tost people are interested in what
some people think of other people.
At the upper levels, it is important to
know what the two Ks think of each
other ; and what they both think of Castro
and de Gaulle. At the lower levels, it is
always salutary to hear what one neigh-
bor has been saying about you to another.
In the old days, it was quite usual to
speak of a whole people’s reaction to an-
other people. The French hated the
Germans ; the Spaniards hated the Por-
tuguese ; the British thought the Ameri-
cans vulgar, and the Americans thought
the British stuffy. Needless to say, nearly
everyone had color prejudices in a two-
way traffic by no means confined to the
whites.
All these things have been out of date
since the war. New nations have emerged.
Colonialism is finished. All men are
brothers. The United Nations Charter of
Human Rights set the seal on human
equality; and the social psychologists
have explained and exploded the stereo-
type, the symbolic figment which was the
object of our hate. The barriers are down
now, and we meet and merge. Unesco.
Colombo Plan. European Union. World
Federation. •'.?
• The only thing wrong is the Cold War:
that precarious struggle for power in
which the wicked and the virtuous remain
inexplicably gripped, as if by powers
beyond their control. Clearly, reason
can solve this problem ; for reason tells
us so. All that is needed is goodwill.
We have it. The other side must know
it, and be forced to follow suit.
I wonder. I have spent 15 months
travelling around Europe, without once
going behind the Iron Curtain. I have
found almost every place equally delight-
ful, and almost all people equally pre-
judiced. I have found broad generalisa-
tions about “national types” as popular
as they always have been, and whole
nations as unpopular with their neighbors
as they always were. But the objects of
distaste or affection are not necessarily
the same as before ; and the same reasons
are seldom given, for that would be to
admit that one has learnt nothing.
Contemporary national hatreds are not
simple, even in explanation. They must
always be prefaced by jargon: “I am not
racially prejudiced. Indeed, 1 consider
prejudice to be based on irrational stereo-
types, that will not bear close examina-
tion ; but I hate the Germans/Jews/
Americans / Negroes / Russians, because
Let me give some personal impressions,
in some cases oddly at variance with what
I thought I might find. Luckily, I have
no statistics to back them up.
New Zealanders and Australians in
Britain like the country, but don’t like the
British. The British don’t like anyone
from the Dominions, and think of them
“ Coddamit! Always some last-minute hitch!”


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON
osutuvAJsr Jjf
=*. PTYLTD
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANC FACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOK'BINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS •; PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
as Colonials; but they like people from
the Colonies. The British dislike the
French. The French reciprocate heartily,
but like the Germans. The Germans are
very fond of themselves. The Norwegians
love the Americans and the English im-
partially, and would sooner join the
British Commonwealth than a United
States of Europe ; and they hate Russians,
Germans and Swedes, with equal gusto.
The Danes dislike the Swedes even more
than they do the Germans. The Swedes,
too, are very fond of themselves.
Everyone dislikes the Belgians and the
Portuguese ; but even the Swedes like the
Danes, to the extent of wearing Norwegian
badges in order to get hotel accommoda-
tion in Copenhagen. The Dutch, more
than any other nation, are two peoples:
no one likes the herrenvolk, everyone
likes the other kind. Americans prefer
Germans to all other Europeans. The
Italians, more than any other people, are
two sexes: those who like the women
don’t like the men, and vice versa. Italian
men like Swedish women. The Irish like
the British, after all. The Scots despise
the English. The English dislike the
Americans and the Russians. Everybody
likes the Greeks, and nobody the Swiss.
The least prejudiced people in the world
are New Zealanders, closely followed by
Australians. They are also the most
civilised ; and they find Europe quaintly
charming, because it is so primitive. I
am a European. I know; but New
Zealanders and Australians are too modest
to admit it.
Have I raised a hornet’s nest? It isn’t
of my own making: it was what I found,
returning after 40 years away. But there
Is a pattern, in the sense that reasons can
be given for irrational and well as rational
behavior. There are two factors present
in nearly every combination I have listed :
Prestige and money. A third, appearing
in various guises, relates to war: Who
was/is/will be on whose side; actively
or passively?
Prejudices are real because national
states are actualities,
ANTON VOGT
ABORISINALITIES
Dangers in
Dogs' Company
HTasmanian parents are looking at the
doggy company their children keep
with a new awareness of the danger lurk-
ing wherever sheep, dogs and human
beings are associated. They smiled in-
dulgently last week when they saw a news-
paper picture of a three-year-old girl
sharing her meat pie with a friendly Boxer
at a Launceston dog show, but the smiles
faded when the word “hydatids” was
swiftly rushed around.
The hydatid tape worm is endemic
throughout Australia, but in no State is
its incidence as high as it is in Tasmania.
The microscopic worm infests sheep. Its
eggs reach dogs when these animals are
fed on raw sheep-offal. The infested dog
does not necessarily display any symp-
toms, but it excretes eggs, and these,
because of the dog’s habits, are frequently
found on its coat, mouth and nose.
Children, especially, who fondle dogs,
pick up the eggs on their hands and con-
vey them to their mouths. The eggs
develop into cysts, causing grave surgical
problems as they slowly enlarge.
“Forty-eight Tasmanians were admitted
to public hospitals for serious surgery for
removal of hydatid cysts between 1958
and 1960,” Mr W. H. Stephens, president
of the Tasmanian division of the Aus-
tralian Veterinary Association, warned
parents.
Others, he said, were operated upon in
private hospitals and others again sought
treatment in other States.
Dr T. C. Beard, medical officer of
health for Campbell Town and Ross
municipalities, which are in the heart of
the sheep country, believes that only
half the hydatids patients were treated in
public hospitals.
“I know of four cases last year which
were not included in the 48,” Dr Beard
said. “One died before medical aid could
reach him (from shock when a liver cyst
ruptured). This was the tragedy—all were
children under the age of 10. Their
crime? They had played with dogs in the
fatally tempting manner illustrated in the
picture.”
Launceston City Council officials re-
vealed that of 54,299 parts of mutton and
lamb condemned at the city abattoirs in
12 months, 53,491 were livers. Rigid
inspection by trained inspectors, they said,
eliminated risk of infested offal reaching
the open market from the abattoirs. The
danger lay in country-killed meat which
had not been inspected.
GOODWIN EWENCE
War on Wombats
A delaide’s more militant animal-lovers
have lately been having a field day.
New legislation controlling the keeping
of dogs raised a howl of protest from
dog-lovers and a yelp of pleasure from
dog-haters.
Now similar noises are being raised
by the wombat controversy. It began
with a report in “The Advertiser” that
hairy-nosed wombats, a fast-vanishing
species, had grown to plague numbers
at the Yalata Mission on the edge of the
Nullarbor Plain.
Because of the damage they were
causing, they were to be killed, chilled
and taken to Adelaide for use as pet
food.
Quickest, loudest reaction to the pro-
posed slaughter came from 11 members
of the University of Adelaide Zoology
Department. In a letter to “The Adver-
tiser” they said they were “alarmed” by
the whole business.
They were aware, the letter said, that
the wombat caused a certain amount of
damage by burrowing under fences. But,
the letter pointed out, the reasonably
sedentary wombat breeds only once a
year and has only one young at a time
... so once they’re cleared from a par-
ticular fenced area they wouldn’t be
likely to return.
Natives at Yalata, meanwhile, have
found that wombat is good to eat (bush-
men say it tastes rather like a rich pork).
I. M. MACKAY


REVIEWS
The Imaginative Eye
ART
Sidney Nolan. Bonython Gallery,
Adelaide.
IT'ym Bonython has scored a notable
coup in exhibiting at his gallery
in Adelaide the first large collection of
Sidney Nolan’s paintings to be seen in
this country for the last ten
years or so. It consists of a
dozen big pieces and a number
of small landscapes and varia-
tions on the theme of Leda and the
Swan.
Many Australians approach Nolan’s
work with all their defence-mechanisms
bristling. Here is nice old Sid from
Melbourne who has conquered the
world, who has held one of the most
successful one-man shows of all time
in London recently, a book on whose
paintings (due for release here in mid-
September) has already caused such a
roar of applause overseas that one critic
has said that Nolan can only be com-
pared with Picasso. When a local boy
makes as good as this, let him beware
at home. “We really know Sid,” they
say, honing their hatchets. To have
become as successful as this he must
have become slick, fashionable, shallow,
etc. To this should be added the further
hazard that Nolan still does not paint
abstract pictures, though he comes close
to pure form and color in some of his
latest works.
Having surveyed all the dangers, one
can nevertheless stick one’s neck out and
say that his exhibition at the Bonython
Gallery is magnificently exciting. The
surface of his work is so seductive that
for the first few moments one can simply
luxuriate in its richness as one might
breathe in the scent of boronia. It is a
physical fact, obtained by a swift and
sure technique in the use of a plastic
medium. And then the surface opens
into depths, green of jungle, blue of
Aegean sea, filters of cloudy sky, red
hills whose rosy ridges fold into each
other as delicately as a scallop shell,
dappled and streaked into the distance.
Surfaces as glowing as these, that can
give such an impression of enormous
space, represent a notable enough
achievement simply in the use of paint.
It is something to have been allowed
to part the palm-fronds and bamboo-
leaves and gaze into the oceanic jungle of
such color. But more is demanded of
Nolan, and he gives it. It is one of the
paradoxes of modern art criticism that
if Nolan were painting an abstract he
would have admittedly achieved outstand-
, j-, , ,
ing results simply by h,s splendid tech-
mque in the contro of color and form ;
but as he is nearly always concerned with
he clear expression of a lyrical subject
the cry goes up that his color is too
beautiful his surface too seductive.
Admittedly the subject is sometimes
slighter than it used to be, but never he-
less it is the painting as a whole that
counts, and the wholeness ot most ot
this work is unquestionable.
.... . _ . .
1 he two big paintings of figures in the
jungle and the Animal in Swamp
expiess that movement of the lyrical
imagination that has always been Nolan s
greatest non-technical gift. Whether
sucked in or bursting out, the image is
always complete in itself and yet haunt-
ds in its implications ; the same is true
of the best of the Leda paintings. This
movement from the artist s to the viewer s
imagination is helped by the fluidity of
Nolan s paint, which scarcely ever
makes a brutal take-it-or-leave-it state-
ment, but for all its richness always hints
at something more, as if the emotion
was still vibrating in it.
Nolan works very swiftly, making
many variations on the same themes.
This seems to be essential to his creative
spirit, and is perfectly legitimate. How-
ever, any artist who works in such bursts
of furious activity must miss a few times
in order to score his hits. As a result,
Nolan’s work should be more strenuously
selected for exhibition than it seems to
be ; there are several paintings here, such
as “Greek Island,” the pseudo-aboriginal
“Catching Fish” and some of the Leda
series that are failures and should not
be shown, for they are not interesting
failures in another direction, but simply
variations on an existing theme which
have not achieved wholeness.
Nolan is as avid of disparate experi-
ence as a Picasso ; Ned Kelly, Central
Australia, the jungle, Leda and the
Swan, and now Gallipoli. When he does
not succeed it is because he is like a
brilliant journalist in paint approaching
his subject and looking for a story. At
his best, he goes into the heart of the
experience and catches the lyrical inten-
sity of that moment. He has done his
brooding and thinking before he begins
to paint; there is never any evidence of
the painting being evolved slowly and
painfully in the course of creation, which
method perfectly suits some other
painters, but not Nolan. He sees through
what Blake called the “Imaginative Eye,”
and the swiftness and sensitivity of his
paint allows the vision to come through
unclogged by sluggish and obtrusive fact.
For all its sophistication, this exhibition
is alive with fresh perception.
GEOFFREY DUTTON
Pink and White Nostalgia
Ivon Hitchens. National Gallery,
Sydney.
Frances Smith. Macquarie Galleries,
Sydney.
HThe loan exhibition from the Howard
Bliss collection of paintings by Ivon
Hitchens is a welcome change from the
imported group shows. Instead of being
tantalised by snippets of the work of
numerous painters one can get a satisfy-
ing look at one of them. Hitchens, an
English painter of landscape, still life and
the nude, has for many years been highly
regarded in his own country. Unlike
Australian landscape painters, Hitchens
deals in material that is never raw but
has been prepared and predigested by
painters from Constable to his own con-
temporaries.
The colors are familiar harmonies and
the forms calmly flowing but they
have significance more as color in space
and as paint on canvas than as images.
In “Flowers and Sunflowers” the deco-
rative qualities of his subject are
given tooth by the use of an insistent
crimson pink and the same effect is
gained by the pattern of the blank white
panel which is left to show through his
“Flowers Park Dahlia.”
This repeated use of white serves not
only to shock the tonal harmonies but,
as in “Dark Banks” and Yellow Glade
No. 2,” to restate the surface of the paint-
ing amidst the varying degrees of depth
achieved by the use of color. Forest
Edge, one of the many superbly propor-
tioned pictures, which has a harmony of
depth as well as of pattern, uses not bare
canvas but a screen of abstract organic
shapes to give contrast to the underlying
depth. To this highly civilised sense of
concord is added a piquant playful
gesture in the idle doodling skyline of his
‘ Autumn Ride and the discordant yellow
on the kft °* Vista in March,
In the nudes there is a great variety m
drawing and use of color. These virtues
are derivative but this is natural in the
work of a painter cultivated in the delicate


hothouse atmosphere of English art. It
can be enjoyed for its nostalgic bouquet
and great refinement.
Many may prefer the virile strength of
Australian landscape and figure painting.
A good example is the work of Frances
Smith, a graduate of the National Art
School, whose series of paintings from her
recent journey through Northern and
Central Australia shows great strength
and imagination.
Salmon
High Enthusiasm
Turner and Blake Watercolors.
National Gallery, Melbourne.
The British Museum has made a notable
contribution to the National Gallery
of Victoria’s Centenary Programme with
a loan of 49 watercolors by Turner.
The Gallery itself owns three fine
examples of his early and late work, and
anyone who already knows these will
welcome the rare chance to see them in
this large context. The main interest of
the exhibition is the astonishing mastery
Turner displays of his medium, a mastery
which enables him to grace and give life
to his endless landscapes and buildings.
Our interest has perhaps justifiably
declined in the romantic views of the
Continent as seen by the ardent travellers
of last century, and only an historian
would be fully appreciative of the origin-
ality of Turner, but there is nonetheless
a warmth, brilliance and high enthusiasm
so strongly apparent in every one of these
works that they are immediately attrac-
tive and reward close examination.
Devotees of Blake may feast them-
selves on his watercolor illustrations to
the Divine Comedy. It is hard to think
of anything that approaches the majesty
of Dante, but Blake's strange and terrible
imagination does reflect the strength and
richness of the great work. Historically,
the exhibition is a good complement to
the Turner one, since such extreme diver-
gence of ideas prevents summary
generalisations about intellectual climates
and periods.
Maybe the most heartening aspect of
the Blake exhibition from the point of
view of local pride is that the Gallery
owns this most impressive collection. It
should be seen now, because, being water-
colors they are not usually on display.
In another gallery a brief account is given
of the progress of the Melbourne collec-
tion over a hundred years, and other
exhibitions of some of the treasures are
planned.
BILL HANNAN
The Celluloid Menagerie
FILMS
The Jungle Cat and Noah’s Ark,
Sydney Liberty.
Love Game and The Wild Horses.
Sydney Lido.
Disney invariably mixes romance with
slush, and vigor with vulgarity.
His cartoon “Noah’s Ark” is both
beautiful and funny ; but the narration,
in rhymed couplets, in singu-
larly unpoetic. His “docu-
mentary” of Samoa is even
lovelier ; but the prose-poetry,
part and parcel of the half-lie of a Pacific
paradise, drips with sentimentality. Pre-
cisely now, when Samoa is in its first
year as a nation-State, Disney’s great
resources could have made something
exciting and informative: a genuine
documentary, telling the story of transi-
tion, and presenting some of the problems
of bulging birth-rates in a restricted and
precarious economy. He chose to ignore
all this, and the result is a honeyed
cliche in the Fitzpatrick tradition.
Jungle Cat" is flawed in exactly
opposite ways: too much is attempted,
in a mixture of moods. The original
intention appears to be to tell the story
of the members of the cat family.
Soon we move into the Amazon basin,
to concentrate on the jaguar ; but the
profusion of wild-life leads to so many
diversions that the narrator must drag
us back, somewhat ponderously, to the
great cats. The violence to which nature
and Disney are addicted is softened by
unsentimental documentation of parental
and conjugal love among the great beasts.
The best sequences are unforgettable.
“Love Game” is a slight French
comedy with a few hilariously funny
episodes. Jean-Pierre Cassel, as a young
dog without morals, is sometimes so
exuberantly in love with life that one
completely forgets that he is unpleasant;
and Genevieve Cluny is so sweet that one
sometimes forgets that there is nothing
nice or convincing about the film, except
her. What makes the programme worth
seeing is again that it is really a series
of “shorts.” The best are worth more
than the entry money: a documentary
on wild-life, from Hungary, and the
Cannes Festival Prize-winner, “The Wild
Horses.” The latter is that rare thing,
a perfect film. Taken in slow motion,
with no commentary, but specially devised
rhythmic, atonal music, the galloping
horses achieve the heroic proportions of
classic statuary come to life: something
of which a da Vinci or Michaelangelo
would have been proud.
ANTON VOHT
Dated Triviality
THEATRE
The Guardsman. Molnar. Union
Theatre Repertory Company. Mel-
bourne University.
'T'his is the 100th production of the
A U.T.R.C. since it was founded in
1953 at the university. The U.T.R.C. is
now associated with the Elizabethan
Theatre Trust and plays
half the year at the Rus-
sell Street Theatre. The
last play of the Russell
Street season was the extremely successful
“The One Day of the Year.” It is a
heavy descent from the topicality and
seriousness of Alan Seymour's play to the
dated triviality of “The Guardsman.”
“The Guardsman” is a comedy of
married life set in Vienna at the turn of
the century —the city where Freud was at
that time busy probing the recesses of
the human mind. It is about an actor
and actress who have been married for
six months. The actor fears that, since it
is spring, his wife’s fancy will turn to
thoughts of a new love. He decides
to use his professional skill to imper-
sonate a Russian Prince Charming in the
hope of finding out whether she still
loves her husband. This is the sort of
thing that it is usually considered wise
not to inquire into too closely, and one
can conceive the most exciting comic
complications ensuing. But, in fact, the
plot lets us down completely: it is quite
unexcitingly uncomplicated. According
to the programme note the original play
has been “re-worked” to “overcome
certain theatrical conventions no longer
current —asides, monologues and particu-
larly contrived mechanics.” Perhaps all
the fun was in those “particularly con-
trived mechanics.”
Frank Thring plays the histrionic hus-
band, and he hams the Russian prince,
who has a broken English accent, with
great gusto, so that the play almost comes
alive during his impersonations. Sheila
Florance is sadly miscast as the wife.
But the supporting cast is very good,
and there is no doubt that the U.T.R.C.
has assembled a strong company for its
ninth season. All it needs is a play.
MADELEINE ARMSTRONG
Winter of the Tenth Doll
Master Builder. Ibsen. Phoenix
Theatre Guild, Sydney.
IF one has never seen Ibsen, surely there
is no better play to see first than his
“Master Builder.” Here is Ibsen’s hard-
wrought genius and craftsmanship at its
best: simple idea, a handful of passionate
people, speech as hard and direct as the
fire of a diamond —and with the dia-
mond’s many facets. The audience is
taken directly to the life of these Ibsen
characters, and the grip of the playwright
never relents, never allows one distrac-
tion.
We have Solness, the Master Builder,
a vigorous, successful man in his fifties,
tied to his strange wife, Aline, whose
mind has never left the tragedy of a


t BOND?
FINE
LIQUEUR WHISKY £ V W,
$5
&
s s
r -^
fii
*
bond 7
Whisky
ffr- *«-**,-* f£jZ+
**sssae£ s
A fine example of early Colonial
architecture is this Bond house in
Happy Valley, South Australia.
Here the mellow blends that make
Bond 7 Fine Liqueur Whisky
quietly mature in cask in the age-old
way that makes great Whisky.
BOND 7
FINE LIQUEUR WHISKY
One of the fve great whiskies of the world . . .
9234 S
fire which destroyed her parents’ home,
the home she and Solness inherited and
lived in after marriage. As an indirect
result of the fire, the couple’s twin babies
died, and this has become the bitterness
of the builder’s life. He fancies that it
is Aline’s bitterness, too, that she has
been robbed of her vocation of building
beautiful children . . . but what Aline
mourns is her mother's and grand-
mother’s silk and satin dresses, all the
heirlooms of a proud family, and especi-
ally the nine dolls which were her secret
companions, kept always from her hus-
band's knowledge. “No one thought of
saving them,” she cries out, late in the
play. The death of the babies was noth-
ing alongside the dolls ; it was God’s will,
accepted.
Added to this strangely bitter marriage,
Solness has a fear of being ousted by
younger builders and architects; his
young assistant is brilliant, but Solness
will not praise him. He builds hatred
between the young man and himself,
between all the young men and himself.
Torn by fear and love of the strength
of youth, Solness uses his physical attrac-
tions to dominate his girl book-keeper,
engaged to his assistant, and by holding
the girl, holds the young man.
Down from the mountains then comes
a random fire from Solness’s past. Ten
years ago, filled with excitement and
pride, on one of these days when nothing
is impossible, Solness himself (despite his
giddiness and fear of heights) had placed
the traditional wreath atop the spire of
his newest church. As he clung to the
scaffolding, talking proudly to God, a
schoolgirl below worshipped him. Later,
Solness went to the twelve-year-old girl’s
home for supper, and, warm with wine,
finding the girl alone, called her a prin-
cess, said that in ten years’ time he
would come for her and give her a king-
dom. Now, twenty-two, beautiful,
sexually mature, fixated on Solness,
devastating, the princess, Hilde, comes
down to claim her kingdom.
Solness never really fights her attrac-
tions ; he tells the girl his troubles, his
dreams, his sorrows, his love for his art
. . . and falls in love with her. For her,
because she wants once more to see her
Master Builder against the sky, talking
to God, he goes out and places the wreath
on the top point of his newest building,
and falls to his death.
It is, if you like, just as simple as H. L.
Mencken once described it: Ibsen says
a 55-year-old man is a fool to fall
in love with a flapper. But it is more
than this, too; Ibsen uses the gaunt
framework and the simple idea to explore
the passions of ordinary people. Ibsen
is not concerned to create the tragedy of
the common man ; he is concerned to
point out the common passions of all
men, that ordinary people have passions
and drives to perfection. Craftsmen,
builders, mountaineers, girls, children, all
are or can be dominated by a passion
to achieve, to do something perfectly
well. This passion is a great human
possession, and Ibsen tells us that it is
not the exclusive gift of an elite, but is
spread throughout the species of man,
making us all into things of wonder.
Here then is a great play, and it is
with some regret that the verdict on the
Phoenix production can only be indirect
approval. The producer, Mr John
Weiner, steered the play simply and
honestly, but with none of the intensity
it demands. Casting was generally inade-
quate to the high art called for, although
Miss Carole Taylor as Hilde, and Mr
Gustle Korner, as Solness, at least gave
us consistency and some glimpses of how
the roles could look. Whether it was
producer or performer at fault in the
other roles is hard to say, but mostly
there was a lamentable lack of under-
standing the pitch and pith of the parts,
What is significant is that the play
should be done, and should show up as
so bright and shining. Surely now some
bigger theatre will take courage ; here is
an Ibsen that will pack them in anywhere
in Australia.
KEVON KEMP


The Red Page
Crucifixion of the Mind
By JUDITH WRIGHT
Selected Poems. Frederick T. Macart-
ney. 17s. 6d.
The Ballad of Bloodthirsty Bessie.
Ronald McCuaig. 21s.
South of the Equator. Ray Mathew.
17s. 6d.
Forbears. Elizabeth Riddell. 17s. 6d.
Masters in Israel. Vincent Buckley.
17s. 6d.
Socrates and Other Poems. Francis
Webb. 16s.
All published by Angus and Robertson.
It is a long time since Australian poetry
jacked itself up six notches in one
week ; and probably this won’t happen
again for a long time, if it ever does.
So this is an occasion for at least letting
down the reviewer’s judicial wig a little
in celebration. Welcome, one and all —
let that be the theme at least of this first
paragraph ; for despite the unfortunate
tendency of poets to cock snooks at each
other, at reviewers, and even at the
worthy papers which give them space in
which to review, this particular reviewer
has a natural bias in favor of poetry.
Still, to have to review six books of
poetry at once is a daunting task which
cuts short the paean rather abruptly. And
these poets are so very different from
each other, in age, style, temperament,
experience, use of language—everything
that goes to make a writer—that my task
is rather like that of a cook with one
large stewpot and a hare, a turkey, a fish,
a lamb and a few other incompatible
comestibles to deal with all at once. (No
—do not try to assign the comestibles
among the poets—this is an illustration
only . . .)
Let me, then, attack the task by pro-
gression from lighter to more serious ;
and it seems right, in courtesy, to begin
with Mr Macartney’s collection, since he
is much the senior of these writers. In
fact, it is noted on the inside flap of
his book that this selection is made from
the output of 50 years, though most of
the poems are fairly recent.
But it is a small selection—only 45
poems, though some of them are extracts
from much longer works. Mr Macartney
says in his preface that his choice has
been governed mainly by his notion of
“what seemed likely to be acceptable
nowadays”—the result is that much of
this volume is light, satiric or epigram-
matic verse.
Perhaps it is true that it is merely a
change in fashion that makes us prefer
Mr Macartney in this mood. But
perhaps, too, the ironic and satiric modes
really suit him best. The series of
“Satires in Fixed Forms,” for instance, is
nimble and amusing as a really good
parlor-game, though none of its sword-
play goes very deep or stings very last-
ingly. This is a display of verbal skill,
and only incidentally a satire ; so that
even an earnestly convinced Freudian
could read his “Virelai Nouveau” (“A
wonderful thing is the mind. Though not
always easy to find”) with unscathed
pleasure.
But this lightness and lack of depth in
Macartney’s verse prevent the verses in
which he is really writing seriously from
touching or interesting us much. They
seem to be written from the surface of
his mind, from observation rather than
experience:
“And living cells devise
Their sacrifice
To re-array
Decay . . .”
and their language is not vital enough
to avoid cliche and magazine-words:
“They cross the white moon
As black as the tragic
Surrendering swoon
Of love’s ultimate magic . . .”
In fact, Mr Macartney writes best as
a commentator, detached and light-
handed ; and for the well-tuned and
skilful light verse in this book we ought
to make due acknowledgment. And,
in any case, he takes an ironist’s view
of life —some might say a view that
amalgamates flippancy and hopelessness.
His final verdict on existence is perhaps
to be found in the fairly recent poem,
“The Centre”:
“See truth, a desert flower ; and each
facile answer
Will taunt you further where no
pretence retards
The knowledge that distance ahead
is a phantom dancer
And shade on the way is luck in
a deal of cards . . .”
This view does not lead in the direction
of poetry —with its power to sadden or
exalt us —but of verse, which can only
please or annoy us. Mr Macartney’s
collection is pleasant, but it is incidental
and not central to Australian poetry.
It is a good year for light verse, appar-
ently ; and Mr McCuaig’s book is vintage
light verse, with perhaps a dozen bottles
of poetry thrown in. Also, McCuaig is
one of the few writers who have mel-
lowed instead of soured with the years.
The early poetry sprinkled through this
collection, taken from “Vaudeville” and
“The Wanton Goldfish,” published 20
years ago and more, tastes a little
vinegarish beside such later poems as the
gentler and more searching character-
studies in “Scenes from Childhood” first
published a few years ago. Earlier,
McCuaig was the rather brittle poet of
city themes, city ladies, city clerks and
their loves ; later he turns back, not only
to childhood, but to the pastoral pleasan-
tries of “Holiday Farm,” and the agree-
able horrors of the ballad which gives
the book its name. Somehow or other
the farmer’s son in “Holiday Farm,”
“Apologising to his dad,
For where his horses wheeled and
crossed
An axle shook a paddock post:
‘1 should have took a wider turn.’
‘Well, all right, son ; you’ve got co
learn . . ”
seems a riper and realer creation than,
say, the rake in the earlier “The Art
of Love”: —
“I met a new one
The other night ;
1 says, ‘Come for a run ;
The moon's about right . . ”
Though the razor-edge of the earlier
poems has gone, it has been replaced by
a generosity and breadth, making one
realise the difference, not always so easy
to illustrate, between the play of wit and
the play of humor.
The book contains some of the occa-
sional verse that McCuaig kept going so
long, and usually so deftly, in The
Bulletin ; notably “The Old Master”
(on the death of Mo) and the memorable
“The Day We Dyed Our Carpet Blue.”
There is also a “New Year Anthology
for 1957” which contains some of the
few parodies extant in Australian
literature. This reviewer is modestly
delighted to be included.
Ray Mathew’s is, alas, rather a disap-
pointing collection, from a poet ’ whose
earlier “With Cypress Pine” had a good
deal of charm and freshness. But charm
cannot continue to charm us when it
begins to harden into an attitude ; and
freshness wears away so irxpalpably that
it is sometimes a surprise to find how
soon the lettuce has gone limp. What
Mr Mathew needs to do now, perhaps,
is to find something to say. Affirma-
tions of life, youth and love are very
well indeed ; but if they are based on-
nothing more than what Mr Mathew
refers to as “the antic on the grass,”
they will not last for long, even if they
are written with all the resources of tech-
nique that the best of poets can
command.
And, of course, Mr Mathew himself
does not claim to excel in technique. In


BOOKHUNTER
Dept. “D.” Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.O. Sydney.
HOW TO SUCCEED
AS A
FREELANCE WRITER
If you have an aptitude for writing,
STOTT’S Correspondence Courses in
Story Writing, Freelance Journalism,
Script Writing, etc., will teach you to
write successfully for the Press.
For free Prospectus about STOTT’S
Literary Courses, mail the coupon today
159 Flinders Fane, Melbourne; 149 Castle-
reagh St., Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Bris-
bane; 21 Grenfell St., Adelaide; 22 Howard
St.. Perth.
•CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
TO STOTT’S: Please send me, without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
AGE (SB 1861)
“A Good Word from the Preacher” he
recommends the poet to “throw the words
about more,
Pick them up and bang them . . .
Write as if you like to write,
That’s the way the world was
written . . .”
H’m, yes; but perhaps we might
amend that to “That’s the spirit in which
the world was written”—rather a differ-
ent thing. Art still has its place, and
words heaven witness - are thrown
about a great deal too much in the
’sixties for a poet to want to maltreat
them any further.
However, there may be in Mr Mathew s
rather hackneyed affirmations the germ
of something deeper—something that
may last even through the subtle altera-
tion and betrayal that comes over all our
youthful affirmations. For instance, there
is his poem “Against Death” —
... To be the third within the self
not flesh not mind but strangely one
in whom those hating twins combined
Was man in fact, was mind and flesh,
was body-spirit like the sun,
was light to life ; is world defined,
is all of man that keeps from death.”
That seems to strike a deeper and sincerer
note than the careful-carelessness of some
of the other poems (“A Change of Life,”
“O Life, O Sex, O Fun-and-Games” for
instance), and makes one hope that Mr
Mathew’s next collection may be more
interesting than this one.
“Forbears” is Elizabeth Riddell’s first
collection for a number of years. Her
poetry is reminiscent, tragic, aware of
the modern terrors, sometimes as slight
and dry as a puff of dust. She is haunted
by the mysteries of ancestry and memory
(“Forbears,” “Antecedents,” “The Love
and Hate of Bells”) and by a foreboding
anxiety for the fate of her world (“Ecce
Homo,” “After Lunik Two”); there is
about her poetry more than a hint of
Housman’s incisive bitterness:
“I had no parents who would care
Were I buried here or there
So I sleep at twenty-one
With almost nothing done ...”
And there is, too, something of Hous-
man’s pastoral myth-making in Miss
Riddell’s suicides by drowning, lovers
fallen out of love, doomed soldiers and
sailors, old men and children, and about
her rainy willow-fringed farming land-
scapes.
Like Housman, too, she is content with
writing few poems, clearly and simply
shaped, narrative rather than commentary
in feeling. Above all like Housman,
perhaps, the motive force behind much
of the verse seems to be a kind of self-
pity, masked behind ostensible pity for
others. One cannot call this important
poetry —it is too personal a gesture, it
does not go deep enough ; but it is candid
and often moving, it is technically very
accomplished, and each poem is well-
shaped and complete in its economy of
means.
The poems in Vincent Buckley’s collec-
tion, “Masters in Israel” are by contrast
sometimes rather sprawling, apt to stretch
beyond themselves or not to stop quite
soon enough, sometimes even falling into
repetitiousness and verbalism:
... He is Ixion
Of our wheel of silence, of us all,
Captor or victim of the peace 1 share
With lamb or cautious bird or running
hare ;
Occupies nothing, has no private place,
Is insolent, careful, public, proud,
Self-hypnotised upon a void,
And his eyes drowning in the empty air.”
(All this about a wedge-tailed eagle.) But
again in contrast to Miss Riddell, Vincent
Buckley believes poetry still has some-
thing to say to the world, and believes
that he can say it:
“O man is sick, and suffering from the
world,
And I must go to him, my poetry
Lighting his image as a ring of fire,
The terrible and only means I have ...”
(“Late Tutorial”)
And this in itself is a refreshment to the
soul.
Strangely, Mr Buckley too goes in search
of his forbears (“Walking in Ireland,”
“Father and Son”) —but not to trace his
own lineaments or to paint reminiscent
portraits, as Miss Riddell does. Rather
Buckley seeks to understand himself and
find reconciliation with the past:
“I thought to pioneer a soul,
Your soul and mine, from the wretched
past
Brought to a common pitch at last ...”
(“Father and Son”)
And this, in fact, is the theme of the book
as a whole —the search for reconciliation,
with life and the world, through the
Christian religion. This search is what
gives the book its unity, from the first
poem, “Late Tutorial,” in which the poet,
as poet, is forced to acknowledge his one-
ness with mankind in spite of his special
mission:
. . . “love’s not pity, words are not mine
alone,
And all are twined on the great central
tree . . , ”
to the final series, “In Time of the Hun-
garian Martyrdom,” where mankind in
the person of Cardinal Mindszenty is
elevated as a symbol of “the spiritual
strength and authority” of the Catholic
Church.
There is no doubt that Mr Buckley’s
poetry has gained in force and decision
since his earlier book, “The World’s
Flesh”; he is certainly one of our most
important poets. The faults of his earlier
work —a rather strained rhetoric and a
certain derivativeness—are overcome in
the best of these poems, where Mr Buck-
ley speaks more simply and with his own
insight. In “Spring is the Running
Season” he prays,
“Teach me slowly to speak
With quiet emphasis,
And my inward eye to seek
All that the lean men miss ...”
And though he does not yet always attain
that “quiet emphasis,” his poetry is
coming closer to it.
One of the best poems in his volume
is “Impromptu for Francis Webb,” in
which he writes
“The personal word must speak or sing
for all;
The world that terrifies you must be seen
Striving within its mesh of dark and light
Till everything, scarlet wink of water,
green
Cap of the spice-bush, bless the ennobled
sight.”
And in Webb’s own volume, we do indeed
hear the voice of poetry in a “world that
terrifies.” Webb writes in a tormented
landscape of light and shadow, in which
his poems tower like whirlwinds of words,
often almost unintelligible but always in
some way convincing. The images are
violent, difficult; they clash against each
other, darken or illuminate each other,
spring out in a sudden clarity or retreat
into obstinate darkness; the setting is
desolate, hygienic, electric, naked—a kind
of interior desert. It is the very land-
scape in which modern man tortures him-
self into victory or defeat. Terrible
images abound in it —“the grey rat
nibbling at the soul,” “our squared electric
shore,” the sweats of the hospital night—
but there are whole poems as joyfully
affirmative as “Bells of St Peter Man-
croft,” or as gravely lovely as “Five Days


Old,” with its unforgettable picture of
a newborn child:
“Too pure for my tongue to praise,
That sober, exquisite yawn
Or the gradual, generous dawn
At an eyelid, maker of days” . . .
a poem which can end:
“If this is man, then the danger
And fear are as lights of the inn,
Faint 2nd remote as sin
Out here by the manger.
In the sleeping, weeping weather
We shall all lie down together.”
But Webb is the Grunewald of our
poets--the poet of the crucifixion of the
mind; and though his voice can ring
out as clear and beautiful as the bells
he writes of, what we most remember of
this book is the terrible poetry of mental
ordeal (“The Brainwashers,” “Hospital
Night”), and of hard-won triumph
(“Socrates,” “A Death at Winson Green”).
In “Socrates,” he writes:
“The sun made for my childhood’s eyes a
temple
Heaped with pure offerings, a history
Of kind white lambs absorbed in games,
the simple
Hide-and-seek of flower or pride of tree.
Clouds came to him, flowers wasted pale
and old,
Lambs bled and bleated, storm railed
bitterly
At colours —yet I rode the travelling gold
Of lightning, bleeding, weeping, singing,
free.”
Of these six books, Webb's is by far
the most difficult, the most idiosyncratic,
the most elusive and uncompromising. It
is also the only book which is wholly and
indubitably poetry.
Infected by Evil
Let the Man Die. S. H. Courtier.
Hammond, Hammond. 15s. 6d.
Told in Winter. Jon Godden. Chatto
and Windus. 225. 6d.
The Winter of Our Discontent. John
Steinbeck. Heinemann. 225. 6d.
Jason. Henry Treece. Bodley Head.
225. 6d.
The only way to read “Let the Man
Die” is for the laughs provided by
what its publishers describe as “a fascinat-
ing Australian setting.” If, for instance,
you can swallow a grazier’s son keeping
secret his bedroom decorated like some
luxurious bordello completed with mirror
ceilings, machines to project pornographic
pictures etc. in a tiny bush settlement you
will swallow anything. You may even
believe that the unidentifiable corpse was
the cadaver of the person believed to have
been murdered. If you can’t credit these
things you will guess most of the story
(as I did) before it is fairly started. The
author helps with liberal and over-
emphasised clues.
“Told in Winter” was disappointing in
another way although again an over-
contrived plot is mostly responsible for
its failure to convince. At the outset it
seemed a promising book if only for the
fact that the two men who live together
in its remote country house are not homo-
sexuals. Jerome is a successful author,
a bachelor who prefers occasional sexual
forays upon London society to marriage.
Peter, his friend and servant, is embittered
against women because his wife deserted
him after an accident which shockingly
mutilated his face. Their other com-
panion is Sylvie, a young Alsatian bitch
and their main interest in common is the
commercial growing of rare orchids.
Into their placid life erupts Una, a young
actress infatuated with Jerome. Her
presence would not have been tolerated for
an instant except that a blizzard maroons
her for some days in the household.
Everyone exhibits appetite and jealousy
according to their kind and nature
and the author manages her foursome
quite skilfully up to a point. But all
at once one feels that the plot creaks, a
result, I am sure, of too much planning.
Jon Godden seems to have decided what
reactions Sylvie was likely to have, and
then to have been forced to tailor her
human characters’ behavior to fit that of
the dog.
Steinbeck’s new novel is like a draught
“Hey, Smitty. I think we've made a significant break-through.
Take a look at old ‘ Stinks .’”
of good wine to cleanse the palate of the
lingering unpleasantness remaining from
his “East of Eden.” Again his theme is
wickedness in operation, but “The Winter
of Our Discontent” is a subtle vehicle for
his masterly powers of description and in
it he is able to show his characters in all
their shades of grey. There is no one
here improbably all-black as Cathy w'as
and the tragedy that unfolds is not only
entirely credible but, in all its ironic rami-
fications, both witty and bitter at the same
time.
Ethan Hawley is descended from a
proud and once-wealthy whaling family.
In the coastal town where his family were
formerly almost an aristocracy he is a
grocery clerk, a whimsical popular man
known (and in many quarters a little
despised) for his impeccable honesty.
When many small happenings combine
to persuade Ethan to deviate from his
hitherto inflexible principles his reputa-
tion shields him like some invisible cloak.
When at last his efforts to enrich himself
seem most successful the disaster which
he has been spared in his own person
strikes at him through another member
of his household. There has, after all,
been an imperceptible infection of evil.
It is very convincing and made more so
by Steinbeck’s very individual prose.
If Steinbeck sometimes writes not that
horrible bastard thing called “poetic
prose” but prose that makes one realise
how much a poet he is, Henry Treece who
made his reputation for his poetry dis-
closes his poetic nature more by his inter-
pretation of the story of “Jason” than by
his waiting of it Treece finds a place for
all the myths surrounding his hero,
although in order to make coherent use
of them he seems to have altered, at times,
the time sequences most usually stated in
dictionaries of mythology, and some-
times the sequence of events. I do not
think Treece is as good at this sort of
reconstruction as Mary Renault is, but
that comparison is a high one and if
“Jason” falls short of “The Last of the
Wine” or “The King Must Die” it is still
an excellent novel. Again Treece is more
successful when he allows his exciting
story to take its own head: he is no
Robert Graves to persuade us by the
more curious sort of mythographic re-
interpretation.
NANCY KEESING
T for Thug
The Yellow Scarf. Lieut.-General Sir
Francis Tuker. J. M. Dent and Sons.
31s.
Vll7hen a general writes a book about
* * another general the non-military
mind seldom finds entertainment, and at
first sight this biography of Major-
General Sir William Sleeman runs all too
true to type. On the first page we encoun-
ter the hero in a description which will
daunt many a reader:
Were it not for the braided collar
the face might be that of some
eminent man of science, literature,
or divinity. The head is egg-shaped,


the forehead high, with auburn hair
swept forward at the sides from back
to front. The mouth is firm, as we
might expect of a man we know to
be one of India’s great servants, yet
also it is mobile, well able to express
at need a haughty or gentle mood,
and to be stern or humorous at will
. . . the eyes . . . are large, wide
apart, and beautifully shaped . . .
He is accustomed to take a resolve,
to make a decision, to command.
In the next few pages the impression
is confirmed. General Tuker’s style is
turgid and his morality Victorian ; more-
over, he believes that readers should be
lectured, and at intervals takes time off
to set them right.
Despite this “The Yellow Scarf” is a
fascinating book, for Sleeman was the
man who eradicated from India the cult
of Thuggee whose devotees over a period
of five hundred years murdered more
than twelve million people without trace,
whose practice became an honored pro-
fession handed down from father to son,
whose name still lives in our own
language as “thug” and “thuggery.”
How Sleeman tracked down and
destroyed the Thugs is as fascinating as
any novel ; in fact, it is the basis of John
Masters's “The Deceivers.” In this ver-
sion it gains in impact just because the
author is so obviously a pretty stuffy old
gentleman. Not for him the novelist’s
trick of having Sleeman join the Thugs
incognito, and so revealing the tempta-
tion to worship Kali, Goddess of Destruc-
tion. He thinks the Thugs disgusting and
expects everyone else to think likewise.
Therefore the drama comes entirely
from the facts themselves. Baldly piecing
them together, General Tuker tells how
when Sleeman went to India few British
spoke the native languages with any
fluency. Sleeman was an exception who
spoke not only Urdu and Hindustani, but
Persian, Pushtu, Ghurkali and several
European languages with equal ease. In
1824 this linguistic skill gave him his first
break-through on Thuggee. Using a pre-
text, he had arrested a band of travellers
whom he suspected were Thugs; they
conversed unguardedly in Ramasi, the
Thuggee slang, which Sleeman had picked
up from old records, and he had his first
convictions.
But it was after these first arrests that
Sleeman showed his quality. For five
centuries the Thugs had lived undetected.
Their murders had evolved into a ritual
designed to preserve the secrecy of the
cult: victims were strangled with the
yellow scarf because Kali had once fought
demons whose blood, on touching the
ground, formed new demons —but strang-
ling also avoided noise and inconvenient
bloodstains; their bodies were broken,
pierced with the sacred pick-axe, and
buried in a preselected spot as Kali had
decreed it should be done —but bodies
in carefully chosen graves are hard to
find, and when they have been pierced,
putrefaction wili not make them swell;
victims were chosen only among travellers
and from certain classes because their
deaths alone were pleasing to Kali—but
in chaotic 19th-century India they were
also least likely to be missed. It is
worth noting that at this time (before
the Mutiny) English women moved un-
escorted about the country. Europeans
were traceable, and no Thug ever killed
one.
Sleeman’s first Thugs gave him his lead,
and he never let it go. Thuggee, he be-
lieved, was “a single tree spreading over
India, from the Indus to Cape Cormorin.
Find one branch, follow it and you will
feel your way down the stem to the root.
Cut it there and it will fall.” His weapon
was his filing system. Every Thug un-
covered, every instance of Thuggee, every
fact discovered were painstakingly re-
corded. He learned the Thugs’ language
and studied their attitudes till he could
think like a Thug. He traced the travel-
lers who had previously been untraceable.
At the end of six years’ work on the
system, he identified the Prince of Thugs
without ever having laid eyes on him:
Feringheea is therefore a man of
high birth and of means and has no
need to pursue the profession of a
Thug for a living. He is of attractive
personality, fine intelligence, soft
voice, debonair and handsome. This
is the man whom you are to hunt
until he is brought to the gallows.
His influence is great and with his
capture central India will be cleared
of Thugs. I believe that we came
close to seizing him last autumn and
again this spring, but we have never
had a sight of him
He was laughed and nicknamed “Thug-
Sleeman. But by 1830 no one was
laughing. The man with the filing system
“ c . om P l £j of
crime beneath the administration s blun-
dering f«t- Forty thousand travellers a
year had been murdered without trace.
As it turned out, not even Sleeman quite
realised the magnitude of it till he cap-
,ured Feri hes f , he Prince of Thu £
His captol . S de clared the Thug po i ite Fy,
wa „ on th _ „ raves nf * P nf u:’
™hm s ?% y lent?' wrote San in
™nder, “were pitched where tents usually
are, in the small mango grove and he
& &
g
A Pundit and six attendants mur-
dfed in , 1818 amo ?S the ropes
? f slee P ,n « *'!“• a havi dar and
fou / “P murder J d m ‘ B2 J
und ? r m V Jorses, and four Brahman
carners of ?. an p s water and a
« onlan , murd fr? d soon , a ? er , th ?
LmL ' t ;i -' within my sleeping tent
• • M V wde w as stdl slee P. ln « over
the « rava »f the water carriers .. .
PETER WESTERWAY
Crisp Biscuit Maker
John Dryden. Bonamy Dobree. Long-
mans, Green. 4s. 2d.
TP\ryden said of himself that he would
wish people to consider him “as a
man who has done his best to improve
the language, especially the poetry.”
The claim must be granted him, though
what he helped do to the language was
not all improvement. Bonamy Dobree in
this pamphlet speaks of the “state of con-
fusion” and “the muddle, glorious as it
sometimes is” of the language and litera-
ture which confronted Dryden. But the
language was beginning to dry out. In
the new scientifico-philosophical climate
the rich plum cake of Elizabethan speech
and writing was turning into the crisp
biscuit of modern English. Dryden helped
in this. Indeed he was a member of the
Royal Society’s committee for cleaning up
the language so that scientists could talk
in it.
But while certain kinds of precision and
control, and elegance and order, were
made possible, something was inevitably
lost. The old language had at one end
of its range a fresh physical immediacy,
a sort of country freshness, and at the
other end a far-echoing depth of imagina-
tive resonance. Both the physical fresh-
ness and the infinite dim perspectives
were replaced by glared surfaces and short
uncluttered views.
Yet there was much needed improve-
ment, and what Dryden helped to do
had become inevitable and right for his
time. Only those who affect to prefer the
metre and language of Donne’s Satires to
Dryden’s and Pope’s could disagree.
There have been times when Dryden
seemed to hold his place in English litera-
ture only by his historical merits as one
who improved the language. His stocks
decline whenever Enthusiasm is admired
in poetry and rational discourse is under-
valued. But in fact he has always held
the attention of good poets, including the
Romantics such as Keats. And the best
Romantic critics, like Hazlitt, for whom
poetry is “the high-wrought enthusiasm
of fancy and feeling,” knew better than
to write Dryden down.
He has had a mixed reception today,
but on the whole he has been received
favorably. F. R. Leavis, it is true, has
pronounced him decidedly inferior to
Pope, but this may be taken as one of
those points at which even a first-rate
critical intellect can mistake its own
limitations of interest and apprehension
for critical principles. In his handling of
the great themes of religion and politics
Dryden works at a very high level of
awareness and expression.
Dobree’s short pamphlet gives just what
is needed for a well-tempered short treat-
ment except that he felt obliged not to
repeat the excellent observations on Dry-
den’s handling of verse which he made
in his introduction to the “Everyman”
selection.
JANES McAUKEY


The Happy Ruler:
FRANCIS GROSE
Grose overcame difficulties by a
combination of good sense, luck
and indolence
Continuing our series on the early Governors
Looking down on Sydney Cove from above The BULLEUN
office at the end of Grose’s period.
By M. H. ELLIS
IF Major Francis Grose. Commanding Officer of the New
South Wales Corps, which he had recruited, had been
told that he would be called on to become Acting-
Governor of New South Wales these shores probably
would never have seen him. Nobody was ever less anxious
to govern anything, at least at the stage at which he came
to New South Wales.
He was a veteran of the American wars who had been
badly wounded at Monmouth Court House after having
taken part in the battle of Bunker Hill and other engage-
ments. And since he had returned from America he had
been mainly engaged on recruiting duty, being no longer fit
for active service. When he came to Sydney Cove he was
37 years old.
In nature he was much like his father, that “fine fat
fodgel wight” who went to Scotland “takin’ notes,” who
was a distinguished antiquary and Freemason of rare fame
and who died in the house of Hone in Dublin whither he
had carried his enormous carcass with “the fairest prospect
of completing the noblest literary design attempted in this
century.” He perished just before his son was due to leave
England in the Pitt to take command of his corps in Sydney
and assume the Lieutenant-Governorship of N.S.W.
The major arrived in Port Jackson crowded into the
little ship with a detachment of his corps and a fresh help-
ing of starving convicts on St Valentine’s Day, February
14. 1792.
The prospect when the Pitt dropped anchor was
scarcely one to cheer anybody who was to share in the
responsibility of keeping the colony alive. The Governor
was ill and worked to a shadow, still suffering from the
effects of a wound inflicted by a native spear that had gone
through his shoulder and come out through his back. He
was struggling to keep the settlement from dying naked of
cold in the coming winter. He was trying to cultivate farms
without ploughs or animal haulage, having only hoes to dig
with. He was struggling to extend the farmland which he
had miraculously sown without adequate labor, without
fresh meat to feed his workers, or hope of getting any;
there were no sires to multiply the 112 livestock in the
colony.
The convicts who had come out from Ireland and
elsewhere in the Second and Third Fleets were no help.
Most of them hung on the edge of death. They fell down
at work and you could not force them to labor by threat
of the lash.
The Irish had developed a typically Hibernian theory
that somewhere to the north a few days’ walk away lay the
land of China, full of Guinness’s and shamrocks and were
always testing it in mobs which ended up as skeletons.
The English of the later fleets, unlike the bucolics of
the First Fleet, often spoke only the “kiddie” language of
the criminal haunts of London. Never having read Dr
Johnson’s dictionary, they did not understand the word
work. They were determined not to do any if they could
help it. If they had been asked to stop work for a year at a
time they would have obliged joyfully.
Those who were willing to labor did so only at steal-
ing grain out of the fields. Whereafter they pushed it into
their flapping interiors, solid and green, by the pound and
expired like chickens with crops full of stones.
The New South Wales Corps, meantime, were as
unhappy as men could be. The officers were sharpening
their swords, and one or two of them were muttering
privately that if the Governor continued to feed them the
same rations as the convicts —which he insisted on eating
himself to encourage the others —they might have to put
their hunger to the test of arms.
The rank-and-file were constantly coming up with
the awkward question why they were not provided with
the rum ration prescribed by Army regulations. There
was continual contest with the Governor about his con-
tention that every inch of space in out-coming ships should
be loaded with survival rations instead of with food and
comforts for the civil and military officers, who were doubly
restive because the Home Government had failed to fulfil a
promise to grant them land and convict labor to work it
and feed themselves and the colony.
Dropped into this hell on earth, beset with the after-
effects of a dreadful drought which shaded over into a wet
autumn and winter during which trees were torn up like
matchsticks and all the creeks ran bankers between the
melting wattle-and-daub huts of the officers, Major Grose
was as happy as a lark. He reached for a bottle of Madeira
in his well-built house which stood on the existing site of
Union House, a few dozen paces from “The Bulletin” office.
He rode out and contemplated his military farm on the
hill on which Sydney University now stands. He took a
long swig at his wine and lifted his quill as he gazed out
over the unhappy settlement and an uncertain scrawl began
to work its way across the watermarked page as he wrote
to his friend Evan Nepean, Under-Secretary to the Home
Office.
Through the wine-flavored haze he saw, instead of
“the Rock” he had expected to find from descriptions he


had read, “gardens that flourish and produce fruit of every
description, vegetables in good abundance” in a place that
he “liked better than any he had seen since he left England.”
Troubles? Yes, they had a few, but all that was want-
ing to put the colony in an independent state was to “send
one ship freighted with corn and black cattle. Was that
done, all difficulties would be over.”
Sanding the written page in which the drunkenly-
rolling words leapt from blot to blot like chamois, he settled
back to enjoy that year, in which 486 in a population of a
little over 3000 died and the blazing early summer saw
over 600 on the sick list.
If, upon landing, he hung up a guiding motto, there
is no record of it. but one knows certainly that it would
have been that good old Army precept. “Let George
Do It.”
Fortunate throughout his life except at Monmouth
Court House, he was lucky in N.S.W.. for he found at once,
what was least to be expected in the Botany Bay Rangers,
an organising brain tied to a dynamic nature and ambition.
While the senior officers of the Corps were engaged for
the most part with their doxies and their grievances, young
John Macarthur. fresh out of a long and nearly fatal
illness, was irking his fellow subalterns with his specula-
tions about promotion, chafing at the lack of chances to
better himself and find the fortune which he and his
ambitious young wife, the only educated woman on the
mainland, had come out to make.
The foolish fellow actually had a desire to work.
From the first he had shown a mad faith in the pros-
pects of the country which only Governor Phillip and one
oi two others like “Little Jack” Palmer. Commissary and
lately purser of the Sirius, shared. His fellow-officers seem
to have regarded him with cynical amusement because of
his eagerness.
If ever anybody wanted a man of this type. Grose
needed one. and he had the unerring capacity of knowing
a good thing when he saw it.
Settling down in Sydney, he sent the young man off
to Parramatta, on the outskirts of the settlement, where
there was most work to be done, admiringly dubbing him
“an old head on young shoulders” and making him regi-
mental paymaster, i.e.. business manager of the regiment’s
affairs, a job which not only added to the incumbent’s
salary by £l5 a month, but. according to the custom of
the time when military companies were also business com-
panies. placed at his disposal the liquid funds of the regi-
ment. Grose soothed his protege’s disputes with other
officers. He called him “my counsellor.” He gave him
his head.
Things looked up in the regiment. It became quickly
organised. The new paymaster was seen going round with
a prospectus to form the first private trading concern in
the colony, the officers subscribing over £4OOO in £2OO
shares to charter a ship and give themselves and their men
self-help by sending to the Cape of Good Hope for cattle,
food and generally to mend a situation in which Grose
that the soldiers under his command had
“scarcely shoes to their feet and . . . have no other comforts
than the reduced and unwholesome rations served from
the stores.”
The fact that this cut across the policy of a Governor
on whose hands the convicts were dying like flies and over
whom the shadow loomed of still more shipments of dying
and debilitated convicts due to arrive at any minute,
mattered not at all, at least while Macarthur provided the
backbone for his gay commander. So that, on the surface
at least, it would appear by the records that Grose took
the decision which led the colony out of pure socialism in
which everybody from Governor to convict whipping-boy,
theoretically at any rate, lived on the same starvation
allowance out of the public stores, into the era of incipient
private enterprise.
By the end of 1792 when more ships had come in,
Governor Phillip had had all of New South Wales and its
privations and its differences, its death and discourage-
ments, that he could bear.
On December 12, 1792, he sailed away in the Atlantic
and Grose found himself with the alarming load of the
Acting-Governorship on his shoulders.
His luck held. It seemed that the difficulties which
had beset Phillip evaporated before his confident smile. At
the crucial moment the British Government had acceded to
Phillip's request to allow him to grant land and convict
labor to officers, civil and military The permission Came
too late to take the burden off Phillip’s shoulders, but just
in time to give Grose a free start with the policy.
Furthermore, the moment Grose was in the saddle
the first batch of free settlers and trained farmers, for whom
Phillip had been pleading from the beginning, turned up.
Hitherto almost every ship that had come in had
matched its new burden of sick and dying convicts to what-
ever supplies it had brought, but on the very eve of Grose’s
promotion the Philadelphia, first vessel to arrive from the
Americas, made her way up Sydney Cove, to be followed
by other traders —the Hope and the Bellona.
The fact that the captains of these ships refused to
sell provisions unless the Government also bought some
thousands of gallons of spirits worried Grose not at all. In
fact, he had little option, for the bushfires at Christmas,
the weevil and the thieves had left the ration position once
more precarious.
Finally, and always, there was Macarthur, his luckiest
break of all.
Other vice-regal persons who tried to rule New South
Wales in later days were no more incompetent as adminis-
trators than Grose. Where he excelled them was in the
common sense with which he divested himself of responsi-
bility for something which he knew himself incapable to
carry out and placed it on willing young shoulders.
Calmly he announced that the duty of acting as general
superintendent had grown so arduous that it had caused
“infinite fatigue to His Excellency Governor Phillip ” The
public works had become so extensive and the description
of people it was necessary to deal with of such a nature
that he was “unequal to manage it . . . indeed alarmed at
all I purchase and everything I do. being unaccustomed to
business and fearful of acting so muc’. from my own discre-
tion.” What easier than to hand the job to his competent
“counsellor.” paying him by a grant of land which cost the
Government nothing and lending him enough convicts to
make it look like a new Garden of Eden in next to no time.
Of course, as in everything Grose’s indolence (and com-
mon sense) moved him to do. th expedient succeeded
brilliantly. In a short time he was finding that “by the
assistance of this officer we get a great deal more done
than we used to do. and that the work in general is much
better done.” And so. indeed, it was.
Purists complained that the moral atmosphere of the
colony deteriorated. The cruel new superintendent and the
Godless military officers strongly objected to their convict
workmen, on whose fitness largely depended the grain
ration, being led out in the chilly mornings of winter to
expose their half-clothed hunkers to the frosty air as they
knelt in prayer. It weakened them as workers. The Rever-
end Mr Johnson was moved to cry out very loudly in pro-
test. especially when the drums be . to parade while he
was exhorting his charges.
He and others painted, for ecclesiastical authority in
England, a dreadful picture of the debauchery which was
being caused by the use of liquor ls a wage, the ruin and
death and spiritual destruction it was producing.


But although there was, in fact, a “mania for liquor”
among the prisoners, and most of them refused to work
for any other wage, it would seem that Mr Johnson did not
find it so bad a thing when he needed to use it himself.
For when he came to build himself a church he paid his
workers partly in liquor handed to them on the basis of
twice the price he had paid for it. And though he pictures
the ruin that was being wrought, and of the turpitude pro-
duced by the heathen Grose, neither facts nor statistics
supported him.
The fields soon spread out to the Hawkesbury. The
1500 acres that had been under cultivation at the end of
Phillip’s reign multiplied threefold in the two years during
which Grose was Acting-Governor.
The new grantees of land —officers, marines and New
South Wales Corps settlers—all set to work with a will.
Quickly want had been left behind.
The dreadful mortality which had carried off 482
people in 1792 and the sickness which left 626 of them
under the surgeon’s care at the end of it was not repeated.
In 1793, Grose’s first year, deaths were reduced to 158, the
next year, his last, they were only 59, and the next year,
again, with Macarthur still in charge, they were only 24 in
a rising population.
Whatever the Reverend Mr Johnson had to say to his
superiors about the debauchery and ruin which were being
produced by that wicked era, his version to his friend
Thomas Gill, written when Grose had been in office 18
months, was “that the colony seems to be in a more pros-
perous and flourishing state than I have seen it . . . though
we want stock both for manure and labor, the colony
spreads in extent each year. A great number (of ex-
convicts) have turned settlers, some of whom are doing
well, better than many farmers in England.”
In Phillip’s day the New South Wales Corps had been
perennially dissatisfied and at loggerheads with the Gov-
ernment. That contentious era ended with the advent of
Grose. The noble captain of Gilbert’s H.M.S. Mantelpiece
could have done no more for them. He distinguished them
in their rations from the convicts, as Phillip had been
unable to do.
He allowed them leisure and materials to build com-
fortable huts for themselves and the use of the Government
boats to carry their materials. He gave them their agreed
rum ration which had been denied them, and he even
“indulged them with women,” which prevented them going
out and, by violence if necessary, indulging themselves.
Australian historians of the early breed who have, until
quite recently, had the bad habit of seizing on the first
statement by a contemporary to come within reach of their
eyes as gospel, have made some silly charges against Grose.
Dr Watson, who wrote the introduction to the “Historical
Records of Australia” before World War I is a good
example. He wrote that “he was saturated with the mili-
tarism of the times and filled with contempt for the civil
power compared with the military”; that he “established a
Government by the military and for the military.”
Captain Hunter, seeking a stick to beat Macarthur,
went so far as to say that “the civil magistrates were super-
seded entirely, and all duties respecting the distribution of
justice . . . were taken into the hands of the military, a more
prompt method probably, but subject to the effects of
prejudice and caprice.” This was not true.
There never had been a civil Government. The
Judge Advocate was an officer of Marines. The Criminal
Court consisted of military officers. The first Judge in
Vice-Admiralty was the Lieutenant-Governor commanding
the Marines. The first Justices of the Peace had been the
Governor, the captain of the Sirius and the Judge Advocate,
who was a captain of Marines. This bench had been diluted
after Hunter went home by the appointment of the Rever-
end Mr Johnson in Sydney and of Richard Atkins (Bowyer),
a debauched sprig of the peerage who was in the colony
free only because of his family’s association with the Court
of St James, a fact which probably saved him from being
sent out in chains.
It was the replacement of the authority of this drunken
and fraudulent character that has earned Grose most abuse.
Whatever Captain Foveaux, who commanded at Parra-
matta may have been, he was certainly an administrator of
ability who later impressed Macquarie deeply, and no sane
man would have been likely to leave the virtual rule of
Parramatta to Atkins while he was on the spot. However,
as with everybody who made an enemy of Atkins, Grose
suffered sadly in reputation through the quarrel.
This, however, Grose could not know. He went gaily
on, following the most original methods, dispensing with
all inquiries by civil magistrates until he himself should
give directions; forbidding the punishment of convicts on
any account save by his particular instructions, coddling
the Marines, flouting religion by refusing to give priority
to the erection of a church in which convicts, including the
Roman Catholic Irish, should be forced to bow the knee
under the guidance of Mr Johnson, and presently the Rever-
end Samuel Marsden.
Except with the clergy and the civil officeholders he
seems to have been popular and blissfully happy, in the main
free of the cares of administration, until he began to feel
bored and depressed (he said) by the aching of his old
wounds.
And so, exactly two years after Phillip had sailed, he
decided to go home, expecting every day the arrival of
Captain Hunter, the new Governor. He professed himself
clear in his conscience because “the colony is at this time
in so flourishing a state and the officer I leave to command
is in every way so capable of the duty of it that no evil
consequences can possibly attend my going away.”
On December 17, 1794, he left the colony in charge of
Captain Paterson, who had explored and named the Grose
River and Valley after him, with, of course, Macarthur
doing the administration.
Nine months before he sailed and 15 months after he
assumed office the colony was independent of import for
its flour supplies and had enough grain to last it till the
next harvest. There would be no danger for many a year
that it would ever again starve (even for rum) as it had done
almost throughout Phillip’s governorship.
Hunter, having sailed away in 1791, on coming back
found the private enterprise in farming introduced by Grose
a “very great success.” and was amazed at the luxuriance
of the cornfields. His immediate trouble was how to pro-
vide a market for the surplus of grain. He followed Grose’s
agricultural system until after Macarthur’s resignation from
the position of superintendent.
Easy going, kind by nature, unsure of himself in
administration Grose may have been. But looking at the
results of his methods one is inclined to wonder whether
the judgment of Bligh, who met him on his way to the
colony at Capetown and pronounced him “not blessed with
a moderate share of good knowledge to give much stability
to the new settlement,” had much foundation.
Certainly it was his period of government that assured
beyond doubt that the settlement would live and which
worked the greatest expansion for many a year.
He was such a pleasant fellow that one is glad to
know that he lived for 20 years after his return to England,
dying in 1814. His luck held. He was given plenty of
sinecures and regular promotions. As his second wife he
married the sonsie relict of his friend Captain Paterson and
died in the odor of military sanctity a lieutenant-general.


ROTHMANS OF PALL MALL (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
CHAIRMAN’S ADDRESS-1961
Address by Mr. R. A. IRISH, Chairman of Directors.
Profits are usually regarded as the ultimate
yardstick of a company's success, but in the
cigarette industry, at least, the fundamental test
ot future strength is in the popularity ot
brands, in the trend of their sales, in their
long-term future.
By such a test we are strong. We have brands
on the market which are in line with modern
demands and in some cases anticipate the likely
movement of public preference in the future.
Our research and development activities are
such that we are not likely to be caught flat-
footed if there is some sudden movement.
Jn our existing brands we find Rothmans
King Size Filter still unchallenged as easily
the oiggcst seller on the Australian market and
enjoying a tremendous goodwill because of its
quality. Peter Stuyvesant, a totally different
type of cigarette, is still rising fast in volume
and has become one of the major brands.
Roihmans King Size Plain heads the sale ot
Virginia plain cigarettes. Our new b.and,
Carlyle Extras, which is still in its infancy, has
had the quickest and best reaction of any brand
we have released and its spontaneous success
has compelled us to make quick adjustments
lor bigger production than planned.
Our sales are solid and growing despite the
fact that the total cigarette market has suffered
a drop during the last six months. The intense
competition we have met in every conceivable
form has not disturbed our progress and not
one competitive brand has succeeded in hurting
the sales of any of our brands.
Under all the conditions which existed during
the financial year, the profits disclo-ed will
doubtless be regarded as satisfactory, but it is
right that I should emphasise two major aspects
ot costs which were absorbed against our profits
during the year. These two items account lor
many hundreds of thousands of pounds. I refer
to the heavy additional cost of our tobacco
blends, which arose from our policy of main-
taining quality standards irrespective of cost,
and to the heavy interest payments necessitated
by the increased stocks of leaf we became
obliged to cairy.
Though these two issues are of material
importance, it could easily be overlooked that
we have absorbed increases in costs involving
tremendous sums of money without any change
in our specifications, without lowering standards
of quality and without any variation in the
price to the consumer. For example, wage
rates today are almost 20% higher than they
were in 1956 when we commenced operations.
The cost of our tobacco blends has risen more
than 20% in the same interval. Other materials
we use have suffered the normal pattern of
cost increase which must be expected over such
a period, and machinery could be said to show
an increase in cost of something like 25% so
far as the units are comparable.
The fact that we have been able to do this
can be attributed to the volume of sales we
enjoy and to the efficiency of operation, using
the most modern methods and plant.
The economic conditions prevalent so far in
1961 have not hit the cigarette industry as
severely as some others, and curiously enough,
at least so far as Rothmans are concerned, have
not diminished the demand for quality brands.
It is probably true to say that economic affairs
have never been so much the subject of dis-
cussion in every section of our community.
One result of this is that the financial situation,
internally and internationally, seems to have
created a national awakening that Australia
must be more self-dependent, that its destiny
is in our own hands, that we all owe a duty
to bend our energies to the fight for the develop-
ment and expansion we believe in.
It is in line with this national feeling and
the realities of the prospects facing us that
every business must aim to use Australian
lesources in terms of finance, supplies and man-
power as far as it is practicable to do* so.
Unless we accept this as a national creed, the
development of Australia, which is so vital to
every business operating here, will not eventuate.
We have endeavoured to play our part in
meeting this situation. For example, we have
devoted a great deal of skill, time and money
to research in conjunction with local suppliers
to produce materials we require or to upgrade
their standards of quality to meet our specifica-
tions. We have not only used Australian
materials and facilities for advertising purposes,
but we have succeeded in securing their use
by associate companies in other parts of the
world. An increasing proportion of our
machinery requirements is being made in Aus-
tralia. In short, our policy is not only to
procure whatever we can in Australia, but to
initiate and foster local capacity to meet our
needs.
As a further contribution to the national
needs, 1 am pleased to say that, as a result ot
the Government's export incentives, we have
now negotiated export rights which give us a
sphere of influence over a substantial part ot
the Pacific area, and we will shortly take this
market under our wing. 1 should point out
that the volume we expect is not vast as com-
pared with our Australian business, but it will
be a useful and profitable addition for us and
it will contribute a material sum to Australia's
export income.
The business investment company which we
promoted some months ago to meet a gap in
the Australian financial market so far as small
businesses are concerned, has commenced
operations on a very satisfactory basis in busi-
nesses which have a definite developmental role
in the future expansion of Australia.
Through channels such as our University
Endowment Fund we are giving tangible help
to the aieas where skilled personnel for the
future needs of Australian industry must be
developed.
An interesting sidelight of these activities is
that they carry benefits to every State in Aus-
tralia. Shareholders will know that we operate
large cigarette factories in Sydney and Mel-
bourne We have two tobacco re-drying plants
in operation in Queensland. We buy a major
part of the quality cigarette grade tobacco from
Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria and
Western Australia. We have printing supplied
from Tasmania and other supplies and vehicles
from South Australia. Our advertising through
various local media similarly benefits the
community in each State.
In all 1 have said on this aspect there is an
acceptance of the belief that manufacturers in
Australia must as far as possible make use of
resources in this country.
The Directors’ Report contains some very
pertinent statements about the growing of
tobacco leaf in Australia, so important that
they warrant a measure of reiteration in this
Address.
1 should make it clear beyond doubt that
Rothmans sincerely desires a soundly based,
w'ell-established tobacco-growing industry in
Australia. We are conscious of the fact that
a substantial quantity of tobacco grown in
Australia is of good quality and perfectly
suitable for use in the blending of cigarettes.
However, the “percentage system” contains
bad features which have already reacted against
the success of the industry and will aggravate
the position if continued in the present form.
Certainly, we as a company (and we believe
other Australian manufacturers hold similar
views) will buy maximum quantities of quality
leaf suitable for our blends regardless of any
percentage requirements, because the duty pro-
tection makes it economic to do so. On the
other hand, we are not prepared to drop our
standards of quality to absorb leaf which is
sub-standard.
It has to be appreciated that the blending
of a cigarette is a very critical art. It is an
individual skill, born of experience, judgment
and aptitude It is not a process of determining
chemical constituents of tobacco and blending
to some mathematical formula. Each manu-
facturer has his own standards and methods,
and grades which may be wanted by one may
not be acceptable to another.
Nevertheless, there is little likelihood of
tobacco grown to basic standards of quality
failing to sell. In the meantime we have ottered
to growers all possible information we can give
to help them to know what our requirements
are.
It is greatly to be hoped that those in charge
of the tobacco-growing industry in each State
will pause and take stock before encouraging
further headlong expansion which has produced
so much sub-standard leaf in the past year,
and with sad and regrettable consequences to
those growers whose leaf has proved unsaleable.
Indeed, the organisations covering Queensland
and New South Wales, in particular, have
already publicised rational advice to growers
which must help development on a sound
footing.
The problem is of importance to Australia
as a whole, and it is one where all parties
connected must think in long-term objectives
to ensure that the industry grows on a firm
foundation.
This is not a static industry. Though basic
knowledge may be unchanged, new methods of
manufacture, new machinery, new concepts ot
cigarette types are constantly coming forward.
It is fair to say that this company has shown
itself to be alert to new developments of this
kind and in its brand structure it has thought
not merely of the present but of the likely
trends in the future.
We are particularly fortunate to be part of
a dynamic, world-wide group of independent
companies, which collectively operate twenty
factories in ten countries. Through this alliance
we have a very sound organisation for mutual
aid and pooling of resources in terms of access
to finance, in use of expert personnel, in
exchange of technical information, and, above
all, in research. Research is a very costly under-
taking, but very necessary for manufacturers
who intend to hold their place in the sun.
We appreciate greatly the assistance we have
received from overseas associates and we feel
that in turn they will have gained something
from our activities.
People are a highly important factor in our
business. It will be obvious to shareholders
that we have a vast number of smokers of our
products scattered throughout Australia and we
must continue to give them satisfaction. How-
ever, the people who work in our organisation
are those who make this satisfaction possible
and the Board is proud of the fact that every-
where jn the organisation there is high morale,
pride in workmanship and thoughtful activity.
The future prospects for the company appear
to be particularly good. Our sales continue
their buoyant upward surge and we can expect
that the profitability of our enterprise will con-
tinue. As is known, we have further brands
ready to be launched when we think the time
is appropriate and these should help to solidify
the stucture which has so far been created.
In answer to questions which have been
asked, it seems fair to say that the company
has not reached the end of the road in regard
to further issues of shares, but we would not
like shareholders to regard any further step in
this direction as imminent. Our dividend policy
has always been to distribute as much to share-
holders from current profits as we feel our
overall financial situation now and in the
future justifies. We foresee no difficulty in the
current year in paying at least a 15% dividend.
R. A. IRISH.
Chairman of Directors.


Business, Robbery, Etc.
TRADING WITH COMMUNISTS
Hopes, Myths and Facts
r T' v HE United Kingdom’s formal
-*■ application for member-
ship in the European Economic
Community has dramatised the
search for new export outlets.
There is nothing really new
about the Common Market.
The Treaty of Rome, which had
formally set up the Common
Market, was signed in 1957,
and speculation about Britain’s
relationship with the European
Economic Community has been
rife ever since.
Soon after the European
Free Trade Area was estab-
lished as a counter to the
Common Market, it became
clear that the “Outer Seven”
concept could not work as it
was hoped it would. This made
it clear that the United King-
dom would have to revise its
attitude towards the Common
Market and modify its trade
relations with the Common-
wealth.
Unfortunately, our attitude
has been to discount the Com-
mon Market’s impact on world
trade and treat it as a local
economic phenomenon, with its
influence confined to Western
Europe. The press did little to
enlighten public opinion in
Australia. This is why Britain’s
announcement of its intention
to negotiate with the Common
Market countries came as such
a shock.
YX7E are all agreed that exports
must be boosted. There is
even a gradual, as yet very
gradual except in words, growth
of “national export conscious-
ness”-—a psychological factor
of great importance.
At this stage, wool exports
are in no danger. The Com-
mon Market countries gener-
ally tend to raise their intake
of wool, despite the competi-
tive pressure from synthetic
fibres. Britain’s accession to
the Inner Six can only rein-
force this trend. It is also
probable that consumption of
wool will rise in Japan and
South-east Asia as the rate of
economic growth accelerates
and the standard of living im-
proves. Latin America also
offers modest possibilities of
increased wool sales.
In the short run, Australia
faces the problem of finding
markets for that part of its
meat and dairy produce ex-
ports, which may be displaced
from the traditional United
Kingdom market as a result of
Britain’s future Common Mar-
ket link. The same applies to
a substantial proportion of
tinned, dried and fresh fruit
and wines.
Wheat presents a more com-
plex problem. Improving con-
sumption standards and chang-
ing eating habits in South-east
Asia offer a slowly expanding
market for Australian wheat
growers. But Australia depends
too much on “windfall” sales
to such customers as Com-
munist China.
In the long run Australia
will have to find and develop
export markets for its second-
ary industries —durable con-
sumer goods, medium capital
equipment and, eventually,
heavy machinery. It is most
unlikely that these products
could be sold in Europe or the
United States, but Australia
can and should become a major
supplier of manufactured and
industrial goods to South-east
Asia, Latin America and the
Near East.
There is one more direction
for expansion of our overseas
trade —the Communist bloc in
Eastern Europe.
Trading with the Communist
bloc is necessarily linked with
political considerations. Com-
munist governments, particu-
larly Moscow and Peking, will-
ingly sacrifice economic advan-
tages to score short run politi-
cal and propaganda gains. The
Soviet Union has also acquired
a rather poor record as a con-
tract supplier because of delays
in deliveries, largely caused by
administrative faults in its cum-
bersome, centrally controlled
foreign trade apparatus. An
example of this was the delivery
to Burma of a large consign-
ment of cement packed in paper
bags just in time for heavy
monsoonal rains. There have
been fewer complaints about
deliveries from the more sophis-
ticated Iron Curtain exporters
East Germany, Czechoslo-
vakia, Poland and Hungary.
'T'here are strong grounds to
assume that the Soviet
Union, Poland, Czechoslovakia,
East Germany and Hungary are
anxious to increase their volume
of trade with Australia. At the
recent Sydney Trade Fair rep-
resentatives of the Soviet, Polish
and Czechoslovak export agen-
cies spared no effort or expense
to increase their turnover. And
quite a few of their exhibits
impressed by a high standard
of workmanship. The U.S.S.R.,
Poland and Czechoslovakia are
substantial buyers of Australian
wool. In the year to June 30,
1961, the Soviet Union bought
£7,743,000 of greasy wool,
Poland £7,743.000 and Czecho-
slovakia £6,212,000. East Ger-
many’s share was £511,000.
Trade does go on. The ques-
tion is—is it politically desir-
able to expand it, and can it
be expanded to any great
degree?
A section of public opinion
is worried about doing business
with the Communists. There is
strong opposition against enter-
ing into special arrangements,
similar to the ones made to
finance the recent sales of wheat
to the Peking Government.
Most do not oppose trade as
such, but are worried about
becoming too dependent on
business with the Soviet bloc.
Political opponents of ex-
panding Australia’s business
connections with the Com-
munists maintain that trade
both strengthens the Com-
munist bloc and may lead to
political embarrassment. It is
argued that as the Communists
put politics before trade they
will use their trade connections
to gain political advantages
from Australia, to the extent of
trying to dominate Australian
foreign trade. Finland is
quoted as an example of
economic dependence on the
Soviet Union and its allies.
However, if there is no such
danger there is no harm in
trading. The United Kingdom,
West Germany, France,
Sweden, Switzerland, Italy and
many other Western countries
have extensive and growing
connections with the Com-
munist bloc.
West Germany is particu-
larly keen to sell heavy indus-
trial equipment to Soviet
Russia and Poland. Herr Beitz, a
top director of Krupps, recently
visited both the U.S.S.R. and
Poland to plug his firm’s
export sales and was very well
received. Krupps even made
a special goodwill gesture
towards the Warsaw Govern-
ment by sending Herr Beitz
and not somebody else.
Memories of German wartime
atrocities are still very much
alive in Poland —which lost
one-fourth of its entire popu-
lation in 1939-45 —and Mr
Gomulka's regime could have
been embarrassed by openly
negotiating with an economic
envoy who had been prominent
in the Third Reich. Herr
Beitz, however, is credited wi.th
a very humane war-time record
and appears to be acceptable
to everybody. France has also
staged a major Trade Exhibi-
tion in Moscow.
A T present there is little pos-
sibility of an increase in
Australian-Iron Curtain trade
drawing us into the Communist
economic orbit. It is much
too small and it is most
unlikely to mushroom over-
night. By the same token the
pious hopes expressed in some
quarters that a great expansion
of our trade with the Iron Cur-
tain bloc will compensate us
for markets which may be lost
in the United Kingdom is just
so much wishful thinking. It
is a myth, and a dangerous
myth at that.
A senior Soviet representa-
tive at the Sydney Trade Fair
told The Bulletin that the
U.S.S.R. could solve all Aus-
ralia’s Common Market prob-
lems by buying all our dis-
placed exports. But he became
much less confident when asked
if the Soviet Union would
really take our meat, dairy
produce and durable consumer
goods. The answer was that
“some” could “possibly” be
imported. There is no room
for an overnight trade boom
here.
It may be difficult to find a
market for Australian meat


• •
You’re so right
insist on
BLACK &
WHITE'
SCOTCH WHISKY
‘BUCHANANS’
By Appointment
to Her Majesty The Queen
Scotch Whisky Distillers
James Buchanan & Co. Ltd.
SLACK 4 WHITE
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO. LTD. Glasgow • Scotland • London
3456
and dairy produce in Poland,
which has a large agricultural
sector of its own. Nor would
the East European countries
or the U.S.S.R. import wheat,
except to rectify temporary
deficits in their grain balance.
And in that case wheat would
probably be purchased in the
United States or Canada.
In addition, the U.S.S.R. and
East Europe have a chronic
adverse trade balance with
Australia and are more anxious
to sell than to buy. This does
not mean that they cannot
absorb any more Australian
exports—the “net importing”
theory can be carried too far.
But the concept of trading with
the entire Communist bloc as
a unit must be revised. Each
country must be taken separ-
ately and the export-import
possibilities examined. Thus
although Poland is not a pro-
mising market for meat or
dairy produce, Czechoslovakia
-—a highly developed industrial
country and importer of food-
stuffs —may purchase limited
quantities. There is a definite
possibility for wines in both.
A Polish trade representative
told The Bulletin that he
felt that Poland would be inter-
ested in buying a range of
electrical consumer goods,
including TV components (not
complete sets).
The Czechs, of course, are
not interested in durable con-
sumer goods, but could import
fruit and sugar in addition to
wine and meat. All Eastern
Europe may absorb more wool.
The textile industry is well
developed and raw material
requirements are growing.
There are also long-run
possibilities of developing a
market for such specialised
industrial products as steel
tubing. The Soviet Union is
very keen on buying ships —
ocean cargo liners, coastal ships
and commercial river craft.
Internal waterways play an
important role in the Soviet
Union's communications sys-
tem and the U.S.S.R. has been
importing ships and barges
from a number of European
countries on both sides of the
Iron Curtain, particularly from
the U.K., Sweden, Finland and
Poland.
Attempts to raise consump-
tion standards in the U.S.S.R.
and East Europe may provide
a limited market for a wide
range of durable and non-
durable consumer goods.
Poland seems to be particu-
larly keen on increasing busi-
ness with Australia. Polish
ports —Gdansk, Gdynia and
Szczecin —would gain from
direct shipments, and from
transit cargo traffic to Czecho-
slovakia, the U.S.S.R., Hun-
gary and Bulgaria. Poland also
has a direct cargo shipping line
to Australia, carrying most of
its wool purchases. Its trade
balance with Australia has
been very adverse. Last year
we imported only £392,000 of
Polish goods, against greasy
wool sales of over £7.7 million.
The Bulletin was told that
this year Australia is import-
ing more from Poland. It is esti-
mated that our imports will rise
by at least three times —to
about £l.l million. Although
a much wider ranger of Polish
goods is being imported, the
main items will probably be
machine tools and a bit of cut
glass. All Polish machines
exhibited at the Sydney Trade
Fair were sold.
Mr Boniecki, head of the
Commercial Division of the
Polish Consulate General in
Sydney, told The Bulletin
that he felt that Australia
would benefit from participa-
tion in the Poznan Inter-
national Trade Fairs, which
are held every year and are well
attended by buyers from both
East and West Europe.
'T'his then is the situation.
Trade with the Communist
bloc can be increased to a
considerable degree without
causing political embarrass-
ment. But it will remain small
in comparison with our turn-
over with non-Commumst
nations.
Because of economic factors
there can be no immediate
steep increases in trade ex-
change. Products and coun-
tries must be treated selectively
and individually. Personal
contacts on technical level are
as important as in relations
with our traditional customers.
Australia has no direct trade
representation in Poland or
other East European countries,
except for occasional visits of
the Trade,. Commissioner
accredited to Sweden.
Most important, although
increased trade with East
Europe may raise our exports
of wool and develop limited
but worthwhile markets for
some durable consumer goods,
wines, possibly sugar and steel
tubing, it will not really help
to solve the major problem of
finding alternative outlets for
our meat and dairy produce
exports. It may be very useful,
but cannot be decisive.
SHIPPING
Direct Eire Link Needed
HPhe Irish Republic offers
A possibilities for an expand-
ing market for Australian fruits
—canned, dried and fresh.
Openings can also be found
for honey, grass seed, sheep
casings, wines and some second-
ary manufactures.
Total Australian exports to
Eire for the year ended June 30,
1961, rose by £749,000 to
£2,603.000, including £637,000
worth of greasy wool. How-
ever, further development of
Australian export trade with
Eire is impeded by the lack of
liner freight on regular berth
terms to Dublin.
Jn fact, there has been some
slackening-off in sales of fruit
because of shipping difficulties.
Cargo has to be sent to Dublin
on a through bill of lading via
Liverpool or London, resulting
in high transhipment costs. An
alternative route lies through
Rotterdam. It is cheaper and
faster, and preferred by Irish
importers,
“Overseas Trading,” issued
by the Department of Trade,
Sa y S that S ' X dipping lines
schedule Dublin as a port of
ca „ between Australia J nd th .
United Kingdom—Australind,
B|ue Fllnn ~, Lin Federal
Brancb Servk Por , Line
shaw Sav!|| Line and Aber .
deen and Commonwealth.
These , jnes norma ,| y r uire
an inducement of at leas , 40 0
to 500 tons to discharge cargo
directly in Dublin and avoid
transhipment. There is keen
competition from cheaper
Spanish and Japanese canned
fruits and from Argentine


9±%
per annum
6-sO years
sjeaX
uinuuE
per annum
2-3; years
8 %
per annum
Mmths {fixed)
7+%
per annum
9 mtfcs notice
7 %
per annum
6 mths notice
6 %
per annum
3 roths notice
invest with
confidence
in a company with a sound growth
record arid secure asset hacking . . .
ideal for either long or short term
investment.
first mortgage
debenture stock
in multiples of £lOO, payable in fall upon ap-
plication . . . unconditionally guaranteed by
Retailers Acceptance Ltd. . . . assets exceed
£3,400,000 . . . registers Sydney and Brisbane
TAILEERS
Interest payable
quarterly
free of exchange
(QLD.) LTD. 280 Pitt Street, Sydney. Phone MA 2373
SO? Queen Street, Brisbane. Phone 31 I9SI
Underwriting brokers:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL 20 O'Connell St.. Sydney, &
* " 340 Queen St.. Brisbane.
LIONEL A. HcFADYEN & CO 20 O'Connell St.. Sydney, ft
Musgrave St., Port Moresby.
{Members.: Sydney Stock Exchange)
LANCE JONES & CO. ... 108 Creek Sc • Brisbane, ft
* * * 108 Victoria St., Mackiy.
{Members: Brisbane Stock ExchobgH
Ranker for the issue: BANK of NEW SOUTH WALES
Trustee for the Debenture Stockholders:
BANK of NEW SOUTH WALES NOMINEES PTY. LTD.
Prospectus and AppUcotions:
Applications accepted only on the application form attached to the Prospect*#*
which may be obtained from • any member of a recognised Stock Exchange
• Retailers Acceptance (Qld.) Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane « all branches
Bank of New South Wale, in N.S.W„ New Guinea « the
•« tfc* underwritrng broker*.
apples, which are aided by low
freight rates.
Another difficulty is the
tendency among Australian ex-
porters to regard the Irish Re-
public as a part of the United
Kingdom market, although
separate agency arrangements
should be made.
Both the national income
and per capita expenditure in
the Irish Republic increased by
about 5 p.c. in 1960, and more
Australian goods could be sold
if the shipping difficulties could
be overcome.
One suggestion is that Aus-
tralian exporters synchronise
their shipments to Eire to
satisfy minimum cargo tonnage
requirements. This could be
done fairly easily with dried
and canned fruit. But the diffi-
culties with shipping seasonal
and perishable fresh fruit may
remain.
MANAGEMENT
"On the Move"
By BRYAN MELLONIE
,_ pHE recent national manage-
ment conference held in
Adelaide had as its theme
“Management on the move.”
From Brisbane to Perth execu-
tives from a fair cross-section
of Australian commerce at-
tended lectures, listened to
distinguished businessmen air-
ing their views on the problems
associated with markets, public
relations and Australia’s posi-
tion in the world’s economy.
It seemed astonishing to
some that the combined efforts
of putting together the heads
of some of the nation’s experts
on exports should result in
agreement that Australian
industry, to compete in world
markets, should “get out and
sell,” an idea which has been
uppermost in the minds of far
too few for far too long. Why
it should be necessary to fly
half-way round Australia to
arrive at this conclusion in
the atmosphere of commercial
kinship is difficult to under-
stand. However, the fact that
such an elementary thought has
been sown, is, in itself
refreshing.
One wonders to what ex-
tent management moves in
these competitive days in the
handling of complaints by
ordinary folk on the home
market. For, if the long-
forgotten “the customer is
always right” attitude doesn't
get an early airing, the agents
and manufacturers who are
going to compete in markets
hitherto untouched by Aus-
tralia are in for a rude
awakening.
It will be of little consola-
tion to say that the reasons
for this loss of customer rights
are all too well known, that
they were lost in the post-
war years when practically
every item made in Australia
was sold to a starved market
before it even left the factory.
In fact, this attitude if not
dismissed smartly from the
minds of the tycoons, moguls
and top managerial brass will
be their undoing—in the face of
oversea competitors, who will
deliver the goods at the right
time, at the right place, at the
right price, and who, if the
quality or quantity is queried,
will move heaven and earth
to see that the mistake is
rectified.
A recent experience con-
cerning the purchase of a
faulty pen at a well-known


All the
family
will love
/.
only
Ewetybodys
• o oucr
s of *%'*
Morose
IS
smoothly
satisfying
jlngootis
OLOROSO
CREAM
SHERRY
ASK ALSO FOR ST. AGNES BRANDY
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established, ISIS
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLAS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS
A. C MAITLAND, Managing Director. R. A. CATLEY, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
Adelaide bookshop was a
classic example of bad busi-
ness-customer relations. The
pen was faulty, and the
importers stated so quite
openly, together with a full
explanation of why, and the
steps taken by German manu-
facturers to rectify the fault.
But before this information
(together with a softening-up
gift of another pen in the
range) came to hand, three
visits to the department con-
cerned bore three totally un-
related excuses, the pen went to
Sydney and back, and the
managing-director of the book-
shop stated that it was not their
policy to follow Woolworths’
“satisfaction or your money
back” successful efforts to
attract customers to keep on
buying.
The lesson from all this, of
course, is that the customer is
entitled to be right. He’s foot-
ing the bill, and surely this
gives him the right to be
considered.
But don’t worry! Some
manufacturers are going to
meet their export Waterloo.
They are quite determined to
do so, for there is still a large
percentage of them who firmly
believe that the only objective
of their business is to make a
short-run profit, and no more.
It could be that the Euro-
pean Common Market will
create a real movement among
managers. It might even drive
home Henry Ford’s quip that
experience is the best school in
which to learn —it’s just un-
fortunate that most of its
graduates are too old to work!
Speculator's Diary
Monday, September 11.
pROM time to time we are
all reminded that patience
is not always rewarded. The
melancholy truth of this was
brought home to me last week
when Antill Ranger reported
a sharp drop in profit and cut
its dividend rate. Such grati-
tude for holding shares in this
company for a whole eight
months! I lost no time in
deserting the Antill Ranger
ship (or rather, truck) for a
loss of £6, which could have
been a lot worse.
Fortunately I was able to
offset this with a gratifying
profit of £69 on my 600 Stocks
and Holdings, another stock
that I’ve been loyal to for six
months. There seems no
reason why this remarkably
profitable little company
shouldn't continue to be a good
investment, but a profit of £69
is hard to resist.
These two sales brought in
£575 which easily wiped out
my outstanding debt of £2lO.
But a glance down my list
revealed some rather nasty
“situations.” Those Ampol
rights, for example, are looking
very sad at Is. 2d. Rights
trading ends on Friday, but
I’ll hold on until the eleventh
hour in the hope of some sort
of price rally.
Another point of anxiety for
me is G. E. Crane in which I
am short 100 at £5 17s. 6d.
Still no sign of the profit figure
which, I suspect, will send the
price down rather abruptly.
But just to get myself really
out on a limb with this short-
ing business, 1 sold short
another of the glamor stocks
of the year—John Lysaght.
I had a variety of reasons
for this piece of daring. First,
Lysaght's financial year ends
on December 31 so that its
fancy profit last year of
£3,656,114 was the product of
12 boom months. Trading so
far in the current year, two-
thirds of which is past, would
be at anything but boom levels,
1 imagine. What finally
prompted me into selling 100
short was Malleys’ huge drop
in profit followed by G.M.-H.'s
decision to stand down 8400
men. Both of these companies
must rank high among
Lysaght's biggest customers
which suggests that it, too,
must be experiencing more
than an ordinary slump. Any-
way, it’s time we had the facts
in the form of Lysaght's
interim report.
On the buying side, I
snapped up 300 Huddart
Parker last Monday when
they were only 225. 6d. This
will ultimately give me 300
Bitumen and Oil shares at
17s. 6d., which seems wonder-
fully cheap—a 5 per cent, divi-
dend yield to begin with.
Another leading stock show-
ing a potential 5 per cent, yield
was my old friend Rothmans.
It was the final demise of
British Tobacco that reminded
me it was time Rothmans and
I had another fling. So I
bought 50 (through the rights)
at 78s. 9d. I am banking on
the dividend rate after the issue
being maintained at 20 per
cent, and not cut back to 15
per cent.
The fortnight’s business,
then, was:
SOLD
400 Antill Ranger at
12/6 ... £245
600 Stocks and Hold-
ings deferred at
11/3 .. £330
100 John Lysaght at
70/9 .. £349
BOUGHT
300 Huddart Parker at
22/6 .. £345
50 Rothmans at 78/9 £199
All this business has given
my broker more commission
than he deserves so he is again
having to carry me to the
extent of £129. I'll probably
sell some or all of my David
Jones notes to clear up this
debt. My portfolio now is:—*
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Total Per rent
Shares Company Cost Share Price
50 Pick-Me-Up 207 81/0 £6/5/
500 Merica 105 6/4 7/3
300 Hornibrook 354 23/- 26/
200 Marrickville 217 21/3 25/
400 David Jones
notes 307 10/- 9/11
500 Newcastle Ten
Pin Bowling; 125 5/ 6/1
300 McDonald 207 13/6 15/t>
200 Southern TV 205 20/- 22/
400 Ampol rights 42 2/- 1/2
400 Besser (Q) 174 8/6 8/8
400 Rio Tinto 307 15/- 15/6
300 Pyrox new 87 5/9 6/6
200 Dodge 136 13/4 14/-
400 Motel Corps 61 2/11 2/9
50 A.e.i. 273 107/6 106/6
100 Mt. Isa 341 69/9 74/-
400 Derrin 206 10/- 11/6
400 O'Donnell
Griffin 239 11/8 13/-
200 F. G. O’Brien 100 9/9 10/9
300 Huddart
Parker 345 22/0 23/6
50 Rothmans 199 78/9 80/-f
And I am short 100 G. E.
Crane at £5 17s. 6d. and 100
John Lysaght at 70s. 9d.


The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Melbourne Steamship Co. Ltd
r T''HE inter-State shipping industry is
confronted with problems at all
points of the compass —rising costs, in-
creasing competition, an era of change
and a realignment of interests. There
has been a marked decline in the volume
of general cargo handled by shipping cos
—the result of continued industrial unrest
along the Australian waterfront plus
stepped-up competition from other forms
of transport; road, rail and air have
usurped traditional forms of sea carriage,
shipping freights have been reduced, and
shipping cos have been forced to cut ex-
penditure on new ships of conventional
pattern.
Little wonder then that the old-estab-
lished Victorian shipowner, the Mel-
bourne Steamship Co. Ltd, has entered
upon the throes of a radical reorganisa-
tion. The co. has jettisoned its last two
major vessels, the “Duntroon” and the
“Ellaroo” (both sold in 1958 / 59), and for
the first time in a long history is without
a ship in the inter-State cargo trade.
Has the co. severed all connection with
the sea? Certainly not! Melbourne Steam
still acts as agent for several of the Aus-
tralian National Line vessels (running the
inter-State trade), the Southern Shipping
Co. Pty and a number of overseas cos
including the Sitmar Passenger Line,
Buries Markes Ltd, etc. And now a new
star has lit up along the Melbourne Steam
ocean-going horizons. The bulk carrier
is arrived —a specialised new-type vessel
with advantages of mechanical loading
and discharge, quicker turnaround and
good cruising speeds. Melbourne Steam
has joined with Howard Smith Ltd to
form Bulkships Ltd (registered during
1958/59 with an authorised capital of
£5,000,000) and this co. has let a contract
to the B.H.P. for construction of two
large bulk carriers, one of which, the
16,400 ton ore-carrier “Wollongong,” was
launched at Whyalla, S.A., last June,
only three months ago. The keel of a
second sister ship, the “Mittagong,” has
now been laid, in August last, and the
“Wollongong” is expected to begin
trading in early 1962.
Instead of independent shipping opera-
tions, Melbourne Steam will now con-
centrate on participation with Howard
Smith in Bulkships Ltd, its various share-
market investments and other interests
(Mount Pleasant Coke Co. Pty, engineer-
ing subsidiaries, etc.). Towage business
will be continued as witness the new
motor tug “York Syme” (acquired two
months ago) which is “already proving
a popular and efficient unit” in Port
Phillip Bay, Melbourne the “York
Syme” is jointly owned with Howard
Smith Ltd. Melbourne Steam acquired
a controlling interest in the N.S.W.
Wollongong-based Mount Pleasant Coke
Co. in May, 1959 —minority interests,
£20,043, are shown in consolidated
accounts, June 30 last. Other subsidiaries
include engineering cos in Sydney and
Fremantle and the Hobson's Bay Dock
and Engineering Co. Pty of Melbourne.
In addition, the parent is associated,
through its trading department, with four
stevedoring cos, holds several agencies,
as mentioned earlier, and acts as a book-
ing agent for a number of shipping lines
and airlines.
Although bulk carriage augurs well for
the inter-State shipping industry, there
remain many problems yet unsolved. The
cost of sending cargo by sea is normally
considerably below rail, road and air-
freight rates and if cargoes can be moved
with sufficient speed and reliability, there
may be a profitable future for cos operat-
ing bulk vessels. But ships operating
under Australian articles have found the
40-hour week impossible of economic
operation at sea. Another factor: in-
dustrial peace in the shipping and steve-
doring industries is essential. Strikes
went a long way to cripple the domestic
shipping lines in the past and in giving
the service a name for being unreliable.
The same thing might happen again,
though the position for the present seems
to be improving.
Results for last term held steady to
the marked improvement written in the
previous year. All subsidiaries contri-
buted profits. The engineering subsidi-
aries were successful in securing a greater
share of shore work despite keenly com-
petitive conditions —and this was especi-
ally important following disposal of the
shipping fleet, the upkeep and mainten-
ance of which had previously ensured a
steady flow of work to the engineering
offshoots.
The Mount Pleasant Coke Co. had a
good year but the volume of sales during
the last month or so was affected by the
general slackening of trade —the motor
industry, through its associated foundries,
is a large consumer of smelting coke and
its requirements have been somewhat re-
duced. The co.’s travel departments, sea,
air, road and rail proved valuable.
Consolidated net profit for the year
ended June 30, 1961 was £6161 higher at
£57,697 including £9549 income from
investments. This was after providing
£19,903 for depreciation (down £3091)
and setting aside £39,118 for taxation (up
£6200).
After paying pref. divs., earning rate
on ord. capital worked out at 22.3 p.c.
compared with 14.7 p.c. and 7.2 p.c. back
to 1959. The result is particularly grati-
fying from an equity point of view bear-
ing in mind a reduction of capital half
way through the trading year. The whole
of the paid-up pref. capital (£26,000) was
paid off in December, 1960 ; £85,000 was
returned to ord. shareholders. Paid capi-
tal is now held in 340,000 fully-paid 15s.
shares:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
June r~ —Dividends To Re- Re-
Profit. Pref. Old. serves, serves.
6 p.e. 9 p.c.
£ £ £ £ £
1955 .. 58,186 1560 30,600 26.026 376,858
Tax overprovided, £4682 .. .. 381,540
Net addition reserves, £ls .. .. 381,555
To staff fund, £4738 .. .. 376,817
8 p.c.
1956 .. 38,690* 1560 27,200 9,930 386,747
Profit sale vessel, £30,442 .. .. 417,18!)
Net reduction reserves, £2198 .. 414,991
1957 .. 55,210 1560 27,200 26,450 441,441
Tax overprovision, £4OOO .. .. 445,441
Profit sale assets, £2193 .. .. 447,634
Unexp. addition insurance res., £736 448,370
To long-service and contingencies,
£ll 338 , , 437 032
1958 .. 59,654 1560 27,200 30,894 467^926
Unexp. addition insurance res., £236 408,162
Unexp. reduction reserve on consoli-
dation, £3708 .. .. .. .. 464,454
To long-service leave provision, £843 463,611
1959 . . 25,998 1560 27,200 460,849
Assets revaluation, £147,550 .. 608,399
Unexplained reduction, £4868 .. 603,531
12 p.c.
1960 .. 51,536 1500 40,800 9,176 612,707
15 p.e.
1961 .. 57,697 780 38,250 18,667 631,374
* Includes £BI,OOO transferred from provision for
overhauls.
The ord. div.-rate was lifted from 12 p.c.
to 15 p.c. absorbing £38,250. Pref. divs,
to December, took £7BO. The ord. div.-
rate was the highest ever paid by Mel-
bourne Steam. Reserves, free of in-
tangibles, rose £18,667 to £631,374.
Consolidated balance sheet records little
change apart from reduced debtors (down
£169,190 at £459,804). Theoretical work-
ing capital fell £173,915, due to return of
capital, but still registered a healthy and
substantial £252,078:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1960. 1961.
Pref. . . £26,000
Ord. .. 340,000 £255,000
Reserves . . 612,707 631,374
Minority interests 18,667 20,043
Creditors . . 399,347 383,463
Overdraft . . 16,931 64,323
Sundry provisions 75,471 71,451
Tax provision . . 61,068 34,928
Suspense account 7,355 7,810
Final divs. . . 24,580 21,250
£1,582,126 £1,489,642
Ships, freeholds,
etc 423,583 506,782
Shares . . .. 155,153 155,367
Stocks . . .. 84,076 99,511
Debtors .. 628,994 459,804
Cash, bonds . . 290,320 268,178
£1,582,126 £1,489,642
The book value of shares, debentures,
etc., in at 1960 valuation or cost, re-
mained virtually steady at £155,367. The
book value of fixed assets (tugs, coal
lighters, engineering and dock plant, coke
ovens, etc.), in at cost less depreciation,
jumped £83,199 to £506,782.
Freed from the threat of exorbitant
shipbuilding, maintenance and operating
costs the co. may improve its results on
the trimmed capital. It would not be
reasonable, however, “to expect that we
should come off ‘scot free’ from the pre-
vailing quietness, but we hope that within
the next few months an improvement
may be manifested.” Standardisation of
railways, imminent in some quarters, must
inevitably affect shipping revenues (Bulk-
ships Ltd) yet new developments could
more than offset. Standardisation pro-
jects in hand and contemplated include
the Melbourne-Sydney link, Perth-Kal-
goorlie and Port Pirie-Broken Hill.
At the last sale in Melbourne, the 15s.
ords. changed hands for 295. each. The


JOHN N. ROBERTSON
Member of the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKER.
Temple Court,
422 Collins Street, Melbourne C.l.
Telephones: 67 4804, 67 246 S
Telegrams & Cables:
ROBFALK, MELBOURNE
A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. E. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER,
N. W, C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building:,
29” Queen Street, Brisbane,
Telegrraphie Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31 2761
(4 Lines)
P.O. BOX
No. 1887 W
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
R. H. ALLEN, M. R. L. DOWLING
P. R. LEVY, A. P. REYNOLDS. N. R.
COURSE (Melbourne Resident Partner).
Delfin House, 16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Building, 150 Queen St.,
Melbourne. 67-5957 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables: “Rosdale,” Sydney.
Melbourne or Wollongong.
immediate return is 7.7 p.c. on the basis
of the increased 15 p.c. div.-rate.
Net tangible asset backing works out
at 525. 2d. for each 15s. ord.
William Adams & Co. Ltd
'O hgistered in 1912 to acquire a busi-
ness founded in 1884, William
Adams and Co. Ltd taps an Australia-
wide market, and, in addition, enjoys a
broad diversification of interests, a happy
combination in present circumstances,
and one that has enabled the co. to
withstand the jostling of rival organisa-
tions. Head office is in Sydney ; branches
are established in the capital cities of all
States and as well in Newcastle and
Wollongong, N.S.W., Launceston, Tas-
mania, and Kalgoorlie and Geraldton,
W.A.
The co.’s activities embrace the mer-
chandising throughout Australia of a
wide variety of steels —William Adams is
probably the biggest steel merchant in
the Commonwealth—machine tools, hand
tools and engineering supplies, and as
agent for C. A. Parsons and Co. Ltd, the
sale and erection of power-generating
and other electrical equipment.
Through William Adams Tractors Pty,
the co. holds the Victorian and Tas-
manian franchises for the well-known
Caterpillar range of tractors, earth-
moving equipment, etc. —this facet of the
William Adams complex has contributed,
no end. to the group’s success in recent
years. In 1959/60 group net profit
advanced £72,786, or 31.7 p.c., to
£302,189. The big £6-million expansion
programme undertaken in Australia by
the Caterpillar Tractor Co. of U.S.A.
had freed the tractor subsidiary, to a
large extent at any rate, of previous prob-
lems associated with supply.
Another offshoot, William Adams Steel
Reinforcement Co. Pty (N.S.W.), special-
ises in steel bending and the production
of steel reinforcements for use by build-
ing contractors —operations are not yet
extensive. The co. also has a controlling
interest in Griffiths Bros. Ferrodor Paint
Co. Pty, a comparatively small under-
taking, and holds the distributing rights
for another U.K. manufacturer, Perry
Chain Co. Ltd. Other agencies cover
automatic production tools from New
Britain-Gridley (U.S.A.) and Andre
Bechler Ltd (Switzerland), and general
engineering plant from Worthington
C'orp. (U.S.A.).
Latest results, to April 30, 1961, are
compounding of record sales (nearly
17 p.c. above the 1959/60 level), a fall
in the rate of gross profit and the pres-
sure of rising costs —although the ratio
of expenses to sales was only fractionally
higher, the increase in absolute money
terms was substantial. William Adams
has felt a “cold blast” from the sudden
lifting of import restrictions (February,
1960) and the effects of the credit squeeze
(November, 1960). Directors expressed
the belief in their interim report,
February 1, 1961, that profit for the year
would not be less than the previous
year's record. But “the final quarter of
the company’s financial year provided
conditions more difficult than expected.”
Pre-tax profit finally came in a reduced
£492,249 (down £37,453, or 7.1 p.c.),
group net profit slipping, likewise,
£25,496, or 8.4 p.c., to £276,693. The
net showing is reckoned after tax
£215,55b (down £11,957), depreciation,
£74,171 (up £20,392), a reduced allocation
to staff fund, £IB,OOO (down £2000),
transfer to stock provision, £20,000 (up
£9OOO, the total provision now standing
at £316,000), and to doubtful debts pro-
vision, £20,000 (down £2OOO, the total
provision now standing at £144,000), and
interest charges, £94,412 (up £32,972). It
represents a return on capital of 23.1 p.c.,
other yields back to 1956 being 25.2 p.c.,
19.1 p.c., 17.2 p.c., 22.1 p.c. (on an
average paid-up capital of £960,000) and
31.6 p.c.:
William Adams and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
April, Profit. f Dividends serves serves.
£ £ £ £
1957. .211,948 15 p.c. = 144,000 67,948 1,036,101
Tax overprovided, £15,500 .. .. 1,051.601
Share-premiums, £10,019 .. .. 1,061,020
Added insurance reserve, £5631 .. 1.067,251
1958. .202,804 15 p.c. = 175,950 26,854 1,094,105
Added on consolidation, £2798 . . 1,096,903
Transferred from prov. contingencies
previously included with creditors,
£65,000 1,161,903
Tax overprovided, £4613 .. .. 1,166,516
Asset revaluation, £200,000 .. 1,366,516
1959. .229,403 15 p.c. = 177,900 51,503 1,418,019
Profit sale assets, £18,598 .. .. 1,436,617
1960. .302,189 15 p.c. = 180,000 122,189 1,558,806
1901. .276,693 15 „ ~180,000 96,693 1,655,499
The usual 15 p.c. div. took £IBO,OOO.
Reserves, free of intangibles and exceed-
ing equity, rose £96,693 to £1,655,499.
Paid capital is presently held in
1,200,000 fully-paid 20s. ord. stock-units
and 360,000 20s. ords. paid to 10s. In
1956, simultaneous par (two-for-five) and
bonus (one-for-five) issues were made,
and 40,000 shares were allotted to em-
ployees. In 1959 shareholders were
invited to subscribe an issue at par of
£1 6 p.c. registered, unsecured convertible
notes (one-for-two). The notes are con-
vertible into ord. stock-units of £1 each
on April 30, 1965, noteholders to par-
ticipate in any issues by the co. of ord.
shares or convertible notes made prior
to that date. In February last, the register
was ruled off for determination of rights
to a one-for-five share issue at par, share-
and noteholders participating. The issue,
payable 10s. April 15, 1961, and 10s.
October 16, 1961, is calculated at raising
paid capital from £1,200,000, as at close
of accounts, to £1,560,000. Application
monies, received at April 30, aggregated
£185,590. Proceeds of the issue will go
towards provision of additional working
capital, plus the financing of plans which
are even now “unfolding for additional
facilities in all States.”
Balance - sheet analysis emphasises
liquidity problems and steps taken to
solve these problems. Stocks on hand
jumped £1,872,147 to £3,988,955 ; sundry
debtors climbed £139,285 to £1,690,478.
During the year (in December, 1960) the
co. effected private placement of
£600,000 in 8 p.c. debentures maturing
15-20 years. It has since negotiated a
further £400,000 of debentures, similar
terms. The co. was also offered £200,000
in short-term deposits and such measures
“might well apply in the future because
there is a developing practice for large
concerns to make money available to
each other on a short-term basis.” Bank
overdraft catapulted £804,025 to £911,569,
with sundry creditors up £325,724 at
£1,127,600:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
. 1959. 1900. 1961.
Paid capital . . £1,200,000 £1,200,000 £1,200,000
Reserves .. .. 1,418,019 1,558,806 1,655,499
Application monies
new issue .. - 185,590
Sundry provisions 41,000 52,000 59,500
Minority interests 8,168 7,756 8,096
Overdraft.. .. 710,807 107,544 911,569
Mortgage .. .. 390,000 369,000 348,000
Notes .. ~ 287,008 600,000 600,000
Debentures .. 600,000
Deposits .. .. 200,000
Creditors .. .. 922,264 801,876 1,127,600
Staff fund .. 80,000 100,000 118,000
Tax provision .. 170,752 241,993 223,170
Final divs. .. 107,100 90,000 90,000
£5,335,118 £5,128,975 £7,327,024
Freeholds.. .. 1,141,664 1,031,101 1,152,032
Plant, etc. .. 300,267 401,696 470,382
Shares .. .. 20,177 28,177 25,177
Stocks .. .. 2,443,866 2,116,808 3,988,955
Debtors .. .. 1,429,144 1,551,193 1,690,478
£5,335,118 £5,128,975 £7,327,024
Stocks are abnormally high even
though “we altered our basis of ordering,


n
What has this to do
with the C.B.C. ?
Well, we too, were young once: we started business
in one room in Sydney in 1834.
There have been many changes since those days—
but the bank’s idea of personal, friendly service
remains the same. It is a tradition with the C.B.C.
The manager, or senior staff of
the branch in your district will gladly
tell you how you can benefit by the
bank’s wide range of services and
facilities including those of the
C.B.C. Savings Bank.
4mr
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
but we could do nothing about
the supplies which were already
in the pipelines.” The stock
position “will remain above
normal for some time,” but is
expected to stabilise at about
£3.65 million.
Last term saw substantial
increases in the book values of
freeholds and plant, the one
rising £120,931 to £1,152,032,
the other £68,686 to £470,382.
Various freehold properties
were acquired in Victoria and
Tasmania, including 27 acres
close by the present tractor
establishment outside Mel-
bourne, further land adjoin-
ing existing premises in Laun-
ceston and 12 acres in Hobart.
Theoretical working capi-
tal advanced £693,006 to
£3,067,594. Current assets
represented 78 p.c. of total
assets.
As to the future: sales in
May, June and July are down
on those of last year. “It is
anyone’s guess as to how long
it will take for the stocks to
be worked off and for industry
to get going again in a normal
way.”
William Adams’s 20s. stock-
units were traded last week on
Sydney 'Change at 625. 6d. to
return an immediate yield of
4.8 p.c. from a 15 p.c. div. The
10s. contributing shares are
presently selling around 495.
The notes, fetching 515., yield
2.3 p.c.
The 20s. ords., at balance
date, were each backed by 475.
7d. of net tangible assets, in
at 1958 valuations, plus addi-
tions at cost.
Meggitt Ltd
A ustralia uses about 40,000
tons (9T-million gallons)
of linseed-oil annually. Before
World War II requirements
were satisfied in the main from
the crushing of imported seed.
Since the war, however, most
of the major exporting coun-
tries have been loth to sell seed
in order that support be given
their own crushing industries
and to enable retention of the
linseed-cake (the solid mass
remaining when the oil is ex-
pressed from the linseed) for
domestic purposes.
In recent years, with en-
couragement from the Federal
Government, the Linseed
Crushers’ Association and the
generally low prices obtaining
for wheat, local growers have
succeeded in providing for an
increasing proportion of home
demand. Similar climatic and
soil conditions are required for
the production of both linseed
and wheat, so that economic
investment in the oil-bearing
flax is necessarily dependent
upon the relative prices of the
two crops. The Linseed
Crushers' Association (Meggitt
Ltd is one of the three firms
represented) has offered a fixed
price of £A7O a ton for clean
seed of 40 p.c. oil content.
The 1960 crop, mostly grown
in Queensland, on the Darling
Downs, produced a record
26,500 tons of seed, about two-
thirds of Australia's require-
ments ; the remainder was
imported in the form of crude
linseed oil, chiefly from Argen-
tina and Uruguay. Prices of
Indian seed, previously pur-
chased in large quantities, have
proved non-competitive on
world markets.
Chief consumers of linseed-
oil are the paint and varnish
manufacturers, who take about
70 p.c. of Australian produc-
tion. Linoleum manufacture
takes about 5 p.c., and the oil
is used also for binding sand-
cores in foundries, for printing
inks, putty, types of wall-
board and for such sundry
purposes as oiling cricket bats.
About four-fifths of the oil
used by paint manufacturers
is linseed ; the remainder is
tung-oil, safflower- or castor-
oil, and in some degree


The
NORTHERN LIFE
Assurance Company of Australia Limited
(Incorporated, in Canberra, Australia )
All Classes of Ordinary Life Assurance,
Superannuation and Annuity Policies Issued
HEAD OFFICE: 15 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone 8L5601 K. J. Hedley, General Manager
m
FINANCE & INVESTMENT
COMPANY LIMITED
SHAREHOLDERS' FUNDS, £891,419.
TANGIBLE ASSETS, £3,184,264.
INTEREST RATES FOR DEPOSITS
(NOW CALLED UNSECURED DEPOSIT NOTES)
WITH RIGHT OF RECALL
ON 30 DAYS’ NOTICE
3 months . . . . 5 1 /2% p. 3.
6 months 6% p.a.
9 months . ; ; . m /0 p.a.
1 2 months . ; ; ; 7% p.a.
t 8 months . ; ; ; 7 1 /2 ,0 p.a.
• FIXED DEPOSITS
2 years . . ; . . 870 p.a.
3 years .. ;; . SVt%
AND OVER
APPLICATIONS must be made
on the form enclosed with the
prospectus, which is obtainable
from
Members of the Stock Exchange
ANY BRANCH OF A.N.Z. BANK
The Registered Office of the Com-
pany, William & Crown Sts.,
Sydney. Telephone FA 0322.
Financing world-
famous products
distributed by
The Hastings
Deering Group
of Companies.
FORD
Cars and Trucks
FORDSON
Tractors
A.E.C.
Trucks & Buses
CATERPILLAR
Diesel Tractors
in Queensland
HYSTER
Fork Lift Trucks
in Queensland
JOHN DEERE
Agricultural
Machinery
in Queensland
LISTER
Engines
GROUP SALES
IN 1960
£14,757,281
MAIL THIS COUPON
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE &
INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
G.P.O. Box 4333, Sydney.
Please send me, without any obligation on my part, pros-
pectus dated 1/4/61, giving full details of your terms
deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS
HD 82.10
8.16/9
demand for linseed is in-
fluenced by its price relation-
ship with these. A significant
factor for linseed-oil producers
has been the development and
increasing use of rubber and
synthetic based paints and floor
coverings. Nevertheless, world
consumption of linseed-oil in
1956 was nearly 10 p.c. above
its 1939 level and it is still the
most important of the indus-
trial “vegetable-oils.” But it is
a comparatively static industry
in Australia because of its new
competitors.
Meggitt Ltd is the largest
manufacturer of linseed-oil
and -meal in Australia ; other
activities include the treatment
and marketing of safflower-,
coconut-, soya - bean- and
castor-oils and the crushing of
a limited tonnage of peanuts.
In 1957 the co. completed
installation of a modern-type
crushing plant at West Foot-
scray to handle the harvest
from increasing acreages de-
voted to linseed cultivation in
Victoria. In 1958 extensions
were made to the S.A. plant,
and excellent results have been
attained, since, in the manu-
facture of high-grade stock
foods.
During last term (July 1,
1960) Meggitt purchased that
portion of the Vegetable Oils
Pty business (a subsidiary of
Allied Mills Ltd) concerned
with the crushing, processing
and trading of products of
linseed, safflower and soya
beans, where used for indus-
trial and stock-food purposes.
Consideration involved issue
of 50,000 ss. stock-units with
share premiums aggregating
£25,000. Goodwill, valued at
£37,500. was written off against
reserves. Meggitt also spon-
sored a small co., Wright
Stephenson Meggitt (Vic.) Pty
(jointly owned with Wright
Stephenson and Co. Ltd), to
clean linseed and other seeds
at Winchelsea, Victoria, and
handle agencies for rural
industries. Results, so far, have
proved satisfactory.
Turning now to latest effort,
to the 12 months’ trading ended
May 31, 1961, management
consider Meggitt’s performance
“satisfactory in the light of
prevailing circumstances.” The
co. sold an increased tonnage
of linseed-meal. Linseed-oil
sales dropped slightly, but
sales of safflower-oil and, to
a greater extent, soya-bean-oil
were both increased. Take-
over of Vegetable Oil’s interests
in the surface-coating industry
has “undoubtedly” helped.
The shifting consumer fancy
from the darker linseed-oil to
lighter, non-yellowing oils is
of recent origin. It accords
with trends first established in
the U.S.A. The lighter oils
are peculiarly suited to manu-
facture of various new-type
resins incorporated in present-
day paint formulations.
Meggitt accounts have always
been reckoned on a conserva-
tive basis, yet net profit
bubbles up a visible £92,945
(up £4464) after tax (unstated)
and depreciation, £48,958 (up
£4751):
t Dividends —— N
Pref. Re
May, Profit. 10 p.c., Ords. •, serves.*
£ £ p.c. £ £
1954. .62,485 4000 121=46,148 59,298
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. 49,298
From inner reserves,
£115,748 .. .. 165,040
1955.. 71.464 4000 15 = 55,378 177,132
From inner reserves,
£150,000 .. .. 327,132
1956.. 85.111 4000 15 =55,377 352,866
From inner reserves,
£150,000 .. ..502,866
1957. 4000 15 = 55,377 518,566
1958. 4000 15 „ 55,377 532,450
Profit sale assets, £8362 .. 540,818,
From inner reserves,
£140,000 .. .. 680,818
1959.. 68.593 4000 15 = 55,378 690,033(
Assets revaluation,
£163,893 .. .. 853,926-
Reserves capitalised,
£123,061 .. .. 730,865
1960.. 88.481 4000 12J= 61,534 753,812
Share premiums, £25,000 . . 778,812
Goodwill of business pur-
chased w/off. £37,500 . . 741,312
1961.-92,945 4000 63,092 767,165
* After deducting goodwill ( £115,748),
which was written out of the accounts
in 1955.
The disclosed earning-rate on
ord. capital was 17.6 p.c.,
against 20.6 p.c. in the preced-
ing year, 17.5 p.c. in 1959,
18.8 p.c. in 1958 and 19.3 p.c.
in 1957. Of profits shown,
prefs. (£lO,OOO in 10 p.c. first
cum. prefs. and £lO,OOO in
second cum. prefs.) took
£4OOO, ords. soaked up £63,092
(the ord. div. was reduced from
15 p.c. to \2\ p.c. in 1960) and
the balance remaining (£25,853)
went to reserves.
The co.’s published state-
ments are not, however, indica-
tive of its true earning power.
The balance-sheet in the past
has covered up extensive
reserves: —
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1960. 1961.
Pref £40,000 £40,000
Ord 492,243 504,743
Reserves .. 753,812 767,165
Depreciation res. 598,355 634,902
Overdraft . . 392,116 139,156
Sundry creditors 782,687 " 435,'388'
Staff "fund .. 39,000 ' 39,000'
Final divs. . . 32,767 33,546
£3,130,980 £2,593,900
Land, buildings 532,087 554,646
Plant . . . . 063,070 695,391
Shares . . . . 52,510 62,510
Stocks .. .. 1,121,399 686,822
Debtors . . 547,914 380,531
Cash, bonds, etc. 214,000 214,000
£3,130,980 £2,593,900
* Includes unspecified provisions.
Profits shy of public scrutiny
are tucked away behind fafades
of stocks on hand and sundry
debtors, both of which items


CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
(Incorporated under the Companies’ Act of New South Wales on Bth March, 1950)
(ASSETS EXCEED £7,500,000)
2
0
P.A. 5,6 or 10 Years
SHORT TERM RATES
8%
P.A.
12 Mths.’ Notice
7%
P.A.
E Mths.’ Notice.
61%
P.A.
3 Milis.’ Notice
6%
P.A.
1 Mth.’s Notice
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
Funds may be withdrawn in a personal emergency.
Increased interest rates apply on renewal of investments.
Interest paid quarterly FREE of Exchange through the
BANK OF N.S.W.
Prospectus and Application Forms Obtainable From
Any branch of the BANK OF N.S.W.
The Company’s Offices, Ground Floor, Cambridge House,
249 George Street, Sydney ’Phone: BU 5542
Ground Floor. Cambridge House, 411-413 Lonsdale Street,
Melbourne ’Phone 67-6792
Suite 110. Ist Floor, Da Costa Building,
68 Grenfell Street, Adelaide ’Phone 87-025
Suite 53A, sth Floor, T & G Building, 137 Queen Street, Brisbane
—’Phone: 24-509 26-981
Morton House, 5 Union Street, Newcastle West ’Phone: B 4601
Berner Credit Company Pty. Ltd., 147 Bayliss Street, Wagga.
or Any Member of a Recognised Stock Exchange
UNDERWRITING BROKERS:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL (Members of the Sydney Stock
Exchange)
LEONARD G. MAY & SON (Members of the Stock Exchange
of Melbourne)
CORRIE & CO. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
Brokers for the Issue in Newcastle: F. S. Scorer & Co., T. & G.
Building, Cnr. Hunter & Watt Streets, Newcastle. (Members
of the Newcastle Stock Exchange)
Brokers for the Issue in South Australia: S. C. Ward & Co.,
25 Grenfell Street. Adelaide.
(Members of the Stock Exchange of Adelaide Ltd)
Brokers for the Issue in Western Australia: Donald J. Carmichael
& Co., 135 St. George’s Terrace, Perth. (Members of the Stock
Exchange of Perth)
Trustee for Stockholders: Bankers & Traders’ Insurance Company
Limited
Investigating Accountants for the Underwriting Brokers: Smith
Johnson & Co.
Registers: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Canberra
Registrars: Bank of N.S.W. Nominees Pty. Ltd.
Applications for the debenture stock accepted only on one of
the forms of application attached to a printed copy of the
prospectus.
have been reduced by provi-
sions, the amounts not being
stated. No information is
given in the conglomerate
£435,388 for sundry creditors
and provisions, and the failure
to disclose tax liability serves
only to obscure the measure of
real profits further.
But there is no doubt as to
the financial strength which the
co. has been accumulating
behind the scenes. In 1959,
£140,000, which had been set
aside in earlier years to meet
market fluctuations in raw
materials, was brought to light
as no longer necessary and
transferred to free reserves.
Together with previous dis-
closures, this brought total
withdrawals from inner sources
since 1955 to £570,748, com-
pared with profits actually
claimed in the same period,
only £373,512.
As to the separate items in
the balance-sheet, land and
buildings were higher on book
values at £554,646 (up £22,559),
plant and machinery increased
£32,321 to £695,391 and hold-
ings of shares and debentures
expanded £lO,OOO to £62,510
—representing the Meggitt
equity in Wright Stephenson
Meggitt (Vic.) Pty. The co.
boosted capacity of its grow-
ing stock-food business. A
property was purchased in
Adelaide, a bulk store was
erected and plant and machin-
ery was installed —turnover of
stock-foods was increased al-
most twofold during the year
under review. Meggitt also
purchased two new bulk oil
delivery wagons for Parra-
matta and sundry miscella-
neous items for its various
mills. In all, reserves were
higher at the end of the year
by £13,353 at £767,165.
The Australian 1960/61
linseed harvest was much re-
duced from the record figure
of the previous year (down
13,350 tons at 13,150 tons).
Crops sown to linseed and
safflower were hard hit by
drought. Intake of linseed and
safflower by Meggitt was con-
sequently considerably lower
than in 1959/60. Stocks on
hand finished down £434,577 at
£686,822. Sundry creditors fell
£347,299 to £435,388; sundry
debtors £167,383 to £380,531.
Clearly the degree of success,
one way or the other, of the
harvest crops has an important
bearing on the financial affairs
of the co. Bank overdraft de-
clined £252,960 to £139,156,
Summing up, there is no
doubt as to Meggitt’s all-round
strength. Real profits should
improve, though increases,
admittedly, will not be spec-
tacular. The co. could well
make further bonus issues
though this is unlikely. A one-
for-three bonus, the first equity
increase in almost 30 years,
went out in November, 1959.
The co. had been bonus-ripe
for a long, long time.
Believing that the mainten-
ance of linseed and safflower
seed growing is “essential in
any well-balanced development
of Australia,” the Linseed
Crushers’ Association has
taken steps to press for a long-
term policy of adequate pro-
tection so that linseed and
safflower seed growing “may
be developed to the fullest
extent throughout Australia.”
But Meggitt’s chairman, Mr
J. Dyneley Fell believes mea-
sures granted by the Tariff
Board, May 11, 1961, to be
wholly inadequate—“ The in-
adequacy of the recommenda-
tions contained in this report,
and the need to arrive at an
alternate, acceptable short-
term arrangement, retarded
the seed-growing industry just
at a time when the greatest
development was possible.”
Under present arrangements,
“the Government has agreed to
support the 1961/62 linseed and
safflower seed crops, from
which a below-average return
is expected. Further repre-
sentations are being made to
have this support extended to
cover the 1962/63 crops, but,
if continuity and progress in
the seed growing and crushing
industries is to be achieved, a
long-term national policy is
essential, and it may well be
necessary to refer the whole
matter back to the Tariff
Board.
Meantime the ss. ords. are
presently fetching 13s. 7d. on
Sydney ’Change to return an
immediate yield of 4.6 p.c.
from the 12y p.c. div. Net
tangible cover for the scrip at
balance date was £65 12s. first
prefs, £64 12s. seconds and
12s. 7d. the ords. Including the
depreciation reserve, £634,902
(up £38,547) net tangible back-
ing, the ss. ords. weighs up a
solid 18s. lOd.
COMPANY NOTES
The English Scottish and
Aust. Bank Ltd
'T'he English Scottish and
Australian Bank Ltd has
become the fourth major trad-
ing bank, after the Bank of
New South Wales, the Austra-
lia and New Zealand Bank Ltd


Missing Friendt
The Union Trustee Company of Aus-
tralia Limited invites ROBERT
ANDREW EASTON, last heard ot in
Cunnamulla, Queensland about 1908
or any of his relatives to communicate
with them by letter to their Office
at 400 Queen Street, Brisbane, Queens-
land, relative to moneys due to him in
a deceased’s estate.
Information is also sought as to the
place of his death, if he is not now
living.
Missing Friend
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
VICTORIA.
No. 713 of 1961.
TO KENNETH WILLIAM RUSSELL of
address unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that
your wife JOAN FLORENCE RUSSELL
has instituted proceedings against you
in the Supreme Court of Victoria for
a dissolution of her marriage to you
on the ground of desertion AND
FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that unless
you file an answer in the office of the
Registrar of the Supreme Court at
Melbourne on or before the 23rd day
of October 1961 the case may pro-
ceed in your absence and you may be
ordered to pay costs. —ALLAN DOUG-
LAS, Public Solicitor, 601 Little
Collins Street, Melbourne.
Positions Vacant
TEACHER
German to Matriculation, with
French (preferably) or other sub-
jects, wanted lor 1962. Young man
with degree and recognised training.
Salary according to qualifications
and experience. Apply, with refer-
ences, to Headmaster,
WESLEY COLLEGE
Prahran, Victoria.
THE KING’S SCHOOL,
PARRAMATTA
Two highly qualified Masters re-
quired to commence first term, 1962.
Physics and/or Mathematics.
History and English.
Applicants, in the first place, should
send statement ol' qualifications,
copies of two testimonials and
addresses of two references to
the Headmaster.
and the Commercial Banking
Co. of Sydney Ltd (all of which
banks entered the savings field
in 1956), to set up savings bank
facilities in Australia —per
medium of its 500 branches
scattered the length and
breadth of the Commonwealth.
The new savings bank, to be
known as the E.S. and A.
Savings Bank Ltd, was regis-
tered August 28. It will func-
tion as a wholly-owned sub-
sidiary of the E.S. and A.
Bank with an authorised
capital of £2,000,000 and a
paid up capital of £500,000 —
all of this in 20s. shares. Capi-
tal will come from the parent
trading bank from its own
funds. No new share issue is
contemplated. The parent
trading bank will guarantee
deposits.
Mr H. G. Ensten, general-
manager in Australia for the
E.S. and A. Bank, had it,
August 28, that “Savings busi-
ness is expected to commence
shortly, and the opening date
will be announced as soon as
application by the new sub-
sidiary for an authority under
the Banking Act to conduct a
savings bank has been
approved by the Federal
Treasurer.”
The board, all senior officers
of the E.S. and A. Bank, will
comprise Messrs H. G. Ensten
(chairman), H. McE. Scambler,
A. L. Eason, N. C. Westerman
and H. N. Lord.
The E.S. and A. Bank has
spread out rapidly in recent
years and full banking and
finance facilities are now avail-
able in all branches.
In April last, the whole of
the capital of Federal Trusts
Ltd was acquired—the bank
had previously held a 40 p.c.
share interest. This co., operat-
ing now as the E.S. and A.
Federal Trusts Ltd, is based in
Victoria, but activity is being
extended to all States.
Esanda Ltd, the E.S. and A.
Bank’s wholly-owned hire-
purchase and finance sub-
sidiary, which in 1955 took
over the bank’s pioneer h.-p.
department established in 1953,
is now one of Australia's fore-
most h.-p. cos.
Welded Products
r T"'HE company reports an
improved consolidated
profit for the year ended 30th
June, 1961. Net profit, after
tax, was £96,872 an increase
of 27.7 p.c. above the previous
year's result of £75,852. This
is “by far the best result ever
achieved by the company.”
The profit was struck after
providing £66,767 for taxation
(£52,050 last year) and £33,244
for depreciation (£28,452 last
year).
The directors declared a final
dividend of 6 } p.c. which, with
the interim dividend of 6| p.c.
paid in April 1961, will main-
tain the dividend at p.c.
OIL AND MINING
Timor Oil
'T'imor Oil Limited reports
-*• that after “encountering
minor quantities of oil and gas
in the hole above 863 feet”,
it has been decided to drill
ahead at Matai No. 3. A
inch liner was run in to 863
feet, with bottom joint slotted.
The liner will be pulled out
and drilling to further depth
continued.
Winnathoola Well
A SSOCIATED AUSTRALIAN OlL-
fields N.L. is now drilling
the Winnathoola No. 1 well
about 7 miles north-west of
Combarngo, where a small
quantity of high grade oil was
secured recently. The well is
being drilled under a new joint
venture arrangement in which
A.A.0., A.F.0., Papuan Api-
naipi, Interstate Oil, Sleigh
Exploration and the recently
formed Associated Continental
Petroleum N.L. are partici-
pating.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 660
Across
I—A1 —A comedian named Roy got one swallowed to again
confer about terms. (11)
6 —A couple of right angles—that's the lot. (3)
B—A.C.T.8 —A.C.T. Annual’s a mess, but a Broadway hit play is
included in it. (4, 7)
10 —Hit without it, Agnes is no beauty. (3)
11— One may wrestle with such sur-
gical equipment? (4, 8)
13— Six by a poisoner. (5)
14— A cowboy may catch lots ot
cattle with this and miss
none. (5)
16 — Columbine communication with
a small business circle. (3)
17— Capek play. (3)
18 — Tyre repair reversed this front-
runner. (5)
21— Counts vowels used by Steven-
son. (5)
22 — Pep hid a hill in the city. (12)
25 Tree. (3)
26 — Gulf bus shut up with some
operatic number. (11)
27 German city letters. (3)
28— Meat stock may be made ot
such knots. (11)
Down
1 — Concerning morning station-
ery. (4)
2 Bobby can’t be so described. Bob
can, though. (3-6)
3 Sink when one is caught from a
back cut, as intended by the
fielding captain. (5, 4)
4 Helps as Sister Street turns
up. (7)
5 A considerable time to muse. (5)
6 Dumas character in Ballarat
Hospital is a Tom with a mount
in Greece. (5)
7 Soul height affected Pharos bring-
ing the paper home? (10)
9 —Beaton ice rising in 150. (5)
12 — Were he very scattered, and all
over the place. (10)
15 — Sharp bowling on the wicket —
try a full-toss. (9)
16 — A girl and a boy who can't be
expected to discontinue. (7, 2)
19 — Boy! The same girl is now
about 50! (7)
20 — Law officer to be seen here about
the common ancestress ot
6-across? (5)
22 — Turned up with mother’s
cats. (5)
23 Incorporated as Atahualpa's
folk. (5)
24 — Fishy singer. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 659


IF YOU INVEST ON THE
STOCK EXCHANGES YOU NEED
the WILD CAT
MONTHLY
Published by “1 he Bulletin”
AUSTRALIA’S PREMIER COMPANY GUIDE
Companies Reviewed in the September Issue
• BROOKLANDS
(HOLDINGS) Ltd
• DENNYS, LASCELLES
Ltd
• DRAFFIN EVERHOT
Ltd
• KINNEARS ROPES
(AUST.) Ltd
Q LEND LEASE
CORPORATION Ltd
• OLIVER-DAVEY
GLASS INDUSTRIES
Ltd
• PRESTIGE Ltd
0 TOOTH & CO. Ltd
• The COLONIAL SUGAR
REFINING CO. Ltd
SUBSCRIPTIONS: £4/4/- a year to Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
. SINGLE COPY: 7/-
