

The Bulletin
and The Observer
HAROLD HOLT THE GAMBLER
to Australia for transmission by post aa a newspaper.
South Africa
'What Mow?
Jack Lindsay
Expatriate
The Orr Book
Reviewed


m
/
I
A new kindness to fruit
Australia grows billions of rich, red apples
each year but not all reach the market
in an unblemished condition. Bruising has
long been the bogey of the orchardist and
retailer alike. But damage in transit is now
greatly reduced since the introduction of
telescopic, corrugated fibreboard containers
for fresh fruit. Fruit containers made
from A.P.M. products proved ideal.
They’re strong, light,
resilient, print per-
fectly and bring
your fruit to market
in an orchard-fresh condition.
This is another typical example of how
products of the seven Australian-owned
A.P.M. mills are used by primary and
secondary industry for your benefit
m
A
M
AUSTRALIAN PAPER
MANUFACTURERS LTD
South Gate, South Melbourne,
Mills at Melbourne, Fairfield, Maryvale, Broadford in Vic.; Botany in N.S.W.; Petrie in Q’LD; Bayswater in W.A
Illustrated materia' on APM activities is available for school projects. Write to “Projects”. APM, G.P.O. Box 1643. Melbourne.


The
Bulletin
MAY 31, 1961
Vol. 82
No. 4242
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
E.P.S.: Nearly K.P.: Fresh
and lively, but not to the point. .. .
E.O’K.: Your urger looked like
being good, but he wore out his
welcome J.S.W.: “Nymph-
Errant” was as original a title as
the story of a man dreaming he
was swimming with a mermaid.
V.F.: Welcomed the thought
of “The Un-sunburnt Stockman,"
but can’t fit him in. .. . V.EI.: Here
is:
L.P.G.: Brecht’s songs have
been much better translated than
that. .. .K.L.: Maybe because we
didn’t get past algebra we can't
quite grasp your “calculus with
language”. . . .H.G.: Reads like the
awful result of reading an entire
anthology of “New Yorker” stories
cm a wet afternoon.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street.
Sydney; Box 2521; Phone: 27 597/
THE HUMAN BEING
The body, the spirit, the mind, one will
work without the other.
But if they don't work as a unit you
will find, it is like a child without
a mother.
But people tend to think the mind, it
healthy, is the product of a uni-
versity.
And a body really healthy if it is free
from all adversity.
And the healthy spirit fed, by attending
church; but do they really know?
Stop and give it some really deep
thought, you will find it is not so.
you may have a crippled body, yet be
healthy in spirit and mind,
this person may be better off you will
find;
Than many others who go to church.
and have a healthy frame.
But they are lacking kindness, and laugh
at shame;
And as they go along life’s way.
they get along just the same.
...J.8.: We don’t know you, but
you didn’t seem quite yourself in
the guise of a wild aboriginal....
M.K.; Two weird, too weird short
stories ; but we admired your pains-
taking additions of the wordage. .. .
P.P.: Protoplasmic poetry. Evo-
lute!.. . . R.S.: Come in, come
in:
A poet should write ct australia,
it is the gem, of the southern seas,
such verses, would not be a failure,
one could write it, with perfect ease.
WHY?
No Short Story?
F° R one of the few times in its long history The Bulletin in its next
issue will not contain a short story. We shall deliberately not publish
a short story in that issue to dramatise the fact that we think that some
of the short stories we have been publishing are no good. We have no
intention of not continuing to sponsor creative writing in Australia; but
if this sponsorship is to be taken seriously it must set standards and
attempt to have those standards met.
There is no merit in the mere act of writing a short story; and
positive harm in publishing work one feels is no good. The publication
of third-rate work merely encourages the third-rate; it encourages bad
writers to become worse, and it may discourage good writers from writing
at all. It sets up a belief that what has been published merely from
desperation or habit is what is wanted by policy ; and since The Bulletin
has played such a central part in the development of the Australian short
story, the publishing of inferior work may have a distorting and inhibit-
ing effect on talent.
We are now preparing plans which we hope will refresh the writing
of short stories in Australia. An announcement of these plans will be
made shortly. Meanwhile we invite correspondence on what is considered
by most people to be the decline of short-story writing in The Bulletin.
Letters may be purely destructive, although we hope that some of them
will also contain practical suggestions.
The Third Round
r J' I HE main changes proposed for The Bulletin finish this week. “This
Australia” has been extended by another two pages, and “Society”,
“Aboriginalities” and several other features of a lighter character have
been drawn together into one section, called “Out and About.”
Our intention is that the opening 20 pages or so should be of topical
interest, with something for every kind of reader. “This Australia” is
designed to cover quite a wide range of different interests in short topical
articles. After that the two cover stories and “Australia And The
World” and “Man On The Land” are intended to keep up the topical
interest. Thereafter the paper falls into four main sections. “Forum” is
intended to be opinionative and argumentative in tone; “Out and About”
is lighter, more discursive and ruminative; after the short story, “The
Red Page” and “Shows” provide a reviews section; and the paper con-
cludes with what is now an extended business section.
We have plans for adding new features to appeal to other interests,
but have no intention of doing so as long as the main complaint we
receive is that “there is too much to read in The Bulletin.” We hope
that the busy reader will learn to get most of his money’s worth from the
first 20 pages, then dip into the particular parts of the paper that interest
him after that. You don’t have to read everything in The Bulletin.


This Australia
BUSINESS
Emergency in
the Rag Trade
FROM A CPRRESPONDENT IN MELBOURNE
HAROLD HOLT
Who is to blame?
Clothing manufacturers are always
subject to some degree of competi-
tion from backyard operators, particu-
larly in Victoria. No one knows how
widespread “backyarding” is, but clothing
union officials claim that in Victoria it
has reached record levels. Much of it is
concerned with the making of women’s
blouses.
Large numbers of migrant women,
anxious to help the family budget, have
set up industrial sewing machines in
their homes, particularly in the inner
Melbourne suburbs of Carlton, Fitzroy,
Richmond, Brunswick, North Melbourne
and Collingwood. The sewing of gar-
ments is work which can be fitted in
after the children have been put to bed
or at the weekends, and it requires no
knowledge of English.
The piece rates paid by manufacturers
to these women out-workers are well
below Australian award figures, but to the
migrant women they seem reasonable
when judged by European standards.
Union officials say that their only in-
terest is in seeing that the women are
paid the correct award piece rates, but
admit that they are rarely welcomed
when they visit these backyard estab-
lishments.
There are obviously large numbers of
migrant women anxious to learn how to
use industrial sewing machines. Around
Melbourne several schools have been set
up where Greek and Italian women can
learn the simple skills required. The fee:
£lO 10s. for a 30-hour course.
“Backyarding,” however, is only a
minor source of trouble to the Federal
Clothing Industries Council of Australia
which has recently been flooded by re-
ports from members indicating that
business in the industry was at its lowest
level for many years. The Council
decided to carry out an emergency survey
to find out the extent of sackings,
forward orders, hours worked and out-
standing debtors in the industry. The
results should be known early next week.
The council covers manufacturers of
men’s, youths’, and boys’ clothing in
Victoria, N.S.W. and S.A., the three
States which account for the bulk of
Australian production of male suits,
sports coats, overcoats, slacks and casual
wear. It hopes that the survey will reveal
whether the serious cut-back in the in-
dustry is due primarily to rising imports
or to the tightness of credit. This week
its secretary, Mr David Frieze was not
prepared to lay his money either way,
though he did point out that there had
been sudden rises in imports of several
lines since the abolition of licensing
quotas last year. Imports of men’s coats
of less than 40in. length had totalled
12,000 for the year ending June, 1960,
but for the four months to April of this
year, 55,000 had been imported. If the
council decides that its troubles are due
to imports it will seek more tariff pro-
tection ; if credit is at the root of it,
no doubt it will throw in its weight
with other pressure groups seeking
relaxation of the credit squeeze from
Mr Harold Holt.
On Sale
HPhe days on which The Bulletin
will be on sale throughout Aus-
tralia have been rearranged. In future
they will be as follows:
Sydney: Thursday
N.S.W. Country: Thursday and
Friday.
Melbourne: Thursday
Victorian Country: Friday
Brisbane: Friday
Queensland Country: Later
Adelaide: Friday
South Australia Country: Later
Tasmania: Friday
CITY GOVERNMENT
Sorting Out the
Darwin Muddle
have been messing around with
the Indians long enough,” said
Councillor Murray Oakley recently.
“Now we might as well go to the chiefs.”
Darwin City Council has decided to ask
the Prime Minister, the Minister of
Territories and the Administrator, Roger
B. Nott, to sort out the muddle over
what powers, if any, it wields.
Darwin millionaire, Mr Mick Paspalis,
has prompted the move. He opened a
new theatre before the council issued
him with a licence, and even when the
council continued to refuse a licence,
he still continued to show pictures. The
council claimed that if Mick Paspalis
could treat its power with such contempt,
it might as well not exist.
When Melbourne barrister and Local
Government expert, Mr K. Gifford, was
asked for his opinion, he said the by-law
under which the council handed out
public entertainment licences was invalid.
If this is so, all the by-laws are invalid
and this would wind up the Darwin
City Council which was established only
four years ago.
During this period the town of 11,000
has been, declared a city—but the roads
have so deteriorated that some are im-
passable during the wet season. The
council claims that despite the Govern-
ment’s massive annual grant, there is
never enough money. Darwin’s three
mayors have tackled this problem in
different ways. The first, “Big Bill”
Richardson, favored the direct approach,
backed up by threats to resign unless
Administration saw things his way. But
for him, Darwin still would be without
a public swimming pool. The second
mayor, burly lawyer and long-time Dar-
win resident John Lyons, was more
diplomatic, but basically his approach to
Public Servants was the same as Richard-
son’s. During the Great Garbage Strike
Lyons himself headed a team of volun-
teer councillors who kept the rubbish
carts going until a marathon dispute with
the council work force was settled. The
third and current Mayor, Harry Cooper,
went quietly in his first 12-month term.
But in the second—now nearing its
he has toughened up and helped materi-
ally to build the council’s waning prestige.
Shortage of money has forced coun-
cillors to spend all their time arguing
such matters as whether or not they
should sue the Turf Club for back rates;
and whether liquor or coffee should be
the refreshment at civic receptions (they
voted to call on the public for donations
of beer and “tucker” when planning the
“austerity” civic welcome to new Admin-
istrator Roger Nott).
They rejected Deputy Mayor Ted


p’Ambrosio’s motion that they resign
but they advised the Administrator that
unless the Local Government Ordinance
is satisfactorily amended the council
“may consider” resigning. They decided
to petition the Prime Minister and the
Minister for Territories to commission
Mr Gifford to come to Darwin to clean
„p the contusion and draft new legisla-
T , , , * a~
tmn and y-laws. As Mayoi Cooper
said - This time we will go right to the
top-”
Money troubles made the council’s
work more difficult but Mr Paspalis’s
flouting of its authority could wreck it.
Now only councillors’ pockets are being
hit but their dignity is being ignored.
One councillor complained that he and
IS , e |!°. ws had been made bunnies”
! to f fhe local fauna he said
°,h C ° P CT^ W
al l along the line. Another, giving him-
self undeserved importance, said Darwin
council had become a laughing stock
throughout Australia.
POLITICAL POINTS
Landing Them
on the Beach
By MUGGA
COLIN SHEARER
A miracle
“HPen pounds to one on my man,” was
the bet. It was offered by the
scrutineer for the Communist candidate
in the Amalgamated Engineering Union
election. And the scrutineer for Mr
Colin Shearer, who opposed him, was
so unconfident of his man’s chances that
he did not take the bet. “Only a miracle”
would give the election to Shearer, the
Communist newspaper “Tribune” had
predicted. And since the A.L.P. dis-
mantled its Industrial Groups in 1955
Australian unions have been short of
miracles.
As the votes began to be counted,
some of those present began to wish
they had taken the bet, but the offer
was not repeated. Shearer was ahead,
and he stayed ahead, defeating the Com-
munist Alan Wilson for a seat on the
three-man Commonwealth Council that
runs the A.E.U. This week Communist
union leaders are contemplating a ground
swell in that union that —if not checked
—could land them on the beach.
Their man in Victoria was elected to
the Commonwealth Council earlier this
year by only a narrow majority. Their
man in Queensland, Mr C. G. Hennessy,
is going to have such a hard fight later
in the year that the Communists may
already be looking for a tame A.L.P. man
to put in his place.
If they lose in Queensland they lose
the most important union they have.
With its 75,000 members, the A.E.U.
could join the 60,000 strong Ironworkers
Federation and dominate the 250,000
unionists represented in the Metal Trades
Federation. And that would be irony
mdeed, for the Metal Trades Federation
w as rigged up in the great day of Mr
Ernie Thornton and his thugs as a
weapon with which to threaten the Aus-
tralian Council of Trade Unions.
An Anti-Communist Metal Trades
Federation would provide a nucleus for
a breakaway from the A.C.T.U. or such
strength that those who now play in with
the Communists in union affairs might
finally discover that prudence led them
in another direction.
As yet, these are only glittering dreams
in the future and the A.L.P. officially
sits glum and silent as they are discussed
unofficially by some of its members. In
Victoria they made no attempt to defeat
the Communist candidate, Mr C. “Cup”
Southwell, and some A.L.P. men made
every attempt to help him. (One of
them, Mr Wally Butler, a Victorian
Central Executive member, directed his
campaign.) In N.S.W. the A.L.P. Execu-
tive made one small gesture. It ques-
tioned five A.L.P. men who were quoted
by the Communist candidate as being
among his supporters and they let it be
known in a private way that they were
against A.L.P. members supporting Com-
munists. Even this modest, frightened
intervention may have helped Mr Shearer
win the election. If open statements from
the A.L.P. had backed Mr Shearer’s own
efforts he might have come home with
a much bigger majority.
In Queensland? The Communist Hen-
nessy is personally unpopular and his
Party is frightened. Public A.L.P. en-
couragement could topple him. But the
Queensland A.L.P. is not likely to
attempt it; it may even turn a blind
eye if one of its members helps the
Communists out of their difficulty. If an
anti-Communist wins in Queensland he
may not even be an A.L.P. supporter.
INSURANCE
The Raymond
Carter Case
FROM A CORRESPONDENT IN BRISBANE
nPHE case began on October 26 last year
when 46-year-old Bundaberg earth-
moving tycoon Raymond John Carter
was shot through the head as he sat in
a room in a South Brisbane hotel wait-
ing for an interview with creditors which
may have resulted in the bankruptcy of
his firm. One of the final stages of the
case was reached in Brisbane last week
when Mr J. Fullagar of the High Court
reserved his judgment on the dead man’s
life insurance policy
Max Ellis Carter, the 40-year-old
brother of the dead man, was charged
with wilful murder. The trial climaxed
on January 30 when a jury found him
not guilty on the ground that he was of
unsound mind at the time. He has since
been held in jail at Her Majesty’s
pleasure.
The case was of international import-
ance because of the fact that Raymond
Carter had a life insurance policy for a
basic £169,722, with additional benefits
amounting to £500,000 to his family for
10 years. At the time of his death, the
firm’s assets were listed in the vicinity
of £500,000 —and creditors in the vicinity
of £600,000.
Evidence at the trial alleged that his
brother Max had checked on the policy
before buying a rifle and shooting his
brother as he sat in his hotel room. In
subsequent proceedings, the insurance
company (Legal and General Assurance
Society Ltd) was ordered to pay into
court the whole amount due under the
policy, totalling £482,000 —and advised
that it had no further interest in the
money.
Last week, Mr Justice Fullagar ordered
that Carapark and General Finance Ltd
should be paid £191,823 6s. 3d. plus in-
terest at the rate of £BB Bs. a day. He
reserved decision on the remainder of the
policy, which was contested by the estate
of Raymond Carter, and the firm of
Carter Bros, (of which Max is the only
surviving partner). Evidence before the
Court was that the policy was taken out
to protect the firm’s creditors in the event
of anything happening to Raymond
Carter, and that the premiums were paid
by the firm. For this reason alone the
case caused a tremendous amount of
interest not only in Queensland but in
other States, where post-war boom con-
ditions and the mushroom growth of
similar firms have seen similar fantastic
policies taken out allegedly for the pro-
tection of creditors.
The picture painted at the trial of Max
Carter was of a simple, honest man.
caught up in a whirlpool of high finance,
whose mind ultimately cracked at the
prospect of complete financial ruin, for
himself, his family, and his creditors. A
closer look at this type of policy by insur-
ance companies has also been urged on
the grounds of discouraging invitations
to homicidal lunacy.


EDUCATION
The Case of the
Cheating Chinese
DR WYNDHAM
“Bamboozled”
“C'tudents from overseas studying in
New South Wales had always shown
integrity, honesty, ability and willingness
to work. This is the first case of this
type we have had since the Leaving
Certificate Examination was established
in New South Wales in 1917.” So said
Dr Wyndham, Chairman of the Board of
Secondary School Studies, last week when
the news broke that two older Chinese
(one a former university student) had
impersonated two younger countrymen
in an effort to get them through the Leav-
ing Certificate examination.
The impersonators did seven papers
for the two Chinese, sons of well-to-do
Singapore parents who had sent them
to Australia to “get a good education.”
Not only was the fraud discovered ; ironi-
cally enough, the impersonators’ papers
failed.
The case had brought several interest-
ing factors to light: first, the diligence
shown by the authorities in the tedious
checking of the original application sheet
(covering age, subjects, address, etc.)
with copies of each exam paper. If they
have been doing this since 1917 and dis-
covered one fraudulent case their patience
is praiseworthy but not very rewarding.
Second, according to the N.S.W. Crown
Solicitor's office, no action under State
laws can be taken. All that can happen
to Australian residents who impersonate
“students” in Leaving Certificate exami-
nations is that the relevant statutory body,
the Board of Secondary School Studies,
can refuse permission for the candidates
to sit in future.
In this case, the two students and
their impersonators are resident in Aus-
tralia on visas, so action can be taken
under Immigration laws. The Depart-
ment of Immigration and the N.S.W.
Education Department have so far
adopted a tight-lipped policy. The Edu-
cation Department says the police are
still investigating—as indeed they are.
Early this week they were still searching
for one of the impersonators. “It appears
that they were bamboozled by the bam-
boo curtain,” said Dr Wyndham. The
Department of Immigration is “still con-
sidering the matter. It is expected that
the Minister will make a statement this
week.”
The two students were “private study
students” and they were seeking to gain
matriculation in order to undertake ter-
tiary studies. Education authorities have
long believed that Australia —both under
the Colombo plan and through private
means —has not been getting the more
intelligent students from Asian countries.
Many of them prefer to go to the United
States or Britain—possibly because of the
wider choice in subjects and universities.
Undoubtedly some of the students under
the Colombo plan will return and be-
come Government administrators, but
the “private means” students come mainly
to study some aspect of commercial life
or to gain technical-college diplomas.
The elite of the Asian students are the
Colombo Plan ones. They receive special-
ised attention from teachers, their pro-
gress is checked by Government officials,
and they realise that failure in examina-
tions may hasten their return to their
country. It is often the latter possibility
which urges them more than anything
else.
For the student to get an entry visa
some Australian educational institution
must give him a letter of acceptance and
there must be some guarantee that he
“will not become a charge on the State.”
His family guarantees his financial condi-
tion and to gain a “letter of acceptance”
he usually applies to a university for
admittance. In most cases this is refused
because his educational standard is too
low, so he applies to a technical college
for a guarantee. What often happens
then is that he is accepted by them as a
student preparing full-time for matricula-
tion. But the difficulty for Asian students
and their Australian teachers comes with
the study of English. Although this is
a prerequisite taken into consideration
by the authorities, their English-lan-
guage qualification rests largely on their
original application. This, all too often,
has been written at home in impeccable
English—by some kind relative.
To offset this understandable “lurk”
some teachers have been advocating a
uniform language test run by all Em-
bassies to separate the “sheep from the
goats.” Department heads point out that
the students do well in mathematics and
science but break down when they sit
for English. They point out that the
present unorganised situation helps no
one: neither English teachers who are
constantly straining to put three years
work into one nor the student who in-
evitably suffers loss of face when the
news reaches home that he is a “failure.”
SPORT
Trafficking in
Footballers
“Cor some years the Victorian Football
League clubs have been buying
players from suburban and country clubs
at about £lOO per head. These deals are
not permitted by the code, but the sums
paid are concealed in the accounts under
entertainment, and in one case for euca-
lyptus, making it a rather expensive
massage season.
Opponents of this illicit financial
trafficking in players want to legalise the
whole thing by introducing official trans-
fer fees, and “Checker” Hughes, the
leader and former Melbourne coach who
is now a prosperous Richmond publican
and property investor, has finally got
recommendations through the Melbourne
committee for the payment by League
clubs of £lOO to major clubs and £5O to
minor clubs for players cleared to them.
The Footscray committee has also given
him guarded support.
Mr Hughes, who did not get that
apposite nickname playing marbles, is
shepherding his proposal with all his old
skill and shouldering. He plans to get
a League committee to bring forward a
sure goal, rather than attempt to mark
it himself and get his own plan elbowed
out.
When a League club wants a player
from a country club to which it has in
the past made a surreptitious payment it
has no difficulty in getting further trans-
fers. Trouble only begins when some
other, perhaps poorer, League club wants
another player and the country club
demands £lOO for him—-and is met with
the indignant rejoinder that such a pay-
ment is forbidden by the code. The
club which does not play financial ball
is most likely left without the player,
while the club with extraordinarily high
entertainment and eucalyptus bills gets
whatever players it requires.
All League clubs protest that they have
never made transfer payments. The most
vehement probably are Fitzroy and
Essendon. Some clubs can also protest
their innocence with some degree of
truth because they have a rich coterie ot
supporters who pay the transfer fees for
them.
Major country clubs, however, are not
enthusiastic about “Checker” Hughes s
plan. The reason is again financial
Although a higher payment is suggested
for the major clubs, they realise that
most of the players taken by the League
from the country are from the minor


clubs. For every £lOO paid to a major
club, about £3OO would be distributed
as transfer fees to minor country clubs.
Whether £lOO or £5O will be adequate
to ensure there are no under-the-lap pay-
ments with it is problematical. Transfer
fees in Europe have now grown to a size
equal to that paid for thoroughbred sires.
Milan recently signed Jimmy Greaves,
the English soccer star, on a transfer fee
of £lOO,OOO. Thereupon Tommy Trinder,
chairman of Fulham Soccer Club,
announced that Fulham captain, Johnny
Haynes, would be the highest-paid foot-
baller in Europe, and worth a £lOO,OOO
offer. As Milan had agreed to pay
Greaves £7OOO a year, Fulham must be
paying Haynes more.
HOSPITALS
Hushing
it Up
Asa result of hostile press criticism
** of the administration of Queensland’s
hospitals, Hospital Boards around Bris-
bane are now severely limiting their
official minutes in an attempt to prevent
further information leaking to the press
—or for that matter to the public. Official
minutes are now written in such cryptic
form that anyone who wants to find out
how a hospital is being run must either
be a board member or plant a tape-
recorder in the board-room.
On Tuesday last week at the Queensland
Country Party Conference at Cairns con-
ference passed an amendment to appoint
a select committee to inquire into hospi-
tal administration and policy. The
amendment followed a series of com-
plaints by the State’s leading medical
practitioners that shortage of finance had
made the State’s hospital system second-
rate —compared even to services in the
southern States.
The Premier, Mr Frank Nicklin, was
absent from the closing stages of the
Country party debate, but returned to
the attack on Wednesday with an im-
passioned plea to delegates to withdraw
the recommendation, which he described
as a vote of no-confidence in himself
and the Government. He advised con-
ference he had arranged for Liberal party
Health Minister, Dr Noble, to fly to
Caims and address them on hospital
administration. Conference yielded to
pressurt, not without a few anguished
protests. There will be no probe.
In four years administration, the Gov-
ernment has yet to allow an open inquiry,
Much less a Royal Commission, into any
phase of its activities. The “Courier-
Mail” summed up this case: “State-
wide dissatisfaction stems from bureau-
cratic secrecy that has set up one barrier
anothei to hinder the people of
Queensland from knowing how their
hospitals are run, and what they lack in
equipment, staff, and finance to supply
'heir needs.”
SOUTH AFRICAN INDEPENDENCE DAY


LAND SETTLEMENT
Serfdom
in W.A.?
FROM A PERTH CORRESPONDENT
GORDON FREETH
The Settlers’ Friend
The controversy about the fix the
war service land settlers are in in
Western Australia is already eight years
old, but the sudden discovery of it by
Mr Gordon Freeth, Federal Minister for
the Interior, may at last mean something
will be done. In a recent speech to the
settlers in his own electorate he came
down heavily on their side and
announced that an independent investi-
gation should be conducted into the
accounting methods of the War Service
Land Settlement Board —a decision in
direct line with the policy of the War
Service Land Settlers’ Association. His
sudden interest in this problem is under-
standable, since the settlers could swing
him about 500 votes and they are likely
to vote for the man who will offer them
the easiest way out of their predicament,
which stems directly from State Govern-
ment policies.
When the wool boom arrived in the
early 1950’s the price of developed land
in the agricultural areas of W.A. went
too high for further alienation for war
service land settlement. The State Gov-
ernment decided to push a policy of
developing virgin land on the south
coast for ex-service farms and submitted
a plan to the Commonwealth which was
deliberately based on low development
costs to ensure the scheme’s acceptance.
That is the root of all the trouble in
the project areas —as the 220-odd proper-
ties in this scheme have been called. The
board has never admitted how much the
whole 840,000-acre development project
has cost, but its published figures on one
of the project areas, Mount Many Peaks,
is revealing.
It cost the board £37 an acre to develop
600-acre farms in this semi-sandplain
area. This is about twice the price for
comparable development on private
farms When the board came to put a
valuation on the Mount Many Peaks
farms it had to write off some of its
costs to give the settlers an economic
valuation under the terms of the War
Service Land Settlement Act and finally
valued the farms at about £32 an acre.
The settlers do not have to pay this
valuation, which would cost them about
£19,000, because they hold their land
under perpetual lease conditions. What
the Mount Many Peaks settlers have to
pay is an annual rental of about £475,
which is based on the remarkably
low interest rate of two and a half per
cent, of the valuation. If they elected
to freehold their properties they would
have to pay almost the full valuation
rate.
The settlers have consistently claimed
that the valuation is too high and that
it should have been declared at the time
they took over their properties, when
only about £l5 an acre had been spent
on them. They concede, however, that
they should have to pay something for
the high potential of the land which is
capable of carrying at least two and a
half sheep to the acre. Mr J. B. Lid-
delow, president of the Mount Many
Peaks branch of the War Service Land
Settlers’ Association, has stated that
about £2O an acre would be a fair valua-
tion there.
In the timbered areas of Rocky
Gully, Frankland and Perillup the board
has not yet issued valuations, but it is
fairly clear that here its write-off will
be even larger because of the higher
clearing costs involved.
The independent accounting survey
now being urged by the settlers is a
direct attack on the efficiency of the
board. Settlers claim that they cannot
understand the accounts sent them by
the board and that in some cases it has
sent them false and inaccurate assess-
ments of their financial position.
This criticism stems from the fact
that the board handles all the settlers’
income while they are in the develop-
ment stage and doles them out
allowances for family upkeep and all
forms of running costs. Settlers have
attacked this system as a form of virtual
serfdom.
The board has implied that many
settlers sell farm produce privately and
do not turn over their whole income
to the board. Though it has never been
game to say so directly, it has constantly
hinted that most settlers do quite well
on their properties through illegal selling
of wool and livestock.
Mr Freeth’s colleague, Primary In-
dustry Minister Adermann, will arrive
in W.A. in June to see the problems
of the project settlers at first hand.
Whether he will be able to advance Mr
Freeth’s electoral chances by conceding
even some of the settlers’ demands is
problematical. The Commonwealth has
already spent more than it bargained
for in this development scheme and to
meet the settlers even half way would
involve further losses. However, Mr
Adermann could order an independent
accounting survey and thus throw the
burden of justifying the scheme’s costs
back onto the State. This would make
Mr Freeth the settlers’ friend, but it
would not return the excessive develop-
ments costs already spent.
JAIL
250 Officials,
12,000 Prisoners
The first time a reporter was invited to
look over Melbourne’s Pentridge jail
was at the end of the war, when Coburg
councillors were agitating to have the
jail removed —as they are now doing
again since a 200 ft section of the jail wall
fell down.
Among numerous complaints then
made about Pentridge, councillors had
alleged that it was dirty. The jail authori-
ties had denied this. “It wasn’t dirty,” a
veteran reporter recalled in Melbourne
last week, “and I had to report this. Yet
Pentridge bruised me mentally. It is just
as horribly depressing as a scene you may
have seen in a film —say, one about
Dickens’s England.
“Was I wrong not to have recorded
this at the time? I don’t know. I felt I
was asked to judge Pentridge on one
charge, of which it was innocent, and
that my commission did not extend to
other charges, of which it certainly was
guilty.”
Newspaper pictures in recent years
appear to contradict the vetern reporter’s
view of the jail. But they have been of
the more civilised section —chieflv
what was once the women’s division and
has now been refurbished into “G” divi-
sion, the psychiatric clinic. There have
been no pictures of the Pentridge that
Melburnians want removed.
“G” division is claimed to be the
most modern prison in Australia.
Prisoners there are engaged on craft-
work, with little supervision. The build-
ing runs around a well-kept gr een
courtyard with bright flower-pots along
concrete walks; there are recreation
rooms, a billiard table. The cells have a
radio speaker, cold running water, a lava-
tory, modern colors. The inmates are


chiefly psychopaths, homosexuals, alco-
holics and those serving sentences for the
Governor’s pleasure—the men who will
probably die in jail.
But there are only 75 prisoners in this
clinic. The rest of Pentridge holds about
1200. Modern British theory on jails is
that the maximum number should be be-
tween 200 and 300.
There have been some improvements
to the worst sections —“D” and “F,” the
remand and short-term divisions. Here
the lavatories and showers are open, the
bedclothes are skimpy, the cells appal-
lingly small ; and drunks and the
deranged lie around.
By comparison, the bluestone “H”
division, holding about 20 criminals with
maximum security precautions, is as
trim and orderly as a suburban villa.
Pentridge was opened in 1851. About
12,000 men a year pass through it,
handled by a staff of 250. And the staff’s
view's seem much more likely to impress
the Victorian Government than any
sociological facts about the 12,000
prisoners. Recently the general secre-
tary of the Victorian Public Service
Association opposed a plan to rebuild
Pentridge in the country. His reason:
it would inconvenience officials.
WOOL
Japan on
the Floor
“Tt is only natural that we should offer
A this floor membership to a represen-
tative of Japan, the largest buyer of Aus-
tralian wool,” said chairman Clive Hall
when the Sydney Greasy Wool Futures
Exchange at an extraordinary general
meeting decided to alter its rules to bring
Japan in as its 16th floor member.
(Other floor members include Great
Britain, the U.S. and several European
countries.)
Mr Hall described the move to admit
Japan as “possibly the most important
single happening since the opening of
the Exchange just over a year ago.”
Before that time Japan did not permit
members of its wool industry to operate
°n any wool futures market outside
Japan. However, after the Exchange was
formed in Sydney in April, 1960, Japan
made available over seven million U.S.
dollars for hedging wool or wool pro-
ducts on any wool futures market in the
world.
Sydney is the closest wool futures
Market to Japan, with only an hour’s
time difference, and should afford
Japanese buyers of Australian wool
immediate hedging protection at the
source of supply. Meanwhile some 2500
copies of the Exchange’s general hand-
book have been translated into Japanese.
BOOKS
Revolt of the
Young Publishers
LLOYD O’NEIL
exclusively . ..
'T'hree of Australia’s youngest pub-
lishers have launched a revolt against
the policies or lack of policies of the
older men who dominate the Publishers’
Association. The question at issue is
the plugging, even bally-hooing, of Aus-
tralian books and authors.
They claim that the trouble with earlier
publicity campaigns for Australian books
is that they were run by men who were
not exclusively publishers but mainly
agents for overseas publishers or book-
sellers who did a bit of publishing on the
side. The old Sydney Book Fair, for
example, failed because it was run by
booksellers who would not let books
be sold at the Fair, only in their shops.
The Moomba Book Fair also failed be-
cause it was controlled by an unwieldy
committee of non-publishers.
The rebels are Lloyd O'Neil, 32,
of Melbourne’s Lansdowne Press (who
is about to launch a new edition of “Ern
Malley’s Poems” and is currently running
a series of paperbacks by Australian
authors on Australian authors), Brian
Clouston, 35, of Brisbane’s Jacaranda
Press (who is already the second-largest
publisher in Australia and recently pub-
lished W. H. C. Eddy’s “Orr”), and Sam
Ure Smith, 38, of Sydney (who published
“They’re a Weird Mob” and “The Fall
of Singapore. The Japanese Version”).
They plan to launch an Australian
Book Week in October, 1962, and to
keep the organisation of it under the
complete control of men whose sole
interest is publishing—that is, themselves.
They held their first conference in a
Sydney restaurant last week and so far
their plans include getting an agreement
from all publishers to launch their
Christmas books during Book Week,
cash prizes for the best bookshop win-
dows, prizes of libraries of books for
winners of literary competitions, exhibi-
tions of Australian books in local
libraries, autographing parties and talks
by authors in bookshops, and any other
bally-hoo they can think of.
Bookshop managers are not expected
to be too enthusiastic about some of
their plans: when they have had window
displays of Australian books before they
have often lost money on the week’s
work. (The international bestsellers had
to be pushed aside for worthy but pos-
sibly unsalesworthy Australian books.)
Another problem is finance, and the
organisers hope to impose a levy on all
publishers. Since about half of the 45
Australian publishers have their head
offices in London, the question is: will
London pay the levy?
The Young Publishers faction has at
least the moral support of the older
publishers. “We’ve tried this sort of
thing before and failed” is the usual
reaction, “but if these three are silly
enough to try again . .
“Look what that earth tremor's gone and done to me line!”


LAW
To Malta
With Blood
EDWARD ST JOHN
constitution-maker
A ustralia continues to produce lawyers
who seem to be expert in solving
other countries’ constitutional problems.
The latest is bespectacled 44-year-old Mr
Edward St John, Q.C., one of Sydney’s
younger silks. Last year he was given
one of the toughest jobs in nation-
building when he was appointed, with
Sir Hilary Blood as chairman and Sir
Arthur Roberts, to devise a new consti-
tution for Malta.
Malta, which is made up of the two
small islands of Malta and Gozo, is a
difficult place to make a constitution for.
It has virtually no industries —producing
mainly rocks and people (including
migrants). The islands hold 323,000
people on 120 square miles—roughly the
equivalent to the area in Sydney between
Ben Buckler and Abbotsford and The
Spit and Long Bay. The political life
of the nation is torn by the continuing
strife between the Catholic church in
Malta and Mr Mintoff, the Labor leader.
The constitutional crisis has been drag-
ging on since the beginning of 1958.
Mr St John, who is Honorary Secre-
tary of the Australian section of the Inter-
national Commission of Jurists, was able
to make some use of his knowledge of
the legal relationship between the Aus-
tralian States and the Federal Govern-
ment. The relation between the Aus-
tralian States and the Commonwealth
Government will be duplicated in some
respects—if the Blood Report is adopted
—by the legal tie between the State of
Malta and the British High Commis-
sioner. The Malta Government will have
power to legislate for peace, order and
good government of the islands. It has
concurrent powers with the United King-
dom High Commissioner to legislate for
defence and foreign affairs, and where
they conflict the British Government has
the final say. A wide range of Bills
affecting the dual sovereignty provisions
internal order and security are reserved
for Royal assent.
Although the British Government and
Mr St John may be satisfied with their
report, it is not certain whether Malta
will accept it or not. Both the Maltese
Labor party and the Nationalist party
abstained from giving evidence during the
Commission’s hearings.
Mr St John told The Bulletin this
week: “It is not the constitution desired
by the political leaders of the Maltese
people. They demand immediate inde-
pendence. But this was outside our
terms of reference.”
BOHEMIA
A Rally
Tn what must have been the most
formidable collection of Sydney
bohemians for many years, about 400
poets, artists, architects and assorted
bums gathered last Friday night in the
Macquarie Auditorium to hear tape-
recordings of the poet Harry Hooton
reciting some of his works. Harry
Hooton, who at 53 is gravely ill with
cancer, is one of the kings of intellec-
tual bohemia and the size of the
crowd at the Auditorium is an indica-
tion of the loyalty he commands. (He
himself was reported to have said,
after seeing a copy of the programme:
“It’s not the sort of show I would
care to attend.”) The money collected
is to finance the publication this week
of his latest book: “It’s Great to be
Alive.”
In the best traditions everything
went well except the main event:
the tapes of Hooton’s readings were
completely inaudible. Nevertheless
under an optimistic notice “Please do
not applaud until the end of each
sequence,” a variety of bearded poets
compensated the audience by reciting
a selection of each other’s very bad
poems with very great feeling. As
befitted the birthplace of Amateur
Hour, folk-singers, guitar-players and
film-makers seized a rare opportunity
to display their skills. One guitar-
player, J. Earls, showed real talent but
the best film, Tim Burstall’s “Black
man and His Bride,” was spoilt by
incompetent technicians.
The audience was not only tolerant,
but disgracefully well-behaved. Only
an odd bottle or two rolled in the
aisles and only a dozen or so were
prompted by the No Smoking sign
to light their cigarettes. It almost
seemed that they had been lulled by
the poets into bourgeois conformity,
until the star performer, Robert Cum-
ming, reactivated their consciences by
delivering a speech in honor of Harry
Hooton, and then reciting, amid
tremendous applause, his own adapta-
tion of William Blake’s epigram to
Fuseli:
“The only man that e’er I knew
Who did not make me almost spew
Was Harry Hooton ; he is both poet
and true —-
And so, my dear successful friends,
how do you do ?”
CATTLEMEN
Vanishing
Drovers
Y\7hen a cattleman hands over a mob
of cattle to a drover he is passing
over assets worth £35,000 or more. The
drover has to look after them for as
many weeks or months as it takes to get
from the station to the market, moving
at 60 miles a week, and get them through
in the best possible condition. He has
to be everything from a veterinary sur-
geon to a nurse and to be able to cure
the cattle of everything from pests to
fever.
But reliable drovers of this type are
becoming a thing of the past. The old-
timers, with 50 or more years’ experience
of overlanding cattle, are retiring and
there are few qualified men to replace
them. The result is that road transport,
with truck drivers replacing drovers,
seems the only practicable solution.
The Prime Minister took the first step
in this direction when he announced
recently that the Federal Government
had offered up to £650,000 in 1961-62 as
a contribution towards bringing the road
from Normanton to Julia Creek to all-
weather standard.
There already is an earth road running
through the middle of the Queensland
Gulf country from Normanton to Julia
Creek, linking that area with the Towns-
ville-Mount Isa railway. But it is not a
first-class road, and in the black-soil areas
in the wet season it becomes impassable.
To counter these conditions, Senator
Spooner said in elaboration of the Prime
Minister’s statement: “Causeways will
have bitumen surfaces ; black-soil areas
will be provided with an 18ft.-wide gravel
surface ; and a minimum of gravelling
will be laid where natural conditions will
carry traffic in wet weather.” All this is
going to cost about £24-million and will
take two years to complete. The Federal
Government is also considering other
road proposals in the north, both for
beef and minerals. The two main results
of this road (which should soon be carry-
ing 50,000 head of stock annually) are
likely to be: an increase in the stock
population, and an improvement in > ts
poundage and quality by reducing the
need to walk cattle out. Drovers canno
meet this sort of competition.


PLAIN ENGLISH
How Labor Could Win an Election
There is a wonderful opportunity for
the A.L.P. to take just one step in
Queensland this year that could provide
the first of a connected chain of events
that could win them a Federal election.
They are not likely to take it.
The step is a simple one. They should
out up an A.L.P. candidate against a
man called Hennessy. Mr Hennessy is
a Communist who sits on the Common-
wealth Council of the Amalgamated
Engineering Union. That may not sound
very important in itself, but as “Mugga”
points out on page 5, by defeating
Hennessy the A.L.P. could put the
A.E.U. under anti-Communist control.
The A.E.U. could then ally itself with
the anti-Communist Ironworkers Federa-
tion and dominate the 250,000 - strong
Metal Trades Federation. From this
vantage point the anti-Communist unions
in the metal trades could dominate the
A.C.T.U. and the whole union move-
ment. They would not lack other allies ;
human nature being what it is, unionists
now sitting on the fence would join the
bandwagon.
This would revolutionise the whole
greasy collaborating atmosphere of
union politics in Australia. Those A.L.P.
men who are sickened by the present
role of the A.L.P. in union affairs might
at last pluck up enough courage to say
what they think. Battles would still have
to be fought, and at least a minimum of
political courage would have to be
acquired from somewhere. But there
would be a base for the kind of clean-up
of its internal scandals that has to be
achieved before Labor can seriously
present itself as a candidate for govern-
ment.
None of this will happen. It will not
happen partly because there are too
many A.L.P. men who are cowards ; too
many who hate the D.L.P. more than
they hate Communists ; too many who
are duped by Communist love talk and
their own illusions to such an extent that
they unwittingly play a Communist line ;
and some who are (undercover) Com-
munists.
Those who are cowards will not risk
losing their pre-selections or splitting
what is left of their party by insisting
that the A.L.P. should itself run candi-
dates in union elections. This move
Would settle the whole issue. But they
are not game to try because they believe
they depend on the support of men who
Would oppose this, and they fear that
the A.L.P. must necessarily run third in
a union election to the D.L.P. and the
Communists. In other words, the party
that has provided dozens of governments
and claims that it should run Australia
is not capable of organising a candidate
in a union election.
Those who hate the D.L.P. more than
they hate Communists prefer not to
believe in the entry of politics into union
elections. So the men who once ran
to Mr Santamaria for help in their own
elections now connive at the Communists
winning unions which then send delegates
to A.L.P. conferences to tell the A.L.P.
how to run its business (and how not
to “interfere" in elections).
They are happy that Mr J. J. Brown,
the notorious Communist, should hold
the Victorian branch of the A.R.U., for
example, rather than that the D.L.P.
should control it. We have Mr Calwell’s
word for this when he said: “This par-
ticular problem about unity tickets has
an aspect that is non-existent anywhere
else. We’ve got unions affiliated with
the D.L.P. in this State. Any union
captured by the D.L.P. would im-
mediately be disaffiliated from the A.L.P.,
then affiliated with the D.L.P., and that
union would be used against us politi-
cally.” If Mr Calwell were the leader
he professes to be he would be happy
to see the Victorian A.R.U, —and every
other Communist - dominated union in
Victoria —go to the D.L.P. These unions
would not then be telling the Victorian
Executive what to do and it might win
an election. With a bit of guts, he could
try winning the unions back later. If
he began acting this way there might, in
fact, no longer be a D.L.P. There would
certainly be less point in its existence.
And if he is worried about the money
he would lose in union contributions he
could start opening the Victorian
branches of the A.L.P. to anti-Com-
munists.
A Needless War?
T>erhaps The Bulletin was right about
the Boer War after all. It opposed
it bitterly at the time —and with South
Africa declaring its glorious indepen-
dence this week we seem to have lost
the Boer War after all. It was not one
of the British Empire's most glorious
campaigns. It was provoked in a shady
kind of way and fought with a minimum
of efficiency in the field and a maximum
of controversy at home. It did give us
allies in two world wars (but only by a
fluke in the second). It gave us Smuts,
who was handy to have at the time, but
everything he believed in subsequently
collapsed. Since the Empire became the
Commonwealth, South Africa has given
us a lot of trouble, and from the world
P.R. point of view it has apparently
served us best by its departing.
Now this tragic country faces its future
with Portugal as its one dependable ally,
With Algeria, it is the most hopeless relic
of the Western European colonist period,
The departure of Europeans was easily
arranged in countries like Ghana where
most Europeans were only temporary
residents. Staying was even more easily
arranged in countries like Australia,
where we just took over. It will be more
difficult in Kenya, where Europeans
made their home but are outnumbered ;
if the worst comes to the worst they can
be bought out. But South Africa!
Selling Wheat to China
'T'he letter on page 24 from Sir John
Teasdale is of very great importance
to anyone who feels uneasy about the
Wheat Board’s decision to sell wheat on
credit to Communist China. Sir John is
to be applauded for his opposition to this
deal, and for his courage in proclaim-
ing it.
It would be a reasonable deduction
to make from his letter that the growers’
representatives on the board were respon-
sible for the credit arrangements. If
this is so there should be the widest
debate among wheatgrowers on the atti-
tude of their representatives on the board.
If wheatgrowers do not want to sell
wheat to Communist China on extra-
ordinary terms they should say so loudly
and often enough for their representa-
tives on the board to hear them. If they
do want to enter into this kind of
negotiation with a Communist country
it is up to those of us who oppose it to
point out to them that their conduct may
threaten the interests of most Australians
—and in the long run it is likely to
threaten the interests of the wheatgrowers
as well.
By OBSERVER


Harold Holt
the Gambler
Half's basic concern is with the crucial 20 per cent.
HAROLD HOLT
It has not been easy going
By ALAN REID
HAROLD HOLT regards himself these days as some-
thing of a reformed character. Once he was a bold
gambler at the horse events; but since he became
Treasurer two and a bit years ago he has become as
decorous as a small-town bank manager.
His explanation is plausible: it would not look quite
the thing for a Federal Treasurer to be galloping round the
betting ring with a fistful of notes in his hand and an eye
cocked for a bookmaker giving a point over the odds. But
the real explanation could be different. Without consciously
working it out. Holt may have realised that when he took
on the job as Federal Treasurer he was doing something he
had never done before —embarking upon a political gamble.
For though he has been a gambler in private life, the
thing that has distinguished Holt in his political career has
been his businesslike approach. As he will tell you himself,
he worked out very early that 40 per cent, of Australian
voters would vote non-Labor, come hell and high water,
and another 40 per cent, would vote Labor as determinedly.
That left 20 per cent, in the middle to make or break
Governments. It has been to this 20 per cent, that Holt has
directed his attention throughout his political life.
He has taken risks (what politician hasn’t), but they
have been coolly calculated risks—the risks that a business-
man takes to earn a profit, not those of a gambler. When
he was Minister for Labor and had settled a strike involving
concessions to the strikers. I have heard indignant members
of his own party call him a “pussyfooter” or “appeaser.”
Holt could not have cared less. He was not interested in
them and their reaction. He knew that they belonged to
the “hell or high water” school that would vote for him
and the non-Labor forces which he represented whatever he
did or said. He was playing for approbation from the 20
per cent, in the middle. They were the ones who put him
on the Treasury benches and they would be the ones who,
if he retained their approval, would keep him there.
Taking over the Treasury was Holt’s first real politi-
cal gamble. If you look at his career you will see what I
mean. Before moving into the Treasury he had in both
Immigration and Labor and National Service dealt almost
exclusively with people and their human problems. He
was very good at this and made a success of it. He had an
intuitive sense of what was right in a given set of circum-
stances —and what would appeal to that 20 per cent, of
the electorate.
But in the Treasury he would not be dealing with people
and human problems but with broad, impersonal policies,
with facts and figures on a sheet of paper, not with men and
women across the desk. He would be in a new environment,
a highly specialised one. in which only a rare individual-
such as his predecessor. Sir Arthur Fadden —would have
the courage to rely on his intuition, particularly if that
intuition was to reject the advice of his expert officials.
Could he make a success of the job?
Holt probably weighed the personal factors involved.
By political standards when Sir Arthur Fadden retired from
the Treasury and Parliament in 1958 to go into private
business. Holt was still young —he is only 52 now. But he
was one of the most experienced men in the Federal Parlia-
ment. which he entered in 1935 as the “baby'’ of the House
at only 27 years of age. He was deputy leader of the
Liberal party, junior only to Prime Minister Menzies. He
had been tested in Opposition—the hardest testing ground
there is in politics—when the Labor Government was in
office from 1941 to 1949, and he had emerged with an
enhanced reputation. His administration of the Immigra-
tion and Labor and National Service portfolios since 1949
had added to his laurels and stature.
He was very much the heir-apparent. Other people—
Attorney-General Sir Garfield Barwick, Defence Minister
Athol Townley, Trade Minister Jack McEwen —were some-
times mentioned as possibles who might succeed Menzies
in the Prime Ministership. But they were only possibles.
Holt was the probable.
He had a lot to lose if he made a wrong decision about
the Treasury. The Treasury was a very key job. Through
its control of purse-strings it had a say in practically every-
thing that happened in every department. If Holt let it go
to somebody else, that somebody else might develop both
ambition and strength and use the portfolio to build himself
up until possibly in time he became a formidable opponent
to Holt for the role of heir-apparent.
TJOLT made sure that it did not go to anyone else. He
saw Menzies and was appointed to the job. It was a
gamble that has not paid off as yet. For the Treasury over
the past couple of years has not been easy going. Holt
has had to make a lot of unpopular decisions owing t°
economic circumstances and in recent months has had the
mortification of seeing the bulk of his major decisions


reversed as unworkable and bad for the economy. It is a
long time since his stocks were as low as they now appear to
be with the Liberal Parliamentarians —and these are the
people whose votes count if a successor to Menzies has to
be chosen.
But Holt is carrying it off with a flourish. He is as
suave, charming and pleasant as ever he was, as if he were
actually on the crest of a wave of popularity instead of in
a trough. He has experienced unpopularity before, and
knows that normally it passes with time and in the interval
has to be endured philosophically.
His performances in the House of Representatives help
him to carry off his current unpopularity with a suave
disdain. Nowadays he is the target for most of Labor’s
hostile questions, but the questions do not get very far and
he handles them deftly. Amusingly, he learned the technique
from a Labor politician —the late Jack Beasley, one of the
most capable Parliamentarians the House of Representatives
has seen in the past 30 years.
When Holt, then a slim, athletic young man, good
looking and well groomed with the slightly Bohemian touch
in his dressing that he has never lost, was first appointed an
assistant Minuter at 30 in the first Menzies pre-war Govern-
ment Beasley, who liked him. gave him some advice.
“Answer every question —hostile, humorous, insulting or
loaded —as though it is a serious search for knowledge.”
Beasley told him. “They'll never trap you or score off you
if you do that.” To this day Holt continues to answer all
questions as though they are a serious search for knowledge.
And it pays off. He is one of the hardest men to trap
or score off.
He is quite a good actor. Most politicians are —but in
his case his politician's flair for dramatics is reinforced by
family training. His father left the land in N.S.W. to become
a theatrical manager in Melbourne and managed some of
the most famous artists to visit Australia. His aunt is Vera
Pearce, stage and screen star and a fine comedienne.
Holt went to Wesley College. Melbourne, and shone
at football, cricket and athletics before he went on to
Melbourne University to do law and to captain at cricket and
represent at football and athletics. He has always been
proud of his neat athlete’s figure, played tennis at Parlia-
ment House for years to keep himself in nick and even now
is still an underwater fisherman.
At the University he won a prize for oratory and did
his famous essay on Socialism. The legend is that he sup-
ported Socialism, but Holt says he did not. that in fact he
drew attention to its shortcomings. Anyway, it apparently
caused quite a stir and went the rounds of the University.
Holt was encouraged into the belief that there might be a
niche for him in politics.
But aunt Vera Pearce had other ideas. Holt himself
has told the story that she told him: “Do some acting.
You’ve got the figure, voice and looks, dear. If you can
act you'll be a smash hit.” He appeared in an amateur-
season of A. P. Herbert's “The Man In the Bowler Hat”
(years later he was to appear regularly in the columns of a
hostile newspaper photographed in a grey topper at the races
as the “Polly In the Grey Stovepipe'’). But before his
ambitions could firm in the direction of the stage depression
and the talkies came along. His father lost a small fortune
in unsuccessful theatrical ventures before dying practically
broke. Holt gave up his theatrical ambitions, became
articled to a firm of Melbourne solicitors and. according to
the legend of all men destined for greatness, “scrimped and
scraped” his way through law to become a barrister at 23
years of age.
Barristering proved about as unprofitable as the stage.
No briefs turned up and he became a solicitor. Still he did
not hit the jackpot. But through the influence of family
Wends he became secretary of the Cinematograph
Exhibitors’ Association with the right to continue his law
practice. This period was not to be entirely unrewarding.
It brought him into contact with the Arbitration Court
and the Arbitration system—something which in later years
he was to have a hand in reforming.
The depression was still on. Of his views at this time,
Holt is on the record as saying: “They were by no means
clearly defined, though I leaned towards Labor when I
attended a meeting of the Young Nationalists’ Association”
-—a body which Menzies. then a rising power in Victoria,
and Wilfrid (now Sir Wilfrid) Kent Hughes, also these days
in the Federal Parliament, were largely instrumental in
forming and promoting). “It was then I first met Menzies.
I liked the organisation. There was no ready-made accept-
ance of ideas. So 1 joined.”
That act of joining carried him a long way. (In later
years he explained that he swung against political Labor
because he considered it was dominated by the trade unions.)
He was then 25. He served his apprenticeship in the Young
Nationalists by contesting two hopeless Labor strongholds
-—Yarra against the then Labor Leader Jimmy Scullin, who
trounced him; the other a State seat just as firmly pro-
Labor. But in 1935 at 27 years of age he got the United
Australian Party selection for Fawkner, a strong non-Labor
seat, and has been in the Parliament ever since. Within three
years he was a Cabinet Minister. Menzies liked him, trusted
him and thought highly of his ability. He was well on his
way up when war broke out. In 1940 he enlisted in the
A.I.F. as an artillery gunner.
jgUT in 1940 Menzies’s political situation was precarious.
He had been only narrowly returned to power in the
elections of that year. There was unrest and rebellion within
the ranks of the U.A.P. (the non-Labor predecessor of the
Liberal party). Sir Earle Page, leader of the Country party,
was anti-Menzies and determined to put somebody other
than Menzies into the Prime Ministership.
Then came the tragic air crash at Canberra airport in
which died Air Minister Fairbairn. Army Minister Street
and Information Minister Sir Henry Gullett —all Menzies’s
supporters. Menzies had Holt pulled out of the Army in a
despairing attempt to strengthen his now weakened Ministry.
(It was at this period that Holt, still a bachelor, introduced
the first Federal child endowment and became known as
“The unmarried god-father of a million children.”)
But his presence in the Cabinet could not stop the rot.
and the Government’s position deteriorated still further. It
reached the stage where it depended for its existence upon
WITH DR EVATT
Hall couldn't cere less


the continuing support of two Victorian independents—•
Alex Wilson, a wheat farmer, and Arthur Coles, who had
succeeded Sir Henry Gullett in the seat of Henty.
In the moves and countermoves that followed,
Menzies’s support gradually eroded away. Holt —and this
may be a factor in the closeness of the relationship that
still exists between the two men —was the last to desert him,
leaving only Eric Harrison (now Sir Eric and Australian
High Commissioner in London) to stand loyal. Menzies
resigned and was succeeded in that office by Fadden, who
lasted only a few weeks until his Government was voted
out by Wilson and Coles and replaced by an administra-
tion headed by the then Labor leader, John Curtin. It was
years before Menzies forgave some of the men who were
responsible for his war-time downfall. But he never showed
any evidence of holding a grudge against Holt.
Then followed eight years in Opposition, until the
Labor Government fell in 1949 and Menzies came back as
Prime Minister. When Menzies announced his Cabinet it
was obvious that Holt had become a power in the land.
Holt was ranked No. 4 in the Cabinet order of seniority,
ranking beneath only Menzies himself, Fadden and the
ever-faithful Eric Harrison.
TNHE next nine years must have been happy ones for Holt.
A The economy was bursting at the seams. Money was
plentiful. Jobs grew on trees. Labor was having its Time
of Troubles and the Menzies Government’s problems were
only points of detail, not basic.
In Immigration and Labor. Holt had the type of job
which he liked and at which he was very good—dealing
with people and their human needs. He kept Immigration
going on the same massive scale as Arthur Calwell, who
was Immigration Minister in the previous Labor Govern-
ment. (Calwell was —and is—a close personal friend and
with a generosity unusual in a politician Holt acknowledged
that Calwell was the chief architect of the Australian
immigration programme.) But he humanised Calwell’s
administration, particularly on the restricted immigration
side. He refused to accept the hard and fast rules under
which Calwell had operated and which had resulted in
Asians with family connections in Australia being kept out
of the country or deported. Each case was a separate human
problem. Holt insisted. Each had to be examined on its
merits and not subjected to an inflexible rule. Asians
married to Australians were admitted for residence in Aus-
tralia. Parents were united with their children. The
Gamboa and the O’Keefe cases which brought Asian wrath
down upon Calwell’s head were not duplicated.
In the Labor Department he achieved good relation-
ships with the trade union movement. The president of the
Australian Council of Trade Unions, Mr Albert Monk,
was a personal friend who liked and trusted him. Holt had
a capacity for compromise stemming from his belief that
it was the 20 per cent, of voters in the middle, not the 40
per cent, on either side, that mattered. The trade union
movement, with its own history of compromise, liked this.
Holt was popular with all but the extreme Left-wing trade
unions.
His personal life changed. He had always been a hard
worker in working hours, but he knew how to play in his
leisure time. He liked good wine and good food, though
his respect for physical fitness kept him from indulging his
tastes to excess. He enjoyed the company of women, and
as a highly eligible, good-looking bachelor with a nice line
of small talk, a ready tongue and ready wit, he was much
sought after. He was no stranger to night clubs and was not
a bad dancer. (He was selected by Cabinet to dance with
Princess Alexandra at the State Ball at Parliament House
when the young princess visited Canberra.)
He was over 40 and his thick hair streaked with dis-
tinguished silver at the sides when he met a girl named Zara
Dickens, whom he had known as an art student during his
university days. In the interval she had married an English
Army officer, gone to India and returned to Australia as Zara
WITH QUEEN JULIANA AND MRS ZARA HOLT
He humanised immigration
Fell with three sons. She and her husband had divorced.
Holt proposed, was accepted, and acquired a wife and three
stepsons.
A pen picture of Holt done at this time by a colleague
of mine (and “vetted” and approved by Holt) revealed a
romantic streak in Holt completely at variance with the
popular conception of the hard-bitten, unsentimental poli-
tician which Holt undoubtedly was and had been for years.
According to this picture Holt had loved Zara from
university days. He had kept away from her then only
because of his depression-induced poverty. When he learned
she had married the English Army officer and gone off to
India to live he tramped the darkened streets of Melbourne
night after night “in anguish.” He started writing long
letters to Zara which he never posted. In what could have
been his thousandth unposted letter he announced: “I'm
standing for Parliament darling.” (This when he contested
the unwinnable seat of Yarra against Jimmy Scullin.)
But romance —and marriage—were not the only things
that marked the Holt career at this period. He kept moving
up. His influence and prestige mounted. By and large,
everything in the Holt garden was lovely. But there were
some shady and sour spots. He started to acquire enemies,
powerful ones, both inside and outside his party.
The then Labor Leader Dr Evatt (now Chief Justiee
of N.S.W.) made no secret of his contempt for Holt. It
was not just that Holt made a practice of attacking him
personally. Nc man was more conditioned to attacks than
Evatt, probably the most controversial figure of modern
Australian politics. He took them in his stride as part of
a normal day’s happening. What he objected to was the
way Holt attacked him. According to Evatt, Holt always
waited until he was absent from Parliament, preferably
from Canberra, before launching these personal attacks,
and though it could have been coincidence, Evatt could
produce quite formidable evidence to substantiate his charge
that Holt preferred attacking him in his absence than in
his presence.
Holt, a realist, probably could not have cared less what
Evatt thought about him and his tactics. But enmity
developed in another quarter over this period. A group
within his own party took a “set” on him—a “set” which
continues down to the present day and which, while it exists,
must always be a threat to his Prime Ministerial ambitions.
I have always been puzzled by it. If you question
members of the anti-Holt group about the reasons fo r


WITH MRS JOAN PELC
Likes good wine, good food
their hostility they are invariably imprecise. They do not
seem able to point to any single act on his part as a justifi-
cation for their attitude. You are left with the feeling that
they just have a vague distrust of him which they cannot
explain even to themselves.
The existence of this group, not very vocal, not openly
antagonistic, but always there waiting for the opportunity
(more frequent now that Holt and Treasury have come
increasingly under public fire) to slip in the quiet, malicious
and often effective criticism, must be a danger to Holt and
his ambitions. It is a reservoir of strength upon which any
rival to Holt can always draw.
It has been drawn upon openly only once in recent
years—when Harrison resigned the Deputy Leadership of
the Parliamentary Liberal party to become Australian High
Commissioner in London. The Government leader in the
Senate, Senator William Spooner, who is also Minister for
National Development, stood against Holt for the job. Holt
should have given Spooner a terrible thrashing. Spooner
was in the Senate and could never become Prime Minister
as a member of that House The whole modern trend is
against locating the key offices, such as the Deputy Liberal
leader, in the Senate. Apart altogether from traditional
considerations, there were roughly twice as many Govern-
ment members of the House of Representatives as there
were Government Senators. The whole thing was a farce.
The most Spooner could hope for would be a handful of
votes from a few Senate “diehards” trying to preserve for
the Senate some illusion of importance. But when the vote
was taken it was obvious that the anti-Holt group had been
silently at work. Holt won. but only just. The margin was
a couple of votes when he should have walked in.
The existence of this group may have decided Holt to
jake the Treasury when Fadden pulled out. If he had let
■t go to someone else and that someone else had shown
ability undoubtedly the anti-Holt group would have
mustered to his banner, as they earlier had to Spooner’s.
The legend is that when Holt took over the Treasury
officials dusted up their pet schemes, on which Fadden, a
shrewd, earthy man. had consistently turned “thumbs down”
as politically dangerous and administratively undesirable,
they proceeded to re-submit them to the new Treasurer in
me hope that they would get them past him after years of
milure in trying to get them past Fadden.
The legend could be wrong. But it does seem that a
lot of things have happened in Holt’s brief period in the
Treasury that did not happen while Fadden was there.
The explanation could be that the Trade Department does
not function, as it did in Fadden’s day, as a check upon the
Treasury. Treasury and Trade symbolise the two schools
of thought that exist within the Commonwealth Public
Service. Treasury is cautious and conventional, rather with-
drawn from the everyday world of trade and commerce,
operating on a higher, more detached level. Forced by the
very nature of its activities into the market places. Trade
is bolder, less conventional, tending to reflect the views of
trade and commerce as well as of the public service.
Fadden, who was the Country-party leader, was
Treasury s Ministerial head, McEwen, who is now
Country-party leader and then Fadden s deputy leader, was
Trade Minister. There was a close association between the
two. McEwen acted in his own right in the Cabinet room
as a check upon the Treasury viewpoint, but he had a very
powerful backstop in the shape of Fadden, his closest politi-
cal associate, to act as a further check on Treasury.
But now Treasury for all practical purposes is the undis-
puted lord of all it surveys. Subject only to Holt’s check
and ultimately that of Cabinet, it is the decisive policy
shaper on the economic and financial side. It is claimed in
the public service that 90 per cent, of the November
economic decisions that changed the economic climate in
Australia so dramatically were Treasury-inspired.
This is where the element of gamble comes in. If things
work out Holt is entitled to the bulk of the credit. But if
they do not he will undoubtedly get the backwash. And
already there has been some backwash. While you can
explain away one reversal of policy, such as the decision—
on the grounds that there was no longer any purpose in it—
to lift the extra sales-tax on motor vehicles only a couple
of months after it had been imposed as essential for Aus-
tralia s well-being, you cannot go on using the same excuse
indefinitely for a series of reversals.
And such reversals have been—and are—taking place
Significantly they seem to be taking place not because
Treasury and Holt want them to take place, but because the
politicians are far from sure that the policies Holt as
Treasury spokesman wants pursued are the right and proper
policies at this moment of time and in present conditions.
Labor Minister William McMahon revealed a lot when,
in answer to a question expressing concern about the mount-
ing number registering in Australia for employment, he told
the Parliament that Prime Minister Menzies had that very
morning initiated a discussion on that very problem.
If Menzies initiated the discussion. Holt and Treasury
could not have been advocating the credit relief for the
home-building industry which Cabinet ultimately ruled
should be made available to stimulate the industry. If
Treasury had initiated the discussion Menzies would not
have needed to do so; Holt would have been the initiator.
Treasury has undoubtedly been a strain for Holt. His
smile is as easy as ever, his face as unlined, his manner as
confident. But he has already had one slight breakdown in
health (when he was preparing his last Budget); he is tied
to his desk far more than ever he was; he does not get time
for recreation (except for a bit of skin-diving) and no time
for play.
He still exercises an immense influence upon Menzies.
Menzies, for example, showed signs of going much further
than he has gone in relaxing restraints on home-building,
but Holt and his first lieutenant—Sir Roland Wilson, per-
manent head of the Treasury —saw him privately just before
Cabinet made its decision. On the decision that emerged,
it does seem that they persuaded Menzies to hold his hand,
though not to hold it completely, until their policies had
been given a further testing period.
Holt may have sworn off gambling in the formal sense
when he became Federal Treasurer. But he is still engaged in
a gamble—a political gamble. It will be interesting to see
whether he pulls it off.


Why I am an Expatriate—2
Sweating It Out
of My System
"Paradoxically I rediscovered in myself the most
genuine elements of Australian culture at the cost
of cutting myself off from Australia."
By JACK LINDSAY
JACK LINDSAY
“Why did I do il?”
Why did I ever leave Australia? It is a question I often
reproachfully ask myself during the long English
winters. But 1 do not find the answer an easy one.
When I sailed from Sydney early in 1926, I had the
firm intention of staying in London only a year or two. 1
wanted to find my footing in the literary world there, publish
a book or two, and then return to Australia where I was sure
that some sort of renaissance was happening. Of the English
cultural scene I had no high opinion, though England as the
Land of the Poets from Chaucer to Morris and Rossetti was
a sort of symbolic island that I felt it necessary to visit and
savour.
Altogether the impulse was a confused one. a mixture
of respect for the great past and an admission that the London
book market dominated the Australian. 1 was not at all
clear what I meant by “finding a footing.” 1 didn't want to
fit into the English scene ; I wanted to extort from it some
interest in the Australian one. For though our aesthetic views
•—by which I mean the views we set out in the quarterly
“Vision,” and which were largely derived from my father
Norman—were scornful of nationalism at one level, they
readmitted it in a glorified form at another. We thought
Australian art and poetry were on the upgrade, while England
and Europe in general were going down.
I should probably never have set out on this mission, and
certainly should have achieved nothing on it, if it had not
been for John Kirtley who had invited me to go along with
him and help in founding a fine press, the Fanfrolico, in
London. Kirtley quickly came to dislike London and handed
the press over to me, so that in 1927 I was equipped with the
mechanism for making an assault on the English literary
world and attempting to make it recognise what I considered
our Australian achievements.
From 1927 to 1930 the assault was carried on, though
not much recognition was extorted, 1 fear. But it was exhilarat-
ing while it lasted. We made a fair number of dents in the
imperturbable English literary sphere, but remained essentially
Australian rowdies, peculiarly talking of High Art, with no
apparent relevance to the things that interested the critics.
It will be readily understood, however, that during those
four crowded years the question of return did not arise,
though I looked on myself as an Australian frondeur with
no concern for the English apple-cart except to upset it.
This odd episode, which it is hard to allocate either to
the history of Australian or English literature, has been
conveniently ignored by both sides, though some earnest com-
pilers of theses at American universities have shown signs
of taking it seriously. However, it ended by 1930, when the
Fanfrolico like all the fine presses was swallowed up by the
economic slump.
Now was the moment when on any rational basis I
should have at last considered my return. But somehow 1
never did. To return after a crash —even if it was a setback
shared by such respectable colleagues as those of the Nonesuch
Press —went thoroughly against my grain. The adventure of
the press seemed after all something that had subordinated
my own work to the general Visionary programme. Now
1 was thrown back wholly on my personal resources, which
were practically nil. Nil financially, and also nil from the
viewpoint of having any work in hand or in mind that could
help me “find my footing.” How to make a living I had
no idea, but 1 was determined not to make things easy for
myself by taking a job. I had to keep alive by literary work
alone.
I cannot say that I ever formulated these principles
precisely ; l simply acted on them I took for granted that
if I had to cable my father for my fare home, I was a failure.
Why I minded failing in a literary environment for which
I had little respect, I find it hard to say. But I did. Up till
now I had looked on myself as a poet, interested in verse-
drama and ready to translate from the ancient poets, but
finding little use for prose except in dithyrambic manifestos.
'T'he coincidence of being a poet and the editor-owner of a
fine press had masked the fact that normally a poet
could not live on his craft ; and 1 realised that I must find
ways of diverting my poetic interests into prose if l were
to survive. I concentrated on the job of diversion, which I
found remarkably difficult —-a sort of rebirth, in which 1 had
to grow a new set of senses and a differently oriented mind.
From 1930 to the end of 1933 I struggled to write novels, to
transform my more or less archaic technique of verse-drama
into the technique of prose narrative. I managed to keep alive
mainly through living most of the time in Cornwall on a few
shillings a week, the price of some potatoes and spinach, and
changing my address with inconvenient rapidity. The problem
of survival was far too strenuous to give me any leisure for
debating whether or not to return to Australia—a return that
would have been possible only by abjectly borrowing the
money.
I found that the things a poet knows about life and
people, or thinks he knows, are very different from those
required for a novel dealing with everyday life. Meanwhile
my brother Phil in London had had a sudden rise in fortune
with his novel “Here Comes to the King,” and in a letter he
remarked, “Why don’t you write an historical novel? fi
ought to be your way out.” I turned from the baffling con-
temporary scene to the Roman past in which I felt much more
at home, and wrote “Rome for Sale,” which was at once
accepted.
Now I had succeeded. My criterion of success, it must
be understood, had nothing to do with best-selling and
critical acclaim ; it meant merely that I should be able to


jive on my literary work alone. I could have returned and
f e lt able to look everyone in the face. But the discovery
0 f a technique for the historical novel was so exciting that
a ll I wanted to do was to keep on trying it out —which I
jjd for the next couple of years. As 1936 neared, I realised
that 1 had left Australia for nearly ten years, and at long
last asked myself what 1 meant to do. I had spent my time
in two ventures, first the Fanfrolico assault in the name of
w hat I thought the highest Australian values, but which in
fact were almost solely the ideas of Norman Lindsay ; then
1 had retreated into myself, and, considerably sobered, had
come through with the capacity to write historical novels and
modestly live on them. If I had wanted to prove something,
I had surely proved it.
But now a new force intervened. The effort to grasp
a general pattern in history had revived an interest in social
questions which had been lost since my undergraduate days.
And the rise of Hitlerism, together with the outbreak of the
Spanish Civil War, suddenly faced me with the problem of
applying my new ideas to the contemporary situation. I
turned from ancient to English history, and became involved,
like so many intellectuals of the day, in the anti-Fascist
struggle, with its forlorn hope of preserving peace. This
carried urgently on till the advent of war in 1939. Then
there seemed nothing to do but to wait till 1 was called up,
which happened in 1941. 1 served a couple of years in Signals
and a couple more in the War Office as script-writer for the
Army drama-groups which performed documentary plays on
topical themes and problems.
While I was in Signals, my fellow-soldiers used to say,
‘Why don't you get transferred to the Australian forces?
The pay's much better." But the pay-lure did not exist for me.
After a period of honorable anonymity I had been driven
nearly off my head by Morse and had applied to the Colonel.
It happened that he had somehow read my novel on Cleopatra
despite his addiction to trout-fishing (we used to get telegrams
addressed to the unit on the state of trout all over the
British Isles), and he affably told me to do what I liked. So
1 opted for a job in the battalion orderly room where 1 had
time to observe and write. Then, by the chance of meeting
on leave another Australian, Mary Wren, I stumbled on the
script-job. As the Army Council agreed to the formation of
the drama-groups, but considered the script-writer (without
whom they could not function) an unnecessary luxury, I
remained technically a signalman seconded as an actor, and
so had the remarkable position of the Only Private in the
War Office. 1 had to be given my own room, while colonels
were huddled together, and was treated by brigadiers wfith
much respect as some sort of secret weapon.
T emerged from the war with the discovery that I had spent
some 20 years in Britain and that what had been meant as
a brief trial of certain Australian positions in the English lit-
erary world had worked out as a complicated and prolonged
set of conflicts and integrations. Then, as now, in many ways
an Australian Outsider here, l had yet become willynilly a
part of the English scene; and at the same time I realised that
Australia had changed greatly during my absence. The prob-
lem of return was now a difficult and nerve-shaking one. In
the postwar years I did discuss with Phil a few times the pos-
sibility of our return for six months with a publisher’s contract
>n our pockets for a book on Australia ; but we never did any-
thing about it.
That is how the story goes. It all happened as I state it,
a id yet, as I re-read my words, 1 am increasingly sceptical. Has
m Y whole life for 35 years been determined by a concatenation
°f circumstances, which has swept me along with scarcely a
single definite decision of my will? Not really, I think. The
Se nes of pressures and problems I have outlined were, from
Mother angle, a dramatisation of inner conflicts, above all
a revolt against the Norman Lindsay ideas that I began by
propagandising in the “Vision” and Fanfrolico days. Deep
h°wn, it seems to me, I feared to return until I had sweated
them out of my system, and so I set myself the tests, trials,
ar >d ordeals which drove me into my Cornish privations. But
me process of sweating could only work out effectively by
integrating me to some extent in the literary and social world
‘had been bombarding. And so, paradoxically, I rediscovered
in myself what I feel to be the most genuine elements of
Australian culture at the cost of cutting myself off from
Australia.
Could it have happened "any other way? 1 doubt it.
That is my personal problem, and I do not want to elaborate
it here. Rather I would like to return to the more shared
elements in my dilemma. Some writers, such as Henry
Lawson or Hugh McCrae, Vance Palmer or K. S. Prichard,
could make visits to England and return to their work in
Australia, with certain gains or as if nothing much had
happened. Others, like Christina Stead or Aldridge, have
become definitely dislodged by leaving Australia. No doubt
circumstances, temperament, and the kind of talent one has,
all play their part; and the writer who stays on this side of
the world does so because in the last resort he is more
nourished by traditions and conditions here than in Australia.
T have often said that for anyone with a strong historical
* bent, to come from Australia to the more complex and
anciently-rooted societies of Europe is highly stimulating.
Such a person has a chance to feel and define the nature of
historical change more concretely than someone immersed all
his life in the old world ; and 1 have pointed to such
historians as Gilbert Murray, Gordon Childe and others to
prove the thesis. There is something in the argument, 1 think,
and an Australian like myself with much piety towards many
aspects of the ancient world has a temptation to come back
to what he feels are his sources.
But for myself at least, who has tried to combine the
roles of poet, novelist, critic, historian, archaeologist and half
a dozen other things, there are drawbacks as well as com-
pensations. 1 feel more Australian, not less, with the years ;
and that is the main reason why I have begun my auto-
biographical trilogy —to remind myself of my origins, explore
them, and analyse as fully as I can the reasons that drove me
abroad. Despite the personal aspects, I feel that here is an
important theme for an epic of Australian culture.
1 now know England well enough to write novels about
its contemporary situation with confidence ; if I went back
to a changed Australia, 1 would have to start at the beginning
again. But as I said I remain largely an Outsider. My values,
my whole system of criticism, seem to me rooted in Australian
soil ; and there is a certain strain in thus living in two
worlds, an Englishman with an Australian outlook. Yet 1
feel that any virtues in my work derive from the conflict
between my obstinate Australianism and my struggle to grasp
English culture and life inside its focus. Perhaps I needed
this particular conflict if I were to develop at all effectively,
and I have realised my Australian basis more fully by the
contrasts than 1 ever would have done in Australia.
Anyhow, that is the sort of conflict and resolution vhat
could work only in a transitional phase. Australian culture
is now gaining the breadth and depth, I believe, where writers
can work out all their inner conflicts with full fruitfulness
inside it, without any particular concern for London and
its publishers or for the impact of their products here. I am
sorry that I did not play my part in bringing this about, but
it is too late now for regrets. I can merely send my best wishes.


AUSTRALIA AND THE WORLD
SOUTH AFRICA—
What Now?
On the eve of the induction of their first President,
many South Africans looked towards Australia .
By CLIVE BARRY
SWART ...
elaborate security measures
look like an Australian to me,” said the South
*- African.
“Time I had a shave,” I said.
After four days in the city of Johannesburg I was aware
that many South Africans were prepared to accost Australians
in the hope of getting first-hand information about the land
we came from.
Just now as I ordered cappuccino coffee for breakfast
in a sundeck cafe overlooking a busy intersection my accent
had been attractive enough to bring the South African from
a neighboring table.
“You know,” he told me, “I am a management type.
Very good at handling labor. Do you think that supervisors
in Australia . . .”
“Australia is a hard place,” I said. “You have to be
fairly hard yourself to survive.”
For the English-speaking South African with an eye to
migration Australia gives rise to an exasperating ambivalence.
He is keen on the powderpuff politics but is dismayed by
the reported hardships. Political rivalry does not run to
organised violence but Australian women have to do their
own housework. Saracen armored cars do not patrol the
streets but servants in Australia are pretty well unheard-of.
There is no law to imprison people for 12 days before they
make trouble but small European boys sell newspapers in
Australian streets and white women serve as waitresses in
Australian restaurants. Is it to be security with discomfort
in Australia or luxury with an occasional fright in South
Africa?
“I am not afraid of hard work,” said the South African
and no doubt he spoke truly. South Africans work harder
and for longer hours at their occupations than Australians
but outside their occupations they enjoy graceful living free
of menial tasks.
An implicit protest against the policies of the Dr Verwoerd
government can be seen in the numbers of professional and
academic men who leave South Africa to take up appoint-
ments elsewhere. Mr E. A. Mayisela, former native lecturer
in economics at Fort Hare university college, resigned to
take up an appointment at Tanganyika’s new Kivukoni college
which was founded by Julius Nyerere for the adult education
of talented people who had missed out on education in their
youth.
Nine professorships at the university of Witwatersrand
in Johannesburg are vacant and the chances of filling them
seem slender. Six hundred South African business men recently
signed a request for the ex-chief justice of the Union, H. A.
Fagan, to discuss the country’s political course at Johannesburg
city hall. The subject was to be: South Africa, what now?
Members of the women’s black sash league stood silently
on street corners in mute disapproval of the catastrophic
course which the present government seems intent on pursuing.
To the South African who asked me about the way of
life in Australia I pointed out that by his standards housing
in Australia was a fantastic price. Income tax was half as
high again as what he now paid. Trams and buses cost more
in Australia and garage repairs for his vehicle would be
exorbitant. Groceries, clothing and new cars would take
much more of his income than they now did. And he would
be expected to tip for services which he could now only
describe as slipshod and casual.
But the grey picture I depicted never entirely discouraged
him. While I dwelt on the agonies of doing your own laundry
and pruning your own poinsettias his eyes seemed to light
up with increased interest.
“It seems all right to me,” he said, rubbing his hands
together
On that sundeck cafe in Johannesburg my South African
interlocutor was probably most concerned with the dangers
of racial friction and the threats of violence to his family.
If he reached Australia those dangers and threats would
diminish and he would tend to remember only the pleasant
smell of the excellent coffee, the clean sunlight through the
crisp air of Johannesburg, the glorious displays of vendors’
daffodils, the camaraderie which allows Europeans to set up
conversations easily with complete stangers, the joy of having
a gleaming home to come to after the day’s toil and the
comfort of talking over old times with others who had been
personally concerned with them.
the sundeck cafe pleasantly redolent with cappuccino
■ coffee I could look down on a small army of Africans
in faded blue shorts and smocks who basked in the sunlight
and horsed around during a work-break. They were the
labor force employed in just one block of apartments. When
the apartment-dwellers returned from their occupations this
evening they would have their cars gleaming with polish,
all their clothes brushed and ironed, sidewalks and gutters
neatly swept, paving tiles and housebricks washed off, floors
waxed and bathrooms scrubbed and fresh daffodils in the
flower vases.
The visible aspects of graceful living were delightful
indeed but invisible emotions at work could not always be
ignored. A few nights ago, half a mile away, two Europeans
had been stabbed (one fatally) at the African bus terminal
in Plein Street known as murder mile. When an acquaintance
returned to his flat he found it had been ransacked and con-
sidered the incident not important enough to report to the
police. Two weeks earlier that same acquaintance had been
bashed and robbed and left unconscious in a side street


The good Samaritans who helped him in passing turned out
to be Africans.
The republic-day security planned by the police in Pretoria
f or the induction of Mr Swart as first president of the South
African Republic is the most elaborate in the country's history,
jyfr Nelson Mandela, secretary of the African action council,
stated that whites had nothing to fear from African anti-
republic demonstrations but there was little general confidence
j n the average African’s ability to be passively resistant.
Already wholesale arrests of potential trouble-makers had been
made throughout South Africa and the new bill recently rushed
through parliament allows persons to be held for twelve days
before being brought to court or released. Also the minister
of justice is empowered to order trials without jury for murder
and arson.
Appeals have been sent out to the countries of central
and eastern Africa asking them to stage anti-republic demon-
strations to coincide with the induction ceremony in Church
Square, Pretoria, on May 31. While church bells peal and
the 21-gun salute crashes out in Pretoria, groups of Africans
from Uganda to Zanzibar will demonstrate their distaste for
the principles of apartheid and heavy-handed police methods.
White householders around Cape Town are voluntarily
forming armed patrol groups as voluntary efforts to repress
trouble at the end of May. Arms stores in Johannesburg
are running short of ammunition and firearms because of
the unusual demand by purchasers.
In the residential areas of Hillbrow, Berea and Bellevue
in Johannesburg, strike organisers are going from door to
door encouraging residential servants to go on strike. Stickers
and posters appear on telegraph posts with the same incitement.
In a land where Europeans would be ashamed to admit to
doing their own housework and where every automobile
glitters an indication of the cheapness of labor, a strike of
servants could have irritating consequences.
No doubt Europeans in South Africa are feeling the
pressure of united African action. In 1959 the Union of
South Africa gained three thousand Europeans as the difference
of immigration over emigration but last year the Union lost
three thousand the same way. Considerable numbers of univer-
sity and professional men have left for overseas. For education
departments in Australia with teacher shortages this would
be an excellent time to recruit in South Africa. The propaganda
publication “Teach in Tasmania” is gaining attention from
intending migrants.
Commerce in the Union of South Africa has adopted a
wait-and-see attitude. Prices on the Stock Exchange have
fallen even lower after secession from the Commonwealth
than they had been after Sharpeville last year. But, for a
superficial observer, the only signs of unrest immediately before
the induction of Mr Swart as President are the monotonously
ERASMUS ... VERWOERD ...
[?] prison people before they make under the right eye, a bullet-scar
trouble
steady supply of well-founded rumors of coshings and robbings
in the streets and the (to a newcomer) hair-raising ability of
the black and white races to ignore each other. In the
crowded streets of Johannesburg pedestrians seem able to see
only people of their own skin color and the rest could well be
invisible.
/~\n the drive through Southern Rhodesia 1 enjoyed the com-
pany of a white South African. Along the dusty corru-
gated short cut from Sinoia to Hartley he was cheerful, well-
mannered and loaded with interesting botanical and zoological
information.
When I stopped at a petrol-pump an African attendant
galloped in from a hut about two-hundred yards away. The
African spoke good English. He pumped petrol and handled
the cash with exaggerated briskness. His grin was about as
big as a pawpaw He told me how far it was to the next town.
At this point the white South African shouted some gruff
words in a tongue that sounded like rough-cut Tshilapalapa
to me, although he assured me it was Matabele. He was
repeating my query about the number of miles to the next
town and he was adding a few stern overtones. He did not
succeed in getting information different to what I got, but he
did succeed in getting rid of the pawpaw grin and the exag-
gerated briskness.
As I drove off the African regarded me in a surly manner
and the white South African said to me: “I do not mind
helping a man like you because you are new to this country.”
“That is very kind of you,’’ I replied.
Europeans and Africans were notable for their cheerful
good manners, especially outside the cities, but conscientious
effort is being devoted towards maintaining a cheerless
cleavage between them. To a large extent this cleavage is
the result of stern European colonialism. And another effect
of this sternness is the new-found co-operation between hitherto
inimical tribes.
In the preface of his text-book, “Facing Mount Kenya,”
the African nationalist leader Jomo Kenyatta thanked Euro-
peans for their hostility which afforded him valuable
stimulation.
As recent as four or five years ago Africa was still a
badly-fired cooking-pot whose surface was reticulated with
myriads of cracks. Each of the cracks divided mutually-
inimical tribes, but under stern European colonialism the tribes
lived side by side in comparative peace. Small tribes like the
forest-dwelhng Wanderobo in eastern Africa discovered that
survival was easier without manifest malice, and vast tribes
like the Zulu in southern Africa discarded warlike behavior
except for ferocious team-dancing in front of tourists and the
shaking of vestigial spears by rickshaw hacks in the streets
of Durban and Cape Town.
As European colonialism faded, certain tribal enmities
reasserted themselves. This was evident in the Congo, in Kenya,
and, moreover, national leaders such as Nasser and Selassie
pursued far from uniform policies.
But in spite of these enduring scars in the cooking-pot of
African unity there is plenty of evidence that smaller cracks
are healing over. The movement for united African action
throughout the continent is gaining impetus, although unfortu-
nately this united action seems almost exclusively aimed at
European discomfiture.
Tanganyika, under Prime Minister Julius Nyerere, is
becoming a haven for political refugees from the Union of
South Africa. The port of Takoradi, in Ghana, is taking in
shiploads of Russian small arms which could be destined for
use against Europeans in Angola, the Rhodesias and South
Africa. In Angola a contingent of Ghanaian troops was
captured preparing for action against the Portuguese. And
from the South African united front in Dar-es-Salaam appeals
were sent out to Kenya, Uganda, Ruanda-Urundi, the Congo,
Tanganyika, Zanzibar, the Rhodesias and Nyasaland urging
demonstrations between May 29 and 31 as protest against
South Africa's decision to become a republic. The cracks in
the cooking-pot are healing fast and soon it will be able to
bring things to the boil in less time than it takes to say
apartheid.


The Man on the Land
Bringing the Factories
Act on to the Farm
By M. H. ELLIS
PREMIER HEFFRON
It's easy to understand why Premier Heffron
has shirked a debate .
HThe new Factories and Shops Bill introduced in the N.S.W.
Parliament on March 1 suggests that the Minister who
handled it must hate a lot of colleagues who hold country
electorates Its propagation should be as good a way for them
to lose seats in rural areas as any enemy of Labor could devise.
For under it the rural industries are being made the prey of
the Shops and Factories Act.
The Bill itself, a fat measure of 150 clauses, places under
the control of Government officials practically everything that
happens on a country property, whether carried on under a
tree by one man with a beehive or on the State’s largest
sheep station.
“Inspectors,” under this Bill, means any persons appointed
for the purpose, including policemen. It may be taken for
granted that throughout the rural areas a lot of the work
will be done by police. They will share authority to prosecute
with industrial unions or private individuals whose “rights are
impaired.”
“Did I hear you say that we were a backward
unit, Jones ?”
There is wide power to make regulations to deal with
varying circumstances. And altogether, whether applied to
town or country, there is provision for everything.
The Governor in Council is authorised to make regula-
tions prescribing all matters “necessary or convenient” to be
prescribed for securing the health, safety and welfare of persons
engaged in rural industries “for hire or reward and whether
as employees or otherwise.” And “without affecting the
generality’' of these provisions, he may prohibit the use of
anything used in rural industry from a pocket-knife to a bull-
dozer that doesn’t happen to comply with enough regulations
to justify a diploma course in them at Armidale University.
His Excellency—which means in practice any inspector-
can prescribe whatever precautions shall be taken in the
management of animals, the construction of enclosures in which
animals are kept ; or he can tell the farmer how to use his
“machinery, plant, equipment or appliance,” or how to “carry
on any operation, use any process, or manage animals.” It
is not explained whether all inspectors are to be trained in
animal husbandry, veterinary science, the leading of bulls,
the milking of cows and other rural arts.
An inspector (under authority from the Governor) will
be able to prohibit the engagement “either generally or at any
prescribed age of males under the age of 21 or females of
any age, either in any prescribed process or description of
work or generally.” The prohibition may be absolute; or
again may be subject to conditions that the worker has received
specific training or is subjected to whatever supervision the
inspector of the department thinks fit. All this is fair enough
in respect of particular cases. The objection to it is the
opportunity it gives the long nose to poke itself into the inner-
most recesses of any barn.
There is an original provision which makes it “an offence
for a child (whether an employee or not) to be allowed to
ride or drive vehicles, machines or implements of prescribed
classes, while such vehicles, machines or implements are in
motion or use.” A child —defined as “any person under school-
leaving age”—might find that he cannot be offered a ride up
from the dam on a tractor and that he can’t be allowed to
ride the family truck used for farm business except when it I s
sitting in the shed. And goodness knows where the limitation
lies on the “implements” he may not ride in motion or use
begins and ends, since “implement” is about the only thing > n
the landscape the Bill has failed to define.
An inspector has the power to prohibit the use of any


Only one hardboard
is 5 ways better
1. TIMBROCK is
always white-ant
proofed... at
no extra cost!
2. TIMBROCK gives
the most effective
hardboard surface
for painting.
3. TIMBROCK comes
in more sizes
than any other
hardboard.
4. TIMBROCK is
quality-tested for
resistance to heat
and moisture.
5. TIMBROCK is
3$
t'
tjmbrock
m f§
V
made by the most experienced manufacturer of
building materials in the Southern Hemisphere.
fCC
TRMBROC
the only hardboard that is 5 ways better
A product of the Building Materials Division of
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
Makers of Tilebord, Fegbord, Opaltone
Interstate Offices: Sydney, Newcastle, Wagga, Wollongong,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Townsville, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
CSR234A
machinery, plant, structure, equipment or appliance, if he
thinks the operation of it dangerous to life or limb ; or
believes that in relation thereto the regulations are not being
complied with. It is not explained how it is possible to
perform any operation on a farm that is not in some degree
dangerous to life or limb. All a lead-swinger need to do is
to mention in some quarters that he is afraid the milker might
kick him.
The Department may limit the weights that may be lifted
and, of course, requires plenty of records of accidents, diseases
and their causes and what-have-you to supply the inspector
with light reading. The department will “impose requirements”
in respect of sanitary accommodation, welfare facilities, the
provision of first-aid chests and requisites for first-aid.
It may also, “with respect to the foregoing matters, impose
obligations on persons so engaged, i.e., in rural industries, their
employers and persons of other specified classes.”
It appears that “such regulations may be made in relation
to all or specified industries, all or specified places in or upon
which rural industries are carried on, and all or any specified
types of machinery, plant, structure, equipment or appliances
or all or specified processes used or work done in such
industries.”
The Bill, in fact, proposes to clamp down complete official
control over everything that walks, talks or chugs on the land,
where already in some industries the producer can be treated
a s a criminal for selling his own produce.
All the foregoing provisions must be read with the long
sections giving powers to make regulations or orders and with
|he powers of inspectors to “enter, inspect and examine”. . .
“at all reasonable hours by day or by night wherever he
believes there is anything to be inspected, and to take with
bim an inspector of health, an inspector of nuisances, a building
inspector, an inspector under the Inflammable Liquid Act, an
interpreter.”
“In any case in which he has reasonable cause to appre-
hend any serious obstruction in the execution of his duty,”
he may also take a constable, and require production of a
formidable list of documents and take samples of products
and of the air in the local farm milk-room ; also to examine
alone or in the presence of another person, as he thinks fit,
with respect to anything over which he has power, “any person
whom he finds in the factory or place and whom he has
reasonable cause to believe is or has been employed within
the previous two months in that place.”
He may require such person to be “so examined and sign
a declaration of the truth of the matters respecting which he
is to be examined,” provided that the victim may get out of
it by making the damaging admission that any admission
may incriminate him.
Also, an inspector may “exercise all the other powers
that may be necessary for carrying out the provisions of this
part of the Act,' which translated out of gobbledegook seems
to mean : “The sky’s the limit.”
To rub salt into the wound, it is finally provided that the
occupier of “every factory or place where rural industry is
carried on and his agents and/or servants” shall furnish the
means required for an inspector necessary for an entry, inspec-
tion, examination and inquiry of premises or for the exercise
of his powers.” In other words, the suspected criminal should
hire his own handcuffs.
It is easy to understand why Mr Heffron has shirked a
debate on the Bill and is apparently trying to hold it over
until after the next State election.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
Queensland should have good rains along the south
and north coasts and on the Burnett during June, with
moderate falls on the Darling Downs. Light to moderate
patchy rains are likely on the central coast, although
rainfall should be poor elsewhere. Rainfall will probably
be poor during July and August, with moderate to good
general rains in September.
N.S.W. is likely to have light to moderate patchy
rains in much of the State during June, although moderate
to good rains are probable along the coast, on the
Tableland areas and in south-western districts with best
falls on part of the North Coast, in the eastern Riverina,
and on the South-west Slopes. There should be moderate
rain on the coast and tablelands, and in central western
and south-western districts during July, but otherwise
rainfall will probably be patchy until September, when
moderate general rains are likely.
Victoria should have moderate rains during June,
apart from good falls in the east central and upper north-
eastern districts and on the west coast. Reasonably good
rains are indicated during July, with well-distributed
falls continuing until October. This should ensure quite
a good season.
Moderate rain, mainly below normal, is likely in the
agricultural areas and along the west coast of South
Australia during June, with light falls in the interior.
However, reasonably good rains are indicated in the agri-
cultural areas and on the west coast during July, although
rainfall will probably be poor in the far north interior.
Well-distributed rains should continue in the agricultural
areas until October.
In Western Australia there is likely to be moderate
rain, mainly below average in the s.-w. agricultural areas
during June, although fairly good falls should be received
between Perth and Cape Leeuwin. Light to moderate
patchy rains are probable on the Gascoyne, around Eucla,
and in south-eastern and north-eastern districts, although
rainfall may be poor elsewhere. The agricultural areas
and Gascoyne should receive good to heavy rains during
July, with flooding; in many areas.
LENNOX WALKER.


FORUM
The Orr Case
W. H. C. Eddy's book on the alleged conspiracy against
S. S. Orr ("Orr,” Jacaranda, 595. 6d.) raises important
questions about how to deal with university scandals .
By DONALD HORNE
JT is impossible that there will now ever be any general agreement
on the Orr case. Judging exactly what did or did not happen
between Professor Orr and one of his students is a matter of decid-
ing who is telling the truth. One can make up one’s mind on this
from watching witnesses in court, from examining their statements
for inconsistencies, by looking for external corroboration, by theor-
ising about probabilities, even by making investigations of one’s
own. But one can never k now f or certain what happened; one
cannot see into the souls of witnesses and detect lies; one just
reaches a conclusion. Even if someone now broke down and con-
fessed that the other side’s story was true the confession would not
be believed by some protagonists; special reasons would be found
to explain it away.
VX7hat has happened is that there have
been appeals to authority. When
Mr Justice Green decided that Orr was
telling lies many people accepted his
judgment; when Mr John Kerr and Mr
Hal Wootten tried to blow up the Orr
camp with their long examination of the
case in “Free Spirit,” there was a drift
away from the Orr supporters ; when the
Federal Council of University Staff Asso-
ciations decided that Mr Justice Green’s
judgment was “erroneous,” there was a
drift back. The judgments of authorities
are accepted—and sometimes used
coercively. For example, Mr Brian
Fitzpatrick quotes in “Meanjin” the
statements of three prominent Orr sup-
porters and says: “Those are measured
words of responsible and experienced
men. Wright, Stout and Eddy have
status and reputations to lose and they
would not risk them on emotion or hear-
say.” So what? Mr Justice Green, Kerr
and Wootten also have status and repu-
tations to lose. That makes the score
love-all.
What the Orr supporters want is that
some final authority should proclaim Orr
innocent. In some way they feel that the
case should be tried all over again, and
a decision made in Orr’s favor. But how
do you do that? And whom would it
convince? And what would it settle?
This is a legal issue—of immense per-
sonal importance to Orr, of course —but
if there is some legal way of settling it,
it is the business of the University Staff
Associations or Orr or somebody to find
it, and use it. Failing that, what do they
do? They can express their opinions.
And so can everyone else.
The expression of opinions on the case
is helped immensely by the publication
of a 764-page book on Orr written by
Mr W. H. Eddy. This book is frankly
written from a partisan point of view.
But that does not destroy its value. A
critical and honest person can read it and
on the material collected (minus Mr
Eddy’s interpretations) modify some or
all of his previous conclusions, whether
they were for Orr or against him.
But as well as helping one make deci-
sions about whether Orr was justly or
unjustly accused of having sexual rela-
tions with one of his students, the book
also proclaims that he was the victim of
a huge conspiracy. Here —in the wider
implications of this allegation—it is
impossible, whatever the passion with
which Mr Eddy argues, to accept his
conclusions as based on sufficient evi-
W. H. C. FDDY
“A vicious conspiracy”
dence. His mixture of facts and inter-
pretation is so interwoven that it is hard
to know what the evidence is for the
charges of a widely based conspiracy.
We just don't know what happened
behind all those closed doors. The mere
fact that injustices and improprieties may
have occurred does not prove that a large
body of men got together and conspired
against Orr in a criminal way. Mr Eddy
employs a kind of paranoid fallacy when-
ever facts are missing. To take one
homely example: On February 26, 1956,
at approximately 6 p.m., according to
the Kemps' evidence, Miss Kemp told her
father something about her alleged rela-
tions with Orr. At 8 p.m., according to
agreed accounts, Mr Kemp stormed into
Orr’s house and argued with him, and
hit him. Mr Eddy finds this two-hours’
delay sinister. He writes: “Mr Kemps
reaction was a curiously delayed explo-
sion—so much later that it was clearly
not what his daughter had said which
produced it.” This kind of assumption
is ludicrous. Some fathers might very
well brood for an hour or two before
they go out and hit a professor ; others
might simply have decided that they
would like their dinner first. This kind
of argument is as silly as the kind that
suggests that because Orr submitted a
conditional resignation, or did not at
once issue writs against Kemp, or refused
to answer questions at the University
inquiry, he was therefore guilty. It IS
perhaps a great deal sillier. One has
some knowledge about some of the
reasons why people offer conditional
resignations, or don't issue writs, or won t
answer questions. One prefers not to
draw conclusions from this knowledge
without other knowledge about a mans
behavior. But one has no knowledge at
all about the significance of a two-hour
time lag between the receipt of informa-
tion about what a professor has done tu
one’s daughter and the decision to hi
the professor.


SUZANNE KEMP
Philosophy Student
SYDNEY SPARKES ORR
“A Star Chamber”
TTaving made all of these qualifications,
** 1 should add that Mr Eddy gives
enough agreed evidence in his book (tran-
scripts of inquiries, minutes of meetings,
oral evidence accepted by all parties) for
one to conclude that in its treatment of
Professor Orr the University of Tasmania
behaved in ways that most people would
accept as ways in which it is bad for a
University to behave, and for which it
deserved censure, and as a result of which
it is legitimate to demand that it should
not act like this again. This is not to
say that this necessarily means that Uni-
versity officials acted from the motives
that Mr Eddy debits them with. It
would be quite possible that they acted
improperly from good motives, or foolish
motives, or mixed motives, rather than
from evil motives. And it would be
quite possible that the University acted
improperly even though it reached what
some people would consider the right
conclusion. That one criticises the Uni-
versity does not necessarily mean that
one thinks that Orr is innocent of the
charges laid against him.
Still, the discussion on the University’s
behavior has been of possibly long-
lasting benefit. Academics now have
faced up to some of the general prin-
ciples involved in the handling of Uni-
versity scandals (although they have
evaded others). The rest of this article
will attempt to evaluate the wider appli-
cation of some of the general principles
they have expressed, with a final note
°n two principles so far evaded.
One point on which most people would
a gree is that whatever their strict legal
position, professors should not be treated
a s if they are domestic servants ; it should
he hard (though not impossible) to sack
jhem. An unfortunate corollary that has
been drawn from this in practice is that
sorne University administrations have
become so timid about academic mal-
feasances that they would sooner tolerate
fhe most gross abuses than risk an uproar
by taking some action. Yet this kind of
cowardice can be remedied by holding
University inquiries that follow certain
principles. One of these principles is
that the exact purpose of an inquiry
should be defined. The University Staff
Associations urge this, and good luck to
them. But the purposes of an inquiry
should not be defined so loosely that they
merely say, for example, that an “inquiry”
should be held, or that “conciliation”
should be attempted. They should, as
the University Staff Associations suggest,
be expressed “with enough precision and
detail” for those concerned “to be able
to refute them if they are false.” Mere
vague fact-finding missions will lead to
muddle and indiscriminate mud-slinging
in which there is no test of admissibility,
no notice to anyone of what charges
they face, no time for them to study the
charges, consider their reply and organise
refutation, and a very real possibility of
indiscriminate intimidation.
It is also true, as the Staff Associations
suggest, that no one with “an interest
in the outcome of the proceedings or who
is biassed against one of the parties to
an inquiry” should sit on a tribunal. It
would be unthinkable, for instance, that
the Vice-Chancellor of the University of
Melbourne would be part of the com-
mittee of inquiry now looking into that
University's Social Studies Department,
since he has been one of the interested
parties. Other things might be added.
One of the good features of the Tas-
manian inquiries into Orr’s conduct was
that he was allowed to hear what wit-
nesses were saying about him and vas
given the opportunity to cross-examine
them ; in other words it was not a “Star
Chamber,” in the sense in which Mr
Eddy uses that phrase. It did not take
evidence “in secret . . . with only enemies
of the accused present.” No doubt the
Staff Associations would applaud this
aspect of the Tasmanian inquiries (and
would deplore departures from it in any
other University)—the Staff Associations
are also right when they suggest that
participants in an inquiry should have the
benefit of legal advice when the inquiry
is conducted formally, or, if conducted
informally, where members of the
tribunal include lawyers who take an
active part in its proceedings. They are
also right in insisting that a transcript be
kept of an inquiry. One can be confident
that if any of these features were missing
from the Melbourne inquiry the Staff
Associations would label it as an
improper inquiry.
Zither valuable facts have emerged
from the discussion of academics on
the Orr case. For example, it has been
demonstrated in the most dramatic
manner possible that where alleged scan-
dals have occurred at a University it is
the duty of academics to attack them as
widely and publicly as they can, writing
to newspapers, participating in TV ses-
sions, publishing books, using the whole
apparatus of mass media to malign their
Universities if they think the Univer-
sities have acted badly. For this reason
it was astonishing that there should have
been so much criticism in Melbourne of
Professor Crawford for writing a letter
to The Bulletin making some general
observations on the conduct of University
affairs. The continuing controversy on
Orr, the outbreak of controversy on Dr
Russel Ward’s exclusion from the
University of N.S.W., and the Gluck-
man case all showed how valuable this
type of public discussion can be. And
linked with this acceptance of wide pub-
licity is the implied principle that the
mere fact that a University inquiry has
made a decision does not mean that it
must necessarily be accepted. University
inquiries . . . Supreme Courts . . . High
Courts ... if they decide the wrong way,
discussion must continue, with everyone
making up his own mind about what is
right.
These are all important matters of
principle, widely debated and widely
agreed. They are presumably principles
on which those who accept them should
act at any time, even if it may be to
the detriment of particular persons. But
there are still two puzzles left. One is
that Orr refused to answer questions,
cross-examine witnesses or produce wit-
nesses of his own on the grounds that
the inquiry v/as improperly conducted.
What is to be done about this? Should
there be an attempted agreement between
the Staff Associations and the Univer-
sities as to the nature of inquiries, with
the understanding that in properly con-
ducted inquiries those who do not co-
operate will be dismissed? Or what?
Secondly, Orr also refused to co-
operate with the inquiry because it was
dealing with matters on which he said
he intended to take legal action. Since
University inquiries are only likely to
arise on matters of such great scandal
that they would all involve the possibility
of legal action, does this mean that any-
one can make an inquiry impossible if
he chooses to do so?
In some ways the whole subject is still
as much up in the air as it ever was.


LETTERS
Selling Wheat to China
Sir,
In your issue of May 17, under “Sell-
ing Wheat to China,” you write: “The
second stage of Sir John Teasdale's deal
with the Chinese is a much more shady
affair.”
It is not my desire to question your
use of the phrase “much more shady
deal,” but I want to point out that all
decisions respecting such matters as sell-
ing wheat to China on deferred terms are
made by means of a vote of members
At the moment there are 14 members on
the Wheat Board, ten of whom are
growers. There is scope for differences
of opinion on a board of that size. In
short, there is room for a majority and
a minority, but, as is usual, the majority
decides the question.
Whilst I am in favor of selling wheat to
China, provided cash against shipping
documents is forthcoming, I am irrevoc-
ably opposed to selling on extended
terms of payment. The minutes of the
board show I have opposed selling on
extended terms whenever the subject has
been before the board for decision. My
opposition has been based on commercial
grounds.
Having regard to that fact and the
erroneous impression your article may
conceivably have on the minds of your
readers, I think in fairness to me you
should publish my disclaimer in a
prominent place in your paper. Whilst
the recent sale may rightly be described
as a Wheat Board big deal, it cannot be
properly called Sir John Teasdale's
“shady deal.”
Although the deal may be justified on
the grounds that it helps to get rid of
the present glut of wheat, I feel that if it
is used as a precedent, setting the terms
and conditions for future wheat trade in
the Pacific and Indian Ocean regions, it
will mean an unfortunate step for the
wheatgrowing industry in the long run.
JOHN S. TEASDALE
Chairman,
Australian Wheat Board
Melbourne.
IT’S HARD TO GO RIGHT
IN MELBOURNE
Sir,
In his article “It’s Hard to Go Right
in Melbourne” (Bulletin, May 17)
Desmond O’Grady mentions a letter
published in the “Age” of July, 1958,
signed by Jean Campbell, C. B. Christe-
sen, Laurie Collinson, Vance Palmer and
A. A. Phillips.
Here is the letter as it was actually
published. I feel in all fairness to the
five signatories you should publish this
in its entirety because the trend of the
letter was the almost exact opposite of
Mr O'Grady’s interpretation:
“Many of the protests against the
execution of Imre Nagy and his col-
leagues have come from circles that
would seize any opportunity to discredit
the U.S.S.R. Many of those protesting
have never complained about comparable
injustices in relation to Little Rock,
Algeria, Cyprus, the Rosenbergs or
McCarthyism.
“We, on the other hand, believe pro-
foundly in the need for, and possibility
of, peaceful co-existence of the two blocs
in the world today. We believe, how-
ever, that injustice should be denounced
wherever it occurs.
“It would appear that the sentences
were dictated by the motives irrelevant
to the security of the Hungarian Govern-
ment (Kadar having declared on Novem-
ber 21, 1956, that the Government ‘does
not desire to apply sanctions against
Imre Nagy and the members of his
group for their past activities’).
“In any case, we would protest against
the use of the death penalty as an instru-
ment of political policy ; against
breaches of faith in matters of safe con-
duct ; and against secret trials.
“We regret that the U.S.S.R. from
whom many valuable initiatives towards
peace and co-existence have come, has,
by its responsibility in this action con-
tributed to a situation that seriously
menaces the relaxation of tensions in
Europe and the world, particularly at a
time when summit talks and proposals
to ban atomic tests were being
negotiated.”
JEAN GRIFFITHS
Camberwell (Vic).
Desmond O'Grady writes: Those who, while
imputing motives to others and announcing their
own profoundly good intentions, believe that
they should denounce injustice wherever it
occurs, must at least be able to identify it. Yet
the signatories of this letter equate the execu-
tion of spies engaged in treasonable activities
with that of a Head of State after he has been
promised his freedom. The Rosenbergs stole
atomic secrets from the U.S.A. and gave them
to Russia; they were found guilty after an
open trial. Nagy, ex-Premier of Hungary, who
was offered safe conduct by Kadar, was
abducted by Soviet troops and later executed.
To call these cases of “comparable injustice”
is fantastic and frightening.
Sir,
One thing I know for certain without
knowing anything about the man —your
Desmond O’Grady might have dug up
plenty of facts, but he’s no Melburnian
himself. No Yarrasider ever used the
term “quarter-final” in referring to his
own special near-sacred brand of foot-
ball.
SVEN ERICKSON
Helmsdale (S./4.).
THE SHARP CASE
Sir,
In your issue of May 10 you published
a letter signed by the president, vice-
president and secretary of the Social
Studies Students’ Society of the University
of Melbourne. The executive satd that
the Students’ Society “deplored” your
“irresponsible” article concerning Com-
munist activity in the department, and
that it contained many “unverified and
illogical assertions.”
While there is no doubt in my mind
that the executive acted in good faith
as a member I am concerned that the
impression was given that this letter ex-
pressed the opinion of the Students’
Society. I find it difficult to see how one
could do that on a matter so controversial
except on instructions from a general
meeting. Since no such meeting has been
held I think it should be pointed out that
at the moment, the opinion expressed in
the letter can only be taken as that of
the executive of the Students’ Society,
and not that of the Students’ Society
itself.
May I further say that there are many
within the student body who feel that
even the total sum of evidence students
can possibly gather does not permit a
rational judgment on the matter. We are
deeply concerned about the whole situa-
tion and sincerely hope that appropriate
official action will soon clarify and
remedy it.
VALERIE DOUGLAS
Brighton Beach (Vic).
Sir,
Congratulations on the unanimous
support you received for your “ex-
posure” of Melbourne University Com-
munists in your letter columns (B,
17/5/61).
It shows indeed that you have not lost
the old readers of The Bulletin.
R. KLUGMAN
Homebush ( N.S.W. ).
If the suggestion here is that we have sup-
pressed letters, it is untrue. The fact is that
usually vociferous letter-writers have now
become strangely silent. —Editor, The Bulletin.
CHURCHWARD AS LECTURER
Sir,
As a former student who gratefully
remembers the valuable stimulus to inde-
pendent thought provided by Mr Church-
ward’s lectures on the U.S.S.R., Germany
and the U.S.A. in 1955, I, and no doubt
many other former students, view with
some exasperation the irresponsible re-
marks made by Mr A. W. Stargardt in
his last letter to The Bulletin.
Mr Stargardt assumes that Mr Church-
ward’s students were, and are, the
passive, uncritical absorbers of the
material and arguments presented in
his lectures, and, secondly, that they are
deliberately limited in their reading by
the supposed limitations of the Arts
faculty handbook. Both these assump-
tions institute an insult (which merits
an apology) to the intelligence of past
and present undergraduates in question.
On the more important subject of
lectures, it may be of comfort to Mr
Stargardt to know that Mr Churchward’s
lectures (as my note-books remind me)
were models of presentation clear,
forthright statements of fact and argu-
ment, never ambiguous or befogged with
language calculated to confuse a second-
year pass student, or suggest that the
lecturer’s was the final conclusive word
on the subject. On the contrary, we were
made exciteably aware that there was
more than one viewpoint.


Moreover, tutorial classes conducted
by another member of the staff enabled
us to consider other questions and
material not dealt with in the lectures.
In short, we quickly realised with in-
creasing pleasure and reward that the
political-science course in Comparative
I Government positively encouraged the
1 exercise of our critical faculties. As m
other departments, students were fore-
warned that a lazy reliance on lecture
i notes and nothing else for examination
purposes would court failure for the
candidates in question.
One can only assume that Mr Star-
gardt has never attended a series of
features of tutorials in the University of
Melbourne’s Political Science Depart-
ment, for, had he done so, he could not
in good faith have contemplated, much
less written, his misleading if not mis-
chievous letter.
JAMES H. RUNDLE
Canberra.
HUNTER AND THE HILL
Sir,
Kylie Tennant was slightly off-beam in
saying in her article on the Hunter's Hill
centenary (B. 10/5/61) that “the ex-presi-
dent of the Historical Society caused
some gratification at the civic reception
by announcing that Hunter's Hill was, in
the early days, a favourite picnic place
for Governor Hunter ”
The occasion was not in fact a civic
reception but the opening of a centenary
historical exhibition. I did not, when
speculating on how the suburb got its
name, definitely associate it with John
Hunter.
What I said was that an old belief
linking the name with one of the so-
called Scottish martyrs, Thomas Muir,
had to be discarded because we now
knew that “Hunter’s Hill” was in use
before Muir reached Sydney ; and, there-
fore, we might presume the term to have
had its origin with the captain of H.M.S.
Sirius, John Hunter. He of course, did
much exploratory work in Port Jackson,
and it is quite conceivable that he visited
the picturesque peninsula though he is
scarcely likely to have used it as a “picnic
place.”
Actually I don’t know how or precisely
when the name Hunter’s Hill first came
into use (it dates back to at least early
1794).
ALEC CHISHOLM.
Past President, Royal
Australian Historical Society
Sydney,
WHAT GOVERNOR-GENERALS
DO
Sir,
In his article about the office of Gover-
nor-General my friend Alan Reid has
Nade several points which, with all
Aspect to his vast knowledge of the
Us ages of the Constitution, I would
question.
1- He says that the Governor-General
J/ould obtain advice about “a constitu-
honal matter” from the Attorney-General
0r > if it were political, from the Solicitor-
“My Cod! Roubles!”
General. I believe that the Governor-
General might seek advice from whom-
ever he pleased in “a constitutional
matter” (such as a double dissolution)
where he had to make up his own mind.
Furthermore, he might by usage call on
the Chief Justice of the High Court for
such advice and would be guided by
precedent to do so.
2. Mr Reid says that the Governor-
General is in “almost daily” contact with
the Secretary of State for Commonwealth
Relations, not to receive instructions, but
to act as a channel for the exchange of
information. I beg to doubt this. The
Secretary of State already has the United
Kingdom High Commissioner in Can-
berra to act as a his channel for the ex-
change of information.
In his communications with the Queen
(whose servant and direct representative
he is) the Governor-General undoubtedly
uses her Majesty's private office. A
Governor-General in “almost daily” con-
tact with the Secretary of State would,
I submit, be ignoring the mass of usage
surrounding the Statute of Westminster
and the Report of the Imperial Confer-
ence of 1926.
3, Mr Reid suggests that the Governor-
General’s most important function is to
be “a domestic watchdog”— to see that
the Government of the day observes the
law of the Constitution. This may indeed
theoretically be an important function,
but so far as I know the Crown in right
of the Commonwealth has not in the last
30 years received advice which would
have put it in the position of breaking
the law of the Constitution.
In the Commonwealth sphere in the
last instance the High Court and not the
Governor - General would decide the
validity of an executive act (where the
Governor-General were not specifically
vested with discretion).
4. Mr Reid says that the Governor-
General is titular head of the Public
Service. 1 cannot at present lay hands
on the Public Service Act, but 1 believe
Mr Reid is mistaken. The Governor-
General is Commander-in-Chief by virtue
of his Letters Patent and his Commission.
As I recall, these do not mention the
Public Service.
5. Mr Reid has gentlemen bowing
from the waist to the Governor-General.
They should bow from the neck ; only
dagoes bow from the waist.
1 know Mr Reid would not write
Governor-Generals as the plural of
Governor - General. By precedent and
logic it should of course be Governors-
General. The plural you. Sir, have used
is as silly as these plurals would be:
Admiral of the Fleets, Marshal of the
Royal Air Forces. Fields Marshal,
Majors-General. It is the substantive
that takes the plural, not the adjective.
You’re flat wrong, Sir, flat wrong.
GEORGE BAKER
A rmidale (N.S.W.).
The Bulletin was responsible for “Governor-
Generals,” which, though “illogical,” is not an
unusual usage. The bizarre examples quoted
are unusual usages. We are treating “Governor-
General” as one word.—Editor, The Bulletin.
A LIBELLOUS REVIEW?
Sir,
A. W. Sheppard’s review (B. 17/5/61)
of Tom Carew’s “The Fall of Hong
Kong" contains a particularly ignorant
assertion which defames one of the most


-■
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
•
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£A363,000,000
•
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
start the day right!
m
m
mst
ulb D\H c
F *
rtJVV'HC
s
rem*
c
\
if a feature of
The Australian
i Womans Mirror
SET YOUR COPY TODAY
"HAVE YOU EVER
TRIED THIS T"
efficient defence organisations ever
devised.
Your reviewer states that both Carew’s
book and Colonel Tsuyi’s recent “Fall of
Singapore” show “how the Imperial
Defence Committee (sic) in pre-war years
ignored the basic needs of these areas
remote from London and drive home the
lesson that we in Australia must never
again depend upon such an antiquated
body.”
I can assure your reviewer that these
views are not only erroneous but show
a complete misconception of the func-
tion of the C.I.D.
Professor Franklyn Arthur Johnson in
“Defence by Committee” (Oxford Uni-
versity Press) shows the importance of
the C.I.D. as a factor in British policy
and also how it served as a prototype for
virtually all of America’s higher organisa-
tion. Moreover the C.I.D. evolved the
unique working of the Anglo-American
Combined Chiefs of Staff organisation,
upon which the successful outcome of the
last war so profoundly depended.
The C.I.D. was never an executive
body. The essence of its effectiveness lay
in its strictly advisory role.
The responsibility for accepting or
rejecting the advice of the C.I.D. and for
taking the necessary measures for imple-
menting recommendations rested entirely
with the Governments concerned. To
blame the C.I.D. for deficiencies at Hong
Kong or Singapore is equivalent to
blaming Lord Jellicoe for the failure of
the Governments of Britain, Canada, Aus-
tralia and New Zealand to implement the
recommendations of his 1919 mission,
recommendations which if acted on,
might have prevented war in the Pacific.
CRASTER C. M. USHER
Hornsby (N.S.W.).
A PROPER GANDER AT
SIR THOMAS
Sir,
When I read your pulp about “Play-
ford’s Magic” (B. 17/5/61), I learned for
the first time that your correspondent
must possess at least one of three qualities
—namely, pitiful naivete, total blindness
or blatant dishonesty.
To versify:
If your rep. thinks our Premier stays
Through a magic wand that pays and pays,
He oughter take a proper gander
At Sir Thomas Playford’s gerrymander.
Cyril D. Swaine
Port Adelaide ( S.A. ).
TOUGHER THAN THE YANKS?
Sir,
Never before anywhere in the Austra-
lian press have I read such bland
advocacy of killing as in your Plain
English leader on “Taking the Offensive
in South-east Asia.”
You want the Americans to encourage
revolt against Communist Governments
in South-east Asia.
I could ask: Why just South-east
Asia? Why not China? Why the
Americans? What business have they
interfering there? Have they any more
right than the Russians in Hungary?
But the core of my objection is to
your assumption that anything is justified
if it comes under the heading of “com-
bating Communism,” a weary old war.
horse of a phrase if ever there was one.
Your undisguised gunmanship makes
me wonder whether you will ever be able
to break free from your cynical brutality
to see what your suggestions would
almost certainly involve. They would
mean at very least bullets hitting bodies
and the scorching terror of napalm on
human flesh.
To this your answer would be that
if we don’t do these frightful things
we’ll soon enough have them done to us.
That’s an excuse you use to justify your
gunmanship.
Even the Yanks aren’t tough enough
for you.
BRUCE MUIRDEN
Adelaide.
FLARE-UP IN THE ART WAR
Sir,
With reference to your article “Flare-
up in the Art War,” might I suggest that
your critic would be better informed
if he went to the direct sources rather
than trade in secondhand nonsense
gossip.
He would then discover that Robert
Hughes neither lives in nor belongs to
the Victoria Street Group.
Further, he is being completely scur-
rilous in saying that Hughes is a “com-
mitted” critic. If he were better informed
by thumbing through some of Hughes’s
past criticisms he would discover that
many artists outside Victoria Street, and
figurative artists at that, such as Black-
man Dickerson and Molvig, have been
warmly treated by Hughes.
Again, the arrant nonsense of suggest-
ing a “takeover” bid of the Society of
Artists. Gleghorn and myself were the
only two younger non-figuratives of the
selection committee, which comprised
such men of strong opinions as Orban,
Dadswell, Nora Hoysen and Wakelin.
JOHN OLSEN
Potts Point ((V.S.IF.).
THE LOTUS AND THE ROBOT
Sir,
In an otherwise estimable review of
Arthur Koestler’s “The Lotus and the
Robot,” Geoffrey Dutton (B. 17/5/61)
delivers himself of a sentence that seems
unjustifiable Says he: ‘The practices
enumerated [by Koestler concerning
Yogis] are more ludicrous but no less
obscene than those carried out by some
of the early saints and fathers of the
Christian Church, for example the suck-
ing of pus from the sores of a contem-
porary Indian saint by her disciples.”
I submit (1) that in modern connota-
tion these Indians were not doing an
obscene thing ; (2) that no early Father
of the Church is noted for obscenity, or
for doing anything comparable to this
pus-sucking for religious purposes; and
(3) that while some early saints like St
Anthony of the Desert and St Simon
Stylites did things that seem ludicrous
enough to us, they did nothing obscene
in the contemporary, everyday use of the
word.
MARTIN HALEY
Paddington ( Q .).


OUT and ABOUT
SOCIETY
Sixty Years On
June 1, 1961, South Africa becomes a
republic . . , The Bulletin always
did oppose the Boer War.
Echo of a Bell
Reports of the finding of a wreck,
which may be that of H.M.S. Pan-
dora, have prompted Lord Mountbatten
to write from London asking Rear-
Admiral H. Oldham, in Sydney, to buy
the ship's bell for him, if possible. The
finding of the wreck was reported last
December by Alan Darcy, of Darwin,
and Donald Smith, of Sydney, who were
cruising in the Barrier Reef area. The
bell, which Darcy and Smith recovered
from the wreck, was inscribed “The gift
of Lady Herbert, daughter of Sir John
Knatchbull, of Mearchim Hatch in Kent,
in the Kingdom of England, November
30, 1711.”
Poetry Among
the Pigeons
“A/S any of you have just come out from
your office to enjoy the park in
the lunch-hour, so I would like to recite
a short poem, called 'Office Roses,’ ”
said the woman at the microphone.
In fact, few of her audience appeared
to have come from any office at all.
There were about 30 people, mostly
elderly, sitting on the park benches,
drawn up in two rows in front of the
microphone. They looked like loyal
friends who had come along to give
moral support to this experiment in
poetry readings in Hyde Park, Sydney.
There was also a boy with his dog, a
child with her dog and a young man,
his back to the performance, who was
nursing what could only, judging by his
face, be a broken heart.
Further down the park, on the other
side of the Archibald Fountain, there
was a much bigger crowd assembled.
They were sitting on park benches, drawn
U P in front of a piano with a brown
cotton cover over it, waiting for the con-
cert to begin in half an hour’s time, at
1 p.m. Competition is pretty keen to
§et a hearing in the park these days, so
Ihe people who had organised the poetry
reading had been given the 12-to-one
shift, when not so many people take their
hmch- break.
However, they had established them-
selves in front of Gerald Havekes’s new
sculpture group, which consists of three
heavy sandstone figures linked by a
rather self-conscious arrangement of
small stones to a small saucer-shaped
copper fountain, which was playing.
Nearby was a wagon from a television
station, ensuring that if the crowd in the
park were small, the poetry reading would
that evening have a much wider audience.
When the woman at the microphone
finished “Office Roses’’ there was a
spatter of applause, which startled the
pigeons so that they flew up among the
trees, shaking loose the brittle, autumn
leaves.
Fake Quakes
Two New Zealanders were discussing
* Sydney’s famous earthquake which
rattled a few windows and was head-
lined in the afternoon papers as if it
was the end of the world. One said his
most cherished quakes were the fake ones
they used to have at school when, just
before the master came in for the lesson,
they’d set the electric lights swinging—
the favorite New Zealand test for earth-
quakes—and so be ordered to hie out
to the playground. The other preferred
the Murchison quake which, though the
centre was hundreds of miles away,
caused such a jolt at New Plymouth
Boys’ High School that the inspector who
was taking his class at the time dived
straight out the window without one
thought for the pupils.
Missing Missiles
cracker-night, several lethal-looking
rockets were launched from a Bur-
wood (Sydney) backyard pay-loaded with
parachute-equipped nose-cones, locally
manufactured. The nose-cones were
plastic beads about the size of cherries
attached to cotton-shrouded chutes of
gossamer, painstakingly folded.
Theoretically (and hopefully) the star-
spangled bangs aloft would burst the
fine cotton bindings unfurling the chutes
“That Was just an ordinary oil —now see what happens when
you use an oil containing Y.C.I.”


“Much Wrong with me, Doctor?”
and dropping the pay-loads back to within
searching-distance of the launching-pad.
But by next day no cone had returned
to base.
Porter, Anyone ?
r T''HE label of a skin ointment sold by
A one of the largest chains of chemists
in Sydney, advises sufferers to refrain
from drinking too much “wines, ales or
porter.” We hadn’t heard of porter
since Elizabeth Barrett was a girl.
That Hot Silence
A story picked up from poet Kenneth
Slessor a superb misprint in the
typescript of one of Philip Lindsay's
early novels: “It was a perfect summer’s
day in the Australian bush. Nothing
broke the hot silence save the buzzing
and humming of the incests.”
Poet’s Licence
T ionel Lindsay, who died last week
in Sydney at 86, will be remembered
of course for his etchings and woodcuts
of coaches, swaggies and old Sydney
buildings. He ought also to be remem-
bered for one great story of his bohemian
youth in Melbourne. He and Hugh
McCrae, being much pestered by some
amateur poet to read his abominable
verses, asked him sternly did he have a
Poet’s Licence to write that kind of
thing. The poet thought he was going
to be prosecuted, but they told him where
to apply to the Poet's Licensing Board
and eventually sent him a scroll entitling
him to practise the ode, the sonnet, the
lyric and the epic. It’s an idea, really,
that the Government should take up as
a way of earning revenue and suppress-
ing bad verse.
Not Cricket
\£ictoria’s politicians know their limita-
tions. Premier Bolte originally planned
to open his election campaign in Ararat
on the night of June 22, but found that
this clashed with the start of the Second
Test at Lords. He switched to June 21,
frankly admitting that he couldn’t com-
pete with the cricket for a radio audience.
Labor Opposition leader Stoneham, who
will open his campaign in Bendigo, has
also moved back a night. Mr Stoneham
said this is because the hall wasn’t free
on the night he wanted it. It just so
happens that the new date he has fixed
avoids a clash with the first day's play in
the First Test.
UNREAL ESTATE
Just think of the scandal
If Willmore left Randell;
It could set off a series of shocks.
For Bagnell might learn
To get on without Hearne
And Alldis stop leaning on Cox.
I am sure Philip York
Would be too full to talk
And his bosom would billow with
sorrow
To hear of the pickles
In which Mr Nichols
Would flounder without Mr Borrow.
Even A. Degotardi
Who’s normally hardy
Would suffer with anguish and pain
To see Mr Horne
Pathetic, forlorn
And left high and dry without
Raine.
What if R. Stanton shuns
His übiquitous Sons?
What if Richardson runs out on
Wrench?
Would it trigger-off ructions
In Civic Constructions?
And would Mr Dusseldorp blench?
All these dreadful reneg-ers
Would hurt G. B. Eggers
And put Horning in mourning I
fear :
Though that Skurray of Pymble,
He’d just bang a cymbal
And order a barrel of beer!
Then watch out for Hooker
For as things get crooker
He’ll say to each desolate fellow
“You can stop feeling blue,
There’s a much better hue
Join me and be orange ana
yellow!”
DAVID SWAIN
That was Society
Consider the difference between Mel-
bourne and Adelaide in the support of
Australian manufactures. In Mel-
bourne: A.N.A. held exhibition two weeks,
balloon ascents and boxing matches pro-
vided as attractions. Most of the receipts
supplied by the exhibitors themselves.
Result, deficit of £316. In Adelaide:
Chamber of Manufactures held exhibi-
tion (goods all Australian, and nearly
all South Australian) , six weeks, and then
a few more days had to be allowed to
meet the popular demand; sideshows, none
worth mentioning. Gate-money alone
brought in £7600, the crowd numbering
260,000 altogether. Profit, £2653. The
money was all spent locally; and mean-
while S.A. people woke up to the know-
ledge of how many things they can (and
do) make that are imported. — “Bulletin/’
July 14, 1910.
Something is being attempted to check
the sale of naughty books in Australia.
Frank Tudor, Minister for Customs, has
come to the conclusion that, if the
Government merely prohibited the land-
ing of books bearing certain titles, the
same old muck would come in under
altered titles; and, anyhow, a blacklist
would be a fine advt. for a prohibited
book, He is therefore asking the States
to consider putting a heavy penalty on the
sale of wicked books, though he would
bump against a difficulty of vastly greater
size if he tried to say what books were
wicked and what were not. When the
inventors have produced the completely
satisfactory wet-wool tester, they might
be invited to set their brains to the task
of modifying it to meet the requirements
of this case.
—“The Bulletin/’ May 11, 1911.
Members of a Melbourne church body,
discussing the coming trouserette, venture
to hope that “the ladies will observe those
laws with regard to costume that have
been respected by their mothers for
thousands of years.” But this is a case in
which the ladies, looking at the old laws,
may consider themselves more honored
in the breech than the observance.
“The Bulletin,” March 16, 1911


SOME OF THE PEOPLE
TWENTY-FOUR years ago William
* Brown made his first visit to a
doctor, and was told that he had only
six months to live; two years ago he
paid his second visit, and was told he
was in perfect health. Celebrating his
101st birthday on Saturday he com-
mented: “I reckon doctors know more
these days.”
Sydney hair-stylist Andre Audard re-
vealed a fair-sized trade dyeing poodles
to match their owners’ coloring or en-
sembles. Colors used include yellow,
green and red, but Audard said he
didn’t think they would give the poodles
a complex. David Jones (Sydney) had
four dyed poodles in their knitting wool
department to advertise poodle wool
during The Wool and Sheep Show, but
why they chose poodles instead of sheep
is something of a mystery.
A. C. Molioy, Mayor of Randwick
(Sydney), landed on his back after being
thrown over a young boy’s shoulder in
an unrehearsed judo duel at Sunday’s
Commonwealth Youth celebrations. He
was challenged to the duel after he said
he used to wrestle as a boy.
Driving in a “Radio and TV Stars”
stock car race Desmond Tester, compere
of Sydney’s “Channel Ninepins,” had his
skull fractured when his car overturned
in a collision with Chuck Faulkner.
Leukemia-sufferer Francis William
Neil Skinner was granted bail of £l5O
when charged in Sydney with false pre-
tences and escaping from custody.
Strangers to Skinner, Keith Bates and
his wife canvassed their friends and
raised the money.
In Cairns, Minister for Trade Mc-
Ewen told Country party delegates to
report to him any trading-bank manager
refusing credit to expand primary pro-
duction for export. Critics of the state-
ment included the chairman of the Aus-
tralian Bankers’ Association, E. Farrer,
and the general manager of the Bank of
New South Wales, H. C. C. Marshall.
Marshall said: “. . . the economy is
increasingly at the mercy of political
pressure and vested interest.” Treasurer
Holt said in Canberra that requests for
credit already investigated were often
unreasonable and were sought to in-
crease acreages rather than the output
of land.
At the Queensland Country Party
conference Premier Nicklin announced
the discovery near Kianga coalfield of
hrge iron ore deposits, which could give
Queensland an iron and steel works.
Peter Upward solved the problem of
naming the paintings in his exhibition
at Sydney’s Clune galleries by using as
htles the dates when they wore painted.
Doreen Leeson arrived in Sydney as
the thousandth British migrant sponsored
by the Royal Commonwealth Society.
Mrs I. Parker became the first pa-
tient to be treated by Perth’s new linear
accelerator, which will be able to treat
300 W.A. cancer patients a year.
Visiting American insurance millionaire
W. Clement Stone said in Sydney that
anyone could make a million pounds
by investment and speculation. All that
was needed was Other Persons’ Money
and a Positive Mental Attitude. He
added that a nation’s development
depended on easy access to credit, and
for that reason thought Australia’s credit
squeeze wrong.
The three judges of the N.S.W. Court
of Criminal Appeal rejected an appeal
by Stephen Leslie Bradley against his
conviction for the murder of Graeme
Thorne.
Melbourne solicitor R. Mullins, presi-
dent of the Australian Republican Party,
asked swimmer Dawn Fraser to stand
for election to the Senate later this year.
Dawn had to confess: “I don’t even
know what the Republican Party is.”
Arthur Stirling Dufall, who left Coff’s
Harbour (N.S.W.) on May 2 to cruise
to Sydney in his 21ft. sloop, was found
drifting off the coast near Newcastle.
The sloop was towed to Shoal Bay,
ending a nightmare journey for Dufall
in which heavy seas three times swept
him overboard and for five days of
which he lived on nothing but water.
English migrant Frederick Burgin,
who arrived in Sydney with his wife
and 12 children, said he had decided
to come to Australia because England
was getting “rather overcrowded.”
Appointed chairman of the W.A.
Lotteries Commission was Allan Nicholl
MacDonald, former secretary of the
W.A. National Party, forerunner of the
present Liberal party, and one-time
Commonwealth Minister without port-
folio.
The Alectown Ghost is running first
in a contest to find the most popular
person in the N.S.W. town of Parkes,
just a few miles away from the ghost’s
haunt. Win or lose, the ghost has been
invited as guest, or ghost, of honor at
the Murwillumbah Banana Festival. The
secretary of the festival says he will
provide a shack at the edge of a banana
plantation and will make it specially
dank so that the guest will feel at home.
Polish-born journalist Gedalie Shaiak,
who is editor of the Melbourne “Jewish
Post,” is going to New Guinea to study
and report back to his readers.
« •
Into the Silence:—
in Sydney, at 73, Adela Pankhurst-Walsh,
last member of the famous suffragette family.
She was jailed many times for her part in the
campaign for women’s rights, the first time
when she was 18, and was interned during both
world wars for her outspoken political views.
At Moreton Bay (Q’land), Patrick James
Norriss, 44, and Noel Keith Adams, 25, T.A.A.
pilots whose plane crashed a few minutes before
touchdown in Brisbane. Both Norriss and
James had served in the R.A.A.F. before
joining T.A.A.
In Perth, at 83, David Mitchell, W.A. presi-
dent of the South African and Imperial
Veterans’ Association, who served with the
Gordon Highlanders both in the Boer War and
World War I.
FOR THE OBSERVER
Googie—Not
So Hard-boiled
Tf a four-year-old girl had not been so
keen to imitate the bazaar and temple
dancers down Chittagong way in Assam
a few years ago, it is conceivable that
Googie Withers would never have got
started on the devious road which was
to take her, by way of night-club shows
and a dozen custard-pie film comedies,
to her present position as one of the
great, versatile actresses of the day.
Her ranking among the highest of
contemporary stage personalities can
hardly be in any doubt from the per-
formances she has given in Australia
since she set up house here with her
theatre-executive husband, John McCal-
lum, several years ago —but, if there are
any doubts, they are certainly not shared
by such people as author Graham
Greene, actor Michael Redgrave and
producer Glen Byam Shaw, who have
collectively grabbed her for a new Broad-
way play later this year.
Greene’s new play, “The Complacent
Husband,” which is scheduled to open
in New York in November, carries a
title to suggest that it might almost be
a suitable sequel to Maugham’s “The
Constant Wife,” the comedy half of
Googie Withers’s present touring reper-
tory for the Australian capital cities—
but she doesn’t even know what the
Greene play is about, what its angle is,
or what sort of part is in it for her.
She is going to this Broadway job
“blind”- —her first work there ; but, from
the things she told me about herself and
her career the other day, she could hardly
be disconcerted if the job turned out to
be a tightrope walk across Madison
Square Garden.
Such tricks as that are sometimes sup-


MISS GOOGIE WITHERS
prefers drama to corneuy
posed to come easily to people who have
spent any time in observing life in the
land where cobras strike and elephants
trumpet and fakirs puff themselves in-
visible in incense, and presumably
Googie Withers, daughter of an English
naval rover and a Dutch mother, learnt
what was to be learnt of these things in
India before going off to boarding school
in England as a prelude to her career as
a dancer.
It was mainly as a dancer that this
actress with long lean face, narrow eyes,
playful aggressiveness of opinion and
provocative bottom lip first attracted the
attention of the Formby-Trmder brigade
of English film-makers. They always
needed an idiot blonde, and Googie was
it —the same Googie who, these days,
much prefers drama to comedy whether
she is playing in it or looking at it.
“I’d rather play drama,” said this
woman who had just been delighting
Sydney audiences with the sparkling vir-
tuosity of her powers as a high-styled
comedienne. “Playing comedy takes
more out of you ; in comedy, there are
so very many more things that you have
to watch for, because comedy has to be
good or it’s nothing. In drama, the play
itself to some extent carries you along
with it. Also, because drama can give
you something solid for you to fasten
on to, it is easier and more satisfying to
play drama for a long run.”
“One of the odd things about comedy
and drama,” she explained to me, “is
that people will laugh their heads off all
night at comedy and not applaud much
at the end —just a couple of curtains,
perhaps. That’s all. In drama, as with
our ‘Winter Journey’ in Brisbane the
other day, they'll applaud for minutes.
Somebody told me after The Constant
Wife’ that laughing must have made them
too tired to applaud!”
It was probably just another example
of the old theory that every laugh in a
laugh-show discharges an audience’s
tensions as the show goes along, so that
there is no big accumulation of tension
(as in drama) at the end.
Googie Withers will not hear of it
that the theatre is getting out of date
as a social institution, and that people
generally are not so keen to go to theatres
as in other years. The very suggestion
brought a thundercloud to her face but
then, remembering that Googie means
“dove” in Bengali (it means “clown” in
Punjabi), she calmed enough to say:
“They’ll go if it’s good.”
And to the counter thought that there
has to be a lot of second-rank activity
as soil from which good theatre can
grow, she cited London’s bill of theatrical
fare —“Forty shows going, and probably
not more than three or four worth look-
ing at!”
There are two things that Googie
Withers does not want to play. She is
emphatic that she does not want to
follow Sarah Bernhardt and Siobhan
McKenna’s example by playing “Ham-
let.” And she is wary of Australian
plays—“l just can’t get the accent ; I
slip into Cockney, which is altogether
the wrong thing, quite different.” But
when I suggested that perhaps we had
talked enough for one afternoon, she
boomed her “Goodo” —and she said it
as if she had never been farther afield
in the world than Fitzroy or Ultimo!
LINDSEY BROWNE
The Booklovers
of Exurhia
/T'he Peninsula —the narrow strip of
coast from Dee Why to Palm Beach
—is Sydney’s closest thing to the exurbia
beloved of American sociologists and
novelists. The Peninsula is a string of
villages, each with its own strip of beach
The locals know practically to the
minute when they will be outnumbered
by visitors on their beaches. Then they
swim either in the morning or evening.
They know almost to the day when the
season begins. Then they retreat to their
houses or dateaux, leaving the “flat"
to the invaders.
Husbands leave early in the morning,
because it’s a long trip to town. The trip
is often made by bus—“the bus is so
much quicker” —although there are two
cars in the garage.
After the husbands have gone to w'ork
it is quiet—a quiet broken only by the
swish of Commonwealth cars as they
pass, taking visiting V.I.P.s on a tour of
the northern beaches. The locals ignore
these, and refuse to look like the sort
of people who are used to being looked
at. They fall into none of the picturesque
attitudes of the inhabitants of such places
as Santa Lucia, Montmartre or Green-
wich Village.
They remain in their own small world.
It is strictly their world down there.
Everything is prefixed by “our.” When
a general hospital, the first for the district,
is built at Mona Vale, it wall be “our”
hospital. It is “our” council, “our” local
member, annexed in a way which hardly
exists in the impersonal atmosphere of
most Sydney suburbs.
One of the Peninsula’s phenomena h
the Warringah Book Lovers’ Club. It ; s
appropriate that the club should meet in
a hall which it shares with “our” Girl
Guides. The hall is at the back of “our”
Baby Health Centre, and the council’s
free parking area. The club shares the
hall with the Guides on a system of so
many days and so many evenings for
each, and wash up and leave the kitchen
tidy before you go. Everybody said it
wouldn't work, and it does, perfectly.
The club differs from most Australian
organisations begun by women, in that
it is net wedded to the “good cause.”
When two or more Australian women are
gathered together they are usually running
a raffle, a street stall, a jumble sale or a
monster fair The only object of the
Book Lovers’ Club is to gather together
women who are fond of books, and its
fund-raising activities are generally to
buy more books for its library
It is, of course, somewhat akin to the
suburban groups dedicated to self-
improvement and to bridging the gap
between the kitchen-sink and the outside
world. This aim will set a dozen house-
wives in Lane Cove studying elementary
astronomy, while their counterparts in
East Lindfield are having a go at public
speaking, under the guidance of the adult-
education people. But the Book Club
was begun by one person, Mrs V. J.
Quilty, of Narrabeen, and has grown to
about 80 members, formed its policy and
set out its objectives without outside help.
The club is a world away from the
parboiled passivity of men’s luncheon
clubs, where the speaker is merely an
item on the programme, something like
the beetroot in the salad, and his words
wash over the gathering like the tide
over the rocks.
The women of the Warringah Book
Lovers' Club are committed, courageous
and catholic Those who pioneered the
club eight years ago fought strongly to
keep the club free —or “as free as
possible” —of those who would like to
use it to further social ambitions.
There may in the beginning have been
some careless talk about Frances Parkin-
son Keyes and her kin, but in later years
the club has grown brave enough to
tackle almost anything. They’ve “done’
Henry Miller, and at a recent meeting,
after Sydney journali't Vic Worstead had
spoken on “Dr Zhivago,’’ all sorts of
points were raised, from the attitude of
Russian university students to Pasternak
(from clues given in the 8.8.C.’s May
Day TV programme) to criticisms of con-
struction and plot.
When the club began the small group
of members merely used to meet at each
others’ houses, talk about books and
lend one another books. Now gifts and
purchases of books have brought the
club’s library up to 600 books. Club
dues are two guineas a year, but by a
system of “draws” each member gets
back 15s. a year in the form of a voucher
which she uses to buy any book or hei
own choice for her own collection.
The club is probably the only one of
its kind in Australia. Its formula is so
simple and its success so striking that u
is a wonder there aren't others.


FOR THE CONSUMER
Home-buil ding
without Waste
If there is one thing which the happy
home-owner doesn’t notice when he
finally gets the key of his cottage and
takes up possession, it is the quantities
of broken bricks and tiles, odd pieces of
timber and glass which lie in untidy
heaps on his precious plot.
If he weren’t so anxious to get into
the house at last, after all the delays
and frustrations of building, he might
reflect that he has paid for all that
waste. In point of fact, he pays for it
three times over He paid for the stuff
when the architect ordered it ; he paid
for the workmen’s time as they cut, broke
or sawed it off ; he pays again when it
is removed from the building site.
Every home - builder or intending
home-builder feels that costs are too
high. Many people in the industry feel
that, of all their recurring troubles, the
problem of costs is the greatest. Perhaps
the only significant way in which costs
can be brought down would be by
ensuring that sections, which now fit
with difficulty, fit with ease, enabling
labor on the job to be cut to a minimum.
This, at least, is the view of the Aus-
tralian Modular Society The society,
which was formed in 1959, came out
of a chance conversation among delegates
who attended a seminar on waste in the
building industry at the Sydney Building
Information Centre.
The president of the society is the
Dean of the Faculty of Architecture at
the University of Sydney, Professor
Ingham Ashworth. Vice-presidents are
R. O. Smee, of the Standards Association
of Australia, and G. J. Dusseldorp, of
Civil and Civic Constructions.
The society’s main aim is to establish
a module, or basic unit of size. Once
this size has been set, the society will
then have to persuade manufacturers of
building materials, architects, engineers
and builders that the use of a module
will make their job easier and cheaper
At the same time the society will have
to try to persuade these people, and the
home-builder, that the idea of a standard
size does not mean standardised build-
ing. Whether a building is modular-
constructed or not will be apparent to
the home-owner only in the price.
The module is likely to be four inches.
This will mean that everything on a
building job which is measured by size
and not by weight will have the dimen-
sions of either a multiple or a fraction
of four. The architect will design the
whole building on a four-inch grid.
The Australian Modular Society could
very well state now that it believes a
four-inch module is the ideal. However,
it may not say anything for another 18
months. Members of the society feel
that when Australia- adopts decimal
currency she may also go over to the
metric system of weights and measures.
Then the module would be ten centi-
metres, which is almost, but not quite,
four inches.
Although it will be, perhaps, 18
months before the society makes an
announcement, Australia is already
lagging behind many countries in estab-
lishing a standard size for building. Bel-
gium, France, Germany, Italy, India, the
Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Canada
and the United States have already
.adopted the four-inch or 10-centimetre
module.
The director of the Sydney Building
Information Centre, Mr Bernard Clap-
coti, said he worked on a suburban
housing project in Sweden. Apartment
.blocks containing 142 units, plus shops
-and offices, were completed in seven
months, although it was wintertime with
only about an hour of daylight each day
This was possible, Mr Clapcott said, only
because it was modular construction.
Most components came to the job ready
.to assemble, and they could be assembled
-with a minimum of effort and time
Even the most optimistic members of
the society realise it will be a long time
before the whole of the Australian build-
ing industry is organised for modular
building. Battle will have to be joined
against firms which have been making
the same product in the same way for,
perhaps, generations, and which see no
reason for changing their ways.
It will take a great deal of persuasion
to convince some of these companies that
by deliberately making their produce a
different size from their rivals they are
not creating something unique. These
firms will have to see eventually that
conformity in size will make their pro-
ducts easier to sell, without reducing
pt oduct-identification.
The society rather hopes to “infiltrate"’
certain key industries. For example, all
tile moulds used by Australian manufac-
turers are made by the one firm —Wun-
derlichs. If Wunderlichs can be per-
suaded to change their moulds to a four-
inch module, that will be one step for-
ward. Mr George Lindsay, of Wunder-
lichs. is a foundation member of the
society.
Bricks are a large problem. However,
GUIDE TO THE CLERGY
( Continued ),
by DAVID SWAIN
NON-CONFORMIST
LATE MASS


all masonry blocks made in Australia are
made from modular moulds from the
United States.
Where some members of the society
hope to make most headway with modu-
lar construction is in the built-in kitchen.
Here there is at present enormous waste
caused by differing sizes. The end-
product is also unsatisfactory from the
housewife’s viewpoint.
A kitchen is described as “built-in,”
but in fact it consists of a series of cup-
boards and appliances the heights and
widths of which vary slightly, so there
is waste space and wasted effort in clean-
ing surfaces of different heights and hard-
to-reach spots between refrigerator and
cupboard or between cupboard and stove.
The built-in kitchen should cost less
than the kitchen with free-standing
appliances and furniture, but today it
costs more. One big reason is the differ-
ent sizes.
We need one standard cabinet height,
one standard cabinet depth, and one
standard module of cabinet width.
The tendency in the United States is
towards the 24in.-deep work bench.
24 inches has been adopted for
various practical reasons. In addition, a
kitchen study at Cornell University re-
commended standardising the kitchen in
six modular work centres —an Bft sink
centre, a 4ft stove centre, a 4ft built-in
or wall-hung refrigerator, a 2ft built-in
oven, a 4ft mix centre and a 4ft serve
centre. Some of these centres could be
omitted, overlapped and, perhaps, in the
small home, halved.
It can hardly be said that there is a
trend in Australia towards the 24in.-deep
kitchen work bench. However, there is
an increased use of 2ft-deep stainless-
steel sinks. Sydney architect Harry Seid-
ler specified these for Ithaca Gardens, a
block of 48 home units built by Civil
and Civic Constructions Pty Ltd.
The “Dishlex” dish-washing machine,
which has its own stainless-steel sink and
cupboard unit, is built to a 24in. module.
It is built in Australia under licence to
a New Zealand design. Most designers
of household appliances think that built-
in refrigerators and stoves will become
more popular, and perhaps the pressure
of their popularity will help progress to-
wards the uniform kitchen.
SPORT
Shakespeare
on Cricket
Shakespeare’s ghost is expected in
some quarters to do a good deal of
peevish haunting of the intruders when
the Australian Test cricket team moves
into his native Warwickshire next week
to put on a show of their own, but there
is another school of thought which argues
that Shakespeare loved cricket far too
much for any such unsporting spook
stuff.
Whether he loved it or not, his lines on
the sport (he just couldn’t keep the sub-
ject out of his plays!) are likely to be
extensively quoted by all those literary-
minded cricket reporters who can sense
the Shakespeare spirit in the air during
this, the first Anglo-Australian Test
match in Warwickshire for more than
50 years. A couple of bumpers in the
first over from Alan Davidson or Freddie
Trueman will have them scribbling about
the “fatal balls of murdering basilisks”
straight away or, if Queen Isabel’s phrase
from “Henry V” doesn’t suit them they’ll
bear down heavily on Shylock’s
If / can catch him once upon the hip
l will feed fat the ancient grudge I
bear him.
Tragedy was Shakespeare’s forte, and
he did not overlook the tragedy of the
dismissed batsman. Remember in “Henry
VI” the reference to the fellow “who
cowardly fled, not having struck one
stroke”? Remember how, in “A Mid-
summer Night’s Dream,” Pyramus
borrowed the language of a disillusioned
batsman to cry out:
Eyes do you see? How can it be?
O dainty duck! O dear!
Women may have played cricket in
Shakespeare’s time. Certainly Hermia in
the “Dream” could well be recalling a
run-out when she complains: “My legs
can keep no pace with my desires.” It
is a pity that present-day sporting writers
do not lend themselves readily to such
poetic forms of expression. None of
them, for instance, has yet gone on the
record as describing a wrong ’un as “a
bowl upon a subtle ground,” Menenius
not being too ashamed to use the figure
when Coriolanus gets himself on to a
sticky wicket.
Shakespeare’s muse does not appear to
have drawn much inspiration from the
stodgier stonewalling batsmen of his
own day, though some such Elizabethan
Ken Mackay was in his mind when, in
“Love’s Labor’s Lost,” he speaks of one
worthy who “would fight, yea from morn
till night, out of his pavilion.” On the
whole, Shakespeare’s taste among bats-
men was for the slashers who really
were slashers, and presumably one of the
kind provided him with enthusiasm for
such as “snip and nip and cut and slish
and slash,” as he says in “The Taming
of the Shrew.” Not to mention fiery
Tybalt of “Romeo and Juliet” who
“swung about his head and cut the
winds,” or the “Tempest” personage who
expresses himself “with his good arms in
lusty stroke.”
Shakespeare has a word for fielding and
fieldsmen, too. “You stand like grey-
hounds in the Slips,” he says in “Henry
V” —and in “Much Ado About Nothing”
he says that “they have a good cover”
and also speaks of “a good leg.”
“And Don Armado shall be your
keeper,” he declares. Don Armado,
being in “Love’s Labor’s Lost,” could pos-
sibly do some neat stumping off the
same play’s Sir Nathaniel, who “is a
marvellous good neighbor, faith, and a
very good bowler.”
Fluke fielding is forever immortalised
in “The Merchant of Venice” by Antonio,
who makes no bones about confessing:
“How I caught it, found it, or came by it,
I am to learn.” Antonio was more for-
tunate than the baby son of Coriolanus.
Something flew towards the baby “and
when he caught it he let it go again.”
Reliability in the field, however, appears
to be a strong point with Hecate from
“Macbeth.” Quite confidently she de-
clares
There hangs the vaporous drop
profound;
I’ll catch it ere it comes to ground.
Hecate, being thus above her captain’s
reproach, would have no need to echo
the Hostess in “Henry IV” when she
indignantly exclaims: “By my troth, cap-
tain, these are yery bitter words.”
For the ways of captains are no mys-
tery to Shakespeare. “Let us be keen
and rather cut a little,” says Escalus in
“Measure for Measure.” “Despatch those
centuries to our aid,” says a fellow in
“Coriolanus.”
The demeanor and manners of umpires
in Shakespeare’s time suggests that the
modern breed has lost something. “Let
me request you off,” says somebody in
“Antony and Cleopatra.” And there is
nothing at all hectoring about the charac-
ter who, intervening in some quarrelsome-
ness in “Henry VI” says: “Let me be
umpire in this doubtful strife.” But it is
conceivable that decions were disputed
just as violently then as now. “Would I
were fairly out on’t,” complains some-
body in “Henry VIII.”
Shakespeare does not forget the vast
cricket public. Living in a time when
sporting news was spread by word of
mouth, often taking many months to
reach such inaccessible places as the crags
of Scotland, he knew a good deal of the
power and destructiveness of mere
rumor. “There ran a rumor,” says Ross
in “Macbeth,” “of many worthy fellows
that were out.” And old King Lear is
in a fever with his “Who loses, who wins;
who’s in, who’s out?”
No, with all this enthusiasm for
cricket, it is unthinkable that Shake-
speare’s ghost would try any form-
destroying nonsense on the Australians
when they invade his territory next week.
More probably the ghost will be out
there enthusing with the crowd, cheering
cricket to the skies and trying to give a
loud clear voice to that most famous line
from “The Merry Wives”—
“Cricket, to Windsor’s chimneys shalt
thou leap.”
LINDSEY BROWNE


LOOK BACK AT ANGER: "Hop” on Arbitration
From THE BULLETIN. February 21, 1891.
BEDFELLOWS—BUT SLEEPING WITH ONE EYE OPEN


ABORIGINALITIES
The Banksia-bird
Man
TX/here the road leaves the highway
** to drop down towards the sea at
Stanwell Park on the N.S.W. South
Coast I pulled in to a little store for
some cigarettes. “Is there something else
you want?” the man behind the counter
asked as I stood staring up at a shelf.
“Well, yes,” I said. “Could I have a
look at that bird up there?” The man
got the bird down from the shelf and
stood it on the counter.
It was a lyre-bird. Its body and
angled neck were a downy-feathered
banksia cob and its stalk. Its head and
sharp, aggressive beak were a conestick
and its stalk. Two gumnut cups made
its protruding, staring eyes. In short,
feathery “trousers” —two more cone-
sticks —it stood poised on long-toed legs
made of twigs.
Then there was the splendor of its
tail. Two of those long, slender, feathery-
flowering banksias, with a line plucked
down them to reveal their rich, brown
“velvet,” formed the two main feathers.
Delicate bush-fronds formed the “silver,
quivering curtain of song” of the central
tail-feathers. The bird was not standing
on the counter of the store; it was
standing on its dancing-mound, aggres-
sive, staring through the forest leaves
at the intruder who had interrupted its
piercing flood of sound.
“There’s an old crippled joker,” said
the storekeeper, “he lives in a shack
about a quarter of a mile down the
road; he makes them. Yes, it’s for
sale. Eleven shillings.” I paid for it
and asked the man to put it aside for
me until I got back.
Less than a quarter of a mile down
the road I pulled up. Just off the road
was a red-painted oil-drum on a post
for a letterbox. Back, in a clearing,
against the green and golden mass of
the bush, was the shack. Its red-rusting
iron roof was bowed and, in front, an
apple-tree and red flowering shrubs were
growing wild. A ruined out-house was
covered with a grapevine and out of,
and over, the bush came the clear, chal-
lenging cries of the currawongs.
As I approached the shack an old,
white-haired and bare-footed man helped
himself off the settee on the verandah
with two sticks. I told him I had just
bought his lyre-bird up at the store and
thought I'd call in and tell him how
much I liked it, “Ah,” he said, “I guess
you’d like to see my collection.” And,
hobbling on his sticks, he led the way
round to a shed and opened the door.
The shed was crowded with the
old man's creations. There were birds
of every species. There were birds
that never were in the whole of creation,
but they were birds that had come alive
from the old fellow's imagination. There
were snakes coiled round sticks, and
snakes rearing to strike. There was an
antlered deer and a horned water-
buffalo. There were grotesque, contorted
roots of trees and cardboard boxes filled
with banksia cobs, drumsticks and cone-
sticks which the old man had gathered
in the bush.
I was sitting under the apple-tree with
blue wrens and the brown wrens flitting
and darting over and around me. The
“ Fascinating!”
THE LYRE-BIRD
Cobs , fronds and twigs
old man sat on the settee sorting out
some tree fungi in a cardboard box.
“One day/’ he said, “I found a piece of
log under a tree. It was all grub-eaten
and water-worn. Soon as I picked it up,
1 saw that it was an old black-fellow in
a long overcoat with his dog standing
up against him and licking has hand.
That dog was more real than he was.
“I brought it home and brushed it and
cleaned it up. 1 was sorry l sold it. I
wanted to keep it, but you can't hang
onto everything. I took it to the
Panorama Hotel. They put it on the
shelf and someone bought it for three
guineas.
“Before I got crippled up l often used
to go out into the bush with a sugarbag
and collect all the things I saw. I still
go out. I look around for the things
1 want. I might want some birds’ feet,
or some of them long, flowering banksias
for lyre-birds’ tails. I pick the banksias
when they're dead. They’re a nice,
velvety brown then. I found this. Did
you have a look at this? Now who’d
pick up that piece of old tree-root? Look,
can’t you see that it looks liks an octopus?
“1 reckon that from the time I first
started making these things, over seven
years ago, I’ve made about £6OO. 'Course,
now that I can’t get about so much in
the bush to find my things, the sales
have dropped off. My brother was tell-
ing me about a chap who’d copied me.
Maybe he’s got more go to push the
sales. This feller’s made himself enough
to build a house.
“Now, that middle bird you've picked
out, he’s having a screw up at you
He’s a bit inquisitive. That other feller
with the long beak, he’s a dark, sad sort
of a bird. He’s walking along, looking
down at the ground all the time for


anything he can find. There was some
young abos working on the railway line.
When they saw my birds and things they
promised to bring me some driftwood
from Nowra, but they never did. They
liked my birds, though. They bought
some to take back with them to Nowra.
They're just the things to take a black-
feller’s fancy. Now I suppose they’ll
start making these things themselves.
“Well, about that there snake that’s
taken your fancy, I don’t really want
to let that snake go. I might never find
another grass-tree spear that’s gone and
turned itself into a snake like that. Still,
seeing that you’re the sort of bloke that’s
interested in these things, I’ll let you
have him.”
I asked the old man why he was
sorting out his box of tree-fungi. “Well,”
he said, “there’s been a big moth kicking
around here lately—a big, butterfly kind
of a thing it is. It’s given me an idea.
When 1 get two of these dried fungus—
they grow on old, dead trees —to match
one another, I’m going to make one of
them big brown moths you see come in
the house sometimes. Some of those
cobs, just after they’ve flowered, they’re
a bullet shape, will make the body. I’ll
use that thin blasting-wire for his feelers,
and I’ll use the same wire for his legs.
I’ll put a hook in them so that he’ll
hang on the curtain and look just like
a moth.
“ ’Course, you’ve got to be down in
the gullies and damp places to find these
fungus. You’d be surprised at all the
different comments of people who see
my things. They say, ‘How do you
make these things?’ ‘How do you put
the necks on these birds?’ They can’t
see that they’re all one piece, that that’s
how they grew in the bush. You'll see
all kinds of birds and animals in the
bush if you’ve got any imagination.
That’s the trouble with people, no
imagination, they just can’t see these
things that are all around them.
“No, I never get bored. I can still
hobble a bit of a way into the bush
with my sticks and find all the queer
and interesting things you’d never dream
about No, I’ve never been one to mix
“My Word, you’re up bright and
early this morning!”
with a lot of people. No, I never married,
just seem to have been always battling
along on me own. Never was one for
all that courting and love - making,
although I’m sorry now that I haven’t
got a wife to rub me legs when they get
crippled up.”
When I left, the currawongs were still
crying and calling out of the bush.
Behind the red-rusting shack, the bush
was glooming under cloud, then bursting
out into green-golden sunlight again. The
shack seemed deserted, blended into the
bush.
I called in at the store and picked
up my lyre-bird. Carefully, I put him
into the box with my other birds, then
drove on.
Roland Robinson
That Was the Country
A correspondent on in-breeding in the
back blocks:
Inter marrying is deplorably prevalent
in some of the sparsely-populated dis-
tricts of New South Wales. Writer knows
one locality in which the results of this
are very patent. Whole families are
either deaf or partly dumb, and morals
are painfully loose. The other day a fe-
male member of these families visited a
doctor for advice, but after the patient
had been half-an-hour trying to explain
her symptoms the medico had to give
it up and give her a bottle of “strictly
non committal medicine” Very few of
these people can read or write, while
many are not even sure what sex they
belong to. — “Bulletin”, March 2, 1901.
Reference has been made to the vast
distance of some of the Queensland
Federal electorates. But hark back to the
early days up north! In 1849, voters in
Brisbane had to record their votes at
the nearest polling-booth — at Mail la nd
(N.S.W.) ; (previous to this the Crown
nominee “represented” the whole of
Australia north of the Richmond and
east of the W.A. boundary) . In 1861,
G. W. Herbert stood for the electorate
that now bears his name, north of
Townsville, and having got a nominator
he had to travel 20 miles to get a secon-
der! To make sure of getting both to-
gether he put his nominator in the lock-
up till he returned with the second man.
— “Bulletin”, March 9, 1901.
The Prey at the Fire
HPhe smoke from a bushfire rings a
tucker bell for many birds. The
first veil of grey hasn’t had time to
dissolve in the air, or be tossed by the
wind, before the blue martins come from
somewhere or nowhere and are on the
job. (We call them blue martins, and
they’re common from the eastern coast
to the western border in Queensland.
Ornithologists refer to them as some
species of wood swallow and they
classify them into half a dozen or so
families. They’re all “blueys” to us.)
Next, no more than a length and a
half behind, the kite hawks come swing-
ing. There aren’t many of them on
the coastal fall; they abound in the
west. A few falcons or peregrines or
something—we give them all the generic
name of “sparrow-hawks”—and an odd
magpie and an occasional butcher-bird
gather. They all follow the face of the
fire, swinging through the curtain of
smoke, slicing distance on still wings.
They fly low of necessity: if they go
too high some other bird will snap up
the meal they seek before it rises to their
height.
It’s good hunting for the birds. Kites
will follow a solitary horseman riding
over the plains for the grasshopper,
flushed from beneath the horse’s hooves.
A fire takes them in a face ; it’s bettei
than a host of beaters. ’Hoppers rise,
try desperately to fly, appear to be half-
stunned by smoke; they’re easy kills
for skilled hunters like the martins, the
kites, and perhaps a falcon which has
stooped a moment from its high estate.
The martins grab with the beak, juggle
a transfer from bill to claw, and then,
in their stage of evolution from swallow
to hawk, they dine regally in the air.
Like the kites they reach under, pull off
the ’hopper’s head, draw its guts at the
same time, drop that offal to the ground,
and the rest is all good meat, from an
avian point of view.
The falcons wait for something more
in keeping with their high status: they
want birds, something running in red
blood, a meal that is worth taking home
to a nest of hungry chickens. The many
ground-larks and an odd button-bird
quail or two supply the answer. The lark
rises almost as the flames reach her —
she may have been sitting on a nest of
most precious eggs. She might be half-
stifled with smoke when she takes to
the air ; she is sillier than usual. Even
a soaring kite, all belly and no brains,
could snatch her. But while the slower
kite is thinking, the falcon sweeps in
with a whistle of wings through its taut
feathers. The lark’s life goes out with
a snap.
Button-birds rise and whirr through
the air like feathered bullets. Unless a
kite has the altitude to give it a flying
start the quail is out of its class for
speed. But the falcons get down to it,
rock in the air as they drive forward,
and the button-bird invariably plays
right into their hands —or talons—at the
last minute: it breasts up before drop-
ping to the safety of the unburned grass ;
it hangs motionless in the air, suspended
on nothing, for just the flick of a second.
And in that snap of a finger the falcon
has swept on the stationary quail,
grasped it, clutched it to death, and.
to make doubly sure no escape is pos-
sible, bitten off its wings before taking
it away in the distance to where its
fledglings await its return.
HENRY G. LAMOND


Feiffer
*i oo we
f&OUtiiQ
mt ?
CiiA
\
m
i loo kmu) mr
FAKK6 ROW?
cm
CHA
cm,
r m ear 10 (jtCHQot,
arquw wee.
HteMAV RW6R.
mlot? hi6B earn-
a*
m
m
WHS fc]ppl|U6
Hi i mrro
H6(?mak3 z<vm
J't/fjiof? him
wool.
m
m
: m
wn kwh&
MS. iOHAT nm
10U 60?
cfo
cm
cm
If 1 Tfl(,£?
HOOP {Mu
Ho a) 01,0
i m
CM
CHfi
xm
sS /
m «CW*fc HB
tyV 60 10 SCHOOL,
Wit) OR. lOORK
OR WHAT* 7,
cha
CHft
CM
im a m-
fVMIGf CHA
CI »A
cm
111 A P6UTIST*
Off &
, CM
i m
wee <ipp/o&
Me. MM COOS 105
a pgurar.
aft \
CHA
CM r rO
mu
KWM
h e.tmft
H& fOAMg?
/ ftfA
imm.
CKA \
CHA '
m <
OH Mioe* UAM6
cm
yww <100(106
Mf l HAP A
SfltegAtfT 1(0
TH6 MATICMAU
61/ARP
MAM6P/
tesw.
M\
crtfl,
CHA.V^i
mm Kmnb
Mg. BPOTKei?
mo ro Be m
Th 6 oati OlUAi,
Bmp. w
/WHIM
• to If AIM
CM
CHA
, m
f
UNt frith.
HOU LOW
PIZZA}
CM
m i
m/
wte kip
WN6 H 6
I'M WIUD
A&OPT ,
PIZZA/
*CHA
wo cone
with A Meow
OR DHAT
CHA 1 J 7 2
CHA
CM / A \
om MH W
<&a mtob
owe wee.
tDPIt,OUPPY HWiPHUW
IU m AROUtOpr'
cm ~
cm
cm
4 dDRIb
JLWWN
mmoA
mv<m'
ysMcei
CAU HE
THomf
m
m
OIA.


A KIND OF MARRIAGE
By RAY MATHEW
She was a girl I used to know —not that I knew her name!
just well enough to know that she belonged and not be
surprised if I saw her at parties.
I saw her at lots of parties (I’m trying to remember
exactly how it happened, the trio I’m talking about). I never
noticed her much. She wasn’t much to look at and I used
to believe that parties ought to be feasts for the eyes, so I
didn’t notice her much. Still, she did have only one head
a nd I didn’t mind nodding to her after making my entrance.
There was one party, when I found myself near her and
couldn’t get away ; had nowhere to go. The room was full
of people with only one head, no better than she was, using
Party acts I was used to. God, I was bored! So for want
of a better, I turned to her and gave her my party act: “How
do you do?” in a rather ripping, milord voice.
“I come from Denmark too.” She answered quick as
Winking, no sign of thought or surprise. I liked that. I
mean, it was quick. So I looked at her. She looked all right-
only one head, as I told you, and that not unusually repulsive.
So I gave her the one-two-three and explained the party to
her: who everyone was and what was wrong with them, why
not one of them would ever write anything, ever do anyone.
“How do they do?” I asked her.
She blinked this time, had no quick answer, so I asked
her to my place and we ran away.
That’s to say, we moved from the sardine tin where the
party was to the empty flat below that was mine. Only it
W'asn’t empty • we were there, her and me, woman and man,
female-male. The room, as I explained to her, that had been
neuter was now swelling with gender.
She said she could see that but there was nothing to be
done, unless we took ourselves off and took life from the
room. I thought that intelligent but talkative and suggested,
in dumb show, that there was an alternative.
Che began to breathe like the start of an argument. I stopped
her by pointing out that we’d no common background as
yet and discussion was impossible unless we defined terms.
So we did We sat on the bed and chewed things over.
Later, with the noise of the party coming muted and


pretty from above, with the sense of quiet that later ought
to bring, we talked about the novel 1 was going to write, the
tedium of others, the reality of us even though we were merely
an interruption, a checking of material, a stimulus for the
realitv that was my novel-to-be.
She said nothing at all, nothing about herself, whether
she was writer or reader or nong-nong from the lending-
libraries, flesh or fowl or optimistic beast of the field. But
she kept me talking—which is the comfort that Later needs —-
and I realised why she was wanted at so many parties ; she
was a listener, the perfect guest for the kind of people who
needed to give parties.
“You’re a catharsis,” I told her. “You’re good for me.”
And while she cooked breakfast, full of ideas that were
almost coming out I played on the typewriter: “Now is the
Time for Ail Good Men to Come to the Aid of the Hearty”—
which made me laugh. Somehow the thought of laughter
and the smell of coffee that someone else was making kept
me cheerful and full of ideas that were almost coming out.
I felt so at hope with the world that I kissed her before I
left for my bed-and-batter job, left her alone in the flat and
told her it would be all right to use the shower down the hall
before she went.
But when I came home, tired from toil and ready for
work, there was a smell of onion cooking ; she was still there.
And there she stayed while we ate and I explained to her
how silly she was, how romantic and sweet, how I could never
afford a menage and she would really have to go in the
morning.
She listened, agreed I was sensible and she was silly. We
sort of shacked Up.
I was surprised to find that I enjoyed it, enjoyed thinking
what the others would say about me steady, and enjoyed
staying in every night to work on the novel or to toy with
the typewriter. 1 used to read her whatever was added or
subtracted. It was amusing to hear her trying-to-be-clever—a
partner —comments, and useful to see from her real reactions
that it was going as I had planned.
It was a very connubial and suburban life I suppose, but
it was only temporary and I never let her pretend it was
anything else.
“I'm still free,” I explained. “I can have affairs.”
Comehow I didn’t. With the habit of meals on time, the
discipline of someone expecting to hear that the novel
had moved, my routine seemed to have become too crowded
for affairs. There was really no need for me to go out at
nights at all —meals were better and cost less a? home, sex
was less trouble and time at home. As Marjorie said (it turned
up that her name was Marjorie), I had already collected more
material than most
Still, sometimes I got lonely with Marjorie listening and
the typewriter refusing to invent. Which is one reason why
I was particularly pleased when Rob dropped in to talk,
which was the only reason he ever dropped in.
“In a nutshell , that is it!“
He had been away, but he was my closest friend ; Ws
had never been rivals. At that stage, he wrote only verse.
He stood at the door supporting some bottles. In our
language ‘'dropping in” meant bottles and adventures, the
things that made talk possible. “Ask me in,” he said. “I’ve
come to stay. Melbourne was windy. Have you got a bed?”
“There’s the floor.”
He offered a bottle as thanks. “There always was.” He
looked at Marjorie, her ironing on the table, her shoes under
the bed. He looked at me and smiled tolerantly. “It’s like
you,” he said, “to fill the bed ; to be tied up, down, all
round with one.”
“It is professionally useful,” I told him. “If I went on like
you all my life I'd have a ‘half-ignorant, ill-proportioned
vision of mankind.’ There’d be a whole side of human life
I’d never experience.”
He laughed leeringly.
“1 meant marriage,” 1 explained. “That casual stuff you
specialise in— —
“Are you married?”
Marjorie looked at him.
“In the eyes of Heaven,” 1 assured him solemnly,
"It can be Heaven.” He was laughing, as usual. “If
you have it on the instalment plan.”
I smiled, tolerantly, at him. We handed the bottles to
Marjorie, who had to play barmaid and pour. There
Was only one chair, so we sat on the floor and talked the way
we always did —this, that and everything : the life and the art
that should have happened. He stayed the night, on the floor.
And the next. And the next . . .
It worked well enough, Rob took a night job ; we met
in the evenings, We had, as it were, a respectable menage a
trots.
“Respective,” Rob corrected me.
I didn’t ask if he meant anything more than respective
periods in residence. If he did, 1 didn't yet want to be told. If
you let people tell you things, often they force you to react
the way they think you ought to.
He did get on well with .Marjorie though ; flirted with her,
hugged her, included her in his anecdotes about sex as though
he were talking to a friend, confided to her as well as to me
his progress with his latest.
But his job meant that there were only a couple of hours
of a weekday when we were all three together. 1 didn’t see
him often enough for his presence to interrupt the novel.
Life went on just as before, except there wasn't only Marjorie
to talk to and I could enjoy thinking what the others would
say about me steady with a girl and a boy. And of course
we had furniture. Rob paid, bought things. The floor became
crowded. It looked very suburban, but it was pleasant to
have armchairs for sitting in.
Then Rob’s novel came out. I couldn't help being hurt
that he hadn’t even told me he’d been writing one, and 1
should have told him I was hurt then. But it seemed so petty,
and I was young enough to hate looking petty. When Marjorie
said that it was mean that he hadn’t arranged for us to be asked
to the party his publisher gave him, I told her not to be petty
and of course that obliged me to be silent.
But petty or not I couldn't help being irritated (which
is worse than hurt) by the way Rob seemed to have changed.
Not that he gave up his job, like a successful author or any-
thing ; his book was not only cheap poeticism, it was
uncommercial cheap poeticism. It was just that he had begun
to swagger. That’s the only word.
TTe didn’t boast or pretend to be a success, but he swaggered
* * in what I thought a sly and nasty way. He was irritatingly
tactful about not introducing me to his publisher, yet. He
used to look away whenever I wrenched a page from type-
writer to wastepaper basket.
1 remember one Sunday when he watched me at breakfast
read one of his reviews. “Marjorie says your book's coming.
How do you feel about it? You should read it to me sometime,
as far as it’s gone.”
The last phrase hurt, but there was no point in parading
my weakness ; there was nothing to be said at all. “This
one likes you.” That was all I said.
But when I came home and found him and Marjorie
still in bed —my bed, I said a great deal more. “My mate*
I ended sarcastically. “My good old mate! My friend!”
“Comrade-in-arms,” Rob corrected me.


in iA e
.Fuiwe
wQ
\
The world is changing very rapidly these days
in matters of trade and industry. And from what
is happening, Australia as a nation expanding has
many lessons to learn.
One of them is that, from here on, efficiency
at every level of our country’s life must be not just
a word, or a hope, but an actuality.
The days are gone when, relying on such
dependables as Australia’s unique position in wool,
we could go along letting the rest of the story work
itself out as it might.
The years since 1945 have brought great shifts
in economic strength. Take West Germany, for
instance —a country bombed and battered to
destruction, and now embarrassed only by the
richness of its currency and the expansiveness of
its foreign trade. Take Japan, risen from utter
defeat to become the world’s major builder of ships
and its largest exporter of textiles.
These countries —helped up, it is true, by the
generosity of their victors —have had the advantage
of modern replacement for their industry. But
the point is, they used it!
And if a reason is sought for th; remarkable
recovery they have made, it is to be found in the
high technical skills they have developed, combined
with the industriousness and drive of their people.
Therein lies the lesson for Australia now. We
possess a wonderful country which itself has never
been defaced by war. Its present and future wealth
attend us, and much is waiting to be done. On
how well we do it depends our place in the world,
where the things that are happening abroad today
will be happening in an even more intensified way
in the future.
Efficiency—for that is the key to it —is
something real and visible. It implies the use of
every available modern aid and the determination
to spend ourselves individually in service to
our country.
And efficiency has its source in that interior
faith without which no people in history have ever
brought their nation on to greatness.
// S'
“It’s a pity this passion for precision isn’t obvious in your
novel-”
Rob laughed. “You're changing the subject, but not the
tone. You’re behaving like a husband, like all the husbands
I’ve met, under these circumstances.”
“I feel like a husband.” I used to believe there was
sometimes strength in confession.
“At the moment,” I added.
“You’ve known all the moments about me and Mari.”
“Nobody told me.”
“We’ve shared others.”
“Not in my bed.”
“Only because you didn’t own a bed.” I knew I had been
sounding prim. “Would it have been all right on the divan
that / bought? You're getting very middle-class and conscious
of possession.”
“I’m getting conscious of you.”
“Now, don’t do your block.” He was laughing again.
“I’m very calm.”
“I can sense that —underneath.”
“Very witty! Will you use it in your next?”
“I’ll use you in my next, if you behave like a fool.”
“Now, don’t do your block.” / was laughing now.
“You’re jealous, that’s what you are!”
“Ha!”
“Jealous of my success. You don’t care about Marjorie
at all. It’s only the bloody book.”
“I care about my bloody book, yes! I’m a dedicated
writer. You’re ”
“A successful one —with publishers and women.”
“I can see how!”
\|arjorie had got up, dressed, without a word. She never
had much to say.
“Marjorie,” 1 said. “Where’s my tea?”
She began to lay the table.
“I’m not annoyed with you,” I said. “You’re free, and
I should have remembered what he was like. It was stupid
of me to expect decency. He thinks he can use the flat, the
furniture, you ”
“Half this stuff is mine,” said Rob. “That chair you’ve
flopped in!”
“Take it away! ”
He jumped naked from the bed and pulled it from under
me. I grabbed at him —to hold my balance, to knock him
silly. We fell on the floor and he burst out laughing. I
couldn't nit him then ; it would have been like hitting a man
with glasses. Besides he had no clothes on.
“You're a solemn cow,” he said.
“I'm serious now, yes! You’re right. Half the things
here are yours. I think you’d better take them right away,
i'm tired of having you disrupt the whole place ; I have been
for a long time, but I kidded myself you’d grow. Anyway,
it's too crowded here with three.”
“It’s been rather comfy,” said Rob.
“ Has been is the past tense,” I pointed out “Precise
again! ”
“Pompous and spiteful,” said Rob sorrowfully. He began
to dress.
“Tea’s ready,” said Marjorie.
VX?e sat down and ate. There was no conversation but Rob
kept talking, very cheerfully, about how he’d contem-
plated a move, had had his eye on a place, would stay tonight
at a real friend’s, and would I please stop hogging the salt.
“I’ll pick up my stuff tomorrow,” he said. “I’ll come
round with a truck. But wed better divide it together. I
don’t want accusations about what I got off with.”
But I wouldn’t let him provoke me into an answer.
He moved round the room. “This is mine,” he said.
“That’s mine. Oh, this is yours . .
I could see he was almost laughing but 1 would not
speak, although I could see the funny side of it all. I knew
I spoke it would look like a joke and we’d go on just as
before and really, as I said, I had lately found him extra-
ordinarily irritating; it had even interfered with my work
°n the novel.
Silence annoyed him. Suddenly he was really angry,
swearing and shouting as though he were not in the wrong


&
i.
1
W
. ) ''
&
whatever you choose
to drink ...
‘ORANGE JULEP
Crush mint
leaves in a
long glass, add
ice and pour in
2 parts Gilbey’s
Gin and 1 part
Orange Juice.
Add teaspoon
sugar and fill
with icy cold
Soda Water.
‘NORTH SHORE
2 parts Gilbey’s
Gin 1 part Sweet
Vermouth. 2 dashes
Angostura Bitters.
Stir, add ice and twist
of lemon peel.
GIN
0
n
don’t say gin ... say
GILBEY’S
*drinks from the famous Gilbey Recipe Book. 9289 G
at all. But still I wouldn’t speak. I just walked over to the
typewriter and sorted my papers as though I were going to
work.
“That ribbon’s mine,” he shouted. “Half mine!”
“Take it all.”
He grabbed the bread knife from the table and hacked
the ribbon in two. “Now what about Marjorie? What are
we doing about her?”
“About her?” I looked at him as though he were mad.
“Which half will you have? I’m a leg-man really.”
And he went at her with the knife as though he meant
business.
She screamed delightedly and dodged behind me, holding
on to my waist for protection. I disengaged her gently.
“Marjorie’s free,” I said. “I’m sure she can choose who
she wants to stay with.”
“With whom,” corrected Rob.
Then I did explode, told him what I really thought of
him, called him a poseur, a litterateur and all the other
filthy French words I could think of ... of which I could
think. “Now you can go,” I finished.
“It’s time,” he said, “although you are amusing. Are
you coming, Marjorie?”
“Yes,” she said.
I stood there perfectly still (I could hardly sit down on
his chair) while she packed her handbag with the things
women live for ; stood there perfectly silent while both of
them went; simply could not speak although they both said
goodbye very politely and Rob explained about the key and
the truck and his belongings.
“You can keep the ribbon.” They were his last words.
When they were gone, the sound of their footsteps, even,
gone—his dull and swaggering, hers sharp and pointed—!
came to my senses. I sat down to work: “Now is the
Time . . .”
The ribbon was cut in half. I pulled out the spools
and repaired it. There was ink all over my hands. Somehow
I couldn't work.
I wondered who was giving a party, but I was too out
of touch, too suburban husbandy to know. I went to the
pub.
When I got home from the job next evening, the room was
still furnished as I’d left it, but it was tidier, and Mar-
jorie was ai the stove.
“I’d intended to have a quiet evening,” I said.
“You don’t understand—”
“You've caught his style! Where is he? Under his
divan?”
“I’ve left him.”
“It’s becoming a habit.”
“Tea’s ready.”
We ate. Later, in bed —where else is Later with women
like Marjorie?—l couldn’t help asking why she had left
him? 1 thought I ought to know, for literary purposes.
Besides, he was my best friend ; it might have been some-
thing I ought to have told him.
“He’s terrible when you’re alone with him,” she said.
“You’ve been alone with him before.”
“Yes.”
That was all she said. After a while, 1 couldn’t help
asking, “Why did you go with him?”
“He had a knife.”
“A bread knife,” I corrected her.
“He was in a terrible rage. I thought he might hurt
you.”
“I can take care of myself.”
“Yes. But I thought . . .” She hugged me then, stroked
me as though 1 were a baby. It felt rather nice and I couldn't
help laughing at her fear. There was certainly no point in
discussing it ; she was never one for talk or explanation She
is the most sincerely instinctive creature I know.
We settled down just as we had before. I started revising
the novel, read it to her again. It was very pleasant and
suburban, especially as we still had Rob’s furniture, but it
did get rather boring with only Marjorie to talk to. I began
to feel the need for some variety, talk, someone with ideas;
I thought about parties, became tired of writing. We started
to have rows.
I was standing there telling her I hated fixed meals, that
she was an anchor dragging me down, when there was a
knock at the door.
IT was Rob. He stood there supporting some bottles.
“Ask me in,” he said. “I’ve been to Brisbane. I de-
serve a rest. It’s a long time since I saw you.”
“It has been a long fortnight.”
We gave the bottles to Marjorie who had to play bar-
mother and pour. We sat down and talked, the way we
always did —this, that and most things.
“I’m tired,” said Rob when the bottles were empty-
“ There’s still a divan?”
“There always is.”
And that’s how we live.


The Red Page
Three Art Books
By DOUGLAS STEWART
Adventures in Art. Howard Daniel.
Abelard-Schuman. 41s. 6d.
Chinese Art. Daisy Lion-Goldschmidt
and Jean-Claude Moreau - Gobard ;
translated from the French by Diana
Imber. Studio Books.
Masterpieces from Budapest. Selected
and introduced by Klara Garas. Studio.
ruBTiTLED “a guide to gallery-going,” Mr
Daniel's book is simply a guide-
book for tourists and so perhaps should
not be mentioned in the other august
company here present. Everybody des-
pises tourists and everybody scorns guide-
books.
But then, everybody who goes on his
travels and looks at an art gallery is,
whether he likes it or not, a tourist; and
if you don't sneak a look at a guide-
book at some time or other you are not
human and you are bound to get into
bother. All the galleries in Paris, for
instance are always closed when you go
to visit them, and Mr Daniel tells you
when they are open.
Besides, though his criticism is a little
facile on this occasion—it is a most mis-
leading half-truth to say that Vermeer's
pictures are “virtually still life”: they are
“still” all right, but still with that luminous
tranquillity which Eliot meant when he
wrote about “the still point of the turn-
ing world” —nevertheless Mr Daniel sup-
plies in his introduction a useful history
of the great movements in art and has
in his commentaries a lot of out-of-the-
way snippets of information, such as that
the Venus de Milo, universally accepted
as the ideal of feminine beauty, is actu-
ally nearly seven feet tall, and that one
hand of the Winged Victory was recently
hug up in Samothrace and “the Greek
owner is asking a fabulous price for it.’'
Furthermore, Mr Daniel is an Austra-
lian who, says the dustjacket, now lives
near Geneva and “was partially respon-
sible for introducing surrealist poetry and
avant-garde literature Down Under”; and
it is always nice to have a fellow country-
man advising us on what to see Up
Above.
Personally, as one who has been a
tourist, I found the scheme of his book,
which covers 19 famous galleries in
Europe and America, hopelessly limited.
There is nothing, for instance, to tell you
whereabouts in Rome you may find the
Ugly Pope of Velasquez—it is in the
Doria Gallery—which the painter A. J.
Alurch told me I must not miss whatever
e lse I failed to see in Rome: for which
advice I have ever afterwards been
grateful, the more so since there was a
Magnificent Holbein of Henry VIII at
’he same address. Though the Tate is
Mentioned in the letterpress, the detailed
London guide and commentary are re-
stricted to the National Gallery so that
no one would ever learn from this book
where the great school of English water-
colorists (in whose company, after study-
ing them, I was convinced that Hans Hey-
sen would find an honorable place) are
hidden: Cotman, Peter de Wint, David
Cox, thousands of the smaller Turners,
all tucked away in portfolios at the
British Museum. Mr Daniels has not
even a reference to what might be most
useful to the tourist in a hurry: the
Wallace Collection which is so fine an
epitome of the world's art and from which
1 chiefly remember a Holy Family of
Rubens where the flesh glows like rose-
buds, and the flowerpieces of Van Huy-
sum, marvellous in their combination of
meticulous observation and bold patterns
of color.
Still, it is a pleasure to go on one’s
travels again, even in this carping spirit,
and at least Mr Daniel has covered his
19 galleries, from Boston to Vienna, com-
petently and usefully. Perhaps, since
that is least known about, his account
of American art, ending with Albert
Ryder, “this eccentric recluse who lived
only to paint,” is his most interesting
chapter.
'T'he title of “Chinese Art” is misleading,
for the book deals only with bronze,
jade, ceramics and sculpture. It is the
second volume in a series called the
International Library of Antique Art, in
which the first was Professor Fujio
Koyama's “Ceromique Ancienne de
I'Asie.” Whether a further volume is
planned on Chinese painting is not stated ;
but at any rate this is a superb book in
its restricted field, all the better for the
restriction since the arts and crafts it
deals with can be covered thoroughly.
Weighing about half a ton and com-
prising 428 pages with 65 color-plates and
115 in black and white, it is as handsome
as it is massive and must be by far the
best thing of its kind in print. Its unique
interest is that most of the objects it
reproduces are from private collections
in Europe, so that no matter how much
the average reader may know of the
general run of Chinese craftsmanship he
cannot know these particular jugs, plates,
pots and human and animal figurines.
Only in the sculpture section is it dis-
appointing. Nobody can hope, by taking
a few stray small pieces of Chinese sculp-
ture from private collections in Europe,
to do justice to the weird and colossal
temple decorations of China in which this
particular art reached its most impressive
if not always its most attractive heights.
You need to read Marco Polo or those
unlucky Portuguese voyagers who, after
they had been shipwrecked, wandered
starving, bleeding, terrified and awe-
stricken through the country, io get a
proper impression of those marvels; or,
as the editors suggest, to have a look at
Professor Siren and the publications of
the Chavannes and Segalen archaeological
missions.
Another reason for the comparative
weakness of this section is that Chinese
sculpture, like the arts in so many other
countries when they came under religious
domination, stiffened into ritual and
repetition when the influence of Buddhism
made itself felt in the third and fourth
centuries a.d. At the same time, since
Buddhism came in from India and
brought with it not only Indian influences
but those curious touches of Greece which
India had inherited from the conquests of
Alexander, sculpture lost much of its
intrinsically Chinese character.
Though some of the Buddhas and other
figure-studies are very fine, clearly show-
ing the voluptuous Indian approach, it is
a relief to come across anything as
genuinely Chinese as the quaint oblong
horse from 589-618 b.c., or the dancer
with flowing robes from 265 a.d., or even
the primitive kneeling figure with the
flat nose which gives some point to
George Savage's acceptance in his intro-
duction of the debatable theory that
there is a strong relationship, suggesting
a common origin, between Chinese
decorative motives and “the general body
of Pacific art, which includes that of Cen-
tral and Southern America.” Thor Heyer-
dahl would hardly agree on that one: but
at least this one stone figure does look a
bit like a Maori, and so does the stone
figure of an “eagle” look a bit like that
mysterious stone bird which the Maoris
brought to New Zealand from one of
their ancestral homelands. There may
well have been a connection, if not neces-
sarily “a common origin.”
But, sculpture apart —and even that
section has its moments, and a particu-
larly interesting commentary —all else in
this book is magnificence.
The bronzes, which reached their peak
in the An-Yang period (1300-1028 b.c.)
go back through 4000 years of civilisa-
tion. You could pick out among them
for perfection of design either the
stylised crouching tiger, as muscular as
it is fluid in line, from the 11th century
b.c. or the simple, round-bellied green-
bronze ritual jar which opens the color-
plates and which goes back to the 14th
century b.c. A curiosity here is a “celes-
tial sphere” in gilded bronze (with little
cogwheels attached), dated about 1662
a.d. : the cube inside it probably repre-
sents the earth . . . which the Chinese, who
were rather late in astronomy, believed
to be square.
The editors go into raptures, as well
they might, over the carvings in jade—
“lts purity, durability, the ease with which
it takes an edge, its beautiful colors and,
finally, its sonority, made it a miraculous
stone in the eyes of the Chinese.” They
discuss, once again by reference to the
Maoris, how the first Neolithic craftsmen
contrived to cut and shape so intractable
a material —the Maoris used knives of
sandstone or slate, in conjunction with
an abrasive made from powdered quartz
—and once again there are a pot and an
animal to select for supreme examples:
the mottled jade bowl from 1662 a.d.,


and the “Recumbent Elephant” (its loose
skin simulated in jade!) from the flower-
ing of the Ming period.
As for ceramics, “the whole civilised
world,” says Daisy Lion-Goldschmidt,
“marvels at such virtuosity.” She speaks
of the “logic and simplicity” which give
the pottery its classical character; and
you can take, from two adjoining color-
plates, a green bottle from as late as the
18th-century and a sang-de-boef jar from
about 1662, glowing in deep red, to bear
her out. The Chinese got the red of sang-
de-boef from a high-temperature copper-
oxide underglaze treatment, the secret of
which, until they rediscovered it in the
17th-century, had been lost for 200 years.
But this is the moment to mention the
artistry of the compilers of this great
volume and the experts who made the
color-plates for them: for, by fine re-
production of the colors of the originals,
careful posing and an exquisite choice of
background colors for each object, every
plate is in itself a triumph of modern
craftsmanship. Altogether it is an
amazingly beautiful book ; and one in
which there appears no trace of political
propaganda, other than Mr Savage’s pious
hope that now, as in its long past, Chinese
civilisation will “absorb" any alien cult
that may be imposed upon it.
'The commentary to “Masterpieces from
Budapest” may have been written
from an ideological point of view, since
Klara Garas makes a mild and muddled
attempt to relate the various European
art movements to the Thirty Years’ Wa r
or the Spanish invasion of the Nether-
lands or whatever other large political
affairs occurred in each period and since
there is also considerable, though not
disparaging, reference to “bourgeois” art ;
but on the whole the introduction —and
the whole conception of the book —is not
so much propagandist as surprisingly and
disarmingly provincial.
Apparently the Budapest Museum, the
pictures in which were looted by the Nazis
but afterwards recovered, is immensely
(and not without reason) proud of its
sprinkling of European masterpieces ;
and it is these that are reproduced in the
present volume: the usual handsome art
book, with 64 color-plates.
Since we are already familiar with
Titian, El Greco and Van Dyck, it really
might have been more interesting to the
student in other countries for the Museum
to have put out a volume of Hungarian
art ; but. though there is a reference in
the text to the Museum’s “works of
ancient Hungarian art” and to its 24
portraits by Jan Kupezky who, though he
worked mostly in Vienna and Nuremberg
under the influence of Rembrandt, was
at least born in Hungary, no local paint-
ings are reproduced in the book. Perhaps
this would not matter so much if the
general collection were indeed the “unique
and virtually complete survey of the
evolution of European painting” which
the editor enthusiastically claims. But in
fact there seems to be only one Constable
in the Museum (a splendid one) ; very
few of the other English painters except
for a nice pink Reynolds ; admittedly
only an “inadequate” representation of
Rubens, and so on. Though the Museum
has its genuine treasures, it is all rather
as if the Melbourne or even the Sydney
National Galleries put out to the world
a book of their occasional European
masterpieces instead of presenting what
they could do best and what would be
freshest to overseas eyes: the work of
Australian painters.
“Masterpieces from Budapest” has,
though, like the Chinese book, the
advantage that most of the works repro-
duced are seldom, if ever, seen in other
art books, even if in this case the artists
are familiar. Among the more exciting
paintings are an exquisitely simple and
clear arrangement of “St Thomas
Aquinas Kneeling at the Altar,” by
Sassetta ; a Giorgione portrait full of
suave and sombre strength ; a Bronzino
with the most delightful little angel flyi ng
like a moth over the blue landscape ; a
most sumptuous nude in the Titian
manner by Sebastiano Ricci ; a small rich
landscape of a bridge over a canal by
Francesco Guardi ; one fine, acid head-
study by El Greco amongst a number of
that artist’s sootier efforts ; a couple of
wonderfully fresh and vigorous Goyas;
a Vermeer making a still and beautiful
apparition out of the plainest woman
imaginable ; and a Van Huysum flower-
piece which, if it isn’t one of his most
dramatic compositions, is a pleasure to
come across so far away from the Wallace
Collection.
A Monarch and Matrimony
Mission to My Country. His Imperial
Majesty Mohammed Reza Shah Pah-
lavi. Hutchinson. 375. 3d.
TJeside a lot of countries which are going
ahead Persia might seem to an out-
sider to be moving slowly, but to any-
body who saw it 35 years ago, the pace
seems breathless. Then it had no rail-
ways, robbers’ throats were still cut in the
gutters of outback cities and the hapless
officer who offended Reza Shah’s sense
of efficiency by marching out of step at
a ceremonial parade was apt to look
down the barrels of several rifles the next
dawn. And all was song, wine, unshaven
faces and backwardness.
Now the current Shah writes his book
and publishes it with Hutchinson of
London with the proud boast that in
“some 2500 years ... 1 am the first Per-
sian sovereign to have authored an
autobiography that could be called at all
systematic.” Some of the system is
produced, no doubt, by “my friend Dr
Donald Wilhelm, Jr., of the U.S.A.,
Visiting Professor of Political Science in
the University of Teheran,” whose foot-
prints are evident throughout the very
engaging volume.
Though Shah Mohammed Reza is very
much the monarch, he is not the descen-
dant of a long line of monarchs. His
father was an orphan from the Caspian
completely illiterate when he enlisted m
the Persian Cossack Brigade at 14 About
his intermediate history before he was
crowned, his successor tactfully leaves a
blank in his memoirs. By methods which
included the building of the first modern
factories in Persia—those which gave him
rifles and machine guns, “as well as other
arsenals and munitions plants, still in
operation,” as his son says pointedly—
he brought civilisation to Persia the hard
way from the vantage point of the Pea-
cock Throne.
The present Shah, educated at a Swiss
finishing school, is in his way as much
a man of parts as his father. He has
weathered turbulent periods, coped with
the regimes like that of Mossadegh,
warded off Communists, British and
Irakis, and has been forced to found an
“Imperial Anti-Corruption Commission”
which naturally “later bogged down in
controversy.” He has been the driving
force and focus of Persian nationalism
which had ceased to exist under the strain
of tribal greed, religious differences and
avarice ; he stayed loyal to the West
in the face of all threats and attempts at
rebellion and subversion from the north,
has given the country some modern rail-
ways, roads and industry, gathered in the
oil for her own profit and established,
with the profits, a large range of fac-
tories for products of which Persians had
scarcely even heard in 1926 when he
became the boy Crown Prince.
He has also dealt, apparently, with what
he calls “the eternal question of women”
—at his third attempt. His first ended
when “for reasons still obscure to
medical science,” Queen Fawzia bore
only one child, a daughter. With his
collateral male family otherwise ex-
hausted through his brother’s death in
an aeroplane crash, it was “no wonder
that my advisers felt it important for my
wife to bear a son.” So he disposed of
the Queen in short order thus: "When
Queen Fawzia went to Egypt for an ex-
tended stay, we decided on divorce.”
Then this happened:
After the divorce more than two years
went by before I acquired another wife.
As in any country many people, especially
women, were interested in matchmaking;
and the endowments and names of numer-
ous candidates were mentioned to me. In
1950 I heard of a girl named Soraya
Esfandiari, and I was much impressed by
what I learned of her. In due course I
sent my sister, Princess Shams, to visit
Princess Esfandiari, who was then staying
in England. My sister sent back a glowing
account and about the end of the year the
future Queen Soraya and 1 became engaged.
Her mother was a German, and “as I
recall it [her father] although a Germany
citizen, had lived for some years in
Czarist Russia as a factory manager.”
The daughter was born in Isfahan, spoke
German as well as Persian and hers was
a “real Persian girlhood. ’’ She too went
to Switzerland to school and to England
to learn English.
She nearly died of typhoid on the eve
of her marriage, and, having broken with
Moslem tradition which looks askance
at honeymoons, they were compelled to
cut theirs short by the rising of political
tension and the assassination of the Prime
Minister.
After that they were forced to move
discreetly and hurriedly to Bagdad and
Rome to escape the attentions of what


READ
THE NEW ECONOMICS
for a scientific analysis of economic
problems with constructive proposals lor
their resolution.
Published monthly—annual subscription
£2/2/-.
Initial copy free without obligation.
Apply Hon. Secretary, New Economics
Association, 160 Whitehorse Road,
Blackburn, Victoria.
BOOKHUNTER
Dept. “D” Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.0., Sydney.
the happy bridegroom tactfully describes
as “alien forces,” and only returned when,
during their absence “Mossadegh and his
strange bedfellows were overthrown” and
their “political honeymoon” was ended.
What with “disquieting reports of the
fruits of negativism” continually reach-
ing him, “with dangerous subversive
organisations . . . infiltrating into our
national affairs” and the “strain and
suspense of waiting for the proper time
to take counter-action,” he had cause to
be thankful for his “marvellous sense of
timing” bequeathed to him by Reza Shah.
The young monarch suggests apologetic-
ally that he had little time for love. And
it did not help that “my wife thought
less of politics than of our being to-
gether.” She had a soft heart which she
showed again and again during their
seven years together and the Royal author
“well remembered her charming indigna-
tion” when, with “flashing eyes,” she
turned on “the corrupt and inefficient
management of an orphanage. ’
A nice girl with a kind heart, with
“many ideas of fixing up our home,” and:
“You can therefore imagine the grief
that came to both of us, when, for reasons
of state, I found it necessary to divorce
Queen Soraya.”
So out went poor Soraya and what
more logical than that he should have
“realised that the divorce would have
been senseless unless I took steps to
acquire a new Queen,” though one can
well believe that he was “in no mood to
rush the matter.”
He lived alone until “one day my
daughter Princess Shahnaz, her eyes
brighter than usual,” announced that she
and her husband “had become acquainted
with a young lady who, they thought, was
qualified for the responsibilities of
Queen.” She was 20 and had been cap-
tain of her primary school basket-ball
teani and painted in watercolors and
assisted in the care of the school labora-
tories.
He told her that she would now “face
responsibilities strikingly different from
those she had known as a student of
architecture.” And it is pleasant to record
the happy ending of this thousandth-and-
second Persian fairytale, for she “in no
way neglected her role as a wife” and
in next to no time God blessed our
author with a “husky, bouncing heir
weighing eight pounds 11 ounces” on
October 31, 1960, and the modern
vShadow of the Almighty at last had
leisure to settle down and read the proofs
of his book and to reflect with some
pride that “my matrimonial experiences
and my general observation have taught
me a little about women and their ways.”
An entertaining and revealing book.
Darius himself might have written it in
a much earlier context. But with wider
opportunities he probably gave up his
spare moments to the delights of the
anderum —or to some others which once
perplexed poor Queen Victoria when a
Shah visited her—which are denied to a
modern Westernising monarch.
M. H. ELLIS
Two on Russia
The Great Contest; Russia and the West
Isaac Deutscher. O.U.P. 17s. 6d.
Friends and Enemies; What / learned in
Russia. Adlai E. Stevenson. Rupert
Hart-Davis. 20s.
A/Tr Deutscher combines a critical view
of many aspects of Soviet actuality
with a notable optimism as to the future
development of Communism. These
qualities help to make him one of the
most stimulating interpreters of con-
temporary Soviet society to the Western
public, and O.U.P. are therefore to be
congratulated for making his four Dafoe
Foundation Lectures available in book
form It should be added however, that
Deutscher's scholarly reputation will rest
primarily upon his treatment of things
Past —and especially his excellent political
biographies of Stalin and Trotsky—where
bis respect for objective facts exercises a
necessary discipline over his sanguine
temperament and Marxist outlook. When
it comes to divining the direction of
current developments and foretelling the
future, this discipline has less chance to
make itself felt.
Half of the lectures in this volume deal
the Soviet internal scene —“The
Khrushchev Interregnum” and “The
Moral and Intellectual Climate” —and the
°ther half with Soviet foreign policy and
me prospects for competitive coexistence.
The two parts are substantially integrated
by the author’s guiding picture of the
development of Soviet society. This pic-
mre appears to be roughly as follows:
“Stalinism” (the police terror, “iron cur-
tain,” super-centralised bureaucracy, regi-
mentation of labor and thought, and ail
the other nasty features of modern
Russia) were the inevitable concomitant
of the attempt to build socialism in a
single relatively backward country.
Though undoubtedly pathological,
Stalinism carried within itself the seeds
of its own destruction, for it ensured a
rapid elimination of that backwardness
which had given rise to Stalinist “dis-
tortions.” The present phase is one of
transition from “Stalinism” to a genuine
socialist society that will be not only
richer and more rational, but more
democratic, egalitarian and free. In
somewhere between three and 30 years,
the Soviet Union will become “the freest
country in the world —at least as free as
any country in the West.”
Nikita Khrushchev is a man of this
transition —hence the zigzags and appar-
ent contradictions in his policies: now
running down Stalin and now building
him up again, now pulling down Iron
Curtains and now erecting trellis ones,
and so on. All this is due to the rapid
growth of the Soviet planned economy,
which will within a very few years ensure
Russia a higher standard of living than
the West. Khrushchev desires “peaceful
coexistence” rather than nuclear war,
because he believes it is only a matter of
time before Communism comes to exer-
cise an irresistible attraction for the
peoples not only of the economically
underdeveloped countries but also of the
advanced industrial nations, by virtue of
its affluence and success in eliminating
Stalinism in the political, social and in-
tellectual spheres.
The picture, in my opinion, is far from
being a hopelessly misleading one ; but
it is theoretically suspect and not wholly
true to alt the facts. For one thing, it
involves a certain inflation of Soviet
achievements and prospects in various
walks of life. No one would ever guess
from Deutscher’s enthusiastic discussion
of Soviet education, for example, that
well over half the adult population has
received less than seven years of school-
ing, many of them only four years or less.
In his claim that Soviet workers are
trained in several skills, he gives us the
ideal for the reality. Deutscher is “cer-
tain” that Soviet living standards will
have risen above Western European
standards within ten years ; a more sober
observer would note that, even if Soviet
goals are fully attained and there is no
considerable improvement in Western
Europe, this prediction will scarcely apply
to such items as housing and consumer
durables, let alone to the variety and
quality of everyday goods and services—
unless by Western Europe is meant Portu-
gal and Sicily. The Russians deserve our
warm admiration for their many splendid
achievements, but we do them little credit
by ignoring the back-log.
Fellow-empiricists will also be irritated
by Deutscher’s tendency to impute “his-
torical inevitability” to developments that
are patently due largely to personalities
and other “casual” factors. But it is the
remarks about freedom that are hardest
to swallow. It is true that as conditions
improve the regime can afford to be less
oppressive. Plowever, we should remind
ourselves that politically the Soviet system
is still no more liberal than were, for
example, ancien regime France or Prussia.
Moreover, one of the lessons of recent
years is surely that there is a threshold
beyond which relaxation cannot go with-
out jeopardising monolithic single-party
rule —and this is one thing the monolithic


single-party rulers will never regard as
expendable. This does not mean that
there can be no progress: it is much
better to live in, and with, a prosperous
and humane autocracy than an im-
poverished and tyrannical one.
Deutscher’s book should be read along
with “Friends and Enemies,” Adlai
Stevenson’s record of his impressions,
conversations and thoughts during his
visit to Russia a couple of years ago.
Much more than an ordinary traveller’s
account, we have here a concentrated
and carefully weighed stocktaking of the
main aspects of Soviet life, enlivened by
the author’s personal observations—a sort
of busy man’s Gunther. As a guide to
the views and attitudes of one of the new
American Administrator’s main foreign
policy figures, this book is reassuring. It
is shrewd, civilised and realistic. Steven-
son realises that the West could as well
be defeated by Soviet economic and social
progress as by Soviet rockets, but is also
aware of the tremendous advantages we
possess if only we can recognise and solve
in freedom our own problems.
T. H. RIGBY
The Sea Around Conrad
The Nigger of the Narcissus, Typhoon,
The Shadow Line. Joseph Conrad.
Everyman Paperback. 7s. 6d.
UThis gathers into one volume Conrad’s
three stories set wholly on the sea
and in ships: his two “storm pieces”, and
his “calm piece” “The Shadow Line”; and
by what seems nothing more than co-
incidence (to judge by the introduction)
groups his first major work, “The Nigger,”
1897, with his last supreme masterpiece,
“The Shadow Line,” 1917. These three
stories thus span the whole of Conrad’s
career ; and, much more striking than the
development in Conrad’s art that they
reveal, is the way the three pieces con-
sistently reflect his major preoccupations:
human isolation and human solidarity
and, above all, the power of the imagina-
tion to make or mar men’s lives.
This is already clear in “The Nigger”
where both Donkin (“the sympathetic
and deserving creature who knows all
about his rights, but knows nothing of
courage and endurance”) and Jimmy
bring an element of discord and un-
certainty into the easygoing relations
between the members of the crew. Is
Jimmy a malingerer, a fake, shirking duty,
or is he really sick and dying? The col-
lective imagination of the crew oscillates
and fluctuates between these alternatives,
and fluctuates between these alternatives.
They cannot judge him finally or nail him
down with a word. Only the “corrupt”
Donkin and the “incorruptible” Single-
ton see the real reasons for Jimmy’s be-
havior ; and they are the extremes, where
the crew represents uncertain confused
humanity, with its constantly changing
generously arbitrary reactions.
Captain MacWhirr in “Typhoon” has
“just enough imagination to carry him
through each successive day and no
more.” It is lack of imagination that
makes him take his ship through the
typhoon and lack of imagination that
helps him bring it through. He is a type
that interested Conrad: the man who is
neither changed nor taught by experience
and the lightness of tone of the tale’
reflects Conrad’s affectionately ironical
attitude towards him.
“The Shadow Line” is one of Conrad's
very best things and is concerned with
the slow transition from the world of
youth to the world of adult responsibili-
ties, where the narrator experiences his
first command. (“The time ... to prove
my worth in the ultimate test of my nro-
fession”.) Again the theme of imagina-
tion predominates: the narrator's mind
runs wild among “disastrous images”
whose power is tested against the sim-
plicities and rigors of the tasks he has
to perform. “I was like a mad carpenter
making a box. Were he ever so con-
vinced that he was King of Jerusalem the
box he would make would still be a sane
box.” And yet this wild play of imagina-
tion is totally justified and adds to the
tension and suspense of the story because
at the back of the narrator's fears is the
half-formulated and constant awareness
OUR TEACHERS
[From a series of contemporary satires.]
From living an hour a week with
Yeats
What randy lads they all become!
They’re Conrad's comrades, Lawson’s
mates,
Though all their salt and sweat’s a
bum
Stickily pressed to a plastic seat.
With Byron they wench in foreign
places
Until Don Juan comes home to greet
The glum tutorial’s virgin faces
(In truth the teacher never roams
From the wife he met doing Latin
One),
Yet how they mock at bourgeois
homes
As Christopher Marlowe would have
done!
They gaze with Eliot’s skinny pity
At the racecourse or football crowds,
Their enjoyments being the city
Of whores and murderers in their
shrouds,
Where they with Poe and Baudelaire
Twang sin’s garter, stroke her silk,
Although, to be precisely fair,
No absinthe turns their tea to milk.
Langlands all, they scorn the rich
But press for raises in their pay ;
They know George Herbert without a
hitch,
But give the priest and church away.
When on their wanderings they
scrunch
The gravel to the common-room,
Ulysses shares their sandwich lunch
And Dante the “New Statesman's”
gloom.
On sunny Sundays they are seen
In public gardens, amorous
As Marvell at the sight of green,
Not mute, although inglorious,
Cultivating ironies
With quiet Swiftian disgust,
Like Shaw, dissecting enemies
With little stabs of transferred lust.
A drab class-room provides the stage
Where they adore to show their parts:
Hamlet on Monday, Friday's rage
Is Lear’s, and for the first-year hearts
Antony is every day.
When occasionally they go
To little theatres to see a play,
Pulsing like neon lights they glow
Geoffrey Dutton
With epigrams they save to say
Like Oscar at the interval.
(But they have read their Wolfenden
And Reading’s :iot their goal at all.)
Wilde's vice was Marlowe’s, Shake-
speare’s, too,
They know the lot, like Yeats's glands,
Coleridge’s opium, and who
Was impotent, had dirty hands.
Nonchalantly they expose
A Milton’s rhetoric, a theft
Of Eliot’s, how Chaucer’s rose
First grew in France. And all that's
left
Is marked, at most, with B plus plus ;
Australians get C’s at best,
Though White deserves a little fuss,
And Brennan, but D’s for all the rest.
Finally the vac, and then
Like Lawrence they go interstate,
And meet in seminars of twelves
To elucidate the complex fate
Of academics like themselves.
Ah, life! Ah, life, which none can
reach
Or understand, save those who teach!


0 f man’s precarious relation to nature:'
he must collaborate with destructive
forces ; and the real test for Conrad is in
the quality of the collaboration.
Like all of Conrad’s work “The Shadow
Line” is a profoundly “symbolic” story,
but the symbolism is broken up into the
narrative line and is inseparable from its
strict realism.
VIVIAN SMITH
Beyond the
Blue Mountains
The Story of Bathurst. Edited by Bernard
Greaves. Angus and Robertson. 425.
This local history has been very well
put together by Mr Greaves, who is
Lecturer in History at Bathurst Teachers’
College. It is written in sections mainly
by lecturers at the college and head-
masters of secondary schools. It is well
illustrated.
The main criticism that can be offered
concerns the lack of a very essential
index, minor errors and a somewhat
politically partisan estimate of Ben
Chifley.
The first white men to see the site of
Bathurst were those in the party of
G. W. Evans who was not, as Mr
Greaves describes him a “stocky muscu-
lar man,” but a giant ; and not a sup-
porter of Bligh during the 1808 rebellion.
He actually received an appointment
from the rebel Government. Evans,
having been sent by Macquarie to
examine and extend the discoveries of
the party of Lawson, Blaxland and
Wentworth, first saw the city site on
December 1, 1813, from what is now
called Mount Tarana.
Bathurst has seen a lot and grown a
lot since those days. For long it was
the unchallenged capital of the pastoral
west. Strangely, it never became the
goldmining capital of the west, despite
the fact that the goldmining history of
Australia began in its vicinity. It did,
however, gain by the gold rushes, no
less in bushrangers than in communica-
tions and thirst. By 1862 it had achieved
possession of 50 public houses. Before
the railway came in 1876 the population
had reached 5000 ; but the area was still
pastoral in essence, operating under the
shadow of the great squires—the Stewarts
°f Mount Pleasant, the Lees of Leeholme
and Karralee, the Suttors at Cangoura,
Pine Hills and Bradwardine and others.
At its smallest, however, it was a
Metropolis, more like a big Irish county
l°wn than an English one, the Blue
fountains putting a difficult barrier be-
tween it and the bright lights of Sydney.
Thus facilities which ordinarily might
have been concentrated in Sydney con-
Ce ntrated in Bathurst, with good schools,
Specially technical education, born as
ear ly as 1851, powerful newspapers like
the now venerable “Bathurst Advocate”
a °d episcopal church organisation, which
as particularly strong in the Roman
Catholic Church in view of the large pro-
bation of Irish in the population.
M.H.E.
“Meanjin”
“Meanjin,” No. 1 of 1961.
X)ut for the fact that it didn’t arrive
until a week later, “Meanjin” would
have been included in my survey of
recent issues of the literary quarterlies.
For a good many years, it has been
generally regarded as the major Austra-
lian literary magazine.
Politically it stands somewhere be-
tween the Leftist “Overland” and the
catholic (not in the religious sense) “Aus-
tralian Letters.” In size it leads all others
with 120 pages of reading ; and there is
nothing in these 120 pages that a reader
of general interests would be tempted to
pass over. Typography and layouts are
not so good as they should be and the
reader is often disconcerted by abrupt
changes in type-size and sudden switches
from single-column to double-column
pages.
For some time, “Meanjin” has featured
one writer in each issue. This one con-
centrates on David Martin, with 28 pages
given to his work. As in “Australian
Letters,” there is an extract from
Patrick White’s unpublished new novei
“Riders in the Chariot”; except for the
maturity of style, deeply sensitive
writing and an affectionate feeling for
unusual people and “misfits,” there is
nothing to link these two chapters as
coming from the same novel. A very
fine story from South Africa —“The
White Church” by Jack Cope and
poetry by David Martin, A. D. Hope,
Gwen Harwood and Francis Geyer com-
plete the belletristic content.
The articles are of a high standard:
Joseph Jones, a much-travelled U.S.
lecturer, writes with a little —a very little
—optimism on “Censorship in South
Africa”; Professor A. R. Chisholm
reminisces on Paris in 1913, Sydney
in 1919, Lawson, Maurras, Paul Valery ;
Brian Fitzpatrick considers the economic
status and future of writers and artists,
here and abroad ; F. A. Philipp con-
tributes some thoughts on Roy Grounds’
Melbourne Cultural Centre; Aim
McCulloch —although four months after
the event —writes well on the 1960
Archibald and allied competitions and
gives the Sydney Gallery Trustees an
unaccustomed pat on the back.
From J. V. Barry, there is an unpub-
lished preface to the recently published
“Convict Days” by Price Warung. There
is a hopeful survey of developments in
the Soviet Theatre and a general review
of Hungarian writing dealing with the
ill-fated uprising in that country.
PAUL FROLICH
N.Z. Poetry
New Zealand Poetry Yearbook. Louis
Johnson (ed.). Pegasus Press.
IN his introduction Louis Johnson utters
a low dispirited noise. He sees dark
clouds obscuring the N.Z. Parnassus. In
the centre of his fears is what he refers
to as “the expensive and mindless toy”
of TV. “Many of our past contributors
seem to have succumbed already to the
pressure in the sixties.”
But the latest “Yearbook” is the best,
most interesting and most diversified to
date. Johnson does not realise that the
years have given to him their mellowing
judgment even his own voice has
improved ; it has lost its raucous note.
Thirty-two poets are represented. Of
these, five are new arrivals and they
interest us most of all, particularly the
arresting originality of Stuart Slater’s
“The Rival World.” The unwonted
appearance of religious poems, and these
well done, is also refreshing. Barbara
Dent, and newcomer F. M. McKay,
feature here, also, in questing mood, Basil
Dowling, in “The Fall.” Even Johnson
himself is searching in “Paradise Street,”
one of the most appealing poems he has
written.
James K. Baxter is represented by six
poems. He is still engaged in changing
gears, not that any clashing is noticeable,
and he certainly does not appear as the
“dried newt like a bootsole in a drain”
visualised in his “School Days.” Nostalgi-
cally the poet surveys himself in “An Old
Photograph,” and Denis Glover lam-
poons the verses in his “A Fresh Bath.”
Baxter must forgive him ; anybody would
forgive Mr Glover, even for failing to
live up to his standard in his own con-
tributions.
At least one poem in the collection is
quotable, commencing:
Memory is as delicate as a child's tooth;
The quiet voices
And the soft upstairs laughter
Hold my face in two hands tenderly.
The poet in this case is Geoff Fuller.
There is an interesting development in
Marilyn Duckworth, who takes a holiday
from her career as a successful novelist,
and Peter Bland is good, particularly in
“Walking on the Lonely Road.” His
ambitious “Essay in Commentary and
Verse” is given pride of place, ten pages
of it. “Orpheus enters Wellington harbor
on a fine November morning,” and we
follow him “losing himself to find him-
self.” Auden might not disown this
excursion as a very disant relation.
No poet in the book reaches out to
grasp the beauty of things visible as does
the Maori, Tuwhare, in his “The Girl in
the Park”: —-
The moon is big, it is very big.
she said with velvet in her throat.
So, after all, Louis Johnson has found a
personable Paradise Street —and in the
sixties!
PAT LAWLOR
Reviewed Briefly
An American Romance. Hans Kon-
ingsberger. Faber. 16s. For all its sur-
face sophistication and preoccupation
with sexual relationships, the novel is
no more than a simple story of boy meets
girl.
* ❖ *
Sundays. Daisy Fellowes. Weidenfeld
and Nicolson. 16s. Subtitled "A Fan-
tasy,” this is a story of French provincial
life in which a kitchenmaid runs away
to experience a wickeder world in Paris,
but in the end returns again to the
provinces. The book’s best assets are the
line-drawings by the distinguished French
decorative artist, Vertes.


Shows
The Old Vic’s
"Romeo and Juliet”
From RAY MATHEW in London
The winter theatre season ended with
the triumph of John Whiting's “The
Devils,” the one new English play to awe
bewildered reviewers and to attract audi-
ences. But the production of the season,
the revelation, was “Romeo and Juliet”
at the Old Vic. It has become their
smash hit, their money-maker, their long
run. Why? It is not an unfamiliar play,
has been around for some time . . .
The reason is in the production.
Franco Zeffirelli, the young Italian pro-
ducer, had already dazzled Covent
THEATRE
Garden audiences with
his work on opera this
production of “Caval-
leria Rusticana” is a
wonder that has to be experienced to be
believed).
His “Romeo and Juliet” has been
praised (as was “Cav”) for its visual
qualities—the wearable-worn beautiful
clothes, the grouping of characters, the
way his cast moves, the peel-paint hot-
spring city that he creates on the tiny
stage of the Old Vic. Visually exciting it
certainly is ; but what is remarkable
about this production is the fact that
it is textual.
Ignorant dago that he is (I am quoting
from a London producer), Zeffirelli has
not done Shakespeare at school, has not
read all the critical books, has not been
bred on memories of what Ellen Terry
or Mrs Patrick Campbell did with their
parts. He has, consequently, been able
to think of the play as new and do all
that he can to serve the script. He has,
astonishingly, assumed that the script says
what it means and means exactly what it
says. He suits the action to the word.
The result is—revolution.
He chooses young actors because the
text says that the lovers are in their teens.
True, his Juliet is not capable of singing
her arias—no one will ever rave about her
vocalising of certain lines the way they
do about Ashcroft’s—but she is able to
be young and childish without embarras-
sing the audience and the plot.
When she gets to the great set-pieces of
the play like “Gallop apace you fiery-
footed steeds” and obviously can’t do
them with her voice alone, he asks her to
act, to be. He directs her into action
that will not merely illustrate the text
but illuminate it and make us listen and
understand. She lies, impatient, on the
bed, plays with the curtain at its head
(“Spread thy close curtain Love-perform-
ing night”), turns this way and that, sits
up to look for Romeo, lies down again,
thinks seriously and sillily about the
nature of love, calms herself with day-
dreams, fancies, conceits (“Give me my
Romeo, and when I shall die”) . . .
Suddenly the audience is not hearing
a poem but gaining knowledge of a per-
son, a situation, and experiencing an
emotion. When, immediately after “when
I shall die” the nurse comes in crying
“he’s dead, he’s dead” it is not only Juliet
who stands still with dread ; the audience
that has been charmed, amused, realises
equally suddenly what happiness means
—how vulnerable it is, how quick.
Mercutio's gang, Romeo’s mob, lounge
by the fountain. They are young,
moneyed, idle, bored. They eat apples,
throw the cores at one another, make
fun of friends and strangers alike, play
with swords as though they meant to use
them, jump into a verbal fight that be-
comes serious. They are any street-
corner collection of teenagers, e ;ept
that they have vocabularies and swords
instead of mumbles and switch-knives.
It is the world of “I Vitelloni” and “La
Notte Brava,” Netting Hill Gate and
Redfern, Elizabethan London and
Romeo’s Verona ; it convinces.
The known-to-the-audience reality of
this youthful world with its extremes of
emotion, its instant laughter and despair"
its violence and sexual energy (and bore-
dom) frames Romeo perfectly. R e
berates God, his friends, his priest and
grovels on the floor in tears of mingled
grief and resentment without anyone
thinking him unmanly. We know it as
the intense, bewildering, disturbing rage
of adolescence that we have seen on the
screen, in contemporary plays, at home.
The objection to this treatment is that
it belittles the lovers, that youth denies
them tragedy. On the contrary, it
increases their stature. They live—
happen—in a world of beginners, who
can't understand what “star-crossed”
means, and adults who are too old or too
safe not to deny their extremes of exulta-
tion and despair.
I can no longer imagine any other
performance of the play. Despite the
promise of the theatre-bar in the interval
I was indignant when the lights went up
after the balcony scene: I wanted to
know what happened next. Most of the
audience seemed to feel the same. After
all, there was Juliet promising the world
and Romeo jumping precariously on the
architrave with impatience, desire, frus-
tration . .
A critic once remarked that if Romeo
hadn't been a fool and had run off with
her during the balcony scene none of it
need have happened. Zeffirelli answers
that one: the balcony was too high. The
poor crazed wretch couldn't get over it.
The Osbornes and the Weskers
“One More River,” by Beverley Cross.
Adelaide Theatre Group.
\V/hen Paul Rogers played the London
lead in “One More River” he received
a tumultuous reception. It must have been
a virtuoso performance to cover up the
intellectual incongruities of the play and
the labored melodramatic development.
Nonetheless, the play is an interesting
indication of where the present Wesker
and anti-Wesker trends of British theatre
are leading.
The action of this merchant marine
play takes place on the hatch of a cargo
steamer in West African waters. Goaded
by the apparent power mania of a new
captain, triggered into action by the death
of the ship's boy, a death perhaps caused
by the captain, the crew mutiny, seize the
captain and conduct a drunken trial on
the hatch.
The author of the play obviously in-
tended to extend the ruthless ironies of
John Osborne into a hard, bitter analysis
of proletarian group motivations, social
idealisms that have rotted into egocen-
tricism and banalities. But in giving
the play shape, development and climax
the analytical process has lost out. The
overriding “message” of this tendentious,
yet still sincere, play is one the author
can scarcely have intended: that Provi-
dence has ordained our roles in the
world.
Using a set of appalling literalness,
the producer, George Anderson, used a
predominantly A.B.C. cast of players and
a noisy masculine tempo. Stage inex-
perience led to the kind of failures one
might expect from radio players—a poor
sense of timing and crude gesture and
expression. However, Mark Lyons-Reid,
as the homosexual sadist captain, a dupli-
cate copy of Billy Budd’s Claggett, built
up a fierce dynamic in his characterisa-
tion which carried the play through many
weak passages. Responding to this, John
Haynes, after a rhetorial first act, cap-
tured with a quiet authenticity the inward
insecurity of the ageing bosun who is the
elected leader of the mutineers. Some of
the younger players, Bill Mudie. John
Paisley, Robert Pemberton, showed raw
promise for the future. But there are
many more rivers to cross.
Max Harris
“All For Love.” Dolphin Theatre-
Graduate Dramatic Society, Perth.
At the Dolphin Theatre Dryden’s verse
play written “in Imitation of Shake-
speare’s Stile” was in essence a stylised
study of sexual jealousy in which Egyp {
and Rome are really irrelevant. But pro-
ducer Philip Parsons skilfully revived the
Restoration grand manner by using huge
lavish scenery, well-designed by Jeremy


Parkinson, and dressing his cast to in-
voke an image of extravagant luxury. ,
As Cleopatra, June Pollard looked as
if she might have stepped from a Lely
frame ; and if at times she was more
unaffectedly warm than the great Siddons
probably ever deigned to be, she acted
charmingly in the exotic manner. Rupert
Sadka made a solidly heroic and dis-
tracted Antony, and Wilfred Dowsett
played the faithful Ventidius with devo-
tion, exasperation and dry humor:
possibly he appeared too much a natural
man for Dryden’s elevated theatre, but
the result was welcome.
“Merchant of Venice.” Palace, Sydney.
John Alden’s rich-limned Shylock and
the other Venetians inhabit two entirely
different worlds of style, he acting in the
grand manner and they behaving as if
a mild unobtrusiveness is all that is
expected of them. The outcome is a
presentation which is neat, careful and
flat but, at that, an agreeably serviceable
introduction to the play for the school-
children for whom it is mainly in-
tended.
The Shylock—proud, avaricious, admir-
able in the complete single-mindedness
of his vindictiveness —is among Mr
Alden’s best performances, his habit of
playing big roles in a rather external way
proving to be of no notable disadvantage
here. Most of the other roles come
through small and pale because of the
limitations of the temperaments of the
people playing them, and the players are
not helped by the spark-choking, formalis-
ing Restoration dress which most of them
wear.
All told, May Hollinworth’s production
(possibly as good a job as could ever be
done with this cast) suggests Gratiano’s
advice to Antonio: “You have too much
respect upon the world ; they lose it that
do buy it with much care.”
Lindsey Browne
“Five Finger Exercise.” Russell Street
Theatre, Melbourne.
Educate your children and they’ll
despise you —this has become something
of a stock theme in British drama (not
to mention novels and films) in these days
of the Welfare State and it provides the
central point of tension in this play by
the latest addition to the Osborne-Wesker
stable, Peter Shaffer.
Cambridge fresher Clive is the adored
son of an effete mother with elaborate
pretensions to culture, and a homely,
puzzled, middleclass father who runs a
timber mill. Viewing his father through
his newly acquired values, he finds him
a pathetic sell-out to materialism. His
mother—well, at least she tries.
Into this circle comes Walter, a young
cultivated German desperately anxious
to obliterate a past which includes
fanatical Nazi parents. Walter boards
w *th the family, tutoring the high-spirited
teenage daughter. He quickly reveals a
§ e nius for involvement. His head finds
>ts way onto the mother’s sympathetic
la P' He over-excites the daughter and
stimulates the latent tendencies to homo-
sexuality in young Clive. On top of all
this he incurs the jealousy of the father.
This is fed by the now resentful Clive
and it is a terribly confused family that
we encounter in the final act.
As a character Walter, the vehicle for
a beautifully judged performance by
George Whaley, serves two vital pur-
poses. The first is to keep the play at a
high point of unease throughout. Is he
out to seduce the mother? What’s the
father going to do about him? How will
he cope with Clive’s embarrassing attrac-
tion to him? Will he be dismissed? His
second function is to illuminate the
attitudes and values, and for that matter
the neurotic symptoms, of the others
through their reactions to him. In the
end just about everyone turns on poor
Walter. He is dismissed and tries to hang
himself.
Though Shaffer falls into some pseudo-
psychological melodrama, this is never-
theless a powerful piece of writing. The
playwright convinces us of his concern
and seriousness, and everywhere he
demonstrates a masterly sense of theatre.
The latter quality enabled John Sumner
to get right through to the heart of the
matter in a production which will be
remembered for a long time.
Generally the acting was on a level
with what we have come to expect from
this theatre —competent rather than in-
spired. Two newcomers, however, set the
tone higher: Sydney Conabere as the
father, and Robin Hardiman as Clive.
A. S. Jorgensen
A German Comedy
“Aren’t We Wonderful.” Gala, Sydney.
Tr’s a healthy sign in any nation’s film
industry when its craftsmen can find
occasion to stick pins in the balloon of
the same nation’s humbug, pretence and
self-admiration.
The French, the English and the
FItMS”
Americans have done a good
deal of this self-mockery
over the years, and they have
developed quite a touch for
it while ensuring that there is basic affec-
tion under the surface ridicule. Here the
Germans try their hands at the same
sort of game, and though there is a taint
of savage nastiness to take real lightness
from the fun-making, they do
unGermanly well with it.
A couple of music-hall musicians sing-
ing cynical topicalities about the major
political events in Germany since 1920
thread together the narrative about two
small boys, one who grows up honest and
hard-working and quietly hostile to
Hitlerism and another who grows up to
be an opportunist always “on the make,”
a sort of Vicar of Bray gifted in the art
of keeping himself a bigshot whoever
happens to be in power.
The extreme novelty of this German’s
eye-view of Germany must have
accounted largely for the award of the
1958 Berlin “Best Film” prize to this pro-
duction, for it is not easy to find durable
values in director Kurt Hoffman's film,
which is often far too obvious in white-
washing the nice people and in black-
guarding the dreadful ones, and which
often mistakes mere crudity for humor,
as when dogs water a tree at an ex-
Nazi’s funeral.
Robert Graf gives a brilliant perform-
ance of the Nazi role, and the vividness
both of his hatefulness when cruelty is in
season and of his glib self-exculpation
when Hitler is overthrown gives a certain
stodgy, gemutlich pallor to Hansjorg
Felmy and Johanna Von Koczian as the
worthy citizens in opposition.
Lindsey Browne


Kstab'ished 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jACKhON£
O'SUU.IVAN;
PTY LTD A
»Rs B*PSr
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS •; PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
•‘JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and b usiness premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd,
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
73 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
unusual decor
ine food &. wine
kioolabak
cnr. bond ti*ee
Hamilton sts. bu 1338
The Painter’s Signature
Janet Dawson. Gallery A. Melbourne.
Guy and Helen Grey-Smith, Argus
Gallery.
James Meldrum. South Yarra Gallery.
Consider Miss Dawson’s handwriting.
Nestling modestly at the foot of her
lithographs in the form of signature,
title and date it is easy to pass by with-
ART
out a second glance. But look
again and you will see that it
possesses a rich and lively spon-
taneity of line hardly to be
found in the rest of her exhibition which,
in effect, consists chiefly of a very per-
sonalised handwriting, though on a
larger calligraphic scale than is usual.
Guy and Helen Grey-Smith’s exhibi-
tion of paintings, pottery and textiles
provides a boisterous contrast. Mr Grey-
Smith, a Western Australian, sees his land-
scape in terms which Easterners might
find hard to get in tune with. Rocks,
scrub and sky merge into a leaping mass
of light key tones and the effect is rather
like a pianist bringing down his fists on
a chord of shattering atonality in the
upper registers. No dark undertones, no
bass. Nevertheless occasionally he does
produce a visual music of sorts, as in
“Winter Trees,” “River Bend” and
“Fossils.”
Through interrelationships of color and
form James Meldrum at the South Yarra
Gallery enacts his belief that the valid
painter's “image” emerges in the activity
of painting, rather than by way of pre-
conception. But as his images—mostly
in the shape of human bones colored
and related to each other as God never
intended them —are so monotonously
similar from one picture to another one
can’t help suspecting that the mind rather
than the hand governs them. His best
work appears in those paintings in which
the emphasis has simply been on one
image, developed against a flat, abstract
background with a glorious play of color
and a subtle suggestiveness of forms.
A. S. Jorgensen
Robert Grieve. Macquarie Galleries,
Sydney.
Peter Upward. Clune Galleries.
If Peter Upward's exhibition illustrates
the freedom and excitement which
abstraction is giving to some of the
young painters, Robert Grieve’s paintings
prove how damaging abstraction can be
when painters feel themselves obliged to
follow the fashion.
Mr Grieve is, essentially, a realist, a
representationalist, even a lover of
Nature: and if you happen to like the
rocks and the hills and the sea on a
sunny day, why on earth shouldn’t you?
And why on earth shouldn’t you paint
them? Mr Grieve’s attempts to stylise
his observations merely make them dull ;
and if you look at his delightful “Study
for ‘Spring in the Goulburn Valley,’ ”
which retains at least the soft shapes and
colors and light he first observed, and
then at the larger stylised piece he has
made from it, you can almost literally see
art dissolving into fashion.
Peter Upward is much happier in
abstraction: he moves in it as in his
natural element and says exactly what
he wants to say. Sometimes, as in the
drawings where he just seems to fling a
pot of ink or tar at the paper to see what
will happen to the blots, he is saying
almost nothing, and even in the more
substantial pieces such as “January
Seventh,” where his blacks are warmed
with color and there is a fine bold sweep-
ing rhythm, he is making more a gesture
than a statement. But you do feel that
he is moving in what is, for him, the right
direction.
D.S.
Perth Society of Artists. Skinner
Galleries.
Boan Prize. Claud Hotchin Gallery.
The Society of Artists’ show is their
best for some time ; notably in Geoffrey
Allen’s monastic village, Irwin Crowe's
“Old House” at Fremantle and in the
freedom and freshness of Audrey Green-
halgh’s “Northwards.” Cyril Lander
shews traditional watercolors. but his
waves are full of light and motion, and
B. A. McDiven’s monotypes of “Black-
boys” in green, black, and white, though
stylised, are anything but staid.
The Rupert Boan landscape prize for
1961 was awarded to Arthur Russell for
a large oil, a coastal vista of highway
and trees called “From Triggs.” The
judges also highly commended paintings
by Brian McKay, Robert Juniper, Irwin
Crowe and Garry Smith. Next year this
hitherto exclusively Western Australian
competition for a prize of £lOO will be
open to all artists living in Australia.
F.D.
Thomas Gleghorn. Johnstone Gallery,
Brisbane.
Compton Mackenzie wrote in a preface
to his best work, “Sinister Street":
“Art, said that curious antipodean paper,
the Sydney Bulletin, is selection.” If
that is true, Gleghorn's pictures are art.
They are almost all pure abstraction, to
the meaning of which, however, he leaves i
the necessary clues.
We get a vision of something seen in
the eye of the mind w'ith all the irrelevan- I
cies caught up by the external eye largely
trimmed away. There is a dreamlike
quality of something once seen and
revived from the subconscious.
All this is seen vividly in the numerous
versions of abandoned gold-diggings—
Hill End, Tambaroora, the Golden Mile.
Gleghorn has, like so many others, gone
out into the desert and the treatment is
splendid. The limit of abstraction is !
seen in the huge works, “Ooidea Soak,
“Inland Rain,’’ a noble conception, and ,
“Resurrection” —difficult pieces; but if
the spectator would try a reconstruction
of the artist’s analysis of what he saw
and refined, he would get his reward.
I think it is best to start with a lovely
realist miniature, “Half-caste Children,
then work through a slightly abstract
“Swamp Bird,” through a half-abstract
“Dingo Trapper” and ‘ Corroboree
until we get to the full abstracts done on
a large scale in lavish glowing color
J. V. Duhig


Business, Robbery, Etc.
EXCHANGE LISTINGS
Mt Tomah Poses Problems
For the second time within a
few weeks Sydney Stock
Exchange has refused to list a
public company after a success-
ful float.
Only recently, the Stock Ex-
change had refused to grant
official listing to Motel Hold-
ings Ltd. a Sydney-registered
motel operator. And now Mt
Tomah’s shares have been
rejected. In both cases the
Stock Exchange Committee has
withheld the reasons for its
action.
Important principles are in-
volved, and these merit sober
discussion. The Motel Hold-
ings float was not underwritten
by a member of the Stock Ex-
change, the development pro-
gramme outlined in the com-
pany's prospectus was rather
loosely followed and the one-
for-one “bonus issue,” made
on the acquisition of Realty
Development brought some
protests from certain share-
holders, some of whom have
staunchly refused to pay the
calls.
Y/fT Tomah is a somewhat
different kettle of fish,
and the decision to refuse
listing considerably more dis-
quieting. The float was under-
written by a known firm of
brokers, the issue was said to
have been oversubscribed and
a considerable amount of share-
holders' money, some £400,000
in 1,600,000 ss. shares, tied up.
It is true that the prospectus
rather optimistically promised a
10 p.c. dividend cheque within
the first twelve months of
trading, but otherwise the float
seemed to be generally accept-
able as such.
There is no need to gloss
over the fact that the Stock
Exchange Committee’s decision
came as a shock, and produced
a considerable psychological
J°lt. Investors’ confidence in
their brokers may have been
damaged, and some future
floats may be affected. The
integrity and business ex-
perience of the Sydney Stock
Exchange Committee cannot
h e questioned.
. But the problem is—should,
all justice, the Stock Ex-
change Committee reject an
application for listing of scrip
underwritten by a member
broker, while refusing to
divulge the reasons for its
action?
There is little doubt that the
Committee has a right, and a
duty, to refuse any list-
ing which, after having care-
fully assessed the position, it
believes to be unacceptable. In
this matter there can be no
dispute.
However, it seems that all
parties would best be served by
an official statement outlining
the reasons which had com-
pelled the Exchange to adopt
such a drastic line of action.
The decision to refuse listing
was, no doubt, a painful one
and taken with full realisation
of the possible consequences
But this does not, on the meagre
evidence available to the
general public, tend to sup-
port the Exchange Committee's
tight-lipped “no comment”
policy possibly a genuinely
charitable one.
Mt Tomah’s directors like-
wise should explain the delay
in their application for listing.
E.B.
OIL
The Gabawin Aftermath
HThe drilling rigs are busy,
1 boring deep into Austra-
lia’s ancient earth crust. Every
now and then, reports of gas
flows and oil strikes, as yet not
in any commercial quantities,
stimulate hopes and give rise
to brief “wild catting” on
the Stock Exchange. Rough
Range in Western Australia,
Puri in Papua and now Caba-
win, near Tara in south-eastern
Queensland, have become mile
stones in Australia's courageous
but unrewarding quest for oil.
The flow at Cabawin is now
levelling out at about 60 barrels
of high grade green oil a day.
There is little doubt that Union
Oil Development Corporation,
the operating company, en-
visages boring further holes in
the vicinity.
At present. Union Oil is care-
fully studying the results of
technical tests and flow indica-
tions. The company whose
ethical behaviour in attempting
to thwart speculation through
guarded and careful press re-
leases deserves commendation,
went out of its way to point out
that statistics of the tests “were
subject to many interpretations,
particularly by those not fami-
liar with oil exploration.”
At this stage, the main bene-
ficial effect of the encouraging
but definitely non-commercial
Cabawin well, on which some
£400,000 was spent to date,
has been to bolster up confi-
dence, and facilitate the quest
for funds necessary to continue
the search for oil. Still far too
few wells are being drilled in
Australia, although greater
reliance on cheaper preliminary
seismological and aerial surveys
is encouraging Fresh hopes
now centre around Wapet's
Eneabba No. 1 hole and
Associated Australian’s Com
barngo No. 1 well.
All this activity is closely
watched by international oil
interests. Australia's oil search
gets a lot of space in overseas
specialised press. The pundit,
glossy London “Petroleum
Times” regularly carries de-
tailed progress reports on drill-
ing operations, stories on new
oil search floats and calls and
general information. The Pet-
roleum Information Bureau’s
“This Age of Oil” was given
a very encouraging review.
As an Adelaide broker re-
cently put it, “to flow com-
mercially or not to flow is the
64 billion dollar question, which
may be answered during 1961
It may well be, but more capital
for drilling must be found.
So far, most oil search funds
have come from abroad. And
this brings in the sobering
thought that, if oil does come
gushing in Australia, very few
Australians will make substan-
tial profits directly because a
large proportion of the leases is
owned either by American or
British companies or jointly
with Australian groups, a very
large percentage of whose scrip
has been sold overseas. Aus-
tralians might well end up by
being guests at their own
wedding.
SUGAR
U.S. Chances
A ustralia may have a chance
to share in United State's
sugar quotas, allocated to re-
place the loss of Cuban supplies
Recently the United States
authorised the purchase of
almost 1.3 million tons of
“non-quota” sugar during the
last three-quarters of 1961. But
these allocations were granted
to El Salvador, Guatemala,
Brazil, Ecuador, Colombia and
the French West Indies, and
Australian growers missed out.
However, Mr B. Henderson,
general secretary to the Queens-
land Cane Growers’ Council,
points out that the new quotas
represent only a section of the
U.S. market for Cuban sugar,
estimated at 3.3 million tons
a year. So far, America has
authorised the importation of
2.1 million tons of sugar to
bridge the Cuban gap. Further
1.2 million are yet to be allo-
cated, and Australia still has a
reasonable chance.
The world sugar market is
characterised by ruthless corn-
petition. Uncle Sam’s Latin
American neighbors are exert-
ing strong political pressure to
secure the largest slice of the
vast section of the vast United
States market, temporarily
vacated by Cuba. In these cir-
cumstances, acquisition by Aus-
tralian growers of an export
foothold would be significant.
It must be realised, of course,
that relations between the
United States and Cuba may
improve in future, and the
approach to the problem must
be realistic and persevering.
Meanwhile, the Queensland
Minister of Agriculture and
Forestry stated that the average
price of sugar within the peaks
produced in the 1960 season is
£5O Bs. 9d. a ton, compared
with £47 9s. 7d. in 1959. The
net value of surplus sugar (43
p.c. of total output! was deter-
mined at £4l 6s. per ton 94 net
litre. The price of excess sugar
was fixed at £3O 18s. 6d. a ton.
Home consumption price was
declared at £62 10s. 6d.


" Australia’s largest Radio
Electrical & Television
a*"-'. —" 1
Registered First
Debenture Stock
• SHORT TERM
3 months notice Si%P.A.
6 months notice 7% P.A.
12 months notice 8% P.A.
Investments in short term
stock are for an indefinite
period. Repayment is obtained
by giving notice selected on
application form.
• LONG TERM
4 years 8% P.A.
5& 6 years 81% P.A.
7to 20 years 9% P.A.
Trustees for Debenture Stock-
holders:
The A/LL.C. Nominees Pty. Ltd.
7
V^ARS
0
O
A
Applications will be accepted only
on the printed form attached to
the prospectus.
ASSETS EXCEED
£24,000,000
INTEREST PAID QUARTERLY
Where to Invest:
• H. G. Palmer (Consoli-
dated) Limited,
321-5 Chapel Rd., Bankstown.
UY 4035
• Any H. G. Palmer suburban
showroom or at Canberra,
Casinor Gosford, Goulburn,
Lismore, Newcastle, Nowra,
Wollongong, Warrawong, Vic-
toria, South Australia and
Queensland.
• Any member of a recog-
nised Stock Exchange.
• Any branch of:
Australia and New Zealand
Bank Limited
• Any branch of:
THE NATIONAL BANK OF
AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
UNDERWRITING BROKERS:
N.S.W.: Bernard Curran & Co.
9-11 Hunter Street, Sydney.
VIC.: Vinton Smith, Dougall
& Co., 401 Collins St., Mel-
bourne.
G'LAND.: Ernest H. Corser,
Henderson & Hale, 334 Queen
Street, Brisbane.
STH. AUST.: Woodhead, Need-
ham & Tolhurst, 35 Grenfell
St., Adelaide.
TASMANIA: H. W. Bayley & Co.
A.M.P. Building, cnr. entrance,
Collins and Elizabeth Streets,
Hobart.
WEST AUST. Geo. H. Newton,
Fuller & Co., 105 St. George's
Terrace, Perth.
TV COMPONENTS
Pye’s Export Sales
TJye Industries’ two export
1 orders, valued at about
£40,000, are small but en-
couraging. The company has
secured contracts for the sale
of Australian-made television
components to Latin America
and the United Kingdom.
According to a spokesman
for Pye Industries, the Latin
American order—the group's
first export thrust in this direc-
tion—was placed by a South
American electronics manufac-
turer and is worth some 75,000
U.S. dollars. The first consign-
ment will be shipped from Syd-
ney in June. The U.K. order,
also for TV components, is
valued at £3OOO and is
described as “the latest of a
series of export contracts
awarded to Pye Industries
during the past few months.”
The fact that the Latin
American business was won by
an Australian manufacturer in
the face of intense over-
seas competition is gratifying
An export foothold for Aus-
tralian durable consumer goods
has been established in a part
of the world that is steadily
becoming an important inter-
national market for manufac-
tured products and equipment
The amount involved is as yet
modest, but chances for future
expansion seem fair. Aus-
tralian export drive to Latin
America requires more per-
sonal trade contacts and
sophisticated salesmanship, but
the prospects are there,
Sales of TV parts overseas,
if on a large enough scale, will
relieve pressure on the domestic
market, which cannot be ex-
pected to increase indefinitely
to support all the producers
attracted by high profits of the
early TV boom. If developed
to a sufficient extent, exporls
may place TV producers on a
different scale in the hierarchy
of national economic values.
EXPORTS
Japanese Market Expands
'"There are indications that
A recent import liberalisation
measures in Japan will aid Aus-
tralia’s export drive. Japan’s
official import budget for the
period between April 1 and
September 30, 1961, has been
laid down at £1348.45 million,
some 13 p.c. higher than in the
corresponding half-year in
1960. The ratio of free im-
ports to total imports has been
lifted from 44 p.c. to 60 p.c.
The Japan Trade Council in
Australia says that “latest in-
formation is that further
liberalisation before the end of
September will increase the
ratio to 65 p.c.”
Wool is imported into Japan
without any restrictions, but
Australian coking coal, beef
and veal should benefit from
the higher import budget,
This section of the Japanese
market is now becoming irn-
portant for Australian ex-
porters,
Dried vine fruit has now
been placed into the “auto-
niatic approval category” by
the Japanese trade authorities,
Communist China may be-
come a strong rival as a sup-
plier of coking coal to Japan
if the rumored offers made to
Japanese firms by Peking
materialise. However, at this
stage, Australia is benefiting
from Peking's total trade boy-
cott with Japan, imposed in
mid-1958 for political reasons.
NEW ZEALAND
Licensing Year Stretched
Tn an endeavor to ease the
strain on overseas reserves
the Government has decided
to make import licences issued
for the 1961 calendar year last
for 15 months or more. The
licences for 1962 may not be
issued till April 1 next. Origin-
ally, it was planned to intro-
duce the new Customs tariff on
January 1
About £6O million could be
saved by a three-month
“stretch,” if applied to all im-
ports, but against that must oe
offset supplementary licences
issued for essential raw
materials and goods necessary
to keep key industries in full
employment.
In the last 12 months New
Zealand imported about £5O
million worth of goods more
than was earned in overseas
funds. A pattern of even more
excessive spending was set by
the import licences for the
current year which were pro-
vided for in the schedule issued
in September last year.


CUSTOM
CORPORATION
z
CREDIT
LIMITED
Offers to Long or Short Term Investors
REGISTERED FIRST
MORTGAGE DEBENTURES
10 Years and over .... 8%
4 Years to 9 Years . . . 7%
3 Years 6f%
2 Years . 6£%
12 Months' notice .... 5f%
9 Months' notice .... 5£%
6 Months' notice .... 4|%
3 Months' notice .... 3f%
CUMULATIVE STOCK
3 to 20 Years, 6% per annum
Applications must be made on the Forms enclosed
in the Prospectus, which is now available from
ALL MEMBERS OF THE STOCK EXCHANGE
Every Branch of
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
Each of the Branches of
CUSTOM CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED
130 New South Head Road, Darling Point, Sydney. Telephone: FM 5861.
CCC3.S6I
Rather than withdraw
licences already issued and so
force importers to break con-
tracts as was done in 1958, the
Government believes it is better
and less disruptive to require
licences to be spread. That
means that imports which
would be brought in under
present licences will have to be
distributed and used over a
period of 15 months or even
longer.
The Minister of Customs,
Mr Marshall, told the Bureau
of Importers that the Govern-
ment was examining proposals
to protect importers who helped
to conserve overseas funds by
not using their licences fully
this year.
OVERSEAS CAPITAL
U.K. Investment Urged
Mr W. Arnold Innes, Chair-
man of the Cerebos
Group of Companies, who re-
cently returned to Britain from
Sydney and Melbourne, issued
a vigorous statement to the
British press urging manufac-
turers to take a keener interest
in trade with Australia. Mr
Innes said: “In the five years
to 1958-59 Japanese exports to
Australia rose from £lB million
to £3O million, German exports
from £3l million to £43 mil-
lion, U.S. exports from £lO2
million to £lO9 million, while
United Kingdom exports fell
from £379 million to £307
million, and our export
share in the four months
to the end of October,
1959, at 35 per cent, reached
the lowest level of any peace-
time year since the Common-
wealth was founded in 1901.
Our subsequent performance
has not raised any grounds for
optimism. Today, of the 55,000
factories in this booming, pro-
gressive country, there are
only some 500 in which British
firms are partners. This is
therefore a challenging period
for any would-be exporter to
Australia. The Australians
themselves both welcome and
need investment
“Any manufacturer who is
trading with Australia is bound
to run into periodic difficult
patches if he is running his
operation from outside the
country. Therefore he has a
powerful incentive to produce
his goods within the Australian
economy so as to avoid the
difficulties that occasional im-
port restrictions may impose
.... If we want to keep and
improve our share of this im-
portant market —where popu-
lation has increased nearly 33
p.c. in the past 12 years and
living standards are second only
to those of the U.S.A. and
Canada—then we have to do
much better and do it quickly.”
Mr Innes added that Cere-
bos’s own operation in Mel-
bourne was now well estab-
lished, but the company had
not yet been able to solve the
problem of using Australian
s alt domestically. It was still
more economic to ship salt
from Middlesbrough in Great
Britain to Melbourne than to
bring impure salt from the
Spencer Gulf.
Apart from investigations
into local salt production, the
Melbourne factory was extend-
ing the range of goods if manu-
factured in Australia, and the
only problems to be faced were
the high cost of labor and
transport.
With so many domestic
panic - mongers preaching
disaster, Mr Innes’s statement
is refreshing.
INVENTORIES
Stockpiling Remains High
HThe overall rate of accumula-
A tion of inventories by the
manufacturing and wholesale
and retail trading industries re-
mained high throughout the
first quarter of 1961.
Quarterly Estimates of
National Income and Expen-
diture released by the Common-
wealth Bureau of Census and
Statistics in Canberra show that
investment in non-farm stocks,
as measured by the increase
in value, is estimated at £54
million. This includes the en-
gineering and metals, vehicles,
chemicals and oil refining and
other manufacturing industries
and wholesale and retail
traders, and compares with rises
of £l4 million and £33 million
in the two previous years.
As in the preceding quarter,
the greater part of the increase
in value of inventories occurred
in stocks held by the motor
vehicles industry—up £2O mil-
lion. On the other hand, stocks
held by wholesale and retail
traders rose by only £8 million,
or £9 million less than in the
corresponding quarter of the
two previous years. This means
that a substantial backlog of
stocks is building up at the
source of production while the
distribution sector continues to
function fairly smoothly, if at
a reduced rate of growth due
to credit restrictions.
The disquieting question is
why, with all this industrial
stockpiling going on, the im-
ports have continued to rise.
The three months to March 31
last lifted the imports bill by a
further £248 million (f.0.b.).
The theory has been that steep
increases in inventories will
dampen imports and help to
improve the balance of pay-
ments position. Perhaps the
element of lags in adjustment
has been underestimated. If


tuner
Inches off your waist instantly
FLATTENS front
SUPPORTS back
IMPROVES posture
SMARTENS looks
and SUMS !
ONLY the “ Manly " will
INSTANTLY puil in your
waist 3-sin. INSTANTLY
relieves fatigue backache,
lumbago, sciatica. INSTANTLY
feel fitter, look smarter. Finest
2-way Stretch Washable Elas-
tic Fabric (Pre-Shrunk). ALL-
DAY comfort sitting, stand-
ing, playing. Extra detachable
Supporter FREE. Hundreds of
delighted testimonials.
m
Send 70/-. State waist size (next to
Aust. Notes or M.O. skin), to
General Medical Supplies, 152 Hereford
Street, Box 1547, Christchurch, N.Z.
INVEST
with confidence
in a company with a sound growth record and
secure asset backing . . . ideal for either
short or long term investment.
0
p.a. 6-10 years
9% p.a. 4-5 years
B-j Vo p.a. 2-3 years
S°/o p.a. 12 mos. (fixed)
l{°/o p.a. 9 mos. notice
7% p.a. 6 mos. notice
6% p.a. 3 mos. notice
payable
quarterly
FREE OF
EXCHANGE
Registers: Sydney & Brisbane
New Issue at par ...
£250,000
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
in multiples of £lOO payable in full
upon application
UNCONDITIONALLY GUARANTEED
by RETAILERS ACCEPTANCE LTD.
ASSETS EXCEED £3,400,000
Underwriting Brokers:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL 20 O’Connell St., Sydney and 340
Queen St., Brisbane
LIONEL A. McFAYDEN & CO. 20 O’Connell St., Sydney
Burns Philp House, Musgrave St., Port Moresby
Members: Sydney Stock Exchange
LANCE JONES & CO. 108 Creek St., Brisbane and 108 Victoria
St., Mackay
Members: Brisbane Stock Exchange
Banker for the issue:
BANK of NEW SOUTH WALES
Trustee for the Debenture Stockholders
BANK of NEW SOUTH WALES NOMINEES PTY. LTD.
Prospectus and Application
Applications accepted only on the application form attached
to Prospectus, which may be obtained from
• Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange
• Retailers Acceptance Ltd., 280 Pitt Street, Sydney,
509 Queen Street, Brisbane
• All branches Bank of New South Wales in Qld., N.S.W.,
Papua and New Guinea
• The offices of the Underwriting Brokers
RETAILERS ACCEPTANCE
(QLD.)
LTD.
280 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Phone MA 2373
509 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Phone 31 1951
the trend continues in the cur-
rent quarter, the Government
may have to consider some
form of selective import restric-
tions, if only as a temporary
expedient.
COMMON MARKET
Preferences Pose Problems
When the European Econo-
mic Community (the Com-
mon Market or “the Six”) was
being formed, the United King-
dom, with other members of
the European Free Trade As-
sociation, made it clear that.
while willing to participate in
the benefits of European econo-
mic integration, it was not
prepared to join such a close-
knit economic unit. Now that
the benefits of the Common
Market appear greater than at
first sight, the United Kingdom
attitude is altering in favor of
closer links with the Six.
However there are difficulties
—not least the question of
Commonwealth preference -.
which prevent the United King-
dom from reaching a solution
acceptable to all parties. It )S
unlikely that it will get the
closer links desired without full
membership, yet most Com-
monwealth countries may not
be prepared to accept the loss
of privileges on the U.K.
market which this would imply,
and which Mr Macmillan has
made it clear that the United
Kingdom will respect. Because
the United Kingdom is by far
the most important overseas
customer for the Australian
beef industry, we would suffer
directly and immediately from
the loss of Commonwealth pre-
ferences for beef and other
primary products. And it is
extremely doubtful whether the
gain from easier access to the
markets of the Six could com-
pensate for this loss even in the
long run, certainly not in the
immediate future.
AIRLINES
East-west
Expands
A fter having manfully re-
sisted, with the aid of
N.S.W. Government, the vigor-
ous 1960 take-over bid by
Ansett-A.N.A., the independent
East-West Airlines Limited is
preparing to spread its wings to
Orange.
The new Orange (N.S.W.)
airport should be ready for use
shortly, and East-West is plan-
ning to operate ten initial return
services a week from Sydney.
Of these, half would be by
Fokker Friendship and the re-
mainder by DC3. Fokker
Friendship is expected to cover
the route from Orange to Syd-
ney in 50 minutes.
After completion, the Orange
Airport will come under the
jurisdiction of Orange City
Council under the local owner-
ship plan launched in recent
years by the Commonwealth
Government through the De-
partment of Civil Aviation.
Installation of night landing
facilities is now being investi-
gated by the Departments
officers.
It seems evident that the
N.S.W. Government will con-
tinue to use its powers undet
the State Transport Co-ordina-
tion Act to prevent monopoly
control of intra-state airlines-
which augurs well for East'
West’s independent future.
The company is a decentra'


A GOVERNMENT-GUARANTEE
Safeguards your income
THE
SYDNEY
WATER
BOARD
5!%
LOAM
FOR 7, 10 or 20 YEARS!
There are very important differences between the Sydney
Water Board Loan and investments that depend on continu-
ing favourable conditions to pay dividends. Because of the
New South Wales Government Guarantee, investors in
Sydney Water Board Loans are assured of regular interest
payments every 6 months, and repayment of capital in full
at maturity.
You may therefore invest in the Sydney Water Board Loan
with complete confidence. Apart from the Government
Guarantee, the Loan is also secured on the Board’s income
which, for 1961/62, is estimated at £19,500,000.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR
GOVERNMENT-GUARANTEED
51% TODAY!
APPLY at any office of the —
• Commonwealth Trading Bank;
• Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited;
• Bank of New South Wales;
• Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited;
Or through a Stockbroker;
Or at the Sydney Water Board offices.
THE SYDNEY WATER BOARD LOAN
Underwritten by lan Potter & Co.
Iced concern with headquarters
Tamworth (N.S.W.). In
Jjarch, 1960, the N.S.W.
Country Party came out in
support of measures to protect
East-West Airlines from take-
over thrusts. The company
adopted a resolution last year,
preventing shareholders from
selling their shares without the
board’s consent.
At the moment, East-West is
being represented at the Paris
Air Show by its Acting Hostess
Supervisor, Miss C. Stoltz, at
the invitation of the Dutch
makers of Fokker Friendship.
The Air Show commenced on
May 26 and will last till June
4, 1961. The Dutch Fokker
Corporation is hoping to sell
more Fokkers in Australia for
use on the shorter domestic air
routes.
N.S.W. LENDING LAWS
Private Draft Bill Proposed
Following a report by the
Bar Council of N.S.W. and
the Law Society of N.S.W. on
legal loopholes in the N.S.W.
Money - Lenders and Infants
Act, the Sydney Mortgage Ex-
change, a private firm, has
announced that “it proposes to
instruct legal authorities to pre-
pare a draft bill for submission
to the N.S.W. Government.
Instead of making representa-
lions ... the most positive
way of helping the Govern-
ment to take speedy action in
this matter is to prepare a draft
hill for their consideration.”
The Sydney Mortgage Ex-
change says that its proposed
move follows the example set
by another private organisa-
tion, “which at its own cost
submitted a draft of the Strata
Titles Bill to give proper titles
to home unit buyers.”
Ther(J no doubt , hat the
nre „ pnt A f infpnHpH to nrntprt
P resent intended to protect
a g ai ? st fraudulent, practices,
lagged behind times and is
in need of a ma i or overhaul
designed to eliminate any loop-
holes which may be used to
deprive legitimate creditors of
legal protection through tech-
nicalities.
WHEAT
Chinese Market Promising
Ane man’s meat is another
C' man’s poison—so goes a
popular saying. The converse
seems true in the case of Aus-
tralian wheat sales to the
Chinese mainland.
Years of ruthless indus-
trialisation in China have
left but little capital for
investment in the agricul-
tural sector. Seasonal con-
ditions have been adverse
since 1958 and the output of
basic food crops has sagged
dangerously. The next harvest
is expected to be poor for the
third year in succession, and
the Communist People’s Re-
public is facing a major grain
crisis. The position has now
come near enough to a general
famine for the Peking Govern-
ment to commence large scale
buying of wheat on the inter-
national market, reaching into
its precious currency reserves.
After initial purchases in
Canada, Peking and Ottawa
nave agreed that China will buy
between three and five million
tons of Canadian wheat over
me next two or three years.
Communist China has al-
jeady bought substantial quan-
mies of Australian wheat, and
much larger deals are being
Recast following the return of
the Australian Wheat Board’s
delegation from negotiations
with the Peking Government.
It is confidently expected that
the Chinese mainland will be-
come a major market for Aus-
tralia's 1961-62 and 1962-63
wheat harvests. It is estimated
that the Chinese will be com-
pelled to import at least one
million tons of wheat over the
next two years, possibly up to
two million tons —if the grain
balance in China does not im-
prove and if their foreign ex-
change reserves will bear the
strain of heavy dollar payments.
Wheat exports at this volume
would lift Australia’s foreign
trade earnings by £25 to £5O
million a year.
In Canada, the Federal Gov-
ernment is providing credit
facilities for wheat exporters,
bearing the risk of a possible
Chinese default in payments.
However, the Australian Wheat
Board is acting as an independ-
ent body. Wheat deals be-
tween Australia and China
settled so far involve a total
shipment of about two million
tons from the 1960-61 harvest.
Current economic outlook for
domestic wheat growers seems
good but the political aspect
of the deal may give room
for thought.


The WILDCAT
COLUMN
General Industries Ltd
'T'he sprawling N.S.W.-registered manu-
facturer of various agricultural,
commercial and domestic heating equip-
ment, domestic metal ware (including
stamped steel baths, basins, sinks, gas
coppers, etc.), hospital ware, kitchen
ware, lighting and radio towers and other
commercial and industrial equipment
succeeded in lifting net earnings, despite
the credit restrictions in force during
the last quarter of trading.
Progress was made by all subsidiaries
and the annual dividend rate was raised
from 4 p.c. to 5 p.c. But the group is
still struggling to keep its head above
water, and shareholders are getting only
a modest return on their investment.
Established in 1927, the General In-
dustries group now comprises Metters
Ltd (with plants operating in Sydney,
Perth, Adelaide, Brisbane and Mel-
bourne), Sovereign Appliances Pty
(Bankstown, N.S.W.), Grimwood Elec-
trical Products Pty (Botany, N.S.W.),
Admiral of Australia (Pty.) Ltd (Banks-
town, N.S.W.), Ferro Precision Pty
(Lidcombe, N.S.W.), Metters-Clow Pty
(Broadmeadows, Vic.) and other sub-
sidiaries. Metters (N.Z.) Ltd operates at
Petone, New Zealand.
Metters’ plant at Alexandria (Sydney)
was divided into the appliance division
(manufacturing gas and electric and fuel
ranges) and a new mechanised foundry,
specialising in sanitary ware. The
appliance division obtained “a greater
share of the market,” but the foundry
met with “initial difficulties” and
operated profitably only in the last
quarter of the year.
Metters branches in Perth and Bris-
bane improved their results. However,
Metters sections in Melbourne and
Adelaide increased output but had to
trade at reduced profit margins.
Sovereign Appliances, Grimwood Elec-
trical Products and the Ferro companies
registered improved sales. Admiral of
Australia (Pty.) Ltd became a fully owned
subsidiary of General Industries follow-
ing the acquisition of shares formerly
held by Admiral International Corpora-
tion, of Chicago, U.S.A. Some manufac-
turing operations previously carried out
by Admiral will now be located at the
near-by Sovereign plant.
Consolidated net profit for the year
ended February 28, 1961, increased from
£331,379 to £415,002, after providing
£312,290 for depreciation (up £19,202)
and setting aside £126,484 for taxation
(up £2045):
General Industries and Subsidiaries.
, Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. 7 p.c. , —Ord.— N serves, serves.
£/ £ p c £/ £ £
1956.. 46,620 10 = 232,582 26,728 972,246
To staff fund, £91,617 .. .. 880,629
Loss.
1957.. 491 46,620 4 = 144,740 653,778
Stock-reserve disclosed, £635,000 .. 1,288,778
Stocks written-down, £lOO,OOO .. 1,188,778
Tax overprovided, £2339 1,191,117
Profit.
1958.-337,345 46,620 4 = 144,740 145,985 1,337,102
Note-issue expenses, £49,194 . . 1,287,908
Less goodwill on acquisition of sub-
sidiary, £47,096 .. .. .. 1,240,812
Tax overprovided, £2200 .. .. 1,243,012
1959.. 305.605 46,620 4 = 149,000 109,925 1,352,937
Profit sale assets, £18,821 .. .. 1,371,758
Tax overprovided, £14,421 .. .. 1,386,179
From inner reserves, £24,148 .. 1,410,327
To staff fund, £73,843 .. .. 1,336,484
Add reduction intangibles, £7625 .. 1,344,109
1960- 46,620 4 = 149,060 135,699 1,479,808
Tax underprovided, £7142 .. ...1,472,666
Less added intangibles, £16,412 .. 1,456,254
1961- 46,620 5 = 186,325 182,057 1,638,311
After paying the preference dividend this
was equivalent to an earning rate of
9.9 p.c. on the average ordinary capital,
compared with 7.9 p.c. in the previous
term, 6.9 p.c. in 1959 and 8 p.c. in 1958.
A loss was incurred in 1957.
The modest 5 p.c. dividend rate
absorbed £186,325 and seemed
adequately covered. Reserves benefited
by £182,057, but were reduced by £7142
tax underprovided in the previous term
and £16,412 added intangibles. Total
consolidated reserves and undistributed
profits were disclosed at £1,638,311 (free
of intangibles), and gave a net tangible
asset backing of £9 Is. Id. to each 7 p.c.
cum. 20s. first pref. and 28s. lOd. for
each 20s. ord.
Formal liquidity improved —an en-
couraging sign these days. Theoretical
working capital rose by £1,106,395 to
£3,638,701. Creditors and borrowings on
deposits at call were lower:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital—- 1959. 1960. 1961.
Pref. .. . £666,000 £666,000 £666,000
Ord. 3,726,503 3,726,503 3,726,503
Reserves .. .. 1,352,937 1,479,808 1,638,311
Mortgage .. 42,809 159,276 185,803
Overdraft . . 924,987 979,543 994,289
Registered notes. 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000
Convertible notes 1,098,126
Creditors .. 629,961 1,190,875 987,012
Deposits . . . . 100,000 20,000
Tax provision . . 301,840 278,436 256,539
Staff fund . . 101,507 167,753 180,286
Prov., warranty. . 8,500 25,875 50,000
Final divs. . . 172,370 172,370 209,635
Suspense . . .. 39,590 22,114 27,220
£8,967,004 £9,968,553 £11,039,724
Freeholds . . 1,748,260 1,911,486 1,982,310
Plant .. .. 2,123,676 2,193,889 2,254,954
Shares other cos.,
etc 128,038 124,630 124,630
Loans assoc, co.. 205,000 110,000 128,345
Stocks . . . . 3,344,453 3,467,268 4,289,257
Debtors, etc. . 1,413,335 2,157,019 2,254,222
Cash . . . . 4,242 4,261 6,006
Suspense .. ..
£8,907,004 £9,968,553 £11,039,724
Stocks jumped by £821,989, accounting
for a major portion of the improvement
in liquidity. The rise in book debts (up
£97,203 at £2,254,222) did not match the
increase in inventories.
Paid capital remained unchanged, but
the company issued £1,098,126 p.c.
convertible notes, maturing August I,
1967.
Freeholds rose by £70,824 to £1,982,310
and plant by £61,065 to £2,254,954.
The year 1960 “closed with a down-
ward trend in sales volume and con-
sequently production in the co., in
common with the industry, generally.”
The board says it is “confident” that
the “increased share of available business
which has been achieved will be main,
tained.”
However, this may not be enough to
lift the General Industries group out of
its present trough. Credit restrictions and
reduced trading came as a severe blow
to the company, just at the moment when
its sustained efforts to break through
production and marketing difficulties
were beginning to have a reasonable
chance of success. At this stage, competi-
tion in the industry is very severe "and
the group’s cash liquidity is quite tight
as compared with the high theoretical
working capital due to a preponderance
of the steadily building up inventories,
and the large volume of book debts!
Reduction in stocks, a perennial worry
with General Industries, would be the
first welcome harbinger of the group’s
improving business health.
To sum up, General Industries is still
passing through a period of a protracted
crisis. Efforts to recover the company’s
former profitability are encouraging but
a difficult struggle lies ahead. The assets
are solid, but as yet are not earning their
full worth. It seems that the foundries
division has the best prospects for raising
earnings. A recovery in the building
industry, hopefully expected after the
Prime Minister’s statement on housing
finance, would improve the group’s im-
mediate outlook.
At the last sale in Sydney the 20s.
ords. were traded well below par at
14s. 9d., for an immediate return of
6.8 p.c. on the basis of the present 5 p.c.
dividend rate. For the hopeful and ven-
turesome this may be an interesting bit of
scrip.
The 20s. convertible notes last fetched
17s. 3d., giving an immediate yield of
8.7 p.c.
Latec Investments Ltd
/Canberra is ice bound. Legislative frost
blankets the Australian economy.
The h.-p. industry, the motor vehicle in-
dustry and the building industry, plus
ancillary industries, are struggling hard
against bitter odds. Funds are dried up,
liquidity is scarce, and the barrels remain-
ing spiked with tax encumbered brine.
Latec Investments Ltd, product of the
hot house boom, has deferred payment
of its interim div. “in the interests of the
depositors and investors as a move to
conserve liquidity.”
This revelation of inner weakness—a
shock to shareholders and surprise to
most observers —has been partially evi-
dent, now, for some time. It follows an
unsuccessful bid for Viscount Holdings
Ltd of Albury N.S.W. (Viscount’s assets,
cash in entirety, were immediately liquid)
and a rather disappointing
(£1,000,000 of deposit notes) geared oft
by Latec in the guise of recently formed
Trans-Continents Holdings Ltd.
The stock market is clearly concerned
at future prospects. Last week, the 5s
Latec ords. sold for ss. 6d. They had
traded up to 17s. in early 1960. They
dropped to 4s. when div. defermeid
was first announced. Boom breaking


JOHN N. ROBERTSON
member of the Stock Exchange of
.Melbourne.
STOCK AND SHAKE BROKER.
Temple Court,
422 Collins Street, Melbourne C.l.
Telephones: 67 4804, 67 2465
Telegrams & Cables:
ROBFALK, MELBOURNE
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
R. H. ALLEN, M. R. L. DOYVLINC.
P. R. LEVY, A. P. REYNOLDS, N. It
COURSE (Melbourne Resident Partner)
Deliin House, 16 O'Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Building, 150 Queen St.
Melbourne. 67-5957 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables: “Rosdale,” Sydney
Melbourne, or Wollongong.
tactics have most assuredly burst the
Latec bubble.
The co., formerly Latec Investments
pty, was formed, in Newcastle, N.S.W.,
in 1953 —to finance the sale of motor
vehicles and the like. In the first instance,
700,000 ss. ords. were issued, paid capital
at June 30, 1954, aggregating £175,000.
The co. developed with a mushroom-like
propensity and today, in addition to h.-p.,
activities are extended to include business
finance, insurance, panel beating, car
wrecking, land subdivisions, hotels, motels
and the erection of home units.
Paid capital at June 30 last (balance
date) comprised £1,783,506, all in ss.
ords. Share issues have been frequent
both to shareholders and to vendors of
businesses acquired. A three-for-four par
issue went out in January, 1955, a one-
for-two par issue in 1958-59 and in July
last, after close of accounts, a further one-
for-two par issue.
Latec has substantial moneys invested
in motels and hotels on the eastern coast
of Australia, has construction work on
a large home unit project in Sydney
under way and expects home units at
Melbourne to be completed before June
this year. It is likely that these and
other projects have tied up a great deal
of its liquid funds.
Subsidiaries include: —Latec Finance
Pty, Latec Finance (Q’ld) Pty,
Latec Finance (Vic.) Pty (formerly
Confidential Investments Pty, h.-p. finan-
cier of Melbourne; acquired last term
in exchange for 247,000 ss. ords. plus
£15,000 of 10 p.c. registered deposits),
Latec Finance (W.A.) Pty, Latec Finance
(S.A.) Pty, Cash Orders Queensland Ltd
(acquired during 1958-59 for a share
consideration involving 903,000 ss. ords)
and Latec Wholesale Pty—finance and
cash order business ranging through all
mainland States.
Seven Seas Insurance Co. Ltd—all
phases of insurance except life assurance,
with branches throughout Australia.
Master Motors Pty and subsidiary
Wickham Car Wreckers Pty—panel beat-
ing and motor repair work, car wrecking,
etc.; handling a considerable amount of
insurance business for Seven Seas, cater-
ing to a large private clientele and operat-
ing a service station—and Doug Norton
Motors Pty (acquired during last term) —
holding the Newcastle franchises for Stan-
dard. Triumph and Mercedes cars, Ley-
land and Albion trucks and Fiat tractors.
Motor Inns (Aust.) Pty and subsidiaries
(acquired during last term for a share
consideration involving 44,500 ss. ords,
Plus £35.221 cash), American Motor
Courts Pty and subsidiaries (acquired
(luring last term for a share consideration
involving 2,292,237 ss. ords.) and Club
Motels Pty and subsidiaries (acquired, as
! Ve ll' during last term for a consideration
involving 246,100 ss. ords) —operating a
chain of upwards of 18 motels with fur-
ther sites to hand for future development.
. Zebra Motor Inns Pty (registered dur-
lnß last term) —controlling all trading
activities of all motels plus trading activi-
ty of selected hotels.
Florida Hotels Pty (Latec’s first ven-
ture into fields entirely unassociated with
p P-1 formed in 1957), Southern Hotels
ty, and Southport Hotel Ltd (taken over
uring the current term for a share con-
Sl ueration not yet disclosed) —controlling
upwards of seven hotels with further sites
to hand and one hotel-motel under con-
struction.
Travel Credits (Latec) Pty (registered
during last term)—financier of holiday
and travel expenditure over periods of up
to 12 months.
Accommodation Credits (Latec) Pty
(registered during last term) —providing a
service, in the first instance, to “our
hotels and motels.”
Clearview Estates Pty (registered during
1957) and J. Leveson Pty (acquired during
last term, presumably for a consideration
involving shares) —practising land sub-
divisions and home-units construction ;
Clearview Estates operating in and
around Newcastle; J. Leveson in and
around Sydney—projects include home
unit construction at Kirribilli and
Cremorne Point. Land has been pur-
chased in the Eastern suburbs of Sydney
for further home unit development and
J. Leveson is responsible for most of
the group’s real estate activity. And Latec
Auto Pak Pty, registered last term.
Latec Finance Pty handles finance in
N.S.W. and, in addition to motor-
vehicle finance, has substantial funds
invested in the financing of businesses.
Latec Finance Wholesale Pty assists in
the activities of Latec Finance Pty. Latec
Finance (Q’ld) Pty operates in Brisbane,
Bundaberg, Rockhampton and Towns-
ville (all in Q.). Operations embrace
motor-vehicle and other h.-p. business
and general finance, as distinct from the
smaller-type transaction looked after by
Cash Orders Queensland Ltd.
The percentage of h.-p. business to
other business is decreasing and this
trend is expected to continue “as the co.
expands its development projects.” The
move away from h.-p. finance, which is
said to cover only 30 p.c. of total finance
business, is accelerating.
Recently Latec formed an association
with Lancaster Development Pty, Barclay
Development Corporation Pty (on a
50-50 basis), to undertake subdivision
work in Queensland, and a real-estate
agency, Hunter Real Estates Pty (51 p.c.
Latec, 49 p.c. Lancaster Development).
Latec has revealed plans for the con-
struction of a multi-storied building, its
Sydney headquarters, to be built on the
corner of Pitt and Underwood Streets,
at a cost approximating £1,600,000. Latec
ss. ords. have been granted listing on the
London Stock Exchange.
Forgetting current difficulties for a
moment and turning to last term’s effort,
consolidated net profit broke all records
to reach £323,131 (up £122,956), after tax
£192,819 (up £72,890 and calculated at the
old rate), and depreciation £34,108 (up
£17,380). Higher tax rates indicate an
increased tax liability of upwards of
£13,000. Volume of business jumped
£9,973,523 to £17,031,590:
To Re- Re-
June. Profit , Dividends—serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1957.. 140,691 15 p.c. = 78,750 61,941 132,397
Preliminary expenses w/off, £219.. 132,178
1958.. 144,917 15 p.c. = 78,750 66,167 198,345
Preliminary expenses w/off, £lßl 198,164
Capital issue expenses w/off, £6614 .. 191,550
Shares in outside co. w/off, £75 . . 191,475
Surplus on consolidation, £22,658 . . 214,133
1959.. 200,175 15 p.c. = 128,494 71,681 285,814
Profit sale assets, £25,860 .. .. 311,674
Share premiums, £109,904 .. .. 421,578
Surplus on consolidation, £343,208.. 704,846
1960.. 323,131 15 p.c. = 214,388 108,743 873,589
Earnings were equivalent to 22.6 p.c. on
average capital, as against 23.4 p.e.
(average), 27.6 p.c., 26.8 p.c. and 22.3 p.c.
back to 1956. Dividends were maintained
at 15 p.c. and took £214,388. Reserves
leapt £587,775 to £873,589, but benefited
surpluses on consolidation £343,268.
Latec’s ramifications, in fields beyond
the h.-p. horizon, should tend towards
stability of future earnings, but the credit
squeeze will surely take its toll during
the current term. In fact, management
will need to proceed with utmost caution
if existing difficulties are not to be
aggravated.
Balance-sheet figures illustrate, as it
now evolves, a too great a dependence on
outside finance. Latec, along with other
concerns, has shrugged aside those old
pre-war inhibitions, the reluctance to
incur debt, etc. The maxim, “it could
never happen to us,” looks a bit silly in
the light of latest rumblings in the busi-
ness world.
Latec has raised the greater part of its
funds by successive issues of deposits and
registered notes and at balance-date these
totalled, together, a massive £10,553,244
(up £6,120,655 and equal to four times
shareholder funds). Renewal could be


difficult with depositors favoring short-
call scrip.
The percentage of unearned income,
£1,935,854 (up £1,231,056), to debtors and
cash (outstandings), £13,913,056 (up
£7,559,191), works out a not unusual (for
the h.-p. game) 13.92 p.c. The ratio of
outstandings to paid capital is a bit high:
7.8 to 1.
The co.’s wide and rapid expansion is
reflected in the book values of freeholds
and leaseholds, and plant and furni-
ture :
1958. 1959. 1960.
Paid capital .. £525,000 £1,013,250 £1,783,506
Reserves .. .. 198,345 285,814 873,589
Mortgage .. 209,806
Debentures and
notes .. .. 2,493,269 4,432,589 10,553,244
Unearned income 462,349 704,798 1,935,854
Provision for un-
expired insur-
ance risks . . 207,162 219,094 443,904
Insurance suspense
account . . 28,875 44,830 89,913
Sundry creditors
and prov. for
tax . . . . 178,504 384,220 700,301
Bank overdraft .. 218,388 286,040 546,758
Final dividend .. 39,375 75,994 133,763
£4,351,267 £7,446,629 £17,270,638
Freeholds and
leaseholds . . 344,127 785,791 2,527,677
Plant, furniture,
etc 94,401 217,725 434,321
Subdivision pro-
perty . . . . 53,162 26,774 163,178
Shares other cos. 75 31
Stock . . . . 11,224 57,556 216,421
Debtors and cash 3,848,187 6,353,865 13,913,056
Intangibles . . 91 4,918 15,954
£4,351,267 £7,446,629 £17,270,638
At balance-date both groups of assets
were more than double the previous year’s
figures. The former at £2,527,677 was
up £1,741,886, and the latter at £434,321
was up £216,596. Subdivision property
jumped £136,404 to £163,178. Provision
for unexpired insurance risks was ample,
and at £443,904 (up £224,810) represented
a large slice of the net premium income
for the year. Insurance suspense account
rose by £45,083 to £89,913.
Considering the greatly increased
volume of business last year, hefty
increases in sundry creditors and bank
accommodation were not surprising.
Sundry creditors, which includes the pro-
vision for taxation, leapt £316,081 to
£700,301, and bank overdraft advanced
£260,718. Stock was £158,865 hisher at
£216,421.
In the current term, profit for the half
year ended December 31, 1960, increased
a solid £120,061 to £250,106, after pro-
viding £159,496 for tax (up £86,026).
Then came the div. announcement. In
November last non-deductibility of
interest on borrowings tax wise was intro-
duced. It is to be revoked as from
June 30 next. Positive steps have been
taken by the Federal Government to
boost housing. The motor-vehicle indus-
try has picked up slightly, but is still
running well behind pre-credit-squeeze
days.
The situation is difficult for Latec.
Latec shares could be worth a spec., but
the shrewd investor may turn elsewhere ;
he may at least wait until revelation of
current accounts. Immediate yield, sup-
posing a resumption of the 15 p.c. div.,
is a very attractive 13.6 p.c. Net tangibles
at close of the accounts weighed up
at 7s. sd.
Korablums Furnishings Ltd
TZornblums has come upon bad times.
Consolidated net profit is down
£25,009 at £22,785. Ord. div. has been
bypassed. Chairman G. S. Kaye com-
ments : “The lifting of import restrictions
was generally welcomed by wholesale
distributors, but the flood that resulted
extended beyond normal channels, and
made selling more difficult and more
costly. The situation was later aggravated
by the credit squeeze.”
An importer, manufacturer and distri-
butor of furnishings, Kornblums Furnish-
ings Ltd has its head office in Melbourne.
Two of the three operating subsidiaries,
Kornblums Pty and Kornblums (S.A.)
Ltd., distribute carpets, linoleum, furnish-
ing materials, etc., throughout Australia;
the third offshoot, Furnishing Textiles
Pty, manufactures high-grade furnishing
fabrics.
The parent co. was formed in 1951
(over 60 years after the foundation of
the business), 180,000 10s. ords. being
offered to the public at par. In 1953,
40,000 £1 6 p.c. prefs., participating to
7 p.c., were issued to assist in financing
the purchase of the S.A. subsidiary. In
1959, in September, an issue of 246,000
ords. three-for-ten ords., six-for-ten
prefs. and six for every £lO of notes—
at par, lifted paid capital to its present
£433,000.
The year ended January 27 last was a
difficult one, consolidated net profit
(£22,785) reaching its lowest register in
ten years. Turnover, moving ahead in
the first nine months, declined over the
last quarter. Each subsidiary finished up
writing increased sales (for the 12
months) over and above those written in
the preceding period but stock on hand,
at close of the accounts, because the
planned flow of overseas goods and
materials could not be suddenly halted,
rose to alarming levels far in excess of
immediate requirements. Production of
the textile subsidiary is now reduced “to
an uneconomic level,” and “any speedy
solution of the problem would appear
to be wholly dependent on future Gov-
ernment action.”
Latest result was reckoned after setting
aside £20,274 (down £13,306) for taxa-
tion and £31,267 (up £12,543) for depre-
ciation and plant replacement:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. , Dividends— s serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £,
1957 . . 58,159 2,800 27,000 28,359 137,880
Note-issue expenses, etc., £3436 .. 134,444
Tax overprovided, £1265 .. .. 135,709
To plant-replacement reserve, net, £760 136,469
Freeholds revalued, £45,237 .. 181,706
1958 .. 60,597 2,800 27,000 30,797 212,503
To plant-replacement reserve, net, £967 213,470
Tax overprovided, £63 .. .. 213,533
Loss, sale assets, £928 .. .. 212,605
1959 . . 51,618 2800 27,000 21,818 234,423
To plant-replacement res., net, £1220 235,643
Tax overprovided, £4350 .. .. 239,993
Loss, sale and scrapping assets, £3740 236,253
Share-issue expenses,, £3149 . . 233,104
1960 .. 47,794 2800 28,025 16,969 250,073
Profit, sale freeholds, £11,583.. .. 261,656
1961 . . 22,785 2400 20,385 282,042
* Subject to intangibles, £43,951 at 27/1/61.
It works out at 5.2 p.c. on ord. capital,
allowing for prefs., and compares with
16 p.c., 18.1 p.c., 21.4 p.c., 20.5 p.c. and
23.3 p.c. for the five years back to 1956.
Ord. divs. had been held at 10 p.c.
since 1955. Reserves, benefiting profit
sale freeholds, £11,583 (sale of the
Hallett Street property, S.A.), rose
£31,969 to £282,042.
Book values of land, buildings, pl ant
and machinery are little changed. Loans
on mortgage jumped £96,250 to £196,250'
There are, as well, £lOO,OOO of 8 ~p c
registered unsecured notes maturing
November 30, 1967:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1959. 1960. i 961
£40,000 £40,000 £ 40 ,060
„ o, ' d 270,000 384,975 393 000
Reserves . . . . 234,423 250,073 252|042
Outside interests.. 15,675 19,296 ig 577
Mortgage .. .. 100,000 100,000 196’250
Notes .. .. 100,000 100.000 loo’oon
Overdraft.. .. 108,923 193,221 100 371
Creditors.. .. 132,787 150,154 25 4 ’807
Tax provision .. 62,210 52,667 37790
Final div. . . 14,900 15,925 ij 2 00
£1,078,918 £1,306,311 £1,490^040
Land, buildings .. 395,842 490,098 506 511
Plant, etc. . . 63,267 152,363 14u’830
Shares .. .. 112 __
Stock, etc. .. 373,809 429,575 555 826
Debtors .. .. 201,651 189,780 237’,431
Cash .. .. 286 544 4gg
Intangibles .. 43,951 43,951 43,951
£1,078,918 £1,306,311 £1,490,040
Theoretical working capital eased con-
siderably, climbing £125,645 to £333,577
but is reflection of excess stocks on hand
(up £J 26,251 at £555,826) —impact of
sales slump in the last quarter. Bank
overdraft declined £26,847 (£166,374);
debtors jumped £47,654 (£237,434).
The furniture game is essentially a
tricky one —it becomes more and more a
fashion trade —offering steady but rarely
spectacular profits. The general state of
the textile trade is such that it may be
some time before the present situation is
clarified. Kornblums’s profitability is in
the balance. It is difficult to forecast an
early resumption of div. payouts. As yet
there is no significant change in the high
volume of imports coming into Aus-
tralia. There is, however, a ray of hope
in recent measures taken by the Federal
Government to boost the housing pro-
gramme. The co. is making every effort
to reduce excess holdings of stocks.
In passing, it is interesting to note
management’s summing up, from a Korn-
blums’s viewpoint, of problems besetting
the textile trade. In the latter part of the
period under review the textile subsidiary
“encountered three factors beyond its
control which, taken together, seriously
affected results.
“Firstly, the removal of import restric-
tions led to excessive quantities of up-
holstery fabrics accumulating throughout
the continent, and lessened customer
demand for the company’s products.
“Secondly, an alteration in tariff item
definitions in October, 1960, seriously
weakened all tariff protection on most of
its products. The Government saw fit,
after an emergency tariff inquiry, to
restore the tariff protection late in De-
cember, 1960, but in the meantime, the
situation had further adversely affected
customer demand.
“Thirdly, the economic measures im-
posed by the Government in November,
1960, by lessening consumer demand
aggravated the problem of distributors
and retailers in attempting to reduce
excessive stocks.
“The cumulative effect of the above
was a sharp falling off in orders.”
Meantime the ords. fetch a mere 65.,
4s. below par. Net tangible asset backing
is substantial; a healthy 16s. Id. the
ords ; £l6 15s. 6d. the prefs. Freeholds
were revalued in 1958.


m
FINANCE & INVESTMENT
COMPANY LIMITED
SHAREHOLDERS' FUNDS, £891,419.
TANGIBLE ASSETS, £3,184,264.
INTEREST RATES FOR DEPOSITS
(NOW CALLED UNSECURED DEPOSIT NOTES)
AND OVER
APPLICATIONS must be made
on the form enclosed with the
prospectus, which is obtainable
from
Members of the Stock Exchange
ANY BRANCH OF A.N.Z. BANK
The Registered Office of the Com-
pany, William & Crown Sts.,
Sydney. Telephone FA 0322.
Financing world-
famous products
distributed by
The Hastings
Deering Group
of Companies.
FORD
Cars and Trucks
FORDSON
Tractors
A.E.C.
Trucks & Buses
CATERPILLAR
Diesel Tractors
in Queensland
HYSTER
Fork Lift Trucks
JOHN DEERE
Agricultural
Machinery
LISTER
Engines
GROUP SALES
IN 1960
£14,757,281
II
1
MAIL THIS COUPON
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE &
INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
G.P.O. Box 4333, Sydney.
Please send me, without any obligation on my part, pros-
pectus dated 1/4/61, giving full details of your terms
deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS
8.31/5
HD82.8
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
{lncorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720)
Assets exceed £173,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
Kindersley House, Bligh/O’Connell Streets, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton, Manager for Australia.
Speculator's Diary
Monday, May 29
Those who like to buy into a
good argument usually
have their chance when a pros-
pectus comes along, particu-
larly if it is for an entirely new
venture such as Phillips Oil
Products. As an occasional
customer of the Sydney broker
handling this issue, I received
a copy of the Phillips prospec-
tus during the week. This issue
seems to have had a very good
press (as they say) and seems
to be considered something of
a glamor float.
However, at the risk of being
branded a bit of an eccentric,
I think one or two vital points
have been glossed over in this
prospectus. The first is the
obvious point that the local oil
market has not been wanting
for competition in the last few
years and one newcomer at
least, Total, seems to have
found the opposition a bit
rough. Nor are the other exist-
ing distributors going to pull
down a few of their signs to
make room for the “Phillips
66” shield on our highways.
Admittedly, Phillips seems
fully conscious of this when it
says that dividends will be con-
sidered “after the second year
of marketing.’’ As marketing
is not scheduled to begin until
1962, this presumably means
that dividends cannot be
expected before 1964 at the
earliest. This, then, seems a
fairly tall order for local inves-
tors who usually aren’t as
patient as this issue will require
them to be.
Against this is the fact that
Phillips seems to have done
pretty well for itself in
America, where it has carved
out a nice corner of the busi-
ness for itself. (Even so, it is
worth remembering that
Phillips has been in business
in the U.S. since 1917.) Nor
can any critic deny the com-
pany full marks for being able
to trot out a “former Prime
Minister and Treasurer of the
Commonwealth of Australia”
as its chairman of directors. So
out of loyalty to Artie, but still
with more than a few reserva-
tions, I have applied for 400
shanes. I feel the issue should
no “popular” enough to give
the shares a premium when
tnoy come on the market, and
that’s when I’ll be selling—
j'omembering other “popu-
ar” floats, such as Chevron
Sydney.
My other moves this week
nave been to sell 200 of my
l°m Piper and to buy 300
Moran and Cato and also 200
more Stocks and Holdings.
Tom Piper had such a swift
rise to 255. that I sold the 200
I’d bought only the week before
at 21s. 6d. They gave me a
profit of £26 and left me hold-
ing my original 200 for which
I paid 235. a few months ago.
I bought 200 more Stocks
and Holdings deferred on the
strength of the Government
making more money available
again for housing, and this
should help Stocks and Hold-
ings with its Gold Star homes
as well as its sub-divisions and
real estate business. I’ve said
before that the shares strike
me as being on the cheap side
in view of the 20 p.c. dividend
and the 44 p.c. earning rate.
My reason for buying
Moran and Cato was because
of the good interim report.
This report spoke of a sub-
stantial increase in sales in the
half-year and a corresponding
rise in profit. And with Moran
and Cato there is always the
possibility of a takeover,
although I feel the capital of
nearly £3 million might now be
too big for either Coles or
Woolworths to swallow easily.
However, I like the sound of
that interim report, and the
recession should not have
affected food sales in the same
way as it has affected other
retail sales.
The week’s transactions
were:
SOLD
200 Tom Piper at 25/- £246
BOUGHT
400 Phillips Oil at 5/- £lOO
300 Moran and Cato at
19/6 £299
200 Stocks and Hold-
ings def. at 8/2 .. £B5
This left me with a bare £l5
in the bank and the following
shares: —
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Total Per rent
Shares Company Cost Share Price
400 Antill R. £251 12/3 13/-
100 Pick-Me-Up 414 81/6 £5/3/-
500 Meriea 105 6/4 7/-
500 Stocks &
Holdings def. 212 8/3 8/2
200 Tom Piper 455 22/3 25/-
200 Hornibrook 234 23/- 26/6
200 Parbury
Henty 174 17/- 16'3
400 Marrickville 433 21/3 24/-
132 Marley Tile 158 24/- 27/6
200 David Jones
notes 101 0/10 10/6
200 Concrete Ind.
contribs. 96 9/5 10/-
400 N. B. Love
contribs. 94 4/8 5/4
100 John Lysag'bt 100 20/-
500 Newcastle Ten
Pin Bowling 125 5/-
400 Watkins
Consol. 105 5/- 6/-
500 John Darling 225 8/9 9/10
300 Moran &
Cato 299 19/6 19/4*


CLOSING NEXT MONTH
REGISTERED
‘lillCT ' UADT#* J||!E
DEBENTURE STOCK
a
YEARS
6 OR 10 YEARS
RETAILERS
DISCOUNT
LIMITED
SHiNOW 9
6%
PER
ANNUM
12 MONTHS
7%
PER
ANNUM
SHiNOW VZ
7i%
PER
ANNUM
INTEREST PAYABLE QUARTERLY FREE OF EXCHANGE
Applications accepted only on the application form attached
to the Prospectus which may be obtained from: —
• Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange.
• Retailers Discount Limited, 280 Pitt Street, Sydney.
• Bank of New South Wales, all branches in N.S.W.,
Queensland or A.C.T.
Trustee for Debenture Stock Holders:
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES NOMINEES PTY. LTD.
Underwriting Brokers:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL,
20 O'Connell Street, Sydney.
LIONEL A. McFADYEN & CO.,
20 O'Connell Street Sydney.
Members of Sydney Stock Exchange
jj
RETAILERS DISCOUNT LTD., 280 Pitt Street, Sydney. 8M6206.
Please forward me a Prospectus and Application form.
NAME
ADDRESS
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years to
be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
Send for illustrated Bulletin
to the sole manufacturers
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
iiti|>id Magnetting Machines.
George Ellison Switch Gear,
el~. Makers of Cla»silier»,
Water Filters, Steam
eta
COMPANY NOTES
Conquip Ltd
Ltd, Sydney-based
manufacturer and distri-
butor of earthmoving and
agricultural enquipment, has
announced the issue of 200,000
ss. ords., one-for-three at par,
on May 26, 1961, payable in
full on application. The issue
closes on June 23, 1961. Rights
cannot be renounced, but
shareholders may apply in
excess of entitlements. The
issue is underwritten by A. D.
Meares and Bishop, Sydney
brokers.
The co. paid its maiden
dividend (a 4 p.c. interim for
six months to December 30,
1960) on May 26, 1961. Net
profit after tax for the Decem-
ber half-year was disclosed at
£12,700, comparing favorably
with £16,670 for the full year
ended June 30, 1960.
Following the issue of
£50,000 of ss. ords. during
current term, paid capital rose
to £150,000. “Increased profit
and business were due to
an expansion programme
launched at the beginning of
last year,” the board says.
Don Industries Ltd
T'Xon Industries Ltd, Sydney*
based upholstered furni
ture manufacturer, has acquired
a 50 p.c. interest in Craftex
Limited, of Auckland, a lead-
ing New Zealand furniture up-
holsterer, for an undisclosed
consideration
Listed on ’Change last
October, the co. paid a
p.c. half yearly dividend in
December. There are modern
plants at Silverwater (N.S.W)
and in Melbourne, and licensees
in all States. Total turnover is


WANTED TO BUY
A. L Sadler, No-Kyogen-Kabuki,
Sydney, Angus and Robertson, 1934.
E. H. FLINT,
Department of English,
University of Queensland,
St. Lucia. Brisbane.
Missing Friend
To ROBERT RANKIN CHALMERS
formerly of Swan Hill in the State
of Victoria but now of parts unknown
TAKE NOTICE that vour wife MARY
GLEN CAMERON CHALMERS lias
commenced proceedings against you for
a divorce UNLESS you enter an appear-
ance in the Office of the Protlionotary
of the Supreme Court Melbourne on
or before the 10th day of July 1961 the
case may proceed' in your absence and
vou mav be ordered to par- costs AND
FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that if you
intend to defend the said proceedings
you must file an answer in the said
office on or before the 20th dav of July
1961.—THIS ADVERTISEMENT is in-
serted by the Public' Solicitor, 601 Little
Collins Street Melbourne.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorck.
To CHARLES EDWARD LYONS
TAKE NOTICE that JESSIE JSOBEL
LYONS has filed a petition for divorce
No. SOB 5 of 1958 on the grounds of
your desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse’.
If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney by Btli August
1901 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from L. B. FEENEY
& Co., Solicitors, 16 Barrack Street,
Svdnev, New South Wales. —C. A. H.
HARMS Registrar.
Divorce Notice*
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO MARIA DEDIS (formerly Botsika)
late of 27 Oakville Street, Willoughby.
—TAKE NOTICE that ATHANASIOS
DEDIS has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1112 of 1900 on the ground of
Desertion without Just Cause or Excuse
for three years and upwards. Ji you
wish to defend, you may enter an
Appearance in the Divorce Registry,
Mint Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney,
by the 2nd August 1961, and obtain
a copy of the Petition, without charge,
from ‘ NOEL DENNIS & COMPANY.
Solicitors of 188 George Street, Sydney.
—C. A. H. HARMS Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALKS— In Divorce.
To BRUCE GREGORY FRANCIS WAT-
SON.—TAKE NOTICE that BARBARA
JUNE WATSON had filed a petition for
divorce No. 31166 of 1960 on the grounds
of your desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse. If
you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney bv Bth August
1961 and obtain a copy of the petition
without chai'ge from L. B. FEENEY
& Co., Solicitors, 16 Barrack Street,
Sydney, New South Wales.—C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
QUAKERS
Members of the religious Society of
Friends, also known as Quakers, believe
in the guidance of the Holy Spirit,
rather than in outward rites and an
ordained ministry. Meetings for Worship
are held on a basis of meditative silence
developing an awareness of God’s
presence.
With no rigid creed or dogma, Friends
endeavour individually and as a Society
to live and work in the spirit of the
life and teachings of Christ.
Because we believe that every man has
something of God in him, we seek recon-
ciliation between man and man, and
pursue ways of bringing men together
in love despite differences in class,
dolour, or nationality.
Further information may be obtained
free on application to FRIENDS’
HOUSE, 133 Orrong Rd., 5.E.2, Vic.
cported to be worth about
j 350,000 a year.
Pye Industries Ltd
UYE Industries Limited has
I acquired the whole of the
jssued capital of Colville Wire-
jess Equipment Coy. Pty Ltd,
,f Rockdale (N.S.W.), manu-
facturers of electronic heating
equipment.
Colville Wireless will move
i 0 new and larger premises at
(N.S.W.), and will
| a ve access to the facilities of
jmiits of the Pye group ia
iGreat Britain.
OIL AND MINING
[South Alligator Uranium
n interim report says that
A during 28 weeks to March
IS, 1961, South Alligator
Uranium. N.L., mined 2264
short tons of uranium oxide
-the co. milled 2091 short
ions of uraniu m oxide.
(Head grade was reported to
fje 1.01 p.c. U3OB. The value
"of production was given as
£173,872. Production costs for
the 17 operating weeks
ibsorbed £69.892. Mining, de-
Ivelopment and other costs
Wing the 11 weeks of the
(close-down period totalled
*31,506, leaving profit before
charging depreciation at
£72.4747
Following the delivery to
the U.K. Atomic Energy
Authority of the contract quota
of uranium oxide for 1960, the
treatment plant was closed be-
tween October 21, 1960, and
January 7, 1961. During the
shut-down period the rate of
underground development was
increased, resulting “in a con-
siderable improvement in the
ore reserves position in the
Rockhole (N.T.) mine.’
During 1960 South Alligator
and Aberfoyle Tin, N.L..
entered into a joint venture to
acquire and work the Pan-
danus Creek uranium deposit,
located about 110 miles west
of Burketown (N.T.). The de-
posit is “known to contain at
least 35,000 tons of open-cut
ore of an estimated grade of
0.85 p.c. U3OB, a total of 330
short tons of uranium oxide."
Total purchase consideration
was £45,000.
A contract, valued at about
£lOO.OOO, was secured to supply
25 short tons of uranium oxide
to the Australian Atomic
Energy Commission by the end
of 1961. “It is expected that
the purchase price of the pro-
perty will be completely re-
couped from profit by the end
of the contract.” South Alli-
gator's directors expect that the
Pandanus Creek deposit will
contain some 300 short tons of
uranium oxide in a high grade
ore body after the delivery to
Rum Jungle.
At the last sale in Sydney the
ss. ords. fetched 2s. 9d a unit.
Combarngo Well
A SSOCTATED AUSTRALIAN OlL-
fields, N.L., reports that
Combarngo No. 1 weli has
reached a depth of 4770 ft. and
is drilling ahead.
Santos Ltd
Santos Ltd reports that the
Santos-Delhi 6000 ft strati-
graphic well at Mornington
Island, being drilled on behalf
of the two oil exploration
companies, w'as spudded-in and
is drilling ahead.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 645
Across
I—What grows in water in a hurry? (4)
3—Notorious patriotic oratory. (8)
9—A hundred in the breakers for dandruff. (5)
(10—Nile canoe would not be fitting in this —or would
I it? (5, 4)
11 — Produces more eggs that the
other expenditures. (7)
12 — Girl who takes help from an
Australian capital. (5)
14 — Rome's taller when knocked
about by this flattener. (11)
15 — Gin may be taken with this
couple in tow. (3)
16 — Vessel at five is first. (3)
18 —They're deadly occasions for
Scheherazade joining the under-
world. (11)
20 — Bacon the achievement of this
physician? (5)
21 — Given to cursing a vehicle I
have. (7)
22 Rifle soon employed where
Napoleon 111 beat the Aus-
trians. (9)
25 A somewhat saucy craft. (5)
26 — The first of all emmets is immov-
able. (7)
27 — Suitable vehicle for getting about
in the Andes. (5)
Down
1— Person’s seven is misshapen
because of a disposition to
answer. (14)
2 Equipment of hearth and sink to
scamper away. (7)
3 Walker is a diarist of
measure. (11)
4 Hail girl is rising. (3)
5 Managed one of our fighting
services. (3)
6 lan’s upset, the waistcoat being
most Ingenuous. (7)
7 Key of one who hasn’t yet been
given the front door key, but
who has been treated by 14-
across. (1, 4,5)
8— Pet hen’s off eats during the time
when Wenceslas was generous.
(5, 2,7)
12— Key officer treated by 14-
across. (1, 4,5)
13 — Times for shifting ground. (11)
17—Titillated credit was in the
van. (7)
19 —Quack if some boy went with
the current. (7)
23 Tree. (3)
24 — Austrian river tavern. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 644


*
V
*
CP
&
2
vP
\
WWBMMMmi
IX
it
m
r
rq
i\r o <
3)
Financiers in London, Tokyo, New York. Experts in
every field of business and commerce . . . unbiased corres-
pondents in Canberra. Every Monday facts from the
world s business capitals are relayed precisely, concisely in
“The Australian Financial Times”.
X
m
m
x
X
X
X
MONDAY NEXT! and every Monday 16
THE AUSTRALIAN
