

The Bulletin
Registered in Australia for trans-
mission by post as a newspaper.
November 11, 1961
K
MI GRANT CAMPBL UES
ENDEAN


The most advanced silo yet introduced!
ORB
LYSAGHT
-purpose SILO
* Patent Pending 55007/59
Years ahead, with
full-size “walk-in”
at no extra cost
EACH FEATURE PLANNED TO SAVE TIME AND MONEY!
® Full-Size "Walk-In" Door (silos from 1,200 bushels up-
wards) enables the silos to be emptied and cleaned with a
minimum of time, effort and discomfort.
« Easier, Faster, Cheaper Erection.
• Vertically Rigidised Walls and 6-Ply Horizontal
Ribs for added strength.
• Revolutionary New Robust Positive-Action Bagging
Outlet complete with bag holder and steel caver.
• Auger Chute in bottom bulkhead behind door.
• Improved Centre and Side-Filling Hole Assemblies
complete with hinged lids and positive fastenings.
• Wider Turned-Down Eaves on Roof Panels.
• Fully Rodent-Proof Construction.
ALL THESE PLUS THE FOLLOWING OPTIONAL EXTRAS!
Cuts overall costs up to £lOO
• Easy-to-install Heavy-Gauge Steel Floor . . . suitable for
conical or flat bases,
• Steel Earth Ring,
AUGERS
Highly efficient vertical Grain
Augers designed to centre fill
ail Lysaght Silos from 1,200
B. to 3,700 B. are available.
Prices; £97, £lO9, £ll6.
(F.O.R. Newcastle.)
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
Offices in Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Fremantle,


TEARING OFF A STRIP
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; Phone: 27 5971.
Vol. 82
No. 4265
The Policies
Mr Calwell Didn't Announce
MR CALWELL’S forecast last weekend of what he intended
his election policy to be did not have the ring of the mid-
Twentieth Century about it. Unemployment, housing, social
services, pensions and education are all admirable things to talk about,
but they are not exactly the most pressing problems of the age. What
they look suspiciously like are material for vote-catching promises,
which can be judged only when we see what the rest of Labor’s
economic policy is and what the results of it are likely to be.
What he left unsaid was the whole problem of Australia’s future
existence in an uncertain world. There was one very good reason for
his silence on external affairs. On foreign policy Mr Calwell is the
captive of his Federal Executive; he must carry out its instructions and
he may not like them. Those instructions include Australian recog-
nition of Communist China and Australian support for the admission
of Communist China to the United Nations; withdrawal of the Aus-
tralian troops from Malaya and general hostility to the whole idea of
SEATO.
What he left unsaid about internal affairs is that his Federal
Executive also binds him to repeal the 1951 “clean ballot” legislation;
in other words that he should dismantle the one apparatus that gives
anti-Communists a fighting chance in union elections. This is the
kind of subject on which Mr Calwell remains silent, just as he
remains silent when members of his party join in unity tickets with
Communists in trade union elections or when Mr F. Chamberlain,
whose voice is still dominant in the Federal Executive, announced
in March this year that the ultimate aim of the Communists and the
A.L.P. was the same.
M R CALWELL'S compromises have made him a tragic and futile
figure, the mouthpiece of his natural enemies and the enemy of
those who were once his friends. He will fight a tragic, futile election
in which at the best he will not say what some of his supporters are
saying; his will be merely one among the many voices of Labor, and
some of the voices that disagree with him will be more dominant than
his. He will do his best to appear to be the Australian patriot that at
heart he undoubtedly is; but it will be a pitiful performance because
so many of his stage directions have been written for him by others.
It chills one’s blood to examine the possibility that some of the
present members of the A.L.P. could become Ministers of the
Crown. There is fortunately little chance that they will. The record
of Labor’s internal accommodations with Communism and external
accommodations to Soviet and Chinese foreign policy will be clearly
and consistenly presented, however much Mr Calwell may talk of
pensions and education. The best that can happen to the A.L.P. is
that it should be so soundly defeated at the elections that it will be
finally forced to clean out its stables.


This Australia
COMMONWEALTH CARS
The Parker Case
FROM KEITH WILLEY IN DARWIN
G. FREETH
“A full inquiry ”
A Government employee ranged up to
Leo Parker, 32, ex-Department of
Works mechanic, in the bar of the Ten-
nant Creek Club, accused him of “gab-
bing to the papers” and threw a glass
of beer in his face. Another public ser-
vant told a newspaperman : “If you don’t
want to get hurt, get out of this town
and forget what you’ve heard.”
A married man with seven children,
Parker was sacked, according to the
Director of Works, Mr A. T. Ferrari, for
“striking a superior officer on department
premises after hours.” Parker, on the
other hand, claimed his protests at
“flagrant misuse of Commonwealth
vehicles in and around Tennant Creek”
led indirectly to his dismissal.
He claimed Works employees had
threatened him, and on one occasion
had shown him an extract from the
Crimes Act dealing with disclosure of
official information and ordered him to
sign it. He said he had felt for a long
time that incidents at Tennant Creek
should be reported, but had been
frightened of victimisation.- After getting
the sack he wrote out a signed statement,
naming three employees and alleging
misuse of Commonwealth vehicles, and
drove to Darwin with it at his own
expense to place it before top Works
Department officials.
He claimed one of the men named
had driven a Government utility to
Mount Isa on a two-day trip. On another
occasion the same vehicle had been
driven surreptitiously from Tennant to
Alice Springs. It was common practice,
he said, to disconnect the speedometer
of this and another vehicle on Friday
afternoons. He claimed Works vehicles
were driven many times to Wauchope,
80 miles away, and had been used
generally as taxis for barbecues, parties
and sporting trips. He also claimed that
private cars had often been overhauled
and repaired in the workshop.
He added that after he had refused
to go on a trip to Mount Isa and had
pointed out the serious nature of taking
a vehicle without permission, “they
realised then that I knew too much about
what was going on and decided to get
rid of me. They kept at me and
harrassed me at every turn.” On Septem-
ber 21 he was handed a letter, he said,
signed by the officer in charge at Tennant
Creek which taxed him with discourteous
and undisciplined conduct which might
lead to his dismissal.
Parker said he immediately phoned a
senior Works officer in Darwin but was
told to discuss it with his superior at
Tennant Creek—the man who had signed
the letter. After working hours he had
gone to see a man whom he suspected had
originated the complaints. After an argu-
ment they came to blows and he
“thumped” the man, Parker said. Next
day he was dismissed for “striking a
superior officer.”
ft was then he decided that the ‘•mal-
practices'’ he had seen should be aired
publicly. He wrote out and signed a
full statement and travelled 700 miles
to Darwin with it. Last Thursday Mr
Ferrari announced that three Department
employees had been dismissed.
As for Parker's own dismissal, Pat
Wood, branch president of the A.E.U.
to which Parker belongs, admits the
“thumping,” but says: “It was a personal
blue, after working hours. This was an
unjust dismissal and the union will
fight it.”
Meanwhile Parker’s allegations, the
promise of a full inquiry by the Minis-
ter for the Interior, Mr Freeth, and the
Territory-wide inquiries by Common-
wealth Police from Canberra have put
the lid —at least temporarily —on use of
Government cars after working hours.
This applies even in Alice Springs where
things reached a peak one night some
years ago w'hen a kangaroo hunter found
that the vehicle being used for spotlight-
shooting nearby was nothing less than
the town fire engine, with full crew
aboard.
POLITICS
Election Delirium
FROM A HOBART CORRESPONDENT
npASMANi-AN State politicians are caught
■*- up in the Federal electron fever.
John Orchard; M.L.C.* was first oil.
Already endorsed as one of the Libera;
Senate team, he resigned the State- seat
of Cornwall, which he had held since
1954. He was followed by Fred Marriott.
one of the seven Bass members of
the proportionally-elected House of
Assembly, who had been endorsed to
contest the Federal division of Bass as
a Liberal. His departure ended 40 years
of House of Assembly service by his
family, begun when his blind-soldier
father, Captain Frank Marriott, was
elected soon after the end of World War
I. Home from World War 11. Fred
Marriott entered the House on his
father's resignation. Meanwhile,. limbless
soldier John Steer announced that he
would resign as a Liberal member for
Bass to contest Orchard’s vacant seat
as an Independent. (The Liberals do not
endorse candidates for the Upper House.)
Then, coy about his intentions to the
last, Dr R. J. D. Turnbull ended months
of speculation by announcing that he,
too, had quit Bass to take on the tough
assignment of contesting the Senate as
an Independent. Turnbull sent his
resignation by telegram from the main-
land. Finding it inacceptable in that
form, his wife had to rush through to
Hobart from Launceston to put in his
papers. Had action been delayed until
the following morning he would have
been too late to satisfy the electoral law
governing nomination for the Senate.
Dr Turnbull, elected in November,
1946, as a Labor member for Bass, be-
came Minister for Health in 1948 and
added the Treasury in 1956. He was
involved in many clashes with party
colleagues, but survived smiling, even if
they did not. His later months in the
party were marked by the sensational
court case arising from the proposed
sale of Tasmanian Lotteries to a Sydney
speculator. Acquitted, he continued a
swirling fight with the Attorney-General,
Mr Fagan, the Minister for Health, Dr
Gaha, and the Minister for Lands and
Works, Mr Reece. The war ended with
his dismissal from the Ministry in April.
1959, after Mr Reece became Premier.
His resignation from the Labor party
and an overwhelming victory as an Inde-
pendent at the elections in May followed
swiftly. As an Independent he has not


been a significant force in the House.
“There's no future for Tasmanian politics
under the present set-up,” he remarked.
To add to the confusion, men who
stood for Bass in 1959 and failed quite
conspicuously to win votes will be in-
vited to take part on Saturday, Novem-
ber 11, in a peculiarly Tasmanian politi-
cal wake. The No. 1 ballot papers of
Bass members w'ho have resigned will
be examined, and preferences will be
allotted to determine their successors.
The business will be repeated a few
weeks later when Steer’s resignation be-
comes effective. Liberals M. H. Bushby
and 1. S. T. McGowen seem certain to
inherit the mantles of Marriott and Steer,
but Turnbull’s ballot papers are notable
for heavy cross-voting. Launceston pub-
lican H. M. Newman (Labor) is most
likely to succeed him, but a win for an
outsider Liberal or Independent is not
impossible.
The final touch is that Newman’s
eligibility may be prejudiced by his appli-
cation for a loan from the Tourist
Accommodation Board for improve-
ments to his hotel. The loan had not
been granted at the time of the 1959-
election, but the position is doubtful in
the light of provision of the Constitution
Act. The election of six sitting members
was hurriedly validated by legislation last
week (October 31), but no provision was
made for a contingency such as New-
man's election might provide.
DOUGHERTY v. CAMERON
The Longest Feud
From MUGGA
T. DOUGHERTY
“Big Tom"
One of the longest political feuds in
Australian unionism is surely that
between Tom Nicholson Pearce Dough-
erty, the general secretary of the biggest
union in Australia, the 180,000-strong
Australian Worker’s Union, and Clyde
Robert Cameron, Labor M.H.R. for
Hindmarsh, South Australia. Each of
them has a newspaper handy through
which accusations and counter-accusa-
tions can and are made. In the case
of Mr Dougherty, the union's paper
“The Australian Worker. is the
main vehicle for the voice of the
union leadership. “The Voice (“of
the rank and file") is Mr Cameron's
medium through which he attacks Mr
Dougherty and alleged malpractices in the
union. “The Voice” states that it is
“printed by Messenger Press Ltd., 258
Commercial Road. Port Adelaide, for
Council for Membership Control of
A.W.U Broken Hill. N.S.W.”;. and as
Mr Cameron's home is in South Austra-
lia where he is a strong personality in
A.W.U. affairs it requires no inside infor-
mation to assume that he may have some
sort of editorial interest in the paper.
“The Voice”, an eight-page tabloid has
fired the latest shot in the warfare with
a report that the Commonwealth Indus-
trial Registrar, Mr J. E. Taylor, has been
informed of an alleged breach of A.W.U.
rules in regard to the union's Fighting
Account. This account is believed to have
been set up after the Shearers’ strike in
1956 when “Big Tom” told his members
that the pastoralists had almost unlimited
funds and consequently to fight the em-
ployers the union needed some reserves.
Up until the 1960 Convention each
branch paid 5/ - a member to the Fighting
Account. It was reduced at that conven-
tion to 2/6 a member —presumably
because the Fighting Account was thought
to be in a sufficiently healthy state. “The
Voice" alleges that “the account now
holds not less than £268,000". As “The
Voice" correctly points out to “the rank
and file”, under the Arbitration Act a
registered union must keep a proper
account of its receipts, payments, funds,
etc. and to file these accounts w'ith the
Registrar.
Rule 15 of the union says that the
Fighting Account “shall be used only for
the purpose of advancing the Industrial
interests of the members . . .” And that
a report of its receipts and expenditure
shall be made to each Convention. “The
Voice” further alleges that “inquiries
reveal that no such report was made to
the last Convention. The 1961 Conven-
tion Report confirms this.” “The Voice”
alleges “that the account w ; as established
for the purpose of making strike pay
to A.W.U. members involved in indus-
trial disputes, and for this purpose only,
there is clear evidence that money is
being taken from the fund for other
purposes. In fact, there is a strong
suspicion that the account has been used
to pay the legal costs which Dougherty
and Co. were ordered to pay in the cases
which followed their unsuccessful
attempt to expel Mr Clyde Cameron,
M.H.R.” This case went as far as the
Privy Council and the costs to the union
must have been substantial. “The Voice”
states that up to December last year it
wasn’t paid from general funds as legal
expenses only amounted to £7 7s.
STRIKES
Mt Isa Stalemate
FROM JOHN HIGGINS IN BRISBANE
TVTOW in its seventh week, the Mount
Isa mines deadlock-dispute last
weekend was still bogged down in the
latest of a series of abortive compulsory
conferences. At that date, mine workers
had lost £550,000 in wages, while its
general impact on the economy of the
State and even national export figures
(£l9 million a year) was equally serious.
The position approximately is that the
Mount Isa management has flatly refused
to agree to union requests for an increase
in the £8 a week bonus paid to all of
Mount Isa's 3500 employees. The unions
requested bonus rates ranging from £25
to £26 14s. 4d. a week —a fantasy claim
apparently inspired by the company’s
record near-£6 million profit last week.
The chairman of directors of Mount Isa,
Mr G. A. Fisher, has advised share-
holders that agreement would have cost
the company an additional £34 million
a year—which would not leave much in
the way of profits. Mr Fisher also made
the point that from 1924 to 1947, no
dividend was ever paid by the company,
that it had spent £264 million in the last
five years out of profits, and intended
to spend a further £214 million over the
next four years. The official company
attitude on the bonus issue is that it
reserves the right to decide the amount
of the bonus, it undertakes not to apply
to the court for a reduction of the
present bonus figure, and says that be-
cause it is not prepared to increase the
bonus rate at the present time, this does
not necessarily mean that the rate will
never be increased.
Communist influence in the minority
craft unions and discontent at provisions
in the recently amended State Arbitra-
tion and Conciliation Acts which
favor the employers appear to pro-
vide the main reasons behind the dispute.
The Communists, of course, are shooting
at the Right wing, normally conserva-
tive A.W.U., which was manoeuvred into
a position where it had to press for fan-
tastic bonus increases to maintain its
prestige on the field. A settlement that
could save face for the company and
the A.W,U. would probably be grabbed
by both these parties—but the company,
understandably enough, appears quite
definite on the matter of its right to run
its own affairs.
It is probably Australia's outstanding
employer-company, and there are few
people in Queensland with any real
sympathy for the strikers. It has been
an expensive business for the unions in
more ways than one —weekly cost of
provisions for unemployed mine workers
being estimated at £2OOO for the A.W.U.
alone. Throughout the State Government
has shown its usual capacity for indeci-
sion on the matter.


RENTS
Shelving the
Royal Commission ?
FROM EUGENE BAJKOWSKI IN SYDNEY
R. HEFFRON
“No panic ”
Since the end of the war the New South
Wales Labor Government has been
under strong pressure to abolish rent
control, which was introduced as a war-
time measure and kept on after 1945 as
a “temporary” expedient. It has pegged
down many rentals at utterly unrealistic
levels, with rates and maintenance
expenses increasing every year but rents
remaining fixed. The landlords often
lost money on their properties.
As so many other regulations initially
intended to relieve genuine hardship and
ensure a minimum of fair play, the rent
control provisions of the N.S.W. Land-
lord and Tenant Act resulted in con-
siderable difficulties for poorer property
owners, who are in effect compelled
by law to support their tenants,
whom they can neither evict nor force
to pay a realistic rent. And the law has
had little effect on the real rent sharks,
who get around it by various easy tricks
such as offering “fully furnished
quarters” (often with a broken old chair
and a wobbly bed) or “bed and break-
fast.” On the other hand, many property
owners have little inducement to spend
on maintenance ; in fact, often their only
hope to get rid of an unwanted tenant is
to let their property run down to such
an extent that it must be vacated as
uninhabitable. This has led to lengthy,
expensive, acrimonious and fruitless
litigation, council fines for failure to
maintain minimum standards of upkeep
and a fear of reletting, after a tenant
finally leaves. Not infrequently a land-
lord is worse off than his tenant, who
sub-lets part of his rented premises at
a higher price than he himself pays under
the fair rent provisions of the Act.
Although half-hearted attempts were
made to find a compromise, with new
buildings being exempted from rent con-
trol in order to stimulate home-building
and some old buildings being reclassi-
fied, the rising property valuations and
council and water rates led to ever
stronger pressure on the State Govern-
ment, which finally appointed a Royal
Commission (D. L. Mahoney, R. A.
Hardwicke, W. J. Hargreaves) to inquire
into the matter.
Last week Mr Heffron, the State
Premier, gingerly tabled the Commis-
sion's report in the Legislative Assembly.
The report suggested that rents for all
homes and flats now fixed at below £5
a week be raised by 60 per cent., that
rent control for premises being let at
over £5 a week be abolished, and that
rent control over commercial, non-
residential premises be lifted. The Com-
mission also recommended that restric-
tions on evictions from residential
premises be continued but evictions from
commercial premises be allowed to take
their normal course. The report showed
that 99 per cent, of controlled houses and
95 per cent, of controlled flats will be
subject to rent increases, and that some
500,000 people will be affected.
Almost immediately the report became
political dynamite. Neither the Govern-
ment nor the Opposition cared to com-
mit themselves on the issue, and
everybody seemed to be “‘studying the
full implications of the report.” Pen-
sioners complained that they will suffer
undue hardship (which they may), and
the vast majority of those affected and
who can afford the realistic higher rents,
promptly jumped on this bandwagon and
began denouncing the report. Land-
lords and real-estate interests, on the
other hand, were generally pleased, and
economists felt that higher rents would
not cause any great general price
increases, that a normal interplay of de-
mand and supply should prevent any
steep rises.
Mr Heffron was quick to issue a “no
panic” appeal and to assure everybody
that the report “is not the law of the
land.” He hinted at passing the buck to
Mr Maloney, the Minister for Labor, to
whom he said he intended to “refer” a
request for yet another inquiry into the
ability of lower income groups to pay
higher rents. Such a move could effec-
tively shelve the report.
ALBERT PARK
Indestructible Pat
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
r T'HE wily Senator Pat Kennedy has
come quite creditably out of the
report to the Victorian Government by
Mr O. J. Giliard, Q.C., on ‘.he Albert
Park bowling alley. It is true that the
learned counsel has some strictures on
the leasing of a site for a bowling alley
in Albert Park whose management com-
mittee is chaired by the Senator, but he
also gets many pats on the back.
Undoubtedly this is partly due to the
able defence of Mr Jack Cullity, the Mel-
bourne barrister, who represented (at
£BO a day) the Committee of Manage-
ment. At least one member of the com-
mittee felt that Mr Cullity was represent-
ing the Senator in particular. “It
seemed to me.” he remarked to The
Bulletin after his evidence, “that I was
cross-examined, not examined, by Mr
Cullity.”
Still, the Senator cannot grumble.
Generally, Mr Giliard reported, the regu-
lations had been preserved adequately to
the interests of the public in the park,
although the prime purpose of creating
an open recreation space in the city
should be expressly stated and ade-
quately safeguarded against encroach-
ment. The committee had not exceeded
the powers conferred on it.
The amount of time and effort put into
the park's conduct and control by com-
mittee members, particularly Senator
Ken nelly, was surprising, and the work
of maintenance and general administra-
tion was done efficiently, conscientiously
and in the best interests of the public.
Mr Giliard was not even very critical
of the probationary appointment of the
Senator's son-in-law, Richard Burke, as
secretary without applications being
called. He found the salary (£22 a week)
not excessive for the time, work and
responsibilities, and if Mr Burke satis-
fied the committee during his probation,
the appointment was not against the
interests of the park.
The main purpose of Mr Giffard’s
inquiry was to investigate the agree-
ment by the Committee of Management
to the erection of a £200.000 indoor
bowling alley in the park, and on this
he reported that the committee shoal.i
not have agreed. There is no stricture
by Mr Giliard on the Lands Department
for having agreed to the committee's
decision to lease the site. Possibly he
feels it is questionable taste to criticise
your Government employer.
Demands now are being made that the
Government should rescind its agree-
ment to the building of the bowling
alley and order the company out of the
park. In fact, Melbourne tree-lovers,
who are ferocious, vigilant and intelli-
gent, and whose attention to the bowling
alley was first directed by the destruction
of trees on the site, insist that new trees
should be planted there at once.
The bowiing alley company's building
was stopped when the Board of Works,
as the town planning authority, refused
permission for it during the inquiry. The
State Government wants to honor its
agreement to allow the building to go
up, and it may, but no doubt that will
be the last one in the park. ) .


"I WONDER WHERE THEY’LL PUT MOLOTOV?"


THE PEPALL CASE
The Price of a Camera
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
FRANK GALBALLY
Civil Liberty
One of the most enlightening cases for
years on the waywardness of officials
will come before the Victorian courts
unless the Victorian Government makes
handsome compensation to William
Pepall, the 64-years-old war pensioner
who was wrongfully jailed for the
unlawful possession of a camera and
light meter.
Arthur Rylah, the Attorney-General,
has recommended that Mr Pepall’s peti-
tion for a free pardon should be granted,
but has characteristically leaped to the
defence of his officials. He claims the
Police Department took the initiative in
instituting inquiries into this miscarriage
of justice, though Mr Pepall himself says
he got nowhere until he engaged Frank
Galbally, the noted Melbourne barrister,
w’hose relentless cross-examinations of
erring officials is a joy in court to those
who retain a sense of civil liberty.
He was convicted on December 30,
1960, and sentenced to a month's im-
prisonment, but it was not until July
that the petition for a pardon was pre-
sented and the action for the restoration
of the camera and light meter begun.
At this hearing there was no mention
of any Police Department initiative. The
action was brought by Mr Pepall repre-
sented by Mr Galbally.
He said his mother had died leaving
him £2OOO, and in Adelaide he paid £lBO
for an air passage to Hongkong. He
got a passport photo from Kodak Sup-
pliers, North Terrace, Adelaide, and
bought the camera with a cheque for
£5l. He flew to Melbourne, gave the
camera to a taxi-driver as security when
he could not cash a cheque, missed the
aircraft to Hongkong, got back his £lBO
passage money but could not find the
taxi-driver and reported the matter to
the police.
The police found the driver, Mr Pepall
told the court, and he paid his fare and
took back the camera. The police then
telephoned the Adelaide Kodak Sup-
pliers and also the trustees of his mother’s
estate —expense is no object to the depart-
ment apparently—and a tape recording
made of the conversations. He asked
the police to hold the camera while he
went to the races, but they said they
could get it back if he lost it.
He said he was walking down Collins
Street at 2.30 a.m. when a policeman
asked him where he got the camera and
he said, “I think Father Christmas gave
it to me.” He showed the policeman his
cheque-book, showed the book to the
court and said he wanted Mr Galbally.
He served a month’s jail and had been
fighting ever since to get back his camera.
He had written to the Commissioner of
Police and thought Kodak also had
written. The light meter was apparently
a surprise to Mr Pepall. He said he did
not know it was attached to the camera
until he was sentenced.
Nearly all Mr Pepall's inheritance has
gone in the trouble over the camera. It
would be interesting to see what a Mel-
bourne jury’s view of it all adds up to,
and, incidentally, Mr Galbally’s cross-
examination of Mr Rylah on the Police
Department’s “initiative in the case.”
Sir Harry Winneke, Q.C., the Solicitor-
General, has issued a statement through
Mr Rylah that it must be taken to be
established the camera was Mr Pepall’s
property and that the light meter was
Kodak’s, but there was no reasonable
basis or justification for a positive finding
that Mr Pepall’s possession of it was
unlawful.
This did not mean the conviction was
improper or unjustified, taking into
account the time and circumstances in
which he was found in possession of
the articles, his initial refusal (Sir
Harry’s description) to explain his pos-
session when requested and his later two
conflicting accounts (Sir Harry accepts
here the police evidence as fact) of where
he bought them.
Therefore, Sir Harry concludes, it was
impossible to say that the magistrate was
not justified in forming the opinion that
Mr Pepall had not given a satisfactory
account of how he came by the articles.
Sir Harry’s statement itself is not very
satisfactory. The satisfactory, or, rather,
reasonable explanation of possession
required by the law relates to what a
defendant tells a court, not to what some
policeman says he said.
BILL HARNEY
The Next Book
FROM A DARWIN CORRESPONDENT
BILL HARNEY
“Too civilised”
HThe talk in the Hotel Darwin’s air-
conditioned bar was of Goanna
Mornay, Emu Pie and Turtle Egg
Omelette ... So the speaker could hardly
have been anyone else but Bill Harney.
The bushman-poet-author has returned
from Central Australia and is “sitting
down” for a few weeks at his old camp
on Two Feller Creek, a few miles around
the coast from Darwin.
Bill is no chicken now, with 66 rugged
years behind him, most of them spent in
the toughest, most isolated parts of the
north. When he left here five years back
he reckoned Darwin was “too civilised.”
Now he has the same complaint about
Central Australia. He spent those five
years as keeper of Ayers Rock, the
world’s biggest gibber. This huge (1100 ft
high, five miles round, covers 1200 acres)
stone, set in the desert 300 miles from
Alice Springs, attracted 17,000 tourists
during Bill’s time there. And he reckons
he is the most photographed man in
Australia.
For all his fame as writer and raconteur
(he is proud of his reputation as one of
Australia’s most formidable and
interesting—earbashers), Bill’s stature in
the north rests even more securely on his
genius as the greatest of bush cooks.
Some of the meals he has put before
dubious visitors at Two Feller Creek have
been masterpieces. His Goanna Mornay
is one of his favorites. This is a con-
coction of shredded goanna meat, onions
and breadcrumbs. Bill is partial also
to a bite of turtle meat or a nice turtle
egg omelette. Kangaroo (“a cross be-
tween pork and venison"), saltwater
cockles dipped in wild honeycomb, and
toasted witchetty grubs he regards as
delicacies.
Bill lived for many years among the
natives in various parts of the Territory.
He knows their minds and customs and
is one of their truest and most sympa-
thetic friends. He has just been awarded
a £5OO Commonwealth Literary Fund
Fellowship which he will use while writ-
ing a book on the life and hunting habits


“ Listen, honey, if you're serious about this stockpiling fourteen days' supplementary food supply — I'll nip
over the road and order a case of O.P. rum."
of desert aborigines. After a holiday at
Two Feller Creek and then in Queens-
land he will go on a camel “walkabout”
to gather background material. With
him will be a friend with the remarkable
name of Minyinderri the Windralga. They
will travel with a band of Loritjas to the
mountains of Kikingarra hundreds of
miles west of Ayers Rock. There Bill
will write his book.
The Loritjas are a strange, half-
civilised people. They ride camels, wear
the white man's discarded clothing and
spend much of their time in Government
settlements. But every now and then
they gather up their spears, their little
swags and their throwing sticks, climb
on their camels and head for the desert,
sometimes staying out for six months at
a time. “Til just get on a camel and drift
with them,” Bill said. “I’ll camp just as
they do, go out with hunting parties and
eat the same food.” Goanna Mornay?
No, Bill reflected sadly. Luxuries like
that would have to wait till he got back
to the comparative civilisation of Two
Feller Creek. The Loritjas live mainly
on desert rats, mice and lizards, with only
the occasional (usually half-starved)
wallaby to pep up the menu.
F.I.D.O.
The Beef Road
FROM WARWICK CHAMBERS IN CANBERRA
CHARLES RUSSELL
“ Dog-fights ”
Tt was question time at the National
* Rally of the Federal Inland Develop-
ment Organisation at Canberra, October
26. A hush came over the ultra-modem
amphitheatre in the Academy of Science
building. One of the audience whispered
to his neighbor in the padded seats built
for two. Only a soft whisper, but the
sound in the acoustically perfect room
carried to its furthest sides. A man stood
up at the back of the arena. He was
nervous but indignant. “This is my first
trip to Canberra,” he said, “and I’ll be
glad to get home. I don't grudge anyone
a nice home, mind you, though I started
in a bark humpy myself. But the amount
of money poured into this place sickens
me.” He went on about politicians and
the proposed lake. What he said about
both of them was unprintable. Not that
it was blasphemous, but it was true. The
visitor concluded, “If they can throw
all this money around here, we should go
for all we can get.” A woman in a lamb
coat loudly hear-heared.
This disillusioned visitor to the Federal
capital echoed the angry sentiments of
thousands of people engaged in the de-


velopment of this continent. Why don’t
they do something about the develop-
ment of the north? Can’t they see
further than Canberra? And the “they”,
the people were talking about were not
only our elected politicians but us, the
people.
That was why F.1.D.0. was officially
formed at Bourke, N.S.W., on April 29,
1960. An organisation that would bring
pressure to bear nationally to develop
nationally and to spend money elsewhere
than in the south.
It is paradoxical that the pressure
should come from the south to develop
the north. Queenslanders and representa-
tives from other States have only joined
the organisation recently. This in itself
is a major breakthrough of the barriers
of parochialism and envy that have
separated the States in the Common-
wealth for so long. As one speaker,
Mr Charles Russell, ex-M.H.R., himself
a Queenslander, said, “Grants have been
made before for developmental roads
but had been withdrawn owing to inde-
cision on the part of the States.” (He
was discussing Queensland’s attitude
here). A member of the F.1.D.0. com-
mittee, Mr Russell chose this point to
explain why development of these roads
had to be on a national scale. Handouts
to the individual States just led to a
series of political dog-fights, indecision
and squabbling.
Why the need for this nation 1 highway
which is the first of the development
plans on F.1.D.0.’s agenda? This beef
artery, the Pioneer Highway would take
the route from Camooweal (west of Mt
Isa) through to Bourke, via Diamintina
Lakes, Windorah and then by the most
direct route which would pass near
Eromanga and Thargomindah. The esti-
mated cost of the road (full width) is
between £l3| million and £l5 million.
Mileage approximately 100 miles. This
highway would join the Barkley Highway
linking up with Tennant Creek and
making a continuous all-weather road out
“We are conducting a consumer research survey—what brand of
soap were you using ?”
of the Territory, an outlet which doesn’t
exist at present.
The benefits of the proposed highway
were covered by Mr B. G. L. Killen,
Vice President of F.1.D.0., who has
pastoral interests at Nyngan, N.S.W. and
Katherine, N.T. A practical cattleman
and businessman, Mr Killen pointed out
how badly the cost of transport of any
article compared with the U.S.A. In
Australia it is 39 per cent, of the cost
of producing the article, in the States,
17 per cent. Good highways and fast
road transport would help considerably
to lower his percentage. Of course in the
address he was dealing specifically' with
cattle costs. He gave the example of
sending a load of cattle from Katherine
to a point in N.S.W., a distance of 1950
miles. The cost per head was £l9. With
good roads, he stated, this cost would be
nearly halved. At present transport costs
subtracted so much from the producer's
profit margin that he was unable to spend
the money he needed on herd manage-
ment and improvements, e.g., fencing,
water, etc.
Also drought, where road transport
was not available, kept cattle on the
properties for years longer than they
should be. The younger cattle are
turned over, the better the return to
the grower and the better the type of
meat available to the consumer. This is,
of course, accepted in southern areas. In
the north many bullocks were five years
old before they could be sold. Even if
the grass was available on the stock
routes, cattle walked off an average of
301 b. in weight per 100 miles. Deaths
had also to be taken into account. Bring-
ing in stores from Camooweal to Win-
dorah, for example, took 13 weeks, at the
end of which time cattle took three
months to recover before they began to
fatten. This trip could be done in one
day by road train on a sealed highway.
Mr Killen also showed the revolution
that has taken place in the last five years
with road trains: In 1956-57 3.3 per cent,
of cattle were moved by road transport;
in 1960, 50 per cent. In 1947 costs were
10s. a mile by semi-trailer. Today, owing
to improved vehicles and outfits, the cost
is between 4s. and ss. a mile for a 36ft x
Bft transport, which is twice the size of
the average railway truck.
Another of the advantages of quick
transport is to tap feed when it is avail-
able and when it is at its peak nutri-
tionally. One speaker estimated that 95
per cent, of the feed available in the
Channel Country after flooding was lost
owing to not being able to get the live-
stock on to it fast enough. It has been
estimated by J. W. Fletcher, who carried
out a survey of the beef cattle require-
ments of Queensland as long ago as 1946.
that the Channel Country, depending on
the degree of flooding, could carry a
cattle fattening population of between
400,000 and 800,000 head. Nothing, of
course, has been done about this report,
but it clearly demonstrates the big
potential to finish off cattle for the market
if the means of quick transport were
available.


PLAIN ENGLISH
PEACE?
THE Australian Communist front
“peace” movement is considering
holding another Peace Congress
next year, even though Mr
Khrushchev has blown the feathers off
the peace dove by exploding his 50-
megaton bomb. If the Congress is to
be held it will again bear the title of
the Australia and New Zealand Con-
gress for International Co-operation
and Disarmament, as the abortive Mel-
bourne Congress of 1959 did; and like
that Congress it will be rigged up to
look like a “mass organisation.”
If this comes off it will represent
another attempt by the ageing, de-
moralised and faction-ridden Aus-
tralian Communist Party to build
itself a respectable front of crypto-
Communists. fellow-travellers and con-
fused liberals that gives it a link with
the Australian community in addition
to the life infusion it already gets from
its infiltration of the union movement
and the Labor party.
Since this attempt may be made, it is
worth while looking at this “peace”
movement. As an effective force it is
at present in ruins. Its finances have
fallen to such a level that its permanent
employees cannot always draw their
salaries. But its six main “peace”
activists still seem to be able to trip
around the world whenever they want
to, as the following analysis of their
recent travels show:
© The Rev. Mr Victor James, secre-
tary of the Victorian Peace Council
and vice-chairman of the Peace
Liaison Committee of the Asian and
Pacific Regions attended a World
Conference Against A and H
Bombs (of all things) in Japan in
August and was then feted in Peking
(where he expressed support for the
Soviet resumption of nuclear testing).
© Mr Samuel Goldbloom, secretary
of the Australia and New Zealand
Congress Committee left Australia in
June for Moscow to attend a Soviet
Peace Committee meeting, dropping in
on Poland and East Berlin on the way
home. When he arrived back in Aus-
tralia in August he began attempting
to organise a Congress for next year.
• The Rev. Mr Norman St. Clair
Anderson, another Congress commit-
tee man, spent July in Japan attending
the World Religionists’ Conference for
Peace and then the World Conference
Against A and H Bombs in August.
© The Rev. Mr Francis Hartley,
treasurer of the Congress committee,
secretary of the Victorian Peace Coun-
cil and a member of the World Peace
Council, attended a World Peace
Council meeting in Bucharest and
visited other Iron Curtain countries.
© The Rev. Mr Alfred Dickie, chair-
man of the Victorian Peace Council,
made a rush trip to Warsaw and the
United Kingdom for peace meetings in
September.
© Mr William Morrow, executive
member of the Peace Council, secre-
tary of the N.S.W. Peace Committee,
ex-A.L.P. Senator and Lenin Peace
Prize winner went to New Delhi in
February to a World Peace Council
conference and attended a meeting of
the Afro-Asian Council in Indonesia
on his way home.
A NYONE contemplating putting his
name on the letterhead of next
year’s suggested conference should
examine this globe-trotting itinerary
carefully and also examine the con-
ferences that these men attended. They
are all “front” conferences and all play
their part in the Soviet technique of
using peace as a propaganda device in
the Cold War. Put exactly by the
Communists themselves, this technique
is that “the peace policy of the prole-
tariat State certainly does not imply
that the Soviet State has become recon-
ciled with capitalism: it is merely
another —and under present conditions
—a more advantageous form of fight-
ing.”
The exact nature of the “peace” line
from now on may prove to be one of
simple intimidation—“better Red than
dead”—dressed up with a few pious
wishes and appeals to pacifism. The
world is probably in for a long terror
campaign from Mr Khrushchev which
is designed to paralyse the will of the
peoples of the Western democracies
and the neutralist countries. The open
display of cynicism involved in resum-
ing tests and exploding a 50-megaton
bomb must inevitably cut out some of
the more wordy humbug from the peace
movement and leave it as a simple cam-
paign of gangster intimidation.
There is no strategic reason why this
campaign should unnerve anybody. For
the moment the West is simply trying
to maintain the status quo, and the
Russians are not going to launch a
nuclear war to upset it. They are
engaged in a huge and multiple propa-
ganda war in which—if we keep our
heads—we need lose nothing. We can
remain un-Red and alive. And the
Russians can remain discredited
bullies.
A Special
Prejudice?
TN his letter on page 23 Dr Fred
A Emery raises questions about the
employment of Communists in univer-
sity teaching staffs that represent a
position different from “The Bulletin’s”
but one that we nevertheless recom-
mend to the consideration of those who
are interested in this problem: it is
that if the academic community is
being asked to expose itself to the
danger of employing someone who has
a strong personal commitment to an
outside group it must have the right
to satisfy itself about the degree of
threat and demand a particularly high
standard of academic performance. In
other words a selection committee must
assume a special prejudice against such
a candidate. In one respect Dr Emery
goes further than “The Bulletin” has
so far gone and adds that society
generally also has a right for assurance
on this point.
Dr Emery also applies this standard
to candidates who suffer from strong
personality disabilities. With this latter
point at least one would expect to find
no quarrel at all were it not for the
fact that selection of staff in some Aus-
tralian universities appears to be under-
taken in such a haphazard way and
Staff Associations seem so concerned
merely with creating hysteria on the
question of staff appointments that
any discussion about methods of selec-
tion is likely to be ignored or attacked.


MIGRANT CAMP BLUES
BONEGILLA:
Hofei Splendide or Heartbreak House?
By DESMOND O'GRADY
AS I approached Bonegilla migrant camp by car 1 saw
the familiar sight of men walking along the roadside
away from camp looking as if they had somewhere
to go. I had seen the same wanderers on the out-
skirts of similar camps in Italy, men in worn boots, odd
clothes who would certainly return to the camp because
the yhad no other home. But this surely was different: the
land of opportunity they had pinned their hopes on when
in Europe. As we drove past them officials said the camp
motto was “We Have Nothing to Hide,” and assured me
that “there are a lot worse places than Bonegilla.”
At least it is set in beautiful country. It borders the
hill-enfolded Hume Weir which, three times the size of
Sydney Harbor, provides opportunities for fishing, swim-
ming and sailing. The snow-topped Victorian Alps are
visible from the banks of the weir.
An army camp during the war, Bonegilla still has an
uninviting, functional air, but in the last seven years the
Director. Colonel Guinn, has planted sufficient trees to make
it less bare and windswept. It has been considerably
improved, and although nobody would choose an ex-army
hut as their home, it is good as far as such camps go. Of
course they are not intended to go far: if everything runs
according to plan migrants stay in the camp only two or
three weeks.
The camp’s administration prides itself on the speed
with which it deals with new arrivals. The main groups
of 600 arrive from Melbourne by special train. In the
Assembly Hall they are given an identity card and then go
to their allocated blocks. They find their beds made and,
irrespective of the hour, are served with a hot meal within
45 minutes of their train’s arrival at the Centre Siding.
Bonegilla is best regarded as a country town with a
constantly shifting population and an unusual concentra-
tion of Government services. The migrants are welcomed
in national groups by the Director, the officers in charge of
the Commonwealth Employment Service and Adult Educa-
tion, and ministers of religion. There are English lessons
two hours daily for each adult migrant and a State school
available for children who stay in the camp over three
weeks. The Commonwealth Employment Service inter-
views migrants in order to find suitable jobs for them, while
after seven days the migrants are granted unemployment
relief; they are eligible for the same social services benefits
as Australians. In addition, free medical treatment is
available.
The services and amenities include branches of the
Commonwealth Bank and the Bank of New South Wales,
a pre-school kindergarten, a children’s creche, a post office.
Catholic, Lutheran, Presbyterian and Greek Orthodox
churches, ladies’ and gents’ hairdressing salons, a boot-
maker's shop, a canteen, a cinema which shows films four
nights weekly as well as Saturday afternoon, a Y.W.C.A.
hut. recreation huts and a library.
It is not surprising that the camp is well organised as
it has handled just on 250.000 migrants since it was opened
at the end of 1947. Some future social historian may look
back on the first transports which brought D.P’s to Aus-
tralia as latter-day equivalents of the First Fleet. The
Liberty ships General Heinzemann and General Black were
the Sirius and Supply of our day. and the first settlers did
not find much less than did those D.P’s at Bonegilla. The
army had abandoned the camp some time before, so the
Immigration Department had to hastily reopen two blocks,
19 and 17. to accommodate the firstcomers. But in a short
time, by 1950. transports were arriving like suburban trains
and the camp population reached its peak of 11.000.
TNHE character of the camp population has changed radi-
cally many times since the first transports. The first-
comers thought they would wait in Australia until the end
of the expected war with Russia, when they would return
home. There was a high percentage of intellectuals and
professional people among these Balts, for they had been
the first to escape from Lithuania. Latvia and Estonia, and
later had obtained positions with the armies of occupation
and with U.N.R.R.A. German was their lingua franca.
The next wave, in 1949. was different. Again they were
D.P’s, and again German was their lingua franca, learnt
mainly in German labor camps and factories. But they
were a more mixed company both as regards skills and
nationalities. There were High Court judges, but also
peasants, for already competition for qualified refugees was
becoming more intense. They came from every country in
Eastern Europe: there were Czechs, Ukrainians, Poles,
Hungarians, Slovaks, Rumanians . . .
In 1949-50 the debate over German migration raged,
in which the most memorable contribution may have been
that of an R.S.L. member who approved German immigra-
tion because “at least they can shoot straight.” German
migration began, the intention being that among migrants
there be no S.S. men, no Nazis, only democrats.
The big movement of Italian migrants was also in
the early ’fifties. The first groups from the south and
Sicily were handicapped in their attempts to learn English
because they did not know Italian, but then came a higher
percentage of Northern Italians with more schooling and
greater possibilities of integration.
The next wave, of Greeks, was given added thrust by
the earthquakes which wrecked a number of Aegean islands.
The first shipload presented new problems for the camp
authorities. Many of them had never seen a lavatory, most
were completely at sea with English. Later groups from


Thessalonica and Salonica were likewise poorly prepared,
but this problem was partly resolved when I.C.E.M. (Inter-
governmental Committee for European Migration) began
pre-embarkation lessons in English.
Dutch migration was a steady inflow, and they had.
perhaps, even less difficulty than the Germans in assimila-
tion, but the sudden spurt because of Indonesian pressure
diversified the Dutch group: many of the former overlords
of the Netherlands East Indies brought a sahib mentality
into the camp.
The Hungarian freedom fighters reached the camp in
1957, possibly the most mixed group of all. Criminals as
well as political prisoners were released when the prisons
were opened, and both Communists and freedom fighters
crossed the border as the fortunes of the revolution varied.
Moreover, the Hungarians were from all social strata, from
the peasantry to aristocracy.
Already the camp was a United Nations, but in 1958-59
the Finns began arriving in considerable numbers, and
again this migration reflected pressures in the country of
origin. The threat of Russian domination was acute in those
years, and most of the arrivals were fleeing it. There was
an unusually high percentage of small businessmen among
the Finns.
Nineteen sixty was the Spaniards' year. The first trans-
port included many Basques and created a fine impression
in the camp. Like the Finns, they were excellent students
of English, but they were as exuberant as the Finns were
reticent.
The camp population is about 1800 at the moment,
and the national groups, on one particular day. were as
follows:
Workers. Dependants. Workers. Dependants.
Austrians ..21 Swedes ..1
Dutch ..11 33 Norwegians 4 3
Germans .. 117 106 Finns .. 16 11
Italians 14 22 Swiss 4 1
Yugoslavs .. 237 307 Belgians ..7 17
Hungarians 10 6 Rumanians 4 8
Polish 10 11 Russians 1 4
Spanish 13 35 Maltese 4
South Greek 1
Africans* 9 27 French 1 2
* The classification includes Kenyans and Southern Rhodesians.
The total of transients in the camp was 931, while
another 99 migrants worked in the district and lived in,
and the total of staff and dependants was 753.
The most noticeable thing about this list, apart from
the variety of nationalities, is the high proportion of
Yugoslavs. Many of the Germans and Italians, who took a
prominent part in the riots in July, when the camp popula-
tion was over 3400. have been moved to hostels in Adelaide.
Sydney, Melbourne. Woolongong and Brisbane. Camp
officials say they were not dispersed to avoid further trouble,
but because work has been found for them.
Yugoslavs are still there in strength, and it is rare to
hear a good work spoken of them. They are accused of
being lazy, lacking in initiative, irresponsible, vandalistic.
Many of them are young men, and their background
explains some of their attitudes. Their motive for escaping
from Yugoslavia may have been religious or political perse-
cution, economic hardship, desire for adventure, dislike of
military service or avoidance of some responsibility. Usually
they have spent many months, perhaps years, in Austrian
or, particularly, Italian camps before emigrating. They
learnt no skill in Yugoslavia and there was little opportunity
for them to work while in camp. They have grown accus-
tomed to camp life, which has become a crutch, so they
fear venturing out into the workaday world with its chal-
lenges and demands. At the same time they are uncon-
sciously dissatisfied with their aimless existence, they want
the affection, attention and discipline which a more normal
life would provide. They express their restlessness
in dozens of petty ways: such as uprooting young trees at
night, or by lying across one of the two table tennis tables
in the Y.W.C.A. hut and refusing to hand the table tennis
bat back to the woman in charge.
'T'HE camp has gone a long way since migrants had to
be accommodated in canvas tents, but despite the
improvements, it must pall after the first few weeks. There
are two persons to each 12ft x 9ft room, and most beds
have 9in. inner-spring mattresses. The huts are painted
and lined. There is a 28-day schedule of menus, but no one
could cater for the mixture of nationalities found in each
block: basically, it is a Northern European diet, with a
60-40 proportion of mutton and beef on the meat side.
Mutton and mutton-fat cooking make Southern European
stomachs turn over.
Apart from English lessons, migrants have no obliga-
tions in camp; they probably enjoy this freedom at first.
But bush walking quickly looses its fascination. Many
migrants, reading that Albury is the eleventh town in New
South Wales, rush there after their arrival but are startled
to see how small it is. The recreation huts and the library
hold the interest of some, while the cinema is the refuge
of others. At their rowdiest they shout and catcall through
the “Advance Australia Fair” which precedes the films and
also during “God Save the Queen” which concludes them.
Every attractive woman on the screen is saluted with whistles
and exclamations. Some of the films being shown were
“The Misfits,” “Strangers Meeting,” “Nowhere To Go” . . .
A high percentage of the camp staff are themselves
migrants: of the 200 connected with the Immigration Depart-
ment. not a dozen are Australians. There are even a few
who arrived before 1950. and you could take the migrant
staff as shining examples of integration. Not that there
is any shortage of satisfying stories about the migrants. One
of the recent ones concerns an Italian optician. Some
opticians came directly from Europe to the cities, so it is
not easy for an optician in Bonegilla to find a job. This
Italian came to Sydney after seeing a position advertised,
but another migrant optician just beat him to it. Other
dispiriting experiences made him more and more anxious.
The camp employment officer understood why when he
saw the Italian’s wife was in an advanced state of preg-
nancy. He found him a job maintaining grindery machinery,
but the Italian explained he was not qualified for that.
Finally a job was found for him in Melbourne, and he had
to report on the Friday morning. At 4 p.m. on the Thurs-
day his wife was rushed to hospital for the birth, so he
could not go to Melbourne. Fortunately the job was held
open to the following Tuesday, and the optician is doing
well at it.
Another success story is that of an 18-year-old German
migrant who found and lost one or two jobs, but at last
seems to be well-suited to a job he has taken in Western
Victoria. Here are extracts from a letter he wrote back to
the camp a few days ago: “As soon as I arrived I started to
talk and perspire in order to express myself in English.” He
was very excited about the country. “Look here this coun-
try. land, is so great, everything so fair and flat! That I was
only on the ocean! But I like it here. I like this solitude. My
job is child’s play, even an idiot could do it.” He is a hotel
bar hand and general help. He concluded. “Maybe some
time one of you will come to this end of the world here. It
wouldn’t be bad!”
npHE director of the camp, Colonel Henry Guinn, can be
proud of the job he has done there. Guinn, who moves
delicately although he is a rather heavy six-footer, came
into migrant camps after a distinguished career in the
Second World War. He enlisted in October, 1939. was
appointed as Commander of the 17th Australian Infantry


Training Brigade in Palestine in September, 1940, saw
service in the Western Desert, Greece, Syria, Palestince,
Ceylon and New Guinea, this last under General Savige. In
August, 1945, he organised and moved the relief forces to
the Australian division in Singapore. In January, 1947,
he was a member of the Senior War Crime Corps in New
Britain, and in July, 1948, was appointed president of the
War Crimes Court in Hongkong. Born in Carrum, Mel-
bourne in 1900. he was educated in a State school, then at
Melbourne Junior Technical College. He was in the army
for three months during 1918. and between the wars was
mainly in the soft-goods manufacturing trade. After dis-
charge from the army in March. 1949, he became Director of
the Bathurst migrant camp, moved on to Greta camp when
Bathurst closed in 1952 and came to Bonegilla in July, 1954.
He calls himself the camp’s chief urger as well as its
Director because he takes an interest in every detail of the
camp and is always stopping people to convince them to go
to functions such as Saturday night dances. He is a big
enough man to carry his authority easily and a strong enough
man to be gentle. His fair skin is an angry red at times, and
this, together with his steep eyebrows, gives him a quizzical
expression which is offset by a boyish smile.
Some of the other staff seem less tolerant. They talk
of how quickly they would put the migrants in order if
given a free hand, and complain that because of fear of
adverse publicity they have had to be too lenient since the
riots. They point out what an easy time the migrants have
and hark back to roughing it in the army on bully-beef.
Although Bonegilla is a good camp, it would mean
ignoring 90 per cent, of the real state of things to call the
inmates’ circumstances comfortable and to compare them
with the toughest spells of army duty. The camp is bear-
able if migrants stay there two or three weeks, as they
were led to believe they would while they were in Europe,
but it becomes extremely tedious once their stay is pro-
longed: some of those in camp have been there nine or
ten months already.
It is the distance from the main centres, the change
they have to undergo in climate, food and all other circum-
stances which have a demoralising effect when combined
with idleness. The camp must be desolate in winter, when
migrants have to turn to the Red Cross for extra clothing,
when there is no opportunity for swimming and life becomes
a dreary waste. Even in the best of weather it is no fun
getting up each morning with nothing to do. to be an able-
bodied man without work and see your wife sitting idly on
the step of your hut and your young child scrabbling in
the dust outside it. Even the makeshift clothing common
around camp, the patched trousers and jumpers, the gaudy
caps or straw hats, the beards the men grow because of the
life they are living outside normal society can give you
migrant camp blues.
The camp’s distance from the main cities seems a great
disadvantage to the migrants when the Commonwealth
Employment Services does not succeed in finding them a
post. They have to spend time and much of the little money
they have if they want to travel to Sydney or Melbourne
to find a job. One German who managed to do it went to
Melbourne when he was down to the last £9, sustained
himself on fish and chips, and claims to have found a job
as a weaver in the 413th factory at which he called.
TTIE camp becomes a heart-break house when the
A general economic position does not allow people to
move through it swiftly. Such cases, in a certain sense,
carry more weight than all the normal ones. There are the
Yugoslav youths whose only work has been a few weeks’
fruit-picking in eight months of the camp; there is the
Spaniard, whose wife awaits their third child, who has had
only a few weeks at Mildura in all his nine months here;
he said he would like to return to Spain, where he had
regular work even though he was poorly paid. Camp
officials say all those Spaniards remaining in the camp
refused jobs in “Australian Iron and Steel,” but these men
have never been anything other than rural workers.
There is an Italian enamel sprayer who has been in
the camp with his family for over six months because of
the depression in the motor-car industry. He says the first
he heard of Australia’s recession was from the
Italian Consul when his ship arrived in Fremantle. Even
then he was told that work would be found for him, even
if not in his own trade, within three or four weeks. It was
not found, and then he was told it might take a couple of
months, at the end of that time he was told that things
would pick up after the end of the financial year . . . He is
somewhat sceptical about the further promises which have
been made to him.
There is a young German miner who was interviewed
in September last year just before the credit squeeze and
sailed in February without being told that the economic
situation had changed since his interview. He has not had
a day’s work in his seven months in camp. Asked what it
was like living there, he levelled his hand at his lip to indi-
cate just how fed up he was. He said he felt excluded
from society, that it was as if he and his family were being
held as prisoners. This man had regular work in Ger-
many but came to Australia because he believed he could
make more money here. He felt, as did a number of others,
that he had been tricked, that he had been brought here
under false promises.
Reports of men stagnating in camps receive wide
publicity in Europe. The Finns probably would not
believe any such reports because their Government is
opposed to migration, and they may continue to come
(although a goodly number of the 6200 Finns here are at
Mt Isa, so the letters they write home won't encourage
anyone to come here). In the most of the other European
countries competition for migrants becomes ever more
intense; Australia is dealing with countries where full
employment already exists or is forseeable. The riots,
particularly, and the bottleneck of Bonegilla have received
notice in the German and Italian press as well as being
featured, with photos, on the front pages of Finnish
papers. In Hamburg dailies earlier of this year articles
appeared stating that there was unemployment in Aus-
tralia. A few days later Australia inserted an article
stating that Australia’s unemployment situation was not a
problem. When prospective migrants queried this. Aus-
tralian officials told them German industrialists had inserted
the story about Australian unemployment because they were
recruiting workers from as far away as Turkey and they
wanted to discourage emigration.
Even allowing for the fact that most people hear only
what they want to hear and that migrants are processed
well before they embark, many of them are sure they have
been tricked, and their stories cross-check too well for it
to be purely subjective impression.
Some of those who have had continuous dealing with
migrants for many years claim that before Australia's
1952 economic difficulties, migrants came from Europe with
very high expectations, but in the following years they
arrived with more sober ideas of the difficulties they might
face. By 1960 the run of good years has been so steady
that they were again expecting the promised land, and the
reality was an unpleasant shock. Whether migration
officials in Europe have followed such a pattern of promises
or not is difficult to ascertain, but there should be very
swift transmittal of information about Australia's economic
conditions, and prospective migrants should constantly be
told the truth about it. Otherwise both Australia and the
migrants will be losers. >


Tnner's Seven
Deadly Australians
, f T nn


THE NEW TOWNSVILLE
The Answer is "O.K."
By M. H. ELLIS
For a city so large —65,000 people —-
so suffering from growing pains, so
uneven in social structure and so
heterogeneous in its elements,
Townsville is a strangely non-political
and non - contentious place. It
has political elements in its council,
of course, but they are only the
fleas on the dog. The central pivot of
civic life is a young and active mayor,
Angus Smith, in whom everybody appears
to have implicit faith, probably because
he shows a selfless devotion to the job
of being mayor which has no material
temptations :n the small allowance the city
pays him. Everything in Townsville
seems to revolve round a developmental
group of industrialists and planners of
up-and-coming spirit, of whom the centre
is the mayor.
The old Townsville once differed from
other northern centres that dignified
themselves as cities only by the fact that
it was bigger and its fan-tan dens and
Chinatown were not so obtrusive. It
suffered the same jitters that other towns
like Bowen and Cairns felt, as it won-
dered where k could find a method of
standing on its own feet and growing.
Its daily prayer, as it is in all the sugar
regions today, was: “Find us an industry
that is not seasonal to support us.” Its
only industry, save for being a port for
sugar, gold and pastoral regions, and
later a little copper, was the meat indus-
try and some incidental repair work for
ships and railway rolling stock.
The meatworks industry certainly was
seasonal. Sugar was seasonal. The wool
trade was seasonal and became relatively
less important as the railway links
between the northern and central line
were developed. Copper seemed to be
a washout and gold dwindling and tin
production neither here nor there.
Then came the boom of Mt. Isa, the
birth of Mary Kathleen, the development
of road transport converging on Towns-
ville, the growth of population in the
continent as a whole with a consequent
increased demand for sugar and meat,
and the opening of trade with Japan.
The result has been the birth of a metro-
politan Townsville, the capital of a sort
of unofficial State, offering everything
that the big cities of the south can offer
and more accessible than before to its
great trading customers. All its pioneer-
ing features seem to have disappeared.
The old Queen’s Hotel is still there, of
course, with its huge rooms, but without
its famous cuisine and besashed Indian
waiters of the Mrs Maclurcan era when
it was universally proclaimed “the best
hotel in Australia.”
ft does its best today, but it is being
socially eclipsed—until such time as Mr
Reg Ansett capitalises its magnificent
position on the garden frontage of the
Strand, now adorned with an Olympic
Swimming Pool of world standard and
fame —by another hostelry which boasts
an “orchid room.”
The meat workers are still there, but
they have ceased to behave or even look
like meat workers. Magnetic Island still
decorates the seaward horizon, but it has
become a suburb rather than a resort.
And, of course, Castle Hill, so like a light-
brown Gibraltar from some angles, still
stands masking off the city from Garbutt
Airport and the western and south-
western suburbs, but with building, and
even flats, encroaching on its interior
slopes. The scenic road to the summit
which they have adorned with the tomb-
stone of Robert Towns, imported from
Sydney, leads to one of the finest
panoramic views in Australia. One of its
most craggy and inaccessible cliffs on the
seaward side, overlooking the city, is
decorated with a large white question
mark painted halfway down by some
university student who did not value his
life during the first commemoration fes-
tivities of the college. It is legend that
Professor Schonell, Vice-Chancellor of
Queensland University, of which the
Townsville College is a part, looking over
the circular sweep of city, harbor works,
industry and suburbs, remarked that next
year some other student might write
under the question mark a reassuring
answer to it: “0.K.”
'T'OWNSVILLE certainly looks O.K. from
Castle Hill. The view presents a lively
scene of spreading development all of
which is fully O.K. with Townsville.
Flinders Street, its main artery with
its briliant shops and its roaring
traffic (by Queensland provincial stan-
dards) is certainly 0.K., except at night
after the bars have closed and
riding down it in a taxi is like going into
orbit with Comrade Gagarin among the
hurtling satellites of space.
It is now impossible from any vantage
point on Castle Hill to see either a
munching goat or a basking alligator,
both at one time normal features of the
scene in the West End and along the Ross
River respectively. Their stamping-
grounds have now been taken everywhere
by imposing mountains of brick, glass
and cement, and by raw-looking open
spaces, some populated by bulldozers, on
which any citizen will sketch for you in
ghostly outline other erections which
promise to be even more imposing.
The spirit of competition in building
is like a fever, checked only by inevitable
bottlenecks. Almost everything looks
new —baths, hospitals, houses, factories,
college, orchid room, just as if Mr Aikens,
the vocal State member, had bought them
at Woolworths and brought them home
for Christmas. And if they do not happen
to be new, Townsville gives them a fresh
coat of paint and makes them look new.
Looking down from the nearly 1000-foot-
high summit of the Castle, this sense of
newness, so universal, is likely at first
to blur the attention and distract it from
the individual features of the new Towns-
ville which have created it. But pre-
sently, over the shoulder of Stanton Hill
(the Bellevue Hill or Toorak of Towns-
ville) these individual features emerge
more clearly. A Townsvillean cicerone
is careful, with surely pointed finger, to
see that they do. 4- «
The eye can sweep the whole compass-
round and find a novel development of
interest with every five.degrees of move-
ment : the landscaped Strand, such a
beach as few cities possess in their midst,
though with a large shark population that
has to be segregated .from bathers with
a strong mesh ; the multi-million pound
breakwater and harbor works which have
completely altered the whole appearance
of the frontage of Cleveland Bay and
keep on altering it with new programmes
to accommodate the more than 350 ships
that berth annually there. On the horizon
the timbered Magnetic Island, pearl of
tropic resorts, gives the impression that
it is unobtrusively swimming northward
keeping its head well above water. The
banks of the rivers have been tailored
into order. Land has been reclaimed to
fit in the 100,000-ton oil terminal.
Flagstaff Hill has been cut down like a
ringbarked tree to accommodate the sugar
terminal.
The Railway Workshops that service
the whole of the northern railway systems,
of which Townsville is the central knot,
appear to have grown out of recognition ;
ditto the meatworks which process
some milions’ worth, of meat a year. Out


“If he'd told us this in the beginning, I Would never have migrated."


on a point in the industrial area between
the meatworks and the city, rises the
powerhouse of Townsville Regional Elec-
tricity Board, at present eating up half
a million pounds’ worth of Collinsville
and Bowen coal a year and already
supplying about 30,000 consumers over
an area a quarter larger than Tasmania.
Its clientele and resources are both being
swollen by accessions of power from the
Kareeya Hydroelectric Station which
has wiped out the Tully Falls 180 miles
away amid the rain-forests and by the
extension of its franchise southwards
beyond the rich Burdekin Delta sugar-
mills which it already serves, to allow it
to feed current into Mackay and its
industries and Sarina and its powder-
alcohol factory.
Tt has become he very heart of
development in Townsville. Since its
completion in 1953 many of the new
industries, comparable in scale with the
great industries of Newcastle and Gee-
long, have sprung up on its flank and are
able to exist largely because of their
ability to take advantage of its great
blocks of available cheap power. Its
general-manager, a Queenslander and son
of Queensland University's first Professor
of Mathematics, and himself an ardent
founding father of Townsville’s College,
Mr H. T. Priestley, is a major figure in
the community life of the zone 200 miles
round Townsville. He and his associates
make the wheels go round at six great
sugar-mills that lie in the fat lands of
Ingham country and Lucinda point at the
foot of the Burdekin and up through the
rich Hinchinbrook Channel. The T.R.E.L.
is big business now that it is linked to the
£ls million Tully Falls Hydroelectric
Scheme, as a preliminary to a further
connection with the Barron River
schemes, and pushing its high-voltage
reticulation down to serve Mackay. It
ties in with the Townsville Harbor
Board as a main factor in economic
organisation and expansion and its annual
outlay on development is a mounting
£2 millions a year.
But one has to look much further
than one can see from Castle Hill to
appreciate what has made the new Towns-
ville what it is. The epitome of its pros-
perity is written on the horizons, and is
best pictured in an engaging map which
depicts the zonal regions from which it
draws its strength.
Townsville’s mainstay and future lies,
of course, remote from it on the 500-mile
arc away in the west: Mt Isa and Mary
Kathleen. These, more than anything,
particularly Mt Isa, have made the city’s
multi-million pound schemes of harbor
and industrial development begin to come
true.
It was only in 1931 that the mine
shipped the first products through
Townsville. The Harbor Board encour-
aged it by giving it a concession of 33|
per cent, off the freight of £2300 and it
continued to allow this form of conces-
sion until 1949 ; but now Mt Isa does the
encouraging.
Its export tonnages have increased in
breathless multiples. Tts production
moves so quickly that it is almost impos-
sible to write down a figure and find it
even approximately correct in a
few months’ time. It put a production
of perhaps £l5 millions behind Towns-
ville in 1955-56 ; last year the amount
was £23 millions. And with that and
the output of the fabulous Mary Kath-
leen goes a flood of oil which is trans-
ported from the great bulk terminal of
the port, the materials for the £27 million
railway reconstruction project to streng-
then Mt Isa's links with the coast; the
transit and/or sale of the consumer
goods, motor-cars, luxuries and beer of
some thousands of Mt Isa and Mary
Kathleen people bottlenecked to the port
as if they were tied to it on a leash.
Townsville, moreover, has the assurance
that the ore reserves of Mt Isa, and the
markets for its production, are a thing
of centuries, not of years. They have the
certainty that whatever growth there is
in the north-western mining fields it will
be part of Townsville's growth. There
are hostages to assure it. Apart from
the fact that the railway reconstruction
seals the permanent association between
Mt Isa and Townsville, Mt Isa has made
itself part of Townsville by the establish-
ment of its great copper smelting plant
there.
Down where Flagstaff Hill once stood
is now the sugar bulk-loading shed. It
is “some shed,” seen even from a distance
of miles. It is just short of 1000 feet
long, 150 feet wide, 87 feet high and has
a floorspace area of about 3| acres;
40,000 tons of sugar in it looks like a
child’s sandpile. It cost £1,600,000 to
build. It sucks in a maximum average
400 tons of sugar per hour out of the
s|-ton trucks that carry it up from Inker-
man, Pioneer, Kalamia and Invicta mills
down in the rich Burdekin Delta along
a 2000-foot long conveyor belt, and then
routes it along a 4450-foot conveyor belt
42 inches wide into ships at the rate of
750 tons an hour.
Sugar loading used to represent the
acme of slow motion, especially out at
Flat Top, off Mackay, where the wharfies
seemed to hold competitions in controlled
immobility.
What has happened at all the northern
ports under the £lO million bulk-loading
scheme, which has given the lumping
fraternity all the leisure it needs to attend
to its other affairs, is almost beyond
belief. It is also a warning to the rest
of the wharf crews throughout Australia
of what must come if they continue to
follow the go-slow and stop-work tactics
of Communist leaders.
In 1956, at Mackay, it took three weeks
to get a cargo of 10,000 tons of bagged
sugar into a ship ; today it takes two
days and scarcely a human being is in
sight during the operation. Electrical
shovels of the dragline type and under-
floor conveyors take the places of men
and never call a stop-work meeting —even
on Melbourne Cup Day.
All in all, Townsville seems to be set
for huge growth and established as the
centre of culture in the north now it has
its university college tied to industry and
its researches, and presided over by a
warden, Mr H. F. Olsen, with a proper
basic training for that kind of education
at Newcastle Technical College. The
college is proud that it is starting out
with more students than did Queensland
University half a century ago, and with
scientific laboratories and equipment that
were not even dreamt up when the parent
university opened its doors in old Gov-
ernment House beside the Brisbane
Botanical Gardens in 1911. With the
patronage of Townsville’s great industries
it will assuredly grow and push its way
to independent university status before
many years have gone by.
"God bless Mummy and Daddy—B.H.P., Colonial Sugar, A.C.I.- ”


WHAT ASIANS THINK OF US
Sometimes it was impossible to get a clear response
to the plain question ” How do you picture Australia ?"
By PETER HASTINGS
The second article by Peter
Hastings who recently toured
through New Guinea, Thailand,
Malaya, Singapore and Indonesia.
Parties in Kuala Lumpur are
pleasant, agreeable events. I
remember one which grew some-
what alcoholically out of a long
lunch, and another, with particular
warmth, held on the lawn of a large,
comfortable house under a night sky soft
with stars. It was given in my honor
by a very senior Government official of
whose eminence and influence I was left
in no doubt as he twice in my presence
rang the Prime Minister —Tungku Abdul
Rahman—who was away touring a
northern rural district. He was a charm-
ing man to whom I took an immediate
liking. Despite a Malay name he had a
chubby, slightly Mongolian face —for
which description he wouldn’t thank me
—and a quick, witty mind. He was
vivacious and disarmingly talkative, an
irresistible combination I found in many
Malays. He liked cigars and brandy and
frequently looked more like a successful
film director than a top Asian bureau-
crat.
After the racial exclusiveness of Singa-
pore it was not only a pleasant evening
but a revealing one. People moved
around freely or swam in the dim light
across the lawn to eat sale —delicious
pieces of meat dipped in hot sauce and
eaten off a skewer—or refill glasses with
drinks which were never cool enough.
The guests were Malay, Chinese, Hindu,
Sikh and European and determined to
show that the Federation had a genuine
multi-racial society which, up to a point,
it has, certainly more so than almost
anywhere else in Asia. They joked with
one another in a mild way about their
racial origins and assured me that they
were Malayans before anything else.
Pressed a little, they admitted that on
lower levels there was rather more com-
munal feeling than they cared to see, but
Malayan society on the whole was rather
tolerant. And. after all, they said, it
was a great deal better than anywhere
else in Asia, than in India, for example,
or Burma, or Ceylon, or Thailand, or
Indonesia. My God, yes, didn't I agree?
The women, in saris, in dresses, in
cheongsams or Malay skirt and blouse,
sat shyly under an awning, talking quietly
and unobtrusively as their menfolk
moved about the lawn, their voices get-
ting louder, their jokes less restrained.
Pointing at the awning I remarked that
it seemed strange that I had to come
all the way to Kuala Lumpur to see an
Australian institution. My host under-
stood immediately.
“Our women are shy,” he said, “they
still do not like to intrude on the men
at a party. But they are learning. And
how they are learning. They allow us
only a wife apiece now . . .” and his
voice trailed off into laughter. Others
picked up the theme and turned it back.
How strange it was that in so advanced
a country as Australia quite frequently
at parties the women all collected at one
end of the room and the men at the
other. Equality of votes, jobs and "all
that sort of thing” notwithstanding.
Some of the men there had been to Aus-
tralia and seen it with their own eyes.
It was strange, but then Australia was
strange but very nice. It was my first
introduction to the Australian image in
Asia and, all things considered, an odd
one.
Tt is an elusive, impossible image to
track down. It doesn't exist in any
single sense but is rather like a mirror
that has been shattered but not broken,
each constituent part reflecting more or
less the same image, diminished here,
lengthened there . . .
One of the guests was a journalist and
had worked on an Australian paper for
six months. It had clearly been a climac-
tic experience. He had loved Australia,
its beaches, its restaurants, its cars,
houses, wealth and freedom. He could
not understand the action of the Govern-
ment over the Malays in Darwin. He
knew about White Australia, its history
as a. “philosophy” and a policy, but
nothing about it gibed with the facts
of Australian living. He had been to
Australian homes, had Australian
“mates” (said with a too-knowing smile)
and had dated Australian girls. None
of the Australians he knew felt particu-
larly exercised about Asians in Australia.
And, in any case, the action of Darwin
residents proved that White Australia was
out of date and that the Australian people
no longer felt as they used to.
I asked him if he was quite sure. Was
he, for example, quite sure that the Aus-
tralian people didn’t, even if only vaguely,
distinguish between Asian visitors such
as he and permanent residents? He
knitted his brows painfully to consider
the problem and I let him have it harder.
There was a difference, I said, between
accepting Asians as residents and tem-
porary, exotic visitors. He took it man-
fully but struggled on. No, he didn't
think so. Now if we only had a quota
system ....
"‘Then,” said a civil servant smoothly,
“we wouldn't have the bloody silly situa-
tion we have over the Darwin case now.
Look here,” he said, turning on me a
senior official look, “we know what the
problems are in a multi-racial society
and we understand your desire to avoid
those problems. The Tungku even got
up and defended White Australia after
the Commonwealth Conference. After
this miserable business in Darwin do you
think in this country he can afford to
do the same thing again? Once the law
is flouted and a Government is defied it
must act. If we had a similar situation
which went that far we would do the
same. But why let it get that far?”
1 told him that I believed that Austra-
lians were no longer as exclusive as they
used to be, but it was a difficult problem.
How did one break it down? “Let me
ask you something,” he replied with a
trace of impatience, “which would your
Governent prefer as migrants—highly
qualified Asians or Yugoslav peasants?
I know what its policy would be. Your
Government would take the Yugoslavs.
You see it’s not economic, as you claim,
it’s racial.”
He went on to say that if Australia
would only set up a quota system based
on skills for Asian migrants it would do
us more good in Asian eyes than all the
Colombo Plan aid we could offer. I
said I rather doubted it, but I had no
evidence one way or the other. “It is
so,” he replied. “Australia is part of
Asia. More and more a part of it. Here
in this country you have friends which
you haven’t elsewhere, but even we can
be alienated over this sort of thing.” He
smiled and moved off to fill his glass.
Another guest who had also been to
Australia on a Government mission
moved in to lighten the atmosphere. “We
have found out one thing about your
country,” he said with a nervous laugh.
“Some of our students returning home
to this country find our Malay girls a bit
too conservative about dating after their
experiences down under. What do you
think of that?”
TVTotions about Australia varied enor-
mously. Sometimes it was impossible
to get a clear response to the plain ques-
tion “How do you picture Australia?”
The clearest one I ever had came from
an elderly, educated Papuan in West New
Guinea who told me in Malay: “Aus-
tralia is large. A continent. It has few
people but they live well all the time.
They are wealthy and skilled and make
their own aeroplanes and cars and have
their own homes. Australians believe in
freedom for people like us.” And for


JOOWtf
sr
SJS
VSAI
100% Australian-
made from Aus-
tralian Material
LYSAGHT’S
ESTABLISHED 1884
WIRE NETTING • FENCING WIRE
WIRE NAILS
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK for Our MARKER
in every Roll of Netting
BMW
•>*>
m
&
m
lU
tMi,
• BARBED WIRE
ZINC OXIDE
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
IYSAGHT BROS. & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Reg’d Office and Works, Black wall Pt. Road,
Five Dock
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING. ETC
its own aborigines? But he knew noth-
ing about them.
However, the implicit image of Aus-
tralia as a political power emerged clearly
in many conversations. I remember a
long evening spent with a handsome,
middle-aged, quite unreliable Thai in
Bangkok. He was a political refugee in
a sense —a big, handsome man with bare
feet, open-necked shirt and a grizzled
beard at which he pulled in patriarchal
fashion. He, too, had been to Australia
and was attracted by its material wealth,
its comfort and above all its freedom.
He himself had spent the last few years
in and out of jail for minor offences of
political opposition. He was a fund of
gossip about Sarit’s Thailand which, he
said, was run by a gang of crooks who
lived off crooked deals and weren't above
making fortunes and corrupting the
youth of the capital by deliberately
encouraging the heroin trade. He knew.
He knew the schools where it was hap-
pening, the names of the peddlers. He
took the silver foil from a cigarette pack,
rolled it into a rough spoon and held a
lighted match to it. “They take it like
this,” he said. And Australia in all this?
Australia was powerful and respected.
Pote Sarasin was going to Australia to
try and urge it to greater action in
concert with Thailand over Laos. Now
if the Australian Government were to say
something about cleaning up the un-
savory, internal political situation in
Thailand who knew . . ? But the
people, I insisted, the ordinary people
of Thailand, what did they know about
Australia? “Nothing,” he replied
equably. “Only trivia.”
I noticed the same thing in Malaya
where it was frequently, not unreason-
ably, impressed upon me that Australia
and New Zealand (a little remoter, a
little colder, but like Australia,
“advanced”) should in their own interests
urge Britain to push the Borneo Terri-
tories into merger with Malaya and
Singapore without any nonsense about
self-determination. The argument was
always a good one, but the implication
was clearly that Australia and New Zea-
land had the power to do this favor.
“Australia will be listened to,” I was told
over and over again.
Singapore was different. It is hard
to say what Australia’s image in Singa-
pore is. Perhaps there isn’t one, but if
there is I doubt that it is good. There
is an ill-defined anti-Australian feeling in
Singapore which has become more intense
in the past few years. It is hard to pin
down but one meets it here and there,
in the general disregard of Singapore for
Australian feeling, prestige or even useful-
ness. The Prime Minister, Lee Kuan
Yew, is said to be extremely anti-
Australian and is alleged to regard Aus-
tralia as colonialist. I don’t quite know
in what sense, but certainly White Aus-
tralia displeases and embarrasses him.
He shows his contempt openly and
allegedly referred to an Australian
Cabinet Minister as “that rubbish” after
a half-hour talk with him.
TThe Darwin Malays’ case came in for
a great deal of criticism here and
there and the Left-wing politicians make
no bones about their dislike of Aus-
tralia. When 1 saw Lim Chin Siong, the
alleged Communist general-secretary of
the Barisan Socialis opposition party, I
asked him at the end of a long conver-
sation what he objected to about Aus-
tralia most. He unhesitatingly replied:
White Australia. And then added
SEATO. Did we get good marks from
him or any of his friends for anything
at all, I persisted. Lim was clearly hard
put to it to answer. “1 suppose,” he said
reluctantly and ironically, “you get good
marks for having a non-colonial past.”
It was a remark that gave nothing for the
present and promised little for the future.
Even goodwill towards us can be based
on complete ignorance. I remember
finishing a game of golf in Singapore and
joining a party on the verandah of the
clubhouse at the invitation of a kindly
and nervously friendly Chinese dentist.
He was violently anti-Communist, he
said, and would leave Singapore and live
elsewhere if he could. But where could
he go? Singapore was becoming Com-
munist. Lee Kuan Yew was a
Communist. The place was going to the
dogs. He had his two sons in schools
in Melbourne and even though it was
costing him his life savings it was worth
it to get them away from the Communist
atmosphere of Singapore. 1 casually
asked him the names of the schools and
he named two of Melbourne’s leading
G.P.S. schools. Suddenly he leaned for-
ward anxiously: “They are not Com-
munist in any way, are they?” he asked.
There were, of course, many other
incidents which proved nothing specifi-
cally but which were revealing, There
was the Indian lady to whom I sat next
at a dinner party. She was charming,
intelligent, indiscreet and a tease. She
denigrated Australia in a wholly irritat-
ing, unexceptionable way the whole of
the evening. I gathered we lacked culture
and civilisation and of course apart from
the quite ridiculous notion of a White
Australia in an Asian world, we were,
somehow, despicably, underhandedly
colonialist. We parted amiably at the
end of the evening. 1 only once struck
downright rudeness and that was from
an elderly Indian taxi-driver in Singa-
pore who drove a dispirited battered cab
with one hand most of the time. The
other he ran through greying hair in a
gesture of utter despair. I forget how
the conversation arose but suddenly I
found him telling me in short, rapid,
lilting sentences that Australia was bad.
White Australia was bad, SEATO was
bad and we were bad to belong to it.
We were colonialist. Why? He didn't
seem to know but it was a fact. And so
on. An extraordinary tissue of ill-
digested facts and strong emotions ....
It is useless to try and sum up the
conversations, the newspaper items, the
compliments and the insults. Most or
all of them are outweighed on the mass
level by utter indifference anyway, or
ignorance. Australia and Asia stand
only a little revealed to each other as yet
and it will be some time before there
emerges such a clear-cut thing as a
general Asian attitude to Australia, if
ever it does in a continent fragmented by
religion and race. Perhaps in a general
way we have become more aware of
them.


FORUM
WHAT IS
TO BE DONE?
By "OBSERVER"
J^o0 KING over the six articles published in The Bulletin on the
national economy one is first strucf by the assumptions that are not
made, and the assumptions that are attached. What the articles added up to
was a demand for a certain find of approach, which might be summarised
as subordinating the economy to urgent strategic needs.
The method of subordination chosen
was that of planned capitalism: setting
objectives, and leaving the details to
businessmen and primary producers,
with sticks and carrots provided by
financial policy rather than by direct
controls and the governmerit intervening
directly only in an auxiliary role. This is
the most efficient form of planning an
economy—if there is a plan —because
it leaves the implemation of the plan
to the best experts offering.
What was not assumed was that the
principal purpose was social welfare, or
full employment, or under-employment,
or merely keeping the economy tidy, or
the avoidance of tension, or the destruc-
tion of capitalism, or the destruction of
socialism, or complete economic self-
sufficiency. These—along with blatant
urging of special interest —are the usual
demands of Australians when they bother
to talk about their economy.
SOCIAL WELFARE
TThe major social injustices have been
washed away by a mixture of
government legislation and economic
prosperity. Many Australians however
still suffer distress from age, from sick-
ness or some other disability, and from
economic change. But these ills can no
longer be cured by large-scale economic
methods, which are now likely to do
more harm to the economy and general
morale than good to the distressed.
We have reached a stage when ques-
tions of detail, difference and quality
are the main questions of social welfare
and these would best be considered in a
non-political approach. There could be a
genuinely bi-partisan policy on welfare
if the Labor party would ever have the
decency to give away part of its tradi-
tional demagogy. Welfare economics can
no longer be central in anybody’s eco-
nomic approach unless they are prepared
to deny the realities of the age.
EMPLOYMENT
T'he idea that a large “pool” of un-
A employed persons would solve all
of our economic problems by making
the employed work more for less money
is still a belief of some of those who
are frustrated by labor shortages and
high costs. The moral, economic and
social disadvantages of this policy are
well known: what is sometimes forgotten
is that a deliberate policy of under-
employment would kill our migration
programme. If we want migrants—and
for strategic reasons we must have them
—we must maintain high employment.
But this is not to say that we must
encourage the immobility of labor: full
employment does not have to mean that
nobody should ever have to go and get
another job. Inefficient industries should
not be feather-bedded and if development
and strategic policies are frustrated by
the growth of protected consumer
industries the latter must be encouraged
to retrench and some of the people who
work in them should be encouraged to
work somewhere else. This redeploy-
ment need not be “tough”; special re-
training allowances could be made avail-
able where necessary and employment
offices should in general take a more
positive part in implementing redeploy-
ment plans.
TIDINESS
As suggested in one of the articles,
government departments are concerned
not with strategic planning but, at the
best, with money planning, or trade
planning, or employment planning or
whatever it may be, almost as if these
were ends in themselves; at the worst
they are merely concerned with keeping
things straight, of simply reacting to
events. With all these people planning
this and that, in a sense no one is doing
any planning.
TENSIONS
The policies suggested would cause many
tensions. To put a premium on innova-
tion and efficiency, to remove some
government protection, to urge wage
restraint, to encourage private capital
investment in development industries by
offering incentives, to encourage cheap
credit in the right places, to dismantle
restrictive practices, to buy out parts
of collapsed primary industries . . .
these are all fighting words that it is
hard to expect governments to use in a
country with triennial elections and with
a tradition of vote-catching promises to
special sections. But that is not to say
that they are impractical, but that it
would require special political skills—•
and the right season —to put them across.
CAPITALISM, SOCIALISM, Etc.
'T'his dreary argument still continues in
-*■ its original and idealistic terms but
its only effect is to cloud issues. The
main real differences of opinion are on
the kinds of State intervention and the
degree with which they are used. What
has been suggested in these articles is
that budgetary and fiscal methods should
be used, not direct State control, and
that they should be used to whatever
degree is necessary to change the nature
of the Australian economy permanently
so that we can survive in an uncertain
world.
Direct controls are inefficient, they
tend to take decisions out of the hands
of those who know best how to im-
plement policy in detail . they must
constantly grow because they create more
problems than they solve and the new
problems must also then come under
control; they finally lead to “simplify-
ing” the economy, because it is too
complicated to control in detail; and
they lead to corruption of economic life
and to such an extension of the State’s
control over society that some of the
freedoms we are concerned with defend-
ing may wither away ; direct economic
controls lead to social and political
changes.
At the same time those who control
private enterprises must accept the fact
that national planning takes place. Many
of them already flourish as a result of it.
They are only enemies of it if it en-
dangers their special interests.
SELF-SUFFICIENCY
r T'*HE catch-cry “Buy Australian” may
end up doing us more harm than
good. When it is the cry of extreme


protectionists it is a counsel of unport
controls (which may lead to other con
trols), imitation rather than innovation,
high costs, high money wages, inflation
—and, as a result, depressed export in-
dustries. The self-sufficiency we need is
the self-sufficiency that comes from
balancing overseas trade before we allow
for capital inflow, not self-sufficiency in
every tinpot local industry. The indus-
tries that must be most “protected" are
those that will help us do this—wool,
metals, fuels and so on —and one of the
first “protections” these need is protec-
tion from the effects of the many parts
of Australian economic life that are pro-
tected to the disadvantage of the export
industries.
A 10 YEAR PLAN?
Since practically every country in the
world now has some kind of a plan
perhaps it is time Australia had one. Ten
years would allow time for things to pro-
ceed at a non - revolutionary pace,
although it would display a lack of
urgency that might not be realistic.
The basic assumption behind such a
plan would be that China is an aggres-
sive nation that wishes to dominate all
Asia, South-East Asia and the South-
West Pacific. For the moment this
aggression is shown as military aggres-
sion only in what is left of the former
French lndo-China. Despite occasional
alarms, Australians view our defeats in
these areas with a sense of detachment.
What is not realised is that they could
lead —sometime —to a sudden collapse of
the greater part of South-East Asia and
that this might happen at a time when
the Western Alliance was busy with its
own worries. That would make us feel
very lonely.
The present military aggressions are
only part of an all-out propaganda drive
in which military threats, diplomatic
threats, exchange visits, cultural ex-
changes and trade are all being used to
confuse or corrupt or paralyse the minds
and the will of people—and more
especially decision-making elites —
throughout the area.
WHAT IS TO BE DONE?
The diplomatic, social and military
decisions are not part of these articles.
But the necessary economic decisions
would seem to be:
1. We must ensure that we balance our
overseas trade without relying on
China. Otherwise we shall be cor-
rupted by depending for our economic
prosperity on the goodwill of a ruth-
less enemy.
2. We must people our country and de-
centralise the development of it so that
we can proclaim our right to hold it,
and be an ally worth defending.
3. We must enlarge our strategic services.
4. To achieve these three objects—and
also to enjoy a stable prosperity—we
must increase national productivity and
seek new trading partners.
All of this requires a plan that is
complete . long range and positive . so that
every member of the community can
know what he is doing. The broad
features of the plan would involve:
1. Co-operation at all levels between
planners and those who have to do
the work.
2. Continuous supply of capital, labor
and materials to the export industries,
the development industries and indus-
tries with high productivity.
3. Self-development, wherever that is
possible by budgetary incentives or
cheap credit to the businessmen or
primary producers actually doing the
developing.
4. Use of Government development only
as a planned subsidiary activity except
in extremely undeveloped areas or for
strategic services.
5. Direct Government intervention only
in dismantling restrictive practices,
subsidiary research, running redeploy-
ment facilities and making trade
agreements.
6. More active migration policy, to be
integrated with development plans.
7. Encouragement of a much wider and
mature level of discussion within
industries as to how they can solve
their own problems.
None of these are impossible
“One torn doublet, one bloodstained arras, one pair incestuous sheets . ..


LETTERS
COMMUNISM IN THE
UNIVERSITIES
Sir,
1 have given thought to when and
where 1 would be justified in contributing
to the debate about G. B. Sharp and the
Melbourne University Department of
Social Studies. It is to my mind right and
proper that Professor Crawford should
have taken this issue into the public forum
and that you should have spotlighted it.
The issue having been raised, it would
not, however, be right to deprive the
University of Melbourne of an adequate
opportunity to sort out their own house.
1 now find that I am puzzled as nothing
has yet come out of the University despite
the existence of first a “good offices com-
mittee,” then an “advisory comittee,”
and, since May of this year, a committee
of enquiry. It could be that there is an
intention to sit on the matter until the
hullabaloo dies down and then quietly
patch up things without settling any ques-
tions of principle. It could be that the
detailed facts do not seem to the autho-
rities to raise questions of principle such
as political party membeiship.
The first “could be” is not impossible,
but then the second is not improbable.
Let me briefly indicate the line along
which I have been thinking.
In selecting for university pests it is
clearly not enough to base judgment on
paper qualifications alone. If persons
are to fit into the community of scholars
that is a university, they must have both
a minimal degree of openness to the facts
of their subject, and some tolerance of
the rights of their fellows to pursue and
teach their studies according to their own
conscience. These essential conditions
will be threatened, in particular, by para-
noid personal tendencies or by strong per-
sonal commitments to outside groups that
subordinate the pursuit of knowledge r o
broad programmes of social action. In
either case there is the danger that the
person will in practice deny that there
is anything new to be sought in his sub-
ject, and will tend to convert everything
into a reiteration of “proof” of the “ob-
vious truths”, of evidence of “wrong-
thinking”. There is also the danget that
the genuinely scholarly differences that
such a person observes in the approaches
of his colleagues will be interpreted and
reacted to by him as evidence of their
being “objectively” for or against the
goals of his action party.
These are real dangers, but paranoia
is so rarely classical and personal com-
mitments are rarely so profound that
a community of scholars could not afford
to automatically exclude persons on a
show of signs of either. It is, however,
right that all academic selection commit-
tees should be instructed to assume a
prejudice against any candidate with these
signs. If the academic community is
being asked to expose itself to these
dangers it must have the right to inquire
into the degree of the threat and the
right to demand from such persons some
extra promise of contribution to its
academic purposes. It also seems right
to me that the larger society should ask
for an assurance on this point, since it
is expected to extend very considerable
support and special privilege to universi-
ties on the grounds that they are com-
mitted to free and genuine pursuit and
transmission of knowledge.
Now, regarding the specific debate
about the Social Studies Department and
G. B. Sharp I think that Communist
party membership is a commitment that
carries this danger for universities. The
fact that it has rarely , in my knowledge
of Australian universities and university
Communists over the years 1943 to 1958,
led to an actual corruption of university
standards is evidence that educated Aus-
tralians at least are rarely so profoundly
committed. It does not negate the fact
that when as in the Lysenko affair
(1949-51) and the Pavlov affair (1952-53)
the Communist party decides to encroach
on the universities’ preserves there are
going to be some university party mem-
bers who go along with the party line.
Remarkable as it may seem, these Stalin-
inspired dogmatisms did have some
stifling effects within our own universi-
ties Hence we may querulously ask of
the liberal tradition, “Have the universi-
ties no right to take these possibilities
into account when selecting a new
colleague?”
Nevertheless, Communist party mem-
bership does not appear to be the only
factor operating in this case. There is a
strong suggestion that the local party
machinery and party conspiratorial tactics
have been used, but there is no suggestion
of a party-inspired line on social studies
or criminology. It is my belief that the
issue has arisen primarily from personal
factors.
If v e do not recognise the existence
of these factors, it is difficult to see how
the Communist party’s desire to
strengthen its university position after the
debacle of 1956-57 could have led to a
course of action so unlike its usual way
of winning over intellectuals and so
patently unrewarding; it would also be
difficult to see how this factor could have
been lost sight of in much of the public
debate.
In pressing the importance of the per-
sonal aspect of this case, I would not
like to draw attention away from the
general problem of what kinds of social
commitment threaten loyalty to univer-
sity ideals. I do, however, wish to stress
a personal, professional view that the
university authorities seem to be fairly
vague about the fact that they have a
responsibility for the kinds of people
they inflict upon their colleagues and
students, and stubbornly blind to the fact
that, given the present state of the clini-
cal and social sciences, this responsibility
is not met by relying upon letters of
personal references and gossip. The
consequences of this irresponsible atti-
tude are to my mind well illustrated by
what appears to have happened in this
case, and by some features of the way
it has been publicly presented.
Two proposals have been put forward
here:
(i) That if commitments to an external
social action group are such that they
may prejudice loyalty to the university
ideals of open-mindedness and tolerance,
then university selection boards should be
publicly instructed to be prejudiced
against candidates with these commit-
ments and in consequence to expect
from such candidates in their case greater
assurance that they will contribute to
the purposes of the university.
(ii) That if the universities can con-
vince themselves that certain personal
states of mind (other than those that are
certifiable or criminal) are not reconcil-
able with life in an academic community,
then they should follow modern practice
and institute some form of psychiatric
screening.
These proposals will appeal neither to
those who would extend tolerance to the
intolerant, nor to those who see virtues
in madness. More importantly, however,
they create difficulties because they affect
to start from premises about the nature
of a university and its essential require-
ments, whereas the discourse in post-
war Australian universities has tended to
stem from the unqualified premise that
“What we have we will keep.” Within
this framework the staff, for their part,
are naturally reluctant to reconsider the
question of appropriate conditions of
security and access to university positions
for fear that these will then become bar-
gaining counters in disputes over other
conditions of employment. This reluct-
ance is only enhanced if they feel
threatened by an unfriendly public or
legislature. The university authorities,
at least as I last heard their position in
appearing before the Murray Commit-
tee, are so concerned to defend their
archaic system of authority that they are
reluctant to risk it by using it in these
matters.
All said and done, there does appear
to be a case for public pressure, but no
room for any threat of legislative action.
FRED EMERY
London.
THREE CONSERVATIVES
Sir, „
Mr Jones’s review of “Quadrant
(Bulletin, October 21) in which he
belittles the article by J. Normington-
Rawling on “Recollections in Tran-
quility” raises some interesting queries.
Mr Jones says the disproportion


between Communist conspiratorial effort
and practical gains ought to be reassur-
ing. Does this apply to Communist
infiltration of the Australian Labor Party,
and many of Australia’s trade unions?
If, as Mr Jones states, it is weakness
to assume that evidence of Communist
conspiracy is evidence of a real threat, to
what extent should any conspiracy be
allowed to go unchallenged? Until the
threat of actual Communist conquest
becomes as real as it became in Malaya,
for example?
A. W. HARTWIG
A uchenflo wer ( Queensland ).
NEW GUINEA GIMMICK
Sir,
In attempting to half-justify his half-
review of half my book, “Cannibals Are
Human,” Mr D’Arcy Ryan now
belatedly admits (Bulletin, October 28)
that cannibalism still exists in New
Guinea. That being so, the title of my
book is not a “gimmick” but a factual
statement. Mr D’Arcy Ryan’s use of
the word gimmick in his review was
inaccurate, impertinent, unscrupulous,
undignified and unscientific. He should
withdraw that word, which is offensive
and damaging to me.
He now admits that yams can grow
at Mendi ; that native arrows at Mendi
are poisonous (if not poisoned) ; that the
natives there live in farmsteads (if not
villages); that circumcision is known to
have been practised in New Guinea ; and
even that I have “all the material for a
fascinating book.” All these belated and
compelled admissions indicate that it was
not my book, but his review of it, which
was “inaccurate.”
My book does not pretend to be an
anthropological treatise, and should not
have been reviewed as such. Its obvious
aim is chiefly to draw attention to the
difficult living conditions of white (or
“European”) women in Papua and New
Guinea. This is an aspect of some public
interest and importance for Australians,
which anthropologists have neglected to
study.
Ignoring this main aim and scope of
my book, Mr D'Arcy Ryan merely seized
an opportunity of displaying his own
claim to special knowledge of native life
and customs in one region. By brushing
aside as inconsequential everything in the
book outside his own narrow range of
interest, he revealed himself as a pre-
judiced, self-opinionated, and conse-
quently incompetent, critic in the field of
general literature.
It seems that Mr D’Arcy Ryan just
can't grasp the idea that a book review
stands or falls on the reviewer’s ability
fairly to describe and examine what the
author has to say of public interest, or
for public benefit, rather than on the
reviewer’s desire to advertise his own
claims to be an expert in a limited field.
HELEN McLEOD
“ Mendi,”
Springwood [N.S.W.).
SEGOVIA’S GUITAR
Sir,
Notwithstanding Kenneth Hince’s
apparent insight into the complexities
of theoretical and historical music
(Bulletin, October 28), it is difficult, nay,
painful, to accept his so-called “distinc-
tion between pleasant music and great
art” as applied to the work of Andres
Segovia.
If Segovia and his guitar do not con-
stitute “great art,” then we should pre-
serve them as museum pieces for curious
people!
Rare phenomenon indeed! The guitar
entered the human culture of the Moors
and Spaniards, and established itself as a
niche of art, long before the conven-
tional and limited memory of your critic
would have us believe. Simplicity and
sincerity are the cornerstones of the
guitar: that is probably why ordinary
folk are happy with the instrument and
its music. It is probably also why the
abstract criteria (which more often than
not are the product of ingrained bias)
of Mr Hince are not fulfilled in this case.
Segovia is an artist and his work is
art. It is regrettable indeed that Mr
Hince's condescending opinions to the
contrary should have been expressed at
such an inopportune time.
S. DOUMANY
Mt. Gravatt ( Queensland ).
THE GREAT CONVENT
MYSTERY
Sir,
Might I express my surprise that the
present series of articles “from the note-
book of a Coroner’s Pathologist”
(Bulletin, October 21) should ever have
been included in The Bulletin.
Quite apart from any criticism of the
presentation, I feel that the articles are
completely incongruous in a magazine of
The Bulletin’s standing. One expects
to encounter sensationalism of this sort
striving for attention amid scantily clad
young ladies and in associaton with such
titles as “I was a peeping Tom,” and,
although these may have an appeal for
certain facets of the mind, it is not these
facets, I feel, for which The Bulletin
is expected to cater.
As a regular subscriber to your maga-
zine I would like to see articles of this
sort excluded in favor of something more
worthwhile.
D. CHARLESWORTH
Tasmania.
THE MT ISA “LOCK-OUT”
Sir,
Whatever the rights and wrongs of the
Mt Isa dispute, John Higgins’s article
headed “The Mt Isa ‘Lock-out’ ”
(Bulletin, October 28) contains one
paragraph that needs clarifying.
He wrote: “Hire-purchase company
representatives are muscling in to Aus-
tralia’s wealthiest town with repossession
orders bulging their brief cases.”
Who these companies are we do not
know. What we do know is that the
member companies of the Queensland
Division of the Australian Hire Purchase
Conference have gone to great lengths
to assist the out-of-work miners and mine-
workers. The A.H.P.C. informed the
Queensland Trades and Labor Council
Secretary, Mr A. McDonald, that if Mt
Isa unemployed workers found they
were, or about to be, in arrears on their
hire-purchase contracts, they should
approach their particular finance
company.
He was assured that the companies
which were members of A.H.P.C. would
give them a sympathetic hearing and,
where practicable, adjust the contract to
avoid repossessions or voluntary sur-
renders. This has been done (and is still
being done). Your readers might also
like to know that this approach by the
A.H.P.C. in Queensland has been
common to other industrial disputes, and
during the recent wave of unemployment.
P. S. EVANS
(Chairman Queensland Division,
Australian Hire Purchase Conference)
Brisbane.
SUICIDAL ASSASSINATION
Sir,
Having read the published diaries of
Field-Marshal Sir Henry Wilson, I was
particularly interested to read James
Griffin's review of Rex Taylor’s
“Assassination” (Bulletin, October 28).
I was even prepared to accept, by implica-
tion, that your reviewer has a profound
insight into the Irish problem as he states
in the penultimate paragraph that Mr
Taylor has no such insight.
But my confidence in your reviewer
was destroyed by the cheap gibe, or
smear, which he makes in his last para-
graph when he states “Even from this
distance, Sir Henry Wilson does not
emerge as a sympathetic figure, no more
than Sir Anthony Eden and his Blimps
will to historians of the Suez War, which
reminded us that for certain Englishmen
bullying was a nervous reflex.”
An unbiased historian might possibly
conclude that the Suez imbroglio was a
classical example of the failure of both
the new (U.N.) and the old (British)
methods of upholding the rule of law,
with the rule of law as the chief sufferer.
Lord Avon and his advisers (to give Sir
Anthony and his Blimps their correct
titles) can be blamed for not being ready,
in June, 1956, to counter Egypt’s flagrant
act of aggression, repudiation and ex-
propriation in seizing the Suez Canal.
Also for faltering in the belated police
action of November, 1956, when the
British and French forces could have
restored the international status of the
canal and then have handed it on a plate
to U.N. A possible decisive factor was
the activity, outside U.N., of the U.S.A.
in threatening Britain with economic
force.
Both the theory and practice of U.N.
failed abjectly as exemplified by Egypt’s
continued flouting of U.N. and the rule
of law by denying the use of the canal
to Israeli ships.
Hornsby ( N.S.W .)
CRASTER C. M. USHER


• WftWuw.*
m?
X?
\X»- H
mm
HI
4
K.
<C3
C. B. C. services are just
what you want
C.B.C. services are designed to help enterprising men
make a success of their undertakings.
If, for example, you are seeking new markets, the
C.B.C. will give you every possible assistance including
trade information and introductions.
Normal banking transactions are handled promptly
and efficiently. Machines speed up the work—but the
service is essentially personal and friendly.
There are many other ways in
which the bank’s services can help you
and lighten your work. The manager
of your nearest branch will gladly tell
you about them.
v
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
SECURITY
Sir,
Thank heaven for a magazine willing
to tackle such a vital subject as Security
(Bulletin, October 28 and November 4),
perhaps the vital subject if we are to con-
tinue as an unguided democracy, to
borrow a term from one of our neigh-
bors. 1 don't agree with much that you
say, but applaud you for saying it.
The danger of wrongly applied, used
or conceived Security is the possibility
of a police State, not merely of the
Communist kind, but of the dozens of
other kinds, among them Salazar's,
Trujillo’s, Castro’s, Verwoerd’s, Nkru-
mah’s or, to go back a bit, Huey Long’s.
‘‘The possible destruction of all liberty,”
the total, black destruction of all liberty,
can come to a nation in many ways, and
among them is fatherly Government
which, with the help of a Security force,
would protect us from selected evils, if
we become sufficiently intransigent to let
it, or if in a two-party democracy the
Opposition becomes merely opposition, as
could easily happen here.
One part of The Bulletin article sug-
gests this time has arrived. Security’s
uses depend on “climate of opinion within
the elites of a nation,” or “decision-
making Australians.” In plainer plain
English, the Australian voter no longer
controls his destiny, the dangers of Com-
munism are such that he must now trust
wise Government to save him from
enemies which it nominates. We no longer
have democracy but an autocracy of the
“elites” and “decision-making” Austra-
lians. Under their guidance we have
cleverly progressed way past the out-
dated British who still believe that alleged
security risks should be told the exact
nature of the charges against them and
“allowed to prove their innocence."
The British even cling to the anachron-
istic belief that people should not only
be “allowed” to offer proof of their
innocence, but have an inalienable right
to do so, even if it does weaken Security
screening. The British apparently believe
that anything less would be “destruction
of all liberty,” but we Australians know
that this former fundamental is Wrong-
think, or “civil liberty only in a narrow
sense.”
In following the American way rather
than the British, we come to the imme-
diate fact, stated in The Bulletin article,
that all Leftists are dangerous. Then all
radicals, all non-conformists, all people
whose opinions do not coincide with
those of the “elites,” including, of course,
editors and journalists. How simple it
will be to silence such critics, merely
by intimating, no more, that the “elite”
knows something unfortunate about
them.
The Bulletin article also evades one
more aspect of Security, as it now exists.
In the U.S.A. its recruits are highly
educated men, that much is known.
Many are law graduates, few are merely
trained policemen. Do we know what
kind of men work for Security in Aus-
tralia? Does The Bulletin know? It
is vital that a powerful Security should
have personnel of the highest qualities
to reduce the risk of abuses.
1 do not believe that many Austra-
lians, elite or otherwise, would wish to
destroy or inhibit Security, but I do hope
that many will want to retain some
reasonable form of democracy, and
democratic control of Government and
all its subsidiaries. Perhaps the best way
to do that is to follow the British tradi-
tion of which we boast when it suits us,
and make it law that any person must be
told why he is regarded as a risk, and
at least have the chance to publicise the
reasons and deny them if he wishes,
A , , . _
read c the art,cie ’ T U HE , Buele ™
would give Socrates the hemlock and
omit lhe tna •
In the appropriate words of the man
whose image appears at the lower right
of the October 28 cover, it’s time to
“Think or Be Damned.”
FRANK ROBERTS
New Farm ( Queensland ).


OUT and ABOUT
Not Much the 20th Century
Man
uitarist Andres Segovia speaks a
thickly accented English, English
being one of what he calls, quoting a
fellow-Spaniard, his “patriotically bad
foreign languages,” but the wit comes
through. He is a heavy man but his
mood is light. Sitting with great calm in
an armchair, the order of the Grand
Cross of Isabella the Catholic in his lapel
and a 250-years-old Brazilian topaz ring
on one of his famous fingers, he does
not look much the 20th century man.
Segovia, who is visiting Australia for
the first time, travels almost constantly.
He is at his apartment in New York for
perhaps only five or six days of the year.
The longest time he is in one place is in
Siena, Italy, and Santiago de Compos-
tella, in Spain. At both places he teaches
and gives recitals during the summer
music festivals.
He hopes to return to Australia in two
years’ time, but at 68, and after 53 years
as a concert artist, he is beginning to get
some ideas of retiring. Perhaps in four
or five years’ time. He would then divide
his time between Spain and Switzerland.
He has no quarrel with the Spanish
Government, merely saying: “They have
treated me as an artist. That is all I
require. And I am an artist. I am not
concerned in politics.” He says the
reason why he does not live in Spain now
is that friends and relatives there make
it impossible for him to practise in peace.
Segovia, because he alone was
responsible for the revival of the concert
guitar after more than a century of
neglect, is self-taught. “My teacher and
I never had a serious quarrel,” he says.
He believes that the guitar is the hardest
of all stringed instruments to play.
“First,” he says, “because it is poly-
thonic, and second, because one must
restrain the influence of its feminine
curves.”
Although Bach is Segovia’s favorite
composer, he has no great interest in
early musical instruments. “The lute is
nothing compared with the guitar,” he
said, “and I have told Madame Landow-
ska that her harpsichord is just the guitar
grown cold.”
Segovia considers television “very
awful” from the performer’s point of
view.
“I used to say I would rather give ten
concerts than one radio performance,”
he said. “Now I say I would rather give
ten performances on radio than one on
television.” However, Segovia feels that
television does awaken people’s interest
in subjects they might otherwise have
known nothing about, and that tele-
vision may in part have been responsible
for the fact that a large percentage of
his devotees are young people.
Segovia has no callouses on his finger-
tips, but the fingers of his left hand are,
from constant plucking of the strings,
appreciably longer than those of his right.
His hands are not insured. “Who will
insure me against the insurance com-
pany?” he said.
Segovia's concerts are complete sell-
outs, a large part of the demand being
from young people.
Wine "Dumping” in the West
“Recession” is being muttered again
in Western Australia following
allegations that South Australia is dump-
ing bulk and bottled wine in Western
Australia at the expense of the local
wine industry.
The W. A. Industrial Development
Minister Charles Court has sent tele-
grams to the chairman of the Australian
Wine Board asking for urgent action
and to Federal Primary Industry Minis-
ter Adermann asking him to make imme-
diate inquiries in Canberra.
Mr Court said that at least one large
W.A. wholesaler was in danger of going
out of business and a successful local
producer was also threatened. Mr Court
said some S.A. wholesalers were dumping
bulk wines at a landed price of 9s. 6d,
a gallon while the price fixed by the
Australian Wine Board and the Wine
Council was 13s. 6d. a gallon.
The secretary of the S.A. Wine and
Brandy Producers’ Association, Mr
Kevin Kilgariff, pointed out that W.A.
did not make sufficient wine for its own
use and that bottled wine, produced in
W.A., sold for less than imported S.A.
bottled wine.
Mr David Roe, an immediate past
president of W.A. Wine Growers' Asso-
ciation, said the important point was
that S.A. wines were selling in Perth at
well below Adelaide prices. Mr Roe is
about the only large W.A. grower who
could speak his mind freely on dumping
allegations. Of the big three vintners
in the Swan Valley, two are controlled
by Eastern States companies. Mr Roe,


a grandson of W.A.’s first surveyor-
general, established his own vineyard,
Sandalford, after World War 11.
Call Me Duchess
'T'he air was thick, with “Your Graces”
when the Sydney press met Loelia,
Duchess of Westminster. However, all
this decorum was wasted. It was made
clear at the end of the interview that
the Duchess likes to be called simply
“Duchess.”
The Duchess, decorative as well as a
decorator, is here to give a series of
lectures on home decorating for Taub-
man’s paints.
Her account of her life with a former
Duke of Westminster “Grace and Favor,”
published by Weidenfeld and Nicolson,
will be here this month. The chapter
headings are from “Alice in Wonder-
land." The Duchess says that during her
not-very-happy childhood she read
“Alice” for five years continuously, to
the exclusion of all other books.
Food for Thought
T>risbane’s comparatively brand-new
Labor Lord Mayor, Alderman Clem
Jones, is finding the going considerably
tougher in office than it was in those
blithe, free days of campaigning.
Fixing the city's multitudinous ail-
ments, it seems, isn't quite as simple as
Alderman Jones thought it would be.
Transport has become dearer instead of
cheaper ; sewerage for more suburbs is
as far away as it has ever been ;
ambitions works projects have withered
on the arid desert of local government
finance ; and a major Hooker-Rex
developmental scheme, involving land
resumptions, has brought a veritable
hornet’s nest around the ears of the new
A.L.P. administration.
Once the darling of the metropolitan
press, Alderman Jones looks as if he
might also be getting “the treatment
from that quarter before he is much
older. It seems that it all began during
the visit to Brisbane of London’s Lord
Mayor.
The press was bidden to the official
dinner —but told that they would be
served their meals in an annexe adjoin-
ing the supper room. The door was to
be left conveniently open so they could
hear the speeches! Hostile reaction in-
cluded a sharp note to Alderman Jones
from A.J.A. president Kev O'Donoghue,
who informed him acidly that journalists
didn't regard themselves as the last course
on this sort of a menu. The official
dinner was subsequently boycotted by
journalists, with the approval of pro-
prietors. Latest development in the “cold
war” is reported to be an official instruc-
tion to City Hall roundsmen that they
are to refer to Alderman Jones as “My
Lord Mayor" in the course of their daily
interviews! It was “call me Clem" in
the days of the campaign, and in the
first flush of election triumph . . . but
Alderman Jones’s democratic instincts, it
seems, have perished rather rapidly. Not
for nothing is the City Hall known as
the Hall of Fear, or even as “The
Slaughter House.” (The Town Clerk is
Mr Slaughter.)
That Was Australia
“Nobody ever seems to have the least
difficulty in escaping from Victorian lock-
ups; and since it has become known that
alleged prisoners who escape before they
are-sentenced are guilty of no offence,
the pastime may become a favorite one.
Two energetic young men a few months
ago carved their way out of South Mel-
bourne lock-up with an old pocket knife.
They subsequently got out of a country
gaol by means of a bootlace. They were
experts. A week or two ago a woman
walked out of Little Bourke-street lock-
up. The door was left on the chain; the
man who put the chain on had been used
to plump women, and this woman being
thin, squeezed out and strolled off. A
few days later a thief in Collingwood
lock-up waited till the door was opened,
then he darted off, and is still going.
The only remarkable feature about these
escapes is that they happen so seldom.
With the exception of the Bourke-street
West establishment, there isn’t a lock-up
in the metropolitan area that is worth
shucks. A sober, ingenious man could
get out of any of them. They were
built for drunks, and only a very drunk
man need stay in them. They are flimsy
where they should be stout, and stout
where it doesn’t matter. They are dirty,
evil-smelling, ill-ventilated, and inhuman.
Still, Thomas Bent won’t spend three-
halfpence in improving them. That is
the way of Thomas.”
—“The Bulletin,” March 8, 1906.
“A fashionable German physician
named Wiederhold is going three months’
imprisonment for having be labored a
nervous lady patient with a stick as
she lay in bed. The doctor defended
his course of treatment on the ground
that stick was the only effective cure
for hysteria, a theory which deserves the
consideration of all. who have had any
experience of lovely women when the
spirit moves her to shut her eyes and
shriek.” —“The Bulletin,” July 9, 1892.
Feiffer
me there mre Tivo
COUNTRIES THAT AIMAHE,
MARLH fOUGHT LOITH
bach other, but m/ER
Aoixe. ueu, otte Tine
THe LEAO6R. OF ODE
Of THE countries
MADE A TERRIBLE
Mistake.
m eec/uxe of thf omofr or thf fines
an) p iNi thf meteor of matiohm, with
H(<7 COMTRWeM ?OOH-pOOHeO IT AUP MAPF
HIM A MATIOiOAI, h£/?0.
THFIO THF tFApFP OF THF OTKFR COUtJTRV
MA[7P A T ORFIRLe MIFTAFF. 6DT FFCAO6F
OF Tf€ DM6OR OF THF
TIHF6 AWP |M TftF -
INITFRFST OF A)ATWiOAL
UWITtV HIS COOtiTßqueiO
POOH-pOOHFO IT MO
mapf him a matiooal
HFRO.
to rue t u)o iem& zeuwev that thb
ohim tiht THfie cootowiMGu toeee
SOUt?(M PeHUJI? THtfM Ths<{
MAt7g A T M&TAKe. 50, 10H6H6Jtfl
liUH6$ &0T £OO6 H AT HOM 6 -. TH£4
£MBARK£(7 OH A
Tgßßiete MISTAKE
POUCH-
ftie,Aoea loovco MisrweMLy
thf ornen ceweß. ami? that ioouiv unify
Hi£ coutiTßy.
AJO£7 THgM THF OTH£R teAOgg tim?
mxteenw vmt cpunmips
that toeee c«taiio to
Riot him mo
THAT WOOU7 OMF<T
His cou/omy.
AWC7 TH6 M OKJS UWtev TH6 COUOTRieS
ujees m cess pee are wee in as
oner pouch. wow is wo Tine to cast
SLAMS," THeiR PEOPLES sa\o. so
Teßnece mistakes veoam
to ee scpeouleo
Of VIS ARM-
amenr conferences
economic SLUMPS'
ri skh e over ions -
T HeR€ tto M OZG mfe. JOBT
remdie mruces that
MAO 6 £OAR ALMOST
- AMP
imcrtaatp eveßyoMs
eoo6er.
rioeovy eves
A6AIM 86AMTC?
MUBOCy fOR
AMMTHIM6. AMO
THBR? WA5> MA-
TIOMAL VttlT<4 fOfir
e\l6 R AftCR.
I 10%
HAW
evoiv&.


FOR THE CONSUMER
Whose Turn to Serve?
A post-graduate course for the keen-
eyed consumer might be in estimat-
ing how much of the cost of everything
should be set down to service.
In many cases good service can be
acknowledged by a handsome tip ; or,
if you have great moral courage, the lack
of service can be acknowledged by leav-
ing no tip. However, the point at issue
here is not how much extra you should
pay for being looked after, but what is
the minimum of service you should be
able to expect to go with handsome
surroundings and high prices.
Among the Continental ways we have
picked up since the war there is no sign
of the extra charge which appears on
just about everything above a bus ticket
in Europe —10 or 15 per cent, for service.
The only reason we haven’t picked up
this idea is that nobody here would be
game to try it. Few Australian establish-
ments yet regard service as a commodity
which has a value, as something which
they should or can sell.
In spite of many improvements in our
way of doing things, service, the desire
to serve, or the ability to serve, remains
an undiminishing stumbling-block.
It must be granted there are difficulties.
Service means people and wages are high.
Until we have something of the popu-
lation pressure of southern Europe, which
makes sure that a waiter will be prepared
to stand on his two flat feet for 12 hours
on end, just to earn a meagre living, it
will be difficult to give the sort of service
which European hotels and - restaurants
give.
But, in fact, from several points of
view, service is much more reluctant and
much less comprehensive than it was 10
or 15 years ago. For many Sydney people
the rot really set in when what was then
our leading hotel (and might still be)
installed a self-service counter where you
queued up for drinks and sandwiches, the
sandwiches wrapped in paper bags and
served on paper plates
Our hotels, motels, restaurants and
shops are much more handsome than
they were then. Nothing is spared to
provide a glittering fafade, and some of
the devices intended to substitute for the
personal touch (for instance, that slot for
used razor-blades let into the bathroom
walls at motels ; where does it go—
through to Japan to become scrap metal?)
are a tribute to Australian ingenuity.
However, there is no substitute for ser-
vice, and this is something which the
customer should think about carefully
when looking at his bill and considering
whether he has had his money’s worth.
In shops, the idea of service went
about the time they threw out the small
high-chairs at the counters. At the chain
stores you stand unavailingly at a deserted
counter, and then are told “Would you
mind bringing it here.” Of course, you
mind. You wouldn’t mind if the shop
operated as self-service, but it does not.
It is trying to get the best of both worlds
and using the customer as an unpaid
employee.
It is no wonder that aggrieved cus-
tomers sometimes feel that those scurrying
“executives” in white shirts, and those
women bellowing at the shop assistants
through microphones (and, apparently,
advertising to every customer, that the
shop assistants are not trained or not
capable of doing their job properly by
themselves), would be much better em-
ployed behind the shop counter, helping
to do what a shop is supposed to do —
to sell.
Another form of this creeping paraly-
sis is the island counter. Most big shops
now have island counters, piled high with
goods but completely unattended. It is
impossible to find anyone to discuss this
merchandise with. If you are uncertain
about which brand of shampoo you want
it is just too bad ; you are supposed to
read the advertisements and know which
brand you want. The best you can do
is to take your goods in your hand,
resist the temptation to stuff them in your
pocket or purse and disappear, and hawk
them around the adjoining counters until
you find someone gracious enough to take
your money.
Nobody would expect a country motel
to give the same type of service as a first-
class city hotel. It does not exist for the
same purpose. However, there should
be a minimum of service directed
towards making the customer feel that
the motel is there for his convenience.
At a motel you pay for comfortable
beds, perhaps fo»r air-conditioning, for
the tea-making equipment, and so on.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON &
osullivan
:7o a PTYLTD c
ARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Walson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New Yorif
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TOPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYI'ERS
RULERS, BOOK BINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
•UACKSUL,” BRISBANE
You do not pay for service, and most
motel-partons are not particularly con-
cerned about any elaborate standard of
service.
Most guests arrive late and depart early.
The only point at which they might
expect something like service is at break-
fast-time.
However, motels, taking the typically
Australian attitude, serve breakfast either
in the room or in the dining-room, but
often are not prepared to give the guests
any choice in the matter. If the motel
is small and hasn’t an adequate dining-
room, breakfast is brought to the room ;
it there is a dining-room, guests are
expected to go to it.
This take-it-or-leave-it attitude does
defeat the purpose of motels, which is
surely to provide a maximum of con-
venience and minimum of fuss. Most
guests are on holidays or on business.
Those on holidays don't particularly want
to get up early and face a roomful of
people for breakfast ; those on business
don’t feel disposed to waste at least half
an hour at the breakfast-table, when with
a snack in their room they could be on
their way much earlier.
Generally the argument for improve-
ment in hotels or motels is based on the
hope of attracting overseas tourists, to be
translated as American tourists. Why
we shouldn’t worry about ourselves
nobody ever explains. However, it is
being too optimistic to think that modern
buildings are all that Americans require.
European experience shows that large
numbers of them are indifferent to
modern buildings. They stay at Claridges
in London, or the Hassler in Rome, just
as readily as they stay at the Hilton in
Madrid, but they do demand service
wherever they go.
In fact, such is the perversity of human
nature that Americans have been known
to move from the modern hotel in
Macleay Street, Sydney, to the old-
fashioned one in Castlereagh Street.
“When T am overseas I don’t want to stay
at an American-style hotel,” said one
visitor.
DESIGN
Art Without Uncertainty
An exhibition of aboriginal arts and
crafts, collected together by Dr
Stuart Scougall, almost fills the Qantas
main office in Hunter Street, Sydney.
Works by living artists and craftsmen
give a fairly comprehensive idea of the
diverse achievements of culture in Arn-
hem Land. The life of these works is
relatively brief, especially the bark paint-
ings. Most are produced during the
monsoon and may through the agency
of insects or the elements disappear within
one year. At the exhibition two shy artists
from the North demonstrate some of the
skills of their fellow-tribesmen.
Before this unique culture (the richest
on this continent) has completely disap-
peared, or worse is tolerated as souvenirs
to be sold by the missions, we might
reconsider our attitude towards it. One
is forced to admit that the white man
over the centuries and into the 20th
century has effectively destroyed a great
number of primitive cultures. His aggres-
sive, individualistic and clever approach
to life spells sudden death to technically
backward, slow-moving societies whose
whole mode of being goes back to states
of consciousness, which Europeans grew
away from hundreds or even thousands
of years ago. This growth has been
towards a one-sided technological and
materialistic civilisation with its conse-
quent inward futility.
Our measure of primitive man is purely
external. We fail to notice that our gains
are not going to be permanent unless
some kind of balance is established. What-
ever we may think of them, primitive
societies possessed a measure of cultural
integrity, a meaningful pattern of exist-
ence which we might well envy. Anthro-
pologists have known all this for a very
long time, but what influence have they on
the administration of the Northern
Territories?
A small sample of the overweening
conceit, of modern man appeared in
“Life” magazine last January— two
photographs, one of naked aborigines
lapping water from a desert puddle, the
other showing the Veil Nebula, taken
from Mt. Palomar Observatory. The
blurb reads, from the “bonds of savagery”
to the “lure of brilliance.” We have
indeed come a long way, without, how-
ever (as the aboriginal could testify)
losing very much of the savagery!
On the positive side a strong movement
exists among anthropologists and others
to approach primitive cultures in a
different way. One influence has come
through the appreciation of primitive art
by many contemporary or near contem-
porary artists of distinction from Klee
and Picasso onward. They have borrowed
freely to reach a new vitality and at the
same time have opened a fascinating
realm for our appreciation.
Ritual thinking and magical practice
may be inaccessible to us but this does
not obscure the infectious charm of the
aboriginal paintings, grave-posts, drone-
pipes, song-sticks, paddles, weapons and
baskets. A language of form, rich, com-
plex and alive, springs from two sides.
The dimensions of existence embrace the
visible world but this world is supported
by another filled with invisible beings,
malevolent or benign, ancestral spirits,
creative spirits like the Rainbow Serpent,
or the Mini whose deeds are known
through legend, myth and song.
The practise of art is inseparable from
every phase of his existence; small wonder
that the aboriginal can invest his sacred
emblems, whose true meaning is hidden
beneath many layers of meaning, with a
primeval magnetism that touches ecstasy
or terror.
Here no “experiment” or uncertainty
mars the artist’s expression. One has only
to watch them work with such assurance,
using pieces of chewed bark, gum-leaves,
black, red, yellow and white as colors, to
realise how clearly the image is visualised.
No difficulty arises in linking the various
elements —the animals, figures, the com-
plicated matchings, dots, wavy lines —into


a coherent whole. The impact is conveyed
through a highly developed rhythmical
sense which is sheer delight.
It would not do these artists justice to
compare works. Competition in this
sphere has no significance at all, every-
thing flows with unconscious freedom
because no one is trying to produce “art.”
There is a great variety of style from the
complex, linear designs of the Millin-
gimbi to the single and grouped figures
on plain grounds from Groote Eylandt
and the Gulf of Carpentaria.
If we find this country a harsh one, the
old Australian has come to terms with
it. His art reveals him as one with sur-
passing insight and exceptional warmth.
The loss of his culture would be a grave
tragedy.
J. HENSHAW
ABORIGINALITIES
The Passing of
the Overlander
\l7Tir the passing of the overlander, a
piece of Northern Territory history
has gone into the melting pot. The giant
road transports which roar up and down
the Stuart and Barkly Highways taking
cattle to markets in Adelaide, Darwin
and Queensland are swift, efficient and
economical.
But who will not miss the sight of the
wide-hatted drover drifting his cattle
along, the clank of the hobble chains
and the lonely cry of the native stockboy
circling the cattle at night, droning a
corroboree song to quieten them? Some-
times songs with few or no words . . .
“Ayayayay . . . ayay . . . Poor feller
me, poor feller me. Billy gibbit blanket,
Billy gibbit rum . . .”
A few drovers are still at it. Mick
Daly and his aboriginal wife Gladys
have had a busy season, pushing mobs
down the Murranji Track into Queens-
land.
Half-caste George Man Fong is still
getting work, but says: “It looks like
we will all be out of a job soon.”
Matt Savage, “king” of the drovers
out from Alice Springs, retired a few
years ago. Old-timers Charlie Swan,
Hurtle and Elmer Lewis and Geoff
Nixon see the writing on the wall. Jack
Mallee is feeding fowls at Ambalindum.
Paddy Tucker fossicking for gold back
of Arltunga. They are scattered.
Official statistics tell the story. Ten
years ago 100.000 cattle were overlanded
out of the Territory annually. The figure
today stands at less than 50,000. The
“The tonal qualities are superbly profound, and there's a rude integrity
in the juxtaposition of the planes, but I feel somehow it's lacking in
the essential vitamins!”
balance now go by road and the trend
to wheeled transport is accelerating.
With the last of the drovers will also
go a fund of yarns and tall tales, and
the best of all come from Western Aus-
tralia's famed Kimberleys. Many date
back to the 'eighties and ’nineties, that
era of blood and beer, courage and
cruelty, generosity and gin burglary,
hard work and inspired panhandling,
loyalty and betrayal. And through it all
ran a current of bawdy laughter.
You find the last of the old-time
drovers camped by river banks, or board-
ing in the “Pioneer Homes” which dot
the Territory and Kimberleys fringes
today.
They have their memories—if, some-
times, little else.
Over in the north-west they still talk
reverently of breaking teeth on “Ord
River salt,” a grey substance which the
gins used to “muster off the rocks with
spoons. ’ Lurking in the salt were small
stones which cracked many a tooth.
“It turned the meat black and a
southern analyst said it wasn't fit for
human consumption, but we reckoned it
was good-oh,” an old drover told me.
Stock camp veterans will relate tales
of :
@ Aboriginal runners trotting off from
Wave Hill to Powell Creek telegraph
station, 300 miles away, with urgent
telegrams.
@ Hard times: Seasons were more
regular in the early days and there were
more cattle, but prices were rock-bottom.
In 1912 the Farquharsons of Inverway
sent the “best mob of bullocks ever” to
Fremantle. But prices were so poor they
had to send a cheque after them to meet
the boat charter fee.
0 Other bush poems such as “Mar-
shall’s Commandments,” satirising an
early Vesty’s pastoral inspector who used
to tack up his orders on the wall . . .
This was mildly bav-dy, but started off
respectably enough:
Old Waddy Marshall communed with
his God,
And issued these orders to men on the
Ord . . .“
# The way desert natives probably
short of lime, chewed and licked kanga-
roo and bullock bones. One famous old
roo skull became thin as tissue paper
from passing aborigines continually
licking away at it.
They were no fools, those old men.
Apart from superlative bushmanship,
some have gone through nearly every
book worth the bother, reading by
“slush-light” a piece of moleskin
trousers shoved into a tin of fat like a
wick. This gave off a horrible, barely-
adequate light.
When progress and road transport
finally obliterate their trade the drovers
will not be forgotten in the North. Aus-
tralia has reason to thank that dwindling
band of old men, squatting by their
campfires, absorbed in their memories.
KEITH WILLEY


mm
POWER FOR
QUEENSL
k tt£U c
CO
or
*3n6 iO
LOAN
NOW OPEN
THE STATE
ELECTRICITY
COMMISSION
or QUEENSLAND
LOAN
£5-15-0 %
GOVERNMENT GUARANTEED
6, 70, or 20 years.
apply now through: Commonwealth Trading
Bank A.N.Z. Bank Commercial Banking
Company —Commercial Bank of Australia —-
E.S. & A. Bank—Bank of N.S.W.—National
Bank of A'asia ; any Stockbroker; any
Regional Electricity Board Office; or direct
k to the State Electricity Commission of
jh Queensland, 447 Gregory Terrace, j
So*. Brisbane. Phone 5 2701. AAft


REVIEWS
THEATRE
The Essential Beast
The Caretaker. Harold Pinter. Every-
man Theatres. Russell Street Theatre,
The Dumb Waiter and The Room.
Harold Pinter. Lola Russell Players.
Russell Street Theatre, Melbourne.
One thing the avant-garde theatre does
not seem to be able to dispense with
is the element of shock. As a play’s
coherence diminishes, so its horror
augments. Harold Pinter’s plays are set
in the seamiest possible surroundings
outside a sewer, and what action there
is depends largely on senseless violence.
The three characters in “The Caretaker”
are a lunatic, a hooligan and a bum. The
two in “The Dumb Waiter” are hired
killers whose main worry is how to fill
in time in a basement waiting for the
next' victim to be pushed through the
door. As a climax to “The Room” we
are treated to the sight of a blind old
man being savagely kicked around by a
gross truck driver.
This sordidness and violence may in
itself be meant to suggest something
important about humanity. Certainly it
has the effect of stripping people down
to the essential beast, who cadges the
least comfort, and grasps desperately at
anything which will relieve his loneliness
and give him some slender grip on
normality. The violence pointed pre-
cisely because it is senseless, as Mr
Khrushchev seems to know only too well.
It has also an important dramatic
function, for although Pinter has
scrapped many conventions, which are
certainly worn-out, he never fails to
maintain a horrible, fascinating suspense.
Such a black shadow of irrationality lies
over his work that one genuinely fea=s
the next twist, so much more than usual
because it is bound to be quite unex-
pected. Only in “The Dumb Waiter” is
it possible to predict what the culminat-
ing horror will be.
Darkness, however, is only one side
of Pinter’s lunacy What is most
memorable is his extraordinary dialogue
and his profound insight into the petti-
ness on which men survive. With him,
irrelevance is raised to the level of art.
Most of our time is wasted trying to get
through to other people. Pinter’s people
seem to have given up the struggle. All
they do is build a monstrous mound
of trivialities which reveal them as surely
as the contents of their pockets would.
“The Caretaker” is his masterpiece.
Although its action achieves nothing
more than the arrivrl and departure of
a cunning old scoundrel who is put up
in a decaying, deserted house by a
couple of brothers, it is superbly funny
and genuinely moving. Oscillating be-
tween comic inarticulateness and violent,
pathetic outbursts, its grip on the
audience never slackens. TJ.cen as a
whole it leaves the impression, essential
to a work of art, of being a complete
statement of the lives and dreams of its
people; and each one of its parts is
absorbing and illuminating.
Much of it could well survive on the
amazing accuracy of the dialogue alone.
Davies the old tramp, is a marvellously
flea-bitten garrulous creation, and
in Irene Mitchell’s careful, assured pro-
duction he justly emerges as the central
figure. Only he, of the three men, pre-
serves any mental balance, and despite his
wheedling and bumbling, he seems there-
fore the only one with whose self-respect
we can sympathise. Michael Duffield
mastered the character and dominated
the play. The parts of the two brothers are
probably more difficult, since they must be
eccentric without being mannered.
Neither Kevin Brayshaw, as the mindless
modern hooligan, nor Kevin Miles, as
Aston the lunatic, quite succeeded. In a
deliberately and cleverly repetitious play,
their overworked, and rather stagey
mannerisms seemed to suffer by the con-
trast. Little is gained by trying to force
feelings on to a play like this ; positive
violence is done to it by trying to induce
atmosphere with inconsequential snippets
of music played in pitch darkness.
By coincidence, the two short plays
appeared for a week immediately before
“The Caretaker” and at the same th atre.
Apart from a very self-conscious scaf-
folding of a set for “The Room,” George
Dixon’s productions were straightforward
and let the plays emerge clearly. The
brilliance of both plays rests on the lost,
anxious meanderings of the almost sub-
human characters, but the surprise horror
endings are contrived, even though they
do make their point. “The Room” is
by far the better play, and Lola Russell’s
performance of Rose Hudd, a lonely
poor soul who surrounds herself with
desperately comforting chatter about the
cosiness of her room in another of
Pinter’s uncanny, labyrinthine old houses,
was sensitive and intelligent. The enter-
prise of her little company merits success.
BILL HANNAN
Edge of Greatness
Duel of Angels. Giradoux. Old Vic
Company. Theatre Royal, Sydney.
The Time of the Cuckoo. Arthur
Laurents. Independent Theatre.
Here Under Heaven. Mona Brand.
W.W.F. Theatre. Sydney.
iven only a little time, one could
make out quite a case for regarding
Giradoux as the French version of
Bernard Shaw. He deals with ultimate
problems of good and evil in the same
juggling paradox mode as Shaw. He
spins almost as many words as Shaw.
He teeters just as maddeningly on the
edge of greatness as did Shaw. The
critic on the sidelines feels the
same urge as with Shaw —to yell at the
balancing figure: “For God’s sake, just
for once go flat out. Fall over and be a
genius!”
As becomes a French equivalent of
Shaw, Giradoux is wittier. He is warmer,
he has eaten the lamb chop that Mrs
Patrick Campbell once urged on Shaw.
For Giradoux, which is most important
as a difference from Shaw, people do not
stop short a little below the intellect.
Because the Giradoux people are
entire, we can go along with them far
more. The intellectual disputations sud-
denly are changed to vital quarrels be-
tween rival organisms of flesh and blood
and appetites. With Shaw, except most
rarely, this doesn’t happen ; we listen to
and admire the brilliant verbalism of
puppets.
“Duel of Angels,” to be brief, is theatre
fare of the most exalted quality. Pro-
duced with reckless brilliance by Mr
Robert Helpmann—reckless because the
production abounds in beautifully cal-
culated risks —Miss Vivien Leigh’s “Vice”
and Miss Sally Home’s “Virtue” in red
dress and white engage each other in a
marvellous ebb and flow fight which must
be seen to be wondered at.
Talking to Mr Helpmann in the inter-
val, I was struck by his comment on the
way in which Giradoux hated men. “It’s
an extraordinary hatred,” Helpmann
said, “it comes "Out all through—‘Mad-


woman of Chaillot,’ this play, even the
‘Ondine’—hatred of men.”
I go along with this, with the qualifi-
cation that Giradoux hated men only
because he could see their perfectibility ;
he was impatient for them to become
angels too, as women are, angels fit for
duels, angels fit for writing about.
Settings by Felix Kelly, costumes by
Dior and the acting by the company are
superb to excellent. Miss Leigh has a
triumph, though it could be even more
of a wonder if she would add a trifle
more devil.
At the Independent, which sorely needs
a money-making hit, we have a
revival of Arthur Laurents’ “The Time
of the Cuckoo.” This Independent suc-
cess of a decade or so ago hardly seems
to be the answer.
The play comes back on to the present
stage as a tired piece, something we have
now heard many times. Played with
verve, with Latin fire and spinal energy,
this orthodox tale of American tourists
coping with the different mores of Venice,
with thoughts of love and passion com-
peting with their bankbooks, might have
come across with a little nostalgic glow.
Miss Doris Fitton’s production, how-
ever, is so undistinguished, so coy and
yet so obvious, and the playing of Miss
Jessica Noad and Mr Peter Williams so
unsubtie and non-ingratiating, that little
can be rescued.
Maybe it’s going to attract some
starved suburban matrons. What the Inde-
pendent should do is to take a look at
the sort of plays that have been “hits”
for them lately—“ View From the
Bridge,” “Inherit the Wind,” “The
Crucible” —and sort things out from
there.
Pven today didactic theatre has a place
in the sun, but the perils of this sort
of theatre are very great. Mona Brand’s
play avoids none of these perils, and
in fact rushes towards them in a self-
destructive orgy of cliche, melodrama and
cliche once more.
Setting out to deal with race prejudice,
Miss Brand does little more than tell us
that it exists. She localises the problem
with an upper-crust grazing family in
Queensland, surprised by the wartime
Chinese bride of the eldest son. Miss
Brand’s observation of her characters is
sketchy at best, and little in the play
reaches below the first layer of skin.
We need far more from a play on this
topic than a bare exposition of racial
prejudice in action. Some attempt at
solution, some insights on the potent
factors of the giant problem are fair
demands on the writer. Instead of this
sort of help, Miss Brand gives us , e
same cliches that have been of no help
to anyone for the past thousand years.
In the long run, “Here Under Heaven”
does nothing for us that United Press
and Reuters don’t do at least 50 times a
week. Whilst we may admire Miss
Brand’s zeal for a cause, she will have
to get down to her art.
KEVON KEMP
ART
Floating Wraiths
Sidney Nolan. Australian Galleries.
Melbourne.
'T’he recent paintings by Sidney Nolan
on show at the Australian Galleries
are not nearly so compelling as the grand
series he did before he went away, which
established his fame. There can be no
doubt that he is a fine mood painter and
a master of landscape, but the content
of the work is slight. What was good for
Gaugin seems rather fanciful today —
girls in jungles, couples in jungles, girls
in lily-ponds, beasts and convicts in
swamps. If it is subject painting, then
the subjects are just engaging ; and if
it is something else it is very hard to
see what. Nolan’s imagination, virile and
fervent though it may be, seems to dwell
in distant, misty parts.
Yet as lyrical pieces, as moments of
bright vision set down by a fine and
original craftsman, they have substantial
merits. They are worth contemplating
at some length because they have a
certain power to charm you into their
world. There would not be many better
colorists than Nolan ; he can stimulate
and enchant with color alone. And very
few can depict so freely the subtle
moods of a landscape. In most of the
large works in this exhibition, nature is
cool, dim and sensuous, and the human
figures are hazy, floating wraiths, now
and again picked out by a bright band
of color which introduces just the merest
hint of eroticism into the painting. The
only contrast to the jungle, swamp and
water scenes is provided by. a rocky,
brbwn Greek Island landscape which
sums up to perfection the fascination of
hot, arid places, a fascination which has
already played a large part in Nolan’s
best work.
Accompanying the lr je works is a
series of small paintings and lithographs
on the Leda and the Swan theme. As a
theme Nolan endows it with no particu-
lar interest, but he does wring a tremen-
dous of movement and variation
from the brilliant juxtaposition of figures
and background, and once again (though
with this theme there’s nothing much
else to do) he injects a langorous eroticism
into the works.
In all, this show is not so impressive
as many no doubt hoped it would be,
Nolan is certainly gifted with a free and
original imagination and a marvellous
sense of the mood of a place. Although
he prefers the exotic, he can for the
most part convince you it is real. The
constant, and sometimes startling
appearance of human figures in his
scenes enables a tension to be preserved
always between nature and the beings
who live by it, and it is this quality in
the long run which establishes both his
warmth and his intelligence as a painter.
BILL HANNAN
New Vista
Russell Drysdale. Macquarie Galleries.
Sydney.
Tn his latest show Drysdale opens yet
another vista of the outback. His
view of the aboriginal from the outside
provides a fascinating contrast to the way
the aboriginal sees himself in the baric
paintings just around the corner. To
move from one to the other brings each
mode of vision into relief.
Drysdale extracts powerful elements
of mystery, tinged with romantic melan-
choly, from his contemplation of
aborigines. “Mangula” brilliantly solves
the problem of integrating a girl’s figure
with an involved background of highly
geometric grave posts. The links are
formal and poetic at the same time. This
sense of mystery reaches depths of
characterisation without, however, pene-
trating to the core. From darkness we
are led into further darkness, the eternal
groping, which is, perhaps, the greatest
weakness of Romantic painting. It
accounts in part for the tendency of
artists born in a light-saturated coun-
try to hanker after the lower register of
tones.
The humanism of Russell Drysdale is
nowhere more evident than in “Man
and Woman,” which, through its dry
scumbled earths, vividly realises the shy,
awkward dignity of an aboriginal couple.
Again, it is the weathered monumentally,
the exciting ruggedness of accents on
hands, face and hat that brings “Happy
Jack” to life as a personality, or makes
“Old Harry” solidify out of the hazy
gloom of evening, shaggy and soiled The
impact is no doubt due in some measure
to Drysdale’s device of imparting sub-
stance to his sitters by placing them on
the right hand side of the canvas. Note-
worthy too in the more successful paint-
ings is his bid for greater color reson-
ance, a welcome change from the gravy
harmonies of his less inspired work. New
too is a further development of surrealis-
tic images. “Man and Bird, Bass Strait”
and “Dawn Flight, Bass Strait,” bear
little relation to the outside world ; they
are hallucinatory. Some of the others, with
the exception of the curious “Willian
Mitchell and Jacky,” slide into easy
facility, a slackening of concentration
and intent. “Half Caste Girl” conjures
up one of those heads Nolan used to
dash off in a light moment years ago. On
the other hand, the drawings some-
times rise to a level of poignancy and
conviction that goes well beyond mere
illustrative skill. It is this quality which
provides Russell Drysdale’s best work
with its most valid reason for existence.
J. HENSHAW


Rule of Squares
Grey - Smith. Bonython Gallery.
Adelaide.
Mr Guy Grey-Smith is both potter
and painter and an ex-R.A.F. pilot.
An appreciation of curves and spheroidal
rhythms results from pot-making and
flying, and he shows in some beautiful
restrained ink-and-water-color drawings
that he can express such universals as
well as anybody. This does not satisfy
him, for by contrast his oils are blatant,
with curves excluded by a chosen tech-
nique of laying on flat rectangles of hard
color with a broad knife. Having admired
the excellence of the small darkly lyrical
water colors, the oils reminded me of
Sir Arthur Sullivan's lifelong wish to
compose real grand opera. Battling with
a tough technique has obvious develop-
mental value for an artist, but the more
important and final battle is with the
public which has to buy and look at the
paintings, and I found it impossible to
become engaged with Mr Grey-Smith,
while he on his part was pre-occupied
with finding out how a potter may suc-
cessfully unpot himself into an oil
painter who uses only two-dimensional
colored rectangles and trapezoids.
“Portrait of the Artist’s Wife” is the
best of the oils ; the figure is very digni-
fied and the curve of the arms resists
the artist’s private rule of squares, so
that the total effect is one of color bal-
ance and tension with the schizophrenia
between quadrilaterals and ellipticals
partly resolved in a successful work of
art. An attempt to do the same thing
with a tree has failed in “River Gum.”
The entire exhibition suggests that Mr
Grey-Smith, if he wants to make oil
paintings which derive from his whole
artistic talent and not merely from part
of it, should now allow himself more
looping the loop amongst the squares.
“Towards the Ashburton'' has an effec-
tive color pattern which makes its points
by sheer repetition, and “Ghost Mine”
shows the anaemia of deserted buildings
in red surroundings. “Fossils” and
“Manganese Country” seem the best of
a dozen drawings and water-colors,
mostly good landscapes. The exhibition
also displays silk-screen prints and
pottery; and pleasant textiles designed
and hand-printed by the artist’s wile.
EARLE HACKETT
FILMS
Corn Rehashed
Back Street, Sydney State.
Fannie Hurst’s best-seller has been
filmed several times. When it ducks
up again, with two of today’s leading
film stars and every glossy trick of color
photography, it is because a bad woman
is always good Box Office. “Back
Street” suggests that public morals alter
more rapidly than popular taste, but that
bathos can still be wrung out of any-
thing.
The situation is still actual: the in-
soluble triangle, in which only holy matri-
mony stands in the way of mortal love.
But despite the splendid acting of Susan
Hayward, excellently supported by John
Gavin, no modern audience can accept
without giggles the Hurst impasse; or the
implied tragedy. In the new version,
Susan Hayward’s “other woman” lives
on the pig's back, in Rome and Paris.
She becomes an object of envy rather
than pity. Moreover, Vera Miles as the
alcoholic wife becomes (in an age of
casual cocktail morals) an object of
ridicule rather than shame. Because the
director has failed to see these conse-
quences of hashing up old corn in a new
way, we are given melodrama by acci-
dent instead of by design. What is new
is the sophistication of the background,
the interior settings, and the exquisite
clothes (Susan Hayward is wholly cred-
ible as couturiere). But the Hurst vehicle
is so banal and antiquated that every
visual advantage gained is a psychologi-
cal trick lost, it is almost as if “Uncle
Tom’s Cabin” were played in modern
dress, to present the problems of race
hatred at Little Rock.
Denied the pathos of great love ob-
structed by rigid social codes, we are
given the bathos of small love, perversely
cruel. Since the new version cannot wrest
much audience reaction from the wife-
and-mother, whose position is no longer
automatically sacrosanct, it concentrates
on father and son to provide a barrage of
Hurstian cliches on family life. Un-
fortunately, the 12-year-old horror
chosen to defend the sanctity of mar-
riage is misbegotten, miscast and mis-
directed. For the first hour, “Back
Street” is a smoothly tailored as any
story in the “Ladies’ Home Journal”; but
as soon as he takes over we are fumbling
among the advertisements for corn-
flakes, or for the key to a bachelor
apartment.
ANTON VOGT
RADIO
Too Timid?
ltalia Prize competitions for
radio and television are over for
another year. The event appears to
have passed without notice, and yet
the Italia Prize is one of the most
important annual international literary
events. This year it attracted entries
from broadcasting organisations in
more than 20 countries, and awards
were won by works from Sweden,
Austria, England, Italy, France,
Switzerland, Yugoslavia, America and
Ireland. Some of the writers who have
won in the past are Dylan Thomas,
Frederick Durrenmatt, J. Bronowski,
John Mortimer and Samuel Beckett.
Radio appears to be at a public
discount in Australia. The shock that
television gave is still rumbling in
the radio room. Overseas the shock
merely shifted the pieces into new
places, and radio emerged stronger
and more identifiable.
Instead of lamenting the shift in
ratings from those programmes that
television could manage more success-
fully, programmes that attempted to
compete with the cinema, music hall
and glossy magazine, overseas pro-
grammers leapt at the opportunity to
capitalise on the new freedom. Realis-
ing that radio, a medium restricted to
sound, and thereby qualified by
imagination alone, had not realised its
potential, the 8.8. C., for instance,
found works from those writers who
were working at the most imaginative
level, Pinter, lonesco, Beckett. The
results were more than satisfying, “All
That Fall,” “Embers,” “A Night
Out,” “L’ Impromptu de L'Aima."
The process lead to the establishment
of a new art, and a surprisingly large
number of writers have contributed :
D. G. Bridson, Norman Corwin,
Tyrone Guthrie, Arch Oboler, Giles
Cooper, Louis MacNeice, Archibald
MacLeish and W. H. Auden.
Australia has been more timid.
Reluctant to experiment, radio in Aus-
tralia is only slowly emerging from its
traditional role. But still there is a
body of writers and writing concerned
to explore the medium, even though
cautiously. Douglas Stewart, Colin
Thiele, George F. Kerr, Barbara
Vernon, Alan Seymour, Bruce Stewart,
have all written plays deserving of
preservation, and symptomatic of new
demands, new techniques.
At this stage in its development,
radio needs the courage to test these
new techniques. The radio experience
is essentially a private one, it is the
return of the small voice, the
conscience to art: its ingredients are
sound and silence. It is concerned
with the word rather than with the
situation. Beckett's “Embers” has, as
its situation, a man sitting by the
beach thinking. That is situation
enough. What is needed now is the
further experiment. Who can say
where it could lead? For, being non-
physical, the experience is as wide as
the imagination and as limited as
Time.
JOHN CROYSTON


The Red Page
Beyond the Black Stump
By DOUGLAS TERRY
r T'HE Outback was once a world where
sheep drovers, boundary riders,
camel drivers and inland river skippers
were an everyday part of the scene. These
men battled, with primitive bush condi-
tions, enduring loneliness, wearying dis-
tances. It was hard living and rough
tucker, “goat and galah,” but it was a
life spent in the open and free of bosses.
“I like a land,” a bushman told George
Farwell.* “where the sky comes down
to your boots. You really feel you're on
your own.”
But now the horizons are closing in,
the isolated kingdoms of the cattle run
grow smaller and radio, airlines, graded
roads diminish the lonely spaces. “1
never go south of the Queensland border
any more,” a stockman confessed "Too
many perishing fences. A man feels kind
of shut in.” Many of the old pioneers
have passed on leaving no written record
of their lives and the aborigines as a
race have died out. Beyond the Black
Stump the songmen are out clicking their
sticks, lamenting the age that is past.
Given our energy, optimism and
rich potential the almost obsessive
interest we have in the past comes as
a special irony. Yet this is nothing new.
The melancholy pursuit of the dead and
the dying has been going on for some
time. Writers rattle round the interior,
ears the size of conch shells, eyes like
buggy lamps, equipped with a Do-it-
yourself Millionaire’s Kit—a miner’s
pick and a gold-washing dish, observing,
recording, turning up the occasional
nugget. Some lurk around the pub on
the Birdsville, tape recorder at the ready,
waiting for case-histories to rein in at
the bar. Others, the woolier ones, come
hopping back from the spinifex, shake
themselves out and press what they find
between the pages of a new book.
What is disappearing may well be, as
Farwell suggests, a kind of “prehistory”
of Australian civilisation and to that
extent it is worth documenting. There is
plenty of scope here for someone like
the social historian prepared to follow
up leads on a limited front or plot in
the details of family history as Judith
Wright and Mary Durack have done
recently. And if progress means, as A. M.
Duncan-Kemp implies, a loss in indepen-
dence, finesse, family life, the death of
a point of view, it is important while
there is time that all this be isolated and
studied. The ones to do it are those who
know what they are looking for.
In general however the accounts we
get, the type recognisable in Lock-
wood. Rees, Harney and Chauvel for
example, tend to be essays in popular
journalism where the material is raw,
personal and anecdotal, the tone uncriti-
cal and nostalgic, written it would seem,
from the few demands made on our
resources, to be spoken out loud rather
than read in a corner away from the
mob. Incident is described and not ex-
perience, event is preferred to growth
and none of it is deeply felt or com-
municated with much sensitivity. The
text does not emerge naturally like the
branch of a tree but is rather stuck on
like so many travel labels.
T>art of the difficulty is that it is all so
* much a journey wihout maps over
the same thin terrain and except tor the
fresh eye and ear that is brought into
play the results, at least in the worst
of them, are often superficial and repeti-
tive. There is no building up of anything
substantial. The graves that are
left can be pushed away with the
palm of the hand. The explorers weave
blackfeller tracks through the empties
and rusted iron along the fringes of
literature.
Farwell rightly criticises one image,
that of the over-romanticised picture of
the coaching days that has been built up,
in which the lights of Cobb and Co.
appear to shine on unreal drovers and
shearers exuding an impossible mateship
over the bar; yet the vision is more
extensive and needs some drastic correc-
tion, particularly since recent writers
seem to suffer from the same kind of
sandyblight. They see only the strange,
the exotic; their landscapes are lunar,
their human types larger than life. They
pose the old imprecisions, the false dis-
tinction between town and country, be-
tween one Australia that is coastal and
a second which begins somewhere beyond
the range. There is no shading off
underlined by argument.
More important, they persist in
nourishing the myth that bush life
is more satisfying, that it is better to die
under a gum tree than between sheets
in the city. “That’s one of the beauties
of the back country,” notes Farwell,
“life becomes simplified. It has to be.
The whole atmosphere has a wider, more
elemental character than we in the cities
can ever know.” Participating in the
mystery of Nature herself is one aspect
of the mystique, and it is developed with
great charm by A.M. Duncan-Kemp,
the other is that a hostile environment
brings out the best qualities in man,
toughness, resilience, faith. While we
trot doggy-like through suburbia, the
bushman is out, a shadow of his former
self, but still, we are told, performing
epic deeds that call for recklessness, self-
reliance, a wry sardonic sense of humor,
an unquenchable thirst.
HPhe four books under review are inter-
esting for the way in which they
handle local material, how they add to
the mystique, how carelessly they define
it. One is a piece of reportage, one is
half-way between journalism and social
history, one is straight social history, one
is a statement of family history. Ihe
last two seem to offer the most rewarding
approaches to the past.
“The Awakening Giant” is a report
on Australia north of Capricorn, our
“terra incognita” potentially one of the
richest in the world and as large as
western Europe. It is the product of a
couple of trips Bill Beatty made to the
north and he has returned with bits of
history, anecdotes, news items and
general advocacy aimed at the tourist.
He bin go ionga walkabout, catchem
proper goanna.
The material is diffuse and slight,
hardly likely to excite any but those who
haven't been doing their homework
lately. Of Mt Isa for example we learn:
“The Public Library is a magnificent one
opened in 1958, and the books are attrac-
tively covered in transparent plastic ;
about half of them are non-fiction.” The
cliches cling to the text like grass burrs.
The new Memorial Cathedral in Darwin
is “an expression of the great possibili-
ties of the Territory of tomorrow. It is
a guarantee for the future.” Indifferent
writing like this should not be tolerated.
“Vanishing Australians” by George
Farwell aims to preserve the memory
of blade-shearers, fossickers, bush cooks
and a host of others. In depicting these
bush types he has something to say about
cattle droving, shearing, swaggies, Bill
Harney, Michael Fomenko and eccentrics
like Mad Mick he met at a place called
Guy Fawkes. It is a fragmentary study,
the embalming is not the best and the
basic assumptions are dubious. The
anecdotes are well toid.
The outback father and son were
down for the bull sales in Bi isbane.
“Y’know, son, some of these Queen
Street sheilas aren't too bad on the eye. ’
* Vanishing Australians. George Far-
well. Rigby. 225. 6d.
The Awakening Giant. Bill Beatty.
Cassell. 255.
River Boats. lan Mudie. Rigby.
28s. 6d.
Our Channel Country. A. M. Duncan-
Kemp. Angus and Robertson.
28s. 6d.


“You’re right, Dad. They’re getting
to look darker every day.”
Then there was the sheep drover who
went on a bender and died in the pub
after two days. His mates who were being
shouted propped him up at one end of
the bar and continued to drink his health
until his check cut out.
lan Mudie's “River Boats” is a studied
piece of reconstruction, limited in scope
and the more effective for being so, that
fills in a few big blanks on the map. With
the help of a Commonwealth grant he
has worked his way through the records
to determine the nature and importance
of the river trade in the early days of
the Murray and Darling. It is an absorb-
ing work, nicely shaped and balanced, a
modest contribution.
“Our Channel Country” by A. M.
Duncan-Kemp is the graceful story of
her life spent in the channel country of
South-Western Queensland, the Coopei-
Diamantina area. Her parents were
pioneers of the region and experienced
the hardships of bush life to the full.
The book details her childhood reminis-
cences, the early education of youth on
the land, concluding with this tribute:
“I am grateful to the aborigines for what
I learnt from them of the good earth and
its harvest, of human values and of dig-
nity and decency —and reality. And I
am deeply grateful to my parents for
the life they gave me as a child in the
Diamantina channel country —the richest
life I have ever known —for with it came
the resources of life which are inde-
structible.”
It is a vivid piece of sustained recall,
an oddly-moving, sensitive record, the
product of great love. The author has
one or two other books to her credit.
This one seems to be something rather
special. Let us hope there will be more
to come.
Hogarth of the Psyche
The Runaway. Ruth Morris. Rigby
Ltd. 15s. 6d.
The Reckoning. Michael Horbach.
Bodley Head. 18s. 9d.
The Agony and the Ecstasy. Irving
Stone. Collins. 31s.
The Key. Junichiro Tanizaki. Seeker
and Warburg. 15s. 6d.
When a blurb tells me that my “heart
will be warmed,” I am immediately
on the defensive. I have a strong aver-
sion to having my heart warmed so, like
Scrooge at Christmas time, I defiantly
hardened it against Ruth Morris’s “The
Runaway”—the story of an orphan-girl
who runs away from her heedless
guardians, and does a sort of Australian
“Grand Tour” of the bush with a horse
and a dog for company.
But —all the world loves an odyssey.
It satisfies that urge in us to take off into
the wild blue yonder, and “The Run-
away” is an Australian odyssey, a youth-
ful version of “The Shiralee,” written
for the young in heart, and who wants
to admit they are not?
The heroine, Joanne, is a charmer with
just the right amount of toughness to
appeal to young Australians, though the
novel is obviously slanted for the over-
seas market with its careful explanations
of such native cliches as emus, billies and
damper. Just the same it's true, one’s heart
was warmed, but in a jolly, forthright way
that quite skilfully excluded sentimen-
tality from what so easily might have
been a sugary tear-jerker.
“The Reckoning” is a variation on the
Lost Generation theme. Herbert Grotius,
a journalist in Bonn (and a former
member of Hitler's Youth League), has
only a short time to live. His kidneys
are shattered by a wound from the
Second World War; he exists on mor-
phine and grog, the love of his girl,
Carla, and a secret purpose. He is in
possession of proof that people in high
places are working to restore the Nazi
Party.
The book alternates between staccato
bursts of narrative and the mutterings of
the interior monologue. It speaks for
what the author wishes us to consider as
“the guiltless"—the conscripted youth of
Hitler's war who were too young to
withstand the inflammable slogans of
Nazism. Sometimes, Horbach does suc-
ceed in conveying the shame and despair
of one who belongs to a dishonored
country. But more often he verges on
the maudlin, and there are altogether far
too many tears and beers. This breast-
beating German novel is shot through
with inverted chauvinism, so that one
wonders if it would have been written
had Germany not lost the war.
Irving Stone has come up with a suc-
cessor to “Lust for Life,” his popular
biography of Van Gogh, and in “The
Agony and the Ecstasy” he dramatises
with the same skill and veracity all the
available facts of Michelangelo's life and
vocation. The sculptor is shown against
a background of the political and reli-
gious ferment of the day and, once again,
Stone writes what must be his favorite
scene where the creative ecstasy of his
hero is lushly paralleled with sexual
intercourse.
The system of patronage of those
times bears a remarkable resemblance to
stories of Hollywood's patronage of
writers —the favored one is left cooling
his creative heels for months on end
while receiving bed and board, being
simply “retained" at the whim of some
motion-picture mogul in the guise of a
Borgia or Medici. In fact, the aura of
Hollywood hovers around the whole
book.
Extensive reading of psychiatric case-
histories finds me stoutly prepared for
Japanese novelist Junichiro Tanizaki’s
“The Key." At first sight this book
would appear to be a study of eroto-
mania. If you are purient—there are
plenty of tidbits for you. But, as this dis-
tinguished novelist intended, prurience
will be overcome and cast down by a sense
of desolation and horror as his story
rounds itself off.
There are only four characters in the
book, which is written as the alternating
entries of two diaries—one -by the Japan-
ese husband, and the other by his wife,
Ikuko. There is their daughter, Toshiko,
and the fiance, Kimura. Told in purely
sexual terms, the story portrays a tragic
mis-mating that drives all four prota-
gonists to acts that could only be called
corrupt. The common (if secret) marital
problem which this short, precise novel
dramatises will ring a discordant bell
for many a Western reader.
The author's affinity with Us early
influences —those Hogarths of the psyche,
Poe, Wilde and Baudelaire —is striking.
A classically simple and beautifully-
wrought novel; but not my cup of saki!
THELMA FORSHAW
Dirges, not Serenades
The Donkey??. Alan Clark. Hutchinson.
255.
'T'he great controversies relate to 1916
and 1917 ; and the great memorials,
too: Passchendaele and the Somme, for
instance. Alan Clark’s book is about the
Western Front in 1915, a year he feels
to have been comparatively neglected.
Nonetheless, it covers some resounding
names: Neuve-Chapelle, the Ypres
salient, the Aubers ridge, Loos.
The later years saw the demoralisation
and destruction firstly of the British
volunteers and then of the conscripts ;
1915 is the year in which the professional
army was wiped out —almost to a man.
“In the first two hours of the Battle of
Loos more British soldiers died than the
total number of casualties in all three
services on both sides on D-Day, 1944.”
The chief “donkeys”—but the list is
not exhaustive—are: French, Haig, Raw-
linson and Wilson. Their responsibility
for these massive slaughters is beyond
question, but Mr Clark has devoted too
much of his book to descriptions of the
battles and too little to putting in perspec-
tive the men who set them up for others
to die in. The difficulty, however, is
inherent in the subject matter. The
battles speak for themselves and are an
effective comment on the men in charge ;
but in terms of men how does one
account for the men in charge?
We all recognise their plain incapacity
for the work in which they were supposed
to be experts: professional soldiering.
Two very ordinary instances which Mr
Clark presents vividly are the “battle" of
the Aisne in 1914 and the Neuve-Chapelle
“offensive.” In the former French and
Flaig for once demonstrated a reluctance


Public- Library Lecture Room — Institute Building
North Terrace, Adelaide
Bth to 18th November
THROUGH BRITISH EYES
an exhibition of travel books and periodicals arranged by
THE BRITISH COUNCIL
Honrs: Monday-Friday, 9.00 aun.—s.oo p.m.—Saturday; 9.00 a.in.—12 noon.
ADMISSION FREE
“You promised me the day off
when I tested these, Leonardo."
to pour in their troops ; the German
armies which had been forced to retreat
after the Marne engagement ended up
separated by the Marne River with,
between them, an almost totally unpro-
tected front. As the opportunity had
arisen for vigorous and effective action
French thought it was appropriate to go
cautiously and the British advance—when
he finally ordered it —came too late;
against the possibility that it might have
done some good even then Haig brought
his divisions to a halt.
This is important because it was after
the wasted opportunities of Aisne that
the war took on the trench and dugout
shape that was to last, almost without
alteration, for four years. And French,
unable to grasp the fact that he had lost
fluidity, mounted the senseless offensives
that Mr Clark later describes.
The Neuve-Chapelle ‘'battering-ram”
was Haig's idea ; the conception is not
a text-book example of military strategy,
but with a force thirty-five times larger
than the enemy’s and after a tremendous
bombardment a breach was made in the
German line, one of the very few
breaches of the war on the Western
Front. After that the troops, facing no
opposition, waited for the order to
advance to trickle up their extended lines
from Haig. The order when it came
was that an advance was not “practic-
able.” When, in Haig’s estimation, it
became “practicable” when, in fact, it
was to be “pressed vigorously,” the
advantage of surprise had been lost and,
with much killing, the offensive ran down
into failure.
Apart from their stupidity, however,
what strikes one about the “donkeys” is
that they really could not conceive of
the war at all ; they were neither able
to conduct it in terms of strategy nor to
think of it as involving human beings ;
it was not their private game so much
as their private thought. Consequently,
the only time a “donkey” like Haig
appars a human being at all is when he
is at his worst: for example, when—
and Mr Clark brings it to life —he is
successfully intriguing with the Cabinet
both to bring down his commander,
French, and to bring down their Secretary
for War, Kitchener.
ALWYN KARPIN
Without Whitewash
Australia and New Zealand Bank.
S. J. Butlin. Longmans. 455.
HThe earliest known rules of an Austra-
lian bank insisted that no employee
could leave the office for a minute with-
out the bank’s consent. Half a century
later the manager of the Bank of Aus-
tralasia at Broad Arrow abandoned his
branch for several days and took the
barmaid of Webb’s hotel to Kalgoorlie
for riotous marriage.
The bank's attitude to public opinion
has also changed dramatically, and every
page of Professor Butlin's book 'effects
this change. If an Australian bank had
sponsored the writing of 'ts history 20
years ago it would have —like most Aus-
tralian companies today—whitewashed
every stain and blot. It is hard to see
whitewash in this history.
The A.N.Z. Bank was fomed in 1851
with the merging of the powerful banks,
the Australasia and the Union. As those
banks had absorbed five pigmy banks
before the gold rushes and the strong
Bank of South Australia before the bank
crashes, they were heir to much of Aus-
tralias economic history. They were
also heir to a unique collection of im-
perial banking records which Professor
Butlin examined impartially for many
years.
Certainly for Australian history and
possibly for New Zealand history this
is one of the most useful books since
the war. Banks were giants in the last
century and banking history has tended
to be a field of myth and mystery ; hence
the legends that Professor Butlin scythes.
The three main ancestors of the A.N.Z.
were born in London in the JB3o's and
nurtured in Australia by the smell of
tallow and wool in the squatting boom.
They pioneered branch banking, the
aggressive hunt for deposits, and what
for nearly a century was the orthodox
market in foreign exchange. The Union
was the first bank in New Zealand, the
Australasia sent a banker to the village
of Melbourne with £3OOO of coin and
two bulldogs, and the South Australia
banked for the first settlers on the beach
at Glenelg.
From the start these banks faced the
crucial problem of controlling their staff
from the remoteness of London. Two of
these Anglo-Australian banks mastered
this problem but the Bank of South
Australia was slaughtered by stupid
advice and reckless managers. Happy
the bank that can pay dividends without
earning profits, and this bank was happy
in ten of the 11 years to 1888. '"The
directors piled blunder on blunder,”
wrote Butlin, and their costliest blunder
was to open in Melbourne at the height
of the land boom and lend a fortune to
doomed speculators. The spars from the
wreck were salvaged by the Union Bank.
The South Australia was one of the
54 banks that fell in Australia in the
early 1890’s. The Union and Australasia
were two of the only three large banks
that remained open, and they clung to
solvency by their cautious policy in the
long boom that heralded disaster. So
rash were many of the colonial banks
in these fat years that Butlin thinks that
the bank disasters could have come in
uny year after 1870.
It is fascinating to see the rise and fall
of institutions in a competitive trade,
and Butlin analyses skilfully the failure
of the Australasia and the Union to get
their share of the expanding business
from the 1860's on. He suggests that
they were partly the victims of colonial
nationalism the prejudice that made
Queenslanders, for example; prefer a
local to a London bank. Moreover, the
caution that enabled them to ride the
whirlwind restrained them from expand
ing swiftly in calm years. Above all,
both banks were managed at crucial
times by septuagenarians who were not
alert enough to capture rival banks when
the era of mergers began early this
century.
Amongst the tallest myths that Butlin
topples is King O’Malley. His claim to


BOOKHUNTER
Dept. “D.” Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.O. Sydney.
have founded the Commonwealth Bank
seems rather more suspect than his claim
to have founded the Water-lily Rock-
bound Church, a redskin temple in North
America. More important is Butlin's
assertion that Australia’s recovery from
the depression did nothing to prove that
a controlled economy is superior to a
free economy. For the governmental
plans of the early 1930's were largely
the traditional response of supply and
demand, not the plans of Bright Brother.
To woo the general reader the book
has no footnotes and a few hundred
illustrations. In the narrative of 450
pages Professor Butlin has consciously
avoided the strange and the exciting. The
sensational murder of the staff of the
Union Bank at the pearling port of
Roeburne in 1885 gets one sentence and
the banking career of Marcus Clarke,
who was a clerk in the 'Asia, gets none,
That was the only way to stop a vast
set of records from creating a “Gone
With the Wind.”
GEOFFREY BLAINEY
So Wide a Territory
Time on Fire. Thomas W. Shapcott.
21s.
Dark Wind Blowing. Val Vallis.
19s. 6d. Both Jacaranda Press.
r T~'HESE two volumes help to make 1961
a bumper year, in terms of output,
for Australian poetry. As a change, they
also mark a Queensland contribution;
and for those who see Australian poetry
as a running war between Sydney and
Melbourne, with some sporadic sniping
from Adelaide, they add a new dimen-
sion. The Queensland poets, we can
generalise from these two instances, go
in more than the others for romantic
excitement.
I trust it is clear that I put little faith
in these regional distinctions, and that I
do not really think that these two books.
have much in common. It is true that both
of them set out to write exciting poetry ;
but they have very different notions about
what constitutes exciting poetry, and the
end-products are very different.
Thomas W. Shapcott's “Time on Fire”
bears on its handsome wrapper the claim
that he is “one of our outstanding young
poets.” The temptation to compare him
with other poets who have recently pub-
lished first volumes is irresistible ; and
he emerges from the comparison with
mixed results. Set alongside poets like
Chris Wallace-Crabbe, R. A. Simpson
and Charles Higham, he seems for the
main part fresher and livelier, less
sophisticated and knowing. This seems
to the good unless we take the word
knowing seriously: for Shapcott’s weak-
ness is that he lacks the discipline and
control common to the other poets.
When Shapcott really tries for discipline,
we end up with a number of depressing
acrostics, or with sonnets ; and it is in
its own way rather sad that a poet who
spends so much time cutting loose and
being modern should have his clearest
and realest successes under the tiny yoke
of 14 lines that Wyatt introduced to
English poetry more than four centuries
ago. For Shapcott’s best poems seem
to me to be poems like “The Finches”
and “White Cedar in Winter.” This is
“White Cedar in Winter”:
Other than what it is this cedar is:
The sum of leaf and time and branch
and shade
is sum of dance and light and form
and need
and all beyond themselves these
verities
touch out again until the universe,
the world enough for me, is held and
said
by this one tree as essence in one
word, . .
oh word made plain as surest para-
phrase.
That this tree moving in the will of
day
with darkness in its limbs, and its
brief seeds
and winter in its bone-thin branches,
hides
so wide a territory is a way
I may account the darkness in my
veins
and my lean bones and my brief loins
as gains.
1 hope that without going into detail
I may say that this is a fine poem. In
it, the mildly surprising things that are
done with language work within the taut
discipline of the poem. But when the
discipline of Shapcott’s poetry grows less
taut —when it depends not on an imposed
formal order but merely on the disci-
pline of Shapcott's sensibility—the play-
ing-about with language tends to become
just tricksy. For instance, in these lines:
Where there is the taste
of yellow rivering trees
whose branches coral sighs
.and leap to the first awed
and walling precipice
there is always this whip
of jewels turned to splintering
glass, and where the well
imprisons dawn and clouds,
you—water—first
and the terribly
timing sun-wish, have
become all liberty
the eccentricities, unless I am badly mis-
taken, serve simply to disguise the easy
nai'vity of Shapcott's vision. I may be
wrong in supposing that Shapcott's chief
influence is Dylan Thomas ; that is of
little importance beside the fact that
Shapcott, like early Thomas, regards the
twisting of language as a guard against
his own embarrassing simplicity.
I would say that Shapcott lags behind
poets like Wallace-Crabbe, Simpson and
Higham in achievement —though there
are a couple of poems that any of them
might envy ; but that there is a promise
in his work that they tend to lack. There
is a freeness of feeling and language that
they seem to have sacrificed: though, of
course, Shapcott too might have to sacri-
fice this to gain the purposiveness that
he lacks. His book seems in the long
run a premature one: lots of promise,
not too much achievement. Yet even
in those poems which seem messy and
unsure there are often moments for
which one can feel grateful, like:
This land is lovely as it always was,
though in my eyes it spins sharper
and thick
because, today, I marry it with you.
There is not much love poetry that
conveys as simply and deeply as that the
way in which our emotions transform
the world that we see, and yet retains
an objective sense of the way the world
is. I may not think that Shapcott is a
mature and disciplined poet ; but from
now on, jf he'll write it, I'll read it —
at least until further notice.
T7al Vallis’s "Dark Wind Blowing”
* is his second book, but it falls behind
Shapcott’s first. A couple of poems, "In
the Library” and "Sabbatical Leave,”
make it clear that Mr Vallis is an aca-
demic: but he seems intent on keeping
this out of his work as a poet. In “In
the Library” he refers to books as
"graves” and says:
I crouch, afraid of thought ; each
waking grave
Lifts its dead voice: “Not that way,
but this!”
A thousand tongues declare “I am
the Wise!”
Confusion, from the prison, echoes
“Lies . .
This seems a rather staunchily anti-
intellectual attitude for an academic to
assume.
Elsewhere, Mr Vallis’s anti-intellectual-
ism is implicit rather than explicit. His
poems are infused with a sort of
romanticism which seems to be pri-
marily escapist: most of his poems are
about the sea-coast, and a strange place
it turns out to be. It may be that in
the Aran Isles the life of a fisherman is
a perilous one, and that mothers, wives
and sweethearts wait behind on the
storm-swept beach in agonised conversa-
tion ; it doesn't seem to be the case in
Queensland. In writing as if it is, Mr
Vallis seems to have no purpose deeper
than the wish to write passionately ; at
times the results are pleasant, but they
never achieve the dramatic significance
that seems intended.
EVAN JONES


Souls and Cycles
The Soul of India. Amaury de Rein-
court. Jonathan Cape. 435. 9d.
A/Tore than ordinary courage is required
nowadays to produce a book on the
“soul” of France or the United States
(the Russian soul is still tempting, and
the Germans qualify sometimes for the
treatment). Modern writers and their
readers know too many accurate even
though unrelated details about their
modern societies to be easily taken in
by soul stuff of one type or another. But
the Orient seems different. Its mysteries,
its hidden wisdoms, its sacred writings
and, above all, its inadequately docu-
mented history offer a rich field to the
speculative historian. Oriental civilisa-
tions are old, very old indeed, which has
always impressed Yoga practitioners, Zen
addicts and philosophical historians more
than anything else. You get, as it were,
a bird’s-eye view of thousands of years
of the “human condition,’’ nothing really
changes fundamentally, or so it seems,
and without much detailed investigation
you see the Oriental soul emerging as a
steady signpost leading you to an under-
standing of the deeper meaning of his-
tory. Which country is more “wondrous”
than India? Which more “mysterious”
than China?
Riencourt has already presented as
with the soul of China and has now added
India's soul to an ambitious project which
he promises will eventually develop into
a “comprehensive philosophy of history
in several volumes.” This treatment of
the subject dictates its own style:
pompous, repetitive, heavily metaphori-
cal and for the most part incomprehen-
sible. Riencourt destroys previous
“western"’ writers on India with a heavy
barrage of words: “caught in the tight
web of their own specific problems,
trapped by their own intellectual snares,
imprisoned within the narrow vista of
their peculiar outlook on the world,”
“western” writers have failed to look for
an “objective philosophy of history”;
they have failed to see the “great similari-
ties” between Indian and Western civilisa-
tions. They missed the “obvious” fact
that India was “old” when Alexander the
Great invaded its “fringe”; that India had
already passed the same stages of cultural
development as the West was to pass
through two thousand years later, and
so on.
Riencourt provides us with what he
calls alternatively a “guide,” a “connect-
ing thread,” or unassumingly, a “philo-
sophy of history,” which is really a
warmed-up edition of the old cyclical
view of history: “history is life itself and,
like everything else that is alive, it has
both a cyclical rhythm and linear ten-
sion.” This is the point previous writers
have missed. We “westerners” think we
are going on and on, but we are not.
We are just running in a circle or, more
accurately, in a cycle. This cycle is like
a “giant wheel,” moving from life to
death or, in the author’s unusual termin-
ology, from “cultural” to “civilisation.”
What is “culture” in this context? Here
is a selection from the author’s necklace
of definitions: the state of being alive —
the result of the rape of decaying, over-
civilised people by dynamic barbarians—
a pulsating organism—a state of constant,
irrepressible growth —it is essentially
trail-blazing . . . And what is civilisation?
—a rigid crystallisation of a particular
society—the unavoidable horizontal tread
on history’s stairway—the inevitable
pause of a society at the end of its
creativity . . . We best sum up the philo-
sophical discussion in Riencourt’s own
words: “culture lays the emphasis on
the original and unique, civilisation on
the common and general: they are
respectively the Greek and the Roman
ideals.” Which should clear up any con-
fusion still lingering in the reader’s mind.
Some minor puzzles however remain:
India, the author argues, is in the state
of civilisation, its growth is “termin-
ated,” it is dead, at least from a cyclical
point of view. But does Nehru know
this? What is the point in trying to
develop a dead civilisation? The solu-
tion for India obviously lies in some rape
by dynamic barbarians from the north
like the Chinese, for instance. But here
the trouble is that the Chinese themselves
are also in the state of civilisation, their
growth is also terminated. And, to com-
plete the cycle, the West is also dead,
although most Westerners don't know it
yet. It is at this point that we have to
give up any further attempts to apply
Riencourt’s philosophy of history.
The book has nevertheless some
redeeming features. The chapters on
modern India are useful even though
somewhat superficial and thin. His sum-
mary of the institution of caste is the best
section of the book as it is at least in
part based on the work of leading
scholars in this field. It is fortunate that
Riencourt, like most methodologists and
philosophers of history, has not con-
sistently applied his theories to the
contents of the book.
H. A. WOLFSOHN
Quick Look
The Kennedy Government. Stan Opo-
towsky. George G. Harrap. 18s. 9d.
“'T'he Kennedy Government” is in
A certain respects as dated as a back
issue of “Time”. It was writen two or
three months after Kennedy came into
office, but before the Kennedy adminis-
tration had absorbed the shock of Cuba
in foreign affairs, and in domestic
affairs the rout of Kennedy's legislative
programme in Congress. And so. un-
avoidably, “The Kennedy Government"’
can not give us any insight into the re-
allocations of power which have occurred
as a result of such shocks.
What Stan Opotowsky of the “New
York Post” does give us is a series of
compact, crisply written sketches of the
key men in the Kennedy administration
-the President's personal White House
staff, the members of Cabinet, and a
handful of second-line executive per-
sonnel. Opotowsky digs into the percnal
and political background of each subject,
interviews un-named “old friends” and
associates, and mixes in his own impres-
sions. From these varied sources emerge
quick profiles which are sometimes infor-
mative and revealing, and always pleas-
antly readable.
Opotowsky’s ten short pages on U.N.
Ambassador Adlai Stevenson are typical
of the author's technique. There are
snippets from Stevenson’s past speeches
and books which illuminate his attitude
toward the admission of Communist
China to the U.N., toward the possibilities
of fruitful negotiation with the Russians,
and toward the Berlin problem. We iearn
also that “Stevenson had no great love
for John Kennedy,” that he “did not want
to become Ambassador to the U.N.,” and
that he accepted the position “only after
he was assured that he would have con-
siderable voice in shaping foreign policy,
especially where it concerned the U.N.”
For those who may be interested,
Opotovvsky also provides a few gossipy
tidbits: Stevenson receives an average of
one hundred fan letters per day — includ-
ing numerous proposals of marriage; his
cooking is atrocious ; and so forth. This
sort of froth lightens an already light-
weight book.
Readers who have some interest in
American politics will find much of “The
Kennedy Government” a rehash of
familiar material. Such readers followed
the account of Kennedy’s Cabinet selec-
tion when the news was current in the
daily papers and in the widely circulated
American news magazines. Opotowsky’s
pretensions as an “insider” suffer when
one comes upon quotations almost iden-
tical to those found in back issues of
“Time,” his standards of accuracy come
into question when he refers to a non-
existent law preventing G. Mennen
Williams from running for re-election as
governor of Michigan. In any case,
Opotowsky's sketches provide nothing
more, and perhaps even something less
thorough than “Time” and “Newsweek”
cover stories on “the Kennedy men.” On
the other hand. “The Kennedy Govern-
ment” does pul! together and summarize
in one small volume a body of informa-
tion which is scattered about in numerous
periodicals.
CHARLES ORLEBEKE


Continuing our series on the early Governors
LACHLAN MACQUARIE
1: Soldier and Lover
By M. H. ELLIS
Lieutenant-Colonel Lachlan Macquarie
LACHLAN MACQUARIE was the only early Governor
of New South Wales whose life could be described
as romantic. Bligh’s was dramatic, but in Macquarie's
early life, which gave him the mental and official
experiences that moulded him to the work of Governorship,
there is plenty of material from which to write a novel of
love, adventure and war.
He was, in fact, the first Governor, outside Phillip,
with wide experience of the world; he was the first of
them all to have been part of the ceremonial world of
Government Houses and Court society.
He was a junior cadet of one of the clan houses of
the Western Isles, whose lives were removed only a few
years from savagery. When he was born, his chieftain in
Ulva, his second cousin, still exchanged his right of first
night with his clansmen’s brides for ss. or sheep, until his
impoverished little island fell into the rapacious hands of
the Duke of Argyll.
The old fellow had fought at Sheriffmuir in 1715. He
lived to be more than a hundred years old. after having had
16 children, joined the Army at 64 and entertained Dr
Johnson in his rain-soaked mud-floored manor house in
which puddles took the place of a carpet —“the hut of
a gentleman,” decided the observant Boswell after enjoying
its rigors.
Macquarie’s mother was a sister of Maclaine of Loch-
buie, Macquarie’s guardian, another Mull chieftain v/hose
castle at Moy was a ruin and whose sons helped him to
keep a larger estate than Ulva’s going by driving their cattle
to Falkirk Fair. He had much annoyed the authorities,
who fined him for exercising what he considered his unalien-
able feudal privilege of putting one of his recalcitrant clans-
men in a private pit or prison.
Poor as wood, or nearly so, yet accepted as aristocracy
and the society of lairds, Macquarie’s father was only one
of the little fishes among these strange cadet grandees of
Mull. He occupied a little farm at Laggan in the south of
the island of Mull when his famous son was born. There is
strong evidence that the mother was unable to read or
write, for throughout his life abroad Lachlan Macquarie
communicated her entirely by messages written to others.
She, to the last of her old age, remained the occupant of a
little cotter farm worked by her sons and relatives.
In such a family environment he was brought up:
one in which ignorance was combined with remarkable
intelligence and a philosophic mind, in which there was no
intolerance against Catholics, who were there in plenty and
devout; in which poor and rich mingled in a feudal society
such as had become extinct in England a century and
more before. Young Lachlan was born only 15 years after
Culloden and the flight of Bonny Prince Charlie.
For all that he lived in his youth on the farm of 75
acres at Oskamull which his father rented from the Duke
of Argyll, he found his way to Edinburgh Grammar School,
through the bounty of his uncle of Lochbuie, before he
went off to the American War of Independence as an unpaid
volunteer. 15 years old, in the hope of getting a commis-
sion. He succeeded.
He saw the North American colonies, had experience
in Halifax in the snows and bleak winds of Canada. He
saw the Carolinas and Jamaica and returned after eight
years away, a full-fledged senior lieutenant who had never
fired a shot, to the farm then managed by his brother
Charles, who in time became lieutenant-colonel of the
Black Watch. There he worked till he was 27 years old
with a lifetime of the plough and the scythe ahead of him,
reading in the rainy winters, his only excursions to the
market towns.
Just when his life seemed to have settled into this
bucolic groove Pitt’s India Act opened the way for his
appointment, after a rapid and determined appeal to the
influence of several noble kinsmen, as Elder Lieutenant of
the Colonel's Company of the 77th Regiment, a new unit
formed for service in India. He recruited his quota of men
in Glasgow, having walked across the hills of Lome and
Ardnamurchan to the Clyde carrying his own luggage.
TJE made the long voyage to Bombay, meeting Bligh at
Capetown bound for Tahiti in the Bounty and that
curious mercenary in the Dutch Army, the Wuerttemburger.
Colonel Gordon, from whose flocks later came the first
Australian Merinos.
He landed in Bombay as Phillip’s immigrants were
beginning to put up the first permanent Government House
in Sydney in August. 1788, and there he stagnated, pacifying
rioting regiments, remaining as sober as the mosquitoes
allowed, with no prospects of the prize money which was
the incentive of Indian service for more than a year. Then
came the momentous evening when it became permissible
to get drunk on receiving the news that he was to join Sir
Robert Abercromby’s Army off the Malabar Coast which


was to be launched against Tippoo Sahib up the rugged
passes of the Western Ghauts.
He spent months in the green dampness of the Malabar
littoral with its missionary tale landscapes. He marched up
the Ghauts, a tiny microsm amid a horde of 22.000 men
and 130.000 bullocks, his own impressive retinue and
bullocks about him, tens of thousands of male and female
camp followers shrieking on the flanks of the weird
assemblage and the looties harrying them with their banditry
day and night.
He returned with the same horde running helter skelter
away from an enemy they despised. He ploughed over the
torn-up route again the following season and returned
once more, this time full of malaria and mercury and
carried like a corpse, but with the fruits of negotiated victory
—£3oß in compounded prize money—in his grasp. He was
fed with more mercury by the medicoes of Bombay, who
conducted a long war with the mosquitoes for his harassed
carcass. But no longer had the diseases of the tropics
abandoned his parchment-colored carcass than the disease
of love afflicted him and he found himself linked in bondage
with a niece of “a gentleman of high rank and very opulent
fortune" in the East India Company's Service: Miss Jane
Jarvis, daughter of a former Chief Judge in Antigua, who
became the centre of his world.
This young lady was just 21 years old. She had “an
excellent figure, rather above middle size, with a most
pleasing comely face and countenance —what 1 call pretty.
She was endowed with a mind well cultivated and instructed
by the best and most finished education.” He found her
to be “a most pleasing companion and (wrote he) what
you would call an agreeable sonsie ... in short, a most
amiable good girl as ever lived.”
Moreover, apart from her “charming manners and
agreeable disposition.” she boasted a “private fortune of
£6OOO sterling." Naturally it was not easy to acquire this
“delightful, glorious and generous girl.” but in the end.
in a state of ecstacy. he secured her. a consummation which
whetted his ambition and produced in him the most onerous
aspirations.
Henceforward he would order his life to be worthy of
her. planning his days from sunrise when he rose, through
the mornings when he would work, exercise, read according
to a severe regimen; through the social hours of the after"
noon, through dinners at which he pledged himself “never
to drink more than equal to twelve glasses of wine, and
only three of them Madeira.” nor more than a quart of
beer.
And so he married. All good things had fallen in on
the poor subaltern who a few months before had seemed
certain food for a mercury soaked grave: a good and
amiable wife with a tolerable fortune, the position of
major of brigade, a company without purchase; more, in
fact, “than comes to everyone's share from that slippery
Goddess Fortune.”
’Il/'E read in his journals and his letter books of the struggle
T to keep up with the Joneses of Bombay, about the
retreat to Cochin on the Malabar coast to escape bank-
ruptcy, about the campaigns against the Dutch in Cochin
and Ceylon, their end a culmination of success when Sir
Charles Stuart sent him to become Governor of Fort de
Gaulle.
All this in the later stages was threaded through with
acute misery, since his beloved bride had suddenly been
stricken down with tuberculosis and sobbed her heart out
whenever he left her for the wars.
Suddenly it was all over. He was summoned from
Ceylon to find her dying. He struggled to save her, taking
her for a sea voyage to Macao. And there “she died in
the prime of her youth and beauty, the best of women and
the best of wives . . . the dearest and loveliest of women.”
Nothing could “ever efface remembrance of the fearful
and distracting horrors of those dreadful days” while she
lay dying and of the period that followed in which he took
her embalmed corpse back to Bombay for burial with pomp
and circumstance and raised above her tomb a sombre
monument in black marble on which her many virtues were
engraved in gold in several hundred words.
Followed years of adventure and loneliness. We see
him praying for death in a campaign against the Nairs, lead-
ing assaulting columns and recklessly exposing himself. We
see him bestowing his patronage, with the help of the fortune
his wife had left him, on his poor relatives as he struggles
to reanchor himself to normal life. He watches the com-
panies of the 73rd Regiment fording the wide river and
breaching the walls of Tippoo’s Seringapatam with a young
ensign, Henry Antill. the faithful companion of his Aus-
tralian days, bearing the colors. We see him returning
laden wtih his share of Tippoo’s jewels and gold to
Bombay.
Now a new interest absorbs him. The new Governor
of Bombay was Jonathan Duncan, that upright civilian
disinfector of the cesspool of peculation and wrongdoing
which had beset Benares, one of India’s incorruptibles, with
whom he formed a lifelong and intimate friendship.
This “honorable and upright character” appointed him
his military secretary, and with intervals the pair, both
solitaries and with personal griefs to nurse, live together
fast friends. Even when Macquarie ceases to be military
secretary they live together. He becomes Duncan’s alter ego
and administrator.
It is in this role and association that he acquires the
knowledge and experience which make him Australia’s first
real, trained civil service administrator.
He accompanies Duncan on a splendid mission to clip
the wings of the Nabob of Surat. He goes off to Egypt,
arriving too late for the battle of Aboukir Bay, but making
another friendship with a compatriot, the redoubtable
David Baird. Of him his solicitous mother had exclaimed
when she heard that he had been captured by the horrid
torturing Tippoo Sahib and chained to a fellow prisoner
of war: “Week God help the loon wha’s chaint tae oor
Davie!”
Macquarie served for a time as Deputy Adjutant
General of the conquering armies of Egypt. He broke
down in health as always on campaign, taking four mercury
pills a night and three in the morning, and trying to cure
his dhobi itch with nitric acid baths.
Then he was back in Bombay again, a sick shadow,
for recovery and appointment to the command of the 86th
Regiment. And finally he was off to the England which
he had not seen for years.
He sailed on January 6, 1803. when he could hope


n-t£
*u#«sS
The maturing of a great whisky can be
hurried by no man. Here in the famous Bond 7
cellars, quietly ageing in oak, are the
fine whiskies that one day will
go to make the Bond 1 blend.
nmnii
■M
If
bond /
wbiskt
Jine liqueur whisky
BOND 7
ONE OF THE FIVE GREAT WHISKIES OF THE WORLD
92878
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AA' AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established ISIS
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLAS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS
A. C MAITLAND, Managing Director. R. A. CATLEY, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies In all Country Centres
for no rest in the British Isles, for he arrived to find the
country in arms and Boney, telescope to eye, on the cliffs
of Boulogne.
He braved London, “an awkward, rusticated jungle-
wallah, an uncouth and unpolished Indian,” who had been
away 15 years, to serve as Assistant Adjutant to Lord
Harrington, who commanded the defences of the London
District. But he soon became accustomed to the smell
and manners of the Court, making friends among the great,
yet a prey to the Income Tax Department, whose assess-
ment form he politely returned with the request that “you
will be so obliging as to take the trouble of filling it in
yourself in the proper manner.”
It was a year before he could go to Scotland to see his
aged mother; to attend the grand clan funeral of his uncle
and guardian of Lochbuie and in turn assume the guardian-
ship of the latter’s sons.
TTE bought a great part of the old man’s estate in Mull
with his savings and the fortune which his amiable girl
had left him, calling his new property after her, Jarvisfield,
and adopting the name as his title of honor when he
registered himself as a laird.
It seems incongruous that on this long visit to the
haunts of his boyhood, he should have met an'd decided to
marry Miss Elizabeth Campbell, his distant relative, a
daughter of the baronet of Airds, a collateral ancestress of
Campbell, V.C., of the “Q” ships and his brother Lome
Campbell, V.C., of the Mareth Line.
She was, he noted, quite a heroine, one who would
make an excellent soldier’s wife; who went out fishing with
the long line in the tempestuous waters of the Western
Isles with only a boat’s crew for company, but who, at the
same time, had a “good taste for ornamental improve-
ments” such as gravel walks upon an estate.
He made no pretence that she could take the place of
his lamented Jane, though he acknowledged how “happy
the man must be who had the good fortune to win her.”
It was symbolic of her position that always, in the
parlance of Mull, she was “the Lady of Jarvisfield,”
named after his Jane.
She, already in the prime of early spinsterhood by
the standards of her time, could not even hope to marry
him at once. For he must return to India, and he had vowed,
in tears, over his Jane’s grave, a “most solemn and unalter-
able resolution, that he would never again take a wife in
or to India.” Nevertheless, Elizabeth “most kindly con-
sented” to be his.
Two years later he returned from India to marry her,
travelling overland from Busrah through Russia and the
Baltic, visiting Gambier’s conquering fleet and his old friend
David Baird on the roads of Copenhagen on the way, and
arriving in London on October 17, 1807.
At once he pursued his new lady love to Holsworthy
in Devon where she had been reduced by economic circum-
stance to serving as a companion in the family of the rector
of the church in which John Macarthur and his Elizabeth
had been married.
Macquarie was duly wed in St James’s Church. Picca-
dilly, which later gave its name to St James’s, Sydney. He
then little thought that within two years they would
be on the way to the Antipodes and immortality in Aus-
tralian history.
The day Macquarie arrived in England, Bligh, in New
South Wales, was plunging noisily into the climax of his
quarrels with Macarthur, the Blaxlands, George Johnston
and D’Arcy Wentworth, and with almost all of New South
Wales. And the “slippery Goddess Fortune” was preparing
surprises for everybody involved. Three months later Bligh
was deposed.


enjoy
thoroughly
A MOWS
a
SWEET
SHERRY
•o*>ucr
iy v
•tv XSTPTV'
*’S a? nV*
Ask also for St. Agnes Brandy
Business, Robbery, Etc.
AGRICULTURAL PROBLEMS
Hunger Amidst Plenty
“Everybody today knows the grim truth that more than half
the people living on earth have only just enough food
to support life. Every year, more than 30 million human beings
die of starvation. Disease carries off millions prematurely
because, owing to undernourishment, scanty clothing and
wretched housing, their vitality is so low. By far the major
part of the population of the less-developed countries is per-
petually underfed,” says the Swiss Bank Corporation in a
recent issue of its publication, “Prospects.”
In 1961, the population of the world had reached 3000
millions. If the present rate of human reproduction continues
it may pass 6000 millions by the year 2000. Dr Binay Ranjan
Sen, general-manager of the United Nations Food and Agricul-
ture Organisation, points out that to keep pace with the natural
increase in world’s population the production of edible grains
in the next 40 years must be doubled and that of foods of
animal origin—milk, eggs, meat and fish —trebled. This would
merely maintain the status quo. To nourish adequately the
6000 millions who will populate the globe by 2000 a.d. the
supply of foods of animal origins must be at least quadrupled.
The increase of population far exceeds the rate of growth
of food production. Although there must be a limit to the
amount of food which can be produced from land and sea
with present methods, this does not prove the morbid and
despairing malthusianism right. Theoretically, the required
minimum of food can be produced, taking into account the
advances in science and technology.
However, full utilisation of the achievements of modern
science, economics and technology presupposes treating the
world as a unity, as one market. But the world is split —
into antagonistic ideological blocs and also into economically
developed and underdeveloped countries, which may in the
long run prove even more dangerous.
This leads us to the tragic paradox of hunger amidst
plenty. Half the world’s population cannot produce or buy
enough food to feed itself, while the other half is finding it
unprofitable to produce even at the present level. After the
short-lived postwar boom in world prices for agricultural
products the real terms of trade have been turning steadily
against primary producers. Almost every primary producer
country worries about the international competitiveness of its
products and strives to industrialise, if necessary, at the expense
of its primary industry. Such highly developed countries as
the United States are being continuously embarrassed by huge
farm surpluses which must be bought up and stored indefinitely
at the taxpayers’ expense, but which cannot be sold cheaply
to the starving without upsetting world prices and ruining the
other primary producers.
'"The most efficient industrial countries have the most efficient
agricultural sectors. In the United States less than 10
per cent of the working population are engaged in agricul-
ture and forestry. But one American farmer produces enough
to feed 24 persons and, despite large exports, surplus agricul-
tural output is a chronic problem. Of course, the peculiar
American farm prices support system —introduced to stimulate
farm production during the war and in the immediate post-
war years—is largely responsible. But the fact remains that
the United States could substantially raise its farm output, if it
could be profitably disposed of.
After the war devastated Europe could not afford to buy
food, and concentrated on maximising its own farm output
with the help of highly protectionist policies. The United
Kingdom relied on the primary producer Commonwealth
nations, protecting their food exports by imperial preferences.
British farmers themselves were generously protected and sub-
sidised. Only 4 per cent, of the U.K.’s work force are now
engaged in agriculture—but they produce about half the
“temperate climate” foods consumed in Britain. The increase
in Britain’s farm output since 1945 is about 70 per cent.
France and Italy both succeeded in building up substantial
agricultural surpluses, but find it difficult to altogether abolish
internal protection. French and Italian agriculture is often
high cost, because of the small, under-optimum size farm
holdings. Although both France and Italy devote great efforts
to raising their industrial productivity, prosperity of the
politically powerful agricultural sector remains a major
problem. One of the main reasons which prompted France
and Italy towards the European Common Market was the
prospect of selling agricultural surpluses profitably in West
Germany—a net food importer.
'The European Economic Community contains a market 170
million strong, in the most prosperous and economically
efficient part of Europe, with excellent lines of communication
by land, sea and air. This market will soon be tariff-free
internally, but armed with protection walls against the rest of
the world. The famous Treaty of Rome calls for “a common
Customs tariff', a common trade policy, a common policy in
agriculture.”
At present 23 per cent, of all workers in the Common
Market area —excluding the U.K. —are employed in farming.
They produce about 87 per cent, of the demand of the Six for
“temperate climate” foods. This helps to explain the rigidity
of France's attitude to Britain’s agricultural problems. France
and other Common Market countries with agricultural surpluses
want to have a free access to the United Kingdom’s food
market, in return for its right to sell British industrial products
without tariff in Western Europe.
When the U.K. joins the Common Market there will be
an economic unit of 220 million consumers —in the most
developed and efficient economic system outside the United


JAMES MURPHY BURSARIES FOR
AGRICULTURAL STUDENTS
FOR
(a) THE UNIVERSITY OF SYDNEY:
Providing all fees payable to the University of Sydney, the cost
of residence at St. John’s College and an allowance of "up to £25 per
annum, payable at the discretion of the Trustees,
OR
(1>) HAWKSBURY AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE:
Providing all fees and text books not exceeding £l9O per annum.
Applications are invited for the above Bursaries, made available under
the Will of the late James Murphy, of Como.
Applicants must be the sons of Catholic parents whose means are
insufficient to enable their sons to study Agricultural Science and must
satisfy the requirements for Matriculation at the University of Sydney,
or of Entrance to the Hawksbury Agricultural College, 'as the- case
may be.
Forms of Application (which must be returned duly completed not
later than the 20th November, 1961, in the case of Bursaries tenable
at the Hawksbury Agricultural College and not later than the Bth
January, 1962, in the case of those tenable at the University of Sydney)
and further particulars may be obtained from:—
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED),
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
States The rapid rate of economic growth and capital
accumulation will sharply raise the prosperity and living
standards Some food tastes may change and food prices
may generally rise. But if only about 13 per cent, of
“temperate climate’' foods will be purchased outside the
Common Market there will be little inducement for higher
production in other advanced primary producer countries. And,
on the whole, the growth in the world output of food will be
much slower than otherwise.
In the Soviet bloc agriculture is still a sore point. If Stalin’s
mummified body has been tossed out from the Lenin mauso-
leum in Moscow’s Red Square, it is partly because of the sorry
mess he had made out of Soviet agriculture in 1930-53.
Throughout the satellite countries socialised agriculture limps
sadly behind great industrial progress.
About 42 p.c. of the entire Soviet work force is tied down
in agriculture. Mr Khrushchev’s constant preoccupation with
the problems of rural economy, his “virgin lands” drives—
undertaken despite the fully realised dangers of developing a
“dust-bowl” in Central Asiatic U.S.S.R., as had once happened
in the American Mid-West —his extensive decentralisation and
reorganisation of the once sacred MTS (machine and tractor
stations) point to the fact that the Soviet Premier understands
that rapid industrialisation must rest on a solid agricultural
base. Under Stalin’s regime the true price of industrialisation
was prohibitive in terms of real cost of inefficiently and
insufficiently produced foodstuffs.
Soviet agriculture is still relatively inefficient and high
cost. It lags behind productivity in Poland and Czechoslovakia
and is far behind that of the U.S.A. and Western Europe. The
Warsaw Communist daily, “Trybuna Ludu,” in a recent report
from Moscow, quoting eminent Soviet economists, said that
the average productivity of the Soviet worker is only about
40-50 per cent, of the American worker. Taking the agricul-
tural sector alone, Soviet per capita productivity must be even
lower. This pins down considerable labor reserves to agriculture
and adversely affects the rate of industrial growth.
This makes it unlikely that the Soviet bloc will be able
to produce any great food surpluses in the foreseeable future.
Even if the present ambitious Soviet plans are fully realised
there will be little food to spare in 1970-80, allowing for the
natural increase in population and the planned transfer of
labor from agriculture to industry.
Tn China the food situation is tragic. Elerein lies the main
A economic reason for the current Sino-Soviet ideological
dispute. The U.S.S.R. cannot really afford to finance Peking’s
runaway industrialisation plans, nor can it act as a surety for
China’s inevitable agricultural bankruptcies. Moscow and its
bloc do not have any capital or food reserves to spare. This
also explains why Soviet schemes of aid to underdeveloped
countries so often fall short of promises. The U.S.S.R. cannot
as yet afford to give economic assistance on the American
scale.
Ideological and political chasms separate China’s popula-
tion from the United States and Western Europe—the centre of
"No, no, I insist! You have one of MY pep pills."
the world’s prosperity. Conversely, China's huge natural
market is almost hermetically sealed. Taking into account
that mainland China’s population even now exceeds 800
million, one can realise what an enormous distortion this
is in the world's economy. While China is trying to
pull itself up by its hair and exists on starvation rations, Western
primary producers are threatened with surplus stockpiles.
There is a similar problem in India, where pitifully low per
capita national income cannot generate sufficient effective
demand. Much the same applies to other underdeveloped
countries. If present trends continue it is quite likely that
food production will actually stagnate by the year 2000, while
billions will be starving.
At this stage it is politically impossible to do anything
about China. It is possible, though, to formulate an effective
economic policy towards the pro-Western and uncommitted
underdeveloped countries. Periodical handouts and food-relief
programmes are both degrading and economically ineffective.
What is needed is the necessary minimum of cheap risk capital
and extensive training facilities, which will raise productivity
within these countries.
In the economically backward countries farming methods
are pathetically primitive and inefficient. Often production
can be raised by better farming methods and some modern
agricultural machinery. But heavy capital outlays are needed
for building roads, dams, irrigation systems, railways, grain
elevators and rural workshops.
This can be only a long-term project. If it does materialise,
the free world’s market will eventually be expanded by many
hundreds of millions of people, rescued from starvation and
malnutrition and helped to earn a decent living.
E.B.
WORLD TANKER FLEET
Japan Builds Huge Ships
TThe six months to June, 3961, have again confirmed the trend
towards huge super-tankers . Two 130,000 d.w. tons tankers
are now being built in the United Kingdom for Japan,
scheduled for delivery by late 1962 and late 1963.
Experts say that these two giants will “completely eclipse”
the two Japanese 106,000 tonners already in service and one
under construction. Below the 100,000 ton mark the largest
tanker now on order is about 92,700 d.w. tons, followed by
six 85,800 tonners —part of a group of 12 vessels which were
originally ordered as 73,000 tonners but then steadily increased
by stages to the present figure . All of these have been ordered
by oil companies of American origin.


The New
Approach to
INVESTMENT
Of great significance to those with Estates,
including Investment holdings, is the plan-
ning of a balanced investment portfolio, and
possibly the formation of a Family Trust.
Such a plan may be devised to minimise
Death Duties, yet provide adequate
income and conserve Estate assets
during one’s lifetime and after death.
Union Trustee with a group of experts —
skilled in the modern conception of
Investment—can act as your financial
counsellor, relieving you of investment
worries, and helping you in many ways
to plan for future financial security.
May we discuss these matters with you—
without obligation—and in complete
confidence?
■ Tiff
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
( Incorporated in Victoria)
333 Collins St.. Melbourne. C.l.
20 O’Connell St.. Sydney
398-402 Queen St.. Brisbane
Also at Newcastle, Albury, Toowoomba,
Rockhampton, Townsville and Charleville.
The authoritative London “Petroleum Times” says that
“it is interesting to observe that the U.S.S.R., which retained
the 12,000 tonner as a standard ship long after it had been
superseded elsewhere, is now going in for much larger tankers,
both by way of purchase and building. Some 35,000 tonners
have been ordered in Japan, and the construction of 47,000
tonners in Baltic yards has been announced.”
Only 44 commercial ships of less than 20,000 d.w. tons are
now on order, including 21 for oil companies. The older and
less efficient ships in the 13,000-17,000 tons range, although
often still a long way from the normal scrapping age, find it
increasingly difficult to compete in the regular cargo and tramp
trade. This suggests that conditions in a large section of the
world tramp market will remain difficult, despite some
encouraging new orders.
Idle ships belonging to oil companies now total only 25,
adding up to 380,000 d.w. tons. In addition, some 60 tramp
tankers of 16,000 d.w. tons and over are laid up.
Large-scale wheat buying by Communist China has led to
a marked livening up in the tramp tankers market. Tankers
are being used to transport grain to China, which is stepping
up its charter orders. At present about 2,150,000 d.w. tons are
used for grain freight.
The world tanker fleet at June 30 last numbered 3311
vessels totalling 65,707,777 d.w. tons. Companies with Liberian
registration operate 363 tankers with a total of 11,023,970 d.w.
tons (16.78 p.c.), followed by the United Kingdom with 541
vessels of 10,163,282 tons (15.47 p.c.), Norway with 496 units
of 9,820,210 tons (14.94 p.c.) and the United States with 496
tankers of 9,018,396 tons (13.72 p.c.).
SUGARCANE
7961 Prices Steady
'T'he Central Cane Prices Board in Queensland has decided
that the 1961 price ot sugarcane will remain steady.
The Board’s chairman, Mr Justice K. R. Townley, said that
“in the interests of stability and in the present situation of
the industry the price should remain the same.” An appeal
by the Rocky Point Mill Suppliers’ Committee, seeking a local
increase to the State-wide price less ss.,'was dismissed by the
Central Board.
A total of 6,173,696 tons of 1961 sugarcane was crushed
in Queensland by October 14, 1961. This compares with
8,686,369 tons in the last full season.
QUALITY STEEL
B.H.P. Raises Output
'T'o meet the increased demand for special quality steels which
are in short supply Australian Iron and Steel Pty Ltd, a
subsidiary of the 8.H.P., has put into commission a second
electric-arc furnace at its Port Kembla steelworks in N.S.W.
The special steels include spring, fully killed plate, low-alloy
high-tensile—developed for their constructional welding
properties—and stainless steel.
The new production unit can turn out over 45 tons per
heat and is described as the largest in the Southern Hemisphere.
Its cost is estimated at about £750,000. Steelmakiqg capacity
is over 60,000 tons a year.
When charged and operating the furnace has an “all up
weight” of approximately 320 tons. The 16yft. diameter
furnace bowl weighs 120 tons. The design allows it to be
tilted for deslagging and tapping, and makes it possible to
rotate the vessel to facilitate the more rapid charging and
positioning of the scrap burden under the electrodes.
The graphite electrodes are 15ft. to 17ft. long and 20 inches
in diameter. They are held in position by water-cooled copper
clamps which are controlled by hydraulic pressure. Heat
generation results from the electrical arc from the electrodes.
Power comes from a 15 M.V.A. transformer which can produce
enough electricity for a town of 40,000. The current, which
can reach a maximum of 26,000 amps, is carried by bundles
of heavy copper cables and produces an intense magnetic field
around the conductors.
Special materials were used for building the transformer
house. As ordinary structural steels are highly magnetic, special
channel sections had to be pressed out of stainless steel (which
is only slightly magnetic), while the diamond grid and base-
ment subway under the transformer were made from aluminium
bar and sheeting.
The new furnace has an hourly rated output of 10 tons
and is the second arc furnace at Port Kembla. It will improve
the employment situation in Port Kembla area to a considerable
extent.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Cyclone Co. of Australia Ltd
Economic measures brought down by
the Federal Government last Novem-
ber, aimed directly at the building, con-
struction and motor industries, tested the
mettle of Cyclone Co. of Australia Ltd.
As the largest user of tubular steel
and wire products in Australia, Cyclone
demonstrated the strength and resilience
of its financial structure, by turning in
a result comparable with that produced
in the preceding “boom’’ period.
Group turnover w'as up 14 p.c. on
the previous year, but directors report
that the possibility of extra benefits was
wiped out by the incidence of bad debts.
Pre-tax tradins profit for the year to
June 30, 1961, £17,354 higher at
£890,886, but fell far short of the 1957
peak of £1,082,055.
Consolidated net profit for the year
was £4929 lower at £507,793, after pro-
viding £325,500 for taxation (down
£11,350) and setting aside £318,568
for depreciation (up £52,930): —-
Parent and Subsidiaries.
, Dividends N To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. serves. serves.
6 p.c. 124 p.o.
£ £ £ £ £
124 p.c.
1958. .510,857*39,060 293.918 177,939 1,778,897
Profit sale assets, £18,457 .. .. 1,797,354
Share-premiums, £2 . . . . . . 1,797,356
Less net difference between par- and
book-values of shares acquired in
subsidiaries, £1479 .. .. 1,795,877
Unexplained reduction, £5020 . . 1,790,857
Tax overprovided, £29,300 .. 1,820,157
Add adjustment minority interest, £9l 1,820,248
1959. . 441,739 39,000 293,918 108,821 1,929,069
Tax overprovided, £5705 .. .. 1,934,774
Share-premiums, £817,095 . . . . 2,751,869
Contingencies written-off, £10,696 . . 2,741,173
Profit sale assets, £69,683 .. .. 2,810,856
Less net difference between par- and
book-values of shares acquired in
subsidiaries, £225,398 .. .. 2,585,458
Decrease general reserve, £12,316 .. 2,073,142
1960...512,793 39,000 303,449 170,344 2,743,486
Less tax underprovided £1,611 . . 2,741,875
Add profit on sale of assets £167,830 2,909,705
Less net difference between par and
book values of shares acquired in
subsidiaries £97,433 . . . . 2,812,272
Less contingencies w/off £12,706 .. 2,799,566
Add share premiums £7Bl . . . . 2,800,347
Less decrease in general reserve,
£58,490 .. 2.741,857
1961. .507,864 39,000 353,989 114,875 2,856,732
* Less pre-acquisition profits, deducted from the excess
of cost over par-value of shares in subsidiaries.
A capital profit of £167,830 (pre-
viously £69,683) boosted reserves and
liquidity ; it apparently arose from the
sale- of the Morley Avenue, Rosebery
(N.S.W.) property and the small factory
building at Islington (Newcastle) “at
satisfactory profit.”
Reserves benefited by £114,875, and
also by £167,830 profit from the sale of
assets, and £7Bl from share premiums.
Cyclone wrote off £12,706 from con-
tingencies reserve, and £58,490 from
general reserve, and made good the
deficiency of £l6ll in tax provision for
the previous year.
After paying £39,000 preference divi-
dends, profits represented an earning
rate of 16.6 per cent, on higher average
ordinary capital, compared with 19.5
p.c., 17.1 p.c., 20.1 p.c. and 21.6 p.c.
in the years back to 1957.
Ordinary dividend was unchanged at
12j p.c., absorbing £353,989, compared
with the previous year’s distribution of
£303,449.
Balance-sheet shows an increase in
mortgage loans secured on freehold
properties, and the raising of £1,121,536
in 7 p.c. registered unsecured notes of
£l, convertible on June 30, 1966, into
ordinary shares of 10s. each at 10s.
premium.
Stocks lifted appreciably. Debtors
remained fairly steady.
Net investment i n fixed assets increased
overall by £1,095,195.
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1959. 1960. 1961.
Pref £650,000 £650,000 £650,000
Ord 2,351,339 2,803,839 2,825,239
Reserves . . 1,929,069 2,743,486 2,856,732
Minority interest 335,251 347,204 380,769
Mortgages, etc. 701,875 728,450 1,219,425
Notes . . . . 1,000,000 1,000,000 2,121,536
Deposits, etc... 14,266 11,399 12,332
Overdraft . . 808,477 1,468,002 1,345,858
Creditors, etc... 643.659 845,895 835,107
Tax provision. . 244,400 336,850 325,500
Final divs. . . 166,459 175,990 196,999
£8.544,795 £11,111,115 £12,769,497
Land, buildings 2,819,165 3,411,412 3,813,611
Plant, etc. . . 2,199,659 2,825,558 3,518,554
Stock . . . . 2,315,695 2,949,142 3,655,718
Debtors . . 1,349,120 1,858,155 1,736,632
Cash, etc. .. 161,156 66,848 44,982
£8,844,795 £11,111,115 £12,769,497
Depreciation write-off (£318,568) left
plant and equipment at a book value of
£3,518,554.
Overdraft was reduced, but is still
considerable.
Paid ordinary capital was increased
by £21,400 to £2,825,239 by the issue
of 40,000 10s. shares in acquisition of
Heart Metal Co. Pty Ltd, and its
associated company H.M. Trading Co.
Pty Ltd in October, 1960, and the issue
of 2800 10s. shares in payment for
minority holdings in Cyclone Forgings
Pty Ltd in April, 1961.
Since the accounts were ruled off a
small proprietary company in Western
Australia was purchased for 29,500 fully
paid 10s. Cyclone ords., ranking for the
final dividend payable in respect of
1960-61.
In October an offer was made for the
capital of W. H. Hole and Co. Ltd,
wire products maker, which was recom-
mended to shareholders by Hole
directors.
A subsequent offer by H. Pettiford
Holdings Ltd was later recommended by
Hole directors in preference to the
Cyclone offer.
Originally Cyclone was mainly con-
cerned with production of gates and
fencing, and this is still a major part
of the business.
Its fortunes are therefore tied not only
to the building and construction and
motor industries, but to the long-suffer-
ing agricultural and pastoral industries.
Other products include pre-fabricated
buildings, aluminium window frames,
screenings, structural steel and sheet
metal articles, industrial forgings, and
steel concrete forming units.
The group operates some 22 plants
throughout Australia.
It has been centralising its N.S.W.
activities at South Granville in recent
years.
The parent company is reported to
process some 14 million feet of tubular
steel and 2 million miles of wire annually.
In addition to the usual metal and
fibreglass screenings, the company is now
marketing alodised aluminimum metai
screening, which directors report is a
major improvement in finish and com-
position.
Cyclone Double-Grip Scaffolding Pty
Ltd sells and hires out its products ; it
had its best year in 1961.
K-M Steel Products Pty Ltd (acquired
in 1957) operates a steel re-rolling mill
at Brooklyn (Vic.), and manufactures
steel and aluminium structural'products
in the building accessories field.
The mill was purchased from Mel-
bourne Iron and Steel Pty Ltd in June,
1960.
Steel tonnage production was materially
increased during the year, and plans are
in hand for the installation of another
larger electric steel melting furnace to
handle the greater production from the
continuous casting plant when this is
completed next July.
This is part of a £l-million develop-
ment programme.
The huge capital investment by this
subsidiary will not materially benefit
earning capacity until 1962-63.
Some local marketing problems were
encountered during the past year, but
the company achieved substantial ex-
ports.
In September the company announced
that it had won contracts against world
competition for the supply of substantial
quantities of high carbon, cutting edge
steel for earth-moving equipment to
Canada and Mexico.
Cyclone Forgings Pty Ltd has plants
at Abbotsford and Wonthaggi in Vic-
toria, producing hand tools, car axles,
aircraft parts and so on.
Reduced activity in the automotive
industry affected its earnings.
The Newcastle subsidiary, Wm. C.
Lynch Pty Ltd operated at a satisfactory
level of turnover and profit.
Heart Metal Co. Pty Ltd (acquired in
October, 1960) and M. P. Metals Pty
Ltd (acquired in March, 1960), contri-
buted materially to the development of
the Brooklyn Steel Works by making
available supplies of scrap steel.
The group has always been a solid
performer, but its growth record in
recent years has not been impressive.
However, as the proprietor of the only
major steel works in Victoria, the stock
cannot be overlooked as an investment
in a basic industry.


A. L NEYITT & CO.
A. L. NEYITT. A. C. DRAPER,
N. \V. C. DRAPER
(Members o) Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building.
21)1 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31 2761 P.O. BOX
(4 Lines) No. 18871 V
John N. Robertson, Thompson
and Co.
Members of the Stoek Exchange of
Melbourne.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS,
Temple Court,
422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Telephones: 67 6154, 67 6155
Telegrams and Cables:
ROBFALK, MELBOURNE
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
11. H. ALLEN. M. R. L. DOWLING
P. K. LEVY, A. P. REYNOLDS. N. It.
COURSE (Melbourne Resident Partner).
Delfln House, 16 O’Connell St.. Sydney
25-5011 (20 lines).
Prudential liuilding, 150 Queen St.,
Melbourne. 67-5057 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables; “Rosdale,” Sydney
Melbourne or Wollongong.
Its current consolidation and expansion
programmes offer prospects of capital
growth to the investor who remembers
that the company and its shares will be
subject to cyclical fluctuations.
As capital will be increased in 1966
by £560,768 with the conversion of the
notes, earnings will have to improve
accordingly.
The notes, at present selling around
255. 6d. to yield 5.5 p.c., offer prospects
of approximately 2s. capital gain on
conversion. Participating in cash and
bonus issues, and convertible prior to a
takeover, they seem an attractive form of
entry.
At current market of around 275. 6d.
the dividend yield is 4.6 p.c. on the basis
of a steady p.c. dividend.
Net tangible asset backing for the 20s.
6 p.c. preference shares is £9 14s. lOd.,
and for the 10s. ordinary shares 20s. Id.
calculated on consolidated accounts.
Bitumen and Oil Refineries
net profit jumped despite
the credit squeeze. Expansion con-
tinued at a rapid pace, and paid capital
at balance date was £300.000 higher than
in the previous year. After the close
of accounts fresh capital issues were
made. The handsome 17y p.c. dividend
rate was maintained for the second con-
secutive year, and distribution to share-
holders was adequately covered. Reserves
were much higher, following the acquisi-
tion of a controlling interest in Petro-
chemical Holdings Limited by taking up
an additional 1,000,000 20s. shares in
exchange for 1,200,000 f.-p. ss. Boral
shares plus £150,000 cash.
A leading company in a competitive
field, the efficient and prosperous Bitumen
and Oil Refineries (Australia) Limited,
commonly known as Boral, dates back to
1946. When the company was first estab-
lished, powerful support was given by
Caftex —which originally had subscribed
to 40 p.c. of the ordinary capital. In
1948 a serious rift developed between
Caltex and other interests in Boral,
because of the American opposition to
the company's expansion to include motor
spirit and aviation gasoline ; but the dis-
pute was settled, after spirited exchanges
on the board, and relations have since
remained smooth.
Based on Sydney, where it operates
a large modern refinery at Matraville,
Boral produces petrol, gas-making and
fuel oil, bitumen and other petroleum
products. Queensland Oil Refineries Pty
Ltd, a fully-owned subsidiary, runs a
smaller refinery in Brisbane and operates
a bulk bitumen terminal at Townsville
(Q.). Another subsidiary, W. B. Carr
Constructions Pty Ltd, produces bitumin-
ous products and engages in road build-
ing in N.S.W. and Victoria. Last term
this subsidiary established a jointly-
owned company, Reid Bros, and Carr
Pty Ltd, to manufacture hot-mix asphalt
for road construction in Victoria.
Boral now holds 1,375,000 20s. ords.,
or 55.2 p.c. of the issued capital, in
Petrochemical Holdings Limited which—
through its wholly-owned subsidiaries:
Petroleum and Chemical Corporation
(Australia) Limited and Commercial Sol-
vents Pty Ltd —operates a high-tempera-
ture cracking plant for the treatment of
residual oils, and a Udex plant, pro-
ducing benzine, toluene and xylene.
The Matraville and Brisbane refineries
and other plants “all operated satisfac-
torily." Tonnage of crude oil refined
was “in keeping with that of the previous
year.” Sales revenue was “very close to
that for the year ended June 30, 1960,
notwithstanding lower selling prices for
some products.”
Petroleum and Chemical Corporation
operated profitably last term. Commer-
cial Solvents incurred a small loss in its
initial period of operations within the
group, which commenced in June, 1961.
It is “now earning a satisfactory profit.”
Queensland Oil Refineries and W. B.
Carr Constructions both showed higher
.sales and profits. The first results of Reid
Bros, and Carr Pty Ltd “are most
encouraging.”
Acquisition of a majority holding in
Petrochemical Industries Ltd resulted in
higher consolidated earnings. Consoli-
dated net profit for the year ended June
30, 1961, was £166,621 higher at £866,761,
after providing £481,307 for depreciation
and amortisation of fixed assets (up
£132,734), and setting aside £548,000 for
taxation (up £56,800).
This was equivalent to an earning rate
of over 35.9 p.c. on the higher average
ordinary capital, after satisfying the un-
changed preference dividends require-
ments (£40,000), and compares with 33
p.c. in 1960, 18.7 p.c. in 1959, 15.2 p.c.
in 1958, 21 p.c. in 1957 and 23.2 p.c. in
1956.
The steady 17| p.c. ordinary dividend
rate was well covered, and £424,261 was
transferred to reserves which were dis-
closed at £2,521,068:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
r —Dividends —— To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pief. f— Ord. serves. serves.*
7-8 p-.e.
£££ . £ £
’55..515 r O9B 15p.c.=243,750 271.348 1,073,86(5
'56..-466,711 15 „ 800;©«0 165,711 1,238.577
Share-issue expenses w/off, £22,770.. 1,210.807
'57..459,582 38,885 15p.e.=300,000 120,697 1,337,504
’58..343,805 40,000 15 „,, 300,000 3,805 1,344,309
'50..413.959 40’,000 15 ~,,300,000 73,959 1,415,268
Nste-issue expenses, £55,601 .. .. 1,359,007
To stall' fund, £lOO,OOO .. .. 1,259,007
'00..700,140 40,000 17tp.c.=350,000 310,140 1,509,747
Capital profit, £104,281 .. .. 1,074,028
Goodwill on consolidation, £520,125 2,194,153
Less part accumulated loss of newly
acquired subsidiary, £47,340 2,140,807
To staff fund, £50,000 .. .. 2,090,807
’01,.806,761 40,000 17-}p.c. 402,500 424,201 2,521,068
* Subject to intangibles, written-off 30/0/’55.
The acquisition of a majority interest
in Petrochemical Holdings resulted in
accumulated reserves being swelled by
£520,125 goodwill on consolidation but
reduced by £47,346, being Boral's share
of the loss incurred by Commercial Sol-
vents Pty Ltd. There was a capital profit
of £104,281 and £50,000 was transferred
to the staff fund.
Debentures were £500,000 higher at
£1,500,000. A new item —overdrafts and
acceptances payable under letters of
credit to the National Bank of Austra-
lasia for crude oil in transit —increased
liabilities by £2,037,397.
Increased shareholding in Petro-
chemical Holdings Limited left a trace
in the form of £1,266,636 minority
interests in the consolidated balance-
sheet :
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Capital— 1959. 1960. 1961.
Pref. ... .. £500,000 £500,000 £500,000
Ord 2,000,000 2,000,000 2,300,000
Reserves .. 1,415,268 1,569,747 2,521,008
Minority interests 1,226,636
Notes ". . .. 2,000,000 2,000,000
Debentures .. 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,500,000
Overdraft, etc. . . 2,037,397
Creditors .. 2,232,723 617,429 899,798
Staff fund . . 100,000 150,000
Tax provision . . 273,407 490,449 654,830
Final dividend.. 170,000 220,000 250,000
£7,591,398 £8,503,025 £13,939,735
Land, refinery, etc. 4,492,532 4,876,325 10,452,908
Shares .. " .. 325,00() 374,690 492,400
Stocks .. .. 1,690,49.) 1,884,263 2.068,379
Debtors .. .. 1,052,354 1,049,298 936,048
,Cash, etc. .. 31,017 319,049 -
£7,591,398 £8,503,625 £13,939,735
Total fixed assets, less £2,718,102 accu-
mulated depreciation and amortisation
provision, also showed a heavy rise in


*<*<*»*«
*’•&
**
T be ise an
■’^s,
in
% '
v v
m
o
J r S*^ ; S?S>¥S»*'
«*?&**'
fm p.a. -*- 10 yea,s
v V j-
«x : :.S s :
•-
w
SI l
<-&x<
‘‘ ‘ ’
REG. FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
An investment in Reid Murray
Acceptance Ltd. is an investment
in one of Australia’s best-backed
Companies. All told, the Reid
Murray group includes: 197 Retail
Stores, 7 Wholesale Warehouses,
Real Estate Companies in 5 States,
and the Finance Company for the
group—Reid Murray Acceptance Ltd.
Applications accepted only on forms at-
tached to the Prospectus. Available from:
REID MURRAY ACCEPTANCE LTD.
403 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 67 1924
Any branch of the
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Any member of a
RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE IN AUST.
Or Joint Underwriting Brokers
TOLHURST, HENLEY, MUNCKTON & CO.
401 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melb.
CUTTEN & HARVEY
97 King William Street, Adelaide
Members of Stock Exch. of Adelaide Ltd.
FSXEP LONG TERMSTOCK
SHORT TERM HOTICE STOCK
PAID-UP CAPITAL £7,000,000
RM A. 22V
GUARANTEED BY REID MURRAY HOLDINGS LTD.
book value, increasing by £5,576,583 to
£10,452,908. Stocks were higher.
After the balance date, Boral issued
1,000,000 ss. ords. at a premium of 10s.
a unit, “to provide additional working
capital for expansion.”
Last September Boral made a success-
ful bid for Huddart Parker Industries
Ltd, offering one ss. f.-p. ord., plus ss.
cash (or straight out 21s. cash), for each
of the 3,750,000 10s. Huddart Parker
ords. Preference shareholders were
offered 265. cash for each of the 500,000
74 p.c. 20s. Huddart Parker cum. prefs.
This outbid the earlier rival CAGA offer
for Huddart Parker's stocks; Boral
acquired a valuable investment portfolio
(last disclosed at £688,000), a shipping
fleet and additional outlets for its oil
products. It is understood that Boral
has disposed of most of Huddart Parker’s
ships to interstate shipping lines
Authorised capital was raised by
£20,000,000 to £25,000,000. although “no
immediate issue of shares to stockholders
is contemplated.” Shares were split into
ss. units early last term.
The construction of the fluid catalytic
cracking unit is still in progress, and is
expected to be completed by January,
1962.
The company is in splendid shape,
although business is becoming very com-
petitive.
The scrip commands a high premium
on the share market. At the last sale in
Sydney the ss. ords. were traded at 225.
9d. a unit —an excellent performance on
today’s market, particularly if the
increases in paid capital are taken into
account.
The immediate yield is 3.8 p.c. on the
basis of the steady 174 p.c. dividend rate.
Net tangible asset backing works out
at £lO 12s. 6d. for each 20s. 7-8 p.c.
participating pref.—redeemable at 225.
6d. a unit on June 30, 2000. or at any
time before that upon six months' notice
—and at 10s. 6d. for each of the 9,2000)00
ss. ords., on the basis of consolidated
accounts at balance date.
COMPANY NOTES
Mercantile Credits Ltd
'T'he recent issue of £1,000,000 regis-
tered first mortgage debentures by
Mercantile Credits Ltd, Sydney-based
hire-purchase financier, has been over-
subscribed by £500,000. The company is
continuing to accept subscriptions to both
long-term and short-term debenture
stock.
The issue was underwritten by Messrs
J. B. Were and Son, Sydney and Mel-
bourne stock and sharebrokers.
Chemical Materials Ltd
Trading profit of Chemical Materials
Limited for the year to June 30,
1961, was £77,903, after writing off depre-
ciation £26,366. losses of the" Maclac
Subsidiaries and providing £39.060 for
tax. The company's tax free distribution


CORPORATION LIMITED
(Incorporated under the Companies Act of New. South Wales on Bth March, 1950)
(ASSETS EXCEED £8,000,000)
I
I
CC94M
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
Funds may be withdrawn in a personal emergency
Increased, interest rates apply on renewal of investments
Interest paid quarterly FREE of Exchange through the
Bank of N.S.W.
Prospectus and Application Forms obtainable from:
Any Branch of the BANK OF N.S.W.
OR
The Company's Offices: Ground Floor, Cambridge House, 249 George St.,
Sydney 'Phone? BU 5542; Ground Floor, Cambridge-House, 4TI-413 Lons-
dale Street, Melboerne— 'Phone: 67-6792; Suite 53a, sth Floor, T. & G.
Building, 137 Queen Street, Brisbane 'Phones: 24-509, 26-981; Suite 110,
Ist fiber, Da Costa Building, 68 Grenfell Street, Adelaide—’Phone: 87-025;
Morton House, 5 Union Street, Newcastle West—’Phone: *14601; Berner
Credit Company Pty. Ltd., 147 Bayliss Street, Wagga.
OR
Any Member of a Recognised Stock Exchange
Underwriting Brokers:
RAI.PH W. KING & YUILL (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
CORRIE & CO. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
LEONARD G. MAY & SON (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
Brokers tor the issue in A.C.T.: T. J. Thompson & Sons, C.B.C. Chambers,
Petrie Street, Canberra (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
Brokers tor the issue in Newcastle: F. S. Scorer & Co., T. & G. Building,
Cnr. Hunter & Watt Sts., Newcastle (Members of the Newcastle Stock Exchange)
Brokers for the issue in South Australia: S. C. Ward & Co., 25 Grenfell
Street, Adelaide (Members of the Stock Exchange of Adelaide Ltd.)
Brokers tor the issue in Western Australia: Donald J. Carmichael & Co.,
135 St. George's Terrace, Perth (Members of the Stock Exchange of Perth)
Brokers for the issue in Tasmania: P. S. Shadforth & Son, Commercial Bank
of Australasia Building, Cnr. Elizabeth and Collins Streets, Hobart.
Trustee for Stockholders: Bankers & Traders' Insurance Company Limited
Investigating Accountants for the Underwriting Brokers: Smith Johnson & Co.
Registrar: Bank of N.S.W. Nominees Pty. Ltd.
Registers: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Canberra.
Applications for the debenture stock accepted only on one of the
forms of application attached to a printed copy of the prospectus.
in April, 1960, of 693,264 shares in
H. C. Sleigh on a one-for-one basis has
reduced the profit after tax by £17,816 as
compared with 1960. The directors
intend to recommend a reduction in this
year’s dividend to 124 p.c. on ords. and
9 p.c. on prefs.
Directors report that “detailed investi-
gations of the accounts of the Maclac
Subsidiaries confirm a loss for the year
ended June, 1961, of £24,961 consequent
on adverse trading conditions and other
factors which operated after November,
1960,” and say that “swift action was
taken to investigate all operations.
Extensive reorganisation and staff adjust-
ments have been put in hand.”
“In view of the continuing effects of
difficult trading conditions and other
problems it appears likely that the bring-
ing of Maclac to a profit earning basis
will take all of the present financial year
to accomplish. There have been discus-
sions with interested parties with regard
to the Maclac situation, but for legal
reasons it is not possible to give further
details at present.”
OIL AND MINING
Western Titanium N.L.
\\f estern Titanium N.L. has
approached the directors of Cable
(1956) Ltd requesting the grant of a
six months’ testing option over mining
tenements, mineral sands treatment plant
and other Bun bury assets of that com-
pany!
If the option is exercised the purchase
consideration would be £125,000, which
Western Titanium may elect to pay as
follows:—either £125,000 in cash over
two years ; or £62,500 in cash and
£62,500 in 250,000 fully paid ss. shares
in Western Titanium N.L.; or £25,000
in cash and £lOO,OOO in 400.000 fully
paid ss. shares in Western Titanium N.L.
The option has been granted subject
to ratification by a meeting of share-
holders of Cable (1956) Limited.
Wapet
West Australian Petroleum Pty Ltd
reports that cuttings and cores from
Eneabba No. 1 well continue to show
minor fluorescence and staining, which
have occurred fairly regularly since
10,480 ft. “Unfortunately, the sandstone
siltstone formations are still non-porous.”
Last reported total depth was 12,056 ft —
a gain of 495 ft for the week.
The personnel for the second seismic
crew have arrived and are assembling the
equipment necessary to commencing field
work in mid-November.
Santos Ltd
Mr J. Bonython, chairman of Santos
Ltd, said that new drilling targets
should be selected within the next two or
three months as a result of the recent
extensive geological and geophysical
surveys.
“There is good reason to believe that
drilling would be recommenced in the
Basin area, held by Santos and Delhi
Australian Petroleum Ltd, in 1962 —even
in the early part of 1962.”
Mr Bonython said there “were good
expectations” that drilling would be also
commenced in the Mount Sehanck area
in the early part of the next year. He was
addressing shareholders at the company's
annual general meeting.


FINANCE & INVESTMENT
COMPANY LIMITED
SHAREHOLDERS' FUNDS, £891,419.
TANGIBLE ASSETS, £3,184,264.
INTEREST RATES FOR DEPOSITS
(NOW CALLED UNSECURED DEPOSIT NOTES)
• FIXED DEPOSITS
2
years
8%
p.a.
3 years . . ; . . 8V2% p.a.
AND OVER
APPLICATIONS must be made
on the form enclosed with the
prospectus, which is obtainable
from
Members of the Stock Exchange
ANY BRANCH OF A.N.Z. BANK
The Registered Office of the Com-
pany, William & Crown Sts.,
Sydney. Telephone FA 0322.
Financing world-
famous products
distributed by
The Hastings
Deering Group
of Companies.
FORD
Cars and Trucks
FORDSON
Tractors
A.E.C.
Trucks & Buses
CATERPILLAR
Diesel Tractors
in Queensland
HYSTER
Fork Lift Trucks
in Queensland
JOHN DEERE
Agricultural
Machinery
in Queensland
LSSTER
Engines
GROUP SALES
IN 1960
£14,757,281
'MAIL THIS COUPON*
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE &
INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
G.P.O. Box 4333, Sydney.
Please send me, without any obligation on my part, pros-
pectus dated 1/4/61, giving full details of your terms
deposits.
NAME..
ADDRESS
HD82.10
B. 11/11
The
NORTHERN LIFE
Assurance Company of Australia Limited
(Incorporated in Canberra, Australia )
All Classes of Ordinary Life Assurance,
Superannuation and Annuity Policies Issued
HEAD OFFICE: 15 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone BL 5601 K. J. Hedley, General Manager
Speculator's Diary
Monday, November 6.
'T'he last week or two has
certainly put Western Min-
ing on the map. Prior to the
current issue, it was a relatively
obscure gold-mining stock.
Suddenly, with its new alu-
minium and iron-ore interests,
it has become the glamor share
of the moment.
I’d been watching Western
Mining for some months with
the intention of pouncing on
the rights the moment they
came on the market. But, as
the issue drew near, I began
to realise that these rights
might be very scarce because
the issue is by no means as big
as it looks. At this stage it is
raising only £300.000 and from
shareholders who have not had
to provide the company with
any funds for four years. So,'
when the price slipped down
to 21s. 7?d. a day or two before
the issue, I jumped in and
bought 200 cum. rights.
Buying cum. rights is often
a risky business but. as it’s
turned out, it was undoubtedly
the right thing to do in this
case.
What I like about Western
Mining is that it has been
earning a steady 35 to 40 per
cent, on capital from its gold-
mines and a 10 per cent, divi-
dend from the Alcoa Com-
pany would mean another
£500.000 a year, making an
earning rate on increased capi-
tal of well over 50 per cent.
And that without taking into
account any profits that might
be earned in the future from
iron ore. What's more, the
gold-mines, the £5,000,000 in-
vestment in aluminium and the
iron-ore leases are all held on
a capital of only £1,500.000.
From the stock of the future,
I went to a company of the
past —Hotel Sydney. But the
Hotel Sydney is not necessarily
the stock of the past that it
might seem. With the future
of the old Hotel Sydney up in
the air, the management has
been careful to spread its
interests into the suburbs and
elsewhere with the result that
in the past year profit increased
by about 50 per cent, to give
a very healthy earning rate of
23 per cent, on capital which
has been £130,000 since 1923!
In fact profits from the two
suburban hotels and Craigie-
burn at Bowral are now more
than enough to ensure con-
tinuance of the 12j p.c. divi-
dend even if the company
should happen to lose the lease
of the Hotel Sydney next year.
In addition, the 20s. shares
have an asset backing of 475.
and are about to be split into
ss. units. To me they looked
quite a bargain at 345., yielding
7.4 per cent, particularly as the
company could prove a real
takeover bargain to someone
like Mascot Industries with its
big share premium and grow-
ing interest in hotels and
motels.
So into the bars I went—
to the extent of 200 shares
—and left the world of bras
and girdles behind me. In
other words, l sold my 500
Merica shares I've been vainly
hanging on to for months.
They have not fulfilled my
hopes so I let them go with
only the year's dividend to
show as profit.
The Merica proceeds, to-
gether with the £149 1 had in
cash and the £75 1 got in cash
from 8.0.R.A.L. for my 300
Huddart Parkers, gave me
£4OO, which wasn't enough to
pay for my purchases. So I
decided to take a quite pleasant
profit of £34 on my 500 New-
castle Ten Pins which, at 6s.
7d., seemed to have done their
dash for the time being.
The fortnight's transactions
were:
SOLD
500 Newcastle Ten Pin
at 6/7 .. £159
500 Merica at 6/9 . . £176
BOUGHT
200 Western Mining at
21/71 .. £221
200 Hotel Sydney at
34/- .. .. £346
This means 1 am short £9
and hold the following shares:
Cost Cur-
Xo. of Name of Total Per rent
(shares Company Cost Share Priee
300 Hornibrook 354 23/- 25/-
200 Marrk-kville 217 21 3 24/6
300 McDonald 207 13/6 15/6
200 Southern TV 205 20 - 25/6
400 Rio Tinto MO, 15/ 13/9
300 Pvrnx new 87 5/9 6 6
200 Dodge 156 13/4 13/0
75 A.C.I. 273 71/- 74/6
400 Derrin 206 10/- 11/3
400 O'Donnell
Griffin 239 11/S 12/9
200 F. G. O'Brien 100 9/0 10 9
300 Bitumen & Oil 263 22 6 22/6
50 Rothmans 199 78/9 85/9
100 Stripping
News 351 69/ 76/
400 Olympic
Bowling 50 2 6
1,000 W. H. Hole 197 3/9 5/0
500 Fenwick 516 20/6 22/--
1,000 Chevron
Sydney 117 2/3 2/4
200 Western
Mining 221 21/71 22/6
120 Western
Mining rights —-- 7/6
200 Hotel Sydney 346 34/- 34/-


V
r\
all the year round. Donations: 169
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. BM 2001.
Positions Vacant
CRANBROOK SCHOOL, BELLEVUE
HILL, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
VACANCIES OCCURRING FROM FIRST
TERM 1962
GEOLOGY MASTER required to teach
Geology and some Science or Mathematics.
Large new Science-Geology Block being con-
structed with research facilities. Good oppor-
tunity for Honours graduates particularly.
GEOGRAPHY MASTER required to teach
Geography up to Leaving Certificate standard
or, if with suitable experience, to take over
Geography Department.
Single resident accommodation and two Hats
lor married masters available in Eastern
Suburbs.
Apply in writing to The Headmaster slating
age. lull academic and extra curricular qualifica-
tions and experience. Also telephone FM 1110
for appointment with Headmaster.
Missing Friends
Inform it ion is requested concerning the whereabouts
of LEWIS BASH, GjRKKJ, believed to reside in oi
near Melbourne, \ ictoria. He or anv person know-
ing bi> whereabouts is invited to write to MESSRS.
( RISP HIBSON & MANX, P.O. Box 208. Burnie,
Tasmania, relative to moneys due to him in a
deceasi d’> estate.
Information is requested concerning the whereabouts
of KENNETH K()'i GRIEG, fast heard of in Ml.
(•am I tier. South Australia, about 104 r>. He or any
person knowing his whereabouts is invited to write
to MESSRS. CRISP 111 DSON k MANN, P.O. Box
208, Burnie, Tasmania, relative to moneys due to
him in a deceased's estate.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SLI’REME (.'Ot’RT OF
NEW SOI TH WALKS
Matrimonial Cun-ks Ji risi)k.tion
To WILLIAM I’KACOCK HENDERSON late of
Os.-niK kin the State of New South M ales.- T \KK
NOTICE that KVA HENDERSON has filed a peti-
tion lor divorce No. into ot 1001 on the ground
Of desertion. If yon wish to defend you may file an
answer in the Divorce Registry Divorce Office Mint
Building Macquarie Street Sydney by the 15th day
oi Decimliei Jiitil and obtain a copy of the petition
and notice of proceedings without charge from
MESSRS. T. A. BRAVE ,v OOCZOL, Solicitors, of
10 Church Street, Newcastle. —C. A, 11. HARMS,
Registrar.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
NEW SI B, RENEW AL
(Please cross out one)
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper,
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please find enclose a my cheque I money-order
f° r months’ subscription to The
Bulletin.
NAME:
ADDRESS: .. . „
RATES (A/asia): 1 year—£2 125.; \ year—
£l 6s. Post free. British C’wealth:
£3 3s. 6d. Foreign: £3 16s.
N.Z. CURRENCY (Remit to Box 965,
Wellington. N.Z.): A/asia: 1 year—
£l 18s 6d.; \ year —19s. 6d. British
C'wealth: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
AH the
family
will love
/.
only
Everybody's
i
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 666
Across
I—They1—They attack dirt with peculiar clearness. (9)
6 —Six by a poisoner. (5)
8 — Bolt with this eccentric morsel for a squirrel. (3)
9 Spin bowling against the breeze? (10)
11—The alphabet is known by such boys on either side of
a tree. (11)
13— Finish with a high-explosive
current. (7)
14 — Let it stand the test badly. (4)
17 — Hare disturbed by a large run-
ning bird. (4)
18 — Intensifications of effort like a
man on a ladder. (7)
23 — The poet sings of such an asser-
tion that the honeymooning bike-
- rider is prepared for the canni-
bals. (7, 4)
24 — A wonderful partnership shelter
for the cricket spectators. (10)
26 Low rings by 1000. (3)
27 — Address of many a Scandinavian
negro when agitated. (5)
28— In the K.C.M.G.. St George is
associated with this peculiar
alchemist. (2, 7)
Down
1 — Two vessels love us to be
cranky. (12)
2 The one mistaken novel of
Henry Kinglake. (6)
3 It's capital while Ned is in hid-
ing. (3, 5)
4 2-down dispenses with the
age. (3)
5 A brain's found in this theatrical
personality whose outstanding
characteristics are not brains. (7)
6 Capital girl is up after six. (6)
7 Little medieval weapons drop
scones, (8)
10—A little loaf spread a bare moun-
tain about some comedian. (8, 4)
12—it may make way for a screw
truant. (3)
15 — Murder disturbed by this sub-
mission in a law court. (8)
16— I do spice, (anagram) (8)
19 — Clerics in stripes. (7)
20— Bird and 1 following some trade
union. (3)
21— None stupid enough for a Scan-
dinavian university city. (6)
22 What makes an American resort
to a black's shelter. (3-3)
25—1 am in the objective. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 665


: /• :
»sr a!:
BE
■
m
■■■
■w
V
r :■ ■
’•5.-
*£
be a time of relaxed pleasure? Or
will it involve the unhappiness of financial discomfort? Why not
see the M.L.C. < bout making certain of your future* .
The M.L.C. offers a Personal Superannuation guarantee which, with generous bonuses ancflow pre-
mium instalments, takes absolutely the best care of your retirement. You can also ask about add-
ing Accident and Sickness benefits to your basic policy too. These benefits can protect your income
from loss caused by accidents or sickness.
Think about it. Act on if now. Call or write to your nearest M.L.C. office for more information on the
Personal Superannuation Policy.
THE MUTUAL LIFE AND CITIZENS’ ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in New South Wales)
And for Fire and General Insurance «r. ,• ‘ ; . '
THE M.L.C. FIRE AND GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY PTY. LIMITED
MLC94.63
