

The Bulletin
and The Observer
THE
WATERFRONT
JUNGLE
BY ALAN REID
PART TWO
Registered in Austral’9 for transmission by post a* * newspaper.
Douglas Terry
on Short Stories
The Common
Market
Revolution in
Iran?


Feiffer
11 MV
to rHe PcU PAL dAf&K)'?
0(0 WJP fOR
MH ZfPOgK MH ttOOLp*
ne no re
c?oi06eo(0^
AMP
66AT
l use v 10 pennon rue
CLBR&4 OH M SltifUU )£ss
0f SACRIfICIAL Rlies. FOR
MH M°l
hc ik)
TH£ VVmOH^
AW
ne
I wtv to prepare MAtoifestoo
fOR M HBRCHAtOTS Oh) Tl tiSlß
Of TH6 POOR fOR
m teems rm
\jJOOIQ Sic TH6<£^
QOfo 010
Hf AiOC?
BOAT
Vi ,
m sootj a more ewmxewv time
CAME. MM COUMTRy PROSP6R6V
UXtW RICH HARVEY AW fRUtffDL
COMMERCE. A \)EU) tmT,
ALLOWED
wee tc wJ
LAW' '
I A6AIK) 56 MT MM 655 AW 0V LAW
flffORM TO M SARON)S>. TH6
0AR.0105 LWfl? If/ TH6M AbKBV
M 6 TO 6MT6RTAIIO WITH
AT 6ACH
CLOSU&.
I zewmtfw mm penrm
A&UMSf 6ACRlfice STO TH6
attetf. M ae&M momo
ix! ir mw ptscu&eQfc
at eveiw
wmmw.
‘ikcma^
r mwmreo m MA/otfesroz
on ne of m poor ro
M MBRCHMJPj. TH6 M6PCHMjT6
MRS 6CeTAriel 7H6W
tem p\t ro fdpm,
A FACf- FlUPflO^
COMMITTER.
THAT MS A U A LOK)6 (jdHIU A 60.1 AW
$fU At U)ORK IOHIiP dtltiO
s \)mmo w M oARovs, me
HeRCm)TS AMO TH6 CLPR6H UOWO
?0m AT He AS OP W&
VtHOCZAriC^
mrmj^
If 50?'
tAIO MOT Q6'
cmcm,
Arnett Accept
Alice can.


HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street
Sydney; Box 2521; Phone: 27 5971.
The
Bulletin
JULY 22, 1961
Vol. 82
No. 4249
ANSWERS TO
CONTRIBUTORS
D.0.P.: Not bad, but not ours.
. .M.T.: He nearly was drowned,
and far better if he had been....
J.W.: Don’t think we would like
it better if we could decipher your
writing.... P.H.8.: Let "The Last
One” be the last T. 8.: “She
was a sweet little birdlike creature”
—just a cliche, in fact.... E.O K.:
Regrettable C.G.: “Pattern of
Violence” cut from a pattern of
a pattern of an overseas pattern.
. ..A.W.: No gods out of the
machine, not even if it's a fast 1961
convertible. .. .J.S.McQ.: That was
an old one for William the Con-
queror. .. . M.V.J.: The bush
always does that to you at first ;
take a few more trips and stay
longer.... J.L.: Somehow, abo-
riginal myths don't sound quite
right in the language of a business
letter 0.L.: V. S. Pritchett did
it better in “It May Never Happen.”
B.J. BLAKE . . . Are you
carving your characters from solid
mahogany? ... .J.M.: Many, or
most, authors have tried it —but
an anecdote cannot make a short
story... .Tula.: Guessed the end-
ing and there was not much else
to hold interest. ... M.R.: A good
theme but you take so long to get
to it J.J.: Instead of hunting so
hard for experience reflect more on
it... .L.W.J.: If you only had as
much interest in words as you have
in this Rhonda.... M.M.1.: Yes
it does read like chopped-up prose
and poor prose at that... . P. 8.:
What makes you think there is
something unique about your emo-
tional states. .. .W.H.: A good
attempt, you might enter into it
with more confidence. .. .V.J.:
Your description of a bushfire did
not warm us at a1L...0.K.: Be-
fore you write any more dialogue
listen to the way people talk....
P.E.. Not ours. . . .J.S. MCQ. . . .
Strong in background, weak in plot.
IN THIS ISSUE
Thugs on the Waterfront
W E . publish this week the second of Alan Reid’s three articles on the
Seamen’s Union. With this article, the picture becomes startlingly
clear. The Seamen’s Union is run by Communists for purely Communist
ends, and the methods by which it is run are violence and intimidation.
It is beyond the law; there is no existing means whereby we can help
rescue those fellow Australians who, to earn their living, must enter an
underworld of lies, thuggery, tyranny and a perversion of all the humanist
values that are supposed to distinguish us from animals.
In theory, the unfortunate members of this union can have recourse
to the courts; they can petition for court-controlled ballots to ensure a
democratic control of their union. In practice they will not do this; too
much of their lives is spent at sea for most of them to be game enough to
become heroes. They are stuck with a union secretary who makes “fun
and games” even out of applications for better wages and conditions for
his members and who belongs to a party that has declared its intention of
wrecking the industry his members work in.
Who cares? Almost no one. The shipowners are still lost in dreams
of appeasement. The businessman’s bewilderment when faced with the im-
placability of the wrecker urges caution. If the shipowners had not col-
laborated on occasion with the Seamen’s Union, they could have mounted
a campaign against it that might have cleaned it up.
The Government cares even less. are always ready with anti-
Communist slogans, but they have no plan for anti-Communist action. If
it were not for the fact that the D.L.P. keeps them in office they would
probably not even bother to produce slogans. The only hope is from those
trade-union leaders who devote their lives to trying to maintain and extend
the area of decency and democracy in union life.
JT ever any scandal cried out for a Royal Commission it is that in the
Seamen’s Union. A prolonged and skilful public investigation into its
affairs would produce more detailed evidence of tne bestiality of Com-
munism in action than the whole long-winded Petrov affair. The findings
of such a commission would be so dramatic that they would produce a
public outcry big enough to allow Government action. We do not expect
the Government to hold a Royal Commission.
There is a deadness at the heart of things in Australia. We spout
•way about liberty and democracy according to a few school textbook
definitions; then we go about our normal business. We are afraid of ap-
pearing fanatics. If our consciences are to be stirred at all, they are more
likely to be stirred by some excess overseas —if it is committed by a non-
Communist country—than by anything that happens to Australians. We
can still be stirred to complain about book censorship or the blunders of
m Archbishop, or some other routine, illiberal idiocy; but over the totalit-
arianism of the Left we quietly draw the blind. That fellow Australians
are subjected to a shotgun union does not matter. It is not in our textbooks.


This Australia
UNIONS
Jim Healy’s Death and
Gus Alford’s Gamble
By MUGGA
JAMES HEALY
Thousands mourned
Sussex Street was crowded with
mourners last Monday for Jim
Healy. Inside the Sydney Waterside
Workers’ Federation hall his body lay in
state and thousands of people filed past
the open coffin over which lay a rich red
silk blanket, edged with gold tassels.
Quite a few of the mourners wore black
and red armbands, with the red ones
predominating. After three speeches his
coffin was lifted into the hearse and the
“Internationale” was played.
But as most of his life was lived in an
unsettled political climate his death has
started a battle in the Waterside Workers’
Federation which won’t be resolved for
months. Mr Healy died while the ballot
for the general secretaryship was being
conducted. His only opponent was Mr
V. C. (“Gus”) Alford, an anti-Communist
and a member of the D.L.P. According
to one legal opinion, under the rules
Mr Alford is now the general secretary,
which is the precise situation which the
Communist officials have been trying to
avoid. Only two months ago they applied
to the Commonwealth Registrar to
change the rules but were unsuccessful.
Ironically, it is not only one legal
opinion which substantiates Alford’s
claim to be general secretary but the
Communist party itself, as Mr Docker
admitted in his June application to
change the rules.
In Mr Alford’s letter to the general
president, Mr Beitz, last Monday he
stated that while he regarded himself
as being the general secretary, he would
be prepared to take office in a “care-
taker” capacity on one condition:
“Whilst I believe that under the rules I
am entitled to a full term of office, I
want to make it quite clear that I intend
to remain in office only until a proper,
clean and honest ballot can be held under
the rules ... It is absolutely necessary
that the general secretary’s job should be
held by someone elected in a ballot not
controlled by the Communist party.” His
letter goes on to suggest that an “inde-
pendent” election could be conducted by
the Commonwealth Electoral Officer,
Industrial Registrar or by the N.S.W.
State Labor Council.
If the W.W.F. chooses to ignore
Alford’s legal claim, and disregards its
own letter to the Commonwealth Regis-
trar, no person in the Federation is
empowered under the rules to “initiate
and submit industrial claims before any
tribunal.”
The Communist party officials will
endeavor to force Alford into the courts
to prove that he is in fact the secretary.
There will be “spontaneous” demonstra-
tions against him, “spontaneous” strikes,
and if he exercises his right to work in
the Federation offices he will either be
refused admittance or sent to Coventry.
If they agreed to hold an independently,
run ballot, which is essentially Alford’s
gamble, they run the risk of creating
a precedent for future Federal Federa-
tion elections—a risk they can only take
as long as A.L.P. men agree to run on
the same ticket with them. But the
present unity-ticket farce is unlikely to
continue for more than three years in
the light of the thrashing which the Vic
torian A.L.P. suffered in that State's
election.
However, it is not only the risk of pre-
cedent entailed in an “independent”
ballot. With the support of A.L.P. mem-
bers and supporters in the W.W.F., and
the National Civic Council, any A.L.P.
member would be odds-on favorite to win,
But before this can come about Mr
Alford has to successfully ride out his
“caretaker” position, and the A.L.P. men
on the Federal Council of the W.W.F.
will have to find enough courage to
support him. Perhaps for the first time
in years, and despite the fact that more
than a few councillors hold office only by
virtue of past unity tickets, they may
support Alford's clean ballot attempt.
But only the Communist party and rabid
sectarians will be happy if he fails.
THE UNEMPLOYED
Life in the Credit Belt
FROM A AYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
Tn the “credit belt,” those thousands
-*■ of small homes that have mush-
roomed in the area south-west of Parra-
matta, N.S.W., a man in good weeks
earned £l5 with overtime usually bring-
ing it up to £l7. His house could be pur-
chased for as little as £lO deposit with
temporary finance repayable at £5 a week
where a War Service Loan was pend-
ing. The gas appliances were supplied
on credit at £2 per week; fencing cost
£1 per week and hire purchase commit-
ments for basic furniture £2 10s. This
amounted to a weekly commitment of
£9 10s. which may be unrealistic but
was understandable if you have ever tried
living with six children in one furnished
room at a rental of £5 per week. His
weekly commitments still allowed him
15 cigarettes a day (plus a few he rolled
himself) and a couple of drinks (seldom
more) after work. He handed over his
pay packet to his wife, keeping back
enough for his own needs.
But in March he lost his job. He
registered for unemployment benefits of
£6 2s. 6d. a week and waited three weeks
for the first money to come through. For
two of these weeks he received Food
Relief from State Social Welfare, but
there was no money to pay the instal-
ments on the house. At the local Com-
monwealth Employment Service he was
told that as an unskilled worker he had
a better chance of getting a job by fol-
lowing up the ads. in the positions-
vacant columns of the newspapers. The
Employment Officer would have liked
to help him but he had one job avail-
able that day and 50 applicants. The
next day, and for many days after that,
he arrived as early as 6 a.m. when inter-
views for those seeking jobs were
scheduled for 8 a.m. At six o’clock there
were already many others there and by
eight there could be 40 or 50 waiting-
all after one job.
The first economy was to cease paying
medical and sickness benefits—a danger-
ous economy, perhaps, but the money was
needed for food. Pressures still continue
to mount on all sides ; from the mort-
gagor; from the h.-p. companies, the gas
and light companies; from the head-
master who says to his son in front of
others: “Why are you not wearing school
uniform?”; from his daughter who asks
on her birthday: “Can’t I just have a
small doll?”; from his feet because his
shoes have worn through and are too fat
gone to take a Is. 9d. khromide sole from


Woolworths. Maybe the h.-p. companies
will try and sce through. Meanwhile
ll is possible to cook on a primus and go
to bed with the birds.
If the worst comes to the worst he and
his family will move into an old Army
tent in the caravan park. The tent com-
prises two sections. In one half is a
double bed, a pram for the baby and a
single bed for the two younger children,
who sleep one at each end. On the other
side of the canvas partition are a table
and chairs, two chrome bunk-beds for
the four elder children, a trestle on which
stands two antiquated primuses for cook-
ing, a washing-up basin and two pails to
carry the water from the nearest tap —
100 feet away. Facilities in this camp
are two fuel coppers, four unsewered
latrines, 2 cold showers. Using these
facilities are 30 families who pay approxi-
mately £2 10s. per week for the privilege
of living in this “holiday park.”
This is how his weekly budget will
work out then:
Income Unemployment Benefits £6 2 6
Child Endowment
(6 children) .. .. £2 15 0
Total £8 17 6
Expenditure. .Rent £2 10 0
Fares to seek work .. £1 0 0
Everything else, in-
cluding food for 6
children and wife .. £5 7 6
Total £8 17 6
This last figure should be taken in
relation to the Low Cost Food Budget
supplied by the Department of Health
which says that for minimum nutritional
standards a family of this size would
spend more than £l2 per week for food.
The debts he incurs all along the line
will be paid some time in the future when
he gets a job again.
LITERATURE
A Non-conformist
at the Party
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
XAVIER HERBERT
Against the rules
Last week a legend came to Sydney —-
Xavier Herbert, the author of
“Capricornia,” on his first trip south
for 15 years. He does not reaffy like
Sydney (when he left it 20 years ago
he walked to Darwin to get it out of
his system), but at 60 he is literally
fighting fit and was ready for anything
to help launch his new novel “Soldiers’
Women”—for everything, that is, except
his audience
He began well. As he stepped off the
plane he heard his name being paged
over the public address system, but by
(lodging anyone who looked like a writer,
reporter or publisher he managed to
sneak on to the bus and reach his hotel
in lower George Street unobserved. (He
lii.es the hotel because the staff doesn't
get up till 10 a.m. which leaves him
free to get his own breakfast at 5 a.m.
and take a stroll around the town before
the traffic thickens.) Limbering up for
the launching party he spent the first
days giving reporters interviews (and
trying to give something new to each
one), talking on radio, appearing on TV,
addressing literary clubs and dodging
motor-cars. He spent Wednesday after-
noon resting for the big party.
It started at 5 p.m. and after the sand-
wiches were eaten and the drinks gone
around, Beatrice Davis, his editor, said
a few words about her pleasure that the
book was finally out and left the floor
f°r Xavier Herbert. His speech could
have been one of the most interesting in
Australian literary history—but for the
litterateurs. It was naturally enough an
autobiographical speech and he invited
the listeners to sit down because he was
going to take his time. He told how he
wrote “Capricornia” in London before
he started to walk home, how the critics
had not yet seen its real theme (the
struggle of father against son), how he
was classified as mentally deficient at
school, how his father was startled and
incredulous when P. R. Stephensen told
him his son had genius, how he learnt
to fly, how he got so furious at sub-
editors putting semi-colons into his
stories that he tore that key out of his
typewriter, how he fought with his
American publisher and with Beatrice
Davis (though he now admitted she was
right), how he began to realise Austra-
lians were a doomed people.
He was then warming up to his
account of “Soldiers’ Women” and the
significance of Beatrice Davis as the
first real editor in Australian publishing
history when it happened. The literary
set was getting restive, Herbert was not
playing the game according to the rules —-
that is, making little jokes, gossiping, chit-
chatting—in fact, he obviously did not
know either the rules or the game. He
was in fact making a serious speech.
Some started to heckle, others began
conversations in corners.
Herbert listened to them for a few
moments, and then when a late arrival
gave him the opportunity, he sat down
leaving his speech unfinished. The writer
was effectively shut up. The party
happily continued with small talk,
gossip, chit-chat ...
FREE LOVE?
The Master’s
Return
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
Tt was a crazy fortnight and perhaps
the visiting American psychologist,
Dr Murray Banks, hit the right note on
the free-love controversy by claiming
Australia’s contamination dates back to
the beginning of Captain Cook’s career
when he served on a ship called “Free
Love.” Others, however, took the matter
more seriously. A retired Adelaide
parson said that although we have cen-
sorship of obscene books, isn’t it time
we introduced censorship of university
lectures? Professor A. K. Stout pointed
out that although he once said he favored
trial marriages he didn’t really, and the
Communist party arranged to meet
Dr Gough, from whom it will seek
assurance that he is not besmirching the
moral character of Communists.
Finally, last Friday, Professor John
Anderson, the founder of the Sydney
University school of empiricism and
free thought, emerged from his retire-
ment to address an audience of 600
students on “the errors of Dr Gough and
Dr Kinsella.” Ffe retired three years ago,
so most of the students, who had never
seen or heard him before, fought for their
seats, and the overflow crushed and
milled around the three doors. Scores
were turned away and dozens stood
around the doors unable to hear a word
but rejoicing in at least being nearby.
About half-way through, as tumultuous
applause and gales of laughter echoed in
the corridors outside, a pathetic note was
handed down to the chairman from one
of the outsiders asking if insiders could
possibly press closer together so that
some of the outsiders might get in.
Professor Anderson denounced “religi-
ous superstition” (“at least as dangerous
as loose living”), ecclesiastical interfer-
ence in academic life, and the general
decline of university autonomy as shown
in academics’ indifference to the issues
raised by the “rank frame-up” of Pro-
fessor Orr. Fie warned students that
there was a permanent incompatibility
between universities and the churches
and emphasised that students and all
academics had a duty to resist encroach-
ments by the churches. (“If religious
societies are flourishing in the university,
this is a sign of the decay of the uni-
versity.”)
When he concluded the applause was
so long and so loud that even he was
startled. He bowed three ot four times
in gratitude as the applause continued
unabated for some minutes. After the
chairman had formally thanked him, it
continued with renewed fervor.
Meanwhile Dr Kinsella is not finished
yet. “There is certain background
matter,” he hinted, “which I have passed
on to Archbishop Gough, the Youth
Advisory Committee, and the University
Senate.”


FOOD AND DRINK
The Gourmet’s
Farewell
FROM K. G. WILLEY IN DARWIN
MAURICE DREICER
Wives are too sloppy
The famous American gourmet
Maurice C. Dreicer spent a day in
Darwin last week before flying on to
Manila. Wearied by his fruitless quest
around Australia for The Perfect Steak
and The Perfect Beer, he decided to
get a few things off his chest. Australian
cattle, he says, are walked too much
and our meat is definitely inferior. As
for Northern Territory beefsteak it is
“teeth-breaking.”
Australian housewives, Mr Dreicer
reckons, are “useless, inefficient.” He
was “shocked, appalled and rather dis-
gusted” to find Australian wives falling
into the “sloppy, lazy ways of American
women.” They are “slobs in the kitchen.”
“I think most men will agree that more
and more families lean to the idea that
a meal in a restaurant is a treat, because
it is so much better than the food at
home.”
But he mellowed after a meal of the
Territory’s beloved barramundi (“one of
the great fishes of the world”) and
decided to try the beer. He took up
his stance on a bar stool in the Victoria
Hotel. Usually, when drinking, he likes
to wear wool next the skin (“the snug,
comfortable feeling helps the taste
buds”). But in tropical Darwin he
settled for an open-necked floral shirt.
He tried both brews (Darwin’s 12,000
people keep TWO local breweries busy)
and pronounced them “men’s beer,” as
opposed to the despised American pro-
duct which he calls “boys’ beer.” The
Territory's pride could do with “a little
more hops” but had an “excellent
alcoholic content.”
He was so pleased he decided to in-
vent a special Territory drink The
Monkey Flip. He got the name from
Darwin's Theory of Evolution ; and the
number of people who “flip” to and
fro through Darwin’s international air-
port. The ingredients are sherry, Pimms,
half a glass of ice, a good slug of gin.
He stirred it with his special gold caviare
tester, then sipped. Interested bystanders,
invited to join him, also sipped. What’s
it taste like?. .. .YOU try it!
Some buffalo steak arrived. Drinkers
eyed the gourmet suspiciously as he
weighed the raw mass on special scales
and examined it through a magnifying
glass “for texture.” Then he took it
upstairs, where Victoria Hotel licensee
Richard Fong himself a gourmet by
Darwin standards —has a flat.
.
Mi Dieicer sliced the buffalo steak
very thin and cooked it in an ordinary
Irypan. While it sizzled, he added sherry,
brandy and soy sauce (no fat). Turned
ovei repeatedly ( your housewives would
be too lazy to do this”), it was ready
for the table in exactly three minutes —
timed by Mr Dreicer’s special "steak
watch, which has a built-in alarm clock.
Having eaten his buffalo (no salt, no
pepper) Mr Dreicer pronounced it “ a
fine meat, strongly flavored, but of high
quality.” He classed it above Australian
beefsteak “probably because the buffalo
is a lazy animal and doesn’t walk around
so much.” After smoking a long Philip,
pines cigar (lighted with TWO matches
to get the full flavor), Mr Dreicer was
satisfied.
A large, chubby man with a thatch
of grey hair, enormous poise and humor,
and a deep and genuine love for what
Territorians call “tucker,” he made a
last tour of Darwin bars “to get the feel
of the place” before boarding his plane,
Manila-bound. His twin quests remain
unresolved. Sad sampling in other
countries has led him to the opinion that
American corn-fed beefsteak may be,
indeed, The Perfect Steak. As for The
Perfect Beer, he is like a knight of the
Middle Ages, jousting through one
brewery after another in search of his
Holy Grail. “Maybe I’ll never find The
Perfect Beer,” he said before leaving
Darwin. “But I’ll keep on trying.”
ABORIGINES
Not Subjects of the Queen?
FROM A PERTH CORRESPONDENT
R Kim Beazley, the Western Austra-
lian Labor M.H.R., who used to be
called the student prince in his younger
days, threw a constitutional hand grenade
into the last Perth sitting of the Federal
Parliamentary select committee on voting
rights for aborigines when he raised the
question whether Western Australian law
implied that classified natives in the
State were not subjects of the Queen.
He raised the point after a Roman
Catholic priest, one of the 150 witnesses
heard by the committee in W.A., said
he believed natives without citizenship
regarded themselves as Stateless people.
As a result, the matter has been referred
to the Commonwealth Crown Law
Department, Professor G. Sawer, of the
Australian National University, and the
Western Australian Crown Law Depart-
ment. The problem is in that section of
the Western Australian Native Welfare
Act which refers to the rights and privi-
leges of a subject of the Queen being
conferred on a native gaining citizenship
rights under State law. This seems to
imply that natives without citizenship are
not natural-born subjects of the Queen.
Does it also imply Western Australia
claims concurrent powers of naturalisa-
tion with the Commonwealth?
If it does turn out that a large per-
centage of W.A.’s 18,000-odd classified
natives are Stateless people it will be no
surprise to those who have followed the
evidence given to the committee in W.A.
In a 7000-mile tour of W.A. it took
evidence from mission natives on the
lonely Kalumburu Mission on the north-
west tip of the continent, heard evidence
at Kalgoorlie, where natives have been
officially described as beggars, and it
accepted perhaps the first published views
of civilised natives in the color-conscious
town of Gnowangerup, where natives
equal the white population.
Witnesses told the committee that
natives were barred from restaurants,
shops and theatres in the Great Southern
towns of Gnowangerup, Borden and
Williams if they could not produce
citizenship certificates. Aboriginal Hazel
Brown said her people called the State
citizenship certificate a dog licence. “We
don't want a little card with a photo-
graph on it," she said. Another native
witness said education was useless to
many children. When they left school
their applications for jobs in stores were
refused because they were colored.
At Kalgoorlie, a district welfare officer
said many natives in the goldfields
applied for citizenship rights chiefly to
get access to liquor. About 90 per cent,
of natives over 40 were illiterate and the
percentage was still high in the under-40
age group. He was quite certain natives
had given no consideration to the matter
of voting.
At Derby, a station owner said none
of the natives who worked for him would
be able to fill in a postal vote form. They
would all come to him to have their forms
filled in and he would have no trouble
getting 60 votes for the particular party
he supported.
The discrepancy of opinion between
the native witnesses, who wanted to
exercise the voting rights which are
granted to natives in every State but W.A.
and Queensland and who plainly want to
exercise it now, and the responsible white
officials who pointed out that many
natives were simply not capable of exer-


cising a democratic vote, will give the
committtee one of its biggest headaches
when it comes to sift the evidence.
Though it is only directly concerned
with ways of overcoming the anomalies
which give natives in W.A. and Queens-
land the right to vote in Commonwealth
elections but denies them the right to
vote under State laws, its evidence clearly
stirred up some far deeper social issues.
The two educated natives who came
before the committee and told it quite
bluntly that they were not interested in
applying for the citizenship ; they con-
sidered it their natural right.
TRADE
From Hong Kong
FROM EUGENE BAJKOWSKI IN SYDNEY
A special Hong Kong Trade Mission
recently arrived in Australia to try
to stimulate interest in the colony as
a capital market. The colony is also
anxious to expand its trade links with
Australia because of the imminent threat
of Britain joining the European Com-
mon Market.
Hong Kong products include a wide
range of cotton piecegoods, cotton yarn,
rayon and silk brocades, clothing, house-
hold enamel and aluminium ware, plastic
articles, hardwood furniture, Chinese
specialties. Heavy industry produces an
extensive range of metal products, ship-
breaking, steel rolling and manufacturing
to order a wide range of precision engi-
neering products. Some of these goods
could be marketed in Australia, but
penetration is difficult because of severe
competition.
Australia stands to benefit from con-
tact with Hong Kong in two ways. First,
there seem to be considerable amounts
of capital available for investment in
Australian industry on reasonable terms.
In addition to the normal banking
network, including leading British and
American banks and the huge London-
registered Shanghai and Hong Kong
Banking Corporation, there are small
Chinese commercial banks and credit
houses, private financiers and money
changers, dealing in every currency under
the sun. There is hardly any exchange
control and transfer of funds is swift
and inexpensive. Many wealthy overseas
Chinese businessmen keep their fortunes
in Hong Kong in a pretty liquid form,
alert for promising investment oppor-
tunities. Many important investment
projects in South-east Asia are financed
through the colony. There is always
some capital available for placing out-
side Hong Kong because of the natural
limitations of domestic investment.
Second, as the colony is almost wholly
dependent on imports for its food supply,
exports of Australian meats, tinned fruit
and vegetables and wines can be con-
siderably expanded with steady sales
promotion
THE SIQMS were RieiH-r
Tv\B CLIMATE WAS RI<3HT
{ I
I JUST PONT D>l<a IT}


RABBITS
No Hutches
in the Backyard
FROM A MALBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
K. TURNBULL
Pets are safe
When the chairman of the Victorian
Vermin and Noxious Weeds
Destruction Board, Mr R. J. Tully,
revealed recently that over 200 bunnies
had been confiscated by his inspectors
(many of the offenders being migrants
living in the Footscray-Sunshine-Albion
areas), he said people “don’t know it’s
against the law to keep or breed rabbits
in Victoria, nor do they realise whai a
potential danger their rabbits could be
if they escaped.” In some cases rabbit-
hutches had been installed inside houses
and the inspectors usually made their
raids following complaints by neighbors.
The penalties for illicit rabbit breeding
is a fine up to £5O or six months’ jail.
In some cases the owners had been
given time to devour their stock, in
others the animals were seized. How-
ever the Minister for Lands, Mr Turn-
bull, has warned that future offenders
will be prosecuted. (Pet rabbits are not
affected by the drive, since they may be
kept providing the owner takes out a
permit.)
The rabbits concerned are generally
not the brown bush type, but an aristo-
cratic giant species known as New
Zealand White with thick soft fur and
floppy velvet ears. The Whites are about
three times the size of the wild rabbit
and are the type used in rabbit-farming
in Britain, Europe and U.S.A.
The only State where legal rabbit-
farming seems to have made any progress
is N.S.W., where there are at least 50
licensed breeders operating in the coun-
ties of Cumberland and Camden (the
approval of the local Pastures Protection
Board is necessary), but outside of these
counties the idea of deliberately breeding
rabbits arouses the same intense hostility
as it does in Victoria.
The pioneer of the industry is Mr P. R.
Pike of Castle Hill who was engaged
in rabbit-breeding in the U.K. before
migrating to Australia five years ago. It
cost Mr Pike about £BO each to import
his first bucks and does from the U.K.
Most of the rabbits he raises are sold
for stud purposes to other breeders and
fetch prices between £5 and £2O.
Breeders have organised themselves
into the Australian Domestic Rabbit
Breeders’ Association to safeguard stan-
dards and to keep a stud register. Mr
Pike’s own farm is a tightly organised
venture, with the rabbits housed in wire
cages and fed on pellets similar to those
used for poultry. He says that a good
doe will produce nearly 40 young a year
in five litters of eight each. To raise a
41b. rabbit costs about 4s. and at two
months it will fetch Bs. Allowing Is. for
the owner’s labor, this leaves a profit of
about 3s. A farm with 600 does should
net a shade over £3OOO a year after
allowing for depreciation and overheads,
but capital is needed at about £6 a head
of producing stock.
Although the industry has got a foot-
hold in N.S.W., there is pressure to have
it banned. The Pastures Protection
Boards’ Association has asked the State
Agriculture Department to revoke
licences and prohibit rabbit - farming
throughout the State.
In Victoria, it looks as if it will never
even get going. Last March, the Vermin
Board unanimously rejected 30 applica-
tions for permission to keep rabbits
commercially. Most of these were from
individuals, but some are known to have
come from rabbit-packing and exporting
firms who have found supplies of wild
rabbits rapidly dwindling since the
myxomatosis drive.
The four primary-producers organisa-
tions who have representation on the
Vermin Board’s advisory committee in
Victoria are vehemently opposed to
rabbit-farming. They claim that the
rabbits could escape and over-run the
country in the same way as the ordinary
wild species now being liquidated by
myxomatosis and poison drives. How-
ever, the C.5.1.R.0. Wild Life Section
thinks it unlikely that the Whites would
breed with the wild species. Others say
that the White is essentially a domestic
animal with very small chance of sur-
vival if released from captivity.
Another cause for alarm to primary
producers is the fibroma virus which
commercial breeders use to inoculate
their animals against myxomatosis.
Recently the Victorian section of the
Australian Primary Producers’ Union
said it would seek a Federal ban on the
virus on the grounds that it too, might
“escape" and nullify the myxomatosis
campaign by developing immunity
among the wild species. The chairman
of the Union’s Vermin Section, Mr C.
Rousseau, complained that the decision
of the N.S.W. Government to allow
rabbit-farming was “dangerous.”
In the United States there are about
40,000 rabbit farms, some of them
operating on a large scale. It is an in-
dustry with little if any waste. The white
flesh fetches higher prices than poultry,
the offal is used for pet food, while the
head and feet are crushed for use in
meat meal for stock food. The skins are
used in the fur trade, while the tails find
a use as cosmetic brushes in theatre
dressing-rooms.
Mr Pike and his followers consider
they have a bright future if they are not
regulated out of existence. There are
possibilities for export markets for
dressed rabbit meat in South East Asia
and in the United States. The industry
would also replace on imports of rabbit
furs which local furriers now obtain from
abroad.
Opponents of rabbit-farming have got
another argument in reserve. “It is bad
psychologically,” they say, “to allow
commercial rabbit keeping, when so
much money and effort is being spent on
exterminating wild rabbits.”
FISH
The Scallops Crisis
FROM A TASMANIAN CORRESPONDENT
'T'asmanians still have about nine days
in which to enjoy the scallops which
the Lord gave them as a gourmet delicacy
within the poor man’s budget. After the
season closes on July 31 and the dredges
have been put away until next May, the
experts can try to find out what all the
fuss has been about.
The commercial scallop (Notovola
meridionalis ) is a bivalve mollusc, emin-
ently edible, as the aborigines discovered
ages ago. Beds of scallops have been
noted in Port Phillip, Port Lincoln, King
George’s Sound, and elsewhere, but only
in Tasmania are they exploited. But,
since 1956, a so-called scallop {Amusium
balloti) has been commercially taken off
Bundaberg. To the less discriminating
sea-food fancier of Melbourne and
Sydney it has represented a cheaper
alternative, and it has seriously affected
the Tasmanian scallop industry.
Tasmanian beds are mostly around the
entrance to the Derwent estuary, but rich
new beds have recently been tapped in
Ringarooma Bay (in the north) and
Coles Bay (on the east coast). The in-
dustry is worth about £lOO,OOO a season
to fishermen. It employs some 125 boats
and about a million pounds of shelled
scallop meat is brought in.
Hauls within days of the season’s
opening on May 15 were good, but the


public rebelled at an increase in price—
though at 4s. 4d. per lb. in Hobart the
scallops were very cheap fish. The price
was dropped back to 4s. per lb. retail,
leaving the fishmonger or delicatessen a
margin of 4d. or sd. per lb., but with
the mainland markets glutted by cheaper
Queensland supplies there was a build-up
of stocks in Tasmania.
Meanwhile, “sputnik” dredges con-
tinued to haul up more scallops than
could be sold, and to pulp and destroy
as many of the shellfish as they scraped
from the seabed, seriously threatening
the future catch. About five weeks ago
the Bridport fishermen deserted Ringa-
rooma Bay, and the St. Helens boats
lost interest in Coles Bay. It was then
that the Sea Fisheries Advisory Board
recommended that dredging should be
prohibited two days a week and that
severe penalties should be imposed on
those who broke the regulations.
Mr D. T. Whitton, of Gordon, who
has been scalloping for 25 years, said
that heavy dredges should be banned,
that beds should be closed in rotation
to allow the young scallops a chance to
grow, and that dredging should be re-
stricted to experienced fishermen who
would not exterminate more than they
took. On July 6 the Government gazetted
regulations banning dredging between 6
p.m. on Thursdays and 6 a.m. on
Sundays, and providing heavier penalties
for breaches.
But almost immediately there was a
move in the Legislative Council to dis-
allow the restrictions. The economics of
the over - supplied market and bad
weather which prevented dredging had so
restricted supplies that the need for the
restrictions had disappeared.
"... just as the giant Consolidated Holdings Was about to devour the shaking
little Princess Products Ltd along came the sturdy Invincible Investments
Inc. with thousands of first mortgage debenture stock ...!"
UNIVERSITIES
The Watchdog
Doesn’t Speak English
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
OTARI CHERKEZTA
“I cannot remember”
Three Russian students touring Aus-
tralian and New Zealand universities
made a bad impression on Melbourne
pressmen when they arrived at Essendon
airport. Although one of them, friendly
fair-haired Mrs Elvira Astafieva, speaks
excellent English and another, Mr
Alexander Lebedev, speaks it reasonably
well, both deferentially referred reporters’
questions to the eldest member of the
delegation, Mr Otari Cherkezia (27), who
speaks none at all.
Mr Cherkezia, a post-graduate engi-
neering student at Moscow University,
is the leader of the delegation, but more
to the point is the fact that he is the
only one of the three who belongs to
the Communist party. Mrs Astafieva
(24) studies English at Leningrad Uni-
versity and Mr Lebedev (26) studies
history and English at Moscow, but
questions on all topics went to comrade
Cherkezia, the engineer. His appoint-
ment as political watchdog was probably
considered wise by Soviet officialdom
because this is the first delegation of its
kind from the U.S.S.R. which has not
been confined to the closed circuit of
the Australia-Soviet Friendship Society,
the Eureka Youth League and similar
“representative” bodies. Its host here is the
National Union of Australian Students,
which ensures that the visitors are meet-
ing the critical gaze—and questioning—
of undergraduates at our universities.
The Soviet students struck some of
this at Adelaide University and under
comrade Cherkezia’s leadership came out
with some pretty tall stories. “Russians
were getting a full account of the events
happening in the world, including Aus-
tralia” was one such glib reply. “Any
student in Russia can criticise any per-
son who makes mistakes in the Soviet
Union” is another example (and a
rather tautological one when you realise
that Beria was an outstanding case of
somebody who made mistakes).
At the Melbourne University student
meeting, the tempo warmed up consider-
ably, thanks to questioning by students
from Iron Curtain countries and from
Left-wingers in the A.L.P. club. The
Russians found themselves defending
their Government's slaughter in Budapest
and Mrs Astafieva told the audience that
“the Russian people" should have been
consulted over the award of the Nobel
Prize to the late Boris Pasternak. On
the question of criticising the Soviet Gov-
ernment, Mr Cherkezia repeated that
students were free to do so, but added,
“I cannot remember one . . .” The
laughter from the audience made no
noticeable impression on the Russians.
A more sophisiticated line of question-
ing came from Mr Bill Thomas of the
A.L.P. club. He asked if Leon Trotsky’s
“History of the Russian Revolution” was
on the reading list for history students
in Soviet universities. In repiy, he was
told that the reading guides included
many books hostile to the revolution,
some of them by American authors.
“But what about Trotsky’s book?” After
further attempts at evasion, the Russians
admitted that it wasn't to be found, be-
cause it was “inaccurate.”
Mr Thomas, however, did not make
the same gesture as he did to a Soviet
youth delegation which came to Mel-
bourne last year. Having managed to
get the Soviet youth away from the
Eureka Youth League for a brief time
to attend an A.L.P. club function, Mr
Thomas, as the club president, presented
them with a copy of Trotsky’s “History.”
The book was handed back to him —
some say, coldly.


EDUCATION
Schools on the
Lottery System
FROM BRENDAN O'HARA IN SYDNEY
R. G. MENZIES
“A tremendous believer”
TV/| r Robert Gordon Menzies and
Father James Kevin O'Reilly were
in substantial agreement last Sunday.
The Prime Minister told a crowd of
people attending the opening of a new
£150,000 science and classroom block at
St Joseph’s College, Hunter's Hill,
Sydney, that he was “a tremendous
believer in Church schools.”
Perhaps it was not without significance
that he chose a time in N.S.W. when
support for independent schools is
growing. He was very careful, however,
in the midst of his vocal support for
Church schools, to say “I do not criticise
any other type of school.”
However, Father O’Reilly was speak-
ing in the Catholic parish church of St
Mary's, North Sydney. Crudely speak-
ing, he was urging parishioners to support
a “Golden Opportunity Art Union”
which is being run in support of Catholic
schools. He told the people that in outer
suburban areas like Blacktown there
were 2500 Catholic children of school age
who could not attend a Catholic school.
A lot of them, whether they liked it or
not, had to go down the road to the
public (or State) school. In this State
£lm. is spent each week on education
and not one penny of the money they
were paying through taxation would be
spent on schools to which their children
and grandchildren were going to.
Remarking that N.S.W. people spent
£34m. on State lotteries, Father O'Reilly
suggested it would be of great assistance
if some of this money could go to
Don't think you can escape through drink, Adrian. Adrian! "...
Did you hear me?...Adrian!"
“Golden Opportunity Art Unions”—the
proceeds of which would go to assist
Catholic schools in areas like Black-
town. Already £14,000 had been raised
in this way and Catholic people in the
inner areas, who had few if any burdens
in regard to parish schools and churches,
could assist their younger brethren in the
outer suburbs. As the parents of chil-
dren going to State schools were not
only getting their own taxation money
used for State schools, but the Catholics'
as well, it would be a good idea if non-
Catholics could be persuaded to buy
tickets in the art unions.
SHORT STORIES
The Groupers
FROM A SYKNEY CORRESPONDENT
HThe Group meets at Felix Barton’s com-
fortable old stone home which stands
in giounds which spill down to the waters
edge in North Sydney. It consists of
about 80 male teachers, was founded in
1946 and did its most significant work in
making suggestions which influenced the
Wyndham Report's recommendations on
the teaching of English. Its more normal
activities consist of a yearly conference,
the publication of a bulletin ana quarterly
meetings for the discussion of pedagog.c
or more general topics.
But Friday last the Group—its full
name is the English Teachers' Gioup—
tucked into ox-tail soup, cauliflower
cheese, sandwiches, and a variety of
drinks before settling down in front of a
wood fire to discuss whether the Aus-
tralian short story was stagnating.
First, Ken Levis gave a concise his-
torical survey of the Australian short
story, then Olaf Ruhen launched a
vehement attack on The Bulletin and all
its works including its attitude to the
short story, and Desmond O'Grady
pointed out that The Bulletin had not
laid down any conditions about short-
story writing but had merely made
suggestions and expressed the hope that
the ferment of contemporary Australian
life would find some reflection in short
stories.
The most dramatic moment was the
confrontation of “the entertainment” and
“artistic” attitudes to writing short stories
when Peter Shrubb, opposing Ruhen’s in-
sistence on markets, claimed that a writer
writes because he has a personal problem
which he can get to grips with only by
writing.
That question was debated furiously
with filibustering Olaf Ruhen winning, if
not by force of argument, at least by
weight of words, not all of them con-
sequential. When Shrubb, denying that
he was a “self-expression” man, said the
writer, out of his private pain, created
something autonomous and public, Olaf
put it into Ruhenese for him: “He estab-
lishes a communication channel.”
Some said it was the best meeting for
ten years. Perhaps some will start read-
ing Bulletin short stories.


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Perplexing Paradox
of the D.L.P.
By OBSERVER
MR CALWELL
Demoralised
Apart from the fact that it spells
victory for Mr Menzies and liquida-
tion for Mr Calwell, the result of the
Victorian elections can mean anything.
It shows that far from declining, the
D.L.P. is gaining new life ; and that
puts all of the pat predictions back into
the melting pot. Even the “Sydney
Morning Herald's” Canberra correspon-
dent seemed less cocky this week when
he was writing about the D.L.P.
The fashionable belief until Saturday
was that the D.L.P. was a passing
phenomenon that was now on the wane.
Mr Calwell clearly believed this to be
true, just as he believed that an economic
downturn would get Labor votes, but
many D.L.P. members themselves also
feared that the miracle that sustained
them might be over. V/hat is now evident
is that there is a groundswell —in Vic-
toria at least —in favor of the D.L.P.
that is unrelated to its usual supporters
and comes from people who are fed up
with the other parties ; this groundswell
may yet prove to be of immense signifi-
cance to the future of Australia.
If the Labor party were capable of
action instead of enacting the umpteenth
act of its dreary political tragedy it could
still just possibly save the day for itself.
The D.L.P. has already offered it an
electoral alliance, with an exchange of
preferences, on certain conditions. The
D.L.P. would now presumably add a
few more conditions. If Labor were able
to accept them it might put up a
showing against Mr Menzies. But its
demoralised leader, its bossy Federal
Secretary, its collaborating Victorian
Executive and the general caution and
palsy of many of the anti-Communists
in its other State Executives don’t give
it a hope in hell of doing anything
quickly. If it is ever going to clean up
the Victorian Executive it will do it in
a roundabout way that will not start
operating until next year.
In theory the anti-Communists will
eventually control the Queensland Execu-
tive. Mr Chamberlain will then be
kicked out of the Federal Secretaryship
(or neutralised), and the troops will be
sent into Victoria ; those who really
believe in unity tickets will be kicked
out and those who have played along
with them for opportunist reasons will
switch. What then?
A Victorian Executive would be set
up that would cease the scandals of
open collaboration with Communists.
But would it could it? —set up an
industrial group system in the unions that
would defeat them in elections? And if
it wouldn't—or couldn't what would
happen in union elections? . Either the
Communists would get back in and con-
tinue to control delegates to A.L.P. con-
ferences ; or D.L.P. men would replace
the Communists and pull unions out of
the A.L.P. Could the tired old nerves
of Labor stalwarts stand these strains?
To really satisfy the D.L.P. the A.L.P.
must do better than it does in N.S.W.,
for example. And it is doubtful if it has
the nerve to do so.
Tn the meantime the D.L.P. continues
to drift away from any possible
version of a Labor party. In its union
manoeuvres it represents a force that is
cutting unions out of politics (which
might not be a bad thing). In politics
it could still become a centre party. The
right kind of campaign backed by the
right amount of money in the coming
Federal elections would gain votes from
moderates of both the Right and Left
who are fed up with the present political
stalemate.
Unfortunately the D.L.P. is not yet
ready for this kind of destiny. It lacks
public figures with known policies;
people would not know what and whom
they were voting for. In voting for the
D.L.P. they would be merely Voting
against a situation they did not like. And
only extraordinary political genius could
rig up enough people and policies in a
month or two to make any difference at
the elections. A reasonable forecast is
that almost despite itself the D.L.P. will
do well in the Federal elections. It must
then work out what it should do next.
It is no criticism of the D.L.P. to say
that so far it has been primarily a
pressure group determined to destroy
Labor's chances. The dismantling of the
A.L.P. industrial groups, the entry into
the A.L.P. of Communists and fellow-
travellers, the subsequent collaboration
with Communists in union battles, and
the preparation of what was in effect a
pro-Communist foreign policy are all
good reasons for any Australian who
cherishes his liberty, and indeed his life,
to wish to see the present kind of Labor
party destroyed. And the D.L.P. is
destroying it.
"Out willy-nilly it is getting other sup-
port that it does not yet know how
to handle. And it does not know how
to handle it because it has been a success-
fully integrated pressure group. The
paradox is that it cannot become a
national party as long as it is primarily
a sectional group ; but if it ceases to be
a sectional group it may keel over before
it becomes a national party. Here is a
position of the most acute perplexity;
there is no safe way out; the question
is only to be solved by taking a chance
one way or the other.
Do we need another party? For those
who believe that the Socialist impulse
has played itself out —that in action it
now simply becomes nasty —the answer
is that it is hard in the long run to see
how parliamentary democracy is going
to survive in Australia without some such
development. Either the Labor party
transforms itself into something that is
in touch with the times —and itself be-
comes a new party —or it is better dead.
The D.L.P. —as a national party —might
be a substitute. We are bound to get
something, some time —and unless it is
a reformed A.L.P. or a widened D.L.P.
it may prove to be some monstrosity of
the extreme Left or the extreme Right
that for the moment is too unthinkable.


The Waterfront Jungle—2
“Shotgun Lafferty
is Looking for You”
The second of three articles
By ALAN REID
W. F. PHILLIPS
“I know I was heading for trouble”
WILLIAM (“MAC”) PHILLIPS, 33, seaman, who,
in the union’s vernacular, “called copper” on the
Australian Seamen’s Union by challenging its
discipline in the Commonwealth Industrial Court,
has made a statutory declaration that shortly after 6.30
o’clock one evening last December he was on the corner of
King and Pitt Streets. Sydney. He has stated in that declara-
tion that a car pulled up in the traffic, that a man put his head
out of a car window, said to him, “Lafferty is looking for
you.” and laughed.
Phillips has stated further that the man who put his
head out of the car window was Hugh Grant. Communist
Secretary of the Boilermakers’ Union. Phillips has declared
on oath that he said something rude to Grant and Grant
drove off
To the average bystander who was on the corner that
December evening and saw or heard the brief encounter,
it seemed a cryptic, meaningless exchange. But it would
have meaning for men who know the Sydney waterfront.
John Andrew Lafferty is a prominent criminal. He has con-
victions in Australia and New Zealand. He is a frequenter
of the Sydney waterfront. He is known to the police as
“Shotgun” Lafferty. He apparently has a foible. When
arrested he has been found to have Communist literature in
his possession.
Lafferty has been convicted of assault on a number of
occasions and jailed for varying periods. His record is one
of violence. In Wollongong in 1959 he was apprehended
for being in possession of an unlicensed pistol, and when
arrested he broke one policeman’s jaw and assaulted others.
On January 10 last Lafferty, who was described as boiler-
maker seaman, of Munro Street. Miller’s Point, and another
man, a member of ihe Painters and Dockers’ Union,
appeared in a Sydney police court. They were charged
with shooting Harry Erricker Grenfell, seaman, of George
Street. Circular Quay, Sydney, who was found lying in a
gutter in Hickson Road. Darling Harbor, Sydney, on May
28. 1960. with a gaping wound in his belly. Grenfell
declined to give evidence. Mr Harvey, S.M., when discharg-
ing the two men, said. “There was ample justification for
the police arresting you. But I now find there is no prima
facie case against you and you are discharged.
A man who claims to have been with Phillips when
Phillips was told “Lafferty is looking for you.” has made
the following statutory declaration: “I was at the corner of
King and Pitt Streets, Sydney, some time last December. I
was in company with William Phillips. A car was coming
from George Street up King Street. There was a fellow in it
who looked like Khrushchev. It was after 6.30. The man
like Khrushchev put his head out of the car which had
stopped at the intersection. He said ‘Lafferty is looking for
you.’ Phillips said - you and Lafferty. too.’ The
man who looked like Khrushchev drove off. I said to
Phillips. ‘Who's that?’ He said. ‘Hughie Grant of the
Boilermakers.’ I would know this man again.” (The signa-
tory has asked that his name and address be kept confi-
dential at this stage.)
I put it to Phillips that the man he had stated was
Grant, knowing his troubles with the Seamen’s Union, was
having a joke —a macabre joke, but nevertheless a joke.
Phillips said. “Okay. He was having a joke. 1 can look
after myself. It doesn’t worry me. It’s water on a duck's
back. But he says it to you. You’re a nice quiet fellow who
likes to go home to the wife and kids and to keep out of
blues. But you don't like the way your union is doing
things. You’re having a bit of a grumble. Because you're
a quiet, steady fellow the blokes are paying a bit of atten-
tion to you. The heads don't like it. Some bloke has a big
joke. ‘Lafferty’s looking for you.’ he tells you. What do you
do? You pull your head in. You forget your grumble.
You go quiet. It’s only a big joke. But it mightn’t be.
Lafferty or one of the big-timers who make the waterfront
their haunt might really be looking for you.
“And I’ll tell you another joke they pulled on me. I've
a little mate. He was. up at King’s Cross. A bloke said to
him ‘You’re a mate of Bill Phillips, aren’t you?’ He said.
‘Yes.’ This bloke says ‘Tell Phillips he'll never get back
to sea. He’s only a . If he goes back to sea we’ll
throw him overboard.’ Some time later I’m with my mate
down at Central Police Court. My mate’s wandering round
having a looksee. He comes out of one of the court rooms.
He says. ‘You know the bloke I told you about up the
Cross who said if you go back to sea he’d throw you over-
board. I just saw him in court.’
“Later when he comes out of court my mate points him
out to me. I recognise him. He’s a seaman. His name
is . I said to him. ‘Did you threaten to murder
me?’ He said, T didn’t say that.’ My mate said. ‘You’re a
liar—that’s what you told me to tell him.’ There was a bit
of an argument. I hit him on the chin. It was in Central
Police Court. There were dozens of coppers round as well
as a lot of people. It was a miracle I wasn’t pinched.
“But that’s the way they do it. You get these messages.
If you’re nervous you start worrying about them. Then you
decide to go quietly and they leave you alone. From then
on you don’t step out of line. They never do anything about
their own boys. They can do no wrong. But if you do


anything, even a very small thing, that suggests you are
against them they’re on to you. And they never let up.
“t’M on one ship. Each ship has a rolling fund to which
A all Seamen’s Union members contribute. In some ways it
is quite a good idea. If, for example, some member of a
seamen’s family gets ill in Sydney while he is in Perth and
he has to fly home urgently the rolling fund is there to be
drawn upon. It also provides for a few amenities. Reading
matter for the seamen is bought from it.
“I’m a bit of a racing addict. I like sport. On this
particular ship 1 got sick of the Soviet and Red Chinese
magazines they buy with rolling fund money. I suggest that
they buy a few sporting magazines. They were on to me
like a ton of bricks. They don’t like seamen reading any-
thing but Communist propaganda. They try to censor
what we read.”
This would seem unbelievable. But in the “Seamen’s
Journal” of August, 1958, an article headed “Vindication of
Soacs First Issue” and signed “Michael Kingston, Book
9634,” states, “This new attempt to ban certain literature from
coining on board is not only a slight against me as the person
handling it. It is an inference that the other crew members
require a party man to censor or approve their reading matter
according to what his Marxist training tells him is legitimate
or otherwise. A passage in the 'Advocate’ was singled out and
a motion put that in future l be obliged to read the Catholic
press before bringing it on board, and if it should feature any-
thing unpalatable to throw it into the Harbor. According to
this anyone automatically requires the right to insist that the
paperboy read the ‘Daily Telegraph’ before bringing it on
board and throw it away if it contains an article by Alan
Reid. When l defend the right of a Catholic to bring his
paper on board 1 automatically defend everybody’s right to
dc likewise.
“Another publication came in for attack. The Society of
Australian Coastal Seafarers has brought out a periodical by
the title of ‘Soacs.’ An article of mine appeared in its first
issue. Our first issue of 2000 copies was widely distributed at
the beginning of May, but not until two and a half months later
—July 18 —did a union official voice a protest about any aspect
of it. All our officials, especially Comrade Elliott (Mr F. V.
Elliott, general secretary of the Seamen’s Union) can recognise
immediately whether a phrase is deserving of censure without
consulting legal circles. So why the delay? Or alternatively
why the sudden long delayed investigation? The sheet is not
written for the purpose of provoking Communist party mem-
bers . . . nor again was it written for the purpose of pleasing
them.”
In a footnote in his role as editor, Mr Elliott retorted:
“Personally / have no intention of entering into any contro-
versy with Member Kingston regarding the subject matter
of his article. However, he appears —by inference —to say
that 1 am responsible for some investigation of his publication.
This is completely incorrect —it is for the members them-
selves to decide whether they will or will not read any
publication.”
While it might be argued that the very fact that this
article was published shows a tolerance of all viewpoints by
the “Seamen’s Journal,” it is obviously part of a fixed policy.
A very occasional anti-Communist article is published to
enable the “Journal” to claim that it is tolerant to all view-
points. But the article is then used as a peg on which to hang
an endless stream of pro-Communist articles. This is what
happened in the Kingston case. From August, 1958, on King-
ston “copped the lot” in the columns of the “Journal.”
Phillips continued: “What with me preferring to read
form guide to Karl Marx and having another row with
them over a mate of mine who they suspended—in my view
unjustly—l was soon back in their bad books, particularly
when my mate took them to court. (“Seamen’s Journals” of
January. 1956, and February, 1956.)
“Then I think it was in 1954, on the Caloundra, that I
ran a union sweep with another member of the union. I
handed the money over to him, I went down with the ’flu.
The sweep was for Italian seamen. They were sticking up
at the time. When I got back on my feet I met a man in
the street who told me that the union had suspended me.
“The other member whom I gave the money to wrote a
letter to the union and gave me a copy of it. He told the
union in this letter that 1 had given him the money. They
made me breast a stopwork meeting. I explained what had
happened. Even so they kept me suspended for ‘further
inquiries.’ I couldn’t work for six weeks. If I had been a
Communist or a Communist supporter they would never
have suspended me at all. I have never heard of a Com-
munist being suspended. But they like to keep the economic
pressure on the non-Communist. And it’s a very effective
pressure. I know. They didn’t puli any strong-arm stuff
on me. They knew it wouldn’t work. Their standover men
were likely to finish flat on their backs staring up at the
ceiling.
“The people I am sorry for are the ones like Billy
Webb, who Elliott got me to sign the letter against under
threat that I'd never get another ship.”
William George Webb —“The Senator” —took action
against the union successfully in the Arbitration Court in
1952 against a compulsory levy of 10s. a pay imposed by the
union. Phillips, who then was still a probationary member of
the union r has claimed that he was made by Mr Elliott to
sign an article which he had not read for the “Seamens
Journal” of June, 1952. The article was used to discredit Webb.
Phillips has stated in a statutory declaration that he signed it
because he was told “Otherwise you can’t get a ship.”
Phillips continued: “Any bloke like Webb who has
bucked some aspect of the Communists’ policy and is
thought likely to go on with his bucking gets the treatment.
They spit in his face, gee men on to fight him, insult and
make his life a misery. They even gave me a few tastes of
the treatment. On the Iron Master they threw all my clothes
over the side.
“I wouldn’t have blamed Billy Webb for turning to
water years ago. He’s not getting any younger. 1 don’t
blame any man for going to water knowing what would
happen if he didn’t. They go along to the stopwork meet-
ings and vote for what the Communists put up. But they
don’t like doing it, and they wouldn’t do it unless they felt
they had to.”
Unexpected confirmation for this claim is in the “Seamen s
Journal ' Writing in the November, 1953, issue, Fred Wells,
Book 5731 —who from his tone appears to be a supporter of
the mottly Communist officials —says this:
“Stopwork meetings: here again is the correct place to
raise questions, criticism and debate on policy. Yet what do
we find? Decisions carried unanimously and condemned in
pubs by members who have voted for them at the meetings.”
"pHILLIPS continued: “In 1956 they really got a chance to
A have a crack at me. I was in the Rona. This was the
time I had my trouble on the kidnapping charge. I was
broke.
Phillips was charged in 1955 with having abducted his
young son. Christopher, from the home of his former wife,
whom he considered was not suitable to have custody of the
child. Phillips took the child to the home of Mrs Primrose,
his former wife’s mother. Phillips was committed for trial, but
the Attorney-General’s Department did not file a bill.
“The ship’s delegate, George Dean, knew I urgently
needed money for legal expenses. Dean said. ‘There is £l6
in the ship’s rolling fund. Take that.’ Two days later
Snowy Webster (Mr R. Webster, Communist Vigilance


Officer of the Seamen’s Union at Sydney) told me, ‘You
are suspended for taking the knock on the £l6 in the Rona’s
rolling fund.’ I told Webster what had happened. He wiped
me. I sent a telegram to the ship. Dean called a meeting
and explained what had happened and the meeting told
the union what had happened. My suspension was lifted.
“I asked Webster, ‘Are you going to suspend the man
who called me thief or is this a oneway show?’ 1 knew the
man who had reported me. He was a big Communist
named . Nothing happened to him. I never really
expected anything to happen to him. He was a Communist.
“In 1959 I was paid off in Melbourne from the
Caloundra with ’flu. I came back to Sydney. There was
compensation involved. Huddart Parker rang me and said
there was £2B for me when I got a doctor’s clearance. I got
the clearance. But Barney Smith (Mr Bernard Smith, Com-
munist N.S.W. State Secretary of the Seamen’s Union)
suspended me for being on the roster while on compensation.
I said I had a doctor’s clearance and that there were five
or six of his Communist mates still on compensation who
were on the roster. But they kept my suspension on. They
didn’t suspend the Communists of course.
“A BOUT this period 1 got pinched for the demonstration
on the Italian ship at Circular Quay. At the pickup
centre I heard Webster say, ‘I want you all to go down to the
Quay. This is a full-scale demonstration. They are trying
to load stores.’ I heard an official of the Sydney branch of
the Waterside Workers’ Federation say, Tf they try to get
the trucks through we are going to turn them over and set
fire to them.’
“I took part in the demonstration. You might remem-
ber it. It was close to a riot. A photograph of me struggling
with the police appeared on the front page of the afternoon
papers. It was on the newsreels and on television. My wife
and her family were shocked. They happened to be at a
theatre that was showing it and there was I right in the
middle of the screen. Another member of the Painters and
Dockers’ Union and I were the only two pinched.
The official records show that the ship involved was the
Roma. The demonstration took place on July 13, 1959.
Phillips was fined £5 in the Central Police Court on the same
day.
“I don’t blame the police for picking me up. They
had to arrest someone. Things were getting very sticky.
But if it had been a Communist the union would have been
down within an hour to bail the man out or pay his fine.
They left me in the cells until eight o’clock. My landlord
had to come down and pay to get me out. That’s their
form. They gee on the non-Communists like myself for
their demonstrations, but let them rot once it’s over. Their
aim is to get all non-Communists out of the industry.
“I didn’t add to my popularity by going down to the
union office, I think the next day, and abusing Smith for
leaving me in the cells. I told him that he’d have had the man
out quick-smart if he had been one of his Communist
cobbers. I’d already had a crack at Elliott. At one of the
stopwork meetings he had needled me about not getting up
on the platform to have a go. I was more than a bit jack
of that charge. If you get up you get shouted down by his
claquers. Either that or they turn the microphone off on
you. Both things have happened to me. I’ve been there
when they’ve done it to others who wanted to speak against
the officers.
“I said, ‘Have you been arrested for being drunk lately
Elliott?”’
This is a reference to an incident on February 7, 1958,
when Mr Elliott was arrested and charged with being drunk.
Mr Elliott at that time had £ll6O in cash in his possession. Mr
Elliott, who has since denied he was drunk —he did not answer
the charge but forfeited his bail —told the Senate Select Com-
mittee inquiring into Maritime Indemnity payments that he
received the sum of £1125 on January 31, 1958, a week prior
to his arrest. It represented the Seamen’s Union share of a
payment to the Maritime Unions for the Bonalbo, which had
been sold overseas. He had put the money in a safe place and
had taken it out on Friday, February 7, 1958, intending to
bank it.
Indemnity payments were made to the Seamen’s and some
other maritime unions by purchasers of old ships off the
Australian coast to enable them to get the ships away from
Australia with a cheap wage, non-Australian crew and without
trouble from the maritime unions.
“Elliott was a bit touchy on this subject, though the
way he mesmerised his membership into believing that they
knew indemnity payments were being made before the press
made them public was something you’d think he’d be proud
of. The members knew nothing about them. I don’t think
some of the leading officials knew too much about them or
otherwise they wouldn’t have denied publicly in the N.S.W.
Labor Council and the Trades Hall in Melbourne the exist-
ence of such payments. None of the members knew anything
about them. I certainly didn’t, and I followed union affairs
closely.
“When 1 made that crack to Elliott he told me, ‘I don’t
understand your gangsterish lingo.’
“I’d had blues with others of them, too. At one of the
conventions—l think it was the 1958 one—l was ship’s dele-
gate from the Canopus. A man named moved for a
compulsory levy of £1 a week to the Communist party for
the elections I said. Tf you make it compulsory you get
nothing from me.’ This fellow said to me, ‘l’ll scab with you
at the next strike.’
“That is how they frighten timid men. A crack like
that’ll shut a critic up for the rest of the convention. There's
no deadlier thing than for a seaman to be called a scab. 1
asked what they were going to do about it. It was obvious
that I wasn’t going to get any protection. I’d spoken against
the Communist party. 1 thought. ‘Well, if they’re not going
to do anything about it. I’ll do something about it for my-
self.’ I hit the bloke who called me a scab on the chin.
“They took that one. Things were smoothed down.
They didn’t even suspend me. They couldn’t. Too many
blokes heard and saw what had happened. It would have
been too raw even for them.”
Interestingly, an attempt to lighten officer control over
the convention was made after the 1958 convention. The
“Seamen’s Journal,” January, 1959, under the heading “Union
Delegates” states: “All members interested in becoming
accredited S.U.A. delegates are reminded of union policy and
organisation decision No. 40. Delegates’ cards to be issued by
the Committee of Management (which consists of the general
secretary and the union’s branch secretaries in the States where
the union is represented by a paid official) to responsible and
efficient members. Application to be made through the branch
secretary not later than the February stopwork meeting of
1959. Have you made your application?’’
For some reason this was not persisted with on the grounds
that “the inadequacy of the response makes the decision
inoperative,” though 122 applied for cards, “Seamen's
Journal,” May, 1959.
pHILLIPS continued: “I had another brush with them
when my wife was having a baby. I wanted to stay
ashore until she’d had the baby. I asked to be ‘frozen.’
When you are ‘frozen’ they write ‘frozen’ against your name
on the roster. If you are one of the union’s pets you can
get ‘frozen.’ It is a means sometimes used to reserve the
best jobs for supporters. You get to, say. Number 3 on the
roster board and get ‘frozen.’ Then at the right moment
when one of the good jobs are coming up you get ‘unfrozen.’


Ail they have to do is ‘shanghai’ the couple ahead of you s
that you come up for the good job.
“I’ve complained about these practices at the pickup
centre and so have others. All they do is tell you to tak
your complaint to a stopwork meeting where they can hav
you howled down or get the mike turned otf when you ar
trying to speak. They refused to ‘freeze’ me. I’m not th
first they have refused to ‘freeze.’ It is one of their method
of getting rid of the non-Communists. Give them nothing
but trouble is their motto. I didn't breast (that is, attenc
the pickup centre) for one day. I was way down the lis
and didn’t have to breast, anyway. Normally even if you’re
up high enough that you have to breast you get three day
in which to breast before action is taken. They put crosses
like kisses in a letter, against your name for each day
absent. I've seen as long a row of crosses as you’d find in
love letter alongside certain names. I didn't get any crosses
loving or otherwise. 1 got suspended. I got the news from
a fellow in the street.
“I went to the union office. Present were Bluey Fabian
(Mr Ken Fabian, then assistant secretary of the Sydney
branch of the Seamen’s Union, who has since returned to
sea) and a relieving V.O. named Patlow. I asked Fabian
why 1 was suspended. I said I shouldn’t have been sus
pended, anyway. But just to make it worse I had been
sick. 1 had a doctor's note saying so. I’m not blaming
Fabian. But the big fellows in the union were obviously ou
to get me.
“Four days later 1 went again to the doctor—Dr ——
of ——, . He was very angry, and I don’t blame him
He said to me. ‘l'm going to the police if your union keeps
phoning me suggesting I gave you a bodgie note.’
“1 kept getting into trouble. I was on the Manoora
in 1958. There was a meeting at which it was put up that
we should contribute £lOO for the coming elections —£so
to go to the A.L.P. and £5O to the Communists. I wouldn'l
be in it. and said so and carried the meeting with me. I
told ’em I didn't mind kicking the tin for the Labor party,
but I wouldn't put in for the Communists. They got some
money, but they get the amounts they wanted. This
didn't make me Pinup Boy No. 1.
In the “Seamen’s Journal’’ of December, 1958, the follow-
ing appears date-lined “ Canberra, November 25, 1958’’: “On
behalf of my co-trustees Dr Evatt and Mr Calwell 1 desire to
thank your union for its very generous contributions to the
Federal Parliamentary Labor Party’s election campaign fund.
Our press, radio and television advertising campaign, although
reduced to a minimum, was very costly and your contribution
was most opportune. I enclose official receipts for the sums
of £l3OO, £423 45., £297 and £2BB lOs. in respect of your union’s
donations. Yours sincerely, N. E. McKenna. (Labor Leader
in the Senate.)’’
The same issue shows a total contribution of £7407 17s.
to political parties and contains a letter of thanks from Mr
L. L. Sharkey, general secretary of the Communist party. This
issue reports that of the £7407 17s. the A.L.P. got £4350 6s.
and the Communist party £3057 11s.
Phillips continued: “Nor did the fact that I stood
against Barney Smith as State secretary do me much good.
1 got about 300 votes- Smith chiucked me about getting
only 300 votes. 1 had a thing or two to say about the way
the election was run. He made a joke of it.
The “Seamen’s Journals December, 1958, records the
following vote for secretary in the Sydney branch —Thomas
hambrook 697, William Francis Phillips 216, Bernard Smith
1966.
Phillips apparently was not the only member to comment
upon the conduct of the ballot. In the “Seamen’s Journal,”
January, 1959, under the heading “Conduct of Union Llec-
dons” and over the signature of B. W. Thurlow, Book 1712,
“I got pinched at Circular Quay”
the union’s returning officer, appears the following: “One poin
which seems to need clarification is why the branch returning
officer takes down details of a member’s ballot paper, number
his name, union book number and financial status. The reason
this is done is purely and simply to provide a check as to the
port where each ballot paper was issued and to stop any
misuse of ballot papers—forgeries. It is not done as some
members suggest to provide the union with a check as to how
each member votes.”
It might not be done for that purpose. But to anyone
familiar with balloting systems, it is obvious on the procedure
described by Mr Thurlow that the union is in a position to
know how every member voted.
I>HILLIPS continued: “Everything l do seems to put me
further offside. After the 1955 award, which was a very
good one. the Communists put on a big move to buy Elliott
a house as a gesture of gratitude for his brilliant advocacy.
I don’t think he’s such a good advocate. I think we got that
award despite him not because of him. He’s the one who’s
landed us in the present mess on overtime rates. He was
the one who put up that we did not want payment in lieu
of time oft. He was the one who wanted ‘fun and games’
and didn’t bother to make out a case for higher pay in
1955.”
Mr Justice Foster in his 1955 Seamen’s Union award
judgment pointed out both that the union had pressed him to
give the men time off, not payment in lieu of penalty rates,
and that “the union made no case for an increase in wages . . .
it did not lead any evidence as to the actual remuneration of
seamen over all.”
Other maritime unions apparently hold a different view
to the Seamen’s Union on this issue of Mr Elliott’s brilliance
as an advocate. The “Guild News,” official organ of the
Merchant Service Guild —which is the officers’ union—is
reported by the “Seamen’s Journal” of October, 1959, to have
said in its September, 1959, issue: “In November last Mr
Justice Foster decided to deal with the Seamen’s Union week-
end penalty case first and the matter came on for hearing in
Sydney. Representatives of ot/wr organisations present were
very greatly concerned to find that Mr Elliott was in court
without a legal representative—and he was strongly advised to
brief counsel immediately. This he failed to do, however. The
other organisations, fully aware that any decision for the Sea-
men would affect them, agreed that Mr White should be present
at all hearings to watch the interests of all organisations, and
this was carried out.”
Mr Elliott in the course of a spirited reply, made the point
that Mr White was not, in fact, present at all hearings, and
issued the challenge, “At no time has any maritime union
official or representative advised Elliott to depart from Sea-
men’s Union policy and employ counsel to be the Seamen’s
Union advocate.”
The Merchant Service Guild took up the challenge smartly.
In a letter to the Seamen s Union signed by Captain T. Martin,
general secretary of the guild, it was stated: “On the occasion


\
It has been said, time and again, that Australia
is only at the fringe of its development.
We accept this as a general fact without, too
often, applying our minds to the particular. But
the particular does come out sometimes in striking
ways. And one of them is in the result of a survey
made by the Department of Trade on the enormous
areas of this country that are waiting to be improved.
The departmental conclusion, after long research,
was that two hundred and fifty million acres of
Australian land could be improved with fertiliser to
boost pastoral and agricultural production.
Only one-sixth of some three hundred million
acres of suitable land had received fertiliser treatment
—in a country where such treatment has given more
spectacular increases in yield than most other parts
of the world.
Substantial areas in regions of sufficient rainfall
had never been fertilised.
To get the height of this estimate in our sights,
let us construe it this way: An aggregate area more
than half the size of Queensland, or more than
twenty-five per cent, greater than the total expanse
of New South Wales, is underdeveloped for want of
stimulus to the soil.
The outcome of this survey parallels an estimate
made nine years ago from within the C.5.1.R.0.
that in relatively well-watered areas of Queensland
and New South Wales alone, two hundred and sixty
million acres could be brought into rich production
by the use of trace elements and the improvement
of pastures.
Well, the time has come when we must move on
from the fringe ; when production must be raised,
and exports increased, and Australia given its rightful
place in the world.
Trade, costs, internal efficiency, all enter into it.
But basically our survival in prosperity comes down
to the full use of those resources which Providence
has put into our trust.
And with such reserves of unmeasured strength,
it requires only our faith and courage to bring
Australia in now to its years of boldest advancement.
//// a
y
referred to I (Captain Martin) discussed the matter with other
organisations who were naturally very concerned, and after
some talk I went over to Mr Elliott and urged him most
strongly to get legal representation. His reply was, ‘That will
be the day when 1 need a lawyer.’ My answer was, ‘You need
one in the worst possible way right now.’ However, he failed
to get any legal representation.”
In his reply to this letter (‘‘Seamen’s Journal,” November,
1959), Mr Elliott understandably abandoned his earlier claim
that “at no time has any maritime union official or representa-
tive advised Elliott to . . employ counsel.” His reply seems
to boil down to “Captain Martin’s great exposure . . . is 11
months behind the times.”
The June, 1961, issue of “Blue Peter,” official organ of
the Marine Stewards and Pantrymen’s Association, states: “The
February, 1961, issue of the “Seamen s Journal” criticises
officials of this union and states we accepted a reduction in the
amount of time off in the home port. The following chart
will show how much we lost. Old award: Home ports 48
days, outports 60 days annual leave 16 days. Total 124 dens.
New award: Home ports 26 days, outports 78 days, annual
leave 9 days, public holidays 9 days. Total 123 days. A loss
of one day a year. Gain £3 ss. 9cl. per week.
“Would the officers of this union show sense by refusing
to take an award that would give their members over £3 a
week increase in their weekly pay? True we could have played
the same fun and games as they (the Seamen’s Union) did
and lost income for the members, with the same result as they
have achieved ; that is, nothing. This is not an article castigating
the members of the Seamen’s Union but a statement of facts,
so they can judge for themselves. 1 believe the chief objectives
of a union are to use every democratic way and means to win
from employers the best wages and conditions an industry is
capable of giving. Demands are good propaganda. They
create an illusion that things are being done... .when some-
times a simple application to the court will achieve more than
demands and stoppages.”
The article is signed by Mr W. MacDonald, who is general
secretary of the Marine Stewards and Pantrymen.
Phillips continued: “Holding the view that Elliott
wasn’t a good advocate, 1 refused to give anything. They
were really trying to push people into putting in. Some
gave a brick (£10). But a lot of blokes followed my lead.
I don’t know how much they raised.
The “Seamen’s Journal,” October, 1955, mentions a stop-
work meeting decision to establish a fund to get a home for
Mr Elliott in gratitude for the 1955 award. Writing in support
of the fund, Mr M. Lofty Josephson (for the crew of the
River Murchison) stated, “Crew attendants [known as “peggies”
who act as stewards in the crew’s quarters and who are the
lowest paid adult members of the Seamens Union] can earn
approximately £1430 a year. The Federal Secretary receives
approximately £950.”
Nine hundred and fifty pounds a year was a shockingly
low wage even in 1955 for the general secretary of an organisa-
tion whose annual membership contributions alone are over
£30,000 and which pulls in extensive other income (“Seamen’s
Journal,” April, 1961). But it must be remembered that Com-
munist party policy is probably to keep the remuneration as
low as possible to dissuade A.L.P. members from contesting
this key post against the Communist nominee.
A report in the “ Seamen’s Journal” of September, 1958,
states that the Elliott fund reached an amount of approximately
£2500.
Phillips continued: “I kept on criticising Elliott. I
didn’t think much of his advocacy. 1 felt I was entitled to
my view. And I didn’t like what he was doing to the
industry. I reckoned that it wouldn’t be long before he
wrecked coastal shipping to the extent that there was room
only in the industry for those whose politics were accept-
able to him and his Communist friends.
“I knew I was heading for trouble. But I didn’t know
just how much trouble I was heading for.”


The Man on the Land
Minerals the Key
Development of Queensland’s mineral and
pastoral industries must be correlated, with
minerals showing the way .
By M. H. ELLIS
(The last of three articles)
Much of Queensland’s empty two-thirds—an area more
than one anu a half times the size of N.S.W.—will
never be heavily populated within foreseeable time.
But it can be effectively populated if water is provided
and its minerals, communications and rnarKets are developed
in an organised and con elated w ay.
There is continual talk about the “opportunity” to expand
output of beef on a large scale both in the coastal areas and
in the outback, bat product on and marketing are two different
problems. Thousands of tons more beef can no doubt be
produced if enough roads are bui t and millions invested in
cleaning out watercourses and building holding barrages in the
nght places. But every Government looks twice at such
schemes when it is gett ng only about £3O million at most of
the annual Commonwealth loan allocation for public wonss,
especially as wages and costs are rising rather than falling.
The Government also, one would imagine, would nave
an eye on the possibility that added industry means added
responsibility and taxation. In a country whose wheat industry
has to be bolstered all the time and’ whose beef and butter
markets show signs of collapse as often as they show signs
of boom, all added production which cannot compete with
overseas rivals nearer to the main markets on a world level
of prices is bound to call for Government assistance sooner
or later, at any rate until there is a population large enough
to absorb output at a price commensurate with production
costs. Sugar, butter, wheat —they all come in for their cut
of Government aid. And when there is even talk of sub'idising
wool, in which we dominate world supplies of most of the
medium and fine types n large demand, the future for expan-
sion of primary industry seems cm'nous to the more pessimistic
observer.
It seems certain that western development in Queensland,
like northern development, w ; ll always be associated with
specific centres on wh ch effort must be concentrated.
Broken Hill and Mt Isa have shown the way in this sort of
expansion. Mt Isa, in particular, proved the possibility
of establishing—7oo miles from the settled eastern coast in an
area of barren rock, flies and heat —a large community living
at standards much higher in point of comfort and amenities
than most commun ties of similar size near the coast. It is to
concentrations like these, especially on the beef-cattle routes,
planned as a whole by central authorities, that the Governments
must look for settlement of the west.
Basically, only the mineral industry can provide them,
though their presence has necessarily a strong effect on the
living of those engaged in the cattle industry for whom they
provide centres of civilisation. The mineral belt, of which
Mt Isa is part, is huge. The uranium, copper, lead, zinc and
silver of the Cloncurry area, the copper and uncharted minerals
°f the MacArthur and Kilgour regions, the bauxite and as yet
unlocated minerals of the Cape York Peninsula, the Constance
Range country all will see aggregations of population in the
future as the demand for the basic metals buried in these
regions grows with expansion of world population and with
advances n technology.
The B.H.P. is spending tens of thousands of pounds a year
in the lonely Constance Range under an authority to prospect,
doing several thousand feet of drilling a year, core logging,
surveyi g. planning roads in anticipation of opening up some-
thing that probably will be as large as Mt Isa in time. The
B.H.P. also has been operating in the Iron Range, in the Cook-
town mineral field in the Claudie River country, where pre-
viously the only prospecting was being done by old-timer
optimists of the Romeo, the Shangri-La. the Brass Bottle, the
Sure Thing and the Hornet. Mt Isa in the past two years
has been investigating shows all over the place—right down
to Gladstone in Central Queensland. Rio Tinto operates round
the Mt Isa region. The Mt Morgan and Dawson River areas
are a hive of prospecting industry probing the possibilities of
gold, coal, copper and pyrites. Consolidated Zinc has pros-
pecting leases thereabouts, as well as the established companies
associated from the start with the district’s production. In
Cape Ycm. preparations for the opening of the Weipa bauxite
go majest cally and unobtrusively ahead. Queensland’s mineral
production, valued at £3sm. in 1958, is reaching out for £som.
this year.
The State is particularly bent on coal-export development.
Its unexploited fields are tremendous, though the character-
istics their products are as yet not fully determined.
/'VI prospecting has moved into a new era. The sedimentary
bahne in which oil is a possibility cover the greater part
of the Stote The theory that the geological formation was
too old despite its requisite nature and that any oil in these
basins would have dried up, has been replaced by one which
in effect seems to be that the oil has been set deeper here than
in the newer geological fields and that deeper drilling will
reveal it when the right spots are opened. Experience at Tara
and elsewhere with modern scientific aids and plant lend strong
color to this theory. Almost every possible area in the State
for oil denosits has been taken up by the drilling companies,
mostly wi-h American capital and know-how, and the hunt to
end all the hunts for oil in Queensland, which began 50 years
ago, is on with a vengeance.
It s on the success of this hunt —and on the growth of
the mineral industry, and the parallel development of the
west as the main reservoir for fat-stock production organised
to defeat the irregularity of the seasons —that the future of the
interior of Queensland, now largely unpopulated, depends. It
also depends on the correlation of all industries, which at
present are planning in their own separate compartments
and pushing their own barrows, whether at private or Minis-
terial level. Each belongs to the other as part of a regional
scheme. In theory the Government recognises this. In prac-
tice it doesn't carry out the theory. And, of course, it is a
Commonwealth problem as well as a State problem.


AUSTRALIA AND THE WORLD
Revolution from
Above or Below?
The groups which could solve Iran's troubles
merely criticise the Government
From DESMOND O’GRADY in Teheran
Teheran riot squads rarely rest
CJhortly after 8 p.m. the German correspondent was called
to a press conference where the arrest of a Persian general
was announced ; by 10 o’clock his story of impending revolt
was filed and at 11 he was ensconced in his customary bar
explaining that the Shah had fled Teheran that morning because
trouble would follow the general’s arrest. It was a good
story: that morning, at Mehrabad airport, we had watched as
the Shah entered his Fokker Friendship aircraft, which was
dutifully saluted before it rose away from the runways whence
U.S. fighter planes operated non-stop. And it was true that a
general had been arrested. But there was no link between the
events: the Shah was off to Azerbaijan province on the Russian
border where he would hand over some land to peasants, and
his trip had been arranged well before the decision was made
to arrest the general. Moreover, there are generals and
generals and, especially in Iran, generals and generals and
generals and generals ; so far the Amini Government has struck
those nobody would care to defend, such as General Kia, who
paid himself about £7OO monthly to fake reports on the Shah’s
popularity.
That is the reason a change of Government does not seem
imminent, but it is also the reason why it remains a possi-
bility: Iranians claim that the reforms of the Prime Minister,
Dr Amini, have not gone far enough, that they have struck
too few and left still worse culprits free. Dr Amini has saved
money by his austerity measures: the Government will no
longer provide foreign currency for imports such as French
perfumes, sports cars, champagne, television sets, whisky,
refrigerators, washing machines, cosmetics, European cheeses,
cabaret stars. Mohammed Darakschech, the new Minister of
Public Instruction, has curtailed the system whereby the State
paid half the costs of the 15,000 Persian students studying
abroad. He classified them as “those who could not pass
examinations in their own country,” and said their wealthy
parents could support them, although that may now be diffi-
cult for such prisoners as General Kia and the ex-Finance
Minister General Zargham. Another saving was made by
abolishing cultural attaches in all countries except India and
Pakistan. “Despotism and anarchism must be abolished from
the Ministry, said Darakschech some months ago when
leading a demonstration by teachers complaining against a
salary of £l2 a month, “everywhere corruption will be rooted
out,” promised Amini when accepting his role as reformer,
as our intentions are honest and sincere we shall certainly
succeed,” said the Shah.
Threats and good intentions have been followed by a
measure of action, but many Iranians remain sceptical: when
Ehsan Nekukhah Devallu, manageress of the Beluga caviar
export firm, was charged with misappropriation of State funds
many said real reformers would have charged her relative, the
Minister Hossein Ali ; when Amini throttled luxury imports
many said he would have saved more money if he had only
had the courage to tackle internal exploiters such as the
tobacco monopoly. Structural reorganisation, rather than
adjustments, are necessary for the country’s economic, political
and social health, and one-half of the reason for this can be
seen in Teheran itself.
Approaching the city from Pakistan on the Alitalia Sydney-
Rome route one flies for hours over the bare, mud-brown
highland plain and arrives impressed only by the country’s
aridity. From above the city looks too compact to hold its
2,000,000 inhabitants, but obviously accommodation is no
problem—many sleep on top of the light-brown apartment
houses, so they are content once they have a roof under their
heads. They sleep on the roofs because it is 86 degrees even
though it is six-o’clock in the morning and the highest peak in
the Elburz range which flanks the city, 19,000 ft Mount Dama-
vand, is snow-capped. The airport itself is a surprise: spacious,
well designed and superior to its equivalents in Sydney, Phnom
Penh, Bangkok, Bombay and Karachi. The city’s broad, tree-
lined avenues are thronged with Volkswagens, Opels,
Mercedes-Benz, there are extensive parks with exuberant foun-
tains, luxurious hotels and new buildings, which keep to the
1930’s blocky German style, on every corner. In short, boom
town. Capital only since 1786, Teheran was a backward town
until Reza Shah acceded to the throne in 1924 and it had only
500,000 inhabitants in 1945. Now it is expanding with a
vitality apparent not only in the building programme but also
in the hustle of both traffic and pedestrians.
There is something feverish about the life of Teheran,
the fever associated with living beyond means. Since the war
the U.S.A has invested one billion dollars in keeping Iran
Western and the annual oil income has jumped from 45,000,000
dollars before nationalisation in 1952 to 280,000,000 dollars
in 1960 ; moreover, although the inland high plains and the
Persian Gulf deserts produce next to nothing there are fertile
areas along the Caspian Sea, in the mountains of the north-
west, in Khuzistan, which is now a centre of industrial develop-
ment, and Kerman. There has been plenty of money in
Iran in recent years, but the capital, the grandiose seven-year
development plan, and the first 1000 families have absorbed
more than enough of it. Iranian businessmen now have


WORLD-WIDE
Radiator R 1
100% British Made
warmth
where you
want it...
Completely portable and self-
contained, the Tilley Radiator
brings radiant warmth to
every corner of the house.
Entirely safe; burns for 12
hours on only pints of
ordinary kerosene.
For economical warmth whenever
and wherever it’s needed, you can
put your trust in TILLEY.
Obtainable from all good Hardware Store*. In case of difficulty
write for name of your nearest Stockist to: —
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVEt
T. H. BENTLEY PTY. LTD.
1092 Mt. Alexandar Road,
Essendon, W 5. Austra.ia.
sufficient confidence to invest their money in Teheran rather
than stash it away in Swiss banks, but when they build hotels
they expect to have recovered capital expenditure within three
years. The demand for quick profits combined with the
Iranians’ desire to live it up has produced chronic inflation.
The drive-in bank where you can cash a cheque almost instantly
without leaving your car might be the symbol of Teheran,
1961: it is the up-to-date luxury nobody needs but which
Teherans cannot deny themselves. It is quite superfluous ;
the majority are forced to deal with the moneylenders in the
bazaar where interest rates run at 18 per cent, if three signa-
tures guarantee you, 23 per cent, if you can gather only two
guarantors and 33 per cent, if you have only one.
The bright lights, the three television channels, the promise
of easy money has made Teheran a magnet for the peasanls
so its growth has been at the expense of the countryside. A sufi
(wiseman-poet) who has periodically travelled the country since
his youth recently said that whereas it was only an hour’s walk
between villages many years ago now one had to drive for
over an hour to get from one village to another. Inevitably
Dr Amini has promised land reform and the local press has
highlighted voluntary grants by large landowners. The sceptics
have their comment on this, too ; they say the big landholders
are getting rid of their deserts.
Agrarian reform is often thought of as the answer to a
thousand differing problems. Admittedly 56 per cent, of cul-
tivated land is in the hands of a few score, whereas 60 per cent,
of the peasants are without land altogether. But merely trans-
ferring the land from the wealthy to the peasants has been
tried with disastrous results. Without capital, equipment,
animals, at the mercy of drought and the usurers who charge
up to 40 per cent., peasants given such land end either as share-
farmers or as recruits for the labor markets in the cities.
Simple redistribution of land is no solution. The five parts
of property in Iran, in descending order of importance, are:
water, earth, seed, animal power, human power. Irrigation is
a greater obstacle to land reform than the great property-
holders and the peasant who at the moment, in most cases,
owns only two-fifths of the property he works (a cow and his
body), is neither equipped nor prepared to assume ownership.
He dreams of owning two cows instead of one rather than
of a completely changed order of society. Used to living under
the suzerainty of the landlord who administers justice, extracts
tribute, names mayors and sends representatives to the Majilis
(Parliament), the peasant requires education and the assistance
more co-operatives could give as well as land. The question
of land reform is urgent, but the peasants are too disorganised
to exert political pressure.
The dire state of agriculture in a land where 16,000,000 of
the 20,000,000 are peasants exerts a strong social pressure
resulting in the imbalance between city and country, but politi-
cal awareness is confined to the growing middle classes of the
cities. There the groups gathered into the National Front are
dissatisfied with the unemployment of the cities, the denudation
of the countryside. But although the University of Teheran
has 12,000 students there are no campaigns to send people
into the countryside to teach hygiene, the use of fertilisers, the
uselessness of superstitions and the possibilities of a good virgin
land, uncultivated because cities have often been built in
strategic rather than commercial sites. No one has fired the
youth of Iran with enthusiasm, so although reform from above
may succeed, discontent in the cities may build until there is
a new change of government.
As is usual, America is placed in a quandary over the
question of aid. It is difficult to assess the popularity of
Amini and his likely success. An ultra-conservative, he will
act as a radical up to a certain point, but he will never satisfy
those critics who want the reign of justice installed before the
weekend. His Government stands firm in its international
attitudes, it supports C.E.N.T.0., continues its Mutual Security
Pact with the U.S.A. and is decidedly cool towards Nasser’s
U.A.R. It has a iong, unspectacular struggle ahead of it to
install professional integrity and technical competence in a
country which is used to parti-bazi (influence-playing) and
baksheesh. It is an accepted part of Iranian life that the
bureaucracy extract taxes direct in the form of bribes, that
things are done only through “contacts.” The system is deeply
rooted —for instance, although there are no parking meters
it is wise to pay a man to look after your car when you go
to the cinema, otherwise the hub-caps are likely to be missing
after the show. Lack of integrity is not confined to the
wealthiest class—doctors will sell samples to chemists who, in
turn, sell them to the public. Amini’s task is to puritanise
Iran, but the only group equipped to help him in this, the
intelligentsia, has its critical faculty trained on his efforts rather
than on the country’s life.
There is one man who might raise their enthusiasm and
stir the country —Mossadeq. Living under what amounts to
house-arrest on his property near Teheran, Mossadeq, whose
age is quoted at anything between 78 and 84, is invoked by
the National Front opposition. When Amini lifted censorship
two months ago 80,000 attended a Mossadeq rally at the
Jalalieh polo ground in Teheran. Senator Massadou, the
G.O.M. of Iranian journalism, has recently spoken out for
neutralism and if Mossadeq does return he can be expected to
come preaching nationalism and neutralism. Indeed, if Amini
fails, neutralism, always a possibility in Iran, will become a
distinct probability.


FORUM
Many Starters but
Few Stayers
The Short Story and "The Bulletin"
By DOUGLAS TERRY
DISCUSSION of the short story will no doubt stimulate
those who like discussing the short story, but it is doubtful if
it will lead to an improvement in the quality. There are plenty
of pavement foremen but few hod-carriers. As a hod-carrier I can-
not ignore your challenge to speak U P-
I am not a writer but I need to write. The status does not
interest me but the particular activity does, even if it is hell. I write
short stories rather than novels because I can sweat them out over
a weekend. That they continue to be rejected does not surprise me.
They are probably bad stories. In the meantime I continue to write,
as it were, for the waste-paper basket. I have no special feelings
about editors, nor do 1 feel I can speak f or other writers. My voice
is my own.
I do not feel the world owes me an interest or that the ground-
lings stand up when 1 enter the stage. I shall continue to mole
away at this lonely unrewarding task and draw my pay from other
quarters. So much for the personal testimony. Now something
more general.
TN a culture that holds greater respect
for insurance salesmen and pub
keepers than for poets and artists the
only way for the writer to get on is
to act more like a businessman and
less like a writer. The garret artist may
be admired for his dedication but is
despised for his failure. We are inclined
to be wary of too much success but we
condemn at the same time anything that
looks like weakness. In our steam-
intellect society only someone suffering
some peculiar handicap could fail to
make money. If a writer has no money
then something must be wrong with him.
So it is said.
The short - story writer within this
culture lives a fugitive existence. What
he is doing—describing an incident,
portraying character or a particular
mood—all goes down on a few pages.
It is detailed and compact, a miniature
filled in with a fine brush, not a trowel.
Its effects depend on a close reading of
the text whereas the novel offers some-
thing more general in its impact, more
satisfying to a reading public whose
taste has become progressively coarsened.
Much of a novel can be skipped without
any great loss but not so with the short
story. The story poses a challenge to
the reader—the result is they are not
read.
There is another prejudice. The short
story has come to be regarded as a
limbering-up exercise, a kind of
apprenticeship, to the novel. Anyone, it
seems, can write a short story. It is
studied at high school where it is classed
as another type of composition ; at uni-
This section of "The Bulletin" is a
forum of opinion and conflicting
ideas. Each week it will contain
controversial articles and replies
to them.
versity level it is barely considered. This
comparison with the novel has been
disastrous.
There are many Australian short
stories but few good writers of them.
The good ones are excellent, attracting
rather than compelling attention, but the
bad ones are horrible. A glance back at
copies of “Coast to Coast” of 20 years
ago for example will show how poorly
they stand up to rereading. In generalis-
ing about the good ones it is probably
fair comment to say they are concerned
with physical experience, with a “yarn”
rather than with character portrayal.
They are extroverted, sentimental in
tone, varied in background but inclined
to be located in rural and not urban
situations. They are casual in form,
conversational in mood. What is more
they are all stomach and no head. There
is little that could be called experimental,
sophisticated, psychological, urban,
middle - class in any of them. Nor is
there much about the sea or ships or
the Australian abroad.
The best of our writers are middle-aged
and beyond. In general and without
forcing the label, they could be said to
belong to the outback school. They are
the older generation, they have all
knocked about a bit, they have not been
to the university, they are describing
the world of their youth, Australia that
foreign country of 30 years ago. The
stories are pitched to the level of the
boundary rider and rabbit trapper. What
is depressing is that the growth of the
story has been arrested at this point.
They continue to speak of a world that
for most of us never truly existed.
It is, of course, easy to knock the
Lawson tradition but it should be recog-
nised that once upon a time it was all
part of a nourishing experience. Now
there seems to be a need for a greater
variety of material and treatment. The
old cannot be rejected but the new needs
to be admitted as well. How the out-
back school came to represent their
values as national ones is a matter for
the literary historian to explore but I
suspect it is partly due to the kind of
cheap nationalism inculcated by the
public schools and to the conservatism
of middle-aged editors who belonged to
the two or three nervous, incestuous
groups that made up the literary scene.
For perpetuating a one-eyed view of the
world The Bulletin, too, over the last
ten years, has a lot to answer for.
There are still various objections to
a trend that has developed more recently


jn the hands of writers like Hal Porter,
and that is the interest in fine writing.
We have little respect for the art of
conversation, unfortunately, we have no
cafe society to encourage the spoken
word, domestic life tends to be private
not public, ideas are seldom formulated,
the bronzed Digger type is usually
inarticulate. The trend is there but as
it suggests intellectualism it is suspect.
The Feelies still dominate the short story
as well as the novel, but they are slowly
making room for the Thinkers.
Short - story writers in Australia, as
John K. Ewers reminded us a few years
back, fall into three main groups. There
are those who write short stories and very
little else —for example, Brian James,
Alan Marshall, Gavin Casey and the late
E. 0. Schlunke. There are those whose
interest is also in the novel, but who
write the occasional story —for example,
Xavier Herbert, John Cantwell, Judah
Waten, Olaf Ruhen. The third group
is made up of those whose output is so
slim that one never knows if they are
still with us or not —for example, Peter
Cowan and Ken Levis. In general the
short story has never engaged fully the
interest or talents of its practitioners.
It has stimulated writers like John
Morrison, R. S. Porteous, Dal Stivens,
but it has not captured them and the
trend seems to be that young writers
tackle this particular medium but drift
away as they get older or develop new
interests for example, Don Edwards,
Douglas Stewart. Marjorie Barnard. The
authoritarian line of the outback group
possibly deters a few, journalism claims
some of them —the line separating living
with ideas and living off ideas is a very
fine one —radio and the stage a few.
Others feel they have nothing left to
say and just stop. Look at some back
copies of the quarterlies and “Coast to
Coast” and be struck by the number of
writers whose names disappear off the
map. There seem to be plenty of starters,
but few stayers.
Probably it is much the same in Europe,
although one’s impression is that the
European writer has greater scope for
his talents than here. The average
anthology of short stories that comes
out of Italy, France or Britain, for
example, leaves our own for dead. This
does not mean that ours is not worth
looking at at all but one must at the same
time have a healthy respect for V. S.
Pritchett, Frank O’Connor and Isaac
Babel, to mention a few. Writers of this
quality have such a technical accomplish-
ment, an awareness of the subtleties of
life and a sense of writing as a craft that
they are more likely to serve as models
of excellence than Lawson or Katherine
Susannah Prichard. In the hands of
such masters I am made to feel part of
Dublin on a wet Saturday or of Odessa
when Benya Krik the gangster was in
town. Do our writers have the same
effect on outsiders? I wonder, but not
over much. I am too busy learning how
to write, ever to find out.
LETTERS
The Confusion of Archbishop Gough
Sir,
Apart from confirming your own treat-
ment (“Plain English,” luly 15) of
Archbishop Gough’s statements on uni-
versities, the following issue is of some
personal importance to me as I am one
of the lecturers particularly concerned
with the teaching of moral philosophy
at Sydney. Also, I know that some
people have taken my silence to be an
embarrassed confirmation of the “story.”
I would appreciate the assistance of your
columns in letting it be known that the
silence was not mine.
On Monday July 10 I submitted the
following signed letter to the editor,
“Sydney Morning Herald.” It was not
published:
“With due respect I should like to
offer the following four points for in-
clusion in Archbishop Gough’s medita-
tions :
(1) Sydney University philosophy
lecturers do not recommend their
students to engage in unconventional
sexual practices. For that matter they
do not recommend them to engage in
any particular practices except studying
philosophy properly.
(2) Questions relating to the philosophy
of religion occupy only a minute part
of the course. This consists in discussing
the traditional arguments for the existence
of God, etc. Various philosophers differ
about their evaluation of these argu-
ments, as indeed they do about questions
in most areas of philosophy. Without
this sort of exchange philosophy as it
has been long known in Western uni-
versities would cease to exist. The Arch-
bishop, of course, will be aware that
many Protestants do not believe that the
existence of God can be proved by argu-
ments based on natural reason.
(3) Public morality is inevitably
weakened by people in high places
making gross charges about matters of
which they have no knowledge. Dr
Kinsella’s pamphlet does not provide
anything remotely resembling evidence
about the state of affairs in Sydney Uni-
versity Philosophy Department. Apart
from anything else it was written over
two years ago. It does not provide any-
thing much resembling philosophical
argument either. It is simply a rather
wild piece of polemics, as would be
immediately recognised by any objective
person reading it. For the Archbishop’s
information the philosophy staff includes
people of widely differing beliefs about
religion. It includes practising Christians
(including a priest).
(4) It is arrant nonsense to suggest that
the philosophy taught at Sydney leads
to Communism. This sort of remark is
highly corrosive of any genuine pursuit
of truth and occurs all too frequently.
It is perhaps worth remembering that
Dr Milanov made the same sort of com-
plaint against Professor Orr in Hobart
because Orr wanted to substitute the
study of Kant for that of Hegel in the
Metaphysics course there.”
The point, of course, is not one of Dr
Gough’s right to speak out boldly on
anything. For my part, as a philosopher
and as a member of the Christian
Church, I fully support his (or anyone
else’s) right to speak the truth as he
sees it. The real issue is one of responsi-
bility. He made what most people would
take to be serious charges against
identifiable people (in view of the linking
of his attack with Dr Kinsella’s pamph-
let) altogether too lightheartedly. I know'
that many believed these allegations
simply because he, the Archbishop, made
them.
A puzzling feature is that my letter
established one point of fact which, to
the best of my knowledge, was not at
any stage mentioned in the news coverage
of the affair —viz., that the staff of Sydney
University Philosophy Department in-
cludes Christians. This would have
pricked a pretty large bubble in the whole
froth, since it would have disposed of
the implied myth of a monolitically
anti-Christian bias.
WILLIAM GINNANE
University of Sydney
Sir,
I am sure that all Anglicans with
any academic training and knowledge of
Australian universities have been greatly
distressed by “the confusion of Arch-
bishop Gough ” His Grace has made
sweeping charges against the moral and
teaching standards of an undisclosed
number of Sydney academics when his
only source of information appears to
have been a spurious pamphlet now
almost wholly retracted by its author.
The Primate has been rightly and fairly
criticised for the reckless injustice of his
utterances and his lack of discrimination
by a large number of the informed public
including members of his own flock. In
“Plain English,” however, “Observer”
has only succeeded in meeting injustice
with injustice.
In the first place, “Observer” implied
some dereliction of duty on the Arch-
bishop’s part in failing to expose “the
activities of those Protestant clergymen
—including Anglicans—who let them-
selves be used as agents of the Com-
munist party.” Apart from the fact that
the Anglican clergy in this country who
are duped in this way can be numbered
on the fingers of one hand, the Arch-
bishop’s record in countering such


C.B.C.
SAVINGS BANK
INTEREST
INCREASED TO
1
%
2
PER ANNUM
on balances up to £3,600
as from Ist July, 1961
Interest on societies' and chubs'
cheque accounts increased to 3Va %
up to £3,000 and thereover 2% p.a.
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK
LIMITED
a wholly owned subsidiary of
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
Of SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
activities has been a particularly good
one.
The Australian bishops responsible for
electing Archbishop Gough as Primate
in 1959 issued a statement from that
same meeting warning Anglicans to keep
clear of the Melbourne “Peace” Con-
ference because of the Communist in-
fluences at work in its organisation.
Archbishop Gough not only joined the
other bishops and archbishops in issuing
this warning, but also spoke out inde-
pendently against such Communist
“fronts” in his own diocesan newsletter.
Ironically enough, in the very same
sermon which has sparked off the current
controversy, the Archbishop attacked the
policies of those who join with Com-
munists and fellow-travellers in advocat-
ing unilateral disarmament with the
slogan “Better Red Than Dead.”
In the second place, “Observer” im-
plied that the Archbishop had linked the
practices of free love with those of the
Communists when in fact the relation-
ship is one of antipathy. This amounts
to a misreading of the Archbishop’s
statements. From his own previous
utterances, the Archbishop appears to
have recognised this antipathy. In his
diocesan newsletter last August the
Archbishop wrote: “One of the para-
doxes of the modern world is that
Communist - controlled countries have
comparatively high moral standards. At
the same time Western countries are
suffering from a grevious lowering of
moral standards. Ihis is especially true
of the United States and England.”
Though one might quibble with the
Archbishop’s apparent emphasis on
sexual practices as the sole yardstick of
high morality, his awareness of Soviet
Puritanism is obvious.
In his sermon in St. Andrew’s the
Archbishop asked if it is not true that
empires and nations have fallen because
of “moral corruption which has sapped
the mental vitality and physical strength
of the people.” The gravamen of the
Archbishop’s references to Communists
and Communism in this context is that
a society so weakened by moral corrup-
tion can be easily undermined by them.
Although the Archbishop’s postulation
was marred by a lack of clarity (and is
open to question according by some
interpreters of past history) a clear-
headed reading of it would have indi-
cated that an equation of the practices
of free love and of Communists cannot
be justly imputed to His Grace.
Possibly a reading of the sermon
in its entirety would have enabled
“Observer” to confine his criticism of
the Archbishop to essentials, which alone
are serious enough, instead of indulging
in extraneous issues in which the correct-
ness of the Archbishop’s judgment can
be soundly established.
J. B. PAUL
Toorak ( Vic.).
Sir,
Social historians have lately been ex-
ploring the ideologies implicit in our Aus-
tralian systems of education. In view of
this it is surprising that no one has yet
pointed out the link between the two con-
troversies mentioned in your two last
issues—State aid to Church schools and
philosophic trends at the university.
Archbishop Gough has complained
that the main influences at the university
are not religiously inspired. I hope he
will persuade his diocesan authorities
that this is among the fruits of the school
system set up last century. At the univer-
sity religion is perhaps being expunged
less rapidly than in other walks of life.
On paper, it is true, the State school
system gave safeguards for religion. But
its effect has been to create a climate of
thought from which religion is absent of
is seen as a private idiosyncrasy. This
is what the militant secularists hoped and
what the leaders of more than one denom-
ination feared. The Anglican Archbishop
Moorhouse was vehement: “I will not
join in the howls against Rome . . . Let
others do as they please ; I will never


unite with the secularists against Rome
to keep Christ out of the schools.”
In our generation, when 80 years have
served to prove the point, that trend of
thought is reawakening. At least six
Anglican dioceses in Australia have
decided in favor of some form of State
aid to their schools. As for sectarian
fears that Rome would get too much, Dr
Darling has talked of “Cutting one’s nose
to spite one's face.”
Even in Sydney, where such fears are
most vivid, the door is ajar. Addressing
Synod in 1956, the late Archbishop Mowll
said that if the principle of State aid were
to be introduced, the Church of England
would require it to be in proportion to
the denomination’s strength in the com-
munity. The Rev. Dr D. B. Knox in
letters to the press has pointed out that
the Protestant parochial schools, closed
since 1880, would have to be reopened.
He then dismisses the thought as im-
practicable.
But in this era fast multiplication of
schools, and the growth of schools to
monstrous size, have brought our educa-
tional system at every level under sharp
review. The fostering of denominational
schools may well be the only solution,
if the denominations are only ready to
co-operate. It would certainly be more
practicable than it was a century ago. By
exploiting the enthusiasm and zeal of
churchmen and religions, the State might
well end up administering education more
cheaply than by relying entirely on its
own bureaucracy.
Of course, there are arguments against
Church schools, perhaps the most cogent
being that Catholic ones have failed to
cultivate the intellect, while Protesant ones
have failed to foster religion. Such talk
shows no vision of what both could
achieve educationally, given greater re-
sources. Smaller classes and better-trained
teachers would mean less indoctrination
and more room for the Socratic method.
Within a generation a changing element
might be found at university level, and
the Christian case be put by students of
greater intellectual calibre.
There has been much talk of injustice
to a minority under the present system.
But to Christian minds surely the national
tragedy is that of the majority, who in
three generations have been stripped of
their religious inheritance. At a time
when sectarian rawness is beginning to
be healed, cannot the Churches negotiate
a common front on education? The aim
should be a system giving favor to none,
except indeed those who have most
suffered from the inroads of secularism.
J. P. PARKINSON
Rose Bay {N.S.W.).
CATHOLICS AND THE FREE
SOCIETY
Sir,
Messrs Boyd, Bowman and Tobin
(Bulletin, July 15) all appear to have
failed to read my first letter relative to
“Roman Catholicism as a prelude to
Communism,” and only briefly to have
read the second, for reference was made
only to Western countries, not Asian.
But as they have brought in this sphere,
I can only convey that 1 did not say
or infer that Roman Catholicism was
the sole cause of Communism anywhere,
but rather to it being a contributing
factor in Western countries, for, as cause
and effect play a major role in human
affairs, it is logical that any number of
different causes can produce the same
effect. Therefore, the cause producing
Communism in non-Catholic Russia or
China could or could not be the same
as that responsible for the spread of
Communism in, say, Roman Catholic
Cuba, but the effect is the same, with
Communism at its strongest in the West
in R.C. countries.
Mrs Boyd made reference to the fact
that France and Italy must be democratic
because they do not suppress Com-
munism by force, but she failed to men-
tion Spain, and that such a step would
undoubtedly precipitate conflict with
Russia. Perhaps France and Italy did
their share in that direction during World
War II and failed, for it must be remem-
bered that all the European Catholic
countries took up arms against Russia
(supposedly under the heel of Nazism).
Therefore, it is understandable that
Russia has now subjugated them, with
the result that its increased power has
placed it in its present dominant
position.
R. B. LOWNDES
Toongabbie {N.S.W.).
COLOR OF THEIR SKINS
Sir,
It would be enlightening to read further
elaborations by “Observer” on a few
points from “Color of their Skins”
(Bulletin, July 1) which seem rather
obscure.
By what thought processes does he
consider Australia “generous” to offer to
house the people of Nauru when we have
so largely helped to exhaust the phosphate
deposits? The alternatives can only be:
(1) let them starve ; (2) forcibly transport
them to one of our other Pacific posses-
sions ; (3) wash our hands of the affair
completely, and so force the U.K. and
New Zealand to assume all responsibility.
It would appear to most people, in
their simplicity, that we can do nothing
else but make the offer, or invite con-
tempt from the rest of the civilised world.
Also, it would be an absorbing lesson
to be instructed in the rules of logic and
combination of facts by which “Observer”
so airily couples South Africa and Ceylon
together (presumably by reference and
analogy to their communal troubles).
However, these speculations are as
nothing beside the one riddle to which
neither I nor any of my acquaintances
can suggest a solution, however wild.
It is this. How can it be that
“Observer,” no matter where reared, has
been so shielded and protected from the
nastier facts of this wicked world, and
yet acquired the ability to read and write,
that he can state with (we trust) wide-
eyed and touching innocence that: {sic)
“Within this country we do not practise
any kind of racial discrimination”?
R. F. BROWN
Norwood ( S.A. ).
ELVIS GOES TO WAR
Sir,
A reviewer’s work is never done.
Because I reviewed an amusing mono-
graph on the army career of Elvis
Presley Mr Maurice Mears insists that
I go on and read an essay by Aldous
Huxley entitled “Foreheads Villainous
Low” (Bulletin, July 15). There, if
I remember rightly, Huxley censured the
controlled simplicity of Hemingway’s
writing—and drew the famous retort in
“Death in the Afternoon” in which
Hemingway differentiated the “serious”
from the “solemn” writer —the solemn
writer who was “always a bloody owl.”
While we are recommending each
other books, let me bring once more to
Mr Mears’s attention the little book I
reviewed in the first place, which will
make it plain that in fact Elvis was to
the American Army as a tolerant Gulliver
to a world of Lilliputians.
Next, he might study another essay
by Aldous Huxley in which he adverts
upon the philosophy of “Nothing But.”
Shakespeare was nothing but an upstart
crow decked out in other men’s feathers;
Einstein was nothing but a human adding
machine ... In the same way, we learn
from Mr Mears that Elvis Presley is
nothing but “a kind of phallic symbol.”
So, with exactly the same amount of
truth, is a cathedral spire.
RONALD McCUAIG
Rand wick ( N.S.W. ).
MR CARVER v. THE PEOPLE
Sir,
Raymond Harris in his comments on
the census, makes a commendable com-
parison of the lack of dignity of the Aus-
tralian census, with that of the United
Kingdom.
“Crude and impertinent’" certainly
describes the form and content of the
census, and no less crude and impertinent
is the manner in which these forms were
collected. May I state my own case in
example?
The father of one of the girls in my
high-school classes was appointed district
collector by virtue of his acquaintance
with a local postal officer. It was both
annoying and embarrassing for me to
write details of my religion, married life,
etc., on a form which, I have since ascer-
tained, was left loosely in the collector’s
home and was also discussed with the
owner of the house in which I stay “to
check that the details were all right.” I
know of many others who suffered far
more embarrassment than I.
The census takers arrogantly an-
nounced that anyone who tried to


CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
(Incorporated under the Companies’ Act of New South Wales on Bth March, 1950)
(ASSETS EXCEED £7,500,000)
1
2
0
P.A. 5,6 or 10 Years.
9% 84°/o
P.A. 4 Years P.A. 2,3 Years j
SHORT TERM RATES
.8%».
Mths.’ Notice
7%!
.A.
Mths.’ Notice
61%
P.A.
3 Mths.’ Notice ;
6T<
P.A.
0 1 Mth.’s Notice
7
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
Funds may be withdrawn in a personal emergency.
Increased interest rates apply on renewal of investments.
Interest paid quarterly FREE of Exchange through the
BANK OF N.S.W.
Prospectus and Application Forms Obtainable From
Any branch of the BANK OF N.S.W.
The Company's Offices, Ground Floor. Cambridge House.
249 George Street, Sydney ’Phone: BIT 5542
Ground Floor, Cambridge House. 411-419 Lonsdale Street,
Melbourne ’Phone 67-6792
Suite 110. Ist Floor. Da Costa Building,
68 Grenfell Street, Adelaide ’Phone 87-025
Suite 53A, sth Floor, T & G Building. 137 Queen Street, Brisbane
—'Phone: 24-509 26-981
Morton House, 5 Union Street. Newcastle West ’Phone: B 4601
Berner Credit Company Pty. Ltd., 147 Bayliss Street, Wagga.
or Any Member of a Recognised Stock Exchange
UNDERWRITING BROKERS:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL (Members of the Sydney Stock
Exchange)
LEONARD G. MAY & SON (Members of the Stock Exchange
of Melbourne)
t'ORRIE & CO. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
Brokers lor the Issue in Newcastle: F. S. Scorer & Co.. T. & G.
Building, Cnr. Hunter & Watt Streets; Newcastle. (Members
of the Newcastle Stock Exchange)
Brokers for the Issue in South Australia: S. C. Ward & Co.,
25 Grenfell Street. Adelaide.
(Members of the Stock Exchange of Adelaide Ltd)
Brokers for the Issue in Western Australia: Donald J. Carmichael
& Co., 135 St. George’s Terrace, Perth. (Members of the Stock
Exchange of Perth)
Trustee for Stockholders: Bankers & Traders’ Insurance Company
Limited
Investigating Accountants for the Underwriting Brokers: Smith
Johnson & Co.
Registers: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Canberra
Registrars: Bank of N.S.W. Nominees Pty. Ltd.
Applications for the debenture stock accepted only on one of
the forms of application attached to a printed copy of the
prospectus.
preserve their right of privacy by posting
the form directly to them would simply
have it returned to the district officer
Surely it would have been possible for a
receiving officer to have been appointed
and for anyone who wished to do so to
tell his collector that his form would be
posted.
My address has been, for rather obvious
reasons, omitted.
F. J. PHILLIPS
Sydney (N.S.W. ).
THE ORR CASE
Sir,
Professor R. D. Wright has a most
reprehensible habit of misquoting his
opponents and then triumphantly proving
from the records that if they had said
what he says they said it would have been
untrue.
In his letter (Bulletin, July 1) he claims
that Professor Taylor “states that Orr was
not used as a witness at the Royal Com-
mission” and then proves that he was.
Professor Taylor made no such state-
ment. Writing “as chairman of the Uni-
versity Staff Association during the period
1954-55” he points out that Orr was not
the person responsible for the associa-
tion's request for a commission and adds
“ . . . nor did we use him as a witness.”
That is perfectly true, and precisely what
Professor Taylor sought to convey—that
Orr was not among the group of wit-
nesses who might be considered volun-
tary “complainants” against the council
and hence incur its displeasure.
Nowhere in his lengthy letter does
Professor Wright seek to challenge Pro-
fessor Taylor’s simple proposition—that
he (Taylor) was one of such complainants,
that his subsequent ill-health provided an
opportunity for the council to vent its
spite ; but that it “went out of its way
to show me every possible kindness.”
Professor Wright rather strengthens
Professor Taylor’s argument when he
refers to certain disproved assertions
and says (rather unkindly of a fellow
academic): “These criticisms, without
foundation, were levelled by Professor
Taylor ...”
In fact, ever since the release of the
Report of the Royal Commission both
the council and the bulk of the staff of
the University have tried to carry out
the desire expressed in the concluding
words of the Commission (p. 54): “We
find little wrong with the present Univer-
sity that cannot be put right within a few
years, if a spirit of commonsense and co-
operation is allowed to prevail.” How-
ever, Professor Wright and other main-
land academics were in the field seeking
to foment dissention between council and
staff long before Professor Orr was dis-
missed.
It is regrettable that the Orr case should
be used to further these attacks on con-
stituted authority.
H. J. SOLOMON
Cartwright’s Pt. ( Tas .).


OUT and ABOUT
Red Washes Whitest
Who said the Communists like to see
the unemployment figures rise? A
young Sydney artist who has been out
of work for some weeks says his best
offer for a temporary job has been Bs.
a line for daubing anti-Menzies slogans
on the railway stations.
After the Speeches Are Over
Generally if you visit an exhibition or
art show after the official opening you
have the place to yourself, without the
proverbial man and a dog. But it doesn’t
work that way at the annual Children's
Book Week exhibition at Sydney’s Public
Library. No sooner have 23 boys from
Belmore High School left than 25 girls
from Afobotsleigh are swarming up the
marble steps to the Mitchell Galleries.
The galleries echo to the loud whisper so
characteristic of small people. Earnest
little girls compile lists of future reading
material.
During last week's exhibition more than
1400 schoolchildren on organised sorties,
as well as large numbers, accompanied
by their parents, saw the books on show.
What comes out of it ail? The book
council people do not feel that many
children buy books, but the children do
make sure they get the ones they have
seen at the exhibition from their school
or municipal library. A prize-winning
book (this year the Book of the Year was
“Tantara” by Nan Chauncy. of Tasmania)
will remain in print for four or five years,
but. the book council people feel that its
peak of popularity passes within months
of the award.
It is impossible to spot a future classic
in the welter of competently-written, com-
petently-produced books available for
children these days, but most of the old
favorites stand up well against the heavy
competition from the new. However, one
of t-he book council people said that while
Mary Grant Bruce is still popular “Seven
Little Australians” has suffered a decline.
h the Melbourne Manner
V|elbourne’s most noted pub, Young
and Jackson’s, recently celebrated
its centenary in Melbourne style. At
6 p.m., when the barman called “Time,
please,” the drinkers filed out, as they
have done for the past 100 years, and
that was that.
For the historical record, the land on
which Young and Jackson’s stands was
bought by John Batman at the second
land sale in the colony in November,
1837. He paid £lOO for the grant. The
present building was put up in the
1840 s, and was a corn store, butcher
shop and school for young ladies before
it became a hotel. Its original name,
the Princes’ Bridge Hotel, was forgotten
when, after successful mining ventures
in New Zealand, Henry Young and
Norman Jackson took it over in 1875.
Fine French Spelling
"VZou wouldn’t have to be a member of
the Academic frangaise to wince at
what Sydney people can do to French.
Not only are there boulevardes all over
the suburbs and city but there is a Mon-
matre cafe in Market Street and out in
the Eastern Suburbs a Fontainbleu
restaurant advertises “fine French food.”
The Overcrowded
Olasskoitse
nPHF latest problem to come up at
United Nations headquarters is over-
crowding. Australian Maxwell Dunn, at
present on home leave, reports that during
the last General Assembly, when Khrush-
chev and Castro turned up, it was next
to impossible to accommodate the 2000
correspondents, cameramen and other
people with a story to get.
“J suppose it is a good thing that heads
of state are coming to U.N., but it is an
awful scramble,”, Dunn said. “Head-
quarters buildings weren't planned for
such numbers and we don’t have the
security and other facilities for people
like Khrushchev.” (Note for feminists:
There were so many women delegates to
the last assembly that more women’s
toilets had to be built to disperse the
queues).
Dunn, who was a leading radio writer
and producer before he went to U.N. ten
years ago is now the executive producer
of films and TV programes for the U.N.
Office of Public information. In 1951
there were 60 member nations. Now
there are 99.
Dunn went to New York ten years ago
to set up U.N.’s first TV unit. At that
time only 11 member nations had TV.
Australia, of course, wasn’t one of them.
Now 82 member nations have TV.
Dunn said that Australia was one of
the most satisfactory areas of distribution
for U.N. films. “The film libraries in
each State and at Canberra are welt-
organised and helpful and, of course, the


film festivals in the various capitals are
an excellent showcase.” He said that,
strangely enough, it was more difficult to
get nation-wide distribution in the
United States than in Australia. “Here
the various States seem to have much the
same education programmes,” he said,
“but there each State wants something
different.”
Twenty-five Years After
'Those hackneyed winds of change
A apparently do not blow through
Margaret Mitchell’s novel, “Gone with
the Wind.” Maxwell Dunn says that his
13-years-old daughter Katy, discovered
“Gone with the Wind” a few months ago.
“We would find her, somewhat sodden,
reading the book while she listened to
the recording from the sound-track of the
film,” he said. “Then the film was
revived in Ne.w York. Katy began crying
while the credits were still being shown.
After that she proposed reading the book,
in its entirety, aloud to the family, but
we vetoed that.
“Imagine Katy’s delight when we
boarded the plane at Honolulu to find
that Vivien Leigh was on board. It is
a tribute to Miss Leigh's indestructible
beauty that, after Katy had recovered
from the initial shock of seeing her in
sun-glasses and modern dress instead of
period costume, she thought Miss Leigh
was still a perfect Scarlett O'Hara. How-
ever, I imagine Miss Leigh was a bit
stunned when Katy produced her book
of cuttings, all on ‘Gone with the Wind.’ ”
That was Society
Some Queensland newspaper grovel:
The rain is coming this way from
Sydney, and doubtless will be here about
Jubilee day. Let us hope it will not
come, and that we may have “Queen’s
weather.”
Just so. Let the lambs die and the
crops wither, but God grant that we
may have dry weather to stuff and guzzle
in honor of Queen Victoria. The crawl-
ing toadswallower who wrote —
Let wealth and commerce, laws and
learning die,
But leave us still our old nobility —
left a lot of descendants, with less excuse
for their worminess than the elder blot
on manhood.— “ Bulletin,” July 3, 1897.
The meteorologists agree in believing
that there will be indications of rain
yesterday. The Bulletin’s faith in meteo-
rology—as at present supplied —daily
grows more vigorous.
— “Bulletin,” June 12, 1897.
In one Australian capital it will shortly
be necessary to execute a Minister’s rather
nice-looking daughter and her mother
in the interests of peace. Since the plain
old man rose to his present dignity, the
remarks, “My father, the Premier, you
know, ’ and “My husband, the Premier,
you know,” are dragged in so incessantly
that nothing short of bloodshed can ade-
quately meet the case. At one time there
was an idea that if the two ladies were
severely admonished and perhaps slightly
dislocated on the rack and then branded,
it might be sufficient, but the case has
now grown too aggravated for anything
short of death.
— “Bulletin,” January 16, 1897
The unlucky number again. Every
thirteenth family in N.S.W. takes in a
lodger. Also every thirteenth baby is
illegitimate.— “ Bulletin,” July 23, 1903.
With camels so plentiful and needles
so cheap, the religious rich in Australia
have no excuse for not making experi-
ments to ascertain what chance they have
of entering heaven.
— “Bulletin,” July 2, 1903.
Onk of the humors of modern civilisa-
tion is the vice-president list of the
average Sydney swimming club. A list
of the Waverley S.C.’s vice-presidents is
a portentous thing, containing enough
names to stock the “those present” tally
of a Gaud Mayor’s Town Hall “At Home. ’
All sorts and conditions of Waverley citi
zcns are represented in it, from Willy
Kelly down to the young gentlemen who
serve on his election committees; from
Colonel Onslow, famed for his contempt
of the ranker and for his hauteur gener-
ally, to the pettiest of traders. It costs
anything from ss, to a guinea to be un-
animously elected vice-president of a
swimming club, and what puzzles the
outsider is why the Vices take on the
job at the price, for almost anyone who
hasn't been in gaol several times is
vice-president of a swimming club these
days. — “Bulletin,” December 17, 1908.
SOME OE THE PEOPLE
YY7 AITING for a tram on a Brisbane
city corner, Elvyn Appleby was
blasted six feet into the air by a gas
explosion underneath the manhole he
was standing on. A few minutes later,
still dazed, he inadvertently stood on
another manhole, and easily beat the
previous record, when a second explosion
hurled him 24 feet into the gutter.
Dr G. V. Nossal of Melbourne re-
ceived a grant of 164,000 dollars from
the U.S. Public Health Service to con-
tinue his work on the ways the body
produces immunities to disease.
Frank Hubbard, Melbourne bachelor
who held the winning ticket in Tatter-
sail’s £60,000 Doomben Cup Consulta-
tion made a point of proper introduc-
tions when he next met the other mem-
bers of the syndicate, fellow-travellers on
a morning train. When he learnt of the
win, Frank only knew them as “Perc,
Tom, Les, George, Gordon, Snowy and
two blokes whose first names I can’t
remember.”
Hong Kong businessman K. P. Tay
has been in Sydney with an unusual
shopping list. For a company formed to
run greyhound races in Macao he wants
to buy totalisator and photo-finish
equipment, electric hares and 1000 grey-
hounds.
Just north of Cairns, on the day the
R.A.N. celebrated its jubilee, Lieutenant
C. J. Littleton dived into gale-whipped
seas from the frigate Swan to rescue
Ernest Travis and Edward Shaw,
stranded waist-deep on a coral reef.
Sydney’s Lord Major, Aid. Harry
Jensen, impressed by the beauty of
Rome, said when he returned from a trip
to Italy and Yugoslavia that “we should
consider first how our city will look and
work out traffic problems later.”
Ralph Gustav Wahle, who escaped
from N.S.W. police by jumping from a
speeding train, at Cowan, near Sydney,
apologised when recaptured for “any in-
convenience he had caused.”
Sir Robert Blackwood, general man-
ager of the Dunlop Rubber Company of
Australia, was appointed first chancellor
of Melbourne’s Monash University.
Into the Silence:—
tn Adelaide, at 75, Frank Condon, Labor
Opposition in the S.A. Legislative Council lor
28 years.
In Sydney, at 71, James Frederick Scott,
N.S.W. Commissioner of Police from 1948 to
1952.
In Melbourne, at 62, Andrew Nicholas
Barlow, former Test cricket and Victorian
League football umpire.
In Sydney, at 63, Jim Healy, general secre-
tary of the Waterside Workers' Federation for
24 years. Born in Manchester, Healy served
with the British Army in France in the hist
war and came to Australia in 1925. He joined
the Labor party and worked for some years
in the canefields and on the waterfront before
joining the Communist party in 1933.
In Cairo, the Right Rev. Antony H. G.
Woolf, Vicar-General for Australia and New
Zealand for the Syrian Antiochian Orthodox
Church.
In Melbourne, at 68, Sir Wilfred Kelshani
Fullagar, since 1955 a Judge of the High Court
of Australia. Admitted to the Victorian Bat'
in 1922, Sir Wilfred became a K.C. in 1933
and went to the bench of the Victorian Supreme
Court in 1945


FOR THE CONSUMER
A New-fangled
Sampler
'T'he chill winds of recession and winter
seem to be blowing someone some
good. An American idea, called the
business sampler, is doing brisk business
in the Sydney suburbs and is getting a
corner in the local entertainment held.
The business sampler has classic
simplicity, as, indeed, have most money-
making ideas. The organisation first
canvasses tradesmen over an area and
persuades them to donate goods or
services to a certain value. A booklet is
then printed with coupons for each
tradesman, and listing the goods or ser-
vices offered and their value. The
organisation advertises these booklets in
the local press, or, just as often, seeks
customers simply by ringing any local
number it can light on by diligent search
in the phone book.
The idea works best when business
is slack. Then a small shopkeeper may
feel it is no skin off his nose to give
away something in the hope of getting
some new customers, who may eventually
bring him much more business, or who
may immediately buy more than the
value of his sampler.
The profit to the sampler organisation
comes out of what is left after the costs
of printing the booklet, advertising,
maintaining an office and what is pos-
sibly an astronomic phone-bill, have
been met. The organisation, when it
signs a contract with a shopkeeper,
stipulates the minimum and maximum
number of booklets which will be
printed.
The sampler is, according to the people
who have brought the idea here from
America, well established in the United
States and has been for a number of
years. Competition for business is keen
among sampler organisations there.
An Australian branch of an American
firm, Business Samplers, began “work-
ing" the Western suburbs of Sydney
several months ago, and are now busy
on the North Shore.
The sampler booklet for the North
Shore costs £2 195., or £2 17s. if you
buy your booklet after seeing an
advertisement for the sampler in the
local papers. On paper the goods and
services, which the booklet offers free,
amount to £4O 55., plus a plate of
spaghetti bolognaise at La Veneziana
restaurant in the city. How La Veneziana
got into the act is one of the minor
mysteries of the business sampler.
Let it be said at once that there is
little doubt that any customer, or say,
any household of four or five people,
could easily get more than £3 worth
of goods and services out of the booklet.
For example, there is dry-cleaning to
the value of £2, hairsets and men’s hair-
cuts to the value of £2 195., laundry
to the value of 19s. 6d., shoe repairs to
the value of 4s. 6d., plus such small items
as a paintbrush worth 4s. 6d., dahlia
bulbs worth ss„ a couple of shillings’
worth of cakes and a 2s. greeting card.
Most families would come in on these
at some time or another between now
and the end of the year, when most of
the coupons expire. : j
After he has had his hair cut, shoes
heeled and clothes dry-cleaned, the
booklet-holder can have one driving
lesson, valued at 305., one car-grease
from two different garages, each valued
at 155., a tune-up valued at 375. 6d., and
a brakes check (10s.). There is 3s. worth
of goods from a disposals store, a 10s. 6d.
photograph, one guinea’s worth of scalp
massage, the hire of a color camera and
projector for a set period (£8 worth)
and TV and radio repairs to the value
of 355. and £3 respectively.
After that the booklet-holder might
have to launch on a period of extreme
versatility and athleticism to get any-
where near the full £4O-odd worth from
the sampler. For example, there are
four squash sessions (325.), dancing
lessons from a local studio (355.) and
dancing lessons from the Arthur Murray
studios to the value of £9 17s. 6d. There
is a tennis racket repair to the value cf ss.
Flowever, not only versatility but
patience is required to get maximum
value from your booklet. For example,
one of the women’s hairdressers will
redeem only one coupon a day, so you
might look a frightful mess before your
turn comes up. Other hairdressers are
available only on certain days, squash
is not available at night, and so on.
The entertainment sampler has been
launched here by Mr H. C. Hilton, of
Recreational International, which has
offices in Cincinatti, Ohio, and Winnipeg,
Canada. Having got things moving in
Sydney, Mr Hilton has moved on to
Melbourne.
The entertainment sampler, which is
£2 10s. and offers coupons to the face
value of about £3O, has a currency of
two years. It offers a wide variety,
including theatre, race meetings, soccer,
10-pin bowling and so forth
A spokesman for J. C. Williamson’s
said fhey had been quite happy to come
in on the sampler idea.
“If there is one free ticket to one
of our shows in the booklet, then that
means that almost invariably another
ticket will be bought at the time the
free one is used,’’ he said. “According
to our arrangement, the sampler is avail-
able at our theatres'.only for perfor-
mances which we advertise as being
‘sampler’ performances. This enables us
in some way to control the available
audience and, possibly, to build up our
houses during slack periods. The sampler
also is to some extent an advertising
medium for our shows.”


FOR THE OBSERVER
Rome’s Eternal
Dolce Vita
The Alitalia plane which flew us to
Rome had a green, white and red
flag with “Italia 61” above it stamped
on the fuselage, but Italy in its centenary
year looks little different from Italia
1957. At least Rome does. The long
rectangular glass buildings, so airy they
seem to float, of the Leonardo da Vinci
airport are new but they are a long way
from Rome. The Olympic installations,
a road skirting the city and its snarled
traffic, the sea-green Palazzo dello Sport
which has the balance of a spinning top,
the complex of overpass roads which
run level with the second - storey of
Olympic Village affording a glimpse into
the private lives of the public servants
who now live there, the supermarket
which serves these servants are the only
additions.
The economic boom makes itself felt
only in the traffic which is, incredibly,
more tangled than ever as it is routed
deviously through one-way streets. But
Rome could not look more prosperous
than it did in ’57 because the great
Italian talent is in beautiful exteriors.
So it is just the same, tawny-ochre and
baroque, rustic, light brown stone and
vast piazzas, the Romans indolent and
excitable, enjoying the noise and con-
fusion.
Luxury abounding is an immediate
impression in Rome but you cannot travel
overseas with a group of Australians
unless one of them is on a constant
look-out for poverty. In Karachi, after
talking with a wealthy Pakistani, it was
I wonder how many could live on what
he eats? In Rome there was a hunt for
the unemployed, even along via Veneto
where everyone is unemployed and fear-
ful only that they might have to do some
work.
If la dolce vita centres around sinuous,
palatial via Veneto artistic life centres
around via Margutta which, although in
the centre of the city, as a U-shaped
billabong is free of cars. A number of
craftsmen’s shops face onto via Margutta
and the work is done in the street itself.
Behind the shops, in the tiers which rise
steeply to the Borghese gardens, are
artists’ studios, populated by the mixture
of local and foreign, authentic and fake,
artists who keep Rome’s 50-odd galleries
filled.
Each June there is a public show in
via Margutta, This year 500 artists, who
qualified by exhibiting at some previous
show, were each conceded a position to
exhibit either on the street itself or in
one of the courtyards or studios opening
off it. The crowd eddies around the
thousands of oil paintings, colleges,
sculptures, watercolors, sketches, as if
v/aiting for one to really say something.
There are two guessing games: pick titles
for the paintings and the nationalities
of the spectators
In a small gallery there are sketches
%y Picasso and a canvas by de Chirico
but the crowd mainly ignores them. A
fair-haired youth, who played his real-
life, ambiguous role in “La Dolce Vita,”
emerges from the crowd with his arm
around another youth. He wears heavy
make-up. Now there is a third guessing
game to play pick the sex of the
spectators.
A group of artists leave their paintings
to sit down to loaded plates of spaghetti
at a table set in a courtyard. The
lanterns in the trees, the neon lights
above the via Margutta make it as light
as day and the air is bland. The picture
framers, the antique merchants, the art
dealers sit in their shops chatting even
though it is after midnight. Business?
No, they don’t do much business, they
explain, but it's all publicity. Poor people,
says my Australian companion, if
Italians didn't work Saturday they could
have this show at the weekend and would
not need to stay up at night.
DESMOND O’GRADY
MOTORING
On Its Way-
The JetCar
A practicable jet car - the dream of
automobile engineers for 15 years—
may be only a couple of years away.
In conditions of complete secrecy, manu-
facturers in nearly every big country are
seeking the answers that will put the car
on the mass-production market.
However, it looks as if Australia will
have to wait until the “big boys” overseas
have made the final break-through with
the jet car before anything is seen of it
here. According to a spokesman for the
industry in Sydney, none of the major
manufacturers is likely to release plans
or models until they have the actual cars
coming off the assembly line. There is
too much danger of pirating of design.
A spokesman in Sydney for the Rover
group, which was one of the first to do
serious research in this field, gave “two
to three years” as a possible date when
the car will be on the market.
T t, . x . ' _ ... . .
In Britain, the Rover group will exhibit
a gas turbine jet car at the 1961 London
otor Show at barb Court m September.
Earlier models dating back to 19J3 have
led to this development.
America, and Continental nations in-
eluding the Soviet Union, are all known
to have jet car projects under way. The
first successful model to reach the show-
rooms will reap a bonanza for the
originating company.
The jet motorist will have a car
powered by machinery far more efficient
than the traditional petrol engine. It will
be at once silky smooth to drive., gearless,
and quiet. On motorways it will turn
f as * driving into a pleasant sensation of
near-to-ground flying,
Perhaps more important; the jet car
be cheap to run. Into the tank will
normally go paiaffin which, nearly everv-
where, sells a*: less than half the price
P^ tro '- Another fuel will be normal
petrol.
When the new models appear, they
w ffl be closely scanned to see that snags
which have anchored development for
more than a decade have been at last
eliminated. The turbo-jets which will
drive the new car are not pure jets like
those used in some aircraft engines,
The pure jet is propelled along by the
f orce of gases being thrust out of the
exhaust. At first, designers did toy with
this concept. A 160 m.p.h. racing car
was built which blew itself along just
like a jet fighter. But the car's thirst
proved stupendous. At full throttle it
burnt two gallons of petrol or paraffin
a minute. And the noise was deafening.
But danger risks really killed the idea,
Drivers would not race against the car.
They complained that the high tempera-
ture ex baust would cook any following
vehicle, complete with occupants. When
the car was idling, it was found that
exhaust flames melted the tar on the
public highway. So the project was
dropped. By contrast, the turbo-jet is a
safely-encased power unit, the outcome
of a brilliant piece of engineering theory.


ABORIGINALITIES
The Citizens’
Dance
It was one of the first days of the dry
season ; a south-easterly was blow-
ing fresh and strong, wild cotton burst
white wool along the edge of the scrub,
and several wattles were heavy with pale
fluff that was hardly gold at all.
I got out of my car at the creek
crossing where I'd arranged to pick up a
young native girl who was to go crabbing
for me. She and her mother were
camped there. They ran over to me
with wide smiles, but Ellie said she could
not come as arranged because her old
Granny “bin finish” and her relatives
were about to perform the “sorry”
corroboree. She said I could come and
watch.
We walked a short distance up the
creek and into a clearing, the centre of
which had been cleared of grass and
sticks and thoroughly swept. Two
elaborately carved and painted totem
poles stood there, and a heap of grass
and sticks, the basis of a fire, was set near
them.
Several old men sat facing the centre
of the clearing, beating sticks and old
pieces of iron together, making rhythmic
sounds. They wore only loincloths of
bright material and their bodies and
faces were almost hideously painted.
From their matted hair protruded the
black and red tailfeathers of the black
cockatoo. Opposite them were a group
of women, also bare to the waist, and
wearing tightly wound skirts about their
hips.
Ellie’s mother stood near the set fire
looking dolefully at a large suitcase
filled with the deceased’s possessions
which, according to the ancient rites of
the corroboree, were to be burnt. How-
ever, when during the course of the
dance, the fire was lit and each article
advanced to the flames, there must have
been a tacit decision among them not
to burn them ; they were quickly with-
drawn before any damage was done.
The corroboree was not going very
well when I arrived. The participants
seemed to lack enthusiasm. Ellie’s mother
alone showed abandonment of grief,
flinging herself with loud sobs onto the
totem poles. Once when she left the
dusty dance floor to berate some tardy
members of the cast still sitting by the
'reek, I saw tears flashing on her plump
heeks.
The boss of the corroboree, an old
man with wild grey hair, became ex-
tremely impatient and also left the circle
to direct a stream of angry words
towards the creek, some of which were
spoken in English, namely: “Come and
get on with this bloody job!”
This must have had its effect; presently
into the clearing walked two people.
They were obviously the main dancers
and were also “citizens” —that is, natives
who have been deemed capable of
managing their own affairs to such a
degree that they no longer need special
care or assistance from any Government
body. They were a young man and his
wife, both wearing simply a light, bright
covering about their loins and magnifi-
cent head-dresses of the gaudy black and
red tailfeathers. Their bodies and faces
were heavily painted with intricate
designs in white and yellow. Incon-
gruously, a very conventional pair of
rings, engagement and wedding, flashed
in the early sun on the young woman’s
left hand.
Now at last the ceremony began to
show some organisation. This young
man was a very accomplished and
experienced performer and threw himself
with verve into the dancing. The
musicians banged rhythmically on their
instruments, the dancers stamped the
ground, the dust rose chokingly. The
young man tossed his feathered head in
wild chant which ended with a fiendish
yell and a mock attack on the totem
poles with a large stick he carried.
Several natives rushed forward and
dragged him away. This was repeated
over and over with variations. One was
the lighting of the fire and the flinging
of his body dangerously close to the
flames ; another the miming of the dead
woman gathering cockles, which con-
sisted of dancing right round the cleared
floor with a small string bag and stoop-
ing at intervals apparently to pick some-
thing from the ground.
When it was over and the crowd dis-
persed, I drove away. The last thing I
saw was one of the male performers
walking very seriously towards the creek
in his bright red loincloth, carrying the
almost new suitcase. Possessions are
becoming important to the nomads — a
true sign, perhaps, of citizenship.
K. KEAIN
The Wife Curtain
/~Vne of the wonders of the pastoral
world is expected to be completed
by the end of this year—a 3500-mile
dingo-proof fence encircling 135 million
acres of actual and potential Queensland
sheep-grazing land. Only about 100 miles
of this vast wire curtain remains to be
“ That's how I like my eggs done — bluish-white with brown spots!”


I ABEL IS REGISTtRtD
«* iCOTCM WH,J KV
Ifl O'STIUii,,
A *«*TV!* t 10 . Y<
THE OUt** j/J
fj"" The Old Blen.fi
jj. 2692427 ScotcKWKisky
\\m
Cellar
►ROM THE
Origir\a.l Recipe
1746
74-2
At T that asc desirous to pass
L EDINBURGH to LONDC& or ™™
other place on their road, let the™
'repair to the HORSE CELLAR™
. FDINBLiRGH. at which place thev mav he
eived m a STAGE COACH every'Mon day
fnft FRiUAt' Which performs the whole journey
frLrht days (if God permits), and sets forth
'? five m the morning -
Allowing each passenger 14 pounds Weight
and all above. 0 pence per pound
ftbruary. 1754-
WHITE HORSE DISTILLERS LTD
i.owulin Distillery. Island of tsiay. and Glenlivet District
Lagnu GL *SGOW ana LONDON.
illy mrnmm w&inscotujii
MET I PBfT 6 FIWB OtMCES m
o«* y *t
0>
There’s no
mistaking
White Horse
Scotch
Whisky
(the mellowness gives it away)
Available in three handy sizes:
26-oz. bottles, “halves" and “quarters."
At Standard Brand Prices.
RHS
put up, for a final cost estimated at about
£y million.
The fence runs from the far south-
west corner of the State north around
Winton, Boulia, Cloncurry, Julia Creek,
Richmond and Hughenden, south from
Torrens Creek, including Jericho and
Tambo, and thence along the northern
edge of the Brisbane-Charleville railway
line to Jandowae, where it switches south
again to the border near Yelarbon.
Within this area is a sheep population
of 20 million. To the west, north and
east lie the main dog-breeding areas of
the State.
The fence is the baby of the
Co-ordinating Board, a semi-autonomous
body under direct charge of the Lands
Minister, and run by top-ranking State
public servant Jack Brebner, who is also
Superintendent of Stock Routes. The
board financed the fence by a levy on
protected landholders placed at slightly
less than Id. a sheep. In return it
subsidises landholders for repairs to the
fence, and expects to contribute £28,000
a year for this work. The board employs
six inspectors on permanent patrol,
mounted, as befits guardians of this
20th - century project, on specially
equipped Landrovers which combine the
function of a home-on-wheels with that
of a mobile workshop for urgent tem-
porary repairs.
Board chairman Erebner sums it all
up this way: “I don’t think the fence
will ever stop isolated dogs from getting
through, but it will prevent waves of
dogs, and should allow landholders to
clean up their areas. The fence must
always be subject to permanent patrol—
it will always need repair. There will
always be landholders with complaints.
By and large, however, the majority of
landholders within the area regard the
fence as the best thing that has happened
to the area.”
J.H.
That Was the Country
I saw the champion hard-case swaggie
this Easter. He carried blankets in roll
under his arm, three billy-cans, carrier
over his pack, two odd boots, “mud-
narker” (chesterfield) , wideawake hat,
four-inch washable white collar, and a
long-handled tomahawk. I believe he
was looking for a contract ringbarking
beer. — “Bulletin,” April 28, 1904.
In the heart of the Outback, when the
tucker-bag gets low, strange substitutes
are provided for the flour, sugar, tea,
currants and tobacco. Tea is replaced by
“scotch coffee,” i.e., flour roasted in an
oven. This, when brewed, is reminiscent
of tea in the vague way that some inci-
dents suggest to us a past existence. In
lieu of brownie, when the sugar runs
out “dogs’ Jews’ harps” are cooked, i.e ,
dumplings punctuated with currants.
When the baking powder is used up,
unleavened bread is cooked in thin wafers,
so that the crust on both sides meets,
leaving no room for dough in between;
this is called “leather jacket.”
— “Bulletin,” April 7, 1904.
Of all the wallaby-trackers’ substitutes
and make-shifts for tobacco I find honey-
suckle fluff the best-flavored. Have tried
tea, coffee and tow; the last is a terror.
Gum-root, that abounds on the river
banks, gives a good cherooty whiff, though
a trifle hot. Eucalyptus leaves, fresh
dried, are good for a cold, or chest
troubles, but smell too much of the
druggists’ den for me. Ti-tree leaves
aren’t much chop. Coffee is flavory, but
hot. Tea, hot and not flavory. Have
smoked brown paper in desperation, but
always carry a supply of gum-roots to
prevent such a diabolical contingency
arising again.— “Bulletin,” April 14, 1908.


The Red Page
“The Fine Delight
That Fathers Thought”
By RONALD McCUAIG
Ern Malley’s Poems. With an intro-
duction by Max Harris. Lansdowne
Press. 18s.
The continuing interest in the Ern
Malley poems, since they were pub-
lished in “Angry Penguins” in autumn
of 1944, and denounced in June, 1944,
by the Sydney “Sunday Sun’s” depart-
ment, “Fact,” is a little in excess of
their quality as a hoax. The 17 years
which have not impaired their freshness
have established both their authors,
Harold Stewart and James McAuley, as
poets of a very different, a restrained
and traditional, kind, but have left Max
Harris, the duped editor, feeling that the
poems “cannot be dismissed in toto as
‘meaningless nonsense.’ ”
Harris in his introduction prints under
the heading “The Protagonists” the
reconsidered opinions of some of the
main participants in the affair, taken
mainly from a radio documentary made
by John Thompson of the Australian
Broadcasting Commission in 1960.
Sidney Nolan, who had as much
reason for wanting the poems to stay
good as Harris, since he was their cover-
illustrator, speaks well about their
“simply superb” and “very, very lovely,
beautiful,” writing.
Sir Herbert Read sticks to his guns
with the opinion that the hoaxer, “if
he was a hoaxer, had got so worked up
in the process of imitating certain types
of modern poetry that he had become a
genuine poet.”
Dr Brian Elliott, who cast doubts on
the genuineness of the poems before the
hoax was disclosed, and wrote a poem
to back his opinion, considers now that
they constitute “a piece of literary
criticism.”
Of Max Harris’s contention it might
be said that “in toto’’ the poems are
certainly meaningless nonsense, whereas
in short runs they make, if not sense,
lively poetic images:
The rabbit’s-foot 1 carried in my left pocket
Has worn a haemorrhage in the lining.
To Sidney Nolan’s examples of
“beautiful writing” might be added
My white swan of quietness lies
Sanctified on my black swan’s breast —
the rabbits’-foot of which memory might
very well have produced the haemorrhage
of Nolan’s recent “Black Swan” series of
paintings overseas.
That the poems constitute a form of
criticism, as Dr Elliott claims, is obvious
from such a piece as “Documentary
Film” which combines something of the
styles of both T. S. Eliot and Ezra
Pound, and an almost pure piece of
Mallarme:
The solemn symphony of angels lighting
My steps with music, o consolations!
Palms!
The poem beginning, “Rise from the
wrist, o kestrel,” throws one back into
the times when kestrels were in fashion,
brought in by—Barker? The opening
of “Petit Testament”:
In the twenty-fifth year of my age
I find myself to be a dromedary
That has run short of water between
One oasis and the next mirage,
is a comment on the habit of the times,
of opening a poem with a development
of a line from a well-known masterpiece
in a foreign language, like Villon’s —
Nolan rightly claims the four lines as a
brilliant image while “between one
oasis and the next mirage” is a further
echo of T. S. Eliot.
One would go a little farther than Dr
Elliott and say —what does not seem to
have occurred to anybody that the
excellence of Ern Malley’s poems is that
they are parodies ; no less brilliant for
being incoherent parodies of incoherent
styles of poetry ; and no less represen-
tative for their wide grasp of the different
styles which go to make up one of the
world’s more eclectic and esoteric poetic
periods.
But merely to say that they are
brilliant parodies is not enough ; they
have a further quality, stated by Sir
Herbert Read: the authors “got so
worked up in the process of imitating”
that they became —“a genuine poet?”
Well, not for long. But the excitement
of writing their parodies enabled them
to communicate the joy of creation. And
what is this, but what T. S. Eliot describes
as “the aesthetic emotion”?
You can feel the excitement in
McAuley’s reminiscence of the birth of
Ern Malley:
It was a pretty idle afternoon in Vic-
toria Barracks. I suppose we must have
started about lunch-time. The idea had
been floating around and it crystallised
and we got to doing it. To a large extent
I was holding the pen and probably gave
thereby the degree of continuity that there
might be in the work....We described,
sometimes just deciding in advance what
the rhyme scheme would be, or I’d call
on Harold to cut in on the train of
imagery that I’d started to develop, and
we thought that without working the thing
out in a very elaborate way (because there
wasn’t time—we were just producing very
quickly) this sort of thing would give
sufficient disturbance to the composition,
plus the fact that it was all done in a rather
high-spirited fashion.
“In a rather high-spirited fashion”—
it is this emotion, this joy in the creation,
that makes the difference between poetry
and verse ; it was what made “Mo” a
great comedian before he said a word ;
and it accounts for the difference between
Ern Malley’s poetry and the poetry of
Harold Stewart the Mandarin and James
McAuley the Religious Lyricist; having
taken their stand against levity and
irrationality they are bound to create
by rules in which joy has no leading part.
James McAuley, in his contribution
to this reprint, copes with such criticism
thus:—
I think there are in fact two sorts of
process that lead to productions which
purport to be artistic, and I would call
one pseudo-inspiration and the other one
genuine inspiration. And I think pseudo-
inspiration is precisely the excitement of
this surrender to irrational forces.
That is very well said, and certainly
is unexceptionable as it applies to Era
Malley’s poems if they are to be taken
in toto, and as serious poems rather than
parodies. In the same way Harold
Stewart’s contribution, that the first
enthusiastic reception of Era Malley
“showed that not only could people not
tell the difference between sense and
nonsense but that they had lost their
sense of humor,” is quite right. Those
of us who demand clarity of poetry
would be foolish to betray such standards
by claiming brilliant parodies as serious
works of art, and yet:
I have remembered the chiaroscuro
Of your naked breasts and loins.
For you were wholly an admonition
That said: “From bright to dark
Is a brief longing....”
Mr Stewart and Mr McAuley might
well shake their heads over those lines,
that turn of metaphor from chiaroscuro
of place to chiaroscuro of time, and say
with Swift: “What a genius we had when
we wrote that!”
Although it is only fair to say that
in the summary of the police-court case
in Adelaide of September, 1944, the
magistrate is quoted as saying of the
first two lines of the above:
“The defendant said that they do not
invoke any images but that those two lines
are virtually incomprehensible.”
As the defendant was presumably Mr
Harris this leaves us with the diverting
situation of the work’s main apologist
arguing against his own poet. It is not
the least amusing thing about the Era
Malley poems to find the authors insist-
ing that they are nonsense, their pub-
lisher maintaining outside the court that
they make sense, but inside the court
that they do not, while the magistrate
tends to rule that they make sense where
they are indecent but nonsense where
they are not.
In any case, this is not the only divert-
ing point about the judgment, in which
the magistrate dutifully expounds passage
after passage in the light of evidence
given and his own interpretation of it.
Taken with the introductory essays of
the main characters in the hoax and the
nice clear printing of the poems, it makes
a pretty well perfect monograph on per-
haps the most brilliant and evocative
literary hoax (or collection of parodies)
of our times.
At 18s., though, the book might surely
have been sewn rather than stapled, or
printed in such a way that those who
would like to bind it would not be faced
with an inner margin out of all propor-
tion to the outer margin.


BOOKHUNTER
Dept. **D” Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service lor reader*. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find It for you—fiction,
text book, biography, bistory, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.0., Sydney.
FREELANCE
WRITERS!
Learn Story Writing, Freelance Journ-
alism, Radio and TV Script Writing,
Verse Writing, etc. by excellent corres-
pondence training with STOTT’S —
Australia’s leading Correspondence
Training College.
Write today for full particulars, sent
free and without obligation.
Stolls Correspondence College
159 Flinders Lane, Melbourne; 149 Castle-
reagh St., Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Bris-
bane; 21 Grenfell St., Adelaide; 22 Howard
St., Perth.
“———CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON—
To STOTT’S: Please send me, without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
AGE (S.B. 1461)
When Sc i ence Rules
When Science Rules
Science and Government. C. P. Snow.
Oxford. 15s. 9d.
TT is conventional for the people of the
•*- “free world” to pride themselves on
the fact that all basic decisions affecting
the lives of individuals are made through
agencies representative of those indi-
viduals. In opposition to this we have
the Communist States in which decisions
are made by a small group of political
elite not really responsible to anyone but
themselves, or perhaps to a monolithic
party structure.
This book is a reminder that democracy
does not always function as it should.
It teaches a lesson which all who are
interested in the survival of humanity
must learn.
As science becomes more and more
involved in the war machine and military
strength depends on the development of
exceedingly sophisticated instruments
(computers for the navigation of long
range rockets, radar which can interpret
in a split second the meaning of a blip
on a screen), military policy makers
become more and more dependent on
highly specialised scientists. Sometimes
the scientists concerned become not only
the specialist experts but start to make
policy decisions as well.
If the men concerned are wise and have
an understanding of the history and
political structure of their countries this
may not be serious. However, most
scientists are narrow in their interests,
often appallingly insensitive to aesthetic
and social values, and certainly rarely able
to see current events against an historical
perspective. Such a character appeared
in Priestley’s writings as Sir Nuclear
Fission, a high-powered nuclear scientist
with no human values, the kind of man
who would drop a nuclear weapon on a
city to see what happened to the struc-
ture of the streets.
Unfortunately such characters are not
entirely fictional. Snow writes about one
such man who might easily have caused
the loss of the Battle of Britain. His
name was Lindemann, a naturalised
German physicist of no great distinction
in his own field which in any case was
extremely narrow. He became distin-
guished by the title Lord Cherwell and by
the fact that at one stage he had the
cheek to state that he regarded the Pope
as a Communist dupe!
When a student, Lindemann had a
friend, Henry Tizard, one of Britain’s
ablest brains. When Nazism seemed to
be unconquerable in Europe Tizard
pushed through the great radar screen
system which, more than any other single
mechanism, saved the day when the
German bombers came. This was a
tremendous effort requiring imagination
and great organising ability.
Lindemann was a close personal friend
of Churchill and when the latter came to
power, Lindemann came with him and
because of his intense jealousy of his old
friend Tizard, had him thrown from his
position on the committee controlling
Britain’s scientific war effort. Despite the
fact that in every case where on matters
of interpretation other scientists such as
the brilliant operational research worker
Blackett agreed with Tizard against
Lindemann, Churchill ignored other
views. Despite the fact that Lizard's
efforts had in fact saved Britain while
Lindemann never produced a single idea
w r hich helped the technical war effort the
latter was knighted while his former
friend was put out of the way.
Snow gives something of the way
other scientists felt about all this by tell-
ing such stories as the one about a man
who added two and two and got four.
“He is not to be trusted,” said an Air
Ministry spokesman, “he has been talk-
ing to Tizard and Blackett.”
How did this happen? Lindemann
was a wealthy social climber who made
himself by sheer persistence the darling
“Prof” of high society ; he made him-
self, to those who were ignorant of
science, the fount of all scientific under-
standing. He formed a profound attach-
ment for Churchill who trusted him
implicitly and it was this strange friend-
ship which gave Lindemann his tremend-
ous power. It is a terrifying thought that
had Churchill come to power, and with
him Lindemann, before Tizard had com-
pleted his radar screen, the German
bombers would probably have got through
and Britain would have been destroyed.
All who value democracy must read
this book. Never again must a scientist
be allowed such power; no scientist
should ever be able to make decisions
which cannot be referred to other
scientists for evaluation and to the repre-
sentatives of elected government. And
we who elect governments must try to
understand the implications of modern
science as applied to war.
W. G. WHITTLESTONE
Novels on Social Problems
David at Noon: Mario Prodan.
Hutchinson. 18s. 9d.
The Scar: Bruce Lowery. Allen and
Unwin 17s
M* . ~ .
ario Prodan is a completely cosmo-
politan author both by birth and up-
bringing. He apparently writes his novels
in English. Bruce Lowery is a young
American who went to Pans to learn to
speak French, wrote La Cicatrice, his
first novel, in that language and has now
r !"T, tte u 11 m Enghsh : If 11 “ tme ’ . as
he blurb states that it caused acclaim
everywhere in French literary circles
one can only assufne that when it
appeared the French silly season was in
full swing.
Both novels are fairly short, beautifully
written, concerned with young, unhappy
people who, at the end of each book
arrive at a sort of certainty, a sort of
solution, etc., etc. There are serious
reasons for objecting strenuously to both
of them.
In “David at Noon” a girl called Susan
(David’s cousin) and her aunt (David’s
mother) visit the Italian village where
David was billeted at the time of his
Hero’s death. Susan and David, but for
the war, might well have married. Due
to the war David loved Gabrie ll a instead,
That story is told retrospectively during
the course of the book and we J so learn
most of what matters about that village
which was occupied first by the Germans
and then b British and American troops.
Tn the last ten years or so Italian
viu as if they had not suffered
enough a i read y, have been fair game for
sentimental novelists posing as realists and
aII the usual figures are here; the girl
wbo went W rong ; her violent and dis-
illusioned local lover ; the appealing and
engagingly dishonest boy waif; the priest
who accepts the sins of his flock ; the
pure young soldier who loved the girl
who went wrong (not David and
Gabriella, by the way—they nearly went
right) and so on.


“The Scar” concerns a 13 year old boy
who suffers agonies of self-consciousness
about the scar of a repaired hare-lip. As
it stands it is slight and sad and the hero,
before the end, has practised petty
thievery from his best friend and has
indirectly caused the death of his much-
loved younger brother.
Its incidents have all the improbable
probability of real life —I do not object
to its story on the score of coincidence
or even entirely because of its senti-
mentality, but I do object to its sloppiness
when what is called for is a good strong
indictment of the type of American school
and poorly educated middleclass back-
ground which made the tragedy inevit-
able. This situation ought to have been
described from any angle but that of a
first-person narration by the child con-
cerned. America is rightly the Mecca
of social case-workers from all over the
world who desire higher degrees and for
that very reason, instead of sniffling with
Jeff and his Mom and Pop we should be
asking why, in America of all places, and
in a fair-sized town, a child like this never
comes anywhere near contact with those
agencies which are so excellent and
abundant in that country, and which exist
to straighten out exactly such problems.
Of course that is not to say that Bruce
Lowery is the man to write the book that
should be written. I merely complain that
so many highly sophisticated, intricately
written books such as these two are being
woven about social problems which are
neither pretty nor simple, thereby obscur-
ing the festering ills that underlie the Aim
flam. The books may gain acclaim from
“literary circles” but what is needed is
something to inflame the indignation of
much wider circles everywhere.
NANCY KEESING
From Wales to
Queensland
The Clean Breast. John Naish. New
Authors Ltd. 225. 6d.
Come Welsh children catch snakes and
“knot them on the twigs of the
gorse bush”; then they set it alight.
They steal from a village store. They
imagine they have caused the death of
a woman.
One of them grows up but still needs
the group to give him the courage to
make a “clean breast” of it and walk
into the V.D. clinic. He picks up a girl
who wants to marry a policeman. He
becomes a soldier and sees a murderer
with a razor. He tries to roll a drunken
Yank. He breaks with his family. He
runs away from a nudist “intellectual.”
He comes to Queensland and finds
that “the most vicious, stubborn,
pernicious and painful commodity under
the sun, rain, and wind was sugar-cane.”
He goes to town and city and knows that
in “this whole strange land” there is no
one “who could remind me of old sins,
Weaknesses tongue-lashed by children,
Into Winter
Now 7 the teeth of cold shut down
And fasten on our winter nights,
The dew lies late upon the grass
And ripening berries hive the sun.
And I must hive my summer days
And keep their honey in my heart
As clear as spring water, unstained
By speck or stir of what’s to come.
For like the cosmonaut I see
The spinning crystal of the world
Poised between dark and dark, and
still
I feel that darkness gathering.
In Europe, Asia, Africa
The camp-fire lights that man has
struck
Between his hands, fade one by one ;
The prowling beasts draw nearer still.
O marvellous world! And marvellous
man
To such a declination come,
The havoc cried, the beasts un-
leashed —
By his own hand he is undone.
All women who must bear a child
Know, as I know, a double doom
And so must hive, as now 1 hive
To feed the promise in the womb,
Take heart from hearsay, and believe
One bore the child to be the man
To save the world at the last hour.
Was this not how the story ran?
ROSEMARY BOBSON
Academic Evening
Scandal and clever-silly talk
Circulate faster. In his chair
Professor Krote puffs and plays
As usual the gross buffoon.
His wife broods like a crippled hawk.
Two elegant bluestockings tear
A third to shreds. My neighbor flays
The latest book of poems. A tune
From nowhere settles in my brain.
The last guest comes. I tremble as
My pulse grows furious. Somehow
On her your ravishing likeness lies.
Straightway my resurrected pain
Walks through the ruined night. She
has
Your look, your gestures. Turning
now
She’s strange again. Her voice implies
Her otherness. But I’m so sharp
With loss, I see how Krote’s eyes
Wait upon hers, and are rejected.
The torn bluestocking on my right
Leans closer, and begins to harp
On Anglo-Saxon Homilies.
Once more our glasses are collected
And filled, and Krote’s clowning’s
tight
With anguish as I spin upon
The carrousel of drunkenness
That turns me through a hemisphere
From this chance likeness to your
face,
Your own, unmatched by anyone.
I whirl, I fly in mortal stress.
A tart voice cackles in my ear
As back I wheel into this place
Where Krote drinks and clowns his
way
Across his tightrope of despair,
Eating queer sea-food from a stick.
Men do not weep in public places
In this land. On a tragic day
Men gathered in San Marco’s square:
The campanile, brick by brick,
Subsided. From Italian faces
The tears streamed. Here men would
not spill
Tears if a campanile fell.
Yes fill my glass. That morning’s
gone
From time forever when I lay
Naked beside my love. Yes fill
My glass until the carrousel
Of drunken stars I ride upon
Shalt whirl me beyond night or day.
FRANCIS GEYER
Surf
The sea is otherwise. We frame the
land
around ourselves, the hills fall at our
word
and valleys cringe. But nothing can
be said
on a long beach in the grit of windy
sand
with the surf around. And we must
understand
our halt, and we must see it as a need
and reckoning. The boundaries have
been made,
the sea knows, and acclaims the end
of land.
But I can swim out strong into the
surf,
I move like singing in the waves!
Sand swirls
and tosses in the breakers and it hurls
back to the piled-up shore. And pride
is brief.
I reach the simple land with smarting
eyes,
and chafe to know the sea is otherwise.
THOMAS W. SHAPCOTT


PUBLIC LIBRARY OF QUEENSLAND,
WilUam Street, Brisbane
THROUGH BRITISH EYES
an exhibition of travel books and periodicals arranged by
THE BRITISH COUNCIL
Hours: Monda.v to Friday, 10.30 a.m.-D.OO p.m. • Saturday, 10.30 a.m.-5.00 p.m.
ADMISSION FREE
cruel shames shuttered and discovered,
guilt and fear, boast and waste ; and
lies.” In ten years time “/ would sit
there” in the Botanical Gardens “and
watch new frowning young men walking
. . . singing . . . walking.”
The book is sub-titled “an auto-
biography in eleven episodes,” but it is
not that. Mr Naish has, with self-
conscious artistry, shaped his episodes
towards fiction and has avoided revealing
himself openly. He never emerges as a
real or knowable-enough person to hold
them together and although some things
in his book—the adolescent afraid of
V.D. and afraid of being known to have
it; the drunken bar where the noisy
girl’s arm is calmly broken— do work
they are too brief and too far apart to
mean much ; the anonymity of the in-
between writing dissipates their effect.
Consequently the reader wants always
to know more —what happened after the
set-pieces, why the characters behaved
in that particular way, how an author
could be soldier, laborer, grave-digger
and would-be writer. With quite inartis-
tic modesty Mr Naish avoids this fast
query.
His book is so naive in thought and
so eager in intention, so modest, that
it has a sort of charm and most readers
who begin it will read it to the end.
He has a talent for observation and
selective detail, for the reporting of what
was done. “The Clean Breast,” “The
Snag” and particularly “The Return” —-
these episodes could stand alone as
stories.
Oddly, the most convincing parts of
the book are his Welsh childhood and
his Australian maturity, though local
readers will be amused by the inaccuracies
of his reported speech in the racecourse
scenes.
RAY MATHEW
“Spinifex” Outback
Roll the Summers Back. J. A. Porter.
Jacaranda Press. 225. 6d.
A tradition in Australian writing has
been to draw on father’s or grand-
father’s reminiscences as background for
fiction. Grandfather’s experiences might
be interesting but he was often blunt and
lurid, and it fell to the daughters of the
more literate families to translate the
trials of their sires into the language of
European cultured society. Mrs Praed,
Henry Handel Richardson and Miles
Franklin are only a few who dipped
into a river laden with alluvial that we
are discovering, almost too late, has been
pouring down the valley of history or
drying up in a desert of disregard.
Frequently one comes across manu-
scripts which would be of value to future
students of social history, but because
they are labored in the telling, overloaded
with sentiment, or just plain dull, no
publisher can take a risk on them. “The
Letters of Rachel Henning” have a fresh-
ness which has preserved them, because
they were written on the spot, but reminis-
cences written in old age are apt to be
blurred, nostalgic and overloaded with
detail
It was for this reason that I approached
J. A. Porter’s account of his early life
in Central Queensland with some reserve.
As "Spinifex” he can be traced as a
Bulletin contributor as far back as 1904
at least. But his book is not the writing
of a man of 83 ; it is the book of a young
man with an immediate vision of events.
Joe Porter’s writing has a twinkle in its
eye and the rough-rider’s glance for a
good-looking girl.
There is life in outback towns and
stations, life at once monotonous and
courageous, simple but with its own
standards of behavior, great rides and
great horses, boom-or-bust, the picture
of a society which was exactly suited to
hard, good-humored young men. China-
men, aborigines, the goldfields of Western
Australia, mining deals, cattle deals,
murderers, or the exact method of har-
nessing horses to a Cobb and Co. coach.
Mr Porter writes of them all with a
snap that he learned from being told
to keep it short and keep it accurate—in
The Bulletin
I think I enjoyed the all too brief
account of his experiences in the Boer
War as much as any. Major the Honor-
able Rupert Carington led the 3rd
Imperial Bushmen in which the author
served On a long march on a dark night
one trooper said to his mate, “I wonder
where bloody old Rube is now?” From
the darkness a well-known voice replied,
“Bloody old Rube is right here.”
When Porter returned from the South
Africa War it was to find what he calls
“returned soldiers’ preference in reverse”
and signs that said “No South African
soldiers need apply.” While he was wait-
ing to enter the N.S.W. Mounted Police
he tried any sort of job with the courage
that had brought his father from ship s
carpenter to a landowner who built and
lost two fortunes. Porter was decorating
the end of a shovel on a construction
job at one time. “The foreman stood by,
watch in hand, and timed the teams.
From the slowest team someone would
get the sack before long. He had no
trouble getting replacements. Sitting
about there were always several men
nursing their shovels and waiting for a
chance to get in for their cut. Those
were the good old days. My oath!”
“Roll Back the Summers” is published
by a firm which seems to have a sport-
ing instinct that should pay off hand-
somely. It is good to see that their con-
fidence has been backed by assistance
from the Commonwealth Literary Fund.
KYLIE TENNANT
Thomas Mann
A Sketch of My Life. Thomas Mann.
Seeker and Warburg. 13s. 3d.
"Published in 1930 in a very limited
•*- edition, “A Sketch of my Life” is now
available for the first time to the general
public. A slight work in itself, it doubt-
less heralds the publication of the com-
plete translation of Mann’s marginalia,
his letters and whatever posthumous
papers remain. One hopes so, at any
rate. If these minor productions are
available we may as well have them,
though if this sketch is indicative they
will add very little to Mann’s reputation
and taken alone could give a misleading
impression of his powers. The Mann
that matters is the Mann of “Budden-
brooks,” “The Magic Mountain,” “Doctor
Faustus,” “Felix Krull” and the incompar-
able short stories.
The Sketch itself has a rather pathetic
period flavor: pre-1930 when so much
of what later happened was neither
imagined nor guessed at. It traces Mann's
life through to his first literary success
with “Buddenbrooks,” to the writing of
“The Magic Mountain” and the award
of the Nobel Prize and ends with his work
on the Joseph novels in progress and with
a planned trip to Egypt. His short com-
ments on his individual works are valu-
able, though they have long been known ;
and there is an excellent portrait of his
mother and his sister Clara. He is
enlightening on the influence Nietzsche
and Schopenhauer had on him in his
youth, and says of the Nietzsche experi-
ence that it made him finally “proof
against the baleful romantic attraction
that can —and today so often does—
proceed from an irn-human valuation of
the relation between life and mind.”
Elsewhere he writes: “In my younger
days I owed everything to models: with-
out constant contact with admired
examples I scarcely ventured on a single
step; and yet with time [Mann was then
55] I have come to feel that the whole
essence of art is in their deliberate aban
donment, in the leap in the dark, the
possibility of achieving the new.” Under-
stood in the context of Mann’s thought
(he was no believer in the anti-novel) this
perhaps points to some of the reasons for
his greatness: his rejection of the out-
worn and the modish, the development
and deepening of his debt to the past, his
sense of the artist’s responsibility to the
human in all its manifestations.
VIVIAN SMITH


Shows
O.'d Vic Flatters Giraudoux
Duel of Angels. Jean Giraudoux. Old
Vic. Co., Her Majesty’s, Melbourne.
Purporting to be a modern gloss on
the Roman legend of the rape of
Lucrece, this play is set in the French
provincial town of Aix-en-Provence in
THEATRE
the summer of 1868.
All the married women
are deceiving their hus-
bands, or have deceived
their husbands, or are about to deceive
their husbands.
Into this cloud-cuckoo-land comes
Lucile, the wife of Mr Justice Blanshard.
Not only is she a faithful wife, but she
has the dubious gift of being able to
sec maggots and toads coming out of
the mouths of most of the other wives—
because they are not. The female popu-
lation is up in arms against this traitorous
feminine solidity. (The husbands are
mainly faithful, it seems.)
In the person of Payola, the most
beautiful a-nd most faithless, female kind
takes its revenge upon the chaste Lucile.
She is drugged, and made to believe that
she has been raped. The modern Lucrece
is undone by another woman, not a
man. The modern Tarquin, Count
Marcellas, does not even do the dark
deed with which he is credited. He said
he would have liked to. This just brands
him as an ineffectual muddler, which
doesn’t, however, mark him off from the
rest of the men in the play.
Here you have, you might think, the
ingredients for a sophisticated French
farcical melodrama. But it appears that
this is meant to be a serious moral dis-
cussion about sexual vice and virtues.
Yet how is it possible to conduct a serious
dramatic argument when the cases taken
are so extreme as to be absurd?
Lucile is a monster of unnatural vir-
tues. The comparison with the Roman
legend is completely misleading. For
Lucrece, when ravished by Tarquin, took
her own life, overcome by shame or
guilt. But Lucile, as she sets about
killing off her (supposed) ravisher, feels
only self-righteousness. Her murderous
chastity makes even Payola seem an
angel of innocence by comparison.
It is true that Lucile finally commits
suicide, but her motive is a mixture of
revenge and disgust with life. Yet, after
all this, the old bawd, Barbette, speaks
an epitaph over her in which she talks
about angels and gleams of purity. One
would like to think this is a piece of
monstrous Jacobean humor. But I have
a horrible suspicion that Giraudoux
means it at least half-seriously.
If virtue is seen as so unnatural, one
might expect to see it opposed by natural
vice. But Payola is also extravagantly
unpleasant. Worse still, she takes herself
as seriously as Lucile, and is just as
tedious as Lucile. What could be worse
than a wordy cynicism? One expects
virtue to bore one, but cynics are sup-
posed to be there to cut virtue short
with brilliant and wicked epigrams.
Payola listens patiently to the inter-
minable speeches of Lucile, because she
is about to make equally lengthy
speeches in reply.
We can’t take the play as a “jeu
d’esprit,” but we can’t take it seriously
either. It seems a moral chaos, vastly
inferior to such a play as “Tiger at the
Gates.”
The confusions defeat even the talents
of Vivien Leigh and Sally Hume. I
thought that Vivien Leigh gave rather
too quiet a performance as the beautiful,
faithless and vengeful Payola. She is
a melodramatic figure after all, and
should perhaps display a little more
malevolence or a little more vulgarity.
Or else Sally Hume’s Lucile should be
slightly less emphatic. The two per-
formances do not quite dovetail together.
Basil Henson (as Count Marcellus, the
vile seducer), David Dodimead (as Mr
Justice Blanshard, the self-important and
priggish husband of Lucile), and
Margaret Courtnay (as Barbette the old
bawd), have straight character parts
which they perform with the apparently
effortless skill of the good English actor
faced by such roles.
The company, the costumes and the
sets are all worthy of a better play.
MADELEINE ARMSTRONG
A Henry Lawson Ballet
The Fire at Ross’s Farm. Capitol,
Perth.
Visitors Kathleen Gorham and Robert
Pomie highlight the W.A. Ballet Com-
pany’s season, but lustre also comes to
composer James Penberthy with a new
ballet in which the Australian tradition
is given fresh and proper expression.
It is amusing to consider Lawson’s
probable reaction to the idea of his bush
people being thus presented in the
sophisticated guise of classical ballet, but
Penberthy’s creative drive is no less Aus-
tralian than Lawson’s. One notable
feature is his unerring choice of themes
related to the virile nature of the con-
tinent.
“The Fire at Ross’s Farm’’ has been
adapted by Kira Bousloff; Edward
Miller is responsible for the choreo-
graphy. Penberthy’s beautiful music was
broadcast by the A.B.C. a few days
before the season opened. Heard either
alone or in association with the dancing
for which it was composed, it is possibly
his best yet. With Vaughan Hanly con-
ducting, the violins sing with a lovely
dominance, controlling and combining
the whole.
The ballet has two acts, and an epilogue
in which Jenny Ross (danced with charm
by Jenny Miller) and Robert Black
(Edward Miller) are separated by their
hostile fathers. The despairing shades
of Romeo and Juliet fade away behind
a gauze that suggests the uncleared bush.
But Australia is not Italy. In Act I, a
bushfire blazes. Flickering amber lights,
a fiery backdrop, figures of flames danc-
ing and leaping in black and grey and
orange, create an inferno; faintly
Dantesque, but genuinely familiar.
Familiarity is completely established
with the arrival of firefighters to beat out
the flames with realistic gestures. (Effec-
tive but rather too repetitious, this scene
could benefit by tightening of form ; a
lessening of confusion would make better
drama.) The fire at last quelled, the
fathers shake hands. Act II celebrates
the wedding of the young lovers.
The manipulation of typical Australian
period dressing to suit ballet is itself a
delight. A rodeo is arranged for the bush
wedding—a magnificent display, as
national in connotation as Cossack danc-
ing, as native to Australia (in opposition
to Wild West stereotypes) as corroboree-
dancing is to aborigines. This capacity
to use the idiom of Australian outdoor
life, its robust humor and everyday
courage, distinguishes Penberthy’s work
and claims recognition. His music for
“The Fire” alone deserves a wider
audience.
H. DRAKE-BROCKMAN
Brace of Musicals
The Most Happy Fella. Princess
Theatre, Melbourne.
Irma La Douce. Comedy Theatre,
Melbourne.
'T'he librettists of the modern musical,
Pirandello-wise, have become obsessed
with the problem of identity. Who’s who
is the key question these days, engaging
and enraging both audience and charac-
ters on stage.
Take two of the latest offerings on the
Melbourne musical front.
In the first an immaculately virginal
young waitress gives up her city job to
marry what she imagines (from a photo-
graph that has been posted to her) to
be a tall, dark and handsome letter
writer, or pen lover, only to find him a


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON & 7E
osuluvaiv '
PTYLTD. Jfjhr*
to'*.** Sr
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFF I CPI ANI) FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANU CACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
■JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
start the day right!
fi
m
.v » r*
UD'** C
pfiM
IM
vt« c
r6^J”
1 C
£
HELP
LEGACY
oil the year round. Donations: 169
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. BM2OOI.
naively deceiving, tubby little old Italian,
more in Marty’s class than St Valentine’s.
In the second a young law student who
has fallen for an almost reformed prosti-
tute finds that he has to live a double life
in order to keep his girl on the moral
straight and narrow.
But the similarities don’t end there.
Again, in the first the audience gets wind
of the identity mix-up long before all but
one of the characters. In the second
precisely the same thing happens. In the
first the discovery of who’s who leads to
harmony and a happy final curtain; in
the second—well, you can guess. And so
on
All of which means that if it’s a story
you’re looking for, one’s just about as
good as the other. But if your taste runs
to that other major ingredient of the
musical, the music, then my advice is
to sink your money on “The Most Flappy
Fella.” Here an attractive and unusual
score is assisted tremendously by two
factors—that rarity in commercial theatre
orchestras, a first-rate conductor ; and
singers who have voices. Many in the
cas f are Lorn the Elizabethan Theatre
Trust Opera Company,
What Dobbs Frank, the young Amert-
can w h° came out here with the West
Side Story company, gets out of tne
Princess Theatre orchestia is something
to marvel at. Gone aie the old days ot
what has been called the consumptive
musicians W'heezing strings, gasping
woodwinds and spluttering percussion It
> s t° hoped that his work will have
a far-reaching and lasting influence,
A. S. JORGENSEN
Uneapboarded Skeletons
The Elder Statesman. Little Theatre,
Melbourne.
The curtain goes up on an English
drawing-room. The butler will
shortly be bringing in tea. Miss Monica
Claverton-Ferry, daughter of Lord
Claverton, the elder statesman, is talk-
ing to her lover, Charles Hemington, M.P.
They are extremely well-mannered and
correspondingly dull. The realism is
oppressive except that the ghostly frame-
work of the blank verse makes the con-
versation sound more labored than it
should
But,’just as one is settling down into
boredom, an “impossible” person appears
on the scene and the play comes to life
in a moment. Formerly Fred Culver-
well, a fellow undergraduate of Lord
Claverton (then Dick Ferry) at Oxford,
who was sent down and later served a
prison sentence for forgery, he is now
Federico Gomez, a very rich South
American businessman.
Shortly afterwards another “impos-
sible” person turns up and things become
even livelier. Now Mrs Carghill, a rich
widow, she was once Maisie Montjoy,
famous in revue and the mistress of the
young Dick Ferry. These two ghosts
from Lord Claverton’s youth force him
to re-assess his past life.
Along with a Lear-like revelation about
himself—that he is weak and guilty like
other people and not the exalted per-
sonage he has been playing for years—
he also realises that he ha-s been a bad
parent, that he has misjudged his son
and exploited his daughter.
But Eliot's treatment of the younger
generation is a weakness in the play. The
older generation Lord Claverton,
Gomez and Mrs Carghi I—is1 —is searchingly
analysed and criticised, but the younger
generation is not. Michael, the son,
seems excessively unfeeling, even for a
misunderstood son. Monica is idealised,
or, perhaps it would be more accurate to
say sentimentalised. It would not matter
so much that Monica and Charles are
immature and wooden, if we were not left
with them finally as the hope of the
future.
In spite of its weaknesses this play has
plenty of vitality. The three characters
who are best reali c ed by the dramatist
are also best played by the actors. Max
Bruch, as the worldly Federico Gomez,
fills the stage with color and vitality.
Norman Kaye’s Lord Claverton should
perhaps have a little more presence to
avoid being too much overshadowed by
the expansive Gomez, but still it is a
carefully-thought-out performance. Follie
Setches achieves the right mixture and
ruthlessness as the irrepressible Mrs
Carghill.
MADELEINE ARMS I RONE.
Phenomenonsense
Village of the Damned. Liberty.
Sydney.
TJeople with clever children fall into
about three general categories. First,
there are the dull elders who boast
unconscionably about their progeny as if
FILMS
the cleverness somehow
reveals great hidden resources
of intelligence in themselves.
Second, there are the smug
parents who drop subtle information
about Willy’s scholarships with a what-
else-would-you-expect demeanor. Third,
there are the people who are absolutely
terrified by anybody so unconforming
to usual standards of wholesome citizen-
ship as to have bra i nS) these being in the
deformity category like the clubfoot, the
harelip and the pox.
This ]j tt ] e bit of fantasy from a quiet
English village, beginning stylishly as if
jt might have something useful to say on
the whole question of the usefulness of
brains without affections, drops its stan-
dards about halfway to cater rather aim-
lessly and stupidly for the third category
of people mentioned above, the people


to whom cleverness is very bad form and
therefore entitled to punishment, this
being the usual movie reward to the dull
for being dull.
The story, adapted by scriptwriter-
director Wolf Rilla from a novel known
as “The Midwich Cuckoos,” is about an
English village where every living thing
is mysteriously knocked unconscious for
a whole afternoon and where all the
women awaken to find themselves preg-
nant, the outcome being an aggregation
of sulking hubbies at the village pub and
a batch of super-babies at the local
labor ward. The new kiddies are master-
minds who, promptly feared by the
inhabitants, are thought-readers and
mind-controllers to such an extent that
they can drive off to their own destruc-
tion all those who seek to curb them.
George Sanders, the local professor, is
first of the idea that he can save these
children from the anti-social effects of
their supernormal powers and then of
the idea that only he is strong-minded
enough to be able to get them into a
position where he can destroy them with-
out their divining his intentions too soon.
The atmosphere of village life is caught
so freshly and gently in the early reels
that Rilla’s film ought to have found a
superior way to go than into quite nasty,
hollow and pointless melodrama.
L.B.
Adelaide Aims Higher
117ith the London Philharmonic
’* Orchestra already signed up as its
most spectacular feature, the Adelaide
Festival of Arts for 1962 is already
MUSIC
giving evidence of coming
closer to international festival
standards in features and
atmosphere than Adelaide's
last venture as culture host in 1960.
Not that last year’s event in any way
short-changed the subscribers who came
from all over Australia to share in its
pleasures. But there was, through that
festival, an element of provincialism,
improvisation and half-cocked showman-
ship which persuaded a good many sub-
scribers that, as festivals go, they were
not quite getting “the real thing”—and
that in spite of the clear international
stature then of such events as “Murder
in the Cathedral” in the Hugh Hunt
production. Some of the other events
which were predicted to have great “sell-
ing" merit were wide of the target. Sir
Donald Wolfit’s Shakespeare readings
being.laboriously dull and the Elizabethan
Trust’s “Salome” and “Trittico” rising
not much higher than levels of interesting
competence.
Engagement of the London Philhar-
monic Orchestra under Sir Malcolm
Sargeant for next year is ample proof
that the festival committee is setting its
sights higher this time —and, if it can
win the co-operation of the citizens and
the administrators of Adelaide in raising
such things as hotel accommodation and
places of public enjoyment, such as
restaurants, above Adelaide's renowned
C-3 levels, this committee can predictably
count upon a much more exciting festival
all round.
The 1962 festival’s theatre offerings,
too, will carry more solidity and appeal
than last year’s stage ventures which
(with “Murder in the Cathedral” ex-
cepted) were a weakness, an element of
amateurism being evident through them
for all that this amateurism had been
tastily spick-and-spanned. The announce-
ment that Australian actress Zoe Cald-
well, in Australia again after five years
in England at such world-rating drama
showcases as the Shakespeare Memorial
theatre, is to star in “Saint Joan” itself
points to higher theatrical standards in
1962. And the festival committee's
acquisition of the Australian rights to
“J.B.’, a controversial modern verse play
by Pulitzer Prize-winning Archibald
McLeish, points firmly in the same
direction.
Music and drama will be crossbred in
a projected presentation of Benjamin
Britten’s setting of the Chester miracle
play, “Noah's Flood,” a work which is
reported to have been the outstanding
success of the International Festival in
Vancouver last year. Indeed, it is under-
stood that many of the properties used
in the Vancouver production, including
73 animal masks, will be brought to
Australia to enhance gifted Adelaide
director John Edmund’s production.
Besides the five concerts by the London
Philharmonic Orchestra, and perfor-
mances by the 180-voice choir of the
Royal Christchurch Musical Society
from New Zealand, the festival’s musical
features will include recitals by the
Menuhins and opera by the Elizabethan
Theatre Trust, negotiations now being
in progress for engagement of some
overseas artists for these productions.
At this stage, it is hoped that four operas
will be given.
Adelaide’s Lord Mayor, Mr C. J.
Glover, who is president of the Adelaide
Festival of Arts, says that plans for
ballet at the festival are well advanced.
“We are negotiating for a visit, exclu-
sive to Adelaide, of two internationally
known classical dancers from Europe.
Also, we hope to bring to Adelaide a
dance group of 45 after it has toured
the United States.
“Something entirely new in the way
of popular entertainment is being devised.
This will be a ‘Festival Fair’ open to the
public every night beside the River
Torrens in Elder Park.
“A jazz star has still to be engaged
to follow up the success of Dave Brubeck
at last year’s festival. There will again be
a gathering of Australian writers in
Adelaide, and at least two new Australian
books will be published with festival
assistance.”
L.B.


MERCY FLIGHT
Trying to save a soul they nearly tost two lives.
By XAVIER HERBERT
What is called a “Mercy Flight” is properly one in
which normal safety standards of aerial operation,
as imposed by Air Navigation Orders, are relaxed
to meet certain contingencies: to quote A.N.O.s, “for
humane reasons, to save or relieve some person from grave and
imminent danger.”
Does this cover a flight undertaken to save a soul, which
by some people would be considered even more urgent than
tc save a life? A pilot needs to know the score exactly in
the matter of A.N.O.s. In this case a tacit warning is given
by an addendum to the definition: “The responsibility for
determining whether to conduct a mercy flight rests solely
with the pilot in command.”
One time I fell for a mercy flight required to be made
to save a soul rather than a life: but, curiously, it wasn’t
anxiety for the soul I was asked to assist in saving that involved
me so much as concern for the soul of him I was assisting,
the saver of souls himself. How would a man stand in respect
to A.N.O.s if he came to grief in a case like that? Anyway,
such were the hazards of that flight that, had I come to grief,
I wouldn’t have been interested in any official inquiry into the
circumstances —well, not any earthly one.
I was charter-flying with a light aircraft concern, operat-
ing out of a small port on the eastern side of Cape York
Peninsula, Queensland. I prefer not to name the town. Suffice
it to say that immediately behind it rises one of the highest
parts of the Coast Range. It is a region of tricky weather,
especially round about the autumnal equinox, when the trade
wind blows up again and the warm moist air from over the
Coral Sea becomes a wet stream that obliterates the mountains
and cooks up nasty little frontal systems to lurk as traps for
unwary pilots.
That’s the way it was the time I tell of.
HThe little saver-of-souls came to me while I was taking
advantage of the rain to indulge in a bit of after-lunch
bashing of the spine in my hotel room. He came, so sure of
the undeniability of his mission, that he had his gear for the
trip, which he set down on the verandah outside my door.
He was wearing a plastic raincoat, through which could be
6een his tubby figure, clad in bush cleric’s outfit of khaki
safari jacket, shorts, top-socks. He doffed his black hat to
shake off the rain, revealing a crop of brown curls.
I rose from bed, eyeing the valise outside, saying, “Hullo,
padre . . . you wouldn’t be thinking of flying, would you?”
His chubby face dimpled with a seraph’s smile: “And why
not?”
“In this weather!”
“Since when’ve you been scared of weather?”
“Just about ever since I took to flying.”
“Go on with you! What about that time we came home
in rain so heavy we couldn’t see the ground till we were
nearly down on it?”
“That’s very different from going out into rain.”
It is, too. The occasion he referred to was one on which
I ran into rain halfway across the mountains on the way home
from a trip out west. I knew the weather was clagging up
and wanted to beat it to avoid being stuck out on some pokey
little cattle station for a week or more. Unless you have a
fully-instrumented kite it is bad flying to lose contact with the
ground. Few light aircraft are so equipped. What made that
bit of recklessness permissible was the fact that all l had to
do was maintain height for the few minutes required to bring
me out over the sea, drop down in absolute safety till I could
see the sea, then steer a compass course to the shore, pick
up a landmark, and head straight in to the drome.
As I went out to him I said, “If you wanted to go up
or down the coast it’d be okay. But you want to go over
the top, don’t you, out to Magoffin?”
He nodded, looking grave: “You’ve heard?”
“The Flying Doctor Service radioed asking about the
weather. I told ’em they'd never find Banyan in this.”
He said quickly, “But you could !’ r
“Not a hope.”
“But . . but would it be the same over the other side
of the mountains? Ft’s often clear over there when it’s raining
here.”
“Banyan's too close to the mountains to be clear of weather
like this.”
TTis face became blank with dismay, his blue eyes round, his
boyish alto vibrant: “Well ... if you took me out further
west, then . . . and I were to come back to Banyan by
road . .”
“How am I going to get you over the mountains?”
“Can’t we fly over the clouds?”
“Not in a kite like mine. Anyway, with the roads like
they are just now, you'd be days getting back to Banyan. You
might as well wait here till the weather breaks.”
“When will that be?”
“I’d say three days.”
“But Magoffin won't last that long. Doctor said that when
he finally goes down he’ll die in a matter of hours. Can’t you
really take me?”
I could see he didn’t accept my head-shake. 1 turned to
look northward into the murk. Away on some peak the
atmospheric differences were being hammered out in a storm,
the rumble of which could be heard faintly. I said, “Listen to
that.”
But he got in front of me, tugging at my sleeve, urging:
“Look, this is terribly urgent. You know the sort of man
Magoffin has been. I ... I want to be with him at the last.
I’m certain we can get there. If you’ll share my faith . . .”
The unbelief he saw in my eyes seemed to smite him like
a slap to a trusting child. If he had abused me for irreligion
it would have been easy to take, compared with that look.
Deep down I cursed that old reprobate Magoffin for involving
me in his sinfulness.
Relief came for me in the shape of the man from the
fuel depot drawing up with his little tanker outside the hotel
bar. I said hastily, “Excuse me, padre, I have to see Joe.”
As I turned to escape I added: “The old boy might last
out. He’s tough. And you never know, the weather might
break sooner.”
I must confess to making a joke of it, first while I talked
fuel with Joe over a glass in the bar, later during the evening
session with the regular sinners of the community. The idea


0 f Magoffin’s outwitting that old partner of his, the Devil, with
last-minute repentance caused much amusement.
Magoffin was a grazier, owner of Banyan Station, one of
the richest cattle-runs of the district, on the lush western
slope of the mountains. He was already a legendary figure
as a rogue.
Originally he had worked as a stockman on Banyan. The
story went that his rise to ownership was due to secret collabora-
tion with a notorious cattle-thief of the day, who helped him
to effect his employer’s dispossession by running off the stock,
then running it back when Magoffin took over. His collabora-
tor conveniently disappeared.
Nor had Magoffin’s scruples improved with that first great
achievement. It was said that he lived for cattle-duffing and
skulduggery with horses. He had the racing game in the North
sewn up. He had been in many a tight spot, but never con-
victed. If it looked as if he could not beat a rap he
put one of his several half-caste sons to take it for him.
Well, the old fellow’s days were numbered. He had a
kidney complaint that was all set to kill him. The Flying
Doctor had been out to see him a couple of times and had
tried to get him to go to hospital down in Cairns. People
declared that he dared not leave Banyan for fear of his sons
running off the stock. It might have been that he simply had
no such pessimistic view of his future as the doctor. I myself
had heard him express himself to that effect in no uncertain
terms just after the doctor’s last visit. That was about a month
before this time 1 tell of, the occasion being a call I made at
Banyan with the little padre.
His reverence, new as he was to the country and not so
much experienced in the ministration of his vocation, hearing
that Martin Magoffin was dying, had presumed to give him the
consolation of the last rites. I did not see what happened,
because I was at the fuel-shed, while the padre was with
Magoffin in the house. But no one within half a mile could
fail to hear the old bull roaring:
“Don’t go pointin’ the bone at me. I ain’t done yet. If
you ain't got no other business here but prayin’ for me, mister,
get to flamin’ hell out of it!”
1 heard that choir-boy’s alto rise loud and clear with
righteous indignation: “Martin Magoffin, if anyone's going to
get to flaming hell out of here it’s you, if you go to your death
without repenting the terrible life you’ve led!”
Hence the mirth for which, somewhat shamefacedly, I
confess to having been responsible in the pub, while the good
little cleric was surely praying that wet afternoon and night
for delay in old Magoffin’s departure from mortality till he
could reach his side to set a course for him other than to
damnation.
T must also confess to feeling, with strange discomfort, that
A the joke was rather on me when at dawn next day I woke
to find the rain stopped and, on rising, saw the mountains
reared in blue-black clarity against a cloudless sky.
But as I stood there, looking further, I saw away to south
the murk of the south-east stream still hanging over sea and
mountain, and to north the black wall of a frontal system
running in obliquely from the sea to end on the heights some
twenty miles away in an alp-like mass, the pearly peaks of
which were touched by the rosy fingers of the dawn and
convulsed with sporadic lightning. Then I knew that this was
no miracle, but just one of those dry patches which not
infrequently occur in wet streams flowing over mountains,
lasting only for minutes usually and never for longer than
about an hour.
However, it was regarded as a miracle elsewhere. Even
as I stood staring, his reverence came sprinting up the deserted
street, without his raincoat this time, but with the valise, which
latter he raised and waved at me, whooping, “What price you
weather prophets!”
His face was truly cherubic, glowing like the convoluted
crests of that menacing cloud-mountain which for a certainty
he would not have seen. He came up panting, “You said three
days!”
Then, becoming aware of the lack of promise in my expres-
S; on, he lost his exuberance, asked in a faltering voice, “Why
• • • we can go, can't we?”
I pointed to the southerly murk, perceptibly nearer: “I’m
afraid not. It’s closing in. In an hour it’ll be as dirty as
ever.”
He gaped at me: “An hour . . . but, we could be over
at Banyan in less than an hour . .
“We’ve got to get off the ground first. And with that
stuff up north there Banyan’s sure to be under low cloud, so
I’d have to keep to the south to get under it.”
I pointed to the storm, glad to turn away from those blue
eyes, and proceeded to give an awkward lecture on the meteoro-
logical conditions: “Temporary breaks in stream-weather are
due to thunderstorms on the peaks. They dry out the
moisture . . .”
But as I spoke, sunlight struck Pulpit Rock, three-thousand
feet up in the clear behind the town. The yellow rock glowed
like new-minted gold, and the rain-forest below it, emerald
and cobalt and jet, gleamed like enamel.
He interrupted me, crying: “No, man, no. This is
providential ... I prayed for this!”
He got in front of me: “It’s providential, I tell you.
How can we come to harm?”
I had to look at him. Then I saw in those eyes no mere
request for co-operation in his purpose, but a desperate plea
for help to establish his faith for him by affording him oppor-
tunity to prove this act of providence for which he’d prayed.
Cruel though it would have been to refuse what he asked,
I’m sure I should have done just that if I’d thought compliance
meant surrender of the first principle of good flying, which is
that a pilot must never act contrarily to his better judgment ;
and my better judgment in this situation was that the weather
would beat me in the matter of crossing the mountains. How-
ever, there was nothing to show that I could not turn round
and come back home.
So I said: “Okay, I’ll give it a go. But I’m pretty certain
I won’t be able to get you there.”
Glowing again, he babbled, “Oh, you will, you will . . .
I know you will!”
'T'he slowest part of flying is, of course, getting off the ground.
I found I had to pump a tyre of my little kite. Then I
had to clear the airfield of wallabies so as not to come to
grief in take-off. When at last we were off the ground and
I was giving my time of departure to Aeradio, Cairns, half
of the predicted hour of grace was gone.
Now the murk of the stream was no more than ten miles
off, travelling at about twenty knots by my estimate of its
sweeping over the craggy heights. As 1 climbed, I reckoned
that with my own one-hundred knots of airspeed I would just
“My wife doesn’t understand you ."


about be able to beat it across to the point where I hoped to
get under the cloud I believed covered Banyan.
That my reckoning was wrong I discovered when I
reached two-thousand and got my first glimpse of the intra-
montane landscape through a saddle. Then I saw what I should
have foreseen, that the pooh was already across my track
and flowing faster back there.
Above the engine’s roar I shouted to my passenger sitting
by me on the right, “Look at that!”
He merely smiled and nodded, as most passengers do
whatever you show them, uncomprehending.
Not that I was thinking of turning back. As yet the stuff
was streaming over the gully up which I looked. I knew that
gully, which was about five-hundred feet deep by a mile
across, and reckoned I had a good chance of getting through
it. I levelled out Soon we were under the feathery grey
mass, so close to it that wisps were torn down by the propeller
and spun into a rainbow.
I’d done this kind of thing before and knew that my luck
would hold only as long as the conditions held that were
keeping the cloud mass up out of the gully. Hence I knew
at once that our sacred mission .vas at an end when suddenly
it grew dark. I was already turning back when the rain
engulfed us like a breaking wave.
My passenger shouted, “You’re not turning back?”
“Sorry . . . but I told you what to expect.”
“No . . . please . . .”
“We’d only come to grief if we went on.”
“We can’t come to grief. I know . . .”
“You know nothing about it. Now, keep quiet. I’ve got
to concentrate.”
I could feel his eyes on me. I wondered if he thought
I might be the Devil thwarting him in his sacred work. Not
that the thought worried me, with the kite bucking in the
sudden turbulence and the instruments trying to go haywire
and the engine running rough with ice. When I could spare
a glance off the instrument panel, I saw that he was withdrawn,
sitting hunched in his safety-belt, staring sightlessly out into
the grey opacity.
I climbed to four-thousand to make certain of clearing
anything thereabout, heading somewhat south of east, which
I estimated would, with northerly drift, bring me in about
fifteen minutes to a point a couple of miles out to sea opposite
the town. After the fifteen minutes had passed I dropped
down on a southerly heading to find the sea.
■Clying on instruments, you have to keep your eyes pretty
well glued to the panel, because without God’s horizon to
give you orientation there is no knowing anything but what
your instruments tell you, whether you are flying up or down,
hell, west, or crooked, no matter how clever you may be.
But although you are not looking out, you still retain aware-
ness at least of a change of conditions out in front —which is
just as well, as many a pilot has lived by the skin of his teeth
to know, I among them.
Suddenly I became aware of darkening of the pearly
gloom ; looked up, surprised, because I’d not made a third of
the descent to the sea, to see the windshield blurred with rain
*—green rain. I was in the trees!
What one does in such emergencies seems to be purely
automatic . . . throttle and stick! I was five-hundred feet up
out of those trees before I properly felt the shock of seeing
them and became aware that I was flying full-bore just about
vertically. I throttled back and trimmed for normal climb and
pulled her head round east from the north-westerly heading I
found her on.
I noticed a tremor in my hands. I glanced at my pas-
senger to see if he saw it. He sat as before, evidently oblivious
of the fact that he’d just been within an ace of making the trip
into Eternity himself.
It was clear what had happened. Wind with the onset
of rain can rise to considerable force. Whereas I’d allowed,
in my rough calculation to offset northerly drift, for about
twenty knots of wind, the actuality, since I was still over the
mountains when I should be well out to sea, must have been
all of fifty.
How far north had I come?
I soon found out.
Zip !
I heard the radio blow out.
'T'he plane bucked violently. For a moment I was blind.
Lightning. I was in the vicinity of that storm. I must
get out of it, or we’d be torn to pieces. Head south! But as
I swung her, the compass swung dully with her ; and I knew
on the instant that it had been put out of action by the flash.
I felt the sweat pour from me.
The turbulence became violence. My passenger was flung
against me. I yelled, “Tighten your belt and take a grip on
the bottom of your seat.”
His blue eyes were goggling and his lips moving. The
thought that he was praying filled me with sudden anger. His
praying had got us into this ... It was left to me to get us
out —how?
But 1 had no time to think. The jigging artificial-horizon,
on which I was concentrating to keep us on an even keel,
suddenly toppled. My eyes leapt to the “bat-and-balls,” which
showed us skidding violently to starboard. Then I became
aware that we were going up, apparently sideways . . . up, up,
up . . . the hands of the altimeter were winding like the hands
of a busted clock.
We were in an up-draught. I pulled off power, strove
with the stick. I think we rolled over and over. Lord knows
what happened. We were not flying, but being hurled! I saw
the altimeter at ten-thousand, at twelve. It might have gone
further.
In the violence of acceleration 1 lost my power to focus.
I just hung there in my harness, helpless, thinking without
emotion that here it was at last, the disaster to which I was
dedicated as a flyer, the end I had so often glimpsed in moments
less frightful, the draught I had already tasted dry-mouthed a
number of times but now would quaff to the full and die.
I remember a period of intense cold in which I hung
upside-down, then a sensation of wild descent. Suddenly I came
to myself with awareness of the unmistakable condition of
stall, that feeling of non-flight in flight, communicated to one's
being by the very material of the aircraft. Automatically I
shoved the nose down, opened the throttle.
The engine roared. I saw the instruments again. The
artificial-horizon was still toppled, but the rest were function-
ing normally. The altimeter read two-thousand.
The significance of the altimeter reading did not dawn
on me till I realised that our medium was no longer pearly
cloud but grey sheeting rain again . . . and there again was
the green of trees! So close did I come to those trees that I
recognised them for what they were —bunya-pines, stretching
long tasseled arms to rake us down. So violently did 1 have
to reef out of them that I came close again to stalling.
A wall of glistening rock leapt at me. More trees. We
were evidently down in some depression in the moun-
tains, some gully or ravine or mere hollow, refuge from the
wrath of Heaven, yet in effect only a kind of limbo in which
to suffer till the earth should claim us and send us straight to
hell. There was no climbing out, because the down-draught
that had flung us in was pinning us down.
Trees and rocks everywhere!
I flung back my sliding side-window for better view, turned
to my passenger to tell him to do the same on his side, saw
that he was praying, and screamed at him, “If you want to
live, quit your bloody praying and keep a look-out!”
I was frightened, but the expression of my fear was rage
against this passenger of mine who had doomed me along
with himself by stealing my will to serve a faith in which he
could sit there calmly waiting for violent death.
I made a nightmare circle of that death-trap which only
revealed itself in glimpses of gleaming rock and streaming
trees through the torn silver curtains of the rain.
I felt him tug at my arm as I was dragging us out of
the bunyas again, and I turned on him screaming, “God damn
you! ”
I could not hear what he said in the noise inside with the
windows open ; but I followed the direction of his pointing
through his window, and saw a narrow strip of silver in the
grey, like dawn breaking on a misty sea —a saddle ; escape!


mm®*
■s&W-
-*7 FINE
liqueur whisky
m
«
wm
!']' ! !
A fine example of early Colonial
architecture is this Bor'd house in
Happy Valley, South Australia.
Here the mellow blends that make
Bond 7 I ine Liqueur Whisky
quietly mature in cask in the age-old
way that makes great Whisky.
FINE LIQUEUR WHISKY
One of the jive great whiskies of the world . . .
92348
BOND 7
whisky
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
A .V AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established ISIS
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLAS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS
A. C MAITLAND. Managing Director. O. S. TETTERSEN, Manager.
Branches in nil Stales Agencies in all Country Centres
I turned to it, levelled out, rushed it at full bore.
In a moment we were out over the mountainside, flying
smoothly down what I knew from the open forest was the
western declivity, down under a low sloping ceiling from which
hnng wisps like old cobweb.
I glanced at my passenger. His face was cherubic. I
gave him a wobbly grin.
Now I had to locate myself. I was over lightly-timbered
granite hills. There was a grassy valley, with a silver river
a nd red cattle It looked familiar. Then suddenly there it
was, revealed by a parting of a curtain of rain ; a cluster of
white-washed buildings, stockyards, tanks, beside an emerald
patch in a corner of which blew a white wind-sock . . .
Banyan!
My passenger babbled something, but I didn’t hear. My
skin felt goosey. I dared not look at him. I concentrated
on the landing.
Down, down, down, over the fence, eyes peeled for
wallabies. There they were, as always, squatting amongst the
spiked red ant-hills. With them were a brace of brolgas,
as intent on the technique of my landing as a pair of flying-
instructors. 1 rather clunked her in, but didn't give two hoots.
It was so good to be back on the ground.
I kept the plane rolling, on up to the end of the strip,
then away to the right up a short taxi-way to the homestead.
At the gate to the homestead paddock 1 cut the switches.
The sudden stillness struck like a blow. Then into the
stillness came insinuating the soft whine of the gyros, of the
gyros running down like the unwinding of the tension the
flight had coiled tight in plane and pilot.
1 wanted to drop my head to my hands, to sleep a little,
even perhaps to weep a little in rny weariness and relief. But
you don’t do things like that in front of passengers, who must
never know what their flight has cost, beyond the charter fee.
His little reverence spoke first, calmly, smugly: “Well, we
got here, as 1 said we would.”
I sought for an ironical reply, but was checked by the
sound of voices. A group of women and children of various
shades of duskiness were approaching the gate.
1 got my reply as he opened his door. I said dryly, “Let's
hope the old boy waited for us.”
He alighted and spoke to the group now halted at the
gate: “Good-day, everybody!”
Regarding him in the shy under-lids fashion of aborigines,
they murmured a greeting.
He asked cheerily: “1 hear the boss's sick. How is he?”
No one answered.
He asked quickly: “He's not dead?”
An oldish half-caste woman answered: “No, he ain't
dead.”
He sighed: “Ah! I'd like to see him.”
“He ain’t home.”
“Eh?”
“He been get better last night. 'S mornin’ he been go out
ionga boy, look ’em bullock.”
“Oh! When do you expect him back?”
“'S evenin'. But he proper cranky, reckon sumbuddy steal
’em stock. He been say: ‘S’pone doctor or sumbuddy come,
tell 'em get to hell out of it.’ More better you go, eh?”
His face stiffened: “No, I’ll wait for him. Could you
give us something to eat?”
Ti eluctantly they gave us a meal in the kitchen. I left the
padre there, and went back to look the kite over for
damage. Afterwards I got into the back seat and dozed.
I was roused by voices. The women and children were at
the gate again, and with them was the little padre, standing
with arms folded, looking very stern and brave. Then I saw
horsemen approaching. 1 stayed put, not wishing to get mixed
up in the inevitable fireworks.
But there were no fireworks after all. Martin Magoffin
was one of the horsemen, sure enough, but instead of sitting
his saddle like the rest, he hung across it, dead.
Well, the little padre had the satisfaction of burying the
°ld reprobate. More than that, he baptised the whole of the
Magoffin family. I was their godfather.


Business, Robbery, Etc.
THE COMMON MARKET
Australia’s Tough Stand
'T'here is little surprise that
Mr Duncan Sandys, the
British Secretary for Common-
wealth Relations, left Canberra
virtually empty handed. Mr
Menzies and his ministers
proved to be much tougher
negotiators than their New
Zealand colleagues. Of course
they were arguing with a much
stronger hand - although ex-
ports to the United Kingdom
are of the utmost importance to
Australia they do not account
for almost the whole of her
overseas trade, as is the case
with New Zealand.
The delightfully vague and
pleasantly worded com-
munique, released after last
week’s talks makes two major
points clear.
The United Kingdom will
make its own decision whether
to join the European Common
Market, and on what terms.
The Australian Government
realises that, whatever argu-
ments it may advance, the
United Kingdom's policy must
be guided mainly by British
economic and political con-
siderations. Australia has little
influence over the six Common
Market countries, which have
adopted a united, softspoken
but basically unrelenting atti-
tude to Britain's entry. The
communique's reference to the
fact that Britain’s entry into the
Common Market is “primarily
a matter for Britain and one
the British Government alone
could decide” signifies Aus-
tralia’s official acquiescence on
this point.
On the other hand, Australia
has doggedly resisted the
British efforts directed at secur-
ing her official “approval” of
the possible British entry into
the inner European fold.
Mr Menzies, Mr McEwen
and their colleagues in the
Federal Cabinet have asserted
Australia’s right and intention
to negotiate directly on her
own behalf. It seems to appear
from the tone of the com-
munique—which, it is under-
stood, went through four pre-
liminary drafts before final
agreement on the text was
reached —that the British Gov-
ernment would have preferred
to represent the other Com-
monwealth countries in negotia-
tions with the Common Market
coalition.
In plain words, both the
United Kingdom and Australia
have made it clear that they will
protect their own trade interests
to the utmost.
At his press conference in
Sydney last Wednesday Mr
Menzies put forward his views
quite explicitly saying that “we
have no status to object or do
anything except exchange our
ideas, and do what we can to
protect our own interests.
“We welcomed Mr Sandys's
visit because, although consul-
tation in principle has been
accepted for the last two or
three years, this was the first
occasion we had had any close
Ministerial discussion.
“We think that the political
implications of the Common
Market are very great. The
parties did not join the Com-
mon Market just because of
tariffs and trade. They were
contemplating that, as time
went on, they would become
more of a political unity.
“Not necessarily a federa-
tion, but something of what 1
will call broadly a political
unity, a get-together politically
with a growing tendency to
have common policies and
thrash them out ... I offer no
comment on it, but we think
the political tendencies on the
Common Market must be in
that direction. How far they
will go is anybody’s guess.
Under those circumstances, we
simply observe that we don't
think the position as between
Britain and the other Common-
weath countries in the political
field remains unaltered. It is
very difficult for me to believe
that Britain, intimately involved
in European politics for the
first time, would remain so in-
dividual and detached as it is
today.” Restrained as they
are, these are significant words.
The Federal Government's
tough stand deserves the
nation’s support and whole-
hearted approval. It is the only
one that could be taken. But
let there be no illusions that this
has improved the actual foreign
trade outlook.
Mr Sandys has assured Can-
berra that the British Govern-
ment will try its hardest to
secure some “special arrange-
ments” to protect Australian
exports to the United Kingdom.
Similar assurances have been
offered to the New Zealand
Government, which —after an
initially strong stand —seems to
have come closer to the British
point of view.
There is no doubt that the
United Kingdom will put up a
strong fight to protect its Com-
monwealth partners. But what-
ever “special conditions” it
may be able to wrangle out —
and on present indications the
Common Market bloc is unwill
ing to make any serious con-
cessions—these will hardly
match the existing preference
arrangements.
■puTURE benefits may material-
ise from a wider market and
rising prosperity of the Inner
Six joined by Britain, and
higher aggregate demand for
traditional Australian exports
But in the short run Australia
will face a major difficulty
with about £l7O million of
its British trade —which totalled
£247,321,451 in 1959-60. Almost
one-fifth of Australian exports
may be affected in some way,
probably quite drastically, if
Britain decides to join the
Common Market.
During his talks in Australia
and New Zealand Mr Sandys
had stressed several times that
no British decision has been
reached yet. It is unlikely,
though, that it can be post-
poned indefinitely.
The foreign ministers of the
Inner Six met in Rome last
week and urged the United
Kingdom to join them for
further talks on August 1, and
these discussions could be
decisive. Of course, there may
be more delays and longer
parleys because of Australia's
blunt stand, which Canada is
expected to follow. But, all in
all, the writing is on the wall.
'“There is one aspect of the
problem, which has escaped
attention in the abundant and
heated discussion of this thorny
problem.
This is the danger that, if
Australia gains some conces-
sions for her primary exports
in direct negotiations with the
Common Market group, it may
be at the cost of retarding her
development as an industrial
nation.
High labor and shipping
costs and inferior economies
of scale make it very difficult
to sell Australian manufac-
tured goods and capital equip-
ment in Europe. A rigid
orientation towards the United
Kingdom and European
markets, restricts Australia to
the role of a primary producer
in the foreseeable future.
If the preferences system wiil
be terminated the initial blow
will be painful. But it could
also lead to a change in our
traditional mentality, and pro-
vide an impetus for a sustained
drive to build up alternative
markets for primary com-
modities and manufactured
products and capital goods.
It is, therefore, wrong to
criticise the Federal Govern-
ment’s stand as ‘'reeking of
negative thinking.” It is
realistic and dynamic.
COAL
N.S.W. Output Rises
TAespite strong pressure from
petroleum products as a
competitive fuel, the output of
black coal in N.S.W. rose by
10 p.c. during the year to June
30, 1961. The Joint Coal Board
reports that just over 18 million
tons were produced in 1960-61.
about 1.67 million tons more
than a year ago.
The domestic fuel market
situation remains highly com-
petitive, but overseas sales—
particularly to Japan—are en-
couraging. The Joint Coal
Board’s chairman, Mr S. F.
Cochran, said that, exports ol
coal during the last year almost
doubled, rising by 865,400 tons
to 1,846,200 tons.
Construction of extensive
modern coal-loading facilities
in Newcastle has now become
an urgent problem, particularly
because Japan is building large
bulk carriers to ship its coal
imports from Australia.
Existing loading facilities are


Another “Wales” Service
mm
mm
nine
This service is available at
any branch whether you have
an account or not.
If you wish to send money
overseas, or anywhere in Aus-
tralia, you can do it through
the “Wales”. You will find
it simple, safe, and inexpen-
sive. Get a bank draft to send
yourself, or the Bank will send
the money for you by surface
mail, air mail, telegram, or
cable. Your enquiries will be
welcome.
You can bank on the “Wales”
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(incorporated in new south wales with limited liability)
A6115C
THE
ORION INSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
(.Incorporated in England)
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT AVIATION
N.S.W. BRANCH: 19 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
hi EP HONES * BU 4387 L. F. THORPE, Manager.
inadequate to handle the ex-
pected trade increase and must
be expanded to accommodate
the huge new Japanese bulk
carriers when they join the
Australia-Japan coal run.
The Commonwealth and
State Governments should
devote urgent attention to this
matter. Improvement of load-
ing facilities at Newcastle pro-
vides an excellent opportunity
to stimulate the level of eco-
nomic activity through expen-
diture on capital works of
national importance, aimed at
increasing our export earnings.
HIGH FINANCE
“The Urge to Merge”
Sydney University’s Great
Hall was packed. People
were standing in the crowded
doorways, making passage
difficult for the steady stream
of late arrivals. Many held
pens and writing pads poised
for action. In a few isolated
spots, bright-colored lips re-
lieved the uniform monotony
of men's faces. Sydney’s lead-
ing businessmen, brokers, top
company executives, econo
mists, aspiring young go-
getters and students had
assembled to hear the Eignth
Annual Endowed Lecture
sponsored by the Australian
Society of Accountants.
Facing the audience sat the
University s Chancellor, the
Professor of Economics ana a
solid phaianx of sombre-faced
dignitaries, lecturers and
specially invited guests. Alter
the customary introductory
niceties, a distinguished-100 x-
ing, erect, impeccably dressed,
grey-haired gentleman began to
speak in a clear and deliberate
voice. Melbourne's “King of
Brokers,' Mr W. lan Potter,
an economics graduate, began
his lengthy address.
Notebooks soon disappeared.
From the very outset tne great
man made it clear he did not
intend to spill any beans or
give any tips. And everybody
could, therefore, afford to wait
for the printed copies of his
talk, to be distributed after the
lecture.
Without saying anything par-
ticularly new. Mr Potter pre-
sented a balanced and authori-
tative survey of Australian
company takeovers over the
past six years, and examined
their effect on the economy
and the shareholders.
He reminded the listeners
that the most important ele-
ment in a company takeover
was to gain control over its
policies, not necessarily to
acquire the entire share
capital. Quoting from the
Melbourne Stock Exchange’s
figures he pointed out that in
1955 there were 706 listed
industrial companies with a
paid capital of £620 million.
In that year there were 30
mergers in the group. By 1958
there were 735 listed industrial
companies with a combined
paid capital of £852 million,
while the number of mergers
decreased to 25. In 1960 the
number of listed companies of
this type declined to 721,
total paid capital rose to £1045
mi.lion and the number of
takeovers climbed up to 43.
In other words, “since 1958
the actual number of com-
panies listed had declined,
while the quantum of capital
issued by listed companies has
g own by over 20 p.c. The
basic reason for this, of course
is the amalgamation or
adsorption of listed com-
panies.”
Mergers fall into two
categories vertical, aimed at
the integration of industrial
units and horizontal, primarily
intended to diversify the opera-
tions of the merging company.
In Australia there have oeen
many examples of both types
ot mergers but, in contrast to
the United States, “it may be
said that the element of verti-
cal integration is much greater
proportionately . . . due largely,
no doubt, to the operation of
anti-monopolistic legislation in
the United States where hori-
zontal mergers are of far
greater significance.”
Among the advantages of
mergers Mr Potter listed six:
economies of large-scale opera-
tions, taxation and estate duty,
diversification, advantages of
vertical integration, reduction
of competition and the fear
of economic and financial
uncertainty.
Summing up, he said that
the post-war spate of mergers
was inevitable. “In the main
it was soundly based, that is
on balance socially advan-
tageous.” The concentration
of ownership in larger - scale
units “has heightened rather
than lessened the competitive


Your Ist
financial
responsibility
/
/
Adeauate
LIFE ASSURANCE
through the
AUSTRALIAN METROPOLITAN
LIFE ASSURANCE CO. LTD
The Metropolitan Bldg., Hunter & Bligh Sts., Sydney.
BW 8061.
A happier choice for every occasion . . .
WINE
Fine wine adds pleasure to living . . . and you’ll
find no happier choice than Angove’s Wine of mature
perfection. Angovc's FINO DRY SHERRY, superbly
dry and appetising, is an excellent introduction to the
distinctive range of Angove’s TABLE WINES . . . each
the result of care and skill in wine making, combined
with the rich soil and sunshine of South Australia’s
glorious Murray Valley.
You will enjoy Angove’s Wine
APERITIF, TABLE AND DESSERT WINE OF HIGHEST
QUALITY: SHERRY, VERMOUTH, BURGUNDY, CLARET,
HOCK, RIESLING, SAUTERNES, PORT, MUSCAT,
and ST. AGNES BRANDY of course!
ANGOVE’S LTD., RENMARK, S.A.
WINE MAKERS & DISTILLERS
6934
YOUR FAVOURITE BRANDY ST. AGNES BRANDY
element. Mergers have fre-
quently had their genesis in an
atmosphere of competition in
the realignment of industrial
groupings.”
The important point was that
“there are dangers that, in the
long run, the larger units will
agree to limit competition.
Such a situation may be more
dangerous that overt fusing of
industrial units into mono-
polies . . . The basic criticism
against overconcentration of in-
dustrial ownership and control
is that it dulls the incentive to
progress. It tends to produce
an atmosphere of laxity or self-
satisfaction. There is an in-
clination to run to Govern-
ments rather than face up to
problems. There is, moreover,
a danger of replacing the en-
trepreneur with the executive,
thus destroying a basic element
in a system of free enterprise.
On the other hand, mergers in
themselves are in part an
answer to overconcentration.
The coalescing of smaller units
should provide a continual
source of new competitors, and
so help to keep the larger units
on their toes. But . . . tech-
nologically the gap between
the smaller and the larger units
must widen as time goes by.”
In conclusion, Mr Potter
advanced three suggestions
a careful watch on restrictive
practices, increased incentives
for the formation of small in-
dustrial units, “perhaps through
modified reform of taxation or
private companies ' and, finally,
“an economic policy based
primarily on internal stability
and the encouragement of
domestic production.' 5
Mr Potter made it clear that
“over - preoccupation with ex-
ternal status as a target in itself
can lead to recurrent phases of
internal instability.” The last
point, a marked contrast to the
factual and level-headed tone
of the talk, sounds a bit un-
realistic. Economic isolation-
ism is no solution to Australia's
growth problems.
MANAGEMENT
“Practical Exporting”
days one finds it hard
to keep track of the various
institutions and courses dedi-
cated to improving manage-
ment techniques, administrative
skills, executive aptitudes, etc.
There are congresses, con-
ventions, meetings, confer-
ences. Some are useful, some
are superfluous but entertain-
ing and some neither. All are
expensive and time consuming,
and most can be taken off a
firm's income tax. But, on the
whole, the trend is encourag-
ing, showing an increasing
awareness of the business
world's demand for a more
rational and scientific approach
to its many complex problems.
The era of the self-made man
running a relatively small-scale
family-based business is slowly
giving way to larger public
companies run by teams of
hired executives. The mana-
gerial class is ga’ning in power
and status, becoming more
depersonalised, more expen-
sive. And it must become
more and more efficient to pay
its way.
Hence a full-time training
course in practical exporting,
designed for senior executives,
ranking from export managers
to management directors and
conducted by Personnel Ad-
ministration Pty Ltd. an inter-
national firm of management
consultants. The course, des-
cribed as the first of its kind
in New South Wales, will start
at Sydney's Chevron Hilton
Hotel next Monday. Mr A. H.
Urquhart, the tall, energetic
chairman of the Sydney Stock
Exchange, will make the
official opening. Lending
further weight is a telegram
from the Minister for Trade,
Mr McEwen. pledging full
support by his department.
Instructors at the five-day
practical exportmg course will
be practising marketing con-
sultants and top executives
from several financial institu-
tions, shipping and insurance
companies and senior officers
of the Department of Trade.
A similar course, held in Mel-
bourne last June, proved to be
down to earth and useful.
Exports play a vital part in
Australia's economic growth.
It is not out of place to start
thinking about establishing de-
gree and diploma courses at an
academic level at the universi-
ties. Students could then take
a course in export economics
as part of their work for a
B.Ec. or a B.Com. degree.


NOW is the right time to secure
Your Government-Guaranteed
51% in
TUP
SYDNEY
WATER
BOARD
LOAN
FOR 7, 10 or 20 YEARS!
Now you have the opportunity to invest confidently at
HIGHER interest. THE N.S.W. GOVERNMENT
UNCONDITIONALLY GUARANTEES PAYMENT OF
INTEREST EVERY 6 MONTHS AND FULL REPAY-
MENT OF PRINCIPAL AT MATURITY.
Your Loan investment will assist the Sydney Water Board
to carry out its 1961/62 programme of water and sewerage
works, at an estimated cost of £16,500,000. These include
reservoirs, pumping stations, water mains and sewers.
Your Loan investment will achieve more than assisting the
Board to increase its own work force; it will directly stimulate
the industries associated with the Board’s activities.
CASH AND CONVERSION. Investors have a choice of
three terms —7, 10 or 20 years. Holders of securities in Loan
No. 77 (£3/8/9 per cent., maturing Ist August, 1961) are
invited to convert to the new Loan and gain £5/15/- per cent,
without any interruption.
APPLY NOW at any office of the —
• Commonwealth Trading Bank;
• Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited;
• Bank of New South Wales;
• Commercial Banking Company of Australia Limited;
Or through a Stockbroker; Or at the Sydney Water
Board offices.
AN AUTHORISED TRUSTEE INVESTMENT IN N.S.W.,
Queensland, Western Australia and Tasmania.
THE SYDNEY WATER BOARD LOAN
Underwritten by
Ernest L. Davis & Co. Ralph W. King &. Yuill
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
Speculator' s Diary
Monday, July 17
Everything comes to him
who waits, and during the
week contract notes arrived for
the 400 N. B. Love contributing
shares I put up for sale three
weeks ago. But the price,
ss. 2d., and the profit, £5, were
not what I was waiting for. In
fact when I put in the order the
ruling level was ss. 6d., so I
rang my broker with half a
mind to let him know what I
thought of his ability to find
buyers.
But my broker, before I
could get into my stride, be-
came positively lyrical about
what he called the new glamor
industry, paper, packaging and
printing. It seems to me, as I
told him, that each successive
glamor industry is one in which
competition is growing at twice
the rate of the rest of the busi-
ness world and the glamor
comes largely from the likeli-
hood of takeovers to counter-
act this. Of course, there is
money to be made if you go
along with the fad —and get out
before a new favorite arises.
Remember the motel industry
last year?
My broker was specially keen
on Dodge Consolidated, the
company that floated last year
as a novelty and box maker and
gained a substantial share pre-
mium when bears who sold
short could not buy back
enough shares and pushed the
price up to fantastic levels.
The company made immediate
use of this premium in a series
of takeovers which have left it
a real force in the fibre con-
tainers field. And besides, lurk-
ing in the background is a
professed packaging predator,
Reed Paper, looking for juicy,
profit-filled victims.
While on the subject, I re-
membered that the new bid by
Fibre Containers for Johnell
had not yet been made. Why
should Johnell directors accede
so readily to Fibre’s request to
withdraw the original offer and
submit a new one unless the
new one, to be announced this
week, had a bit more to offer ?
It looked a worthwhile risk as
the share price was below the
old offer and the nail-biting
time would be short, so I
ordered 200 Johnell and 200
Dodge as well.
My brok e r must have
thought this was pretty good
business for a disgruntled client
(as I must have sounded when
I rang up) so he pushed his luck
a little bit further and took up
my remark about the motel in-
dustry’s fall from grace. He
argued that the market had
been too hard on Motel Cor-
poration which announced it
would not pay a dividend for
its first year, contrary to pros-
pectus estimates. I agreed that
the company was now well
established and ordered 400 of
the shares.
My broker’s couriers ranged
far and wide and next day I
learned I had bought Motel
Corporation at 2s. lid., Dodge
in two lots of 100 at 13s. 3d.
and 13s. 5d., Johnell at 215.,
and had to find £241 to cover
my debts.
Looking through my port-
folio (I had a greedy chuckle
over my very profitable Pick-
Me-Up holding) I decided on
my remaining 200 Tom Piper
and sold them at 265. 9d. for
a profit of £34 including a £6
dividend. Tom Piper will bene-
fit from the Federal Govern-
ment’s export incentives, but
not this year. Nothing should
happen until the results for last
year are available and I can
always buy in again before
then.
The week’s transactions, for
a profit of £39, were:
BOUGHT
200 Dodge at (av.) 13/4 £136
200 Johnell at 21/- .. £215
400 Motel Corp. at 2/11 £6l
SOLD
200 Tom Piper at 26/9 £263
400 N. B. Love con. at
5/2 .. .. £99
I now hold £2B cash and the
following shares:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Total Per rent
Shares Company Cost Share Priee
-100 An till R. £251 12/3 13/3
100 Pick-Me-Up 414 81/6 £6
500 Merica 165 6/4 7/-
500 Stocks &
Holdings def. 212 8/3 9/-
200 Hornibrook 234 23/- 23/-
200 Marrickville 217 21/3 25/3
132 Marley Tile 158 24/-
400 David Jones
notes 207 10/ 10/6
500 Newcastle Ten
Pin Bowling 125 5/- 5/9
400 Phillips Oil 100 5/-
100 James Hardie 391 77/- 85/
300 McDonald 207 13/6 15/6
200 Southern TV 205 20/ 23/3
400 Ampol rights 42 2/- 2/2
400 Besser (Q.) 174 8/6 8/6
400 Rio Tinto 307 15/ 15/6
300 Pyrox 87 5/9 6/3
200 Dodge 136 13/4 13/7
200 Johnell 215 21/- 21/-
400 Motel Corp 61 2/11 3/3
The Speculator’s Diary will
now appear fortnightly. The
next instalment will be pub-
lished on August 3, 1961.


The WILDCAT
COUMN
Goodyear Tyre & Rubber Co. (Aus-
tralia) Ltd
/Competitive jostling in the motor-tyre
industry grows more marked as the
newly established B. F. Goodrich Aus-
tralia Pty (formed by the International
B. F. Goodrich Co. of U.S.A. and Ampol
Petroleum, of Australia) gets under way,
and as Hardie Rubber Co. Ltd, asserting
new-found strength (Hardie Rubber was
taken over by H. C. Sleigh Ltd, in
December, 1959), bids for a bigger slice
of the market.
Tyre sales have increased steadily in
Australia in recent years, but at a rate
considerably below that necessary to
enable full utilisation of installed plant
capacity. Even before Goodrich’s arrival
the Australian motor - tyre industry
operated at less than 90 p.c. maximum
capacity. The situation is aggravated
now by cessation of import controls
(February, 1959), reduced motor vehicle
registrations (the credit squeeze), in-
creased competition, and rivalry on
Asian and African markets, especially
Japanese rivalry. Tyres previously
shipped abroad must now be sold in
Australia.
Goodyear Tyre and Rubber Co. (Aus-
tralia) Ltd, offshoot of the giant Good-
year Tyre and Rubber Co., Akron
(U.S.A.), felt the strain last term —in
the 12 months to December 31, 1960 —
but went on, nevertheless, to write in-
creased sales in a difficult period. Turn-
over is not disclosed, suffice it to say,
that the co. maintained its relative share
of the total market. Group net profit
jumped £107,070, or 21.3 p.c., to
£609,874:
Parent Co.
r D i v i dends
Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
Dec. Profit. 8 p.c. 36.8 p.c. serves, serves.
£> £> £, £, £
1950.. 596,244 24,000 572,244 1,322,290
From tax reserve, £lBO,OOO .. 1,502,290
1951.. 750,844 24,000 726,844 2,229,134
From inner reserves, £143,878 .. 2,373,012
1952.. 452,689 24,000 428,689 2,801,701
From inner reserves, £132,000 ..2,933,701
40 p.c.
1953.. 807,732 24,000 500,000 283,732 3,217,433
80 p.c.
1954.. 816,262 24,000 1,000,000 3,009,695
Parent and Sursidiary.
1955.. 907,898 24,000 883,898 3,893,593
1956.. 710,177 24,000 686,177 4,579,770
Tax overprovided, £35,000 .. ..4,614,770
1957.. 470,711 24,000 446,711 5,061,481
1958.. 899,134 24,000 875,134 5,936,615
62.4 p.c.
1959.. 502,804 24,000 779,412 5,636,007
Tax underprovided, £28,000 .. 5,608,007
1960.. 609,874 24,000 585,874 6,193,881
The year saw some stabilisation of
marketing procedures within the tyre
industry— a measure of price stability,
applicable to the tyre industry as a whole,
was introduced in April, 1960. Allowing
of a more orderly sales approach this
leavening of the increasingly bewildering
system of unpublicised preferential
discounts to customers gave impetus to
a changed pattern of tyre distribution in
which retail selling through garages and
service stations has assumed major im-
portance. Goodyear has successfully
adjusted sales techniques to counter
impact of entry of oil cos. into the
tyre and tube manufacturing field. The
co’s. new sales strategy is shaping solid
in a nationwide and rapidly growing
retail network —under the auspices of the
subsidiary Motor Tyre Service Pty—
entrenched now throughout the Com-
monwealth.
Latest Goodyear result is ascertained
after setting aside £495,607 (up £86,857)
for taxation and £654,828 (down £36,446)
for depreciation. The co. made no pro-
vision for long-service leave contingency
(£64,000 in 1959). Allowing for prefs.,
profit works out equivalent to 34.5 p.c.
of ord. capital (£1,700,000 in 20s. shares)
compared with 28.2 p.c. in the previous
term (or 38.3 p.c. reckoned on the
£1,250,000 of ord. capital as it stood 12
months before) and 70 p.c., 35.7 p.c., 54.9
p.c. and 70.7 p.c. back to 1955. Ord.
divs. were omitted, the profit left, after
paying £24,000 due pref. shareholders,
being retained in the business. Divs.
involving £779,412 (62.46 p.c. of
£1,250,000) were paid during 1959. They
were immediately reinvested in the co.
as capital, after payment of div. tax,
equity rising as a result from £1,250,000
to £1,700,000. Ord. capital is held
exclusively by the U.S. parent. Pref.
capital, £300,000 in 20s. 8 p.c. cum. prefs.,
is held by the Australian public.
It was to avoid the tariff that the co. —
it stepped into a ready made connection
built up by an importing subsidiary—
erected a factory at Granville (N.S.W.),
where production began early in 1927.
Goodyear has now completed 33 years
of trading and has a pleasing record of
vigorous growth backed up by technical
and financial know-how. Divs. popping
up, but at long intervals, have been big
and chunky, apart, of course, from the
regular pref. handout. Distributions of
40 p.c. (£500,000) and 80 p.c. (£1,000,000)
were made in 1953 and 1954. Taking the
1959 div. into account, the first div. in
five years, the average annual distribu-
tion —since the co.’s incorporation—
works out an attractive 15.4 p.c., and a
£250,000 bonus issue was made, as well,
in 1934.
Reserves jumped a solid £557,874 last
term to finish up an awe - inspiring
£6,193,881.
Goodyear as it stands today, its vast
and towering ramifications, is largely the
product of ploughed-back profits
blossoming under fertile management.
Improvements, effected to plant, plus
increased mechanisation, at Granville
(N.S.W.), have facilitated greater
efficiency and larger and more stream-
lined production—a £2 million expansion
and modernisation programme was con-
eluded at Granville in 1958. Although
tyres and tubes account for the bulk of
the co.’s output, diversification is in-
creasingly apparent, the product range
spreading now to a variety of tyre-repair
and retread materials, batteries and
accessories, industrial hose and conveyor-,
electric- and transmission-belting.
The most recent and perhaps the most
spectacular development of latter years
is the acquisition of a substantial interest
(30 p.c.) in the Australian Synthetic
Rubber Co. Ltd, a Vacuum Oil sub-
sidiary in process of building a £5
million synthetic - rubber plant, near
Altona, Vic. The rubber plant is part
of a large £23 million petro-chemical
synthetic-rubber complex announced by
Vacuum in January, 1959. Production is
scheduled to commence September 1
next; initial rated capacity, 30,000 long
tons of “dry polymer” per annum.
Australia is almost wholly dependent
on imports for satisfaction of its rubber
needs—of total requirements only 9 p.c
odd comes from plantations in Papua and
New Guinea. Natural rubber is sup-
plied principally from Malaya ; synthetic
rubber is shipped in from the U.S.A. and
Canada, although increasing quantities
are now available from the U.K., Italy
and Holland. At the present time there
is no local manufacture of synthetic
rubber.
In 1956 Australia consumed 48,900
tons of rubber, and in 1960, 58,500 tons.
The forecast for 1965 ranges around the
78.500 tons mark with synthetic rubber
making up a growing proportion of the
total requirement. Synthetic rubber con-
sumption is estimated to increase from
10.500 tons in 1956 to approximately
30,000 —35,000 tons in 1965. Its use is
expected to bridge the gap between
greater demand for rubber and the rela-
tively inflexible supply of the natural
product. On rated capacity now, the
Altona plant will, in 1965, be able to
meet all the anticipated demand for
synthetic rubber for that year.
Balance - sheet figures lend further
emphasis to the mammoth enterprise of
the Goodyear group:
Paid capital—- 1958. 1959. 1960.
Pref. .. £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Ord. .. 1,250,000 1,7 0 0,0 00 1,7 00,000
Reserves .. 5,9 36,6 1 5 5,636,00 7 6,193,881
Debentures .. 2,080,000 1,975,000 1,850,000
Creditors . . 561,943 1,372,387 1,245,67 S
Overdraft . . 364,523
Tax provision.. 1,032,877 1,016,011 951,039
£11,161,435 £12,363,928 £12,240,598
Freehold land. . 57,858 57,858 57,858
Buildings, plant 3,0 05,76 1 2,9 2 0,5 1 9 2,657,930
Shares in other
cos 45,000 397,500
Stock .. .. 5,450,809 6,489,279 6,194,110
Debtors . . 2,565,777 2,796,347 2,805,481
Cash .. .. 81,230 54,925 127,719
£11,161,435 £12,363,928 £12,240,598
The book-value of buildings, machinery
and equipment rose, in all, £276,556 to
£8,423,440, but, after allowing deprecia-
tion thereon (the total accumulated pro-
vision, £5,765,510, was up £539,145) a
net drop of £262,589 (to £2,6 57,930)
showed up in the final figures. The
liability to debenture holders (41 p.c-


A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. K. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Eife Building:,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address; “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31 2701 P.O. BOX
(4 Dines) No. 1887 W
JOHN N. ROBERTSON
Member of the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKER.
Temple Court,
422 Collins Street, Melbourne C.l.
Telephones: 67 4804, 67 2465
Telegrams & Cables:
ROBFALK, MELBOURNE
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
R. H. ALLEN, M. R. L. DOWLING
P. R. LEVY, A. P. REYNOLDS, N. R.
COURSE (Melbourne Resident Partner).
Delfin House, 16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Building, 150 Queen St.,
Melbourne. 67-5957 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables: “Rosdale,” Sydney.
Melbourne or Wollongong.
mortgage debentures maturing 1955-70)
waS reduced by £125,000 to £1,850,000.
Theoretical working capital advanced
£342,963 to £6,930,593 setting the current
ratio —the ratio of current assets to
current liabilities—at 4.4 to 1 (3.5 to 1
in 1959).
Goodyear actively pursues expansion
of its distribution network both through
co.-owned and independent outlets. The
assured supply of synthetic rubber will
help economies but with competition
gathering force, price-wise and service-
wise, it is difficult to forecast any better-
ing of last term’s performance in the
current year.
Meantime, at 245., the £1 prefs. give
a guaranteed return of 6.7 p.c. Net
tangible cover (book-values) is £27 6s. 3d.
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co. Ltd
The golden fleece, somewhat tarnished,
but still flecked with hope, tabled a
much drabber fibre in the 12 months to
June 30 last, the average price of wool,
greasy and scoured, Australia wide, drop-
ping 9.88 p.c. to 52.20 pence per lb.,
compared with 57.92 pence per lb. in the
1959 -60 wool - selling season. Total
receipts of wool into brokers’ stores
pressed out a reduced 4,715,343 bales as
against the preceding tally of 4,925,606
bales, Australia’s greatest clip ever. Sales
rang in at 4,755,482 bales (down 173,745
bales), aggregate proceeds skirting in,
finally, a lack-lustre £314,479,811, repre-
senting a decrease of £44,949,679, or some
13 p.c. less than in the previous season,
a long way short of the record shed,
£483 million, gathered-in in 1956-57: —•
Average
Bales Sold. Value. Per Bale.
1956-57 .. 4,886,561 £482,859,860 £9B 16 3
1957-58 .. 4,374,694 336,770,554 77 4 3
1958-59 . . 4.790,282 295,652,526 61 14 5
1959-60 . . 4,929,227 359,429,490 72 18 4
1960-01 . . 4,755,482 314,479,811 66 2 7
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co. Ltd, as
one of the largest woolbrokers and
pastoral-financiers in the Commonwealth,
handled 561,000 bales (down 44,000
bales), equivalent to over 12 p.c. of the
entire 1960-61 clip, in the 12 months
ended March 31, 1961. Bales sold by
the co. fell 81,994 (about 13 p.c.) to
551,159. Average price was 51y pence
per lb. (59f pence in the preceding year).
G.M. has interests in all States (192
branches and sub-branches in Australia)
and also in Great Britain. The co. has
been in the wool game now for more
than a century ; it was one of the pioneers
and founders of the present auction
system of selling wool. G.M. is pro-
minent as a stock-and-station agent and
merchant and is in business as a wool-
grower on its own account. Its geographi-
cal spread gives it an insurance against
seasonal difficulties.
Lower wool cheques influenced the
entire Goldsbrough, Mort organisation,
total turnover slipping £5 million to £97
million. The number of cattle sold
dropped 110,000 (16 p.c.) to 595,000, the
average price, however, rising 11 p.c.—
the popularity of Australian beef on the
U.S. market waxes keen, so far showing
little sign of diminution. Sheep numbers
drifted 640,000 (9 p.c.) to 6,770,000, the
average price lifting spectacularly (up
30 p.c.). Numbers of pigs sold advanced
5000 to 205,000. Profits from the co.’s
self-owned pastoral properties were
much reduced, but merchandising activity
brought in added funds. The value of
land sold rose £1,600,000 to £9,250,000.
Including a reduced investment income
(down £4245 at £53,161), net profit was
finally reckoned at £775,294, or £228,372
less than the previous term’s effort, after
sending £510,000 (down £105,000), closely
aligned to profits, to provision for taxa-
tion. Expenses, generally, were heavier,
especially in labor and interest content,
the latter jumping £126,839 to £314,860,
a reflection of extended overdraft limits
for longer periods than usual and stepped
up short - term deposit finance ; funds
raised, per both media, to cover increased
loans granted clients. A little changed
£394,396 (up £18,270) was provided for
depreciation:
Net
Mar., Earnings. , Dividend N Reserves.
£ £ £,
Goodwill written off, £12,539 "1
1957 .. 743,470 10 p.c. = 400,060 1 4,163,349
Special grant staff fund, £32,000 J
Tax overprovided, £44,517 .. .. 4,207,866
Goodwill written off, £17,660 "|
1958 . . 570,000 7 p.c. = 336,000 4,399,206
Special grant staff fund, £25,000 )
Profit sale assets, £11,064 .. 4,410,270
Investment-prov. disclosed, £62,989.. 4,473,259
Goodwill written-off, £27,829 ] .
1959 .. 374,993 6 p.c. = 288,000 j
Profit sale assets, £21,382 .. .. 4,553,805
Investment-prov. disclosed, £485 .. 4,554,290
Goodwill written-off, £23,517 ]
1960 ..1,003,666 10 p.c. = 480,000 J- 4,854,439
Special grant staff fund, £ 200,000 J
Profit sale assets, £7079 .. .. 4,861,518
Tax underprovided, £36,424 .. .. 4,825,094
Goodwill written-off, £15,407 . . 4,809,687
1961 .. 775,294 8 p.c. = 384,000 1 , „„„
Special grant staff fund, £200,000 j 0,uu0,98i
Net earnings represented 16.2 p.c. on
capital, compared with 20.9 p.c., 7.8 p.c.,
11.4 p.c., 18.5 p.c., 12.7 p.c., 16.8 p.c.
and 20.1 p.c. back to 1954. The fluctua-
tions show the pastoral susceptibility to
the world wool-market.
The div., lifted from 6 p.c. to 10 p.c.
in 1960, was reduced to 8 p.c. last term
—divs. average out a not unreasonable
9.1 p.c. over the last ten years of trading.
A special £200,000 was sent to staff fund
and this, together with a similar £200,000
put aside in the previous term, leaves “a
further liability of about £200,000 to
meet the total deficiency estimated by
the actuary.” Reserves, in excess of paid
capital, advanced £146,542 to £5,000,981.
Paid capital, all in 20s. ords., rose
£BOO,OOO to £4,800,000, its present dimen-
sion, in 1957, following completion of a
one-for-five par issue.
The steady expansion of branch
strength continued over the year, with
the absorption of two small businesses
and the establishment of nine new
branches. The co. completed construc-
tion of its new wool store at Goulburn
(N.S.W.) —wool stores are now estab-
lished in each of the main wool-selling
centres of Australia.
G.M. has never revalued its conserva-
tively stated assets. Net tangible asset
backing is a solid 40s. lOd. for each 20s.
ord. Freeholds (up £273,925 at
£3,812,796) and plant (up £35,849 at
£1,074,629) are in at cost, less deprecia-
tion, suggesting hidden strengths which
could, feasibly, be reharnessed, at least
in part, by extension of co. activities to
fields beyond the present range of
business:
1960. 1961.
Paid capital .. 4,800,000 £4,800,000
Reserves .. 4,854,439 5,000,981
Mortgage .. 1,402,953 1,372,463
Deposits .. 122,152 1,816,210
Overdraft .. 2,254,873 2,337,833
Creditors etc. 6,739,864 6,344,185
Staff funds . . 433,974 449,123
Tax provision 991,196 1,234,894
Final divs. .. 336,000 240,000
£21,935,451 £23,595,694
Freeholds, etc. 3,538,871 3,812,796
Plant . . .. 1,038,780 1,074,629
Stocks .. 887,090 963,252
Shares, Fen-
wick and Co. 73,536 73,536
Shares other
cos. . . 139,398 147,381
Advances, etc. 14,589,799 16,328,691
Cash, bonds, etc. 1,667,977 1,195,409
£21,935,451 £23,595,694
Weaker wool values made their mosl
obvious mark on the solid-looking
balance-sheet with advances, etc., up
£1,738,892 at £16,328,691. There was a


FINANCE & INVESTMENT
COMPANY LIMITED
SHAREHOLDERS' FUNDS, £891,419.
TANGIBLE ASSETS. £3,184,264.
INTEREST RATES FOR DEPOSITS
(NOW CALLED UNSECURED DEPOSIT NOTES)
FIXED DEPOSITS
years 8% p.a.
years
BV2
% p.a.
AND OVER
APPLICATIONS must be made
on the form enclosed with the
prospectus, which is obtainable
from
Members of the Stock Exchange
ANY BRANCH OF A.N.Z. BANK
The Registered Office of the Com-
pany, William & Crown Sts.,
Sydney. Telephone FA 0322.
Financing world-
famous products
distributed by
The Hastings
Deering Group
of Companies.
FORD
Cars and Trucks
FORDSON
Tractors
A.E.C.
Trucks & Buses
CATERPILLAR
Diesel Tractors
in Queensland
HYSTER
Fork Lift Trucks
JOHN DEERE
Agricultural
Machinery
LISTER
Engines
GROUP SALES
IN 1960
£14,757,281
MAIL THIS COUPON*******
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE &
INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
G.P.O. Box 4333, Sydney.
Please send me, without any obligation on my part, pros-
pectus dated 1/4/61, giving full details of your terms
deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS
big jump, too, in the previous
year (£1,040,544). Holdings of
cash, bonds, etc., were drawn
on to the tune of £472,568 and
an additional £1,694,058 was
gathered -in on short - term
deposit. Overdraft climbed
£82,960 to £2,337,833. But
“whatever our bankers and
others may be prepared to
lend us, there is an obvious
limit to the amount we can
properly borrow to lend to our
clients and we are just not in
a position to allow our
advances to clients to continue
to increase at the rate they
have done in the past two
years.” Indeed, and on the
contrary, “your board con-
siders that we should materially
reduce the present figures.”
G.M. is prepared to advance
monies to clients so as to
render seasonal assistance,
and/or in the instance of
drought losses, but feels that
the financing of capital require-
ments is beyond its proper
scope of business.
Merchandise stocks were up
slightly reflecting the substan-
tially increased cost of wool-
packs and a slowing down in
the normal outflow of other
goods stocked by the co.
There are few indications as
to the possible course of wool
values at the commencement
of the main wool-selling season
next month, but the close of
the lune selling period has
given some ground for the
belief that the weakness in the
market will be overcome.
Wool prices during the first
week of June remained fully
firm on improved values at the
end of May. They remained
at this level, more or less, for
the balance of the month,
except that in the final week’s
trading a slight decline was
registered. The chief buyers
were Japan, the Continent,
Eastern Europe and the U.K.
Compared with the previous
wool-selling season, last year
proved less than satisfactory,
but G.M. held, nevertheless, to
its share ~of the reduced
receipts into brokers’ stores.
Values, at sales held when the
main selling season opened at
the end of August, 1960, were
over 10 p.c. below those ruling
at the end of the 1959-60
season and the downward trend
continued through until
February, 1961. Since then
prices have improved and
values today correspond
appproximately to those
fetched 12 months ago. Pros-
pects for the current year are
difficult to assess, but “our
results will be materially
assisted by the increased carry-
forward of wool.” The num-
ber of bales carried over by
G.M. at the end of the year
was 80,208 (against 69,608).
It is the announced policy of
the Commonwealth Govern-
ment that export industries
should not be hampered by
credit restrictions, but the
practical application of this
policy to wool production is a
matter of the “greatest diffi-
culty.” Meantime G.M.’s for-
tunes remain cyclical and alto-
gether dependent on rural
products, the prices and quanti-
ties of which are subject to the
vagaries of world markets and
seasonal conditions. The 20s.
scrip seems, taking everything
into account, to be underpriced
on ’Change. Shares changed
hands at 28s. last week. Inves-
tors hopeful of a sustained
recovery in wool prices might
consider purchase at this price.
Immediate yield from an 8 p.c.
div. is 5.7 p.c.; from a 10 p.c.
div., 7.1 p.c.
Kelvinator Australia Ltd
Tt is proven now that every one
A of the wide range of products
turned out by Kelvinator Aus-
tralia Ltd has that little extra
sales appeal so necessary when
the going gets tough. Latest
accounts, to March 31 last, tell
tale of increased turnover and
record profits, ord. shareholders
leceiving a 15 p.c. div., the
twelfth at this rate in the last
13 years.
Production of domestic re-
frigerators all sources in
Australia in 1959-60 increased
by 21,400 units to some 241,200
units (excluding freezers for
quick-frozen foodstuffs) com-
pared with the previous year.
Figures for six months ended
March 31, 1961, show a fall of
about 20,600 units to 115,400
units against the corresponding
period in 1959-60.
Established in Adelaide in
1932, the co. originally manu-
factured ‘‘Kelvinator” refrigera-
tors and related equipment.
Production was later extended
to include frozen-food cabinets,
Wayne petrol pumps, air-
conditioning apparatus and, as
well, Leland electric motors.
In 1957-58 Kelvinator set up
its own plastics division to
satisfy internal production re-
quirements. In addition, radio
and TV-receivers and equip-
ment are being produced by a
prominent electronic manufac-
turer to the co.’s own specifica-
tions. They are retailed under
the Kelvinator brand name.
Production of fully - auto-
matic domestic washing
machines and of a new room
air-conditioner began in 1959.
The main factory is located at
Finsbury, S.A. There are also
plants in N.S.W., Victoria,
Queensland and W.A. Since
1959 sales of room air-condi-
tioners and home freezers have
made an increasing contribu-
tion to consolidated turnover.
Results, last term, are con-
sidered satisfactory in “the light
of the fact that the company s
operations were affected by the
economic measures introduced
by the Government in 1960."
But regardless of these
measures, performance must be
considered excellent contrasting
with the dismal efforts put up
by some other widely diversified
groups of late. The volume of
household refrigerator sales
increased although the total


■i RNS.N
Invest in
The Longest Established National Hire
Purchase Company
in which the Bank of N.S.W.
has a 40% shareholding
r REGISTERED— |
NOTES
INTEREST RATES
%
PER
ANNUM
Application for Registered Notes can be accepted
only on the printed form included in the pros-
pectus obtainable from the Bankers to the issue,
Bank of New South Wales (all Branches),
any A.G.C. Branch, and your Stockbroker.
PAIO-UP CAPITAL; £6,875,000
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
Corporation Limited
142 Phillip Street, Sydney • BW 2673
Branches and offices throughout Australia
ipswi
m
ASK THE 'WALES* FOR DETAILS
Australian production fell.
Sales were checked somewhat
in the latter part of the year and
“the same difficult conditions
have continued into the current
financial year.” The growth
in air-conditioning sales con-
tinued and this trend, if any-
thing, is increasing. Sales of
automatic washing machines
also increased and so too the
volume in sales of commercial
refrigeration products—there is
a continuing trend towards
automatic washing. The co.
also benefited from additional
sales of commercial air-condi-
tioning equipment.
Wayne Pumps Australia Ltd.,
a wholly owned subsidiary,
retailing petrol pumps,
improved its turnover and
“made a satisfactory contribu-
tion to the overall profit.” All
in all, Kelvinator has done well
while many appliance makers
have been forced rather to
tighten their belts. The co.’s
decision not to enter the TV
market as a manufacturer on
its own account appears to have
been fully vindicated.
Gross earnings are not
stated. Consolidated net profit
is disclosed at £350,778 (up
£38,146) after providing
£353,000 for taxation (up
£9000) and setting aside
£232,817 for depreciation (up
£32,834):
Parent and Subsidiaries.
, Dividends Re-
Mar.. Profit. Prefs.Ord.Total. serves.
£ £ p.c. £ £
Tax overprovided, £33,353 766,739
’54..235,039 12,200 15 113,450 888,328
Tax underprovided, £3372 884,956
’55..238,097 12,200 15 113,450 1,009,603
Tax underprovided, £29,041 980,562
’56..293,137 12,200 15 138,762 1,134,937
Profit sale land, £13,621.. 1,148,558
Tax underprovided, £3256 1,145.302
’57..241,235 12,200 15 164,075 1,222,462
Tax overprovided, £11,338 1,233.800
Added revaluation reserve,
£31,356 .. ..1,265,156
’58..237,63-2 12,200 15 164,075 1,338.713
Tax overprovided, £1666.. 1,340,379
’59..238,125 12,200 15 164,075 1,414,429
’60..312,632 12,200 15 164,075 1,562,986
Tax underprovided, £15,373 1,547,613
’61..350,778 12,200 15 164,075 1,734,316
After satisfying the unchanged
pref. div. requirements, the
earning-rate on ord. capital
worked out a much improved
33.4 p.c., compared with 29.7
p.c. in the previous term, 22.3
P-c. in 1959, and 22.3 p.c.,
22.6 p.c. and 33.3 p.c. back to
1956. The ord. div. was steady
a t 15 p.c. Total div.-payout
absorbed £164,075. Reserves
received £186,703, increasing to
£1,734,316, way and above ord.
f4ui ty. There are no
intangibles.
The tax-slug shown in the
co.’s consolidated accounts is
disproportionately high in
relation to earnings disclosed,
out this is not new. It is a
feature of Kelvinator conserva-
tism. The co. has made large
tax-provision adjustments in
the past.
The post-war boom in house-
hold appliances brought a
rapid expansion of the co.’s
manufacturing facilities, and,
although a large proportion of
the profits earned during this
period was retained in the busi-
ness, shareholders put up
£1,042,500 of new share capital
and £146,250 of premiums
between 1945 and 1956 to help
finance the growth. The most
recent issue, one-for-two at
par, late in 1955, raised ord.
capital to £1,012,500, and, with
£20,000 in p.c. participat-
ing prefs., the same amount in
fixed 6 p.c. prefs. and £190,000
in 5 p.c. prefs., Kelvinator
employs a total share capital
of £1,242,500.
The most obvious change in
a powerful balance-sheet is the
hefty increase in stocks (up
£796,021 at £2,491,609):
Paid capital— 1960. 1961.
Pref £230,000 £230,000
Ord 1,012,500 1,012,500
Reserves .. 1,562,986 1,734,316
Mortgage . . 402,000 388,500
Creditors, etc-.*.. 1,486,113 1,732,339
Final div. . . 107,350 107,350
£4,800,949 £5,205,065
Freeholds .. 574,943 616,541
Plant .. .. 1,073,321 1,039,080
Stocks .. .. 1,695,588 2,491,609
Debtors .. .. 673,574 478,114
Deposits .. 700,000 450,000
Cash, etc. .. 83,523 129,661
£4,800,949 £5,205,005
* Includes provisions for tax and
warranty.
It is essentially necessary for
cos. of the likes of Kelvinator
to plan production and make
commitments for materials and
supplies for some months
ahead. It is not possible, at
least in the short term, to
adjust inventories to sudden
changes in overall economic
conditions—“We are, therefore,
carrying higher inventories at
the end of March, 1961, than
we were 12 months earlier, but
these are being adjusted pro-
gressively.” Theoretical work-
ing capital increased by
£150,473 to £1,709,695, the
solid core of liquid assets
(cash, etc., up £46,138 at
£129,661 ; short-term fixed-
interest deposits, down
£250,000 at £450,000) proving
invaluable in the money-tight
atmosphere of the credit
squeeze.
The book values of free-
holds, leaseholds, etc., in at
cost or valuation less deprecia-
tion, and plant, in at cost less
depreciation, the one up
£41,598 at £616,541, the other
down £34,241 at £1,039,080,
can be reckoned as very con-
servatively stated. Net tan-
gible asset backing worked out
at 13s. 7d. for each ss. ord. on
the consolidated accounts, after
securing the pref. shareholders.
The co. is facing a challenge,
and will have to continue fight-
ing for its markets against
domestic and foreign rivals,
especially now since cessation
of import controls in February,
1959. So far Kelvinator has
contained the threat of over-
seas competition and so far its
earnings and dividend record
has been creditable. The co.
may be expected to maintain
its share of the trade. Chair-
man A. L. Slade comments,
however, that “It is simple for
a Government to introduce
measures which dampen the
economy quickly, but the
reverse process inevitably takes
longer. Therefore, we do not
anticipate that the financial
results for 1961/62 will be as


or ElD'^^
l? Y% SV'tAT'CS
m
m
m
SAFEST FINANCIAL
INVESTMENT
Reg.
First
Mortgage
Debenture
Stock
P.A. for
8 and 10 years
REID MURRAY
Acceptance Limited
FIXED LONG TERM STOCK
SHORT TERM NOTICE STOCK
71/ Grf PA. on 12
/2 /O mths. notice
£2O/ P.A. on 6
0/0 mths. notice
■— /y/ P.A. on 3
O yrO mths. notice
P.A. at call
Applications accepted only on forms attached to the Prospectus. Available from:
REID MURRAY ACCEPTANCE LTD.
403 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 67-1924
Any branch of the
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Any member of a
RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE IN AUST.
Or Joint Underwriting Brokers
TOLHURST, HENLEY, MUNCKTON & CO.
401 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melb.
CUTTEN & HARVEY
97 King William Street, Adelaide
408 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of Stock Exchange of Adelaide Ltd.
PAID UP CAPITAL £7,000,000
GUARANTEED BY REID MURRAY HOLDINGS LTD;
satisfactory as those for
1960/61.”
The scrip is well rated on
’Change. A bonus issue could
be in the offing. At the last
sale in Sydney the ss. ords.
were quoted at 16s. 74d. a unit.
The current yield is 4.5 p.c. on
the basis of the steady 15 p.c.
div. rate.
COMPANY NOTES
Chemical Materials Ltd
T'\irectors of Chemical
Materials Ltd have
announced the takeover of
Maclac Holdings Pty and
Maclac Products Pty of
Campsie, N.S.W., by allotment
of 229,988 f.-p. ss. stock units
at a premium of 15s. each, plus
£10,012 cash, raising Chemical
Materials paid-up capital to
£305,191.
Maclac manufactures chemi-
cal raw materials in large
volume for the paint, rubber,
plastic, petroleum. food,
pharmaceutical, cosmetic,
printing ink and linoleum
industries.
Establishment of a synthetic
rubber industry as part of the
Australian petrochemical com-
plex has opened up a valuable
new outlet for Maclac’s Lurgi
fat splitting and hydrogenating
plant. Maclac is also the Aus-
tralian manufacturer of R.R.
jointing compound developed
by Rolls Royce and is the sole
manufacturer of that product
outside Great Britain.
The takeover, made June 30
last, is effective from July
1, 1960, so that profits for the
full 1960-61 financial year will
come to Chemical Materials
Ltd.
Directors of Chemical Mate-
rials look forward to attrac-
tive business and sound results
for the Chemical Materials
group as a whole in the com-
ing financial year.
Bowling Centres (Hold-
ings ) Ltd
Dowling Centres (Hold-
ings) Ltd discloses a net
profit of £61,960, before tax,
for its initial ten months trad-
ing ended June 30 last. Profit
is reckoned after all expenses.
There are three operating
centres, one in Hurstville
(N.S.W.), another in Enfield
(N.S.W.) and a third in Black-
town (N.S.W.) —opened sepa-
rately between October, 1960,
and April, 1961.
The co. was incorporated


Misting Friend*
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
VICTORIA 1961 No. 378
To: LESLIE CLAUDE BROOKS
formerly of 3 Lesden Street. East
Bentleigh in the State of Victoria. —
TAKE NOTICE that your wife
VALERIE ALMOND BROOKS has in-
stituted proceedings against you for
divorce on the grounds of desertion.
Unless you file and serve an answer
in the Registrar’s Office at the Supreme
Court in Melbourne on or before the
28 th day of August, 1961 the case
may proceed in your absence. A
Sealed copy of Petition and Notice
of Petition may be obtained on request
from the undersigned.—P. 11. KEARNEY
KELLY k CO. 86 King Street, Mel-
bourne. C.l. Solicitors for the Petitioner.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
VICTORIA No. 832 of 1961.
To KENNETH MELVILLE VINCENT
formerly of 83 Brunswick Road Bruns-
wick in the State of Victoria but now
of parts unknown,—TAKE NOTICE
that your wife SHIRLEY PATRICIA
VINCENT has instituted . proceedings
against you for Divorce on the grounds
of (a) desertion (b) cruelty and (c)
drunkenness. UNLESS you file and
serve an Answer or Notice of Address
for Service in the office of the Regist-
rar of the Court on or before the
28th day of August 1961 the case
may proceed in your absence. The
Sealed Copy Petition and Notice of
Petition may be obtained on request
from the, undersigned.—GOßß k CORK
of 290 Latrobe Street. Melbourne,
Solicitors for the Petitioner.
Legal Notice
LAW NOTICE
To RUSSELL ALFRED TURNER.
TAKE NOTICE that JEAN TURNER
of 147 Burnley Street North Richmond
in the State of Victoria has made
application for an order pursuant t.o
Section 21 of the Settled Land Act of
the State of Victoria authorising The
Equity Trustees Executors ami Agency
Company Limited and John Stewart
Catomore the Trustees of a settlement
affecting 693 Brunswick Street Fitzroy
in the State, of Victoria to exercise
generally and until further order
in your name and on your behalf,
the tenant for life of the said land,
any of the powers of a tenant for
life under the said Act or for such
other order as to the Judge shall seem
meet. AND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE
that the hearing of the Application will
be heard before the Judge in Chambers
of the Supreme Court of Victoria in
Melbourne on Friday the 4th day of
August 1961 at 10.30 o’clock in the
forenoon or so soon thereafter a*
Counsel may be heard.—AND FURTHER
TAKE NOTICE that Master Jacobs a
Master of the Supreme Court of Vic-
toria ORDERED on the sth day of
June 1961 that in lieu of personal
service of the Summons dated the
31st day of May 1961 wherein the said
Jean Turner seeks an order pursuant
to. the said Section 21 of the Settled
Land Act 1958 of Victoria notice
be substituted therefore (inter alia) by
causing to be published once in the
Bulletin newspaper an advertisement
giving notice to you of the said Sum-
mons to be heard on the said 4th
day of August 1961 and Master Jacobs
FURTHER ORDERED (inter alia) that
the said advertisement be so published
not later than the 20th dav of July 1961.
PAVEY WILSON COHEN & CARTER
of 390 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne,
Solicitors for the Applicant.
Positions Vacant
HALE SCHOOL. WEMBLEY
DOWNS. PERTH. WESTERN
AUSTRALIA.
Western Australia's oldest school
now occupying- new building on a
site of 110 acres, requires staff to
teach some or all of the following
subjects for 1002. Residence in
school boarding houses will be
available for one man. Salaries
are at present in line with those
paid in the Western Australian
Education Department.
1. Science To teach General
Science, Biology, and some middle
School Physics and Chemistry.
2. Mathematics op to Leaving
C’ertifieate standard.
3. Woodwork and Technical Draw-
ing.
4. Commerce and Accountancy.
5. General middle school Subjects.
6. Primary School work.
Applications in writing, stating
age, marital state, qualifications
experience and religious denomina-
tion. and enclosing testimonials
and the names of two referees,
should l*e addressed to the Head-
master. HALE SCHOOL, Wembley
Downs. Western Australia.
august 26. 1960. Seven centres
should be operating by next
October and at least nine by
next December. A delayed
opening at Fairfield (N.S.W.)
deprived the co. of substantial
earnings.” Fire sw'ept the
almost completed premises.
So far public response has
been all that was hoped for.
The bowling game has been
more successful than the critics
cared to contemplate. The
greatest number of games in
any one centre was recently
played on the co.'s Enfield site,
and a new world record of
88.75 games per lane was estab-
lished at Hurstville.
A final call of 2s. 6d. a share,
making contributing shares ss.
fully paid, is payable on
August 15. Books close July
25
Switzerland Life
Switzerland Life Assur-
ance Society Ltd reports
that over £1.500,000 was
assured under new life policies
written in the 11 months to
June 30. 1961.
The managing-director, Mr
W Pisterman. said that most
ol trie business was written in
the last four months of the
financial year. Only £15,000
of the policies were term
assurances. The society has
so far made loans on mortgage
exceeding £190,000 —mainly to
finance home purchases. How-
ever, “funds for this class of
investment were now fully
committed.”
The society so far operates
only in Victoria. It was spon-
sored by Switzerland General
Insurance Company Limited,
of Zurich, and La Suisse
Societe d’assurances sure la vie,
of Lausanne, and registered in
Australia under the Life
Assurance Act. The first
annual meeting will be held in
September. It is hoped to open
branches in other States at a
later stage.
OIL AND MINING
Wapet
VI/Tst Australian Petro-
™ leum Pty Ltd reports that
the helicopter survey in the
Canning Basin (W.A.) has been
completed. "In seven days the
geologists inspected remote
country probably never seen
before by white men.”
The Eneabba No. 1 well
reached a depth of 5946 ft, but
the bit is now stuck in the hole
and fishing operations are in
progress. A marine seismic
survey is taking place in the
Exmouth Gulf and special
electronic surveying equipment
is being landed from the survey
ship “Tamona.”
Representatives of interested
parties, including Ampol and
Shell, are attending meetings in
San Francisco to discuss legal
and financial matters concern-
ing Wapet.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 652
Across
I— Whipped pennant people of opposite sexes. (11)
6—Champion spinner. (3)
B—One shot displayed within another. (5)
10—Mile-up din. (anagram) (9)
ll Death affected Miss Bara. (5)
12—Bloke has an agitated prude
hidden from view with fig-leaves,
etc. (7, 2)
14— Drink cases are his work. (6)
15— Double-chin circuit completed
with precipitation. (6)
17 — I exist on air when agitated in
part of Europe. (6)
18 — Refuse an opportunity to possess
father's nightcap. (4, 2)
20 — A flowing out from the mother
country to the East. (9)
21— How's Ida definable land? (5)
23 — Dismissals before batting with
Kelly surpassed another’s wicked-
ness. (9)
24 — Very cold water turned in
Boadicea’s folk. (5)
25 Not against airless fortunes. (3)
26 — Urgent nightcap is first putting
down. (11)
Down
1 — Bats wherewith Fingleton’s
capital fired some period
refrigerant. (II)
2 Additional shares which are not
the usual editions from the
press. (15)
3 Meals including a craft. (8)
4 —Nick allows no end for this
original lady. (6)
5 The dead, dead marines suggest
them. (8, 7)
6 A fraction over a petticoat near
the gully. (5, 4)
7 Police Department holding none
for the botanical case. (3)
9 —Plead for a girl. (3)
13 — Father to wave a ruler engaged
in press activity. (5-6)
14 — A minor literary figure who
samples the savor of “The
Raven’’? (9)
16—Hand to Kelly in hock. (6)
19 —Snatch some shut-eye with a
youngster. (6)
22 That is after coppers kick the
bucket. (3)
23 — Clod article is the middle of the
rest. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 651


y>>>>
m
m
1
m
m
OVER 90 YEARS OF
Melbourne’s first paper mil!
was opened in 1868. From
that beginning grew A.P.M.
Australian Paper Manufac-
turers Ltd., who today supply
a big proportion of our
country’s paper and paper-
board needs. A.P.M.'s pro-
gress reflects the spirit of
Australian initiative and also
shows how an all-Australian
enterprise is helping build
our national self-sufficiency
and security in a vital industry.
Giant new machine at A.P.M.’s
Botany Mill. This machine is the largest,
fastest of its type in Australasia. It is
capable of producing a 17 feet wide sheet
of paper at 1500 feet per minute—which
amounts to thousands of miles of paper per
week. Its products are the end result of
continuous research into the making of a
better product ... a vital raw material for
our growing packaging industry. Invest-
ment in this new Botany No. 7 Mill
totalled £5 million and it was built in
under two years.
m
&
I
mm
s mSm
r; >:-
■
r iw —-
i i
m,.
¥?S?K
.
i ✓
■=?
■
ApM
Australian Paper Manufacturers Ltd.
South Gate, South Melbourne.
Mills at Melbourne, Fairfield, Maryvale, Broadford in ViC.;Botany in N.S.W.; Petrie in Q’LD; Bayswater in W.A.
Illustrated material on A.P.M. activities is available for school projects. Write to “ Projects ”, G.P.O. Box 1643, Melbourne
