

The Bulletin
M yjred in Australia for trans-
mission by post as a newspaper.
December 2, 1961
l<
CHRISTMAS IN CANBERRA


, : . •
s*es
FOLLOW
ft ,; y
o<\ lifKd I
fif '&>■<% * a ii
cr
Hji % '
"' w
.v^" ' . .
,i< xX£ r >- ■'.
- >:.\ ... .;•.. jcv%R-■■■V {
r . ■>' YpMfA
.?'V • :>.
>•••,..i
p pr
*3^'
»pr::Mf T “
pV »*~r,
4 _ '„ " - \
h: \ f' <: x x'-^'K^
/fY \ :
viSA* fl
£
: 5 J*
£ W*WwX
fc&r
' s*?
:•»V •* : :r
V
*• i£t
n,.
- <£>
Mr
iJ
t
r;
:S
7
<*s**«*.
f
rW^>
4 VT"
m
n I.
fsS\
\ f ill
w p
05
1
rv
ra*.
1
VI
i>
■p
>v
1
■
■
iIA
*£rr* > -<v
ss* *v
i
"■-■T.-v -,i
\ *^p *
i p ]
::
k \i W
®S».
P
EXTRAS
20
AMERICAN CIGARETTE COMPANY
the
Q
cigarette
The happiest of smokers are following the trend
to Carlyle Extras the gentle mellow blend.
£
%
“with just
a touch
of Turkisn
WORLD COPYRIGHT
CE4715 12.61


TEARING OFF A TRIP
t HE bulletin NEWSPAPER CO. PTY LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; Phone: 27 5971.
Vol. 82
No. 4268
A Late Run
EVEN The Sydney Morning Herald” halted for a day in its
attempt to gloss up the Labor party’s image to point out that
A.L.P. executives had left their run a bit late if they wanted
electors to believe that they were really attempting to rub out “unity
tickets between A.L.P. members and Communists.
In itself it is a good thing that the Victorian Executive, which is
virtually a captive of the pro-Communists, finally got around to ex-
pelling one branch member whose name appeared on a “unity ticket.”
But this is merely a ludicrously last minute attempt to divert attention
from the open and continuing scandal of the Victorian A.L.P.’s ac-
commodation to Communists.
Too much can also be made of the N.S.W. Executive’s recent
tough talk. While this talk has been going on in the last month two
unity tickets have operated in N.S.W.—in the Boilermakers’ Society
and the Builders’ Laborers’ Federation; both these tickets have been
reported to the A.L.P. Executive. Nothing has happened.
The true pattern of the success of the A.L.P. member who won
the Waterside Workers’ Federation's general secretaryship is also now
clear. Although individual A.L.P. members mostly rank-and-filers
—did great work in this election, as did Mr Fitzgibbon himself, he
was an unofficial A.L.P. candidate. Mr Calwell did not give him
active support and Mr F. E. Chamberlain, the A.L.P. s boss, went out
of his way to make it clear that Mr Fitzgibbon was not the A.L.P.
candidate.
many other A.L.P. politicians had beaten a path to
the wharves in the Healy days, not one of them fronted for Mr
Fitzgibbon in any State. In Victoria, the State A.L.P. Secretary, Mr
Cyril Wyndham, issued a statement that Mr Fitzgibbon had no right
to use the name of his party in the election. An analysis of the voting
shows that in Sydney, where the D.L.P. is weak, the Communist
candidate scored a two-to-one majority. It was in Melbourne, home
town of the D.L.P., that Fitzgibbon won the election.
It may be that the pattern of an A.L.P. man being permitted to
stand as an anti-Communist in a union election with D.L.P. support
will continue. We hope it will. It may also be that Mr Fitzgibbon, in-
stalled in office and surrounded by Communists, will prove an in-
effective anti-Communist. We hope he won’t. But until the A.L.P.
adopts a ruthless and permanent policy of opposition to Communists,
it is not worth risking a vote on.
And the risk becomes greater when one realises, as Mugga points
out on page 15, that Mr Calwell is committed by the A.L.P. Federal
Conference to repeal the 1951 “clean ballot” legislation. Here is an
extraordinary method of proving a party’s anti-Communism: to com-
mit it to repeal the very legislation that has made much of the struggle
against Communist control of unions possible.
Attitudes to the A.L.P. and the unions are not questions of
theoretical “anti-Communism,” or of anti-Socialism. They are ques-
tions of preserving the integrity of two great Australian institutions
which are at present imperiled. A sound defeat for Labor at the
coming elections will help to clean it up.


This Australia
POLITICS OR RELIGION
The Parson Bows Out
of Polities
FROM A PERTH CORRESPONDENT
F. E. CHAMBERLAIN
One rival less
Perth’s politician-clergyman, the Rev.
•*- Keith Dowding, is no longer a mem-
ber of the executive of the Western Aus-
tralian branch of the A.L.P.. and, unless
there is a big change in the party’s
Federal policy, it is difficult to see how
he can make a comeback. Mr' Dowding
resigned as senior vice-president of the
W.A. State executive over the “White
Australia” issue—or more specifically, as
a result of his support for the local
branch of the Association for Immigra-
tion Reform. His resignation came at a
time when the movement within the
W.A. section of the A.L.P. for abolition
of the “White Australia” plank from the
party's platform seemed victorious.
The Western Australian Association
for Immigration Reform is a live-wire
offshoot of the movement launched in
Melbourne a few years ago. Like the
original A.1.R., it draws a lot of sup-
port from university people and its
critical attitude towards Australia’s
present migration policies is shared by
the A.L.P. club at the university. The
A.L.P. dub has campaigned for some
time against the A.L.P.’s traditional atti-
tude towards Asian migrants, and claims
to be responsible for having the issue
placed on the agenda at the last three
Federal conferences.
In June the W.A. State executive
placed a ban on A.L.P. members
belonging to the Association for Immi-
gration Reform, but on August 21 the
ban was lifted. The next day, the Federal
executive of the A.L.P. imposed an
identical ban, binding on all State
branches. (Those affected are W.A., S.A.
and Victoria.)
The terms of the ban specifically
named the immigration reform move-
ment: . . branches are directed that
no members of the A.L.P. may be mem-
bers of another organisation whose pro-
gramme is opposed to the stated policy
of the A.L.P. Immigration reform
groups and assodations opposed to the
White Australia policy are included in
this ruling.”
For Mr Dowding this posed a far
more serious problem than choice be-
tween the party and W.A.A.I.R. (is
which he does not hold any office). He
is convenor of the Public Questions
Committee of the Presbyterian Church
in W.A. and in July the committee urged
all members of the Church to join
W.A.A.J.R. As Mr Dowding saw it, he
had to choose between his party- and his
Church. However, while resigning his
vice-presidency, he has retained member-
ship of the A.L.P. Strictly speaking, he
is out of order over this, but, no doubt,
he is hoping that the party executive will
not wish to pursue the matter any further.
For one who once said: “I am a poli-
tician because my religion has made me
so,’’ it was a difficult choice. Mr Dowd-
ing is no Peking-trekking peace parson,
but he is one who sees political commit-
ment as part of his religious duty. Look-
ing at his career, it is amazing that some
conflict between the politician and the
Presbyterian did not arise earlier.
During the war Mr Dowding served
as an Army padre in New Guinea, and
in 1949 he went to Scotland to join the
lona Society of the Church of Scotland.
This body emphasises the practical
application of Christian principles and
makes political activity virtually obliga-
tory.
Returning to Australia, he took a
church in Woollahra, N.S.W., and was
active in the A.L.P. in Mr E. J. Ward’s
East Sydney electorate. Many consider
he would have made the Labor Senate
ticket in N.S.W. but for his friendship
with Mr Alan Dalziel, who figured pro-
minently in the Petrov Commission.
He moved to Perth in 1956 and had
a meteoric rise in the A.L.P. Within a
few months he was on the State executive
and soon afterwards became a delegate
to Federal conference ; he also deputised
for Mr F. E. Chamberlain on the Federal
executive. In 1958 he contested Swan
Federal seat against Mr R. Cleaver after
winning a pre-selection ballot. More
recently he failed to win pre-selection for
the safe Labor seat of Fremantle against
Mr K. Beazley.
Now aged 50, he has the fashionable
Ross, Memorial Church in West Perth.
He is a popular and effective speaker;
some 6CO students turned out recently to
hear him condemn the Soviet resumption
of nuclear tests at a university A.L.P.
meeting. He has been attacked as a
Communist, and has also been charged
with Catholic leanings, apparently
because of his priest-like vestments.
To A.L.P. Federal secretary Chamber-
lain. the ban op immigration reform
movements has served as a~ means of
ridding himself of an influential rival in
his home State. This could be important
to Chamberlain if a post-election shake-
up dislodges him from his Federal posi-
tion. In any event, the Left-wing
Chamberlain has never had any radical
thoughts on “White Australia’" any more
than have the Victorian A.L.P. leaders.
The university branch of the A.L.P.
has decided unanimously to work for a
change in the Federal decision over
immigration reform. In the meantime,
it could have a number of side-effects.
Catholic members of the A.L.P. could
be expelled for belonging to organisa-
tions seeking State aid for Church schools
since, at the moment, A.L.P. policy is
opposed to such aid. In effect, no mem-
ber of the A.L.P. can join any organisa-
tion working to change any plank of the
party’s platform. At a time when the
A.L.P. might be modernising its pro-
gramme the new rule can only serve
to ossify it
LAND RUSH
The Golden Forty
FROM KEITH WILLEY IN DARWIN
'T'he race for the Golden Forty was on.
1 The contestants were the giants of
the Tennant Creek mining field, Peko
(copper) and Noble’s Nob (gold). The
stake was 150 acres of mineral leases
formerly held by the Golden Forty com-
pany. The starting signal was the post-
ing in the Tennant Mining Warden’s
office on the morning of August 18 of
notice of forfeiture of the land. Both
Peko and the Nob had representatives
waiting, armed with communications
equipment.
Dll , „ tt •,
, But .°"' the Golden Fort >' '‘ sel ‘ men
~m lOl fl com P a nies were ready to peg
claims. o es keen mark-
ing egs P re P ared -
Peko relied on radio and a tic-tac sig-
nailing system to reach its men on the
field, but Noble’s Nob plans were more
elaborate: their man raced from the


Mining Warden’s office to a nearby hill
and lit a smoke signal. Miles away on
the leases a Nob man had climbed a
tree to wait for the smoke. Another was
watching from an ironstone outcrop.
When the notice of forfeiture was
finally posted events moved swiftly.
Noble’s Nob mine manager Herbert
Edwards told a Court later that after
receiving the signal he placed the datura
peg in a prepared hole and an assistant
filled in the earth around it. He reckoned
the operation took less than three-
quarters of a minute.
Meanwhile Peko also had been given
the word “go” over the radio and had
stuck in its own datum pegs. But a
Noble's Nob employee claimed he
planted his peg in a dead-heat with
Peko men.
Having reached deadlock the com-
panies took the tangle to the Tennant
Creek Mining Warden’s Court, where
both are now claiming the Golden Forty
leases. This week, after hearing many
hours of conflicting evidence, Warden
Lemaire, S.M., added a bizarre touch
of his own. He admitted he was at a
loss to know which counsel should
address him first. So the parties left the
court and Mr Lemaire produced a penny.
He nominated Peko “heads” and Noble’s
Nob “tails.” He tossed the coin it came
down “heads,” and Peko addressed first.
Mr Lemaire has adjourned the Court
indefinitely to consider his verdict.
INDUSTRIAL
Smokestacks
Are Belching Again
PREMIER NICKLIN
Scraping the barrel
FROM JOHN HIGGINS IN QUEENSLAND
A 2s. 9d. a week bonus, started back
in the dear, dead days of 1937, was
the acorn frorp which sprung the gnarled
oak now known in Queensland industrial
history as the Mt Isa strike. Lasting just
on eight weeks, it is estimated to have
cost the best part of £6 million, although
estimates vary widely. The majority of
the mine's 3700 employees are said to
have lost about £BOO,OOO in wages ; the
company's production loss is estimated at
£4 million, based on last year's annual
production figures of £24 million ; while
Mr Nicklin's State Government is
reported to be down £750,000 in loss of
rail revenue and royalties at a time when
it is literally scraping the bottom of its
financial barrel.
The dispute began over union claims
for an increase in the Mt Isa bonus of
from £8 to a maximum of £26 14s. 4d.
for the craft unions, and to £25 for the
A.W.U., which represents the bulk of the
employees. The bonus originated in 1937
as a lead bonus and was then worth
2s. 9d a week. As world lead prices
somersaulted, it reached a peak of
£l7 ss. in April, 1952, which was deter-
mined as the maximum bonus allowable
by the Industrial Court. From then until
1957, the bonus ranged frorr? £6 to
£ll 12s, depending on world lead prices.
In March, 1959, it fell to £3 17s. 6d.,
although company profits were increas-
ing as copper became the mine's chief
money-spinner. In April that year, a con-
ference fixed a bonus rate of £5 a week,
subsequently increased to £8 a week by
the Industrial Court to take effect from
January, 1960. This judgment, in effect,
changed the bonus from a “lead” bonus
to a general prosperity bonus. In Octo-
ber last year, as company profits rose
to more than £5 million, the unions filed
claims for increases. These were struck
out this year when new legislation took
away from the Court the right to increase
the bonus, although it left it with the
right to decide any decrease.
Subsequent negotiations between the
company and the unions were fruitless,
and the A.W.U. took preliminary steps
to conduct a ballot to hold a protest
strike. The craft unions beat the gun
with a decision to withdraw labor, and
the company responded with a practical
“lock-out” until the unions agreed to
work in accordance with award pro-
visions.
A series of abortive conferences over
six weeks failed to produce anything like
a result and, on November 10, Commis-
sioner Harvey ordered a return to work
from November 20. The order was
accepted by an A.W.U. mass meeting, but
was defied by a mass meeting of the
craft unions. The State Government then
did what it should have done weeks
before, and declared a State of Emer-
gency to reinforce Commissioner
Harvey’s order —and the strike was at
last over. Why the Trades and Labor
Council wanted to go on with the strike
is a mystery—it was lost from the day
it started, and Commissioner Harvey told
them so very bluntly.
Company officials and union leaders
have been ordered to conduct a series
of get-together talks, which are reported
to be going on in a “friendly atmo-
sphere.” The company, maintaining its
good employer standing, “carried” pay-
ments for rents, co-operative housing,
the electrical appliance scheme, medical
benefits, and so on during the eight
weeks’ dispute. Repayments, according
to General Manager J. W. Foots, will
be worked out with a view to minimising
financial hardships.
The smokestacks are belching once
again and, from the three eastern
States, the final trickle of employees
is heading back to the mine.
THE SNOWFIELDS
Save Our Skiers
FROM A CORRESPONDENT IN CANBERRA
T AST weekend 40 skiers, doctors, club
officers and businessmen met in Can-
berra to pool their ideas on alpine rescue
work and came up with a broad plan for
a rescue network to operate on much
the same basis as the Surf Life Saving
Association. The doctors revealed that
90 per cent, of skiing accidents were spiral
fractures of the leg or ankle ; less than
5 per cent, involved experienced skiers.
Skiing falls produce plural, jagged frac-
tures which require skilful first-aid treat-
ment and, as soon as possible, expert
medical attention. The skier falls in one
of two unpleasant ways. The first way
is the forward fall when the skis dig in
under the snow and the skier is tipped
forward until his ankle breaks or the
binders clamping his foot to the ski give
way under pressure. The second is the
twisting fall—the skier twists, strain
moves down the body to the anchored
foot and the lower leg or ankle fractures.
Experienced skiers blame the poor
physical condition of many novices for
the recent alarming rise in the accident
rate. Too many beginners, after a work-
ing week with little or no exercise, jump
into their cars, drive hundreds of miles
to the snowfields and attempt the big
runs on a few hours’ sleep. It needs
only a slight miscalculation for the soft
skier to break a limb.
Five years ago there was a lower
accident rate because the sport was
confined to hardy enthusiasts. This
season some 30,000 skiers flocked
to the snowfields and thousands of
beginners learned to slither over snow
at up to 50 miles an hour. The rash of
accidents which accompanied the ski-
ing boom pointed to the inadequacy of
rescue organisation and first-aid treat-
ment now available.
Veteran bush-walker and alpine expert
Paddy Pallin, who teaches survival tech-
niques to skiers, says a skier must know
the best way to build an igloo, how to
dig into the snow (and out of the wind),
and emphasises especially the necessity
for a skier to carry a compass.
Skiers are hoping as a result of the
Canberra meeting the New South Wales
Ski Council can provide:
1. Better first-aid for victims of ski
accidents.
2. Immediate transport of a victim to a
warm cabin in contact with medical
authorities.
3. Improved organisation of search and
rescue work.


JOURNALISTS AND POLICEMEN
"Bar the Press"
COMMISSIONER BISCHOD
No one present
FROM F. J. SANDERSON IN QUEENSLAND
The Brisbane press was banned from
the 12th annual conference of the
Queensland Police Union held in the
austere surroundings of the Police Wel-
fare Club rooms in Roma Street, Bris-
bane, last April. Now details of the
debate on the motion “that the press
be not admitted to the conference and
no statement be given to the press” have
been published in the current issue of
“The Queensland Police Journal,” the
union's official organ.
The ban followed allegations of dis-
tortion. manufacturing half truths and
twisting meanings in “a series of anti-
police articles” in which a motion at
the 1958 conference was publicised by
the daily press.
The motion which banned the press
from the 1961 conference was moved by
Detective D. McDonald, then of Mary-
borough but now of Gympie, who
recalled that a committee made up of
the union president, general secretary
and a delegate was formed in 195-8 to
give statements of proceedings daily to
the press. The press, he said, instead of
rendering a service to the public and
police, as was intended, did the police
a great disservice by following its free-
dom to distort facts, manufacture half
truths and twist meanings.
For example, he said that, details of
a “very commendable motion” (“That a
police commissioned officer be given
power to authorise a search of premises”)
was given in a press handout —he could
not understand why because it did not
involve any new' legislation but was
purely a matter of departmental pro-
cedure —and a set of anti-police articles
followed. “Typical of the press state-
ments were the ‘Courier Mail’s’:
‘Queensland Police Union’s conference
yesterday decided to seek an extension
of police powers to search private
premises;’ and ‘The union will seek
powers for police officers to enter
premises where considered necessary on
police business without a search
warrant.’ ”
It may easily be seen how the fiction
department of the “Courier Mail”
worked overtime, declared McDonald.
There were many other excellent motions
on the agenda paper the unfavorable
reporting of which by the press “could
mean complete ruin for us.”
He suggested that the police union
should fall into line with the more
militant unions and not only debar the
press from conference but completely
debar any press handouts of conference
motions.
However, he did not raise objections
to the.press attending the opening of the
conference earlier that day. But the
general secretary of the union, Mr M. J.
Callaghan, who was then a depot dele-
gate to the conference, was piqued at
the walkout of the press immediately
after the Queensland Minister for Police,
Mr Morris, had spoken. “1 think that
was the most outstanding example of
the behavior of the press which moves
me to support the motion. There was
no one from the press in the room when
Mr Bischoff (the Commissioner) spoke
or when Mr E. P. Chandler (Too-
woomba) proposed a vote of thanks to
him . . . My advice is to bar the press
totally and absolutely.”
Bundaberg delegate, Mr N. S. Harvey,
wanted an each-way bet. He suggested
that there were one or two items, such
as staff shortage, which could do with
some publicity. Mr N. A. Neden from
the Traffic Branch, cautiously suggested
that the general secretary should “take
down notes of the motions passed satis-
factorily and give these statements to the
press.”
But the press-banners would have
none of it.
After an amendment by Mr Chandler
that no statement be issued to the press
at this stage and that the conference
wait to see the report of the morning’s
proceedings in the evening and morning
press before making a decision, was
ruled out of order, the motion to ban the
press was carried.
Before it was put. the president, Mr
D. C. Winning, said that police had “got
good press on the staff shortage, but
we do not want them here all of the
time . .
THE SQUEEZE
Slump in the Big Hotels
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT.
Cor £9l or £92 you can now buy £lOO
* eight per cent, debentures in Southern
Cross Properties Ltd (which is building
the £5 million hotel in Melbourne on the
old Eastern Market site), although the
company is not only backed by the equity
capital of both Pan American World Air-
ways and the clients of lan Potter and Co.,
the Melbourne sharebrokers, but has the
benign interest and loans of the U.S.
Export-Import Bank.
This heavy discount represents financial
feeling about hotels in Melbourne and is
not due to any doubts about the manage-
ment or shrewd chairmanship of Sir
Arthur Smiihers, the former State Direc-
tor of Finance. Anything other than a
high premium would have been unthink-
able at the time of the float in September
last year.
Until the credit squeeze the hotels
which were closing in Melbourne with
quite remarkable rapidity were the small
pubs, those once regarded as breadwinners
with substantial bar trades. There was
then a great clamor, especially because of
the pinch at the times of the Olympic
Games, for hotels with luxury accomoda-
tion, including private bathrooms,
although there were plenty of well-
travelled Americans who were generally
ignored when they asserted that criticism
of Australian hotels, in comparision with
American, was generally unfounded.
The Americans probably had in mind
the sharp differences in price, which
were more than favorable to the Aus-
tralian hotel, but now Melbourne prices
for food and lodging have risen steeply,
spending has contracted sharply and
they are feeling the drought. The ex-
pense -accounts and overtime have dried
up, and it is difficult to sell a shilling's
worth of whiting for 15s. on even the
snowiest tablecloth.
Many expensive bedrooms, some of
them recent costly additions, are now
empty from one week to the next, despite
the hundreds that have been demolished
with the little pubs. Except in times of
boom there are apparently not enough
visitors to Melbourne able to afford bed-
rooms with private bathrooms. Those
with less money to spend now seem to
stay in the suburban motels, which are
cheaper and less formal.
Even the big hotels’ lunch trade has
slipped. This is most noticed in the
western end of Melbourne where the
R.A.C.V. has added to the headaches
of the licensees by opening an excellent
smorgasbord and first-class dining-room
service as well for its very large financial,
insurance and legal membership.
The opening next August of the 431
air-conditioned Southern Cross bedrooms
will be a further drain on the dwindling
supply of free-spenders, unless Harold
Holt’s credit squeeze has ended really
or Arthur Calwell has got cracking.


"I DON'T KNOW WHETHER TO VOTE FOR HIS NEWSPAPER STATEMENTS
OR HIS TV IMAGE."


For election matter in this issue requiring
signature, Donald Horne, of 252 George Street,
Sydney, is responsible.
SCHWARTEN REPORT
Up the Westbrook Path
FROM IOHN HIGGINS IN BRISBANE
DR H. W. NOBLE
“A good show”
Tabling of the Schwarten Report on
the administration of Westbrook
Boys’ Home in Parliament last week once
again disclosed to the electorate at large
the three running sores of the Nicklin-
Morris administration —the failure of
the Premier (and Cabinet) to control
individual Ministers on matters of high
policy; the Ministerial acceptance of
the dictates of senior Public Servants ;
and an amateurish approach to the
handling of its Parliamentary schedule.
The report shocked and horrified
Queensland. After months of pains-
taking inquiry behind closed doors,
Magistrate A. E. Schwarten branded the
Home as a “criminal preparatory
school,” and accepted allegations of
sadistic punishments, including the
forcible administration of castor oil,
excessive floggings, “public beltings that
scar the mind.” humiliations such as
kneeling before warders, and punishment-
book falsifications.
All this, of course, was at total
variance with repeated public assurances
earlier this year by Health Minister Dr
Noble that Westbrook was “a good
show.” Neither Dr Noble nor the
Home Superintendent, Mr. Roy Goi-
ledge, appeared particularly repen-
tant after the tabling of the report. In
the House, Dr Noble went out of his
way to defend Mr Golledge, while the
latter told the Sunday Press that he'd
do it all over again (“it” referring to his
past methods of administration). Mr
Golledge, as a result of the report, is to
be transferred to some sort of agricul-
tural post in North Queensland, despite
angry Opposition demands for his im-
mediate dismissal from the Servcie.
Reforms initiated while the inquiry was
actually being conducted plus further
recommendations are expected to remove
this blot on Queensland’s juvenile penal
system.
The extraordinary thing is that the
Government allowed the situation to
develop as it did. One would have ex-
pected Cabinet as a whole, certainly the
Premier, to move in on the affair at an
early stage, and order an open inquiry
into the persistent public allegations on
the conduct of the Home.
it highlighted once again the strange
reluctance of the Nicklin-Morris Gov-
ernment to conduct public inquiries into
the affairs of the State. Even the high-
handed A.L.P. Government was pres-
sured into conducting Royal Commis-
sions on matters of acute public interest
(there were at least four in the last
decade of Labor reign) but the only open
inquiry allowed by the Nicklin-Morris
Government has been into the caning
of aboriginal Jim Jacko. That was held
at Hopedale Mission outside Cooktown!
And even that saw Dr Noble apologising
to the public for having misled them
with his earlier announcements!
The Opposition made the most of it.
Former Speaker “Johnno” Mann
attempted to table a pair of Blucher
boots, a length of hose, and an empty
castor-oil bottle, but was rebuked for
his frivolity. Earlier Dr Noble had pro-
duced a home-made knife and an iron
bar to indicate the mentality of some
of the Westbrook inmates. On the
evidence in the Schwarten Report, one,
perhaps, could argue that the unfortu-
nate juveniles needed something like this
to protect themselves from assault.
With the closure of the debate, the
affair can now be forgotten, until elec-
tion time, but most people feel that
Dr Noble should as quickly as possible
tell his staff that the next person who
misleads him on the conduct of his
Department will “cop the lot.”’ A heresy
hunt, starting way up at the top of his
Department, to find out who led him
up the Westbrook path, would be another
suggestion.
YELLOW CABS
Taxi , Sirs?
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
fCCOTOR Transport Union members in
Melbourne meet today, probably to
decide to ask the State Government not
to transfer Yellow Cab taxi licences to
other buyers, and to ask the Transport
Regulation Board to give the licences to
Yellow Cab drivers at no cost if Ampol
does not wish to operate the licences
itself.
Ampol has offered its fleet of 274 to
the 500 Yellow Cab drivers in Mel-
bourne for £3300 for the cab licences
and meters and extra for the cabs, about
£4500 in all. It would be a neat deal
for Ampol if it is brought off, as it has
been in Brisbane and Sydney where all
Yellow Cabs, except two, are operated
by a co-operative.
Ampol bought Yellow Cabs Holdings
Ltd in October, 1960, for about £3
million in a share swap. In addition to
the cabs, the company took over an
investment portfolio worth £591,000 at
June, 1960, an appreciation of £200,000
over cost, and reserves and undivided
profits of £650,000, a total of £1,125,000.
At £4OOO each the 274 cabs would
return £1,096,000, giving a total return
of £2.2 million, compared with £3 million
paid for chiefly by the market premium
on Ampol shares, although, of course,
they must be serviced with a 14 per cent,
dividend on Ampol’s ss. par shares to
maintain Ampol’s prestige as a dynamic
stock.
One of the least publicised conditions
of the proposed sale is that buyers of
the licences should continue to use
Ampol fuel and Goodrich tyres. Ampol
is substantially interested in Goodrich,
and probably the large Yellow Cab use
of petrol, oil and tyres was a major
reason for Ampol’s takeover in October,
1960.
it is not likely the State Government,
which is reputedly Liberal, will attempt
to interfere in what is simply a business
proposition by attempting to dictate at
what price a deal may be fixed. But the
Transport Regulation Board may take
a more sympathetic view of the drivers’
representations since the Yellow Cab
licences were granted free of charge bv
Melbourne City Council in 1952, a gift,
according to the union, of about £1
million.
Yellow Cabs’ dividend had been
rising annually when the company was
taken over and had reached 15 per cent.,
with the expectation of further improve-
ment as an increase in the mileage rate
of 2d. had been authorised. What this
has since meant is not disclosed as
Yellow Cabs was almost immediately
incorporated in Ampol.
There are infrequent demands in Mel-
bourne for the issue of more taxi
licences because of the scarcity of taxis
at peak periods. The reason for this
famine is that a substantial number of
drivers will not work in the traffic con-
gestion. They take their cabs to the
suburbs dodging the peak-hour bans on
left- and right-hand turns, on stopping
to pick up or put down passengers in
many streets and the removal of some
taxi ranks at these hours.
The £4500 sought from the Yellow Cabs
may just be an asking price. Melbourne
independent drivers claim they work
about 60 hours in a six-day week for
£25, and some seven days for about a
few pounds more.


“Oh, I expect it'll get the usual treatment — first, a Workshop reading—then the Union Rep . production flayed by
Kevon Kemp—rejection by the Adelaide Festival—West End presentation by The Trust—Broadway and a
£50,000 option on the film rights!"
MUSIC
The Jazz Eucharist
FROM AN ADELAIDE CORRESPONDENT
Tn a woolshed about 20 miles from the
South Australian township of Nara-
coorte, churchgoers will soon be witness-
ing Australia’s first Eucharist jazz service
at the blessing-of-the-fleece ceremony.
The hot pianist is Trevor Roberts,
well known in S.A. as the first “Wurlit-
zer King” to play to many thousands
of theatregoers at the Regent Theatre,
in Rundle Street, Adelaide. He now lives
in the country teaching classical music.
Assisting him will be 16-year-old local
drummer Ken Sharam. Trevor will be
playing in his fourth jazz church service.
The service will mark a victory for local
Anglican minister, the Rev. Austin Day,
who has been at Naracoorte now for
nearly five years.
Naracoorte, headquarters for much of
the rich pastoral squatocracy in the
south-east of South Australia, is one
area where S.A. ministers said the people
would not take an active part in such
“modem” doings. To some extent they
Were right: attendance at the first jazz
Mass was not high.
In May this year St Paul’s Church of
England at Naracoorte, now in its 81st
year of service, echoed to what Rev. Day
describes as “a kind of negro-spiritual
jazz.” The service was set to the tunes
in a jazz Mass arranged by the Rev.
Geoffrey Beaumont of St. George’s,
Campberwell, England. Although only a
piano and choir were used on the first
occasion, Rev. Day feels nothing was
really lost from the original, which has
been recorded by a 45-piece band. “I
feel that Geoffrey Beaumont when he
wrote the music, wrote it for a one- or
two-piece band, not an orchestra,” he
says.
In the service which was performed
the last part of the Lord’s Prayer was
sung to the tune of the “Dambusters
March” from the film version of Paul
Brickhill’s war story “The Dambusters.”
“Part of this song was taken from the
Lord’s Prayer in the first place, anyway,”
says Rev. Day. “The Agnus Dei is sung
in beguine tempo. For the Gloria it is
sort of jazz with rhythm time. The
Agnus Dei is sung by our cantor David
Bell, the leading bass in the choral
society here. Once he says the words,
then the worshippers can repeat quite
easily the words in the modern arrange-
ment.”
In June, the second such service was
held. On this occasion the attendance
soared to about 160. Last month saw
what was probably a record attendance.
One hundred and seventy families, twice
as many as on a normal Sunday, attended
the church’s 81st dedication service. “We
felt we should use the jazz service for
times of special rejoicing,” says Rev.
Day. “People love the service. They
have asked for a monthly jazz Mass,
but I like to keep it for the great days
of the Church,” he adds. He told The
Bulletin that at the last jazz service
the older people of the township attended
in force. “Now they are right behind
it,” he says proudly.
In fact it was some of the older
identities who approached Rev. Day to
see whether the annual blessing-of-the-
fleece could be held in jazz form. “After
the Gospel of the Good Shepherd we
will have the Eucharist service to jazz-
time,” he said. “Now that this is a
regular thing in the church the older
people don’t want to miss out.”
Between 300 and 400 people of all
religions are expected at the blessing-of-
the-fleece. Rev. Day is taking the new
interest in his stride, and says he has
the support of other members of the
Anglican Church in Adelaide. “It is even
rumored here that the local Methodist
Church is thinking of starting a jazz
service,” he says with a twinkle in his eye.


keep Australia Jrec!
VOTE
And bring some real progress and commonsense into our politics!
The Liberals and the Australian Labor Parties have
failed the people in many ways most of all in political
philosophy. They have failed in leadership, they have
become confused in their aims, vague in their values
and puzzled in their policies. The DEMOCRATIC
LABOR PARTY is the only real alternative, the true
FOLLOW THE D.L.P. TICKET
and make your vote a positive vote against Liberal
complacency and Labor weakness. Give your vote in
support of the D.L.P. positive policy for Australia’s future
Authorised by J. T. Kane, 70 Bathurst St., Sydney.
Labor Party that provides ideas and policies that will
keep Australia free, will vigorously establish a ‘survive
and thrive’ policy for all Australians. The D.L.P. has
three main aims 1. The safety and survival of Aus-
tralia as a free nation. 2. The maximum encouragement
of our industry and agriculture. 3. The widest possible
ownership of wealth, power and property of the nation.
ABORIGINES
Kenyatta in Perth
FROM A PERTH CORRESPONDENT
A T a recent meeting in Perth of the
Anthropological Society in Western
Australia there were a few shocks for
those who like to deny any similarity be-
tween the problems of native
assimilation in Australia and Negro
integration in the U S.A. The society for-
med a panel to discuss the problem of
native families living in an urban enviro-
ment, specifically in Perth and the much-
publicised Allawah Grove settlement
near the city airport. Four of its five
speakers came from the native • com-
munity.
These spokesmen for the native view-
point expressed themselves with a clarity
and vigor that surprised their large
audience. Two of them, native welfare
officer George Harwood and radical
leader George Abdullah, are fairly
familiar figures and their divergent views
are well known. Abdullah is a kind of
aboriginal Jomo Kenyatta, preaching the
gospel of self - determination in a spirit
of antagonism towards the white com-
munity. Harwood expressed the official
policy of the Native Welfare Department
in admitting that natives cannot live up
to white standards, but placing the blame
for their backwardness on the white
community which will not help them.
The surprise of the evening came in
the two speakers from Allawah Grove
Progress Association, president Chris
Bodney and vice-president Des Davies.
The association was formed only nine
weeks ago as a last attempt to bring
some kind of social discipline to Allawah
Grove. The natives living there had
resisted all official attempts to turn them
into respectable citizens, so the Native
Welfare Council which is responsible for
its administration decided to let the
natives run their domestic affairs.
Mr Bodney told his audience in plain
English that the natives did the job
better than the whites. He said that
gambling, the biggest evil in the settle-
ment, had been abolished by popular
consent. A community rent collection
system was reducing the massive arrears
for the- first time in years. Progress
association members had visited the
parents and citizens’ meeting at their
local school and had entertained p. and
c. members at the Grove. “They were
surprised to find we weren't such a bad
lot,” said Mr Bodney with a small grin.
Then he came out with a suggestion
that caught the imagination of the
audience. The State Government, he
said, should select outstanding natives
and train them to become leaders of
their own community. The natives re-
spond better to suggestion from their
own people than from the white com-
munity.
His vice-president, Des Davies, sup-
ported him with a forthright plea to the
whites to give the natives a go He said
they didn’t want patronage, just the
chance to prove they could make the
grade as responsible citizens.
The significance of the speeches lay
in their undertones. The physical
appearance of the natives in their neat
blue suits, their articulate and reasonable
exposition of their need for acceptance
and their quiet confidence that they-
could lead their people to self-deter-
mination if they were given the oppor-
tunity dispelled the impression so many
Western Australians carry about natives
through a distant view of their hunched
settlements in the wheatbelt towns. It
became clear that the granting of State
citizenship rights which now seems
inevitable could bring forth some very
forceful spokesmen indeed for the native
community.


PLAIN ENGLISH
LOADED?
A CURIOUSLY significant “open
letter” has been circulated to
all candidates in the Federal
elections asking them ques-
tions about nuclear disarmament. The
signatories are 13 academics, six
clergymen, six authors or artists, a
couple of minor editors, three scientists
and two presidents of organisations.
At first glance the five questions
addressed to all candidates in the open
letter are harmless even plati-
tudinous —whether one agrees with
their superficial implications or not. A
quick reading would suggest that what
is being worried about are the effects
of nuclear testing and the possibility of
nuclear war. And who isn’t worried
about that?
A more careful reading shows that
the “open letter” has other implica-
tions. It may not have come to the
attention of some or most of the well-
meaning signatories of the “open
letter” that the phrasing of the ques-
tions has an effect that is quite differ-
ent from the effect that may at first
sight be intended. A reasonable inter-
pretation of this phrasing is that it is
not so much pacifist, or anti-nuclear-
testing, as unilateralist and neutralist;
that is to say, that it represents a
foreign policy that would pull Aus-
tralia out of its active commitment to
the preservation of the free world.
Whether the peculiar phrasing of
these questions is a fluke, or whether
the letter was deliberately phrased this
way by one or two hands is not
known. The interesting thing about
documents of this kind is usually not
to find out who signs them, but who
drafted them.
The letter begins by boldly declar-
ing that mankind lives in fear of a
nuclear war, which is certainly true.
It then suggests that this is the trans-
cending issue of the present Federal
elections, which is nonsense. The fate
of the world is not in Australia’s
hands, and while it is proper that
Australia should pursue an active
foreign policy, that policy is never
going to decide questions of world
war or peace.
There is also the possibility that the
transcending issue of world affairs is
not fear of nuclear war but fear of
Soviet and Chinese domination and
that playing on fears of nuclear war
(which they privately fear as much as
we do) is part of the propaganda drive
of those two nations as they attempt
to demoralise opinion in the free
world.
The foreign affairs issue in the pre-
sent elections is not war or peace but
a choice between Mr Calwell’s quali-
fied neutralism and Mr Menzies’s
commitment.
With this background in mind, “The
Bulletin” would like to take the oppor-
tunity of answering the five questions
in the “open letter,” but we shall not
answer them one by one, because to do
so limits the issue to the narrow
grounds chosen, deliberately or by
accident, by whoever drafted the open
letter.
The five questions are:
1. In what circumstances, if any,
would you commit the Australian
people to participation in a nuclear
war?
2. In what circumstances, if any,
should a country possessing nuclear
weapons be permitted to have bases
on Australian soil?
3. In what circumstances, if any, do
you approve of the testing of wea-
pons capable of carrying nuclear
warheads in areas under Australian
jurisdiction?
4. Are you in favor of the cessation of
nuclear weapons testing, as well as
of nuclear disarmament, by all
parties in the present struggle? If
so, how can these objectives best be
achieved?
5. What active policies should the next
Australian Government pursue in
order to reduce the present highly
dangerous level of international
tension? If elected, what contribu-
tion to this objective will you
make?
Number four is the least loaded
question. Our answer in general would
be that we would favor cessation of
nuclear weapons testing if proper sys-
tems of inspection and control were
instituted —except that we would pre-
fer that the U.S. did not do any test-
ing anyway unless there was a danger
of Soviet testing producing a signifi-
cant superiority. But this does not
mean that the U.S. should not con-
stantly be preparing for tests, even if
it does not hold them.
As to general nuclear disarmament
—there is no point in discussing this
until some evidence of good faith is
provided by an efficient control of
testing. After the recent shameful
Soviet efforts, who —except unilateral-
ists—would put their trust in the
Soviet?
TT is the assumptions lying behind
A the other questions —the way they
define the problem —rather than the
questions themselves that provide any
interest. Number five is a real “Have
you stopped beating your wife?” kind
of question. By defining the issue as
“international tension” it settles the
issue.
Others would define the central issue
in world affairs as the Soviet and
Chinese drive for expansion. In our
view this is the central issue, and Aus-
tralia’s foreign policy should be based
on an implacable support for those
who resist any further Soviet or
Chinese expansion; “tension” is simply
a propaganda weapon of those two
aggressive nations. We cannot reduce
it except by concessions (and they
would cause more tension); it’s up to
them to reduce tension by ceasing to
make demands.
The first three loaded questions are
unilateralist and neutralist. The deci-
sions of the Australian Government in
all three cases would have no general
effect on questions of nuclear control
or disarmament. They would simply
weaken the free world by withdrawing
an ally.
The first question is also dishonest.
No Australian Government can com-
mit Australia out of a nuclear war. That
decision is made by those who have
the nuclear weapons which could
destroy us. As a practical matter what
this first question means is: should
Australia denounce its alliance with
the committed nations?
In fact, to bring out their full sig-
nificance, all five questions might be
briefly paraphrased like this:
Should Australia withdraw from its
present military alliances and reject
any kind of commitment to the United
States and Britain? What concessions
should it urge to the Soviet and China?
It is to be hoped that non-Com-
munist candidates in the election will
treat this “open letter” as a publicity
stunt and answer it—if they care
to answer it at all —by asking the
people who drafted it some of their
own questions.


CHRISTMAS IN CANBERRA
When the Great Men Go Home
By ROBERT HOWE
PERHAPS my earliest recollection of Christmas hardly
prepared me for Christmas in Canberra. It was in the
mining town of Leonora, on the Western Australian
goldfields —where Christmas was celebrated with
emendous noise and enthusiasm.
I remember it because a young man from a neighbor-
ng station —he must remain nameless, because he's now
much older, much more dignified and occupies a Position
n the nation —jumped on "the bar in Bert Webb’s White
House Hotel the better to lead the assembly in a carol.
Unfortunately, he rose to his full height in the path of
a blade of one of those huge fans which they used to have
maybe still have —swinging from the ceilings of country
hotels. The fearful crack on the cruet he sustained opened
up a gash of about 4in. and knocked him flying on top
jf the barman.
He picked himself up, indignantly refused suggestions
he should go to the hospital and have his head stitched,
and called for iodine (the antibiotic of those days). He
doused iodine on the cut and plastered a handkerchief to
it. The handkerchief wouldn’t stay on. so he went to his
room, found his hat. put his hat on to hold the handker-
chief in place, climbed back on the bar (warily keeping
away from the fan) and began to lead the assembly in
singing “Silent Night.”
They don’t make Christmas like that any more.
My memories of Christmas in Canberra correspond
somewhat to those of the man who took his harp to the
party and nobody asked him to play. Full of good cheer,
good intentions and good spirits, trained to razor-sharpness
by years spent on the Sydney Christmas-go-round, I used
to poise myself (until 1 learnt better) in this hub of diplo-
mats, top Public Servants, politicians, dons, big brass and
wait for the wave to break.
It never did. To put it another way, I felt like the
man who took his surfboard to the seaside and found the
tide had gone out. All the Great Men and their ladies had
deserted the capital. A friend of ours, a widow of consider-
able charm, attraction and estate, came to stay with us in
Canberra for Christmas, 1958. She arrived full of anticipa-
tion —in her mind pictures of glittering Embassy parties,
stately homes full of seasonal wassail. After three days she
said: “Are you sure it is Christmas time?” 1 assured her
that it was. that this was a Canberra Christmas . . . but I
don’t think 1 managed to convince her I wasn’t a social
pariah in Canberra.
The Commonwealth Public Service has life at
Christmas extremely well-organised. By a little judicious
leave-taking, it is possible to spin a longish holiday out of
the season. This year, for instance. Monday and Tuesday
will be holidays for Christmas and Boxing Days, as will
the following Monday for New Year's Day. It is the
custom to grant the Commonwealth Public Service an extra
day off at this time, so if that is made the Friday before
New Year all sorts of possibilities unfold. The Public
Servant who takes two days of his annual leave to fill the
Wednesday and Thursday after Boxing Day can rest him-
self with 10 days’ leave —from the Friday before Christmas
to the Tuesday after New Year —for the outlay of only two
days of accumulated leave. As a result, everybody who can
wangle it does just that—and as very few people stay in
Canberra when they don't have to. a mass exodus occurs
as people head for their home towns in faraway places.
The machine runs at top speed until a few days before
Christmas and then grinds to a stop by mid-afternoon,
December 22. when parties in all departments are in full
swing. Many department branches run a tea club through-
out the year—general contribution 2s. a week —and sink
the profits into the annual Christmas spree. As in any
factory or business house, all the girls swop trinkets and
the men drink a fair amount of beer. Generally the depart-
mental heads, lacking the advantage of the swindle-sheets
of company bosses, confine their cigar-passing to their
immediate helpers and their chocolate-giving to personal
secretaries and typists. After the parties a general silence
falls over the blue hills.
-No politicians are there either. Perhaps the Prime
Minister might be, if he has his sons and grandchildren up
from Melbourne to stay at the Lodge. If his daughter
Heather is in Australia and not away with her diplomat
husband Peter Henderson, the odds are better than even
that he will be in Canberra. Otherwise he will probably
be in Melbourne. He usually has some sort of Christmas
party for his staff and senior officers early in the season,
but it is not a particularly jolly affair, consisting mostly of
shop-talk and attempts to tell the P.M. a joke or two. He
presides blandly and avuncularly and enjoys himself prob-
ably more than anybody else there.
Duntroon will have broken up. in mid-December the
cadets march at the Graduation Parade for the senior
class (the Governor-General, Lord de L’lsle, will be taking
the salute) and the same evening attend the spectacular
Graduation Ball. At midnight the graduating cadets have
their pips pinned on, assume their commissions and grace
the parade ground at Duntroon no more. The next day
all 200-odd cadets start about six weeks’ leave —the graduat-
ing class waiting for posts and the others returning to their
homes, some to New Zealand. Many of the Australians
take home a couple of mates, especially New Zealanders.


One energetic cadet last year managed to visit Britain and
return during the Christmas leave period.
The diplomats retire from the public scene for a
breather and their own private celebrations. The non-
Christian Embassies make the best of it. This year shortly
before Christmas about 30 Indonesian students will arrive
at the Indonesian Embassy from all over Australia for a
three-day visit. The students will stay at the homes of
diplomats and challenge them at table-tennis, tennis, Soccer
and bridge for a trophy known as the Ambassador’s Cup.
The Cambodian Embassy will even have its own Santa
Claus for the Christmas Day party, when the Embassy’s
Dutch chauffeur will don the red and white robes to hand
out presents to the little Cambodians. The Moslems and
Buddhists (the Indonesians are nearly all Moslems and the
Cambodians Buddhist) hold no religious commemoration
of Christmas but enter the general spirit of things with
private parties and the inevitable gifts.
r rHE university scene at Christmas is unusually drab.
A Apart from a social cricket match between technical and
administrative staff and a few isolated parties, university
life has petered out by the time Christmas comes. The
academic year ends late in November. And the students,
by no means anxious to stick around, head for their
homes and for holiday resorts. By late December the only
students left are overseas students who for the most part
shove off to look at other parts of Australia. University
House, the supreme centre of Canberra’s eccentrics, turns
on a special Christmas dinner, and the academic stickers-
around try to grumble a little less than usual. Once one
student let off a bunch of fire-crackers in the middle of the
dinner just to see some of the bent backs straighten or a
few of the more preoccupied eyes show signs of seasonal
life —but nobody noticed it.
Of course, not everybody leaves Canberra for Christ-
mas. Not even all the Top Men can go, because some-
body has to be on hand to keep the Ship of State on an even
keel. As well, lots of junior Public Servants (although
members of the most affluent society—on an average—in
the nation) cannot afford to leave their homes. Some, even,
do not want to, such is the gradual trend towards actually
Living in Canberra as opposed to Being there because
that is where your job is.
For all these people there is a certain gaiety. The
teenage colony (like pensioners, teenagers tend to shun
Canberra) has its rock-’n’-roll nights, the cocktail belt
suddenly calls its cocktail parties Christmas parties, and
the solid core of family men and women have their club
functions. (There are 500 clubs for Canberra’s 45,000
people.) Even in the hostels, where so many of the town’s
single men and women live, the 50 per cent, who have not lit
out for their home States try to brighten things up. Whether
it is a weatherboard hostel or a good middle-class-mansion
type, the balloons and whatnots go up, and mixed parties
with lashings of liquor go on till all hours. Friday, Decem-
ber 22, is again the big night, with Christmas Eve and
Christmas Day fairly quiet. For Christmas dinner the
kitchen staff pulls out all the stoppers and the turkey, ham
and pork are not bad for those who really would rather be
at home. They do their best and pretend it is a “family”
affair. In Mulwalla House, a typical hostel for young
Public Servants, the social club plays the game of waiting
on the staff at the club party, and everybody has morning
tea together on Christmas Day. At the Hillside and Capital
Hill Hostels, which are predominantly migrant hostels, the
Good Neighbour Council and the Commonwealth Bank
turn on one concert and church and women’s organisations
turn on another. (Even outside the hostels, Christmas
dinner is pretty quiet for most New Australian families,
though the Dutch celebrate Sinterklass Day on December
s—Dutch5 —Dutch children face an agonising judgment on this day:
they know they will get either a smack from Black Peter, a
sort of Negro clown, or a present from St Nicholas—and
some Poles and Ukrainians are planning traditional celebra-
tions.)
The hotels and motels do good business: private
Christmas parties are booked up from early December to
Christmas Eve—for social clubs and private firms. Hotel
dinners are popular with Canberra residents on Christmas
Day. There are always special staff parties, but none for
“Just follow me —Til show you the way, boys!”


Now Op en!
THE
GOVERNMENT
GUARANTEED
SYDNEY
WATER
BOARD
51%
LOAN
For 7, 10 or 20 years.
GOVERNMENT-GUARANTEED. The New South
Wales Government unconditionally guarantees interest
payments every 6 months and full repayment of
principal at maturity.
TRUSTEE SECURITY. The Loan is an Authorised
Trustee Investment in N.S.W., Queensland, Western
Australia and Tasmania.
CASH investments may be made for either 7, 10 or
20 years.
CONVERSION OPPORTUNITIES. Holders of
securities in Loans No. 164 (£5/5/- per cent., maturing
Ist December, 1961) and No. 44 (£3/7/6 per cent.,
maturing Ist January, 1962) are invited to convert to
the new Loan and gain higher interest without
interruption.
INVEST OR CONVERT at any office of the Com-
monwealth Trading Bank; Australia and New Zealand
Bank Limited; Bank of New South Wales; Commercial
Banking Company of Sydney Limited; English,
Scottish and Australian Bank Limited; Rural Bank of
New South Wales; or through a Stockbroker; or at
the Sydney Water Board offices.
THE SYDNEY WATER BOARD LOAN
Underwritten by lan Potter & Co.
the guests: “They have a party every night, anyway,” as
one manager said.
Canberra churches are always sure of capacity congre-
gations (if it is not too hot), and, as in the other cities,
scores of children arrive at early-morning services toting
six-shooters and hugging teddy bears. St John’s will again
have its famous live crib in the crypt with local Anglicans
dressed as the Holy Family and sheep and goats brought in
from the nearby farms. Nearly 1000 people come to see
the crib each year. The people are also keen carol singers,
and the Y.M.C.A. organises the annual Carols by Candle-
light ceremony on the lawns in front of Parliament House
on Christmas Eve. About 5000 people will watch this year
as the city band plays and the Departments of the Interior
and Works floodlight the lawns. On Friday, December 22. a
choir of about 100 will sing carols from the roof of the
M.L.C. Building in Civic Centre, the main shopping block
—a fitting backdrop to the huge crowd that will be
struggling for last-minute bargains in the streets below.
Canberra traders expect to do good business, especially
since there is always an influx of tourists, and the Friday-
night shopping on December 22 is only two days from
Christmas Day. Several stores plan to introduce a Father
Christmas in early December —some right up to the Satur-
day morning, and others until the Christmas rush starts
(and there is no further need to spend money providing the
kids with Santa Claus).
One thing that definitely sells well in Canberra is
Christmas cards, largely because a high proportion of
people has relatives interstate. Most Government depart-
ments also send out Christmas cards- mainly from the
public relations departments and in a few cases from the
Permanent Secretaries on behalf of departments.
The Army is a good example of the split up of Christ-
mas-card sending. This year Army Public Relations will
send out cards showing the heads of the Public Relations
office resting on drawn shoulders atop an Army tank. Every
corps and service in the Army has its own particular
Christmas cards with the corps badge, embossed in color,
prominently displayed. The Secretaries also send out a
limited number of comparatively plain Christmas cards.
TN some ways, with the whole Government machine at a
standstill, Christmas in Canberra is the one time when
the nation comes into its own and Canberrans try to be
ordinary Australians again. They almost succeed—but
they never quite throw off the Colonial atmosphere, never
quite make themselves feel that this and not Melbourne,
Sydney or Oodnadatta is home.
I remember, the last Christmas I spent in Canberra,
1 met a man in the Hotel Wellington—the Wello was a
good place to meet odd balls —on the day after Boxing
Day. I was buying a bottle and he was buying a drink, so
we had one together, there being no one else in sight.
“Have a good Christmas?” I asked —well, I had to
say something, and I’m no Oscar Wilde off the cuff. He
swirled the wet base of his glass around on the counter and
looked ruminatively at the whorls it made there. “Where
are you from?” he asked. “Well, 1 live in Narrabundah,
1 said, “but actually I come from Perth via Sydney.” “You,
too!” he said, slapping his glass down so the beer swilled.
“I’ve been here a week, and I haven’t met anybody who’ll
admit to coming from Canberra! I wish Fd stayed awake
on Christmas Eve and asked Santa Claus where he came
from. I bet he’d have said, ‘Well, it’s quite nice on Red
Hill, but actually I come from Melbourne.’ What’s the
matter with this place? Haven’t they heard of Scrooge?”
“Yes,” I said, “but they call him Sir Roland Wilson.”


ARTHUR CALWELL'S
SKELETON
By MUGGA
ONE remarkable thing about the present Federal
election campaign has been the apparent slowness
of Mr Menzies and his party to hit at one of the
weakest spots in the programme of the Labor party;
and at the same time to emphasise one of the most demo-
cratic pieces of legislation passed by the Menzies Govern-
ment in the last 12 years.
This weak spot is the policy of the Labor party on
trade-union elections and its attitude to some parts of the
Arbitration Act. In 1949. after a series of articles in the
Melbourne “Herald” by ex-Communist Cecil Sharpley, and
the findings of a subsequent Victorian Royal Commission,
both of which revealed Communist corruption and manipu-
lation in trade-union elections, public pressure was exerted
on the Chifiey Labor Government to pass legislation in an
attempt to prevent further malpractices in union ballots.
Briefly, the Act provided that any member of a union
may ask for an inquiry into alleged irregularities in union
ballots. If the irregularities are proven, the Industrial
Registrar, or someone acting on his behalf, can conduct a
new election, with adequate safeguards against malpractice.
The costs, unless the allegation is judged frivolous, are
not borne by the person who alleges the irregularity. The
second important provision in the Chifley legislation is that
the executive officers of a union, or a branch of the union,
can request a ballot to be conducted by the Industrial
Registrar.
After this legislation was passed several inquiries were
conducted under the “irregularity provision,” and Mr
Justice Dunphy found that there had been irregularities in
the Victorian branch of the Clerks’ Union and the New
South Wales branch of the Boilermakers’ Union.
There were three principal complaints about this
legislation. The first was that a unionist had to discover
fraud after an election. He had to point out that the stable
door was open after the horse had bolted. The second
complaint was that it was only the executive officers of a
union which could request that a ballot be conducted by
the Registrar, and, as has been adequately demonstrated so
often in the courts, it is the executive which is usually in
the best position to rig a ballot. The third complaint was
that there was no way in which the rank-and-file member
could be guaranteed a clean or independent ballot.
In 1951 the Menzies Government made some very
important and sensible amendments to the Act which met
most of the objections made by many unionists. Briefly,
these were that union rules must provide for election of
union officers by a secret ballot and that not only could
the executive officers apply to the Industrial Registrar
asking him to conduct a ballot but also a group of union
members could also now apply. The third provision was
that in circumstances which could lead to a settlement of
an industrial dispute the Court could order a secret ballot
by the members.
The “group of union members” provision meant that
one-tenth, or 1000 union members (whichever was the
less), could sign a petition for an independent ballot; and
in the case of a branch (which normally means a State
branch of a Federal union) one-fifth, or 500 members,
could do the same.
These 1951 amendments were passed despite strong
opposition from some union officials, the A.C.T.U. and
some members of the Labor party. One Labor speaker on
the Bill even went so far as to say: “It will grossly and
unnecessarily interfere with the control and administration
of the trade unions and take the first step towards the
destruction of a free Australian trade-union movement.”
How this was to be done has never been described.
A/fR CALWELL, in the present election campaign, has
to date made no specific and open statement on the
Labor party’s present policy on the 1951 amendments —
presumably because disingenuousness pays. What exactly
is the policy of the Labor party on the Menzies Govern-
ment's 1951 amendments?
At the 23rd Commonwealth Conference of the Labor
party held in 1959 in Canberra a motion was moved by a
Queensland delegate, Mr G, Whiteside, and seconded by
another Queensland delegate, Mr A. H. Dawson, that said:
“The Federal Parliamentary Labor party is requested to
continue its efforts for the repeal of all sections of the
Arbitration Act permitting court-controlled ballots on the
request of minorities of an organisation or a branch.”
This motion was passed. And at that same confer-
ence Mr F. E. Chamberlain added: “The important thing
1 desire delegates to keep in mind when returning to their
States is the fact that conference, the supreme governing
authority of the Labor movement, has made decisions on all
the questions placed before it. Those decisions are binding
upon all. The principle of the majority must prevail.”
If the Liberals want to take the attack in this election
they ought to concentrate more and more on the
Labor party’s policy on union ballots. The extraordinary
feature of the Labor party’s policy (and the stated A.C.T.U.
position) is that, in seeking to remove the provisions in the
Act which allow a group of union members to petition for
an inependently-run ballot, it is cutting across one of the
sacred cows of the union movement: that control of unions
should always remain in “the hands of the rank and file.”
It should not be necessary to state the importance or
the power which unions exercise in any highly industrialised
society. Nor should it be necessary to state how important
it is that no group, whether Communists or Right-wing
union leaders, should control a union through rigging union
elections. The only way “Court” ballots could be rigged
would be by someone in the post office destroying the ballot
papers sent in by the members. Not only are the members
guaranteed a fair and cleanly run election, but a ballot con-
ducted under the Act is cheaper than one which would be
conducted by the union officials. All the union has to pay
for is the cost of postage and printing of the ballot papers.
And in case union officials are tempted to fall for the
Communist propaganda line that there should be “no
interference in trade-union affairs,” it is worth remem-
bering that Communist J. J. Brown, the Victorian secretary
of the Australian Railways Union, was elected to office
through an independently-run election.


OIL FROM COAL?
By M. H. ELLIS
Who recently returned from a tour of Central and North Queensland.
IT is singular that, in a country which owns so much
easily accessible coal. Australians know so little about
it. Up most of the Australian east coast adjacent to
almost every large town and port to just below the
20th parallel, which runs through Bowen and Camooweal.
there is not only coal but abundant coal. With one excep-
tion. the further north the easier of access from the
surface it seems to become. There are huge faces within
a relatively few feet of the surface —coal which, like the
great anthracite beds of China, needs to be quarried rather
than mined. This is easier still since the advent of heavy
electric shovels and 14-ton transport vehicles.
It used to be an impossible task, especially a hundred
miles from anywhere, to remove 40 or 50ft of overburden
and then dig roads into a quarry and haul the coal from
the cliff face of the seam—if you can call a bed hundreds
of acres in area a seam—and carry to rail or port in the
bullock waggons or two-ton trucks which superseded them
in very limited numbers. But post-war conditions have
put open-cut mining on a different basis. An overburden
of soil and rock is not nearly so formidable as in the
bullock-waggon or two-ton-truck days, if you own a ton-
and-a-half capacity electric shovel and 14-ton trucks. Nine
lifts and two and a half minutes after the shovel begins to
scoop up coal the truck is away climbing the ramp with
the agility of a frightened koala.
As far as exports are concerned.: Queensland has other
great advantages. Its ports can accommodate 30.000-
tonners —and Gladstone and Port Alma are a thousand
miles nearer to. say. Japan, than is Sydney. Japanese
export from the Dawson Valley will develop beyond doubt.
The coal differs in standard from that of the southern fields,
but Dawson Valley coals suit the Japanese very well. Mr
Leslie Thiess’s success in signing £lO millions' worth of
contracts while in Japan in October, plus the announce-
ment of the building of the Biloela power station, should
assure the future of Moura. Kianga and Callide on some
scale for many years to come. Mt Morgan is also negotiat-
ing. on the basis of trial shipments, with the Japanese to
sell its semi-anthracite from Baralaba.
AT the same time, there is more coal round Central
Queensland and elsewhere than there is likely to be a
market for. So it is no wonder that there is a tendency to
think of other major avenues, even those which seem
momentarily beyond the practical.
While the committees on coal utilisation which have
dealt with the possibility of producing oil from coal have
shown themselves lukewarm and look on oil from coal as
a project of remote future, some of the Central Queens-
land experts hold very different views. Malcolm Newman,
the chairman of Mt Morgan and formerly Controller of
Minerals during World War 11, believes that, if the £7O
million which has gone into fruitless oil prospecting over
the past few years had been put into research on oil from
coal production and the associated petrochemical
industries. Australia might by this time be on the way to
being independent, or partly so. in fuel. While in South
Africa as head of the Australian Delegation to the Inter-
national Mining Congress this year, Mr Sheil, Mount
Morgan's general manager, investigated the working of
the South African enterprise. Sasol, which produces oil for
industrial waxes and other products of petrochemistry from
coal. He came back more than ever convinced of the
feasibility of an oil from coal project for Central Queens-
land.
The South African plant certainly has the advantage
of being more reasonably adjacent to a large industrial city
than the Central Queensland deposits. It is 50 miles south
of Johannesburg on the great Vaal River coal-beds, and
handy to a major power station and to a major fertiliser
factory which provides its outlet for its by-product
ammonium sulphate. But it is working on coal in seams
10 to 24ft thick and up to 500 ft underground, so that in
this respect it is under some disadvantage as compared with
the opencuts of Central Queensland. It works through
inclined shafts equipped with conveyor belts after the
fashion of modern mines on the South Maitland and
other southern N.S.W. fields, with 90 Europeans and 500
Africans delivering 6000 tons of coal a day through a
highly mechanised complex of mobile cutters, mechanical
loaders, shuttle cars and belt-conveyor systems.
The coal is produced very ' cheaply—about 6s. 6d.
(Australian) at the pithead. The lowest coal cost at pithead
in Central Queensland apparently is that of Callide—
15s. 4d. But apparently cost of coal is not so vital as it
appears, especially when the comparison is made as between
one country in which the miner’s average monthly earning
is £2O a month and another in which it is at least four
times that figure.
The Kellog process is used in the petrol-producing
plant. The coal is gasified and brought into contact with a
catalyst. With this it circulates through reactors, with the
result that its hydrogen combines with the carbon in
carbon monoxide to form hydrocarbons —petrol and diesel
oil. alcohols, ketones and organic acids. The processes
produce a variety of highly marketable by-products—
ammonium sulphate for fertilisers, crude tar acids or
phenols, creosote, paraffin waxes, liquefied petroleum gas,
acetone, methyl-ethyl ketones. Some of there are of use
in secondary industry directly; some in the more advanced
industries in. which they represent only part of a stage
of production—such as artificial rubber, plastics, insecti-
cides and detergents. The paraffin waxes have an enormous
range of users from the match industry to plastics, wax
container and polish manufacturers. The phenols go into
plastics, adhesives and weed killers. The alcohols go.
among other things, into paints, laquers. brake fluid, insecti-
cide and What-have-you. And liquefied oxygen produced
is used in welding and cutting and in steel making.
Sasol’s total production of petrol is about 270.000
short tons per annum, or about 70 million gallons.
It has been developing since 1954. and there is now a
project on foot to double its output.
On the face of it. Those interested in Central Queens-
land have a case for further investigation, more especially
because of the multivarious other basic chemicals of
modern industry which the district has lying idle and
which are the raw materials of regional industrial develop-
ment.


PEP’S
ELECTIONS
“Good morning, gentlemen! Salutations from
your Independent candidate!"
"No! No! You're still not projecting enough sincerity!"
“On the other hand, Madam, if you don't require the protection of
the Apex Insurance policy, or the services of the Super-Sue cleaner,
perhaps I could solicit your support for my candidature in the
forthcoming Federal elections!"
“I see you've been elected to Parliament.
I didn't know you were interested in politics."


FINLAND'S BIG BROTHER
Khrushchev's Scandinavian blackmail is comparatively new,
but the conditions for it have been growing for over a year
By BRENDAN OHARA
Why is Russ.a getting tough with Finland?
It might not be unreasonable to suggest that Mr
Khrushchev is now extending to Scandinavia the
strategy he has been using in the “Berlin crisis." He
has put up demands on Berlin and East Germany and created
a crisis with the hope that he can paralyse or even break
the Western Alliance To cause a “Finnish crisis” is another,
if more roundabout way, of doing part of the same thing, to
try to dislodge the two minoi northern members of the Alliance
and intimidate them into Swedish “neutrality.'’
To those who are not following movements in Scandinavia
in detail this may seem an ambitious policy. But Russia has
had every encouragement to embark on it from the uni-
lateralist movements in Sweden, Denmark and Norway, and
from warring party factions in Finland.
The weapons he is using are the same: an alleged concern
for Soviet safety in the face of West German aggression and a
playing up of European dislike of the Germans. His tactics,
indicated by a recent Tass report that now he has shelved his
demand for defence talks after consultation with President
Kekkonen, are the same as he has used over Berlin: first he
bullies, then he smiles.
Originally, the excuse for negotiations was the invoking of a
treaty of friendship, co-operation and mutual assistance pro-
posed by Stalin and signed by Molotov in 1948. The stipulation
in Article Two of the treaty is that Finland and Russia shall
“confer with each other if it is established that the threat of an
armed attack by West Germany or any State allied with her is
present.”
By invoking Stalin's treaty for the first time since it was
s?igned 13 years ago, Mr Khrushchev threatened not only
Finland but made a typical cold-war gesture against Norway
and Denmark, and to a slightly lesser extent Sweden. His
eventual aim may be to neutralise the Baltic.
TThis Scandinavian blackmail is comparatively new, but the
A conditions for it have been growing for over a year. In
Denmark the new Socialist People's Party which, vociferously
anti-German, advocates neutrality and total disarmament for
Denmark, already holds 11 of Parliament's 175 seats. The
Social Democratic-Radical coalition Government, while
unswervingly loyal to NATO as a whole, is uneasy about the
new Danish-German joint Baltic command.
In Norway, an anti-German group within the ruling Social
Democratic Party, advocating disarmament and withdrawal
from NATO, broke away, formed its own party (the Socialist
Opposition Party) and won two seats in the general election
last September. This broke the absolute majority which the pro-
Western moderate Social Democrats had enjoyed for 12 years.
Across the border in neutral Sweden there has been a
proliferation of pacifist organisations which, like the new
Danish and Norwegian parties, accept Russia's propaganda that
West Germany is a menace in the Baltic and that Sweden
should disarm and rely on the United Nations. These organisa-
tions now even dwarf the Communist-run Swedish Peace
Committee.
These unilateralist organisations in Sweden, Norway and
Denmark now have the additional argument that unless the
Baltic Sea is “pacified," as Mr Khrushchev advocates, Russia
will be forced to push her Baltic outposts westwards and
tighten her hold on Finland in pure self-defence against
Germany's growing might. As many people in Norway and
Denmark still remember bitterly the German occupation, and
many in Sweden fear any Russian advance into the Baltic,
these arguments will not fall on deaf ears. Especially if the
fears are aggravated by a “sincere" group of pacifists and
unilateral disarmers who may appear to some as true patriots.
OCANDfNAViAN fear of Russia, acute in the Stalinist era, has
been lulled but not removed by Mr Khrushchevs co-
existence policy. Any stationing of Soviet troops on Finnish
territory or any radical interference with Finland’s independ-
ence might revive these fears, tighten the bonds between
Denmark and Norway and their West German allies, strengthen
the Swedish military leaders’ arguments for tactical nuclear
weapons and, possibly, drive Sweden into NATO.
This would swing the balance of power in the Baltic
sharply against Russia. President Kekkonen said in a broad-
cast after the Russian note was received that Russia had made
no claims for bases on Finland's territory and she still respected
her neutrality. Russia is said to have given Finland new
assurances in this sense, but the crux is: how does Russia
define neutrality?
Does it mean that Finland may not only remain outside
the Warsaw Pact but also continue to recognise neither West
Germany nor East Germany? Does it mean that she shall
not be induced to link her radar with Russia’s warning system
or to agree that, should war break out, her armed forces shall
automatically be placed under a joint Finnish-Russian com-
mand? Does it mean that she shall continue to exclude
Communists from her Government, although they are the
largest party in Parliament?
Most dangerous of all, does it mean that the Finnish
Government will be bluffed into seeking to influence the
Swedish Government away from tactical nuclear arms or any
other measure likely to strengthen Sweden's defences against
any eventual invasion from the East?


FORUM
HOW THEY WON
ELECTIONS
The Quest for the Key
By HENRY MAYER
'SfyTHEN, at 8 p.m. on December 9, Australia’s 3000 polling booths are
locked, the parties will have spent at least ,£500,000 in trying to sway
voters. The small proportion of activists among the 300,000 nominal branch
members will have canvassed, spoken at corners, distributed 20-25 million
pamphlets and dodgers, handed out umpteen million how-to-vote cards.
Members and their 290 challengers, in all electorates, will have sweated.
Some much more than others : in one seat a swing of 50 votes or 0.7 per
cent, means a change, in another 28,000 votes or 32 per cent.
Then it will be the turn of the election analysts: journalists who must
guess by Sunday morning; the Liberals impressive professionals operating
on a shoe-string; Labor’s amateurs of goodwill gazing into the crystal ball.
Will there be an increase or a decline in the D.L.P. vote? Who will control
the Senate? What is happening in the outer suburbs, increasing in popu-
lation, full of “young marrieds”?
hthe few Australian political scientists
working in this field will come last.
They want full results, and if they are
to work in any depth, they must over-
come many obstacles. Australians are
among the least curious people about
their own social structure —usually a sign
that few people feel really profoundly
unhappy about it. Statistics relevant
to social structure are poor, out of date,
not classified by electorates; you can
r.ot find out how a migrant-Catholic con-
centration votes in Federal elections: no
statistics for polling booths are given. Pre-
ferences are not even indicated for sub-
divisions, only electorates. For a State
such as Queensland, a key State in 1961,
no decent comparison between State and
Federal voting is possible. Full surveys
need funds no one even dreams of.
Hence, electoral research is not the
best bet for young Australian political
scientists. It does not yet carry top pres-
tige: none of our people would dare as
they do elsewhere to fix the label of
Psephologist on to himself.
The achievement of the four studies
just published must be considered in the
light of all this. “Australia Votes” begins
with a bang. As a book on the present
party system, an attempt to set changes
since 1954 within a general framework, it
is first-rate and important. As a study of
the 1958 election’s impact on the system,
it is pietty patchy.
Dr Rawson begins with a theoretical
chapter on what our system w'as for 50
years and how far, under the impact of
the changed character of unionism and
the D.L.P. It is in transition. His interpre-
tation, which I do not share, is highly
intelligent. It is subtle, and a few sentences
must distort it: Our traditional party
system was based on two groups, divided
by social class. In it, the A.L.P., through
its special relations with the unions, pro-
vided the element of stability, stamped a
class character on the whole system. It
also ensured the Federal predominance
of non-Labor because it was subject to
endemic disruption. Trade unions inter-
ested in general social reforms put up
with a party mostly out of power. As
their interests narrow, this is less likely.
Moreover, the persistence of the D.L.P.
challenged the whole system of class-
based parties. 1958 suggested that the
Australia Votes. The 1958 Federal
Election. D. W. Rawson. M.U.P.-A.N.U.
275. 6d. paperback, 455. cloth.
Parties and People. A Survey based
on the La Trobe Electorate. Creighton
Burns. M.U.P. 18s. 6d. paperback.
Victoria Votes. The State Election of
15 July, 1961. James Jupp. Aust. Pol.
Studies Assoc. Monograph 3. ss.
Catholicism and Australian Politics.
Robert R. Alford. Berkeley Journal of
Sociology, 6 (1), Spring, 1961.
D.L.P. cannot become a third party, and
will in due course return to the A.L.P.
on the best terms it can get. Yet the
long-range trend may be towards “two
parties based upon social status but with-
out the peculiar class quality which the
A.L.P.’s trade union affiliations had given
Australian politics for fifty years.”
An excellent survey of the state of the
parties today follows. There is a lot of
new material in it, and it is full of nice
touches of dry wit. Thus Dr Rawson
notes that a most impressive political
machine, such as the South Australian
Liberal and Country League which has
as many full-time employees (28) as the
A.L.P. throughout Australia, has “one
serious shortcoming”: Federally, S.A. is
most likely to vote Labor. In W.A. a
weak organisation gave strong political
success. All parties are going in for “de
facto extensions” and are more and more
getting ideas on policy and strategy from
non-members. Dr Rawson links the
parties’ formal structure with the econ-
omic resources required to work it. If
you wonder why the A.L.P.’s Federal
machinery is so weak, you will find a
convincing answer here.
Maybe it is because the first two long
chapters are so excellent, that the bulk of
the book is a bit of a letdown. Competent
as a record on policies, campaigns, and
the role of the clergy, it tends to get thin
on the analytical side. The attempt to
link 'he influence of the Catholic hier-
archy at the local level with the D.L.P.
vote does not come off; its weakness is
shown pretty clearly by the treatment of
W. A. Chapters on mass media are unim-
pressive even as a record. However, the
major complaint is on the analysis of
results: This concentrates on the Senate,
Country, and D.L.P. vote, material on
the A.L.F. and Liberals being incidental.
That omission weakens the book as a
work of tecord, and, perhaps more impor-
tant, seems to leave the exciting thesis
about changes in the party system hang-
ing in mid-air. The analysis of the
Country vote, compulsory reading for
anyone who has ever generalised about
it, conflicts with the basic concept of
“class-based” parties.
There are two case studies of marginal
Labor electorates: Parkes (Mr P. B.
Westerway) and Brisbane (Messrs. C. A.
Hughes and B. A. Knox). Their findings
are not related to the main text though
they clash with it on, for example,
whether A.L.P. propaganda was much
more centralised than that of the Liberals,
or on what stress was put on Communism.


The failure to relate the results of the
sample survey of Parkes to three other
1958 Parkes surveys is a great pity.
Maybe all this shows that it is too early
to write a satisfactory single-handed
book on a Federal election. But Dr
Rawson faced a very tough task —the
only other Federal election analysed in
print is that of 1929 —the work is full of
information, and the discussion of the
parties should do a great deal to lift this
subject above the gossip level. The Parkes
survey is a “must” for all do-gooders,
organisation men, and writers of indig-
nant letters to the editor.
“I>arties and People” is based on the La
-* 1 - Trobe Federal by-election of April
1960 The first part, clearly considered as
less important, and described as “detailed
reportage rather than analysis” in Pro-
fessor W. Macmahon Ball's preface, is
by far the best. It is the most perceptive
analysis of a campaign, the types of
people involved, and campaign “styles”
we have had so far, managing to link all
three. It clearly reveals the clumsiness and
comparative mediocrity of earlier
attempts to analyse campaigns in Gwydir
and Eden-Monaro. The idea of “campaign
styles”—ranging from cool-cat Liberals to
the aggressive commitment and com-
pulsive activity of the D.L.P. —is refresh-
ing and comes off completely. The
writing is civilised, a joy to read, full of
apercus of the sort one might hear when
the Saturday night function has got into
full swing.
The chef d'oeuvre, part two, which
probes the social characteristics and
political commitments of the voters is
a different matter. The statistical material
is worked so far beyond any reasonable
limits, the interpretation becomes so
forced, that one ends reading feeling a
Sunday kind of hangover. La Trobe had
59,644 electors. Random-sample inter-
views were completed with 267 people in
the Ringwood subdivision, whose enrol-
ment figures, if stated, we could not find.
The major puzzle is not so much what
happened when 15 random D.L.P.
were added to 47 door-to-door ones, for
we are properly cautioned here. Rather,
it is never clear how far statements are
supposed to apply only to Ringwood,
how far to the “peculiarly diversified
electorate.” An appendix promises
enlightenment but adds obscurity. Most
important, many interpretations are here
bolstered by percentage figures only,
drawn from very small numerical sub-
samples. They seem distinctly fishy in
many cases. (Though the over-all broad
figures seem all right).
More generally, much of the material
just will not bear the over-subtle interpre-
tations put on it. Each hunch becomes a
grand discovery. Though there are more
genuine insights than in most books of
this kind, one has to be pretty patient to
separate them from the fantastic pirouet-
ting.
For instance, reasons for voting are
classified into responsive, situational, per-
sonality, and ideological: Excellent.
Then seven sub-categories are added.
Still all right. But the author does not
know when to stop. “Characteristic
variations in the electorate’s picture of the
political process” are said to be implied
in these categories. For the “ideological"
voter, for instance, politics “was an
almost life-and-death affair ... a clash of
fundamental forces...” Then this is
supported by examples such as : Weil, I
think Liberalism has too much capital-
ism.”
There are ideological voters whose
political image has the implications stated
here. (Let the author look at Mr James
McAuley's paper given at the recent Sixth
Christian Social Week). But none turns
up in these pages. Is Melbourne life so
boring that a subconcscious longing for
a dash of the apocalypt has been pro-
jected on to the voters? Part two looks
very much like two people trying to mix
a cocktail whose ingredients are genuine,
at times even brilliant, insights derived
from psychoanalysis, sociology, and
aesthetics, plus a strong dash of statistics
and scientism.
The result is a mess, but —something
which can be said of very few electoral
studies —a stimulating mess. “Parties and
People' is irritating, but it will not send
you to sleep.
“Victoria Votes” is written at a quite
different level, and does what it sets
out to do very well. It supplements the
other works, bringing out the differences
between State and Federal elections. Mr
Jupp concentrates on the analysis of the
results, where the A.L.P., expecting to
win 16 seats, lost 1, and the D.L.P. vote
once more increased—from 14.4 per cent,
to 17 per cent. (If Victoria had propor-
tional representation, the D.L.P. would
have gained 11 seats. It has none.) In
Victoria, it is the D.L.P.’s second
preferences, important in 26 out of 39
Liberal (L.C.P.) seats, which make
“stable government” possible.
Mr Jupp's main contribution is that
his analysis is carried out in terms of
“belts”, or regions: In the rapidly ex-
panding outer suburbs, with young
marrieds and fluid loyalties, the A.L.P.,
in spite of stressing hire-purchase,
municipal services, and education, is
eroding—but the Liberals also face a
slow decline. Liberals are making little
progress in the country, the A.L.P. is
gaining in some country belts, and has
cut a swathe through old, distinctly
“split-minded” D.L.P. strongholds.
Victoria’s D.L.P. seems to be attracting
—the evidence is not conclusive—in-
creasing support from three expanding
sections: Youth, Catholics, and Migrants.
In some places its vote is now higher
than the total Catholic population. It
may be gaining from both major parties:
from the Liberals in middle-class suburbs,
from the A.L.P. in working-class ones.
There is no necessary clash between
Dr Rawson's and Mr Jupp’s views since
a third (or fourth, if the Country Party
is listed separately) party might establish
itself in one State, be important for
State elections, and yet fail to break into
the Federal system. All the same,
apart from a pretty devastating analysis
of the lack of relation between the
hopes and money poured into Labor’s
campaign and its lack of impact, Mr
Jupp does seem to suggest that in spite
of more muted Church intervention the
Victorian D.L.P. is growing at the ex-
pense of both older parties.
The article by Dr R. Alford, an Ameri-
can sociologist, on "Catholicism and
Australian Politics” is based on data
unpublished in Australia. Through their
use, Dr Alford is able to separate the
votes of manual and non-manual
workers, Catholic and non-Catholic.
Switchers to the D.L.P. are in higher
income positions, and more socially
mobile. The D.L.P. hence serves a
transition function, enabling newly
middle-class Catholics to break their
traditional A.L.P. allegiances. “Tradi-
tional religious and ethnic loyalties to
Labor are weakening under the force
of social class disequilibrium (hence),
the third party signifies that a stronger
relation between class position and
politics is crystallizing.”
A few generalisations emerge from
these studies.:
First, for most voters politics has
little meaning. They are hardly per-
sonally involved. They do not feel any-
thing which concerns them is at stake.
They expect little from a change of
Government. They do not know party
policies, and, where they have a rough
idea of them, do not, on most issues,
feel that the party they vote for would
do much better at implementing them
than the other mob. They do not talk
much about politics.
Parkes electors were asked to name
candidates and their parties. Mr Leslie
Haylen had been a member for 15 years,
pretty prominent, involved in many con-
troversies. The Liberal candidate had
campaigned strongly. But no candidate
was named correctly by 47 per cent, of the
Labor men asked, 58 per cent, of Labor
women, 50 per cent, of Liberal men, and
55 per cent, of Liberal women.
Secondly, there is very little relation
between the issues raised by the parties
(even when they can agree about what
they are and mean), and stressed by
them, and the issues the voters mention.
If there is one thing which all electoral
studies in all industrialised democracies
agree on it is that specific, detailed
policies are so many words lost in the
air. They do not win votes.
That most voters see little differences
between the parties is also supported by
the point that some of those who do see
issues as parties do, and have any ideas
on how to cope with them, tend to
suggest solutions which cut across party
lines: Liberal voters may recommend a
Labor solution to inflation, and vice
versa.
Thirdly, if there is a relation between
voting and the efficiency of a political
machine or the effort put into a cam-
paign, it is not the commonsense one:
a strong machine and campaign may
gain nothing, a weak one a lot. The
Federal system adds complications here:


Dr Rawson suggests that, since no State
Government (except Tasmania) has yet
survived in Australia for more than a
decade without rigging the electoral
system in its own favor, grievances at
the State level pile up, cannot dislodge
the State Government, and spill over
into the Federal sphere. Mr Jupp shows
how Mr Bolte was anxious to disown
any Menzies-Bolte axis. N.S.W. Liberals
for a long time have tried, without much
luck, to make N.S.W. voters’ blood
run cold at the sins of Federal Labor.
But it may work the other way round.
This will provide more fun for future
research: If, as has been maintained
with considerable skill, the attempt to
ban the Communist party in the 1951
referendum was defeated because of
the Government’s dairy policy, it might
well be that those people who believe it
makes a difference to Australian foreign
policy as to which party is in pow'er, may
have their wishes denied or granted be-
cause of what has happened to schools,
roads or what-have-you at some State
level.
For party activists the campaigning
and voting is a priestly exercise, as Mr
Burns suggests, for most voters it is a
ritual from which they expect little, but
a minority feels it must apologise for its
indifference. Some are personally in-
volved : The D.L.P.’ers, the middle-
class, middle-aged, the people who are
active in other associations.
Whether one thinks that the voters are
isolated from the parties or vice versa
is a matter of opinion. So is the bearing
of all this on the question of “ration-
ality.” It is just conceivable that most
voters are right in their views of parties
and politics, just barely possible that the
parties are crazy and the voters quite
sane. When Dr Rawson and Mr Burns
talk about the parties “overestimating”
the rationality of the voters they do not
give this horrible possibilty even a glance.
A pity.
Both books fasten on the “party image”
as the likely determinant of voting be-
havior, Mr Burns very boldly indeed (“the
key to an understanding of voting
behavior and to electoral success for
any political party”), Dr Rawson with
so much caution that he manages to have
three conflicting bets in two sentences.
For him the voters’ party image is that
“of men and women who are like them-
selves, or whom they would like to
resemble, or with whom, for some
reason, they prefer to associate them-
selves in the act of casting their votes.
Many people, of course, vote as they do
for some other reason, and they may
quite well vote for a party composed of
people very different from themselves ;
even, conceivably, because they are
different.” And Mr Burns’s “key” is,
perhaps, not so bright and shiny either,
for he was unable “to judge exactly what
it is that goes into the construction of
these images . . .”
It’s all right, I haven’t got the answer
either.
LETTERS
A VICIOUS REVIEW
Sir,
It is a pity that the letter from Vice-
Admiral Baillie - Grohman (Bulletin,
November 25) does not answer one
specific point in my review of “Greek
Tragedy.”
So that your readers may get the
proper picture, may I summarise them
briefly:
(a) there were innumerable literal
errors and on page 100 a paragraph was
repeated, slightly altered the second time.
(b) that the criticism of General Vasey
was completely unjustified and should
not have been made.
(c) that where the book differs from
Official Records I preferred the official
records (this is not my usual experience).
(dt) that from my own experiences at
Port Raphtis the book is inaccurate.
(e) that the Australian Captain of
H.M.A.S. Perth was blamed for a mis-
take for which he was not alone
responsible.
Now I agree that there can be two
interpretations about most military
actions but often these were questions
of fact.
Admiral Baillie-Grohman does intro-
duce a new point in his letter, a Mr
Aveling, Naval Warrant-Officer. I did
not have the pleasure of meeting this
officer as all my contacts with the Navy
were through Lieutenant - Commander
Wilmott, R.N. (whose charts, given as a
parting gift, I still treasure and am pre-
pared to show with pride to anyone—
as some of my friends know). The report
from Mr Aveling that my H.Q was
“about one mile back from the beach”
gives me the clue to why the report about
Port Raphtis was so inaccurate. The
R.N. personnel were given specific in-
structions that they were not to leave
the beach so they would not know where
my H.Q. was. Our plan was that at a
certain hour after darkness I would come
to the beach and co-ordinate plans for
the evacuation. I neither knew nor
inquired where the naval personnel went
and they had no means of knowing
where I went All my contacts with
naval personnel were at the edge of the
water. In point of fact, as many people
in Sydney know, my H.Q. was at the
junction of two tracks leading from the
beach about 200 yards from the beach.
I had a forward H.Q. under command
of Captain (later Lieutenant-Colonel)
Alastair Burge of the N.Z. Forces about
two miles from the beach.
In my review I had nothing but praise
for the parts obviously written by
Admiral Baillie-Grohman. I see no reason
for changing this view. And I see no
no reason for altering one iota the views
about the book expressed in the review.
It was not intended to be a petty
review and I do not think it was vicious.
I still consider it one of the worst books
I have ever read and in my present
position I read more than 100 a year.
A. W. SHEPPARD
Chatswood (N.S.W.).
THE TAYLOR AFFAIR
Sir,
Your Launceston Correspondent’s
cover of “The Taylor Affair” (Bulletin,
November 18), is again confirmed by
later happenings within the A.R.U. and
the A.L.P. The rank and file are hotly
pressing R. C. Taylor for his associations
with Communism. The official lack of
action by the A.L.P. State Executive
shows it a “palsied A.L.P.” indeed. R. C.
Taylor has intended, said, and done
enough to warrant expulsion according
to Rules 6 (v) and 8 (ii) (a), but my tip
is that the Federal and Tasmanian A.L.P.
proves too “palsied” to deal with those
members who openly bring the party
into contempt and disrepute.
K. DUIGAN
Hobart (Tasmania).
Sir,
How odd that we in southern Tasmania
must rely on the mainland Bulletin to
read about “a trick by Communists and
unity-ticketers” in Tasmania. There have
been further developments in a contro-
versy that has gone on since “proceedings
came into the open on October 4,” and
not a word of it in “The Mercury.” Per-
haps R. C. Taylor and the A.L.P. have
some particular influence in “Mercury”
politics.
STAN S. TREAKE
Cygnet (Tasmania).
Sir,
When political observers are talking
about the much hoped for unity of Labor,
you are doing the Labor movement a
service by exposing in your nation-wide
magazine another example of Labor-
Communist collaboration, (“The Taylor
Affair,” Bulletin, November 18).
By placating the Left in failing to expel
Taylor, the knavish A.L.P. Executive is
dooming the party in the eyes of the
electors, and will destroy the short-lived
respectability that it gained with Fitz-
gibbon’s win in the W.W.F.
Until the A.L.P. exorcises itself from
Communism, it looks as if it will con-
tinue to enjoy its Nemesis, the denial of
the Government of Australia.
P. J. BESNEHAN
Moonah (Tasmania).
THE UNDERTAKERS’
CONFERENCE
Sir,
1 regard people, who look on death
and funerals as in themselves up-
roariously funny, as immature. How-
ever, any subject can be a source of
humor if one incongruous fact be placed
in neat juxtaposition to another. The


more accurate the reportage the more
acutely humorous the result.
However, when facts are replace ’ by
inaccuracies the humor falters and is lost.
1 am sure no reasonable person reading
my letter from which your writer, Peter
Kelly, made lengthy quotations would
agree with his suggestion that I
“moaned” about the bad debts carried
by funeral directors. Having succeeded
in being wryly amusing he felt the neces-
sity of squeezing the last jaded drop
from his subject and made a statement
matching in accuracy that which sites
my business in Strathfield, an error
obvious to qni;e some thousands of
people. I mrght add that my attitude to
some aspects of our taxation is un-
changed, but the Department has evolved
new and ingenious methods of extraction
by means o which the victim is drawn
down and devoured without a ripple dis-
turbing the .still surface of the pool of
our political life.
LESLIE S. ANDREWS
Ashfield (N.S.W.).
A NEW CULTURAL DEAL
Sir,
One of the comments made by Max
Harris in his article “A New Cultural
Deal?” (Bulletin, October 28) must not
be allowed to go unchallenged. It is
unfair to ask any reader to believe that
all the classic serials acquired by the
A.B.C. from the 8.8. C. are “slow, pon-
derous, poorly acted and crudely mounted
affairs.” It is scarcely credible that such
a variety of dramatic material, actors,
producers and technicians could result in
such stereotyped failure. Unfortunately,
this statement is typical of the whole
article.
“The 8.8. C. has not sold anything to
Australia which approaches the origin-
ality of the Robert Herridge Theatre or
the C.B.S. Workshop”—read in conjunc-
tion with the assertion that “the 8.8. C.
is an erratic, if not poor, source of high-
level programming,” the former statement
implies that originality is to be prized
for its own sake, which is very doubtful
as some of the less-successful episodes
of the Robert Herridge Theatre clearly
show.
This type of unenthusiastic criticism,
consisting partly of sweeping generalisa-
tions not adequately supported, should
not be put forward by anyone who is
genuinely interested to promote a new
cultural deal. In the meantime, there are
many who would welcome a new
critical deal.
L. HANNON
Peak hurst (N.S.W.).
DRIVING OUT THE DYBBUK
Sir,
What a pleasant coincidence! To pick
up not one but two magazines, “Time,”
“The Weekly Newsmagazine,” and The
Bulletin “Registered in Australia for
transmission by post as a newspaper,”
and find critiques of plays by Paddy
Chayefsky (Bulletin, November 18).
While “Time’ lets Mr Chayefsky off
lightly, admitting that he “does possess
high gifts of humor, characterization, and
a sense of the dominion and perplexity
of faith,” Mr Kevon (“the artist’s job is
to make his audience feel truth”) Kemp
doesn't let the same Mr Chayefsky off
so easily. “A superficial playwright of
the day,” writes Mr Kemp, “whose mock-
honest film stories ‘Marty’ and ‘The
Goddess' have deceived many people as
to his depth and craftsmanship.’
I don’t mean to chide Mr Kemp. He
seems to have come in for sufficient com-
ment of late. And every man is entitled
to an opinion, though it is difficult to
disagree with those who find that Mr
Kemp’s observations may have done
serious damage to the endeavors of
amateur theatre groups. I wish simply
to draw attention to several dangling
threads, spun with the sparkle of a clever
phrase-maker, but difficult to assess in
what by necessity should be an objective
assessment of a single theatrical exper-
ience in the general terms of theatre and
its production. Mr Kemp never tells us
what he believes Mr Chayefsky possesses
in place of his “depth and craftsmanship.'’
Mr Kemp also does not suggest what
theatrical sound would sound more like
a Ram's Horn than the recorded sound
of a Ram’s Horn. But what seems most
surprising is Mr Kemp’s affected sur-
prise that the alternate Tenth Man should
be a Jewish New York policeman. What
did you mean, sir? Are you saying.
“Come, come, Paddy, there must be a
better way of getting another Jew into
the play.” Or do you doubt that a random
choice among New York’s constabulary
might turn up a fair proportion of those
of the Jewish faith?
What I mean is, what are you trying
to say, Mr Kemp?
GEORGE MALEO
Roseville (N.S.W.).
A POLISH CONTROVERSY
Sir,
As the New Citizens’ Council of Aus-
tralia has been drawn into the con-
troversy between your correspondent, Mr
Bajkowski, and a Mr Piotrowski, repre-
senting the promoters of a new Polish
association, the A.P.A.A. Inc., we hope
that you will afford this Council an
opportunity to explain our position.
Both Mr Bajkowski and his critic seem
to be adversaries in the service of two
differing brands of the same old Polish
nationalism, therefore both seem to be
equally prejudiced against the New
Citzens’ Council and embarrassed by the
fact, which they discreetly avoided to
mention, that the N.C.C. is by far the
largest and probably the most effective
movement of migrants in Australia.
The membership of affiliated units of
this Council consists of many thousands
of people, born in some 36 different
countries, including Australia, Germany,
Yugoslavia, Italy, Poland, Hong
Kong, Scandinavian countries, etc.
We do not ask whether a person
was born of White Russian parents
in China or of Jewish parents in
Poland —these barriers, so important to
our nationalist adversaries, are much
below the humanist standards of this
Council. We cater for the largest possible
variety of ethnical groups and our main
interest lies in the defence of human
rights and liberties and in a continuous
striving for the welfare of the people, who
come to us in great numbers, seeking
assistance in their needs and problems.
We will not join the hornet nest of
Polish or other nationally organised
societies, where personal intrigues and
rivalries of leaders seem to play a
dominant role. We already know of
several gentlemen in Sydney and Mel-
bourne who profess to speak on behalf
of “all Poles” in Australia. Now they
have been joined by another gentleman,
this time from Adelaide, basing his
leadership on a reputed membership of
360. Tomorrow, another leader may
emerge in Wagga Wagga or Ballarat. As
long as they enjoy it, let them have their
fun.
But we of the New Citizens’ Council
know that the task which we are per-
forming, without means and against all
obstacles, is to assist in helping people
and in building a future Australia, good
and just for all.
J. S. BBIELSKI
(General Secretary,
New Citizens’ Council of Australia)
Sydney.
LEND THEM YOUR EARS
Sir,
In her review of Hugh Atkinson’s “Low
Company” (Bulletin, November 25),
Nancy Keesing criticises the book for
mixing farce with horror. Surely this is
essential to the book’s theme —bohemia.
This is what bohemia is like (or all of life
for that matter). What would Nancy
Keesing say of Evelyn Waugh, who is
pretty obviously Atkinson's spiritual
father?
RONALD SANDS
Boronia {Victoria).
THE SORCERER’S APPRENTICE
Sir,
I offer my sincere apologies to you
and to Mr Barcan for an error in my
review of “The Challenge to Australian
Education.”
In transferring “The Sorcerer’s
Apprentice” from long-hand into a typed
script, a paragraph was omitted, thus
causing Professor Butts’ words to flow
from the pen of Mr Barcan.
The passage should have read:
\ . . with excessive timidity: “Is there,”
he asks, “a case for some degree of
national control of curriculum and
standards? The increasing interchange
of pupils between different parts of Aus-
tralia might suggest this.”
‘Professor R. Freeman Butts, viewing
the situation from without, said already
in 1955: . . perhaps the time is ripe
for a re-examination of the role of the
Federal Government . . ’
I do not know whether sorcery was
at play here too ; at any rate, the over-
sight has left me thoroughly confounded.
I can only hope I shall live it down, and


Are YOU one of the
10% of THINKING VOTERS
who make governments?
The Hon. J. McEwen ,
Country Party Leader
and Minister for Trade
Consider then:
A Sound Rural Economy
Keeps Your Town
Prosperous
Local men-on-the-land pro-
vide jobs for shop assistants,
truck drivers, bank staffs
in fact most jobs depend in
one way or another on the
ability of primary producer
to sell his products and
spend his money locally.
Rural Prosperity
Brings Better
Living Standards
The Country Party’s efforts
to keep costs stable have
met with a great deal of
success in the face of
inflationary pressures.
Primary production is ex-
ported to an ever-increasing
number of markets. Rural
prosperity keeps our towns
prosperous, puts money in
everyone’s pocket.
Sound Export Policies
Vital To Our Way
of Life.
Mr. McEwen, Minister of
Trade, is a proven, able
administrator. He is well
qualified to steer our export
policies through the difficult
period ahead. (Britain’s
entry into the European
Common Market is but one
example.) Successful export
policies reflect increased
rural prosperity let's
keep it that way.
Country Interest
Come First
Our Country Party candi-
date is a knowledgeable
country man. His voice
cannot be controlled by city
electorate majorities. He
works for rural prosperity
to keep towns like ours
thriving. But more than
that, he is dedicated to
Australia’s progress.
Only the Country Party is entirely free to
work for Country Towns and Districts.
COUNTRY PARTY
means a PROSPEROUS COUNTRY
On December 9
VOTE
1
' " ,r
Country Party
Authorised by J. F. Dredge, 42 Bridge St., Sydney
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY, LTD.
(A member of Commercial Union Australia Group)
ESTABLISHED 1812
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Alt Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS' AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly arid Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
F. S. WATSON, Manager
that both parties will act in the spirit of
the approaching Season.
MARGARET DIESENDORF
Eastwood (N.S.W.).
THE BEEF ROAD
Sir,
I would very much appreciate it, if
you could mention in the next copy of
The Bulletin the fact that the length
of the Pioneers' Highway from Camoo-
weal to Bourke is 1000 miles (not 100 —■'
page 10, issue November 11).
JOYCE L. LEWIS
(Honorary Secretary, Federal
Inland Development Organisation)
Gilgandra (N.S.W.).
WILCANNIA OR BUST
Sir,
In her denunciation of “Thataway the
Kings Go” (Bulletin, November 18),
Madeleine Armstrong has slipped in a
couple of dirty ones below the belt—l
mean the references to the play being
“Australian” and the fifth “Australian”
play to be done in Melbourne recently.
Though she may not realise it, those
innocuous phrases mournfully express the
fundamental antagonism of the Australian
critic to the native play.
Why do they do it? Why must they
plug “Australian” so hard when they are
giving a bad notice? They don’t harp on
the country of origin when they are
reviewing an imported piece. Why not
take the “Australian” part of it for
granted and treat the play as a play with-
out carping reference to its national
identity?
By inference, the public sees “Austra-
lian” as synonymous with “inferior,” the
next new piece to come along suffers
accordingly and the whole sorry busi-
ness piles up until “Australian” has
become a dirty word and the native play-
wright has to do battle, not only with
the inevitable reluctance of local manage-
ments to sponsor original work but also
with the blind force of an unjust. Press-
fed national prejudice.
One can hardly blame the public for
treating its country’s productions with
suspicion. After all they “saw it in the
papers,” didn’t they? “I wouldn’t go to
see that show,” says the Woman Next-
door. “It’s an Australian one, and the
Bulleteen says Australian plays aren’t
any good.”
No doubt your critic will treat this
outburst as a mere quibble and reply
that she is only concerned with setting
standards and keeping to them ; but I
can assure her that she couldn’t have
done more damage if she had taken a
shotgun into the house and blown the
head off every actor on the stage.
By now the theatre in this country
should have advanced far enough to take
nationalism in its stride and treat Aus-
tralian plays as everyday occurrences and
not some sort of esoteric phenomena.
Unfortunately, “Australian” in critical
vocabulary is now a term of abuse —far
better to leave it unsaid.
DESMOND WARWICK HOWARD
West Swan ( W.A. ).


When books and authors are discussed The Times Literary Supplement is constantly cited. Each week
it contains expert and outspoken critical comment on some sixty books. A review in The Literary
Supplement is always worth reading. Now, following the publication last year of the British imagination
—the memorable special issue devoted to a survey of the British creative mind—
THE
TIMES
LONDON
LITERARY SUPPLEMENT
announces one of the outstanding publishing events of 1961:
a special number devoted to European culture, and entitled
‘European Exchanges’
This number will survey the realm of Current European Literature and Scholarship,
spotlighting the contributions made by individual countries.
These are but some of the subjects that will arouse controversy among the cognoscenti throughout
the world:
The nature and place of criticism
The relation between East and
West German literatures
Return to the 1920’5, with particular reference
to German literature, art and music since 1945
Poland since 1956
Revival of the Arts in Spain
Poetry: sense or rhetoric
The different schools of historical writing
Reception of the French ‘new novel’ abroad
Literature in a well-adjusted
society (Scandinavia)
What the Russians are writing about, and
what they would like to write about
Literary Prizes
Christianity and literature
Reception of Freud's ideas
Italian realism and its aftermath
To readers of The Bulletin comes this special introductory offer of a FREE bonus copy of ‘European
Exchanges’ with every new subscription to The Times Literary Supplement. Please use the coupon
below. The ‘European Exchanges’ Number will be mailed to you from the Australian office of The Times',
your subscription (52 issues a year) direct from London after your order has arrived there.
Please enter a year’s subscription to The Times LITERARY SUPPLEMENT on my behalf, commencing with a
Please attach addresses of additional gift subscriptions on a separate sheet of paper.
A Greetings Card will be sent w ith each gift subscription (excellent idea for Christmas). Additional single copies
of ‘EUROPEAN EXCHANGES’ may be obtained through newsagents, or from the above address for 2s. 2d.
including postage.


OUT and ABOUT
A Man Named Jones
Because Australia has no real movie
stars we are generally spared the
spectacle of stars being mobbed, begged
for autographs, their clothing torn, and
the other childish outbursts of admira-
tion that fans shower on their idols.
The Australian equivalent of the film
star is the television performer —as poli-
tical correspondent of The Bulletin
Peter Kelly discovered the other night.
He is an old friend of Barry Jones,
Australia’s “quiz king,” the man who
keeps Bob Dyer’s show going. Barry was
in Sydney from Melbourne to tape
several shows. Kelly met him in a King's
Cross hotel at 11.15 p.m. to “chew over”
the general political situation. Jones has
been a member of the Labor party for
many years and once stood as an elec-
tion candidate for the Victorian Federal
seat of Isaacs.
In the guest lounge of the hotel they
were just settling down when a couple
of good-natured but boring under-the-
weather fellows recognised Jones. One
of the tipsy fellows told Jones what a
wonderful guy he was and so on. They
eventually went off, but two minutes later
—after some conspiratorial whispering-
one of them told Jones that he had a
question which would stump him.
Resignedly Jones put down his lemon-
squash and asked what it was. “How
long did the A.I.F. spend in Tobruk?”
Jones thought for a moment and said,
“Oh, offhand, I’d say about 170 days.”
The poor fellow looked annoyed and
rather petulantly said: “Ha, ha! It was
171.” Shortly after Jones and Kelly,
convinced they would have no peace, got
up and decided to walk around the
Cross.
They hadn’t gone far when Kelly asked
Jones why he was walking so fast. The
“quiz king” gave him two reasons: the
first was some piece of way-out psycho-
logy, a cross between Pavlov, Freud and
Dale Carnegie, to the effect that walking
in a slovenly way made one think
slovenly. The other reason was that
if he walked slowly he would be stopped,
people would shake his hand, ask him for
his autograph, and pop their “quiz”
questions at him.
Jones and Kelly, after walking all
round the side-streets in the Cross, even-
tually headed out Double Bay way. On
their way they passed a respectably-
huddled couple who were sufficiently
bored with each other to stare intently.
On their way back, they again passed
the couple and the man broke himself
free from the girl, introduced himself
and his girl to Jones and told him what
a wonderful fellow he was.
Television stars, it appears, are even
better known than our prominent poli-
ticians. On the way up to Sydney, Jones
travelled with Mr Arthur Calwell and
he reluctantly admitted that four people
at the airport had asked him for his
autograph—but no one asked Mr Calwell.
But perhaps if Jones followed his interest
in politics right through and became
Leader of the Opposition or even Prime
Minister things might be different.
The Duchess in Paris
A ustralians who meet Loelia, Duchess
of Westminster, while she is here
publicising paint, will find her a most
charming woman. However, critics of
her autobiography, “Grace and Favor,”
have suggested that it merely proves that
the bright young things of the twenties
were really not very bright.
The book does contain one anecdote
which, if it can be taken as truth, is
extremely interesting.
The Duchess is writing about visiting
Paris with the Duke. “Years later, at a
party, I met a frail-looking man who
said, ‘You won’t remember me, but I
have a very vivid recollection of you
and your husband,’ ” she writes. “He
then told me that he had once worked
at the Hotel Lotti. Late one night Benny
had rung the bell for the floor waiter
and asked for a peach. It turned out
that there was not a peach in the hotel
so my friend, who was an apprentice
waiter, was sent out into the streets and,
under threat of instant dismissal, told
not to return without at least one peach.
Of course all the shops were shut, so he
wandered forlornly about (I tell the story
as he told it to me) until he saw a
small greengrocer’s with a basket of
peaches in the window. Desperately he
rattled the door, pounded on it, but all
in vain. He dared not go back empty
handed so, as the street was quite
deserted, he picked up a cobblestone
from a heap where the road was being
mended, smashed the window, seized a
peach and dashed back to the Lotti,
happy to think that he had kept his job.
However, soon after that he gave up
trying to be a waiter and became a
writer. His name? George Orwell.”
Garden of History
Queensland businessman Mr Bill
Bolton, at present engaged in a
battle with his State Government on
road-hauling regulations, is planning a
Garden of History, dedicated to freedom.
The garden, to be set up in Mr Bolton’s
home-town of Toowoomba, will contain
trees propagated from ones which have
grown in places where freedom has been
defended. Mr Bolton will import bay


trees from iv.aratnon and Thermopylae,
olive trees from Delphi, reeds from
Runnymede, willows from Napoleon’s
grave at St Helena, pines bred from the
original Lone Pine at Gallipoli, Scotch
fir, shrubs from the Hill of Tara, the seat
of the Irish kings, and wattle from Adam
Lindsay Gordon’s grave.
The trees will be grown round a
replica of an early Australian homestead,
complete with bark slabs and shingle
roof. Contained in the walls will be a
bark slab taken from Ned Kelly’s old
home in the Glenrowan district. There
will also be a museum of early transport.
It is hoped that the Prime Minister,
Mr R. G. Menzies, will open the Garden
of History late next year.
The Singing Poles
Sydney's Poles have lately managed to
organise a good mixed folk choir,
which also boasts a dancing troupe.
The choir, called the “Echo,” leans
heavily on the latest wave of migrants,
who arrived from Poland after 1957 and
who used to sing in the well-organised
local and regional choirs. Choral singing
is as popular in Poland as in Wales, and
is taken just as seriously. Even the pre-
Gomulka Stalinists had to acquiesce and
pay out some subsidies. The “Echo”
choir includes several talented and ex-
perienced singers and conductors with
considerable organising and teaching
talent.
“Echo's” latest programme —presented
at a big public concert in Bankstown
and at several functions in Polish com-
munity centres —is largely based on the
repertoire of two national choirs
organised after the war in Warsaw and
Silesia.
Both Warsaw's “Mazowsze” and
Silesia’s “Slask” —now internationally
famous and in great demand on both
sides of the Iron Curtain —specialise in
folk songs and dances, specially arranged
by Sygietynski and Hadyn. The singers
and dancers are well paid but selection
is strict and competition fierce. More-
over, in an effort to preserve an essen-
tially young and genuinely “folk" choir,
singers are relentlessly replaced every
two years or so.
Of course, “Echo's" resources are
paltry by comparison—both as regards
selection and finance —but on the whole
the choir is doing well.
That Was Australia.
The recent acquittal by a Sydney jury
of a woman charged with shop-lifting was
a nasty knock to the Calico Jimmies
who, by means of much-advertised “sales,”
attract about 300 per cent, more than
their ordinary custom, and increase their
staffs by about 25 per cent, to cope with
the rush. At these sales the alleged bar-
gains are piled on tables and counters,
and the buyers are supposed to grab
what they want and wait till an over-
worked assistant comes along to collect
the money. The woman who was tried
grabbed a child's coat, fitted it on the
little one, and placing the coat she had
taken off the child in her basket, walked
down the shop to another counter with
the ticket staring every assistant in the
face. She was fallen upon, and accused
of stealing the coat. When the case
came on for trial the Judge pointed out
that there was no reason to suppose
the woman intended to steal the garment.
She had not left the shop; she had money
to pay for the coat and offered to pay
for it immediately she was accosted. To
have convicted her meant that any woman,
who went to these sales and selected
something was liable to be thrown into
prison. Now a lot of women who used
to rush to secure bargains will stay away,
reckoning it is better to pay the ordinary
price for the yard-and-a-half remnant
than to take the risk of appearing at
the Quarter Sessions.
—‘'The Bulletin,” August 25. 1904.
How stands the creed of “woman’s
rights” in relation to divorce? Would
the dears like to occufy the present
footing of men in regard to it? Sup-
pose Snuggles, for instance, takes divorce
proceedings against Mrs Snuggles, with
half-dozen co-respondents, the facts
being notorious? Mrs Snuggles may go to
a lawyer, who can immediately demand
from Snuggles £2O or £3O, as the case may
be, to enable Mrs Snuggles to defend
the suit! Snuggles may refuse to pay.
Madame’s lawyer applies to the Court,
and gets a judicial order for (say) £2O
(with “costs of this application,” £lO
10s.) ; also an order for alimony of (say)
255. a week till the suit is settled. Snuggles
now wants to abandon the suit as a
luxury beyond his means. Hut lie can’t!
He must pay the lawyer’s costs and the
Court's order, or—six months in jail.
Then lie must pay the alimony, or—
-12 months in jail. Beyootiful!
—“Bulletin,” September 2, 1893.
Feiffer


FOR THE OBSERVER
They're Taking Over
the Railways
Mr Fields called me into his office.
Are you sure you're fitted for
this sort of work? Pause, pregnant with
meaning Thomas, are you suited to
administrative work ?
So, for three weeks I holidayed and
when I decided it was time to work again
I found there were a quarter of a million
other hunters. Watch for Animal Glue
ads, I was told. They're always after men.
Their notice said apply at nine. I got
there at a quarter to and became 41.
The first 30 were Italians. We gathered
around the office door in groups and
singles. It was a battered, two-storey place
and it stank. Typists turned into the yard
and, when they felt our stares, hurried.
Some of the Italians whistled and the
old man next to me kept muttering:
They're like wild animals. Nothing
sacred. Flooding the country.
Wouldn t mind a bit myself, I said.
Yeah, he said, but that's different.
Then we sort of shuffled and there
were three groups; Italians, Greeks and
Others. By the time the personnel man
came out there were 60 of us. He wanted
six. He took four Italians. What's wrong
with us, mate? The personnel man
winked. I tell you. said the old man, it's
bad. The Dagoes—they're taking over the
country.
Yeah, said a tall, thick, brown-haired
Irishman, they're taking over the rail-
ways, too.
1 don’t mind them, someone muttered,
except when I’m after a job.
And still coming in, too, said the Irish-
man, when there're no jobs. He glared
around at us. We know what they were
like in the last war —don't we? Well, he
went on, where'll they run when the
Chows come?
A three man chorus of mmms, uh-uh,
he's got something there!
The hiring man came over to us. He
tried to be cheery. He was young and
grey-haired. Lousy work, boys, he mur-
mured. Then he shrugged —which said —
this’s work for the riffraff —you'll all do
better. He was hoping we wouldn’t turn
ugly and when he saw he'd won his point
he left us. A few half-hearted cries and
catcalls and we drifted away.
I walked towards the New Station; all
sooted brick, smeary windows, brown
paint, counter-lunch 12-2, Bitter Beer,
Stout for Health, and then, as if the last
two had failed, Beer Is Best.
Name’s Harry. I turned and saw it was
the old man. You a Scotchman? he
asked after I’d named myself. No, I said,
and my little thirst lisp went unexplained.
The pub was on a slight rise and over-
looked a wide lowland along the river.
To the right was a jumble of factories
and smoke, to the left was the city dump;
it was burning but there wasn't much
smoke as the air was damp. Between
the smokes were the speculators’ flats,
submarine when the tidal levees broke.
Harry w 7 as thick-set and white-haired,
he nad a big straight nose. If we go in
now, he said, there’ll be no Dago meat-
workers. I shrugged. You don’t drink?
he asked. Yes, I said. He stared. Then
you don’t mind the Dages? I shrugged.
We re near the meatworks, he said. And
it’s full of them —noisy greasy pack.
Yes, I said. And thought of scores of
them, stocky and slim, black-haired, dark-
skinned, Roman-nosed, shrilling, gesticu-
lating men in blood- and light-splattered
army-disposals clothes marching in and
out singing bits from The Barber and
Traviata.
You all right? he asked anxiously. Yes!
I shouted. He backstepped. Yes, I said.
A sort of sleet fell on us. We darted
into the bar. There were four drinkers
huddled at the end of the ill-lit counter.
They looked around. Slaughtermen,
Hariy muttered. Aussies. I said. Yeah,
he said with wonder. Yeah. He smiled
at them. They nodded back. We leant
on the bar and 1 ordered beers.
Then there was noise from the street.
Cars and trucks revving, shouts and
laughs. Harry sniffed suspiciously. Mmm?
I said.
Suddenly the bar filled with men and we
found the counter-top grooving our chests.
There was now a strange smell in the
air. Sweat and blood. Most of the crowd
wore old disposals clothing spotted with
blood, fresh and dry. We pushed back
to the wall. Dagoes all. Harry muttered. I
wouldn’t have known. I watched them
carefully but I was certain oniv one in
five was an Italian.
It was some sort of a stop-work meeting
and they were on their way home. How,
I asked Harry, can you tell who’re the
Italians? He peered at me. Eh —who’re the
Dages? 1 nooded eagerly. 1 had to appear
sane as he’d promised to take me to a
job-chance.
It's their tucker! he cried. Oh? I said.
Yes —tucker —all that oil and grease and
garlic!
Ahh, I answered. And immediately 1
could smell the garlic. It’s them who’ve
done it! he hissed. What? I asked. This
stop-work, he said, it's all their work!
How? But Harry didn’t know and
when I still looked puzzled, he said was
I trying to make a liar out of him? No,
I said. But what if they are Dages?
I knew! he shouted. 1 knew it!
You’re one of ’em yourself.
Up ya! 1 said. He spun and stormed
away. 1 followed him outside and
watched as he strode away.
I returned to the bar. It was even
more crowded and the ones in front
were passing beers to those behind. It
had become dark. Foam dripped from
the glasses as they passed overhead and
the atmosphere was all beer and b.o.
So powerful a lust gripped me for a
beer I thought it unnatural. Was the
b.o. catalytic? Was the essence cathartic?
Before my debate deepened 1 must drink
or be lost. I pushed through the crowd
and in the dimness it was like a crazy,
floating seance.
I pulled my plastic raincoat on and
tried to edge through. Who’s the bloody
comedian in the mac? someone shouted.
I thought of snatching down a glass, but
sanity returned. The room fogged.
Everyone seemed to watch me. All I
could see were eyes and foam, up-
stretched arms and glasses Someone
slopped beer on me and 1 saw it w 7 as an
Italian. As 1 moved back 1 lost half
my glass as another Italian elbowed me.
Then 1 caught a blast of garlic breath.
Hoodlums! I said. What? someone
cried. I finished my beer and went out-
side. Harry was right, 1 thought, they’re
a lousy lot. We get the worst of Europe.
I walked down to the station. Ihe


WE SUPPLY
EXPLOSIVES Log-splitting and
post-hole guns. Powder and fuse
for same. Blasting mats. Tamping
rods. Magazines. Carrying boxes.
Exploders and all accessories,
STEAM VALVES Everlasting
valve. Particularly suitable for
boiler blow-off or full on.
WATER FILTERS For farm,
household and industrial use.
TUYERES Hot air for forges.
MINING Curvilinear tables for
ore concentration. Classifiers.
Rapid magnetting machines.
TOOLS Barrows, pinch and other
bars. Jumpers, mattocks, picks,
handles, shovels, quarry tools, road-
lamps, etc.
ENQUIRIES TO
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.,
78 PARRAMATTA RD. CAMPERDOWN, N.S.W.
day was dirtier than ever. The backyards
of the little houses were full of grey
washing. Three Italian children played
on a verandah behind a front garden
of tall broad-beans. Do they carry knives
yet? I wondered. I scowled at them.
They stared back in amazement, then
burst into laughter. I glared at their
delighted faces and when I turned around
walked into a fence.
The station was grimy and dilapidated.
Paint had peeled in jagged graphs. I
hurried past the ticket office on to the
platform. Posters swelled and collapsed
as wind tunnelled under them. The only
shelter was a wind-savaged waiting room
so I shrank into a corner and pulled my
collar up.
The Stationmaster walked past on his
way to the end of the platform. He
carried his cap in his hand. He was a
short swarthy man with plastered-down
black hair. Oh no, I thought, not
another one! Not just working for the
railways, but running them!
He nodded to me, but I looked away.
Across the lines a girl in an evening dress
offered me an aspirin and next to her a
happy husband beamed as he pushed his
motor mower. A train rushed through
and sent the railbed rubbish swirling.
The Stationmaster returned before the
wind, with a vanguard of garlic. 1 then
knew I hated him. He stood near the
ticket office and looked at me, his dumpy
figure set against the wind. I looked
away, towards a poster selling regularity.
Scours were willed on him. Eyes full
of grit. I rubbed.
He was still there. He smiled, then
nodded nervously. No ticket! I snapped
He shrugged, turned and went into his
office. Bloody hide, I thought, are they
on commission now?
I huddled back in the corner and felt
hungry. A squall rattled on the roof
and somewhere a loose sheet of roofing-
iron flapped
And this blown-up greasy little sod
was taking over the railways! The
country was being overrun by them.
Bred like rabbits, too —and ran like them
in the war. Gutless. Even the pugs
can’t take a good punch. But Graziano?
One in 50 million—or however many
there are of them.
And how many at the pub would’ve
carried knives? The robbery last night
—a one-man job. One Aussie equals
three. With a limp, too —wooden leg?
—got away with 200 from an east-line
station.
A train pulled in and three people left
it. He waited for me to bound aboard :
he smiled, and the day flashed with gold.
I scowled, and the gold vanished. He
signalled the train away. The pompous
pig! I’d show him!
I waited until he returned to the office.
The cold had cramped me, so I had
to jump around a bit. My shoulders
hunched and the plastic raincoat but-
toned to the neck, I hurried to the door.
I forced it open. As soon as I stepped
inside he sprang at me and punched
me over the heart. I remember the fist
swinging at me like a leg of beef. Down
I went. I hear him dialling. I struggled
into a crouch. He jumped towards me,
huge and navy-blue. The knife! I
thought. This is it. The glinting stiletto
as it rushes home —Mum and Dad-
Tony, the twins—why did I leave home
for the city? Betty—you’ll be sorry—
all of you.
A blackness. My feet were off the
ground, I was being shaken. Was I to
hang? Savages!
Then I was a crumpled heap on the
floor against the wall. Then 1 remem-
bered and everything became clear. lie
thought—. I laughed and it hurt me.
My throat and chest ached. He scowled
at me. You wait there, he growled, and
pointed a great finger at the floor. He
returned to the telephone.
Suddenly, I scurried outside. I bolted
the door.
Through the fennel by the railway
yards I crawled until they could have
smelt me a mile away. Perhaps they all
had colds?
The evening papers were full of t'..e
Stationmaster’s pictures and the police
were reported as saying they were in-
terested in interviewing a man of my
build —there are only about three million
of us —and would he please contact
them? This man, they said, is thought
to be a New Australian, probably an
Italian.
Mmmmmmm.
PETER [?]THERS
ABORIGINALITIES
The Loneliness of
"The Loo"
Oorroloola, the Territory’s oddest out-
post, is now cut off from the rest of
the world. “The Loo’s” several hundred
happy-go-lucky Yanyula tribesmen have
been moved to a new settlement on the
Robinson River. The Welfare Branch
office went with them, taking away Borro-
loola’s only radio set. Now the remain-
ing population of ten —mostly old-age
pensioners—are isolated with no way even
of summoning a medical plane if they
fall ill.
The only remaining links with civilisa-
tion are a supply lugger which calls
from Thursday Island two or three times
a year, an occasional aircraft and a bone-
shaking dirt road which winds hundreds
of miles to the Stuart Highway and is
impassable throughout the wet season.
In the Gulf country 500 miles from
Darwin, Borroloola was a thriving river-
port at the turn of the century. Today it
is a handful of crumbling shanties. To-
morrow it will be a ghost town. But
the few old men who still live there are
philosophers.
They miss their friends, the Yanyulas.
But they have their books and their
bottles. The barramundi still run in the
MacArthur River. The sun still shines.
One, Borroloola’s unofficial “Mayor,”
Roger Jose, 67, is actually pleased at
the departure of officialdom and its trans-
mitter. “It’s quieter now” says this
homespun philosopher who walked from
N.S.W. to Borroloola 45 years ago “to
escape civilisation”; lives in an upturned
500-gallon tank ; eats strychnine (“Good
for the heart”) and loves admonishing
brash visitors; “Man’s riches are the
fewness of his wants.”


Borroloola has always been a town of
odd characters, both white and black.
Maybe it all started with the “Borroloola
Library,” three-quarters of a century ago.
This vast collection of books was mis-
takenly presented to Borroloola under a
Carnegie grant. Learned tomes were
scattered far and wide through the
Northern Territory, creating in the pro-
cess a race of erudite bushmen, who ever
since have startled strangers, studding
their campfire conversation with long
quotes from Shakespeare, Byron and
Keats.
In native eyes, Borroloola’s most
famous son was Billy Hooker, the cele-
brated rainmaker. A few years ago Billy
began a storm which flooded gardens
and wurlies. For weeks the downpour
continued. Dripping Yanyula tribes-
men ranted at Billy, who agreed to stop
the rain, but could not.
Finally the infuriated aborigines hurled
Billy, together with his sacred rainstones,
into the MacArthur River. For four
years after that Billy sulked alone in the
bush. But he returned in triumph for
the great rain-making war with Yellow
Fred which was to restore him to his
pedestal.
Billy had announced his retirement,
and was in process of selling his magic
gear to Yellow Fred. But after getting
hold of half the rain-making equipment,
Fred refused to pay (standard currency
even in the store at that time was croco-
dile skins and dingo scalps). Vowing to
“drownim Borroloola” if necessary, Billy
called on such a series of storms that
Fred, shamed before his followers, left
the district.
Spearings, wife-stealings, waddy duels
. . . “The Loo” made newspaper head-
lines oftener than many places of hun-
dred times its size.
People all over the Territory followed
with interest the career of the “Bing
Bong Monster.” This enormous croco-
dile lived in the MacArthur River, not
far from Borroloola. For years he ate
and grew fat on the herds of cattle
driven in regularly from Bing Bong
Station to feed the aborigines. Finally
a bullet ended his career.
Now the Yanyulas and the crocodile
hunters have gone. The place will never
be the same again. One by one the old
men still living there will die, each taking
with him a little piece of Territory his-
tory. For these were the bushmen.
Hearing of their isolation during one
of his outback tours, Legislative Council
Member Harold “Tiger” Brennan has
called on the Government to help them.
He pointed out that if one fell sick—
and they are very old —they had no way
now of summoning aid from the Aerial
Medical Service.
Once he knew of their plight the
Administrator (Mr Roger Nott) moved
quickly.
He announced that he would ask the
P.M.G. to make a pedal radio available
to ease the loneliness of the old men of
Borroloola,
KETH WILLEY.
TELEVISION
The Honeymoon is Over
TpiVE years ago the Australian house-
wife fell in love with a large wooden
box. It was love at first sight and in
no time it looked as if they would live
happily ever after. But, like most modern
marriages, once the honeymoon is over,
things are likely to become unstuck.
When the TV set first came, house-
wives could hardly wait to get their
families out of the house to turn on the
set from the first minute an image
appeared on the screen to the last second
at night. Husbands raged, children were
neglected, but mothers, blinking, bleary,
but happy, were spellbound.
Husbands went to work, met their
friends for a beer afterwards and watched
TV in the evenings. Wives, at home
all day, often with only the children and
perhaps the baker and postman to talk
to, were entranced.
After hurrying through the washing
and cleaning, they lapped up anything
that moved ; they watched cowboys
shooting Indians ; women making cakes
and cutting out paper Christmas trees ;
Cary Grant, aged about 18 and looking
wonderful, shooting down planes in a
World War I epic, and slick young men
making fools of middle-aged mothers for
packets of porridge.
If you didn’t own a TV set you
couldn’t understand, let alone participate
in the small talk at parties. Afternoon-
tea parties were specially arranged to see
Del Cartwright decorate a cake with
sugar violets, or Mary Rossi talk hats
with a leader of the social set. And all
right in your own lounge-rooms. They
played games, quizzes and other parlor
tricks with smooth, handsome men who
leered right “at each and every one of
you personally.”
But there is a limit to the ways to ice
a ca ke, even if, as on the A.B.C. women’s
session once, Shakespearean actor John
Alden, instead of giving the housewives
an excerpt from “Othello,” baked another
cake. If anyone this Christmas shows
me how ca t out a nother paper Christ-
mas tree!
No, the honeymoon is over with the
big wooden box. So it’s up to the TV
producers to smarten up.
After a week practically glued to the
square eye, I agree with the majority of
housewives I asked about this subject—
“ There's very little on before 6 p.m. that
I’d hurry through my housework or stay
indoors to see . . .” was the verdict.
A typical day’s viewing for the house-
wife may go something like this: Much
too busy to take a peep at the breakfast
session, but don’t like it too cheery in
“John loves a conversation."


counts!
There are major problems ahead
for Australia and for every family
• to maintain existing markets and to secure
new ones, in the face of the European
Common Market.
• to develop great new industries and new
products for sale.
• to keep our costs stable so that we can
hold our own in an intensely competitive
world.
Leadership and experience will be
vital, leadership which is heeded
and respected abroad—the con-
tinued leadership of the Menzies
Government.
VOTE
Liberal
. . . and for the SENATE
Q SPOONED,wn Q McKELLAR, t.t. @ FUDLEV, m,s.mx
... and place a number in every square
COPY ALL THE NUMBERS
ON THE LIBERAL HOW-TO-VOTE CARD EXACTLY
Authorised by J. L. Carrick
THE LIBERAL PARTY OF AUSTRALIA
the mornings. Inclined to grate. Voices
should be subdued. Children usually only
ones who have time to view at this hour
of day. By the time husband gone and
children off to school, back of house-
work broken by 10.30, time for a cup
of coffee and perhaps a relax in front
of TV. The only thing I could find was
a rather sweet session for pre-school
children who would probably be out
playing in the garden anyway. Nothing
for Mum until 11 a.m.
So I wait until 11 a.m. in the hope
of improving my mind with “Doorway
to Knowledge.” It turns out to be “The
Human Body,” by Dr Alex Frazer,
His head appeared on the TV screen
and he started to tell me about the
development of man over hundreds and
thousands of years on earth. Fascinating,
factual stuff. I watched his face. He
has a nice face, but after 15 minutes
looking him in the eye, it began to irritate
me.
His mouth is mean, I thought. “That
was during the Neanderthal period . . .”
His eyes are a bit close together, I
thought, drifting off the subject again . . .
“The reproductive cycle of the female
can be interrupted” . . . yakitty yakitty
yak . . . he was going on like this for
an hour so in spite of my interest in the
development of man I switched to the
lively and charming Carolyn Berntsen,
. The next time I viewed “Doorway to
Knowledge” it was Robin Boyd talking
of the development of architecture in
Australia. This had slides to illustrate his
talk which was a great improvement.
Neglecting my housework shamelessly,
1 had a look at Elaine White and Ray
Leighton in their “My Fair Lady” pro-
gramme and was so embarrassed for the
poor “ugly ducklings” who were being
insulted by Ray (not such a swan him-
self) 1 turned on to Tommy Hanlon in
“It Could Be You.”
In a few seconds a housewife guesssed
a tune, “It’s Wonderful,” and won a
toaster, waffle-iron, steam-iron and a hug
and squeeze from the personable Tommy.
And another housewife —“a sad case,”
Tommy said, giving her a squeeze, too —
mother of four, husband sick, etc., was
handed (she did nothing at all but giggle)
a new spring dress, shoes and handbag,
iron, toaster, £5 taxi tickets, bath-
heater, washing-machine . . . and heaven
knows what else. I turned it off in
dismay.
Perhaps a midday movie might cheer
me up. One was a Western. I like
Westerns if they are good ones with some
effort at reality with exciting riding and
good fights.
Even for a Western fan it was awful.
Obviously not good enough for after-
dark viewing so it was dumped on the
poor housewives. I turned to a spy
drama. That was exciting but so depress-
ing. Frankfurt bombed out, people being
blown to bits with grenades on a train.
So I had a quick lunch and joned
grocer Bob McCready handing out starch
and soap to quick-witted mums of Lane
Cove.
“What’s a rug-cutter?”—a packet of
dried fruit.
“Who was Margot Fonteyn?” —a
packet of breakfast food.
“Who wrote ‘As You Like It’?” —and
in no time a whole basket of groceries.
Then a try for a frige or toaster and
steam-iron. “Who wrote ‘Ugly Duck-
ling'?” No frige—she didn’t know the
answer —but she’s been on TV, probably
famous in her street now.
The “Loretta Young Show” rather like
the majority of family shows, but well
done, even if loaded with sweetness and
light. Over to the quiz boys again.
“Happy Go Lucky” with another old
smoothie, George Foster. More nervous,
simpering housewives trying for sets of
lingerie or household goods, then “Con-
centration” with Terry Dear. At least
they have to think about that one.
“Wheel of Fortune” with good old Reg
Grundy. I’d rather do housework any
day!
SHEILA PATRICK


REVIEWS
THEATRE
Eleven Unjust Men
Twelve Angry Men. Reginald Rose,
Melbourne Little Theatre.
/Criminal trials have a strong fascina-
tion for most law-abiding people. It
is not surprising, therefore, that court-
room sequences are beloved of film
makers. The traditional procedures and
ceremonial, the oratory and the digni-
fied formal dress, all combine to provide
ready-made drama. But, when the twelve
citizens who comprise the jury retire to
consider their verdict, the camera does
not normally follow them. We next see
them filing back into the jury-box to
deliver their verdict.
“Twelve Angry Men,” which was first
written for television and later made into
a film, is unusual in that it is set in the
jury-room, not in the court-room. It is
commonplace nowdays that evidence of
all kinds may be unreliable and must be
regarded with deep suspicion. It is also
well known that there have been many
cases of wrongful conviction. The play
is a dramatic demonstration of how this
could happen.
The jury has to decide whether the
prisoner, a boy of nineteen, is guilty of
the murder of his father. When they enter
the jury-room, eleven of the twelve jurors
ha'e decided on a verdict of “guilty.”
But the twelfth juror is not convinced of
the boy’s guilt. He thinks there is a reason-
able doubt. Some of the other jurymen
turn on him with fierce hostility. It is
intolerably hot. they have listened to
evidence for six days, and they have the
majority on their side in thinking that
the evidence proved conclusively that the
boy is guilty. But the Doubting Thomas,
or perhaps better The Man Of Faith,
sticks to his guns. By the end of the
third act, this one juryman has convinced
ten of the eleven others that there is a
reasonable doubt, and the verdict is
reversed.
The play is a cross between a detective
story and a problem play. In its detec-
tive-story aspect it is cleverly constructed
and very exciting. But as a drama of
ideas it is less satisfying.
The thesis of the play is that people,
as represented by the cross-section of
society in this jury, are lazy or selfish
or stupid or weak or unimaginative or
lacking in compassion or neurotic or a
combination of all these. The one man
on the jury who is imaginatively and
compassionately aware of the fact that
he is deciding the fate of a human life,
is also the man who ponders on the
evidence and finds it unconvincing. The
implication seems to be that if everyone
had imagination and compassion there
would be fewer wrongful convictions. No
doubt this is true, but then the world
would be a so much better place that
there might be no crime anyway. If
the accused of this world have to wait
until human nature is improved, they
may be waiting a long time. In the
meanwhile, it would seem easier to
build safeguards into the legal process.
The problem that is dealt with in this
play, wrongful conviction, is, of course,
one of the arguments for the abolition
of capital punishment, but this is not
mentioned. As a contribution to prob-
lems of law and morality it lacks depth
of thought.
George Fairfax’s production is tight
and swift-moving. For his actors he has
assembled 12 good men and true who
present 12 different “characters.” But
the play has lost something in its voyage
across the Pacific. The 12 jurors are
supposed to be a cross-section of society,
in this case of American society. This
sets a difficult problem for the producer.
Is he to try to present American types,
or the Australian equivalents of these
types? George Fairfax has not faced up
to this problem. The characters are
vaguely American, but the only one we
can really “place” is the European who
has emigrated to the United States, and
that is because the same Europeans have
come to Australia.
MADELEINE ARMSIRONG
Handled with Care
This Side Up. Metropolitan Revue.
Ballet Theatre. Sydney.
r T'HE trick of good revue is to realise
that revue is a sort of dream. Most
dreams are fantastic images of the hap-
penings of real life ; images which show
the implications of events. Dreams show
the dark of the moon, what might have
happened, the sinister aspect of the kind
old man, the funnybone of love.
So should good revue. Audiences go
to revue to see the other side of every-
day living. They want to see the pom-
pous stabbed, the impressive lose his
pants, the conceited flayed and life itself
dissected. The producer who realises
sharply what the topical dreamlife of
his city consists of at any given moment
is the producer of first-rate revue.
There were occasions in “This Side
Up,” latest offering of the brave Metro-
politan Revue company, when producer
Robert Southern achieved these moments
of truth.
“It Might Be You”—a send-up of
sentimental TV “your life” shows ; the
brilliant “Make Like You Are” solo by
John Lynch on Lee Strasberg and the
Method; “A Hymn to Them” a
malicious and hilarious new national
anthem for Australia ; and “North-East
Side Story” in which the company had
the courage to poke fun at religious
identities in a very funny burlesque
indeed: these had the real spark of revue.
Several other numbers flickered bravely
but never flamed as they might, mostly
due to over-heavy writing or lack of
crisp cutting. Here and there, too, some
lines were lost due to poor speaking, and
lost lines in revue are lost laughs and
a slap in the face to the audience.
Above all, however, stood out one
major fault in staging ; the curtain-rise
reveals deep “teaser” flats, running up
and down stage, and arranged so that
in effect they make an inner proscenium.
For revue, where intimacy and audience
contact is all, this double isolation made
it very difficult to maintain contact. Only
when the company came forward of
these flats did their full charm and
attack come over. I hope Mr Southern
will be able to do something about this
peculiar stage structure.
Two further changes would help the
show considerably: if the producer came
out of the cast, and so ensured that tight-
ness essential to revue ; and if the com-
pany remembered the basic rule of revue
—if it doesn't go, take it out. Several
numbers don’t go.
“This Side Up,” nevertheless, has made
a decided contribution to Sydney’s Little
Theatre, and at its best the standard
nudges Phillip Street Revue quite heftily.
More experience, more tightness, more
ability to cut and prune and the com-
pany should have fine rewards.
KEVON KEMP


FILMS
Handsome is
as Handsome Does
II Bell’ Antonio. Bolognini. Sydney
Gala.
Handsome Antonio” has been trans-
lated into a sensitive and powerful
film. The theme is an awkward one, both
morally and artistically, for impotence is
at once tragic and comic, and in any case
difficult to talk about. But the director,
Mauro Bolognini, has handled his mater-
ial with rare delicacy. He combines a
sense of personal tragedy with an uncom-
mon flair for depicting the social setting
that makes it inevitable.
The young hero, magnificently played
by Marcello Mastrioanni, returns to
Sicily after experiencing the flesh-pots of
Rome. He marries the girl of his parents’
choice: the pure and lovely Barbara,
played by Claudia Cardinale. Their love
is lyrical, but the marriage is doomed
because it is unconsummated. Like the
young prince ; n one of Tolstoy’s bitterest
short stories, the boy has lost his man-
hood in a brothel; and the experience is
traumatic. To further aggravate his con-
dition, his father is a brothel habitue
proud of his sexual prowess. In the
environment in which he finds himself,
the young man’s problem becomes a topic
of general conversation, thereby ensuring
his personal failure, and the eventual
failure of his marriage by official annul-
ment.
Bolognini moves through this psycho-
logical jungle with masterly skill, warmed
by compassion and illumined by wit. In a
film meant for adults, he avoids neither
the savage theological argument nor the
occasional vulgar jest; but he both
instructs and entertains, in what is unques-
tionably a major work of cinematographic
art. Because of this, the censor has
(almost) responded in kind: his cuts are
few, and can be filled in imaginatively by
any intelligent viewer. Nevertheless, I
would have preferred to have seen it left
inviolate. Fig leaves are an abomination
on the feast of love, rotting the fruit
before the seed can ripen,
ANTON VOGI
ART
Too Many, Too Soon
Richards Prize, Harvey Prize. Queens-
land National Gallery.
TTHE event of the year at the Brisbane
I Gallery is the annual award of the
H. C. Richards Prize and the L. J.
Harvey Prize. The former is for a work
of art in any medium and 80 works were
hung in this section; the latter is for
a drawing in any medium and here 50
entries were hung. Mr Russell Drysdale
was judge. The works in color were
predominantly abstract, the rest “repre-
sentational,” now a wicked word and
a term of reproach. The best picture in
the show was George Lawrence’s “Dry
Season, Upper Hunter : it is precisely
what the label says it is. It is beautifully
drawn and composed, in three dimen-
sions, with deep feeling for the subject
and intellectual conviction. It is a noble
picture. Next to that I liked Sali Her-
man s “Sydney Barmaid,” a sly, roguish,
happy, roly-poly young woman, aggres-
sively three - dimensional and clearly
mammalian ; she glows with a rich life
in grand color.
The prize of £250 went to Mr John
Olsen’s “Journey into the You Beaut
Country No. 2.” It is dead flat and
insufferably dull, the content consisting
of a disparate collection of aboriginal
symbols borrowed from cave and bark
paintings so that it is, in essence, a copy
of a mass of unrelated objects, like a
bower-bird s home, things pretty but
useless. The rest of this section was a
weary desert of mediocrity. Only two
raised a flicker of response in me, Judy
Cassab’s “Mirage,” swirling vortices of
!' ich c °!°[; a " d William Rose's “Pesti-
>e“ce ° f r . S a stri t‘? g >° b ’ grace ‘
delicate and careful. It is a
( alsceau of slender sharp spears of
s ! lve P' ? S rea ' rel ! ef t rom all
slapdash. I think Roses picture easily
tae dest °f the abstracts,
The drawing section was so poor I
was surprised an award was made; as
it was, Tom Gleghorn’s “Outline of
Nightfall” was the only possible choice,
This show, like the recent Sydney
Contemporary exhibition at Hardy Bros,
has aroused much comment, discussion
an d dissent, a healthy thing, but the
S ad part of it all is that at the opening
Mr Drysdale said that if the Gallery
did not buy the stuff he could not come
to Brisbane again. The Gallery director,
Mr Laurie Thomas, said publicly that
if a critic did not enthuse at once about
this abstract vogue he liked what he did
like f or the wrong reasons ; in effect,
his criticism is ill-founded and valueless.
I can see no virtue in threats and bigotry.
In every generation there is likely to be
a new art vogue and of its practitioners
five are lucky to survive ; I am waiting
for those five right now in this new and
as yet slapdash school,
The critic must be allowed to
make a cool appraisal and so
far I have seen one artist of this new
group to be worthy of my notice: I
analysed his work carefully some months
ago. For me the horrifying conformity
of alleged rebels, right down to the very
last gimmick, totally repudiates their
language of revolt and out of the vast
acreage of this slavish uninspired imita-
tion I have seen just this one, and
perhaps two more, men of promise.
What I love above all is style, an indi-
vidual voice, however crude in some
ways, an intelligence devoted to solving
the problems of the variety and tragedy
of the human condition. And, after that,
skill in communication which so many
abstracts lack ; so many of them are
jejune and juvenile and terribly mimetic.
I cannot believe that all the abstracts just
now are genuine, there are just too many
of them cropping up all too suddenly.
J. V. DUHIG
Spousal Carousal
John Brack. Bonython Gallery.
Adelaide.
■ITI7E had been told to expect social
satire, and some of us prim
Adelaidians had been nervously wonder-
ing whose behavior was going to be
mercilessly exposed. Would it be some
travesty of Mrs A. doing flowers for
debs, or Lady B. on a committee, or the
Rt Hon. Sir C.D. distributing maundy
to migrants? Perhaps (how dreadful)
something nasty about Musica Viva
audiences, or (worse) a comment on the
opening of an art show?
We sighed with relief when we saw
that the pictures had universal qualities,
and therefore were not about us in
Adelaide at all. They could be taken
as a grand perithaiamion ; a pink
romantic jumbo-sized betrothal,
marriage, and consummation ; a spousal
carousal. It was lovely. It started with
lovely glamorous bright-eyed theatrical
people and their hair-sets and teeth-sets
all polished and crowned with plastic
and looking and talking so brightly.
Then a lovely waltz began, and round
and around went a blue Danube choco-
late hussar from the Palais guard and a
girl in a rustle of spring roses from the
south, and soon everything was dancing,
dream-girls and dream-boys, bridesmaids
and best men, all teeth and epaulettes.
Calm, calm, I lahve you awhawlways.
Tales from the Vienna Woodies Teen-
time. Someone got married, and so then
there was a lovely honeymoon with in-
volved creamy pink and yellow pebbly
embraces, and now someone must be
looking for a lovely house because there
are picture-maps of suburbs on the edge
of the woods in which to live happily
ever after for a while.
Mr Brack’s paintings have style, finish,
and “go.” Seen as a series (this is his
first one-man show here) they have also
tremendous entertainment value and are
more or less explicit without the cata-
logue. He deserves his success.
As for satire ; there is very little. He
is more amused than indignant at what
he sees. His comments on subtopian
amatory values have already been
thoroughly made by the literary boys,


Estab'ished 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
•jackson &
-O'SULUV’aa
<M f/ PTYWD J
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Pape? Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOK BINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams atid Cables
-JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
73 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
II any “Bulletin” illustration
takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you
a price for the original.
but none the. less they are to the point,
and public galleries who want people in
the future to know what love and a
marriage meant to some Australians
today ought to snap them up.
EARLE HACKETT
Unadorned Strength
McCaughey Prize. National Gallery.
Melbourne.
Noel Counihan. South Yarra Gallery.
Melbourne.
r ~PHE award of the £4OO McCaughey
Memorial Prize to Melbourne painter
Roger Kemp does credit to the judge's
discrimination and will please those
familiar with this artist and his work.
He is one of Melbourne's pioneers in
abstraction and has become greatly
respected for his thoroughness, integrity
and dedication. Starting at a time when
abstraction was anything but popular in
this country, he has developed a personal
style almost without regard for inter-
national styles and movements. His is in
no way obtrusive work, yet, despite this
and the good competition he faced
among this year's entries, his prize-
winning picture, “Organized Forms,”
stood out by virtue of its formal strength
and lucid, unadorned statement of values.
it seems quite common for abstract
painters to set themselves severe limits
in the shapes and colors they use. Roger
Kemp sticks to largely rectangular forms
and to strong reds and blues. The
present work is a move away from his
previous complex organisations of what
was originally an abstracted human
form. The careful building up of depths
and intricate movements which gave his
work something of a machine-age,
futuristic flavor has been gradually re-
placed by flatter, rougher surfaces which
leave no doubt as to the abstract inten-
tion of the work. He has mastered his
shapes and colors and makes them fruit-
ful lessons in the basic visual concepts
of harmony, tension and balance.
Despite the good standard of the
other entries, none matched Kemp's
directness or strength. A number of the
abstractions, notably Molvig’s and Gleg-
horn’s, had more attractive surfaces, but
were perhaps more concerned with style
than with ideas One of the young
painters, John Senberg, seems to be
developing very interesting themes and
a striking, though somewhat oppressive
style, and the abstracted landscapes of
Fred Williams and Robert Grieves were
very charming. Bob Dickerson’s sensi-
tive child studies were among the best
of the figurative works.
Noel Counihan is showing a collection
of nudes and social commentaries at the
South Yarra Gallery. He makes no con-
cession to the fashions of today, which
is neither a virtue nor a crime. His paint-
ing is direct and vital, both in theme
and treatment. Most of the social com-
mentary is on the aged and the unem-
ployed, and this is Counihan’s best work.
What is immediately striking in all the
studies is the human dignity with which
these derelicts have been endowed. The
same love of beauty in the human body
which is manifest in his nudes is equally
apparent in the social paintings His
vivid coloring and sharp observation
convey a warm, zestful respect for life
which only a jaded dilettante could fail
to admire.
BILL HANNAN
ART COMPETITION
Entry forms for the 1962 Johnsonian
Club 100 guineas Art Competition are
available from the club, Kelvin House,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
“ Shoot!”


The Red Page
How They Live Now
By PETER SHRUBB
"Droadly speaking, there are two kinds
-*-* of people—those who love life, and
those who love God. But me no buts,
now, and define me none of your defini-
tions, for it is as I say —some people
love what appears to change, and some
what appears to outlast change. And
amongst the latter, the lovers of God,
we must number, surely, the greater part
of the human race, and all but a few of
the best writers. For change is the villain
of literature. Change and death, the
terrible handiwork of time and chance,
are as much the subject of “Moll
Flanders” as of “Oedipus Rex,” of “War
and Peace” as of “Flamlet.” Tragedies
prove that time and chance will have
their way with us ; comedies persuade
us that only other people are hurt, and
then not seriously. Tragedies, unfortu-
nately, ring truer.
Colin Maclnnes appears to love life,
and this is what makes him an unusual
writer. His novels have unusual subjects
—teenagers, Africans in England, prosti-
tutes and ponces —and he has dealt with
them in a manner at once good-humored
and zestful. He seems pleased that there
are teenagers, Africans in England, and
prostitutes and ponces ; he is not con-
cerned to judge them, but only to show
that life runs through them. It is hard
to believe in Dr Adenauer while one is
reading about Mr Maclnnes’s ponces,
for Mr Maclnnes is not concerned to
make any judgments about the society
the ponce inhabits, either. The p'eture
one has of the world from Mr
Maclnnes’s fiction is, altogether, an
exclusive and original one ; you won’t
find yourself in it anywhere.
“England, Half English”* is a collec-
tion of non-fiction pieces published, for
the most part, in “Encounter” or “The
Twentieth Century.” It, too, has a
slightly crazed air about it ; reading it
is like standing in Pitt Street having a
conversation about home units with an
old lady dressed for spear-fishing, and
carrying, in addition to a thermos and
a tram ticket, a small tree. It contains
pieces about Tommy Steele, Africans in
England, newspaper cartoon families,
teenagers, the Elgin marbles, Dr Nikolaus
Pevsner, Ada Leverson, Sidney Nolan—
Mr Maclnnes, incidentally, was brought
up in Australia —teenage dress, Sir John
Monash ; you name it, he’s got an article
on it. An attempt has been made to
unify all this by the insertion of little
connecting passages between the essays,
but the attempt fails ; the essays are too
divergent in theme.
It must be this width of net, I think,
that has impressed English critics, rather
than the quality of the catch. Mr
Maclnnes is, I am sure, a fairly extra-
ordinary man —can you imagine anyone
else writing about Tommy Steele and
Sidney Nolan, about Dr Pevsner’s books
on English buildings and the dress of
teenagers? To this extent, I suppose, he
is the descendant of Cobbett and May-
hew; he writes about things that no
one else seems to be writing about, and
puts down details of lives that we
suburbanites do not live, do not wish to
live, and therefore do not write or read
novels about. He knows, for instance,
how Africans live in London.
There is often, about these African
and West Indian interiors, tremen-
dous comfort and tremendous
squalor. The well-appointed items
are the bed, the food-cupboard and,
until all else is gone, the cherished
radiogram. The other bits of furni-
ture may be decrepit and the ward-
robe empty —even of the favorite
suit of gaberdine sky-blue, and the
shoes made of imitation snake, both
now reposing in the hock-shop. But
snapshots, pinned up everywhere
upon the walls, will grin back
bravely : Afolabi himself and friends,
manifestly “high,” all teeth and eye-
less, blinking in the night-club at the
magnesium flare ; Miss Lena Horne
and Dr Nkrumah and Sugar Ray ;
and framed on the mantelpiece, a
formal, votive group of Mum and
Dad and solemn brothers and sisters
far off in Abeokuta, or in Port of
Spain.
This is the sort of detail Mr Maclnnes
touches in very well. His prose has a
home-made air about it, but often enough
for this to be forgiven he strikes his mark
very squarely.
Kano City, seen from the air or
on Cinerama, looks terrific ; close
to, architecturally, it is something of
a disappointment—a red mud town,
to be quite frank. But this impres-
sion may soon change again: for the
size and homogeneity of the orange
and cream buildings are impressive,
and the new mosque, which one may
at first view condescendingly with
superior memories of old Islamic
glories, does gradually win you over:
its size and scale and siting in the
huge open space are so very right,
and its green dome and twin white
minarets look sensational from any-
where, with vultures, so unsavory
from near to, wheeling like sail-
planes far above it in the blue.
This is Mr Maclnnes at about his best,
I think. There is a very friendly and
conversational and actual tone about this
description that recommends it to the
casual magazine reader; and I would
not want to deny that this is a tone
not easily produced. But let me draw
your attention to the adjectives— terrific,
impressive, right., sensational, unsavory.
They are vague expressions of simple
feeling, and not descriptions at all.
This is the weakness of the book, the
weakness which God-lovers believe all
life-lovers must suffer from —shallow-
ness. The liveliness exists at the expense
of depth and accuracy. The truth is not,
after all, in the dancing light on the
waves ; it is in the tomb.
'T'he biggest idea in the book, I suppose,
is Mr Maclnnes’s idea about teen-
agers. “The great social revolution of
the past fifteen years,” he says, “may
not be the one which redivided wealth
among the adults in the Welfare State,
but the one that’s given teenagers
economic power.” But until teenagers
are in charge of the means of production
and distribution, it is a little previous, I
think, to be talking about their economic
power. The fact is, surely, that teenagers
don’t matter. They are nicer-looking
these days, perhaps, and many of them
have more money than we used to have.
But is this more than mildly interesting?
The car is much more to be thought
about than the teenager.
Mr Maclnnes, skating about between
two uses of the word “culture,” wants
us to believe that pop music is culture.
His reasons in support of this are two:
the anthropologist from Sao Paolo or
Peking would esteem it so, and Lonnie
Donegan “penetrates and moulds more
English hearts and brains” than Alfred
Deller does. Numbers matter, it seems,
not quality. But even so, to penetrate
is not necessarily to mould, and it is
doubtful if there is anything in pop music
that could penetrate, though there may
be something there that can help erase.
And a fig for those quaint anthropolo-
gists.
This interest in scenes and feelings
rather than in ideas pervades the book,
unfortunately. Hear this about your-
selves :
As everyone knows, the Australians
love bathing and surfing: what is
perhaps less well known is that every
year some bathers and surfers get
eaten, because most Australian seas
are infested with sharks: tigers, grey
nurses and hammerheads, who cruise
eagerly off-shore at 60 miles an hour.
* England, Half English. Colin Mac-
lnnes. Mac Gibbon and Kee. 18s.


LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
Established 1808 in Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen
many Battles, including
the Battle of Waterloo,
and has emerged from
them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT
MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
N.S.W. Branch:
Kimlersley House,
Bligii - O’Connell Sts., Sydney
To indulge their favorite passions,
the Australians gamble recklessly
with their lives (I have seen men
with shot-guns firing into the sea at
sharks where half an hour ago
everyone was bathing).
Infested? Gamble recklessly? No. And
notice that those damn sharks sound
just as attractive as the surfers in Mr
Maclnnes’s description. He loves what
lives. But perhaps he sees more life
where there is splashing and shouting
than he sees where there is none; if
he does, he is being hasty.
But he loves what lives, and there is
room in the world for more men like
him. How wonderful it would be if
someone in Sydney did what Cobbett
did, or what Mayhew did! How wonder-
ful to find out what sorts of lives we
lead, to find ourselves described sensibly
and purely, exactly and completely,
without having our natures turned and
shaped to a novelist's moral, a sociolo-
gist’s thesis, a social worker’s aspiration!
We are all of us too concerned with what
was and will be to pay attention to what
merely is. It is a pity, l suppose. But
what is right is more important than
what people merely do, after all.
Search for Status
The Fringe Dwellers. Nene Gare.
Heinemann. 21s.
The Porch. Richard Church. Heine-
mann. 225. 6d.
Stephen Morris. Nevil Shute. Heine-
mann. 18s. 9d.
A Matter of Succession. Patrick Crutt-
well. Dent. 18s. 9d.
nPHESE books deal with aspiration—
attained, lost or renounced. In “The
Fringe Dwellers” aspiration takes the
form of the search for status by half-
caste aboriginal girl Trilby, who, with
her sister, Noonah, leaves mission-school
to return to the home of her parents,
Mr and Mrs Comeaway, in a camp out-
side Perth. Trilby only dreams of
equality in a white man's world, while
her sister quietly and practically enrols
as a nurse at a nearby hospital.
The members of the Comeaway family
are splendidly created. The author has
caught the sunny indolence and charm
of the half-caste, and brings vividly be-
fore your eyes the broken shacks, the
squalor, the spendthrift, shiftless, warm
and generous way they live. When they
“feel like it,” the men work as wharfies
and shearers. Most of the time they
depend on gambling wins or borrowing
to get by.
Without comment, Nene Gare puts
before us a picture which arouses the
suffocating feelings of impotence and
futility. It seems it must be so, as long
as dark blood is mixed with white. Sad
and funny, warm and tragic, the story
shows that much of the destiny of Trilby
and her kind is caused by the very
temperament of the half-caste —good-
natured, slack, amoral. Few have the
drive or discipline needed to hurdle the
racial barrier.
“The Porch” is a very “literary” book.
Even the name of the hero, John Quick-
shott, is a play on “Quixote,” and with
a rather tortured effort Richard Church
has caused Quickshott’s lady-love to be
named Dol Sinnier (Dulcinea). We meet
Quickshott as a young man who has just
become a clerk in the Civil Service, and
who is soon involved with one of his
colleagues —a tubercular poet called
Mouncer. While Mouncer aspires
desperately to take his degree, studying
in his free time, young Quickshott sets
his sights at medicine. Throughout the
book Mouncer is dying, but all the time
reaching doggedly towards the degree
that will elevate him from his slum
background. The author’s weakness is
dialogue, which emerges stilted, literary
and rather old-fashioned.
Mr Church is a rampant Romantic of
the Old School, whose well-nigh beard-
less youths feel themselves to be “men
of destiny” and whose vocations of
poetry and medicine are considered
“exalted.” This “aristocracy of the
mind” is obviously one of Mr Church's
most cherished tenets. (And why not?)
His book beams with benevolence —
another outdated quality in a world
where Angry Young Men hiss like
geese. Perhaps only poets are permitted
to enter old age still wide-eyed and
ingenuous, and Walter Murdoch once
claimed that the phrase “whom the gods
love die young” meant just that. Loved
by the gods or not, Mr Church’s novel
is suffused with a quite astonishing
innocence, even for a book first published
in 1937. He writes like a literary Rip
Van Winkle who is blissfully unaware
that “Tess of the D’Urbervilles” has been
superseded by a lady named Chatterley,
and that the room at the top now stands
on the old site of the ivory tower.
With “Stephen Morris,’’ the publisners
probably hope to cash in on unwary
devotees of the late Nevil Shute. This
brace of fledgling novels, or novellas,
was the author’s initiatory effort at
writing. But perhaps Shute-lovers won’t
mind the shortcomings of this work of
their idol's apprentice years.
His style is lucid and full of
authority He compels one to care
about the failing of an aircraft company
and to be pleased when its affairs
succeed. That much of the born story-
teller he had already. However, the
thinnish story is overloaded with the
technicalities of aerodynamics. The
author (then a young man in his twenties)
has not yet learned literary good
manners, and earbashes his reader witn
chapter after chapter of his hobby-horse.
Almost churlishly, certainly with im-
patience, he throws in a shadowy love-
interest. The reader might as well take
up a treatise on the early years of
aviation for all the story he gets.
The second novella, “Pilotage,” is
again threaded on a tenuous love-affair.
Jilted by his girl, Dennison glooms off
on a lone yachting holiday. He is run
down by a big clipper, injured and taken
on board where- he is soon absorbed into
plans for the experimental launching of
a flying-boat from a liner at sea. Again
Mr Shute takes us into his private world
of aerodynamics. His snapping, laconic
style is compelling rather than persuasive,
and one rather unwillingly sees him
through to the end.
“A Matter of Succession” has some-
thing in common with C. P. Snow’s
“The Masters,” for it deals with the
death of a “chieftain” and the subtle
shifts and devices of his “party” to
choose his successor. These political
gambits are played out in a composite
country —a judicious blend of East and
West. Aristocrat Lord Trevers and
proletarian William Ring are the most
likely candidates for the exalted post,
and the name of one of them is expected
to be found on a slip of paper among
the dead ruler's effects. However, the
paper is blank, and the story recounts


BOOKHUNTER
Dept. "I>." Box 2611, G.1’.0,. Sydney.
A service for renders. That difficult to
obtain volume let us find it for you—Action,
text hook, biography, history, etc. Moderate
tee milt it successful.
BOOK SCOOT
Free search service tor your out-of-prin’
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout. Box 2178. G.P O Sydney
BECOME A
FREELANCE WRITER!
AND EARN IN YOUR SPARE TIME
The re is a constant demand for well-
written stories, articles, pars, radio
and TV scripts, etc.
Write today for free details of STOTT'S
excellent Correspondence Courses in
Literary subjects.
15t) Flinders Lane, .Melbourne; 14!) Castle-
reagb St.. Sydney; 290 Adelaide, St.,
Brisbane: 21 Bren fell St.. Adelaide;
22 Howard St., l’erth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT'S: Please send me, without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
> AGE (SP. 236-1)
the methods by which the successor is
finally chosen.
This novel goes in for that fossicking
into people's behavior which paralyses
the story while one character shrewdly
surmises why another character’s left
eyelid flickered. This psychological
“bird-watching” is called perceptiveness,
and I for one am rather tired of it. It
imprints on a work something cold and
clinical. The characters can never really
get up and go if they have to stick
around watching each other's facial
muscles and intakes of breath. The novel
was in good hands until that Supreme
Stickybeak, Freud, came along. Now
everybody’s doing it!
THELMA FORSHAW
Sansom's Guilty Secret
Blue Skies, Brown Studies. William
Sansom. Hogarth Press. 375. 3d.
A Quota of Seaweed. Hamilton Basso.
Collins. 18s. 9d.
Siestas and Fiestas. Rigby. 225. 6d.
"The ideal travel book, from the travel
* agent's point of view, would be one
which made distant, expensive places
sound so irresistible that nothing will
satisfy but to follow in the writer’s foot-
steps, first-class air ticket, de-luxe hotels.
However, for the average impecunious
reader, the ideal travel book is one which
can make you prefer reading to wander-
ing. William Sansom's “Blue Skies,
Brown Studies” almost manages this.
Not quite, of course. What could?
Mr Sansom is a “promising” novelist
of the 'forties who has not fulfilled that
promise. His novels and short stories,
full of charm and humor, are nonethe-
less slight. The major work, the novel
which would lever him up among the
best postwar English writers, has not
been tried, or, at least, not published.
His guilty secret, probably, is that
while other novelists regard their travel
books as bread and butter while serious
work is in progress, as means rather than
end, he regards his novel-writing as a
way of earning a living and passing the
London winter until he can take off
again.
Off he goes each summer. From notes
scribbled on cigarette packets while sit-
ting in cafes (Mr Sansom confesses that
he has to smoke a brand, the packages
of which are not too decorated and allow
reasonable writing space) he writes joy-
ously, evocatively of the Cote d’Azur,
Baden Baden, Minorca, of good food and
satisfying siestas. He has a marvellous
delight in the taste, feel and smell of
things. He patently, and disgracefully,
enjoys life.
Mr Sansom rarely follows his fellow
travel-writers off the beaten track. He
sees so much to fascinate him in Nice,
Capri and Salzburg that he rightly, but
not egotistically, assumes that such places
cannot be hackneyed.
He is a good Mediterranean man, but
he has a strong sympathetic feeling for
Northern Europe. His best chapter,
perhaps, is on Vienna. His exuberant,
ornamented style accords well with
baroque.
It comes very pat, but because of that
it is somewhat unfair, to point out that
Hamilton Basso's “A Quota of Seaweed”
is exactly what is meant by novelists who
regard travel books as by-products.
Basso’s “Pompey’s Head” and “The
Light Infantry Ball” have shown him as
a writer of large-scale, highly-competent
novels, but his collection of travel pieces
does not succeed very well.
He simply is better on people than
on places. The best things in the collec-
tion are a sketch of a compulsive
traveller, a woman in grey wool skirt,
brownish sweater, grey wool stockings
and heavy walking shoes, whom he sees,
or whose ghost he sees, at odd times in
odd places, and “R.L.5.,” where Basso
quickly gets away from the threadbare
subject of Stevenson on Samoa and talks
about an afternoon with a Samoan
family.
Mr Basso can be extraordinarily naive.
He visits the descendants of Southern
veterans of the American Civil War who
have been living in Brazil for 100 years,
and is astonished that they consider them-
selves Brazilians. Now, if they had still
been sipping mint juleps and waiting for
the Robert E. Lee, with a spot of lynch-
ing on the side, that might have been
something.
He approaches Tahiti as if he were the
first there since Captain Cook. Cer-
tainly, a fresh eye is what Tahiti needs,
but Basso only combines chunks of
travel-leaflet information (“Some 30,000
people live in Tahiti . . .”) with trite
comment ("The Tahitian word for woman
is vahine, and the term for sex is faa
hina'aro, and together with their French
and English equivalents they run up a
lot of mileage here . . .”) to present again
the vulgar and shallow image which most
Europeans have of the island.
There are other sorts of travel books,
of course, than those turned out by pro-
fessional writers. There are those by
“professional” travellers, for whom every
incident on the way is grist to their merry
mill. Mr Bertram Cox is a South Aus-
tralian accountant who frequently
appears on radio and TV. His “Siestas
and Fiestas” is an account of a trip
through North and Central Americas. It
is a cosy, “come-with-me” type of book.
You must go along with Cox, his wife
Trudy Al, and their car, Charlie the
Chewy, every inch of the way. But it
is good-humored and light-hearted.
PATRICIA ROLFE
Heavy Light Stuff
The Man of Sensibility. Jean Dutourd.
Macmillan. 31s. 9d.
TAutourd’s book is supposed to be an
exploration into the climate of
Stendhal's time and ours, but anyone
who turns to it expecting to find out
more about Stendhal's work or life or
his times or ours will be rather dis-
appointed. Dutourd disapproves of
scholarship and literary criticism and
offers instead autobiographical jottings
(no scandalous revelations), aphorisms,
obiter dicta. He takes as his point of
departure Prosper Merimee’s famous
essay on Stendhal —each paragraph of
which is used as an epigraph for each
separate chapter—and discusses Stend-
hal's, bat mostly his own, ideas on such
subjects as writing, love, music,
Napoleon, war, childhood, society, life,
heroism, stupidity. What emerges are
cheap sneers at Henri Matineau, the
great Stendhal scholar; comparisons
between Flaubert and Stendhal which
rise to the level of the obvious ; an
attack on Sainte-Beuve ; and such state-
ments as these: “Great artists love
eccentricity and unfamiliar surround-
ings”; “the price of a happy childhood
is usually only cowardice and stupidity”;
“the good writer is a graphomaniac ; he
needs to write every day, just as cows
need to be milked, otherwise their udders
begin to ache.” There are passing and
generous tributes to Victor Hugo, General
de Gaulle and of course Stendhal . . . But
how heavy this light, provocative stuff can
be.
VIVIAN SMITH


L.J. HOOKER
Investment Corporation Limited
Chairman's Address to Shareholders at the Annual General Meeting
of the Company, held on Friday, the 24th November, 1961.
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Once again l extend a welcome to the
Annual General Meeting of your Company.
The progress of the Corporation during
the year under review is covered in great
detail in the Annual Report, which is already
in your hands.
You will, however, be interested to know
that since the 30th June last the general
programme of the Corporation's activities
has proceeded and the following items are
worthy of special mention.
CENTENARY PROJECT:
This great developmental project, which
covers an area of more than 3,000 acres in
close proximity to the City of Brisbane, is
now well advanced into the planning stages
and has been floated as a separate public
company.
WARRINGAH MALL:
This project has now been sold as a package
deal to one of the largest United Kingdom
Property Companies, known as the Hammer-
son Group, at a very satisfactory price.
NEW HOTELS:
To meet the increasing demand for function
and convention facilities, extensive additions
have been made to the new “Rex” Hotel
at Braddon, A.C.T.
The “Carlton Rex” in Sydney, now com-
pletely modernised, is trading very satis-
factorily.
REX MOTELS:
The Motel trading results have not come
up to expectations, although the “Rex”
chain is obtaining its share of the business
offering. There has been a temporary over-
building in the industry with consequent
severe competition on accommodation
rates. However, this follows the overseas
pattern, and I am of the opinion that
ultimate rationalisation within the industry
will make the Motels a more valuable
income producer.
CITY SITES:
“Hooker House” in Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, was officially opened yesterday, the
23rd instant, by the Victorian Premier, the
Honourable H. E. Bolte, M.L.A. As men-
tioned in the Annual Report, “Hooker
House” in Adelaide was opened last August
by the Premier, the Honourable Sir Thomas
Playford.
Extensive alterations and additions are being
made to “Wingello House,” Angel Place,
Sydney, and when completed all the
activities of the Corporation will be housed
under one roof, with consequent adminis-
trative economies. The building will be
renamed “Hooker House” on Ist December
next.
The Company already occupies its own
premises in Canberra and Hobart.
ROCKS DEVELOPMENT:
Your Corporation is submitting a proposal
to the New South Wales State Government
for the redevelopment of the extensive
“Rocks” area in Sydney Cove, and a great
amount of planning and initial survey has
already gone into this project.
LANDTRUSTS:
The Landtrusts Division has maintained its
forecast dividend rate of 8% per annum to
unit holders and since the closing of accounts
on 30th June last further distributions of
income bring the aggregate total distributed
to a sum in excess of £1 million.
L. J. HOOKER LIMITED:
In spite of the difficult trading conditions,
the Real Estate Division, L. J. Hooker
Limited, has obtained a major share of the
business offering, and in addition to this
the Rent Roll has continued to grow, par-
ticularly for the management of Home Unit
buildings tor which the Company provides
a special service essential to the smooth
running of Home Unit Companies. How-
ever, there is no evidence that buyers are
yet showing any marked return of con-
fidence and Real Estate sales generally, as
reported in the press, are well below those
of last year. Values remain steady and
in some cases are even higher.
PASTORAL DIVISION:
Rain is still needed on the Northern pro-
perties, but conditions in New South Wales
have continued reasonably satisfactorily,
although more rain is required.
The improvement programme referred to in
the Annual Report has enabled us to carry
stock with a minimum mortality rate, and is
already providing additional watering
facilities.
Cattle from Victoria River Downs have been
marketed at Geelong, Adelaide, Townsville
and Cairns, whilst several consignments were
made to Hong Kong.
The wool market, opened in August on a
satisfactory note, and following a fall now
appears to have stabilised.
The wheat crop has been disappointing due
to adverse weather conditions prior to
harvesting.
BUILDING PROJECTS:
A new Division, to be known as Hooker
Projects Pty. Ltd., has been created to
undertake construction of major building
projects throughout Australia and will con-
centrate mainly on office building projects,
shopping centres, apartment buildings, etc.
There has been a marked interest in this
type of proposition by Property Companies
in the United Kingdom and by Australian
Institutions. I feel confident that this new
Division will contribute substantially to the
future profits of your Corporation.
LONDON OFFICE:
The London Office has now become well
established and further contracts have been
made with financial and investment groups
in the City, which we feel confident will
ultimately prove of benefit to our activities.
GENERAL COMMENTS:
Whilst the profit for the year may be
regarded as satisfactory in view of the
economic conditions operating throughout
most of the trading period, i feel it incum-
bent upon me to inform you that since
the 30th June trading conditions have con-
tinued to be difficult, and the trading results
for the full current financial year will be
greatly influenced by the economic climate
of the January to June, 1962, period.
For the first six months of the financial
year just closed trading was at a high level,
but the second six months showed the full
impact of the Government's economic
measures.
You will appreciate it is impossible to
suddenly halt the progress of a virile young
nation in such a deliberate way and then
expect recovery to be automatic and rapid.
You will, of course, know that part of the
burden of the Government's financial policy
fell primarily on development because of
the feeling that there was undue speculation.
This is a matter upon which there can be
quite a deal of discussion and perhaps the
best contribution 1 can make is to say
that practically everybody who bought a
house, or real estate of any kind, over the
last few years, is today very glad they did
so, whilst those who did not are regretful
that they did not invest in what is after
all the basic commodity of our economic
structure.
Your Company is committed to the develop-
ment of Real Estate in all its forms and
has, over the years, accumulated a valuable
portfolio of Rural, City and Suburban
interests, the value of alt of which is bound
to increase with every addition to the popu-
lation of our great young country.
There has, however, come a time of pause
where consolidation must be the order of
the day, and your Directors have, during
the past six months, pursued an intense
programme of ;consolidation and reorganisa-
tion to meet current conditions.
Therefore, I feel sure that the progress to
which we can now look forward will be
continuing and of a permanent nature.
A rewarding feature of the year's activities
has been the continued loyalty shown me
and your Directors by every member of the
staff, most of whom have contributed beyond
the normal call of duty. Staff loyalty and
integrity is undoubtedly one of the greatest
factors in modern business, and we are par-
ticularly fortunate in the calibre of personnel
in the Company.
There is undoubtedly a feeling of rising con-
fidence in the business community generally
and I believe that the problems of the present
are the whetstones on which we will sharpen
our talents and take advantage of the
opportunities inherent in the progress of
Australia, which is assured by its unique
geographical location, its vigourous migra-
tion policy and broad national policies, which
though apparently irksome at the time, give,
us a degree of stability which is greatly
envied in many parts of the world.
L. J. HOOKER,
Chairman.


A SHORT STORY
THE DANCE
Grandmother had a fantastic
scheme for liberating Madame
Prejevalsky from her lady-billing
husband, the Russian Count .
GRANDMOTHER always insisted that the whole
fantastic scheme for liberating Madame Prejevalsky,
the Russian peasant woman, from the martyrdom
of her life with the so-called “Count,” came to her
when she and I were reading the tea-leaves left in the break-
fast cups that beautiful summer morning in the early
’twenties.
Grandfather mildly suggested that the crusade had
begun taking shape the very first day Grandmother saw the
two refugees deposited with their little girl and cabin
trunks on the flat piece of land near the tram bridge, about
halfway between Brookvale and the Manly tram depot.
“The Count was so handsome and Madame so plain your
grandmother instantly appointed herself chief watchcdog.
And after that, every time she went past and saw Madame
slaving while the Count just studied his chess set, which he
had arranged on a packing case, she barked. For hours.
Eventually it go too much for her, so she went in and
showed him her teeth. He wasn’t at all alarmed, so she
ended up helping Madame hammer out a few of those
hundreds of biscuit and kerosene tins that Madame used
to build the shanty.” Grandfather winked at me. “I’m
sure, Marian, if you had a good look at those walls you’d
find the ones your grandmother straightened out!”
Although at the time I was very homesick, and hated
the big Sydney high school, my only remark was that I
wished 1 had been down a year earlier to see the building
of the “Caboose,” and the Count sitting in the open every
day at his chess altar, which was now enthroned within the
tin walls. I wasn’t a bit interested in stodgy Madame, who
could be seen any time from dawn till after dusk, digging,
raking, planting and watering the vegetables. The limpit
child, although partly obscured by the folds of Madame’s
long, black skirt, could be glimpsed, too, as Madame
toiled; or one could get a good look at her when Madame
took the two ponies to the roped-in enclosure at the
beach and hired them out for threepenny and sixpenny
rides.
The school-teaching aunt, Helen, accused Grandmother
of cooking up the plot in the dead of the preceding night.
“First of all, you pretended to be asleep when I peeped in
after choir practice, and then you listened to every word I
told Lou about the tussle at the tram-stop.”
The only comment spared by Aunt Lou, who was busy
with her university studies, was: “God made her, so perhaps
he’s responsible for the brainwave, whenever she had it.”
Looking back, it seems to me that there was truth in
all the comments; but I do feel that the inspiration itself
came to Grandmother as the two of us sat among the
breakfast table dregs, while Grandfather fed the fowls and
the two aunts came one at a time to say “Goodbye.”
Well aware that Aunt Helen had come into the room
and was standing close behind her, Grandma cried:
“Lawkey Moses, that despicable parasite has been rt it
again. This time he’s trying to kiss Lois Cantrell. Now
what’s she doing at that tram stop? She must have walked
two tram stops just so she could give him the glad eye.
No wonder men say women give them encouragement and
then squawk for help! Just look! Here comes poor Madame
to the rescue. You’d wonder how she could run so fast
across that loose soil. Great Jehosphaphat! The brute has
grabbed her in one of his Judo holds. There she goes sail-
ing through the air. and the bucket she’s hanging on to
is going to come back and smack her right over the face.
Where’s the child? There she is: flat on her face in the
drain. Serves her right for skirt-hiding all the time.”
When she concluded this vivid description she smacked
her lips and turned around to smile sweetly at Aunt Helen,
who was smoothing on long gloves the exact shade of her
lavishly braided tussore ensemble.
Aunt Helen denounced Grandmother. “What a
remorseless sinner! You lay flat on your back with your
eyes closed, pushed your pigtails away from those wicked
ears of yours and EAVESDROPPED to every word 1
told Lou when I got home from choir practice last night.”
“If the Lord gave me good hearing He must have
intended me to make the most of it,” was the unashamed
reply.
“Don’t you dare go down to the ‘Caboose’ and cross
swords with the Count again,” commanded Aunt Helen
sternly.
“Certainly I won’t,” snapped Grandmother. “The last
time I went there he had the effrontery to laugh at me and
called me ‘La danse de la libellule.’ “Dance of the Dragon-
fly,’ indeed! Probably thought I didn’t know what it
meant.”
“How can you be so nasty about him when he’s so
handsome?” I asked. “Why, he’s the living image of
Rudolph Valentino. The day before I got the measles he
was on the Manly ferry and all the girls said it was simply
no wonder Madame helped him escape the revolution! We
all walked past him three times to have a good look at
his profile.”
“I wish I’d been there,” was Grandmother's prompt
rejoinder. “I’d have walked past six times to have six
good spits at it! Count Prejevalsky, indeed! He’s only
the cousin of a count, who is no longer worth a rouble.”
At this juncture Aunt Lou appeared, and Aunt Helen
turned to her. “The fat is in the fire? She heard everything
I told you last night! See if you can distract her attention,
even if it means sending her shopping. You can take a
couple of pounds from our hidden kitty. I’ll have to fly or
I’ll miss the tram.”
Aunt Lou smiled at me most delightfully before speak-
ing to Grandmother. “Marian’s quarantine is over, darling,
so what about taking her to Hordern’s sale and getting her
that good hat her father said she could have.”
Grandmother snorted. “Good hat! Why even at a
sale I couldn’t get one for five shillings. I couldn’t even
get a decent lid for a saucepan!”


BY M. G. VINCENT
“Well, you heard what Helen said. What about a
rummage at the remnant counters?”
“Nothing doing,” said Grandma flatly. “As soon as
we skidaddle through the work we’re going down to the
beach. It’s Friday and Madame will be there with ponies
even if she’s half dead.”
Aunt Lou looked reproachful. “And I suppose you’re
going to tilt at windmills?”
Grandmother picked up the breadsaw and speared the
bread. “Dulcinea!” she carolled. “Hop to it. Sancho
Panza,” she said to me. “We’ve got to rescue a damsel in
distress before sundown.”
“Please, please, Mother, do not go off on a wild
goose chase.” begged Aunt Lou.
“Honk! Honk!” was the answer as Grandmother
crooked her elbows and flapped them.
Aunt Lou looked so distressed (on purpose) that Grand-
mother kissed her fondly and said, “Well, off you go,
dumpling. If it’ll make you feel any better I'll consult the
tea cups and see what they advise.”
TN my tea cup lay the answer. It was Great Uncle Otto’s
A beautiful sailing ship, the Viking. 1 found it. and seeing
it, 1 cried, “It’s the Viking! She’s winning the Grain Race!
And. oh Grandma, don’t use up all the day on Madame.
She’s big enough and ugly enough to look after herself.
Remember you promised me we’d go round to Uncle Otto's
to find out what time we're to be at the Quay to see him
off tomorrow.”
“Eureka!” she whispered, her eyes brilliant with glee.
“I’ve found it!”
From that moment until she was pulling on her highly
polished black kid boots, almost two hours later, she did
not say more than a few words to me. Then, she com-
manded: “While I think of it—get me the reel of black
cotton and needle from the drawer right behind you. And
always remember this: If ever you are poor or in trouble
take great care to be neat! Otherwise you’ll look aban-
doned and demented, and even the fellow poor will be
wary of you.”
Seeing my surprise, she explained, “I'm thinking of
Madame and her skirt trailing in the dirt. You mark my
words it’ll need mending after all that high kicking last
night.”
She bent to pull the boot buttons through the long
row of holes with her ivory handled hook, and it seemed to
me as though the buttons were heads and she were wringing
each one with great satisfaction. She began to sing the
“Marseillaise,” and she was still singing it when we stepped
out on to the front path and looked down the steep hill
into the park, and then beyond it to the harbor.
It was a clear, still morning, and sounds came to us
from every side. A prop man called faintly at Balgowlah,
and from the Brookvale meadows rose the plaintive wail of
a rabbit-oh. Down in the harbor bowl the water-muted
fussings of the ferry with its bells and governed steam
were answered by the plaint of the beseiged wharf bollards.
The Spit tram erupted from the confines of its creepered
canyon into the park’s pine forest, and the strange rever-
berating, high-pitched hum of its descent lingered until all
sounds were submerged by the sonorous swell of an organ.
I looked down at the Church. “Cousin Foyle must be
practising,” I said.
“Just like you to take a fancy to a man who has the
indecency to play the ‘Dead March’ from ‘Saul’ at this
hour. He should be at work.”
“He is working. He’s practising. Any rate, he mightn’t
have any pianos to tune this morning.”
She sniffed disparagingly. “When we get round to
Otto's 1 suppose he’ll be practising chess or sleeping. Very
peculiar relatives your Grandfather has. No wonder they
live in a cluster.”
Grandfather, who was sitting on the tiled front
verandah reading the paper, looked over the top of his
silver-rimmed spectales and winked at me. “Tell Uncle
Otto I’ll be round this afternoon,” he said.
“I thought we were going down to the beach,” I said,
as we turned up Ocean Road. She replied: “So we are
after we have seen Uncle Otto. When I saw his ship in your
cup it gave me a brainwave.”
At the top of Ocean Road we turned off into the acres
of heathland. I craned my neck in happy anticipation and
saw Uncle Otto’s little cottage squatting snugly amongst
the bottlebrushes. Quite alone it was, and yet the friendliest
little house in the world, as though it were set apart from
its fellows only to serve as a beacon for the traveller. The
fence was so low it raised no impediment, and one scarcely
lifted one’s knee to step from the garden of the heath into
the garden of meticulous pattern set in its frames of sea
shells from all over the world. On the door was a highly
polished brass knocker, but as the door was always open,
except when the rain was “coming that way,” one walked
straight into the parlor, as we did that day.
TN an enormous Austrian rocking chair dozed Uncle Otto.
A What a huge man he was, and how brightly he shone.
His white hair and beard and eyebrows shone, his skin
shone, his parted red lips, his teeth, the huge lobes of his
huge ears, all shone: even his finger nails vied with the
immaculate, starched cuffs at his great wrists. My heart
swelled with the romance of life as 1 gazed on the blond
giant asleep amongst his glass cases of exotic birds. I did
not spare a glance for tiny Aunt Serena. She was ironing,
and now I come to think of it, the small table must have
been brought into the room specially for that purpose, so
she could be near him whilst she lavished the most per-
nickety attention on his clothes.
“Otto! Wake up! I want to ask you something.” said
Grandmother loudly, meeting Aunt Serena’s reproachful
look without shame.
“SHOO!” boomed Uncle Otto, opening one great blue
eye.
“You might as well sit up and listen. Otto,” she replied.
“There’s something I want to know right now.”
He opened both eyes. “Yoost five minutes.” he said.
“Have you a full crew?” she asked.
He now looked astounded. Then suspicious. “Who
is it you want to palm on me? Eh?”
“You have heard about this Russian who is such a


brute to his wife? You know that woman who gives the
pony rides down at the beach? Well, he’s always criticising
Australia and everyone and everything in it, and saying
how he wishes he were back on the Continent, so I thought
everyone might be very happy if you could fit him in. Say
as a steward or something?”
Uncle Otto began to laugh very heartily. “Nefer haf
I known a woman to haf such ideas. Nefer!” He leaned
forward and tweaked my ear. “I haf plenty wife beaters
already! Also I haf plenty who wish to be anywhere but
where they are! Loafers, too. Plenty loafers!”
The extent of Grandmother’s disappointment could be
gauged by the sting of her sarcastic rejoinder. “Then you
should set them a better example,” she flicked.
“Amy!” protested Aunt Serena, flushed with anger. “I
will not allow you to say such things. For his age Otto is
remarkable. In fact,” she continued triumphantly. “I’ve
just remembered that you said yourself when I told you he
was going to retire, you said he should have done it long
ago, and given a younger man a chance to fill his shoes.
So he should. I mean retire. And I think it is very silly
of him, and what is more, he has gone back on his word to
me. Last voyage was to be the last one. And now he says
that it is this one which is to be the last. It will go on for
ever!”
“Have you quite finished defending him?” asked
Grandmother. “Good! Now, Otto, if you won’t sign him
on as a crew member will you take him as a passenger?
At the lowest fair possible! Practically nothing, in fact!”
“Don’t like passengers for the Grain Race,” said Uncle
Otto. “Don’t like them any time, and certainly not for prac-
tically nothing.”
“He would be company for you when you’re not sleep-
ing,” said Grandmother tartly, obviously intending to fight
to the last ditch. “He is a better chess player than you
are.” She watched him keenly.
“Ho, ho, ho,” roared Uncle Otto. “Now she’s really
sailing before the wind! And why did I not hear of this
chess playing before. Why do I only hear how well he beats
his wife and how well he makes the glad eyes at the young
girls?” You could see he did not believe a word of it.
“If you must know,” was the unabashed reply, “I kept
it from you because I did not think it would be nice for any
of us to have you making a bosom pal of him, even though
you are only home once in a month of Sundays. After all.
you’ll have to retire one day whether you like it or not. I
can see you don’t believe me about the chess, but it’s true.
He hasn’t lost a game here, and instead of making him
“Little use us offering a lifetime guarantee
these days!”
happy it depresses him, and he comes home in a fury and
starts drinking. The only time he is contented is when he’s
in the midst of one of those games by correspondence with
two men—one’s an Australian called Viner, I think, and
the other is Boris Kostich. Do you know of him?”
“Indeed! Indeed!” Uncle Otto became instantly
serious. “You were most selfish, Amy,” he said.
“Withholding this. I do not see why I should put myself
out for you at all, but I certainly feel sorry for him. Poor
fellow! Imprisoned with ponies in a vegetable garden!
If he wants to come with me send him up to see me, but
do not tell him I’ll take him. Tell him I’ll see if it can be
managed—and not for practically nothing, mind you! I’m
not that sorry for him.”
All the way back to Ocean Road, Grandmother
grumbled about Uncle Otto and the despicable habit men
had of “sticking together.” Her humor was not improved
by the sight of Cousin Foyle’s car parked outside his home.
“Ah,” she sniffed. “Finished his playtime and is now
stuffing himself.”
At our gate she called out querulously, “Very selfish
relatives, you have, Augustus.”
Grandfather smiled. “Wouldn’t he jump through your
hoop?” he asked quietly.
A voice called from the other side of the road, “Off
on the ran-tan again, you old warhorse?” Foyle sauntered
across the road. Grandma ignored him. “Ha, ha,” he
said. “You are! I see the light of battle in your eye.
Probably heard all about your latest protegee, no doubt?
Well, she’s in pretty bad shape, I can tell you that. I did an
early morning job at Dee Why, and on my way home I
passed her leading the flea-bag to the treadmill. Boy! She’s
no oil painting at the best of times, but . . .” he broke off,
whistling.
Although Grandmother was now more anxious than
ever to get down to the beach, nothing would induce her to
accept the proffered “lift” in Foyle’s car. She regarded
the “tin Lizzie” and its owner with a very haughty stare, and
ignored both Foyle’s laughter and my pleadings as we set
off down the hill.
So many years have passed, but I can still see the
mutilated face of Madame as she turned to us that day when
Grandmother called to her from the outside of the rope
fence that confined the ponies. Quite forgetful of her lips,
the poor woman cried, “It’s the good Mrs Knopton.” The
blood welled out and spilled down her chin. Never attractive,
she now looked positively repulsive. Her flat, Mongolian-
type face was a scoop of pulp. The swollen, discolored
eyelids were open only a slit; the nose was a shining
pyramid like a boil, and the poor lips! No words could
describe the distortion. The ’kerchief over her head was
disordered, due no doubt to the inefficiency of the injured
arm, which she kept bent and pressed against her middle
as though it were a separate entity and she were the com-
forter. The back of her skirt trailed like a dejected tail,
just as Grandmother had depicted. Even the ponies,
sagacious creatures, regarded her askance, and fidgeted,
swishing their tails and stamping their hooves, although
there was not a fly to be seen. The little daughter, as usual,
had most of her face hidden in the voluminous folds of
black.
“A nice mess you’re in this time,” commented Grand-
mother calmly, but with compassion. Every line was still
grooved deep in her face: the mark of pride was there, the
irritability, the perversity, the impatience; but I realised
for the first time that she was beautiful. She had power
and purpose and charm, and she possessed a magic that
was most apparent when she was dealing with sickness or
suffering. Without minimising the pain or perils, or ignor-
ing the wretchedness of the moment, she was able to
gradually induce her patient to travel so frequently between


"But the specimen of plankton I discovered Was
this big!"
the past and the future that the present became a mere
segment of a whole.
AS though she were in her own bedroom and were instal-
ling Madame on her petit-point boudoir stool. Grand-
mother sat the poor creature on the seat beneath a pine
and removed the ’kerchief, which she rearranged and tied
on again. Then she proceeded to repair the skirt. By the
time she had finished stitching she had alleviated also the
mental disorder, so that a tremendous improvement showed
in Madame’s appearance. Undoubtedly her face was still
in a mess, but she no longer looked abandoned or demented.
It seemed to my 12-year-old mind that all this titivating of
someone who could be nothing better than ugly whatever
was done, was of secondary importance to the liberation
plans. Although the Count appealed to me far more than his
submissive wife. I was quite ready to accept Grandmother’s
dictum that she would be much happier without him. so
when I at last came to the conclusion that the dreadful
appearance of Madame had put everything but first-aid
out of Grandma’s head. I said loudly, so that they would
have to listen, “Why don’t you tell Madame she can get
rid of the Count by sending him with Uncle Otto?”
“What a meddlesome child you are, Marian.” Grand-
mother hissed through her teeth. (I often laugh about this
now!) “Now. Madame, don't be alarmed. 1 just saw Dr
Elliott go into his surgery, and if we go across now we
mightn’t have long to wait.”
“No. No. I am not in need of a doctor.”
“For the child’s sake you must go to the doctor,” was
the adamant reply. “Marian will keep an eye on the ponies
till I come back.”
About ten minutes went by, and then Grandmother
returned. “They’ll be ages. I’m afraid,” she announced,
sighing heavily. “Madame has to have two stitches in her
lip. Her collarbone is dislocated and her nose is broken.
Dr Elliott has had an urgent call, so he’s taking Madame
and the child to the hospital with him and he’ll attend to
her as soon as he can. if you ask me. it would be a good
lea if they kept her there for the night.”
“Why, is she that bad?” I exclaimed.
“Oh, no. not at all! Let us send her back to get the
her collarbone to match! Oh yes! That reminds me.
Vhy couldn't you mind your own business? You might
iave ruined everything blurting out about Uncle Otto!”
“But I thought you’d forgotten!”
“Forgotten! How could I forget with that handiwork
oefore my eyes! I was laying the foundations. And now
here we are brought to a standstill. For hours probably.
Pony minding!”
By the tone of her voice 1 knew that the turn of events
had not been considered in her plans. Looking at her
and then at the ponies, I decided I did not like the idea of
such an alliance, and said so in my own way: “We can’t
lead the ponies around.” I stated flatly. “Daddy wouldn’t
like it!”
Instantly all the unhappy aversion disappeared from
the eyes which had been gazing at the ponies, and in its
place was a defiant glitter.
“Another despot!” she cried. “Down with despots!
Come on. we'll have our lunch. We mightn’t get time for
it if we don’t hurry. It’s such a lovely day there’s sure to
be a crowd here any tick of the clock.”
It turned out that she was correct in her surmise. I
thought to myself that a lot of the customers became
customers only because they were curious about us. It was
certainly a sight to speculate about —a rather mulish pony
being led by an aristocratic lady, elegantly attired from
the hand-made kid boots to the finely tucked pure-silk
dress and beautiful cameo on the Alencon lace to the
gossamer tulle meringue on its platter of fine straw anchored
to the coil of white hair by a hat-pin glistening with jet.
1 was not at all surprised to find people staring, and
kept darting swift glances around to make sure that no
Fort St girls had joined the strolling spectators. About
three-o’clock, during one of these visual surveys, I noticed
the Count leaning against the nearest pinetree. He was
laughing to himself. 1 went across to Grandmother and told
her. She merely raised her eyebrows, and said without
expression. “Go and tell him to wait till I’ve finished with
this customer. The next one wants to ride by herself.”
He raised his hat to me and bowed. When I had given
the message he laughed. “Does she intend to press me into
service?” he inquired, very amused. He said the same to
her as she approached him.
“It would be a good thing for you to perform the menial
tasks you force on your wife.” she answered. “But 1
wouldn’t trust you with the money.”
He said quietly: “I do not force her to do these things.
She insists on doing them. What horses! Ah. you should
have seen my Arab! These —they are not worthy of the
name of horse!”
“Don’t you wonder where your wife is?” she de-
manded. becoming very angry in spite of an effort to disci-
pline herself.
“No.” he said. “I was enjoying your submission to
circumstance.”
This made her furious. “I am doing this because your
wife has had to be taken to hospital for attention. I hope
they keep her there! And I hope they report the whole
affair to Sergeant Sorenson. You should be deported. We
would be very happy to see you go.”
“Ah, if only I hadn’t come at all!” he sighed.
“What if I were to tell you 1 might be able to arrange
a passage for you?”
He looked even more downcast, and. shrugging his
shoulders, held out his hands as though to say. “Impos-
sible!” Before he could speak she said hastily, forgetting
all instructions, “My husband’s brother-in-law is captain of


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A D. 1720)
Assets exceed £177,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
Kindersley House, Bligh/O’Connell Streets, SYDNEY
F. H. Egerton, Manager for Australia.
one of the Grain Race ships, and I’m almost certain he
would take you at a fare you could afford.”
“If only I could!” he said, and his misery was obvious.
All the mockery and devilry were gone. “But I can never
go to sea again as long as I live. Never!”
They stood looking at each other for so long in silence
that I began to fidget. At last Grandmother sort of
crumpled. All the animation left her face, and all the proud
discipline flowed from her body so that her back bent as
her shoulders sagged.
“I am sorry to disappoint you,” he said. “You won’t
believe this. But I admire you very much. I like spirit.”
She turned away and said to me, “Come on, Marian.
Can’t you see we have customers?”
He put out a restraining hand, and said quite gently,
“Sit down and rest. I assure you I won’t misappropriate
the money. It is only my own I spend as fast as I get.
Otherwise she would hide it away and we would neither see
it nor have any use for it for ever.”
It was not long after his entry into the roped enclosure
that Madame and the little girl returned. She came hurry-
ing across the road from the doctor’s car,- uttering little
cries of protest. She had no eyes for anyone but her hus-
band, and so she was startled when Grandmother rose
from the seat and grasped her good arm.
“Oh, it is Mrs Knopton,” she mumbled from her
bandages. “What is my husband doing in there? This is
terrible! Terrible!” She hurried on towards the enclosure.
Grandmother gave a long. sigh. “I think we’ll go home,
Marian,” she said. > .
We did not speak at all as we walked towards the
park. When at last we came to the church we both paused,
looking ahead at the hill we somehow had to climb.
“The church door is open,” I pointed out. “Let’s go
in for a rest.”
She said with remorse: “I’ve always been grateful for
two good eyes, ears and a brain, legs and arms and all that
keeps them going, and I’ve thought they were given to me
to use, and I should use them without asking for too much
assistance; but perhaps I should have asked for guidance
a little more often. Oh, well, let’s have a rest.”
We were so worn out that we both fell asleep, not
sitting in the pews but reclining on the couches of new
hassocks stacked in the church porch. Each of us wakened
up several times, but thinking we had just “closed our eyes”
and seeing that the other was asleep, dozed off again.
/"''OUSIN Foyle discovered us when he came to retrieve
V " / his tobacco pouch, which he had left on the organ. He
was in fine fettle. “Ho, ho,” he cried. “While hordes of
people comb the countryside and the Count is accused of
kidnapping and/or murder here you are sleeping it off in
the church porch. And don’t try to hide the fact that your
plate is out. Aunt Amy!”
She retrieved her teeth from her purse and clicked the
denture back into place without the slightest embarrass-
ment. “Who’s looking for us, and why?” she demanded.
“Dad and Mum. Uncle Otto. Your devoted husband
and charming daughter Lou. Helen is keeping the home
fires burning and Aunt Serena-is doing ditto.”
The rest had done her good, and there was enough
vigor in her for annoyance to brew. “What a lot of
nonsense!” she said.
“Come off the grass, Aunt Amy,” he said. “You set
out with your hatchet looking for the Count’s scalp. Then
Uncle Gus finds out from Uncle Otto what you’re up to, and
when you’re not home at five, naturally there’s excite-
ment. Even the old Count was worried-—for a few minutes
anyway—-when Uncle Otto and I handed in our calling
cards. Of course once Uncle Otto got an eyeful of that
flash chess set you were left entirely in my capable hands!”
“Well, go and get him and take him home to Serena
right away,” snapped Grandmother. “She’ll never forgive
me if she’s defrauded of any of her last minutes with him.”
At eight-o’clock, when I went in to say goodnight, I
found Grandmother in her favorite position: lying flat on
her back with a book open in her hands and a lighted
candle in its holder resting on her chest midway between
her nose and the book. Her thin, white plaits stuck out
stiffly, tied by small bows of white tape. I could see the
shine where tears had lacquered the wrinkles.
“Is the book sad?” I asked.
“No,” she said. “I’ve been crying about me. Not a
word of reproach. And they were all worn out from worry-
ing about me —and you, of course.”
“They were really looking for you,” I said, without
rancor.
“Well, I’m not worth it. I’m bad tempered, and a—
busybody. I should have known it was a wild-goose chase
if I hadn’t been so bored. I’ll have to try and reform.”
I thought about this promised reform. She was cer-
tainly cranky; and yet, if she weren’t, she would be differ-
ent, and no doubt not so exciting. So I said slowly, “Other
people’d probably like you if you were different. But we
mightn’t. I mean everyone likes different things. Some
kids like lemon syrup. I don’t much. I’d rather have
plain lemon drink. You can drink more of it without
feeling sick.”
“Thank you. Thank you very much. I see what you
mean.”
Laughter pealed in the breakfast room. “Good
heavens,” she said a little testily, “that Foyle is telling
another of his abominable jokes. And I can’t help feeling
it’s a lot his fault Uncle Otto fell in that drain and broke
his leg. Foyle should have kept his eye on him instead of
back-chatting with the Count and helping him over the
drain.”
“But the Count was carrying the chess set,” I pointed
out. “And it was you who told Cousin Foyle to see that
Uncle Otto went home.”
“I know I did,” she answered. “But I didn’t say the
chess set and the Count as well.”
“But you heard what Cousin Foyle said,” I persisted.
“It was all or nothing.”
Grandma rolled her eyes back. “All or nothing is
right,” she said. “Now we’re stuck with both of them, and
all they’ll do to the end of time is play chess.”
“Won’t they be happy!” I exclaimed, seeing them
clearly in my mind’s eye: the one so dark and slight, the
other so white and splendid. “And won’t Aunt Serena be
happy? He’ll be home all the time. And Madame? Why,
he won’t have time to belt into her. In fact, she’ll hardly
ever see him, I bet.”
Grandma looked rather queer, as though something
were choking her. At last she managed to say in a rather
humble voice, “Life is full of surprises.”


Your Estate, whether it consists of real
estate, a business, or investment holdings,
may attract much higher Death Duties than
you think —leaving far less than you
imagined for your beneficiaries.
Expert advice on Estate Planning, and the
setting up of a Family Trust, designed to
meet your persona! requirements, can
result in appreciable savings through
reduced Tax and Death Duties, and help
conserve your assets, both during your
lifetime and afterwards.
Appointment of the Company as Trustee
of the Family Trust ensures competent
counsel and management of all matters by
specialists—at moderate charges.
Why not examine, without delay, the advan-
tages of such an arrangement —in a
confidential discussion of your financial
affairs?
“ THE .
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria)
333 Collins St, Melbourne, C.l.
20 O'Connell St., Sydney.
398-402 Queen St., Brisbane.
Also at Newcastle, Albury, Toowoomba,
Rockhampton, Townsville and Charleville.
UT3S4L&2X
Business, Robbery, Etc.
UNITED STATES ECONOMY
America's Employment Riddle
T Tnemployment in the United States, which is causing con-
siderable concern at home and short-sighted rejoicing in
certain countries, is unnecessary. Oversimplified, the problem
boils down to the alternative: either to employ more workers
at lower or fewer workers at higher wages.
The efficiency of the American economy is based mainly
on capital equipment and labor-saving appliances, rather
than on labor as such. But even the economic harm of
unemployment is by far outdone by its human aspects. It is
intolerable in a highly developed economy to have a growing
number of people excluded from gainful employment, restricted
to a fraction of their income, with their working ability wilting.
Backed by a well-developed instalment system, the pur-
chasing power of the population is enormous. Everything can
be sold—if the price is right. And the foreign market provides
vast additional opportunities. Were it not for a distortion in
its economy, the United States would not experience any
unemployment but rather a shortage of workers—as all the
industrial countries of Europe. What is the explanation of
the riddle?
The fact is that labor has become too expensive in the
U.S.A. The slogan: “higher wages, higher purchasing power,
therefore higher consumption and production” sounds fine but
is misleading Higher wages—-which without corresponding
increases in productivity must cause higher prices—do not
raise the purchasing power of wage earners, but reduce the
purchasing power of all other groups of the population.
Consumption declines, creating unemployment. The com-
petitive advantage abroad is weakened, creating further
unemployment. In a sound economy the adequate compensa-
tion for labor forms itself organically , under adulterating
pressure, upward or downward, the economy becomes sick.
The economically unjustified upward pressure is caused
by unions. Their original purpose —the protection of workers,
members and others against exploitation—does not exist any
more. No American worker is abused, exploited or underpaid.
But the aim of the unions has changed. From organisations
for the protection ot workers they have been transformed
into business enterprises whose working capital is constituted
by members and whose preferred shareholders are their leaders.
Their assets now exceed £lO,OOO million. Of this tremendous
wealth not more than one-third is dedicated to genuine union
activities, while two-thirds is used for building up a financial
empire, shrewdly administered and used for selfish and political
aims. Jt is aided by tremendous tax privileges and may use
methods forbidden to other organisations. Unions are exempt
from anti-trust laws although they control the most dangerous
monopoly, the monopoly of labor, using it also against other
workers. They fight ferociously—occasionally not shunning
violence and crime—for the “closed shop,” or at least “union
shop,” and against the “right to work laws.” They exert terror
against members, non-members, members of other unions.
Childish jurisdictional strikes aim at depriving other workers
of jobs, disregarding the harm inflicted on the whole popula-
tion. Their leading principle is: “Everything for our members
only, so as to induce as many as possible to join, voluntarily
or forcibly, our union.” Rights of other citizens, including
members of other unions, are neglected—a dollar’s profit for
us outweighs a hundred dollars’ damage to others.
Featherbedding, artificial creation of useless work, stupidly
recommended as remedy against unemployment, is extremely
dangerous. It has wrecked the railways and paralysed the
print shops. The fierce labor tribune, John Lewis, succeeded
in creating unemployment for a quarter-million coal workers
through overcharging— at the same time becoming the president
of the greatest bank in Washington. The railway unions have
caused the abolition of many trains by asking a day's pay for
a few hours of work, leading to the sacking of half a million
in their ranks.
This usurious policy, quite apart from criminal excesses,
is the cancer of the economy. Curing it would abolish
unemployment created directly and indirectly. Directly by
squeezing workers out of employment ; indirectly by inflating


IXL
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of: —
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—■
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
ELECTRIC LIFTS HYDRAULIC
ELEVATORS PTV. LIMITED,
877 Dowling Street, Waterloo. FF 3931.
Represented in ati States. Telegrams: Hydelec.
AUSTRAL.IAN AGENTS for Express Lift Co., Ltd., England.
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write
to the Manager, who will quote you a price for the
original.
prices inside and outside the country to such an extent that
it reduces output and work. In many cases American goods
cannot compete any more in foreign markets, having become
too expensive ; if more reasonably priced they would have given
work to many more workers. In a cold war, this means high
treason. It reduces the resistance of the country and deprives
it of economic weapons, even without strikes in essential and
armament industries.
Opium is no cure. Higher minimum wages or higher dole,
etc., are popular but backfiring remedies. They reduce the
readiness to accept lower-paid work and the elasticity of the
mobility of labor —an asset of the American economy
which has been choked by union regulations.
The leader of steel workers, Thomas E. Eliott, has
pointed to a better way of providing work for his unemployed
members in the hard-hit town of Wheeling in West Virginia.
To industries willing to move to Wheeling he offered
“competent workers willing to work below union wages,
guarantees against strikes and featherbedding, more work for
less pay but with a share in the profits.” He stated that wages
in the steel industry were excessive. A man who cannot get
$3 an hour should be satisfied withh $2 or $1.85. Unemployed
must accept lower pay. In the steel industry workers do not
provide an honest working day. His group is promising an
honest working day for a share in the profits. Thus everyone
works both for the country and for himself. He has in his
valley a few thousand workers over 50 years, experienced and
willing to work for lower wages plus a share in the profits.
This plan of a leader, who has more at heart the welfare
of his workers rather than ambitions of his union, has spread
to a few other places. Intelligent and independent workers
prefer lower wages to unemployment. This backs our theory
that unemployment in the United States is caused by excessive
wages.
But unemployment also has another, connected, root —insuffi-
cient profits. In many companies profits have decreased
in spite of increased sales. A leading industrialist in the U.S.A.
has stated recently: “Nothing reduces work more than reduced
profits.” Wages are by far more important to the price level
than profits. This applies to raw materials, too. The relation
has been reduced over the years in favor of labor —this is a
yardstick of the development of an economy. Ten years ago
the relation in the United States was 93 to 7 ; today it is
95 to 5. In a modern economy the businessman is only a
middleman between workers and consumers, and has to steer
his boat between Scylla and Charybdis, getting only a modest
compensation for his sailor’s skill in view of the risk incurred.
But from this compensation he has to keep the boat sea-
worthy or the stokers and sailors will lose their jobs. In other
words —profits must provide for investments in order to procure
employment for workers.
Today there are almost six million unemployed in the
United States. The next ten years will see 13 million workers
more entering, rather than leaving, the labor market. On the
average each worker is backed by means of production valued
at $lB,OOO. Ten years ago the figure was $12,000. No one
can foresee what it will be in 1970. Let us assume the obviously
cautious figure of $20,000.
A research team of Fordham University has found equip-
ment worth $95,000 million dollars outdated. In ten years
there will be $60,000 million more old equipment. Thus
$155,000 million is needed for the reconstruction of existing
capital equipment alone, and another $360,000 million to
provide employment for five plus 13 million workers. Where
can this half a billion come from unless from ploughed-
back profits? And yield on investments must be covered and
new capital attracted.
In spite of increased output and higher investments the
profits of many American and Canadian companies have
dropped. There are exceptions. But the picture of greater
output and smaller absolute profits is typical. To an inquiry
of “The Journal of Commerce” 60 p.c. of the companies
surveyed answered that shrinking profits have prevented invest-
ments, research and other growth activities. Otherwise, they
would have employed more workers. To quote one of the
answers: “Profits were the only factor of the economy lagging
behind the extraordinary development of the last decade. Wages


“WALES” REPORT, year ended 30.9.61
Experience in a Year of Fluctuation
The wide fluctuations which occurred in banking trends within the year ended September 30 are not
fully reflected in the Bank of New South Wales’ balance sheet.
In the trading bank total deposit items were slightly lower, but since the permitted rise in interest
rates the proportion of interest-bearing deposits has increased. Advances, too, were also lower than
a year ago. They have not yet shown the effect of the relaxation of credit policy.
The savings bank subsidiary continued to make considerable progress in the more difficult
conditions of the past year. Its deposits rose by more than 11 % and the number of accounts passed
one million towards the end of the financial year.
The Bank now operates at 1,116 branches
and agencies; the Savings Bank, having extended
its services to South Australia and Tasmania,
offers its facilities at 980 of them.
The main movements in the consolidated
operations of the Bank of New South Wales
were as follows:
Deposits
Total deposit items increased by £13,000,000 to
£711,000,000.
Advances
Advances at September 30 totalled £330,000,000.
This was a fall of £9,000,000, trading bank
advances having declined by nearly £14,000,000,
savings bank loans rising by £5,000,000.
Profit
Consolidated net profit for the year was
£2,686,521, which was equivalent to 7.17% of
consolidated capital and reserve funds.
Dividends
Total dividends for the year ended September 30
were £1,975,500, or 9% on capital.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
(incorporated in new south wales with limited liability)
Oldest and largest trading bank operating in Australia, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua-New Guinea, with
three branches in London and a wide network of oversea agents and correspondents.
A6l<S
have risen 52 p.c. but profits have remained stationary in spite
of larger investments and sales.”
This statement is not quite correct. Wages have increased
much more than 52 p.c. and profits have dropped from 9 p.c.
to 5.5 p.c. of the national income. Of the 50 companies which
answered the inquiry of “The Journal of Commerce” the
successful half has increased the number of workers by 20 p.c.,
while the unsuccessful has reduced them by 10 p.c. Reduced
profits also reduce labor-producing expansion.
The phenomenon of increased sales and reduced profits is
mainly caused by labor monopoly, but not exclusively. The
effect of that monopoly is reinforced by the unreasonable tax
pohcy. which prevents adequate depreciation provisions, stifles
entei prise and encourages waste. Every tax reduction is posted
as a “gift to the rich.”
Considering all wealth to be the property of the Government
which leaves gracefully larger or smaller pieces to its subjects is
a feudal conception. Exactly the contrary is the case of a modern
State, which receives everything it owns from its citizens. It
should be mentioned that recently Bills have been introduced
to mitigate the economically dangerous injustice of inadequate
depreciation provisions.
Accelerated automation is another cause of unemployment.
Automation in itself is a healthy development, producing higher
work which outbalances the work replaced. But automation
is expensive and should grow organically. If it is artificially


accelerated through inflated wages, jobs disappear quicker
than new ones are being created.
In the struggle between countries with artificially inflated
labor costs and those behind the Iron and Bamboo Curtains,
with artificially depressed labor costs, the latter have a tre-
mendous advantage—especially in the underdeveloped countries.
It is high time to understand that in our free society every
economic good produced too expensively, every working hour
lost, is a help to the enemy—a contribution to the decline
of the free enterprise economy and of freedom itself.
DR EMILIO VON HOFMANNSTHAL
HOOKER FINANCE COMPANY
LIMITED
Chairman’s Address to Stockholders
at the Annual General Meeting of the Company,
held on 14th November, 1961
Ladies and Gentlemen:
It is with pleasure that I welcome you to the Second Annual
General Meeting of your Company as a listed public company.
The Directors’ Report which accompanied the Balance Sheet
and Consolidated Statements of the Company sets out in detail
the expansion and progress made during the year.
In view of the difficulties currently being experienced by
certain sections of business and commerce, your Directors
consider the results of the first year’s trading as a listed
company satisfactory.
The Consolidated Net Profit for the year amounted to
£134,551 before tax, as compared with £37,552 in the previous
year.
Provision for taxation amounted to £67,965. Your Directors
considered it prudent to substantially provide for a number
of contingencies which may or may not crystallise during the
ensuing year. These provisions required the Company to provide
a greater sum for taxation as compared with profit than is
normal.
The recommended final dividend, together with an interim
dividend paid in March, 1961, will represent 10% for the year—
a total distribution of £64,855.
After adding the Undistributed Balance brought forward
from last year of £21,062, the balance of the Unappropriated
Profit which remains to be carried forward amounts to
£22,783.
During the year the Company was successful in raising
over £2 million by Registered First Mortgage Debenture Stock,
which included £1 million for a 20-year term from The Prudential
Assurance Company Limited.
An issue was also made of 4,000,000 7% Registered
Unsecured Convertible Notes of 10/- each, maturing as to
50% in 1965 and the balance in 1968, thereby substantially
increasing the eventual hard-core resources of the Company.
In January, 1961, a first and final call of 3/9 per share
was made on 3,900,000 shares of 5/- each, making the Paid Up
Capital £1,075,000.
The Government’s financial policies, particularly as to
Borrowings, introduced in November, 1960, slowed down the
rate of expansion contemplated by your Directors. This period,
however, was used to consolidate the Company’s activities.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the outstandings of the
Company as at 30th June, 1961, were in excess of £8 million,
reflecting an increase of £4.6 million, or 135%, as compared
with the position at 30th June, 1960.
Of the total outstandings at the end of June, loans,
including interest due to 30th June where interest is payable
monthly, amounted to £3.134 million.
The balance of the outstandings of £4.924 million represents
accounts bearing accrued interest, and the carry forward of the
income yet to mature, actuarially determined, was £1.98 million,
or 40.6% of the accounts concerned. The increase in the
income carried forward for the year amounted to £1.39 million,
or 232%.
All Branches of the Company are operating successfully
and expansion to other States is contemplated for the opportune
time.
Pursuant to a plan for continued expansion, the Company
proposes shortly to file a Prospectus for a further issue of
Registered First Mortgage Debenture Stock.
1 am pleased to report that trading for the first quarter
of the current year has been most satisfactory.
In conclusion, I have pleasure in placing on record the
Directors’ appreciation of the loyal co-operation, capacity and
enthusiasm of Management and all members of the staff during
the year.
A. W. FADDEN
Chairman of Directors.
ELECTION PLEDGES
"No Industry Expendable"
Tn his last week’s election speech at Shepparton (Vic.) Mr
McEwen, the energetic Minister for Trade and Leader of
the Country party, repeated the Government’s earlier pledges
that every effort will be made to protect Australian producers
in the forthcoming talks with the Common Market countries
on the terms of Britain’s entry. Mr McEwen was reasonably
straightforward in his assessment of the situation and made it
clear that the Government could not hope to safeguard all
existing Australian industries.
Unfortunately, he then decided to sacrifice his usual
realism for political expediency, and said that the Government
would not “accept that any single Australian industry was
expendable as a price for the preservation of other industries.”
This was a dangerous and unrealistic pledge to make —
it committed the Government to a stagnant approach to vital
economic problems and cut across Canberra's economic policy.
All through the long months of the credit squeeze the Govern-
ment was emphasising the need to ensure mobility of capital
and labor, and stressing that at times it is necessary to dampen
particular industries to ensure balanced overall economic
development.
The position in the rural sector is serious. Farm incomes
have been steadily lagging behind industrial profits and wages ;
there is little likelihood of an improvement in the real terms
of trade. With Britain’s participation in the Common Market
becoming a reality in the near future, the whole economic
structure of Australia’s primary industries must come under
close scrutiny. The facts are that it is most unlikely that
Australia will be able to obtain any special consideration from
the Common Market countries. It is therefore useless to
continue artificial support for industries which cannot pay for
themselves, be it out of sentiment, tradition or feelings of hurt
pride. Subsidising rural producers —or any other producers
for that matter —who do not have a natural market at prices
equal to their real cost of output, plus some profit, is not
good economics. Subsidies may often be useful in achieving
limited economic objectives. They may be politically expedient.
But one cannot expand foreign trade by continuously subsidis-
ing exports of products that face shrinking markets because
of their high cost structure.
Mr McEwen should have promised, instead, that the
Government will help farmers who will have to switch to
other products. The Government must encourage those sectors
of our rural economy which are most likely to survive and
gain ground in the competitive struggles on world markets.
It should try to facilitate the transfer of economic resources
from one sector to another. It should try to mitigate human
hardship by personal grants, loans, tax concessions, etc.
But it is a grave error to make pledges which could involve
it in sterile and economically wasteful preservation of indus-
tries which cannot survive because of changes in economic
conditions.


PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
K. H. ALLEN, M. K. U. DOWLING,
P. R. LEVY, A. P. REYNOLDS, N. R.
COURSE (Melbourne Resident Partner).
Delfin House, 16 O’Connell St.j Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Building', 150 Queen St.,
Melbourne, 67-5951 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables: “Kosdale,” Sydney
Melbourne or Woolongong.
A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. E. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Fife Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 312761 F.O. BOX
(4 lines) No. 1887 W
John N. Robertson, Thompson
and Co.
Members of the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS,
Temple Court,
422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Telephones: 67 6154, 67 6155
Telegrams and Cables:
ROBFALK, MELBOURNE
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Felt and Textiles of Australia
Ltd
In its forty-first year of operations—a
period marked by intensification of
competition from imports and the credit
squeeze—Felt and Textiles of Australia
Ltd recorded sales of £39,490,000.
Group turnover was 3.3 p.c. down on
the previous year's record of £40,851,000,
but the New Zealand company’s sales
advanced 16.6 p.c. The South African
company’s sales eased 2.5 per cent.,
making the Australian company the chief
defaulter. Export sales declined by 11.3
p.c. Most of these were made by the Aus-
tralian organisation and directors say
this was due to increasing manufacturing
activity in the traditional Middle and
Far Eastern markets for Felt and Tex-
tiles’ wools and wooltops.
Group profit fell by some 38 p.c. in the
year to June 30, 1961, as one might expea:
of an organisation which feeds the hard-
hit automotive and home-making indus-
tries.
Felt and Textiles’ Australian, New
Zealand and South African empire derives
its income from activities ranging from
the scouring and carbonising of wools
through to the production of woollen
and worsted piecegocds and the making
of suits and coats. Making up the warp
and the weft of the organisational fabric
are some 50 subsidiary companies supply-
ing woollen floor coverings—woven,
tufted or felted —for the furnishing trade
and automotive industry, woollen and
ivorsted textiles for the manufacturer,
clothing piecegoods and footwear for the
ultimate consumer, and plastic products
for the automobile, housing and furnish-
ing industries.
Consolidated net profit for the year
ended June 30. 1961, was £379,716
lower at £627,746, after setting aside
£733,191 for tax (down £286,766), provi-
ding £828,562 for depreciation (down
£29,928) and deducting minority
interests:
r~ Dm-. x
Net Pref. Re-
June, Profit.* 0& 4. p.c. Ordinary. serves.!
£ £ £ £
1957. .687,910 64,800 10 p.c. = 379,956 5,557,666
Add intangibles w/off, £1097 . . 5,558,763
Profit sale assets, £5166 .. .. 5,563,929
Profit on cancellation of debentures,
£9030 5,572,959
Tax overprovision, £12,634 .. .. 5,585,593
Pre-acquisition reserves and profits,
£2145 -- 5,587,738
Unexplained addition, £3668 .. 5,591,406
Less special depreciation, £3184 . . 5,588,222
Note-issue expenses w/off, .. £38,450 5,549,<<2
1958. .672,290 64,800 10 p.c. = 379,956 5,777,300
Add intangibles w/off, £44,282 . . 5,821,58 s
Tax overprovided, written-back, £7268 5,828,856
Less pre-acquisition reserves and losses,
£117,470 .. -• .. •• 5,711,336
Share premiums, £39,831 .. .. 5,751,217
Less capital reserves, £61,790 . . 5,089,427
Unexplained addition, £4844 . . 5,694,2^1
1959. .706,061 64,800 10 p.c. = 379,956 5,955,576
Less tax underprovision, £1,167 .. 5,934,409
Add capital reserves, £51,703 .. 6,006,112
Less intangibles written off, £86,582 5,919,530
1960.. 1,007,462 64,800 10 p.c. = 379,956 6,482,236
Add tax overprovision, £366 . . 6,482,602
Add share premium, £852,000 .. 7,334,602
Less reduction in capital reserves
£9,480 .... . . •• . . 7,325,122
Add unexplained additions, £1,017 7,320,139
1961. .627,746 40,263 10 p.c. = 419,082 7,494,540
* After deducting outside shareholders’ influence,
t After deducting intangibles £155,772 at
June 30, 1961.
The ordinary dividend rate was steady
at 10 p.c. for the eighth successive year,
distributing 73.2 p.c. of the latest profits
to shareholders. The earning rate on the
average ordinary capital employed was
14.0 p.c. compared with 24.8 p.c. in 1960
and 16.9 p.c. in 1959.
The Australian company is one of the
largest domestic consumers of Austra-
lian wool. In the year to June 30, 1961,
the wool division processed 35 million
lbs. of greasy wool, equal to almost 15
p.c. of all greasy wool processed in this
country The Australian company’s net
profit was £347,368, of which £317,458
was attributable to the parent company.
Contrary to general misgivings on the
effect of political difficulties on the South
African economy, Felt and Textiles of
South Africa Ltd (which is 50.49 p.c.
owned by the Australian parent) con-
tinued to flourish. Parent company's share
of the £A412,837 profit was £159,236. The
ordinary shares, shown in the parent
company's books at ss. Bd. each, were
lately valued on South African Exchange
at Bs. 9d. (Australian currency).
The New Zealand company also pro-
vided useful stability for the parent.
Trading conditions were buoyant. Direc-
tors are more cautious of the future, with
the possibility of balance-of-payment
problems adversely affecting purchasing
power. Last term parent company bene-
fited to the extent of £A 151,052 from
the New Zealand company's £A352,681
total profit. The N.Z. offshoot is 53.4
per cent owned by the parent, in whose
books the shares are valued at 245. 3d.
each, compared with recent quotes of
935. Id. on the New Zealand exchanges
(Australian currency).
The ordinary capital, which group
profits had to service, increased over the
year from £3,799,565 to £5,559,456 by the
conversion to ords. of £1.5 million pref.
shares, and by a one-for-four par issue
on the increased ordinary capital. A
share split to ss. stock units completed
the capital reorganisation:
1959. 1960. 1961.
Paid capital—•
Pref. .. £1,500,000 £1,500,000
Old. . . 3,790,565 3,709,565 £5,550,456
Reserves . . 6,102,612 6,630,184 7,650,312
Outside inter-
ests in sub-
sidiaries .. 4,040,01.5 4,284,055 4,536,017
Debentures .. 902,700 881,200 1,812,450
Notes .. 1,250,000 1,250,000 1,250,000
Mortgages . . 2,579.134 2,780,914 2,847,649
Bank overdrafts 923,028 1,715,087 2,175,530
Creditors . . 2,669,703 3,243,074 2,725,357
Long service
provisions . . 100,000 100,000 110,812
Ili ter company
balances .. 3,798 47,539
Tax provision 747,205 966,031 793,481
Final divs. .. 221,178 221,178 229,104
£24,838,938 £27,371,288 £29,737,707
Freehold and
leasehold pro-
perties ... 6,486,110 0,523,067 7,369,599
Plant and equip-
ment .. 4,465,600 5,008,396 6,010,513
Shares and ad-
vances in
other cos.. 27,174 2,955 313,554
Stocks . . 8,054,744 8,891,288 9,372,935
Debtors, hills 5,407,361 6,220,496 5,980,812
Debenture sink-
ing funds .. 246,972 260,618 291,224
Cash . . 3,941 10,696 243,298
Inter-company
balances . . 5,824
Goodwill,
patents .. 147,036 147,948 155,772
£24,838,938 £27,371,288 £29,737,707
Capital expenditure in 1961 involved
£1,568,164 in Australia, £400,043 in New
Zealand, and £390,606 in South Africa.
Future commitments stand at £790,000
in Australia, £255,000 in New Zealand,
and £112,000 in South Africa.
The progressive installation of a french
combing plant in the wool-tons unit at
Williamstown (Vic.) will enhance the
range of wools which can be used. The
dyeing and reprocessing plant is also
being extended. Wool scouring and car-
bonising plants in Melbourne and Sydney
(Continued on page 49)


BRADFORD
COTTON MILLS LIMITED
HEAD OFFICE: "BRADMILL HOUSE",
CNR. MISSENDEN AND PARRAMATTA ROADS, CAMPERDOWN, N.S.W,
Speech of Mr. R. J. Web-
ster (Chairman) to Stock-
holders at the Thirty-
Fourth Annual Meeting of
Bradford Cotton Mills
Limited, held on Friday,
10th November, 1961, at
12.00 noon.
Ladies and Gentlemen.
Printed copies of the Financial
Statements and Directors’ Report
relating to the operations of the
Company for the twelve months
ended 30th June last, have already
been supplied to stockholders and
with your permission I will take
them as read.
There is no need to explain to
you in any great detail the cir-
cumstances which were respons-
ible for the retrograde movement
in the profit figures of the Com-
pany for the period under review.
What has happened in the case
of Bradford Cotton Mills has
been a common experience over
a wide range of industries, but it
is doubtful if any industries have
been as severely affected as the
Textile Industry and the types of
production in which we are en-
gaged are probably the most vul-
nerable sections of textiles.
The Cotton Textile Industry can-
not in any way be accused of
having any responsibility for the
trends towards inflation which were
responsible for the series of mea-
sures which have had such a seri-
ous effect on the industrial wel-
fare of Australia. So far as this
Company is concerned, we can
claim to have absorbed practically
the whole of the increased costs
of production over the last seven
years. I mentioned in my address
to you at the last Annual Meet-
ing that for the year just ended
we had paid out in wages alone
approximately £600,000 more than
would have been paid had the
wages rate been the same as that
operating in 1954. What was
more important was that all as-
pects of the operations of the
Company for the greater part of
the financial year justified the
belief that early this year we
would have reached a stage when
it would have been possible to
make worthwhile reductions in
the selling price of the yarn and
woven fabrics we produce. We
were working at full capacity on
a three shift basis in all our major
units, with an efficiency and pro-
ductivity rate well ahead of any-
thing previously experienced. We
were in the the midst of prosper-
ity, but the authorities were
claiming that due to over-employ-
ment labour turnover and absen-
teeism in industry were excessive.
That was not our experience. For
the month of November, 1960—
regarded as being the peak period
of these problems — absentees
throughout the Australian Mills
of Bradford Cotton Mills were
only 3.5% of the work force arid
labour turnover for the 5 months
period July/November averaged
only 3-%. When due regard is had
to the fact that about half of our
work force is female labour, in
which there is a steady and con-
tinuing proportion of labour
losses due to marriage and to
other reasons not associated with
the changing of jobs, this is a
highly satisfactory achievement.
We reached the end of February
with a profit ahead of the cor-
responding period for the previ-
ous year and at one stage our
accounts in the banks were actu-
ally in credit. However, from
that point onwards, due in part
to importations following on the
removal of import restrictions
and in part to the worsening of
the general economy, there was
a serious down turn in every sec-
tion of our business. Productivity
fell away, costs of production in-
creased and profit margins dis-
appeared. It is not possible to re-
duce the labour force of a big
industrial enterprise in direct pro-
portion to the falling off in de-
mand for its manufactured goods
and many other costs remain
constant irrespective of the num-
bers of people employed—such,
for instance, as rates, rent, light-
ing, air-conditioning costs, clean-
ing, fixed interest charges, depre-
ciation, management and such
like.
In circumstances where all com-
petitors are also similarly adver-
sely affected there is an excess of
goods offering which have to be
sold at prices which not only do
not show a reasonable profit mar-
gin but often show actual losses.
Comparative Figures.
In the event we ended the year
with a profit before tax of
£805,000. This compares with
£1,003,000 for the previous year.
The comparable figures after pro-
viding for taxes were approxim-
ately > £450,000 and £557,000 re-
spectively.
The value of stocks, stores and
spare parts, as you will see from
the balance sheet, are much the
same for both periods, the figure
for 1961 at £4,073,244 being
£98,000 higher than the figure at
30th June, 1960. By the end of
October the value of our stocks
had been reduced to £3.300,000.
Sundry Debtors at £2,396,740 are
only £381,000 less than at the
corresponding date last year, but
our creditors at £706,000 are
down by more than £1.195,000,
due principally to lower pur-
chases of raw materials from
overseas sources.
The Bank Overdrafts at the 30th
June were much the same as last
year, but these have been re-
duced by approximately £600,000
since that date. The increase
since February is due in part to
delays in payment by customers,
but mainly to payments for the
new building to house the Fine
Spinning plant, the purchase of
new plant, and the payment of
income tax. The cost of new
building and plant for the year
was £1,787,000. Retirement and
depreciation amounted to
£523,000, leaving the net addition
at £830,000.
It will no doubt interest you to
know that the Rayon Division
has come through the recent
months relatively well. The profit
for the year being quite satisfac-
tory, having regard to all the cir-
cumstances, and well ahead of
the previous year.
Tariffs.
During the year duties on sheet-
ing proved, in some styles and
qualities, to be ineffective and
this, combined with the general
economic setback, made it im-
possible for companies producing
sheeting in Australia to keep
their mills working at anything
like capacity. As newcomers in
the field this Company was pro-
bably more adversely affected
than would otherwise have been
the case. The duties at present
in operation are insufficient to
protect the industry against some
Euorpean countries and East
Asian competition. This, how-
ever, is not an unusual situation
in the Textile Industry and in
due course I have no doubt a
solution to our problems will
be found.
Fine Spinning Plant.
The erection of the building to
house the Fine Spinning Plant
was completed ahead of schedule
• —-a magnificent performance on
the part of the contractors, Civil
and Civic Contractors Pty. Ltd.
The building is worthy of the
machinery which is to go into it.
Everything has been done to
allow of the plant being operated
with the maximum of efficiency.
The machinery is now being in-
stalled and, as I forecast last
year, the first section will be in
production before December next.
The full plant should be all
erected and ready to operate
well before the end of the cur-
rent financial year.
Knitting Activities.
We have for some time contem-
plated entering the Knitting In-
dustry. A few months ago an
opportunity to do so presented
itself in a section of this indus-
try which at present is not by any
means oversupplied and which
in the immediate future gives
promise of expansion in the field
of both worsted and man-made
fibres —particularly the former.
The mill is now in production,
turning out first class goods
wheh are finding a ready market.
Protection and Import Licensing
The outstanding happening dur-
ing the year, from an industrial
point of view, was the removal
of import licensing. This had to
come sooner or later. The way
in which it was done was rather
drastic, but we have to accept
the situation as it is. Unlike many
of my colleagues in the industrial
lield, I feel that in the long run
it would not benefit industry to
bring it back for protective pur-
poses. If the Government finds
it necessary for balance of pay-
ment reasons that is another mat-
ter. If industry is to rely on im-
port licensing for protection, its
future would be uncertain. We
would be faced from time to
time with a series of crises and
our welfare would be affected
by the changing views of political
parties, or even individual Minis-
ters. The proper way to protect
industry is by tariff duties, but
they must protect to an extent
which will allow of economic
production. This cannot be
achieved on a stop and start
policy, which hardly ever permits
an industry to operate its plant
at a capacity which will permit
of maximum efficiency and mini-
mum costs of production. Fur-
thermore, protective duties must
have some relation to the causes
which push up production costs,
over which industry has no con-
trol whatever. It does not yet
seem to be understood that many
industries in Australia today are
living in a new world which re-
quires traditional practices in
tariff making to be modified to
meet a set of circumstances which
have not previously existed. Pro-
tective duties have to be elastic
enough to permit of their being
effective under conditions which
change from day to day. Against
countries where production and
selling prices are completely in
the hands of Governments, con-
ventional forms of fixing duties
which it takes years to change
are quite out of date. The legis-
lation under which emergency
tariff can be imposed is a recog-
nition of these changed condi-
tions. Within its limitations—and
there are some—it is a great safe-
guard to both primary and sec-
ondary industries. The introduc-
tion of this legislation showed
farsightedness and a practical
grasp of the kind of problems
with which both. primary and
secondary industries would be
faced in the rapidly changing
conditions df modern trade.
Accident Prevention.
I have made mention on previous
occasions of the close attention


BR ADM I LL
eju^TH
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
have been reorganised for greater effi-
ciency and flexibility. All non-woven
operations were transferred from Foots-
cray and Brunswick to a new factory at
North Coburg (Vic.).
Centralisation of woollen and worsted
operations at Bentleigh (Vic.) will be
completed with the closing down of the
Davlesford mill. Production of all woollen
felt has been concentrated at Granville
(N.S.W.).
Directors regard stocks as satisfactory
and in keeping with turnover levels. Book
debts were a bit lower.
Collection of debts has been vigorously
pursued, and directors feel the final
account in the balance sheet represents
realistic levels in relation to sales volume.
The company relies heavily on loan
capital Last term the South African
company raised £931,250 in 6} p.c.
mortgage debentures redeemable between
1981-1990. Interest in long-term liabili-
ties has risen from £160,288 in 1957 to
£268,034 in 1960 and £306,305 in 1961.
As an investment proposition the ss.
ordinary stock unit offers tangible asset
backing of 11s. 1 Id The immediate return
is 7.6 p.c. p.a. on the basis of the steady
10 p.c. dividend distribution and the
latest market price of about 6s. 7d. a ss.
unit.
In the current year, dividend commit-
ment on higher average capital will be
about £555,946, assuming a steady 10
per cent rate, compared with distributions
of £459,345 in 1960-61 and £444,756 in
the six preceding years. To allow a reason-
able plough-back, this requires a substan-
tial lift m profits —otherwise a cut in the
dividend may have to be made.
Immediate prospects depend on the
general economic climate and the Govern-
ment’s import policy. The first five
months of the current term have been
subject to much the same difficulties as
the second half of 1960-61.
Stocks and Holdings Ltd
A virile, hard-pushing, occasionally
ruthless, go-getter, Stocks and Hold-
ings Ltd has managed to ride out the
credit squeeze difficulties and continue its
expansion. In a period when many of its
competitors in the real estate and build-
ing industry have felt the pinch of credit
restrictions, the company succeeded in
lifting its profits and maintaining an
impressive rate of growth.
Once the woe-ridden Simon Hickey
Industries Ltd, the company was taken
over by ambitious real estate interests in
April, 1958. The name was then changed
to Stocks and Holdings Ltd and the com-
pany became the pivot for a number of
subsidiary, semi-subsidiary and associa-
ted firms engaged in real estate develop-
ing, homebuilding and auxiliary rcad-
building, subdividing and real estate
financing mainly in Sydney’s outer
suburbs. Recently the group ventured into
Wollongong (N.S.W.) where it designed
and built the Piccadilly Shopping Centre
at an estimated cost of about £500,000.
The Wollongong project includes a 37-
unit motel. There is another motel and
drive-in restaurant in Tamworth (N.S.W.).
At present Stocks and Holdings is
primarily a hoiding company with real
estate interests. The principal subsidiary
is the fully-owned Stocks and Hold-
ings (Realty Finance) Ltd —formerly
Metropolitan Realty Finance Ltd. A
listed “sister company”, Stocks and Realty
Corporation Ltd, was established early
last term. Other subsidiary and associate
companies in Stocks and Holdings’
intricate network include Albert and
Company Pty (real estate agents, etc.),
Stocks and Holdings (Constructors) Pty,
Stocks and Holdings (Road Construc-
tion) Pty and Finance Facilities Pty.
Credit difficulties did not decrease sales
of cottages, but serious delays in settle-
ments were encountered and stocks of
completed homes mounted.
Consolidated net profit for the year-
ended June 30, 1961, was £35,840 higher
at £112.071, after charging £21,336 for
depreciation (up £16,111) and making a
provision for taxation:
Parent and Subsidiary.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. , Dividends , serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
Capital reserve, £1653 .. .. 1,653
Pre-reconstruction deficit, £219 .. 1,434
1958 .. 6,166 6,166 7,600
1959 .. 11,125 13 p.c. = 3,120 8,005 15,605
Pre-acquisition reserves and profits,
£•3043 20,648
Increase capital reserve, £921 .. 21,569
Added on consolidation, £10,050 .. 31,619
1960 .. 76,231 20 p.c. =20,000 56,231 87,850
Pre-acquisition reserves and profits,
£15,639 .. .. .. .. 103,489
Increase capital reserve, £2Ol . . 103,690
1961 ..132,071 20 p.c. =22,200 89,871 193,501
* Subject to intangibles, £102,582 at 30/6/61.
Accounts show £42 803 “taxation pro-
visions and written off cost of shares
purchased.” Directors say that the tax
provision itself “was comparatively small,
as some of the profits were earned in sub-
sidiaries which have been acquired on
account of their past trading losses. All
these have now been recouped.”
Consolidated net profit was equivalent
to an earning rate of 45.9 p.c. on the
enlarged paid capital at balance date,
compared with 38.1 p.c. in 1960 and 46
p.c. in 1959.
Ordinary shareholders received another
handsome 20 p.c. dividend distribution.
Holders of deferred shares (£122,000 at
balance date) did not participate, which
explains the relatively low cost of the
dividends cheque.
Reserves received £89,871, and also
benefited by £15,639 pre - acquisition
reserves and profits of subsidiaries and
£2Ol increase in capital reserve, rising
to £193,561 (subject to £102,582 intan-
gibles).
Borrowings rose sharply. Book value
of freeholds and buildings increased
being given to accident prevention
schemes. The results have amply
repaid the efforts. Some of our
mills can now be regarded as be-
ing not far behind the world
leaders in this respect. Our Foot-
scray Spinning Mill recently com-
pleted 1,100,000 man hours of
work without a single lost time
accident and some of the other
plants have gone for 12 months
without a lost time accident. The
accident frequency, calculated on
the international basis of 1 mil-
lion man hours worked, is only
one quarter of what it was three
or four years ago. We have had
the maximum co-operation from
our employees in the matter and
competition between our various
mills to show the best records is
very keen.
Present and Future Trends.
Trade conditions since the close
of the year have not been quite
as bad as were the last three
months of the financial year, but
they can only be classed as very
bad. There is no other descrip-
tion which fits the case, with the
exception of the Rayon Division
which is now getting back to-
wards three shift work at full
capacity. This is entirely due to
the increase of duties on the
higher prices cloths, which were
imposed following an emergency
hearing. There is now showing
up, however, a continuous and
steady improvement in the other
divisions, but it is slow and there
is a lot of leeway to make up.
The Cotton Spinning, Weaving
and Tyre Cord Plants were prob-
ably the hardest hit sections of
the Textile Industry.
The necessity for the wholesale
dismissals of well trained, loyal
employees is one of the saddest
and most distressing tasks which
management can be called upon
to face. Apart from this it is not
only bad for industry, it is bad
from a national point of view,
particularly where —as is the case
with Bradford Cotton Mills—so
many dismissals have to be made
in country areas such as Bendigo,
Newcastle and Maitland, where
there is relatively very little al-
ternative work offering. As busi-
ness improves we must of neces-
sity face up to a heavy and costly
training programme and a long
and slow journey back to maxi-
mum efficiency and productivity.
We have in the matter of dis-
missals followed a policy which
will cause the minimum hardship,
and the morale of those still in
employment has remained high.
In conclusion, I desire to convey
to the Administrative staff and
the work force generally our
thanks and appreciation for their
loyalty and co-operation through
this very trying year.
R. J. WEBSTER
CHAIRMAN ANO
MANAGING DIRECTOR


SSEX
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Imorporated in England
•
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£A363,000, 000
•
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC SCHOOL
situated in the Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Buildings.
Junior House separate from the
rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on application
to
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
All the
family
will love
I
/.
Everybody's
Residence For Sale
Waterfront (Deep), 468 Orange Grove, Booker
Bay. Gentleman’s 2 bedroom residence,
TV, also detached 1 bedroom flat, both fully
furnished, own wharf, baths, 18ft. half-cabin
launch, slips, winch. Septics, pump from well.
Garage. N.E. aspect. £B,OOO cash. Phone
owner before 7 p.m.: Woy Woy 693.
Positions Vacant
ALL SOULS’ SCHOOL
CHARTERS TOWERS, N.Q.
Masters required to teach:
1. Book-keeping, Typing and General Middle-
school Subjects.
2. Latin and English.
Duties commence First Term, 1962.
Resident or non-resident; housemastership with
free fiat available for suitable man. Apply
Headmaster.
WARDEN FOR
OUTWARD BOUND SCHOOL
Outward Bound School, on the Hawkesbury
River, New South Wales, is calling for applica-
tions to fill the position of School Warden.
The successful applicant will join our Staff
early in 1962 and will spend some time over-
seas before taking up appointment in September,
1962.
Applicants must possess outstanding leadership
qualities with a capacity to understand and
communicate the principles of character train-
ing as taught at Outward Bound.
The appointment is residential; married
accommodation is available. Salary to be
arranged.
Apply wth full details of experience to:
The Secretary, Outward Bound Memorial
Foundation, Box 4213, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Divorce Notices
Matrimonial Causes Act 1959
IN THU SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.—Is Divorce.
To: HARRY MARTIN PEAT formerly of 66
Penrose Street, Lane Cove. —-TAKE NOTICE that
MARY MONICA PEAT has filed a Petition for
divorce No. 3671 of 1961 on the ground of deser-
tion. If you wish to defend you max- enter an
Answer in the Divorce Registry, Mint Building,
Macquarie Street, Sydney by the 29tli day of
December, 1961 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from N. V. MENLOVE, Solicitor,
160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—-C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
m
HELP
LEGACY
all the year round. Donations: 169
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. BM2OOI.
sharply. This includes the value of two
factories at a conservative valuation:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
1959. 1960. 19.0-1.
Paid capital .. £24,000 £200,000 £244,000
Reserves . . . . 15,605 87,850 193,501
Minoeitv interest. . 28,982 30,548 6,771
Loans ' . . .. 416,480 1,529,428
Overdraft.. .. 159,727 109,7/9
Sundry ereditoi's,
provisions . . 49,274 80,565 91,546
Final dividend . . 1,560 10,000 12,200
Tax provision . . 44.627 52,689
£119,421 £1,035,797 £2,239,974
Freeh olds and lease-
holds . . . . 8,985 35,825
Plant, equipment 123,671 70,707
In-vestments:
shares, etc. .. 111,180. 2,309 141,472
freehold land
and buildings 35.307 1,053,907
Deposits .. . . 103,224 15,552
Stocks . . . . 583,488 628,036
Debtors .. .. 5,030 83,915 170,669
Cash .. 3,211 7,27.6 21,164
Intangibles .. - 87,622 102,552
£119,4-21 £1,035,797 £2,239,974
Paid capital at balance date was
£244,000. Since then an offer was made
for Development Underwriting Ltd, on
the basis of three ss. Stocks and Holdings
ords. for each 10s. Development Under-
writing ords. paid to 4s. 3d. each, or
effective 27 ss. Stocks and Holdings
ords. plus £2 2s. 6d. cash for every 100
Development Underwriting 4s. 3d. paid
ords. After balance date directors
announced the allotment of 112,000 ss.
ords., including 100,000 ss. ords. to Pearl
Assurance Company Ltd, of London.
This means that about 10 p.c. of the
issued capital will be held by Pearl
Assurance.
The 20 p.c. ord. div. rate is expected
to be maintained. Immediate prospects
depend on the economic climate, but the
group seems to be in a healthy position,
ft is obviously undercapitalised and the
directors let it be known that they “are
contemplating steps to improve the posi-
tion in this regard.” This could mean
another share issue.
Results of Stocks and Realty are said
to be improving and “should ensure a
dividend of at least 10 p.c. p.a. to com-
mence with an interim dividend at this
rate early next year.” The S. and R.
ss. ords., for a while below par. have
now recovered to about ss. 4d. a unit.
At the last sale in Sydney, Stocks and
Holdings’ scrip changed hands at 15s. 6d.
a unit. The immediate yield is 6.4 p.c.
on the basis of the steady 20 p.c. dividend
rate.
Net tangible asset backing at balance
date worked out at 6s. lOd. for each ss.
ord. on the basis of consolidated
accounts.
COMPANY NOTES
Ampol Petroleum Ltd
■pviRECTORS of Ampol Petroleum Ltd
have decided to streamline the pro-
cedure for transfer of stocks, shares and
notes. The company is the first in Aus-
tralia to act on the recommendations of
the Advisory Committee of the Austra-
lian Associated Stock Exchanges on the
transfer of securities, designed to expedite
the registration of share transactions.
“Under the existing procedure it takes
sometimes three to six months to com-
plete a share transaction. The new
method should, in due course, reduce
this delay to a matter of days,” said Mr
W. G. Walkley, Ampol’s managing-
director, announcing the new simplified
procedure.
An extraordinary general meeting of
stockowners will be held on January 19,
1962, to amend the articles of associa-
tion accordingly.
Mr D. M. Butcher. Secretary of Sydney
Stock Exchange, said that the Stock
Exchange welcomed “this tangible sup-
port of our new system of transfer pro-
cedure from the Ampol group of com-
panies.” He said this was “encouraging
evidence that the report is receiving very
serious consideration by those who are
involved in the heart of the problem” the
Stock Exchanges are trying to meet.


“GOING . .
“GOING . .
VANESSA,
GONE.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 669
Across
I—Dash five with it in Italy. (8)
s—Rise5 —Rise up from a province of Greece. (6)
10 — Icehouse. (5)
11 — Lie within some sham covering. (9)
12 — Cheese made the wrong way. (4)
13— Benaud’s type of bowling suffers a setback, though
there are some “spots.” (4)
14—Napoleon spent some time here
with the Spanish graduate. (4)
18— Nothing mother possesses is
enough for such redskins. (6)
19— Chap to train some ape. (8)
21— Early set affected by such a
wind. (8)
22 Killara bicyclists give tongue. (6)
25 —This makes me state the name
for a flat-top hill. (4)
25 — Aunt hid the Malay’s master. (4)
26 — Cut back Easter food! (4)
29 —The most sacrilegious university
man with an egg repository. (9)
31 — The two of them going with a
Boer general. (5)
32 — Inquisitive problem for the bats-
men. (6)
33 — Perfumed in a rage. (8)
Down
1— Sinatra at the Stadium? (5-5)
2 Elevated one has to spot Florida’s
capital. (11)
3 Land also ravaged. (4)
4 Squabble in tea. (6)
6 Where locomotives may usually
be found to be phonies. (10)
7 Republican rooking a bit of a
bounder. (3)
8 — Turf with a fountain drink. (4)
9 Any lies could become
heavenly. (7)
15 — Saints bribe translormed Queens-
landers. (11)
16 — Unpleasantly surprised, thanks to
a boy who is a footballer. (5, 5)
17 — A school fixture available to the
lodgers in Harlem. (10)
20 —Knock down Apartment X. (7)
23 —Chinese city cannot change. (6)
27 — It means work for any musician
in the soup. (4)
28 — 14-across turned up. (4)
30 —Japanese sash. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 668


BY APPOINTMENT TO HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD.
FOR THE SCOTCH WITH A CHARACTER ALL ITS OWN
ask for
“Johnnie Walker”
THE SCOTCH OF SCOTCH
Now in miniatures, 5 oz.
flasks, 13 oz. in flasks and
square bottles, and the pop-
ular 26 oz. square bottles.
BORN 1820 —STILL GOING STRONG
