

The Bulletin
Registered in Australia for trans-
mission by post as a newspaper.
November 4, 1961
SERVANTS
1961


y
L
1
k
b
CS
<*r
Si
a
L
When A.M.P. was
in 1849, boxers
looked like this
7
7
7
k
52558
A.M.P. has knocked out money worries for self-employed
men who wonder where their income will come from—
• When sickness or accident strikes
• When old-age and retirement approaches.
Ask your A.M.P. man for details of
• The new A.M.P. Professional Income Protector
Policy, and the
• A.M.P. Tax-Free Superannuation Plan,
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
Australia’s largest and oldest life assurance organisation
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. Offices in cities and towns throughout
Australia and New Zealand and in the United Kingdom
A.M.P. members enjoy the unquestioned securHy afforded by funds of £500,000,000
which the Society seeks to invest to the greatest benefit to members.


TEARING OFF A STRIP
By Lovell Jones
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO PTY LTD
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Sheet, Sydney:
Box 2521; Phone: 27 5971.
Vol. 82
No. 4264
On Surviving
A: The article on civil defence on page 16 seems to be a typical
piece of facile optimism.
Surely it is only facile in the sense that it suggests that there
might be opportunities for protection in a nuclear war, and that
we should consider them.
A: All the industrial centres of Australia would be destroyed five
minutes after a nuclear war began.
S: On the other hand this might not happen. The Russians might
not wish to obliterate the whole Western world during at least
the opening stages of a nuclear holocaust. They might hope for a
knockout blow of their main enemies, but they might choose to
leave the rest of the world comparatively undamaged so that
there would remain some point in winning.
A: They would want to intimidate the whole world and they could
easily do that by destroying its cities.
B: In the case of Australia they might do this by destroying only
one city in the opening stages. That would at least give us a
chance to evacuate the other cities.
A: It would take such a small percentage of their stockpile to destroy
the major Australian cities that they might very well do it. Their
main interest in Australia might be as a future food supplier.
B: Well that may be so, but why need we accept it as certain? For
the population of even the smaller cities to survive would be at
least something. And we can surely safely plan the defence of
country areas.
A: There should certainly be some strategic stockpiling in country
areas. But do you seriously believe that people in a city destroyed
by nuclear weapons would have any possibility of surviving? The
fire storms would barbecue them in their shelters, if they had
shelters.
B: I think that the first things that must be planned are safety for
country areas and the evacuation of the cities. After that we can
at least consider how city dwellers might survive. After all a
nuclear weapon may explode off target and there might be a
possibility of survival in marginal areas —and any area might be
a marginal area.
A: Civil defence is a form of war-mongering. It’s the arms race on
the home front. By making survival in nuclear war appear pos-
sible it may make nuclear war inevitable.
B: The human spirit has a strong capacity to survive and the longer
the nuclear stalemate lasts the more possible it will be to plan sur-
vival. It verges on the ridiculous to suggest that civil defence in
Australia is war-mongering.
A: A nuclear war would be the end of civilisation. I would rather die
in the open than in a rat hole.
B: It might be the end of civilisation as we have grown to know it.
But some of us would like to survive and do the best we can.


This Australia
AVIATION
The Sydney Sideshow
REG ANSETT
Open letter
FROM EUGENE BAJKOWSKI IN SYDNEY
While the seventeenth annual general
meeting of the International Air
Transport Association was in solemn
session in Sydney’s be-flagged Chevron-
Hilton Hotel, the real aviation fireworks
of the week were provided by a Sydney
sideshow.
The fight—one of a long series in the
feud between the powerful interstate
Ansett-A.N.A. and the small but cocky-
intrastate East-West Airlines began
when Mr D. M. Shand, East-West's
chairman, claimed that the Minister for
Civil Aviation, Senator S. D. Paltridge,
had tried to force East-West to give in
to Ansett-A.N.A.’s takeover bid in July,
1960. East-West rejected the bid, and
relations have remained strained ever
since. East-West's Board seems to live
in constant fear of being swallowed up
by its competitor, which it says has the
ear of the Commonwealth Department
of Civil Aviation.
The Shand-Paltridge controversy almost
immediately developed into a rough-and-
tumble, with Mr Reg Ansett of Ansett-
A.N.A. and the N.S.W. Labor Govern-
ment providing .reinforcements. Every
day brought its quota of sensational
statements, accusations, denials and
tongue-in-cheek assertions.
The Prime Minister was quick to
defend his Minister despite a remarkable
speech by Mr D. H. Drummond, a
Country party member from New Eng-
land, which appeared firstly to
corroborate the East-West version.
Attacked by some newspapers, Senator
Paltridge made some angry statements
and wholesale denials, then admitted that
some things he had said more than a
year ago may have been misunderstood.
But why, he asked, should the matter
be raised now, right before the elections,
although Ansett-A.N.A. had made no
new bids for East-West which had
already ingeniously altered its articles of
association to frustrate any future
attempts to buy it out? Why indeed?
The A.L.P. was quick to make political
capital out of it all. In the Federal
Parliament, the Government was attacked
on the whole range of its aviation policy,
accused of partiality to Ansett-A.N.A.,
of intimidating T.A.A., its own inter-
state airline, and of blackmailing East-
West through suspending its subsidy. In
N.S.W., Mr Heffron’s Labor Govern-
ment swung into actk :i as a self-styled
protector of State rights and the defender
of honest small operators against evil
monopolists. It quickly reallocated the
N.S.W. intrastate air routes, and then
ordered Airlines of N.5.W.., an Ansett-
A.N.A. subsidiary, to hand over some
of its more lucrative runs to its com-
petitor.
At this stage Mr Ansett let off his
guns, and blasted the N.S.W. Govern-
ment in an open letter to Mr Heffron,
which he inserted as a paid advertisement
in the daily press. He demanded that
the State Government should reconsider
its reallocation of intrastate air routes—
otherwise he would put East-West out
of business. Earlier, Mr Ansett said he
will challenge the reallocation in the
courts. Mr Heffron in turn claimed that
as the Premier of a Sovereign State ne
is not impressed by threats. In any case
it is obviously to Labor’s advantage to
keep the dispute alive until the Federal
elections in December: East-West Air-
lines is based on Taniworth and some
of its routes serve a number of present
Country party seats . . -
ABORIGINES
The Penalty for Beer
FROM KEITH WILLEY IN DARWIN
Tr was another of those pathetic cases
-*■ which occur so regularly under
Northern Territory law. Veteran fencer,
Jim Robinson (38 years in the N.T.),
after a hard morning’s work in the sun
out on remote Anthony's Lagoon Station,
had stood his four employees a beer.
Three of the men were full-blood
aborigines.
While the fencers were drinking and
yarning, Constable Charles George Simp-
son rode out of the scrub on patrol. He
saw the beer, questioned Robinson (who
replied : “If you can't give a good worker
a drink, it's time they changed the bloody
law”), then arrested him.
The amount of liquor concerned was
insignificant by Territory standards.
Robinson and another white man had
six small bottles t tween them. The
natives had a little ten-ounce bottle each
—all tipped into a billycan and shared
out from there.
But the law was clear. Anyone who
gives a native ward a drink in the
Northern Territory faces a minimum
penalty of six months jail for a first
offence and 12 months for a second
offence. It was Jim Robinson's first.
In fact when he went to Tennant Creek
for the Police Court hearing it was also
the first time in four years he had been
in a town. The magistrate had no alter-
native but to sentence the respected and
widely-liked old bushman to six months
jail.
But unlike many who have faced
similar circumstances in past years,
Robinson appealed. And in the Supreme
Court it was a very different story. Even
the Crown Prosecutor, Mr John Gallop,
seemed to be on his side. “This man
obviously acted in a spirit of friendship
and mateship,” he told Mr Justice Bridge.
“Rather than flaunt his privileges as a
white man before his native workers he
shared his liquor with them. He acted
like a true white man . . .” One of the
aborigines concerned had worked for
Robinson for 17 years, he added. The
judge upheld the appeal and broke the
penalty down to a £3O fine plus £5 ss.
court costs.
The case has left a nasty taste in the
mouths of Territorians. Robinson’s
action was not unusual. In the bitterly
cold Centralian winter it has been com-
mon practice for half a century for a
drover to give each of his stockboys a
nip of rum when they come off watch.
It is still common practice, but the
drover who hands his native employee a
drink now knows he risks six months’
jail for it. “Even so, it wouldn't be
human to refuse a man a nip after hours
in the cold,” a veteran overlander told
me once.
The rigidity of the law has been a
major contributing cause to the Terri-
tory’s constant political unrest. The
member for Stuart, Mr Bill Petrick, who
voted for the measure when it passed
the Legislative Council seven or eight


years ago, has said since: “One of the
things 1 regret most in my life is voting
in support of the Licensing Ordinance.”
Jts main victims have been half-castes
and native citizens. The large-scale sup-
pliers have continued in business, un-
touched. Native drinking increases every
year.
FUNERAL CHAMBERS
The Underfakers Conference
FROM PETER KELLY IN SYDNEY
L. S. ANDREWS
No association
A hundred funeral directors gathered
last week for the 23rd annual con-
ference of the Australian Funeral Direc-
tors’ Association at the R.S.L.’s Anzac
House, opposite Sydny’s peaceful Hyde
Park. Opening proceedings, Mr N.
Mannix, New South Wales" Minister for
Justice, supported retiring chairman
Kinsela's remarks that all funeral direc-
tors should be licensed. Mr Kinsela had
said that “cheap” operators rented shop-
fronts and had virtually no mortuary
facilities, and that they were under-
cutting the “established” funeral direc-
tors by claiming that they could provide
a funeral for as little as £47 10s. Mr
Kinsela rather ambiguously said that
“anyone who is offered a cheap funeral
should have a second look at it." He
also claimed traditional headstones over
graves should be replaced by a bronze
plaque inlaid in the lawn —raising the
question whether large funeral com-
panies may expand their business to take
over graveyards, stone-masonry business
and perhaps florists.
In attacking “cheap” operators, Mr
Kinsela was also directing his attack at
a much smaller but rival funeral direc-
tors’ association in New South Wales,
the Independent Funeral Directors. The
I.F.D. has long been a thorn in the side
of the larger organisation—chiefly be-
cause the 1.F.D., with their smaller over-
head costs and with possibly not such a
large appetite for profit, generally charge
lower prices for funerals. Most of them,
too, unlike the large companies, do not
demand money in advance or a guaran-
tor from grief-stricken friends or rela-
tives. And, again, unlike the larger
companies, they are not often owned by
accountants, solicitors, dental mechanics,
doctors and even builders. In 1958 one
large firm on Sydney’s North Shore was
formed with the objects of building and
equipping a private crematorium, monu-
mental masons, florists and nurserymen.
The Independent men see the larger com-
panies as a threat to their business. They
claim that as well as higher prices, often
behind the large impressive facades of the
richly-carpeted bigger companies' offices,
there is little in the way of refrigeration
plant and that conditions are "undigni-
fied."
While Mr Kinsela and the other inter-
state members of the Australian Funeral
Directors’ Association were rounding off
their conference with an undertakers’
picnic on the Hawkesbury, the Reverend
Mr John F. S. Campbell was sharpening
his pen at Miranda. His letter in the
press next day alleged that funeral direc-
tors often behaved “callously”; that
“many of them demand a 50 per cent,
deposit on the day the funeral is ordered,
and complete settlement within a few
days of the funeral"; and that he was
"astounded by the shockingly high prices
charged by some undertakers." On the
subject of chapels, Mr Campbell was
more outspoken. “The parish clergyman
is sometimes the very last to be informed.
Some of the private chapels established
by undertakers are pleasantly furnished,
but others are objectionable in the
extreme. Frequently they leave the
coffin open in such chapels until just
before the service. Colored spotlights
shine on the face of the corpse and sickly
sentimental recorded music is invariably
played.”
Two days later a funeral director “from
his youth," Mr Leslie S. Andrews, of
Strathfield, joined in the fight—attack-
ing Mr Campbell and, by implication, Mr
Kinsela. Mr Andrews said he wanted
“to defend the right of the small man so
to continue untrammelled by the ever-
growing mass of red tape which is
increasingly shackling the vitality of pri-
vate enterprise.” Mr Andrews also said
“the desire to stifle competition has been
the mainspring of the wish of the funeral
directors for licensing.” Mr Andrews
also commented on “the paucity of the
arguments put forward” by Mr Campbell
and bemoaned the fact that funeral direc-
tors often carry “bad debts,” which was
possibly why “some funeral directors may
not be delicate in their financial
approach.” Mr Andrews, who received
a lot of publicity in 1949 when he
refused to pay a Social Service tax,
naturally belongs to no association.
EDUCATION
Subnormal
FROM FRANK ROBERTS IN BRISRANE
“nPHE warmth of our sun seems to
reach into our hearts," said Premier
Frank Nicklin at the opening of another
unit for the Queensland Sub-normal
Children’s Welfare Association this
time Schonell House, a £20,000 re-
modelled centre with two furnished flats
and the clinical rooms where many of
the State’s 1000 or so retarded country
children will be tested and their accom-
panying parents advised how to care for,
manage and train them.
But the Premier hastened to admit
that a thoroughly professional committee
had worked most of the eight-year
miracle for sub-normal children in
Queensland. The Association was
founded in 1953, largely on the
enthusiasm of its president, Professor
F. J. Schonell. vice chancellor of the
University of Queensland at one end
of the scale and a world authority on
the education of mentally handicapped
children at the other. The first bank
deposit was less than £5, and the first
classes were held on a private home
verandah at Coorparoo. They were small
classes because few people then thought
sub-normals could be educated.
In eight years since the Association
has raised £350,000, built a complex of
clinics, training centres, playgrounds and
sheltered workshops for 150 children at
Bowen Hills in Brisbane, and established
day occupation centres in eight cities
and towns from Mackay to Southport.
More importantly it has by example and
publicity radically changed the general
outlook towards these children, and
saved many families the agony of
indecision which occurs when an un-
trained mentally handicapped child
threatens to become intractable. The
Government cheerfully pays about
£60,000 a year in subsidies, knowing it
is saving more by keeping many children
out of institutions.
Happily the Association only regards
its work to date as a beginning. Centres
in Brisbane and along the coast do not
solve the problem of the 1000 handi-
capped country children. Schonell
House, taking two children and their
parents into residence every two weeks
was described by Mr Nicklin as a
"practical compromise." Two more
residential centres will be built for
country children, at Townsville and
Toowoomba, and the Association is
creating a farm colony near Brisbane
for young adults who cannot be trained
to work in the community.
This is much more than is being done
in any other State. Professor Schonell
ascribed it to "one strong central
organisation with a committee composed
of men of vision, substance and integrity
-—which enabled the Government to deal
confidently with a stable, undivided
body.”


APOLOGY
An error occurred in last week’s
BULLETIN when the late Mr L. B.
Robinson was erroneously mentioned
in Bernard Hesling’s article on Wil-
liam Dobell. The portrait referred to
in the article was not of Mr L. B.
Robinson and THE BULLETIN
apologises to his family and many
friends for this error.
POLITICAL POINTS
Up to the Court
N. MAYELL
“Waiting”
From MUGGA
The fight in the New South Wales
branch of the Amalgamated Postal
Workers’ Union is growing more bitter.
In the September 30 issue of The
Bulletin 1 wrote a story explaining how
the N.S.W. secretary, Mr J. N. Lynch,
had sent out three separate how-to-vote
tickets to the members for State and
Federal positions in the Union. In doing
so he had broken an agreement he had
made with the Federal Secretary, C. J.
McGrane, his State Assistant Secretary,
N. R. Mayell, and other A.L.P. members
of his union.
Since then the fight has been continued
on two fronts: first, before the Common-
wealth Industrial Commission and
secondly, in the Union. The Union has
been effectively divided into two groups:
those who are determined to get rid of
Lynch, and those members whom Lynch
has persuaded to help him remain. (The
Communist party faction has remained
more or less neutral waiting to see
which will be the most useful faction
to back.)
In 1957, the rules of the Union in
relation to the re-election of Secretaries
were changed. Up until this change,
Secretaries at this first election were
elected for two years. If re-elected they
were to hold office for a four-year term.
The rules were altered to allow a secre-
tary a six-year term on re-election.
Mr Lynch was re-elected in 1957
(when the rules allowed for a four-year
term) and under the old rules would have
come up for election in September, 1961.
He claimed that he could stay in office
for the six-year period and consequently
decided he would not have to face the
members for re-election until 1963. (Two
other State Secretaries, Mr D. J. Allan
of South Australia, and Mr F. Waters
of Queensland, were in a similar position
but they apparently did not think they
could take advantage of the extra two
years and both of them sought re-election
after their four-year term was up.) A
member of the union, Mr T. Higgins,
challenged Mr Lynch's interpretation of
the rule, and at the moment, the full
bench of the Commonwealth Industrial
Commission, Chief Judge Spicer, and
Judges Eggleston and Dunphy, have
reserved their judgment. If the Court
does not find in favor of Lynch, there
will have to be an election for a new
State Secretary.
Qn Friday, October 20, before the
Court action, Lynch held a meeting of
27 of his supporters, at Room 34 in the
Trades Hall. Before the meeting had
started the powerfully-built 6ft 2in.
Federal Secretary, McGrane arrived and
challenged Lynch to repeat allegations
he had been making about McGrane.
Lynch a:ked the caretaker to remove
McGrane but George, the caretaker
(who is only sft 2in.) declined. So
Lynch (who is the same size as George)
decided to call the police. By this time
the N.S.W. Assistant Secretary Mayeil
and three or four supporters had arrived
and were discussing the position with
Lynch's supporters when the police
arrived. The police ordered them to
leave and they all went peacefully but
took ten of Lynch’s supporters with
them.
On Tuesday, October 24, the fight
went a bit further at the union's meeting.
Assistant Secretary Mayell, and his sup-
porters, tried to pass a motion which
would have prevented Lynch from order-
ing Mayell on a country tour ; removed
temporary organiser Andrewartha (one
of Lynch’s main supporters) from office.
The chairman of the meeting, Mr L.
Hodges, acting on Lynch’s suggestions,
refused to accept the motion. He also re-
fused to accept a motion of dissent front
his ruling and one of no confidence.
In the only “test” vote of the night
Lynch was defeated by 65 to 32. After
this incident Lynch read from a long
report until the meeting ended. The main
significance in the vote was that Lynch
“drummed” up as much support for the
meeting as he could, while Mayell and his
supporters did little or no organising—
they were content to wait on the Court's
decision.
In the circumstances this is probably
the wisest thing to do, because like so
many other faction fights in unions, it
is the Court’s interpretation of the rules
which so often decides which faction
shall hold office.
THE FRANCHISE
Votes for Wives
FROM A PERTH CORRESPONDENT
A/fr Eric Heenan, a member of
the Western Australian Legislative
Council, jogged a 17-year-old conscience
when he introduced a Bill to the Coun-
cil seeking the enrolment of wives of
qualified Council electors on the elec-
toral roll.
Mr Heenan was only proposing what a
Council Select Committee had recom-
mended in 1944. The Bill provides that
where a wife lives with her husband she
would be entitled to enrol for the
province in which she lived. She could
not enrol for any other province, even
though her husband might own property
in more than one province.
Like Tasmania and South Australia,
Western Australia has a system of quali-
fication for the Council electoral roll
which does little to encourage voting for
the House of Review. Ownership or
joint-ownership of a property worth £5O
or the occupation of a house or leased
property with an annual rental of £l7
a year qualifies a citizen to vote for the
Council. Eligibility is also granted to
those who are on the electoral roll of
a local authority in connection with im-
proved property for which the annual
rateable value is more than £l7. This
would let wives in if they were on the
municipal roll.
Despite the fact that the application
of one or the other of the many qualifi-
cations would allow most adult males to
vote for the Council, the confusing rules
deter all but the most conscientious from
enrolling. Mr Heenan was quick to point
this out, recalling that the 1944 Select
Committee had found that only half those
qualified to vote had enrolled for the
Legislative Council elections. The posi-
tion, he said, was the same today.
All Mr Heenan's amendments would
seek to do would be to enrol the wives
of qualified Council voters automatically.
They would not enjoy the privilege
granted to their husbands to enrol for
a number of provinces if they held
property in them.
There is no indication that W.A. will
attempt to apply the adult franchise to
the Upper House, as the Commonwealth
and Victoria does. With the end of a
pre-election session looming up, there is
not even an indication that Mr Heenan’s
modest little Bill will be given passage.


"00^
"FALLOUT SHELTER OR SWIMMING POOL, WE'LL STILL HAVE THE NEIGHBOR PROBLEM."


SPORT
No Rules for the Rules?
LOU RICHARDS
Would probably faint
FROM MICHAEL HARRISON IN SYDNEY
Australian Rules is in a chaotic state
in N.S.W. and next month officials
will move to change the entire policy of
the game —and reform is certainly over-
due. Just imagine, for example, what
would happen if a top footballer such
as Ron Barassi of Melbourne applied
for a clearance to play with another
V.F.L. club. Barassi would simply not
get a clearance except under highly
unlikely circumstances . . . but not so
in Sydney. In any case, a football com-
mentator like Lou Richards would
probably faint. At the beginning of this
season, last year’s State vice-captain,
Ellis Noack, was refused a clearance
from St George to Newtown which the
Permits and Match -Committee upheld.
Despite his failure to gain a clearance,
Newtown appointed Noack its captain-
coach. Two days later the N.S.W. Rules
Board—the State governing body —
changed its rules so that players
appointed captain-coaches must be given
automatic clearances.
This is only one of a number of
unpopular actions by the Board since it
took control two years ago. Before that
Sydney was under a control set-up simi-
lar to Melbourne’s with each senior club
having two delegates to the League, but
because of internal fighting between
delegates a controlling body of 12, sup-
posedly without club affiliations, was
formed to administer it. The trouble
is that many of the Board's delegates do
not know the Rules and the Australian
National Football Council constitution
and have admitted this openly at meet-
ings in front of the press.
Even bearing this in mind it is hard
to follow some of the Board's actions
this year. Following a match between
South Melbourne and a Combined
Sydney side on May 28, the local coach,
Frank Bird, a former Perth, St Kilda and
Prahran footballer, submitted a report
to the Board in which he claimed that
coaching and playing methods in Sydney
were 15 years out of date ; that too many
players in the Combined Sydney team
had seen better daysthat some players
in the 25-man squad did not even train
with the team ; that four of the five
selectors did not attend one of the
“inadequate" four training sessions
while another attended only once ; and
that the selectors tended to choose a
team from the squad which reflected
glory on their (the selectors) own indi-
vidual clubs.
What happened to the report? It was
pigeon-holed. Not only did Bird never
receive any acknowledgement of it, no
one knew the report existed until a
Sydney newspaper published it two
months after the match. Then in a
Board meeting after it was published,
some members claimed they did not
know of its existence (although it was
tabled at an earlier meeting and received).
The Board also admitted it “could not
find its copy."
Lack of communication with its sub-
sidiary committees has been the source
of other disputes this year. It was the
cause of an umpires’ strike which
threatened to paralyse the whole game.
The umpires decided to strike because
one of its members, a goal umpire,
George Jones, had not received an official
appointment for 1 l weeks. The umpires
claimed Jones had waited 1 1 weeks to
face a charge of abusing an Umpires’
Appointment Board official at the begin-
ning of the season. No one told them the
Board had received the U.A.B. official's
report earlier in the season and had
decided to take no action—at the same
time forgetting to notify anyone. The
strike in the meantime lasted one week
and looked like continuing until it was
discovered Jones had no charge to
answer.
A revised local constitution drawn up
earlier in the year also appears to have
gone the way of all reports and docu-
ments. Drastic amendments were made
to the constitution at a general meeting
of club delegates and everyone present
was asked to note the changes until a
new copy was printed. But today the
Board itself openly admits it does not
know what changes were made and has
no copy of the revisions.
A typical example of what can happen
as a result is the case of South Sydney
club. The club appealed to the Board
over the result of one match against
Eastern Suburbs and the Board referred
the matter to its Tribunal. All three
regular members of the Tribunal, plus
a proxy commissioner, Mr Karl Shiels,
heard the case and when a vote was
taken there was a deadlock of two-all.
They called in the Board’s acting secre-
tary (appointed two days previously),
Mr Joe Boulus, to give a casting vote
which he gave in favor of Eastern
Suburbs. Shiels had also voted against
South Sydney. But the constitution both
before and after this year’s alterations
specifically states: “The protests and
disputes commission (Tribunal) shall con-
sist of three men, and their decision in
any matter referred to them is final. ’’
The Tribunal itself has become a farce
although not because of the efforts of
its three regular members. On many
occasions in the past two years, umpires
who have laid charges have failed to
appear and the players have gone scot
free. On several occasions this year
players attacked umpires on and off the
field, but they were not reported.
The Board's apathy to do anything is
also shown in the Balmain club's failure
to turn up for one match this year. When
asked for an explanation, a club delegate
told the Board the club had “exercised
its prerogative not to play if it did not
feel like it." The Board took no action.
Ring-ins of plays in all grades were
quite common this year and the Board
finished up disqualifying six of the ten
third-grade clubs just before the finals
began. A week later when one of the
disqualified clubs, Newtown, produced
evidence that the other four had also
offended, he was told by a Board official
to “forget it because it is too late to do
anything about it now.”
Obviously something needs to be done
quickly or the game now in its lowest
ebb of its turmoil-ridden history in
Sydney will fold altogether.
LAW
The Harvey Case
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
For many years John Francis Harvey
was a well-known figure in the
north and west Melbourne area. An
active A.L.P. member, he had helped
organise the election campaigns of Mr
A. Calwell, of the State member Mr R. A.
Clarey, and of various Labor men who
ran for seats on the Melbourne City
Council. As well as being secretary of
an A.L.P. branch, Mr Harvey was active
in the North and West Melbourne Pro-
gress Association and the local Elderly
Citizens’ Club.
/ the split in the A.L.P., Mr
Harvey stuck with the Evatt forces,
though most of the party organisation in
his area went the other way. His career
in the A.L.P. ended dramatically, how-
ever, in 1957 when he was expelled for
issuing a leaflet calling on ratepayers


in Pie Hotham ward to suppo’-* Mr
Tom Hayes, the D.L.P. candidate. Mr
Harvey had known Hayes for many
years and while he was not prepared to
follow him into the D.L.P., he could not
bring himself to support the young
solicitor, Irving Plotkin, whom the A.L.P.
exeeutive were running against him. It
was a conflict of personal and political
loyalties typical of th; post-split period.
Mr Harvey, a commissioner for taking
affidavits, left the North Melbourne
scene and settled in East Coburg. Last
week he returned to North Melbourne
Court to face charges relating to postal-
vote irregularities in the Melbourne City
Council election for Bourke ward held
in August. He pleaded not guilty to two
charges of having witnessed applications
for postal ballot papers by two women,
without actually seeing them sign the
forms.
Convicting him, Mr P. J. O’Connor,
S.M., said: “This offence is difficult to
detect and a serious blow at the sacred-
ness of the ballot. 1 cannot accede to
a request for a small penalty. It's a
question of whether or not I should send
him to jail.”
Police evidence revealed that inquiries
had started when the returning officer
received two applications for postal votes
from a Mrs B. Foulds and from Elizabeth
Rolfe. In each case, Harvey had wit-
nessed one of the applications, while the
second “Foulds's application” was wit-
nessed by “Robinson” and that of Rolfe
by “Bell.” A police witness said Harvey
later admitted witnessing the applications
without actually seeing the women sign
them. He allegedly admitted that he had
been wrong, but felt justified because
both women were sick and he did not
want to embarrass them by going to their
bedrooms. Counsel for Harvey pointed
out that the charges did not relate to
irregularities in the witnessing of actual
ballot papers, but only to application
forms for them, which was a less serious
offence. Nevertheless, Harvey was fined
£BO.
Outside the court Harvey said he had
known the women as a result of
working for 20 years in the area, both
in the political field and in arranging
firewood and other benefits for elderly
people. He also gave reporters an out-
line of positions he had once held in
the A.L.P. Although Mr Harvey was
described in press reports as a former
A.L.P. campaign secretary, the party’s
secretary, Mr Cyril '’’yndham, thought
he had better clear up any possible
misunderstanding. He issued a statement
saying that the A.L.P. was not involved
in the alleged irregularities and that Mr
Harvey had been expelled four years
previousy.
For Mr Harvey, with 14 days in which
to pay his £BO fine, it was an unfortunate
outcome of the conflict between his
technical duty as an affidavit commis-
sioner and his consideration for two sick,
elderly women.
COOBER PEDY
When the Tank Dries Up
FROM AN ADELAIDE CORRESPONDENT
GLEN PEARSON
Persuasion
Tf you're white you get 20 gallons of
water a week at Coober Pedy, the
opal town about 4CO miles along the
track from Port Augusta to Darwin. It
has to cover all your washing, drinking
and cooking needs. If you’re black you
get less than half that amount. The
500,000-gallon tank built about 1921, a
few years after the first white and black
gougers began to work the opal field,
has not held water since the end of last
year. The underground tank, fed by
intermittent rains in an area where rain
sometimes does not fall for years, is also
empty. Last December about 60 men
working with seven winches and a bull-
dozer removed 18 inches of mud from
the tank.
In the first phase of the crisis water
was carted from a brackish bore about
17 miles from the “township.' But many
of the several hundred people living at
the field found the water too salty to
drink and hardly good enough to wash
with. So water had to be carted over
outback tracks a distance of some 80
miles from McDouall Peak Station.
Even then a compromise had to be
reached. Each two loads of the good
quality water as late as last month was
being mixed with one load of poorer
water from nearby. Efforts were even
made by the Mines Department to find
water by sinking a bore, but to no avail.
Rationing was intensified.
This week the A.L.P. Opposition back-
bencher, Mr Loveday (Whyalla), told
the House of Assembly he had received
several reports on Coober Pedy. One
was that 70 aborigines had left the opal
field, and another, from the secretary of
the local progress association at Coober
Pedy, confirmed that the water ration
had been cut. Mr Loveday asked if the 70
aborigines who had just left Coober Pedy
were the same as those who arrived re-
cently in a walkabout party from Yalata
mission station several hundred miles
away, and if any undue pressure had
been placed on them to leave the area.
The Minister in charge of Native
Welfare, Mr Glen Pearson, confirmed
that the natives who left Coober Pedy
did come from the mission station, but
he said a local native welfare officer
had merely “persuaded” a number of
natives to leave the field.
If it is true that natives regularly
employed at the field had been asked to
leave, it would seem to be discrimination
against native workers, since there are
no reports of permanent white workers
being asked to leave. To many
aborigines there is little difference be-
tween a white man's order and a white
man's request. So it will be a matter of
opinion whether there has been undue
pressure.
The ironical part of the story is that
the water supply position has been
aggravated by whites themselves. The
population has increased nearly two-fold
in recent months. Both black and white
workers, without jobs because of recent
economic cut-backs, have landed at the
field with hardly the price of a return
fare but plenty of hopes to strike it rich
quickly and then get out. (The problem
has been aggravated also by motorists
who have relied upon the settlement in
the past to re-stock their own depleted
water canteens.) The mere fact that
more than £500,000 worth of opal is
now won from Coober Pedy and S.A.’s
other major field, Andamooka, annually
is enough to ensure that population
troubles will continue.
“ Embarrassing , isn't it?"




PLAIN ENGLISH
SECU[?]RITY
• The second of
two articles
IN the first of these two articles we considered and rejected various sugges-
tions put forward to guarantee the individual’s rights if his Government
employment is threatened because he appears to be a security risf. These
suggestions were not rejected because we are unmindful of an individual’s
rights but because it is in the interests of maintaining all our rights that
security operations should not be too inhibited, as they perhaps are in the
United Kingdom, and that in marginal cases in Government employment
the interests of the State should override those of the individual.
THE Brenner case merely served
to muddle the security issue be-
cause it was confused with ques-
tions of Government employment
(the Staples case), of entry to New
Guinea (the Gluckman case), of uni-
versity employment (the Ward case)
and even of academic freedom. It was
different from these other issues: it was
a case of considering what abuses can
occur when the Government exercises
its right to deny entry to this country
of an alien.
Here again the two main abuses
likely to occur are that someone will
get the facts wrong and that someone
else will draw invalid inferences from
the facts presented (even if they are
true).
The control of fact-collecting in
migration cases is not always within
our power; Australia does not operate
a world intelligence agency and must
rely on other nations’ security
organisations for certain kinds of
information. When the occasion arises,
we can take this information or leave
it, but we can test it only with their
permission and we are not always likely
to be allowed to subject it to public
inspection.
As to inferences, it might well be
said here that in immigration there
must be fewer grounds for exclusion
than in the case of Government
employment. Drunkenness, compulsive
improvidence and so on, although they
are good grounds for not giving some-
one a job as a filing clerk, are hardly
reasons for keeping him out of the
country; and while one might well ruin
the career of a diplomat who believes
that there are “no enemies to the Left”
one would not deny an alien an entry
permit for this same reason.
On the other hand, the Government
might well decide that it will not grant
residence permits to aliens who are
known to be Communists, whether
open or clandestine, or to any other
classes of people who do not accept our
system of democratic Government and
our free way of life. Whether it has
decided this or not is not known; but if
it has so decided, perhaps it should say
so and explain that it wishes to exclude
all people who would replace
democracy with totalitarianism. It
must certainly decide not to grant resi-
dence permits to people who are
believed to be enemy agents and in one
sense all Communists, except the most
naive, are enemy agents.
TRIBUNALS
CJHOULD there be appeals tribunals
to which aliens who have been
excluded from Australia can state their
cases? As a general rule the answer
must obviously be no. There are so
many reasons why aliens might be
excluded, including the kind of migra-
tion control we apply to Asians and
Africans, that setting up general tri-
bunals would cause such a fuss that
Australia would be reduced to being
the only country in the world that was
not allowed to have an immigration
policy. Generally speaking, all coun-
tries in the world reserve to themselves
the right to refuse entry permits with-
out giving reasons because in practice
it is only by this means that they can
control who is going to enter their
country.
Should there then be special tribunals
reserved for political cases? Or to pre-
sent the question more tendentiously:
should the exclusion of those who are
kept out on non-political grounds be
absolute, but should we give special
rights to those who seem to be security
risks? As with Government employ-
ment, “The Bulletin” does not see why
those who appear to be security risks
should be specially privileged persons.
The possible abuse here would be
the imposition of a kind of immigra-
tion thought control that went beyond
questions of security. But a very real
check is at hand against this, and that
is the check of publicity. If the Immi-
gration Department bolted off in an
authoritarian direction and regularly
excluded those who should not be
excluded we should soon hear about it.
Entry permits to New Guinea are a
related, but slightly different, question.
The risks of immediate subversion are
greater in New Guinea than they are in
Australia and both higher and wider
standards of restriction might very well
be applied. At the same time entry to
New Guinea affects the rights not only
of non-Australians but of Australians,
and the latter must always be the
special concern of an Australian Gov-
ernment. To be practical one may
simply have to sidestep this issue for
the moment, because it is interwoven
with the future of New Guinea, and
heaven only knows what that is.
On naturalisation it is possible to
come up with a positive proposal. If
a resident alien is undoubtedly a grave
security risk he should be quickly
deported, with no reasons given. If he
is not he should be granted naturalisa-
tion if he asks for it or at least given
the opportunity to appeal to a tribunal
if his naturalisation is withheld.
Of other criticisms of the Australian
Security Intelligence Organisation, one
set is concerned with its use in anything
except counter-espionage operations
and the other, more particularly, with
its alleged use by non-Government
bodies.
COUNTER-ESPIONAGE
AS to the first: many Australians feel
that the existence of the A. 5.1.0.
is distasteful, except in counter-
espionage work. This is not a very
well-thought-out criticism. To be effec-
tive, counter-espionage work must be
wide-ranging; the limits to its inquiries
can be set only by the nature of par-
ticular inquiries, not by preconceived
ideas about what will be found.
Nevertheless, one assumes the
A. 5.1.0. is gathering information other
than in connection with counter-
espionage work (except in the very
broadest sense), and to some it seems
an affront to a democracy that a Gov-
ernment organisation should be collec-
ting facts secretly about individual
Australian citizens and recording those
facts in dossiers. Perhaps it is, but
what is the alternative?
It would certainly be a grave threat
to freedom if this information were
used improperly by Cabinet Ministers
in their own self-interest. Here one
must simply re’/ on the moral inhibi-
tions of Australian democratic life.
But otherwise while mere fact-collect-
ing provides n 3 great danger to the
individual, it may provide vital infor-
mation for a Government in a future
emergency. The nature of Communist
infiltration is not fully understood by
the community; the fact that an out-
wardly respectable politician, professor,
businessman or clergyman who is not
a Communist is already collaborating
with, say, the Chinese Government, is
the kind of fact that in this period in
our history an Australian Government
must know.
The crisis of our times is so great, so
unpredictable and likely to be so final
in its solution that the freedom not to
have information collected about one-
self, important as it is, seems almost
trivial compared with the desire for
survival. There have been so many
occasions in history when a powerful
and civilised society has been destroyed
by barbarism simply because it would
not defend its greater freedoms by
yielding a few of its lesser ones.
THE A. 5.1.0. AND EMPLOYMENT
CRITICISMS of the A. 5.1.0. in con-
nection with the employment
policies of non-Governmental bodies
are not really concerned with the
A. 5.1.0. but with the employment
policies of boards of directors, uni-
versity councils and so on. If private
enterprises or universities wish to
exclude Communists from their staffs,
this is a legitimate matter for public
discussion, both as to its advisability
and to methods of doing it, but it is
hardly something the Government or
the A. 5.1.0. is directly concerned with
and does not belong to the subject
matter of these two articles.
One might say, however, that a uni-
versity wishing to exclude Communists
from its staff is falling down on its
own job if it has to rely on the A. 5.1.0.
for information and cannot detect an
applicant's Communism by an
examination of his work, his academic
career and his answers to leading
questions.
That is not to say that there is not
here a grave public problem. In fight-
ing the cold war, which is largely a
propaganda war, the Russians and
Chinese spend 2000 million dollars a
year on propaganda and deploy half a
million agents; they use their military,
diplomatic, cultural and economic
policies largely to this end, not as ends
in themselves, and their aim is to
corrupt the Western world, or to intimi-
date it, confuse it or paralyse it. Direct
Communist infiltration is only part of
this technique, and it is the lesser part.
ONE SOLUTION
Y\?HAT can a Government do about
the indirect (and more significant)
methods of Russian and Chinese poli-
tical warfare without sacrificing our
liberties? This is a problem in which
we still grope away from obviously
distasteful solutions, but a straight-
forward democratic one would be to
provide a great deal more factual infor-
mation. The confusions of business-
men, publicity controllers, trade
unionists, academics and the public at
large are so great that the establishment
of an Institute to Study Russian and
Chinese Political Warfare, and the sub-
sidising of its courses and publications
would seem to be even more important
than counter-espionage operations. In
a democracy the espionage of the mind
is of greater importance than the steal-
ing of secrets; and the democratic
method to counter this is to fight back
with arguments and facts.
" I'm in good form today—never felt so alert and suspicious .”


SERVANTS 1961
Something for everybody
By PATRICIA ROLFE
4t /'“'\F course,” said the woman at the cocktail party,
I 1 and there was rather a wild look in her eyes, “you
can always get something.” Something, not some-
one. “Getting something” just about sums up the
domestic-servant position in Australia.
“Getting something,” or, rather, talking about it, is a
constant preoccupation and can be the mainstay of Aus-
tralian women’s conversation at parties. They stick together,
not because the men are round that mythical keg of beer,
but because they might miss out hearing of something. A
close friend might make a foolish boast about a treasure,
who could perhaps be filched away for an extra shilling an
hour, or someone might let drop the name of an agency
which is bootlegging cheap Spanish maids.
What sort of something can you get? Most women,
like a gentle dipso., try a little of everything. They perhaps
begin with an hourly cleaning-woman then in desperation,
after watching the hours tick by while she has her third cup
of tea, they switch to the professional cleaning firms, which
sweep through the suburban house like a southerly gale in
half an hour.
Perhaps then there is a stage when by moving two of
the children back into the one bedroom the household can
aspire to a girl living in. After she has departed, with storms
and tears, to work in a factory there is a benign old-age
pensioner, who comes for a whole day a week and just
baby-sits. The woman does the work herself, so that she
can have that blissful day to herself, to rush into town and
have lunch with the girls at a smart restaurant where they
talk about “getting something” for the house.
Then one of the children smacks the benign old-age
pensioner over the head with a toy train and you go back
to looking at the advertisements for house-cleaners in the
local paper.
The figures on domestic servants give an interesting
picture of how Australians live and how much living
patterns have changed. The amount we are now spending
on domestic servants, part of the breakdown by the Com-
monwealth Statistician of “personal consumption expendi-
ture,” is steadily rising. The rise, of course, is partly
accounted for by increased rates of pay. However, it has
risen from £2O million in 1958-59 to £23 million for the
last financial year. In 1948-49 the figure was only £lO
million.
In the past couple of generations there has of course
been a drastic decline in the total number of people
employed as domestics. According to the 1921 census
131,200 (23.700 men and 107,500 women) worked as ser-
vants. In 1947 the figure had shrunk to 51,100 and in
1954 to 37.500. This year’s census figures may show an
increase.
TTHERE is very little talk these days along the lines of
A “what Australia needs is a servant class.” There is an
uncomfortable feeling that the Chinese —once the most
popular nominees for the job —if and when they come here
in numbers, won't be planning to work as domestic servants,
and, in fact, might be looking for a servant class of their
own to be recruited from the local population. Any dream
that well-trained, hard-working girls would come from
Europe in droves to work in Australian homes has gone.
Well-trained, hard-working girls do come from Europe
—the Immigration Department estimates that in the past
four years 28.500 domestic servants have come from
Europe, although many have gone into hospitals and other
institutions. The department has also brought 2500
specially-trained girls from Greece. Spain and Italy to work
in homes here. However, well-trained, hard-working girls
are just what European male migrants are looking for, so
many of the girls marry and that is that.
There are echoes of more expansive days. Although
very few houses, except the vice-regal residences, keep a
full staff, many larger houses do contain a collection of
people with ill-defined duties, which would never have done
for the duke. These might be classed as old family
retainers, many now past hard work and who certainly
could never be put into the street. Most of the wor’ is
done by outside firms which come in by the hour. From
these houses the younger generation generally escapes to a
serviced flat where life is much more simple, away from
the eyes of older people who smacked you when you were
in napkins.
You still hear occasionally of a Chinese or Japanese
manservant, left over from pre-war. who was brought here
along with the carved teak, the jade ornaments and the
kwan-yin statues. In a few harborside houses in Sydney,
now living in the shadow of home-unit blocks, the houseboy
still patters around.
There are still some housekeepers, who might have
begun life at 10 or 11 in one of the English “great" houses,
and whose whole life has been spent in service. One house-
keeper in Sydney, who began life cleaning silver in the
home of a duke, now has been with a family here for more
than 40 years. Some women, whose family has married and
moved away, still have a housekeeper, who runs the whole
house and who is almost entirely in the role of companion.
The housekeeper is all that stands between them and a
nice, easy life in a home unit.
An old-established agency in Sydney said that it was
“next to impossible” to get trained domestic staff—trained,
that is, in the old style. A spokeswoman for the agency
said that only about three or four households in Sydney
had a butler, and that there was “no such thing as a lady’s
maid in Sydney, not a proper lady’s maid.”
Although Australia has always been classed as a
servantless society, things are not greatly different in many
European countries now. It is only in the East and Africa
that servants abound. In England, and to a lesser extent
in France, Italy and Germany, it often comes down to
“getting something.” Although the somethings are more


plentiful and may stay a lifetime, they are not necessarily
more efficient or more reliable than their Australian counter-
parts.
European women, perhaps, still have a different atti-
tude to servants from Australian women. Most of them
would rather have someone in the house muddling around
all day than have the money spent on electrical appliances
which would be more efficient, cheaper and certainly more
silent.
In England the big snob thing is still the nanny.
Englishwomen no longer worry greatly about doing their
own domestic work. They will even do their own cooking,
and do it quite as badly as a professional cook, as long
as there is a nanny for the children. Englishwomen will
work at quite boring and unspectacular jobs, so that there is
enough money for a nanny to wheel the baby around the
square every day.
Although the retinue of servants has largely disap-
peared, the spread of domestic work in Australia is prob-
ably much wider than it was prewar. Almost every suburban
couple gets a baby-sitter at some time, and many more
women seem to feel prepared to give up perhaps some
clothes or cosmetics just to have someone help with the
housework, or perhaps come for one afternoon to mind the
children.
Many more homes now have washing machines and
other appliances, which were supposed to cut housework,
but some social observers feel that housewives have set
themselves higher—perhaps impossibly high—standards of
cleanliness as a result. The average family is now slightly
larger than it was in the ’twenties and ’thirties, and, with
an increased standard of living, entertaining is more
ambitious and more widespread.
One pre-war figure which has almost entirely disap-
peared is the washerwoman, who spent Monday enveloped
in clouds of steam in a primitive laundry poking away at
clothes in a copper. She has been supplanted by the
washing-machine, but in spite of treated fabrics and syn-
thetics, the burden of ironing in some families has not
grown notably less, perhaps because of a more markedly
competitive attitude on the part of the housewife. Her
children’s clothes are more elaborate, and are changed more
often, and her husband’s shirts are ironed, so that he will
look smarter, more of the executive, than his co-workers.
THE whole trend is up. Families on comparatively low
A salaries spend money on entertaining and going out
(necessitating a baby-sitter), so that they will move up one
step in the world. Women from what might be called
working-class families are just as anxious to get cleaning
work as pre-war. but while in the depression years it was
grim necessity, now it is probably to buy television or a car.
Perhaps not as many Australian women as English
women go to work so as to be able to afford servants, but
some house-cleaners employ baby-sitters so that they can
keep on working. One woman in Sydney’s North Shore has
a cleaner, who works five days a week at 6s. an hour, earn-
ing about £l2 a week, with no fares to pay and no midday
meal to buy. She, in turn, leaves her child all day with
another woman, who has several small children and couldn’t
work away from home. This woman is quite happy to
earn a few pounds a week permanent baby-minding.
How do you go about “getting something?” An old
hand at the game said that the Commonwealth employment
agencies are by far the most reliable. “If you get someone
from them they generally turn up—at least the first time,”
she said. “The agency tells you how much to pay them
and so forth.” However, the Commonwealth employment
agencies have no further interest in them after they are in
work. It is strongly suspected by many housewives that
the average cleaner has a free-and-easy attitude to such
things as income tax, and is probably as adept at tax evasion
as women in another notable profession. One woman said
that when she presented her cleaning-woman with taxation
stamps the cleaning-woman said she “wasn’t interested in
that sort of thing,” and admitted that her husband claimed
her as a dependent as well.
The alternative to the agencies is advertising in a local
paper or answering an advertisement. This is more than
somewhat erratic. “Someone rings to answer your ad,” said
the old hand again. “You have a long discussion and
arrange to meet her at the station the next morning at 9 a.m.
At 10 a.m. you storm home and do the work yourself, your
rage enabling you to fly through the job. You see, they
always ring everyone who advertises in that particular
issue, then they make up their mind which house sounds
easiest and most convenient, but they never ring you back
to say they are not coming.
“If they come the first time, there is no guarantee you
will ever see them again. One woman I had, asked if she
could have the carpet we were taking up in the living-room.
When I said it was to be put down in another room she
departed in a huff and I’ve never seen her since.”
A FTER a steady stream of dailies had trickled through the
house the general move is towards the professional
cleaning firm. These are in the main a post-war innovation,
so far as private houses are concerned. They are mostly men.
They come at a set time and can go through the average
suburban house in an hour. They vacuum-clean or polish
floors, scrub bathrooms and kitchens, but do no dusting.
Some of these cleaners are reputed to earn £SO a week.
Some are former carpenters, interior decorators or men who
have had some access to private houses and have seen the
possibilities for a professional cleaner. One Sydney profes-
sional house-cleaner claims that he pays £6OO income tax
a year. Some began after the war with pushbikes and now
employ 15 to 20 men with panel vans, cars and expensive
equipment. They charge around £1 an hour, compared with
6s. to 7s. 6d. for a cleaning woman.
Many women have come to prefer the professional
house-cleaning firm. For one thing, many Australian
women seem to have a psychological block about having
someone in the house all the time. They find it difficult to
go about their normal business of. say, putting their feet up
and having a cigarette at 11-o’clock or slapping the
children when they are naughty, under what they feel is
the critical eye of an outsider.
“Women expect cups of tea and never hesitate to ask
for them,” said a Sydney woman. “Housemaids are just
mobile gossips. Men don’t pry like women. I resent it most
bitterly when I catch women sneaking looks into cup-
boards. A man can’t be bothered with that sort of thing.”
Another woman felt that men were more satisfactory
simply because they are stronger. “I’ve got three bath-
rooms, and by the time a woman has done them she is
worn out.” she said.
There are disadvantages with the professional cleaners.
“1 feel the equipment they use is too heavy for a suburban
house.” one woman said. “It’s ail right for office buildings,
but their immense vacuum cleaners beat hell out of my
carpets. And they won’t pick up anything. It’s the stock
joke of spending the whole day cleaning up before the
cleaners come. I prefer a woman who just muddles through.
It is much more restful.” (Someone living in adds variety
and excitement to the dull domestic routine.)
People who live in districts close to the city, have no
children and who both go to work, report very little diffi-
culty in finding housekeepers and keeping them, especially


“What’s it for this time —the second leg of the
Caulfield-Melbourne Cup double?”
if there is a self-contained flat with TV for the house-
keeper. However, if you live in a remote suburb, a mile or
so from the station or bus-stop, have four or five young
children, you may find the position a little harder.
“You have to be prepared for her to take over the
house,” said one woman. “If she is fond of TV, then the
chances are that the children will be given an evening meal
of lemonade and cakes in front of the television. However,
they are capable of surprising little kindnesses. One had
commandeered my footstool, but she handed it back when
I was pregnant and didn’t take it back until after the baby
came.”
The least a girl living in is likely to be paid is £6, and
a good average wage might be £lO. Also she is kept, and
keep can be quite an item with a growing girl. Unless
a girl lives at home, it is hard to see why she cannot in
many cases be better off living in as a domestic.
/'ANE factor is supposed to be that girls working as
domestics never meet anyone, and this is fairly true.
However, in most cases the clinching factor is children.
“The children drive them mad,” said one mother. The
other side of the coin from the girl who takes over the
whole place are the shattering stories told of Australian
households which have employed foreign girls. In some
well-authenticated cases employers have tried —and some-
times succeeded —in keeping girls working for long periods
on a seven-day week. In some cases, as well as housework
and almost constant care of the children, they have been
expected even to tend the garden.
Some households have less horrifying ways of trying
to keep their foreign servant-girl in subjection. “We have
a Spanish girl,” said a Sydney woman, “and we are desper-
ately swotting up our Teach Yourself Spanish.’ We have
to get through to her somehow, but we don’t want to teach
her English because then she will leave and go to a factory.”
But some European women working in Australian
households find they are on a very good thing. A Lithuanian
woman who houseiceeps for a Sydney bachelor has a room
in his house, but after she has finished her work there she
is free to do chores elsewhere. “This would never happen
in Europe,” she said. “There 1 would be expected to stay
in the house all the time, but so long as the work is done
my employer here does not care.” She is clearing £2O a
week, with no board to pay or meals to buy.
Although many country properties keep large staffs,
the object is generally to keep the station-hands happy,
rather than to preserve some remnants of gracious living.
A Sydney agency said that their positions vacant were
divided roughly 50-50 between city and country and “there
was no such thing as a butler in the country.” However,
the Commonwealth Statistician on the 1954 census figures
worked out that 47 per cent, of domestic servants were in
the cities, 21 per cent, in other urban areas and 32 per cent,
in the country.
The station-owner is generally concerned with getting
a good cook so that the hands are happy. Generally a
married couple is employed with the man working outside
and the woman doing so many days a week in the house.
They might be paid anything between £2O and £3O, with
quarters and keep.
Many country homes have tutors or governesses.
These can be anything from a trained teacher who can give
proper classroom lessons, or simply a girl, who has just
left school and doesn’t quite know what to do with herself,
and who merely helps the children with correspondence-
school lessons.
One long-felt want has been partly filled in N.S.W. by
the emergency housekeeper service, which has been going
since 1943 and the home-aid service, which began in 1954.
The emergency housekeeper service provides resident help
for mothers in hospital with young children to be cared for,
or daily help in cases of sickness. The home-aid service
gives help once or twice weekly. This help is extended to
the aged.
A USTRALIAN domestic servants are not covered by any
industrial award. (By contrast Italy has a militant
servants’ union.) About five years ago the Miscellaneous
Workers’ Union applied to the State Industrial Commission
in N.S.W. for an award. The court decided that “domestic
service is not an industry.”
People working as domestic servants can join the Mis-
cellaneous Workers’ Union and gain “constitutional cover-
age.” This means that the union can protect them to the
extent of seeing that they are covered for workers’ com-
pensation and that their employers give them annual holi-
days and provision is made for public holidays. However,
the union cannot do anything about how much the servant
is paid and how long he or she works. “Anybody can
exploit them and plenty do,” said a spokesman for the
union.
In the case of orphans or other wards who are sent
out to work as domestics, the day of the Cinderella is gone.
The N.S.W. Child Welfare Department investigates the
prospective employer, a girl cannot go out to work until
after she has passed the school leaving age. She is still
under the protection of the Child Welfare Department
until she is 18, if she has parents, or until she is 21, if she
is in the care of foster parents.
The supply of possible domestic help, of course, varies
with the general labor position. Following the credit
squeeze, it was extremely easy to “get something.” One
household reported 60 applications for a job as cook.
However, there is no sign that more people wish to take
domestic work on as a job worth training for, or regard it
as anything more than a stop-gap.
There is only one possible factor which might cause a
sweeping change. Students of population believe that more
and more automatic methods in offices and factories will
make it harder and harder for the unskilled to get jobs.
They predict that more people will have to go into jobs
which cannot be made fully automatic, and child-care,
housekeeping and gardening must surely be near the top
of the list for this. So come automation, we might all have
butlers.


Tanner's Seven
Deadly Australians


THE LOST 10 YEARS
Catching Up in Civil Defence
BY PETER COLEMAN
Since in the event of a nuclear war
Australia’s main industrial centres
and cities could be dislocated, not
to say destroyed, by the use of a
very small percentage of the enemy’s
nuclear stock-pile, it is obviously a form
of madness to assume the enemy will
not press the necessary buttons. And
yet Civil Defence is still not taken as
seriously in Australia as in, say, Britain
where there are already more than 600,000
people actively enrolled or America where
“Life” magazine recently sold out its
issue featuring an article on how to build
your own fall-out shelter, and discussion
has reached the stage of arguments about
what degree of violence is justifiable to
keep strangers out of the family shelter.
In Australia the Commonwealth Govern-
ment maintains the Mount Macedon
training school but has consistently re-
fused to promote or finance a complete
nation wide education campaign. In the
States only N.S.W. has set up a complete
civil defence organisation which though
manned by a dedicated staff is hampered
by a miserable budget —less than £53,000
a year.
The recent Russian tests, however, and
the obvious seriousness with which our
allies are taking civil defence may now
lead to a reversal of these policies and
the next inter-State and Commonwealth
Conference should mark a completely
new stage.
The basic problem will be how
to make up for the lost ten years
without stampeding the public into a
demoralised panic. There are a dozen
separate questions that might be dis-
cussed —from the building of communal
fall-out shelters to lifting the tarriff on
cheap American rate-meters and dose-
meters, from the stockpiling of survival
food and fuels to the question of govern-
ment aid in building private shelters.
But enough will be done for a start if the
Commonwealth accepts financial respon-
sibility for the civil defence training of
all Australians and establishes the neces-
sary nation-wide organisation.
Here the N.S.W. organisation is the
obvious model to start from. It was
established in May 1955 when Major-
General Ivan N. Dougherty gave up his
post as director of the Opera House
appeal to become Director of Civil De-
fence. He worked out the present Eight-
Point Plan for N.S.W. covering the edu-
cation of the individual, formation of
specialised groups, plans for the evacua-
tion of the cities, the building of shelters
the specialised training of police, fire
services and hospital staffs, and the pre-
paration of necessary legislation. It is
a long term plan and the basic steps are
now only being completed.
The unit of the plan is the municipality
or shire. Each of the 225 municipalities
or shires in the State was asked to appoint
a voluntary Local Civil Defence Con-
troller, and to date 221 have done so. The
Controllers then recruit voluntary staff
officers and staff for the Warden, Rescue,
Signal, Monitoring, Engineering, Supply
and Transport, Welfare, Medical and
Health sections. The local organisations
are grouped into nine larger groups each
with its own headquarters; three Zones
and six Areas. The Zones are Sydney,
Wollongong and Newcastle, which are
the most likely targets in a war and con-
tain the majority of the State’s population,
practically all the heavy industry and
most of the nerve centres of the State’s
commerce. The rest of the State is in
the six Areas. The State Headquarters
in Sydney deals directly with the Zone
or Area headquarters, and the chain
of command works back to the muni-
cipality.
Tt will be some time before the network
is working efficiently, but already,
for example, detailed plans have been
drawn up for the evacuation of non-
essential population of the industrial cities
to the country —each municipality having
been assigned an evacuation area and
which in turn is being prepared for the
reception of evacuees. A fortnight ago
the Kuringai Civil Defence Organisation
carried out the first complete survey of an
area —21,500 households, 70,000 people
—to find out how many people are in
each house and how many would desire
to evacuate if this becomes necessary. The
survey was organised by Wing-Com-
mander Abicair and the forms were
delivered to householders by boy scouts
and girl guides. A preliminary check of
the first returns indicates that in an
emergency 89 per cent wish to evacuate
Kuringai if and when necessary. A
vast amount of planning in other areas
and in the reception centres is still to
be done if a completely confused and
implusive exodus of people is to be
avoided in any emergency. (In February
a trial evacuation —Operation “Picnic”—
was carried out, with 800 voluntary
evacuees from Sydney to the Blue Moun-
tains to test methods of processing convoy
movements).
Tt is easy to be cynical about the value
of evacuation ideas. To some people
it may give the false idea that nuclear
war will be like the last European War.
More seriously it assumes the people
will have time to evacuate. If the worst
happens, if for example Sydney is attacked
without warning by high megaton bombs,
there will be no time to evacuate; and
if the attacks are repeated daily for some
days, there will be no one to evacuate.
But in Australia’s case, there is good
ground for rational optimism. It is un-
likely that Australia will be the first
target in a nuclear war and we may well
have 24 hours or more in which to pre-
pare for an atack; and there is no rea-
son to assume we will necessarily be hit
repeatedly with high-megaton bombs.
Evacuation planning is far more rational
in Australia than in Britain with its small
size or America with its scatter of indus-
trial cities, all likely targets.
But even in N.S.W. evacuation and
reception plans are still in their rudi-
mentary stages, and for most people
have not yet left the Local Controller’s
desk. The least to hope from the next
national conference is that these plans
be extended to all States and all Aus-
tralians informed of them and prepared
for them.
The other main aspect of civil defence
in N.S.W. —individual protection against
the radio-active dust that will fall some
time after a nuclear attack and spread
across the country —has not yet passed
the stage of distributing leaflets. These
recommend the building of underground
shelters, the stock-piling of food and
water in sealed containers and so on, but
the essential handbook on how to build
the best type of shelter most cheaply
(which is being prepared by the N.S.W.
Architect’s Department) is being held up
by the problem of a filter which will lei
air but not radio-active dust into the
shelter. The Civil Defence Organisation
hopes to distribute these leaflets within a
matter of weeks. But shelters need to be
supplemented with radiation measure-
ment kits which will tell the people in


the shelter when they can come out—
another problem which has not yet been
dealt with.
It is again easy to sneer at these
shelters. If the worst happens, no shelter
will be of any use ; everybody within
several miles of a blast will be killed
anyhow. But no one can be sure he will
be in the immediate target area, and
most parts of Australia would certainly
not be target areas. Nevertheless, every-
one in the country from coast to coast
would need protection from the fall-out
that follows the explosion of bombs in a
few target areas. Again, if several high
megaton bombs are exploded over the
N.S.W. industrial cities the whole area
between Port Kembla, Bathurst and
Newcastle could be destroyed by blast
which could kill most people in shel.ers
throughout the area, and fire storms
could “barbecue” the survivors. But
again it is not necessarily likely that an
all-out nuclear attack would be made on
Australia, since the enemy could achieve
his objective by dropping only a few
nuclear warheads within the kiloton not
the megaton range. There is no reason
to assume the worst must happen, and
in any case the rest of the country could
still survive if the people have shelters,
This building of fall-out shelters
equipped with the appropriate survival
foods and radiation measurement kits is
the other urgent measure the next
conference could discuss.
MALAYSIA
The proposed merger of Malaya, Singa-
P ore an< * fh e Borneo Territories has run
into many problems
By PETER HASTINGS
Quite simply Greater Malaysia is a
statesmanlike attempt to carve out
of the disparate racial elements of
Malaya, Singapore and the Borneo Terri-
tories a viable political entity which
would form a strong anti-Communist
front in Asia. Malaya is neither a rich
nor a poor country by Asian standards,
although its technical development, poli-
tical stability and per capita income is
perhaps the highest in Asia. It has
6,500,000 people of whom Malays form
about 50 per cent., Chinese about 37 per
cent and Indians and Pakistanis (by
racial extraction) about 11 per cent.
Aboriginal Malayans and other races
comprise about 120,000 people. The
country forms a long and strategically
vulnerable isthmus stretching from the
Thai border to the Causeway across
which lies, in Malayan eyes (especially in
Malay eyes) the festering sore of Singa-
pore —the great, equatorial island city
whose entrepot trade is failing, whose
population (1,600,000 of whom more
than one and a quarter million are
Chinese) is increasing and whose politics
are slipping inevitably towards Com-
munism.
Until fairly recently Singapore’s Gov-
ernments could look in vain to Kuala
Lumpur for merger. The Tungku
wouldn’t consider it. He had enough
trouble on his own hands in running a
multi-racial country in which the Chinese,
although numerically inferior, retained
most of the wealth and skills of the
country. Besides which Malaya had
fought a 12-years war against a relative
handful of Chinese Communist terrorists
at a cost of £BO,OOO a day. Why invite
trouble?
Abruptly this year the Tungku changed
his mind. Singapore was slipping so fast
towards Communism that the only way
to stop it was to rescue it and Lee Kuan
Yew's P.A.P. Government from certain
defeat. The two Prime Ministers con-
ferred a number of times and the great
strategy was hammered out. From Lee
Kuan Yew’s point of view Greater
Malaysia spelt salvation. For him there
was no future in being merely anti-
British and anti-colonialist. Singapore
had no economic future unless it merged
with Malaya. The British were obviously,
in the hideous jargon of Phoenix Park,
phasing out of Asia despite their tremen-
dous SEATO installations and their busi-
ness interests. Besides which he was
hanging on to power by a vote and was
facing a tough and ruthless political
opposition in the Barisan Socialis, half
of whose members were alleged Com-
munists.
Tungku Abdul Rahman put up Greater
Malaysia in uncompromising terms
which Lee Kuan Yew unhesitatingly
accepted. In the first place the Tungku
made it clear that the additional 1,250,000
Chinese which Singapore would bring
into the Federation had to be balanced
off by the million or so people living
in the Borneo Territories of Brunei,
Sarawak and North Borneo, only 25 per
cent, of whom were Chinese. The
remainder were of Malay origin and
shared at least the unaltering suspicion
of the Malays of the Federation of all
things and people Chinese. The second
of the Tungku’s terms was that Singa-
pore would be admitted as a State of
the Federation on a qualified basis.
Again this was because of his fear of a
sudden preponderance of Chinese with
full citizenship rights as well as his fear
that the politically sophisticated Chinese
of Singapore would move into the
Federation to form alliances with the
opposition socialist parties and thus
swing the balance of power. Thus —
for a very long time to come, perhaps
forever —the Chinese of Singapore,
although admitted to the Federation,
would be restricted in their movements
and their rights. Singapore would enjoy
semi-autonomous rights in education,
labor and other policies while the Federa-
tion would assume powers of defence,
security and external affairs,
T HE proposed merger has run into many
A problems—the more serious one
being the retention of SEATO bases
in Singapore. The installations and
service annexes dry dock, work-
shops, canteens, hospitals and living
quarters plus the airstrips, spread over
Singapore's 264 square miles like a
giant rash. They are worth hundreds of
millions of pounds sterling and cost
something like £50,000 sterling a year to
maintain. The three services head-
quarters, plus their vast communications
centre, directly employ about 35,000
Singapore citizens and indirectly many
thousands of others as well. Lee Kuan
Yew, who is nothing if not anti-
Imperialist, would gladly see the bases
demolished, but in view- of Singapore s
worsening employment situation he must
go along with it for some time yet.
Constitutionally he can afford to do
it. Even the Barisan Socialis opposition
has pulled its punches on the Singapore
base and besides which, although Singa-
pore is now self-governing, its internal
security and external affairs remain in
the hands of Britain. Thus Lee Kuan
Yew can successfully rail as an anti-
colonialist, anti-imperialist while main-
taining 35,000 people in employment at
British expense.
Merger, however, brings a different
problem. For all that Malaya is the most
pro-Western of Eastern nations, and
specifically the most pro-British, it is anti-
SEATO. In fact it is hard to find any
firm support of SEATO anywhere in
Malaya. The Federation Government
does not believe that SEATO offers a


successful means of combating Com-
munism in Asia, or rather, even if it
does, its image as a military alliance of
ex-colonialist powers and Asian satellites
outweighs its advantages as a treaty
organisation.
Just how satisfactory any new defence
arrangement would prove is open to ques-
tion. There are those in Malaya and
Singapore, including British, Australian
and other Commctiwealth observers, who
believe that if the chips were down and
there was a clear case of Communist
aggression with the use of large-scale
military forces in neighboring areas such
as Laos that Malaya would permit the
use. of British troops in Malaya in
SEATO intervention. And that in the
case of an all-out war between East and
West, Malaya would unhesitatingly throw
in her lot with the West. But the very
question of a new Commonwealth
defence arrangement rather obviously
precludes Malayan participation in mili-
tary intervention in non-Commonwealth
areas.
T received dramatic proof of this in
respect of possible hostilities by
Indonesia against the Dutch in West New
Guinea. I discussed it with various
Malays including my cigar-smoking
host who had some very uncompromising
answers. After carefully explaining that
the Federation Government itself had
healthy suspicions of what he termed
“Indonesian expansionism,” and that
while Malaya wished to see self-
determination succeed in Netherlands
New Guinea, he thought that if Indo-
nesia attacked West New Guinea, Malaya
would inevitably be drawn in on
Indonesia’s side, even if unofficially.
He explained that the Government
would be powerless to discourage Malay
volunteer brigades forming to help the
Indonesians. From there it was but a
single step for me to ask what would
happen if Australian soldiers were to fight
in support of the Dutch? He didn’t dodge
the issue but bored right in. In that
case, he said, Malay volunteer troops
(“paramilitary troops” was his phrase)
would fire on Australian troops. Surely
I knew what that meant? Australian
troops in Malaya would be confined to
their own areas, “penned in if neces-
sary,” until they were recalled. Further-
more these thoughts had been made
known, in less blunt terms, to the Aus-
tralian Government. It would be an
appalling situation, he agreed, if such
good Commonwealth friends as Malaya
and Australia fell out over such an issue
and Malaya would in every way seek to
restrain Indonesia at any time from any
rash military adventures. However, facts
were facts. One of the conclusions that
I immediately drew, I think justifiably,
was that despite the exuberant pro-
Western goodwill existing on the dizzy
heights at Government level in Kuala
Lumpur, there was a greater ground-
swell on the bottom than was generally
admitted.
In the long run, perhaps it may prove
in the very short run, it is Mr Lee Kuan
Yew who faces the most intractable
problems. Singapore is slowly fading as
an entrepot. It must have industries. It
must obtain foreign investment. It must,
if it is to enjoy a future anywhere near
as prosperous as its past, join with
Malaya. It must be able to cope with
an increasing population and find
employment for his increasing army of
unemployed. It must cease to be an
isolated, clannish Chinese city. Cam-
bridge-trained lawyer Lee seems about
the most unlikely man in the world to
achieve these objectives. Physically rather
small with a snub nose and unpleasing
features, he is rude, tough and arrogant.
He has an unendearing way of dismiss-
ing most people as fools or knaves.
Equally dismaying is the self-satisfied air
of many of his followers at being so
close to the source of all light and know-
ledge. He has many aversions among
which Australians and Australian journa-
lists can be numbered. He frequently
goes out of his way to be childishly
insulting and has been known, when
calling on Lord Selkirk, the British High
Commissioner, for instance, to pick up a
book from a couch or table, grimace in
disgust at its contents and throw it
contemptuously away.
However, despite these eccentrifcities he
is politically agile and represents —as do
most of his P.A.P. followers and his
Barisan Socialis opponents —a new,
intellectually tough generation of Asians,
specifically in Singapore a new genera-
tion of Asian overseas Chinese.
Tf David Marshall and Lim Yew Hock
A were greeted by groans of misgivings
on the part of the retreating British and
the middle-class Chinese business and
professional men of Singapore, Lee’s
accession to power was regarded as
calamitous. He was suspected if not
being an actual Communist, of at least
being a very far out fellow traveller. It
is true, as he himself admits, that he
was once pro-Communist. Nowadays he
is paradoxically cast in the role of the
tieless, coatless hero of Singapore’s anti-
Communist forces doing the dirty job of
fighting the Communists —a job which
the British have shirked and which the
Tungku’s eager forces are constitutionally
prevented from undertaking. There is
some truth in the claims made on his
behalf that he has been finally dis-
illusioned by Communist activities in
South-east Asia.
He is a political realist. He knows
the immense shadow cast by Communist
China over Asia and the magical pull
Great China has for millions of her
“sojourning” sons throughout Asia. He
also knows that the British—however he
may detest them in certain ways—have
left behind them in Singapore roads,
buildings, jobs, a civil service and some
notions of an orderly and free society.
Certainly in his battle against the Barisan
Socialis opposition he has pulled no
punches.
In a series of recent and horrific dis-
closures in the “Straits Times” —formerly
his bitterest enemy—he has recounted
how he broke with the Communists (who
now, he says, control the Barisan
Socialis) and has named names and given
dates. He has also threatened to reveal
the identity of the Communists' chief
courier and go-between who was known
to him as “The Plen” (plenipotentiary).
It has been very dramatic and none of
it quite as simple as it appears. Lee’s
dramatic accounts of meetings and deal-
ings with Singapore’s Communists, whom
he incidentally numbers at a modest 300,
have been not merely to convince. Singa-
pore’s workers for most of them neither
read nor speak English, but to reassure
Kuala Lumpur of his bona fides as an
anti-Communist, to discredit the oppo-
sition party while preventing his own
from splitting further and to push the
British into some sort of action over the
Barisan Socialis.
Security in Singapore is vested in the
British. Both Lee Kuan Yew and
the Tungku’s Government in Malaya
would like the British to detain half the
Barisan Socialis members as suspected
Communists under special detentive
powers. This would make Lee’s job
immeasurably easier while ridding the
Federation Government of the slow,
creeping poison of Communism before
merger takes place. So far the British
have refused to act. In the first place
they say that to act in this way, while
in Singapore in the double role of
colonial masters and guardians of
SEATO, would land them in all sorts
of trouble in the U.N., with the Afro-
Asian Commonwealth countries and
elsewhere in the world. They also have
another reason which finds favor neither
in the eyes of Lee nor the Tungku’s
Government. They quite frankly admit
to doubt that all members of the Barisan
Socialis are Communist as claimed by
the P.A.P. and the Alliance Party Gov-
ernment of Malaya or that other mem-
bers of the Barisan Socialis are as
violently left travelling as Lee claims.
Both Lee and the Tungku’s Govern-
ment say that this is a cowardly evasion
of trouble and responsibility, but the
fact remains that despite Lee’s dramatic
accusations he has yet himself to pro-
duce the documentary evidence which
would clinch his case. The British say
with quiet despair that they haven’t got
it. In Kuala Lumpur the Government
unofficially names names, says that the
Communists of Singapore are in constant
touch with the illegal, underground
Malayan Communist Party, that their
chief organiser is in hiding in the Rhio
archipelago, that decisions and orders
are passed freely by special couriers
from Peking, Moscow and even Sydney.
When I asked a Cabinet Minister where
his evidence came from he said that he
had it from the British in Singapore.
But they said they Hadn’t.
Two favorite targets of Lee Kuan Yew’
are Lim Chin Siong, the youthful


Dry-seed Pickle
more bushels...
i >
1
»
A
to the acre!
Whether it be wheat, barley or
oats you are sowing the one pickle
that gives you the greatest disease
control is ICI 'CERESAN' . . . follow
Departmental recommendations.
'CERESAN' is a must for pickling
barley and oats . . . you must use a
mercurial dressing to control diseases of
these crops. 'CERESAN' the only
pickle for barley and oats!
When your Wheat ttrader
eai/t -mm...
ft
MERCURIAL
SEED PICKLE
Available from
Jfoafg&iy's
or your local ICf Supplier
Id 'emembe.
YouiZ* Wf0 «f
_ gf WOWlNr.i ,
' a/
,rs KOJ//?
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LTD.
organiser of Singapore’s trade unions and
secretary-general of Barisan Socialis and
Dominic (James) Puthucheary, a member
of the Barisan executive and a lecturer
in economics at the University of Malaya
in Singapore. Lim is a keen, intelligent,
tough-minded young man of 28 who
undoubtedly was a Communist and who
organised the bloody Chinese Middle
School riots a few years back. He claims
now not to be a Communist. Puthu-
cheary was an avowed Communist who
broke with the party openly over Hun-
gary and to a lesser extent over Tibet.
1 had long talks with both of them. Lim,
of course, is Chinese, a first-class
organiser and not a political opponent
to be taken lightly. In the course of a
long interview he admitted to a series
of Communist heresies. He feared Red
China, hated the Communes, stood for
foreign, capitalist investment, did not
believe in a basic wage for Singapore
workers, favored the gradual Malayanisa-
tion of all Chinese education and the
replacement of Chinese by the Malay
language One's impression after listen-
ing to these monstrous betrayals of
Peking and Moscow was that he was
either not a Communist or was a
diabolically dangerous one in the sense
that he was an agent and master dis-
sembler.
"Duthucheary is an Indian who still
* holds a British passport. He is bril-
liant, lucid and a forceful talker. There
seems to be no doubt that while he is
very Left-wing, he is no longer a Com-
munist. He once spent seven months in
jail with Lim and refused to talk to
him because Lim was at that time still
a convinced Communist.
He is neither very practical nor very
efficient and is a very bitter man because
Lee sacked him from a government post.
But he offered to resign from the Barisan
Socialis and rejoin the P.A.P. if his old
friend Lee would produce satisfactory
evidence that Lim Chin Siong was still
a Communist. In his impassioned, fluent
English he told me that Lee had been
unable to produce the evidence required.
The Barisan Socialis, which would
almost certainly win an election if it were
held tomorrow, holds out against merger
with Malaya on the grounds that the
merger is loaded against Singapore.
Many of the Barisan arguments seem
reasonable enough. It feels that there
can be no second-class citizenship in
merger, that Singaporeans must have full
political rights including those of uniting
with whichever Malayan political parties
appeal to them and therefore of exercis-
ing some influence in Kuala Lumpur
which will, after all, conduct the future
affairs of Singapore. Critics say that the
most suspicious thing about the Barisan
members is their refusal to take merger
- —of vital importance to Singapore’s
future—on the Tungku’s terms and work
constitutionally towards full merger later
on. The Barisan Socialis reply to that
is “all or nothing” and that in any case
the Tungku’s troops will detain them as
soon as merger is a fact and that they
might as well fight for a proper merger
for their pains.
Tn Kuala Lumpur there is no doubt that
A force lies on their side and that
sooner or later Singapore will merge on
Malayan terms. When that day comes
Malayan troops will march on Singa-
pore and, in the words so favored in
Kuala Lumpur, “clean the place up.”
These are brave words. Singapore is
there to stay and that sort of treatment
creates martyrs and there are plenty of
young Chinese in Singapore who without
being necessarily Communist are suffi-
ciently anti-Malay to enjoy becoming
political sacrifices. There are other alter-
natives including the virtual starvation
of Singapore from the Federation side
of the Causeway and even, in a last
resort, sealing Singapore off and letting
it fester. Only time will tell. The road
to merger of two such fissionable ele-
ments as Malaya and Singaoore, let
alone the added complication of the
Borneo Territories “on or before June,
1963,” may prove more difficult than
Kuala Lumpur thinks.


FORUM
WHAT'S WRONG
WITH EDUCATION?
'JHERE is one sense in which the policies for running this country's
economy put forward in preceding articles are impracticable : what-
ever may be said of the suggestions in detail, they are coherent and do not
conflict with each other, and they are the kind of thing that CAN wor\.;
because various parts of them wor\ in other countries, but they have one
overwhelming drawback —they run against many of the most deeply held
beliefs of Australians about how economic affairs should be run.
Australians have given the emphasis of
tradition to many economic attitudes that,
however Well they worked in their hey-
day, are now degenerate. Although we
are a growing country that believes it
has a contempt for tradition, embedded
in our economic life are widely accepted
traditions that to us seem rational
enough, but to a cool outside observer
might seem old-fashioned, inefficient and
positively freakish.
The willingness to accept new attitudes
that now marks most highly industrialised
societies has so far passed Australia by.
The last new attitudes we tacked on to
our old attitudes were bits and pieces of
the theories of war-time socialism, but
this did not mark any freshness of
approach ; it merely gave an even more
reactionary flavor to Leftist economics
that marks that of much of the Right.
Sooner or later these things will be
swept away, when the idea is accepted
that Australia is in danger. We have
been deserted militarily, strategically and
economically by the United Kingdom ;
the Americans are more likely to help us
the more we help ourselves ; a crumbling,
unstable part of the world is our only
barrier against direct Chinese intimida-
tion ; indirectly the Chinese may already
be intimidating us through their Aus-
tralian agents and the elite groups that
already look to China. When these things
are realised a Federal Government may
gain the pace of change that would be
necessary to effect new military and
economic alliances and to revolutionise
our economic institutions to place
emphasis on development and strategic
industries.
INDIFFERENCE
/~\ne appalling obstacle stands in the
way: the massive indifference of
most educated Australians to how the
economy is run. Even those who accept
the danger often see it only in political
terms. Leftists profess an interest in the
economy, but often theirs is an interest,
of ideology, not practicality. They are
interested in planning by direct controls
This is the last of six articles
produced under the general heading
“What’s W'rong With Australia?”
The other five articles were on
Business, Unions, Planning, Pri-
mary produces and Development.
Next week there will be an
epilogue, summing up the series.
because it fits in with their politics, not
because they really have any interest in
running economic affairs. Non-Leftists
do not even pretend to have an interest,
unless they are businessmen, and then
it is likely to be narrowly misleading.
All that comes out is on the give-me side:
everybody wants more money.
How is it that an economy that has
provided one of the world’s highest liv-
ing standards has projected such little
interest in its own running?
Education is not the full answer, but
it provides a mirror to our society that
throws up many of its greatest weak-
nesses.
In every society an education system
inculcates some kind of ethos over and
above (or instead of) the ethos of inquiry
and scholarship. It may be religious, it
may be militarist, it may be worship of
the State, it may be one of service to the
community, love of country, or one of
rugged self-reliance. Ours does not
notably provide any of these. In some
schools there used to be inculcated a
regard for the British Empire, but that is
no longer with us. There is some attempt
to sentimentalise something called “Aus-
tralia,” but this makes little impact. (It
is hard to go for with love of country
if you haven’t even got a national
anthem.)
What does come out of our education
system are certain degenerated demo-
cratic beliefs. Egalitarianism becomes a
worship of conformity ; belief in majority
role becomes belief in mediocrity ; liberty
becomes a salvationary affair —others
have made their sacrifices so that we can
complacently enjoy liberty, but to con-
tinue to enjoy it we do not have to fight
for it; the world owes us our liberty.
These attitudes provide a poor spiritual
background for an innovating economic
policy. The emphasis on conformity and
mediocrity and letting others fight our
battles for us is an enemy of economic
progress, but it fits in snugly with slug-
gish protectionist policies. We are not
encouraged to look for new ideas, to take
risks and be experimental, but to go on
being the same and hope that someone
will look after us.
FEEDING ON CAPITALISM
Tn this sense we are not a “capitalist”
•*- country ideologically. Whatever ethos
our schools provide is largely anti-
capitalist, although not necessarily by
intention. We feed on capitalism, but we
do not understand it, or like it. The
successes of planned capitalism in other
countries pass us by ; we do not want
planning and we do not want capitalism
either. In a tired kind of way we can
plump for one or the other, like children
who have arbitrarily made up rival teams,
but we cannot continue the conversation
very far and to synthesise the two goes
against the rules of the game as we have
been taught them.
Even economists are often more inter-
ested in economics than in the economy.
Economics can provide a relief from the
complicated pressures of reality. It has
a private language of its own, its own
rules and scholastic traditions of
emphasis on the useless or on the
analytical. It is as if anatomists decided
to study only simplified dummies instead
of live bodies. Economists often have
a professional callousness about the
results of their actions that would shame
even the most calculating general because
whether their policies win or lose they
can fall back on their academic traditions.
Of ourse, there are many exceptions,
but it makes one’s blood run cold to
see spreading this priestly caste of econo-
mists some of whom cannot understand
a balance-sheet, have never studied the
structure of a company, will certainly
never take a risk or lose a job, but will
always assume a cool superiority over the
businessmen who have to make deci-
sions in confused practical affairs which
are not an intellectual puzzle, with the
answer overleaf. It is unfashionable to
suggest that academics should ever con-
sider the results of their actions, but
those of them who run economics facul-
ties in Australian universities should con-
fer at length on infusing into themselves
and those they train and pass off on to the
world an understanding that economists


often deal with human institutions and
human situations. One does not tolerate
faculties of medicine that produce
graduates who despise the human body.
State school-teachers often know noth-
ing about the business world or econo-
mic problems either in practice or in
theory. They often have little contact
with the rest of the world except for their
sporting interests or their Army service
if they had it. Often they are so demoral-
ised that their main active belief is hatred
of the Department of Education that
employs them. The main attitude of this
kind of teacher to the business world
is to be against it, partly because of its
indifference to cultural values (to which
teachers are sometimes themselves in-
different, but they’re stuck with them),
partly sometimes because of envy, mainly
because practical affairs are so different
from the gentle, boring round of school
life that they must be wrong.
WHITE COLLARCSM
V|7HAr they do understand is that
business and government depart-
ments also offer plenty of gentle, boring
jobs which are the kind of thing that
should be brought to the attention of
pupils who are not incapable of passing
examinations. School-teachers like to
turn their pupils into white-collar
workers of some kind. There is an
emphasis on getting on in schoolrooms ;
it is not the get-up-and-go of economic
progress, but a quiet gaining of respect-
ability in an easy-going job. It is not a
question of efficiency, or of interest in
solving practical problems, but of passing
exams and getting jobs with good super-
annuation and keeping one's nose clean
enough to hold on to them.
Theoretically the Catholic schools
should provide some contrast to this but
in practice they are sometimes chronic-
offenders. Over-zealous instructors pump
facts into their pupils’ heads so that
Catholics can become good white collar
workers with the best of them. And the
protestant ethics of business seem inimical
to religious teaching so that business itself
may become suspect.
Even the non-Government schools that
successful businessmen send their sons to
can often be out of touch with business.
There can be carry-overs of English ideas
that are now so irrelevant to our problems
that they create a grave social danger:
we do not want the rather over-simplified
ethics of the prefects’ room transferred
to board rooms and w'hat is left of the
19th-century concept of the English
gentleman can merely be enervating if
it means mainly that the big thing in life
is to get someone else to do the work
for you.
In all types of schools there is a feel-
ing that to take an interest in anything
except one’s immediate bread and butter
is to be a bit of a sissy. This kind of
attitude helps business men themselves
feel that they need pay attention only to
the economic affairs under their noses
and not be concerned with the general
economy. When this kind of business-
man finally reads Somebody’s Potted
Economics, or a vogue book that shoots
a line he is likely to succumb to it like
a South Seas Islander with the measles.
He can become a tendentious know-all,
formulating general economic theory
from a mixture of the book he has read
and the particular conditions of his own
experience.
IGNORANCE OF ECONOMY
There are two problems in education
so far described in this article that are
both related to our education system’s
lack of interest in the economy that feeds
us. One is that even the specialists—
the economists and the businessmen—
perpetuate a low standard of discussion
because they cannot see the economy
whole (and cannot understand each
other). This is a matter that they them-
selves could handle, although changed
government planning methods could also
set things going. If the businessmen do
not take the initiative the economists may
win. The second problem is that most
of the rest of the community has not even
a cock-eyed interest in the economy except
for what it can get out of it and no very
high acceptance of the status of those
who make economic decisions or even
any very high acceptance of the necessity
for making them. This makes any serious
attempt to plan the economy difficult but,
with the right kind of political P.R.
approach, not impossible. This would
certainly be easier than reforming the
school-teachers.
The more obvious points about educa-
tion in Australia have been left to last,
but this is not to suggest that they are
not immensely imporant. These are that
at a time when the emphasis must be
on skills and hard study and success if
we are to keep our heads up, most
“educationalists” are concerned with
making education easier in the interests
of average efficiency and character build-
ing. They are concerned with promulgat-
ing a pleasant life rather than a practical
one, of bringing into Australian education
American attitudes that are not being dis-
credited in America. All one can hope
here is that the demands of practicality
will override the wishes of the educa-
tionalists that, for example, university
quotas will make schoolwork harder
whether the educators want it to be harder
or not because they are going to suffer
disturbing tensions if they cannot train
their pupils to meet university require-
ments.
Young Australians now at school are
entering a tougher and more dangerous
world than their parents could ever have
imagined. If they are being trained to
take things easy in a soft life in which
someone else does the worrying they are
to put it as mildly as possible—going to
have to subject themselves to some hard
retraining.
“Like I'm strictly for spinning the discs, Dad!”


LETTERS
MR MONK’S DOOMED
CIRCULAR
Sir,
Although on all recent evidence it could
be expected that Mr Monk’s gentle
request to the Communist dominated and
pro-Communist unions not to attend the
World Federation of Trade Unions con-
ference would be ignored (Bulletin,
October 28), there are special circum-
stances which may cause the Communist
party to do some rethinking about this
There is no doubt that it is very
important, from the Soviet viewpoint,
to have unions from democratic coun-
tries represented at the W.F.T.U. confer-
ence next month. This body is still
regarded by most of the free world's
trade unions as bogus and merely
“another arm of Soviet imperialism.”
Perhaps its greatest disappointment has
been its failure to get a decent foothold
in the unions being formed in the newly
developed nations of Africa, and their
failure to infiltrate much further into
the trade union organisations of Asia.
Participation by representatives of Aus-
tralian unions, irrespective of their politi-
cal color or persuasion, is therefore
important in order to give both the color
of respectability and the impression of
the existence of a wide and popular base
in the W.F.T.U.
On the other hand, the Australian
Communist Party has its own particular
problems. They now realise that there
are a number of unions in this country
who have spoken in a strong and united
voice, on a question of basic principle,
regarding any illicit association with
the bogus unions behind the Iron Curtain.
They realise very well that the future
holds many problems and difficulties for
their programmes because of this situa-
tion.
One can appreciate their bewilderment
at the attitude of the Australian Council
of Trade Unions’ officers on this matter.
The 1953 congress decided that all unions
affiliated with the A.C.T.U. must break
their links with the Communist-
dominated W.F.T.U. The congress
regarded the W.F.T.U. as being a bogus
organisation, and it lined itself up with
the policy of the International Confedera-
tion of Free Trade Unions.
Since that time, however, there have
been a number of significant changes.
Senior officers of the A.C.T.U. have led
delegations to both the Soviet Union and
Communist China, where they were the
guests of the so-called unions operating
in these countries. Already the Aus-
tralian Council of Trade Unions has been
host to the bogus All China Federation
of Trade Unions. It decided to issue an
invitation to the Russian All Unions
Central Council of Trade Unions to send
a delegation to Australia. Incidentally,
this appears to have been called off
rather than postponed.
The interesting point is that the
W.F.T.U. is made up in the main of the
so-called unions of Red China, the Soviet
Union and other Iron Curtain countries,
with a few Communist - controlled
organisations operating in democratic
countries also being affiliated. It is, of
course, the essence of inconsistency for
the A.C.T.U. to continue to have recipro-
cal visits with unions in Communist
countries affiliated to the World Federa-
tion of Trade Unions, now that it has
decided to enforce the ban placed on
associations with the World Federation
of Trade Unions in 1953.
Should the Communists decide to
ignore Mr Monk’s request, it will be
most interesting to see if they continue
to be treated with gentle persuasion in
contrast to the treatment which was
handed out to those unions who, as a
point of fundamental principle, refused
to pay the levy to finance reciprocal
visits with these bogus unions. So far it
looks like a “stand and deliver” atti-
tude towards the unions having strong
feelings against the Communist cause,
and an attitude of peaceful negotiation
with the Communist-controlled unions
and those who support them.
J. M. RIORDAN
Sydney.
(Federal Secretary, Federated
Clerks’ Union)
Sir,
Peter Kelly’s history, “Mr Monk’s
Doomed Circular” (Bulletin, October
28), was interesting, though ancient.
Tasmanians thought up till now that
Hobart’s “Mercury” was a world-beater
for missing out on the news. But to
Peter Kelly’s credit he did quote R. C.
Taylor, Tasmanian A.R.U. Secretary and
A.L.P. State Executive member, as saying,
“I would be very surprised if the A.L.P.
expressed displeasure at my attending the
Conference . . .”. Quel sang froid!
Mr Kelly resembles Mr Taylor in that
the former missed out on Tasmania and
the latter on Moscow.
Cygnet ( Tas .).
STAN S. TREAKE
GLOOM AT THE TOP
Sir,
Like your correspondent R. A. Simp-
son (Bulletin, October 14) I, too, had
the opportunity to read Laurence Collin-
son’s play, “The Zelda Trio,” before it
was produced by Alan Money, of The
Muse Theatre Club, Melbourne, and I
feel that however well-intentioned R. A.
Simpson’s letter was, there are in it one
or two comments which do disservice to
Mr Collinson rather than to Mr Money.
They imply that the former was some-
how sold a pig-in-a-poke in the way of
production and must now be publicly
soothed by being told in print that he
was a brave fellow to have accepted it.
I see the situation somewhat differ-
ently: although on reading the play I
was not particularly impressed with it as
a whole, I did think the dramatic device
of the theme ingenious enough to make
production of the play a worth while
experiment. I therefore introduced play-
wright and producer to each other. Mr
Collinson had already seen two of Mr
Money’s productions and must have
observed for himself the limitations of
the stage. He then saw fit to place his
script in Mr Money’s hands.
I agree with R. A. Simpson that “it is
possible to admire the courage of Mr
Money who directed and produced the
play,” but I cannot agree that, from an
. audience-viewpoint, at any rate, “the
furnishings, layout and space are rather
ridiculous.” On the contrary, I found
that most people I spoke to were amazed
at what the producer had contrived in
this way. And I vigorously oppose R. A.
Simpson’s contention that Mr Collinson
“is to be admired for allowing such a
stark amateur to meddle with his script.”
Mr Collinson is certainly to be admired
for having broken new ground in Aus-
tralian play-writing, but Mr Money is
no “amateur,” “stark,” or otherwise, and
I do not think anyone who was present
at a performance of “The Zelda Trio”
could have considered him to be, except-
ing, of course, R. A. Simpson himself.
I, for one, came away with a changed
attitude towards the play’s value as
“theatre.”
Possibly few playwrights are entirely
satisfied with the interpretation of their
work, especially when the clash of per-
sonalities contributes, as it usually does,
to the inevitable “behind-scenes”
problems. But only a small percentage
of any audience read a play before a
performance, so that the majority come
to it with open minds. It is their reaction
which proclaims whether the playwright’s
message has got across or not. That in
this case it appears from all reports to
have done so says much surely for the
production itself.
I believe that “The Zelda Trio” will
live and thrive; also, that when the
memory of the birthpangs has faded a
little, the playwright will feel that, after
all, the accoucheur was not perhaps such
a complete butcher as R. A. Simpson
suggests he was.
JEAN CAMPBELL
South Yarra (Victoria).
Sir,
In Madeleine Armstrong’s astonishing
letter (Bulletin, October 21) she with-
draws what she wrote about Mr Alan
Money’s production of “The Zelda Trio’’
in order to do some hypothetical justice
to Mr Laurie Collinson. Has anyone
ever heard such a faux pas by one who
poses as a critic of the theatre? She
bases it on two facts: she had not read
the script and she was not aware of her
blunder until she read R. A. Simpson’s
letter in The Bulletin of October 14.
This letter was simply a gratuitous insult
to Mr Money.
A play can only be known and under-
stood in production. That is elementary.


I can see no valid artistic or critical
reason why Madeleine Armstrong should
not do the same, otherwise she is a dud
critic, who can’t review a play unless
she is warned beforehand what should
not happen. What about the audiences?
Of the thousands of patrons of the
theatre not a fraction of one per cent,
ever see a script and their reactions are
determined by the performance. The
members of the cast do their stuff and
convey the significance of the play and
that is the only criterion. Of “The Zelda
Trio” she admits she was not qualified
to offer an opinion not knowing the
script. Why not interpret the presentation
like others by using her imagination?
That is the intelligent thing to do in the
theatre.
The exacting conditions at “The Muse”
would daunt the professional quidnuncs
of the drama, and the marvel is that Mr
Money faced the difficulties and over-
came them in the measure that was
possible.
JOHN McKELLAR.
South Yarra (Victoria).
INDUSTRIAL DESIGN
Sir,
With reference to your article headed
“Industrial Design” (Bulletin, October
21), I would like to point out that most
of the information contained in this
article is incorrect and misleading.
Firstly, the Institution concerned is not
the Industrial Design Section of the S.A.
Institute of Technology, which is non-
existent, but the Advertising Art Depart-
ment of the South Australian School of
Art. Secondly, the S.A. Chamber of
Manufactures has not appointed this
Department to handle the “trade stands
designs,” etc., for the 1963 Royal
Adelaide Exhibition, and further, ihis
Exhibition is an Industrial Exhibition
and does not exhibit student designers’
and their instructors’ work.
The Chamber of Manufactures has not
let a contract of this nature, and defi-
nitely has not paid the sum of £3OOO to
the South Australian School of Art. The
fact is that the S.A. Chamber of Manu-
factures has agreed to one of the School’s
lecturer’s proposal to entrust the senior
year students of the Advertising Art
Department with the task of working
on the designs for the 1963 Royal
Adelaide Exhibition, with the view of
utilising the designs, if accepted, by the
Exhibition Committee.
Hoping that this explanation will
clarify the situation.
Principal, S.A.
School of Art
Adelaide.
WHAT’S WRONG WITH
PLANNING?
Sir,
Town-planners are of course wrong
when they speak of “planning” and
“development” as though these words
belonged only in their own jargon, but
surely economists should not monopolise
them either!
Economic planning and economic
development are exceedingly complex
subjects. Decisions about investment and
consumer spending and about the distri-
bution of resources between public and
private sectors of the economy are not
simply made and their implementation is
often more difficult than the decision.
Yet these difficulties give rise only to argu-
ments about what kind of economic
planning is needed —serious advocacy of
extreme laissez-faire is just about dead.
Physical planning, by contrast, is still
a subject of controversy in itself. A
State Minister responsible for Town and
Country Planning legislation has been
reported as saying that “planning is a
dirty word,” and in many circles it is
just that. Surely it is apparent that
physical and economic planning go hand-
in-hand. Land is a unique commodity,
almost absolutely limited in quantity and
literally basic to most economic develop-
ment. Should I not have expected to
see some reference to the planning of
land-use in your very stimulating “What's
Wrong” articles? Or is physical planning
such a dirty idea that it is thought to be
entirely wrong in itself?
JOHN J. BAYLY
Department of Town and
Regional Planning,
University of Melbourne.
WHAT’S WRONG WITH
PRIMARY PRODUCERS?
Sir,
In your article “What’s Wrong with
Primary Producers?” (Bulletin, Octo-
ber 21) you suggested (among other
things) capital investment and better
management in the wool industry to
increase productivity and reduce unit
cost.
The profits of the ’fifties were largely
reinvested in the industry; witness the
big rise in production ; but the benefits
to the wool-producer, and eventually to
the nation, have been undermined by
rising costs beyond his control. How do
you suggest the wool-producer reduce his
main costs of shearing and station labor
and machinery? Fuel? Transport costs?
Land taxes? Water rates? Pastures
Protection Board and Shire rates? Seeds
and fertilisers? Fencing materials?
Perhaps he can get his sheep to respect
a three-wire fence where previously six
wires were necessary? Poor seasons?
D. A. CARRIGAN
St Lucia ( Queensland ).
RELUCTANT CINDERELLAS
Sir,
It is the lot of authors to run the
gauntlet with reviewers. One does expect,
however, constructive criticism and an
accurate review, whatever the weak-
nesses, which may be discovered in the
book. Unfortunately, this has not been
so with a review of Ruth Atkins’s,
“The Development of Local Government
in New South Wales” (Bulletin, Octo-
ber 21).
In her anxiety to condemn, Miss
Atkins has overlooked the primary pur-
pose of the book and she has been
inaccurate in some of her statements and
quotations. Almost a fifth of the review
has been spent bemoaning the absence
of a single fact—the extension of local
government to the Western Division,
incorrectly termed by her the “western
district.” If Miss Atkins would refer to
page 87 of the book under review she
would note a statement that “another
important recent development has been
the extension of the boundaries of former
municipalities . . . into the hitherto un-
incorporated Western Division.” Is the
reviewer, then, entitled to claim that the
“ ‘concise history’ makes no mention of
such things”?
One would expect the reviewer of a
text-book designed primarily for particu-
lar subjects in the local government
courses at Sydney Technical College to be
familiar with the syllabus before passing
judgment. Miss Atkins reveals her
incompetence by being ignorant of sylla-
bus requirements. How then can she
judge the adequacy of the text-book?
She harps on the absence of trends and
themes and decries the use of strands and
the poor arrangement when she should
know that there are such syllabus topics
as the origin of the county district,
movements for metropolitan government,
regionalism and the like. The alleged
“scrappy” treatment of the concluding
sections would not be considered so if
Miss Atkins was aware that the teaching
of systems of local government to Tech-
nical College students proceeds along
these lines —units, local authorities, the
francnise, finance, functions and so on.
Had she read these sections carefully she
should have noticed this particular
arrangement has been followed.
Perhaps the most serious objection
to the review can be raised against the
use of quotation marks for purposes of
irony, interspersed with misquotations
and unsupported and incorrect facts. It
may be of interest to the reader to know
that in the preface it is written that the
“chief reason for writing is to provide
students in the local government courses
at Sydney Technical College with an
APPROPRIATE text-book.” Miss Atkins
distorts the picture by writing “an
ADEQUATE text-book,” and by omit-
ting the other words, deludes the reader
into believing that the book was written
as a general text-book for any local
government course, when it was distinctly
stated in the preface that “the book
should prove helpful” to students in the
other courses listed. This distortion and
the insertion of unsupported statements
such as “too much of importance” has
been omitted from the pre-1905 period,
represent a breach of ethics in reviewing
and are too serious to be allowed to go
unchallenged. There are factual errors,
too. The proposal to spend money on
country town streets was made in 1857,
not in 1859 as Miss Atkins asserts. These
lapses cast grave doubts upon the com-
petence of the reviewer and must lead one
to conclude that Miss Atkins is guilty
of that which Dorothy Sayers deplores,
namely, “garbling.”
F. A. LARCOMBE
Hurstville (N.S.W.).


SOME FAVORITE FILM CLICHES
“Folks around here don't take kindly to strangers!''
“Why, you silly little fool."
“Cup of hot chocolate, sir?"
“Paleface break promise."


A Taste for Poetry
One would expect aviation people to
have their heads in the clouds but
yet be very practical chaps. However,
Jehangir Tata, the head of Air India, who
has been in Sydney for the International
Air Transport Association’s annual
general meeting, has a taste for both
Eastern and Western poetry.
One of the first things he did in Aus-
tralia was to buy a book of poems by
Kenneth Slessor and an anthology of
Australian poetry.
Getting the Game by the
Throat
One of the items on the quite remark-
ably varied programme of the White-
Collar Festival Week in Sydney (church
services, Col Joye at the Trocadero, jazz
at the Y.W.C.A., folk songs at Anzac
House, a trade-union concert in Hyde
Park) is a short story and ballad com-
petition. First prizes of £75 for a story
and £5O for a ballad will be awarded,
the main condition being that the offer-
ing has a “white-collar” theme.
Although many Australians feel that
Australian writing would more truly
represent the way we live if more of it
had urban settings, it seems to narrow
the field down severely if themes are
limited to those dealing with white-collar
workers. Not, of course, that ideas don't
suggest themselves . . . White collar
(starched) and white collar (lace-edged)
meet at the monster rally at Wynyard
Park. White collar (starched) wins white
collar (lace-edged). White collar (lace-
edged) wins equal pay. White collar
(starched) loses white collar (lace-edged).
Avenging Angels
\l7hen Kym Bonython came across a
** set of drawings on the floor of
John Perceval’s Melbourne studio —the
originals on which Perceval’s Angel
ceramics had been based —he saw the
opportunity not only to hold an interest-
ing exhibition but to win another
Adelaide scoop as a follow-up to the
brilliant Nolan show.
Bonython held the exhibition in his
North Adelaide gallery. The critics were
enthusiastic about the drawings’ charm,
vitality and lightness of touch.
Then it happened. In pursuance of
their laudable aim of stamping out vice
in South Australia, the Adelaide police
suddenly stormed out to the gallery to
examine the paintings for possible
obscenity, and to interview the man
responsible for bringing the paintings to
Adelaide.
Bonython was not there, so the police
went ahead with their examination, pay-
ing particular attention to a painting
which had been sold to Hal Missingham,
of the Art Gallery of N.S.W. Having
examined them all with expert eye, the
police then went to Bonython's beachside
home. Bonython was not at home, but
on hearing of the incident, consulted his
solicitors.
There, at the time of going to press,
the matter rests. The police visit pre-
sumably was triggered off either by an
anonymous telephone call or by Geof-
frey Dutton’s reference in a review to an
element of cheerful bawdy in the
drawings.
It will be a matter of regret if inci-
dents like this slow down the progress
of Bonython’s gallery. Before the gallery
opened, Adelaide was outside the national
art circuit. Bonython’s energy has placed
Adelaide in the middle of things. It
could well be that Adelaide will become
known as one of the exhibition centres
of Australia in the near future.
However, it must be conceded that
censorship can be one of the chief
ingredients of success, for an artist as well
as for a writer.
Luxury Living
The two women got off the bus, picked
up the heavy suitcases that had been
dumped on the footpath, glanced around
them uncertainly, and then, resignedly,
began to walk to their destination, a tall
building some four blocks away. When


they arrived, panting from their - :er-
tions, they were met by a grim-lipped
female, jangling keys ; one glance, two
keys and two numbers were thrown at
them, after which the grim-lipped one
retired behind the twin barriers of a
broad counter and silence.
This reception was not from jailer to
sentenced, but from a luxury hotel in
a northern Victorian tourist resort to
guests who had the nerve to travel, bus-
wise and husbandless, on holiday.
Summer School
Summer school creates an impression
of a nice, leisurely couple of weeks
messing about at something of which
you know very little. However, in reality
the summer schools, held in most Aus-
tralian universities, can push people
through quite a stiff course in a very
short time. In January Sydney Univer-
sity will have a summer school in the
practical arts —including a theatre work-
shop, painting, poetry and short story
composition and playwriting for TV,
stage and radio, and music composition
- —plus courses in the humanities. The
theme of the humanities courses will be
“The Age of Disenchantment? A
Challenge.”
Careless in His Cups
During some heavy drinking at the
Pier Hotel, Wellington, N.Z.,
recently, one of the guests went upstairs
to sleep it off. He woke in the early
morning to find his clothes smouldering,
and, oblivious of the fact that the bed-
clothes were also on fire, rushed off to
catch his train for home.
Fire took possession of the top floor
of the hotel and three people (also sleep-
ing it off) died from suffocation.
These facts came out at the inquest
on the barman, the waitress and the
cook who lost their lives. It was a mere
coincidence that during the week these
disclosures were made, the Liquor
Amendment Bill to permit tavern bars
and barmaids was introduced into the
New Zealand Parliament. One of the
objects of the proposed legislation is to
try and reduce the volume of the much-
quoted five-to-six “beer swill" in hotel
bars.
That Was Australia
The other day the writer, while pass-
ing a large and eminently respectable-
looking city butchery in Sydney, was
gratified by the spectacle of a fat man
licking price labels with his tongue and
sticking them on the carcases. He put
the label well back in his mouth, as if
he was going to swallow it, moistened it
thoroughly, and fixed it on, and then he
slapped the dead body with his hand to
make the ticket stick. When he had done
this about a dozen times The Bulletin
man suddenly felt bad, and passed on.
The meat-trade is probably the dirtiest
one going. The butcher’s window is left
unglazed, so that all the dust of creation
may blow in. The carcases are hung out-
side, and dogs come and scratch them-
selves against them, and small boys whack
them playfully as they go by, and skinny
women feel them to decide whether the
quality is up to the mark. And when the
ticket horror is added to all the rest it is
too much.
—“BulletinSeptember 29, 1894.
The “S.M. Herald,” which, while it
had a practical monopoly of the news
business of Sydney, used to shriek about
“the sanctity of private life” and the
wickedness of “invading the privacy of
our homes,” is now engaged in a ferocious
weekly “Society News” struggle with its
morning rival. Up to date the “Tele-
graph” is viewed with most favor by the
bailiff’s wife whose friends tendered her
an agreeable surprise-party -last Friday
night; also by the senior-constable's lady
who wore the pink-and-white confection
cut bias at the good-bye social tendered
by her numerous friends to Miss Gobson,
eldest -daughter of the esteemed head of
the well-known Jindabyne bakery-firm.
But the “Herald's” society column is by
no means to be sneezed at. It is frigid
and staiely, and founded exclusively on
the doings of the select circles of Govern-
ment House and Moss Vale, to which
latter place, we read, Miss Smith (or
somebody) was accompanied the other
day “by her faithfid old maid Mary
Anne.” Alas, for the days of that faithful
old bought nigger. Aunt Ghloe.!
Bulletin,” February 10, 1894.
Feiffer
YOU WANT T(9
(coow mezc
If WfMf WROb6 r
111 fill HOO
m& if
W6Mr WPOIO6 ?
TH6l?c
.•4 NO
Mi'j
TO
SHOUX
gCSbARP.
ITS WM THAT
A To
at (,6a $ t one
PE&OIO IM THIS
POO M 1$ IAOR&
THAW THf £X'
CHAM6W6' OF
mewsuip
eiM6S AIOP
WAfCHIXIfi
the
late
mu
tvm
WI6HV
"Hfpf AR6
vouch) mo
mcr m
MAtf ®
MAK£ T/16
iw moc
TO Ht CM 86 MAM;
To feei, guilty
um ore '? on Hot
urn mc met
A MUTUAL COMING
Tooexm or
nothin^/
'9)00 A
HAS
ro
mm<
if I mm ;
LBM6 M<fcg<,f
OPev to came s
of s&fiswe&.
m \f i
imitia re
you KHON
youv m
mu
corner;
tfj£U, JM f dOX bO(b&
TO POT IM
M PfclWti OF
bcm6 Rfomqeie
FOP 6W6THIM6
IM MOT KF<>m-
SldiF FOP.-
I’M bORR'i >4OO
mi so vefeiMiie
about this, bcrkiarp
WT I HAVT My
MOPAUW TO THIMK
0f Tc?c?.
1 KN(2>W TM /.i) T He Stour
Wlvia! i mr moo roftuou)
That j m oowo to uau<
our of went feeutia cuah!
TH6M
mseo
too
meR
mo 10
nep
MOO, t<j
rme ?
OOMVM IU U)Of?K
it our motf l cam
HZL BOTH M ORAUtf
RI6HT ANP
bATtSfieV
otice rue
mote TMM
iz> o\fße.


TRAVEL
The Maund of Bhang and I
I was talking to an Indian psychology-
student on the night mail to Hubli.
He said that the Indian love of sleeping
in railway luggage racks is all part of
this “back to the womb'' thing. I nodded
my head wisely, didn’t bother to explain
that if he’d never travelled third class
on an all-night Indian train, he'd never
understand the sensual pleasure one gets
snuggled sweatily in one's sleeping-bag
in a luggage rack of one’s own.
And there is an art to getting a luggage
rack. You must start your journey at
a beginning place. So, to go to Hassan,
you must embark at Mysore, or to arrive
fresh and dewy-eyed at Madras (Egmore),
you must locate the right compartment
at Madurai (or spend six hours in the
“Madras’’ coach that waits at Tiruchira-
palli to be coupled to the through
express).
This way you can unroll your sleeping-
bag on the luggage rack of your choice
(near the fan, away from the toilet) and
sit up till If) or II with a Good Book,
then turn in comfortably after a short—
but inevitable —argument with the babu
who put a crate of chickens on your
“reserved” spot.
Use the toilet at the beginning of the
journey—you won't be able to (or want
to) get near it later. There is a notice
on the inside of the toilet door. It
says: Do not allow robbers to sleep on
your carriage floor. Do not accept food,
drink or cigarettes from strangers —it may
be doped. All this is patriotically anti-
climaxed with the note: This carriage is
the property of the Indian nation. Pro-
tect it as though it were your own.
1 have been taking the Hindu daily in
South India. It's a newspaper. Yester-
day there was an interesting piece about
a foreign missionary killing a sacred cow,
then taking refuge in a Hindu temple.
Today there is a shorter piece which has
got me wondering. Here it is. In full:
HOTGI, September 13. Nearly a
maund of bhang was seized from a pas-
senger at the Hotgi railway station yester-
day He is said to have been travelling
by the Dhond-Wadi passenger train with-
out a ticket. Two seers of ganja were
also recovered from him. The huge stock
of bhang and ganja was hidden in his bag.
He was arrested.
The last touch is a masterful one,
worthy of a Hemingway, or at least an
Erie Stanley Gardner. One gathers that
possession of maunds of bhangs is illegal.
The position of two seers of ganja is less
clear. Are they also against the law?
Or is the operative word “recovered,” in
which case from whom had they been
stolen? What was he doing on the
Dhond to Wadi passenger train without
a ticket ?
And however did he get himself seized
at Hotgi (of all places)? And what about
his name? Has it been withheld from
the press for security reasons? What
class was he travelling? And. anyway,
what is a maund of bhang? (And while
we're playing 20 questions, what is a seer
of ganja?)
I prefer not to find out. This is the
touch of mystery that makes the East
inscrutable, and when I get home, if
people ask me did I see the Indian rope
trick, I shall be able to reply, inscrut-
ably, “No . . . but a man on the Dhond
to Wadi passenger train was arrested at
Hotgi with a maund of bhang ... on
him! ”
If my impressions of South India seem
to be centred around trains, it is because
this whole month, from the tip port of
Dhanushkodi to Bombay (except for The
Day 1 Didn't Go To Goa) has also been
centred around trains. The train to
Rameswaram, then from Rameswaram to
Madurai, from Madurai to Tiruchirapalli,
from Tiruchirapalli to Madras, from
Madras to Kanchipuram, from Kanchi-
purani to Bangalore, Bangalore to
Mysore, Mysore to Hassan, Hassan to
Hubli, Hubli to Poona , . .
There are buses, but I haven't been
able to condition myself to the drivers.
They get down at every village and offer
ten-minute prayers to the local deity for
good luck on the next lap, and if the
drivers haven't got confidence in them-
selves .... well, J ask you.
Incidentally, 1961 is “Come to India
Year." I found out. There has been
(I am told) a terrific overseas campaign
to net tourists in 1961, and every tourist
is ottered bagfuls of concessions: 25 per
cent, off railway fares, cheap photographic
equipment, etc. 1 asked about conces-
sions at the Government Tourist Bureau
in Madras, last week, but nobody seemed
to know anything about it. 1 didn't
press the matter.
Bangalore lays claim to being the most,
seen sight in South India. Why? It’s an
intoxicating oasis in all the teetotalling,
tongue - hanging - out, prohibited south.
Tourists who have gone through agonis-
ing red tape of applying for special
Government permits (also available to
dope addicts) prefer to take a quick look
at the Taj Mahal, leave the wife to go


IXL
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:—
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in: —
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
ELECTRIC LIFTS HYDRAULIC
ELEVATORS PTY. LIMITED,
877 Dowling Street, Waterloo. FF 3931.
Represented in all States. Telegrams: Hydelec.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS for Express Lift Co., Ltd., England.
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write
to the Manager, who will quote you a price for the
original.
shopping in Bombay, then round out their
remaining days in Bangalore with its
cool, cooler, coolest climate and its grog
shops.. Alack, alas! Even Bangalore goes
dry come 1962.
Liquor permits are available (in theory)
to any tourist, but can be used only from
date of issue in the State of issue. Also—
one unit a week. That is a quart of
whisky or a dozen bottles of beer. Thus,
if you are spending three days only in
Madras, your permit becomes invalid
on the fourth.
India is currently on a ban-all-imports
binge (prohibited Madras even has sly
Coca Cola shops), and I have been offered
fantastic sums for my typewriter, my
transistor and my watch (but that has
sentimental value—I won it on Bob
Dyer’s “Cop the Lot”). Yesterday a man
offered me a handloomed silk sari for my
liquor permit. It is all very exciting.
Travelling in luggage racks at night
solves the accommodation problem.
Otherwise there are rest-houses and/or
retiring-rooms, from 3s. to 10s. per night.
The retiring-rooms are available at every
railway station of note. They are clean
and comfortable.
Oh, yes, there are temples, too. Huge
things, great carved towers with sort of
golden covered wagons on top, sideways.
And there are ruins, like the shore temple
at Mahabalipuram and the Kailasnatha
temple in Kanchipuram (where the priest-
in-charge asked me for 30 tupees—£3
to feed his four starving sons). Most
of the temples are scattered liberally with
erotic carvings. It is all very photo-
genic. '
I am writing this on the Bombay
through mail at night (and in my luggage
rack). I am still fuming over my treat-
ment at Majali, which is the only open
road from India into Portugal’s own
Goa. This was the least used route of
all before India became “Liberate Goa”
conscious (w,hich is probably why they
decided to leave it open). To get there
you must take an eight-hour bus trip
across the damp and jungly Western
Ghats to Karwar, ferry across the Kali
River, wait two hours for a bus to Majali
and the Goan frontier.
I was here that I was informed that
I needed a permit, and had to retrace
my steps .... back across the Kali River
to Karwar, back across the damp and
jungly Western Ghats to Hubli and thus
to Bombay. There I shall apply at the
secretariat for a permit. Then I must go
to Delhi to get a permit (to enter Goa)
from the Brazilian Embassy. (Brazilian?
Yes, because India has broken diplomatic
relations with Portugal, and vice versa.)
Then, if I can face the 104-mile trip
over the jungly Western Ghats and the
Kali River ferry and the bus to Majali,
I might even go to Goa.
I must stop. A man who looks as
though he hasn’t got a ticket just got on
at Miraj and put a crate of something
beside my head on the luggage rack.
There’s something moving inside and it
isn’t chickens.
What IS a maund of bhang? . . • •
Don White


fFOR THE OBSERVER
My Personal Depression
There was that depression. Supposedly
from 1929 to 1932. In fact, it lasted
much longer. My personal depression
occurred in 1937 when a periodical
devoted to the social postures of upper-
crust Melbournites perished of mal-
nutrition and with its collapse down went
1 too.
1 was a minor casualty, a girl of 19
who described herself proudly as “jour-
nalist” but was, in fact, a mere snotty
at the game. It was a bad time for
snotties that year. There were a few
jobs offering for chocolate-dippers or
hosiery-spotters, but none for two-finger
typists who had won an essay competi-
tion at 16. After three months living
on savings, made for a more romantic
purpose, 1 returned to Sydney and lived
off two sisters who were reluctant to
see me actually starve.
Then 1 got this job selling space on
calendars.
The depression certainly made strange
bedfellows. The two men who shared
the straw mattress called —I’ve forgotten
exactly what it was called —could have
had little in common but desperation. I
have, fortunately, forgotten their names,
too, but 1 think one began with “C,” and
the other. I know, with “B.”
Mr C. was a young, fat, dark, well-
dressed, ex-public-school boy, while Mr
B. was State-uneducated, shabby, almost
illiterate. If it had been Germany instead
of Australia Mr C. would have held a
Nazi official position empowering him
to bawl out housewives who threw the
crust from their bread into the rubbish-
bin. while Mr B. would have been leg-
man for some minor political thug, doing
as he was told but feeling sorry all the
time for the poor so-and-so Jews.
Mr C. handled his three space-sales-
women with a wary, uneasy superiority,
while Mr 8., like the ex-stableboy he
easily might have been, coaxed and
gentled them like high-strung race-
horses.
My fellow-employees were sisters —
fluffy, blonde, fragile creatures with
husband trouble. They were most suc-
cessful saleswomen, Mr C. said ; they
had no difficulty in taking home their
three or five pounds a week to feed the
little mouths. I came to believe this
true. They had no repugnance for the
job. Their fair fragility was their
weapon and they used it without the least
qualm of conscience.
I was offered 15s. a week travelling
money, plus 20 per cent, on my sales.
1 was given a mock-up calendar which
featured a photograph of a Catholic
church and was instructed to canvass a
certain suburb —Ashfield in this case—
for advertisements to fill the empty
squares drawn all around the sides and
bottom. Two large top squares were
marked “sold" to help me on my way.
It took me two weeks to fill the remain-
ing squares and earn 30 shillings. I
could never screw myself up to the
“hard sell.” My “sell” was like mashed
potatoes. Fortunately, some of my
victims were even softer than that . . .
like the Italian greengrocer, the timidly
amorous ballroom-dancing instructor,
and the 60-year-old estate-agent, a
widower, who invited me home for lunch.
I soon worked out the Church gambit
was a wee bit . . . well, coercive. Catho-
lics felt duty-bound to buy space, while
those who were not felt equally impelled,
for business reasons, to exhibit tolerance.
When I made a sale I walked on air.
it was not just the five shillings which
was my share of the 25-shilling loot. It
was the sweet taste of success; the
way a bee must feel when it sticks its
proboscis into an unlikely thistle and it
comes out dripping with honey.
Once I was thrown into panic when a
puzzled laundryman pointed out that
“only last week a priest came in and sold
me an advertisement for a calendar like
this.” Being non-Catholic myself, I felt
arrest, perhaps gaol, for my imposture
was imminent. I rushed back to the
office where Mr C., looking uneasy, said
“There must be some mistake.” Mr 8.,
however, let fall that the fellow was a
rival in the rack —er —business and not
to worry. My rival, it turned out, was
an “unfrocked” priest or a layman who
had hired his “frock” from a costumier.
I was transferred to another suburb.
But one way and another 1 lost faith
in my merchandise. Especially when I
learned (from Mr B.) that only 20 copies
of the calendar would be printed with
the advertisements I had sold —and in
most cases written ; that is, one for each
advertiser.
I came to know Sydney very well.
My favorite run was over Manly way.
One spent so much time travelling. The
trip on the ferry, the bag of peanuts,
the piano and violin music whipped
about in the clean, gusty air . . . one
could almost imagine one was on a
pleasure cruise.
In those days the Manly area was not
built over as it is today. I remember
walking miles over sand-dunes where no
salesman had trod before. Boatshed
proprietors and the like were so
untouched; like free spirits of some
remote animal kingdom who had never
smelt the trap or the gun. They were
friendly, puzzled, trusting, and “adver-
tising,” to them was a mystic word.
They were natural prey ; what Mr C.
called “good prospects,” and Mr 8.,
“su —cinches.”
One evening, returning late to the
office, I halted outside in time to hear
Mr C. saying to Mr B.: “I can’t stand
that girl. Anyone would think our busi-
ness was dishonest.”
I crept away and came back five
minutes later when Mr B. told me,
regretfully, that J had not made the
grade. I was mortified but relieved.
Fortunately, within a week 1 was put to
writing copy for a retail-store catalogue
so my depression was over.
I had thought the calendar advertising
scheme, as practised by my former prin-
cipals, was a flower of the depression
years until I read about Douglas Gil-
mour, the “phony policeman,” who was
“phone salesman” of space in the Queens-
land “Police Journal.” Then I got to
thinking about Mr C. and Mr 8., and
the unfrocked priest.
I wonder whether they are still in the
rack —er —business.
M. E. UPWARD


Kstab’ished 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON
o'sucuvan ,j
- PTYLTD Ajy
iiwiSf W* 1
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguaon & C».
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOK BINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
73 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
.
all the year round. Donations: 169
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. BM2OOI.
Sf f(! ABORIGINALITIES
-T. Out Windorah Way
Out Windorah way, they called it the
J.C. Pub. J.C. after James Costello,
who blazed the first trail out into the
Cooper Channel country from points
east.
Pub —well, whoever built it didn’t
waste time looking around for timber.
There’s not a stick worth mentioning
between Windorah and Betoota. The
whole place is built of mud and grass,
and a right good job they made of it.
Eight hundred miles from Brisbane,
due west, the J.C. hits you in the eye
after a thirsty trip around the red sand
dunes and across the gibber plains.
Plumb in the middle of nowhere, it must
have been a welcome sight to the Out-
back wanderers who now have to travel
200 miles between drinks, and raise a
thirst after the first ten!
Only the pise walls are left now, and
they’re still in good condition. The whole
place is surrounded by red desert and
gibbers polished bright by sand blast
and silicafication, or “desert varnish."
Arabic in concept, the long, low build-
ing could have come straight out of “The
Arabian Nights” or “Beau Geste.”
The district is called Canterbury, but
there are no cathedrals! Or anything else
that resembles a habitation. The story
goes that the place was closed four years
ago by an irate station owner who
bought the J.C. lock, stock and barrel.
The land belongs to Waveney Station,
and the men spent too much of their
working time there instead of out on the
run. After seeing it, we didn't wonder!
There was a store at the J.C. too. This
was removed to the station, and the
liquor licence surrendered. Needless to
say, the word “resentment" is inadequate
to describe the feeling that ran high
throughout the district.
When the case came before the Licens-
ing Court, the judge was intrigued. He’d
heard of cases where a license had been
handed in due to lack of custom ; but
this was the first time he’d dealt with a
case where the cause was too much of it !
There are other ghosts with the J.C.
out on the gibber-strewn Morney Plain.
Many of them are children, one being
that of a “little boy lost.” There was
no song written about him, for he was
found too late. One evening George
Geiger, aged two years and a few months,
wandered away into the silence of the
Outback. His dog went with him. For
two nights, the dog returned to the J.C.
for water without being seen. The third
night it was discovered and followed.
But the boy was already dead from
exposure.
The little cemetery with its white k. ad-
stones and unnamed graves lies only a
few chain away from the old J.C. There,
as in all such places in the Outback, the
story of a way of life is written for all
who have the heart to see.
"Heartbreak
Corner"
TVfOT so very long ago, aborigines were
numerous in the Cooper and
Diamantina Channel country. Today,
they are non-existent, except on the
stations and in the big camp at Birdsville.
Ironically enough, out there in “Heart-
break Corner" and along the Birdsville
Track, many of the stations that brought
about their downfall have vanished too.
So there’s a kind of rude justice in this
far away land of the “never never" that
lies beyond the pale of the white man's
laws.
Out in the red loneliness and brooding
silence of the 150-mile stretch between
Betoota and Birdsville, the blacks have
completely mastered the vanishing trick.
Traces of them are few and far between.
So lonely is the land, so vast the silence,
that any form of life or habitation is in
the nature of an affront. But there was
life there, once. And the things we found,
moulded now into the red sand, had been
habitations of a kind.
Fifty miles east of Birdsville, out in
the gibber country, the framework of two
domed gunyahs still defy the sun and
wind and shifting desert sand. Grey with
age, the mulga and coolibah branches
are simply yet cunningly interwoven,
forks and bends utilised to give the
structures their rounded shape. Each
doorway, or opening faces the north,
and although the sand has encroached to
a great extent, the gunyahs would still
hold a dozen people lying down. Since
the blacks slept huddled together for
warmth, probably more were taken in.
Half a mile away, stunted trees along
a dry watercourse provided the cover for
the gunyahs. And at a guess there is
grass there every five years or so, when
the rains come. All else is desolation.
It is to be hoped some move will be
made to preserve these gunyahs. Pathetic
in their implications, humble memorials
to a vanished race, they are all that is
left in a heedless age.
R. O. MONCRIEFF.


REVIEWS
THEATRE
Colonial Corroboree
The One Day of the Year. Seymour.
Stratford, London.
How ? An unhelpful production ; full
of meaningless, characterless movement,
long pauses and time-it-takes-in-real-life
waits to make the action real and to
emphasise wrongly the coincidental
nature of the play's succession of scenes.
A cramping two-storey set, so ingeniously
designed for this particular theatre that
half of it was invisible to at least a
quarter of the house.
Who was in the house? Not the press ;
the press was at “Bonne Soupe.” Not the
Gallery First-Nighters, pack of hounds
that pays and bays; Stratford is too
far east for them. There were some
agents, some managements, some hap-
hazard English, and a mob of Austra-
lians ; the Nolans, the Trust, the Fleet
Street Aussies, some actors who have
made a living here if not made good,
some possibly envious writers, some
tourists, some confirmable expatriates.
How was the play received? With
rapture—like a revival meeting, like a
corroboree. The audience fluttered at
every Australianism, roared at local
jokes: "What do you get?” “Muscat.”
We laughed, remembering. We laughed
at every mention of tea, of plonk, North
Shore and Bloody Australian. Curtain
calls. Cries of author. The author would
not appear—rightly. As he knew, hardly
anyone in the audience had been listen-
ing to his play at all. One of the actors,
however, made a Barry Humphries'
parody of an author’s first-night speech
—which shut us up.
What is the play? Confused, excitingly
interesting. It proves that Anzac Day
is the opium of the people and suggests
we should all encourage it and keep
them where they belong. It observes
closely, and displays, the class war that
happens within the family, the Kremlin
intrigue that keeps the family group
together. Somewhere, in the relationship
between father and son, in reminiscence
of the hero’s childhood, the real play
happens ; parents must fail by children’s
altering standards, the adolescent de-
mands acceptance and needs to be
acceptable. It is this play, universal and
personal, which makes the second act
thesis scenes with their explanation of
Anzac Day as it is seem cut of place,
interruptions ; we are interested in that
excuse for self-indulgence only as an
excuse for the revelation of family con-
fliet. It is inartistic of Mr Seymour to
waste time being fair about the day
itself in a play that is so urgently con-
cerned with character in action, people
observed and felt.
Despite his judicial inquiry pose, his
play’s real merit lies in its loving re-
creation of Wacka the old mate, his
painful recollection of father-son politics
—that disastrous love-hate. It is the men
in his play who live, and it is their
relationships—one with another —which
work. The play is, like most Australian
writing, reflecting still a colonial, pre-
dominantly masculine society ; its men
depend one on another for defence and
assurance, fear always the individual
significant failure. It is the world of the
’nineties, and is the emotional world in
which most Australians are still living.
It is an emotional world which insists
on Mr Seymour’s failure with women
characters, failure with love scenes ; the
girl in the play is an intruder, an out-
sider, a wrecker —not through class or
education, but through her very gender.
The boy-girl scenes embarrass; one
could feel the audience waiting for the
play to begin again.
But, of course, writer's failure can
become actor’s triumph. Miss Nita Pan-
nell as the mother is something to write
home about. The part has some endear-
ing reportage of speech habits, habits of
thinking and living, but seems to be
nothing but a string of such cliches
knotted every now and then for the pur-
poses of the plot. Behind, between,
around these lines, Miss Panned creates
a mammoth, a gorgon—kind, patient,
but a gorgon none the less. Sitting there,
passive, interest - consuming, looking
never at speakers but always it seemed
at us, the great round empty face —im-
passively judging and ignoring, like a
mask; Miss Panned was an awe-
inspiring, awful, archetypal Australian
mum. She sat or stood like an idol we
ought to worship ; she made us laugh
and probably cry. In the writing her only
positive function is to scare. Her great
action is to put her hand on Wacka’s,
in sympathy. Mr Lye as Wacka (a
brilliantly true-to-life performance)
looked bewildered, frightened, moved his
hand and seemed to go white. I don’t
wonder, and neither did anyone else.
What of the play’s chances ? Who can
tell? It is here exotic in language and
attitude. Its people are lower class and
vulgar and, flatteringly, they want to
better themselves. It's possible therefore
that the middle-classes who make
audiences here may be able to patronise
and enjoy without being either involved
or disturbed. Last night’s special
audience enjoyed it all but if for most,
as I suspect, it was painfully and safely
reminiscent of adolescence in a particu-
lar place in a particular life, then our
judgment is merely feeling.
RAY MATHEW
Period Parody
Angels in Love. Hugh Mills. Canberra
Theatre Players.
/Canberra Theatre Players’ new produc-
tion, whose alternate title is “The
Perils of Purity,” is a sequel to the story
of “Little Lord Fauntleroy,” the model
child of Frances Hodgson Burnett's
famous Victorian novel.
That is, it starts off as a sequel. It
introduces Cedric, still velvet-coated and
still the personification of innocence (or
ignorance), and his mother ‘Dearest’, still
sweet and gracious, but disturbed to the
depths of her Victorian soul by the fact
that her son’s year-old marriage has not
yet produced any grand-child. For a
few awful moments, early in Act 1, this
reviewer thought she was in for another
version, with period trimmings, of Intro-
ducing a Young Man to the Facts of
Life. But mercifully Mr Mills showed
himself too old a hand to try that one.
The theme of Cedric’s education and
emancipation from his mother remains,
but it is quickly absorbed into the much
wider and more rewarding process of
light-heartedly satirizing some Victorian
beliefs and conventions.
This includes the plots of their plays.
Mistaken identity, coincidences and a
convenient but quite ridiculous murdei
are used unashamedly by the author
to resolve his plot with everyone
appropriately paired off. It does not
matter that the path the play took
has not been what we expected when
it began: the pleasure of the evening lay
in the parts of the production, not in
the play as a whole.
All the performances were good, some


were brilliant. They combined to create
a picture of Victorian life which was
deliberately exaggerated but uniformly
sustained. Where such performances met
the author's best written parody, as in
the proposal scene, the result was high
comedy. The production showed an
unfailing sense of period; in the costumes
which were charming and sometimes de-
licately absurd, and in its awareness of
a period posture, sitting or standing, or
in the gesture of handling a parasol or
acquiring a button-hole or coping with the
paraphenalia of Victorian afternoon tea.
The result in such scenes as the Photo-
graph or the Proposal or the Recitation
was highly successful parody, the audience
laughing uproariously, the actors dead
serious.
Undoubtedly the outstanding perfdr-
mance was Joyce Glynn's Violet, the
lovely widow who was not so foolish as
she looked. The scene where she regis-
tered shades of incredulity while nibbling
a marshmallow was a triumph of timing
and gesture. But she was well supported
by the charming and helpless feminity of
Joyce Graham’s Victorian mama, and
these two provided a strong contrast with
the dominating males of the period. These
were put over with authority by Barry
Johns( the dictatorial old Earl) and Trevor
Dixon (the forceful suitor), while Terry
Bates provided further comedy, less
strictly 19th Century, as the criminal type
from Balliol who bungled both his photo-
graphs and his murder.
The programme claimed that the play's
purpose was to ‘make the audience happy.’
That it succeeded so well, was a tribute
to all concerned, and probably above all
to Digby Forbes, the producer, for his
sense of period.
HOPE HEWITT
North and South Pole
Twelfth Night. Shakespeare. Old Vic
Company. Royal. British Drama
League Festival. Sydney.
T ast week’s theatregoing in Sydney
gave the conscientious playgoer a
chance to see some of the best and worst
theatre in recent memory. The best, the
North Pole of the art, came from the
Old Vic’s “Twelfth Night,” whilst the
worst came from the finals of the British
Drama League's annual one-act play
festival. This worst, this horrible South
Pole, is a relative worst since behind
the three finalist productions of the
festival lay 1 know not how many
horrors eliminated in the early rounds.
Robert Helpmann’s production of the
Shakespeare lyrical company was an
utterly magnificent piece of theatre.
Granted Sydney has seen a few
productions recently of this same
play, any notion of boredom should
be put aside. Because this Old
Vic staging is the first time, for
many years, that Sydney has seen the
play. Really seen, that is, something like
the piece that Shakespeare had in mind.
There is no knockabout farce, no sub-
merging of the marvellous and delicate
story of love that is the play. All is
kept in perfect control and harmony,
with the result that the play comes across
as the purest magic, a lyrical dream that
enraptures audience from the first roll
of thunder to the last strain of Feste’s
song that ends the play.
This was Illyria. The chance to see a
great prducer at work who understands
correctly the lyric mode, and is able to
keep his distinguished cast within the
proper frame comes rarely in one's
theatrical life. Miss Vivien Leigh
gave us a Viola of superb bravura
-—behind the attractive pert boy
always hovered the girl. Behind
every boy’s speech Miss Leigh managed
to suggest the girl enjoying and not
enjoying the boy’s speaking. Walking
this boy-girl tightrope is a classical allure
and challenge for the actress which Miss
Leigh achieves so brilliantly that there
appears to be no trick to it at all, as
if it were perfectly natural to dance a
polka on a half-inch rope.
Mark Kingston’s Feste is another piece
of playing to be stored in the memory
as a touchstone for the future. A true
clown, whose drollery and wit comes
from great observation of melancholy,
this Feste uncommonly graced the play,
the stage, and the company.
Cor many years now, the British
Drama League has made a major
part of its activities the running of
annual “drama’’ festivals for amateur
groups. These festivals consist of one-
act plays, or suitable portions of longer
plays, presented by a w'ide number and
variety of amateur theatre companies.
Their purpose is to stimulate interest in
drama and assist in raising the standard
of amateur acting and production. In
all the long time the festivals have been
running, there has never, to this critic’s
knowledge, been the slightest sign of
any of the League's aims for the festival
being achieved.
Each year, dreary and stupid one-
acters are performed by a motley collec-
tion of groups, who over the years have
raised up a number of what can only
be called “B.D.L. Festival” actors and
actresses. A sort of private audience has
grown up for these dull displays, and a
coterie of cup-hunting players compete
regularly each year for the same mean-
ingless awards.
The British Drama League does a
massive amount of good for amateur
theatre in other ways, and surely it is
high time that their officers considered
whether the cause of drama would not
be much better served by putting the
organisation's energies and resources into
other fields. For one, much more good
would have been done for theatre if the
Drama League had arranged for all the
groups in this latest festival to go see the
Old Vic Company.
KEVON KEMP
Rough Diamonds
The Slaughter of Saint Teresa’s Day.
Peter Kenna. Melbourne Little
Theatre.
T ike a majority of contemporary Aus-
tralian plays, Peter Kenna's
“Slaughter of Saint Teresa’s Day,’’ faces
the problem of making lower-class Aus-
tralians reveal their emotions. The
biggest problem of all is that they don’t
say enough profound or even revealing
things to fill up a play. The next problem
is that when they come to a crisis they
are usually silent, or maybe cynical or
pompous. Hence our realistic plays wind
up mostly comedy, dialect comedy, with
a few moments of seriousness which
border uncomfortably on sentimentality.
The standard character is a rough
diamond who invariably says the oppo-
site of what he feels, for some obscure
motive of shame or self-respect ; and
the purpose of the drama is to reveal to
him his lack of understanding of himself
and of his loved ones.
Handled subtly, this unpromising
material can be turned into plays both
entertaining and moving, even if some-
what shallow. Peter Kenna has done it
as well as anyone. His lower class con-
sists exclusively of Paddington crims,
all of whom have an immense respect
(for purely business reasons) for Oola
Maguire, a grand old fatty who still
manages to run her S.P. business, and
keep her man, despite the disappoint-
ments of life. Her constant companion,
Aunt Essie, is the expert on the dis-
appointments of life —one of those
superbly querulous and vociferously self-
denying maiden aunts who love the
family despite everything though they
wouldn’t let anyone know it.
For most of the year Oola's conscience
is safely placated by the good nuns, who
are turning her daughter Thelma into a
nice young lady, and God willing another
nun. But for one day of the year old
Oola herself goes religious and gives a
party for Saint Teresa, who once worked
a miracle for her. Thelma comes home
for the party, which is an uneasy dry
affair attended largely by toughs who
endure the drought and their own dis-
armament for Oola’s sake. But a new-
comer, just out of Long Bay, Horrie
Darcel, breaks up the party and wrecks
all Oola’s plans to protect her daughter.
Faced for the first time with the dis-
covery that her daughter needed love
and not fond protection, Oola acquires
a greater depth of dignity and a clearer
notion of what is important in family
love.
It is a rather thin point to spread over
three acts, but it is done with great
confidence. Mr Kenna’s ear for the
dialect is very sharp, and the rapid Bow
of cliches, back chat and vulgarities will
keep any audience amused. The solemn
moments are also handled impressively.
The closing scene in which Oola must
explain herself to her confused, priggish
daughter is a fine piece of quiet, con-
trolled writing, which doesn't fall in to


Public Library Lecture Room—lnstitute Building:
North Terrace, Adelaide
Btli to 18th November
THROUGH BRITISH JEYES
an exhibition of travel books and periodicals arranged by
THE BRITISH COUNCIL
Hours: Monday-Friday, 9.00 a.m.—5.00 p.m. —Saturday, 9.00 a.m.—l2 noon.
AD3IISSION FREE
the trap of unlikely profundity. Simi-
larly the contributions of the aunt have
just the necessary air of being the com-
mon wisdom of age.
Perhaps the best little sketch of all is
the thoroughly convincing side-play be-
tween Whitey Maquire, Oola’s cousin
and himself just out of the jug, and his
former mistress, Wilma, an experienced
girl who nonetheless waited till Whitey
got out, and married him. They make a
splendid pair, both loving one another,
and neither able to say it. They are, too,
brilliantly played by Norman Kaye and
Barbara Angeli. Barbara Angeli’s awk-
ward, nervous gestures and stumbling
emotions convey more of the type than
reams of dialogue could ever do.
Among the actors, the biggest com-
pliments must be paid to Moira Carleton
as Oola and Diana Bell as Essie Farrell.
They carry the play and do it regally.
Horrie Darcel, the villain of the piece,
is a nasty oily fellow, but Brian Burton
made him thoroughly revolting. It was
hard to imagine even his fellow crims
taking to him let alone the ladies tolerat-
ing him. Still Thelma’s foolishness was
quite remarkable, surely even more so
than the average convent girl's. Admit-
tedly the part, like that of the nuns, is
very insipidly written, but whatever might
have been done with the part, Elaine
Jones wasn't experienced enough to do
it. Gay innocent young girls, twirling
their new dresses about the stage are
always a great embarrassment.
But apart from this the only fault in
Irene Mitchell’s production was the
awkwardness of moving large mobs
around the stage during the party, but
given the narrowness of the stage she
can hardly be blamed for it.
BILL HANNAN
FILMS
On the Run , in the Raw
Shadows. John Cassavetes. Sydney
Gala.
“Chadows” is not popular entertainment
but it is a film no critic, enthusiast
or addict of film can afford to miss. As
the advertisements say, it leaps from
the screen. It is technically flawed.
Originally in 16 m.m., in black and white
it looks what it is: an amateur job. The
sound track, too, is often disturbing for
other than intended reasons. In real life
one seldom hears everything that is said;
in drama one hopes to catch at least what
is significant. But the significance of
the film, as an experiment by gifted ama-
teurs, is heightened by these very flaws.
For once mere technical accomplishment
is subordinated to purpose. The purpose
is to catch life on the run, in the raw, im-
provising on the skeleton of a story; and
above all to do it in terms of its medium,
motion pictures. “Shadows” will become
historically important, not for its origi-
nality but as a throw-back. It captures
all the excitement of the early days of
film-making; an excitement that has been
lost by too much attention to technical
excellences divorced from movement.
With their vast resources, the great studios
turn out too many productions that are
photographically perfect, but dramati-
cally limp, because the technique used is
that of still photography. Similarly, the
recording of sound has reached such a
pitch of perfection that no-one can fail
to hear the least, whispered banality.
“Shadows” for all its own defects, cuts
across these particular faults. One does
not so much look at it, as live with it;
and one does not so much listen to the
actors, as eavesdrop on their spontaneous
conversation. The thin thread of a story
says little, but suggests much: the tra-
gedy of living without roots, in Manhat-
tan; the tragedy of the color-bar, most
keenly felt when least suspected; the
tragedy of seduction, untouched by
decent intention. A crop of “unknown”
actors gives it startling authenticity. For
all its make-shift arty-craftiness,
“Shadows” is no “play” but a slice of
seamy, New York life. As such, it in-
spires both pity and terror.
ANTON VOGT
ART
Solemn Splendor
Leonard French. Argus Gallery. Mel-
bourne.
A priest, looking at Leonard French’s
“Paintings from the Life of Edmund
Campion,” was surprised that they should
sell so well, for they are inescapably
religious paintings, and religious themes
are uncommon in contemporary art. His
surprise is understandable. After a bit
of eavesdropping among the crowd at
the opening of French’s Melbourne
exhibition (which has unhappily been
somewhat depleted by Sydney buyers)
one would have to conclude that these
superb paintings appeal more as splendid
mysteries from a forgotten past than as
lucid, profound depictions of the symbols
and aspirations common to the Christian
European tradition. So it is curious that
they should have such a strong appeal.
Perhaps we are moving into the final
stage of the metamorphosis of the gods,
into an eclecticism so complete that it
includes our own immediate tradition.
At all events it seems that with the
waning of the iconoclastic Puritan sects
who have so dulled the brilliance of the
Christian artistic tradition in this coun-
try, the old religious rituals are again
being appreciated by the dilettanti for
their magnificent richness and poetry,
even though their significance remains
as dark as ever.
These remarks do not of course apply
to Leonard French himself. His under-
standing is not in question because he
is creating meanings, not exploiting them.
His intention in any case is not to make
religious paintings but to convey a
painters vision of the world and of
humanity. However, as Vincent Buckley
admirably pointed out in his opening
speech, the Campion series would richly
reward study from a religious point of
view. Anyone familiar with the life of
the Jesuit martyr will readily appreciate
French’s deep insight into the terrible
anguish of a highly intelligent and cul-
tured man who for the sake of his belief
in the spiritual eternity of his fellows
sets out deliberately on the way to a
sure and barbaric death at the hands of
his people and his peers.
The range of symbols used to re-create
this progress from crusading zeal to
violent death and triumphant trans-
figuration, is quite limited but remark-
ably versatile and clear. A fish symbol
predominates, and is obviously apt, and
the rest seem generally inspired by com-
mon medieval and liturgical motifs.
Similarly the color schemes are remnis-
cent of the solemn splendour or vest-
ments and ancient ornaments —rich gold,
sombre browns, and clear blood reds.
The very texture of the works is a joy,
intricate and carefully worked over so
that the painting itself seems a solid,
precious object. The final painting in
the series, “Death and Transfiguration,”
is perhaps the best example of the per-
fection French has attained within his
means. The problems of expressing such
a notion in any way at all, in words,
sound or paint, constitute one of the
greatest of all artistic challenges, yet this
work is one of the simplest and most
subdued of the series, and completely
successful.
Besides the series, there are some
diverse works of a more lyrical kind,
like “Autumn in the Garden,” which in
their way are equally pleasing. The only
irritation of the show is that In the
Beginning,” which is apparently the best
work, was kept in Sydney.
BILL HANNAN


The Red Page
Idiot Box and Ballot Box
By HENRY MAYER
Though still in diapers, Australian
Telepolitics is growing up rapidly.
This study* of TV's impact on the 1959
British General Election, much too tech-
nical for the general reader, will be
poured over by our own image mer-
chants. They will scan it for “scientific”
recipes on how to cook, spice, wrap and
sell us their rival wares for the December
9 Federal election.
In 1958 Sydney and Melbourne had
limited TV campaigns. In Victoria’s
recent State election, the D.L.P. led in
buying time, followed by the Liberals,
with the A.L.P. trailing badly behind. All
four major parties took advantage of
free time made available, voluntarily by
commercial stations, and of time allotted,
by law, by the A.B.C.
Electors living in one of the about 75
per cent, of metropolitan homes which
will have sets, in all States, by December,
can view the policy speeches, at the very
least. The A.B.C. will probably allot
two hours each in every State to Govern-
ment and Opposition ; half an hour to
the D.L.P., or Q.L.P. in Queensland. The
Country party will be handicapped for
some years yet —but by 1966-67 91 per
cent, of our population will be in a view-
ing area.
On commercial stations, parties, if
“respectable,” can buy as much time as
they can afford. Policies on allocation
of free time to major parties, and on
sale of time to, say, the Communists,
varies as between stations. In between
elections, politics of the party type,
though they find a nook and cranny on
commercial TV, are only a minor part
of viewing time. How minor, we do not
know, since the reports of the Australian
Broadcasting Control Board gives no
separate percentages for them —they are
buried under “Current Affairs” and
“News.”
But Telepolitics is bound to increase
pretty fast, and the parties should not
have undue difficulty in getting around
the vaguely worded prohibition of
“dramatisation,” though the A.L.P. got
in hot water over it in the Victorian
elections . . . and also got seven minutes
of free time out of it from one of the
commercial stations. Once one major
party goes in for it, the others, what-
ever their own views, cannot afford to
neglect TV. Those who cannot afford
to buy time, and are not entitled to
free time from the A.B.C. —minor par-
ties and independents—will be further
handicapped. TV personalities in their
own right—especially news readers and
sports commentators —will be found in
future parliaments. Party fund-raisers
will have to be busier than ever.
For many, the main question will be
whether TV campaigning can have a
major effect on projecting a new image
of party, and whether it is likely to swing
many votes which otherwise could not
be swung. And will this in turn affect
the policies of the parties?
The authors, members of the Univer-
sity of Leeds Television Research Unit,
seek to answer questions of this kind.
The book revolves round two interviews,
before the British 1959 election campaign,
and after polling day, with a cross-section
of electors in two barometer con-
stituencies. TV viewing, radio listening,
newspaper reading, and knowledge of
the local campaign are examined in
relation to any changes, in an attempt to
single out the impact of TV.
r T'HERE are six major findings: tech-
nique of presentation of telepolitics
counts, but content is much more
important. The parties reached 70 per
cent. of the electors. Forty-nine
per cent. of the viewers of a
given party telecast intended to vote
for the other party —it was not just a
case of preaching to the converted.
Watching political TV did not reduce
interest in the local campaign. A “very
significant association” was found be-
tween watching political TV and in-
creased information about and know-
ledge of party politics. But more
information induced very few changes
in voting behavior. Only minor excep-
tions were found “to the universal rule
that the electorate was not influenced
directly in its voting or political attitudes,
either by the amount of the political
campaign to which it was exposed, or
by the presence or absence of any part
of or virtually all t,he campaign.”
The book makes no attempt to show
what the precise objects of the parties’
expenditure on TV were: if it was to
swing votes at that election, it failed ;
if it was to convey information about
policy, it succeeded. One may assume
that this distinction was not made by
many controllers of the parties: they
believed there was bound to be some
vote bonus from the better knowledge
of policies—but that bonus did not exist.
It is important to repeat that viewers
saw both sides without any ascertainable
effects on voting. An analysis of the
impact of the Kennedy-Nixon debates of
1960, which already have been claimed
by many to have been the ‘'decisive”
factor in Kennedy's victory, undertaken
without knowledge of this book, and
by quite different methods, i.e., intensive
interviews of a small panel, reached
much the same conclusion: there were
dramatic changes in the candidates’
images, but the new images were then
adjusted to existing basic attitudes, and
few votes changed.
The gap between the common - sense
view of the effects of mass communica-
tions, or, for that matter, of books, and
the empirical evidence is striking. Com-
mon sense assumes that a direct and
major effect of mass media and other
forms of communication on audiences
is quite obvious. Whether it be judges
and archbishops talking about “corrup-
tion” of the mind by books and comics;
Labor leaders concerned with the effects
of the “biased capitalist press”; or The
Bulletin deploring the lack of reaction
to editorials and articles which are sup-
posed not only to give information and
convey opinion, but also to induce at
least some readers to “act” ... on the
central point that communication has
effects, they are all agreed. Of course,
they differ as to whether the effects are
to be booed or call for a hurrah: hence,
e.g., readers’ letters.
Now the hundreds of studies in this
field, while disagreeing on many points,
all pretty well subscribe to a totally
different view. (In a brief review, of
course, I am deliberately overstressing the
central points of both sides.) First, mass
media and communication generally are
effective where they reinforce existing
attitudes ; second, they may have some,
though seldom a direct effect in a rather
small range of matters on which the
audience has no basic attitudes ; thirdly
—and this is the payoff—where deeply
rooted, and not necessarily vocal, atti-
tudes exist, mass media are powerless to
change them.
In practice, of course, this type of view
allows for indirect effects: thus, if you
spend £1 million on telepolitics, you may
not swing a single vote, but you way
raise the morale of your followers,
increase their zeal, which may mean they
will go in for a door-to-door c’anvass
which may, sometimes, possibly, swing
enough votes in a few key marginal seats
to put your boys on the government
benches. It then becomes a question of
whether three such mays are worth the
money, or whether it might not maximise
your chances much more cheaply if you
picked all your candidates for key seats
so as to get them on the top of the
* Television and the Political Image.
Joseph Trenaman and Denis Mc-
Quail. Methuen. 375. 6d.


BOOKHUNTER
Dept. “D.” Box ‘2<n 1 (».P <).. Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume let us find it lor you—fiction,
text book, biography, history etc. .Moderate
fee only if successful.
BOOK SCOUT
Free search service tot your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.O. Sydney.
WRITE STORIES
SUCCESSFULLY
STOTT'S CAN TRAIN YOU
Many Stott Students pay for their Course
before completing it.
Stott Students are taught how to write
stories that sell and are advised by the
College of the names and addresses of
reputable Literary Agents in various coun-
tries who may be trusted to handle
Students’ MSS to the best advantage: If
YOU have a story to tell, learn how to tell
it. This lucrative field of Authorship is
waiting to pay well for good work.
Stotts Correspondence College
159 Flinders Fane, Melbourne; 119 Castle-
reagrh St., Sydney; 290 Adelaide St.,
Brisbane; 21 Grenfell St., Adelaide;
22 Howard St., Perth.
- CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT’S: Please send me. without any
obligation, jour Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
(SB 2101)
AOE
ballot paper It also allows for the
effects of advertising, but denies the
equation between selling politics and
selling toothpaste, and denies this not
because politics is somehow at a “higher”
level than toothpaste, but because politi-
cal and toothpaste behavior are two
different types of animal.
Naturally, if this analysis is correct,
this view itself will never be accepted
by many people. It would, for one
thing, put most of the promoters of
worthy causes, and with them ghost
writers, printers, publishers, etc., out of
business. More interestingly, the whole
short-range approach can be challenged.
We are led back to a quite different
question, which most studies of mass
media and voting no longer ask, or else
ask only from a psychological rather than
sociological angle: just how do attitudes
become basic and rigid? Does it follow
from the fact that no short-run effects
of intensive campaigns can be shown that
there are not unintended and hidden
long-run effects, “sleeper” effects as the
jargon, for once rather nicely, puts it?
But studies of quality asking such
questions are rather rare. They can, and
should be, combined with anything
statistical inquiries may contribute. But
basically they belong to an older by now
old-fashioned tradition of inquiry, with
some interest in speculation, in history,
informed by a general and not terribly
precise idea of what a rough map of
society and its interconnections might
look like. In the field of opinion
research, of the “scientific” kind, all this
is very much out. Instead, there is a
move towards automation, based on
modern game theory and the use of com-
puters. If you want promotion and
funds from the foundations, that’s the
present gimmick. In the 1960 Presidential
elections the Democrats financed a pro-
ject on “computer simulation of likely
voter behavior.”
One of the few remaining consolations
for Australian fuddy-duddies in this field
is that the gimmicks of the new guard
change very fast, and that the rate of
obsolescence is as high as in military
weapons. Also, the gimmicks are very
expensive indeed.
One reviewer of this book wondered
how long it would be before Australian
universities also established Television
Research Units. It is one of the un-
intended consequences of our universities
being pretty broke, of our parties not yet
being sold on real “science,” and our
politicians being nicely slapdash, that it
might, let's hope, be quite a while yet.
Fulsome Fairy Floss
The Blazing Straw. Helen Fowler.
Angus and Robertson. 18s. 9d.
Saturn Over the Water. J. B. Priestley.
Heinemann. 225. 6d.
Mothers and Daughters. Evan Hunter.
Constable. 265.
Come people have a prejudice against
very long novels, which I find diffi-
cult to understand. Leaving literary
standards aside, for the moment, and
considering only factors of enjoyment
and entertainment one can recall having
great pleasure from such disparate and
lengthy works as “David Copperfield,”
“War and Peace,” “Kristin Lavransdat-
ter,” “Gargantua and Pantagruel” and
“Gone with the Wind,” to name only a
few completely enthralling titles. But the
sole valid reason for writing an un-
commonly long book is that an author
has so much to say relevant both to plot,
setting and characters that fewer pages
could not contain his material. Any-
thing beyond this is mere padding, over-
blown conceit or greed. Of the three
novels under review one is immensely
long, two are of conventional length and
all are of a wrong size proportionate to
their contents.
Helen Fowler’s 256 pages might well
have been condensed to the unfashionable
dimensions of the novella. Her story is
set in a Dublin lending library that is
conducted by an Australian girl in her
twenties. The library is a valid business
concern but, also, a place of concealment
for I.R.A. conspirators. I think this is
Miss Fowler’s first essay at setting a book
elsewhere than in Australia, and she is
to be congratulated upon her handling
of Irish characters and scenes and, too,
upon her manipulation of events and
people to build up suspense. Yet it all
goes for little because of its padding of
lengthy political discussion and explana-
tion. In potentially exciting books,
treatises, like long speeches at weddings,
have a fatal tendency to bring on attacks
of the fidgets.
We all know that J. B. Priestley dis-
liked most of what he saw, heard and
did in Australia and one gathers from
“Saturn Over the Water” that South
America, if anything, pleased him less.
Violently parish-pump Australians had
best avoid the book in deference to their
blood pressure. The rest of us may find
it (with reservations as below), a
superbly written and expertly narrated
thriller From its outset and without
apology the plot relies heavily upon
coincidence and wild improbability. It
is not intended to be otherwise and no
reader familiar with the high traditions
of thriller-writing from Haggard and
Verne down through Buchan, Wallace
and Ambler could reasonably question its
logical illogic. Yet, towards its end (that
Australian setting quite apart), it becomes
purely siily. With too little warning we
are whipped from a world of sinister
international intrigue, of perverted nuclear
and biological science, into a peculiar
region of second sight, astrology, off-
beat mysticism. Admittedly such pheno-
mena have their impregnable place in
thriller literature, but this place is not,
surely tacked on to the end of a different
sort of book. Yes, yes, I noticed the
intimations, warnings and hints, but it
was not done well enough. Priestley
needed some 20 more pages interpolated
throughout the whole to make his denoue-
ment completely convincing.
As for “Mothers and Daughters” its
542 pages of close print add up to a
pretentious, overblown statement of the
obvious: the sins of the fathers etc. It
is already being filmed with Kim Novak
and Kirk Douglas, but I doubt, by reason-
ably adult standards, that “Gone with the
Wind” need fear its competition either
on screen or between covers. Teenage
standards are another thing: the teenage
market for books as for every other com-
modity is growing rapidly and is reason-
ably literate thanks to compulsory educa-
tion. It is the immature who love their
tiny bit of sugar colored pink and spun
into fairy floss. Interestingly enough it is
a 1960 teenager who is the only “success-
ful” lover in this welter of emotional
failure.
In his anxiety to include everything
Evan Hunter seems to have overreached
even his own blurb-writer who states that
Matthew and Amanda have no children
of their own when in fact Amanda is
the subject of one of the fruitiest, most
tasteless and least convincing childbed
scenes I can remember. Amanda’s friend,
Gillian, is given one of the hottest deflora-
tion scenes of recent years and, to bring
it all thoroughly up-to-date, another


woman, Peggy, goes raving mad at in-
ordinate length and in the best Snakepit
tradition. When only half finished
Hunter was paid the biggest advance
rights for paperback serial and film
editions in the history of publishing but
somehow I think “Gone with the Wind,”
poor writing and all, will still be read
when this bubble has long evaporated.
NANCY KEESING
Crippling Legacy
Papua and New Guinea. Brian Essai.
O.U.P. (Melbourne). 375. 6d.
HThe Australian Commonwealth has
-*■ administered the Territory of Papua
for 60 years, and the Territory of New
Guinea for nearly 50. It is only since
the Second World War, however, and
most notably in the last decade or so,
that the Australian public has shown
much interest in what is now known as
the Territory of Papua and New Guinea.
In that time, encouraged by the extra-
ordinary developments in other colonial
areas, public interest in our own colony
has grown rapidly, and has been accom-
panied by an awareness of the lack of
any readily accessible compendium of
general factual information. Mr Essai’s
book is an attempt to meet this need,
which, for the most part, it does very
successfully.
The book offers chapters on the Terri-
tory’s history, geography, peoples,
government, public facilities, economy,
education, and health ; and in 200-odd
pages it manages to convey a great deal
of information on these topics.
The author’s facts are not new, but
many of them were tucked away in
inaccessible places, and he has done a
considerable service in making them
available in a single, convenient volume.
My only criticism of the book is that,
although published in 1961, its reference
sources stop at 1958. Much has hap-
pened in the last three years, and in
some respects, both the general picture
and the author’s criticism of government
policy are now out of date. Mr Essai
says, for instance, that it is time the
Government recognised and promoted a
native “elite.” Ihe Assistant Adminis-
trator, Dr J. T. Gunther, points out in
a preface that the Government has
already adopted this point of view, but
that any stable or effective elite needs a
background of training that just is not
there and cannot be created overnight.
The depressing fact is, of course, that
the New Guinea we have today is the
result of 50 years of apathy and neglect
by successive Australian Governments
who thought of it complacently as a
permanent colony of primarily strategic
importance. The idea of colonial admin-
istration as a temporary “stewardship”
is a fairly recent innovation which we
have been forced to accept by contem-
porary world politics. The Australian
Government does appear to have
changed its ideas about New Guinea,
but the legacy of backwardness inherited
from its predecessors cannot be remedied
easily or quickly.
D'ARCY RYAN
Real Social Realism
John Davidson: A Selection of His
Poems. Edited with an introduction
by Maurice Lindsay. Hutchinson.
41s. 6d.
Tohn Davidson has been a sadly forgot-
** ten poet. Vaguely located in the
’nineties and on the margins of the
Rhymers’ Club, he is seldom remembered
for more than a few anthology pieces.
Readers probably know that school
anthology favorite, “A Runnable Stag,”
together with “In Romney Marsh,” “A
Cinque Port,” and possibly that delicate
lyric,
The boat is chafing at our long delay
And we must leave too soon
The spicy sea-pinks and the inborne
spray,
The tawny sands, the moon
Keep us, O Thetis, in our western
flight!
Watch from thy pearly throne
Our vessel, plunging deeper into night
To reach a land unknown
but not much else has remained in
sight.
A provision in Davidson’s will preventing
the publication of new selections of his
work has guaranteed his eclipse.
But the expiration of copyright has
permitted Davidson to raise his head
again. Maurice Lindsay, zealous for the
reputation of a fellow Scot, has edited a
volume of his poetry, garnished with
tributes from T S. Eliot and the irrepress-
ible Hugh McDiarmid. It is a handsome
and well-judged selection.
From “John Davidson: A Selection of
His Poems” a far more impressive poet
emerges than 1, at least, could have
guessed. I had not realised, for instance,
that the Runnable Stag’s death prophesied
with appalling accuracy the manner of
Davidson’s own suicide three years after
the poem was published how terribly
can art prey upon one’s life? The hounds
that pursued him into the sea at Pen-
zance were the hounds of illness, poverty
and hack-writing. And we can at last
see how he confronted these grim realities
in his poetry, displaying an heroic sense
of vocation even in works that seem
ultimately failures.
In his most successful poems of the
late ’nineties, Davidson achieves a
balance between natural observation
and awareness of the pressures of con-
temporary life in a way that looks for-
ward to mid-century poets like Philip
Larkin and Roy Fuller. Such poems
are “A Northern Suburb” and the witty
“Holiday at Hampton Court”:
Gaffers, gammers, huzzies, louts,
Couples, gangs and families
Sprawling, shake, with Babel-shouts
Bluff King Hal's funereal trees ;
And eddying groups of stare-abo; '3
Quiz the sandstone Hercules.
Even his most careless writing (and far
too much is careless, dashed off to keep
the wolf from the door) is the product of
a real talent, shot through with moments
of achievement.
Then there is the poem which influenced
Eliot, “Thirty Bob a Week.” It is
colloquial and devastatingly honest, the
most successful example 1 know in
English poetry of what might really be
meant by "Social Realism.” Superficially
it smacks of light verse jingle; but read
it through and you will find yourself re-
sponding to tough, consistent, personal
poetry with a surprising mastery of idiom
No brief quotation could do it anything
like justice.
Late in his life, Davidson’s blank
verse, which had been choked by Keats
and Tennyson, gained flexibility and
assurance. From the uncertain grimness
of “Testament of a Man Forbid,” he
moved on to his ambitious, unfinished
poem for voices, “God and M.mmon,”
which rises out of an O’Dowdish glut of
ideas to really impressive passages which
make a clean break with the nineteenth
century. Though the poem fails, it is a
failure of major aims; and to match its
failure there is the vigorous success of
“The Crystal Palace,” published after his
death:
A dense throng in the central tran-
sept, wedged
So tightly they can neither clap nor
stamp,
Shouting applause at something, goad
themselves
In sheer despair to think it rather
fine:
‘We came here to enjoy ours ’ 'S.
Bravo,
Then! Are we not?’ Courageous
folk beneath
The brows of Michael Angelo's
Moses dance
A cakewalk in the dim Renascence
Court.
Here then is a poet worth another look;
a courageous minor poet who was never
content to be minor; a voice ready to
speak up and make itself h'eard. At all
events, John Davidson has better claims
to be rembered than Hugh McDiarmid’s
display of Caledonian loyalties can
possily suggest.
CHRIS WALLACE-CRABBE


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Ituorporated in England
•
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£A363,000, 000
•
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Truckling to a Cult
Australian Stories of Today. Edited by
Charles Osborne. Faber and Faber.
20s,
In The Bulletin in recent months there
has been plenty of debate about the
present state of short-story writing in
Australia. 1 must confess that sometimes
1 wondered what the fuss was about,
because I hadn't regarded this form as
ever having been particularly strong here
—that is, since the days of the still sadly
underrated Lawson. At all events, a col-
lection of 22 stories like this, which is
the Australian component of a Faber
series, gives one the opportunity to size
up what our writers are doing these days
in perhaps the most difficult of fictional
forms.
The most difficult, and also the most
unsatisfactory. Difficult because for the
writer it’s always hardest to succeed in
a small compass: I'm sure that for every
bad novel there are a dozen bad short
stories. The form demands concentra-
tion, punch, good writing, plausible iden-
tification with the personae adopted by
the author. And still, the reader often
remains unsatisfied. How often do we
not read a short story, or a collection
of them, and wish that characters or
situations which we found so engrossing
could be enlarged into a prolonged and
more detailed life? It is true of Chekhov,
of Salinger, of Katherine Mansfield—in
the stories of the last-named, for instance,
we are encouraged to find a pattern, to
group the stories into a novel that was
never written, but we would like to read.
The stories in Mr Osborne's collec-
tion exemplify both points. Some of
them never seem real enough. The story
which opens the book, John Cantwell’s
“Act of Faith,” is interesting enough ;
but there is no consistency of view—at
the end the narrator reveals himself as
“a miner, myself,” but beforehand he
has shown perception and a touch of
irony which are not reconcilable with
this adopted persona. Mr Cantwell’s tone
is spoiled by the identification. Much
the same complaint can be made about
Ray Mathew’s “A Girl With Mousy
Hair,"’ where the perceptions and the
class-consciousness are all mixed up.
But the better storie's are most engag-
ing. 1 think the best in the book is
David Martin’s “Election Day,” a deli-
cious account of polling in a rural, creek-
flooded area. This story has what so
many of the others lack —a completed
outline, a point (not to say moral), and
the genuine gift of the storyteller. Two
others which measure up in the same
way are Peter Shrubb’s “A List of All
People”—Salinger lurks here somewhere,
I think—and Desmond O’Grady’s “His
Hidalgo Heart.” Mr Shrubb's early pages
are well handled, and it is only at the
end —I cannot regard it as the climax —
of his story that one feels dissatisfied. Mr
O’Grady’s tale is more even, but perhaps
somewhat contrived: the central figure
of the priest is believable, but, as it is,
unsubstantiated.
Generally, this collection is to be re-
garded as readable and as good value
for money rather than a contribution to
literature. It has some items which I
find dull or valueless —Hal Porter’s “The
Dream,” for instance —and others which
only illustrate the editor’s fondness (seen
also in his introduction) for truckling to
the prevailing London cult of Austra-
liana, which has inflated the reputations
of Nolan and Patrick White: Donald
R. Stuart’s “Dingo Pups,” Kevin Hart-
shorne’s “Bloody Joe Blake” and Peter
Cowan’s “Journey.” Only two writers
have more than one story—Ray Mathew’s
“A Cloud Like Ambergris” is better than
the one already cited but still unremark-
able ; while Judith Wright has two
pieces in distinctly different vein, both
immaculately written, as one would
expect, but in neither case deeply satis-
fying.
Summing up, I would say of this book
that it collects most of the present-day
Australian short-story writers worth
reading—Alan Davies is the most notable
exception—that its component stories are
rarely dull but also rarely exciting ; and
that while it may not take high rank as
literature, it would make very pleasant
summertime reading.
GRAHAM JOHNSTON
Mahootmah's
Memorial
It is Great To Be Alive. Harry Hooton.
Margaret Elliott for 21st Century Art
Group. 20s.
C'ome little time before Harry Hooton
died he, being well aware of his
immediate fate, read the proofs and
approved the title page of “It Is Great
to be Alive,” and it is a reasonable
conceit that the apparent anomaly
pleased him indeed, for Harry used
provocation as, 200 years ago, he would
have used a rapier. He wore it, flaunted
it, had it always ready. It dressed him,
defended him, set him a little apart, and
sprang to hand in the never-ending
attack which characterised his life. He
used it deftly but it was always in
evidence ; so that it tended to invest
a character that was both gentle and
persistent with a swashbuckler’s reputa-
tion. He used it in a cause which should
have required no such assistance, for he
was concerned above all else with Man
and Man’s neglected potential.
Harry was a dreamer. He dreamed
of an anarchic society—“one that im-
poses no rule of any kind upon its
members, one that imposes its rules only
on things.” He dreamed in color, with
a clarity which confused, because the
dream was individual.
“There have never been enough cranks
in the world,” he wrote, and did not care
that he himself was classified as one.
Sometimes his logic was startlingly apt:
What did you say, Pope? Whatever
is is trite —
By Christ you’re right.
What is necessary is what isn’t:
poetry today.
“Rules—rhyme rhythm metre are not
necessary to poetry,
But Oh, how necessary is poetry to
these ! ”
Harry was a man of integrity. His
book will not carry far, for the rapier
is for in-fighting; but >t sometimes
thrusts deep. Most of his production is
in this slim volume —an exception is his
essay on anarcho-technocracy, a quasi-
religious movement he promoted.
He did wonders with little ; he pro-
duced magazines on nothing more than
faith and enterprise. His poetry, pre-
senting cold logic with violent emotion,
was anathema to the bevy of milk-and-
water poet-tasters who, when they
assumed the mantles of critics, professed
to ignore it. But it will continue in life,
as Harry predicted with his title.
Christopher Brennan, a grandson of the
poet, designed the jacket.
OLAF RUHEN




A LAND OF OPPORTUNITY
Short Story by Harry Cooper
“Me choppersi”
he yells. “Where’s
me choppers."
ONE night a rattletrap of a panel van stops in front of
my place.
1 go outside and see a small bundle of a woman
wrapped in a big shawl crouching over the steering
wheel.
“Stone the crows.” I gasp—l speak very good A us-
tralian by this time. “Stone the crows, the Little Old Lady
herself!”
It starts on a migrant ship in the Red Sea. How it will
end is anybody’s guess.
There are the three of us. always together, because we
are Hungarians. Together through the Resistance, half-
way across Europe and back on our tracks to Athens.
Here we sign a lot of papers to go to Australia. At the
migrant centre there are palavers and interrogations in a
dozen tongues, but for us. no trouble at all. We are heroes
of the Resistance.
What we have been up to since those days—well, we
join a ship and before we leave the Mediterranean there are
more than a thousand of us on board.
We steam sleepily through the Canal and when we are
in the Red Sea. with the lights of Aden in sight, it all starts.
It is after dinner and the three of us are pacing up and
down the deck together, up and down, with not a word
between us. Always we do this. We have grown that way.
Suddenly young Adolf says. “You know that German
in my cabin—Malheim?”
Nobody answers him.
“He wears a leather bag round his neck. Never takes
it off,” Adolf prattles on. and just then the loud-speaker
calls us all on to the top deck for the evening lecture.
“It will start.” says young Adolf, “with ‘Australia is
the land of opportunity.' it always does. Let’s go.”
But Josef moves in the opposite direction.
“Zarde!" I hear him mutter. That, in Australian, would
be “Nuts.” Well, roughly.
When the lecture is finished we find Josef leaning
against the rails in a dark alcove between two lifeboats. He
is honing the blade of his cat-stabber on a boat rope, as if
to clean it.
I think nothing of the incident at the time. Josef is
very fond of his cat-stabber. and. when we’re alone, often
brings it out just to get the feel of it.
Young Adolf and I are very fond of it, too; Josef’s
expert handling of it had saved our skins more than once
in the old days when things were tough.
But a couple of days later the incident flashes back on
me. This is when a migrant is reported missing.
Young Adolf sidles up to me. “Rudy,” he says, “it’s
that German—Malheim. He's gone for sure. I help purser
check his things. The little leather bag not there. I
think ”
He sees Josef coming towards us and shuts up.
In Sydney they hold us for a week, then send us to
jobs. Young Adolf and 1 go to a sheet-metal factory in
Drummoyne and Josef to a cafe in Bondi. A first-class
cook, it happens, is Josef.
We take a room together. Adolf and I. and after the
first day’s work Adolf says. “This will kill me.”
“Me. too.” I tell him. “We've been through a lot. but
never shut up in a factory before. In jail, yes ... 1
wonder what Josef got in that little leather bag?”
“Diamonds for certain.” says Adolf. “You know what?
Josef should not get away with it.”
So we spend the nights looking for Josef's cafe, and
when we find it Josef gives us a hard stare.
“We lose our jobs, now broke.” 1 tell him. “You look
well. Josef. You have a new suit.”
He grins, not a nice grin. Nothing about Josef is nice.
“Would you like a new suit. Rudy—and you. young
Adolf?” he says. And he pulls out a roll of notes and
pushes £2O to me and £2O to Adolf.
Then the grin gets uglier. “Now get out!” he snarls.
We get out and Adolf says. “If it is diamonds he's
cashed in pretty quick, but why work in a cafe with a roll
like that —in a new suit, too?”
However, when we turn up for the next bite at Josef's
roll we discover he has bought the place.
Josef is not there, but the waitress girl tells us all
about it.
The girl is Freda, a Belgian. She is big. warm and
workmanlike, and she gives us two pies each on the house.
“I make the pies since a little girl in Ostend.” she tells
us. “You like?”
We say we like, and young Adolf tells her she’s a better
cook than Joself. which is saying much.
The next time we call at the cafe Josef is out in front
lolling back at the wheel of a big sedan car, and we get a
tenner apiece out of him.
“This is the end.” says Josef. “You know me when I
say a thing like that.”
“Beautiful diamonds,” murmurs young Adolf.
“Lovely rocks—and a leather bag full of them!” I add.
Josef snarls, starts up his wagon and slides away.
But it goes on for about six months, this biting process,
and Josef gets so used to it that he makes a habit of leaving
our tenners with Freda —to be called for.
Then it is the end—-for Josef. He goes broke.
Freda tells us Randwick and places like that did to
Josef, which is difficult to believe, because Hungarians, par-
ticularly the gypsy-type like Josef, know horses.
But what Freda tells us is true enough; Josef starts
coming round to our room to bite us.
Young Adolf kicks a little and I kick a lot, but Josef
has only to produce the cat-stabber and lovingly fondle the
handle for us to pay up and like it.
About this time Adolf has a wonderful stroke of luck.
1 know he has been buying a lottery ticket every week, and
one day he turns up a £lOOO prize.
Two days later young Adolf is missing. I think at
once that Josef has got at him, but this is not so, because
all Adolf’s belongings in the room are missing, too.
Besides, Josef comes round looking for him.
“You must know where he is,” says Josef. “Anyway,
five hundred of that money is mine—or else.”
“Adolf’s ticket won the money,” I point out.
Josef tells me he helped us ratbags when he was in
the dough —he, too, speaks good Australian by this lime
—and he’s going to get half Adolf’s pile even if he has to
cut him into little pieces first.
“And something might happen to you if 1 don’t find
him quick,” says Josef.
Well, something does happen to me. I lose my job,
and when 1 get to the penniless stage 1 visit the Bondi cafe
and bum a pie off Freda.
One afternoon, with nothing else to do, I am lying flat
on my back on the beach there softly whistling to myself
“The Maidens’ Forest Dance.”
Then 1 hear a soft laugh from near by and turn on my
side.
There I see a little woman, dark haired and dark
skinned, with black, bright, beady eyes sitting with a work
basket in her lap.
“Hungarian,” she says.
“Ten a penny in this country,” I tell her.
She laughs again, louder. “What your name, young
man?” she asks.
“Once upon a time,” I tell her, “there was in Budr. a
fellow called Rudy. Now there are millions of the !”
“1 like you. Rudy.” she says. “What work you do?”
“I build castles.” 1 tell her.
“So. You are broke.” she says. “I, too, build casties,
but I have the money for the bricks and mortar.”
That sounds silly, and then she says something which
is sillier.
“You cook, Rudy? Make pies?”
I laugh, then I think of Freda, and I tell the little old
lady, “that’s funny, but I do know a girl who makes
wonderful pies.”
She nods. “Excellent,” she says. “Maybe you marry
her and take pie stall near wharves, eh?”
I roll back into the sand and start whistling again.
She says, “I think it good thing for lazy Hungarian like
you, with not many brains. You make plenty money.”
Just then the sun is blotted out from the spot where I
am lying and I see a gigantic, fat fellow standing over me.
He is dressed in bathing trunks.
He grins and says, “Listen, sport, mind me choppers
while I have a dip.”
He drops a small bundle beside me and splodges away
to the surf. The bundle is a set of false teeth tied in a dirty
handkerchief.
I move about a foot away from the teeth and start
thinking about the little Hungarian woman and her crazy
idea. Marry Freda and run a pie stall!
I am still chewing it over when something wet and
podgy sinks into my ribs. It is the bare foot of the fat man.
“Me choppers!” he yells. “Where’s me choppers?”
I sit up and look around. The teeth are no longer
there. I glance over at the Hungarian woman. She has her
head down and is sewing.
I get to my feet and the fat ma 1 starts jumping round
me, howling for his choppers. How the hell do I know
what’s happened to his choppers?
By this time there is a fair-sized crowd gathering, and
I am thinking of having a go at fighting my way out when
a small, freckled, ginger-haired urchin pushes through the
throng.
“I know where they are. mister,” he whines. “See that
little black dog over by the breakwater? He swiped ’em.”
Everybody turns in that direction, and, sure enough,
there is a little black dog burying something in the sand.
“Me poor choppers!” yells the fat man. “Cost me a
tenner —an’ they’re not paid for yet.” He starts off towards
the breakwater.
Then he turns back to the crowd. “Keep an eye on
that cove,” he shouts, pointing to me.
“If anything’s wrong with me choppers I’ll want a piece
of him!”
There are murmurs from the crowd and I get a tickling
feeling in the stomach. Like when we killed six guards to
escape from a Rumanian jail and the seventh is about to
chop me down but Josef is first with his cat-stabber.
I face the crowd and they look at me as if I am some
animal in a cage. All except the little old woman. She is
smiling.
“ What , as the A assies say , is [?] asked
Hungarian Rudy


**l bet the mong’s chewed them choppers to billy-o,”
whines the small, freckled-face nark.
Then I hear my name called, and the little old woman
beckons me over to her. She pulls two five-pound notes out
of her purse and hands them to me.
“Go pay for choppairs,” she orders, and turns to the
crowd and says, “You peoples go home. It is settled, yes?”
“Thanks, lady,” I tell her and make for the breakwater
at the double —and when I get there I see the fat man is
holding his teeth in his hand.
And the little black dog is dancing up and down, trying
to get at them.
“It’s all right, sport —no damage done,” says the fat
man. “They only want a clean-up.” He wipes the teeth
on the seat of his bathing trunks.
“I’m glad they’re all right,” I tell him, pushing the two
fivers deeper into my pocket.
“So long, sport,” says the fat man. “Sorry if I was a bit
upset about the choppers.”
“Think nothing of it,” I tell him, making back to
where I’d left the old lady. But she is no longer there, and
the crowd has disappeared, too.
So I hurry along to the cafe and when Freda comes I
order a full dinner. “Give it everything,” I tell her.
She shakes her head. “No tick dinner here, Rudy.”
she tells me, not unkindly. “One of my pies, yes, if hungry.”
I show her one of the fivers. “Plenty more where that
comes from,” I tell her. “Seen Josef lately?”
“Josef leave today to find Adolf,” she says. “Josef
knows where Adolf is.”
That takes care of Josef, and when Freda brings the
soup I tell her, “Freda, you and me are going to run a pie
stall near the wharves. When we get the money to marry.
When we get the money to buy a pie stall.”
She smiles, and when Freda smiles it is like something
ycu have never seen in your life before.
“I make good pies,” she says. Then she sighs, and
adds, “But old horses, they are so dear in this country.”
1 stop breaking pieces of bread into my soup. 1 catch
one of her lovely, strong, plump, workmanlike hands.
“Those pies you give me, you make them that way?” I ask
quickly.
She nods brightly. When Freda nods you see four
chins coming and going, and with the pie stall in front of
my mind, I am beginning to love every one of the chins.
“Make the pies all the same as in Belgium.” she „ays.
“You like?”
I am not figuring whether I like them or not; I am
thinking of those who will eat our pies, the great Australian
Public; but why should I? The great Australian Public
never thinks of me.
“Skip it,” I tell Freda. She shrugs and walks away;
and when Freda shrugs she shrugs all over; you can smoke
half a cigarette while she is settling down.
When she brings the meat course I ask, “What about
a show tomorrow night, Freda? You don’t have to worry
about Josef any more.”
“All right,” she says. “I finish at seven.”
I am walking to the tram stop, picking my teeth and
wondering how long 1 must hold a job to buy a pie stall
and marry Freda when I run slap bang into the freckled-
face kid I’d left with the crowd on the beach.
“Cripes, mister,” he whines, “you beat it out of Bondi
quick! Cops want yer!”
“Listen, ginger,” I tell him. “You read too many
westerns.”
“Dinkum, mister,” he says, but 1 keep on walking.
He keeps up with me. “You’ll be sorry, mister.” he
whines. “I heard the bloke what lost his choppers going
crook on the old girl ’cos he lost out on the ten or twenty
notes she give you to give him. See?”
He dives off into the darkness.
The old ratbag! This is goodbye to the date with Freda
and goodbye to Bondi.
I hurry on the tram to my room, pack my port and
quit. Quietly, of course, because the rent is three weeks
overdue. I am in such a flurry I forget I have real money
in my pocket.
I book in at a hostel for the night and as soon as the
Labor Exchange opens in the morning 1 am asking for
a job.
“Let it be far, far away,” I tell the eclerk in the Migrant
Section. He has little piggy eyes and wet lips.
“Got a girl into trouble, I suppose. Half y’r luck.”
“1 am Hungarian of a noble line,” I tell him. “Once
I have thousands of rolling acres. Now I am sick of Sydney.
I crave the vast open spaces.”
“You’ll get ’em,” he says, and gives me a job sheet
and a railway warrant.
I find myself bound for the Paxton Irrigation Project
on a train leaving Central that afternoon.
On time I am in the train and I dump my port in a
second-class carriage and take a walk along the corridor.
Then I stop dead. A voice says, “Well, well. Rudy.
Come to see me off, eh? Walk right in.”
I walk in. It is Josef. He is stretched out on a seat
smoking a cigarette.
“Nice you come, Rudy,” he says. “Any message for
young Adolf before I split him wide open?”
“Adolf walked out on me, too,” I tell Josef. “Where
is he?”
“Adolf is at a sanitarium place high in the hills. He
is kitchenman there and labor people give me job as second
cook at same place. That is nice, Rudy.”
“Wonderful,” I agree. “I’ll keep an eye on Freda till
you get back.”
“Pouff!” says Josef. “She is all yours. I get Adolf’s
money and go after the uranium.”
“Well, Josef,” I tell him, “I hope it keeps fine for you,”
and go back to my carriage.
When the guard comes to clip my ticket I ask him
about this sanitarium place in the hills. He tells me it is
way up long past where I get off far the Irrigation Project.
I turn in early, but before I am properly asleep l feel
someone standing over me. It is Josef.
He pulls me up by the short collar and shakes me.
“So you doublecross me,” he snarls. “You never say
you on this train.”
“Why should I?” I tell him. “Remember those lectures
on the boat about Australia being a land of opportunity,
a free country and all that? Don’t you want to be a good
Australian, Josef?”
“Where you going?” he growls.
I show him my papers. “Big. brawny irrigation worker,
me, not cissy cook to guys with half a lung.”
Josef looks at the papers, is satisfied and qlears out.
But he is back half-an-hour later. He sits himself on
the opposite seat.
“Scumboil,” he says. “I smoke two cigarettes and I
work it all out.”
I am not excited. I know that anything Josef works
out will be wrong. In action, with his cat-stabber. he is on
his own, but as a thinker he is about as much use as the
one Rodin did in marble.
“I work out that you as big, brawny irrigation worker
is funny--too funny for true,” he says. “I kpow you go
join young Adolf.”
I remind him he says he knows where Adolf is.
“Labor people must make mistake,” he says. “Adolf
tell you where he is. Now give me your papers.”
I think quickly. I have got nothing to lose; work at a


sanitarium would be easier than in a labor gang. But 1
cannot let Josef know that.
“Over my dead body you get these papers,” I tell him.
“All right,” says Josef. He reaches to the back of his
belt and pulls out his cat-stabber.
“You won’t go be cissy cook at sanitarium, so ”
Quickly I pull out the papers and throw them at him.
1 know Josef. He puts them in his pocket and gives me his
papers.
“You’ll be sorry. Josef.” I tell him as he starts to leave.
“Only peoples I sorry about are poor devils you going
to cook for!” he replies.
It is a long, dusty, twisty-turny drive from the train up
the mountainside, and at the sanitarium they put me in a
staff dormitory where about ten others are sleeping.
At once 1 see that Josef is right in the first place, that
this is where young Adolf is hiding, because I note young
Adolf is one of the ten.
When 1 wake him up his face drops to his knees.
“Snap out of it.” I tell him. “It might have been
worse.”
“I know,” he says. “Josef himself.”
“Yes.” 1 tell him. “Josef’s busy in the city so he’s
sent me. Five hundred he wants out of that thousand you
slipped away with.”
“My own money.” Adolf reminds me.
“If Josef doesn’t get that money at once, through me,
it’s going to be bad for both of us—specially you.”
The next morning, with the five hundred in my pocket,
Igo to see the manager of the sanitarium. He is a dumpy
little man with a stomach and horn-rimmed glasses.
1 tell him 1 am sorry, but I am allergic to heights and
get vertigo and cramps, and if I don't get out of here right
away I'll start having fits.
But he laughs it all off. “That’s nothing, young fellow.”
he says. “We have splendid doctors up here. They’ll put
you right.”
“But- ” 1 start off again.
“You have a splendid record.” he says, looking at my
job card —or. rather. Josef’s. “Yes. Budapest. Rome. Leg-
horn. Athens and a dozen other delightful cities—and you’ve
cooked in all of them!”
1 can say nothing to that; Josef has merely listed, some
of the jails we have been in.
“No. Josef.” he says firmly, “we must keep you here.
You must be such a beautiful cook that it’d take the United
States Marines or at least the police force to pry you out of
my hands!”
Well, it is a funny thing he puts it like that.
Early in the afternoon I am sulking in the kitchen,
wondering how the old woman at home used to make
goulash.
I know it is no use even thinking of trying to contact
Kennedy to get the Marines to pull me out of this mountain-
side dump, and 1 am considering how the police, if I called
them, could help me, when in walks a couple of coppers.
They are two young fellows in dark suits, and behind
them is the podgy manager, dry-washing his paws. One
of the detectives is holding an official-looking paper.
They both stare at me for a long time.
“I look better when I shave and part my hair in the
middle.” I tell them.
“Funny boy.” remarks one. The other says. “This
document says you are Josef Katreiner. What do you say
to that?”
1 can see 1 am on a good thing.
“I could be travelling incognito,” I tell them. “Like
Farouk when he's inspecting a ladies' finishing college. But
I’m not. Officers, do your duty.”
“What does dear Josef, my wonderful cook, mean?”
stutters Podge, the manager.
“Get me out of here, of course,” 1 tell them.
“No. no. no.” yells the manager. “Not my beautiful
Josef.
“Pretty boy, too,” comments the copper who had called
me a funny boy.
1 realise this is no time or place to start cracking
nasty-minded coppers, so I tell them the story about the
real Josef and the switch of papers on the train and how
he threatens me when I try to do the right thing.
The detectives listen to my story while Podge runs
away to have a good cry, and in the end they take me with
them —right back to Sydney.
Here I am checked and double-checked by the Labor
Exchange and the C. 1.8. and at last they let me go.
I am in Bondi that same day and bank young Adolfs
five hundred, and Freda and I start planning for a wedding
and a pie stall, like the old woman 1 ran away from said.
And one hot afternoon, while the pie stall deal is going
through. I see the old you-know-what squatting on the
beach with her work basket on her lap.
I drop down quietly behind her and sail into the
“Maidens’ Forest Dance.” I whistle with all stops out. She
doesn’t look round; she says, “I know you come back,
Rudy.”
I pull out two five-pound notes, roll them into a little
ball and pitch them over her head into her work basket.
“Now call the police,” I tell her.


FINANCE & INVESTMENT
C OMPANY LIMITED
SHAREHOLDERS' FUNDS, £891,419.
TANGIBLE ASSETS, £3,184,264.
INTEREST RATES FOR DEPOSITS
(NOW CALLED UNSECURED DEPOSIT NOTES)
WITH RIGHT OF RECALL
ON 30 DAYS* NOTICE
3 months 5V2% p.a.
6 months . ■6% p.a.
9 months a , . 6V2% p.a.
12 months ,::i 7% M.
18 months 7V2% p.a.
• FIXED DEPOSITS
2 years ; i s : ; 8% p.a.
3 years . : ; ;; p.a.
AND OYER
APPLICATIONS must be made
on the form enclosed with the
prospectus, which is obtainable
from
Members of the Stock Exchange
ANY BRANCH OF A.N.Z. BANK
The Registered Office of the Com-
pany, William & Crown Sts.,
Sydney. Telephone FA 0322.
Financing world-
famous products
distributed by
The Hastings
Deering Group
of Companies.
FORD
Cars and Trucks
FORDSON
Tractors
A.E.C.
Trucks & Buses
CATERPILLAR
Diesel Tractors
in Queensland
HYSTER
Fork Lift Trucks
in Queensland
JOHN DEERE
Agricultural
Machinery
in Queensland
LISTER
Engines
GROUP SALES
IN 1960
£14,757,281
MAIL THIS COUPON
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE &
INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
G.P.O. Box 4333, Sydney.
Please send me, without any obligation on my part, pros-
pectus dated 1/4/61, giving full details of your terms
deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS
HD82.10
8.4/11
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company of
Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlement of claims
ALFRED S. WHITE, Esq., CONEN, Esq., T. K. MAGNET,
Esq., A. G. PARKER, Esq;, DOUGLAS WADLEY, Esq.
H. H. MOULTON. Esq., Managing Director. B. J. LANE, Esq., Manager.
’Phone: BU 7401. (Branches in all States) 16/20 Bridge Street, Sydney.
She says quietly, “I never do that. Where you been
Rudy?”
“Building my own castles,” I tell her.
“Dobra,” she says. “Now we buy pie stall together
and put it where I say. Yes?”
“Maybe I will,” I reply, “but what’s your interest in
it, why are you always harping about a pie stall and where
it’s to go?”
She turns and faces me. Her little black eyes are no
longer hard and sharp. They look bigger, and misty. “I
once have son called Rudy,” she says softly. “He would be
like you.”
“That’s silly,” I tell her roughly. “If he was like me
he’d be no good at all.”
“But yes,” she says ever so quietly. “You know, Rudy,
even if you come back with no money at all I all the same
buy you pie stall.”
When I get back to the cafe I talk it over with Freda.
I tell her the Little Lady—she is the Little Lady now, no
longer the old ratbag or anything which is not nice—will put
in the balance for a big, first-class pie stall and that she
has already settled on the site outside the wharf gates.
“In this place Little Lady say we get plenty custom, not
from the wharf men but from the men on the gates and the
carriers who go in and out.”
“She very clever,” says Freda. “She think of every-
thing. Maybe she get me horsemeat cheap —for the pies.”
And so it all happens. 1 marry Freda, we get our
pie stall.
And, as I remark at the beginning, one night a rattle-
trap of a panel van stops in front of the stall. 1 go outside
and see a small bundle of person wrapped in a big shawl
sitting at the wheel.
“Stone the crows,” I whisper—l speak very good Aus-
tralian by this time —“Little Lady herself!”
She beckons me into the van. “Rudy, dear,” she says,
“I am proud of you. This is a land of opportunity ”
“I have heard all of that before,” I tell her, “but what
brings you down here in that old bomb?”
“This, Rudy, dear,” she says, ever so loving-like. “Under
your stall is box of empty mineral-water bottles.”
“That is funny,” I tell her. “Some coot is always
dumping crates of empties under the stall, and then they
disappear.”
“Only three times before,” says Little Lady. “That was
try-out. Now we go to business proper. Please put box in
back of my van.”
I load the crate of bottles into the back of her van and
her hand comes out of the side window and plunks some
notes in my hand.
“Forty pounds here, Rudy,” she says. “Ten pounds
for every time bottles come under stall. But never you
touch bottles, Rudy. Leave for someone to pick up.”
“Little Lady,” I tell her, “this sounds like crazy moon-
shine.”
“You lazy, good-for-nothing Hungarian, like my own
Rudy,” she says, “but you got sense to take big opportunity ”
“1 am running a pie stall and sky-larking on a moon-
beam,” I tell her. “What, as the Aussies say, is the score? ’
“Never touch those bottles, Rudy,” she says. “The
score is this, Rudy. Under bottles is 12 flasks of —how
you say it —exquisite perfume —exotic, and expensive.”
“You old ” I start to say, but she grins kindly at
me, and how can I say it?
“The perfume is this time, Rudy,” she goes on. “Next
time silk rolls maybe, or the dope. And for you, Rudy, ten
pounds each time, but no touch the bottles.”
She kicks the starter and the rattletrap grinds on its
way.


Always
Make
Life
Assurance
your No. 1 investment and protection with
Australian
Metropolitan
Life
Assurance
Let Us Suggest A Plan To Suit You
AUSTRALIAN METROPOLITAN LIFE ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
THE METROPOLITAN BUILDING
HUNTER AND BLIGH STS., SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
E. W. Robinson (Chairman),
Col. R. S. Goward, C.8.E., P. H. Phillips,
Struan Robertson, W. J. Cooksey.
Business, Robbery, Etc.
ASIAN COMMON MARKET
Myths and Realities
Ever since it became clear that the United Kingdom fully
intends to join the European Common Market, eager
minds have been busily exploring the idea that Australia should
take the lead in setting up something of the kind in South-east
Asia. Similar thoughts have been expressed in Japan, which
also feels some apprehensions as to how the development of
the European Economic Community—with Great Britain a
leading member —would affect Japan's export trade.
It must be said that the Japanese have approached the
matter more realistically —there is much less emotional under-
current of anger over “betrayed loyalities.” In Australia and
New Zealand, unfortunately, there has been quite a bit of
loose talk on establishing an Asian Common Market as a sort
of retaliation against the United Kingdom and Continental
Europe.
Sober thinking on the possibility of setting up a Common
Market modelled on the European Economic Community in
South-east Asia shows the idea to be wishful thinking, at least
for many years to come. Not that trade in the Pacific cannot,
or should not, be expanded—on the contrary, every effort must
be made to step it up. But, at this stage, we are faced with
vast differences in per capita national incomes and living
standards. Australia and Japan are the only two countries
in the area with roughly comparable standards of living and
rates of economic growth. There is also the added advantage
of roughly complementary economies. The other countries
at this stage are unlikely to generate sufficient effective demand
to offer an effective trade partnership on a scale of the Euro-
pean Common Market.
In Western Europe, despite traditional differences and
bitter old hatreds —which take such a long time to die even
without wars —regional economic contrasts between member
nations are much less pronounced. There are still many areas
with greatly retarded economic development and considerable
poverty, but these have succeeded in attracting massive capital
investment since Europe got on to its own feet after the last
war. Now they are rapidly making up for the lost time. At
this stage they are an asset rather than a liability, providing
an expanding market for capital investment and gradually
absorbing more and more consumer goods. Such under-
developed and overpopulated areas as parts of Southern Italy
also provide valuable manpower reserves for the West European
economy, which is beginning to experience labor shortages.
Free movement of labor and capital within the European
Common Market does not present serious political and social
problems—in fact it is one of the basic aims and advantages
of the whole European Economic Community concept.
Here the situation is radically different. Australia, for
instance, cannot bring in Asian migrants to relieve labor
shortages in its industries —in the same way as Italian seasonal
workers are brought into West Germany—without completely
revising its immigration policy. Other Pacific countries have
largely similar immigration problems—one only has to recall
the difficulties being experienced with the entry of Indians into
Ceylon or of overseas Chinese into Indonesia and the
Philippines.
In Asia there are vast differences, not only in the standard
°f living and in social and cultural habits, but also in such
things as food and clothes tastes. Many may be overcome,
and new or changed tastes developed, but this takes a lot of
time. The enormous differences in per capita national incomes
are a major obstacle. For instance, Australia is anxious to
sell more meat and dairy produce. Many people in Asia like
me at and would buy it if they could —but they cannot afford
it, even at prices which would leave the slimmest margin of
profit to Australian producers.
One is unable to eat much meat on an average income
of £25-£4O a year. This frightful disproportion between incomes
of the European and non-European peoples is the great plague
of our times.
Last month the Japanese Prime Minister, Mr Hayato
Ikeda, was asked during a debate in the House of Represen-
tatives Budget Committee if Japan intends to propose the
formation of an “Asian and Pan-Pacific Federation of Amity.”
The question was put by Mr Eiichi Nishimura, a Democratic
Socialist Party deputy, who also wanted to know how does
the Japanese Government feel about an Asian Common
Market.
According to the “Japan Times Weekly,” Mr Ikeda
“explained that such an economic community could be formed
only when economic conditions of member countries are
balanced.”
With the exception of Japan, the countries which would
become members of an Asian Common Market are all primary
producers. They all want to pay for their industrialisation
programmes by exporting primary produce.
Such countries as Indonesia, Australia’s closest neighbor
and potential customer, have vast natural resources but little
capital and trained workers. Moreover, their intensely national-
istic policies and financial laws often scare away foreign
investors and result in acute foreign exchange shortages and
balance-of-payments headaches. And even in the comparatively
wealthy —in terms of marketable primary produce —countries
like Indonesia some 90 per cent, of the population lives outside
the money economy.
Japan and Australia and New Zealand —the only
countries which can realistically envisage formation of a
limited Common Market at an early stage —stand separated


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY, LTD.
(A member of Commercial Union Australia Group)
ESTABLISHED W 2
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS' AND TRAVELLERS' BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q'land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled,
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
F. S. WATSON. Manager
by tariff barriers and vast distances. This is another point that
is frequently overlooked. In Europe, the Common Market
partners are situated immediately next to each other. Even
the United Kingdom is just across the Channel.
This makes possible a large-scale rationalisation and
integration of their transport systems. Already the European
Free Trade Association countries, with the exception of Switzer-
land and Austria scattered on the outer fringes of Europe, have
found communications difficulties a serious impediment. And
EFTA’s loose organisational framework which, as it was
originally hoped, should have ensured the organisation's
vitality, in effect has made the concept unworkable. An Asian
Common Market, even a Japan-Australia pool, faces much
more involved communications problems.
Looking at things realistically, we are far away from the
possibility of establishing a workable Common Market
organisation in South-east Asia.
But now is the time for a co-ordinated effort to help the
economically underdeveloped non-Communist countries of Asia
to raise their standard of living and thus increase their inter-
national purchasing power. Enlightened self-interest, quite
apart from any humanitarian considerations, calls for this.
HIRE-PURCHASE
Stamp Duty Challenged
TJire-purchase companies are experiencing serious difficulties
because of high interest payments on borrowings and a
generally damp demand for their funds.
The Commonwealth Statistician’s latest provisional figures
on retail hire-purchase operations of finance businesses show
that balances outstanding in Australia at September 30, 1961,
amounted to £393 million, compared with £396 million at
August 31, 1961, and £450 million at December 31, 1960. This
represents a fall of £57 million in nine months. The overall
effect of this on the national economy may be a healthy one —-
at its peak figure Australia’s natonal hire-purchase debt,
largely involved in financing durable consumer goods sales,
was much too high. But for the finance companies the steady
fall in hire-purchase outstandings presents serious problems.
At present the industry is trying to improve its position by
two means —stimulating demand for loans and reducing operat-
ing costs. Recently Mr C. W. Fletcher, chairman of the Aus-
tralian Hire Purchase Conference, let it be publicly known
that some £2O million is “immediately available” for h.-p.
loans. Here the sticky interest rates are a serious difficulty—
finance companies cannot afford to lend out money at cheaper
rates than they themselves are paying on their borrowings.
Attempts to reduce costs are also not at all easy. Some
types of costs are imposed on the industry by factors beyond
its control. One of the most contentious points is the stamp
duty tax, imposed by State Governments and estimated to add
up to about £4 million a year.
Hard pressed, the hire-purchase firms are now making a
determined effort to get rid of the tax. The State Governments
concerned are equally determined to keep their pound of
flesh.
The first shot in the campaign which could become a
major legal and political battle was fired last week, when Mr
Fletcher issued a vigorous statement attacking the imposition
of stamp duty and challenging the right of State Governments
to do so. He said that the Australian Hire Purchase Conference
is “considering legal action to challenge the validity of stamp
duty imposed by State Governments,” and added that “these
harsh taxes make it impossible for hire-purchase companies to
trade profitably in certain States. .. .people in these States are
finding it increasingly difficult to acquire goods unless they can
afford to pay cash. This means, also, that the recovery from
the recent depression is being retarded.”
The Conference has made several representations to State
Governments, appealing for removal or reduction of stamp
duties. Not surprisingly, these were rejected. The Tasmanian
Government is now legislating for a two per cent, tax on
credit sales transactions, in addition to the two per cent, tax
already charged on hire-purchase agreements. In Victoria
stamp duty on hire-purchase transactions is at present two per
cent., and in the other States one per cent.
AMERICAN CONTACTS
US. Business Opportunities
A n interesting new commercial service has been started by
the United States Consulate-General in Sydney, which now
issues a weekly list of American firms seeking business contacts
with Australian companies and businessmen. So far most
inquiries concerned offer to appoint agents for distribution
of American products in Australia—a very mixed bag with
some emphasis on consumer goods which American producers
are anxious to export to Australia. However, some capital
goods exporters are also interested in appointing agents in
Australia.
Last week the Consulate-General’s press release said that
Golay International Group, of Cambridge City, Indiana,
U.S.A., requires an Australian distributor for their heavy-duty
materials handling equipment. The company wants to export
hydraulic pumps and cylinders, underbody and front-mount
hydraulic hoist assemblies for dump trucks, steel and aluminium
dump truck bodies, heavy-duty semi-trailers and four-wheel
units, heavy-duty materials handling systems, etc. The American
company “would prefer to appoint a distributor dealing m
materials handling equipment,” but manufacturers of special
truck bodies will be considered. They would become licensees
for production of equipment under licence.
In the foods group there is Bantam Industries Inc., of New
York, which is looking for an Australian distributor of frozen
foods, including such intriguing items as “TV dinners” a nci
“boil-in-the-bag dinners.”


AUSTRALIAN CHEMICAL HOLDINGS
LIMITED
CHAIRMAN'S ADDRESS DELIVERED BY MR. A. C. HATRICK
AT THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF THE COMPANY,
HELD AT THE REGISTERED OFFICE, 49-61 STEPHEN ROAD.
BOTANY. ON FRIDAY. 6TH OCTOBER, 1961, AT 12 NOON.
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Your Company has come to the close
of another successful year of operations.
1960 61 has seen a sudden change take
place within industry throughout Aus-
tralia, the effects of which have been
widely publicised and are well known
to you. This is not the time nor the
place to give comments on the causes of
the recently created “credit squeeze” con-
ditions in industry, but it is my duty to
explain to you how your Company has
been affected.
Australian Chemical Holdings Limited,
through its subsidiary companies and
associated companies, supplies a wide
range of products to many different in-
dustries with affiliations in the fields of
industrial chemicals and engineering.
The trading level in some of these
consumer industries has been affected
considerably by the “credit squeeze”, in
particular the building, automotive and
appliance industries. Fortunately, the
increase in the turnover and profits in
the first half year were sufficient to off-
set the reduction in the second half of
the trading year, and I am happy to
report that the Group Net Profit for
the year was £408,026, being only £758
less than last year's figure.
Your attention is directed to compara-
tive summaries of earnings, return to
Stockholders and capitalisation as shown
on the first inside page of the 1961
Annual Report. This statement sum-
marises results over the past five years
and you will perceive a steady rise in
profit trend. An increase in deprecia-
tion charge is the main cause of, and has
more than offset, the decrease in taxation
provision since last year. The profit
return to Stockholders, measured by
percentage of net profit to capital,
is shown at 21.8%, having risen steadily
from 17.4% in 1957. The Issued Capital
remains the same as last year and is
shown at £1.872,250, but this is subject
to considerable increase over the next
two years, which I will explain in more
detail later in this address. The Total
Net Reserves now show at £1,487,471,
being an increase of £170,150 over last
year. This amount is contained in
several Reserve Accounts, the largest of
which is Share Premium Reserve, stand-
ing presently at £950,671.
You are reminded that Issued Capital
will increase in May, 1963, upon the
conversion of the Unsecured Convertible
Notes, which will increase total Issued
Capital by £597,750.
Since publication of the 1961 Annual
Report, you irray have read reports of a
takeover offer made by this Company for
the whole of the Issued Capital of Die
Casters Limited, Engineers and Plastics
Manufacturers, operating in Melbourne
and Adelaide. Die Casters has Capital
Stock and Convertible Notes listed on
the Melbourne Stock Exchange to a
total par value of £1,090,244 and if
successful, the offer made by Australian
Chemical Holdings Limited will result
in an issue by our company of 1,218,914
Stock Units of 10/- each, which would
have the effect of increasing Issued
Capital by £609,457.
This projected growth in the Com-
pany’s capital structure is iir line with
that shown over the past six years and
widening operations through the various
subsidiaries and associated companies are
planned to maintain the rate of Stock-
holders’ earnings. Expansion continues in
several centres at the present time and
increased profits should provide adequate
recompense for the additional capital
expenditure made.
In New Zealand, the Company’s Chemi-
cal Division is trading very strongly and
has established a market and reputation
which has necessitated separate manu-
facture being set up in Auckland so as
to provide production, delivery and
service in the future from the two main
city centres, Wellington and Auckland.
Reorganisation of the Spurway sub-
sidiary at Alexandria has allowed for a
greatly increased capacity for manufacture
under the most modern engineering
methods and processes.
During this financial year, licensing
arrangements with Jacobson Nut Manu-
facturing Corporation of New Jersey,
U.S.A., were completed and this addition
of cold formed metal products to the
Spurway range, promises to add sub-
stantially to earning capacity.
At Springvale, Victoria, the building
programme of Hercules Powder Company
(Australia) Pty. Limited, of which this
company is a partner with Hercules
Powder Co., Wilmington, Delaware,
U.S.A., is now nearing completion. Pro-
duction of raw materials for the paper-
making and synthetic rubber industries
will commence in the near future.
Further comments on operations within
our Group of Companies and moves for
expansion in the separate production
centres have already been given in the
1961 Annual Report. To generalise, I
take this opportunity of advising you
that the Management of your Company
has an extremely progressive outlook in
the light of which you may be assured
that operations and results in the future
will continue to move ahead steadily.
In addition, I would mention that we
are actively investigating export markets
for the products manufactured through-
out our Group.
It is fitting at this time also to remark
on the excellent co-operation and service
given by staff members and employees
of all Companies. I am pleased to ad-
vise that many of these are Shareholders
in your Company, and we feel that it
is important that they should have such
an interest, apart from their employment,
in the future of this organisation.
I hereby move the adoptioir of the
Balance Sheet and Accounts of the Com-
pany for the year ended 30th June, 1961,
together with the Reports of the Directors
and Auditors thereon.
I now call on Mr. Wolfenden to second
the motion.


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720)
Assets exceed £177,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
Kindersley House, Bligh/O'Connell Streets, SYDNEY
F. H. Egerton, Manager for Australia.
RESERVE BANK POLICY
Credit Squeeze Ends
T ate last Friday the Reserve Bank of Australia announced
-*- y the virtual ending of the great November, 1960, credit
squeeze. The Deputy-Governor, Mr J. G. Phillips, duly warned
that the Reserve Bank would clamp down new restrictions as
soon as it noticed any revival of “the speculative activities and
excessive levels of expenditure in some fields, which made
necessary the selective controls imposed last year.” But for
the moment all specific restrictions on bank lending have been
abolished.
The Reserve Bank has restored full lending discretion to
the trading banks —with strong advice that preference should
be given to housing and export production loans. But it still
retains its “orthodox” statutory reserve accounts powers.
Announcing the end of lending restrictions, Mr Phillips
said that the trading banks have been asked to regard increased
employment and productivity as being especially important.
In all probability the trading banks will continue to lend rather
gingerly, anxious to remain well within the limits of policies
recommended by the Reserve Bank.
Although the lifting of credit restrictions—and the “official”
end of the credit squeeze —are to be warmly welcomed, it is
unlikely that there will be any great immediate increase in
the rate of bank lending. There are considerable credit funds
available —the economy at the moment is remarkably liquid.
The hire-purchase companies are, in fact, almost embarrassingly
liquid.
The real source of worry at the moment is twofold —the
demand for funds is too slack and the stimulation of business
activity in the basic sector has been insufficient. A sharp
increase in general liquidity—including the potentially specula-
tive sector —is not necessarily a healthy symptom. The slack-
ness in demand may lead to agitation for stimulating business
by any means —which could mean defeating the basic aims of
the Government's economic policy.
On the more positive side of the Reserve Bank’s move are
a definite improvement in general business psychology and a
possible further decrease in unemployment.
The Government must make some definite efforts to
increase the productive capacity of the basic industry—other-
wise the major part of the hard-won achievements of its
unpopular deflationary policy will be lost.
Large pools of “unemployed liquidity” could lead to
renewed speculation as soon as the level of economic-activity
rises.
Boom-breaking is not an end in itself, but a means for
implementing a definite policy of economic development. The
rather unexpected lifting of all credit restrictions may seem
a bit premature ; and it should have been preceded by some
concrete measures aimed at bolstering up the essential
industries.
It is a pity if the date of the Federal elections has been
the main thought behind the timing of the formal ending of
the credit squeeze. Now the Government will be able to say
that there are no credit restrictions in force, and that the
economy is back to normal after a successful campaign to
check the inflation. Flowever, the basic disproportions impeding
Australia’s balanced economic growth have not yet been
removed and the total abolition of fiscal controls at this stage
looks premature.
Perhaps the Government feels that some indirect relief
should be given to the worst hit consumer goods industries—
particularly motor vehicles manufacturers. There is also some
evidence of a half-hearted attempt to stimulate consumer
spending to a “safe” level—something very hard to define in
practical terms. Of course, there is nothing intrinsically evil
about consumer goods spending—it is a necessary component
of the national economic turnover. But the Government must
not let short-term political considerations obscure the basic
aims of its economic policy.
WOOL
Japanese Textile Crisis
Tapanese textile dealers and manufacturers are experiencing
** major difficulties because of an acute shortage of credit
funds. “Japan Times Weekly” says that in October, prices
on the Tokyo textile market slumped to “a record low,” and
several wholesalers and weavers have gone into bankruptcy.
A survey made by the Tokyo Credits Clearance House shows
that last September over 20 cases of bankruptcy —involving
losses of up to 780 million yen —had occurred in the industry.
Another seven companies went bankrupt between October I
and 3, 1961. These involved liabilities aggregating 145.5
million yen.
“Japan Times Weekly” reports that Marubeni-Ida Co.
(which had a prominent stand in the Japanese Pavilion at the
International Trade Fair in Sydney, last August), Itoh and Co.
and other leading Japanese textile trading firms have started
restricting their transactions with medium and small whole-
salers. It is expected that more wholesalers and weavers will
become insolvent by the end of 1961, when the present tight
credit policy, reinforced by the recent increase in the Bank
of Japan overdraft rate, will become fully effective.
Credit restrictions have been imposed by the Japanese
Government and monetary authorities because of the heavy
adverse balance of trade and the consequent serious balance-
ot'-payments position. Japanese economic planning authorities
have recently stated that Japan's current economic growth rate
is too high and may cause acute inflationary pressures if
allowed to continue unchecked. This may partially explain
the recent decline in Japanese wool purchases in Australia.
Official statistics for three months to the end of last Sep-
tember show that Japan remained Australia's leading wool
buyer during that period. Its intake of greasy wool rose to
96,519,0001 b. (£26,073,000), compared with 74,829,0001 b.
(£19,991,000) in the previous corresponding period.
The value of U.K. purchases in the same period declined
from £8,405,000 to £6,848,000, and of French purchases from
£5,504,000 to £3,949,000. Poland stepped up its greasy wool
intake from £1,266*000 to £2,246,000, and West Germany from
£1,945,000 to £2,346,000.
Recently, there was a marked increase in wool purchases
made by some East European countries. Communist China
also bought 4,580,0001 b. valued at £1,380,000, compared with
negligible amounts last year. Flowever, a further increase in
wool purchases by Communist China may be limited by its
foreign exchange difficulties.


John N. Robertson, Thompson
and Co.
Members of the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS,
Temple Court,
422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Telephones: 67 6154, 67 6155
Telegrams and Cables:
ROBFALK, MELBOURNE
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
K. H. ALLEN, M. R. L. DOWLING
P. R. LEVY, A. P. REYNOLDS. N. R.
COURSE (Melbourne Resident Partner).
Delftn House, 16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Building. 150 Queen St.,
Melbourne. 67-5957 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables: “Rosdale,” Sydney.
Melbourne or Wollongong.
A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor,
Tbe National Mutual Life Building,
39? Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Pbone: 31 3?61 P.O. BOX
(4 Lines) No. 1887 W
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Pope Industries Ltd
Pope Industries had a miserable year.
Instead of the £257,209 consolidated
net profit earned in the previous year,
the company ruled off with £686,527 in
the red. No ordinary dividends were
paid and 1000 employees had to be laid
off. Fortunately, accumulated reserves
were sufficient to write off the year's
losses, maintain the essential liquidity
margin and still leave a goodly padding.
Pope Industries Limited was first estab-
lished in a small garage workshop in
Croydon (S.A.) in 1925 and assumed
public status in 1945. The group manu-
factures refrigerators, washing-machines,
TV-receivers, stereophonic sound systems,
electric-motors, rotary lawn-mowers,
garden sprinklers, air-conditioning
appliances, kitchen- and laundry-wear,
refrigerator fittings, garden tools, hard-
ware, irrigation equipment and hand
tools.
Branches operate in Victoria, N.S.W.,
Queensland and Tasmania.
An integrated electronics division is
operating at Belmore (a Sydney suburb).
There are some valuable overseas affilia-
tions, including a technical partnership
with Borg-Warner International Corpora-
tion (electrical appliances and air-
condition ng). Last February Pope
negotiated termination of its electronic
licence arrangements with Motorola Inc.,
of Chicago, U.S.A. Pope has now dis-
posed of its telecommunications activity
in N.S.W., but has entered into reciprocal
manufacturing arrangements with Elec-
tronic Industries Limited in Melbourne.
There were two main factors respon-
sible for Pope’s troubles last term.
Firstly, too much emphasis was put on
television in the early days of the great
TV boom. It is true that the group could
not afford to lag behind its competitors
in the TV field, but it does seem that the
rate of growth in the TV market capacity
was over-estimated. Already in 1959-60
Pope’s television division—once the
group’s top profit spinner—had become
“a heavy burden on profitability.” The
trend was noted, and the company was
in the throes of a major reorganisation
and diversification programme—some of
it planned as far back as three years ago
—when the credit squeeze came.
“The Government's action hit this
company at the peak of its seasonal
activity and when fully committed to
an almost completed three-year diversi-
fication and expansion programme . . .
Late introduction of new-model ranges,
due to developmental pressures, left the
company with an even greater depend-
ence than usual on peak seasonal selling
for profit recovery.”
Caught in the midstream by Canberra’s
icy blasts the company could do little
more than sit back and watch its turn-
over and earnings dwindle. Management
made some bold attempts to save what
it could, and the group was quickly
reorganised on emergency lines. Earlier
development plans had to be deferred,
staff dismissed, production levels adjusted
and maximum possible liquidity main-
tained—not an easy thing to accomplish.
Capital had to be transferred from losing
lines to more profitable activities—“tele-
vision. in particular, proved a heavy drain
upon the company operation.”
As so many other firms, Pope was
faced with a sudden severe fall in
demand, difficulties caused by the tem-
porary non-deductability of interest pay-
able'on debentures and notes and general
cash tightness. The fall in demand meant
an immediate steep rise in inventories —-
a dangerous thing for a major manu-
facturer with Pope's range of products.
Losses of the Western Australian sub-
sidiary “were inescapable with unecono-
mically low volume production demand.
Considerable improvement is evident as
production rates are increased subsequent
to stock depletion.”
“To reduce stocks, the company was
compelled uneconomically to under-
produce low-level sales and then to
obtain such sales against competitors’
heavily discounted distress selling.” Pope
tried to avoid discounted retail prices “to
ensure retention of customer stock values
and goodwill.” Lower prices might have
helped, but could not have had much
significance overall. It was just hard to
sell, even at reduced prices. Manage-
ment concentrated on endeavoring to
keep liquid, reducing stocks and adjust-
ing to a lower turnover level —profits
were made “temporarily subservient to
liquidity.”
Chairman’s report to shareholders says
that overheads have now been reduced
to a level at which profitable operations
can be continued at 70 p.c. of the pre-
viously envisaged turnover.
The group ended the year ended June
30, 1961, with a loss of £686,527, com-
pared with a consolidated net profit of
£257,209 in the previous term —in other
words, a deterioration in earnings of
£943,736:
Parent and Schsidiaries.
f Dividends- To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. r~ —Ord. ~ serves. serves.*
5 p.c.
£ £ p.c. £ £ £
1956- 9,000 121= 59,500 133,407 802,637
Unexplained addition, £7 .. .. 802,644
6 & 7 p.c.
1957- 27,483 10 = 78,200 90,418 893,062
Capital profit, £789 .. .. .. 893,851
Added intangibles, £22.383 .. .. 871,468
1958- 26,200 10 = 86,600 138,391 1,009,859
Tax overprovided, £16,969 .. 1,026,828
Assets revalued, £125,000 .. .. 1,151,823
Contingency provision transferred,
£95,000 1,246,828
1959- 38,163 10 =102,114 163,510 1,410,333
Capital profit, £36,086 .. .. 1,440,424
Less, added intangibles, £1774 .. 1,444,650
Less, net reduction reserves, £9205 1,435,445
1960- 43,700 10 =126,700 86,809 1,522,254
Capital profit, £434 .. .. .. 1,522,688
Tax overprovided, £1496 .. .. 1,524,184
Loss.
1961- 54,763 782,894
* After deducting difference between book and par
values of interco. holdings.
Earning rates on the average ordinary
capital in preceding years were 16.9 p.c.
in 1960, 26 p.c. in 1959 and 1958, 21.6
p.c. in 1957 and 40.5 p.c. in 1956.
No ordinary dividends were declared
but preference shareholders received
full entitlements; —there is £lBO,OOO
in 6 p.c. 20s. cum. prefs., £470,000
in 7 p.c. 20s. cum. prefs. and £164.000
in 8 p.c. cum. prefs. This reduced
accumulated reserves to £782,894,
after writing off trading losses, adding
in £434 capital profits and £1496
tax overprovided in the previous term
and deducting £384,124 intangibles
(unchanged). Net tangible asset backing
works out at £4 3s. for the 20s. prefs.
and 7s. 4d. for each ss. ord. unit.
Overdraft was £630,232 higher at
£996,663. Stocks and debtors were lower
at what seemed to be realistic levels.
Tight money conditions normally involve
some deferment in settlement of debtors’
accounts. Theoretical working capital


CARRY THE
BURDEN
Established 1808 in Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen
many Battles, including
the Battle of Waterloo,
and has emerged from
them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT
MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
N.S. W. Branch:
Kindersley House,
Blig-h O’Connell Sts., Sydney
decreased by £71,216 to £2,926,9^2 —an
encouragingly small drop.
Both preference and ordinary capital
was somewhat higher:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1959. 1960. 1961.
Pref £650,000 £650,000 £814,000
Ord 1,260,000 1,742,333 1,750,000
Reserves . . . . 1,410,338 1,522,254 782,894
Debentures, etc. .. 971,390 1,020,230 1,056,080
Notes . . . . 349,000 1,349.000 1,349,000
Deferred loan .. 85,000 65,000 193,400
Overdraft . . . . 953,553 366,431 996,663
Creditors .. .. 1,788,756 2,284,585 1,562,721
Tax provision .. 155,124 124,266 -
Long-service leave,
etc 154,281 110,818 94,651
Final dividends . . 78,306 85,550 28,410
£7,855,748 £9,320,467 £8,627,819
Freeholds, lease-
holds, plant, etc. 3,253,596 3,338,409 3,006.432
Shares, etc. .. 29,750 12,250 12,000
Stock .. .. 3,268,081 4,509,362 4,377,688
Debtors ~ .. 1,245,105 1,357.606 1,166,248
Cash, etc. .. 59,156 102,840 65,451
£7,855,748 £9,320,467 £8,627,819
Freeholds, leaseholds, etc., appeared at
a lower book value. Debentures were
£35,850 higher, but the company has
made provisions for repaying £200,000
6 p.c. unsecured notes maturing next
November.
Pope’s long-term development plans
have received a major setback. The
immediate outlook, and the group’s more
long-run future, depend on how quickly
and to what extent the management will
be able to gear Pope's resources to new
market conditions. Last term’s loss was
the first one in 36 years of operations
as a private and public company. And
the 1961 losses may be written off future
profits.
Present market conditions are holding
out a little more hope. The company
has been able to re-engage 280 employees
who were retrenched after the credit
squeeze began. But it must be realised
that an important part of the group's
output has catered for the non-essential
durable consumer goods sector and that
a rapid return to record sales does not
seem likely.
At the last sale in Sydney the ss. ords.
changed hands below par at 4s. 3d. a
unit.
Gerrard Company of
Australasia Ltd
CAverall dampening of demand which
had followed the credit restrictions
introduced in November. 1960, and
higher operating costs resulted in a sub-
stantial reduction in net earnings. How-
ever, the 12 p.c. ordinary dividend rate
was maintained and the company is in
good shape. Increasing market buoyancy
should improve future prospects.
Gerrard Company of Australasia Ltd
was formed in 1951 as a holding company
to acquire the capital of Gerrard Wire
Tying Machine Co. Pty Ltd, which was
founded 32 years earlier.
The Victorian registered Gerrard group
—which has associated companies and
agencies in Melbourne, .Sydney, Brisbane,
Adelaide. Launceston, Hobart, Towns-
ville. Perth. Cairns, Auckland (N.Z.), Wel-
lington (N.Z.), Temora and Mildura -
produces machinery, tools, wire and
metal products, tensional strapping sys-
tems and packaging materials and re-
quisites Last term J. Sankey Robinson
Ltd, of Adelaide, was added to the
group’s steel division. Another subsidi-
ary, Weston’s Pty —a packaging company
—joined the fold after the close of last
year’s accounts.
The springs division had “record
results” in the first ten months but then
experienced setbacks because of its
dependence on the motor industry. The
chain section claims “better results from
improved methods.”
The agricultural and automotive divi-
sion lost £25,132.
“Substantial gains” were made by the
tensional strapping division in the first
half of last term But by the end of the
year sales revenue declined—especially in
paper, automotive, steel, building and
timber fields. The adverse trend has con-
tinued into the current teim.
Consolidated net profit for the year
ended June 30, 1961, was £67,610 thinner
at £143,317, after setting aside £96,471
for depreciation (up £16,376) and pro-
\iding £124,276 for taxation (down
£25,141). This represented a fait in con-
solidated net earnings of 32.1 p.c.:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
f— Div idends N To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. , Old. N serves. serves.*
5 p.c.
£ £ £ £ £
19.59.. 100.909 6000 12 p.c.=90,000 94,909 514,685
Exchange adjustment, £7200 .. 521,885
Share-issue expenses, £749 .. .. 521,186
Share-premiums, £ 23,000 .. .. 544,186
Loss, sale assets, £102*6 .. .. 543,110
To long-service leave, £24,825 .. 518,285
Plus reduction intangibles, £158,365 676,650
Unexplained addition, £277 .. .. 676,927
1960.. 210.927 6000 12 p.c.=93,900 111,027 787,954
Exchange adjustment, £6OOO • • 793,954
Share-issue expenses, £2968 .. 790,986
Share-premiums, £309,041 .. .. 1.100,027
Loss, sale assets, £5493 .. .. 1,094,534
Tax underprovided, £1414 .. .. 1,093,120
To long-service leave, £577 . . 1,092,543
1961.. 317 6000 12 p.c. = 120,750 16,567 1,090,560
* After deducting intangibles, £95,927 at 30/6/61.
The earning rate on the higher average
ordinary capital declined from 26.2 p.c.
in 1960 to 14.2 p.c. in 1961 —compared
with 24.7 p.c. in 1959, 27.4 p.c. in 1958,
24.9 p.c. in 1957 and 26.8 p.c. in 1956.
The dividends were fully covered.
Disclosed at £1.090,560 —after deduct-
ing £95,927 intangibles—reserves were
increased by £6OOO exchange adjustment
and £309,041 share premiums, but were
decreased by £2968 share issue expenses,
£5493 loss on sale of assets, £1414 tax
underprovided in the previous term and
£577 transferred to long service leave pro-
vision.
Net tangible asset backing works out
at £2l 17s. sd. for each of the 20s. 5
p.c. cum. prefs. and at 17s. 9d. for each
10s. ord., on consolidated accounts.
Paid capital was raised by the issue of
402,500 10s. ords., one-for-four at ss. a
unit premium, in July, 1960, and the
issue of 505, 125 10s. ords.. one-for-four
at 25.-6 d. a unit premium, in June, 1961,
and amounted to £120.000 in 20s. 5 p.c.
cum. prefs. and £1,414.062 in 10s. ords.
at balance date.
Since then it has been further increased
by a placement of 156,875 10s. ords., at
a premium of 14s. 5d., in purchase con-
sideration for company takeovers. Fur-
ther 15,000 10s. ords. were also issued to
finance takeovers.
Stocks rose by £518,020, book debts
by £142,401 and creditors by £169.044 :
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Raid capital— 1959. 1960. 1961.
Pref £120,000 £120,000 £120,000
Old 750,000 805,000 1,414,062
Reserves .. .. 514,685 787,954 1,090,500
Outside interests. . 20,000
Notes . . .. - 300,000
Mortgage . . . . 295,546 454,893 434,952
Overdraft . . . . 36,572 232,365 52,164
Staff fund .. 31,844 33,109
Creditors, etc.*.. -191,909 313,425 4-82,409
Provision taxation 131,951 150.409 131,433
Final div. . . 52,500 56,900 70,438
£2,093,163 £2,972,790 £4,129,187
Freeholds .. 464,587 838,432 1,151,433
Plant .. 715,339 779,388 962,123
Shares other cos. 6.072 6,072 6,072
Stock .. .. 570,087 862,057 1,380,077
Debtors .. .. 336,973 486,676 629,107
Cash, bonds, etc. . . 105 165 405
£2,093,163 £2,972,790 £4,129,187
* Includes provision for taxation until and including
1958.
Theoretical working capital increased by
£675,991 to £1,239,946.
The company’s chairman, in a gener-
ally conservative evaluation of the


WORLD-WIDE
100% British Made
the iron that travels...
The Tilley Domestic Iron goes anywhere, tackles any-
thing. NO flex to get in your way; it is entirely
self-contained, and runs for 4 hours on one filling
(i pint of ordinary kerosene). Clean, easy to use, with
exact heat control.
For trouble-free ironing, anytime, anywhere, you
can put your trust in TILLEY.
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores. In
case of difficulty write to: —
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T.H. BENTLEY PTY. LIMITED
1092 Mt. Alexander Rd., Essendon, W. 5. Australia
mr
*• ■'
ifia
:
V. tM
hmSL
u
a i
.*
m
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters
Ideal for farms, stations and for
hot-water systems, and household
requirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last a
lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of “Curvi-
linear” Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic
Machines and Ellison Switch Gear.
market situation, says that he feels that
the recovery process has began.
Gerrard’s future seems assured, despite
economic fluctuations. The company
satisfies some vital industrial needs and
its scrip still commands a substantial
premium on the sharemarket. At the last
sale in Melbourne the 10s. ords. changed
hands at 19s. a unit, making the immedi-
ate yield 6.3 p.c. p.a. on the basis of the
steady 12 p.c. dividend rate. Seeing that
about the same time last year the 10s.
ords. fetched 295. each, this price seems
attractive.
COMPANY NOTES
Ampol Petroleum Limited
A mpol Petroleum Limited has released
its preliminary profit figures, subject
to audit.
Consolidated net profit for the year
ended September 30, 1961, was £169,000
higher at £2,273,000 —-equivalent to a
steady 19 p.c. on the average ordinary
capital employed. The profit was struck
after setting aside £1,139,701 for depre-
ciation (up £177,087) and providing
£933,000 for taxation (up £13,000). Turn-
over rose by £1,233,000 to £37,585,000,
despite reductions in the wholesale price
of petrol.
In addition, there was a capital profit
of £161,000.
The company says that “the credit
squeeze of November, 1960, was followed
by an important reduction in sales of
new motor vehicles, but nevertheless
Ampol sales in all products increased by
over 10 million gallons.”
Total assets were disclosed at a book
value of £51,113,000, compared with
£42,435,000 last term. '“Reserves total
£10,956,000, representing a cover equiva-
lent to 70 p.c. of the issued capital.”
Ordinary dividend is steady at 14 p.c.
Recently, Ampol issued 385,756 ss.
ords. as purchase consideration for free-
hold property in N.S.W., Victoria and
South Australia.
At the last sale in Sydney the ss. ords.
were traded for 10s. 1 Id. a unit, making
the immediate return 6.4 p.c. on the basis
of the steady 14 p.c. dividend distri-
bution.
Marcus Clark Ltd
/Consolidated net profit of the Sydney-
based Marcus Clark retail group for
the year ended July 29, 1961, edged up
from £152,394 to £159,402, after setting
aside. £69,661 for depreciation (up
£14,280) and providing £106.899 for taxa-
tion (up £5023). This includes the results
for two subsidiaries for 18 months and
three subsidiaries for 13 months.
Directors say that the longer periods-
involved largely accounted for the rise
in the consolidated net profit. Actual
trading results seem steady. The com-
pany has announced an issue of £500,000
8| p.c. registered first-mortgage deben-
tures by a wholly-owned subsidiary,
Marcus Clark Acceptance Limited.
“Funds raised by the debenture issue will


THE UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED
Established 1862.
Head Office: GEOROE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), SIR EDWARD R. KNOX (Vice-Chairman), R. J. VICARS,
A. MURRAY JONES, HUGH DIXON, D. A. T. DICKINS, K. B. MYERS, A. E. STEPHEN
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of Every Description
J. O. LEWIS, General Manager.
help to meet the increased demand for
credit facilities which is accompanying
the group's increase in sales.”
During the year four new stores —two
branches in Adelaide, one in Lithgow
(N.S.W.) and one at St Ives (Sydney)—
were opened. Bon Marche (a subsidiary)
opened a new department store at Liver-
pool (N.S.W.) on November 2, 1961.
Neon Electric Signs Ltd
Recently this conservatively managed
but vigorous and progressive com-
pany split its £1 shares into ss. units and
doubled its paid capital which now
totals £2lo,ooo—by almost simultaneous
cash and bonus issues.
The Victorian-registered Neon Electric
Signs Ltd specialises in advertising signs.
For a while rights seemed reasonably
attractive as a form of entry. The
12| p.c. dividend rate is well covered.
The company's profit trebled in the seven
years from 1953 and prospects seem
encouraging despite keen competition.
OIL AND MINING
Timor Oil
Timor Oil Limited reports that the
Matai well structure will be tested
at a depth between 5000 ft. and 7000 ft.
This is in accordance with recommenda-
tions by Dr Werner Scheenberger, the
company's expert consulting geologist.
The company says that “surface geolo-
gical work and gravity surveys have
indicated the presence of a well-defined
structure, in which the prospective
Triassic formation is expected to be at
a depth of 4000 ft. to 7000 ft. It appears
that the shows of oil and gas in the
shallow wells already drilled at Matai
were derived from a Caprock local
faulting having allowed the entry and
accumulation of oil from a source for-
mation below.” Directors feel that there
are “encouraging indications of a reser-
voir at depth.”
The associate American company,
Tradewinds Exploration Inc., has now
completed the 15,000 ft. of drilling pro-
vided for in the agreement between
T.adewinds and Timor Oil. Timor Oil
has now taken over the management of
all field activities.
Matai No. 3 well has been plugged at
2538 ft. A new crew of American and
Canadian' drillers is expected to arrive
at the end of October. If conditions will
“The way he's carrying on anyone would think she Was the only spouse
in the World to give birth to a dependant!"
permit the well will be deepened. “Other-
wise another well will be drilled at the
same site.”
Wapet
\T7est Australian Petroleum Pty
* Ltd reports that drilling continues
at Eneabba No. 1 well. The formations
remain basically unchanged —sandstone,
siltstone with some shale, non-porous tut
showing minor fluorescence.
The last reported total depth was
11,561 ft, representing a gain of 255 ft
for the week. The newly equipped
seismic party is making good progress
in the Kimberleys.
Oil Development N.L
Oil Development N.L. reports that
Beachport Well No. 1, being drilled
by South East Oil Syndicate Ltd.
advanced 1065 feet to a depth of 3025
feet. Cores were taken at 2094, 2288,
2500, 2695 and 2820 feet. The section
penetrated consists of mudstones, silt-
stones and sandstones.
The gravity survey being carried out
in Western Australia in the Bonaparte
Gulf Basin, is nearing completion.
Results of this survey should be available
shortly.
Eclipse Gold Mines
TAirectors of Eclipse Gold Mines N.L.
report that profit before depreciation
for the year ended July 4, 1961, was
£8825 higher at £44,673. In the previous
year no depreciation was charged.
Capital expenditure on shaft sinking
and “essential modification and addition
to plant” was £11,694, compared with
£26,442 in the previous year. No divi-
dend will be paid “at this stage.” The
mine property is near Mt Magnet, in
Western Australia. The 2s. 6d. shares
has fetched 9d. a unit in Sydney.
Mines and Quarries
Mines and Quarries Development
Ltd say that testing of the com-
pany's blue dolomite deposits has been
completed. A detailed geological report
has been received from the South Aus-
tralian Mines Department. The deposits
are said to be “extremely valuable,”
both for the quantity and quality of
material. The board has decided to pro-
ceed with the plans for the formation
of an operating company, Montacute
Blue Metal Limited. Plans for opening
up the deposit and the installation of a
modern quarrying plant “are at an
advanced stage.”
Preliminary negotiations “indicate that
satisfactory financial arrangements can
be made and experienced technical
management is available.”
A market survey of demand in eastern
States indicates that blue metal is “keenly
sought,” and has an expanding market
in South Australia.


Divorce Notice
IN THE SIPREME t'Ol'RT OE
NEW SOITH WALES. In Divorce.
To: .JOHN PEMBROKE Tl (IliV late ot <■/- Mary
Kathleen Mine, \lt. Isa, Queensland. TAKE NOTICE
that DOROTHEA DAW N TLOHY lias filed a petition
for divorce No. 15 8 2 of IflfiJ on the ground of
desertion without cause or excuse for not less than
two years. If you wish to defend you may enter
an aiiswt i in the Divorce Registry, Supreme Court.
Macquarie Street, Sydney, by Bth December, Ifni I.
and obtain a copy of the petition wit Inert charge
{mm JACK H. DEN Y Esq., Solicitor or 215 Blaxland
Road. Ryde.-C. A H. HARMS, Registrar.
Divorce Notice
Matrimonial Courses Act, 19,19
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
Matrimonial Cai'skr .Jurisdiction
To: LOUISE LILLIAN FISHER (nee LEWIS) late
of 11 Rawson Street. Haber field, Svdnev. —TAKE
NOTICE that WALTER HENRY FISHER has filed
a Petition for dissolution of marriage No. 3049 of
1901 on tlie ground of desertion. If you wish to
defend you may file an Answer in the Divorce
Registry, Mint Building., Macquarie Street. Sydney
within ti weeks from the publication of this notice
and obtain a copy of the Petition and Notice of
Petition without charge from McLEOD WHITE,
McKKON & CO., Solicitors of lie Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.—-C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
Missing Friend
“Would C. LACHLAN who witnessed the will of
JOSEPH ASPINAL at Wildash near Warwick on
the Tilth March 1949. please communicate with
COLIN B. MURPHY, Solicitor, 420 George Street,
Brisbane.
FLAT TO LET
I i Queens Road, Melbourne
January 7th 21st, 1962
Self-contained, modern, fully-furnished, opposite
lake, near beach, 8 minutes City, grand piano
and television, car space. Sleep 2. References.
Price £l5 15s. per week.
Inquiries by letter to Flat 8.
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC SCHOOL
situated in the Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Buildings
Junior House separate from the
rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on application
to
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
NEW SI It. RENEW VI.
(Please cross out one)
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper,
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please find enclosed my chequefmoney-order
for ............ months’ subscription to The
Bulletin.
NAME:
ADDRESS:
RATES (A/asia): 1 year—£2 125.; \ year—
£l 6s. Post free. British C"wealth:
£3 3s. 6d. Foreign: £3 16s.
N.Z CURRENCY (Remit to Box 965,
Wellington, N.Z.): A/asia: 1 year—
£l 18s 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d. British
C’wealth: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
All the
family
will love
I
/_
Everybody's
United Uranium N.L
United Uranium N.L. milled 2198 tons
of ore in the four weeks to October
14 1961—this brings total output since
January 1, 1961, to 25,345 tons. The
company produced 24,8301 b. of uranium
concentrates in the four weeks’ period,
and 235,1391 b. since the beginning of
the year.
Directors say that the 1961 milling
programme has been completed. Milling
operations were suspended on October
14. and will be resumed next January.
The company has on hand 40 p.c. of
the 1962 delivery quota of uranium oxide
under the contract with the United
Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority.
This will be shipped to the U.K. early
next year.
The ss. ords. last fetched 2s. 6d. a unit.
Associated Minerals
CONSOLIDATED GOLD FrELDS (AUSTRA-
LIA) Prv Ltd reports that the “con-
ditions attached to its offer to purchase
50 p.c. of the holdings of each share-
holder in Associated Minerals Consoli-
dated have now been fulfilled.” Con-
solidated Gold is accepting the additional
shares which were offered by share-
holders.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 665
Across
I—Essayist1—Essayist suggests money is rasher. (7. 5)
8 — Business woman who has children in a deep stupor. (4)
9 A service for entrails. (8)
ll—This Sherpa bloke is too much for Casals. (5)
13—Timber lodge coppers are against the swine. (5)
15—Employ Sue in this. (3)
16 — Bring forward to introduce
meadow hubbub. (4, 2)
17 — Basher I bashed, being inclined
to depress the market. (7)
20— What tigers have chewed
priests? (7)
21— Promises for research backing a
morning ass-owner, (ft)
24 Zwolf deprived of one spirit. (3)
25 The dark thing is obscure. (5)
26 — Dog fighting is his business. (5)
27 — Quite inattentive. (8)
28 — How's Hamlet's cloak in Ken-
tucky? (4)
30 —A little poultry is bound to jeer
against the yellow. (6, 7)
Down
1 — European to slacken a specialised
mast. (8)
2 Curve causing the car smash. (3)
3 Claim to poison, (anagram) (13)
4 Very disturbed, a soldier thanks
Edward. (8)
5 2-down if nothing is good for a
whale. (3)
6 Tried to reduce an order for
Edward to be no more, (ft)
7 A U.S. sex rout, (anagram) (10)
10 —Robin takes this Japanese sash
to heart. (3)
12 —A fruit bee is transformed by
those who make great improve-
ments in appearances. (10)
14—Doctor heartened by ego con-
ducted one Australian country
town. (11)
18 — Surf gone from a contemporary
composer named Howard. (8)
19 — Cinerama version of any Brother
Jonathan. (8)
22 All the different, deadly instruc-
tion to have Henry tenanted? (6)
23 Where you might find potential
pork pastry orphaned. (5)
29 —Girl upset this ox. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 664


WORKING FOR AUSTRALIA
A.P.M. helps balance
Australia’s trade by pro-
ducing vast quantities of
papers and paperboards
of world standard which
otherwise would have to
be imported at the expense of Australia’s overseas
funds. The money spent on A.P.M. products helps
advance our own national development, living
standards and employment. All-Australian, A.P.M
5 owned by 30,000 investors and provides employ-
ment for 5,000 Australians in six States.
Operating seven mills conveniently located
near our largest cities and ports, A.P.M.
is our largest producer of papers and
paperboards. With its continually growing
supplies of raw materials and over 90
years experience of our local market and
conditions, A.P.M. can supply the present
and future needs of Australia’s vital
packaging industry.
School Projects: For illustrated material
on A.P.M. activities, write to “Projects”,
A.P.M., G.P.O. Box 1643, Melbourne.
*rT
m
m
AUSTRALIAN PAPER MANUFACTURERS LTD.
SOUTH GATE, SOUTH MELBOURNE. SALES OFFICES IN ALL STATE CAPITALS.
El
