

The Bulletin
Registered in Australia for trans-
mission by post as a newspaper.
October 28, 1961
\<
WILLIAM DOBELL: Scared Genius


c
c
w
c
iff
§ \ Jl © T ci-i §
=gii\\ '
XfS?
#"“ KW "
<y
ft
»
x-r
-tjr
§
K ~mr
BANKERS
FINANCIERS
iRAZIERS
ACCLAIM
mi
im» • m
Stockbrokers in Sydney,
Magnates in Melbourne, Bankers in
Brisbane, Architects in Adelaide,
Tycoons in Tasmania, Professors in
Perth are but a few of the busy
businessmen all over Australia who agree
that here at last is a financial paper
that fulfils the needs of the times.
THE AUSTRALIAN
FINANCIAL TIMES
SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
AUSTRALIA: £4/5/- per year.
Mail coupon to “Circulation Manager,”
Australian Financial Times,
Box 185 C, G.P.0.,
Melbourne, C. 1, Victoria.
NEW ZEALAND: Air Mail Subscription
Rate £7/-/- for year
Mail coupon to: Box 965, G.P.0.,
Wellington, New Zealand.


TEARING OFF A STRIP
By Lovell Jones
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO PTY LTD
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; Phone: 27 5971.
Vol. 82
No. 4263
Screwing Up the Tension
ONE of the gravest dangers to the morale of the West is that it
cannot stop talking. The recent outburst of comment on Mr
Khrushchev’s speech to the 22nd Soviet Party Congress is the
latest example of this. International commentators and spokesmen
for Foreign Offices all had a go at it; some of them know that there
is no necessary significance to us in any public statement Mr
Khrushchev makes; but they couldn’t keep away from it: they had
to turn it over and find it “moderate,” and then turn it over again
and find it intransigent.
It is not how they found it that matters; whatever their verdicts
were the same criticism would apply—that in itself the speech meant
nothing at all to the West, although the effects Mr Khrushchev had
intended in those parts of it he allowed to be printed in Russian news-
papers might be considered and other parts might be looked at as yet
another small episode in the long chronicle of Sino-Soviet debate.
One could cry with shame at the blindness of the human race
that so much of it has not yet realised that Mr Khrushchev uses policy
statements merely to keep himself in the centre of the stage, screwing
up the tension and easing it according to his own recipe and that
demonstrably one cannot believe a word he says. His aim is to de-
moralise his opponents so that they offer him concessions of their
own making. Any concession will do.
It is the cleverness and talkativeness of so many Western com-
mentators and their obsession with interminable detailed interpreta-
tion (What does that word mean? Why was that action taken?) —
that makes so many people place their final hopes in Mr Khrush-
chev’s words, even if they do not know they are doing it. There is
great virtue, of course, in detailed examination of Soviet public
statements by experts to determine this and that and relate it to
something else but these statements cannot seriously be considered
as diplomatic exchanges.
WHILE the world waited to see if Mr Khrushchev would explode
his 50-megaton hydrogen bomb (and the evacuation was being
planned of northern Scandinavia “if things went wrong” with the
bomb) it was worth considering that this was the week’s serious
diplomatic exchange. Yet so great is the hope that he can be placated
—or the fear that he can’t —that neutralist sections of the United
Nations would not support strong General Assembly action against
the Soviet’s use of 50-megaton bombs as an instrument of diplomacy
and (of all things!) criticised as “cold war tactics” a draft motion
protesting against the Soviet action.
Despairing of human rationality, one begins to wonder if the
peace of the world might not be better secured if President Kennedy
began issuing threats and thereby brought a little of the world’s at-
tention to trying to please him. If a mixture of sulking, commercial
traveller’s bonhomie and the most brutal and reckless bullying are
the only language the world understands perhaps we should try them!
At least the West might seriously try the experiment of sometimes
simply remaining silent as the best reply to Mr Khrushchev’s tactics.


This Australia
MIGRANTS
Dr Bialoguski Smiled
M. BIALOGUSK!
“I am not scared."
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
An attempt was made last Sunday
to launch a new mass organisation
of migrants when 14 people met in a
hired hall in Anzac House to establish
the “N.S.W. Branch of the Australian
Polish Association of Australia Inc.”
They included two A.L.P. Senators —-
Arnold Drury from South Australia and
Jim Ormonde from N.S.W.; the associa-
tion’s Federal president, Dr M. Briton
(a naturalised Pole, who had changed his
name) ; its official N.S.W. agent, Mr J.
Piotrowski ; four Australians ; Dr Michal
Bialoguski of the Petrov Commission
fame ; three Polish migrants ; a passing
tourist and a journalist on rounds. Invi-
tations had gone out to the Federal
Council of Polish Organisations in Aus-
tralia, the Committee of the Polish House
in Ashfield, the Good Neighbor Council,
the United Nations Association of Aus-
tralia and others, but none of them turned
up.
However, Dr Briton seemed pleased:
“We started with six people in South
Australia, and now have about 360
members.” Senator Drury, who is the
junior vice-president of the South Aus-
tralian branch, read out in English the
“rules and regulations,” which include
something for everybody—from looking
after Polish interests to promoting
Australian patriotism among Poles.
Taking the floor, Senator Ormonde
made an impressive speech on the prob-
lems of assimilation and said that the
A.L.P. was doing its best to mitigate
hardships caused by the immigration
policy.
By this time the organisers were
beginning to get impatient and wanted
to get down to the main business of the
day—election of the State executive. At
this point a young Pole challenged them
to state whom they represented and who
supported them. Why did they not
approach existing Polish organisations?
he asked. In a lengthy answer Dr Briton
said that the Australian Polish Associa-
tion of Australia Inc. was established in
South Australia in May, 1959, that it is
a non-religious, non-political, non-
sectarian organisation of everybody for
everybody, and that its purpose is to
organise the 80,000 Polish migrants in
Australia on the lines of the Polish-
American Congress in the United States.
He went to great lengths to stress that
his association was not connected with
the A.L.P. However, it seems that most
of its members in South Australia sup-
port the A.L.P., and a Polish lawyer told
The Bulletin that its constitution closely
resembles that of the Labor party.
The elections themselves took up little
time. Candidates were unopposed, and
soon Dr M. Bialoguski was installed as
the State president. It turned out that
the vital position of the State secretary
was already filled by Mr J. Piotrowski,
the association’s official N.S.W. agent
who had been appointed to the post by
the Federal Executive.
Before Senator Ormonde could say
“boo,” he was elected the junior State
vice-president—a post occupied by
Senator Drury in South Australia. The
other positions were quickly filled—a Mr
Sawczuk became the senior State vice-
president, Miss Arabella Kinsky, an
attractive 23-year-old Australian blonde
fresh from Europe, was made the State
treasurer, and two young Australians
were named State organisers. That was
about as many as could be elected with
the numbers present, and it was
announced that ten more members of the
executive will be co-opted in due course.
And then a strange thing happened.
Senator Ormonde, who was invited along
by Senator Drury and came with the best
of intentions, had not previously met
Dr Bialoguski. He casually strolled over
to The Bulletin’s correspondent and
asked who was Dr Bialoguski. Upon
being told that this was the Bialoguski,
the Senator became rather upset and
quit on the spot. His resignation was
faster than even his election ten minutes
earlier. “I don’t want to see an Ormonde-
Bialoguski unity ticket,” he said. Dr
Bialoguski remained unperturbed and
was all smiles. “I wonder why so many
people seem scared of me? I am not
scared of them,” he remarked blandly.
Although the organisers had taken
great pains to dissociate themselves
from political affiliations, and had most
emphatically denied the damaging rumors
that they had at one stage invited a
representative of the Polish Consulate
General, the Polish community remained
aloof and cautious. Nothing was
reported in the Polish press and very
little elsewhere. The association may find
the going hard.
PETROL STATIONS
Hours af the Bowsers
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
A rival organisation is challenging the
43-year-old Victorian Automobile
Chamber of Commerce for the right to
act as spokesman for the retailing side
of the motor industry. The new group
is the Service Station Association of Aus-
tralia and the man behind it is Mr R. P.
Kerrison. who operates an Atlantic ser-
vice station at St Kilda. Although it has
only been formed a few weeks, Mr Kerri-
son claims his S.S.A.A. has 500 mem-
bers and says that contact with a wide
cross section of garage proprietors
reveals more than 90 per cent, support
for it. His critics say they doubt
whether he has more than 100 members.
One group which has a close interest
in the politics of the automobile industry
claims that a survey conducted at the
cost of 32 man-days revealed only 26
members of the S.S.A.A. in the metro-
politan area.
The programme of the new organisa-
tion largely centres around the question
of hours. Mr Kerrison considers that
lack of attention by the Victorian Auto-
mobile Chamber of Commerce to the
needs of service station owners has re-
suited in this section of the industry
becoming “a rat race with many men
working up to 77 hours a week to get
a basic wage.” Mr Kerrison’s Associa-
tion would like to have hours rationalised
and the permit system for extra trading
hours, Sunday openings and staggered
hours abolished. The goal would be
8 a.m. to 7 p.m. weekdays and 8 a.m.
to 1 p.m. Saturdays, making a 60-hour
week. Other planks in his programme
include a rise in the present s|d. a
gallon profit margin on petrol
Mr Kerrison, a one-time Victorian and
Australian sales manager for the B.F.
Goodrich tyre people, has been expelled
from the V.A.C.C. for forming the break-
away group. Mr L. Armstrong, the
V.A.C.C. general secretary, says his
organisation is not unduly worried by its
rival, but it has sent out a circular warn-
ing its members not to react “to
specious approaches which are being
made to them . .


The 4000 or so members of the
V.A.C.C. are engaged in all forms of
retail activities in the industry—running
service stations, panel beating, tow-
truck services, engineering repairing,
right up to the sale of new and second-
hand vehicles. With a modern three-storey
headquarters in St Kilda Road, £297,578
of members’ funds and a comprehensive
array of legal, technical, insurance,
business and other services provided to
members, the V.A.C.C. need not feel
any serious challenge from Mr Kerrison.
In many respects, his programme, par-
ticularly in relation to trading hours,
closely resembles that of the V.A.C.C.
Hours are a matter for the State Govern-
ment and the V.A.C.C. has pressed for
some time for legislative action to tidy
up the present chaotic situation. Where
it has failed, the infant S.S.A.A. is hardly
likely to succeed.
Mr Kerrison's strongest talking point
is the relatively small representation
given to service station operators in the
affairs of the V.A.C.C. Attempts to have
the V.A.C.C. constitution amended to
increase the say of the numerous and
growing service station division have
failed in the past because of the opposi-
tion of the other sections of the trade,
The chamber's constitution also provides
that any member joining a rival organisa-
tion shall be expelled.
X-raying the Tasmanians
FROM F. G. N. EWENCE IN TASMANIA
Tasmania can consider that it is
winning its long fight with tubercu-
losis. Its biggest weapon has been the
compulsory annual x-ray examination
Naturally, Tasmania has an advantage
over other States which do not have
compulsory tests.
First years of the mass x-ray survey
disappointed most Tasmanians as more
cases were notified annually. It wasn’t
that there were more cases of the disease,
but, obviously, that more were being
discovered. Having discovered the
sufferers, they knew, they could reduce
the incidence throughout the population.
In 1946, 218 new cases of TB were
notified in Tasmania. In 1951, after
x-raying began, 238 cases were detected.
No appreciable reduction occurred until
1957, but since then there has been a
steady decline. In 1960, only 128 new
cases were reported, and Premier Reece
has just announced that in the year
ended on June 30 only 100 had been
notified.
TB deaths, the Premier said in his
State-wide broadcast, had dropped ftom
128 in 1946 to 18 in 1960, despite an
increase in the population from 260,000
to 357,000.
There is the certainty, too, that the
rate of decrease will compound as
sources of infection are weeded out.
Former Minister fcr Health, R. J. D.
Turnbull, who was largely responsible
for instituting the scheme, commented
that the x-raying had achieved equally
spectacular results in the war against
other diseases. For every TB case found,
Dr Turnbull said, 14 other sufferers
from some lung condition or another
had been discovered Hydatids of the
lung was prominent among the diseases
detected He added: “For every case of
TB discovered by the mass x-ray, there
is also one case of cancer of the lung.”
Dr Turnbull said that it would
“more correct to say that the Govern-
ment in 1950 had no intention of intro-
ducing compulsion, but had been forced
to do so.”
Initially there was much public resis-
tance, but Health Departmental tact in
dealing with defaulters and those
dilatory in having their annual check
diminished the opposition. Today, the
annual x-ray is accepted by most people
as a routine affair, with no bothersome
aspects. One complaint is that those
attending for their x-ray have to give
name, address and age in the hearing of
others, and there are those who do not
like public announcements about their
age. However, as all are supposed to
attend in age groups, their presence re-
veals their vintage within a year or two.
Tasmania had a high incidence of TB
when the first chest clinics were opened
in Hobart and Launceston in 1937-38.
In 1944 the State began the system of
miniature-film x-raying on a voluntary
basis. Next year the first mobile unit
was set up.
Attendance at the survey centre: in
Launceston and Hobart was mad: com-
pulsory in 1950, ar J in the following
year compulsion was extended to country
people when the mobile units visited
their town or district.
Routine tuberculin testing of all school
children was begun in 1955. It has,
according to Mr Reece, provided an
accurate yardstick to measure the success
of the whole campaign. It is accepted
that reduction of “reactors” in the school
group to 4 per cent, or less means that
the disease is satisfactorily under control.
“But in Tasmanian schools, reactors now
average between 1 and 24 per cent.,” Mr
Reece said.
The Commonwealth Director-General
of Health has not been able to report
any sustained national reduction in the
number of newly notified cases of TB,
but the decline in Tasmania is clearly
indicating that the fight against the
disease can be won. Perhaps oth:r S tes,
in the light of Ta* ania’s experience,
may institute compulsory tests.
UNIONS
Communists
v. Leftists
From MUGGA
Tt often happens that the Communists’
A most bitter attacks are reserved for
Leftists—a the 8000 members of the
Victorian branch of the Building
Workers’ Industrial Union are now
learning. They are being bombarded
with roneoed leaflets and word-of-mouth
stories that their leaders are guilty of
such crimes as Trotskyism, revisionism,
and Titoism. According to the stories,
the leaders they have known for years
just as militant unionists, are being
linked up with everybody from
McCarthy and Trotsky to Santamaria.
The reason for the propaganda bom-
bardment is that during November, 300
positions within the union are to be
voted for. The power-struggle is be-
tween a group of left-wingers, and the
Communist party. There are no National
Civic Council tickets to confuse the
members and largely because of this,
the election is one of the most unusual
held in any Australian union for years.
In 1948 when it was controlled by the
Communist party the 8.W.1.U. was de-
registered by the Arbitration Court for
holding a series of illegal strikes. A.L.P,
industrial groups made little or no im-
pression on the control of the union and
as a consequence the Australian Society
of Carpenters and Joiners was formed.
The A.S.C. and J’s membership is com-
posed mainly of “middle-of-the-road”
A.L.P men, D.L.P. members, and the
normal “non-party” members.
For the elections the Communist frac-
tion has stood C.P. member Ron Hearn
against the present Assistant-Secretary
A.L.P. member, Alf Zeeno. It has
organised a so-called “united militant
leadership” team with an A.L.P. man
W. Workman opposing the mild-man-
nered Socialist Secretary Joe Chandler.
Other A.L.P. unity ticket-men, Ray
Murray and R. Bradbury are standing
against organisers Ray Collins and Geoff
McDonald, who was expelled from the
Victorian Communist party last year for
wanting an open discussion of Sino-
Soviet differences
The resumption of Soviet nuclear tests
has possibly ruined what slight chances
the Communist party had of capturing
control from the Left-wing Socialists.
The 8.W.1.U. State management com-
mittee was the first (and possibly only)
union to condemn the resumption of
Soviet nuclear tests. But no one expects
the Communist party members of the
union to openly blame Mr Khrushchev
for their expected defeat.


IMMIGRATION
The Melbourne Touch
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
R. G. MENZIES
A song?
/“vpposition to White Australia ideas
is already a long-established tradi-
tion among Melbourne students and they
have now declared war on both the
Labor and Liberal parties on this ques-
tion. A recent meeting of close on 800
Melbourne University students set the
ball rolling by electing a “Student
Action’’ Committee to harrass Messrs
Menzies and Calwell during their Federal
election campaigns, both of which will
be launched in Melbourne. Since then
delegates from the Royal Melbourne
Institute of Technology have joined the
committee and it is expected that Monash
University will link up this week.
Before electing the committee of 18
the Melbourne Uni ersity meeting dis-
cussed at length methods to be employed
against Government and Opposition. A
division between moderates and militants
was soon apparent and some wild ideas
were tossed around. Some students
favored demonstrations inside the meet-
ings at which the party leaders were
speaking. Another suggestion was to
compose an anti-racialist song to be
sung during the Menzies-Calvell policy
speeches and thus “gate-crashed” on to
the national broadcast of the meetings.
One of the most devilish proposals was
to seat students with transistor radios
in the front rows at the meetings. With
these tuned to the broadcast and directed
towards the speakers’ microphone, the
horrible banshee howl of amplifier feed-
back would result, wrecking the broad-
cast.
The moderate suggestions included the
nomination of a Senate candidate on an
anti-white Australia policy and the
preparation of a film of student demon-
strations against the policy. As a step
towards the latter, the Melbourne Uni-
versity meeting was filmed and tape-
recorded.
Publicity given to some of the wilder
suggestions at the meeting left the im-
pression that organised hordes of
students were going to disrupt the open-
ing of the Federal elections campaigning
in Melbourne. The “Herald,” which is
consistently critical of the Government’s
actions with regard to Asian migrants,
issued a stern rebuke to the students.
“University students will do nothing
more than make a public nuisance of
themselves if they act on the proposal
for the organised interruption of Federal
election meetings as a protest against the
racial policies of both Government and
Opposition. A campaign of jeers and
obstruction can win no change in the
immigration code . . .”
Two letters which appeared in the
“Herald” after this editorial indicated
the varying lines of approach among the
students. Mr John Paterson, Treasurer
of the Students' Representative Council,
defended the extremist position. “Demo-
cratic government depends on effective
opposition,” he wrote. "If the normal
avenues are closed, then people of
conscience are forced to take action
which should not normally be neces-
sary.” However, Mr Rodney Fisher,
writing for the “Student Action” Com-
mittee, denied that organised disruption
was planned 1 . “The weapons of irration-
ality are not a satisfactory challenge to
the irrationality and immorality of the
White Australia policy.” Students would
confine their campaign to the orthodox
means of questions, pamphlets and
posters.
Since then the “Student Action” Com-
mittee has had its first meeting. Its
members include activists from the
A.L.P. Club, the Liberal Club, the
Newman Society and the Rationalist
Society—a pretty fair indication of the
way the movement cuts across all
political and religious frontiers at Mel-
bourne University. The committee came
down solidly in favor of non-disruptionist
methods, it plans to picket the main
election meetings and distribute leaflets,
question the speakers and if possible
run a Senate candidate on an anti-White
Australia plank. Despite the overlap of
the election campaigns with the examina-
tions, it is confident it will have enough
volunteers to make an impact on public
opinion.
While students in other Australian
cities are also racially tolerant, the White
Australia issue undoubtedly generates
most feeling and activity in Melbourne.
It cannot be called a controversy, for the
reason that there is virtually no support
for existing Asian migration policies
among students. Meetings of the
National Union of Australian University
Students usually find the Melbourne
delegates pressing strongly for condem-
nation of present Government attitudes
towards Asian migration. Student
leaders from other States tend to shy
off the issue on the ground that it
is “political’' and hence outside the
National Union’s scope.
The reasons for Melbourne’s near-
unanimous radicalism are far from clear.
The main university has about 400
Asian students and these have been a
feature of the scene for at least ten
years, many having been elected to
leading student positions. But this is
equally true of other Australian univer-
sities where Asian students have dis-
tinguished themselves in everything from
exhibition-winning to beer-drinking con-
tests. Possibly the benign attitude of
the Melbourne press has something to
do with it, the “Herald” being particu-
larly sensitive that racial episodes could
damage Australia's relations with Asian
countries. There has never been in Mel-
bourne a daily paper like the old Sydney
“Mirror” which for many years actively
fomented race hatred.
Again, it was a group of Melbourne
University people who formed the
Immigration Reform Committee which
brought a set of completely new ideas
to bear on the Asian migration issue.
Its initial pamphlet set out a well-
reasoned case against existing policies
and did much to lift the question out of
the realm of emotional do-goodery. It
did not urge a quota system on the
American pattern (the usual alternative
to present policies) but argued that
migration from Asian countries should
be placed on the same basis as from
European countries and subjected to the
same checks and balances.
International House, in Royal Parade,
is another symbol of belief in racial
tolerance, bringing together in one resi-
dential college students from Asia,
Europe and Australia. In the 'fifties a
lot of student energy went into raising
money for International House, indicat-
ing that they see the issue of racial
tolerance not merely as a matter of
knocking the main political parties,
riotously or otherwise. Nor is it entirely
a matter of Asian migration the
“Student Action” Committee intends to
bring the treatment of aborigines into
its forthcoming campaign.
THE PERTH GAMES
Behind Schedule
FROM A PERTH CORRESPONDENT
TThe shadow of Olympic czar Avery
Brundage stalked down stately St
George’s Terrace last week as the inevit-
able storm broke over the Perth City
Council's announcement that the swim-
ming pool for the 1962 Commonwealth
Games would not be finished until three
months before their opening. Lord Mayor
Sir Harry Howard brought out the com-
parison with Melbourne’s Olympic
Games himself when he defended his
council’s timetable by pointing out that
the Melbourne pool was not ready until
after the games started. “They’re mak-
ing a very big noise,” he said testily after


"ISN'T HE MODERATE? HE HARDLY MENTIONED BERLIN."


Games Organising Council secretary
Jack Howson and Australian Amateur
Swimming Union president H. B. Hicks-
Ives had both protested strongly against
the timing of the pool’s construction.
Perth Town Clerk I. Mcl. Green, who
designed the pool as his last major archi-
tectural project before his retirement,
caused the storm when he announced that
the pool construction would take longer
and would be more than twice as expen-
sive as his previous estimates. The pool
will now cost £615,000 without allow-
ance for overtime against the original
estimate of £250,000. Mr Green said the
increased cost was due to many causes,
among them the need to change the site
of the pool from Kings Park.
Mr Green came out second best when
he claimed that the council had never
promised to finish the pool by March.
Mr Howson promptly produced a letter
from Green in which he stated it was
“possible to forecast that the pools would
be completed by March, 1962.” Howson
said there was now no point in following
up the W.A. Amateur Swimming Asso-
ciation’s application to have the games
swimming trials held in Perth. Sir
Harold Anderson, chairman of the Aus-
tralian and British Empire and Com-
monwealth Games Association, said he
was staggered by the news. “Perth got
the games only because it guaranteed that
all venues, including the pool, would be
in working order at least several months
before the games opened on November
22, 1962,” he said.
Perhaps the most ominous comment
came from Mr E. S. Saw, president of the
City of Perth Ratepayers’ Association.
He said his association would be holding
a meeting soon and the question of the
cost of the pool would almost certainly
be raised.
“ ‘Do you imagine for one minute ,' I said, ‘that
my directors Would sacrifice the independence of
our enterprise for your glittering takeover offer?' ”
“Dear sirs, In accepting your generous proposal,
my directors instruct me to..."
STRIKES
The Mt Isa "Lock-out"
From John Higgins in Brisbane
'T'he facts in relation to the Mt Isa dis-
pute which closed the copper and
lead mines down over four weeks ago
are relatively simple. All employees of
Mt Isa mines (total 3500-odd) enjoy a
weekly bonus of £8 a week. Average
wage for laborers under this system is
£25 9s. 4d. for a 40-hour week, and con-
siderably more for the majority of mar-
ginal employees because of penalty rates,
overtime, contract shifts, and so on. The
bonus originally began as a“lead bonus,”
and reached extraordinary proportions
because of somersaulting world lead
prices. It was then extended to cover all
employees. In addition the company set
a sensational main in the way of ameni-
ties for its staff. It even imported sea-
sand to build a beach at its own dam,
where boating and swimming reaches
Bondi proportions (without surf, of
course). Nearby is a company barbecue
area, and a magnificent company child-
ren’s playground. There’s free pictures
for all and one of the best industrial
cafeterias in Australia. One can pay the
union answer to all this—it is needed if
you have to work in a mine, Daddy, and
if you have to live in the back-of-beyond
at Mt Isa. Nevertheless, it’s there.
Last year Mt Isa made a profit of more
than £5 million. The A.W.U., to which
the majority of the employees belongs,
lodged a claim with the Industrial Court
for an increase in the bonus to £25 a
week. The craft unions applied for
£26 14s. At the time a new Arbitration
and Concilliation Act was going through
Parliament, so the court adjourned the
hearing. The new Act allowed employers
to approach the court for a reduction of
a bonus—but refused unions the right to
apply for an increase in the bonus, the
type of curious thinking one expect from
Deputy Premier and Labor and Industry
Minister Ken Morris. This has been the
only round won by the unions in their
knock-down drag-out blue with Mt Isa.
It was the sort of head-I-win-tails-you-
lose (employer angle) legislation that is
almost automatically guaranteed to start
trouble.
The unions retaliated with a series of
bush-lawyer tactics which hit Mt Isa pro-
duction seriously. The A.W.U., right-
wing and pro-arbitration (normally), set
about erecting a test case on the right to
strike under the new Act. As the ballot
was completed, in favor of strike action,
the minority craft unions put on a half-
day stoppage. Mt Isa Mines by this
time had really had it. They closed their
doors and said the doors would not be
reopened until all unions agreed to work
to their existing awards.
The unions screamed lock-out. Senior
Industrial Commissioner Harvey ruled
against them. Since then 2600 employees
have been out of work. The belching
smokestacks, visible for 100 miles, have
snuffed out. Hire-purchase company
representatives are muscling in to Aus-
tralia’s wealthiest town with repossession
orders bulging their brief cases. There
has been a whisper that the unions might
have been satisfied with a bonus of £ll a
week instead of £25 or £26 —which makes
one wonder why they did not ask for that
in the first place. Their original request
would have cost the company more than


£2l million a year, or half their recent
profit.
In a press advertisement Mt Isa, com-
menting on union references to its profits,
pointed out that it had spent £25,500,000
in the last five years, and intended to
spend £21,500,000 over the next four
years: “Increased profit is the expected
and natural corollary of this investment
which is making such a tremendous con-
tribution to the increase of Australia’s
export income, in the development of
industry in Queensland and in providing
secure and continuous employment for
the company’s employees and many
others.”
Under the present circumstances, and
in the foreseeable future there would be
no increase in the £8 a week bonus,
the statement continued. This did not
mean that there would never be an
increase. The company, under the pre-
sent circumstances, did not intend to
apply for a reduction of the bonus. It
was continually reviewing award condi-
tions —but “it is the responsibility of its
senior officers and the board of directors
to determine when and in what form
such improvements will take.” In other
words, Mt Isa, phenomenally successful,
a world-standard company from a hill-
billy State, industrially speaking, has
decided that it is going to keep on run-
ning its own affairs.
The craft unions reply in its counter-
advertisement made one solitary point
about Mr Morris’s legislation, and for
the rest of it a querulous complaint that
“major benefits go to shareholders, direc-
tors and highly paid company officials”
(tut, tut!), and another complaint about
Mt Isa refusing a union request to allow
a State Auditor-General’s officer access
to their books, presumably on behalf of
the unions.
Meanwhile unionists have lost nearly
£300,000 in pay, and many miners are
leaving Mt Isa for jobs on the Snowy
Mountains scheme. Already firms de-
pendent on Mt Isa in other towns such as
Townsville are putting men off.
M.P.'S LOANS
A Chance For The Common Informer
FROM JOHN HIGGINS IN BRISBANE
'T'here was a purposeful air about Tas-
mania’s Parliament House this week
as members busied themselves to confirm
seven of their fellows in their constitu-
tionally threatened seats. The first hint
of the members’ political peril was
dropped several weeks ago when a Minis-
ter in course of debate mentioned that
he had a loan from the State’s Agricul-
tural Bank. Opposition Leader Angus
Bethune sensed the point, and privately
conferred with Attorney-General Roy
Fagan, who asked for time to consider
the implications of the Minister’s state-
ment in light of Section 33 of the Con-
stitution Act, which expressly forbids, on
pain of disqualification, any member
from entering into contractual arrange-
ments “for or on account of the public
service.” He shall, the Act provides, be
liable to “forfeit £5OO to be recovered
by any person who shall sue in any
court of competent jurisdiction” should
he continue to sit in either House when
disqualified. Mr. Fagan’s inquiries re-
vealed that seven members, at least, were
affected, though in all innocence and only
technically. Some had subsequently
repaid loans, but were still constitu-
tionally liable.
Though Mr Fagan did not name them,
the Tasmanian newspapers reported that
the members were: Chief Secretary
Connolly, M.L.C.; Minister for Agricul-
ture Atkins, M.H.A.; Barnard (Labor
M.H.A.); Wedd (Independent M.H.A.);
Brown (Independent M.L.C.); Fenton
(Independent M.L.C.); and Bramich
(Liberal M.H.A. and former Labor
Minister).
Innocent in intent they may have been,
but palpable ignorance of the Constitu-
tion had put them in a dangerous spot,
and there was feverish, if hushed, dis-
cussion in party rooms and odd corners.
Unfortunately for them, Mr Fagan was
"I believe in peaceful co-existentialism !”
slow in preparing validating legislation
and was away from the House last
Wednesday when the pressmen got on to
the story.
Mr. Reece and Mr. Bethune took the
unusual action of asking the newspapers
to withhold their stories until the fol-
lowing day, so that the legislation might
be introduced and a full statement made.
The newspapers took the even more
unusual course of agreeing to the request,
primarily because the whole legislative
programme of the Government, already
badly behind schedule, would have other-
wise been disrupted.
It was at this stage that former Trea-
surer and Minister for Health Dr R. J. D.
Turnbull, now an Independent, stepped
in on the adjournment of the House.
Though nowadays a somewhat infre-
quent visitor to Parliament, he could
scarcely have been unaware of the buz-
zing going on in recent weeks, but it
seems that he was sparked off by the
opportunity to reveal what the Premier
had been as such pains to keep quiet.
Dr Turnbull, who has made the cliche
“stormy petrel of Tasmanian politics”
almost a second name for himself, obvi-
ously enjoyed dropping his brick. The
Premier, he said, had acted despicably
in requesting that the story should be
held over. “There seems to be a slight
delicacy of thought which would not have
occurred had all the offending people
been on one side of the House,” he
added. Furthermore, a Minister had used
his position to get priority over other
people in the queue for Agricultural
Bank homes. Was the Minister’s name
on the list before he entered Parliament,
and did he get precedence? If he had he
should resign, Dr Turnbull said.
Mr. Reece said that a bill was to have
been introduced that afternoon to vali-
date the members’ positions. He had
learned that the press was aware of the
situation, and had asked the newspapers
to refrain from publishing anything until
there had been a full discussion in Par-
liament next day. Mr Bethune had sup-
ported him.
It was unfortunate, Mr Reece said,
that Dr Turnbull “died hard in these
things.” The doctor was now seeking
cheap publicity to make up for his meagre
attendance at Parliament.
Mr Reece added that Parliament
would shortly be asked to consider
constitutional amendments to cover some
modern developments. The House of
Assembly in 1932 faced a somewhat
similar situation when several members,
including returned soldiers who had been
assisted by soldier settlement loans, were
found to be liable to disqualification.
Later a Liberal member who held a
school bus contract at the time of his
election was in danger of losing his seat.
On both occasions the members were
indemnified by special legislation.




PLAIN ENGLISH
SECURITY
THE Australian Security Service —
or to give it its full name, the
Australian Security Intelligence
Organisation —was formed in
1949 by Mr Chifley because he had
before him evidence that convinced
him that security measures in Australia
were inadequate, particularly in Dr
Evatt’s External Affairs Department.
Exactly what this organisation has done
since it was formed is necessarily
known to only a few people, although
there was convincing evidence before
the Petrov Commission that by 1954
improved security had made it impos-
sible for the Russians to acquire infor-
mation from the External Affairs De-
partment. although they were still try-
ing.
It is a damnable thing in a democ-
racy that it should be necessary to
safeguard against espionage or sub-
version in the interests of a foreign
Power by methods that are secret, but
it is not at all unusual. What is
unusual is that in the English-speaking
democracies the extent of security
needed is now greater than it has been
since at least the 18th century because
our principal potential enemies main-
tain within our national boundaries
large-scale fifth columns of our own
nationals. This has happened in other
democracies in recent years, particu-
larly those that were immediately
threatened by the Nazis, but to many
English-speaking people used to guard-
ing their liberties mainly from their
own Governments, there is still some-
thing so unusual in a threat of final
disaster that they prefer not to believe
it, or forget about it, or continue to be
concerned with civil liberty only in a
narrow sense that excludes the possible
destruction of all liberty.
The details of Communist espionage
are becoming comparatively well
chronicled. The Canadian and Aus-
tralian Royal Commissions on Espion-
age have provided systematic examina-
tions of techniques: this material has
been extended by reports of the trials
of Hiss, the Rosenbergs, Greenglass,
Abel, Fuchs, Nunn May, Houghton.
Gee, the Krogers. Blake and others;
and the flitting to Communist countries
of men such as Burgess. Maclean,
Pontecorvo and Melbourne University’s
own lan Milnar have been a reminder
of the possible effects of lax security
screening.
v
ABUSING SECURITY
TYESPITE these well-known facts,
public discussion about the Security
Service in Australia is usually con-
cerned more with the wish to destroy
the Security Service, or to inhibit its
work (which can be much the same
thing) rather than with the wish to see
it operating efficiently. One expects
the Communists and their immediate
collaborators to want to kill the
Security Service; one also expects this
from those liberals who are still fight-
ing the battles of the 17th, 18th and
19th centuries. Where it becomes more
difficult to draw lines is with the body
of people who, though accepting the
need for a safeguard against both the
external and internal enemies of liberty,
put forward marginal doubts. Some
reasonably wish to make sure that the
use of a Security Service is not grossly
abused; some even seem to demand
that it never be abused, that is to say.
that nothing should ever go wrong.
“The Bulletin” is among those who
do not wish to see a Security Service
grossly abused; and so. there is reason
to believe, are the Government and
the men who run the Security Service.
How such a service is used depends
finally on the whole climate of opinion
within the elites of a nation, and we do
not believe that decision-making Aus-
tralians are as yet so contemptuous of
ordinary decencies that flagrant viola-
tion of the Security Service’s trust is
possible. But to accept this is not to
demand that nothing should ever go
wrong. This is purely a question of
marginal cases, but if the main aim in
these cases is never to make mistakes
that will unjustly harm the individual,
if the principal marginal concern is
with the individual’s rights rather than
with the State’s interests, the result may
be an inefficient security system. This
blunt statement may shock some
people; it does not come from a desire
to see mistakes made or an indifference
to their results but from acceptance of
the fact that all policies of any kind are
going to be at least marginally imper-
fect in practice and it is a question of
which way the imperfection will be
built in.
In this first of two articles on the
Security Service we shall consider only
the possible effects of security measures
on an individual’s employment in the
Government service. Next week we
shall consider migration control,
naturalisation and the relation of the
Security Service to the community
generally.
FIRST ABUSE: UNTRUE
EVIDENCE
CO far as Government jobs are con-
cerned. there are two main possible
abuses: the evidence that Security has
obtained may be untrue: and the infer-
ences the Government has drawn from
even true evidence may be invalid. The
first would be the fault of the Security
Service itself, the second the fault of
the Government.
A Security Service that gets its facts
wrong is a bad Security Service; but
this is more easily stated than remedied
because the kinds of “facts” in which
Security must deal are not necessarily
the kind that would be admissible evi-
dence in a court case or that can be
conclusively collaborated. To demand
collaborated admissible evidence in all
cases would make a Security Service
unworkable. In practical affairs men
make decisions on whatever evidence
they can get; they do not necessarily
defer decisions until they have col-
laborated admissible evidence because
it may be impossible to get it.
What can be done about this? One
suggestion is that a judge, used to sort-
ing facts out, should be at the head of
the service. This is a thoughtless sug-
gestion. The main job of the head of
a Security Service is to run it. to adopt
policies and get staff who are going to
provide a supply of relevant facts;
most judges, with no previous admini-
strative experience, would be ill-
equipped to run an organisation as diffi-
cult as a Security Service; even if they
had the ability it would be as adminis-
trators, not judges, that they would run
it. The head of a fact-getting service
must be primarily concerned with get-
ting facts, not checking them—although
he must then arrange that the facts are
checked. A more practical suggestion
is that there should be within the
Security Service a formal assessing tri-
bunal that would examine evidence on
which action was contemplated. /But. if
too formalised, this might inhibit the
Security Service; it might become too
concerned with satisfying the tribunal
rather than with obtaining whatever
evidence it can get, which is its real
job.
The best we can suggest is that the
person in the Government administra-
tion who is going to make a decision on
evidence presented by the Security
Service should finally be responsible for
satisfying himself about the evidence,
with the assistance of independently-
minded assessors in his department if
he needs them. The responsibility for
decision must lie in the administration,
not the Security Service, otherwise the
service is given an executive role with
which it should not be embarrassed.
If the evidence seems inconclusive
he should press for more evidence; if
it cannot be obtained he must make up
his mind, but here he might use sliding
scales of standards of evidence. If the
position being considered is compara-
tively unimportant he might require a
high standard of evidence; if the ques-
tion to be decided is of very great im-
portance, for safety’s sake, he might
have to act on a very low standard of
evidence.
This may involve injustices to indi-
viduals, but. so does any employment or
promotion policy. In employing staff,
or promoting executives, one often—
perhaps always—acts a little in the
dark, on insufficient evidence. It would
be an extraordinary state of affairs if we
continued to risk injustice in making
decisions about a man’s ability, tem-
perament, energy, initiative and so on
(and how can we avoid this?) but
always gave him the benefit of the
doubt and employed or promoted him
because he was a possible security risk.
SECOND ABUSE: WRONG
INFERENCES
TN considering the inferences for Gov-
ernment employment policies of
Security reports it is often, perhaps
usually, forgotten what the Govern-
ment or Security are looking for. They
are not looking only for card-carrying
Communists or foreign agents; they are
mainly looking for the kind of people
who might, for a variety of reasons,
become accomplices of Communists cr
foreign agents. It is a • question of
preventing trouble even more than of
detecting it. They are trying to stop
the employment in important positions
in the Government service of the kind
of people who are most likely to engage
in espionage or in certain kinds of
policy-making. Certain kinds of homo-
sexuals and womanisers
may be poor security risks because they
can be blackmailed. Along with
drunkards, they are also likely to be
indiscreet. Compulsive spendthrifts
may also be bad risks because they
might desperately need money.
But also within the range of potential
risks are a whole range of political
leftists. The fact that a man has left
the Communist party, or is known to
have been refused entrance into it, does
not in itself prove anything: both of
these techniques are used when a Com-
munist goes underground. For this
reason it is not senseless for the Security
Service to pay special attention to
people in these categories or for the
Government to refuse to employ a man
if it cannot satisfy itself that his depar-
ture from the party or his public rejec-
tion by it is not a hoax. Men who regu-
larly mix with Communists through
their own choice or men who have a
“no-enemies-to-the-left outlook” are
perhaps the worst risks of all; a Gov-
ernment might very well refuse to em-
ploy them in certain positions simply
on evidence of this—although there
could be special factors that should
first be looked for.
When occasional cases are made
public one is not made acquainted with
all the facts. Personal factors—homo-
sexuality, drunkenness, improvidence
and so on—are quite properly not made
public. Previous party membership, or
alleged rejection, or association with
Communists, or tolerance of them may
be known: but their significance is not
stressed and a public that feels that
evidence of active party membership is
just about the only reason for assum-
ing someone to be a security risk
decides that an unjust decision has been
made by some McCarthyist in office.
How can cases of this kind be treated
as public matters? The suggestion is
often made that those whose Govern-
ment employment is affected by
security reports should be told the exact
nature of the charge levelled against
them and that they should at least be
allowed to prove their innocence, per-
haps in front of some kind of tribunal.
One sympathises with the motives of
those who wish for this, but what would
be its effects in practice?
The kinds of reasons why people
become bad security risks are so mani-
fold and on the face of it are often so
trivial that a possible result would be
a weakening of security screening.
Appeals tribunals are allowed in the
United Kingdom; they may not be
unconnected with the appalling negli-
gence of security measures regularly
made evident in that country. A too
great concern with justification and
form may so inhibit security-minded-
ness that a homosexual drunkard
neurotic with Communist friends
such as Burgess is just left to do
what he likes in the Foreign Office until
he decides to go to Russia; or a heavy
drinker and spender such as Houghton,
who was known to have been a black-
marketeer in Warsaw and an associate
of Polish and Russian Communists is '
sent back to England by the Royal
Navy and then drafted to a secret naval
research station.


WILLIAM DOBELL
The Scared Genius
By BERNARD HESLING
NOT long ago it was definitely unfashionable for a
first-rank painter to achieve success in his own life-
time. Daumier, Van Gogh, Cezanne, Gaugin.
Rousseau, in fact almost every important painter of
last century lived and died in semi-obscurity. It was always
the people to whom they had given a canvas in lieu of rent
who collected the big money.
Today the discovery process is speeded up. Henry
Moore, John Piper, Bratby, Sutherland, Nolan and Drysdale
have been making a decent living for years. We cannot
even leave Gleghorn for posterity to find. Indeed, it is a
symptom of our age that youth and newness are immedi-
ately acceptable, if not to the great public then certainly
to the experts.
If few contemporaries of Van Gogh understood him.
even fewer contemporaries of the ten artists competing for
the Rubinstein scholarship at the N.S.W. Gallery under-
stand their work, but that is no matter. Today we appoint
people to understand, to judge, to award. All the public
has to do is to accept the decision and to clap their hands.
William Dobell, born at Newcastle, N.S.W., in 1899,
and the world's top portrait painter, is so acknowledged
in his own lifetime. Had he been born in 1930 the chances
are that laurels would have come to him 20 years sooner.
When Dobell returned to Australia in 1939 he was as
capable as he is today yet almost unknown. His canvases
could be bought for £l2 12s. for a small one (even I bought
one) to about £6O for a painting like “The Red Lady”—
although nobody bought the big ones. Most of Dobell’s
patrons at this time were either friends or friends of friends
who, after poking around Dobell’s studio and coming across
an odd canvas behind the what-not, would ask: “How
much you want for this, Bill?” Usually Bill would say.
“Ah, that’s not finished.” Whereupon the would-be pur-
chaser, having discovered what Bill would want for it
when it was finished, would pay up and take it home with
him.
The large canvases were never (according to Dobell)
anywhere near finished, and so price—in money—-was diffi-
cult to come by. Norman Schureck, to save Bill any
embarrassment about money, is reputed to have slipped the
watch from his gold Albert and left it on the mantelpiece
as payment, and Walter Magnus once came across with a
dinner service, complete with gravy boats, as payment.
TyILLIAM DOBELL was born at Cook’s Hill, Newcastle.
His father was a bricklayer who liked to draw cats, and
at one time he must have painted, as there hangs in Bill’s
weekend cottage at Wangi (Lake Macquarie) a picture of a
full-rigged sailing ship, also by Dobell Senior. However,
one sailing ship to hang over the mantelpiece seems to have
been the beginning and the end of Dobell Senior’s interest
in art, for young Bill maintains that he received no
encouragement whatever from his family.
At Cook’s Hill Public School, where Dobell went at the
usual age, the only subjects he was any good at were dicta-
tion and drawing. He even won a prize for the latter with
a still-life entitled “Banana.” Unfortunately, the banana
was also the prize, and, as Bill says, it didn’t go very far,
as he had too many friends to share it with. The only other
prize he won at school, and one of which he is not proud,
was for good conduct. “I was more scared than good,” he
protests.
This being scared is a trait that persists in Dobell to
this day. only now he calls it being worried. “It’s got me
worried,” is about the only answer you get from Dobell when
you ask about any painting he is working on. I once watched
him working on Lord Wakehurst. scrabbling about on His
Excellency's face with little short brushes like an old-time
grainer or marbler uses. “Before I met Lord Wakehurst.”
Bill mumbled, “everyone said. ‘Gee. you’ll love painting
him. Bill, He’s a big. red-faced chap right up your alley’;
and when 1 first met him my mind registered: ‘big. red-
faced chap,’ and yet whenever he comes here to sit he’s a
big, pale-faced chap —I’m worried.”
The Wakehurst portrait was the first work Bill did after
the famous portrait of Joshua Smith. He was obviously
thinking so hard of the label “caricaturist” at the time
that Wakehurst is a dummy—much better than any other
painter can do. but. for all that, a dummy. Only on the
medals did Bill really let himself go.
It was a schoolteacher, one John Walker, at Cook’s
Hill Public School, who first encouraged Dobell to perse-
vere with his drawing. He even maintained that there was
a good living in it. “I’d like you to mention him. if you can.
in this profile,” Dobell insisted. “There can't be many
country schoolteachers who are art conscious, and he cer-
tainly helped me a lot.”
By the time Dobell was 12 his mind was made up —
some job with drawing in it was what he wanted to do. He
already knew that he had a certain talent from the number
of ss. and 7s. 6d. prizes which his drawings won at the local
agricultural shows, but what jobs with drawing in are there
for a country boy to do?
Between the ages of 14 and 16 he had 12 jobs, includ-
ing those of office boy, window cleaner’s boy, packing-
room assistant and dog walloper (this last for a tailor who
stacked his rolls of gent’s natty suitings on the pavement
outside and employed Bill principally to stop the dogs
from getting too interested in them). When he was 16 his
parents apprenticed him to an architect in Newcastle, which
was the only job they could think of which had drawing in
it. He stayed there for eight years, until he was 24.
“Mind you, I never wanted to be a painter,” Dobell


explains. “1 only wanted to draw. My idea was to become
a black-and-white artist, do illustrations and advertising
work.” With this aim in view, he took a correspondence
art course, an expensive proceeding, as the terms of the
course involved the buying of large quantities of plaster
cubes and spheres, casts of hands, feet, Venuses de Milo
and arty figurines, all of which arrived C.O.D. in packing
cases. Some of the heavier specimens can still be found
functioning as doorstops in the Newcastle district.
tN 1923 Dobell’s boss died, and through a friend he
A managed to get a job in Sydney. I think it is safe to say
that had his boss not died he would still be in Newcastle,
for, except in paint, Dobell is a notoriously unadventurous
person.
In Sydney Dobell worked as an architectural draughts-
man, catalogue illustrator and designer of roof-tiles for
Wunderlichs, and fellow-draughtmen who worked with him
have told me (not for publication, of course) that Bill was
a good bloke, but as a designer of tiles, etc., he was not
so hot.
He soon established himself at Julian Ashton’s Art
School, where, after drawing for three nights a week for
about a year, he was eventually prevailed upon to have a
dab at oil painting. Three years later he won the New
South Wales Travelling Art Scholarship.
An interesting point about the painting which won
for him the Travelling Scholarship is that it also won a
prize in an exhibition run by the State Theatre in Market
Street. (Stranger still, it was runner-up to a canvas by
Edwards, who will be remembered as one of the prime
battlers in the portrait-or-caricature combat.) This painting
still hangs in the foyer of the State Theatre.
With £5OO prize-money in his pocket, Dobell left for
London. For the first two years he was deliriously happy.
All he had to do was to remember to go to the bank occa-
sionally, and as there were always fellow-students about
who, for a consideration, were willing to remind him of
this, life was dead easy. During the first year he studied at
the Slade School, and at the various galleries and museums,
but during the second year he became more ambitious and
studied on the Continent, principally in Holland, where he
stayed with a man who claimed to be a cousin of Van
Gogh. It was at The Hague that he studied Rembrandt,
whom he claims as his greatest influence.
Speaking of the two years’ study which the prize money
is supposed to cover (it had to last Dobell much longer), he
says it is not the amount of painting you do that matters —
ii is the thinking and seeing. Most artists, unfortunately,
once they have equipped themselves with a style (a danger-
ous thing to have, anyway), use paint instead of thought.
The actual laying on of paint is important, too. Dobell,
like most students, was taught the orthodox way of paint-
ing. For oils he used hog-hair brushes, small ones for the
details, big ones to paint the large areas with. When you go
to his studio you see plenty of hog-hair brushes about, but
he rarely uses them now. They are presents from admirers
and people who wish to contribute in some way to his
success.
After seeing the paintings of Rembrandt, Bellini and,
countless other masters he figures he can get at what he
wants much better with other tools. Usually he uses small,
soft, sable brushes with which he strokes the paint on,
one color over another, achieving a wonderful depth and
transparency. That is why you can isolate a few inches
almost anywhere on a Dobell painting and it is interesting
in itself.
When the prize-money was finished Dobell had to
find some way of making a living. He was determined to
stay in Europe. And so he turned to commercial work.
He soon found for this he had to learn a completely new
technique, and instead of being able to dash off pages for
the “Tatler” and such like, as he had hoped, he realised he
was lucky to be doing a bit for '‘Peg’s Own” and the
Passing Show, ’ although he did make the big magazines
later.
£)URING all this time Dobell was painting, and as he be-
came more sure of his work he began to send in to the
various exhibitions. He had many paintings hung at the
Royal Academy, and as early as 1934 Connody, the famous
critic of “The Times,” described his work as the best in
that genre, a classification which included painters such as
George Clausen and many other famous R.A.’s. Dobell’s
Royal Academy notices should prove particularly interest-
ing to those people who regard him as an unspeakable
modern. Dobell first learnt to paint at Julian Ashton’s Art
School, and Julian Ashton was an academic painter of the
good old, but still old, academic tradition. Dobell could,
it he wanted, paint the blush on a grape, the sheen on a
peach, or even the transparent haze which is such a feature
of those r enormous paintings of the Blue Mountains with
the best of ’em. Added to this early training, we have
Dobell’s own inclination, which is towards the old in art
rather than the new. Superficially, Dobell’s work may
appear modern, but one has only to look into it and note
the careful composition, and the way the effects are
obtained, to realise how little he owes to contemporary
painting and how much to Rembrandt, Hogarth. Velasquez
even.
When, owing to the illness of his father, Dobell
returned to Australia in 1939 (he had always kept meaning
to return, but never seemed to get around to it), he found
himself almost unknown, although it would be a mistake
to think that his solid worth as a painter went unnoticed,
until 1944, when he suddenly won the Archibald Prize.
Within a few months of his return he was teaching Art
at the East Sydney Technical College, and sending in paint-
ings to the usual exhibitions, where the critics and con-
noisseurs generally, to give them their due, lost no time in
comparing him, with reservations, of course, to Daumier,
Hogarth and even Rembrandt.
By the time the N.S.W. Gallery made up its mind
about Dobell and gave him a show most of the works
exhibited were already sold. They have made sure of buying
his later work, but most of the early gems are in the hands
of friends and of odd bods who at some time or other were
taken along by these friends to Bill’s informal studio
parties.
Since those days Dobell has found good friends in
Frank and Thelma Clune, who not only watch over him in
social matters but make his toast and watch over him when
he is sick (Bill had a very serious operation about five years
ago) and see that he does not give his valuable work away,
for Dobell’s prices (when he can be nailed down) are now
over the thousand pounds mark.
TAOBBELL today is a public figure. He has long since
recovered from the dreadful time when he was forced to
think and talk about painting instead of being able to just
get cracking. The fact that two fellow-artists brought an
expensive legal case against him. seeking to show that
Joshua Smith was not a portrait but a caricature and thus
not eligible for the Archibald Prize, puzzled him a lot.
Imagine Dobell being forced to sit in court and listen to
this kind of thing:
Mr Kitto, K.C.C. (for the Gallery Trustees) asked Mr
James Macdonald, formerly Director of the Victorian
National Gallery, to define a portrait.)
MACDONALD: A portrait is a likeness recognisable by a
majority of those acquainted with the subject, which


yields a maximum of character of that subject, and it
must be certified by contemporaries of that subject as
being competent to reassure future generations of its
authenticity and resemblance . . .
MR KITTO: . . . Would you agree that there is an attempt
to suggest timidity in this picture of Joshua Smith?
MACDONALD: Well, he’s certainly not playing the part of
Invictus. He looks as if he’s been cornered by the New
York Police and beaten up with a piece of lead pipe.
And so the case went on.
A doctor said, “The portrait represents a man who has
died and dried up.” Macdonald said that Joshua looked as
though he had been steamed into his chair. James Young
said, “Why! Dobell’s given him a hare lip.” Lyndon
Dadswell said, “I’d like to hang the painting in my bed-
room.”
Then, in a gallows atmosphere worthy of Newgate, the
gaunt figure of Josh Smith was led forward to stand along-
side his portrait, and, by Heaven! if he isn’t like his portrait
then on that day he must have been made up to look like
it, for the resemblance was uncanny. Many of us were see-
ing Smith for the first time, and we felt sorry for him having
to go through this ordeal, but he needn’t have worried.
Distortion was in the picture certainly, but as Mr Kitto said,
“It is a genuine representation of a man suffering from ill-
health, whose spirit has not been defeated.” This was the
moment when W. E. Pidgeon turned to me in the press box
and asked, “Who is that old codger sitting up next to the
Judge?” I had asked the same question
earlier in the piece. It was—the Master-in-
Lunacy.
The way people rush after someone
merely because he is in the news used to
worry Dobell. Now meeting him at an art
show, where press photographers elbow Bill
out of the way in order to train their cameras
at some lesser light, he merely gives a broad
grin, but in 1944 he was terrified. I remem-
ber once during the case going with Bill and
five other people straight from the court to
the “Margeurite” for coffee, the five of us
surrounding him like standover men around
A 1 Capone. We had immediate attention,
and quite mysteriously for a whole year after that
even 1 got V.LP. service. I’d only to put my foot in the
door and coffee and doughnuts came sailing along. I took
Peter Bellew one time and he was so mystified by such
miraculous service (at a time when service could not be
expected) that he asked at the counter who they thought
1 was.
“That’s Mr Dobell, the gentleman you’re with,” they
said in hushed tones.
TAOBELL today travels the world painting famous people,
but when in Australia he spends his time either at the
old family shack on the shores of Lake Macquarie or at his
studio at Darling Point. Dobell is a friendly soul, always
glad for a natter, but you don’t get much work done when
you’re nattering and Darling Point is way off the beaten
track of odd bods like myself who used to drop in on him.
1 knew Dobell best when he lived at the Cross, a sociable
place 15 years ago, and with lots of good cafes where you
could eat at 8 a.m. rather than the dressy sort you get now
where you eat at 3 a.m.
Dobell lived a monastic sort of life (Benedictine or
Drambuie kind of monastery) in a two-roomed bachelor
apartment on the top floor of a building in Macleay Street.
I was going to say that he used one of the rooms as a studio,
but although 1 have seen him painting in only one room,
there were easels, palettes, brushes and things in both, and
on the verandah as well. In fact, being short of hooks, he
used the easels to hang his clothes on. In the same way
that, being short of shelves, he used the ledge of the easel
(where the picture is supposed to stand) for the precarious
display of his flora and fauna —rock plants and bits of
Wandering Jew, etc., housed in egg cups, tumbler glasses,
brandy balloons and what-have-you. Canvases stood care-
lessly in one corner, all except the one he happened to be
working on at the moment, which stood fully framed on, I
expect, any easel which happened to be free of
encumbrances.
Painting pictures with their frames on is perhaps
Dobell’s only eccentricity. He tells a story about how he
promised once to paint a picture for an agreed sum. but
never got down to it because he hadn’t a frame. “I’ll soon
fix that,” said Dobell’s patron, when he finally heard the
reason, and that very afternoon two men staggered up the
four flights of stairs leading to Dobell’s studio bearing
a wonderful gilt frame that would have held “The Sons of
Clovis” in the National Gallery. Ever since then Bill has
made a point of finding his own frames.
TT is extremely difficult to get Dobell to paint your portrait
even if you have the money, but if you turn up at his back
door selling clothes pegs he may, if you have a clothes peg
sort of face, do you for nothing. Not very long ago Albert
Date talked Mr L. B. Robinson, of the Zinc Corporation,
into letting Dobell paint his picture, and then, by some
miracle (probably by showing Dobell photographs of this
wily old businessman), persuaded Bill to
get cracking. Robinson didn’t like his
picture. He didn’t even say—as Hudson
Fysh said of his —“Well. I suppose I'll
grow to look like it” —he just wrapped it
in brown paper and gave it to Dateto return
to Bill. For months it stood around the
Dates’ house and all Castlecrag used to call
and pay homage to it. Finally, as Albert
Date could never locate Dobell. Anita (his
wife) —who knows about Art—put it safe
against atomic explosion and all ready for
posterity beneath the house.
“Where’s my picture?” asked Albert
one day, suspiciously.
“What picture, dear? Oh, that . . . Why, Albert, it
isn’t fair to have a valuable thing like that just lying
around.”
Albert apparently didn’t trust the foundations of his
house either, so he went to an artist neighbor and gave him
the portrait to return. The neighbor couldn’t just lug Mr
Robinson in on the bus, and so he waited until he next
saw Dobell.
“Keep it,” said Bill. “1 don’t want it.”
Now. the recipient of this gift is the soulful type, a very
rare type today, and he wouldn’t accept a cool thousand
poured over him. Besides, he has plenty of pictures (usually
stacked face to the wall) and at least one of them a Dobell.
He tried hard to get the portrait in the car to take it to
Bill in Wangi. but his wife (a practical sort) thought that
when the kids grew up and were earning they’d have a
station wagon and the portrait could perhaps travel in that.
So, in the meantime, it went under the house, along with the
old cabin trunks which were stacked over it for greater
safety.
And there it was, quite forgotten by our artist friend,
when Mrs Clune, who protects Bill like Lady Cunard pro-
tected Beecham, drove up one Sunday afternoon, collected
it (as one would the laundry) and returned it, face to the
wall, with all the other canvases in Dobell’s Darling Point
studio.


o>
i I
m
M
m
la-eat
Zippo
*»/
J,
5!
c
[NO
£
£
A
,V
V
N
\
LI IST
(S'
V
m
I'm
flaying
it safe,
MAKE BiADES
dff\


Mr MONK'S DOOMED CIRCULAR
"Unionists who collaborate with the W.F.T.U. can get away with anything"
By PETER KELLY
LAST Thursday the president of the Australian Council
of Trade Unions. Mr Albert E. Monk, issued a
circular “expressing the hope” that no affiliated
unions will send observers to the World Federation
of Trade Unions Conference to be held in Moscow from
December 4 to December 16 and that they will observe
the 1953 A.C.T.U. Congress decision. On the Thursday
previous to Mr Monk’s circular a press report announced
that at its interstate executive meeting beginning in Mel-
bourne on December 11 the executive would discuss reports
that 11 Australian trade union officials are supporting the
Moscow Congress.
On the face of it, Mr Monk’s “hope” that the 11 trade
unions won’t carry out their plans seems prematurely
doomed. Four incidents should be enough to demon-
strate the futility of his circular. In the Com-
munist “Tribune” of Wednesday, October 18, under the
heading of “Observer to W.F.T.U. Congress,” it is stated
that “Mr J. J. Dwyer has been unanimously elected by the
Federal Council of the Federated Miscellaneous Workers’
Union to go, as an observer, to the Fifth World Trade
Union Congress.” Mr Dwyer is also a member of the Page-
wood branch of the A.L.P. in Sydney.
To go even further back: On October 4in Laun-
ceston’s “The Examiner” it was announced that Mr R. C.
Taylor, secretary of the Tasmanian branch of the Australian
Railways’ Union and a State executive member of the
A.L.P., would attend the Moscow Congress. Mr Taylor
said that “I would be very surprised if the A.L.P. expressed
displeasure at my attending the conference. The A.C.T.U.
ruling at the last conference stated that although Australian
unionists could not attend Communist conferences as dele-
gates, they could go as observers.” (This is wrong.)
In the W.F.T.U.’s monthly review in July of this year
(copies of which are posted to nearly all trade unions in
Australia and the A.C.T.U.) under the general heading of
“Towards the Fifth World Trade Union Congress,” the
review publishes a report of the conference which Mr
Nolan attended. “The platform itself was quite symbolic.
At 3 p.m. on May 11, when the sixth session opened, it was
Francis George Nolan, vice-chairman of the Australian
Railwaymen’s Union and vice-president of the Queensland
Council of the A.C.T.U. (affiliated to the 1.C.F.T.U.) who
made the chairmen’s opening remarks for the session.”
A LSO in the July issue of the W.F.T.U.’s monthly journal,
in a double-spread under the heading of “What the
Congress Means for the Workers of Australia.” are six
statements (approximately 160 words each) by Australian
unionists praising the work of the W.F.T.U., “world peace,”
international disarmament, unity—and the usual propa-
ganda. The six separate “public relations” statements are
signed by R. Gietzelt, T. Wright, J. Young, Arthur Searle,
F. Purse and L. H. Thompson.
To understand the significance of the connection
between the World Federation of Trade Unions and some
Australian unionists one should know it was formed in
1945 and was then the largest trade union body in the
world. There was unease in the organisation almost from
its inception, and it eventually split over the Marshall plan
—chiefly because the organisation’s Information Bulletin
printed attacks on union leaders who did not condemn the
Marshall plan as some sort of “American imperialism.”
This eventually led to the formation of the International
Confederation of Free Trade Unions in December, 1949.
The A.C.T.U. chose not to join trade unions from the
Communist countries and it affiliated with the new body.
For some years Communist and so-called “left-wing”
unionists in Australia have sought to get the A.C.T.U. to
break with the I.C.F.T.U. and join it up to the W.F.T.U.,
and consequently quite a number of them have not severed
their connection with the W.F.T.U. (Mr Elliott stated at the
last A.C.T.U. Congress that his union was still paying
affiliation fees to it.) Surprisingly enough, this was not
reported in the press to my knowledge, nor was it challenged
on the floor of the Congress.
r T'HE policy of the A.C.T.U. was decided in September,
A 1953: “. . . Congress determines that the decision of
the Interstate Executive warning specified unions to dis-
continue affiliation and activity with the Trade Committees
of the W.F.T.U. applies to all branches and member unions
of the A.C.T.U. It further determines that such branches
and member unions have the responsibility of ensuring
that their officers and officials likewise observe the letter
and spirit of the decision by severing all association with
the W.F.T.U. Trade Departments or any of its activities.
Failure to observe the responsibilities of this decision will
result in the suspension of the offending organisations.”
In the light of this, what is the point in Mr Monk
sending out a circular “hoping” that Australian unionists
won’t go to the Moscow Congress and reminding them
of the 1953 policy decision? There have been plenty of
examples over the last few years of A.C.T.U. policy being
flouted on this question but no indication of any action
being taken.
One reason could be that on last Sunday Mr Monk
left on his 41st trip overeas to attend a meeting in Brussels
on October 30 of the Executive Board of the I.C.F.T.U.
In Brussels he will be attacked by other executive members
on two counts. At Its last meeting he indicated that Aus-
tralia would be able to increase its affiliation fees to it
from 42 per cent, of the normal rate to 65 per cent. He
was told by executive members that if Australia could
afford to subsidise visits of overseas Communist trade
“unionists” it could afford to increase its affiliation fees to
bring it into line with countries which have a lower hourly
wage-rate than Australia.
At the A.C.T.U. Congress he was humiliated because
his motion to increase fees was rejected. Even though he
will experience some uncomfortable moments over this and
reciprocal visits, he could not have stood the accusation that
he was further disobeying the I.C.F.T.U. ruling on affiliation,
formal or informal, with the W.F.T.U. If he were serious
about Australian unionists’ collaboration with the
W.F.T.U. and if he did want to obey the “majority” ruling
of the 1.C.F.T.U., why hasn’t action already been taken
against the unions and unionists concerned? There is no
need to adopt a “wait and see if they go” attitude. While
the so-called “rebel” unions can’t attend A.C.T.U. Congresses
because they stick to I.C.F.T.U. policy and won’t pay a
levy to bring out Communist trade “unionists” to Australia,
it seems as though unionists who collaborate with the
W.F.T.U. can (and have) got away with almost anything.




HOW THE
FRENCH PLAN
By EUGENE BAJKOWSKI
FRANCE provides an instructive example of a country which has evolved
an effective blend of state and private planning. No country can import
another’s economic set-up lock, stock and barrel. The French banking
system, for instance, is unique because it has grown out of the country’s
particular legal and economic exigencies. But what we can learn from
the French is that overall national planning might be combined with
maximum individual initiative.
The reinvigoration of the French economy followed a change in
opinion, the economic advance was preceded by the conviction that (hings
just had to improve. If Australia could import that attitude institutional
changes might be possible.
THrance’s humiliating defeat in 1940, its
plunder by Nazi Germany, the poli-
tical and financial bankruptcy of the
authoritarian Vichy regime, heavy
destruction caused by fighting in 1944-45
and virtual anarchy in the first months
after the liberation had almost reduced
the French economy to rubble.
But the wartime tragedy had also
helped to convince the French that their
pre-war mentality was largely sterile and
that something had to be done about the
country’s economic and political struc-
ture. It is this fundamental change in
French national psychology—involving a
basic and painful reappraisal of many
ingrained traditions—that has made pos-
sible France’s remarkable recovery and
evolved a unique and efficient system of
economic planning.
French economic thinking before the
war was essentially static. The main
weakness of the French economic system
lay in the fact that it was based on
financial capitalism and not industrial
capitalism. This meant lagging behind
the times. The vital concept that steady
economic growth is more important than
income from capital lending was obscured
by the preoccupation with interest rates.
Academic economists and business
leaders were preoccupied with savings.
The average Frenchman was exhorted to
save all he could, and responded by
hoarding to his heart’s content. Because
of the static population and small family
units saving was relatively easy. But the
nation’s massive savings were not utilised
to promote economic growth.
Despite huge earnings from capital
lending, there was hardly any capital
formation in the true sense. Hoarding
became a dangerous national myth, and
capitalist management did not invest
enough. There was hardly any net capi-
tal investment in the basic industries in
France in 1933-39. The economy was
stagnant. Leon Blum’s Front Populaire
Government in 1936 likewise failed to
diagnose the malady, concentrating on
social reforms but ignoring the necessity
to stimulate capital formation and
increase industrial output. Right up
to the time when the Nazi war machine
smashed France, the popular belief was
that savings books were more important
than production.
VS7hen General De Gaulle’s wartime
Provisional Government, still in
Algeria, first began sketching blueprints
for post-war economic development the
psychological climate had already radi-
cally changed. Mr Jean Monnet, the
noted French economist and one of the
architects of the European Common
Market, drafted the initial national eco-
nomic plan.
As Mr P. Menard, French Commercial
Attache, told me. even at that early stage
the basic characteristic of the new
approach was “not merely reconstruction
but an attempt to create a new balance in
the French economy. This stemmed from
acute dissatisfaction with what had
happened before the war. The intention
was not merely to rebuild but to recon-
struct.”
The first tasks was to repair the war
damage and set up an elementary eco-
nomic base. This was relatively quickly
done, with the help of some United States
aid.
The Government did its best to ensure
that the money-lending psychology was
replaced by an economic growth
psychology. The rate of growth in
industrial and agricultural output
capacity became the main goal, and most
French capitalists, managers and workers
became convinced that it was a good
goal.
'T'he first top-level planning unit was set
up in 1946. Its administrative struc-
ture remained much the same throughout
the successive changes of .Governments
and survived the events leading to the
establishing of the Fifth Republic in 1958.
The central planning organ ds respons-
ible to the Premier (President du Conseil)
and works immediately under him. Its
function is to formulate the national
economic plan for the economy as a
whole—both the private and public
sectors. Growth targets are drawn up
by economic and financial experts, sector
by sector, and then co-ordinated. The
target overall economic growth-rate is
then set.
The central economic planning unit
has another important function. It
brings together senior civil servants,
management and trade union leaders for
frank high-level discussions with mem-
bers of the planning unit. The main pur-
pose here is to try to give the private
sector and labor at least a reasonably
good appreciation of problems facing
every important sector of the economy.
Managers and labor leaders are informed,
consulted and asked for criticisms and
suggestions. This helps to formulate a
common approach and makes it easier to
put policy decisions into practice at all
levels. Here the excellent econometric
service of the French Ministry of
Finance (Service des Etudes Economi-
ques) is most useful. Its expert staff
operates independently and produces
pretty accurate, if somewhat pessimistic,
economic forecasts. It also analises past
performance and draws scientific conclu-
sions. The management of capitalist
enterprises gets a good idea of the overall
plan and the targets for its particular
sector and can plan ahead. The labor
unions also know what to expect, what
can be done for the workers and what
can’t.
Finally, there is the Economic and
Social Council of the French
comprising representatives of manage-
ment, labor and academic economists
and operating under the authority of the 1
Parliament. It is a consultative body with
no executive power, but its influence with
the Government and industry is very
considerable. It often acts as a ccusulta-
tive house of review. The fact that
neither the central planning unit nor the
council have direct executive powers—
everything is done through the Ministries
and boards —avoids duplication and
friction.
All these institutions help in working


CAMBRIDGE CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Directors’ Report—1960-1961
J. DEAN Chairman.
CHAIRMANS
ADDRESS
Your Directors take pleasure in
presenting to you the Balance
Sheet at 30th June, 1961, together
with the Profit and Loss Accounts
for the year then ended, the
Report of the Company’s
Auditors, together with the
Consolidated Balance Sheet of the
Company and its Subsidiaries and
a Consolidated Statement of Profit
and Loss.
Despite the economic restric-
tions imposed by the Federal
Treasurer on the 15th November,
1960. the Company achieved solid
gains during the past financial
year.
For example, the Company's
assets increased from £4,681,940 to
£7,869,185, representing a gain
of 68%. Consolidated net profit
after tax for the year was £127.935,
an increase of £52.088 or 68% over
the previous year’s profit of
£75,847.
Paid Up Capital was increased
during the year from £507,500 to
£782,500. a net increase of
£275,000.
Ol this incerase £242,500 was
made up of a placement of
970,000 shares at a net premium
of 2/6 per share on the Melbourne
market to assist in the establish-
ment of the Company's Victorian
Branch.
A further 130,000 shares were
issued for the purpose of taking
over Nottingham Insurance Co.
Limited. This Company has certi-
fied losses amounting to £333,875.
Shareholders’ Funds exceed one
million pounds for the first time.
This has been brought about by
the abovementioned share issues
and the transfer of £39,360 to
General Reserves. A further pleas-
ing feature is that Share Premium
and General Reserves now amount
to £229,250, which is almost 30%
of the Company’s Paid Up Capital
of £782.500.
From the commencement of the
current financial year the Com-
pany has resumed its normal
lending programme and imme-
diate concentration is being given
to hire-purchase activities which
were curtailed during the credit
restrictions. I am happy to tell
you we are already receiving a
large volume of new hire-purchase
agreements of excellent quality.
The Company's policy of selec-
tivity and fair dealing to its
hirers and clients has therefore
been amply justified insofar that
having been out of the field for
almost six months, we have been
able to resume normal trading
within a few weeks of resumption.
The Board of Directors has
every confidence that the Com-
pany will continue to progress and
serve the community in which
finance companies must now be
recognised to provide an important
service.
On behalf of the Board,
J. DEAN,
Chairman.
R. E. M. HUTCHESON,
Managing Director.
MANAGING
DIRECTOR'S
REPORT
It is with a great deal of
pleasure that I am able to report
to you that our Company has
been able to demonstrate its
inherent strength and capacity to
“take it” during a period of
troubled economic conditions.
These conditions were brought
about almost entirely by Govern-
ment decree and were levelled
particularly at our type of
Company.
The Company, throughout the
period of the squeeze from 15th
November, 1960, to 15th May,
1961, was able to maintain
liquidity, as well as honor all its
obligations to borrowers, on
approvals made prior to the credit
restrictions being imposed. This
achievement was possible because
of the Board's policy of holding
substantial funds in liquid and
semi-liquid investments and main-
taining a considerable amount of
its loans on a short and medium
term basis.
The decision of the Federal
Treasurer on 15th May last to
remove the regulations regarding
deductibility of interest was most
timely and has permitted the Com-
pany to resume its normal lending
progiamme from the Ist July.
I would now like to deal in
detail with the results achieved
during the year.
GROUP NET PROFIT
The Net Profit after providing
for taxation was again a record
of £127,935, being an increase of
68% over that of the previous
year. However, the earning rate
was 18.1% on average capital
employed compared w'ith 18.6%
the previous year. As the Paid
Up Capital was increased by
£275,000 du ling the period the
profit result achieved is most
satisfactory.
GROUP
OUTSTANDINGS
Group outstandings again in-
creased substantially from
£5,389,729 at 30th June, 1960, to
£9,636,200. Mortgages comprised
more than the total increase, the
difference being a fall of £103,876
in hire purchase and other out-
standings. This drop w'as a direct
result of the credit squeeze, but it
is expected that the Hire Purchase
balances will be very substantially
increased during the current
financial period.
UNEARNED INCOME
The amount of Unearned
Income at 30th June, 1961, was
£3,555,222. or 37% of outstand-
ings. This item represents charges
for interest and hiring contained
in accounts owing to the Company
by way of mortgages, hire-
purchase agreements.
COMPANY TAKEOVERS
The Company acquired Notting-
ham Insurance Co. Limited on
10th January, 1961, as a “loss”
company. Certified losses on the
date of takeover were £333,875.
No advantage for taxation pur-
poses has been taken of such
losses in the preparation of the
final accounts for the period now
under discussion. This Company
has been renamed Cambridge
Finance Pty. Limited and com-
menced active trading on Ist July
this year. It is expected to make
a substantial contribution to trad-
ing profits during the current
financial period. In addition to
Nottingham Insurance Company
Limited a number of smaller com-
panies were acquired. Such com-
panies had previously been
operated on a “joint venture”
basis.
DIVERSIFICATION
By its policy of planned diversi-
fication the Company was able
to avoid many of the pitfalls
associated with over-investment in
real estate subdivisions, home
units, etc. However, substantial
profits were derived Irom its real
estate activities and the Company
is well placed with its connections
to continue such operations.
Development of several projects
involving home unit erection has
been deferred pending a revival in
the demand for this type of
housing.
DEBENTURE ISSUES
The confidence of the investing
public in your Company was well
maintained during the “Credit
Squeeze. - ’ So much so that we
were able to raise £1,100,000 dur-
ing the six months the inteiest
deductibility regulations were in
force. In fact, our Third Issue
was opened in all States on the
day the Treasurer made his
announcement and closed three
days before the restrictions were
finally removed. Since the 18th
May, when our current issue was
opened, subscriptions totalling
more than £1,200,000 have been
received. The rate of subscription
is therefore almost 70% higher
and if maintained will enable the
Company to continue its rapid
rate of progress.
BORROWINGS AND
RECEIPTS
Total public borrowings at 30th
June, 1961, amounted to
£6,430,557, of which £2,124,446
matures within two years. It is
estimated that receipts during this
period will amount to £4,200,000.
It will be noted therefore that
the Company is well placed to
meet all maturing commitments.
OFFICES
The Company opened its new
Melbourne Office premises on 27th
February, 1961, and expects to
occupy its new Newcastle premises
during October. Both these
offices have been modernised in
line with the latest architectural
trends and provide every facility
for our clients and staff.
STAFF
The results w'hich have been
achieved reflect the loyalty, co-
operation and efficiency which
your Directors have received from
all executives and staff throughout
the year.
CONCLUSION
In conclusion I would like to
state that the progress of the
Company during the past year
was gratifying and I look forward
with confidence to the results for
1961/62.
Yours sincerely,
R E. M. HUTCHESON,
Managing Director.


out a common approach to national
economic problems and go a long way
towards getting the nation to work to-
gether as a team.
IN France, officials of the Government’s
industrial, economic and finance de-
partments, executives of private corpora-
tions and even some trade union leaders
come from the same class of university
graduates who understand each other and
speak the same language. They intermix
socially: there is cross-fertilisation. More-
over, they have all been brought up in
the tradition of dedicated service to the
nation, and it is possible to convince a
French business executive that his com-
pany’s profits must be subordinated to
the needs of national economic develop-
ment. This is important. The patriotic
and nationalistic streak in the French
economic and political life should not be
underestimated. Here there is a para-
doxical mixture of mature cynicism and
near idealism. But it works, as is evi-
denced by the 5-6 p.c. annual net growth
rate of the French national income over
the last decade despite enormous sums
spent on the Indo-China and Algerian
wars.
Of course, a description of interlock-
ing planning bodies does not make sense
unless it is related to the financial system
in which they work. In France direct
Government intervention is exercised
mainly through spending on public
works (education, public buildings, roads,
development projects directly financed
by the State) and the nationalised indus-
tries (railways, collieries, the defence
industry, the Renault automobile works,
a very large part of the aircraft industry
and civil aviation, electric power distri-
bution). Although a part of the elec-
tricity generation industry is owned by
private capital it is closely tied to Govern-
ment policies. Its £5OO million a year
investment programme is a powerful
economic weapon.
The actual financing of economic
growth is helped by the peculiarities of
the French banking system, which ensures
that almost all liquid funds are collected
through Government agencies. A refined
system has been devised to tap almost
every source of capital formation. The
Treasury itself collects most short-term
savings through treasury notes and
deposits —which are placed into special
accounts. Savings banks, insurance com-
panies, etc., are required to place their
funds with the “Caisse des Depots et
Consignations.” These funds are then
used by two large Government institu-
tions, “Caisse des Depots” and “Credit
National,” to finance housing and
development schemes and provide capital
equipment for the private sector.
The virtue of this system is that, while
it depends to a large extent on the level
of private and corporate savings, it is
largely independent of capital market
fluctuations. For instance; the develop-
ment of the Sahara has been financed by
the “Caisse des Depots” until recently,
when sufficient incentives appeared to
attract private capital.
In general, the Government is able to
raise funds through the Treasury and
specialised agencies despite market diffi-
culties and lend at low interest rates to
nationally important projects. It is true
that such a system is open to the dangers
of a run-away inflation, particularly when
the Government must finance the econo-
mically unproductive war in Algeria (and
before that in Indo-China). But again,
the French banking system makes pos-
sible effective controls by the Central
Bank (Banque de France). There are
deposit banks, merchant banks and
special purposes banks, which finance
exports, farming, public works, hotels,
craftsmen, etc. There is a sharp legal
distinction between deposit banks —which
receive deposits at sight from everybody
but cannot lend for periods exceeding six
months —and merchant banks, which
enjoy unrestricted lending rights but may
receive deposits only from large firms
trading with them. In this second group
one finds the huge French banking cor-
porations. Jn addition, there is a large
number of hire-purchase firms financing
both consumer and capital goods.
Smaller firms are aided by the “mutual
guarantee system,” under which a num-
ber of minor firms guarantee the indivi-
dual members as a group and facilitate
obtaining credit.
TThe Central Bank has wide powers. Its
A Governor is always a prominent
former Treasury official with consider-
able personal influence in the business
world. The Central Bank centralises
information about borrowers, and then
establishes “credit cards” which specify
a credit ceiling respected by all the banks.
Its most effective weapon is the discount
rate. In addition, there is the National
Credit Council, presided over by the
Minister of Finance. The Governor of
the Central Bank is its ex-officio vice-
president. The Credit Council can freeze
a part of the banks’ liquid funds, modify
general terms of borrowing and fix the
ceiling for the Central Bank's discount
facilities for any bank. Since discounting
letters of credit—underwritten by a bank
—with the Central Bank is the main
credit technique, the Governor of the
Central Bank and the Credit Council
wield tremendous fiscal authority,
and the Government has sufficient
administrative power to implement its
day to day and long-run economic policy.
Extensive diversification of the banking
system enables the Government to stimu-
late or slow down particular sectors of
the economy by almost direct methods,
without greatly affecting the rest of the
business world something, unfortu-
nately, that cannot be done in Australia.
But what one feels might be done in
Australia is at least to make it more
widely known that complicated planning
is possible in a capitalist system and
that those who propose the plan can
co-operate with those who are going to
carry it out.
"Always drinks with the flies!"


FORUM
WHAT'S WRONG WITH
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT?
JN one sense this is an easy article to write. One of the greatest things
wrong with national development for the moment is simply that there
is not enough rate of productivity in Australia to ma\e possible all the
development necessary to maintain national security. If the economy were
in the kind of shape we have suggested in the first four of these articles
there would be more money and labor available for development.
But even this point is worth making : “development” is often spoken
of as if it were simply a matter of policy and will power, and as if the mere
decision to “develop” would bring money, labor and materials out of the
air. A real development programme cannot satisfactorily be imposed on an
economy if it is not already buoyant—unless one uses a Stalin approach of
massive deprivation of all other sectors of industry and forcible, wasteful
and inhuman diversion of effort into the development sector.
IN an already highly industrialised
economy such as ours a far more
efficient method is to stimulate enter-
prise in the ways we haye already
suggested —and to cease shielding ineffi-
ciency in ways we have also suggested.
This is in itself development. Develop-
ment is not merely a matter of dams
and bridges, but primarily a method of
increasing basic productivity (in which
dams and bridges play a supplementary
but essential part). Socialists are dis-
inclined to let private enterprise increase
its own productivity; they prefer to
raise taxation and do the developing
themselves. What is surprising is that
a non-Socialist Government has been
so slow in encouraging the right kind
of capital reinvestment in industry. Much
basic development can most cheaply be
bought by providing adequate deprecia-
tion allowances in basic industries, per-
haps by arranging “tax holidays” for
new development industries and certainly
by providing cheap credit in the right
places (for example, the wool industry).
Our economy may never realise its
wonderful potential until these things
are done.
In development there must often be
a twofold process: the Government by
fiscal methods should encourage a basic
industry to do a considerable part of
its own developing; then with loan
moneys, and in a well co-ordinated plan,
the Government can directly provide the
development services, the water, roads,
electricity, or whatever it may be, that
the industry would not be expected to
provide itself. In the Department of
National Development it has a good
instrument for this kind of co-ordination.
The staff is good research work is
good ; and planning is mature. It is not
the Department’s fault that tradition-
This Is the fifth of a series of six
articles under the general heading
of “What’s wrong with Australia?”
The first four were on Business,
Unions, Planning, and Primary
Producers; the next one will be
on Education.
bound taxation and credit policies lessen
the amount of development it could be
assisting, that inadequate loan funds
lessen the amount of public development
it could be planning and that bad tradi-
tions in our approach to public works
make long-term planning difficult.
It is a puzzle why the bond rate is
not higher to enable the accumulation
of more loan capital. Timidity in in-
creasing bond rates comes partly from
inertia and partly from the feeling that
there is a necessary connection between
bond rates and bank overdraft rates, a
connection that may not be all that im-
portant. An increase in bond rates,
backed by something new in the way
of loan campaigns, could lead to some
increase in total real investment, not
merely a diversion within investment
Privately promoted it would attract the
small personal investor to increase his
savings and it might bring extra money
from the large institutional investors and
trustees, money that at present _may
simply be bidding up the price of shares.
Some .way of raising money other than
by taxation would be needed if we were
to give away our present on-and-off
attitude to public works and permanently
increase the development programme.
This on-and-off attitude comes from the
x use of public works as an economic
lever that pushes public works spending
up or down in inverse ratio to the downs
or ups of the economy as a whole. We
must have a permanently higher level
of public investment if we are going to
develop the country up to the stage when
we can justify—or defend —our perma-
nent possession of it; if anything should
go down it is those parts of the economy
that draw resources away froffi develop-
ment —and that can always be arranged.
THE PERILS OF MIGRATION
Tt is in the peopling of Australia
(politically and socially the most im-
portant part of its development! that
we meet our greatest difficulties, because
at first glance the effects of migration
may appear to work dead against almost
the whole argument of this series of
articles.
To keep absorbing migrants we must
'have industries that employ a lot of
people. Migrants are going to become
harder to get and we won’t get them at
all if they come out here and can’t find
jobs. Yet on the face of it this might
mean that we have to maintain over-full
employment, tolerate inflation, compara-
tively low productivity (less automation),
government protection of industry and
the resultant high costs, high export
prices, inbuilt balance of payment diffi-
culties and the other economic evils that
we have been trying to remedy.
For these reasons some people suggest
that we should cut our migrant intake
and concentrate on increasing produc-
tivity, curbing inflation and lowering
export prices. This argument is attractive
to those who seek only a gentle economic
equilibrium, but in a nasty, brutish
world life might prove all too short for
us unless we really establish ourselves
as a nation with a lot of people in it
with a look of determination in their
eyes. We must stack into this country
as many people as we can get, without
wrecking our economy.
With a second look at the problem,
some answers begip to emerge. If is not
so much over-full employment, as a
positive employment programme that is
needed, that allows for temporary assis-
tance at a special rate while men are
trained in new skills and assisted to a
place of employment. Inflation can be
at least considerably curtailed by remov-
ing from the economy permanently some
of its inbuilt inflationary devices. There
is no need to create jobs by keeping
comparatively low productivity if there
is such a momentum of new develop-
ment that new jobs are being created.
Some protection of industry is needed
not only to create jobs for migrants but


for national security ; but it is not neces-
sary to waste resources in patently
inefficient protected industries when the
resources could be used creatively else-
where. A positive programme to increase
both productivity in the export industries
and the total number of export industries
will not only offset the economic dangers
of migration but help to solve them.
The danger is to continue the present
drift in which migration and the inherent
inadequacies of our economy bolster eacn
other up. The present migration pro-
gramme has partly failed because
although it has got a lot of people into
Australia a lot of them have ended up
in the wrong places. Instead of entering
basic industries they have settled in areas
where the “milk bar economy" pro-
liferates. It is not blameworthy to do
this ; they have come out here to enjoy
a higher standard of living and they find
it by picking up comparatively easy
money in the consumer industries. It
is the fault of our national planning that
this is so. A higher proportion of
development spending may soon have to
be allotted to amenities in development
areas so that the people who work in
them lead pleasant lives. In the past
we relied on desperation to drive workers
to backward areas. We should now pro-
vide some inducement. Amenities at Mt
Isa, for instance, now make life more
worth living for many who work there
than it would be in many more settled
parts of Australia.
How little we have been prepared to
adjust ourselves to an expanding
economy and to plan positively for the
placement of migrants is shown in a
thousand little things, of which we shall
take the apprenticeship system as an
example. Migrants who have special
skills that might be useful in a basic
industry cannot employ them because
they have not served an apprenticeship.
Often a six months' course in, say, the
metal trades would equip a migrant to
take a better paid job. But union tradi-
tions that go back literally to the Middle
Ages make this sensible adjustment im-
possible. Instead of getting a better paid
job in a basic industry a migrant may
simply pick up some easy money in an
over-booming consumer industry.
THE FUTURE OF MIGRATION
'IX7ITHOUT being facile, one can see
possible ways of productivity
absorbing the present flow of migrants
in an expanding Australia in which
development and migration schemes
could be more co-ordinated than they
now are. Where one is in danger of
becoming facile is in the assumption that
we are going to go on getting all the
migrants we want.
For a long time we had it too easy at
the migrant’s expense. The great dump
of displaced persons in Europe could be
picked over, and batches of migrants
consigned out here and directed for two-
year periods into industries where we
needed them most. Now we have not
only exhausted this supply but the supply
of migrants who come here merely be-
cause things are bad at home may also
diminish. Parts of Western Europe may
have a higher standard of living than
Australia very shortly and this may dry
up migration not only from those areas
but also from the poorer parts of Europe.
It is just remotely possible that an Italian
from the depressed South of Italy may
prefer to migrate to the prosperous North
of Italy or to West Germany rather than
come out to Australia. This kind of
internal European migration is one of
the presuppositions of the Common
Market and it is already in operation.
We shall certainly be less selective.
No doubt some Northern Europeans will
continue to come to Australia for one
reason or another ; but whatever intake
we keep up may be mainly in Southern
Italians, Greeks and Spaniards —the kind
of people the Immigration Department
is said to be unhappy about.
A nd here we strike another problem.
These are the hardest workers but
also the least skilled of Europeans yet
there are signs that the one type of per-
son for whom jobs might be missing in
Australia in the future are the unskilled.
America is already facing a, problem of
structural unemployment: automation is
creating semi-permanent unemployment
for the least skilled workers (while there
are more jobs than experts in the upper
reaches of, employment). This change
will be slower in Australia, but it will
come. The partial way out is to produce
an education and training system that
will equip more people to take expert
jobs or jobs in the service industries but
since it seems to be the present policy
of educators to dismantle educational
standards in Australia this does not seem
an immediate possibility. Whatever hap-
pens, there may be a permanent super-
fluity of unskilled works.
What can we do about (a) keeping up
the migrant flow when traditional source>.
may dry up ( b) absorbing unskilled'
migrants into a country where there may
be permanent unemployment for un-
skilled men? To keep up the flow we
must realise that we just have to take
migrants wherever we can get them But
we must also be bolder about looking
for them. The European populations of
Africa are potential migrators ; all ovet
the world'at particular times there are
people who wish to migrate. If we are
going to try to attract them to Australia
we must be more flexible in our choice
of areas and perhaps more imaginative
in selling ourselves. By shopping around
for migrants we may pick up many who
are not unskilled, but highly skilled. We
must know what to do with them when
we find them.
So far as absorbing the unskilled goes
we must not take the easy, inefficient
way of merely overstocking public enter-
prises so that we use, say, three railway
cleaners instead of two. If we get
migrants young enough we can teach
skills to some of them. Development
programmes of increasing momentum
may keep up a supply of jobs. But this
is not an easy problem.
As with so many other of our economic
problems, our greatest danger with
migration is that we will merely repeat
what have now become traditional pat-
terns. If we do we may run out of
migrants.
[Next Week: What's Wrong With
Education?]


LETTERS
NEW GUINEA GIMMICK
Sir,
I criticised Mrs McLeod’s book, “Can-
nibals are Human” (Bulletin, Septem-
ber 30) on two main grounds:
( a ) Many of her actual observations
(or her subsequent recollection of them)
Were inaccurate.
(b) The people she described as can-
nibals, were in fact, not cannibals.
(a) I selected six of her errors at
random, and offered corrections which
Mrs McLeod says are “disputable and
demonstrably wrong.” As my own
accuracy is noW in dispute, it will be
necessary to go through this unfortunate
business again ; 1 shall do so as briefly
as possible.
1. In her letter, Mrs McLeod says:
“Some natives in the Highlands in fact
supported their greenstone axes with
woven reeds.” In her original context,
she was not talking about the Highlands
in general; she was talking about the
inhabitants of the Mendi Valley. The
Mendi girdle, three to six inches wide,
consists of a single strip of heavy bark,
4-inch thick, bound around the waist by
4-inch strips of cane. “A reed-woven
girdle” is not an accurate description
of this garment. ,
2. The “half - starved, skinny and
withered natives” of 1952 had filled out
amazingly when 1 saw them two years
later, even though the area was still
uncontrolled.
3. Mrs McLeod wrote of “arrows
hollowed out and filled with poison made
from decomposed bodies.” She now
claims that she did not necessarily mean
that the arrows were deliberately
poisoned. But that, in fact, is what her
words say; and her statement is in-
correct. The arrows are dirty, and prob-
ably infectious, but a poisonous arrow
is not a poisoned arrow any more than
poisonous food is poisoned food.
4. Yams are not an indigenous crop
in Mendi ; they were imported by the
Europeans, and attempts to grow them
were so unsuccessful that they were
never taken up by the local people.
5. The Mendi live in widely-scattered
farmsteads which do not form villages
in any sense in which that term is
normally understood.
6. There is some evidence that circum-
cision was formerly practised on the
Huon Peninsula, near Finschhafen, but
it was extremely rare and occurred
nowhere near the Highlands. In any case,
I can state from personal observation
that it is not performed in Mendi.
( b ) Now, about these “cannibals”: the
Southern Highlands District is not, as
Mrs McLeod suggests, “a geographical
quibble”; it is as clearly defined on the
map as any of the Australian States.
I said, and I repeat, that cannibalism
has not been found there. Of course
cannibalism still exists in New Guinea
. . . but there is no indication that it
was ever practised by any of the High-
landers Mrs McLeod encountered in her
book.
In the half of her book which I
criticised, Mrs McLeod was purporting
to describe a particular people in a par-
ticular area; and she has mixed im-
perfectly recollected experience with
scraps of information which may be true
of other parts of New Guinea, but which
are most definitely not true of the area
she was describing. Mrs McLeod calls
this “quibbling”: I call it inaccuracy . . .
but maybe this is just another quibble?
One final example of Mrs McLeod’s
failure to check her facts: she states
that, “D’Arcy Ryan’s personal testimony
is restricted to a visit which he made
to Mendi recently, after the area had
been brought fully under control.” For
fhe record: I made three visits to Mendi
between June, 1954 (just 12 months after
Mrs McLeod left), and December, 1958.
I was in Mendi for a total of 26 months:
12 months longer than Mrs McLeod her-
self. (She could have checked all this
quite easily). I spent 17 of my 26 months
at the dance-ground {not village) of
Map, which Mrs McLeod refers to (p.
181) as “Maiv,” and locates on the
wrong bank of the Mendi River . . . but
now, of course, I really am quibbling.
Mrs McLeod’s letter is itself a pretty
fair example of the kind of thing I
criticised in her book. The sad part is
that Mrs McLeod really had these ex-
periences, and is still, I believe, fhe only
white woman who has ever walked from
Mendi to Lake Kutubu. She has all the
material for a fascinating book. But she
just can't seem to grasp the idea that
an account of this kind stands or falls
by the authenticity of its detail.
D'ARCY RYAN
Bondi ( N.S.W. ).
SEVEN AGAINST THIEVES
Sir,
How does Mr Beresford (Bulletin,
October 14) know what my approach is
to all Hollywood westerns? Perhaps he
would care to give some examples of
the “traditional ‘highbrow’ approach.”
In the meantime I dismiss his opening
sentence as a wild generalisation.
Is he a personal friend of John Stur-
ges to know what he did and did
not realise? As for the gun-fighting
sequences, I would trade them all for
Gene Kelly doing “singin’ in the rain.”
Why do I keep harping on about this
remake business? If a pop-song mer-
chant decides the public wants a three-
minute version of Tschaikovsky’s piano
concerto with a rock beat and heavenly
choir he gives it to them. It’s quite legal,
but luckily he cannot take the original
music out of circulation in order to
boost fhe sales of his version. The same
goes for art and writing. But in films
it’s different —that is why I think this
film should stand against the original,
because it replaces the original. “Seven
Samurai” is no longer available for
showing. When Hollywood made its now
infamous version of “Le jour se leve”
it showed how little integrity it has at
times. Now we can be thankful they
did not do it legally and consequently
we can still enjoy the original.
H. KATONA
Manly (N.S.W.).
NATIVE VIOLENCE
Sir,
On two occasions over the last few
months, natives in the Northern Terri-
tory have physically assaulted white men,
in one instance welfare officers and in
the other a missionary. Your Darwin
correspondent, K. Willey (Bulletin,
October 14), blames this growing lack of
respect upon judicial leniency in dealing
with cases of tribal violence.
There is not the slightest evidence for
such a view and not the slightest reason
for believing that the implied remedy
(i.e., get tougher with natives who attack
other natives) would do anything except
give those “who live and work among
semi-wild aborigines” additional cause
for alarm. What Mr Willey is trying to
say, surely, is y that judges should get
tougher with natives who attack whites,
and that is quite a different matter.
There are definite risks involved in the
work of persuading or forcing natives
to change their way of life, and if your
son is a patrol officer or a missionary
then of course you will be in favor of
Mr Willey’s implicit recommendation.
But, as a matter of academic interest,
let us see why it is that aborigines these
days should want to bite the hands that
feed them. Groote Eylandt, mentioned
by Mr Willey in his report, will serve
as an example.
Giving evidence in the Darwin court
in 1932, the Rev. Dyer of the Groote
Eylandt Christian Mission said he under-
stood natives in the area had 28 kills to
their credit. If he were dictator, he
would drive all the abos. into Liberty
Square and give them a good flogging.
Then he would let them see a bayonet
charge and have the soldiers up to show
them a volley and tell them if there was
any more killing they would all be shot
down on the beach. He explained that
he was not speaking as a missionary or
protector, but as a dictator.
For many years the Groote Eylandt
mission has attempted to suppress
polygamy and, as Mr Willey knows, its
efforts in this direction have from time
to time been strongly resisted. In a
recent statement to the Darwin press,
a spokesman for the mission admitted
that in 1958 some young men decided
to oppose the mission ruling and take
second wives. When challenged on
Christian principles, a number admitted
their wrong and returned the girls to
the dormitory (which segregates un-
married women from the men). Only


“ Why , darling—what a lovely piece of drift plastic !”
three remained defiant, and with -the
assistance of the Welfare Branch and
the Police Department, these were re-
moved from the island in 1959. Since
then, the spokesman added, the mission
has gone ahead smoothly.
And now. on September 7th when a
Groote Eylandt missionary attempts to
restrain two irate natives engaged in a
dispute over a woman, one of them turns
to him and says: “Shut up. You talk
too much,” then hits him with a
woomera. Any more nonsense like that
and we’d better have the bayonet charge.
Incidentally, could Mr Willey supply
us with the percentage of cases of native
violence which have come before the
court over the last three years in which
a professional anthropologist has been
called upon to give evidence?
L. R. HIATT
Canberra ( A.C.T. ).
THREE CONSERVATIVES
Sir,
It is hard to see what your reviewer,
Evan Jones, was getting at in his notes
(Bulletin, October 21) on J. Norming-
ton-Rawlings’ article in the latest
“Quadrant.” This article gave an inside
account of the origins of Australian
Communist front “peace” movements in
the nineteen - thirties. There is such a
lack of factual information of this kind
in Australia that in itself the article
makes this issue of “Quadrant” worth
buying.
But Mr Evans criticises it on the
grounds that there is a “simple assump-
tion that evidence of Communist con-
spiracy is evidence of a real threat.”
He says that “everybody knows that
Communists conspire.” In the first place,
of course, everybody does not know this;
and, secondly, even if they know it in
principle they are short on detail. This
article tells how they conspire. It cer-
tainly interested me to know, for
example, that the Communists, to get
Australian union support for their peace
front, asked an international Communist
peace body to ask an international peace
front to bring pressure on European
unionists to bring pressure on Australian
unionists to join the Australian peace
front.
Mr Rawlings was not concerned with
providing “evidence of a real threat”
and it seems irrelevant to criticise him
for not doing so. But one simple piece
of evidence would be provided by a
glance at a map of the world.
JOHN ROBERTS
Maroubra (N.S.W.).
BACK TO RATBAGGERY
Sir,
May I correct a minor inaccuracy in
the published interview between myself
and Mugga.
' In one question my interview is quoted
as asking me —“Is it the opinion of the
Board of Deputies that the exclusion of
Mr Brenner shows a spirit akin to that
of the Gestapo and Hitler?”
The actual question was—“ls it the
opinion of the Board of Deputies that
the exclusion of Mr Brenner shows a
spirit of anti-Semitism akin to that of
the Gestapo and Hitler?”
The word anti-Semitism is of some
significance and I would appreciate it if
an appropriate correction could be made.
I. J. LEIBLER
Caulfield (Victoria).
WHAT’S WRONG WITH
PRIMARY PRODUCERS?
Sir,
The author of the interesting series
on “What’s Wrong with Australia?” has
crashed badly in his attempt to treat the
subject of primary production (Bulletin,
October 21).
He begins badly by implying that
farmers should “farm things the way
Governments want them to” thus sug-
gesting that the Government knows best,
whereas in fact it has been apparent in
the post-war period that the Government
has no plan for primary production, with
the exception of the production targets
announced in 1952. Until the Govern-
ment can produce a realistic programme
for agriculture supported by positive
proposals, producers are wise to follow
their own initiative. State Governments,
as your writer observes, cannot think
beyond subdividing.
Graziers are accused of gambling on
securing high prices for wool, being
demoralised by high costs and of being
lax in their investment policies. While
it is true that many graziers prefer to
take the market price than “put up silly
schemes” it is not true “that all his
existence (he) has gambled on high
prices.'" Prices were high for only a
short time in the existence of most wool-
growers and for precisely the reason that
they were not expected to continue, the
industry has been in the vanguard of the
campaign against rising costs.
Graziers trying to control costs under
their control took this to the point where
a shearing strike occurred, in which they
received negligible . support from the
public or the Government.
The implication that graziers’ capital
has been dissipated by high spending
and gambling is a most unjust generalisa-
tion which is not supported by the
limited research which has been done
into this question. Your author obviously
does not understand the process of
capital formation in primary industry, in
claiming that development is often
“merely from income” without recourse
to “capital-raising techniques without
which business stagnates.” In following
this policy our graziers are in company
with most other primary producers
throughout the free world, and failing
the establishment of some very special
financial policy to provide developmental
finance they will adhere to this practice
for good reasons, some of which the
author gives when discussing pasture im-
provement (p. 20).
Far from “encouraging these ineffi-
ciencies” surely the “ever-increasing costs
over which the grower has no control”
force the producer “to attempt to offset
(their) effects by increasing his unit pro-
ductivity” to use the author’s own words.
The article says “the idea that some-
how high prices can be artificially main-
tained is a mischievous myth” and later
the author drops his brick by stating
categorically that auctions must be
abandoned in favor of a commercial type
of marketing.
Artificial maintenance of high prices
is a concept not supported by progres-
sive woolgrowers, but rather by reaction-
ary groups who, I believe,, form a
minority. Far from being a “brick”
resisted “almost to a man” by growers,
the idea of the abandonment of auctions
in favor of an across-the-counter selling
of wool is neither novel nor even prd-


m
:
whatever you choose
to drink...
*WOOL CHEQUE
To 2 ozs.
Gilbey’s Gin
add 1 oz.
Dry Vermouth
in a long glass.
Then add 2
ice cubes and
slice of lemon.
Fill with cold
Tonic Water.
Add to 2 ozs.
Gilbey’s Gin
a i oz. Sweet
Vermouth and
a i oz. fresh
orange juice.
Shake with ice
and pour.
Add cherry.
GIN
]
don’t say gin... say
GILBEY’S
* drinks from the famous Gilbey Recipe Book. 9322 G
vocative as the proposition has been
widely discussed. It was advanced (but
not advocated) by myself in a report on
wool marketing over two years ago and
some more fully developed schemes have
been put to the current Wool Marketing
Enquiry. No doubt, when a practical
way of achieving this theoretically
desirable end has been devised, it will
be adopted.
There is no such thing as the “Wool
Industry Research Bureau’’ nor any body
which “tells wool producers what they
should grow” and least of all do we
want “a crash research programme-
even with all its wastefulness.” There
is no call for panic over wool research,
which is building up methodically
throughout the world. Research is
already ahead of application.
Jt is not indicative of the attitude of
wool producers generally that “many of
them resent being levied to sell wool.”
They sought the levy originally and the
majority have supported its increase
despite the vocal opposition of those
who “somehow feel that wool should
sell itself.”
Having said, “It is the product, not
the advertising, that is at fault” the
author then proceeds to claim that the
fact has been missed “that perhaps the
best way to advertise wool is through
the textile manufacturers.” Neither of
these points is supported by qualified
opinion. As for the first, for brevity, it
can be said that both the pr * ct and
the advertising need to be improved. As
for the second the valu~ of joint promo-
tion has not been i issed and wool-
growers by using a small amount of their
money as a foundation have been able
to win large supplementary advertising
budgets from the trade —not manufac-
turers (except for carpets), but mainly
makers-up and retailers. Finally the
observation that to subsidise the wool
industry “would be like expecting a
golden ejg to lay a goose” reveals a
confusion which I have dealt with in
detail elsewhere. It would be practical
to subsidise woolgrowing if necessary.
Meat only receives a passing reference
in the article but again it is sufficient to
reveal the author's weakness in this field.
His main assertion is that “Something
has gone wrong with a programme that
goes through all the motions of increas-
ing productivity, but farces up prices
instead while production stagnates.” To
be at all meaningful it is necessary to
treat sheep meats and beef separately.
Production of mutton and lamb has risen
steadily and it is the decline in beef
output which is responsible for the
apparent stagnation. However the peak
beef production of 1958-59 was achieved
only by cleaning out herds of all avail-
able cattle including large numbers of
old cows which would normally never
have found a market.
There is no question of “forcing up
prices” as they are determined in the
open market by supply and demand ;
beef prices being primarily influenced
by the state of overseas demand. Prices
for all meats have exhibited an easing
tendency lately. I could not agree that
the industry has gone through all the
motions of increasing productivity—far
from it. There is a tremendous amount
of development to be done (even to im-
prove existing facilities) but returns have
been so marginal that the industry lacks
the prosperity necessary to justify and
finance the huge investment required.
I have not touched upon those points
of the article with which I agree as this
comment is already lengthy. Few people
within the primary industries compre-
hend their vast field sufficiently well to
be able to plan for it with confidence,
and very few without can survey the field
with the knowledge necessary to make
constructive proposals. This is not a
boasfibut a lament. It is our function to
assist in bridging this gap and the above
comment is offered in a constructive,
rather than cavilling, attitude.
G. D'A. CHISLETT.
( Economist, Australian Wool-
growers’ and Graziers’ Council)
Sydney.


OUT AND ABOUT
The Minister on the Move
Although oranges and wine are im-
portant in the South Australian
border-town of Renmark, its 7000
population is just as interested in water.
The Minister for National Development,
Senator Spooner, who spent a recent-
weekend there inspecting the Chowilla
dam site, is certainly aware but
his wife had it brought home to her
rather forcibly.
The Senator, his wife, personal secre-
tary, press secretary, and The Bulletin
were dinner guests of the president of
the local show Society and his wife at
Renmark's Community Hotel during its
recent one-day, annual show. The dinner
began with a locally-produced sherry
with only the hosts declining. After the
sherry and the first course had dis-
appeared down dusty throats —the Sena-
tor, and his wife were looking forward
to some of the fine local Riesling.
When the drink-waiter eventually
appeared at the Senator’s elbow, the
president's wife leant over to Mrs
Spooner and said: “Would you join me
in a glass of water —or —ah —would you
like some —ah —wine?” “Oh —ah —yes,”
Mrs Spooner said, “I would like some
water, thank you.” And that was that.
For the rest of the meal we drank water.
The Minister and his party left Mascot
at 6.30 a.m. Saturday morning in an
R.A.A.F. D.C.3 ; flew to Renmark with
a stop at Wentworth for refuelling.
At noon the party was sitting in the
show pavilion and the Senator was tell-
ing the local people what a fine Govern-
ment we had ; how wonderful the local
children looked ; how the Prime Minister
was vitally interested in the new dam
project at Chowilla (to be the largest
dam in Australia, with an area of 400
square miles, with—it is hoped —the cost
being shared by the Commonwealth" and
the Governments of South Australia,
Victoria and New South Wales) ; and
what a wonderful local member they
have in Mr Downer, the Minister for
Immigration.
After the Minister and other official
guests were entertained at a luncheon
the Minister was shown around the local
show. An hour later he met local
businessmen over a few glasses of beer,
then he left to inspect the dam site.
An hour and a half later, after tramp-
ing through dusty and windy country,
the Minister was back at his' hotel for
dinner. Dinner over, he went back fo
the Show, presented the prizes to the
best marching girl group, watched a
sheep-dog trial, a football competition
and then went back to his hotel to study
Cabinet papers.
From 9 o’clock in the morning till
4.30 on Sunday the Minister drove
through Mallee country from just out-
side Renmark to Mildura, in Victoria.
There were farewells at Mildura airport,
an interview with the editor of the
“Sunraysia” daily and then the flight
from Mildura to Mascot. It was a busy
weekend for the Minister. But then the
elections are only nine weeks off —aren't
they?
No Drool and Dribble
T>retty girls in advertisements may sell
shirts to men, but do men buy their
own shirts or do their wives buy them
for them?
“Yes,” said the woman at the counter,
“1 want a plain white business shirt,
size 164 collar. But I won't have the
one where the girl drools and dribbles
all over the man on TV. I can’t remem-
ber the name, so you'll have to find out
for me because I won’t buy any shirt
until I'm sure it’s not that one.”
Mystery in the Long Grass
a t his leisure and not too enthusiastic-
ally a representative of The
Bulletin has been investigating the
discovery in the rather unkempt Mel-
bourne suburb of Williamstown of
numbers of dog pelts and has come up
with an unsenSational solution.
In the Williamstow'n area are many
rabbit packs, collections of dogs kept
by men who go rabbiting, and valued
not for their lineage, but for their zest
for hunting.
The district also is noted for its grey-
hounds. Without doing much injustice
to either the ill-bred rabbit packs or the
high-born greyhounds, it might be men-
tioned that in both sorts of kennels one
dog is occasionally set on by the pack
with such ferocity that only the pelt is
left
However, the announcement that num-
bers of dog pelts—in fact, it was only
12—had been found in the long grass
in Williamstown, led many Melbourne
people to the conclusion that dogs had
been butchered for human consumption.
Ho actual mention was made of New
Australians, but the Old Australians got
as close as they could with dark hints
of what goes on in Europe. However,
the most likely solution is that the pelts
were thrown there by the owner of a
pack, after the pack had done its worst
with one of its number.
The Adelaide Aristocracy
r T“'HE battle of the Rundle Street retail
* giants in Adelaide is intensifying.
Many shops are being rebuilt or re-
modelled. There are improvements in
"Too many beats in a bar."


service. For example, it is now much
easier to open an account.
However, one store can’t be too
worried by the chill breezes of competi-
tion. An account customer at this shop
asked about the parking service and was
toid it was for ladies only. He asked
why sex came into it, and the woman
commissionaire hastily explained: “Oh,
it’s for Lady Rymill and people like
that.”
Bringing his Weight to Bear
Tn the physical sense Louis Johnson is
A New Zealand’s heaviest poet. Unlike
many people of ample tonnage he has
energy to burn. He edits the N.Z. poetry
Year Book, writes many articles, and,
judging by the number of his poems
published locally and overseas, his out-
put must average a poem a day.
Lately he has become vocal over the
“cultural dictatorship in New Zealand.”
After castigating the control of the
Advisory Arts Council, “a dictatorship
only rivalled by the iron control over
such matters in Russia,” Johnson said,
“a minor realist and naturalist school
of writing has dominated New Zealand
literature in the past three years and is
beginning to hamper development. It
has come to assume almost the propor-
tions of a New Zealand Academy.
Johnson also attacked the Penguin
anthology of New Zealand verse, edited
by Allen Curnow (at least there was no
mistaking the guarded reference to a
“recent low-priced anthology in paper-
back form published in London").
Although represented by three poems
himself he reckoned the anthology was
a “bucolic country-boy approach to
poetry . . . and distorted the full picture
of our poetry by overlooking anything
contrary to the editor's view that in New
Zealand’s poetry no new developments
had taken place since 1950.
At the moment popular writers are
scooping the sales pool in New Zealand.
Barry Crump, who specialises in the
portrayal of back-country life has be-
come a best seller over the past 12
months. His first book, "A Good Keen
Man (Reed), sold 22,000 copies and
his second book Hang On a Minute,
Mate should be equally popular. Local
publisher Reed is publishing 37 books
before Christmas.
That Was Australia
“An ex-Englishman” (candidly) : “J.”
is quite right, 8/7/’O9, about the moder-
ate cleanliness of the English student. I
was at a public school of repute, and had,
before the swimming bath was opened, a
hot bath, in my turn, every three weeks.
Afterwards, three swims a week; cold
water, of course,\and no soap. Later, I
was at Cambridge, and learned to use
(and to refer to) my morning “tub”—
two inches of water in a large Hat pan.
And still no soap. I distinctly remember
a German undergraduate being regarded
as slightly eccentric because he soaped
himself. I admit frankly that I did not
really understand what personal cleanli-
ness is till I came to Australia. And the
houses at a pound a week and upwards
with no bathroom or apology for one,
the dear old well-to-do people who had
the kids bathed on Saturday nights (but
themselves, I swear, never had a thor-
ough wash from he beginning of a year
till the end)—are they still as of old, I
wonder, or have the last 20 years brought
in a more decent state of things all
round.--
~~ Bulletin, August 12, 1909.
. .
“The Deputy Commissioner for Old-
Age Pensions in N.S.YV. has handed the
papers some correspondence from a pen-
sioner who says he can not only live, but
save money, on 10s, a week; and the
marvel sends statements of account to
prove it. Here is one week's outlay:—
20th: Rent 2s v , milk Id., bread 3fd.
22nd: Morning paper Id., milk Id.
23rd: Tram fares 2d., paper Id. 24th:
Milk Id., bread 34d., paper Id., sugar
2Ad. 25th. Milk Id., paper Id. So this
sybarite rioted for six days on four-
penn’orth of milk, two loaves of bread
and a pound of sugar. And here’s another
week of wild dissipation:—loth: Rent 25.,
matches 2d., raisins 3d., sardines 5d.,
peppermints 3d., meat pie Id. 11th:
Bread 2Jrd., milk Id., methylated spirit 6d.
12th: Milk Id., bread H<L, sausage-meat
l|d„ beer and lunch 6d. 13th: Beer and
lunch 3d., milk Id. 14th: Milk Id., beer
and lunch 3d. 15th: Milk 2d. 16th:
Butter 6|d., bread 3d., arrowroot 2Ad.,
tomatoes 3d. Ever since old-age pensions
came into existence, the “thrifty” pen-
sioner who could lire in luxury on 10s.
a week has been a popular myth among
certain people, and Capital has been
shaking in its shoes lest these bloated
fellows might accumulate oof enough to
knock down the rate o-f interest on mort-
or make a corner in something.
° °
—“Bulletin ” October 14, 1909.
Feiffer
w see m
hap
A 600 P P£AL
Of TROUBie
iP£NTlfyiN<j-
t
W&U, 50R£
«ia ioeßg
AU. tHAf
iUAM.
I
I M£AM MIW£ AM
iMCRgCmH Mixep 0?
iM'Ooe'? it Borneo
HOU WHfM I TSAR OP
011% of ?mz ?
/
MO HA HA
ve m
6ves r.
I
i pbbo to rmp it remem
oifficult to talk about
m CHUPHOOP. TV AMm
6&r weemo fit's. imm
HOU MIW AIOFULLH A>OT
SMOKIIO6F IT eeppSM
mw entt. i
Kia
whar-
em
HOU
like cao Aioq of
UE HOmiLY
AM EIx)ER l*MO(x)6
ARE ? r OEEO TO ■
rmK: 10ae
P Oltte OF
?EO?lE OMtIL
I £i)A^
Tlxme.
H£AH. ; 0S&?
TO U)AH)f TO
0£ UMTPW
LOCK MAS)
I
I THg PROBLEM U)AC> IDgMfl'
IT'S £A4Y TO KUOU) THAT
NOW - oOf !0 THo££ OM-'riMU?
WOO Ml«p FIWDIWO MW
THIWkT r ffl&krep THOM
r MFAAJ HOW CAM 400 T£U A
CHIW? OF roJFU'F THAT HgR
MOTHER l<? A FATHER FIOORF
AMP' U)£U, I MAM APJPSf To
IT 10 RFTROOPCCT
OOT- /
QO MOO HAi/f AOM PApgfc
i(0 HOUR POCKET? rVf
RUfJ OUT OP U A PIOUS-
PIPAS£. I ASK£P
ifOU A3OT TO
SMOK6- I
OU, I'M SORRM.
urn- LU GO
<s€f SOH6
• HOR6
Lewie
UOUMX
GOIKX
mo
wu
com-
Tue
lime kip ik tne
DOZLO/CHARUe
j fHiwk' I've
fOOtiQ
RIGHf \
wee
hour
S6AT
weiu, s one. t ha o
M£M IM SCRVfce
UK6 iw-Ne\«K
wcuio wwe
up
WAH. ITS LK6 HH
expediences in
%d\nce- nen
UIOAM Knew
~tm coou? Talk
to
ne.


FOR THE OBSERVER
The Li file Australian Martyr
T SAW her the other day—the little Aus-
•*- tralian martyr.
We were both in a dentist’s waiting-
room. She sat meekly, hands folded on
her lap, feet neatly together, perspiration
oozing out of every pore of her sweet,
young face, the only part of her anatomy
exposed to the summer sunshine. She was
a Queensland schoolgirl, a martyr, in an
otherwise changing world, to a 40-year-
old concept of how an adolescent should
be dressed.
Her clothes were costly, unbecoming
and uncomfortable. 1 will describe them,
first remarking that the mercury had
risen over the 80 mark.
On her head —well down over her fore-
head —was a velour hat, expensive to buy
and—even in “temperate” England—con-
sidered only suitable for the winter
months. Here —in sub-tropical Queens-
land, at many schools velour hats are
compulsory throughout the year.
Her neck, of course, was encased in
the high collar of her shirt-blouse, and
to prevent any air reaching her over-
heated body, the old school tie was firmly
anchored round it. Over the blouse was
the inevitable tunic. This one had a
cross-over front giving a double thickness
of material across her chest. For added
protection she wore a blazer, a bulky,
sexless garment, designed in the first place
for masculinfe wear and unbecoming to
any but little or flat-chested girls. On her
hands needless to say,, she wore the in-
evitable, and, oh, so ladylike, gloves.
The skirt of her tunic was fully pleated
and longer than the current fashions worn
by her mother, her aunts and probably
her grandmother. In the sitting position,
it fell gracelessly almost to her ankles,
which did not show to any advantage in
their clinging, thick, mud-colored stock-
ings. (A guinea a pair, of course, but no
cost must be spared in making a lovely
young girl look a sight. And under-
mining her self-confidence will surely
prevent her becoming vain.)
Last dreadful touch —the Oxford shoes
—useful to those with fallen arches or
cold feet, but to an eye unaccustomed
to the atrocity, more suitable to a foot-
bal 1 field than the foot of a teenage girl.
As she sat there, this little Australian
martyr, I pictured her on the beach —
brown and lithe, running freely over the
sands in a swimsuit designed—as well as
made —in 1961. 1 could see her in her
tennis dress with its full brief skirt. Not
even the most decrepit board of governors
would expect her to wear a swimsuit with
“There s a REAL newspaper man!”
sleeves, and reaching to her knees, or
wear a tennis dress designed in 1921, and
yet the uniform she wears, day in and
day out, even if the thermometer stands
at 100 degrees is basically the same design
as 40 years ago. In fact, she looks very
reminiscent of the illustrations in an
ancient school story I own about girls
who were at school during the first world
war.
I thought angrily that the girl’s mother,
and quite a number of her aunties, would,
at this moment, be bare-legged with their
feet shod in light-weight shoes or sandals.
They would be wearing sleeveless cotton
dresses, feather-weight hats and gloves
only (very sensibly) if it happened to be
an “occasion.” Yet most of these women
defend these outdated uniforms inflicted
on their lovely daughters because they are
“ladylike.”
This excuse, I was about to say, leaves
me cold, but it would be more truthful to
say it leaves me fuming. 1 am reminded
of the late 18th-century heroine of fiction
who drowned rather than discard her pet-
ticoats, The ladies of the day thought
this was marvellous, just as so many
women of today think it so “nice” to over-
dress their daughters in this, land of
glorious sunshine.
If the girls are truly ladylike, it will
show in their behavior and it does not
require gloves, thick dresses, stockings
and shoes to prove it. If they are not
ladylike, all the dressing up in the world
will not disguise it.
In fairness to our little martyr it seems
only fair to consider how schoolgirls dress
in countries, comparable, in their way of
life, to ours.
I have not been to America but I under-
stand that uniforms are not generally
worn there, the only criterion being suit-
ability to*the occasion and the age of the
wearer. Like the English schoolgirl, they
wear the youthful and attractive looking
“bobby-socks.”
Of England I can speak with know-
ledge. Stockings are optional in wihter,
but most girls choose to wear their white
ankle-socks throughout the year. I must
admit that at times I have shivered for
the girls in winter, but after all, it is
their own choice, and they say they don't
feel the cold. Lightweight but plain
shoes are worn. Gloves in the majority
of cases ate only worn in winter—to keep
the hands warm —which 1 am sure is the
reason they were first invented.
As for dresses, the tunic or blouse and
skirt are worn only in the winter. During
the summer term the girls wear print
dresses generally with a choice of three
colors. At my daughter’s school the
summer dress had an open neck-line,
short sleeves, and a gored skirt. It could
be primrose, light blue or leaf-green. A
neighboring school wore candy-stripes.
They looked pretty, were comfortable
and washed well. Straw hats were worn
in summer and felt hats or berets in
winter.
I am happy to say that as my daughter’s
school here is quite a “young” one,
having been in existence for less than
a decade, although she still wears a tunic,


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jA.CK»ON 4
.OSULUVAhj
fc*. PTYITD v
W/'&SsiiwSr S
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS Sz OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYI’ERS
RULERS, BOOK BINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
•‘JTACKSUL,” BRISBANE
it is a modern one, with smooth, flared
skirt and only one thickness of material
in the bodice. Nor is she inflicted with
a velour hat. Nevertheless —she has to
wear gloves, stockings and the inevitable
football boots —I mean “Oxfords.”
Generally it irritates me when Aus-
tralia slavishly imitates other countries,
but in this matter of school uniforms I
feel it is time that our school authorities
considered the world trend. The uniforms
here are based —with certain modifica-
tions —on those worn in England 40 years
ago. There is one school at least, in
Brisbane, where the girls have to wear
black stockings. If Australia must copy
overseas fashions, at least let them be
up to date. One wonders how many girls
have wheedled their parents—parents only
too eager for them to continue their edu-
cation—into letting them leave school
rather than be forced to wear Oxford
shoes, stockings and gloves.
When I see them—the little Australian
martyrs—I am forcibly reminded of
Frances Cornford’s poem—and—with
very little alteration—is seems to sum up
the situation:
“Why do you walk in the fields in gloves,
Missing so much, and so much?
Oh poor little schoolgirl whom nobody
loves,
Why do you walk through the fields in
gloves,
Missing so much and so much?”
/
DOROTHY BOTTING
FOR THE CONSUMER
Bigger and Better
Mistakes
The ideal town-planning exhibition,
which would lift the hearts of
spectators, would be one which showed
the dreadful things we used to do with
our cities, and then showed the fine,
sensible things we are doing now.
However, the exhibition arranged by
students in town planning at the Uni-
versity of N.S.W. and displayed at
David Jones’ art gallery, clearly shows
one thing. That we never learn.
The exhibition consists of a series of
photographs of Sydney and environs,
taken by students of town planning with
quick ey;s and busy cameras. The photo-
graphs clearly show not only that
previous generations were capable of
haphazard and inconvenient develop-
ment, but that we, supposedly in full
possession of our senses and of detailed
information on the consequences of our
lack of planning, are busily making
bigger and belter errors.
The exhibition shows how Kirribilli
has been converted within the past
decade into a jumble of unmatched build-
ings, each rearing towards the sky, each
seeking out a slice of the harbor view.
On the other hand, the foresight of
previous generations preserved the water-
line of Mosman Bay so that extensive
development on the heights is possible
without depriving the residents of the
area of air and outlook.
The exhibition shows what the caption
calls the 20th century’s “tradesman's
entrance”—the Hume Highway near
Chullora, a mess of light-poles, un-
attractive competing advertising signs,
and undistinguished and unco-ordinated
buildings. By contrast, there is a tree-
lined street in the “old” suburb of
Beecroft, dating from a time when people
were foolish enough to prefer trees to
electric-light poles.
Photographs show dilapidated slums,
where walls are just a patchwork of
rotting corrugated iron, and for which
the only solution is demolition. But also
shown is the “great wall” being built
around Circular Quay, which will,
according to the caption on the photo-
graph, deprive adjoining properties of
light and air, lower their value and
retard development of the area and
separate the inner city from the harbor.
The whole effect probably will be to
develop a “slum” in a high-priced busi-
ness area.
There is a photograph of the Hume
Highway at Ashfield. “Shop in comfort
in the suburbs” is a popular slogan these
days, but the photograph shows how
much chance anyone has of shopping in
any sort of comfort. The main road to
Melbourne goes right through the shop-
ping centre. Or, if you look at it the
other way, the shopping centre flanks
the highway. The narrow road is lined
with parked cars, making it harder for
traffic to flow through, and making it
harder for shoppers to move freely,
safely and quickly about their business.
Ashfield is an older suburb and it is
difficult to retrieve errors there. How-
ever, we can still go ahead and make
new ones.
The town-planning students have
christened the six-lane main road at the
northern seaside suburb of Dee Why,
the “human skittle-alley.” This six-lane
highway has only been widened in the
post-war period, and the suburb of Dee
Why has in that time grown from a few
shops to an 'extensive centre. However,
although the opportunity was there, no
one thought to have the highway by-pass
the shopping centre. So, once, again,
we follow the pattern of “colonial
unimaginativeness” and combirfe a free-
way with a parking station and suburban
shopping centre.
The students have taken their cameras
to the heights of Paddington to record
the decay of areas which could become
convenient and attractive suburbs for
city-workers. On the other hand, at
Fairfield, where the fibro cottages are
strung out along streets with no made
gutters and with unsealed roads, a photo-
graph shows how an area can have all
the symptoms of decay without even the
convenience of slums, which, at least,
enable city workers to avoid expensive
fares and long hours of travel.
The cameras have also recorded the
complete disorder of Rushcutter Bay.
The beginnings of this disorder were in
the last century. But since the war we
have managed to put a gasometer and
a factory hard hy cottages, which are
worth, say, £6OO0 —or were worth £6OOO
until the factory went up—in the Eastern
Valley Way. On the other hand, at
Glebe, one of the oldest Sydney suburbs,
extensive playing fields and parks
separate the industrial and shipping area
of Blackwattle Bay from the living areas
higher up Glebe.
Lines of washing are strung between
the houses in the famous Rocks area


near the Bridge—quite as picturesque as
anything you’d stop to photograph in
Naples. And napkins dry in the sun in
the squalor of Surry Hills. But for sheer
unadulterated ugliness, you have to go
from the slums to Bondi, famed—don’t
we say so every day of the week?—as
the “most beautiful beach in the world.”
The town-planning students are in-
dined to hand the palm to Ramsgate
Avenue, Bondi. This, say the students,
is speculative building at its worst.
Ramsgate Avenue is a barracks-like area
of flat blocks, which neither match nor
contrast. No trees or shrubs relieve the
bareness. Then there is a photograph
from a height of a large area of Bondi.
No tree or playing area breaks the horror
of what we have done to what we so
proudly call the “most beautiful beach
in the world.”
Finally, as a sort of postscript there
is the church of St Matthew, at Windsor,
dating from 1838. Elaborate efforts have
been made to preserve the church, both
for its beauty and its historical value,
Then right outside—not, of course, 100
yards away, but right outside—someone
(guess who?) has erected an electric
transformer. Perhaps in another hundred
years someone will be trying to preserve
the transformer, both for its beauty and
its historical value,
PATRICIA ROLFE
ABORIGINAUTIES
Horns of a Dilemma
Back in the low-price years, when
prime beef was about ten-bob per
1001 b., I was managing a bit of a cattle
station in north Queensland. We all
followed the Kidman ddict then: “Keep
the cheque book closed.” Confidentially,
it was no use opening the damned thing.
We were drafting a couple of hundred
head through the yards. I had with me
my entire station staff. He was a good
man, and I call him Alf, because that
was his name. Alf was on the gates in
the pound yard ; I was working in the
lane.
There was a freckle-faced bally cow
which had been a bit snotty. As she
didn’t want to face the pound I left her
to last. I went back to get her. She
came to meet me. Alf yelled a warning.
I jumped for the rails of the yard I
reckon that was the best standing jump
ever I did. Those rails were over sft.
high, and I think it was sft. 4in. I
cleared the top rail in that standing
jump. I remember, while I was in the
air, I didn’t take much notice of the way
up ; but I did feel it was a long way
down on the other side. Again, and in
confidence, I’d never have cleared it but
for the cow hoisting at the time I sprang:
she put one horn through one side of
my elastic-side boot, out on the other
side, under the instep, and she never
even chafed the skin!
“Here's some attractive scrip which may appeal to you, Broken Hill
ordinarys overprinted in green on a mauve background with
yellow edging !”
I landed on my feet, looked at the
cow through the rails. She was raking
dust with one hoof, blowing bubbles at
me from her nostrils and mouth. I told
Alf: “There's no need to put her through
the pound. I know what she is. I’ll let
her out in to the big yard to go bush.”
When I opened the gate she charged
out. Then I realised I should have
opened the gate out of the big yard
before I let her into it. That receiving
yard was about 70 yards square, with
a wild quinine tree growing about the
middle of it. That tree was approxi-
mately 12 inches in diameter and with-
out a limb or bough less than 10ft or
more from the ground. I strolled across.
I intended to do it in two stages, with
the quinine tree as a central station.
That freckled cow had other inten-
tions: she demanded some hurry-up
action. I reckon I reached that tree with
less than a length and a half to spare,
with the cow blowing hot air and bovine
curses on the legs of my trousers. 1
don't know if she had anything in re-
serve ; I know I was flat out.
That tree seemed to be a safe haven.
I knew the rules: it had to be an excep-
tional beast, and a mad bullock at that,
which would follow a man more than
half round a post. One complete circle
would be more than enough for any
of them. With the pace I had I knew
I only had to use the trunk of that tree
as a pivot and the impetus would swing
me round a couple of times.
But if that cow had read the rules
she'd forgotten them: as I swung in a
grand arc round the tree she followed
me: she did a complete circle, and I
heard the “Woof!” of her breath every
time she hoisted with her horns as she
thought she had me.
I found, after a round or two, it vfos
comparatively easy: 1 only had two feet
to keep under me and balance; the
cow had four. 1 had the trunk of the
tree to act as an axle, with my arms
as levers. The odds were all in my
favor. The cow had one great advantage:
she was in deadly earnest.
After a couple of rounds, and it
seemed to be a dozen in my imagination,
I found I was so expert on the short
swings I was doing it infinitely better
than the cow: I’d gained on her ; I could
have grabbed her by the tail; 1 was in
danger of lapping her. I eased off a bit.
That cow must have been able to do
mental arithmetic and compute angles:
she gave a snort which lifted the dust
from the ground; she propped; she
was coming the other way on the instant!
I acted instinctively. I double de-clutched
and threw myself into reverse. My gains
had been a loss.
I could see Alf in a hurry to let a
mob of drafted cattle out in the big
yard. If the cow followed the rules she’d
run to them and forget me. If she did
that she’d have to be re-drafted, and I
didn’t want to put that old cow through
the yards again. I had time to call to
Alf to wait a bit —the cow must tire
soon.
Then I saw my old cattle-dog Wally


There’s no
mistaking
White Horse
Scotch
(the perfect racing companion)
sesco:
kbISTIL
fiIENLIVt
o ° p r
hiL
dj TKe Old Blei\d
N° 2752823 ScotcKWKisky
of tKe
u,
Cellar
FROM THE
Ong;r\a.l Lt'e^pf
E s t o. b
1742
L that are desirous to pas* r ‘ K:
EDINBURGH to LONDON or any
LL
A
other place on their road, if them
repair to the WHITE HORSE CELLAR
in EDINBURGH, at which place they may be
received in a STAGE COACH every Monuas
and Friday, which performs the whole ;c-irne>
in eight days (if God permits), and sf.s font!
at five in the morning .
Allowing each passenger 14 pounds weight
and all above. (3 pence per pound.
F.bruary. 1 754
WHITE HORSE DISTILLERS LTD
Lagavulm Distillery Island of Islay and GlenUvet P»s-
GLASGOW and LONDON.
GLASGOW and LONDON
HIMO WHOLLY OiSTILLEO AND MATURED IH M
NET I PINT 6 FLUID OUNCES
Available in three handy sizes: 26-oz. bottles,
“halves" and “quarters.”
At Standard Brand Prices.
streaking across the yard. I don’t know
what happened: I was too busily en-
gaged elsewhere to take note of minor
details ; but in less than two ups the
game was reversed: the cow was racing
across the yard, away from me, head
down, tail up, her bellows of protest
cut short by gasps of pain, as Wally
did what he was bred to do! 1 think
that cow was looking for a tree behind
which to dodge the blue-streaked devil
which sank its teeth in her hind fetlocks
as they hit the ground!
I came out from behind my tree. I
walked with dignity, though 1 did look
back over my shoulder repeatedly, as 1
opened the gate out of the yard to let
that cow go bush. 1 reached it. opened
it, stood aside to let the lady go first —
as a gentleman should do.
That cow didn’t need any telling: she
saw the open gate ; she felt Wally at
her heels ; she charged straight through,
and she, never even acknowledged my
presence as she passed.
HENRY G. LAMOND
Geese and
Bamboo
Wild geese have come into Darwin and
the bamboo is flowering. There is
an old Chinese superstition that when the
bamboo flowers there will be a time of
drought and famine.
The geese came once before, way back
in 1951, when there was a “dry wet."
Long brazen days in October and
November unrelieved by the usual crash-
ing, satisfying storms and floods of water
falling out of the sky, washing six
months’ dust from the country and the
souls of the inhabitants! In 1951 there
was no rain and the nights were as hot
and unbearable as the days ; and the wild
geese came into town.
Flocks of them, skinny and hungry,
with anxious eyes, flopping awkwardly
at evening into the trees on the fore-
shore, settling for the night. Coming in
because their plains had dried up ; those
endless, chains of lagoons, those swampy
places where reeds are higher than a man
in the tawny leech-infested water, had
dried to cracked claypans.
And now they are back again. But
they don’t seem very much like the ones
you might hear on a white-moon night
in June giving a wild call as they pass
on unknown journeys to secret places far
from suburbia’s clustered lights over
which they fly in a distant high up vee.
They move slowly and somewhat
spiritlessly up from the stagnant little
pool that ornaments the Botanical
Gardens. They look—and perhaps feel
—humbled because they must rely on the
good nature of the humans of the town
they normally shun. In 1951 their trust
was misplaced for large numbers were
killed. This year they will have the
theoretical protection of a recently
enacted ordinance.
There are about 70 of them at the
moment in the Botanical Gardens and
it’s pleasant enough for them there. They
move leisurely about in the shade of
giant trees just now coming into exotic
bloom and casting draughts of perfume
about their heads. They rub shoulders
with ibis, which are long-standing
residents.
The Darwin Botanical Gardens are not
quite like the public gardens of other
cities—yet. There is an untouched quality
about them. You have the feeling that
you might have been the only person
in some particular corner for months
It’s beautiful and peaceful. Little honey-
eaters probe greedily and unceasingly
through the lavish flower displays of the
great trees and you walk, in a rain of
yellow petals under the big golden flame-
trees where colored parrots in a mad
across the top shred the
blossoms. Nesting caucal pheasants call
through the humid morning. We hope
to hear that call through the rain soon —-
in spite of the dire combination of the
wild geese and flowering bamboo.
K. KEAIN


REVIEWS
TV
A New Culfural Deal?
By MAX HARRIS
When Clement Semmler took over the
all-important role of A.B.C. Pro-
grammes Manager it came as a surprise
windfall to the cultured section of the
Australian public. Semmler is no ordi-
nary A.B.C. backroom functionary —he
has a special interest in jazz, literary
quarterlies, the modern novel, and a
particular interest in James Joyce. He
could scarcely have been content with
the programme heritage of dreariness
and mediocrity left to him by his pre-
decessor, Dr Barry.
It was rumored in the A.B.C. that
not only was the right man in the right
job but that the Commission was dis-
posed to reorientate television policy
into higher-level programming. For the
last year or so it has seemed as though
the A.B.C. intended to compete with
commercial channels at the level of adult
westerns and underworld thrillers. It is
impossible for the A.B.C. to outbid, out-
buy and out-produce commercial chan-
nels in the field of mass high-rated
television The cost of a single Digby
Wolfe Spectacular would shoot a sizeable
hole in A.B.C. funds ; even a modest
weekly entry into the variety field is a
dubious investment. Shows of the calibre
of Cafe Continental, The Lorrne Des-
mond Show, and the dismal Hal Lash-
wood Minstrels, demonstrate the hope-
lessness of the A.B.C.’s half-baked
amateur essays at glossy effects. Against
the failure of such shows to attract
viewers, the A.B.C. was shattered by the
enormous national success of “The Out-
casts.” Public reaction itself confirmed
the A.B.C.’s impulse to re-think pro-
gramming at a loftier level.
How is this re-thinking working out*
in practice? In the first instance the
A.B.C. is up against the problem of
getting first-class indigenous material.
This is hard to come by, even if finance
is not the grim deterrent it once was.
The result is that A.B.C. television in
future months will come to rely heavily
on “class” material from the 8.8. C. The
14-episode “Diary of Samuel Pepys” has
been shown in Sydney and something
of a distinctive Pepysian flavor came
through, and the series could be called
a distinct off-beat success. The excellent
Churchill programr-.e “The Valiant
Years,” with its Richard Burton speech
and Richard Rodgers music, has been fol-
lowed up in Sydney by the most ambitious
exercise in Shakespeariana ever attempted
by the 8.8. C., “An Age of Kings.”
The entire set of Shakespeare’s
chronicle plays spans 86 years of tur-
bulent British history, from the beginning
of the 15th century up to 1483. In the
form of 15 parts of 60 to 75 minute’s
duration, the 8.8. C. attempted to build
up an epic pageant in heroic terms out
of the five chronicle plays. No theatre
can perform, or has performed the
chronicles in sequence, and the 8.8. C.
believed that the medium of television
could show the interlocking of charac-
ters and action from one play to the
next, could capture the historical
dynamic of the whole period.
The immediate critical reaction to this
concept is one of incredibility. The
pageantry, heraldry and heroic grandeur
of the Histories is contradicted by the
creepy limitations of the television box
which cannot deal with mass grouping
or movement, or divided detail, and
which, in the words of the 8.8. C. pro-
ducer of the series, Peter Dews,
“envisages everything in discreet shades
of battleship-grey.” However the 8.8. C.,
acknowledging the pitiful defects of the
medium as against the rich spread of
the stage, approached the project with
bold honesty. The whole double
tetralogy was recorded live, no outside
film material was used, and the focus
of concentration was frankly directed
to intimacy of action, rapid clear diction,
and psychological detail.
Not only has th(? A.B.C. acquired this
monumental 8.8. C. project, but it
has also bought up the 8.8.C.’s standard
literary fare: TV adaptations of classic
novels. Viewers will be well and truly
filled in on the classic English novel.
Dickens is a hot 8.8. C. favorite, and
we are to be pleasured with “Barnaby
Rudge” and 15 episodes of “Tales from
Dickens”; Trollope is to be with us
again in a six-episode “Last Chronicles
of Barset”; Sir Walter Scott has
inevitably, if belatedly, got into the pic-
ture: “Kenilworth” has been serialised.
The best of these endless adaptations
is reputed to be the six-episode version
of Jane Austen’s “Emma.”
This all sounds a little better than it
really is. These classic serials to which
the 8.8. C. seems massively addicted, are
slow, ponderous, poorly acted and
crudely mounted affairs. They tend to
be as repetitive and vacuous in their
own fashion as adult westerns and gang-
ster epics are in theirs.
The truth of the matter is that the
8.8. C is an erratic, if not poor, source
of high-level programming. In the field
of pure television —drama, and public
affairs documentaries —the Americans
show a far more imaginative approach
to the medium. The 8.8. C. has not sold
anything to Australia which approaches
the originatity of the Robert Herridge
Theatre or the C.B.S. Workshop.
nPHE problem Semmler is confronted
with is that he can lay hands cn plenty
of documentary and educational material
but very little creative material That
vigorous old boy Compton McKenzie
strode purposefully through classic ruins
to make “The Glory that was Greece”
and “The Grandeur that was Rome”:
Bertrand Russell was impressive in his
mind-speaking series some time ago, and
Sir Kenneth Clark graced Sydney’s
idiot-boxes to expatiate entertainingly
on “Five Revolutionary Painters.” But
it is hard to recall, or anticipate, any-
thing of great interest in televised drama.
The problem remains exactly the
same when one turns to Australia’s own
energies in creating a national television
idiom. As Paul Rotha indicated, we
have unexpected resources in Australia
in film-making know-how. We have fine
cameramen, imaginative producers, and
an almost native sense of visual effect.
The' result is that we can and do pro-
duce exciting visual reportage, and it
is in this field that Australian television
is progressing apace. The most ambitious
programme devised in 1961 is the “Four
Corners” documentary, presented by the
brilliant Michael Charlton.
This documentary talent was even
more fully displayed in the “freak”
documentary “River of Life,” a study
of blood transfusion and heart surgery
handled with such tension and artistry
as to be quite in world-class.
The A.B.C. is also making a stout
effort to establish an indigenous quality
in the public affairs and interviewing
field. The difficulty encountered here is
not a shortage of interesting material,
but of spirited presentation. Michael
Charlton must not be over-exploited, but
after him the interviewing standard falls
away sadly. Gerald Lyons of Melbourne
shows an above-average talent, but the
A.B.C. has placed most of its 1961 eggs
in the one basket.
Before he leaves for his Geneva Press


THE HARD WAY
Frank Hardy
The story behind "POWER WITHOUT GLORY" and
the man who wrote it
At every bookshop ... ... 26/-
WERNER LAURIE
Council appointment, Rohan Rivett is
rushing through some 50 interview pro-
grammes Unfortunately, in these pro-
grammes, Rivett comes through as an
amiable personality, a bit of a natter-
artist, and essentially journalistic in
approach. Unlike Charlton he pre-
pared to interview with a superficial
knowledge of his subject. The questions
he asks come pat and easy and so do
the answers he gets.
In its whole television history the
A.B.C. attempted only one regular cultural
show: “The Critics.” This proved to be
such a hot potato that it was dropped
after a few months, not because it lacked
viewers, but because it seemed to stir
up hornets’ nests right, left, and centre.
Despite all this the A.B.C. has sum-
moned up the courage of its convictions,
and a revived “Critics” session is under
consideration for either this financial
year or the beginning of the next. The
original “Critics" programme failed be-
cause it cast its net too wide, and far
too often the speakers found themselves
expounding thunderously on subjects
about which they knew too little to be
speaking at all. The new “Critics” pro-
gramme will function more within
defined fields of critical debate, so that
a Lecturer in English won’t have to lay
down the law about architecture, or a
jazz musician comment on the plays of
Ben Johnson. Additionally the A.B.C.
will seek its panel members from a
number of different States to give the
show greater punch and interest.
All these projected moves build up
into something that can fairly be
described as a “new deal” in Australian
television, but a great question mark
hangs over the field of drama. At the
moment the A.B.C. are turning out a
live play from Sydney and Melbourne at
the rate of one a month from each centre.
Thus Australian drama represents be-
tween 50 and 60 per cent, of all televised
plays. This output could well increase
in the future, because the problem of
acquiring good plays from overseas is
an acute one. The A.B.C. cannot lay
its hands on top international plays, and
it is trying to avoid buying up too many
“popular” overseas works which have
their own regional and cultural
coloration. “The Larkins” had a vast
mass public in the U.K., but went over
as cold as Sunday’s lamb in Australia.
But where is Australian dramatic
material to come from? There are few
enough dramatists in Australia, let alone
TV dramatists, and even when an ex-
perienced playwright such as Oriel Gray
turned her hand to a television effort,
“Burst of Summer,” it was a depressingly
incompetent technical exercise, and the
characterisation was appalling. Only
spectacular financial rewards and a long-
term campaign for writers can solve the
problem, but in the meantime difficult
years lie ahead.
ART
Dutch Expressionists
Trends in Dutch Painting. National
Gallery. Melbourne.
The Formative Years. Museum of
Modern Art. Melbourne.
YTeleourne now has a plethora of
important art shows. The present
two should not be missed, and Nolan,
Blackman and French follow them within
a week.
The review of Dutch painting from
van Gogh to the present day, which is
the main event of the National Gallery’s
centenary celebrations, is one of the most
comprehensive international exhibitions
to be seen in this country. Holland has
not only its own great tradition to draw
upon, but it also enjoys the enormous
advantage of proximity to the other
centres of European art. All the major
movements of twentieth century painting
are reflected, and in some cases not by
followers but by the pioneers themselves
The outstanding examples in this col-
lection are van Gogh and Mondriaan,
the former represented by half a dozen
splendid works, and the latter by four
quite diverse works, of which only one
is in his familiar geometrical style. Tha.
one however is probably the most in-
structive painting in the whole show.
The growth of expressionism from
van Gogh to Appel, upon which the
exhibition concentrates, is here clearK
traced through Kruyder, van Dongen
and Charley Toorop, and its influence
can be sensed in the glowing reflective
work of Sluyters and in the early works
of Mondriaan. Its present culmination
in abstract expressionism is powerfully
illustrated in the strikingly rich, dominat-
ing work of Karel Appel.
There are many more, and all good,
but of these Gerrit Eenner’s broad tran-
quil, abstracted landscapes will be found
especially charming.
T>/tntings from 1940 to 1945 by Arthur
Boyd, Sidney Nolan, John Perceval
and Albert Tucker, at the Museum of
Modern Art, show a similar interest in
a local type of expressionism. Each is
gifted with a rich and penetrating
imagination, and their styles, by now well-
known, were already emerging clearly
in these early years. As landscape
painters, Nolan especially, and also Boyd,
create by seemingly innocent and daring
means a deeper vision of the bush than
did their most illustrious predecessors;
and at present visitors to the Museum
can also enjoy the good fortune of
studying a few later Nolans in the per-
manent collection downstairs. Perceval
and Tucker at this time seemed to
explore a rather mr.e private world of
fantasy and terror, which is often more
startling than stimulating.
BILL HANNAN.
Fourth Dimension
War Memorial. Kings Park. Perth.
Spring Show. Perth Society of Artists.
A/Targaret Priest’s war memorial
recently unveiled in King’s Park is
one of the most distinguished pieces of
work by a Perth artist to be seen for
some time. An angular golden flame in
brassed fibreglass, it has what one may
call the fourth dimension, characteristic
of good sculpture. As one moves around
it it slowly unfolds a series of profiles,
each admirable and all consistent. The
eye explores all the surfaces and moves
through the form with the feeling of
being led. Though far shorter than any
of the trees which surround it, the monu-
ment dominates them: to crib a line
from Eliot, “moving eternally in its
stillness.’’
Mrs Priest’s liturgical statues (“Our
Lady of Crawley” in St. Thomas More
College and the “Crucifix” in St. Louis
College) are extremely formal for pieces
of public sculpture, but the war memorial
is absolutely abstract. The courage of
Mrs Priest and her clients in setting up
an abstract construction as a memorial
in a city punctuated mostly by distressing
statues in the academic style has been
rewarded. The Sunday strollers in the
park seemed genuinely impressed and by
no means shocked or uneasily amused by
the monument.
/"Vnly Cyril Lander, Ernest Philpot and
Leon Prichard have escaped the
frigid langor which afflicts the rest of the
Perth Society of Artists’ spring show.


Cyril Lander’s watercolor “The Rock”
is probably the best in the gallery. It
belongs to the 19th-century topographi-
cal school, and it has the proper Anti-
podean landscape-angst.- Meticulously
realistic, it shows a great brooding rock,
rounded and worn by time, in a bush
clearing: the thing squats there, baleful
and inimical. The other more modern
and stylish landscapes by Lander lack
this feeling and, for that matter, any
other. They are exercises. “The Rock”
is as expressionistic as one could wish.
Ernest Philpot has four abstracts on
show, one imitation Pollock and three
geometrical compositions. All are com-
petent, and two of the geometrical ones
come quite close to distinction:
“Elements of Mystery” in reds and blues
on purple coheres, despite a touch of
fussiness, and “Salome,” though a trifle
naive, has its own geometrical logic. Its
title presents a more inscrutable mystery
than it does.
Leon Prichard's three sketches in
black and white on red (“Landscapes”
1-3) are pretty and light-hearted exploita-
tions of the Drysdale-Daws-Nolan out-
backerie, and one of them has a touch
of Juniper —lolly-pink leaves clashing
admirably with a background landscape,
hot orange-red, and kineesthetic. Two
of them run the familiar Colonial archi-
tecture and aboriginal figures formula,
and the third (with the lolly-pink leaves)
looks exactly like it feels, driving from
Perth to Kalgoorlie at the height of
summer in an M.G. Vertical jabs of
color translate precisely the fore and
aft pitch of the car on the tarmac.
These are by no means important pic-
tures, but they do achieve what they set
out to achieve: attractive decoration,
with room for a kind of ironic empathy.
There are other paintings in the show
which have merits which one notices at
the time —but few that one remembers.
P. E. HUTCHINGS
FILMS
Wilde Young Man
Romanoff amt Juliet. Sydney Lyceum.
"Deter Ustinov is contemporary
London’s self-appointed Wilde. He
is a plump, witty fellow, with a voice
that can do miracles with the mere sug-
gestion of a joke ; and his jokes are
nearly always in exquisite good taste.
When other people do his plays, they
don't quite come off. When he gives a
mere speech, the result is a comedy in
several parts. His play, “Romanoff and
Juliet'' is paper-thin, and without him
becomes a hollow and dated joke. With
him in it, it was the rage of London.
Now, with a film that is much better
than the play, it will be the rage almost
everywhere ; except in the U.S.S.R.,
where the star comedian is also chiet
censor.
Oddly enough, from a man noted for
his verbal wit, “Romanoff and Juliet”
is a comedy of situations, rather than
conversations. There are some very
amusing things said ; but they are nearly
all reserved for the author-director-actor,
Ustinov himself. As Prime Minister of
the mythical, five-mile-square principality
of Concordia, he admits to “no terri-
torial ambitions,” on the grounds that
“in the atomic age it is wisest to be a
small target . . .” But as author he
appears to have no ambitions at all to
place his lovers beside Shakespeare's,
except in their predicament and in his
t.t |e pitn As the prince and princess ot
h,s tale, the son of the Russian ambas-
sador and the daughter of the American
ambassador could well have been given
some memorable lyrical passages to say
lo ™ s , behalt : at Ustinov s level if
not Shakespeare s. Instead, they talk
banalities. Here one suspects that he
sacrificed authorship to egotism. The real
hero is Ustinov the man, admiring him-
self from every angle. Once again the
parallel is Wilde.
The surprising thing is that he not
merely gets away with it, but wins ones
sympathy. Individualism is so much a
part 0 £ theme, and so much a neces-
sary ingredient of the central character,
that the need f or an Ustinov in the play
is as obvious as a Charlie for Chaplin,
The mvth explored is that of the “little
man,” fighting and (for once) defeating
the big battalions ; and the nose-thumb-
ing and nose-tweaking require l a clever,
naughty grown-up boy.
The' outwitted ‘enemies” are those
g abstractions, the U.S.A. and the
U.S.S.R., reduced to manageable propor-
f cartoon . stereo , y p e quality. The
. legitimate. As for
; larger abstraction, the U.N. it
appeared to better advantage,
wou |d have guessed, from all that
, f - t • __ ri Wn<xenir‘?
*<*» on ,here - ,ha ‘ 11 15 50 pho,oge " ,C -
ANTON VOGT.
MUSIC
Segovia's Guitar
/"■\ne of the factors in the quite
extraordinary fame of Andres
Segovia is so obvious a thing that
it has attracted very little notice.
This is the unlikely nature of his
instrument. If we can set aside for
the moment our impression of his
strong and dignified presence, and
our memory of his indomitable skill
as a performer, I think it must strike
us as passing strange that such a
modest, quiet and domestic instru-
ment as the guitar should have
carried a man to so resounding a
success. For the guitar, and most
of its associates through history,
have remained basically simple,
portable, accompanying instruments,
having strong ties with folk and
popular music, the open air, and
idle if rather delicate and aristo-
cratic entertainment. The guitar is
of a family which, to speak without
prejudice to the Elizabethan
lutenists, has produced no great
music for itself.
To say this is of course to invite
Segovia’s many admirers to cata-
logue the modern works which have
been composed for guitar, most of
them under the stimulus of Segovia's
own playing No doubt some of
these are quite remarkable, but there
is a great difference in kind between
them and, let us say, those other
modern works which have sought to
revive the use of the harpsichord—
the Concerto of Manuel de Falla,
for instance. For the harpsichord has
had, in its own right, a glorious
hour in the pageant of great music.
Its sound and its story are per-
manently imbedded in the music of
the seventeenth and eighteenth cen-
turies, and it has produced, in
Domenico Scarlatti, at least one
creative spirit of the first order. No
degree of preciousness or affectation
can detract very much from these
facts. The guitar, though, is not in
the same case. Those with some
nodding acquaintance with the
curiosities of musical literature will
probably be able to recall
Dragonetti, one of the most famous
virtuosi of the early nineteenth cen-
tury. His instrument was also an
unlikely one—the double bass, li
was not, 1 think, because the double
bass is a noble and indispensable
part of the orchestra that
Dragonetti became celebrated, but
rather because he mastered its tech-
nique of performance to such an
astonishing degree. /nd Mis is to
a large extent also the case with
Segovia. What compels attention to
him is this staggering virtuosity
which is the more remarkable in
being applied to an instrument like
the guitar.
If there is any point to be taken
from this, it is certainly not one
which depreciates either t fineness
of Segovia's performance, or the rare
pleasure which we can find in his
concerts. It is merely a simple point
which rests on the distinction be-
tween pleasant mu:ic and great art,
a distinction which even
spectacular achievements can h rdl\
bridge over. But those who are in-
terested in musical experience
should not be deterred from hearing
Segovia by the crowd seeking a n: v
sensation. Even if there are things
which the guitar cannot do. there
is no better exponent of the many
delightful talents it does have.
KENNETH HINCE.


THEATRE
The Rhino Under the Skin
Rhinoceros. Eugene lonesco. Union
Theatre Repertory Company. Mel-
bourne.
lonesco has great power to evoke night-
mare, in particular, the nightmare of
our time: a de-humanised society. He
has a horrified, but perfectly clear, vision
of the threat to individuality, and to the
human mind itself, of a mass conformist
society. In “Rhinoceros” the nightmare
takes the form of men becoming beasts.
The really horrible part is that they
choose to become beasts, to renounce
their humanity and wallow in the
primeval swamps. It is a simple meta-
phor, but lonesco develops it brilliantly.
We already know lonesco, from "The
Lesson” and “The Chairs,” as a writer
of black farce. It is very funny, but
it is also terrifying, and the end is
murder, madness, suicide. But
‘‘Rhinoceros” is different. The first half
is light-hearted and, although the second
half is darker, the play ends with an
affirmation. Berenger, the non-confor-
mist, refuses to become a rhinoceros
and elects to remain a man, even though
he is the last man left. Berenger is a
well-known type in twentieth-century
literature: the “Little Man.” the anti-
hero. He belongs to the class of the
good soldier Schweik and Leopold
Bloom.
What does Berenger stand for? There
is nothing remarkable about him by the
standards of the world. He is defined
chiefly by being different from the other
characters. He drinks too much, he is
untidy, his hair is uncombed, he has
lost his tie, he is late for work. Even
when he hasn’t been drinking, everyone
thinks he has, because his is usually out
of step in some way. But he is not
consciously non-conformist. It is simply
that, with the best will in the world, he
turns out to be behaving differently from
everyone else.
In “Rhinoceros” lonesco attacks both
the misuse of reason and the refusal to
use the mind. As always in his plays
the dialogue reveals the mindlessness,
the parrot-like repetition of phrases that
passess for conversation in so much of
human discourse. Everybody talks in
cliches, and at times the pattern of
cliches takes on the formality of a ritual
dance. The contrast between the for-
mality of the pattern and the banality
of the remarks is irresistably absurd.
Whenever the characters get into a dis-
cussion about anything, chaos ensues.
The professional logician, apparently a
modern linguistic philosopher, does not
help either. By sleight of logic he can
conjure any argument away so that the
astonished spectators are left gaping.
Objections disappear like rabbits into
hats. Eventually the logician reasons
himself out of his reason and becomes a
rhinoceros too. In fact, all the intending
rhinoceroses are full of apparently
plausible reasons for relinquishing their
humanity.
But, while he attacks the misuse of
reason, lonesco certainly does not intend
to attack reason itself and set up instinct
in its stead. As Berenger says: “L's the
rhinoceros which instinct.” Berenger
is not an intellectual and he cannot argue
for his determination to remain human,
but nevertheless he is quite clear that
that it is the only decision a reasonable
human being could make. To become a
rhinoceros is absurd.
“Rhinoceros” is brilliant intellectual
farce and Wal Cherry, in his exciting
production, is not afraid to treat it as
the pyrotechnic display of wit that it is.
It flies along at a spanking pace. Clement
McCallin plays the battered individualist
Berenger as an essentially relaxed person
who is saved from the monstrous meta-
morphosis that his fellows undergo by
his inability to stiffen into conformism.
All the other characters are rather doll-
like : there is a certain rigidity and
automatism in their speech and move-
ments. This is cleverly emphasised by
having them dressed in old-fashioned
clothes, while Berenger wears an ordi-
nary suit.
The theatre of lonesco and Beckett
is actors’ theatre in a great comic tradi-
tion. Instead of using all their skill to
appear just like you and me, the actors
have to present the odd, the extraordi-
nary, the mad. I do not know whether
this is easier or more difficult than
straight realism, but actors always seem
to enjoy it tremendously. The dozen
very talented actors of the augmented
Union Theatre Repertory Company play
“Rhinoceros” with great verve. Frank
Thring, as Berenger’s friend John, effects
a remarkable transformation from the
brisk, impeccable and self-righteous
businessman of Act I to the loose-
featured, lumbering rhinocerotic creature
of Act 11. George Whaley succeeds in
being the most fantastic. As Mr Papyrus,
head of the department, he wafts and
flutters around the stage like a piece of
grey paper: the quintessence of dehy-
drated officialdom. Anne Fraser’s attrac-
tive settings, balanced between stylisa-
tion and realism, with upright buildings
and sloping streets and floors, make an
important contribution to the atmo-
sphere. As Barry Humphries would say:
“A very nice night’s entertainment.”
MADELEINE ARMSTRONG.
Honest Coarseness
Come Blow Your Horn. Palace.
Sydney.
Bye Bye Birdie. Her Majesty’s.
Sydney.
The Imaginary Invalid. Moliere.
You Can’t Take It With You. Kauf-
man and Hart. Both N.I.D.A.
Tnto town, in a high wind of wit and
warmth, have blown two of the most
beguiling shows for some time: “Come
Blow Your Horn” at the Palace and
the musical “Bye Bye Birdie” at Her
Majesty’s. This town ought to take them
both to its expense-account heart.
“Come Blow Your Horn” is a tale of
two bachelor brothers in New York, one
old enough to be ripe for marriage, the
other young enough to be ripe for
experience before marriage. Laughter
comes from the way in which the elder
brother guides the kid brother into the
arts of seduction blarney, only to be-
come appalled finally at the monster he
has aroused.
All the very funny by-play on relation-
ships between male and female bachelors
would not on its own make a play, how-
ever ; what does make an entertainment
of the evening is the sharp and fond
etching of the Jewish parents of the lads.
“Come Blow Your Horn” goes like a
cracker, thanks to director and actor
Jonathan Daly, and leads Myron Nat-
wick, Rachel Holzer and Max Bruch.
As a doll who wants to get into pictures
via the bed, Glenna Brydon gives a stun-
ning show of desirable dumbness.
“Bye Bye Birdie,” which demonstrates
the at-first unlikely thesis that teen-age
rock idols in gold lame pants and their
screaming followers can after all be not
only human but even likeable, provides
one of the warmest and most ingratiating
nights of theatre it is possible to imagine.
Not that the big musical is without
fault; it has plenty of blemishes —chiefly
the fact that some of the biggest numbers
do not convincingly grow out of the main
story.
At the end of half an hour, however,
the show will have charmed all carping
words out of you. Drollery, wit, beauti-
fully clean dressing and dancing give a
special power to this musical.
Kevan Johnston, the local dancer who
plays Birdie, says perhaps a dozen lines
all night, but no one on the local stage
has ever equalled his pelvic eloquence.
The show is not crude, and it is thanks
to Mr Johnston’s honest coarseness, his
utter conviction as Birdie who lives for
the rock that this is so.
Principals Frank Buxton and Patricia
Finley come across with the smoothest
bit of ingratiation that we’ve seen in an
age, and Grant Taylor and Fifi Banvard
help it right along.
Out at the National Institute of
Dramatic Art the second crop of students
to graduate gave their “diploma” per-
formances in two productions. Chief
feature of these passing-out parades was
the obvious need these youngsters have
to act far more in front of audience.
N.I.D.A. heads will have to contrive to
get more active performances with live
audience into the curriculum.
KEVON KEMP


The Red Page
Wayward Power
By ALAN SEYMOUR
Ibsen has become something of a dirty
word in the theatre. Experts quote
him, students read him, but until recently
it seemed that fewer and fewer people
performed him. However, a recent series
of exceptional productions on British
commercial television and some new
translations designed to counteract
Archer’s late-Victorian stuffiness have
sparked new interest in the old master.
And master he certainly is, as a re-reading
of three of his famous plays in this
Everyman paperback* quickly shows.
It is a pity that Everyman has chosen
to republish translations which first
appeared in their series in 1910. A note
credits someone with “modernising” the
texts, but it is difficult to see where this
has been done. Too frequently we find
those appalling Victorianisms which tend
to set the modern reader off into mild
hysterics. And there is no wonder many
productions of Ibsen seem stilted when
actors have to cope with such character-
less exchanges as: “Look, children, I’m
back again!” “Oh, father, we're so
pleased you’ve come!” Any translator
who uses such literal and unidiomatic
phrases as: “I’ll sit here meanwhile” is
blocking rather than revealing the true
spirit of the works. Of course, Ibsen
himself is capable of some straight-
faced dialogue of unintentional hilarity.
In “The Wild Duck” Hedvig's Act 3
curtain line: “It all seems to me very
odd,” would probably be echoed by the
audience, no matter how translated. But
it is undeniable that Ibsen is one of
the few great playwrights of the last
hundred years.
In this Everyman collection we are
lucky enough to have two masterpieces
of the modern theatre. To return to
“The Wild Duck” and “A Doll’s House”
after years away from the study of Ibsen
is to be overwhelmed by their extra-
ordinary, wayward power, and surprised
at certain unexpected qualities.
The first surprise is the humor. Perhaps
theatre people, historians and critics have
taken Ibsen too seriously ; or perhaps we
see bad productions or read him too
young. The astonishment now is the
mastery of that oblique technique which
reveals character by emphasising the pro-
testations and pretensions which men
confidently believe to show their real
selves, but which are a mask for their
own inadequacies. Hjalmar Ekdal is a
superb example of this. Blustering, self-
important, improvident, lazy, always
about to start on his great work
“tomorrow,” he is the epitome of the
“creative” person who prefers great plans
to hard work, and as such comes un-
comfortably close to the fool in all of us.
This absurd, pathetic man is one of the
great creations of the modern theatre ;
and Ibsen evokes him without benefit of
those pseudo-Freudian tags which in later
playwrights replaced his genuinely fresh
insight.
Coupled with that insight was an acute
theatrical sense.lbsen has been accused
of wordiness and dullness, of creating a
theatre in which people merely argued
and there was no drama, and no comedy.
But the internal evidence of these plays
alone reveals his sure feeling for the
dramatic moment and, above all, the
dramatised incident which reveals his
truths more vividly than prosy discussion
ever could. In fact, some of the incidents
may be a hangover from the melodrama
he was to replace. The prolonged busi-
ness over the fatal letter in the letter-
box (“A Doll's House”) would have to
be handled with extreme care in the
theatre today if it were not to verge on
the ludicrous ; although, so rich is Ibsen's
sense of the ridiculous in his characters
that one wonders if he did not intend such
devices to be played for all the comedy
they are worth.
It is this unexpected humor one keeps
coming back to ; and it is humor all the
richer for deriving firmly from character.
Economy is one of the master's attri-
butes: and character humor is never
more surely revealed than in the scene
late in “The Wild Duck” in which the
preposterous Hjalmar, seemingly ex-
hausted by the great emotional crisis
which will force him to leave his home
and family, nevertheless works his way
through the plate of bread and butter
his matter-of-fact wife has placed before
him ; punctuating each mouthful with the
protestations of a martyr, sick to the
soul.
“The Lady from the Sea” (1888) sug-
gests a falling-off of powers, for the
clarity and deep-probing insight of the
earlier naturalistic plays are replaced
with a lyricism and symbolism sometimes
muddy and often confusing. However,
“The Lady from the Sea” seems not half
so “difficult” as it has been painted. The
symbolism leads us not off into a cloud-
cuckoo-land of abstraction but, in a firm,
magnificently-wrought climax, back' to
very solid reality. This is another gift
to be chalked up to the master: his last
acts are never just unravellings: they
usually twist in the most unexpected and
yet logical fashion so that all previous
values suggested in the play are turned
over and examined in a fresh and dis-
concerting light.
“The Wild Duck” is often claimed to
be Ibsen's finest play. It is certainly one
of his most honest. For here Ibsen is
satirising not only the Ibsenites but him-
self (in the doom-loving figure of Gregers
Werle who demands integrity, idealism
and honesty in all things and wrecks a
marriage and a life in his attempt to
open his friend Hjalmar’s eyes to the
“lie his life is built upon”). Here we
glimpse the writer's great and enduring
asset, for dogmatism gives way to
humanism as he examines the conse-
quences of the philosophy he himself had
expounded in earlier plays.
fs he worth taking in these times of
experiment in the theatre? Does he have
anything yet to offer? The answer can
be found in “A Doll’s House.” This, the
Everyman introduction reminds us, was
the first modern play, a milestone in
European theatre. The playwright
rebelled against all the conventions of the
jaded 19th-century romantic melodrama.
For the first time characters spoke to
each other in natural, conversational
terms instead of in grand, high-flown
rhetoric. For the first time situations
were taken straight from the “ordinary”
intimate dramas of domestic life. The
translator, Farquarson Sharp, claims that
Ibsen did away with the soliloquy ; but
it is interesting that in “A Doll's House”
something of the device lingers as charac-
ters, alone on stage, link scenes with
little murmured monologues to them-
selves, certainly not soliloquies of the old
kind, but still hard to accept in otherwise
“realistic” plays. Above all, there was
to be no facile happy ending.
Tndeed, the ending of ”A Doll's
House" must have astonished the good
theatregoers of Norway in that fateful
year of 1879. Someone has said that
when Nora walked out and slammed the
door the echo was heard around the
world ; and this first great blow at the
“sanctity of marriage,” this first claim for
that now old-fashioned cause, “women's
rights,” reverberated through the w'hole
social fabric as few' pieces written for the
theatre have done.
Technically and socially, then, "A
Doll's House” is the first modern play
and is of historical value to any student
of society or the theatre. But is it worth
any more than that? One comes to it
sceptically and with years of anti-
Ibsenism to color the view; but the
* A Doll’s House. The Wild Duck.
Ehe Lady from the Sea. Ibsen.
Everyman’s Paperback. 6s. each.


BONY AND THE WHITE SAVAGE
Arthur Upfield
The most exciting “Bony” thriller for many years! Marvin
Rhudder. rapist, basher, gaol-bird is traced to a remote cave in
the cliffs that rise behind Australia’s Front Door . . . 16/-
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON MELBOURNE SYDNEY AUCKLAND
hoary old piece astonishingly still has
power to excite. A modern production
would need either a new translation or
an editorial machete to cut away the
verbiage so that the clean lines of the
drama can be seen. Given this approach,
subtle production and superb acting
(nothing less will do in these virtuoso
roles) “A Doll’s House” could prove a
joy in the theatre even now. Ibsen a
joy? This, unexpectedly, is the point.
“A Doll’s House” is a very entertaining
play with a hair’s-breadth balance
between seriousness and humor.
Moreover, and this is his importance
to our jaded and desperately gimmicky
theatre of today, his characterisation
cuts to the bone. (Contrast the subtle
drawing of Nora with Mr Wesker’s some-
what similar Beattie Bryant.) The in-
sights are refreshingly modern: these
self-deluded men, self-effacing but mettle-
some women, are with us now. More
desperately than ever we need to under-
stand human beings. Much of today’s
theatre is wilfully dedicated to alienating
us from them. Our audiences, actors,
producers, and certainly our playwrights,
could do with a refresher course in
Ibsen. But as few seem equipped to
convey his essence and those who most
want to often bog down in their own
gloomy misinterpretations, perhaps it is
in the study rather than on the stage that
he can best communicate with us. No
worse comment could be made on the
sickness and superficiality of much of
today’s theatre.
Suicidal Assassination
Assassination— The Death of Sir Henry
Wilson and the Tragedy of Ireland.
Rex Taylor. Hutchinson. 445. 9d.
'"The history of English rule in Ireland
* may be regarded as bullying aggra-
vated by assassination. In the 20th
century the most spectacular of these
assassinations was undoubtedly that of
Sir Henry Wilson, Field-Marshal and
previously C.1.G.5., on June 22, 1922.
Wilson got his “come-uppance,” like
many an Orangeman before him, because
he was believed to be the instigator of
the pogroms in Ulster as well as the
brains behind the organisation of the
“Specials” and “Black and Tans” who
introduced a typically English terror into
Ireland just after the First World War.
Although he came from Co. Longford,
Wilson’s family was notorious both for
landlordism and for watchdogging for
the Imperial interest in its oldest and
nearest colony. With Carson he was
involved in the affair of the Ulster
Volunteers in 1913 and in the machina-
tions that led to mutiny at the Curragh
military camp in 1914. He had insisted
on conscription for Ireland in 1917,
although 350,000 Irishmen had already
volunteered. He was infuriated by the
“meddling” of English politicians in Irish
affairs and thought that they should leave
not only Ireland but the Empire itself
to Orange military men and they would
show the people’s representatives how to
run an Empire.
After Terence MacSwiney, Lord
Mayor of Cork, had died on a hunger
strike in Brixton Jail, Wilson saw to it
that his body was transported directly to
his hometown and not ceremoniously
saluted in the Dublin streets. He was
thought (wrongly, says the author) to
have prevented a reprieve being granted
to the 18-year-old student, Kevin Barry,
who was atrociously tortured by the
British and subsequently hanged for
carrying arms. Understandably, his
name was execrated in most Irish homes.
Mr Taylor thinks his notoriety was on
many counts underserved. He admits
Wilson’s adamantine opposition to Home
Rule and to self-determination for Ire-
land, he notes an unscrupulous (he
prefers to call it “ruthless”) streak in
Wilson's character, but he denies that
he was responsible for licensing the
“Specials” and “Black and Tans.” On
the contrary, he seems to have resolutely
opposed irregular forces. “Simply to
arm a lot of the ‘Black North’ on the
chance of their keeping order is simply
childish and worse,” he said. He wanted
the restoration of order by a strictly
disciplined military force. Rigid disci-
an Empire together.
Those Irish patriots who forcibly
opposed Imperial domination were,
perforce, “nothing more than a gang
of murderous cut-throats, and their
leaders —Tammany Hall-branded poli-
ticians.” “We must crush out the
murder gang,” he wrote. And again:
“We should crush them, not breakfast
with them.” “1 do not shake hands with
murderers” (i.e., Arthur Griffith, Michael
Collins, George Gavan Duffy, etc., who
came to London to sign the Anglo-Irish
Treaty). British politicians could allege
that the war was fought for democracy
and self-determination, but their C.I.G.S.
knew better.
Naturally enough, as the Irish fondly
thought they were waging a just war
against the British, Wilson became a mili-
tary objective. Michael Collins himself
had given the order for his execution,
but this was contingent on the failure
of the Treaty negotiations. While the
order was not subsequently cancelled, the
acceptance of the Treaty in December,
1921, should automatically have can-
celled it. The reason then for the shoot-
ing in June, 1922, remains obscure,
particularly as it was not a well-organised
assassination, one of the men being a
cripple, and no plans having been worked
out for their escape. It was suicidal for
the assassins concerned.
Dunne and O'Sullivan, the gunmen,
were both honest citizens; both had
fought bravely during the war and both
had been severly wounded. Neither was
a semi-illiterate thug as the English press
and ruling class liked to imagine every
Irish patriot to be. Dunne was some-
thing of an intellectual and made an
eloquent appeal to the jury in justification
of the crime. Both men went to the
gallows bravely.
The material in this book, though
rater ill-assorted, is provocative. “Irish
wrongs and English perfidy” still matter
to many people—often when they least
expect it. But it is unfortunate that Mr
Taylor (previously an authoritative bio-
grapher of Michael Collins) is not a
graphic writer and has not profound
insight into the Irish problem or under-
standing of how two decent men could
become assassins.
Even from this distance, Sir Henry
Wilson does not emerge as a sympa-
thetic figure, no more than Sir Anthony
Eden and his Blimps will to historians
of the Suez War, which reminded us that
for certain Englishmen bullying was a
nervous reflex. However, Wilson was
entitled to die with his boots off and
anyhow his death accomplished nothing.
JAMES GRIFFIN
Hard Going
Grief, Gaiety and Aborigines. W. E.
(Bill) Harney. Robert Hale. 225. 6d.
IJill Harney was a battler in a period
and a place where the going was
hard. He abandoned the conventions of
his mates to set some details of his life
on paper years ago. With this latest
book he has abandoned some of the
polite conventions of the literary trade,
and the result is vivid enough to trans-


BOOKHUNTER
Dept. “D,” liox 26*1, G.P.0.. Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume let us find it lor you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-prin*.
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.O. Sydney.
late with accuracy the condition of his
days, and I think it has never been done
before. The time he is dealing with is
the depression ; and for him it was com-
plicated by the fact that his part-
aboriginal wife, whom he loved dearly,
was dying, as later their two children
were to die.
Flatly, and without reserve, he sets
down the trivia and the tragedies which
changed his life ; he spares neither him-
self nor his associates, but he is never-
seeking sympathy. A..d though the
tragedy is real and vivid, ft is presented
as it came, with glimpses of pure comedy.
“Grief,. Gaiety and Aborigines” strikes
deeper than his other books ; and the
editors have refrained from any signifi-
cant polishing, so that Bill's personality
comes through.
Because Linda his wife, in that weird
and wicked government-by-regulation
which exists in the Northern Territory
was classified as “aboriginal” in spite of
her preponderance of European blood,
this too is a book on the Australian
color problem, presented by a man who
was most intimately concerned, and
forced to maintain a foot in both camps.
OLAF RUHEN
Moral Energy
The Father’s Comedy. Roy Fuller.
Andre Deutsch. 17s.
Billiards at Half Past Nine. Heinrich
8011. Weidenfeld and Nicolson.
225. 6d.
Latitudes of Love. Thomas Doremus.
Andre Deutsch. 15s. 6d.
Be Not Angry. William Michelfelder.
Hutchinson. 20s.
John Christopher in Paris. Vol. 3.
Romain Rolland. Heinemann.
225. 6d.
Roy Fuller is a gifted poet and the
author of half a dozen very accom-
plished novels which have never received
much serious critical attention, mainly,
1 suppose, because he is a “conventional'
writer and his books provide none of
the spurious thrills that contemporary-
readers can get from, say, “Justine.” But
all of his novels are well worth reading
and his latest work seems to me to be
a masterpiece. It has the force and
power of one of Conrad's shorter works
and the same quality of moral energy.
The relationship between a middle-
aged father and his almost grown-up
son and the conflict between the genera-
tions which Fuller has taken as the
subject of his novel is one of the great
perennial themes of literature. The book
has as its epigraph a quotation from
Ludwig Jekels: “The feeling of guilt
which, in tragedy, rests upon the son,
appears in comedy displaced on the
father ; it is the father who is guilty.”
The father in Fuller's novel is Harold
Colmore, a capable and ambitious
accountant who has worked himself up
to the position of Joint Assistant Sec-
retary to a National “Authority." He
looks forward to further promotion and
a knighthood. News suddenly reaches
Colmore that his son Giles, who is doing
his national service in Africa, is to be
court-martialled for assaulting a senior
officer. Colmore flies to the African
colony, where he finds that the officei is
dying. Giles has been found to possess
a copy of Marx’s “The German Ideology"
—a serious piece of evidence to the
harassed military authorities though
Giles himself is hopelessly unpolitical.
Colmore in the confusion and distress of
the situation decides that he can only
help his son and prove his political
innocence by confessing that he himself
was once, very briefly, a member of the
Communist party. This confession is
neither necessary nor helpful ; and Col-
more is fully aware that it could destroy
his own future . . .
The great interest of this book lies
in the sensitive and intelligent handling
of the growing awareness of both father
and son of each other as persons. The
novel is superbly constructed, the shifts
of scene between Africa and London are
handled skilfully and among the many
interesting characters the Indian lawyer
B. Napur LL.B. (Sheffield) is a masterly
creation.
TJeinrich 801 l is now being acclaimed
as one of the most distinguished con-
temporary German writers and his novel
“Billiards at Half Past Nine” is his
most ambitious and complex work to
date. It deals with Germany from 1900
or so to 1958, though the central action
all takes place on one day—the birthday
of the Faehmel grandfather, a famous
architect. The lives of three generations
of the Faehmel family are evoked
through a complicated and slightly con-
fusing flash-back method obviously
employed by the author in order to
distance the violence of the times he is
dealing with. It is something of an
achievement to write about Germany
from 1900 to 1958 without mentioning
Hitler, though the substitution of the
“Buffalo Sacrament” for the Nazis is not
an altogether acceptable device.
Interwoven with the story of this
family is the history of St. Anthony's
Abbey, first built in 1908 by the grand-
father, destroyed towards the end of the
second war, and then rebuilt by the third
generation. It is a powerful and tilling
symbol, perhaps too deeply embedded
in the narrative to emerge in its full
significance. This is a rich and involved
book and one of the most important
novels to come out of Germany for
some time. ,
“Latitudes of Love” is about a vain
and narcissistic youth called Hector who
is adopted by Bill and Mary, a wealthy
childless couple. Bill is dying and takes
Hector for a trip to Paris. Bill dies and
Hector goes on posturing to others and
in the mirrors of his own mind. The
author is very amusing: a talented
manipulator of a form of fashionable
irony which consists of being verbally
funny about illness, death and other
people's sufferings. “Pity is such a bore - ’
and “suffering makes one shallow" are
the key phrases. Such irony is inadequate
and always will be inadequate As
Heinrich 801 l says. “It is a narcotic for
the privileged.’’ However. “Latitudes of
Love'’ will appeal, especially to those who
think that “The Catcher in the Rye' is a
serious book. I had better add that the
novel is supposed to deal with homo-
sexuality: it doesn't.
William Michelfelder’s hysterically
anti-Catholic novel is about a priest who
falls in love with a girl at a Catholic
Action meeting. The girl, Katherine
Knott, is completely unreal, as is Chris
Bagerman who wants to hop into bed
with her and show her what life is all
about. There are other characters, in-
cluding an alcoholic who >teals shaving
lotion to quench his thirst, and a gallery
of priests. Michel (elder is not interested
in his characters at all, so it is hard to
work up any interest in his book. He
might do well to read Vicki Baum or
F. J. Xhwaites carefully.
It is a relief to turn to Romain Rolland
after this book: at least he has certain
serious preoccupations and a deep con-
cern for the humanity of his characters.
But it has to be admitted that “John
Christopher in Paris” is not really a
novel at all. It marks a certain drying
up of Rolland's creative imagination In
this book John Christopher, the musical
genius, is a refugee in Paris, and the
whole work gives Rolland an opportunity
for attacking pre-1914 France. John
Christopher is continually disgusted at
the state of French society: its disorder,
its cult of individualism, the immorality
of its literature, its political corruption,
the backwardness of its musical ideas,
ifs way of making and breaking reputa-
tions. He becomes friendly with a young
poet Olivier Jeannin and they share a
flat together at Montparnasse. John
Christopher learns how to see something
of the real France beneath its surface
frivolity, but it is the criticisms which
remain in the mind. The book has a
permanent documentary interest.
VVIVIAN SMITH


POEMS
Two Nuns Fishing
Black is the silence of God and there you stand,
rods in your hands, dark glasses over your eyes,
statue cut against the river and the sea.
How I envy your silence
once in a while instead of this rush
of water against rock, foam dying on the sand,
the clank of shovel against stone, the roar
of motors and the -squeak of springs.
Minnows are schooling out towards the sea,
the wind hurries past kicking the marram down,
the river is creased with millions of petty waves
while the butt I dropped wanders upstream and
down,
hunting some destiny like a soul its god.
Out of this endless hunt your statue stance
cuts through the sunlight like the voice of quiet
that's always hidden in the next wave’s throat
or in the next face or in the next girl’s love.
And yet your robes are teasing the wind,
your rod and line pierce to unseen depths
and are you truly at home in God
that you drag some creature up from the dark
and hunt its drowning in the lustful wind?
ANDREW TAYLOR
Carol
On Friday in the shopping crowd
the fiddler man with bony arms
made a song from string and wood
that sounded like the stars aloud
and Friday people from the farms
and loungers pocketing their thumbs
stopped to hear the theme he played.
Outside the bank the beggar man
stood in the gutter of the street
and made his mortal music turn
into a testament as plain
and fine and wise as bread, as sweet
as liniment on tired feet,
as terrible and true as wine.
His hair clenched round his head in thorns,
he wore it like a sign of love,
but when the brave boys threw him stones
and broke his prince of violins
he slowly packed his case to leave,
and we had neither coins to give
nor thanks to tell him for his pains.
THOMAS W. SHAPCOTT
Poet’s Country
I've missed a bend and lost the jungle track,
though jungle track is far too grand a phrase
for a line of lopped-off shrubs, infrequent parting
in the underbrush, a notch, a blaze.
My compass needle flashes double arcs:
the swan-white quill points south, to north its crow.
The pure and mystic—resting on my map—
lure me to areas I’d like to know,
to mountains I have only come across
as marks on paper. Both direct me straight
and opposite ways, to meet myself the roundness
of the world from where I hesitate.
RODNEY HALL
Twenty Years Later
We built no house, the gardens that we made
Are half and half a wilderness ; so then,
If it be true that he who makes one blade
Grow where no other grew before, of men
Deserves some honor, the account we slate
Is settled all too easily.
Besides,
We are but little nearer to the state
Of wisdom that beholds the changing tides -
And, low or high, is unmoved and remains
Anchored secure within its own content*
Where truth and perfect understanding reigns
Today we know no more than when we went
In search of them together and, maybe,
Less now than once, for twenty years consume
Much youth and some of the heart's certainty,
Leaving the beaches scattered with their spume.
But we will measure what we have, and how
The net’s been filled which we have flung to time
So confidently from the galliot's bow,
When every wind blew cinnamon and thyme,
And every wave burst like a spray of suns.
The catch is heavy, but the mesh still sound,
As is our suit of sail, though as she runs
We know how well your needle has been found.
We fought as one, as we are fighting yet.
No apter soldier on the bloody field
Than you, who hates all warfare, have I met.
Yes, underneath and not behind my shield
The enemy would seek me many nights.
But that you strike from him his slavering mask.
I hold your hand up as in vain he smites
Against your eyes.
What better shall we ask
Than to stay out the battle till the stars
Pale in the dawn that sees the victors dead,
The earth takes mine to add them to her scars,
And you remount our second marriage bed?
The first gave us the child for whom I brdught
You dandelions out of Shardeloes ;
If what we were and knew should come to nought,
This is pure gain, pure conquest. There he goes,
A man, and wiser than whose bone made his.
But in his gentleness your own survives,
With all my poems. If the love there is
Between us makes one poem from two lives,
What need have we to doubt the poet? No:
We shall not doubt him, even as we say
That twenty years may powder into snow
Before the gates which open to the sleigh
That comes, no one knows whence, and disappears,
No man knows where. So let the horses snort —
We’re riding well. It's colder now, but fears
Fear a good frost, I think. We still have sport,
And strength to try the challenger.
I would
That you stay with me. Let me touch your face:
How beautiful! More lovely, if it could
Be known, than on the day I first found grace.
DAVID MARTIN
Pompey
Somewhere near this cold coast
They thrust their knives into this man.
And now, on the lonely beach, beneath black Mount
Cassius,
His body burns. And the hard sea wind
Fans fire through the cut wood.
Soon, Cato, soon they will tell you,
Pompey is dead.
RICHARD ELY




PEARL AT POLO
by Hugh Atkins on
The timber cutter and Badger
belted the horse with polo mallets.
“ on, Pearl,” Mulcahy said. “We’re going over
I to the sports ground. That pompous ass, Cooper,
and his friends are putting on a polo game.”
“A what game?”
“A polo game. Po-10. Polo.”
“Cooper must be out of his tiny architect mind,” Pearl
said. “Who ever heard of polo in Warrawang? Your
friend, the grandfather Kearns, didn’t pioneer these moun-
tains for a breechered gaggle of poloists.”
“Polo players.”
“The reference,” Pearl said, “goes as follows: Solo,
soloist, soloists. Polo, poloist, poloists.”
“Come on,” Mulcahy said, “I’ll get Byron.”
“Where yer goin’?” the timber cutter asked Pearl.
“Hey, listen. Cop this. Passengers will please refrain . . .
from makin’ water while atrain is standin’ attastation for
a-while . . .”
“A little flat in the middle,” Pearl said, “otherwise
excellent. I have been called back t:o my regiment. It is an
affair of honor. We have a chukker to settle with the
tribesmen of the Khan.”
“Good on yer, mate. Not to worry about it. I’ll come
with yer. Two out. We’ll do ’em up like a dinner. Any-
one says anything a-you they gotta say it me first.”
“Your loyalty touches me deeply,” Pearl said. The
two of them swayed out to the car. The traffic had to
brake hard on the main road while Pearl and the timber
cutter made a leisurely crossing.
Mulcahy got Byron and joined them.
Small townships don’t differ greatly from big cities.
The belief that everyone knows everyone else’s business
in a country town and that privacy is preserved in the
metropolis is a baseless superstition. Curiosity and the
primitive instinct to delight in the disasters of others is not
divided between town and country. In the city it merely
becomes specialised, focused in groups and cliques, and is
consequently even more coruscating. For many it is the
main prop of existence, the only conversation, and the
single, genuine interest which supports them from sinking
out of nullity back into the clay from whence they have
come. It reaches full flowering amongst the arty and the
leisured and the “refind,” and is almost justified by being all
that their powers can create.
When Sheila discovered that Byron had been taken off
there was more than one tongue to point out with satisfac-
tion that Mulcahy had driven him to the farm. When she
invited Raymond to take her motoring next day he did not
lack advice as to Sheila’s true intention. The ex-current
boyfriend who had largely been ignored by all suddenly
found himself the centre of consideration and care.
The inhabitants of Warrawang weren’t unaware that
something novel was to happen, either. Mick Owen at
the riding school had put the word around, although
Cooper had asked him to keep the polo secret, being an
unpractised horseman and preferring to keep the spectacle
of himself to a minimum. Cooper had got himself into
the situation by oversimulating a familiarity with, and
interest in, horses and equine sports during a dinner party
at a city club where he hoped to make a good impression.
The sports ground at Warrawang made little effort to
dignify the title. It was situated on a flat, open space just
off the main road and behind the schoolhouse. There was
a mad bandstand shaped like a merry-go-round at one end.
all stricken and peeling and rotted. Old residents had dim
memories of the brasses braying there. In the middle of
the field a cricket pitch made a scar. Four oil drums,
painted white, were laid out like goal posts and were
moved about when necessary to mark a football field for
the schoolboys and a hockey field for the girls. Mick Owen,
who had had his -instructions from Cooper early that
morning, had moved the oil drums now to mark the
boundaries of a polo field.
Eight riding school hacks and a Shetland pony, saddled
and bridled, cropped absently in the grass and moodily
contemplated the glue factory, their reins held by four dirty
little boys. A few youths and their girlfriends lounged in
the grass tormenting each other and giggling. A dozen local
loafers squatted near the horses, hand-rolling cigarettes
and arguing with each other as to how the game of polo
is played.
The rumor had circulated that Cooper, who impressed
the locals by driving a cream Jaguar, had been a world
champion of the sport. There was a flutter of excitement
when Cooper’s Jaguar crossed the field and stopped and
his house guests alighted.
The four young Englishmen enjoying Cooper’s hospi-
tality had been honored guests at the dinner party which
had first got Cooper into trouble. They worked for an oil
company with international ramifications and were stationed
in Bombay. Their backgrounds were privileged, both in
family and in public school education, their commercial
futures were secure, and their digestions were excellent.
Two of them were related to directors on their company’s
board in London and the officials of the Australian branch
consequently paid them more attention than their business
positions warranted. The four young men shared a chum-
mery at an excellent address in Bombay, drove sports cars,
played polo, went to all the European parties and didn’t
think much of the Indians. They had chosen to spend their
annual local leave on a visit to Australia, permitted by the
company provided they returned punctually to duty.
Cooper had been invited to meet them by a public
relations officer who introduced him as an interesting chap
who had designed the interior fittings of the Australian
company’s pretentiously modern building.
When the four young men got out of the car the local
loafers looked at them in amazement. They were fully
accoutred in their Indian riding kits and unpacked a dozen
polo mallets and four white pith helmets with the puggareed
flashes of their polo club’s colors. <
“Blimey,” said one of the watchers. “Get on ’em. will
yer? Charge of the flamin’ light brigade.”
“What are they going to do for an encore?” another one
asked.
The locals settled down to enjoy themselves.
pOOPER got out self-consciously. He wore new elastic-
sided boots which creaked loudly and the white sweat-
shirt he used for squash.
“Well, here we are,” he said. “I must apologise for the
ground.”
The young men looked a bit stunned.
“Not exactly Cowdray Park, is it?” the plump one
said.
“Cowdray Park?” Cooper said. “Oh! Cowdray Park,
No, I’m afraid it isn’t.”
Cooper had never heard of Cowdray Park.
“Ah,” he said, “the horses are here.”
The four young men turned from contemplating the
Warrawang Sports Ground and looked at the horses.
“Good Lord.” the thin one said.
A little one, with thick, fair hair, said: “Steady, Tony.”
“But really.” Tony said, “I mean to say . . .”
They stood there leaning on their mallets.
Cooper felt wretched. He pulled himself together
and made an effort to be hearty.
“Well, now,” he said, “what will we do?”
He had put too much into the effort to be hearty, and
his voice squeaked.
“Sorry,” he said. “What will we do? Bunt the ball
around a bit?”
“Bunt the ball around?” said the plump one.
“You know,” Cooper said, “have a hit.”
“I mean to say . . .” the one called Tony murmured.
Mick Owen walked across, smoking his pipe. He
wore a faded pair of moleskins and an old zippered
jacket.
“Afternoon, Mr Cooper,” he said, “afternoon, gents.”
The young men murmured politely.
“Well, the horses are ready,” Owen said. “Had a bit
of trouble with the saddles. Girths were gone on two of
them, but we stitched them up. They should hold. You’ll
have to be a bit careful with the chestnut. A young lair
from the city let him bolt on him a while back and he did
a leg in. The creamy mare’s not too good. Got a bad
dose of the colic last winter.”
Mick Owen looked at the pith helmets dangling by
their chinstraps from the young men’s fingers.
“I had one of them, once,” he said. “The old grand-
father brought it back from the Boer War. The wife made
a potplant out of it, finally, but it got the rot and the
bottom dropped out ... I suppose it was the top really,
but the wife had it upside down. For the pot plant, you
know.”
The young men made no remark, so Mick Owen
said: “Well, Mr Cooper?”
“Shall we mount?” Cooper asked.
“We might as well,” the plump one said. “Shall we
mount, chaps?”
“Might as well,” the thin one said.
The plump one said: “Tony?”
This is an extract from
Hugh Atkinson’s novel,
“Low Company,” published
by F. W. Cheshire.
Pearl reached over and brought
down his mallet on the thin ones pith helmet


Tony said: “Might as well, I suppose, but really, I
mean to say
They trooped over to the horses. The youths and their
girls were having a giggling fit. Cooper hung behind with
Mick Owen.
“Which is the quietest, Owen?” he said. “1 mean, it
doesn’t matter about me. I want my guests to have the
best horses.”
“Don’t worry, Mr Cooper,” Owen said. “You’ll be
all right on Paddy. It would take an earthquake to get
Paddy into a canter.”
“That will do very well,” Cooper said hurriedly. “It’s
that, being visitors, I want them to have the best horses.”
A battered sulky careered across the sports ground,
pulled by a light draught horse in a lather of sweat. Where
the locals sat the horse shied and propped and a man fell
out of the sulky. The Englishmen watched, fascinated.
“Good Lord.” the plump one said, “what in heaven's
name is that?”
Mick Owen took his pipe out and had a look under
a horse’s neck.
“It’s only the old Badger,” he said. “He always gets
the sulky out when he’s been on the hops.”
“I mean to say,” Tony said. “He fell out on his head.
He might have killed himself.”
“Not the old Badger,” Mick Owen said, putting his
pipe back and tightening a girth. “The old Badger's got
more lives than a cat.”
Cooper was thinking how wonderful it would be to put
the clock back. If he could return to that dinner party and
conduct himself differently and just say goodbye at the end
of it and never need to see the young men again.
They threw out a ball and got mounted and began
cantering about taking practice swings, topping the ball
badly when it lay in rough grass. The horses were startled
and puzzled and began to act up in a way that surprised
Mick Owen. The horses hadn’t shown as much spirit in
years. It wasn’t spirit, really, it was outrage and shock at
the things they were expected to do.
The locals contented themselves by delivering advice
that was cynical and Rabelaisian. They tried to outdo
each other thinking of funny things to say.
In the other group the girls were sitting up, interested
now, gripped by the eternal female response to glamor and
male grandeur. The response which will always take women
“ Mother? ... about that recipe for hot sauce..."
across the barricades into the arms and beds of con-
querors. They made their hair tidy and found graceful
postures and compared notes as to which young man they
thought most attractive and were pointed about ignoring
the boys who sat with them. The boys were flushed and
angry and made bitter remarks about the “overdressed
no-hopers” knocking the ball about.
After a while, their good spirits stirred by the exercise,
the young men began to enjoy themselves. It would be a
story to dine out on when they got back to Bombay, and
it was rather quaint, really, if you looked at it that way.
dribbled a ball about at the edge of the field
and tried to look as though he was working out a new
approach to the game. ,
Badger had been picked up by his friends and after
listening owlishly to their report of what was happening,
squinted his eyes at the riders, remarked that they were a
lot of mad buggarsh and went to sleep in the grass.
When Pearl drove up he and the timber cutter were
finishing a chorus. Cooper saw them and took the oppor-
tunity to remove himself from the field of action. He
shouldered his mallet and plodded Paddy over to the car
where he had trouble getting dismounted.
Mulcahy said: “Don’t tell me that’s the hack you
bought?”
“Of course not,” Cooper said. “I made a mistake. The
horse sale is next week. I’m looking for something with a
bit of blood in it.”
Pearl looked at old Paddy, dreamily feeding in the
grass.
“My dear Cooper,” he said, “if you’re looking for
something with a bit of blood in it, look no further. An
optmistic estimate of your present steed’s blood supply
would be about one pint and eight fluid ounces.”-
“What’s happening?” Mulcahy said, watching the
Englishmen.
“Oh, we’re just knocking the ball about,” Cooper said.
“Did you find Sheila?”
“I thought she was with you.”
“They went to the pub. I felt sure they would find
you there.”
Cooper didn’t approve of drinking.
“We had something to eat at the tea shop. Must have
missed them,” Mulcahy said.
“I don’t suppose you would like to have a hit, Mul-
cahy?” Cooper said superiorly.
“I don’t suppose I would,” Mulcahy said.
He remembered Byron and introduced him to Cooper.
Byron was quiet. The beer had made him sleepy. He was
beginning to worry about getting back to Sydney but
didn’t know how to broach the subject to Mulcahy.
“On the other hand,” Pearl said, “it comes to me that
this is a sport at which I might easily excel. If you will
provide me with a hammer, Cooper?”
“Good on yer, mate,” the timber cutter said, “me
old mate’ll show ’em!”
“Thank you,” Pearl said. “You may help me mount.”
Cooper was agreeable that Pearl should be made a fool
of. It would take the spotlight off himself. Pearl tucked
his trousers in his socks and chose a mallet from the spares
laid out near the car. V
“Give him the wildest horse you’ve got,” Cooper said
privately to Mick Owen.
“Don’t know about a wild liorse,” Mick Owen said.
“Although I’m surprised the way they’re carrying on today.
I can’t figure out what’s got into them. The piebald now,
is the one I ride myself. She’s been out to grass lately
and shoufd have some steam in her.”
Pearl mounted the piebald, helped up by the timber
cutter. He was still more than a little drunk. When the


stirrups had been lengthened he tried himself in the saddle,
twisted the loop of the mallet handle firmly around his wrist
and walked the horse over to where the girls sat.
Pearl bowed formally and said: “Since time immemorial
the Mackenzies have gone into battle wearing a lady’s
favor. Will one of you fair maidens provide me with a
silk stocking or a lock of hair?”
“We’ll provide you with a punch on the nose, if you
get fresh here, that’s what we’ll provide you with,” one of
the youths said. “Who do you think you are, anyhow?”
Pearl said. “Quiet, serf.”
One of the girls said: “I’ve got a brooch.”
“It would be an honor,” Pearl said.
The girl got up. flushed and excited and pinned the
brooch of Pearl’s shirt.
He turned the piebald, cocked his mallet, threw up
the reins and clapped his heels into the piebald’s sides.
The piebald took off. with Pearl leaning forward, putting
the heels in and shouting dreadfully down the barrel of
the horse’s ear.
The timber cutter put his head back and gave a blood-
curdling shriek in support. Badger Kearns woke with a
start.
“Crissake.” he said, “waft's that?”
Pearl was thundering over the sports ground. His
shirt had come out and the tail was flapping. The young
Englishmen pulled up.
“Good Lord.” the plump one said, “what’s happening
now?”
“Who is it?” the one called Tony said. “Really . . ,
1 mean to say.”
Cooper said. “He’s drunk. Why didn't you say that he
was drunk? This is terrible.”
“Well look at that.” Mick Owen said, “look at that
piebald go.”
r FHE young men had divided into teams of two and had
A been casually competing with each other. The ball lay
between them now as they watched Pearl's galloping figure.
Pearl swept down on them, weaved between them, rose in
the stirrups and skied the ball up the field.
“1 say.” the thin Englishman said. “Jolly good show.”
“Good Lord.” the plump one said.
Tony wheeled his horse. “Tally ho. chaps,” he
shouted.
They all cocked their mallets and went pelting down
the field. Pearl took a look over his shoulder. The ball
was still running when he caught it. He reversed the mallet,
rose in the stirrups and back-handed the ball neatly behind
him. It went between the four Englishmen, flying a good
six feet off the ground. Pearl pulled the piebald round,
leaning over to help the pony with his weight. The piebald
went down at the haunches, caught himself, spun like a top
and in another instant was racing up the field again.
“Ride him off . . . ride him off.” the plump young
man was shouting. “Give the blighter the shoulder.”
The thin one cut away and made a line, getting ready
to ride Pearl off the ball. The instant before the impact
Pearl reached over and brought down his mallet on the
thin one’s pith helmet. The young man went down on his
horse’s withers, the pith helmet jammed over his eyes,
momentarily losing interest in what was happening around
him.
The one called Tony wheeled his horse, shouting:
“ ’Ware mallet! He’s putting the stick in. Bad show. I
mean to say . . .”
Pearl had the ball and was galloping all over the field
with it.
The plump one reined in at the cars, threw himself
off his sweated, trembling horse and without a word leaped
on a fresh mount and thundered off again.
“For heaven’s sake,” Cooper said, “for heaven’s sake!
Pearl’s gone out of his mind.”
He couldn’t get any sense out of Mulcahy. Mulcahy
was lying on the ground holding his belly, groaning with
laughter.
The locals were on their feet now. cheering Pearl at
the tops of their voices. The timber cutter was jumping up
and down on the spot. “Go for ’em. mate.” he was shouting.
The plump young man rode into Pearl at full tilt,
almost unseating him. He got the ball and Pearl chased
him.
“Four to one,” someone shouted. “Four to flamin’
one. Give 'im a go. you galahs.”
“Wears me shulky?” Badger said. He staggered
across to the cars and picked up a mallet.
“I’m with yer. sport.” the timber cutter said. He
and Badger got in the sulky and belted the horse with
the polo mallets.
Cooper said: “Oh. no . . . oh. no.”
The sulky bounced over the field to enter the contest.
Badger and the timber cutter urging on the thunderstruck
horse with shouts and blows from the mallets.
The thin young man got a crack at the ball and it
came jumping over the rough grass towards the sulky.
Badger had the reins and was inoperative. The timber
cutter stood up, holding his mallet in both hands like an
axe, aimed a dreadful blow at the ball, missed widely and
toppled out of the sulky.
Badger’s horse took leave of its wits and refused to be
steered. It bolted off the field, down a track, banged the
sulky against a tree and capsized. The horse lay blowing
in the traces, its eyeballs bulging. The sulky was splintered
on its side, a wheel spinning. Badger picked himself up in
the bushes, pulling thistles out of his arms.
“Mad lot of buggarsh,” he said.
Back on the sports ground the chase continued. The
Englishmen had their blood up now and had taken to riding
each other off. Near the cars. Pearl pulled out of the game,
dropped the girl’s brooch in her lap, managed to say “my
dear lady” between gasps for breath, got off the foaming
piebald into his car and started the motor. Mulcahy and
Byron bundled into the back. Pearl 7 let out the clutch and
was away down the road before Cooper and the young
Englishmen knew what had happened.


Business, Robbery, Etc.
AIR LINES
Precarious Profit Margin
Tn his address at the opening of the seventeenth annual
general meeting of the International Air Transport Associa-
tion (lATA) in Sydney’s Chevron-Hilton Hotel last Monday,
the Director-General, Sir William Hildred, stressed that inter-
national airlines were operating on a precarious profit margin
of less than one per cent.
Operating revenues of airlines affiliated with lATA —that
is, excluding Soviet Aeroflot, Communist China’s airline and
all “People’s Democracies,” except Poland and Czechoslovakia
—totalled U.S. $5,505,000,000 in 1960, against expenditures of
U.S. $5,448,000,000 before payment of taxes and interest
charges. “This margin is just ridiculous to meet the demands
of a growing industry or the pressure of rising costs .
Financially, therefore, the situation of the industry is precarious
and an affront to common sense. It cannot be allowed to drag
on year after year at this figure.” /
Reiterating a plea that the aircraft “must become the
vehicle for the factory hand’s holiday,” Sir William said that
lower fares are the key to the industry’s future. “Whole
communities stand to benefit from lowered airline fares.” He
emphasised that governments actually control a large segment
of airline costs —through charges for landing fees and air
navigational facilities —and asked for their co-operation in
achieving cost and price reductions. He criticised the recent
heavy increase in government charges.
Acknowledging that cut-rate charter services are a useful
means for employing surplus aircraft during the off-season, he
felt that “a lower fare for regular services would produce
better results and better service to the travelling public.” It
would also aid the international tourist industry which is
providing a large income to many countries. There is no
doubt that Australia would benefit from lower international
air fares, which would enable more overseas travellers to come
here for holidays and increase our foreign exchange earnings.
Sir William told the annual general meeting that the
development of supersonic air transport now seems inevitable
because it has become a matter of declared national prestige
for governments. “Any type of supersonic will be expensive
beyond all previous experience in aviation ... It will be utterly
beyond the capability of either airlines or manufacturers to
finance its development . . . Any government which decided
a supersonic is necessary should face the full consequences
of that decision early in the game. If they want prestige, they
must be prepared to pay for it. There will not be enough
airlines and enough passengers to foot the bill.” In a normal
commercial airline the cost of supersonic aircraft would pro-
duce “an inordinately high eventual fare.” This means that
governments will be faced with the problem of paying sub-
stantial subsidies to the airlines.
It is clear that the main problem of commercial airlines
in the free world is acute competition and difficulty in reduc-
ing air fares. This leads to considerable excess capacity in the
industry and higher operating costs.
lATA’s seventeenth annual general meeting is endeavoring
to find a way to increase passenger turnover without sending
some member operators broke. It seems that in the long
run the high cost operators will have to quit or fall back
on subsidies paid by their governments for prestige and poli-
tical purposes. The introduction of supersonic aircraft by
international commercial airlines for reasons of prestige rather
than sound air transport economics seems to be a dangerous
idea, which could cripple further development along sound
lines Such innovations should not be artificially accelerated
for political purposes. The meeting will also consider changes
in international airlines time-tables, reducing travel formalities
and current administrative questions. lATA has 92 members
from 60 countries. Qantas is a full member, and T.A.A. and
Ansett-A.N.A. associate members.
By the end of 1961 there will be 620 jet aircraft in
lATA’s commercial air fleet, with some 300 more on order
with manufacturers. Rapid introduction of jets with greater
passenger capacity last year resulted in an actual drop in the
number of operating aircraft. The combined fleets of lATA
airlines had 3376 aircraft in 1960 —a fall of about 3 per cent.
Disposal of surplus aircraft remains a major problem.
Another problem is heavy dependence on purely tourist
traffic, which renders the airlines very sensitive to fluctuations
in economic conditions in member countries and to frequent
shifts in customer tastes and preferences.
Running an airline may seem a glamorous job, but it is
by no means a quiet or easy one.
NEW SOUTH WALES
State Basie Wage Falls
A fall in meat prices was largely responsible for the Is. fall
in the State basic wage, now fixed at £l5 Is. for men and
£ll ss. 6d for women. This is the first drop since November,
1958. The Federal basic wage, which is not subject to quarterly
cost-of-living adjustments, will remain unchanged.
The lower State basic wage will operate from the first
full pay period in November. It covers more than half the
work force in N.S.W. —about 700,000 employees. Ironically,
a section of the daily press had predicted a rise in the basic
wage.
It shoud be noted that this is the first time that the
N.S.W. wage-fixing authority has used the new Consumer
Prices Index, prepared by the Commonwealth Statistician in
Canberra. Previously the “C” Series Index was used.
The Commonwealth Statistician had suspended publishing
the “C” Series Index some time ago, because the old cost-of-
living “basket” had incorporated some major distortions which
“Yeah, easy come —easy go ."


YOUR
FAVOURITE
BRANDY
SIAGR€|
BRAND*;.
rk _
fine Australian
pot-still
BRANDY
exaggerated the price variations. In particular, too much
emphasis was being placed on such food items as potatoes and
onions which were included at disproportionate statistical
“weights.” The Consumer Prices Index is said to be based
on a more up-to-date consumption articles “basket.”
Over the recent years the now abandoned “C” Series
had on the whole resulted in higher basic wage adjustments
than would have been indicated by the Consumer Prices Index.
The trade unions had vigorously opposed the switch-over from
the “C” Series to the Consumer Prices Index by the N.S.W.
Government last July. It was then said that the State
Government would continue to receive information on price
trends shown by the “C” Series from the Commonwealth
Statistician in confidence. Previously, the figures for N.S.W.
could be calculated by the State Bureau of Statistics and
Economics in Sydney. But since 1958 the State statistical ser-
vices were taken over by the Commonwealth Bureau of Census
and Statistics under the amalgamation of statistical services
agreement.
It has been claimed that the State basic wage fall was due
not so much to the decrease in meat prices as to the adoption
of the Consumer Prices Index as the basis for calculations.
However, it appears that the State Government is now using
a formula which would give pretty much the same results as
the old “C” Series. Still, the fall in the basic wage is expected
to cause some protests from a section of the unions.
The main economic effect will probably be some decrease
in purchasing power—not particularly significant—which could
affect the reduction of consumer goods stocks and delay the
reactivation of economic activity. It is doubtful whether any
prices will drop appreciably as a result of the basic wage
adjustment.
No doubt there will be some slackening of the rise in
production costs, but the significance of this is hard to estimate.
The main benefit is that inflationary pressures will not be
intensified. On the whole the fall is too small to cause any
great changes in the economic situation.
On the other hand, the Federal Arbitration Commission
will probably be influenced by the N.S.W. basic wage varia-
tions caused by the application of the Consumer Prices Index.
The significant point is that N.S.W. is the only State which has
retained automatic basic wage adjustments.
The main problem lies in the fact that in Australia two
independent wage determination systems continue to operate —
both outside the Federal Government’s direct influence. This
makes top level economic planning difficult and results in
inbuilt distortions of such uniform development policies as
Canberra endeavors to have.
HIRE PURCHASE
£20 Million to Lend
The significant drop in the national hire-purchase debt is
alarming the finance companies—and with good cause.
Many hire-purchase firms are still paying high interest rates
on public borrowings secured before the credit restrictions
were brought down by the Federal Government last November,
when competition for medium and short-term funds was intense
and loans expensive. For some time after the restrictions
were imposed interest payable by companies on convertible
notes and debentures was non-deductible taxwise, and the
borrowing costs of hire-purchase firms increased steeply. At
the same time the volume of hire-purchase transactions began
to decline. The finance companies found it very difficult to
reduce their interest rates on loans to customers, because this
would have whittled away their profit margins and could even
force some hire-purchase firms to operate at a loss.
The reduction in sales of motor vehicles, extensively
financed by hire-purchase arrangements, and the rising rate
°f repossessions—which are almost a dead loss to hire-
purchase lenders—is another serious difficulty.
This helps to explain why the hire-purchase industry is
s o anxious to lend, and why the interest charges have been
so sticky. Substantial reductions in lending charges would no
doubt help to stimulate the turnover —but this may be possible
only when the industry will be using cheaper new borrowings.
Last week Mr C. W. Fletcher, chairman of the Australian
Hire Purchase Conference, said that there is £2O million
“immediately available for financing for individuals and
industry... .as a result of the liquidity built up by member
companies during recent months.” This was a forced accumula-
tion of liquidity, largely caused by slackening demand for hire-
purchase loans, one may add.
Considerable loan funds are available, but borrowers
appear to be rather reticent. This has been noticed in the real-
estate busines as well.
On the whole, there has been some awakening on the
hire-purchase and real-estate market, after a healthy weeding
out of the high-cost operators who could survive only under
boom conditions.
Mr Fletcher said that the Hire Purchase Conference
“wanted bona fide customers to know that funds were avail-
able for them.” He hoped that demand would improve “now
that the economy had begun to recover.”
It remains to be seen whether there is now sufficient
buoyancy in the market to absorb the £2O million offered by
the finance companies at sticky interest rates.
SELLING OVERSEAS
Advertising in the Bedroom
cover to glossy cover, the 1960-61 “Annual Review of
the British Financial Times” contains a wealth of
economic digest and industrial discussion. Long considered
one of the top journals in its reporting on the business affairs
in the United Kingdom, the calibre of its correspondents
leaves little doubt but that among the readers of the “Review”
are the policy-makers and financial wizards behind the British
industrial scene.
Is it not strange, then, on thumbing through the list
of the “Review’s” 141 advertisers (the majority of whom rank
in commercial stature from medium-sized to giants) to find
that only two emanate from Australia? Both are banking
concerns, both of their adverisements occupy but a quarter-
page, and neither their copy nor message are calculated to


JAMES MURPHY BURSARIES FOR
AGRICULTURAL STUDENTS
FOR
(a) THE UNIVERSITY OF SYDNEY:
Providing all fees payable to the University of Sydney, the cost
of residence at St. John’s College and an allowance of up to £25 per
annum, payable at the discretion of the Trustees,
OR
(b) HAWKSBIRY AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE:
Providing all fees and text books not exceeding £l9O per annum.
Applications are invited for the above Bursaries, made available under
the Will of the late James Murphy, of Como.
Applicants must be the sons of Catholic parents whose means are
insufficient to enable their sons to study Agricultural Science and must
satisfy the requirements for Matriculation at the University of Sydney,
or of Entrance to the Hawksbury Agricultural College, as the case
may be.
Forms of Application (which must be returned duly completed not
later than the 20th November, 1961, in the case of Bursaries tenable
at the Hawksbury Agricultural College and not later than the Sth
January, 1962, in the case of those tenable at the University of Sydney)
and further particulars may be obtained from: —
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED),
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
set the world on fire, even in the traditionally conservative
British way of advertising.
Throughout the 112 pages of this influential paper, apart
from the National and Commercial Banking Company con-
tributions to the effect that Australia does exist, no mention
is made of our know-how, progress or products.
At such crucially competitive times as these the
unexpected and the hitherto unknown are often the most
successfully advertised. Why not, then, take a leaf from
the advertising handbook of the agent handling the promo-
tion of a certain Tokyo hotel? This enterprising hotelier has
arranged to have listed, in impeccable English, the accommo-
dation, tariff, amenities and service of his establishment, on
the back of hotel bedroom doors —Australian hotel bedroom
doors! And not in the cities only, either. Commercial
travellers from Tailem Bend to Toowoomba are requested
“when next in Tokyo” to stay at the hotel in question, and
the chances of commercial travellers becoming promoted to
positions in which they may well visit Tokyo are certainly
within the realms of probability. A dozen have to remember
the name of the hotel, and the desired effect has been achieved.
Sitting back (if you must avoid going out to sell) and
playing the waiting game is to invite disaster. Whatever you
make or offer, your market must know at least where and
who you are.
BYAN MELLONIE
FARM INCOMES
Fall Causes Vicious Circle
Although farm production in Australia between 1949-50
and 1959-60 increased by 25 p.c., reduction in world farm
prices has resulted in only limited gains in value. As a result
the net value of rural production at £lOl4 million in 1959-60
was only about half the value of factory production, which
had risen to £2,075 million.
This is pointed out in the September issue of the Rural
Bank’s quarterly, “Trends,” which says that for 1949-50 the
net value of rural production was £660 million —only £2 million
less than factory output. “The reduction of world farm
prices, and the rising prices for industrial products, have
proved one of the obstacles to the more rapid development of
the Australian economy. With nearly 80 per cent, of export
earnings dependent on exports of rural origin, compared with
imports of mainly manufactured items, these price trends have
caused a sharp deterioration in Australia’s terms of trade. In
1959-60 the terms of trade index, measured by the ratio of
export to import prices, showed a 29 per cent, deterioration
from the 1952-53 base year,” the quarterly says.
A comparison of the gross and net value of rural produc-
tion between 1949-50 and 1959-60 suggests that for all sections
of the primary industry costs have been rising faster than prices
realised for farm products.
The cost of marketing and production materials accounted
for 9.3 p.c. of the gross value of pastoral production in
1949-50, compared with 15.9 p.c. in 1959-60. The closing gap
between farm costs and prices has resulted in a fall in farm
income. This is the dreaded higher costs-lower prices
pincer movement.
In the three years ended 1953-54 farm income was esti-
mated at £504 million, and in the three years ended 1959-60,
£424 million. National income over the same period has
risen from £4263 million to £5099 million.
This is a vicious circle —the steady general expansion in
farm production depends on the maintenance of a reasonable
investment level But as farm incomes continue to stagnate
funds available for rural investment become more and more
limited. This is a basic and grave problem. A way must be
found to encourage farm output which can be sold abroad, if
necessary through direct or indirect Government action.
On the other hand, primary produce with high production
costs but poor export prospects must be discouraged and not
protected.
TOURISM
The Melting Snows
The last couple of weeks of the skiing season in the New
South Wales snowfields had attracted large numbers of
winter sports enthusiasts to the Chalet, the expensive new
hotels and private club lodges at Perisher and Thredbo, the
licensed Alpine Gate at Smiggins Holes.
A few keen souls made the traditional pilgrimage to Mt
Kosciusko’s summit —a brisk, swinging ride up oh the Thredbo
chairlift, followed by a couple of hours’ climbing and herring-
boning up the slopes. Most of the major ski-tows in the area
were operating and fairly well patronised. The “T-bar” at
Perisher and the “nutcracker” at the Chalet seemed to be the
most popular. The bars at “Sun Deck” and “The Man From
the Snowy River” in Perisher Valley were trading well.
There was the usual quota of accidents. A young Sydney
skier broke his leg on a run near an isolated lodge at Lake
Albina, and a team of professional skiers from the Chalet
at Charlotte Pass made a long trip to bring him out. All hotels
in the area now have elementary first-aid kits and the rescue
system, essential for a brisk tourist turnover, is pretty well
organised.
The end of the season at the Chalet, which is run by the
State Government and is one of the most comfortable and
friendliest snow hotels in N.S.W., was marred by a theft. The
administration was about to pay off the staff when it was
discovered that somebody had broken into the safe.
The Chalet will now be closed in summer, although before
it used to be quite popular during Christmas holidays—
tourists were taken by coaches to ski at Mount Townsend or
went for pony rides. This year there is too much competition
from the modern hotels and motels, which are nearer to the
highway and hope to capture a lot of the summer business.
The ageing Chalet is beginning to feel the pinch —it is a bit
too far out from the highway to Smiggins, kept open through-
out the winter, and its “nutcracker” tow is old fashioned, com-
pared with the new “T-bars” and “chairlifts.” And Thredbo
is definitely becoming the top social winter spot in N.S.W.
It must, despite the steep and difficult slopes and mud —a lot
of money was invested in the chairlift, the hotels and lodges.
Fishing at Lake Adaminaby is also becoming a major
summer attraction. The first flying boat from Sydney’s Rose
Bay came down successfully on its waters. Regular commercial
flights are about to start. Meanwhile, tourist agencies, motel
and hotel operators and sportswear shops are eagerly pushing
the idea that the whole Snowy area should be regarded as
one big, all-year-round playground —quite a by-product of the
hydroelectric scheme which first opened up the district. The
latest S.M.H.E.A. contracts will, no doubt, stimulate the local
tourist trade to a considerable degree. The dynamic Lend Lease
Corp. is also venturing into the area.


PATRICK & COMPANY
Members oi the Sydney Stock Exchange
It. H. ALLEN, M. R. L. DOWLING
P. It. LEVY. A. P. REYNOLDS. N. R.
COUItSE (Melbourne Resident Partner).
Delfin House, 16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Building;, 150 Queen St.,
Melbourne. 67-5957 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables: “Rcwdale,” Sydney
Melbourne or Wollongong.
A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. L. NEVITT. A. C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members o / Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building.
21)7 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31 2761 P.O. BOX
(4 Lines) No. 1887\V
John N. Robertson, Thompson
and Co.
Members of the Stork Exchange of
Melbourne.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS,
Temple Court,
422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Telephones: 67 6154, 67 6155
Telegrams and Cables:
ROBFALK, MELBOURNE
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Humes Ltd
Excelling itself in the 12 months to
June 30 last, Humes Ltd piped home
a record turnover and record profits. The
co. engaged in a vigorous expansion of
activity, diversification, etc., and accounts
reflect a further satisfactory period of
trading.
Incorporated in 1920, Humes Ltd [then
the Hume Pipe Co. (Aust.) Ltd] ventured
the road to success by development of
the now famous patent for centrifugally-
spun reinforced-concrete pipes. Today
the co. is the largest manufacturer of
concrete, welded-steel and concrete-lined
pipes in the Southern Hemisphere and
controls, together with its subsidiaries,
a network of 70 factories throughout
Australia, Malaya, Singapore, N.Z. and
Fiji. Subsidiaries include Hume Indus-
tries (Far East) Ltd ; Hume Industries
(N.Z.) Ltd; Hume Industries (South
Seas) Ltd, Suva ; Standard Steel Pty ;
Dominion Wire Works Pty ; W. R. Hume
Pty ; Bendigo Pottery Pty ; Martin Stone-
ware Pipe Pty ; Standard Steel (S.A.)
Ltd; Viking Industrial Plastics Pty;
Cowley’s Eureka Ironworks Pty;
McHugh Bros. Pty ; McHugh Bros.
Bricks Pty ; and Granton Brick Ltd.
Humes Industries (Far East) has addi-
tional interests besides its three wholly-
owned factories in Malaya and Singapore
—a 50 p.c. holding in Rheem-Hume (Far
East) Ltd, manufacturer of steel drums,
hot-water services and air-conditioning
equipment.
In addition to traditional activity,
turning out pipes and various concrete
products, the group undertakes general
engineering work, fabricates light struc-
tural-steel used in building construction
and has asbestos-mining interests in South
Africa and N.Z.
The subsidiaries, Martin Stoneware
Pipe Ltd, and its offshoot, Bendigo Pot-
tery Pty (manufacturers at Ballarat and
Bendigo, Vic., of salt-glazed earthenware
pipes, etc., and terra-cotta tiles and
bricks), Viking Industrial Plastics Ltd
(fabricators of corrosion-resisting chemi-
cal equipment at Mordialloc, Vic.),
Standard Steel (S.A.) Ltd (general engi-
neers and manufacturer of structural-
steelwork in S.A. ; previously styled Vic-
torian Engineering Ltd) and Cowley’s
Eureka Ironworks Pty (general engineers
and manufacturers of steel pipes at Balla-
rat), were taken over during last term,
and the subsidiaries, McHugh Bros. Pty,
McHugh Bros. Brick Pty (both of Laun-
ceston, Tas.) and Granton Brick Ltd (of
Hobart), during the current term (manu-
facturers of eathernware pipes and bricks
throughout Tasmania), the former series
of takeovers involving issue of an aggre-
gate 136,250 20s. ords., the latter, issue
of 56,499 20s. ords. Humes also pur-
chased, in June, 1961, for cash, the
interests of outside shareholders in W. R.
Hume Pty.
As a result of these various takeovers,
etc., the Humes paid ord. capital had
risen from £2,250.000, as at June 30, 1960,
to £3,515,000 as at June 30, 1961 —all in
20s. ord. shares. In November, 1960,
Humes issued 908,660 20s. ords. to share-
holders, two-for-five at par, and, at the
same time, parcelled out 100,000 ords.,
again at par, to the trustees of the co.’s
superannuation funds. In January, 1961,
the co. effected placement of 120,090 20s.
ords. at a substantial premium, so as to
provide additional working capital.
The co.’s joint venture with Wunder-
lich Ltd, the £3,000,000 Wunderlich
Humes Asbestos Pipes Pty (to manufac-
ture and market asbestos-cement pipes
for use in water-supply, sewerage, etc.,
and as electrical and telephone conduits),
is fast materialising. Production is
expected to get under way in Sydney in
early 1962 ; in Melbourne, before June,
1962.
The major part of the Humes business
results from tenders lodged in competi-
tion with firms carrying on similar acti-
vities. Demand for pipes, etc., is largely
governed by the amount of finance avail-
able to Government and semi-Govern-
ment authorities and to a lesser extent
by the needs of private enterprise.
Group sales continued to grow last
term, rolling in, finally, an all-time high,
£19,134.625 (up £2,676,193). The “Far
East” subsidiary turned in a much
improved performance with N.Z., on the
other hand, down somewhat on previous
figures. All trading cos. operated profit-
ably, however, and overall results “are
considered most reasonable.” Costs con-
tinued to rise. The co.’s asbestos interests
in Southern Rhodesia earned a small but
satisfactory operating profit and the
amount so earned was remitted back to
Australia.
Consolidated pre-tax profit, rising by
9.8 p.c. (in the main the result of expan-
sion of activity of cos. already in the
Humes group, but in part due to profits
of cos. acquired in last term) to reach
£1,362,445, was the highest yet. Net
profit, £751,044 (up £92,581, or 14.1 p.c.),
and written after tax, £611,401 (up
£30,495), and depreciation, £632,808 (up
£73,530), was also a record. It repre-
sented an earning rate on the higher
average ord. capital, after allowing for
prefs., of 24.6 p.c., as against 28.1 p.c.,
28,7 p.c., 29.9 p.c., 34.6 p.c. and 28.2
p.c. back to 1956:
Parent and Subsidiaries*
r— Dividends ,
June Profit. Pref. , Ord. s To Re- Re-
-30, 74 p.e. serves, serves.f
£ £ p.c. £ £ £
1957 . .584,802 27,188 16 268,000 289.614 3,195,014
Less increase in intangibles, £1864 3,193,150
Reserves capitalised, £418,169 ..2,774,981
Surplus revaluation of shares in Hume
Holdings (N.Z.), Ltd., £124,000 2,898,981
Interests in other cos. w/off, '£4900. . 2,894,081
Tax overprovided, w/back, £22,078. . 2,916,159
Written-off, £6200 2,909,959
Unexplained reduction, £123,999 ..2,785,960
1958. .603,383 27,188 154 298,937 277,258 3,063,218
Less increase in intangibles, £69 . . 3,063,149
Surplus sale of assets, £llO9 .. 3,064,258
Written-off, £6200 .. .. ..3,058,058
From provision account, N.Z. sub-
sidiary, £10,833 .. .. .. 3,068,891
1959. .640,927 27,188 14 299,250 314,489 3,383,380
Less increase in intangibles, £175,149 3,208,231
Share-premiums, £262,500 .. 3,470,731
Surplus sale of assets, £29,109 .. 3,499,840
Written-off, £lB6O .. .. .. 3,497,980
Unexplained addition, £7OO .. .. 3,498,680
1960. .658,463 27,188 14 315,000 316,275 3,814,955
Less increase in intangibles, £210,795 3,604,160
Share-premiums, £471,345 .. .. 4,075,505
Surplus sale of assets, £3400 . . . . 4,078,905
Written-off, £lB6O 4,077,045
1961. .751,044 27,188 14 412,037 311,819 4,388,864
* After deducting outside interests,
t After deducting intangibles, etc., now £407,261.
Dividends accounted for £439,225. Prefs.
received £27,188, and ords., by virtue of
a continued 14 p.c. distribution, took the
other £412,037 —the div.-rate, which had
stood for four years at p.c., was
dropped to 16 p.c. in 1957, to 15| p.c.
in 1958 and to the present level in 1959.
Undistributed profits, £311,819, went to
reserves, which, augmented by a capital
gain of £3400, and £471,345 received by
way of share premiums, rose to


£4,796,125 (up £784,704), subject to in-
creased intangibles, up £210,795 at
£407,261.
Growth has been financed, in large
measure, from retained earnings, but
for-two par issue in 1949-50, a one-for-
two bonus in 1950-51, a one-for-three par
in 1951-52, a one-for-four bonus in
1957-58, and last term’s two-for-five issue
at par. Paid capital, ord. and pref. com-
bined, aggregated £3,877,500 at balance
date, June 30 last Pref. capital is held
in “A” and “B” 74 p.c. cum. shares,
112,500 “As” and 250,000 “Bs”.
Movements in fixed assets reflect the
considerable expenditure undertaken by
the group in the implementation of its
modernisation and expansion programme.
In last term, more than £790,000 was
channelled into capital investment. Sub-
stantial progress was made on Stage 2 of
the new steel-pipe factory at Regents
Park, N.S.W., many factory improve-
ments and expansions were completed, a
concrete-pipe factory at Canberra was
substantially rebuilt and a sma’l pre-
stressed-concrete railway-sleeper factory
was established at Ingham, North
Queensland. Capital works in progress
at June 30, will, if completed as planned,
cost the group a further £300,000:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital—- 1959. 1960. 1961.
Pref. .. £362,500 £362,500 £362,500
Ord. .. 2,137,500 2,250,000 3,515,000
Reserves .. 3,404,697 4,011,421 4,796,125
Outside interests 896,398 908,766 897,951
Notes .. 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000
Mortgage .. 598,340 581,685 594,870
Overdraft .. 832,475 768,096 1,572,536
Creditors .. 1,557,975 1,886,171 2,057,011
Provisions for
insurances and
other contin-
gencies .. 106,452 104,759 164,514
Tax provision.. 487,154 596,727 629,530
Suspense acct. 87,363 33,383 44,204
Final divs. .. 163,219 171,094 259,644
£11,634,073 £12,674,602 £15,893,915
Freehold land,
etc. .. 707,113 774,810 843,042
Buildings .. 2,376,321 2,458,653 2,830,045
Plant, fittings 2,508,469 2,822,952 3,318,503
Asbestos deposits 67,928 64,023 46,311
Shares in other ,
cos. . . 222,420 218,820 308,921
Stocks on hand 3,408,372 3,515,973 5,206,223
Debtors .. 2,139,073 2,448,820 2,816,150
Cash, etc. .. 183,060 174,085 117,459
Intangibles .. 21,317 196,466 407,261
£11,634,073 £12,674,602 £15,893,915
Group finances are comfortable but
liquidity rather tight. Theoretical work-
ing capital assumes hefty stature at
£2,752,693 (up £174,045), with bank over-
draft more than doubled at £1,572,536
(up £804,440). Stocks jumped £1,690,250
to £5,206,223 and debtors £367,330 to
£2,816,150. Of the £1,000,000 held in
p.c. registered unsecured notes,
£659,700 L redeemable January 31, 1962 ;
the balance January 31, 1966.
As to the future: long-term prospects
seem assured. Extensions to water,
sewerage and drainage systems have, so
far, lagged behind the growth of the fast-
spreading capital cities, and with further
substantial increases in population fore-
cast, a reduction in the amount spent on
this type of work seems unlikely.
But immediate prospects are depend-
ent on the current economic situation.
Orders on hand, at June 30, 1961, were
in excess of £4,600,000. Since then, how-
ever, the volume of orders and inquiries
received has fallen to lower than normal,
although directors had it, September last,
“that this position should improve over
the next three months.” If this expecta-
tion proves correct, then the parent co.
is assured “another satisfactory year of
trading with steady sales and profits. ’
As far as estimation allows the co.
expects its overseas subsidiaries to return
performances, more or less, on a par with
last term’s effort. But some of the group’s
other subsidiaries —those engaged in
supplying to the building industry—-“are
at present passing through a quiet period
and lower sales and profits will be
obtained by them if a prolonged recession
in that industry occurs.”
It seems that with further expansion,
and to conclude present developments in
process, Humes will have to raise further
funds to provide the necessary cash.
Moreover plans are presently in process
for the erection in 1962 of a major
concrete-pipe factory at Auburn, N.S.W.,
to meet a growth in the long-term demand
for concrete pipes in the metropolitan
area of Sydney. Accordingly Humes has
just announced its intention to issue
1,500,000 8 p.c. registered unsecured 20s.
notes at par in the very near future.
Meantime Humes 20s. ords. recently
fetched 735. on ’Change, and investment
at this price would yield 3.8 p.c. from a
14 p.c. div. Backing for the ords. is
visibly £2 ss. in net tangibles, and valua-
tion of freehold land and buildings, in
last term, prior to the credit squeeze,
had values in the vicinity of £1,000,000
more than their book value.
Malcolm Moore Industries Ltd
'T'he 12 months to June 30, 1961,
-*■ proved more than difficult for the
Malcolm Moore Industries group of
companies. The year opened on a bright
note with turnover and profits well
maintained up until November, 1960.
Then came the credit squeeze and “In
major fields of our activity sales imme-
diately declined at a very rapid and
drastic rate and it was the end of the
financial year before any signs of
recovery occurred.”
The Victorian - registered Malcolm
Moore Industries Ltd is a manufacturer
of overhead and mobile cranes, bulk-
handling equipment, conveyor systems,
road-making machinery, mechanical farm
implements, hydraulic equipment for use
in tractors and with tractor attachments,
power-steering units, hydraulic transmis-
sions, pumps, valves and structural steel-
work. Other products include tools, jigs,
dies, gauges, presses, power packs, hoses,
couplings, pipe-lines, shovel-loaders, etc.
Structural and engineering work is carried
out for the Snowy Mountains hydro-
electric project.
The group also distributes heavy
trucks, loaders and a large range of road-
making machinery, tractors and i0£4,796,125
eiated equipment. There is a network of
five subsidiaries:
Moore Crane and Engineering Co. Pty.
Moore Conveyor Co. Pty.
Moore Road Machinery (Aust.) Pty.
Moore Hydraulics Pty.
Moore Engineering (Cooma) Pty, producer of
tunnel supports, structural steelwork, and '
structural and general engineer working on
Snowy Mountains contracts.
Last term's consolidated net trading
profit was, to say the least, disappoint-
ing. It was more than halved, dropping,
in all, £119,105 to £112,113; this after
charging all manufacturing, selling and'
administrative expenses, directors’ and
audit fees, and providing £64,956 for
depreciation (down £1006). Consolidated
net profit followed suit, dropping, in turn, ,
by £102,605, or 51 p.c., to £98,613, after
setting aside £13.500 for taxation (down
£16,500):
(Consolidated Figures.)
f— Dividends ,To Re- Re*
June, Profit. 5 p.c. —Ord. , serves, serves.*
£ £ p.c. £ £ £
1955. .183,310 20,000 15 = 97,500 65,810 877,354
Overprovisions for tax, £45,077 . . 922,431
1956.. 153.087.20,000 7s= 71,750 61,337 983,768
Profit sale assets, £16,834 .. .. 1,000,602
Tax overprovided, £7724 .. .. 1,008,326
Loss.
1957. .163,123 20,000 Nil 825,203
Profit sale assets, £29,733 .. .. 854,936
Tax overprovided, £2lBB .. .. 857,124
Div. overprovided, £3333 .. .. 800,457
To provision stock-losses, etc., £400,000 460,457
Profit.
1958.. 80,045 20,000 3 = 43,200 16,845 477,302
Asset revaluation, £246,120 .. .. 723,422
Stock written-off, £190,000 .. .. .533,422
Valuer’s expenses, £5233 .. .. 528,189
Loss sale assets. £7755 .. .. 520,434
Tax overprovided, £822 .. .. 521,256
1959. .188,632 20,000 7 =lOO,BOO 67,832 589,088
Tax overprovided, £648 .. .. 589,736
1960. 20,000 8 =115,200 66,018 655,754
Tax overprovidc-d, £5213 . . . . 660,967
1961.. 98,613 20,000 5 = 72,000 6,61,3 667,580
* Subject to intangibles, £21,046 at June 30, 1961.
The tax provision looks very slim on the
earnings disclosed, but this may have
been caused, to some extent, by previous
losses and the contractual nature of a
considerable proportion of Malcolm
Moore’s activities.
After pref. shareholders received their
5 p.c. (£20,000), profits were equivalent
to an earning rate of only 5.5 p.c. on
the steady paid-up ord. capital, compared
with 12.6 p.c. in the preceding term and
11.7 p.c. and 4.4 p.c. back to 1958. In
the circumstances, the ora. div.-rate was
reduced from 8 p.c. to 5 p.c., a far cry
from earlier 15 p.c. and 20 p.c. hand-
outs. The div.-rate was reduced from
20 p.c. to 15 p.c. in 1954, to 1\ p.c. n
1956, and suspended altogether in 1957
when the co. ran up a loss of £163,123.
Div. payments were resumed, then, in
1958, at the 3 p.c. level, rising to 7 p.c.
in 1959 and to 8 p.c. in 1960.
Last term’s lowered profits allowed
little surplus for reserve building and
reserves, benefiting £5213 tax over-
provided in previous years, climbed a
mere £11,826 to £667,580, but subject to
intangibles, an unchanged £21,046 as at
close of the accounts.
How did the credit squeeze affect the
various subsidiaries and divisions of
Malcolm Moore Industries Ltd? Moore
Hydraulics Pty was hard hit by the diffi-
cult trading conditions experienced by
the motor and agricultural industries; so,
too, was the tooling division. Moore
Road Machinery (Aust.) Pty, in which a


CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
(Incorporated under the Companies Act of New South Wales
on Bth March, 1950) (ASSETS EXCEED £8,000,000
I
SHORT TERM RATES
8%
P.A.
12 MONTHS'
NOTICE
7%
P.A.
6 MONTHS
NOTICE
61%
P.A.
3 MONTHS'
NOTICE
6%
P.A.
1 MONTHS
NOTICE
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
Funds may be withdrawn in a
personal emergency
increased interest rates apply on renewal of investments
Interest paid quarterly FREE of Exchange through the Bank of N.S.W
Prospectus and Application Forms
obtainable from:
Any Branch of the BANK OF N.S.W.
OR
The Company's Offices: Ground Floor, Cambridge House,
249 George St., Sydney—‘Phone: BU 5542; Ground Floor,
Cambridge House, 411-413 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne—
'Phone: 67-6792; Suite 53a, sth Floor, T. & G. Building,
137 Queen Street, Brisbane—'Phones: 24-509, 26-931;
Suite 110, Ist Floor, Da Costa Building, 63 Grenfell St.,
Adelaide—'Phone: 87-025; Morton House, 5 Union St.,
Newcastle West—'Phone: B 4601; Berner Credit Company
Pty. Ltd., 147 Bayliss Street, Wagga.
OR
Any Member of a Recognised Stock Exchange
Underwriting Brokers:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
COBRIE & CD. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
LEONARD G. MAY & SON (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
Brokers for the issue in A.C.T.: T. J. Thompson & Sons, C.B.C. Chambers,
Petrie Street, Canberra (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange). Brokers
for the issue in Newcastle: F. S. Scorer & Co., T. & G. Building, Cnr.
Hunter & Watt Sts., Newcastle (Members of the Newcastle Stock Ex-
change). Brokers for the issue in South Australia: S. C. Ward & Co., 25
Grenfell Street, Adelaide (Members of the Stock Exchange of Adelaide
Ltd.). Brokers for the issue in Western Australia: Donald J. Carmichael
& Co., 135 St. George’s Terrace, Perth (Members of the Stock Exchange
of Perth). Brokers for the issue in Tasmania: P. S. Shadforth & Son,
Commercial Bank of Australasia Building, Cnr. Elizabeth and Collins
Streets, Hobart (Members of the Hobart Stock Exchange).
Trustees for Stockholders: Bankers & Traders' Insurance
Company Limited.
Registrar: Bank of N.S.W. Nominees Pty. Ltd.
Registers: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Canberra.
Applications for the debenture stock accepted only on one of the
forms of application attached to a printed copy of the prospectus.
CC. 101 M
great deal of resources are invested, was,
at one stage, faced with “such stagnation
jn the market available to it that sales
were negligible.” Moore Cranes and
Engineering Co. Pty maintained a full
order-book, and Moore Conveyor Co.
pty had “an active and excellent year,”
but both cos. faced stiffening competi-
tion. Moore Engineering (Cooma) Pty
finished up virtually at a standstill await-
ing further contracts.
But perhaps the worst is over.
. . your Board feels that the coming
year will be one of very keen competi-
tion, but it has every confidence in the
company’s ability to maintain improve-
ment.” So far trading has improved
somewhat in k he current term and pros-
pects are encouraging. While the
Hydraulics Co. must necessarily follow
the fortunes of the motor and agricul-
tural industries, and while the Cooma
offshoot should obtain its fair share of
work, but when the Snowy Mountains
contracts are let later in the financial
year, the road-machinery division, the
crane co. and the conveyor division are
presently making satisfactory and reason-
able progress.
Returning now to last year's figures,
the balance-sheet reflects inactivity and
static trading. Apart from stocks (down
£96,554 at £1,803,263) and plant, etc.
(up £36,654 at £603,649), the final figures
show little movement from those of the
previous year:
CONSOUDA TKD B ALA X CE-SH KET.
Capital— 1959. 1900. 1961.
Pref. .. .. £400,000 £400,000 £400,000
Orel. .. .. 1,440,000 1,440,000 1,440,000
Reserves .. .. 589,088 055,754 007,580
•Roans .. .. 37,500
Overdraft .. 730,139 629,524 000,155
Creditors .. .. 473,751 549,552 569,392
Tax provision .. 25,100 30,000 13,504)
Final divs. .. 04,207 78,607 78,667
£3,722.345 £3,783,497 £3,806,794
Freeholds .. 548,427 550,378 582,390
Leaseholds .. 297,130 309,279 318,548
Plant, etc. 503,918 566,995 603,649
Investments- -
Roan . . .. 59,200 53,250 49,300
.. .. 1,789,362 1,899,817 1,803,263
Debtors .. .. 425.950 368,931 416,207
Deposits, etc. .. 17,306 13,801 12,391
Intangibles .. 21,046 21,046 21,046
£3,722.345 £3,783,497 £3,806,794
Net tangible asset backing worked out
at £6 4s. 4d. for each of the 400.000 5 p.c.
20s. cum. prefs., and 295. for each of the
1,440,000 20s. ords.
Malcolm Moore scrip is trading well
below par in the sharemarket and at the
last sale in Sydney the 20s. ords. fetched
only 14s. lid. a unit to return an imme-
diate yield of 6.7 p.c. on the basis of the
5 p.c. div.-rate. The prefs. changed hands
at 12s. to return 8.3 p.c.
OIL AND MINING
Santos
Limited and Oil Development
N.L. report that the Beachport No.
I well, which is being drilled by South
East Oil Syndicate Ltd, has reached
1960 ft. Formation is tertiary limestone,
s ands and clays. Electric logs have been
lun to this depth. The seven-inch casing
has been cemented to 1060 ft.
Wapef
Australian Petroleum Pty Ltd
reported, Wednesday, October 11,
that a gain of 350 feet had been made
at the Eneabba No. 1 well during the
week.
The total depth at 8 a.m. on Tuesday
was 11,166 feet in a sandstone-siltstone
formation.
All the vehicles and supplies for the
new seismic party have arrived in the
Kimberleys.


rmrn
n
IU
FINANCE & INVESTMENT
COMPANY LIMITED
SHAREHOLDERS' FUNDS, £891,419.
TANGIBLE ASSETS, £3,184,264.
INTEREST RATES FOR DEPOSITS
(NOW CALLED UNSECURED DEPOSIT NOTES)
Financing world-
famous products
distributed by
The Hastings
Deering Group
of Companies.
FORD
Cars and Trucks
FORDSON
Tractors
A.E.C.
Trucks & Buses
CATERPILLAR
Diesel Tractors
in Queensland
HYSTER
Fork Lift Trucks
in Queensland
JOHN DEERE
Agricultural
Machinery
in Queensland
LISTER
Engines
GROUP SALES
IN 1960
£14,757,281
MAIL THIS COUPON
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE &
INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
G.P.O. Box 4333, Sydney.
Please send me, without any obligation on my part, pros-
pectus dated 1/4/61, giving full details of your terms
deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS
HD82.10
B. 28/10
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established ISIS
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLAS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS
A. C MAITLAND, Managing Director. R. A. CATLEY, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
Speculators Diary
Monday, October 23.
"Cver since I was a small boy
I’ve had a bit of a pre-
occupation with ships. This
probably explains why lately
I’ve been cluttering up my
portfolio with shipping stocks:
Huddart Parker, Shipping
Newspapers and Howard
Smith. Now with Howard
Smith, I admit, I seemed to get
the wrong end of the stick and
bought the conqueror rather
than the vanquished. What I
should have bought was Mel-
bourne Steam and let Adelaide
Steam and Howard Smith out-
bid one for another for all
they were worth. Instead
I’d bought Howard Smith on
one of these “something's
doing’’ stories. Last week I
sold at 50s. for a loss of £5
after collecting a £4 dividend.
Small price to pay for listen-
ing to idle rumors, I suppose,
particularly as the price has
since slumped quite sharply
under the weight of the Mel-
bourne Steam bidding.
Fortunately my Huddart
Parkers and Shipping News-
papers have turned out more
happily. Heartened by these
maritime successes (and the
frantic bidding for Melbourne
Steam’s tugs), I decided to buy
some Fenwick Holdings,
owners of one of the two
major tug fleets in N.S.W. The
price I paid, 295., was pretty
frightening, but the shares go
ex-bonus tomorrow. With all
the attention on shipping and
tug companies, they could
firm up.
Fenwick has been a very
impressive little company since
it came on the market three
years ago. The shares have
just gone from strength to
strength. In fact, with its share
premium, Fenwick should be
able to buy out both Howard
Smith and Adelaide Steam and
probably the National Line as
well!
For a while the goings-on
between Broken Hill South and
the mysterious Eastern gentle-
men left me rather envious,
not being in on it at all. Before
long, I realised it was just as
well. One thought I had was
that this is probably only the
beginning of the financial over-
tures we are likely to hear from
the East now that Britain is
telling us we are old enough
to look after ourselves. Already
the Japanese, who have a little
more finesse in these matters,
have made quite a number of
important financial links here
without anyone really noticing,
let alone objecting.
One takeover I did get in on
well was with W. H. Hole. One
of my friends, not in the brok-
ing business, told me to buy
W. H. Hole because Cyclone
were going to make an offer
worth 7s. a share. I bought
1000 at 3s. 9d., although I’d
been hearing rumors of a take-
over for W. H. Hole almost
since I was in short pants.
Sure enough an offer from
Cyclone was forthcoming, but
it was worth only 4s. lid. But
before I'd had time to get over
the disappointment of this, H.
Pettiford came forward and
bravely offered 6s. a share.
Will Cyclone bid again? Let's
hope so.
Finally I decided to go along
with the rumors about my old
friends at Chevron Sydney. It
didn't look as though I could
come to much harm at 2s. 3d.
so I bought 1000 of these, too.
You might well ask where
the money was coming from.
But I'd taken strike fright with
Mt Isa and sold at 70s. for a
loss of £9. I also felt I'd been
a bit over-enthusiastic with
Myer’s and sold at 28s. 6d.
(ex-dividend) to break even.
All this meant a loss on the
week of £l4.
SOLD
100 Howard Smith at
50/- .. ... .. £246
100 Mt Isa at 70/- .. £345
200 Myer at 28/6 .. £2Bl
BOUGHT
1000 W. H. Hole at 3/9 £197
350 Fenwick at 29/- £516
1000 Chevron Sydney
at 2/3 .. .. £ll7
I now hold:
Cost Cur-
X«. of Name of Total I’er rent
Shares Company Cost Share Price
’>oo Meriea 105 0/4 7/-
300 Hornibrook 354 23/- 25/-
200 Marrickville 217 21/3 25/-
500 Newcastle Ten
Pin Bowling 125 5/- 6/8
300 McDonald 207 13/6 14/6
200 Southern TV 205 20/- 23/-
400 Rio Tin to 307 15/- 14/9
300 Pyrox new 87 5/9 6/6
200 Dodge 136 13/4 13/6
75 A.C.I. 273 71/- 72/9
400 Herrin 206 10/- 11/3
400 O'Donnell
Griffin 239 11/8 13/-
200 F. G. O'Brien 100 9/9 10 9
300 Bitumen & 0i1345 22/6 22/6
50 Rothmans 199 78/9 84/9
100 Shipping
News 351 69/- 74/
400 Olympic
Bowling 50 2/6
1.000 W. H. Hole 197 3/9 5/9
350 Fenwick 516 29/- 29/0
1,000 Chevron
Sydney 117 2/3 2/4


There’s
better
reading
for all the
family in
Euerybody's
Why not
order your
copy now.
Positions Vacant
CANBERRA GRAMMAR SCHOOL,
CANBERRA
BIOLOGY MASTER
A Biology Master required lor 1962, to teach
in Senior School to Matriculation level. Appli-
cants please send particulars of training and
experience, plus the names and addresses of
two referees, to the Headmaster, Canberra
Grammar School, Canberra.
ASSISTANT MASTER
An Assistant Master required to teach in Junior
School in 1962. Applicants please send parti-
culars of training and experience, plus the
names and addresses of two referees, to the
Headmaster, Canberra Grammar School,
Canberra.
Divorce Notices
To RONALD JACK SIMPSON of address unknown:
TAKE NOTICE that your wife AUDREY JUNE
SIMPSON has instituted Divorce Proceedings against
you in the Supreme Court of Victoria for Dissolution
of her marriage to you on the ground of desertion
AND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that unless you
file an Answer herein in the office of the Registrar
Supreme Court Melbourne on or before the 4th
day of December 1961 the case may proceed in
your absence. Mary J. Winter, c/o M. S. k R. M.
WILLIAMS k WINTER. 90 Queen Street, Melbourne
Solicitor for the Petitioner.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES. —In Divorce.
To EDITH BA R ILL A —TAKE NOTICE that
ANTHONY BARILLA has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1931 of 1961 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for two years and upwards.
If you wish to defend you may enter an Answer
in the Divorce Registry, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, by the Bth December, 1961 and
obtain a copv of the Petition without charge from
A. ,1. 1». HALL & HALL, Solicitors, 90 Pitt Street,
Sydney.— C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALKS.—is Divorce.
To TE RR IE ANDRE AS EX—TAKE NOTICE that
KA.J ROBERT ANDREASEN has filed his Petition
for Divorce No. 3198 of 1961 on tlie gounds of
desertion. If you wish to defend you may enter
an Answer at the Divorce Office, Mint Building,
Macquarie Street, Sydney by the Eighth day of
December 1961 and obtain a copy of the Petition,
without charge from F. E. FISCHER & LAWS of
125 A'ork Steet, Sydney.-— C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
Matrimonial Causes Act, 1959.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALKS.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
To: GEORGE REGINALD TERRY—TAKE NOTICE
that ADA TERRY lias filed a Petition for divorce No.
2458 of 1961 on the grounds of desertion and
separation. If you wish to defend you may tile
an answer in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court,
Mint Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney within
49 days from the 13th day of October 1961 and
obtain a copv of the Petition without charge from
Messrs M. C. CANNING lON & SON, Solicitors,
Beaumont Street, Hamilton in the State of New
South Wales or their Svdnev Agents, Messrs DUDLEY
WESTGARTH & CO., 369 George Street, Sydney in
the said State.—C. A. H. HARMS Registrar.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
NEW SUB./RENEWAL
(Please cross out one)
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper,
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please find enclosed my cheque I money-order
for months’ subscription to The
Bulletin.
NAME:
ADDRESS:
RATES (A/asia): 1 year—£2 125.; \ year—
£l 6s. Post free. British C’wealth:
£3 3s. 6d. Foreign: £3 16s.
N.Z. CURRENCY (Remit to Box 965,
Wellington, N.Z.): A/asia: 1 year—
£l 18s. 6d.; \ year —19s. 6d. British
C’wealth: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
iu
HELP
I m
all the year round. Donations: 169
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. BM2OOI.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 664
Across
I—What’s hot enough for appeal in cricket? (4, 4)
4—Splendid display up with a whelp. (3. 3)
6 Hunting cry. (6)
7 An actress named Palmer placed where there are little
people. (8)
12—Frozen surf wherein Eire's backer provides navigation
aids in high latitudes. (3-8)
13 — Pass the right angle on busi-
ness. (3)
14— There's no lie in this—jt means
“to remove to a distance, 7 ' and
that's the truth. (5)
15— Office equipment makes a
prosecutor examine an insurance
company. (4-5)
16— These pompous know-alls have
land devoted to sage. (9)
20—Comedian getting the highest
honor. (5)
22 — German city letters. (3)
23 — Cake job Doll mixed as part of
the Dixieland repertoire. (3, 5,3)
24 — Helmsman with one merit. (8)
28— A low-living Parisian redskin
gives Pop backache. (6)
29 — Equipment for probing some
tenanted pigpen. (6)
30 — Cat's nose broken by this noble-
woman. (8)
Down
1 — Crazy communication from the
Riverina. (7)
2 He’s hit worse (very badly)
despite such portents of good
luck. (5. 6)
3 Katerin disturbed this
hoaxer. (5, 2)
4 Drink up, chum. (3)
5 —Report is merely relative. (3)
8 — Up in relation to erupt though
motionless. (5)
9 Mislays. (5)
10 — Flora includes this organised
industrial impudence. (5)
11 — Enclosure vehicle is over-
turned. (4)
13 —Snorters strike a holding sufficient
to open 20-down. (11)
16 — The wars produce these, alas. (7)
17 — A footsore pig’s titbit. (5)
18 — Urged to change a Dickensian
hero. (5)
19— Concert artists may render these
in oils. (4)
20— Equipment for elevating the
stomach round at poker. (7)
21— A medieval official is to be seen
here about nightfall. (5)
25 — Sweet potato upset Benaud’s
adversary. (3)
26 Peed. (3)
27 — Sinbad's transporter fills a
Romish Christian with love. (3)
Solution to Crossword No, 663


Commencing October
Jj
* m
<Z
C
c
mm
mmwm.
mm
'Z r J\
.on Australia—Britain
Kangaroo Route
First in all-round service, all over the world, BOAC
offers the greatest frequency of fast jetliner flights from
Australia on the Kangaroo Route to London and to the
major cities on every Continent! Now you can leave
Sydney on any day of the week. Stopover, if you wish,
in the Orient, the East, or Europe at no extra air fare.
Enjoy superb BOAC First Class Service—or save
on Economy Class fares—to London and on
around the world.
7 Comet Jet Services weekly from Sydney—3 from Melbourne.
For full details of BOAC First Class and Economy
services, stopover facilities, and “Fly Now—Pay Later ”
plan, consult your local Travel Agent or Airline Office.
ALL OVER
THE
WORLD
TAKES
GOOD CARE
OF YOU
British Overseas Airways Corporation in association with Air-India, Qantas {BOAC General Sales Agents for Australia ) and TEAL
A77.AU. IO7N
