

The Bulletin
1<
\piered in Australia for trans-
ition by post as a newspaper.
August 26, 1961
SIR ARTHUR
FADDEN
From Mr “Da-Fad”
to Mr “Omono”
A DULL BUDGET


'A-
jm
WOOL SELLING
LIVESTOCK
•r
r
w-
m
TRAVEL
*
MERCHANDISING
? i
TOWA
SKINS and HIDES
_fet
r "
4
ntf mm
INSURANCE
?£fe
K
RURAL FINANCE
r v
✓
/A -'Y
- vT7
LAND and PROPERTY
complete Service
fOR THE
MAN on the LAND
with more than
120 years’ Service to the Pastoral
Industry . . . their 200 Branches
throughout Australia . . . their
high standard of efficiency . . .
are in the position to render you
a Complete Service.
As Elders are equipped to
handle all aspects of business,
you may rest assured that all
your needs can be readily and
satisfactorily attended to.
There is an S&etj Branch within telephone distance
of your home.
Wherever you are—whatever you need phone Elders.
ELDER, SMITH & GO., LIMITED
Adelaide, Perth, Albany, Melbourne, Geelong, Sydney, Newcastle, Goulburn,
Brisbane, London.


The
Bulletin
AUGUST 26, 1961
Vol. 82
No. 4254
ANSWERS TO
CONTRIBUTORS
A.Y.: No, we could not bring
out a special edition just for your
narrative poem... .P.W.: Those
first two pages are a road-block
which will prevent most people
entering your story... .L.K.: You
don’t really expect us to accept
stories which use “doggie,”
“puppy,” “birdie” all through, do
you? ... .0.V.: Why not say he
said instead of groaned, growled,
screamed, squawked, thundered ;
makes it sound like an old melo-
drama.... P.S.: The suburbs are
dull but not that du11... .G.C.:
Thank you, nursie:
“Everyone will echo the end of
these verses ;
Thank heaven for our wonder-
ful, beautiful nurses.”
.... A.J.T.:
“The hope, strength, and the
melioration
Of our country—nay! of the
world —
Lies in the intrinsic boy and
girl relation.”
We’ve passed the rest on to the
Youth Cou n c i 1.... J.M.: Go
through it and cross out the adjec-
tives, then slash into those limpet-
like adverbs. You might be able
to see what you are saying then.
. ..R.J.0.: Not for u 5....
D.J.F.: This sort of time-space
thing has been done so often you
would need something more
original to bring it 0ff.... P.D.:
We sympathise with how you feel
but “Unread Story” does not suit
us. Try elsewhere... ,G.D.: The
combination of fact and fiction is
somewhat uneasy. It almost comes
off... .8.W.K.: Amusing, but too
slight .. .L.1.D.: Stereotyped....
H.H.W.: Just misses ; perhaps the
plot is too slick.. .W.C.D.. It is
not enough to create characters,
you must do something with them.
. 8.H.8.: Extremely good
descriptive passages.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street
Sydney; Box 2521; Phone: 27 5971.
IN THIS ISSUE
The Hobart Censure
F is not clear what is, strictly speaking, involved in the censure on the
University of Tasmania passed by the Federal Council of the university
teachers’ trade union last December because of the university’s policy on
the Orr case. But it is difficult to imagine that the Federal Council was not
aware of how damaging the censure would be not only to the University
of Tasmania but to all Australian universities — particularly when the
Federal Council took pains to make sure all English-speaking universities
were informed of the censure. As far as Tasmania is concerned it amounts
to telling all possible applicants for jobs in that university that, if it is not
actually unfit to work in, one should be at least cautious about going there.
The damage this could do to the staff of the university, the students, and
education generally in Tasmania is obvious. And at the same time a similar
impression could be created of all Australian universities. Only a few over-
seas applicants are going to make fine distinctions between Tasmania and,
say, Victoria, and quite a few, not knowing all the relevant details and
knowing only the censure, are likely to assume that a country which has a
Federal Council running around passing resolutions of censure of this kind
cannot have any good universities.
This is not to say that there could not be circumstances where a
censure of a university would not be justified. Of course there are. But in
the interests of all universities such a step should not be taken unless
absolutely necessary and unless all possible alternatives have been thoroughly
explored. As the article on page 17 of this issue shows, an examination of
the correspondence between the Federal Council and Professor K. S. Isles,
the Vice-Chancellor of the University of Tasmania, suggests that in this case
the Federal Council was determined to censure the university by hook or
by crook and would not settle for anything less. The correspondence
shows that the university was not only willing to have talks, it did not even
rule out the possibility of “rehabilitating” (without reinstating) Mr Orr,
but it refused to submit to ultimata and or be judged by a tribunal which
had already made up its mind against the university. No matter how far
the university seemed prepared to come to terms with the Federal Council,
the Council’s agents do not seem to have been seriously interested in dis-
cussion, except in the most narrow terms.
In the light of the article on page 17, one is entitled to ask oneself
whether the Federal Executive was pursuing a vendetta regardless of the
cost to Australian universities, or like other union executives, looking
around for a “militant” position to adopt to ensure its position. Because
of the increasing importance of universities in the community the Federal
Executive of the staff associations is an important organisation—as its role
in the Orr case and the Ward case show (though it has been peculiarly
quiet on the Sharp case). Must one assume that the Federal Executive’s
action expresses the opinions of all academics? Or are they too busy with
other matters to worry about what happens in their union ? If so, surely
they must start exercising more supervision over what their executive
does in their name.


This Australia
WHITE AUSTRALIA
The Revolt
of Teng Chin Kiat
FROM A PERTH CORRESPONDENT
A R. DOWNER
Special circumstances
Ministerial intervention has written a
happy ending to the brief revolt
of Malayan student Teng Chin Kiat
against Australia’s immigration policy.
Teng is an honors student in economics
at the University of W.A. who threatened
to leave Australia without completing his
honors degree because the Immigration
Department had refused a visa to his
fiancee, Miss Sue Tan, to spend three
months in Australia as a tourist so that
she could help him with his studies.
The storm which his decision aroused
caused both the Immigration Depart-
ment and Mr Teng to have second
thoughts. Immigration Minister Downer
said he would grant Miss Tan a visa,
provided both she and her fiance agreed
to leave Australia by the end of the year.
Mr Teng decided to withdraw his critic-
ism of immigration policy because it
might cause ill-feeling between Australia
and Malaya. “There is a danger that
Australia’s immigration policy could be
misunderstood through this one unfor-
tunate incident,” he said last week.
“Whatever I have said in the past about
the policy was said in a moment of
anger and disgust at the refusal of my
fiancee’s visa. Since then I have had
time to think. I do not believe that
Australia’s immigration policy is making
her unpopular in Malaya.”
For his part, Mr Downer agreed there
appeared to be special circumstances
associated with this case which would
warrant making an exception to the
general rule If, therefore, Mr Teng Chin
Kiat and Miss Tan undertook to leave
Australia by the end of this year the entry
of the latter would be approved.
Mr Downer said that Asian students in
Australia in a private capacity could not
bring wives or children, still less fiancees,
into the country. If they did, the whole
object of the Asian students’ plan, which
was to train Asians for the benefit of
their own countries, could be under-
mined because the students might then
be disinclined to return home.
This statement brought forth an
immediate reaction from the Singapore
“Straits Times,” which suggested that he
was conveying “the surprising impression
that family groups and Asians are not
quite respectable. Does he seriously sug-
gest that a family group is likely to result
from a three-month meeting between a
man and a woman who is not yet his
wife? Moreover, the Minister is indulg-
ing in a popular Australian day-dream if
he takes it for granted that they would
want to stay there.”
It was obviously this kind of com-
ment, repeated in the same vein in
several other papers, that caused Mr
Teng to change his mind and resume his
studies before he knew of Mr Downer’s
decision. Since he is president of the
Malayan Students’ Association in Perth,
he felt that his own reaction to a personal
problem had been interpreted as a
general criticism of immigration policy
by the association.
He said he had no quarrel with immi-
gration policy as such, but some allow-
ance should be made for the personal
problems of Asian students studying in
Australia. He implied that if his fiancee
could have been with him while he was
studying for his honors degree he might
not have lost two months’ study time
through illness. He also pointed out that
because he had fallen behind in his
studies he might have to stay in Australia
until early 1962 to complete his degree.
This would take him beyond the time
limit specified by the Minister. What
would happen then?
LOTTERIES
Slow on the Draw
FROM AN ADELAIDE CORRESPONDENT
'T'he Rev. Irwin Vogt, the Adelaide
Methodist leader, is worried. “At about
this time of year,” he told his congregation
last week, “there are usually signs of that
hardy, annual, obnoxious weed the
demand for a State lottery.” What had
upset him was that one Liberal Country
League branch and three Labor ones all
want the State Government to stage a
referendum asking electors to approve an
official lottery to help raise funds for
hospitals and other good works. Resolu-
tions to this effect are going forward to
both L.C.L. and A.L.P. conferences in
Adelaide next month. The whole issue
is morally degrading, stated Mr Vogt,
implying that this kind of get-rich-by-
gambling belonged only to States of
convict origin. “We live in an age when
a complete body of opinion, irrespective
of party, would sell their nation down the
drain.”
TT , ~
However, proposals for a Slate lottery
have been raised several times in recent
years, and Premier Playford has sternly
opposed even sanctioning raffles or
small-time charities. In 1957 too. Senator
Hannatord (S.A.) persuaded Postmaster-
General Davidson to ban the mailing of
interstate lottery applications into S.A.
Sir Lyell McEwin—as Minister of
Health—also told a charitable organisa-
tion at the same time that generous
helpers in voluntary work could not be
matched by organised lotteries. He
opposed the “Eastern States method” of
financing hospitals through lotteries and
said that, by normal grants, S.A. hospitals
already provided the highest possible
standards and treatment,
Both doctors and patients have a
different view of the matter, especially at
the Royal Adelaide Hospital where staff
shortages, aggravated by lack of funds,
have touched off strong criticism that too
seldom finds its way into print. As for
the reception given to luckless outpatients
delivered to the casualty ward there the
odds against quick and sympathetic treat-
ment "must be much the same as winning
a lottery.
The new campaign for legalising
lotteries has touched off a fierce con-
troversy, with letter writers exchanging
grape shot through the press. Most of
these hinge on the question as to whether
winning money by chance corrupts the
soul or not, though one or two more
realistic correspondents have mentioned
the fact that several thousand residents
of S.A. each week remit money to State
| ot(eries |n N s w victoria, Tasmania,
Queensland or w.A.-with a consequent
g f revenue the Playford Govern-
ment Think o£ aU the money S.A. hos-
; , losing n ' these irresponsib les
° ’
' y ßut < lotter .. itself is a dirty wor d.
Each fa( sol^eone wins a big prize from
some interstate lottery—as often happens
—the newspapers are forced to refer to
it discreetly as a “w i n d f a 11.” Last
November, for instance, the press reported
that case of a retired country editor,
partially crippled ever since World War
I, who was helped by a £IOO,OOO wind-
fall from another State, while another, a


truck driver, won £15,000 from Tasmania
an d was able to afford an expensive
operation for his ailing wife that the
Health Minister was otherwise unable to
subsidise. (The Rev. Vogt was not avail-
able for comment.) '
a
Other vocal members of the S.A. public
have put up a case for saying that the
luck of the draw is no substitute for
earning money by hard work, thrift and
creative activity, and that buying a
lottery ticket each week is only shelving
responsibilities. But it is hard to answer
man wr ° te to The Advertiser
recently, saying that an outlay of ss. now
and again was far less demoralising than
doing your entire pay envelope at the
races—a practice that has plenty of social
sanction ; even in the “Social” pages.
FOOTBALL
What the Umpires
Did Not See
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
SIR EDMUND
HERRING
Imperturbable
A decision of great interest to sports-
x men was given in the Victorian
Supreme Court the other day by Sir
Edmund Herring, the Chief Justice, when
he refused an application for an injunc-
tion to restrain the Victorian Football
League lrom hearing a charge against
Mr Ken Boyd, a South Melbourne player.
Although he did not lay it down, the
Chief Justices decision apparently up-
holds the right of any ruling sporting
body to investigate a complaint when
its umpires or stewards or referees have
missed Jhe incident and so failed to make
charge. , . . , . u
On August 5 m a match at Carlton
between the home team and South Me -
bourne. Ken Boyd, a leading South Me 1-
bourne mckroan, was kicked with both
feet painfully below the belt in an incident
in which he and Mr John Nicholls, the
Carlton follower, both rose for the ball.
He was flattened and it took some minutes
of treatment before he recovered. (At the
beginning of the season Nicholls accident-
ally knocked out South’s captain, Mr Bob
Skilton and later Boyd was suspended for
six weeks for striking Nicholls.)
Boyd, a lanky, amiable young man off
the field is hot-headed on it. When he
rose he ran down the field 25 yards and
with a right-cross flattened Nicholls.
Nicholls got slight concussion, a blackened
right-eye and a cut under it. Boyd had
a lacerated stomach and a bruised groin.
The umpire, Mr Jack Irving, apparently
believed Boyd was accidentally injured.
He had his back turned watching a kick-
out when Nicholls went down, and the
boundary umpires did not see the incident.
Everybody at the match, except those
responsible for watching for violence,
apparently saw the blow. Even so, it
probably would have passed without
official notice had not Boyd, when inter-
viewed by a football writer, said: “When
I recovered I ran to Nicholls, turned him
round and hit him under the eye, ’ and
the South Melbourne president, Ross Tait,
said: “I think Boyd was entitled to
retaliate.”
This was really sensational in League
football. Melbourne has become used to
the sor t G f hearing before a League
Tribunal in which a footballer with two
blackened eyes, summoned to give evi-
dence, says, “I have no real recollection
Q f incident, but something may have
brushed past my head during the third
quarter.”
The ' investigation committee of the
League then decided to hold an inquiry
jnto , he incident , alld Boyd appar e nt |y
a( (he instiaation of hjs club applied to
|h(J Su - Court for a „ j njunctjon to
the inquiry .
~0 3 _ ,
At the Supreme Court hearing the
arguments for both Boyd and the League
were compelling. For Boyd Mr Ivor
Greenwood said the League rules pro-
vided that the charges should be laid by
officials and within two days of the
incident and it would be a denial of
natural justice for the investigation com-
mittee to be both accuser and judge. For
the League Mr J. Mel. Young said there
was no difference between the League
committee investigating the matter than
there would be for a club committee
to inquire into something disgraceful
reported about a member in the news-
papers. With his usual imperturbability
Sir Edmund said he did not know who
would comprise the League committee
and could only assume they would con-
duct matters in a perfectly proper way.
There was no evidence the committee was
the accuser, otherwise his attitude may
have been different,
Although he did not say so explicitly,
hidden in the serenity of his judgment is
the point obvious to men of common-
sense—that Boyd’s accuser is Boyd.
LAW
Killed by
Red Tape
FROM A DARWIN CORRESPONDENT
The heading on this story could well
be the epitaph of a little Central
Australian aboriginal boy named Kellie
Juluma Burton. Kellie, aged 6, died
horribly at the Welfare Branch’s “model”
settlement of Warrabri on May 5.
He caught his hand in the driving belt
of a water pumping plant engine. It.
plucked him into the air and hurled him
down on the concrete base, fracturing
his skull and breaking his leg. The boy
died while being flown to the hospital
at Alice Springs. ,
Evidence at the inquest was a clear
indictment of that cloudy world of
bumbledom which is the internal work-
ings of the Territory’s often-lampooned
Administration. Witnesses said there had
been no guard-rail around the belt —nor
fence around the pumping plant.
And that today three months after
the death there was still no safety
guard nor fence!
Giving his finding last week the
Coroner, Mr Lemaire SM, said “the
cumbersome system of ordering safety
guards on machinery” had led to little
Kellie’s death. Mr Verhoevan the
Administration’s Inspector of Machinery,
testified he had ordered that safety-
guards be placed on the machinery six
months before Kellie’s death and that it
be completed within four weeks. He
could see no reason why it was not done.
Guards could have been made out of
wood in an hour or two. He told the
Coroner any private enterprise body
which failed to do work directed by him
in a specified time would be prosecuted.
It appeared the Crown was not bound by
its own laws under the Inspection of
Machinery Ordinance.
Mr Lemaire said the Welfare Branch
had recognised the need for safety
guards, had taken “appropriate steps” to
get them, and had later “urged Admini-
stration to expedite the supply.” This
had been seven months ago. Mr Spring,
the officer in charge of the Department
of Works at Tennant Creek on requisi-
tioning procedure, testified he “knew of
no way of short-cutting the red tape” and
obtaining the safety equipment urgently.
In his finding of accidental death Mr
Lemaire said that the method of indent-
ing safety equipment was too cumber-
some and should be revised to enable
speedy supply. The boy's death, he
found, was not due specifically to the
misconduct or negligence of any parti-
cular public servant. But it was due to
deficiencies in the system used for
ordering.
The Welfare Branch later informed
the Coroner “steps had been taken” to
obtain guards and amend the ordering
system.


THE R.S.L.
Cheering and Chinese
Cooks
W. YEO
A Chinese cook ?
FROM BRENDAN O'HARA IN SYDNEY
'TTie R.S.L. is one of the largest, richest,
and most powerfully organised in-
stitutions in Australia. Its membership
over the last seven years has remained
steady, showing, if anything, a tendency
to increase New South Wales is the
largest branch with a membership in
1960 of 87,593 followed by Victoria with
78,067 ; South Australia, 38,551 ; Queens-
land, 28,380 ; Western Australia, 19,454 ;
Tasmania, 10,309.
Approximately one-third of all ex-
servicemen are ; n the R.S.L. and, accord-
ing to spokesmen, the League's member-
ship invariably rises in “hard times”
mainly because new members (or old ones
returning) wish to share in the numerous
benefit schemes, and employment bureaux
the League runs. It maintains constant
pressure on the Government over such
things as migration, land settlement,
preference for ex-servicemen, defence
policy, education, naturalisation. It has
in the past virtually decided in w'hat way
States could (or could not) celebrate
Anzac Day.
Last week, in the auditorium in Anzac
House, opposite Sydney’s Hyde Park, the
New South Wales R.S.L. held its 45th
Annual State Congress. The 350-odd
delegates representing 87,593 R.S.L. mem-
bers in N.S.W., grappled in one week
with problems that Parliamentarians take
years to discuss: Poker machines, licens-
ing laws, repatriation, defence, war service
homes, bulk postage, Communism, cheer-
ing during Anzac Day marches, and so
on.
One of the most hotly-debated
motions was the desirability or otherwise,
of cheering Anzac Day marches. Con-
gress rebuked its State President, Mr Yeo,
for saying last Anzac eve that the public
should refrain from- cheering the
marchers. Mr Ye'o said if cheering and
clapping conveyed reverence, he was a
“Chinese cook.” But delegates said most
people went to the March to see their
grandfathers and fathers marching with
their mates and it was only natural that
they should cheer. During the debate one
delegate said he could remember cheer-
ing his father, a Gallipoli veteran, when
he was a child, and his father, who is
now 76, being unable to march, now stands
on the pavement and says he wants to
cheer. The Congress eventually decided
that he could: “People should cheer the
Anzac Day March if they felt like it.”
The delegates also passed another motion
on Anzac Day observance sent in by the
Katoomba (Blue Mountains) sub-branch
stating that “original buglers and not
mechanical music’* be played at future
Sunset Services.
The delegates also decided not to force
any intending member to state that he
was “not a Fascist or Nazi” because, as
Mr Yeo told The Bulletin this week,
“These ideologies are not sufficiently
strong enough in Australia to warrant
action of this sort.” However, the ruling
body of the R.S.L., the National Con-
gress (consisting of two delegates from
each State, and one each from Australian
Capital Territory and Papua-New Guinea)
which meets in Canberra on October 30,
will discuss Communism. This mainly
arises because early last month Mr A. J.
Lee, the National President, said that the
Federal Government should, in conjunc-
tion with the next Federal elections, hold
another referendum on Communism.
Mr Lee pointed out that the last referen-
dum was only narrowly defeated (by
52,082) and that “Seven years ago the
people were nowhere near as aware of
the threat of Communism as they are to-
day.”
Mr Lee did not have long to wait before
the letter columns of the “Age” in Mel-
bourne, and the “Advertiser” in Adelaide
were carrying letters—some attacking
him, others defending him.
In the Melbourne “Age” a veteran of
two world wars, Mr Leslie F. Hart, of
Lower Fern Tree Gully, and a member
of the R.S.L., said he wished “to protest
against the interference of the League
in a political matter.” He said the sug-
gestion to ban the Communists was “the
negation of freedom” and that “under
dragnet clauses even the A.L.P. could
be outlawed: because it has Socialist
ideas. No. let us strive for greater
democracy, not for its decay.”
According to the R.S.L. Constitution the
League describes itself as “national and
non-sectarian, and on all questions of
party politics .. . shall maintain a
neutrai attitude'* (though the constitution
also declares that it is for the “integrity
or the British Commonwealth of Nations,”
“White Australia” and other questions
which, to the ordinary layman, are gener-
ally regarded as “political.”)
The R.S.L. bans Communists from its
own orgnisation and some R.S.L.
officials refer mysteriously about the
“black-list* of “Communist sympathisers,”
circulated around the branches. No mem-
bers of the “black-list” are admitted to
the organisation.
RELIGION
A Course in Atheism
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENI
'VT'oung Church of England members
attending a spare-time training course
at St Paul’s, Malvern, are to be coil-
fronted with the arguments in support of
atheism. The course—called “Meeting
Atheism”—has been arranged by the Rev.
Godfrey Kircher, former precenter of St
Paul’s Cathedral, Melbourne. About 50
church members, of both sexes and aged
17-19, will attend. It consists of 12
sessions spread over several months,
held after the Sunday evening service at
St. Paul’s. As well as the case for atheism
and the Christian’s answer to it, the course
will include a meeting with some young
Jewish people and a formal debate against
a group of Presbyterian youth.
When he came to St Paul’s, Malvern,
three months ago, he found that the
Christian conviction of many of the
young people in the parish was weak,
with some slipping away from the
Church. He put this down to the fact
that young Christians, on entering the
adult world often found themselves faced
for the first time with atheist attitudes and
beliefs to which they had no answers.
In many cases, Christian parents were not
able to answer queries about the funda-
mentals of their religion which their
children raised.
He has classified and named several
varieties of it. There is the “practical
atheist,” defined as one who gives lip
service to Christianity, but whose way of
life, for all practical purposes, ignores
the Almighty. There is the “psychopathic
atheist” whose rejection of religion is
mere rationalisation to justify him break-
ing the Christian code of ethics. A sub-
species of the “psychopathic atheist” is
the person who has had a harsh home
life in his childhood and who projects
his hatred of his father on to God. Then
there are the “political atheists” (roughly
identified with the Communists), the mili-
tant atheists” (such as Prof. John Ander-
son) and the “sincere unbelievers” (often
found at universities),
The Bulletin suggested to Mr Kircher
that he was possibly exaggerating the role
played by Communists in advancing
atheism, and that in practice. Communists
avoided anti-religious acts or statements,
if only for the sake of harmony with
the “peace parsons.” Mr Kircher accepted
the point, but insisted it was “only a
tactic” of the Communists.
Who will present the arguments for
atheism during the study course? Mr
Kircher said that he would. Asked if
he had considered bringing in a genuine


unbeliever, such as Mr W, G, Cook,
secretary of the Rationalist Society, or
Mr David Armstrong of the Melbourne
University Philosophy Department, Mr
Kircher replied firmly that he was “not
prepared to let dyed-in-the-wool atheists
loose on my young people. They could
perhaps argue with the adult members
of my church—and take what they got —
but not with these young people.” The
Bulletin pressed the point. Surely, if
the course was to achieve anything, those
taking it should be able to test themselves
in debate against a real unbeliever?
Otherwise what proof would there be of
its usefulness? Mr Kircher accepted this
point. “Yes,” he said, perhaps with
some reluctance, “we might do that at the
end of the course, but definitely not now.”
What did Mr Cook think of the idea?
Mr Cook objected to Mr Kircher setting
himself up as “a straw-man atheist” to
be knocked down by his students. “I’d
be most happy to go along to St Paul’s
and present a case against the existence
of God. As a matter of fact, I’m just
on the point of issuing a public challenge
to Mr Kircher to debate some such
question with him, before an audience of
his students.”
SPEED
No Limit
FROM A HOBART CORRESPONDENT
A new regulation imposing a 60-miles-
per-hour speed limit on Tasmanian
roads on September 1 had been printed
and circulated when Launceston’s Acting
Mayor Max Fry stepped in and moved
its disallowance in the Legislative Coun-
cil. Statistics, he said, showed that road
accidents were caused by inattention,
failure to give way, and speed, in that
order. The phrase “excessive speed”
applied in findings on accidents meant
speed that was “excessive in the circum-
stances.” It certainly did not mean that
vehicles in “speed”-caused accidents were
doing 60 m.p.h. In fact, he said, his
dissection of the figures indicated that
no more than 2 \ per cent, of accidents
would be caused by cars exceeding 60.
“This,” he said, “is restriction without
reason. It wouldn’t restrain the irrespon-
sible, the incompetent and the drunken
—those whose driving at more than 60
m.p.h. is dangerous.”
Mr J. R. Orchard told of a Ministerial
car which had been followed at 50 m.p.h.
on the 40 m.p.h. Brooker Highway, at
60 through Granton (30 m.p.h.) and at
70 m.p.h. through Pontville (also 30
m.p.h.). Mr McFie asked what was the
difference between hitting a pole at
59 m.p.h. and hitting it at 61 m.p.h.?
“The limit would be observed by drivers
who were safe at more than _6O m.p.h.
and ignored by hoboes who drive old
bombs around.” On a division, the
regulation was disallowed, ten (all Inde-
pendents) to seven (five Labor, two
Independents). Some people still say
Tasmania is a horse-and-buggy State.
Tanner
"I THINK IT'S TIME WE DISCUSSED YOUR ATTITUDE"


HUNTING
Buffaloes
At 20 Yards
FROM K. G. WILLEY IN DARWIN
ALLEN STEWART
Dreams
After several weeks at Nourlangie,
“safari” base 120 miles south-east of
Darwin on the borders of the Arnhem
Land escarpment country, the American
big-game hunter James Randolph Baker,
59, told Darwin pressmen: “There’s no
place on earth like Nourlangie. The
geese and fishing alone would attract
hundreds of Americans. I have never
seen anything like the geese. You can
walk right up to them with a shotgun
and blaze away. Every other place in
the world you need breaks and hides and
have to sit quietly, waiting for the birds
to come near. At Nourlangie they sit
and watch you walk up. If your airline
companies and hotels got together and
really advertised that place they would
reap hundreds of thousands of American
dollars. Africa has more varieties of
game than Nourlangie, but it hasn’t got
the fishing, goose shooting and buffalo
hunting so close together.” (Nourlangie
needed “some improvements,” he said,
but could be made equal to any safari
base anywhere in the world. He paid £lO
a day while there and said this was the
cheapest hunting he had ever found.
Most overseas safaris averaged out at
100 dollars a day.)
Mr Baker is one of those people who
take their fun by roaming the world,
blasting away at the local fauna. He has
shot Kodiak bears in the Arctic, lions in
Mozambique, tigers in India. Since he
retired several years ago—after “check-
ing my income tax figures and finding out
I was just working for Uncle Sam . .
he has filled his Doniphan, Missouri,
house with trophies of the chase. Of
every species he kills Mr Baker has The
Biggest stuffed and mounted at home —
“except for the elephant, of course. That
wouldn’t fit through the door.” Some of
his Nourlangie victims—a buffalo (he
looked over an estimated 5000 seeking the
biggest set of horns. One of 12 he shot
had a 58-inch spread ; a 15-foot crocodile
(58in. girth ; 52in. round the jaws), two
types of goose and two types of cockatoo
-—will be mounted and displayed in his
living room. Now Mr Baker has left the
Territory to hunt “big red and blue
kangaroos” 200 miles north of Adelaide.
Later he will go to Tahiti and Hawaii
to shoot wild boar, wild sheep, wild goats
and a type of spotted deer. (His present
“world safari” will have cost him about
42,000 dollars by the time he gets back
home )
His remarks about Nourlangie once
again underline the great potential of the
area as a dollar-earner through big-game
hunting. The lease is held by Sydney
man Mr Allen Stewart, whose dreams of
a Northern Territory safari industry have
sc far been earthbound by lack of ready
cash.
I visited Nourlangie before Stewart took
over and found it a hunter’s paradise.
As you fly over a huge lagoon known
as The Goose Camp wild geese and ducks
literally blacken the water. The fishing
is magnificent and there are crocodiles,
pigs, dingoes and, for those who like it,
thousands of the Territory’s placid old
“wild” water buffaloes to shoot.
There is no doubt Stewart has what
could be a rich new industry for the
Territory and a sizeable dollar-earner for
Australia. Every American who has
ever been there has left enthusiastic.
A couple of years ago I spoke to two
experienced American big-game hunters
and they said —as did Mr Baker—that it
would be cheaper nowadays for an
American to come over to Australia and
shoot geese at Nourlangie than to do it
at home. I asked one whether our
buffaloes might not be a bit too tame
to interest big-game hunting veterans of
the African lion country. “Boy,” he
assured me. “Your buffaloes are terrific.
Why I shot one from no more than 20
yards away with a .45 revolver.”
Stewart keeps a strict eye on quotas so
there is no chance of the game being
seriously depleted, no matter how many
visitors he gets.
Yet the flow of hunters to Nourlangie
is slowly but steadily 1 increasing. A grow-
ing trickle of sportsmen from inter-State
head out there. And another party of
Americans is due at the end of this
month. But money trouble remains.
Although Stewart has taken Tom Optiz
and outback veteran Fred Hunter into
partnership he still lacks funds to push
the scheme on a world-wide scale. And
a lot of overseas promotion is needed
before Nourlangie becomes the dollar
bonanza every visiting American says it
could be.
Mr Stewart is due to appear in Sydney
on September 1 to face a public examina-
tion for bankruptcy. Money from Mr
Baker and other hunting clients has gone
into building up Nourlangie, through
which he hopes eventually to pay back
all his creditors, “20 shillings in the £.”
Meanwhile he and his partners have been
eking out expenses by selling crocodile
skins.
POLITICS
Echo of the
Crimes Act
FROM A PERTH CORRESPONDENT
F. E. CHAMBERLAIN
A certain victory
Though five members of the
Labor Party who brought action for
defamation against W.A. Liberal and
Country League secretary Vivian Lock-
yer Ockerby failed in their suit, they
might have gained a certain victory from
the judge’s description of the advertise-
meni which caused their action.
The five men were Francis Edward
Chamberlain, Federal and State secretary
of the Australian Labor Party ; Keith
IvlcCallum Dowding, minister of the
Presbyterian Ross Memorial Church,
West Perth, and a State vice-president of
the A.L.P.; Lawrence Degenhardt Wil-
kinson, a member of the State executive
of the A.L.P. ; Senator Hartley Cant; and
Arthur Clampett Fox, formerly professor
of philosophy in the University of W.A.
and now visiting professor of philosophy
in the University of Tasmania.
They claimed Ockerby defamed them
by publishing in a daily newspaper on
November 8 last year an advertisement
headed “By their squeal will you know
them ” which attacked opponents of the
Crimes Act Amendment Bill and was
mea nt to refer to them because they had
al * spoken at a meeting on November 6
protesting against the Bill.
They alleged that it meant that each
of them was “a disloyal Australian,” “a
Communist,” “a fifth columnist,” “an
industrial saboteur,” “a shabby little mal-
content,” “a vicious rabble-rouser,” “an
unbalanced Socialist,” “a Quisling” and


“How much burnt sienna does Ayer's Rock need ?”
“a man who would sell Australia short
to score a shabby political point.” They
based this allegation on the grounds that
all these expressions were taken from the
advertisement itself.
In his judgment Mr Justice Hale said
there was nothing in the words used tend-
ing to direct the mind of a reader to any
individual or individuals to the exclusion
of all other members of the class
attacked, who were all opponents of the
Bill. This was not sufficient to give the
plaintiffs a personal right of action.
It appeared that little in the advertise-
ment could fairly be described as comment
at all. But if it were to be treated as
comment he could not regard it as fail-
comment on the fact that the plaintiffs
opposed the Bill. Ockerbv had indulged
in unbridled invective regardless of whom
he hurt. He did not go into the witness
box to suggest that he ever held such an
opinion about the plaintiffs. He intended
the advertisement to be taken seriously
and as such it was a serious libel on all
those who were hit by it.
In such a case the law presumed
damage and it would not be right to
assess damages at merely a nominal sum.
On the other hand, assuming that
Ockerby did defame the plaintiffs person-
ally, the very extravagance of the lan-
guage and the generality of the attack
militated against the likelihood of serious
injury to any individual. In the circum-
stances he would have awarded each
Plaintiff £2OO. But in view of the fact
that the plaintiffs did not have a personal
fight of action he dismissed the case.
THE GRAHAM CRUSADERS
Mopping Up
after Softening Up
FROM FRANK ROBERTS IN BRISBANE
BILLY GRAHAM
“Converts don't stick”
Queensland seems to be one of the
main targets for the Billy Graham
campaign which will begin in Australia
next month. Two of Graham’s top men,
his brother-in-law, Rev. Mr Leighton
Ford, a 29-year-old Canadian, and the
Rev. Mr Joe Blinco, will head the cam-
paign which will cover all States except
Western Australia. Ford will open the
Brisbane campaign on September 30
while Blinco will cover most N.S.W.
country districts, beginning at Wollon-
gong on September 27.
A Brisbane Council of Churches
spokesman called next month’s campaign
a “mopping-up” operation, in contrast to
the 1959 campaign, now rather casually
called a “softening-up” operation. The
Council admits that only a fraction of Dr
Pilly's converts ever went to church after-
wards, but expects the Rev. Mr Leighton
Ford to harvest thousands of renewed
“decisions for Christ” and make them
stick. He will preach at the Milton
tennis courts for eight days and then
mop-up Toowoomba, Rockhampton and
Townsville. Advertisements and posters
for the new crusade began to appear in
July, suggesting that Brisbane people
should “plan now to come," and doubt-
less many will, the city being short of
spectacle now that the Royal Show is
over.
B isbane should be fertile ground for
evangelists. Statistically it deserves more
than any other in Australia to be
regarded as a city of churches, with
nearly 300 serving its half-million, and
more denominations than Sydney or
Melbourne. Brisbane has 71 Catholic
presbyteries, 46 Anglican churches, 49
Presbyterian, 33 Methodist, 33 Baptist,
and lesser numbers of meeting-places for
Congregational, Lutheran, Christian
Science, Adventist, Church of Christ.
Salvation Army, Christadelphian, Naza-
rene, Assemblies of God, Mormon,
Quaker, United Pentecostal, Hebrew,


Liberal Catholic, His Apostles, Apostolic
Church. Campaigners for Christ and, by
no means least. Spiritual congregations.
This is not an exhaustive list. Scattered
throughout Brisbane are side-street
churches and gospel halls with such
names as His Foundation Church, The
People's Church, and the Joyful News
Mission (Inc.). Old campaigners such as
British Israel, the Theosophical Society,
Baha’i, Abundant Life Crusade and the
übiquitous Watchtovver and Bible Society
are active. In Brisbane’s Saturday morn-
ing newspaper church and religious
notices occupy as much advertising space
as in the bigger cities. Dr Graham’s
sponsors have recognised the city’s abid-
ing interest in religion by maintaining a
Crusade office in double-fronted display
premises in Queen Street, where rents are
not the lowest. If that was the result
of a softening-up operation, the Rev. Mr
Leighton Ford should be able to leave a
grander memorial.
CATTLE
The Philippines
Market
FROM EUGENE BAJKOWSKI IN SYDNEY
TVText month the U.K.-Australian meat
agreement expires and new markets
must be urgently sought in view of
Britain’s expected entry into the European
Common Market. The Philippines will
be one possibility but, although four
years ago Australia had a monopoly of
the Philippines market for slaughtered
cattle, in 1958 total imports fell by more
than half, and the United States gained
an entry. In 1959 Australia once again
was the sole supplier, but imports again
dropped—this time by almost 75 p.c. on
the 1958 figures.
Last February, however, a special bill
inlroduced in the Philippines Senate
authorised an appropriation for the pur-
chase of foreign catt'e suitable for breed-
ing and beef production. This can pro-
vide an excellent opening for Australian
breeding-cattle exporters, although the
Philippines Government has doubts about
the adequacy of Australian controls on
cattle diseases, particularly contagious
pleuro-pneumonia.
Dr A. B. Coronel, head of the Philip-
p'nes Animal Husbandry Bureau, recently
visited Australia to make an on the spot
appraisal of the Australian stock diseases
control system, and if he is satisfied that
the methods used to ensure that breed-
ing cattle are shipped to the Philippines
without risk of carrying contagious
diseases the green light may flash for
Australian exporters.
But Australia must move fast because
keen competition is developing for the
Philippines market. The United King-
dom, the European Common Market
countries and the U.S.A. are all anxious
to establish a foothold. Denmark is also
in the running, offering special shipping
facilities. The U.K. has invited five lead-
ing Philippines officials to inspect cattle
in England and Scotland.
Fortunately, Australia has an important
factor in her favor, because it can supply
breeding cattle from tropical areas. The
Philippines have experienced high mor-
tality rate with cattle coming from cold
climates and are rather wary on this
point. Australian cattle can also be
shipped from Darwin, which is reason-
ably close to the market.
Australian experts say the risk of
disease is only slight. It could be over-
come by exporting only from areas certi-
fied as free from pleuro-pneumonia or by
putting imported cattle into a two months
quarantine and subjecting it to blood
tests in Manila.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Who Will Replace Jim Healy?
No union election in years has excited
so much interest as that for
general secretary of the Waterside
Workers’ Federation —the results of which
won't be known until soon after the
ballot closes on November 14 —25 days
before the expected date of the Federal
election. As yet the only two candidates
are Mr T. Nelson, Communist secretary
of the Sydney branch of the federation,
and Mr C. H. Fitzgibbon, a member of
the New South Wales A.L.P. executive,
a member of the Federal Council of the
W.W.F. since 1953, and president and
vigilance officer of the Newcastle branch
of the W.W.F.
Interest has been aroused because, for
the first time since the A.L.P.-sponsored
Industrial Groups were abandoned (as
part of a battle for power from which
no one benefited except the Communist
party), it appears that the members of
the Labor party are going to actively par-
ticipate m a union election.
All this even though A.L.P. rules
expressly forbid official participation in
union elections. But it seems that Labor
party officials may at last raise their
ostrich-like heads long enough to take
a good, hard look at themselves and make
some realistic appraisal of the state of
unions in Australia. How has all this
come about?
First, because Jim Healy died;
secondly, because a member of the
National Civic Council put the A.L.P. on
the spot; thirdly, because Mr Fitzgibbon
is an anti-Communist and has a chance
of winning ; fourthly, because the elec-
tion will be fought mainly in N.S.W. ;
fifthly, because the Labor party has been
out of office for 12 years and such a move
will be good election propaganda.
Legally, it can be argued that Mr Gus
Alford is in fact the present holder of
that office. When the news of Mr Fitz-
gibbon's candidature was announced. Mr
Alford commented that the news was
“suspect.” Shrewdly he pointed out that
“This is a national election and required
the support of more than the N.S.W.
brar ch of the A.L.P.” And, of course, he
is right.
Mr Fitzgibbon will need to canvass
vigorously if he is to win a necessary
majority among the N.S.W. 6000 wharfies
who, for reasons best known to them-
selves. may in fact support the Sydney
secretary, Mr Nelson. Among the 4000
wharfies in Victoria, the A.L.P. man,
despite a sectarian and pro-Communist
Victorian A.L.P., may in fact get a
majority of votes.
If in fact Mr Calwell keeps his “any-
thing I can do to help him” promise (made
the day after Mr Fitzgibbon's nomination
was announced) and speaks on his behalf
on the Melbourne and Sydney water-
fronts ; if the National Civic Council
supports Mr Fitzgibbon ; if the N.S.W.
A.L.P. organiser who will be the behind-
the-scenes campaign manager for Fitz-
gibbon does his job properly ; if the ballot
is clean ; the waterfront scene may change.
But ;n the last resort, and this is one of
glorious inanities of democracy, it
depends upon the 24,000 members of the
W.W.F. who will decide the issue. All
the rest are only extras.
A Question of Language
'T'hank heaven the Indian Government
has been sensible enough to evade
its Constitution and not make Hindi the
official language of India by 1965. The
Government has not quite scrapped the
proposal, but it has put it very con-
veniently on the shelf, where it may
remain forever.
The reaction against the continued use
of English in “liberated” territories began
with the partition of Ireland, when Gaelic
was rigged up for this purpose. Since
hardly anyone knew it, apart from the
west-coast peasants who spoke it and a
few British experts, a great deal of educa-
tional effort was diverted into teaching
Irish people a linguistic curiosity. The
main result has been that the natural
Gaelic speakers now find it hard to
understand what the Dublin Government
is talking about; they used to understand
the British experts better.
The desire to scrap English is under-
standable in the early days of “libera-
tion”; but the alternatives are too silly to
contemplate. If a second language is to
be taught—and that is all their “national
languages” are to many people in the
new countries —it should be one in which
works of scholarship are readily acces-
sible and which can be used in dealing
with other nations. English is already
established in South-east Asia as a
common second language ; if the Indians
did not cultivate it they would place
themselves in an impossible position in
the area where we all hope they are
going to be of greatest single importance.
Nobody is going to learn Hindi so that
he can talk to Indians.
This question of language is of equal
importance in Africa, perhaps of even
more importance. There is not the same
concern in the new African States with
preserving native languages; there are
so many of them and they lack so many
terms necessary for modern discussion
that this would be impossible. English
and French are the international
languages of Africa and the trend is
towards English. Hindi is certainly not
a likely African language!
The desire to see English spread as
a universal language in the non-
Communist world —and in the Com-
munist world, too, for that matter —has
nothing to do with the disappointed
ambitions of the English themselves,
although some of them impede this move-
ment by speaking as if it had. The
ability for people to understand each
other is surely good in itself. And
although cynics point to the misunder-
standings that arise between people in
the United Kingdom and in the United
States because they understand each
other, surely the feelings of co-operation
that are uniquely possible between these
two peoples give the lie to that.
A Red Letter Day
August 24 was a red letter day in
Australian publishing: books of
poetry by Vincent Buckley, Frederick T.
Macartney, Ronald MeCuaig, Ray
Mathew, Elizabeth Riddell and Francis
Webb appeared. Just what an event it
was can be gauged from the fact that the
last books of individual poets published
by Angus and Robertson were those of
Chris Wallace-Crabbe and Charles
Higham in 1959.
Australian publishers in general are
putting up a brave show despite the
credit squeeze. One of the ways they
have found to offset the high costs of
production is to collaborate with over-
seas publishers. The initiative of
these publishers- is welcome, but
they should also.. take a very close
look at the distribution problems
Dr Fabinyi, of Cheshire, mentioned in a
recent “Meanjrn” article. Both Europe
and Asia could take more Australian
books provided they were sold the right
way—this applies particularly to text-
books in Asia where Australia should be
able to compete with the Americans.
In all this publishers should not over-
look the design of their books and their
covers: generally the standard is not
high despite the exceptional books which
win prizes for design. A consistent policy
is needed which can ensure good quality
instead of the present range from excel-
lent through garish to ghastly. Some of
the fiction covers, in both hard and
paper back, are too bad to be true. In
this the Australian publishers lag behind
their overseas counterparts. Comparisons
are invidious, but most could learn a lot
from one of the smallest publishers,
Edwards and Shaw, whose books are
unfailingly handsome.


Sir Arthur Fadden
From Mr “Da-Fad” to Mr “Omono”
By ALAN REID
SO likeable that even his worst enemies are prone to
have a sneaking regard for him, as emotional as a child
in some ways, a sticker for mateship and still as earthy
as his native Queensland soil, William Arthur Fadden,
ex-Town Clerk, ex-politician and ex-Federal Treasurer, has
switched from being Mr “Da-Fad” into Mr “Omono.
The Italians in Queensland who first as clients in his
accountancy business and later as his voters provided him
with the source material for his racy Italian dialect stories
and the unwavering support that enabled him to rise from
Queensland local politics to national Treasurer as Federal
Treasurer for a record-breaking term called him Mr
“Da-Fad.”
Now no longer in politics but a private citizen, he is
Mr “Omono.” the term applied to big shots in the Japanese
business world, spokesman in Australia for immense
Japanese metal interests who can contemplate the spending
of £20.000.000 to establish themselves with a supply base
in Australia without a quiver of a slitted eyelid.
There are considerable similarities between Mr “Da-
Fad” and Mr “Omono.” It is only three years since Fadden,
now 66. retired from the Treasury portfolio and the National
Parliament in 1958 with the boast “Here’s one getting out
of politics under his own steam and not feet first.' A man
does not change completely in such a short period. But
there are changes.
The modern Sir Arthur Fadden —Mr “Omono” —is not
quite the same ebullient, uninhibited man who with a cigar
jutting from between his teeth, and. in relaxed moments, a
glass of beer in his hand and mates eternally around him
strode the Australian political scene for more than 20 years
with an unflagging gusto, an eye for a joke and dandruff
powdering his thick ex-athlete's shoulders like a trade
mark.
The years and family tragedy —he lost a deeply loved
son not long before he quit politics —have marked him. He
is quieter, less of an extrovert. He jokes as readily, but the
jokes have a quality of wistfulness that they lacked before.
His dress is somehow neater, more business executive type,
as though he had shed the slightly rumpled untidiness with
the rough and tumble politics of which that aura of uncaring
carelessness was an essential part. He leaves the impression
that he misses politics and regrets sometimes that he is not
still part of its color and movement and no longer familiar
with its interminable intrigues, its feuds, its jealousies and
its rich moments of compensation when you have achieved
something you were out to achieve or outsmarted an oppon-
ent when the odds looked to be overwhelmingly against you.
What has turned Mr “Da-Fad,” the Australian poli-
tician who for the war years and quite a period after—
he was a member of a Cabinet that steadfastly refused to
permit the export of iron ore to Japan —hated Japan with
the simple uncomplicated hatred of a man with a sense of
mateship who had mates in Japanese p.o.w. camps into
Mr “Omono.” Mr “Big Shot” spokesman for Japanese
interests in Australia?
There is a personal element in it, of course. Fadden
was born in the North Queensland town of Ingham on April
13, 1895. His father was a policeman. Fadden did not go
short of anything. But on the other hand there was no
abundance. The family exchequer was adequate but only
adequate. Fadden, who received his schooling at Walker-
ston in the Mackay district where his father had been trans-
ferred. left school days behind him at 15.
He immediately had an experience which seems to
have left its scar behind. He passed an examination for
admission to the Mackay railway office. There were three
vacancies. Fadden did not get one of the vacancies. Later
he found that the boys who got the jobs did not do nearly
as well in the examination as he had. Years later he would
tell the story with a ring of bitterness unusual in a man who
by then had learned to accept the inevitable frailties of
human nature and the strange, often petty motives that lay
behind human acts with philosophical tolerance.
Fadden’s attitudes are determined as much by his
emotions and intuition —which was possibly his greatest
asset on the administrative side of politics—-as by reason-
ing. He can “feel” his way to a conclusion whereas others
have to reason their way through. Rightly or wrongly, he
worked out that to cushion himself against such thrusts of
fortune as he experienced as a boy. you need money. He
had no money. So he resolved that when he had his own
family they would be cushioned against such thrusts.
Even now as a reasonably prosperous man. with a well-
established accountancy business in Queensland handling
the affairs of several big estates and with substantial inter-
national business connections with the United States (metal)
and Holland (building) the urge to protect his family further
financially is still a considerable driving force.
He formed his Japanese connections to make money
and to safeguard his family against the shortages and frus-
trations which he believed that he had experienced as a
ACCORDING TO
LINDSAY
TANNER


boy and which, though they probably helped him up the
political ladder he later climbed, he still resented.
But that was not the only element in it. Fadden has
the good politician’s ability to sniff the breeze and to smell
something big coming and to like what was coming for its
very bigness as well as the personal advantage he might reap
from it. He did precisely this in 1949 when he was in Opposi-
tion leading the Country party while the present Prime
Minister Mr Menzies was leading the Liberal party against
the Chifley Labor Government with elections coming up at
the end of the year. Petrol rationing was on. It was highly
unpopular in postwar Australia where motorists could get
cars but only a quota of petrol with which to use their cars.
The then Prime Minister Mr Chifley said it was impos-
sible to lift petrol rationing. Chifley was backed by the
British Government. Treasury experts provided Chifley with
seemingly overwhelming arguments so convincing that they
convinced even some of the Liberal leaders. Fadden sniffed
the breeze. He investigated the facts. The facts that he pro-
duced were nowhere near as authoritative as the alleged
facts with which Chifley’s Treasury experts countered. But
Fadden’s intuition told him there was a flaw in the Treasury
case. He promised to lift petrol rationing if a non-Labor
Government was returned. That promise, along with the
electoral reaction against Labor's unsuccessful attempt lo
nationalise the Australian banking system, carried the
Menzies Government into power for a record period—a
period that has not yet ended. Fadden became Treasurer.
Still the Treasury experts told him that petrol rationing
could not be lifted. He brushed them aside. Petrol became
plentiful despite their dire forebodings. Petrol rationing has
never been reimposed.
Recently he has shown that he retains this faculty for
sniffing the breeze and sensing that big things are coming.
He is generally credited with having advised a big Australian
investment company of which he became a director when
he retired from politics—H-ookers —that a credit squeeze
was coming, thereby enabling the company to consolidate
their position so that when the squeeze came they were
subject to a minimum of dislocation. Drawing upon the
resources of his experience and his intuition, he was able to
FINEY
FRITH
forecast the shape of things to come before they began to
take even nebulous shape.
npHIS ability to sniff the breeze was a factor in him link-
A ing up with.the giant Japanese interests which he today
represents and on whose behalf he has- —according to the
letters he produces to erstwhile colleagues still in Cabinet—
almost carte blanphe to act and dicker in Australia. Chance
provided the opportunity to establish those links.
When Fadden quit politics in 1958 he was a tired,
mentally exhausted man. Never one to do anything by half
measures, he had run himself to a standstill. He was not
formally sick, but he was far from well. His nerves were
exposed, on the surface. He was jumpy and irritable. He
decided to give himself a holiday in Japan. He bought
himself a portable typewriter and set out on his travels. He
had learned to type when, shortly before his 20th birthday,
he got his first real opportunity to show his wizardry vith
figures by securing the appointment of Assistant Town
Clerk in Mackay. Fadden was not too long in this subordi-
nate job. He started studying the council accounts. He found
that his immediate superior, the Town Clerk —whom
Fadden was to describe in later life as easily the most popu-
lar man in Mackay at the time—had been indulging his
self-interest at the expense of the ratepayers. He had in
the vernacular been “tickling the peter." After a hasty
council meeting the Town Clerk departed via the Queens-
land Supreme Court to a two years’ jail term, and Fadden. by
then just turned 21. became the youngest Town Clerk in
Australia.
His letters back to his friends in Australia as he moved
Japanwards after his political retirement showed the gradual
improvement in his health. At first wistful and depressed
as though he were missing too keenly the politics that he
had voluntarily quit, they became increasingly Rabelaisean.
more cheerful and more typically Fadden. In Japan he
met Frank Duval, an Australian who went to Japan with
the Australian occupation forces and. his term completed,
settled there. Duval had a toehold in the Japanese metals
industry. Fadden. who has an insatiable curiosity, prob-
ably questioned him extensively about the ramifications of
his activities. A proposition was made that Fadden should
associate himself with his fellow-Australian's business.
Fadden must have found this rather ironic. One of
the things Duval dealt in in Japan was scrap iron. And the
export of scrap iron to Japan had been one of the big politi-
cal issues in which Fadden had participated when he was a
politician. It had been scrap iron and the question of
whether or not it should be exported to Japan that had
gained for Fadden’s former leader and colleague—Menzies
—the title “Scrap-iron Bob” in pre-World War I! days. And
Fadden must have sat in Cabinet on at least half a dozen
occasions when the proposition that iron ore be exported
from Australia to Japan has been turned down m postwar
years.
But Fadden did not reject Duval's proposition out of
hand. Instead he sniffed the breeze. He could smell a mix-
ture of things—changing trade patterns, changing political
concepts of what was the right thing to do and what was
the wrong thing to do, a hint of Britain’s entry into the
European Common Market, and a whole medley of things
But they smelled big. And that appealed to Fadden.
Though nobody would deny that Fadden was good
with figures, few would describe him as an intellectual. He
does not read widely. He is always too busy doing things
to settle down to studying things. But it is interesting to see
how on this occasion his intuition and native shrewdness
brought him to conclusions that are remarkably similar to
those voiced since by the intellectual Sir John Crawford,


now at the Australian National University but a former
Permanent Head of the Trade Department.
Even the words in which Fadden framed his conclu-
sions were very close to those Crawford used later in an
examination of the Japanese-Australian trade situation. It
may be that Crawford has influenced Fadden. It may be
that Fadden has influenced Crawford. They know each
other and are friends. They may have worked out their con-
clusions independently. But they are broadly in agree-
ment.
Fadden’s conclusions were:
Australia needs a Britain —a country that is not self-
supporting in either foodstuffs or raw -materials to take the
foodstuffs and the raw materials that Australia can pro-
duce. Without a Britain, Australia is going to be in real
trade and economic trouble. There is a strong possibility
that Australia is going to lose Britain to the European
Common Market. But there is in Asia and much closer to
Australia than Britain a country which has many of the
characteristics of Britain —Japan. Japan is not self-support-
ing in foodstuffs. The things that Australia produces in
abundance are the things that it is short of. The economies
of the two countries are broadly as complementary as those
of Australia and Britain, Just as Britain wanted politically
stable areas to supply the raw materials for its secondary
industries, so Japan is looking for politically stable areas in
which to find the raw materials it has to have for its
secondary production. Australia is such a politically stable
area.
Japan is showing increasingly that it recognises this
by the way in which it has turned to Australia as a potential
supplier of its coal and iron ore needs in the postwar period.
While Australia is a manufacturing country as well as a
provider of foodstuffs, its industries existed and expanded
while Britain was its major customer, despite Britain being
essentially a secondary producer. It is possible to establish a
pattern of trade with Japan that would leave this situation
unchanged.
To this Fadden added an addendum that is peculiarly
his own. He claims that the Japanese do not seek or want
a controlling financial interest over the Australian organisa-
tions that already supply or may one day supply their raw
material needs. They only want assured sources of supply
in a politically stable area. That is their only interest, he
says.
Add all these things together and you can see why
Faden smelled bigness in the Duval association. And big-
ness appeals to an ex-politician. It gives him a sense that he
is still part of the world that matters to him—the big world
in which big decisions are taken by big men. I would say
that Fadden is a much happier man than he was before he
linked up with the Japanese interest and it is not only be-
cause he is going to get money out of the alliance.
And the alliance has already proved far from unprofit-
able from the Japanese viewpoint. It is significant that since
Fadden became Mr “Omono,” or spokesman for the big
Japanese metal interests, that the ban on the export of iron
ore from Australia has been eased. It might not be eased
as much as the Japanese interests would like, but it is harder
to start a trickle than to get a trickle to swell to worthwhile
proportions, as the shrewdheads well know. Fadden may not
be wholly responsible for starting the trickle. But he
undoubtedly contributed to its starting.
And iron ore is not Fadden’s only interest. A com-
pany in which he and his associate Frank Duval are
interested and whose output if things work out are ear-
marked for Japanese consumption have obtained a lease to
explore the bauxite deposits in the Gove area in the Northern
Territory, deposits which are reputed to be fabulously rich.
Fadden was very much Mr “Omono” of Japanese
business when he recently walked into the office at Parlia-
TAC
WEP
ment House. Canberra, which he formerly occupied as Com-
monwealth Treasurer but which is now tenanted by his
former lieutenant in the Country party Trade Minister Jack
McEwen to discuss these deposits and the Japanese plans
for them if they are proved satisfactory.
From the shabby satchel that once carried budget
secrets but has now been relegated to a lesser role. Fadden
produced letters which showed his almost unlimited
authority to speak on behalf of Japanese metal interests of
staggering wealth and a document which disclosed that if
the Gove area testings proved satisfactory those promoting
the scheme would not boggle at the spending of £20,000.000
in the provision of a port and working facilities.
I do not know whether he got what he was after. Ido
not even know whether he was after anything. He may
have been merely keeping in the picture and informed, a man
whose influence might be vital at a key moment if ever a
decision which impinged upon Fadden’s interests had to be
made by Government. But it must have been strange for
McEwen, who knew Fadden intimately when he was Mr
“Da-Fad,” the rather roughneck Australian politician, to
see him in his new role as Mr “Omono,” the smooth busi-
ness operator.
relationships with his Japanese associates
must be the really weird ones. It is almost impossible to
visualise the backslapping, convivial and completely unin-
hibited Fadden with his cheerful “Call me Artie” and his
cheerful loud-voiced affability changing the pattern of his
behavior to conform with the precise punctiliousness dis-
played by the usual Japanese top businessman who visits
this country.
For Fadden is an Australian and unpretentious as a
slab hut and has much of the rough sturdiness of the same
structure. His life has made him so. After he missed out on
the job in the Mackay railway office, on his version because
he did not know the right people, he got a job as “billy’
boy and general rouseabout for a gang of canecutters under
the witty, droll foremanship of Mossie Hynes, who later got
into the Queensland Parliament and was a Queensland
Minister when Fadden in turn won a State seat. Fadden


MOLNAR
SCORFIELD
enjoyed being “billy” boy. But his father insisted boiling
billies for tea-making was not a lifetime career, and the
youthful Arthur was dragged off protesting to become an
office boy at the Pleystone sugar mill.
Athletics gave him his real start, as they have so many
penniless Australian youngsters. He could run like a hare,
and was rated the fastest sprinter north of Brisbane. He
was good at football and cricket. I remember him telling me
years ago he used to play football against the late Jim
Healy, then a rising light in the Waterside Workers’ Federa-
tion in Queensland. But he got most of his popularity from
boxing. He was the champion amateur boxer of the district,
and the locals won small fortunes backing him until his fame
spread and some shrewdhead “rang in” a professional from
a boxing troupe who “did” him like a dinner.
His break came when at 19 he applied for the job of
Assistant Town Clerk. The Mayor was a great sports fol-
lower. He came down on Fadden’s side. Fadden got the
job. Then after he had uncovered the Town Clerk’s financial
shortcomings and the Town Clerk departed to jail, Fadden
became Town Clerk. It was good training for political
work, and particularly for a future Treasurer. On one occa-
sion a cyclone and flood ravaged Mackay. Fadden had to
distribute the relief supplies. He was taught then a lesson
that stood to him in after life and enabled him to submit
the theories of his expert advisers to the test of common-
sense. When a man who owned ten houses applied to him
for relief Fadden knocked him back on the ground that the
relief was not intended for such as he. “Why, you own ten
houses,” said Fadden. “Yes,” retorted the applicant for
relief. “But I’m not a bloody white ant. I can’t eat ’em.”
He passed his accountancy examination with high dis-
tinction. He “smelt” opportunity at Townsville. So he
resigned as Town Clerk and opened up his own business at
Townsville. It was at this period that he established his first
association with the Italian community, became Mr “Da-
Fad” and acquired the fund of Italian dialect stories that was
to become part of his political stock in trade. He is reputed
to have built up a very nice business from this small
beginning.
He found his way into the Federal Parliament in 1936
as a Country party member after a term in the Queensland
Parliament that ended in defeat. On his way he acquired
an immense fund of political anecdotes, mostly humorous
with which he still delights listeners. One of his charms is
that he can tell a story against himself with the same enjoy-
ment as one in which he scores. Probably the best of his
briefer stories concerns an election meeting when he was
describing Labor’s duplicity. “Who’s going to take this lying
down?” he demanded truculently. “The poor bloody news-
paper reporters,” yelled a Labor supporter. “It’s their job.”
But as well as being a humorist, Fadden was also a
tough politician. He looked a politician from the day he
entered the Federal Parliament, stocky, over middle height
but not tall, square chinned with a cleft indenting it deeply,
heavy jowled and with his athlete’s figure run a little to
flesh. He was never a good Parliamentary speaker. A
bellower rather than a debater, he would never say anything
original while a cliche would suffice. He used big words
that neither he nor his audience could quite understand.
But put him on an upturned soap-box outside a pub or a
shopping centre with the mob chiacking him and him chiack-
ing the mob and he was at home.
He rose from Parliamentary obscurity in 1939 when the
then Country party leader Sir Earle Page made a vitriolic
attack upon Menzies, then newly appointed as Prime Minis-
ter in succession to the late Mr Joe Lyons, who had died
not long before. This attack outraged Fadden’s sense of
mateship. He was at that time not particularly close to
Menzies. But Menzies was a political mate —an ally in
the fight against the Labor party. You don’t do that kind
of a thing to a mate was Fadden’s reaction. So Fadden
walked out of the Country party room. Three other men—
all close personal friends of Fadden —followed him.
TT is significant that no one, not even Page, has suggested
A that Fadden’s walkout had an ulterior motive and that the
motives that prompted it were other than his concept of
mateship. But the consequence of the walkout was that he
became a power in the land. He and the three who walked
out with him represented the balance of power in the
Country party in which three men—Page. McEwen and
the late Archie Cameron, who subsequently became Speaker
of the House of Representatives—were battling for the
leadership. Page and McEwen deadlocked in this struggle.
It was impasse. Neither would yield. As a compromise
Fadden was asked to return to the Country party room and
to become acting-leader. He did so well that the party,
exhausted from months of unproductive fighting, confirmed
him as leader a few months later. When the Country party
and Menzies-led group (then the U.A.P., and later to become
the Liberals) were reconciled and formed a composite
Ministry with Menzies as Prime Minister, Fadden became
assistant Treasurer. When, in August, 1940. three of
Menzies’s most trusted Ministers —Army Minister Street, Air
Minister Fairbairn and Information Minister Sir Henry
Gullett —died in a Canberra air disaster, Fadden became
Air Minister.
But the sands of the Menzies-led Government were
already running out. Menzies was deposed from the Prime
Ministership by the act of his own party. He lost the U.A.P.
leadership to the late William Morris Hughes and the Prime
Ministership to Fadden. Outwardly at least Fadden played
no active part in the Menzies downfall. He did not have to.
Members of Menzies’s own party did the “tomahawk” work
—which the Independent M.H.R. Arthur Coles, who had
succeeded Sir Henry Gullett in Henty, later described as
“A lynching under organised mob hysteria—something so
unclean that I shall never excise it from my mind” —and all
Fadden had to do was to stand handily by. The fruits of
the “tomahawk” work —the Prime Ministership —fell into
his lap.
Fadden became the “Winter King” of Australian


Fcuffli In iFc
Failure
0
In every life there comes a time when we
decide to take stock of ourselves. What have we
done with the past? What do we hope to do in
the future?
It is supremely important for Australia now,
that each of us should be doing just that. For
everything we have and everything we can hope
for rests on what we, as individuals, are prepared
to put into our vocational tasks.
You see, we cannot vote ourselves prosperity.
The freest political system ever devised could never
give us that. It has to be earned, and kept, by
personal effort.
So the future of our country comes down, in
the ultimate count, to its individual citizens; to
their faith in themselves and their will to apply
the power of their hands and brains; to their instinct
for self-help and their readiness to work so that
what we have shall endure and the greater things
we plan shall be brought to reality.
With the collective force of this personal effort
the nation as a whole is energised, and the dramatic
things of development must surely follow.
In the doing, some may reach to high success.
The lot of others may be to live obscurely, their
work even going too little noticed. For many more
—the mothers of young families, for instance—
there may seem to be unequal reward for the
burdens of daily toil. The real job of building
Australia is. after all. far from being wholly covered
by industrial awards and agreements.
But at least let us get our values right in
assessing the worth of this contribution. It is the
“little people” on whom the destiny of our country
depends. The true greatness of Australia in the
years ahead will continue to come out of quiet
homes and small beginnings.
When we realise this fact—that everyone is
important, and every task a worthwhile task—we
will have started on to a richer and more prosperous
time than any we have known before.
Prime Ministers. His brief reign lasted 36 days only—
from August 28 to October 3, 1941. Then Mr Arthur Coles
and another Independent, Mr Alex Wilson from Victoria,
voted against his Government on the floor of the House of
Representatives and it was overthrown.
Fadden moved into Opposition and Labor moved into
office first under the late John Curtin and then on his death
in 1945 under the late Ben Chifley. Fadden was in an
ambiguous position. As Country party leader he led only
the minority Opposition group. But he was joint Opposition
leader. This created strains which came to a head when in
1943 Menzies repudiated a key section of his policy speech
in the election campaign of that year. Fadden raged:
“Menzies has stabbed me in the back.”
The wartime years in Opposition and the formation of
the Liberal party out of the fragments of the old U.A.P.
. restored Menzies as Leader of the Opposition and relation-
ships between him and Fadden. They developed a loyalty
to each other which persisted until Fadden made his deci-
sion to pull out of Federal politics. Fadden used to grumble
about his senior partner, and in moments of irritation call
him for everything. But after 1949 when Menzies became
Prime Minister and Fadden his first lieutenant as Federal
Treasurer, whenever the chips were down Fadden forgot his
grievances and his irritation and lined up solidly with
Menzies. They made a successful partnership. Menzies
knew more about the theory of government and the high-
flown stuff. Fadden had the intuition to know how the
ordinary John Citizen would react in certain circumstances
and how ordinary men and women felt about things.
Fadden carried his intuitive knowledge of how ordinary
people’s minds worked and what they wanted into his
Treasury administration. For most of his term in that port-
folio he had as its permanent head Sir Roland Wilson,
sarcastically brilliant and inhumanly efficient. The legend
is that Fadden acted as brake upon Wilson. Wilson might
be able to out-think him. But Fadden could out-feel him.
He knew when Wilson was wrong, and he could good-
humoredly josh Wilson out of stubbornness. It was not until
Fadden had retired as Treasurer and was succeeded by
Harold Holt that Wilson became the unchallenged power in
the land of government economics that he is today.
Fadden’s gregariousness helped him keep his feet on
the ground. He loved people. He would talk with anyone.
Consequently by the time he had to make a decision he had
a wide range of viewpoint already in his possession which
he could use as a yardstick with which to measure the merit
of Wilson’s advice.
Yet he had courage. He could do things that hurt his
friends and made him unpopular with the people he liked
to be popular with. He brought down a Budget that became
known as the “Horror Budget” and slugged the woolgrowers
—whom his party was supposed to represent —with a pro-
visional tax of a savagery never before matched when he
considered that high wool returns were threatening the
economy.
But by 1958 he was a very tired man. He had not been
well. He was ageing visibly. He decided to get out. When
he left Federal politics a lot of color went out of the Parlia-
ment. People thought it was the end —that he would with-
draw to his native Queensland, lose himself in his account-
ancy business and be quickly forgotten. Chance— the
chance of him deciding upon a trip to Japan and meeting
Frank Duval decided otherwise.
But Fadden is still seeking to mould the future of his
country. And if things work out the way Fadden is trying
to make them work out Mr “Omono” may exercise almost
as much influence upon the course of his country’s future as
ever Mr “Da-Fad” did.


UNIVERSITY OF TASMANIA
Slamming the Door
By PETER COLEMAN
For over eight months now the University of Tasmania
has been more or less excommunicated from the com-
munity of universities by the university lecturers’ trade
union—the Staff Association. The censure imposed in
December, because of the university’s policy on the Orr case,
has probably not been very effective, but since almost all
universities in the English-speaking world have been informed
of it, a certain amount of dirt no doubt sticks and somewhere
along the line some damage has almost certainly been done
to the university’s reputation. Since the censure was imposed
after the university had carried out most of the recommenda-
tions made for the reform of the university by the Royal
Commission in 1955, and after the university Vice-Chancellor,
Professor K. S. Isles, had several times expressed his willing-
ness to enter into discussions, it now seems necessary to reveal
what really went on between the Federal Council of the Staff
Associations and the Vice-Chancellor of the University of
Tasmania to see just what led up to the decision to censure
the university. The Federal Council's officers have displayed
no real interest in the welfare of the University of Tasmania
or in questions of academic procedures likely to guarantee
academic freedom ; they seem to have been concerned solely
with the personal future of Orr ; and it would be fair to say
that they used the language of ultimatum diplomacy against
the University of Tasmania, forcing it into a position in which
it could be censured for refusing to enter discussions, when it
was in fact willing to do so.
The story begins in August, 1959, when the Federal
Council set up a sub-committee to examine the Orr case. The
report of this sub-committee concluded: “The University of
Tasmania in the procedures which led to Professor Orr’s dis-
missal, manifestly failed to do him ‘natural justice.’ ” On
September 5 last year Professor R. H. Thorp (the President
of the Federal Council) and Mr E. L. Wheelwright (the
Secretary) wrote to Professor Isles inviting the university “to
nominate two representatives to confer with two representatives
of this Council and two representatives of Orr, with a view
to achieving a speedy and satisfactory solution to the problem.”
On September 29 Professor Isles wrote back saying he was
prepared to consider any steps that could “usefully and honor-
ably be taken” to put an end to the “accusations, recrimina-
tions and distrust” that had resulted from the Orr case and he
was certainly prepared to consider an informal discussion with
the Federal Council. But he thought he was entitled to know
what sort of formal conference Council had in mind. If it
was to be a round-table discussion to consider possible solu-
tions, well and good. On the other hand, if the Federal Council
wanted to act as judge in a court of inquiry in which Orr
made charges against the university, he could not accept its
arbitration because it had made its judgment already. He said:
“To avoid any possible misunderstanding later, I feel I must
tell you quite definitely now that the university would not
consider taking part in any such conference.” He repeated
his willingness to have talks and mentioned various times at
which he could meet them when they would be in Melbourne.
This meeting took place on October 6 and it became
clear that the Council was not interested in a round-table
discussion, but saw itself as an arbitrator or mediator. Thorp
and Wheelwright reinforced this view in another letter on
October 18 when they said specifically that they wished to act
as “a mediator.” This suggestion came oddly from a body
[hat had already made up its mind. They also mentioned the
academic rehabilitation” of Orr, but did not mention
discussion of general issues.
By now it was obvious that the Council, which was offer-
lng its service as a mediator, was in fact completely identified
with one of the parties to the dispute—the Orr side. Isles
wrote back on November 1 that he was not prepared to discuss
the reinstatement of Orr, if that was what was meant by
“rehabilitation.” He asked them what they did mean by
“rehabilitation,” and repeated his willingness to enter into
further informal talks. The door was still open.
By this stage Thorp and Wheelwright began to slam the
door. On November 11 they adamantly refused to have any
more exploratory discussions; they merely repeated their
original “mediator” suggestions and, in the language of an
ultimatum, demanded a definite answer: “If your Council
refuses, by the stipulated date, to participate in such a meet-
ing Federal Council has no alternative but to censure the
University of Tasmania.” On November 21 Wheelwright wrote
again : “I am directed to inform you that, unless a satisfactory
reply to our letter is received by 30th November, Federal
Council will have no alternative but to proceed with its censure
of the University of Tasmania.” Isles replied on November
28 with what appeared to be a concessionary offer that the
university “would be quite prepared to discuss, with your
Council, any general question of academic freedom and pro-
cedures.” He complained of the threatening tone in the
correspondence and repeated his objection to the farcical
suggestion that the Federal Council should “mediate” in a
dispute in which it had already made up its mind.
This was enough for the Federal Council. It slammed
the door and on December 7 censured the university: “Accord-
ingly, the Federal Council of University Staff Associations of
Australia censures the Administration of the University of
Tasmania. The term ‘Administration’ included the senior
administrative officers and the governing body of the Univer-
sity of Tasmania and this censure is imposed for the sole
purpose of informing our members, the profession at large,
and the public, that the University of Tasmania has failed to
observe academic due process and generally accepted standards
of ‘natural justice.’ ”
ITUhat the correspondence reveals is that the University of
** Tasmania has been condemned (1) because it wanted to
have exploratory discussions before a conference was held ;
(2) because it was unwilling to be judged in a court in which
the judge was already deeply committed to a condemnation of
the university ; (3) because it refused to accept threats and
ultimata ; (4) because, although it had not ruled out “rehabili-
tation” of Orr, it refused to discuss reinstatement.
Isles made it clear throughout that his university was
prepared to recognise publicly the university’s problems. It
was by implication even prepared to eat a little humble pie—
why else agree to talk to the Federal Council at all? It is
quite possible that it might even have been prepared to admit
publicly that in its manner of dismissing Orr it had made
mistakes which it was anxious to avoid ever making again.
It is more than likely that it would have agreed to certain
rules that would guarantee natural justice in such cases. The
two things it was not prepared to do were to be judged by
a party that had already made up its mind and to reinstate Orr.
In short, although Isles had shown his willingness to take
steps that might well have met the requirements of most
Australian academics concerned with academic freedom and
the welfare of the University of Tasmania, the Federal Council
was not prepared even to begin such discussions. It preferred
to pre-judge the case, issue ultimata, and slam the door. It
stands convicted of refusing an opportunity to do something
good for academic life, and of confining its activities to the
reinstatement of Orr. This should be clear even to those who
believe Orr was wrongly dismissed.


AUSTRALIA AND THE WORLD
Khrushchev
Fights His War
By DONALD HORNE
PABLO PICASSO
No more doves
"He walked out of the Geneva disarmament talks; he
shot down a U.S. plane in the Arctic; he rattled his rockets"
The great ideological debate between China and the Soviet
may soon again burst out in all its dreadful turgid fury.
As suggested in the first article last week, the compromise
settlement reached at the end of last year in Moscow
by representatives of 81 Communist parties has settled nothing.
There are persistent rumors that Khrushchev is privately
circulating documents attacking the Chinese for what he
describes as their violation of the Moscow declaration and that
these documents will soon be made public.
This theological warfare stems from practical differences.
It is largely a way in which the leaders of the two principal
Communist regimes can conduct arguments with each other in
obscure terms that are virtually meaningless not only to out-
siders but to great masses of rank-and-file Communists as well;
but the leaders of the world's Communist parties understand
the practical significance of the jargon ; it is a verbal war
expressed in obscure terms to gain sympathy from the
Communist-party elites. But this does not mean that it does
not have an ideological effect on the others. For the moment
the more thoughtful of them are all over the place. Khrush-
chev’s “peaceful coexistence"’ has, under Chinese pressure, now
become “the highest form of the class struggle,” with obligatory
support for revolutionary movements, civil war and revolts —
and Picasso can't draw a dove to symbolise all that.
WHAT IT WAS ALL ABOUT
T>eneath the ideology there is a fundamental clash between
the two regimes about how they should conduct their
diplomacy. The Soviet is the settled, assured partner which
wants to revise some of the old Marxist-Leninist dogma to suit
its book in a changing world ; China is the newcomer, both
insecure and bold, but still sticking to the book.
The reasons for Khrushchev’s attempts to re-write Lenin
so that he becomes a supporter of “peaceful coexistence” are
pretty obvious In the first place the Russians are genuinely
afraid of a nuclear war. Their scientists, for instance, are even
more obsessed with its dangers than ours are. It is essential
for Soviet leaders to promise peace ; but there is no reason
to doubt that they also w r ant it themselves. They have no
illusions about what would happen to their country in a nuclear
war. They do not want to exasperate the West into a position
in which nuclear war might become possible.
At the same time a non-doctrina! approach to the West
had many other advantages. “Peaceful coexistence” was a
method of softening us up. We could be demoralised by a
mixture of peace offensive and war fears into acquiescing to
Soviet demands in Europe, particularly in Germany—and
Germany is the real obsession of the Russians. It went down
well in the neutralist world. Khrushchev went off on his glad-
handing tours, a simple bare-footed man of peace, distributing
trade agreements, economic aid and hatred of colonialism.
And, of course, central to the idea of coexistence was accept-
ance of Communist rule in the countries where Communists
had already seized power. It was “warlike” to hope that any
Communist regime would ever topple, or to take any step that
might cause it to. We should simply accept a gentleman’s
agreement that left us doing all the agreeing while the other
side kept up the pressure. And the insistence that Communists
after all need not be violent was assumed to go down well
in those Western countries where large Communist parties were
embarrassed by their revolutionary traditions. It would also
go down well in countries like India and Indonesia, leading to
united fronts, and so on. Khrushchev did not want revolu-
tionary violence because it would worsen East-West relations—
and because he believed that Communism is bound to win
anyway
This line of Khrushchev’s was almost perfectly fitted to
exploit the hopes and fears of the West. It was a bold departure
from dogma that showed a subtle understanding of the weak-
nesses of his opponents. It was bad luck for him that the
Chinese ruirted it.
The Chinese did not really want nuclear war either. But
they were prepared to suggest that they would risk it. They
could do this safely politically because their own people knew
little about it ; it is not the kind of thing one talked about in
China. They disapproved completely of Khrushchev’s disarma-
ment propaganda because it might weaken morale in Communist
countries ; and because they perhaps genuinely believed that
the West was warlike. Disarmament to them was an American
plot. They did not share Khrushchev’s interest in neutralists
like Nehru or Soekarno and felt no need to soft-soap them.
They positively wanted to maintain the revolutionary vigor of
the Asian Communist party. Unlike Khrushchev, they did
not expect to gain concessions by softly demoralising their
opponents, but by overthrowing them with violence.
They said they feared that the West might use an easing
of tension to subvert the “people’s democracies” in Eastern
Europe and they may even have meant it. In general, they
attacked “peaceful coexistence” by attributing to the Americans
all the motives that the Americans attributed to the Russians.
What is certain is that they were afraid they might be isolated
by Khrushchev’s manoeuvre ; that, even if he made tactical
gains from it, it meant that he could not simultaneously press
the Chinese case against the United States.
And this is the fundamental point. Chinese complaints
about Soviet “weakness” in supporting them militarily and
diplomatically against the U.S. are of long standing. The
prospect of a detente (however dishonest) with the U.S. was
so appalling that rather than risk it they preferred to challenge
Khrushchev in front of the world’s Communist parties—even
to the extent of risking a diminution of the Soviet economic


a id on which the Chinese People’s Republic relies so heavily.
Even their contempt for disarmament was based on fears of a
detente ; the nuclear-test ban was a way of founding a “nuclear
club” —of which China would not be a member. Their policy
—at any cost —was that the U.S. must be “isolated as the main
enemy.”
Other odds and ends of jealousy and insecurity joined
the Chinese main obsession. Aid that was distributed in the
glad-handing tours was probably distributed at China’s expense.
Khrushchev’s wooing of Nehru and Soekarno infringed on
Chinese Communist territory. In an earlier call for a summit
conference Khrushchev had proposed India as the representa-
tive of Asia, not China. He had made decision after decision
like this without consulting them.
Beneath the ideological debate we detect two kinds of
“realism,” each concerned with the final victory of world
Communism, but each looking at that aim from the viewpoint
of its own interests.
effects on soviet diplomacy
How ruinous on Khrushchev’s diplomacy it was to put teeth
into his peace offensive is now only slowly being realised
by the West. The Chinese uproar—and Khrushchev’s need
to become more revolutionary and bellicose to counter it—
forced him, after the U-2 incident, into a zigzag of blunder
after blunder. He was attempting the impossible. On the one
hand he was stiil trying to keep the door open to the West by
appearing conciliatory ; on the other hand he had to breathe
regular rations of fire and thunder as part of his propaganda
offensive on the world’s Communist parties. He was afraid
that those parties would prefer fundamentalist revolutionary
solidarity to the subtleties of coexistence diplomacy. As part
of this game, after being the apostle of de-tension, he caused
tension. He walked out of the Geneva disarmament talks ;
he shot down a U.S. plane in the Arctic ; he rattled his rockets.
And in between he still made conciliatory statements to keep
the idea of negotiation open. This ruined his attempt to bluff
the West into appeasement by coexistence courtship. The
measure of his failure is the unanimous resoluteness of the
Western Powers on Berlin. It is hard to see how he can ever
again attempt coexistence diplomacy unless he can join himself
with China ; and that is at least temporarily impossible. He
can no longer be sure that he can use all the world’s
Communist parties as agents of Soviet foreign policy.
EFFECTS ON WORLD COMMUNISM
The full effect of this debate on the position of world
A Communism is also being only slowly realised by the
West. The change began in 1956. By killing the Stalin myth
Khrushchev began a process that has ended in killing the
exclusive control by Moscow of world Communism.
Before 1956 it was the Chinese who were “liberal.” If one
can use those terms in this connection at all, and that is
doubtful, their internal party structure was more “permissive”
than the Soviet. Foreign Communists who had visited China
often came back to their own Stalinist monoliths feeling a little
rueful about whatever it was that had attracted them in the
Chinese system ; perhaps it was nothing more than the subtle
insinuation of Oriental politeness into a Stalinist party, but it
made a change from the old Stalinist open thuggery. There
was already talk of this kind of thing in the party and
along with this there was talk of the Chinese idea that the
Soviet should no longer lay down the law for every other party
in the world, and that the non-Soviet Communist States should
conduct their internal affairs independent of the Soviet, binding
together internationally however in “the socialist camp” in
which the Soviet was the leader and prime spokesman. At
the time of the revolt of the “people’s democracies” of Poland
and Hungary in the autumn of 1956 the Chinese backed
Gomulka and are believed to have stopped Khrushchev from
invading Poland on the grounds that the Polish revolt was
Merely an internal party matter. On the other hand, they are
believed to have pressed him to invade Hungary where there
was a revolt against the party and “the socialist camp.”
The damage caused by the destruction of the Stalin myth
was by then already done. This damage came not only from
toe emotional and organisational catastrophe caused by blowing
U P the memories of the murderous old leader and teacher ; it
was also an insupportable piece of Soviet high-handedness.
Every Communist party in the world was embarrassed by
Khrushchev’s revelations, yet none of them had been consulted.
The revelations were a measure of desperation on Khrushchev’s
part, made for his own reason ; the sensation strengthened his
hand in a Kremlin in which he had not fully consolidated his
power. But to world Communist leaders the fact that this most
useful myth had been torn to bits for internal Soviet political
reasons Qnly irritated them all the more.
nrms was the issue that first really raised the question of
polycentrism in world Communism. Was world Com-
munism still to be dictated to by the Soviet party? Or was
there to be more than one Communist centre providing leader-
ship and guidance to the Communist world? The answer is
now decided in favor of the latter.
The ideological debates between Moscow and Peking were
the open symptom of the change. The fact that Khrushchev
had to modify Soviet diplomatic policy to justify himself in
the eyes of the world’s Communist leaders showed its immense
practical importance. That he was finally forced to summon
representatives of 81 Communist parties to Moscow and that
argument went on for three weeks and resulted in modification
of his “peaceful coexistence” policy would have been unbeliev-
able before 1956.
What this new situation will mean is impossible to say.
Moscow still has the upper hand, but it no longer has the only
hand. What it has meant so far to the Communist party in
Australia will be discussed in the last of these articles next week.


FORUM
Five Ways to Save the
Wyndham Report
The Main Hope is the Upper House
By JOHN M. BLATT
THE Labor Party Conference and the State Cabinet have decided
to implement the Wyndham Report on Secondary Education,
starting next year. It is not \nown yet what attitude the Legis-
lative Council (not now controlled by the Labor Party) will ta\e.
In case Parliament should approve, however, there is still time to
discuss just how the Report is to be implemented, and to suggest
certain changes, or amendments, which do not affect the main
features of the Report, but which will ensure high quality edu-
cation for N.S.W., at no additional expense to the taxpayers
compared to the amended scheme. On the contrary, these amend-
ments are designed to provide full educational value for the very
large increase in the Education vote.
AS I see it, the “main features” of the
Wyndham Report, which have been
agreed to and which are not affected by
my amendments, are:
(1) The provision of a 4 + 2 year
course, to replace the present
3 + 2 year system ;
(2) A School Certificate examination
at the end of four years, and a
Higher School Certificate examina-
tion at the end of six years, both
set externally ;
(3) A “common core” of subjects for
all children, in the early years;
(4) Area Schools for all children ;
(5) No reliance on artificial selection
methods, such as I.Q. tests and
headmasters’ recommendations ; no
assignment of students to special
schools by say-so of the Education
Department ;
(6) Every child is to be assured of his
right to an education commen-
surate with his abilities.
The amendments, suggested below, are
consistent with all these points. In the
past I have argued for a 3 + 3 year, as
opposed to a 4 + 2 year system, as being
educationally preferable and much less
expensive to the taxpayer. If this argu-
ment is lost, and if we are committed to
huge expenditures, then at least let us get
full value!
The amendments are directed primar-
ily at ensuring the continuance of high-
standard education for students of high
ability. This is threatened most seri-
ously by the unamended Wyndham
scheme. In fact, if the scheme is adopted
without amendments we will be getting
a less democratic system than the one we
have now: the academically gifted child
will be able to obtain an adequate educa-
tion only if his father can afford to send
him to a G.P.S. school! The State
schools will not be worth going to for
these children.
Rather than discussing generalities, let
me state my proposed amendments, and
discuss each one in turn.
First Amendment: The School Certifi-
cate examination (at the end of fourth
year) should be given at two levels, in
every subject, these two levels to be an
“ordinary” and an “Honors” level. The
Honors examination should be an
additional paper, set on a more demand-
ing syllabus. All students must sit for
the same “ordinary” paper. Every
student, if he so wishes, may choose to
sit for the Honors paper as well.
Thus a student who elects to sit for
Honors does not thereby jeopardise his
chances of gaining a pass, and no student
is excluded from sitting for Honors if
he so desires.
The provision of an Honors level
syllabus and examination is particularly
important in the “Common Core” sub-
jects of the Wyndham scheme. Other-
wise these subjects would be examined
only at the “ordinary” level, a level of
little relevance for the more able student.
The “ordinary” level cannot be set at a
high standard, because it would then pro-
duce a majority of failures ; no Examina-
tion Board could justify such an examina-
tion. Thus an Honors paper is necessary.
Every Comprehensive Area High
School should teach the basic subjects to
Honors level, at least to the students in
the A class. This could be done, in prin-
ciple, even without a separate syllabus
and examination ; but it would not in fact
be done since there would be no incen-
tive, either for the students or for the
teachers.
Second Amendment: The School Certi-
ficate handed out to the student should
state explicitly the subjects attempted, the
grades obtained, and the Honors
obtained, if any.
In my opinion this is essential to per-
suade employers to take this certificate
seriously, as a possible entry qualification.
Dr Wyndham has expressed the hope that
employers who now demand a Leaving
Certificate will be satisfied with the School
Certificate as proposed in his report. This
is plain wishful thinking, in my opinion,
Certainly, if I were an employer, I would
not dream of doing so. The School
Certificate comes at the end of four
years, the Leaving Certificate at the end
of five years; the Leaving Certificate is
set on a demanding syllabus, and
attempted by only about 1 in every 5
youngsters in the age group, whereas the
School Certificate would be attempted by
the vast majority. Thus, by no stretch
of the imagination can the mere posses-
sion of a School Certificate, without more
detailed information, be considered as
equivalent to possession of a Leaving
Certificate.
On the other hand, it is plainly desir-
able to have employers accept the School
Certificate. The amendment makes this
possible. I can envisage an employer
accepting the School Certificate at a cer-
tain level; for example, at least one
Honors and two A’s in significant
subjects.
Third Amendment: The syllabus, and
the School Certificate examination, should
be controlled by Subject Committees on
which there is strong university repre-
sentation, at least in those subjects which
are matriculation subjects at the Higher
School Certificate level.
There has been strong pressure from
teachers to “get out from under univer-
sity influence.” This pressure is reflected
in the Wyndham Report. The desire is
natural enough, but experience in other
countries has shown that we cannot
afford, from the national point of view,
to give the teachers full control over
standards in the High Schools. The
U.S.A. has just such a system, and it has
proved disastrous for educational stan-
dards. In the U.S.S.R., where standards
are exceedingly high, the entire school
system, from kindergarten up, is con-
trolled by the National Academy
Sciences. They set the syllabus, choose
the text-book, determine the examination,


(tc I do not propose that we go that
f a r here ; but neither can we afford to let
2() the reins altogether.
The importance of university represen-
Ijtion, and a very strong representation
jt that, on the Subject Committees,
can not be exaggerated. Without this,
s tandards are sure to drop disastrously,
jhe situation envisaged in the original
Wyndham recommendations is just ridi-
culous: literally, the only guarantee of
the maintenance of present standards (to
say nothing of the achievement of
increased standards) at the fourth-year
level would be the mere say-so of the
Education Department.
If standards are allowed to drop at
the fourth-year level, an enormous
amount of information will have to be
crammed into the poor students in their
fifth and sixth years, to make up for the
lime they have wasted in the first four
years of their course. And there go all
the hopes of a “Sixth Form” of the Eng-
lish type! Thus, in spite of the certain
opposition of the teaching fraternity,
university control of standards in matri-
culation subjects must be retained at the
fourth-year level.
Fourth Amendment: Each area con-
taining approximately seven Area
Schools should be designated an Aca-
demic Area ; and one of the seven schools
should be designated an Academic Area
High School, the other six being Compre-
hensive Area High Schools. Entry to the
Academic Area High School is to be by
competitive examination, open to every
student in the Academic Area. Further-
more, some places are to be filled at
entry to second year, and a few at entry
to third year, again by open competitive
examination.
Note that these Academic Area High
Schools are Area Schools, just as much
as the Comprehensive ones ; note also
that they differ from the former Selective
Schools in a number of ways. First of all,
if there are 100 places, say, for a given
intake, the best 100 students get in, and
that is that. There is to be no Depart-
mental assignment of students to these
schools, no reliance on I.Q. tests or head-
masters’ recommendations, no quotas for
certain primary schools—everything will
he open and above-board, decided by a
public examination. Furthermore, there
can be no complaint that a youngster is
refused entry on the basis of a single
examination, at too early an age. A
youngster who fails to get in at first-year
level can try again at second-year level,
and has still another chance at third-
fear level.
The Academic Area High Schools are
to teach the same syllabus as the Compre-
hensive Area High Schools. Thus no
student is at a disadvantage because he
has failed to get into the first year. In
lact, I envisage a continual flow of
students between Academic and Compre-
hensive Area High Schools, in both
directions. Students might do well on
the entry examination, and then fail to
l‘ Ve up to their promise ; other students
"'ho are late-developers will enter at
Se cond- and third-year levels.
The ratio of one Academic to six
Comprehensive Area High Schools is the
ratio of academically gifted children to
all other children, in the school popula-
tion. This ratio, therefore, assures that
there will be a place in his Academic
Area High School for every academically
gifted youngster.
Since the amendment suggests the
designation of an existing Area School
as Academic Area High School, no new
schools need be built, and there is no
expense to the State. It is merely a matter
of administrative reshuffling, at no cost,
and with tremendous benefit to the quality
of education.
Fifth Amendment: Subjects in Aca-
demic Area High Schools must be taught
by teachers with university qualification
in their subject, or in a closely related
subject. Two-year-trained teachers must
not be assigned to Academic Area High
Schools.
The academically gifted child has the
right to be taught by academically quali-
fied teachers ; and the State should safe-
guard this right, not only as an important
democratic right, but also in the interest
of a high quality of education through-
out. The Wyndham scheme, unamended,
would in practice deny this right to the
child, and the scheme is therefore un-
democratic. The amendment guarantees
this right, at no cost to the State.
Of course, it is highly desirable that all
teachers have university qualification in
their subjects. I favor encouraging this,
by means of higher salary margins for
teachers with university degrees, special
promotion provisions, and other means.
However, we must recognise present-day
facts. There is a serious shortage of
academically qualified teachers. Under
the original Wyndham scheme these
teachers would be spread thin, so that
no one school could have an adequate
supply ; thus no school would exist of
proper standard for the academically
gifted child.
Sixth Amendment: Positions in
Teachers’ Colleges should be openly
advertised, and filled by Selection Com-
mittees, in a way similar to university
appointments.
This is a long-term measure, but of
great importance. It was suggested to
me by Professor J. B. Thornton.
Teachers’ Colleges are very important in
shaping the attitude of teachers to their
profession. In the long run, mainten-
ance of high standards throughout the
system depends on the maintenance of
high standards in the staffing of Teachers’
Colleges. At present, staff for Teachers’
Colleges is selected internally, from within
the State education system ; the positions
are advertised only in the “Education
Gazette,” and no outsider is brought in.
This form of inbreeding is highly dan-
gerous, and no university would ever
countenance it. Improvements and basic
advances can be expected, by and large,
only from outsiders, with a new point
of view, not from the people who have
been brought up within the system, have
made their peace with it, and are happy
with it.
In fact, the Wyndham Report itself
is a striking, and most unfortunate,
example of this. The report was written
by a committee of “insiders,” and many
of its faults can be traced directly to this
composition. If one suspects that the
education system needs overhaul, and
appoints a commission to look into the
matter, it is highly unwise to appoint a
commission of “insiders,” who then sit
in judgment on themselves and find that
everyone else is at fault. “Outsiders”
may not have all the detailed information
available to the “insiders.” But they
have, or should have, a fresh point of
view.
These six amendments would, I feel,
go a very long way in the right direction.
1 still believe that the decision to imple-
ment a 4 + 2 year system, rather than
a 3 + 3 year system, was a costly policy
mistake. I still hope that the Legislative
Council can be persuaded to give this
matter a “second look.” But, if we are
committed to this very large expendi-
ture, let us at least make sure that we get
educational value for the education vote!
“Where would you prefer — stalls , pews or ringside?"


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY UMITEO
Incorporated in England
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£A363,000,000
•
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years to
be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensiva to
operate.
Send for illustrated Bulletin
to the sole manufacturers
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
.Mugnetting Machines.
George Kllison Switch Gear.
et~. Makers of Classitters.
Muter lilters. Steam Valves,
eta
If any “Bulletin” illustration
takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you
a price for the original.
LETTERS
Outcasts of the A.B.C.
Sir,
Mr Brian Wright’s letter condemning
my attack on “The Outcasts” makes the
best of a very bad case. As I made it
clear, I have no objection to Mr Rienits
and the A.B.C. distorting history for
dramatic purposes ; but I do object to
a national broadcasting institution repre-
senting as being as authentic as it can be
made, as the result of a vast and serious
research, drama which is false in atmo-
sphere, background, language and fact,
thus misleading schoolmasters and
students of history into taking it seriously
as being a true picture of events and
times.
Mr Wright makes the excuse for inter-
ference with the realities that the drama-
tist, especially in television, “must deal
with facts through the emotions and
reactions of the people concerned with
them, otherwise his work will be im-
possibly dull and have no social or his-
torical value whatever.” I can assure him
that in my opinion, and I am sure in that
of other historians, productions like “The
Outcasts” have “no social or historical
value” whatever ; they merely mislead and
the pity is that the truth is more dramatic
and enthralling than the garbled nonsense
which presents Governor Macquarie
drinking in pub bars with his coat off
and hobnobbing with ex-convicts as if
they were personal family friends.
Mr Wright goes on to show that he
believes that I myself in my biography of
Macquarie have lent authority to Mr
Rienits’s versions of history. But this
is not so. He accuses me, for instance,
of supporting the Rienits theme that Red-
fern was the central figure in Macquarie’s
fight for emancipist rehabilitation. But
the fact which he quotes against me that
I said Redfern became the core of Com-
missioner Bigge’s antipathies has little
bearing on a fight which had then reached
its end. Macquarie by that time had
resigned, his authority had been super-
seded. The central figures in his fight
which, when Redfern became an issue,
was over save for the shouting were men
of the lower classes, not very literate, like
Simeon Lord and Andrew Thompson.
Nearly all the emancipists of “good”
character —Fulton, Richard Fitzgerald,
Meehan, Redfern, Robinson and the rest
-—had long been accepted by society, save
for a small handful of exclusionists. Red-
fern intrinsically was a minor figure.
The fact that I mentioned that “Mac-
quarie, on Redfern’s report, had dis-
covered how awful were the conditions
on some transports” and that Redfern on
Macquarie’s orders devised a remedial
scheme, does not turn Redfern into a
humanitarian. It was Macquarie who
ordered Redfern as a professional man
to make the inquiry and to draft the
report on what should be done. Who
was the humanitarian? Actually, it was
a board of three surgeons, presided over
by D’Arcy Wentworth which generated
the first action by the Governor, the
other two surgeons being Redfern and
Luttrell.
“The Outcasts” is certainly not correct
in a literal sense in any particular, as
Mr Wright shows a tendency to admit;
but neither is it as he suggests so strongly
“correct in the looser dramatic implica-
tions made by playwright Rienits.” As
I have written before, I would have no
quarrel with that if the A.B.C. had not,
as with “Stormy Petrel,” insisted on the
authenticity of their false and sometimes
ludicrous picture of life as lived in the
pioneer days.
M. H. Ellis
Sydney.
Sir,
Mean Mr Ellis has pulled the rug out
from under ABN’s digest of Australian
history! His righteous outburst has
come as a great shock to those of us who
have actually enjoyed throwing meta-
phorical peanuts at “Honest Sam Mars-
den”—or who have waited breathlessly
week after week to see if poor Mrs Mac-
quarie would finally succeed in producing
an heir by episode 12. At least Mr Ellis
cannot take away the fun we’ve had
spotting historical names and deciding
whose ancestors were wicked officers and
whose earnest emancipists—whom we
should cut or cultivate in fact at the next
New Year’s levee.
The review was, however, perhaps un-
fairly timed. The restless Mr Rienits has
now departed these shores for sunny
Tahiti, and is unable to answer back. At
this very moment (who knows) he may
be sitting under a palm tree, working
out the dramatic possibilities of Captain
James Cook. As Mr Rienits is one of
our few able dramatists, I have every
confidence that something good will come
out of his sunbaking. Something good
as entertainment, that is. He is too old
and wily a hand at the game to suppose
that pure, unadulterated history (no
matter how accurate) would be either
palatable or good drama.
Mr Ellis’s barbs I feel, might more
fairly have been aimed at (a) the A.B.C. s
flag-waving Publicity Division ; (b) the
earnest drama production department
which was obviously overawed by tf' e
whole business. It is on their doorsteps
“The Outcasts” might reasonably be laid-
The former has left no stone unturned
to encourage us in our own historical


2<-
SH.KIiUST
Penfwlds
Amontillado Sherry
Full-bodied, dry
f*m
Wi
SHKRKY
Penfelds Pale
Dry Finn Sherry
A classic sherry
*0
<2
YT
a a
00000
000
00
o
m
| PafeMs Special
1 I'ior Sherry
i Delicately bit-rated
FOR
PERFECT WINES
PsenTolds CM) is«Ki
MseSTiow perfeetien
:w«7-
i
Pertfoilils Private
Bin Port
Full aged, tawny j
i
!
I
%
ignorance —the latter has followed up
faithfully with lovely, but irrelevant visual
exploration of snuff-taking (as it was
took); and letter sanding (as it was
shook). What these lengthy passages did
to the dramatic pace of Mr Rienits's
script must remain a matter for incredu-
lity.
We have also had a splendid view of
Sydney's more hirable antique furniture
at the expense of dramatic action —and
some exciting red herrings in the matter
of Governor Macquarie’s uniforms. (No,
you were wrong viewers—one epaulet
was correct in 1812—he was only a
Lieutenant-Colonel at the time.) As if
either of these details would have been
important in the incidental trappings of
a well-paced production.
Ail was not lost, however: the pregnan-
cies and miscarriages were dealt with as
suspensefully as in any morning serial:
the horseback riding and lashings (mean-
while. back at Parramatta) as endlessly
as in a number of expensive Italian
movies.
S. Macobov
Neutral Bay (N.S.W. ).
NO MASS FOR MONASH
Sir,
My husband and 1 wish to add our
protests to that of Messrs David Mc-
Kenna and David Armstrong (Bulletin,
August 8} and we hope that many other
people will do likewise. The banning of
religious services at the Monash Univer-
sity is terrible. A university should not
only encourage freedom of thought and
discussion but should be seething with
“controversial matters.”
As an agnostic, I should like to remind
Dr Matheson and the Monash University
Council that it is not only “religious
affairs which are so often characterised
by intolerance.” The amount of bigotry,
priggish smugness and intolerance found
in scientific affairs and among so-called
free-thinkers, atheists, rationalists and
agnostics of all types is sickening. I
regard with suspicion the Mon ash Cbun-
cil's motives in banning religious services
and suggest that the Free-thought Society
be refused permission to hold meetings
until peoples of other persuasions can
hold meetings and/or services in pursuit
of their own ideals and faith.
(Mrs) P. BOYD
Oakleigh (Vic.}.
THAT GENERAL TONE
Sir,
Dr Knopfelmacfaer’s letter (Bulletin,
August 12) once again indicates that he
finds it difficult to engage in public con-
troversy graciously and to credit his
opponents, in public at least, with good
faith The unfortunate result is that
many will think twice before entering
into discussion with him. Last April,
Professor Crawford commented that
“most academics, in common with other
People, shun public controversy.” The
reasons for this are varied, but one of
them, I feel, is the general tone adopted
by many Australian publicists.
A. BARCAN
Canberra.
THE DEATH OF FREDDIE LEE
Sir,
1 have read “The Death of Freddie
Lee” in “ Aboriginal ities” (Bulletin,
August 12) and have the following com-
ments to make. To quote your contri-
butor, the white people in Qu am bone
“think the blacks are not worth worrying
about . . . they do not even consider
them." It would be difficult, if not
impossible, for anyone to ignore the
screams, foul language and general noises
of drunken brawlings that pour from the
“tin-and-bag humpies” and carry on
throughout most weekend nights, and
sometimes during week nights as well.
These people—full-bloods, half-castes,
quarter-castes, etc. —have the same ameni-
ties and social services as the white


people. Their children go to the same
schools, they draw their social services,
etc Their menfolk work in various
capacities on the grazing properties and
are paid the full award rate for the job
they do. How then are they ignored or
not even considered?
But they pay no rates or rents, nor
indeed do they buy even the most simple
aids to civilised living. They do buy, or
otherwise obtain, large quantities of
“grog”—beer (were it Bs. or 10s. a bottle,
it would still be drunk), rum, sweet
sherry (poured down the throat from the
bottle) and more adulterated brews than
these are all drunk by both men and
women. The worst of the drinking orgies
occur at the weekends.
What are the answers to the problems
of these unfortunate people? Surely, if
left to squat in their humpies on the
fringes of places like Quambone, they can
never become assimilated as the N.S.W.
Government hopes and desires.
Any offers of practical advice or assist-
ance in solving these problems seem to
be lacking sadly. Should they come from
local rate-paying residents? (They are
too few in numbers to be effective.)
From the Aboriginal Welfare Depart-
ment? (Not more allowances to buy
more alcohol.) From the local-govern-
ment authorities? Members of the
Council responsible for the welfare of
Quambone consider it to be a dying, if
not dead, place, so there is little hope
of any help from that direction. Perhaps
your contributor has some useful sug-
gestions to make.
LOCAL RESIDENT
(Name and address supplied.)
WHO FLEECES WHO?
Sir,
Thanks for Bill Howard’s informative
and entertaining article on shearing
(Bulletin, August 19). But did you have
to use it on page 3 of the same issue as
a stick to beat “city-confined intellectuals”
over the head with?
Who are those city-confined myth-
makers, anyway? Do they really exist
any more, or are they just paper tigers
invented by desperate leader-writers?
A. J. O'MEACHER
Birchgrove (N.S.W.).
DR GOUGH’S “GOOD NEWS”
Sir.
Peter Hasting’s article on Archbishop
Gough (Bulletin, August 12) has several
inaccuracies, as follows:
(1) “Rising rates and taxes” have not
made it necessary to sell any of the
Bishopscourt land since the Archbishop
of Sydney first lived there. The Local
Government Act exempts from all rates
and taxes, the official residence of the
leader of each denomination.
(2) The Goughs did not have “literally
to move from room to room” while
workmen effected repairs after their
arrival. They lived in the Deanery in
Darling Point Road until the repairs were
sufficiently completed.
(3) The 2000 books in the library are
not all “Dr Gough’s possessions.” They
go with the residence. Dr Gough’s
private books are in the small study.
(4) “The stone wrought arms of all of
Sydney's Archbishops” above the book-
cases in .he library is nonsense. Exactly
the same coat of arms is, and always
has been, used by every Archbishop of
Sydney. Mr Hastings saw the arms of
English and other Dioceses.
(5) The Standing Committee of the
Synod is not a “cabinet.” Dr Gough
himself, the Synod before last, objected
to the use of that term. He said that the
Standing Committee was “the Synod itself
in between sessions.” His “cabinet” if
anything, would comprise his co-adjutors
and Archdeacons.
(6) There are not Anglican “homes” for
unmarried mothers. There is one only.
(7) if Sydney Diocese was “sadly run
down and gone to seed” at the coming
of Dr Gough, it did not do too badly to
pay £30,000 to repair Bishopscourt. This
statement is a regrettable reflection on
Archbishop Mowll, and is untrue. The
Promotion and Stewardship movements,
in the last year of Dr Mowll's regime,
reached a peak from which they have
consistently dropped since Dr Gough
came. Diocesan expenditure on new
development since Dr Gough came has
not reached anything like the level main-
tained during the last years of Dr Mowll’s
episcopate ft should be remembered,
however, that Synod is responsible for
this —the Archbishop inspires Synod to
do its task.
(8) Was Archbishop Mowll “timid of
action and statement”? What about the
v'ay he threw the A.C.L. overboard and
ensured that the Church of England’s
Constitution was passed? The truth is
that he never hesitated to speak out when
he felt it was his duty. Unlike some, he
always made quite sure of his facts first.
(9) What has Dr Gough done to “curb”
the Anglican Church League? Promoted
its leading members! He made one his
Registrar—the key position of the dio-
cese! He made another an Archdeacon
and put him in charge of five of the
most important diocesan committees.
(10) The Archbishop of Canterbury
did not say it was time Sydney Diocese
had its own Australian Archbishops He
said the time had come when the Church
in Australia as a whole should look
within its own ranks for its Bishops.
(11) Mr Hastings cites as the “three
images of the Church” in England, Dr
Fisher, Dr Ramsay—and Dr Gough!
This will astonish anyone who knows
about the position in England, where Dr
Gough was only a suffragan bishop.
The leading Evangelical Bishop, with all
due respect to Dr Gough, is Dr Coggan,
who is now Archbishop of York.
(12) Mr Hastings says Synods are
“mercifully” absent from English Church
life. What about the Convocations of
Canterbury and York? What about all
the Diocesan Conferences? Above all,
what about the Church Assembly?
(13) Mr Hastings says Dr Gough has
visited New Guinea. He has not
(1,4). So Dr, Gough called upon the
Cardinal, thus showing he was “indiffer-
ent to the narrower sections of Sydney
evangelicalism.” Well! Archbishop
Panico, when here as Apostolic Delegate,
lunched regularly with Dr Mow’d. They
were close friends, and made no secret
of it.
(15) Dr Gough did not seek to procure
a “livelihood” after ordination. The
technical term is a “living."
(16) The parish of Islington is not a
“wasteland.” It is an evangelical “plum.”
The Islington Conference is England’s
outstanding annual evangelical gathering.
(17) Dr Gough was not “elected” suffra :
gan bishop of Barking. He was appointed
by the Crown in order to give Evangeli-
cals another seat on the episcopal bench
of the Church Assembly.
(MIS) FRANCES W. GREEN
Blacktown (N.S.W.).
Mr Hastings comments:
Answering Mrs Green's points by number:
(1) Good point.
(2) They did in fact. The Goughs lived only
a short time in the Deanery and had to
suffer considerable inconvenience during
repairs to Bishopscourt. He referred to it
in a TV interview.
(3) The majority of the books in the library
are Dr Gough’s as 1 have stated.
(4) This is not nonsense. Mrs Green is con-
fusing the arms of the Diocese with those
of the Metropolitans, each of which show
in one half the four gold stars ol the
Diocese and in the other an heraldic motit
personal to each of the Archbishops from
Broughton to Mowll.
(5) Standing Committee may be very justly
described, between quotes as I have done,
as a “cabinet." I can't help Mrs Green's
personal choice or rejection of words.
(6) Yes, only one home.
(7) I’m sorry, but this is my belief without
any disrespect to the memory or reputa-
tion of the late Archbishop.
(8) Yes, I think he was.
(9) Promotion of A.C.L. men, good adminis-
trators, has little to do with the central
problem of A.C.L. politics.
(10) I think with respect that it amounts to
the same thing.
■(H) Dr Coggan was not even a bishop ol any
sort when Dr Gough was appointed. Di
Gough was the first bishop to espouse
Graham's Crusade and he was rightly
regarded as a leading evangelical in
Britain.
(12) The Convocations are not synodical in
form. That is the point.
(13) My mistake. I was misinformed.
(14) So what? What 1 say still stands.
(15) Living is the technical term, as Mrs Green
says. By livelihood 1 sought to convey
the whole image of career, vocation, and
so on.
(16) “Wasteland" was used to describe Isling-
ton with T. S. Eliot in mind, a spiritual
wasteland after the war. Eliot's “Waste-
land” was also written after an earlier
war. Islington is not an “evangelical
plum.” Mrs Green must be thinking of
All Souls, Langham Place, or Holy Trinity.
Brompton, or Christ Church, Beckingham.
The Islington Conference is quite as
important as Mrs Green suggests. So was
the conference at Bettan Woods, but not
Bretton Woods.
(17) Yes. Dr Gough was “appointed" Suffragan
Bishop, but not quite so simply as M rs
Green suggests. The method is for the
Diocesan to submit two names to u ie
Queen. The first is his main choice. *n e
second is to allow the Sovereign a choice-
Invariably the Diocesan’s choice is noniin-
ated. Mrs Green's allegation that y {
Gough was appointed to swell evangehca
ranks on the episcopal bench in the Churcti
Assembly is not correct.


OUT and ABOUT
Dad Gets Dearer All the Time
The July issue of “Tailor and Men’s
Wear” suggests that Father’s Day
(September 3) might help to make up
the present slack in the retail trade.
To jolly things along, the magazine
offers a selection of appropriate slogans.
Just take your pick:
Make Dad King for a Day ; The Best
for Mother’s Best Beau ; Pop—Top Man
of Your Totem Pole ; How to Polish the
Apple with Pop; For the Day When
Your Dad’s the Biggest Wheel; Put Your
Best Foot Forward for Father ; Roll Out
the Red Carpet for Dad ; A Fanfare for
Father; Your Turn to Pamper Pop;
Male Call —for Dad ; Yes, Sir, That’s
My Dad ; Love That Dad of Mine ; By
Special Appointment to Pop; What a
Man! Head o’ the Clan! Father!
The Pleasures of Poetry
TJE wandered lonely as a cloud that
** floats on high o’er vales and hills,
when all at once he saw a crowd, a host,
of Sydney committee women.
Instead of turning on his heel at the
daunting prospect of being the only man
in the gathering, Richard Wordsworth,
actor and direct descendant of the poet,
and a quick man with a well-turned
phrase himself, stayed and read them
some poetry. He took up a position in
front of a bureau on which was a
vase of early daffodils, opened a slim
volume and gave a splendid and intelli-
gent reading of part of the Prelude, some
of the sonnets and Tintern Abbey.
However, he refused to have anything
to do with a poem about daffodils.
“I have been haunted by it all my life,”
he said. “Do you know, I was on my
way here today and in front of me was a
great big truck with one word ‘Daffodil’
written on it.”
“Daffodil margarine,” cried the audi-
ence in one voice, clapping their hands
in delight.
Mr Wordsworth also refused to read
'he Ode on the Intimations of
immortality.
“I read it to a University group recently,
hut it’s much too long and involved to
[ead to you.” he said, rather putting them
ln their place. “It wouldn’t be suitable
here. You’d never get your housework
done.”
Mr Wordsworth, who is appearing in
Lock Up Your Daughters” at Sydney’s
Palace, quite often does this sort of
thing. This reading was to raise funds
' or the Elizabethan Theatre Trust ball
c °mmittee, which does practical things
like paying for the curtains at the
Newtown theatre and for the foyer
reconstruction there.
Mr Wordsworth said that he had per-
haps more calls made on his time in
Australia than he normally did in
England.
“In Melbourne in the very early days
when I was still casting the play and
getting it into rehearsal,” he said, “the
publicity man dashed up one day and
said, ‘Richard, you have to deputise for
Winifred Atwell at a luncheon.’ ‘Do I
have to play the piano?’ I demanded.
‘No, you just have to talk.’
“I was whisked there in a taxi and
here were all these women and I didn’t
know what they were there for. On my
right was a woman, who was what the
late Gilbert Harding used to call a
‘relentless raconteur.’ Through four
courses I desperately waited for her to
drop a hint on what it was all about. At
.one stage she asked me if I were married.
I said yes. ‘ls your family with you?’
she demanded. I said they were in
London. She fixed me with a glare.
‘And do you take your principles with
you when you travel, Mr Wordsworth?’
she asked. For a moment I felt I was
with the Oxford Group, but she meant
principals and was referring to my lead-
ing lady, Hy Hazell. Anyway, I talked
to the gathering for half an hour, ani I’m
sure they do terribly good work, but
what it’s all for I’ll never know.”
Seventeen Weeks of
"One Day"
A lan Seymour’s “One day of the Year”
begins a 17-week tour, sponsored by
the Arts Council, this week which will
take the cast over an area from Albury,
N.S.W., to Cairns, Q'ld., with visits to
Mt Isa and Mary Kathleen.
After the Sydney production by Robin
Lovejoy and the Melbourne by John
Sumner, Seymour is doing the job him-
self this time mainly because no one
was available at the moment that
rehearsals began.
Seymour is particularly happy because
in the part of Alf, the dinkum Digger, he


has Terry Stapleton, who created the role
for the original production in Adelaide,
on the strength of which the Elizabethan
Theatre Trust decided to produce the
play. Stapleton, who is a designer and
illustrator in the public service, has
chucked his job for the chance of 17
weeks professional stage work.
Seymour had had hopes that he would
be on his way to England before the
end of August for the production of
“One Day” there. However, he has been
advised of delays in finding suitable
theatres for the provincial tour. The
play probably will go on now some time
in November.
The Good Oil
A Sydney woman who keeps a bottle
of olive oil in the bathroom to rub
on the children’s skin was recently given
a large bottle of Chanel No. 5 bath
essence. To make the oil more pleasant,
she added the essence to it.
A few days later her husband, a keen
fisherman, brought home his catch. He
couldn’t find any cooking oil in the
kitchen, so he cooked the fish in Chanel
No. 5-enriched oil. Needless to say not
even he could eat them.
/ r 'VNE-line reviews that come off are few
and far between. A French critic
after seeing the film version of Francoise
Sagan’s “Aimez-vous Brahms ?” wrote
“Brahms, oui.”
That was Society
Highway robbery is pretty well ex-
tinct in the Australian provinces, but the
churches and benevolent societies still do
a good deal of robbery under alms.
■ — “Bulletin,” January 2, 1897.
The strictly sober S. M. HERALD jiow
gracefully conducts its business on the
site of the old “Red Cow Inn,” a hilar-
ious hostelry of the early days,"much
blamed by contemporaries for Watering
its rum at the Tank Stream.
— “Bulletin,” July 28, 1900.
J edge Windeyer, it is printed, will
make a lengthened residence in England.
The Bulletin rejoices to hear this. It
wishes the Mt. Rennie judge health and
prosperity and sencerely trusts that Aus-
tralia may never see him or his like
again—on an alleged bench of justice.
— “Bulletin,” January 30, 1897.
The Sydney typists’ regular charge for
an occasional business letter of average
length is one shilling. For an anony-
mous or pseudonymous communication
the fee is half-a-guinea. We mention this
for the information of gentlemen wishing
to engage “housekeepers” during their
wives’ absences at summer resorts.
— “Bulletin,” January 23, 1892.
Old (iron) St. Stephen’s Church, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney, which until lately
served as the home of the lending branch
of Sydney Free Public Library, is again
in ecclesiastical use. After being pulled
down it was re-erected at Rookwood
Asylum, and now serves as a place of wor-
ship for the old men inmates.
— “Bulletin,” October 13, 1900.
The top-hat is much in evidence in the
Federal Convention photograph. Premier
Reid’s is on the ground at his feet.
There was no room on his lap.
—“Bulletin ” April 17, 1897.
Wrixon, the new Victorian knight, is
the man who married one of millionaire
Miller’s daughters, ail'd passed a wretched
little Bill for preventing the publication
in Victoria of Sunday newspapers. For
this latter service to the Crown (Sunday
papers being necessarily radical) the
smug and godly lawyer gets his precious
handle. Or perhaps it is an official recog-
nition of his wife’s money, just as Fitz-
gibbon’s sop of C.M.G. is the result of
his having risen to notoriety by the grace
of another rich father-in-law, Mick
Dawson. Is there any young man present
desirous of being favoured with -an
“honour” in the distant future?—let him
follow the teaching of Tennyson’s
Northern Farmer, and the example of
the common bluebottle, and go buzzing
after the sugar. “A wife with a good
jointure is a damn sight easier profession
than the law,” said Major Pendennis.
And Wrixon, who, by combining the two
professions, was able to walk into the
billet of Attorney-General on the strength
of his “social position,” ought to fall
dowm upon his respectable knees and
snuffle “Amen” to the Majah.
— “Bulletin,” January 16, 1892.
FOOD AND DRINK
A Slightly
Patriotic Flavor
Tt comes as something of a shock to
•*- realise that, in spite of the atmosphere
created by festoons of plastic vine-leaves
and genuine 200-years-old wine casks,
places like Sydney's Ye Olde Crusty
cellars are, according to the letter and
spirit of the law, a wine parlor.
Serious-minded people, who go to Ye
Olde Crusty to attend the regular series
of wine lectures, at which in the space
of 2j hours they will drink, perhaps, one
full glass of wine are, in the official mind,
classified with the sad old soaks, who
drink the hours away in cheap sweet
sherry, and, after the parlor has closed,
finish up with a bottle in some park or
back alley.
No concessions or encouragement are
offered to firms which teach people how
to drink, rather than let them get drunk.
The people attending the current
series of lectures on wine at Ye Olde
Crusty must wait, huddled in topcoats,
on the footpath until the doors are
opened at 7.30 p.m.
“The sergeant has got a bit of a down
on wine parlors,” the waiter remarked
conversationally, when he opened the
door. “You must be sure to be out of
here by ten.”
Ye Olde Crusty has been organising
wine lectures since 1957. The current
series is the 12th. Six lectures are given
and there are about 24 people in each
group. The course costs six guineas, or
ten guineas for a man and woman to-
gether. After the course has finished
members of the group may join Ye Olde
Crustys’ wine institute, which has regular
dinners, a weekly luncheon and an annual
visit to the Hunter Valley vineyards.
The lectures vary slightly each series.
Each series includes something on the
history of wines and an outline of what
wines come from where. Other talks are
on how to create your own wine cellar
and —a recent addition —how to deal with
the wine waiter. There have also been
lectures on the making of Australian
champagne, and the district wines of
Australia. Sometimes a lecture on cook-
ing with wine and some recipes are in-
cluded in the series.
The lecturers vary with each series, but
perennials are Austrian - born Rudy
Komon, D. E. Mead, who is head of
Leo Buring, Colin Mackay from Linde-
mans, Johnnie Walker from Rhinecastle,
and Douglas Lamb, who has his own
wine cellars in Sydney. Leo Buring him-
self used to talk, but he is now more or
less in retirement.
Those who have attended the lectures
include University people, doctors, clerks,
dieticians and hotel licensees.
Just as there is no attempt to help
people to get drunk, so there is no attempt
to grab the money, thrust a stock lecture
on the audience and then bundle them
out the door. The lectures appear to be
a very pleasant way to spend an evening.
The audience are all age groups, and
generally men and women are about
equally represented.
Each person is given a name-tag in the
shape of a bunch of grapes, and by the
end of the series most appear to have
found-more in common than a taste ft> r
wine.
Each evening after or during the lecture
there is a tasting. Usually red and white
Australian wines are contrasted with a
French and German counterpart. After


the lecture there is supper with bread,
cheeses and sausages to accompany a less
serious appraisal of some other wines.
After each tasting of local and imported
wines, the audience is encouraged to make
their own judgments and comments on
color, smell or taste. Tactfully, too, they
are nudged away from the “amused by its
presumption” type of comment, so that
what they say is generally to the point
and engagingly frank.
There is, undoubtedly, a slightly
patriotic flavor about the tastings. Both
the lecturers and class are more anxious
to find the virtues of Australian wines and
to contrast them with the weak points of
the foreign wines, than they are to find
what is doubtful about the Australian
wines.
Also. Ye. Olde Crusty usually, manages
to get in a “commercial” somewhere
along the way, by pointing out that the
French is, say, around 28s. 6d. a bottle,
while the local type may be around 12s.
or 14s.
All this is quite legitimate. After all,
Ye Olde Crusty do want to sell their own
oroducts. It is also perhaps true that
Australian wines have been consistently
undervalued but that many local experts
do genuinely come to prefer them on
quite sound, not necessarily economic,
grounds.
One of the lecturers in the current
series, Rudy Komon, came out quite
strongly in favor of an Australian red
wine over a Bordeaux. He found the
Australian wine had more “character,”
while an Englishman, not accustomed —
°h perhaps, not wanting to grow accus-
tomed—to wines with “character-,” found
doth a German and a French wine more
delicate,” and, hence, more pleasing to
him than similar Australian wines, '
Feiffer
mv FIMT
i mew ,
ir m
m MfAM6
CF COMMWJI-
(JITM M
tmo
it)m t o\o mo mmb
l b)P6 SAM 6 to M
10MLV THAT MAM M USf
LM ID M?mft AMP -
mce amp
mvAL Love, j
m the
WORM?
mm?
mw
m
mu
m
obscurz
i f>ma
mw)
THf
WORM?.
WHGW
NEXT I
pAiocec?
it ate#*
WfIJROTIC
eXPRE^IONj
COH6P ; Q\Q THIS
Mb THIS
I WAS I&HDG The
WORM? THAT IT
COl/M7 60 ITS m
awp r ami? 60
MIME.
m rue
worm?
mimmereo
ANP SAIP
r m
mesne.
Alow n/6
COITHpaW/D
mow
THE mo
fOft
CQHMVUt’
CATm
men i aon) go
THIS- Af)P
THIS
its our
of 5 m
mtm.
m WORM?
THftlK
I'M A
mu
cxm
(00
FOR THE OBSERVER
The Market in
Australiana
A mong the stately homes of Sydney's
North Shore suburb of Wahroonga
lives Marsden Hordern, once a retail
store executive, who has decided to turn
his hobbv of collecting Australiana into
a job After visiting Europe and dredging
successfully through hundreds of old
bookshops and auction rooms for old
maps, charts, books and relics related to
Australia’s early history,’ he has decided
to earn his living selling his treasures to-
fellow-countrymen. That is, if he can
persuade himself to part with them.
Marsden Hordern and his brother
Hugh, think that Australians are becom-
ing so interested in their early beginnings
that it is worth Marsden’s while to visit
Europe and the Far East regularly, to
fossick in the back alleys and off the
beaten tracks for. old treasures.
“If we see anything else old and in-
teresting, we often buy that too, but we’re
after Australiana mainly,” Marsden said.
“Here is perhaps the most fascinating
chart of the whole collection. Handle it
carefully—it's 350 years old.”
He handed me a chart of New Guinea,
the Solomons and the Queensland coast
made by Cornelius de Jode in 1593 show-
ing a large lump of country vaguely
resembling Queensland as we know it
today. A ridge of mountains ran down
the east coast somewhat similar to the
.Great Dividing Range but the country
was peopled with dragons, snakes and a
man, rather like a Greek god, with a bow
and arrow out hunting. Marsden said he
found it in a bookshop in Prague.
Ten years ago Marsden was navigator
of the 64-ft. schooner “Mistral II” in the
Sydney-Hobart yacht race. He had spent
five . years in the R.A.N. where he
developed his passion for navigation and
our early navigators. Even in those days
he was collecting old maps and accounts
of early voyagers along the east coast,
Bass and Flinders, D’Entrecasteaux, La
Perouse and others.
He showed me another bundle, beauti-
ful colored engravings of old sailing
ships made from plates engraved by
Henry Papprill and painted by an artist
called Knell in 1857. These engravings
were made for Hordern by an elderly
English engraver. There were old Italian


and Czechoslovakian engravings of
French, English and Dutch ships from
plates handed down through generations
of European engravers.
“Here’s one of the ‘Samuel Enderby,’
the first ship to chase whales around the
Horn to Australia,” Marsden said, “i
found that in an old bookshop in Oxford.
“And this one of the ‘Archimedes’ is
dated 1834. She was one of the first
ships fitted with this type of propeller.
That engraving was done by an Italian.
“In Paris recently I was trying to find
out from some of the leftbank bookshop
sellers where they got their beautiful
engravings of maps and old ships. I
finally discovered a fabulous old crafts-
man working in a slum of a garret turn-
mg out these exquisite bird pictures as
well as beautiful, colored engravings of
old maps. ’ w
Returmng to the maps Marsden showed
me a print of one of the first maps of
the world. It was made by the Ptolemies
2000 years ago. The punt, which was
100 years old and on which Austi alia is,
of course, unrecognisable, he found m
Vienna.
In a little shop in Salisbury, England,
he found an engraving 110 years old, of
all the islands of Oceania including a
shapeless blob marked Nouveile Holland.
Also in the same shop was a lovely hand-
painted map of Adelaide 120 years ago
and century-old colored engravings of
scenes of old Sydney, Hobart and Mel-
bourne.
“Here’s something I’ll never part with,”
Marsden said. “I picked it up in a rather
shabby auction room, thinking it might
be a painting of some ships used in the
early voyages of discovery to Australia.”
After having the painting restored, it
turned out to be an original by the famous
naval painter Clarkson Stanfield of
Nelson’s “Victory” being towed into
Gibraltar with Nelson’s body on board
after the Battle of Trafalgar in 1805.
In the north of England Marsden
picked up an old book, published in 1790,
of the voyage of Captain Phillip to Aus-
tralia in 1788, written by Captain Hunter,
At another shop he found the journals of
Major Michell the surveyor general of
the colony, recounting his eastern Aus-
tralian explorations,
“Here is something else I can’t part
with,” Marsden said. It was a book,
“The Life and Labors of the Rev. Samuel
Marsden,” after whom Marsden Hordern
is named. The book was by a nephew
of Samuel Marsden, J. B. Marsden, and
was published in 1858.
Another treasure is an ebony-and-
whalebone quadrant, about 150 years old,
use d as a sex t an t by a whaling ship which
called at Sydney many years ago. And
Marsden showed me accounts of the
voyages of La Perouse written by La
Billardiere in 1800 and dedicated to
Robert Peel.
tITT . ’ ,
... Her f > s a chronometer 103 years old.
*°‘ a Datch sador dl '™S
w " “• Marsden said, carefully
a " dlm « the cedar wooden case which he
dad made himself.
I keep it at Greenwich mean time, and
correct it each day as if I were at sea,”
he said. “Even the winding key is a
masterpiece of old-fashioned workman-
ship. This is another treasure I’ll hang
on to.
“I get so excited when I find something
good and old. I just can’t part with it.”
SHEILA PATRICK
ABORIGINALITIES
On the Banks
of the Daly
T am camped on the clean, red, river-
gravel of the shore of the Daly River.
The river, placid, jade-green from the
overhanging fig-trees, paper-barks and
pandanus, flows out of the distant range
under the clear, pale-opal sky.
On my arrival, I called at the police-
station, a shuttered house standing on
high piles. I walked under a bougain-
villea-covered trellis. The policeman’s
wife told me that Mr and Mrs Lear, the
previous officer and his wife whom I
knew when I was here last, are some-
where in Queensland. Mrs Lear on my
last trip showed me her diary, which, she
said, she had shown to no one.
It was a thick note-book filled with
recorded events of her days at this isolated
post, records of times when her husband
was away on patrols and she was alone
with the aborigines. She was fond of
horses and would go out riding alone in
the bush She had seen brumbies drink-
ing at lilied billabongs, crocodiles sliding
down off the river-banks, brolgas and
jabiroos wading in secluded water-holes.
I told her that she should make a book
of it all, and that was how Mrs Aeneas
Gunn wrote “We of the Never-Never.”
I remembered Mrs Lear's dogs, two
savage, yet devoted blue cattle-dogs. One,
Sunny-Boy, so the present policeman’s
wife told me, had saved Mrs Lear from
a snake which come for her out in the
bush. The. dog attacked the snake and
killed it, but, in doing so, was bitten, and
died. Mrs Lear carried Sunny-Boy home
and buried him.
I am lying on the warm, dry, river-
gravel reading Robert Graves’ “The White
Goddess,” and this is the place to read
it. “Nowadays” is a civilisation in which
the prime emblems of poetry are dis-
honored ; in which serpent, lion and eagle
belong to the circus-tent; ox, salmon and
boar to the cannery ; racehorse and grey-
hound to the betting-ring ; and the sacred-
grove to the saw-mill. In which the
moon is despised as a burned-out satellite
of the earth and women reckoned as
“auxiliary State personnel.” In which
money will buy almost anything but
truth, and almost anyone but the truth-
possessed poet.
It is evening. The distant range is
purple-red in the reflected light. The
river is even more placid, flowing past
bearing leaves and sticks and blossoms.
At the now yellow-brown sand-bar the
wallabies are drinking. They drink, sit
up, move slowly along the wet edge of
the sand, then move slowly about picking
and smelling. They bound, or leisurely
chase each other up into the bush.
The glistening moon is sitting on a
branch above my head.
Dawn is pale turquoise and galah-
breasted. The river gleams like silver
and in silver, fluting songs the birds are
wakening all along the river-banks. It
is just after sunrise and an earth-brown
and grey wallaby is drinking at the
shadowed part of the river. He moves
along on his hindlegs and forepaws. He
sits up, sniffing, regarding the camp. He
moves up the river-bank and disappears
into the scrub.
Old Mr Risdale's house is a bush-
built, earth-floored, rusting iron structure
that is unchanged from the time I last
saw it 15 years ago. Ris. has been 30
years on the Daly. He has been a peanut,
tobacco and banana-grower by turns.
Now he has given it all away for croco-
dile-shooting. In fact, almost everyone
on the Daly is crocodile-shooting. It is
as bad as a gold-rush, with almost as much
money in it. Ris’s house is stacked with
bags of flour and sugar, with tea, tobacco,
canned beer and all kinds of clothing.
It is like a general store.
He has 30 aborigines on his place.
They have six trucks among them. They
have bicycles and transistor-radios, which
they leave on all night. They have rifles
and unlimited ammunition. They have
special, batteried torches which strap on
to one’s head when out hunting or shoot-
ing at night. They have the best of
tucker, clothes and equipment. Crocodile
skins are worth up to 15s. an inch. Ris-
says that the croc, business is a bubble
which will burst. But while it lasts, the
aborigines are “whooping” it up. At
least they know how to live and enjoy
it.
“I was years down the drain, but I've
come good now,” Ris. tells me, “I’ve got
tons of flour, tobacco, tinned beef, P ol^


A 1 / v-it.
v>r :;• W ifmM\ *vU
/.$
»*■
■•••»
KJ ,
! f
>*
rim y
• •:•>:• ■x±-. *♦ v v
' N
5F
f. /
M
. /,"* a
/ /
.ix::::*
X
ip
: **<A
f -
M
r?
**u' ,
\
v X-\ :. \ ;*.
A ,
\ s £m
a
\ _ • '-
\
N x A
&
*5
Uj
CO
Q
*3
<<;
js;
r
6-?
First and foremost, it is a track structure —in New South Wales two
rails spaced 4' BV' apart—resting on and secured to sleepers (2,640
or more to the mile) which, in turn, are embedded in ballast.
Rails traversed by flanged wheels guide trains weighing nearly 2,000
tons, consisting of up to 75 coupled vehicles, to give speedy, expeditious transport.
These rails are resilient enough to be laid in relatively sharp curves and can carry
axle loadings of 50,000 lbs. or more. So smooth is their running surface that
4,000 horsepower can haul 5,000 tons, whereas that same horsepower will move
only 400 tons over a motor highway and will lift only 60 tons into the air.
All this simply means that a railway produces more transportation for less land,
less manpower and less fuel than any other device to move people or goods
overland.
This efficient, low-cost transport operation is the contribution the New South
Wales Government Railways is continually making to the economic well-being of
the State.
NEW SOUTH WALES GOVERNMENT
RAILWAYS


sausages. I’ve got dresses and fancy
shirts, it all gladdens the hearts of my
aborigines. When I die, I'm making this
place over to all the abo. kids. That's
good enough, isn’t it? Joe there brings
in a big croc. skin. ‘What you want’ I
ask. ‘Oo,’ he says, ‘coupla bags of flour,
salt, sugar, tea.’ Whatever he wants I
give him.”
Judy-woodie, the first wife of my old
aboriginal friend Smiler, who died a
little while ago, was bequeathed to Ris.
She was constantly attending to all our
needs, bringing us fresh cans of beer when
Ris. called for them. When I jokingly
asked if I could buy her from Ris., she
became all coy and girlish.
“What can you do with these people?”
Ris. said. “I'm always arguing with
Father Cosgrove down at the mission
about them. I try to set him right about
them I was telling how an aboriginal
came to me. ‘I want white shirt and
trousers,’ he says. ‘Where you get
money?’ I ask. ‘I sell ’em my lubra
longa road-maker.’ ‘What you want
trousers for?’ I say. ‘I want to go along
church,’ he tells me. When I told Father
Cosgrove this, he threw up his hands in
horror and chased me out of his office.”
“You don’t ever get lonely?” I asked.
“Gawd no,” said Ris. “they won't let
you sleep at night, piccaninnies howling,
dogs and cats on the roof. With all my
people here? Lonely? Gawd no. This
is my home. I’ll always be here.”
The back of Ris’s house is an indescrib-
able tangle of old iron and machinery.
Aborigines are sitting on the ground with
their children and belongings under the
mango-trees. A transistor is going,
echoing from out of a rusting iron shed.
A truck drives into the area, pulls up,
and a big, bearded aboriginal climbs down
out of the driver’s seat.
Barramundi for breakfast this morn-
ing. lam also bogged down in the river-
sand and my battery is exhausted. I
became bogged yesterday afternoon and
by dark, with continual jacking-up and
digging-out, I had travelled about 30
yards Going for help, 1 saw a light by
the river. It was an aboriginal spearing
fish with a fish-spear and head-torch,
This aboriginal, Tommy, walked back
into my camp with three large barramundi
and a mullet. I traded a tin of tobacco
for a six-pound barramundi. At dawn
I scaled and filleted it on the river-gravel
with a hawk wheeling over my head.
Now I sit feasting on grilled barra-
mundi while I wait for Stott, the police-
man, to come and tow me out with his
four-wheel-drive truck. Last night, when
I was exhausted with my efforts to get
out of the sand, I thought of the lines:
“I’ve been jilted, jarred and crossed
in love,
and sand-bagged in the dark,
till, if a mountain fell on me,
I’d treat it as a lark.’’
Tommy tells me that it is the barra-
mundi that I hear leaping and splashing
in the river at night. I asked Tommy if
there were any Munga-munga, the beauti-
ful siren-women, with long hair and
gleaming teeth, in the river. Hesitant at
first, he at last said there were, that he
had heard them laughing and splashing
and talking at times, and that he knew
of one man who had caught one.
Tommy also told me that his “awau,”
his totems, were the barramundi and cat-
fish. He said that the eagles strike at
the barramundi in the river and hook
them with their “hands” through the eyes
and bear them off.
Now, after Stott has towed me out of
the sand with his four-wheel drive
Land/Rover, I am camped on firm
ground just below the river-crossing,
The continual “rush-hush-hushing” sound
of the water lulls me. I could go to
sleep. The insidious influence of the
place, where time does not matter, is
stealing over me. What seemed important
yesterday now no longer matters. Lie
back. Be at peace. The water is still
rush-hushing over the crossing as it was
seven years ago.
Three aborigines come past my camp,
each wheeling a bicycle. Each has a
rifle slung over his shoulder. One also
has a fish-spear. One is smoking a big,
curved pipe. They are going up the
river after crocodiles. At the crossing
they hoist their bicycles on to their
shoulders and wade across. One man
stops to put on sandshoes. They walk
up the track and disappear into the green
of pandanus, paper-barks and bamboo.
The old-man aboriginal, Roger, has
given me my tribal kinship. It is the
rainbow, belonging to Kunmanngurr the
Rainbow Serpent. Roger said that I
must call him “yela,” father, now.
Last night I went with Tommy to the
billabong over the river after geese.
Tommy had with him a bundle of
throwing-sticks. It was long after sunset
when we waded across the river at the
crossing. The stars were out, but there
was sfill light in the sky. Half-grunting,
half-honking cries were coming from
around the billabong. Some were geese,
and some were made by other aborigines
calling the geese.
When a goose appeared against the
light in the sky over the billabong. the
aborigines, crouching down in the scrub,
would call it up to them. The sticks
were then thrown with a swishing, wing-
beating sound to bring the goose down,
breaking its wing or its neck. 1 thought
at the time how silent this method was
compared with the shattering report of
a gun or a rifle which would frighten
all the geese.
I wake in the moonless night, magni-
ficent with stars. The Milky Way, the
impregnating sperm of the Rainbow
Serpent, Kunmanngurr, reaches right
across the night.
The moon is rising, glistening, gleam-
ing, emanating its radiance through the
trunks and leaves of the pandanus and
paper-barks. It is a Corot nocturne with
the moon in the blue night above the
range and the reflecting glass of the river.
Range, sand-bar and the masses of the
trees are doubled in the river. Some to mg
in the dark, range-image in the river i s
slowly moving, swimming, causing a con-
stant silver gleam. It may be a fish, bm
more likely it is a fresh-water crocodile
ROLAND ROBINSON
That Was the Country.
Plenty of crocodiles in freshwater
lagoons about Gilbert River and other
parts of Q. Gulf country. They grow to
about sft long, live on fish, and are
reputedly harmless to animals. At any
rate, men bathe in holes full of them
with perfect impunity.
— “Bulletin,” June 16, 1900.
S. Australia’s date-plantations in the
far north still do fairly well. At one of
them, Lake Harry, there are 3000 palms
which will soon be in bearing.
— “Bulletin,” May 19, 1900.
Curious that, though Parliament and
the public are alw'ays being assured that
pastoral pursuits nowadays mean insol-
vency, it is always the seasoned squatter
who buys whatever runs change hands
at auction.— “ Bulletin,” May 26, 1900.
Recently asked my 3rd class (Namoi
school) in natural history to write down
seven native animals inhabiting Australia.
Painfully scrawded on the slate of a
selector’s son was the following- “I wal-
liby, 2 roos, 3 bandycoots, an I bunyip.”
That boy seems to have a future in your
‘aboriginality” column.
— “Bulletin,” August 4, 1900.
Queensland Govt, proposes sending the
mails per motor-car to dreadful outback
places like Boulia and Birdsville, where
there are no railways, and the dry roads
are often impassable even for camels,
and there are no landmarks save an
aboriginal’s bones and the 140th degree
of longitude. The idea certainly seems
worth trying.
-—“Bulletin,” August 25, 1900.


The Red Page
A Burkean Breviary
By PETER WESTERWAY
The Philosophy of Edmund Burke.
Selected and edited by Louis I.
Bredvold and Ralph G. Ross. Uni-
versity of Michigan Press. 48/-.
IT is old news now that conservatism is
having a revival. Where in the thirties,
or even the immediate post-war years, the
conservative met tolerance or contempt
—tolerance if older and therefore regret-
tably tainted by a classical education ;
contempt if younger and presumably
armored either by natural obtuseness or
a reactionary economic background —he
is now the dominant species.
This revival has been most spectacular
in the United Kingdom, where conserva-
tism’s intellectual successes have been
mirrored in politics. There its proponents
can count not only Laski’s replacement
by the traditionalist Oakeshott, but
Macmillan’s displacement of Attlee.
Moreover, there is the Bow Group to
show the doubters that new ideas and
new blood are welcome.
But the same trend is visible else-
where: in Adenauer’s Germany and de
Gaulle’s France as much as in Menzies’s
Australia. In the United States it has led
to a renewed interest in the apostle of
conservatism, Edmund Burke, and this
collection of his writings is only one of
many attempts to relate his thought to
the present.
Of course, the usual has happened.
Some fruits of the revival —Russell Kirk’s
“The Conservative Mind” and Clinton
Rossiter’s “Conservatism in America” are
examples—have been major contributions
to the subject ; others offer little but
Ph.D.'s and promotions to their authors.
Burke and conservatism are fashionable,
with all the attendant consequences.
Not that the consequences need all be
bad. Thus “The Philosophy of Edmund
Burke” is a really handy collection, a
selection and arrangement of an author
whose works are notoriously scattered.
Moreover, it is well indexed, with brief
background notes on each subject sec-
tion. But few of the attempts to modern-
ise Burke commit the crudities of this
one. Messrs Bredvold and Ross quite
openly regard the poor man as a prophy-
lactic ; “Burke’s value to us,” they
declare, “depends on how we use him,”
and they go on to list the ways in which
they feel we should. Mostly, it seems,
we should use him to ward off Com-
munism ; their collection is a sort of holy
hook for conservative believers: a
Burkean Breviary.
There is something to be said for the
view. Even Burke’s contemporaries—
who often dismissed him as an Irish
adventurer—regarded him as a master of
English prose, and the conservative case
has never been more powerfully put:
To avoid, therefore, the evils of
inconstancy and versatility, ten-
thousand times worse than those of
obstinacy and the blindest prejudice,
we have consecrated the state, that
no man should approach to look into
its defects or corruptions but with
due caution ; that he should never
dream of beginning its reformation
by its subversion ; that he should
approach to the faults of the state
as to the wounds of a father, with
pious awe and trembling solicitude.
By this wise prejudice we are taught
to look with horror on those chil-
dren of their country who are
prompt rashly to hack that aged
parent in pieces and put him into
the kettle of magicians, in hopes
that by their poisonous weeds and
wild incantations they may regener-
ate the paternal constitution and
renovate their father’s life.
And there are attractive fringe benefits
for the conservative believer. Thus Mr
Menzies would find in Burke some
wonderful ammunition; defending
Royalty:
I thought ten-thousand swords
must have leaped from their scab-
bards to avenge even a look that
threatened her with insult . . . On
this scheme of things, a king is but
a man, a queen is but a woman,
a woman is but an animal —and an
animal not of the highest order.
Attacking Mr Calwell:
When leaders choose to make
themselves bidders at an auction of
popularity, their talents, in the con-
struction of the state, will be of no
service.
Protesting against criticisms of the
Richardson Report:
I hope there are none of you so
corrupted with the doctrine taught
by wicked men for the worst pur-
poses, and received by the malignant
credulity of envy and ignorance,
which is, that the men who act upon
the public stage are all alike, all
equally corrupt, all influenced by no
other views than the sordid lure of
salary and pension.
Mr Holt could meet his credit-squeeze
critics with dignity:
A statesman differs from a profes-
sor in a university: the latter has
only the general view of society ; the
former, the statesman, has a number
of circumstances to combine with
those general ideas . . .
And even Archbishop Gough need not
feel that he had wasted his money:
These philosophers are fanatics . . .
when once they have thrown off the
fear of God, which was in all ages
too often the case, and the fear ol
man, which is now the case, and
when in that state they come to
understand one another, and to act
in corps, a more dreadful calamity
cannot arise out of hell to scourge
mankind.
Unfortunately, there are pitfalls.
Should his opponents consult Mr Holt’s
ready-made speech, they would find a
sting in the tail (“. . . judging contrary to
the exigencies of the moment, he may
ruin his country for ever”); a Burkean
Mr Menzies would find himself com-
mitted to the abolition of arbitration
(“labor must be subject to all the laws
and principles of trade, and not to
regulations foreign to them”); justifying
interference in South Africa (“when any
country is divided, the other Powers are
free to take which side they please”),
and so on.
What the editors have ignored is that
there are many ways of viewing “con-
servatism.” To list only three: as the
ideology of a particular historical move-
ment —the reaction of the feudal-agrarian
aristocracy to the rising power of the
bourgeoisie, liberalism and the French
Revolution; as an autonomous,
transcendant system of ideas, valid for
all time; as a typical response to a
recurring type of historical situation.
There is no particular reason why we
should choose one rather than the others,
but unless we mean to mislead there are
good reasons for consistency. But Bred-
vold and Ross are not consistent. Of
course, they reject aristocracy, but there-
after they slide from one meaning to the
other. On the one hand they want to
present Burke’s (i.e., conservative) dicta
as immutable truths ; on the other hand,
they—like Mr Menzies or the others in
the same position—find it impossible to
accept all of Burke. He was, after all,
the only person Adam Smith found who
agreed with him before they had met.
Of course, it is possible to restrict
“conservatism” to the third sense, to treat
it as a typical response by dominant
groups to threats to the status quo, but
this sometimes means accepting unwel-
come conclusions. It could mean, for
instance, accepting the present Russian
regime as defensible because long-
established. Burke’s attack on the French
Revolution, after all, hinged a good deal
on its lack of “prescription,” “which
through long usage mellows into legality
governments that were violent in their
commencement.”
It certainly means accepting that aristo-
crats—and even middle-class democrats
—may properly be treated as revolu-
tionaries. It means admitting that Burke
can be used against us. The editors do
not want to do this. In fact they refuse
point blank to do so, and thus do great
disservice to their own cause. To play
for a moment at their own game (for
“despotism” read “totalitarianism,” for
“French Revolution” read “Russian
Revolution,” etc), substitute the word
“communism” for “democracy” in this
passage from their own pens:
The critics of democracy can be


BOOKHUNTER
Dept. “D,” Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.O. Sydney.
its greatest friends, but only when
they are within the fold, for then
they criticise the existent by the stan-
dards of the ideal; they don’t oppose
the ideal itself. Those who do are
enemies who want to curtail liberty,
not to make it more responsible, to
enslave, not to free.
The Eighth Deadly Sin
A Sunday Kind of Love. Alan Davies.
Cheshires. 20s.
A ccidie or sloth of the soul, the eighth
deadly sin, is a daunting subject for
a writer because its essence is inaction.
After reading Alan Davies’s stories, one
may add a rider to Aristotle’s definition
of tragedy so that it becomes “imitation
of an action —or inaction” because they
deal in the unspectacular region of the
paralysed will, the inability to link per-
ception and practise, the failure of com-
munication.
At least, a number of them do. In
“Carlton Night” Roy, a scientist who
can’t face another day in his laboratory,
staggers through Catlton on a pub crawl
and sleeps in the Exhibition Gardens.
This is the last stage in the collapse of
his will but in the morning he scales a
tree and has a blissful moment of accept-
ance. The moments of painful aware-
ness and heightened perception, of cold-
sweaty agony, of euphoria and listless-
ness are numerous in these stories but
those of acceptance are rare. The Presby-
terian preacher whose voice cuts out
during a sermon because his wife has
left him finds only a brittle sprightliness
to carry him along, Vernon, caught in a
hopeless affair with his securely married
former girl friend, can neither accept its
impossibility nor break up two house-
holds.
But it would be a brave man who
would say exactly what a number of the
stories are about. “Granny and the
Community” is merely a hint and an
unsatisfactory political fable, “Saturday
Night Function” a sketch, but even some
of the more substantial stories are tan-
talisingly unsatisfactory. “The Art of
My Grandfather” promises both an
assessment of Australian tradition and
of the relations between a teacher and
his parents but it passes it all off with
a shrug, “The Glass of Water” broaches
a worthwhile subject in intellectualoid
Communists but the development is let
down by the conclusion and “A Sunday
Kind of Love” is likewise mystifying.
This is not to deny that their achievement
is considerable: the characters and their
relationships are often brilliantly
observed, the phrasing trenchant, the
feelings convincing.
Part of the reader’s disappointment is
due to the stories not going beyond in-
cisive description to revelation. But there
is also an element of mystification about
a number of them. Not only can Davies
be complex, oblique, ambiguous and
enigmatic; sometimes he is evasive.
Vernon in “A Sunday Kind of Love”
is a vague figure. For instance, we are
told that he is grey-haired but in the last
line we learn he is 31. No point is made
of this, it is merely an inconsistency.
Moreover there is no explanation as to
who he is nor why he married the wife
he no longer loves. There is little
sense of chronology—what did happen
when he was 24? When explanation
does come it is on a cliche level of
Vernon shunning his wife because she
can have no more children. What we
have is an intensity of feeling in a void;
this * s not to sa y a wr i ter Should explain
his character’s feelings—he is probably
writing to explain them, or try to order
them, for himself. But he should convey
sufficient about the character for him to
exist apart from his feelings,
Mr Davies, now this collection is out,
is probably aware of this danger and
others also, such as that of being
determinedly little-magazinish and
modishly defeatist. Others should recog-
nise his tenacity in defining Carlton, a
cheerless Presbyterian moral landscape
and some people, places and things which
have never appeared anywhere else in
such a sophisticated focus,
DESMOND O'GRADY
Good CLean Fun
The Philosophy of the Bed. Mary Eden
and Richard Carrington. Hutchin-
son. 375. 3d.
We can thank’the bed, which has intro-
** auced so many people to so many
interesting experiences, for introducing
us to an unfamiliar Bonnard in this book ;
but it is not in color, so the introduction
is purely formal. The only one of the
copious illustrations that is printed in
color is the Ingres odalisque on the
jacket, and she (one thinks no worse of
her for this) is common property.
Anthologies on piquant subjects are
always introducing you to people you
already know. Van Gogh’s bedroom at
Arles, Rembrandt's Danae, Boucher’s
Miss Morphise O’Murphy, Velasquez's
“Rokeby” Venus, Goya’s “Maya Naked”
and Manet’s “Olympia”—the cards are re-
shuffled from book to book, but the same
faces you met at the Annual Cocktail
Party of the Society for the Suppression
of Drunken Driving bob up again at the
first night of aJ. C. Williamson play. It
is the same with Interesting Facts. The
Great Bed of Ware, for instance, and the
beds of Dr Graham’s Temple of Health
with their surprise denouement about
Emma Hamilton, are the subjects of
magazine articles every week. The sun
never sets on them ; they remind one of
the story told here (in the chapter on
Dying in Bed) of Voltaire’s dying friend
who asked the time and was told it was
two in the morning. “Two o’clock!” she
said. “My consolation is being sure that
at this time somewhere someone is making
love!”
Still, if people did not find their stock
beds here they would complain to the
authors; and there is quite a bit of fresh
material, such as the one about the French
doctor who had a brick bed with a built-
in lavatory, and a satisfying selection of
plates of the beds of the Bey of Tunis,
Empress Josephine, that in which Sir
Winston Churchill was born, and a vast
number of cots and cradles, with also a
model of the murder bed of the Crane
Inn at Colnbrook, Middlesex, from
which guests in the 16th century were
tipped through the floor into boiling
water.
The most modern bed shown is the
£2500 bed from the London furniture
exhibition of 1959, but there is no men-
tion of the folding divan bed so widely
advertised in Australia at this moment-
maybe because it is adequately repre-
sented by the Egyptian folding bed from
the tomb of Tutankhamen, far more
simple and quite as uncomfortable. Yet
there is still one modern bed the authors
have missed, and one that I heard of
too late myself. Having achieved what I
considered the utmost in simplicity by
building a pair of platform beds in
ordinary plain cedar, I was annoyed to
read in a novel called “The Way We Live
Now” of a man who went out and
bought a door and a mattress, screwed
readymade legs to each corner of the
door—and so to bed.
My envy of this simple bed might have
been mixed with envy for the complex
uses to which it was put in the novel;
but here the present book brings con-
solation, if only the consolation of out-
doing all modern novels, in the story of
the Duke of Orleans who had the number
12 printed on all his buttons, and ordered
everything in dozens, because of the
happy memories this brought him of a
night spent with a Mademoiselle Des-
champs. Besides, the Air Force is said
to prefer its pilots not to know anything
about engines because worrying about
how a plane worked might distract them
from flying it. If I had not made such
good beds . . .
There are pictures of Salvador Dali and
Brendan Behan in bed to illustrate the
chapter on Sleep ; and pictures of Sir
Compton Mackenzie, Stanley Holloway,
Christian Dior, Elsa Martinelli and others
reading, writing and greeting friends and
reporters in bed, an idea that comes down,


sa y the authors, from the habit kings had
0 f holding court in bed (the lit de justice).
Operatic composers wrote in bed, but
oever symphony composers—and most
people will agree with Chesterton, quoted
Pere as saying that to have a reason for
being in bed is to cheapen the whole in-
stitution ; one may pick up a book and
casually glance through it, but to use a
bed for meeting people ; to write in
bed . . .
There is another custom of which I
cannot approve, and that is the custom
0 f couvade, in which the father takes to
bed during or after childbirth and spends
a month or so with the baby while the
mother goes hunting or collecting fire-
wood. It is only fair to say that the
authors treat this way of life, once wide-
spread from Europe to Japan, with the
same gentle amusement they have for
Mary Toft, who gave birth to 15 rabbits
between November 1 and 15, 1726. Miss
Eden is a radio and television writer ;
Mr Carrington a zoologist: between them
they manage to make beds seem full of
good clean fun.
RONALD McCUAIG
Pretty Tinpot
The Arts in Australia: Painting, by
Brian Finemore; Sculpture, by
Lenton Parr. Longmans. 6s. each.
A thirty-two page booklet on Aus-
tralian painting from 1837 to 1951
is clearly not designed to interest the well-
informed, and offers little of value to the
uninformed. The introductory page of
“Dates in Australian History” seems
typical of the irrelevance of the endeavor.
Among the 19 key dates listed are such
epoch-making events in the history of
Australian civilisation as “1908 —Can-
berra chosen as site of capital ’ and “1951
-Commonwealth Jubilee.” The selection
of artists is somewhat less capricious, and
the pictures chosen, strictly one per artist,
are mostly the old favorites. The repro-
ductions are so small and vague that they
probably do harm to the artists’ memory.
There should be more protection of
artists from inadequate reproduction of
their works, even if the publisher seems
to have a quite commendable aim. The
text is sound enough in content, but as
with the whole work, one wonders at
whom it is aimed. The terminology of
movements and styles would be quite
clear to students of art history, but any-
one in need of this rapid digest is not
likely to know anything about it. An
overseas reader would find it all pretty
tinpot.
Lenton Parr’s volume on sculpture
adopts more sensible limits. Sculpture in
Australia is a relatively new art to the
public and is enjoying great popularity
and even public patronage. Architects
find more use for sculpture than for paint-
ing and insurance companies and the like
do not seem to mind the expense. As
a result, this is a volume of contemporary
sculpture, and for that reason alone it is
interesting. The enormous difficulty of
giving an adequate idea of a sculpture
in a photograph is not, of course, over-
come, but at least one does get a reason-
able notion of the relative merits of the
works. Like the sculptures themselves
which reflect a love of size, tangibility
and bluntness, the brief commentaries of
the editor are clear and informative. The
book, though slight, emanates a feeling
of vigor quite absent in its companion
volume. To anyone interested in search-
ing out the work of our contemporary
sculptors, this could be a handy starting
point. The study is certainly worth
pursuing.
BILL HANNAN
The German Bogey
Germany Divided. Terence Prittie.
Hutchinson. 445. 9d.
Germany. Marshall Dill Jnr. Univer-
sity of Michigan Press. 70s.
West German Elections. Current
Affairs Bulletin. July 24.
VUith the Berlin crisis moving, perhaps,
” to its final climax the attitudes of
the West towards the German people
assume an importance greater than at any
time since the war. The crude anti-
German feeling which in Britain can lead
to an unholy alliance of A. J. P. Taylor
aad Lord Beaverbrook is expressed
fifteen-thousand miles away in Australia
by an apathy shading into an irritation
that we should be called on to concern
ourselves with the “arrogant and war-
orazy Germans.”
On the reverse side of the coin the
attitudes of Germans towards the West,
*he products of diverse factors ranging
from the old blind Nationalist pride to
the genuine and justified sense of affront
at some of the more wild Western
suspicions, are also relevant.
Mr Prittie, Manchester Guardian
correspondent at Bonn since 1946, knows
Germany well enough to puncture the
illusions of the anti-Germans and to
describe with accuracy the myths in
which some West-Germans have found
refuge from the memories of a disgrace-
ful war. He also allows the Germans
to speak for themselves, both by anec-
dote and direct quotation. The book
is more a. social study of the German
people, or, more precisely, the West-
German people, than a political history,
Some overseas reviewers have unjustly
criticised Mr Prittie for the space he
devotes to the problem of neo-Nazism.
Western public opinion regards neo-
Nazism as a menace. Any book on
Germany that does not examine this
Nightfall
One evening when a genial air
ruffled the jacaranda trees
Professor Krote spread his square
musician’s hands on his plump knees,
and, sighing, sat alone among the
uncaring
derelict drunks, and lovers, while the
flaring
coat of the river glowed and flamed
with sunset, and declined to drab
monotony, and smokestacks framed
in saffron light rose up to stab
his breast with memories: a yellow
sky ;
cypress, jet-black; a boy plays
“Islamei”
with arrogant skill; his teacher claws
a fine gilt chair with nervous pride—
and then the turbulent applause ;
roccoco gods and cherubs ride
his winds of promise, and their gilded
scrolls
shine in that glittering hall; the
Danube rolls
past those high windows in its skin
of sunset.
“Who would know me now,
a second-rate musician in
an ignorant town? Or tell me how
discords of fading light find and
restore
the colors of a day that comes no
more?”
So Krote mused, as if his lost
hope darkened on the water’s face.
The poor drunks slept beneath a host
of falling flowers. In light embrace
awaiting night, young lovers moved
their tender
hands with instinctive gestures of
surrender.
Sleep with its textureless draperies
curtained him. His lean spirit stayed
watchful among the shaken trees
drinking God’s peace, and humbly
prayed
for daily bread, for one hour when he
might
rejoice, that his soul be not required
this night.
Krote, waking from troubled rest,
tossing his wild musician’s hair,
feeling the torment leave his breast
and vanish in the gentle air,
knew he must find, in the soul’s night,
alone,
what more the city held than brick
and stone.
FRANCIS GEYER


assumption is evasive. Mr Prittie traces
neo-Nazism from its sudden rise in the
early ’fifties in the Socialist Reich Party,
which at its peak in 1951 gained 11 per
cent, of the vote in a local State election,
to its suppression by the Adenauer Gov-
ernment. More importantly he docu-
ments the decline of the extreme Right
as a political force —in the 1957 Federal
elections the neo-Nazi front, the German
Reich Party, polled only 1 per cent, of
the national vote.
But while the neo-Nazo parties, like
the Communist party in Australia, have
remained electorally insignificant, it is
clear on Mr Prittie’s evidence that a con-
siderable amount of neo-Nazi literature
circulates. One neo-Nazi quoted sug-
gested that the bodies in concentration
camps were in fact wax dummies. The
analogy with the Communist party in
Australia, although of course not per-
fect, has some force.
While the neo-Nazis can gain no
effective political power it is clear that
their widespread message fosters a sup-
pressed but not dead extreme nationalism.
At the same time they attempt to
infiltrate other parties, notably the Free
Democrats, the number three party in
West Germany. Their publicity aims to
give an illusion of power which then
arouses fears both east and west of the
Iron Curtain which are reinforced by a
kind of racism, e.g., “It proves that the
only good German is a dead one.”
Mr Prittie strongly condemns the
blind anti-Germans of the Western world
who look to West Germany only to
reinforce their prejudices.
The C.A.B. on the West German elec-
tions maintains the normal high stan-
dard. It gives plenty of basic material
(often missing in Mr Prittie’s book which
takes a lot for granted). It concentrates
on defining specific election issues
which will influence the German Federal
elections.
Professor Dill’s work is one of a 16-
volume “History of the Modern World”
being published by the University of
Michigan. Professor Dill in his preface
admits that “it is not a scholar’s book.”
In that, at least, he is accurate. In a
work of more than 450 pages there are
less than half-a-dozen direct quotations.
Germany from Julius Caesar to last year
is summarised at high-school text level.
RICHARD HALL
Timid Bohemian
The First Bohemian: The Life of Henry
Murger. Robert Baldick. Hamish
Hamilton. 31s.
Murger is remembered now as the
author of the novel on which
Puccini's opera, “La Boheme,” is based
and it is doubtful that his name would
have survived if Puccini’s work had not
become a popular success. An incurably
timid person, Murger was a painstaking,
inhibited writer and he owed his popu-
larity during his lifetime to Barriere, a
young playwright who saw dramatic
possibilities in “Scenes de la Boheme”
and adapted it for the stage in 1849. His
successes were made for him by other
people.
Dr Baldick’s modest and attractively
anecdotic biography sets out the main
facts of Murger’s life for us. He was
born in poor circumstances, the son of
a Parisian concierge, and it was probably
only through being employed as secretary
by Count Jacques Tolstoy that he was
able to further his education. Through-
out his life he wrote insipid, sentimental
verses which he thought would make his
name and worked for a long time on a
huge verse drama called “Marie.” He
lived a poverty-stricken journalist’s life
in grim hotels on the Left Bank, fre-
quented the Cafe Momus where Baude-
laire and Courbet used to congregate and
which Gautier and Nerval occasionally
visited. He was closely associated with
Champfleury, with whom he lived for a
time and who was probably responsible
for turning him towards realistic fiction,
and with Nadar, one of the world’s
greatest photographers, some of whose
photos illustrate this book. He had a
series of mistresses —-Mimis and Musettes
—but seemed unable to establish a per-
manent relationship with any of them
except Anais, who shared his last years
and gave him the devoted and undemand-
ing affection he longed for.
After the popular success of Barriere’s
dramatic adaptation of “Scenes de la
Boheme,” Murger moved to the Right
Bank, became a prosperous householder
and something of a country gentleman,
buying a retreat at Marlotte in the forest
of Fontainebleau. He had left Bohemia
behind and wanted to become a success-
ful hunter, but his marksmanship was
poor and “would have warmed the heart
of St Francis of Assisi.” A poacher
killed the only animal Murger ever
brought back dead. He said: “There are
years when one is not in form,” and
there were certainly many in his life. He
was awarded the Legion of Honor and
the future was starting to look bright for
his creative work, but his health had been
undermined by years of poverty ; he had
had attacks of purpura, and by 1867 it
became obvious that he was dying. The
Goncourts wrote in their journal:
“Murger is dying of an illness in which
one rots alive. When they tried to trim
his moustache the other day the lip came
away with the hairs.”
Murger emerges from this biography
as a curiously endearing individual with
his timidity, his palpable charm and wit,
his irrepressible gaiety and courage. That
he was no dreary and dreamy senti-
mentalist is clear from some of his
ferocious dramatic criticism. But too little
of the contradictions of his personality
went into his work.
VIVIAN SMITH
Private Eye
Killing Cousins. Fletcher Flora. Cape
15s. 6d.
A wickedly witty tale of sexkittenwife
dead-duck husband and egghead lover,
all belonging to the Country Club set of
a small American town. Deftly observed,
with gay murder as minor theme, this
social satire maintains its pace at high
pitch from start to finish. Fine light fare.
Unlucky Dip. Margaret Henry. Cassell
17s. 9d.
Authentic northern cattle station set-
ting. Atmosphere and characters dovetail
closely. All quiet on surface, an ant-heap
underneath. Two murders, with amateur
detection. Pseudonym said to hide one of
our well known lady novelists. Story
moves a bit slowly, perhaps, but on the
whole a lucky dip for the reader.
The Sparta Medallion. H. L. Lawrence.
Macdonald. 15s. 6d.
Thriller, with a touch of Eric Ambler.
In plane crash, young geologist rescues
mysterious briefcase and medallion,
getting involved in top-level conspiracy to
pervert the whole future of Western
civilisation. Peruvian background a bit
thin. Trick ending. Deserves silver
medallion.
Let the Man Die. S. H. Courtier.
Hammond. 12s. 6d.
A massive dose of gore, ghosts, and
melodramatics for Sydney C. 1.8. when
its Super tangles with weird goings-on at
an Australian bush-hospital. Fast and
furious with double climax. Nothing
strained except your credulity.
Diminishing Returns. E. L. Withers.
Harrap. 17s.
Six friends and relations turn into five
corpses. Is the only survivor the villain
or the next victim 0 Promising situation
spoilt by final stupidity of villains which
belies their previous cleverness. Old
solicitor-detective an old bore. Mediocre.
No Sainted City. Sydney Bunce. Angus
and Robertson. 18s. 9d.
Powerful criminal machine, handsome
hero, sinister nightclub, in ever so wicked
Sydney ... all the stock ingredients stay
lumpy in this badly mixed cocktail.
Labored.
Miss Hogg and the Missing Sisters.
Austin Lee. Cape. 15s. 6d.
Tea-and-toast treatment of murder,
abduction, and blackmail in a tame trot
from London suburbia to wilds of Ire-
land. Miss out.
NERO
Banjo Paterson
Festival
Orange City Council Prize for Short
Story: £25.
Angus and Robertson’s Prize f°r
Poetry: £2O worth of Australian books.
Entries close: October 1. Details from
C. Hamer, 38 Allenby Road, Orange,
N.S.W. (Please send stamped envelope)'


Shows
Virtuosity versus Virtue
FILMS'
fhe Virgin Spring. No Room for Wild
Animals. Bergman. Sydney Savoy.
rpms extraordinary double-billing is
1 packed with beauty and horror,,
passion and poetry, artless art and devi-
ous artifice. Paradoxically, the former is
savage, the latter gentle ; the
one is totally unfit for child-
ren, the latter a masterpiece
for old and young alike ; the
former, widely acclaimed, faulty on
several counts ; the latter, relatively un-
known, in impeccably good taste. I
would recommend that “No Room for
Wild Animals” be screened by itself, with
a carefully chosen list of short subjects,
including Sweden’s greatest contribution
tc films, “The Great Adventure.” There
is no reason why they could not run to-
gether for a year or more to the delight
of children of any age, including every
critic in Christendom.
“The Virgin Spring” needs no praise
from me. It has carried off more honors
than it deserves, and appea r s to excite
almost universal admiration. 1 concede
power, brilliance, hashes of fine direction,
and splendid acting ; but I deny its
“genius,” and seriously question the great
Bergman’s motives. The violent little
folk-tale has been converted into a spec-
tacle of sophisticated cinematic horror by
a man too conscious of the tricks of his
trade, and of the sado-masochism of
potential audiences. In short, I suspect
him of pornography and sadism. These
are harsh words. I do not use them
because the subject is rape, and a father’s
revenge and expiation: these belong to
the tale, and are legitimate material for
the artist. But the contrived, presumably
“Aristotelian resolution” is mock-pious
rather than pious ; and the Christian pity,
on which Bergman plays, does not p n rge
the deliberate pagan terror.
These are not theological, but artistic,
objections. I was deeply moved by the
separate elements of “The Virgin Spring”;
but I object to the sum of its parts, as a
series of gut-gripping technical exercises.
The heartbroken mother (Birgitta Val-
berg) and father (Max von Sydow), and
the lovely, headstrong, doomed child
(Birgitta Patterson) give superb perform-
ances. The other actors, like the concept
of the film, are overblown projections of
the seamier side of Bergman’s schizo-
phrenic mind.
In contrast, “No Room for Wild
Animals” is a scientific documentary
artistically conceived. Without senti-
mentality, Bernhard Grzimek outdoes
Disney in his splendid photographic
record of African wild life doomed by
the approach of “civilisation.” It is a
lesson in the use of film as a medium for
artistic expression. I hope Bergman takes
the trouble to see it sometime.
ANTON VOGT
No Centre of Feeling
L’Avventiira. Antonioni. Gala. Sydney.
Uichelangelo Antonioni’s “L’Avven-
tura,” along with Fellini’s “La
Dolce Vita” and Visconti's “Rocco ei
suoi fratelli,” was hailed overseas last
year as evidence of a new excellence in
Italian cinema. It is a long (145 minutes),
slow-paced exploration of the dissatis-
factions of romantic love, of the imper-
manence of sentiments. A group of
wealthy Romans take a launch to the
Aeolian islands near Sicily. They land
one of the islands and there Gabriele
Ferzetti's discontented lover disappears.
Her best friend, Monica Vitti, joins him
m an extensive search which ends in
Palermo. By that stage Vitti is in love
with Ferzetti, but she finds him in the
J rms of another girl.
All this is recounted in masterly
fashion. Not only is the camera work
in its individual images but all
photography, whether shots of the
'Hands, Palermitan architecture or a
society party, is controlled by a guiding
Visibility. Moreover an unobtrusive,
c °nplex sound track reinforces every-
thing Antonioni wants to express. What
he expresses is another matter. Whereas
Fellini “forces reality” Antonioni aims at
an undramatic surface in order to reveal
the inner life, of his characters. He
achieves this with a degree of psycho-
logical subtlety unusual in the cinema,
but I think the comparisons made with
Proust and Henry James wrongheaded.
But Antonioni does not avoid boring his
spectators in giving such a realistic
account of fundamentally bored people—
Fellini avoided this by his panoramic
study of diverse groups.
Both Fellini and Antonioni ultimately
fail, despite their artistry, because their
films lack a centre of feeling. Ferzetti in
“L’Avventura,” with his wavering affec-
tion and tearful remorse, is a banal
figure. Antonioni has said that he wanted
to “analyse the sentiments as they are
today . . to show they have not an
absolute weight and duration.” But all
that one can claim for his passive prota-
gonist is “truth-to-life,” whereas art
aspires to go beyond recognition to
revelation.
DESMOND O'GRADY
Grandeur
I ART
David Boyd. Johnstone Gallery. Bris-
bane.
Tn the last 20 or 30 years, there has been
* a quiet revolution in Australian art,
not simply in the matter of transient
styles, often just stunts, but more deepiy
in thought. To this critic the
advance away from the annual
output of thousands of acres of
landscape, some good, far too
many just pretty and the rest wickedly
banal and nearly all thoughtless, is wel-
come. Over such stuff my eye need no
more go a-roving. The appeal to the
eye leaves me unmoved but not more
than anecdotal painting which Boyd and
the new school totally avoid. The artists
that most impress me are such as Goya,
Chardin, Daumier who are concerned to
record the sorrows and perhaps the fleet-
ing joys of the human condition. This
philosophic, humanist orientation was
slow in coming into our art but it is
here now.
We first had to subdue Nature ; the
human struggle with the land took all
our time and absorbed all our art until
now we have come to the stage of the
human conflict with man, his greed, the
pomps of power and the age-old discord-
ances that embitter everything. Boyd
traverses this evolution and makes a
notable contribution to our folklore and
to the history of at least one of our sacred
institutions. But the apprQach is not
literary, it is austerely artistic.
Boyd hates injustice and the use of
loaded dice or at least he has sympathy
with those defeated by these things,
whether used by Nature or Man. His
version of the three themes, Explorers
(1957-58), Tasmanian Aboriginals (1958-
60) and Trial (1960-61) are of great
interest, because it is so entirely original
and so entirely effective ; the work is
stark in the true sense of both grim and
strong and it is all so simple, free of
strain and obvious effort. I think per-
haps that in The Trial series the sim-
plicity is a little overdone, with a loss of
subtlety.
Except in a couple of works color is
subdued and is used only when absolutely
needed to give full point to the theme.
In the Explorer series the “Death of
Burke” is majestic. The earth has buried
the explorer all except head and hands
but his face in its anguish is brave as
becomes a man who has destroyed himself
by his own heedless arrogance. This is
great art. And the John Eyre picture is
nearly as good. The lovely blue of the
Bight beneath its cliff is beautifully evoca-
tive.
In the Aboriginals series the deliberate
extinction of our natives struggling to
survive is symbolised by sharply defined
contorted shapes of men depicted as
wrestlers. The ghastly cruelty of the
series is relieved by a pathetic thing called
The Dance: an aboriginal in a top-hat
symbol of wealth, luxury and white


Estab'ished 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON &
O'SULLIVAfv
PTYLTD C
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Pape? Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STF.REOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS •; PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
•‘JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
vmuMfi
?6
&
m a <$
THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE
CO. LTD.
Branches throughout the
Commonwealth with repre
sentatives and agents in
country centres.
Transacting
FIRE
MARINE
ACCIDENT
GENERAL INSURANCE
Hunter and A. Mcwilliams
O’Connell Sts., Manager
Sydney.
civilisation, dances in a field of flowers,
a formalised flower carpet, symbolic of
the joy of the dance but to the aboriginal
it is the dance to death.
The Trial series are a sharp satire on
our judicial system done in stark black
and white ; the accused and the law in
monolithic figures almost wholly mono-
chromatic. The judge is menacing. It is
all in the Daumier spirit. My advice to
litigants has always been to remember
they are not in a court of justice but of
law, the law having been made to suit
those in possession of political and
economic power. That is the way it looks
to Boyd, too, I think.
In all the series we see the grandeur
of defeat of those who never had a chance
to win but did, at least, try to fight
Boyd’s work has great strength and for
all its simplicity of style and expression
it leaves a feeling of mental power that
is difficult to forget. He realises to the
full the artist's mission to explain man
to himself.
J. V. DUHIG
Bruckner Intact
MUSIC
Symphony in E Major. Bruckner.
Melbourne Spmphony Orchestra.
Tt is well known that many people
■*- regard Bruckner’s scoring as a bore
and a nuisance, and his time scale as an
extravagance. His symphonies, and in
particular the magnificent E
Major Symphony, overrun
the bounds of the standard
concert orchestra: neither in
Australia nor elsewhere do we usually
find the horns supported with a group
of tenor tubas. And their length spreads
generously beyond the normal broad-
casting schedules, which set the pattern
for all Australian symphonic concerts.
It is curious that the A.B.C. has dented
these schedules on occasions for per-
formances of Mahler, but seems less
happy about offering this courtesy to his
great and noble contemporary.
All this has meant that Bruckner per-
formances, at least in Melbourne, have
to be approached with a degree of
caution. What is played is not always
what is programmed. Of the E Major
Symphony, for instance, we have had, I
think, only two performances in Victoria
before Tibor Paul’s concert last week, and
the first of these presented us with an
absurdly truncated and scissored version,
which replaced the Wagner tubas with
the Town Hall organ, and lacked some
third of the slow movement.
It should be a matter of great pride
with Mr Paul to have made amends for
this nonsense, and given us the first satis-
factory performance of this masterpiece.
There were signs, as of course there
would have to be, that he had had to
search the lanes and byways to find his
tuba players, who lacked the polish of
the regular members of the orchestra.
But the orchestra responded with a great
heart to his serious and devoted reading
of a work which he obviously loves.
Even though the A.B.C. entered its
formal protest by fading out about fifty
bars of the finale on the night of the
broadcast, the small audience in the hall
collected one new experience to rank with
Josef Krips’s performance of the eighth
symphony, Goossens’s of the fifth, and
Kubelik’s of the fourth.
Since these four performances have
taken 14 years to produce, there is some
hope of our covering the range of the
mature Bruckner within a single life-
time of listening. This is a thought which
will comfort some of us for having 30
performances of the entire work of
Brahms in the same lifetime.
KENNETH HINCE
Old Victorians
THEATRE
The Lady of the Camellias. Alexandre
Dumas (fils). Old Vic Company.
Her Majesty’s, Melbourne.
TTere, it might be thought, is a rattling
good melodrama, worth reviving.
But “The Lady of the Camellias” is not
in the same category as “East Lynne”
or “The D r u n k a r d,”
which time has made
absurd, even if touching.
True, there is quite a lot
of straight melodrama in it, but the
younger Dumas was considerably more
sophisticated than Mrs Henry Wood,
and there is some realism in his picture
of the venal world of the courtesan. But
the redeeming love of Armand and the
noble self-sacrifice of Marguerite are
worthy of Mrs Henry Wood. In fact, the
play is a strange mixture of 18th-century
cynicism and 19th-century romanticism,
but the romanticism far outweighs the
cynicism.
The only conceivable reason for
attempting to resuscitate this play is to
provide an acting vehicle for Vivien
Leigh. But the sad fact is that Miss Leigh s
talents are not really suited to this par-
ticular vehicle. She is at her best when
playing the 18th-centurv bits—as the cold,
. , . . x • ? t u e
beautiful sophisticated woman of ®
world. Miss Leigh has a cameo bea .■
finel Y chiselled ; her articulation is clear
and precise ; her movements are neat ana
deliberate. She is ideally suited to the
playing of 18th-century roles. It is dim-
cult to think of a 20th-century actress
who could cope with the lush, overblown
romanticism of “The Lady of the


Camellias,” but one would never think
0 f Miss Leigh.
In any case, the whole recent tendency
0 f the English theatre has been to react
against the 19th-century idea of plays
a 5 vehicles for brilliant individual per-
formances. The practice of the Old Vic
company in particular, it seemed, was to
maintain a high standard in the produc-
tion of classical plays by a well-trained
jjody of actors working together as a
team. One cannot but wonder, therefore,
at this sudden reversion to a 19th-century
approach. Apparently the directors of
the Old Vic think that Australian taste
js still Victorian. But there may be an
unexpected audience here for the best that
the English theatre can produce.
One trouble about the vehicle play is
that it risks everything on one throw
for, while it demands one spectacular per-
formance, it gives little opportunity to
the supporting cast. But, with what
opportunity there is, David Dodimead as
Armand s father, Marigold Sharman as
Nanine (Marguerite’s maid), Margaret
Courtenay as Prudence (an ageing cour-
tesan), and Sally Home as Nichette (the
little midinette), all give excellent per-
formances. John Merivale as Armand is
polite, kind-hearted, every inch a gentle-
man ; he seems to have just stepped out
of a novel by Jane Austen, but it is im-
possible to believe in his burning romantic
ardor.
The renaissance in drama, and par-
ticularly in English drama, has surely
been one of the most exciting artistic
developments of the last ten years. But
the three plays that the Old Vic has
brought to Australia give no hint of this
renaissance. >
MADELEINE ARMSTRONG
An Essay on Sex
Spring’s Awakening. Frank Wedekind.
Sydney Theatre Club.
Sex has gone ahead by leaps and
bounds since this play was banned
in 1891 and it has taken about the same
time for the theatre here to dwindle from
the florid stages of those days to the
bare boards and bare statements of
Wedekind and Brecht, so admirably
suited to Kevon Kemp’s uncompromising
barn and direction. Yet sex has to be
rediscovered in every generation, and it
is likely that behind the bravado of rock-
and-roll there is the same adolescent dis-
quiet and uncertainty as Wedekind
discovered behind the assurance of the
waltz.
Wedekind and Brecht’s ability to get
behind the fa?ade of accepted social
attitudes is the main satisfaction of their
technique. With both you have to sit
through six to a dozen episodes, dressed
in this play by a gentleman in a top-
hat (Peter Tyler) moving flats and chairs,
as if it were an undress rehearsal for a
school play. These lay the basis for the
wit and irony of the concluding scenes.
Thus you see 14-year-old Wendla (Jane
Gabriel) trying to get her mother to tell
her about sex, and young Moritz (Ronald
Curran) asking his friend Melchior
(Ernest Butchard) for the same informa-
tion. Melchior responds with an essay
for Moritz and later gives Wendla some
personal instruction in a hay-loft.
When the play begins to explode
Wendla is going to have a baby. She
can’t understand it. Finally she tells her
bother of the pleasing game in the hay-
ioft. There you are, says her mother.
Oh, that, says Wendla ; why hadn’t her
mother told her? Moritz has shot him-
self for failing to pass his examinations.
The essay on sex is found among his
Papers, his death is attributed to disturb-
ances caused by the essay, and Melchior
' s expelled from the university. Then
'here is a debate between Melchior's
mother and father, the mother (Zika
Nester) refusing to let the boy be sent t c
a reformatory for writing the essay, but
acceding immediately on hearing of his
doings with young Wendla: here the
willingness of society to accept theories
but not practices is pilloried, and also
the jealousy of mothers.
It is art of propaganda. Even the
wonderful scene where Moritz, on the
way to shoot himself, meets Use (Sandra
Crawford) the artists’ model —the serious
student who has never lived and the
exuberant young girl who has already
lived more fully than most women ever
will —is subordinated to an idea: by the
time Moritz knows enough to be interest-
ing, Ilse says in parting, she will be too
old for him. Yet this play has the lasting
satisfaction of art when it is mulled over.
Everything seemed to stumble along as
intended by the author except the scene
for masked academicians, when they
seemed to be having trouble snapping
the loudspeaker out of its first-night
stage-fright.
RONALD McCUAIG
Puppets of Fate
Phaedra. Racine. The Independent
Theatre, Sydney.
TThree cheers for the play, and two for
-*■ the performance. The Independent
Theatre, which sets out to give good
plays, has a fine one here: one cheer
tor the Greeks, one for Racine, and the
biggest one for Noel Ruble, whose free
translation into English is a thing of
beauty and power.
Phaedra is a closely-knit play, observ-
ing the classic unities. This makes it
technically interesting ; but it is its serious
concern with elemental human passions
that makes it as alive to a contemporary
audience as it would have been in ancient
Athens or Racine’-s Paris. Its themes are
incestuous love, jealousy and retribution.
Its central characters are a young queen
and her husband's young son by a former
marriage. Both these are magnificently
played: Phaedra by Diana Perryman, and
Hippolytus bv Kevin Sanders. Between
them, they give the production moments
of poignant high tragedy: she consumed
by passion for him, and he shocked by
her revelation.
Sub-plots, interwoven with masterly
skill, trigger-off their inevitable doom.
As in all great drama the puppets
of fate are stripped of all pretence: they
stand before us in their strength and
weakness, with conflicting loyalties and
conscience grappling with desire.
The production has a simple, impres-
sive set by Richard Prins ; imposing and
elegant costuming, designed by Noel
Rubie ; and subtly appropriate mood
music, composed and played by Neville
Amadio. But if the players supporting
Miss Perryman and Mr Sanders are
adequate, they share common faults.
Knowing they have fine things to say,
they tend to mouth and sing as people
often do with Shakespeare, stressing the
iambic beat against the sense.
ANTON VOGT


The Art of My Grandfather
Grand-daddy was a minor provincial cultural hero
By ALAN DAVIES
HUNTING, hunting the bird in the darkness—Russell
dropped back to it, or the memory of it, rather,
after setting aside the front gate's yarp which had
woken him. (His father, that conquistador of the
accounts branch, returned from his many wanderings, was
about to launch another frightful weekend.) A bird-hunt —
he struggled to revive the images—that was not a dream at
all, but, thinly veiled, what he was waking to. He opened
his eyes. Grandfather’s “Evening on the Maribyrnong,”
“unaffected and quiet and large, too,” as Streeton had
described it, hung on the wall at the foot of his bed. Should
he sell it?
Yes, there, raised and droning on, was his father’s
voice—twice lately he’d caught himself using it when
tired and bored (a drumming like a vintage coupe in his
head) —on and on about the garden; he’d been ringing all
day from the office to direct the watering. So any minute
now he’d hear . . . there it was, “Where’s Russell, mother?
I just want him to help with . . .” He swung from the bed
on to his desk-chair in one movement, slipped the page
headed, “The Art of My Grandfather” to the bottom of a
bundle of foolscap, moved the manuscript aside—yes, he
was buttoned up —and began, his eyes at first unnecessarily
narrowed, to read,
My grandfather, Alexander John Todd (1868-
1944) was the youngest member of the Heidelberg
school of artists who flourished in the late ’eighties
and ’nineties of last century. Examples of his work
hang in the Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Ballarat and
.Geelong galleries and especially in the National
Gallery of Victoria. Though detailed lives of the
other painters of the school have been written, the
fullest account of my grandfather’s career is the intro-
duction to the catalogue of the “Farewell” exhibition
of 1924. This has been my main source. It has not been
possible to use, or indeed, to locate, any family papers.
The main achievement of these men is well known
to be that of accurately rendering for the first time . . .
“Come in.”
“Ah, Russ, working, I see.”
“Yes, Dad . . . Economics,” he riffled the pages.
“I was going to ask you to help me tie up some
plants . . .”
“Yes?”
“But we can leave it till the morning.”
“A long job?”
“Oh yes, we’ll let it go now. Have you . . .” He was
half-way out again. “Has it been a good week?”
“Crapulous,” Russell said. “And yours?” The door
leapt shut.
Now, where . . . Russell glared at the foolscap—ah,
yes, Grand-daddy as a cultural hero of a minor provincial
sort —
... As precursors of impressionism, the artists of
“The Art of My Grandfather” is from “A Sunday Kind of Love,”
published by F. W. Cheshire and reviewed on the Red Page.
the Heidelberg school were part of a world-wide trend
which included Jongkind (Holland), Boudin (France),
Fattori (Italy) and Winslow Homer (U.S.). But it was
their discovery of rules of technique to meet certain
challenges in the Australian landscape itself which
assured their lasting local fame. They painted in the
open, with a very high tonal range, applying color
directly, usually with a square-headed brush; and their
discoveries ranged from the use of blue and blue-grey
in shadow to ways of treating blinding sunlight on
leaves, heat-haze and distant horizons.
Utterly boring ... he stood up. threw down his essay,
walked across the sleep-out and pressed his forehead against
the fly-wire. Yet this was what had first tempted him to
the subject—the idea of this handful of youths little older
than himself (except for that old stick. Roberts), seeing their
country for the first time as it was. What a time to have
lived: when it was all still fresh and a bit overwhelming; a
country without suburbs. He found his eyes (swimming
free of the fly-wire) caught by his father’s knife-edged
lavender hedge.
But he envied Grand-daddy less for his time or his
gifts than for his place in a tiny, fearless, affectionate and
productive circle. At his own private school, by contrast, he
had just one possible friend of this kind; poor Oliver, whose
pessimism and serenity he admired but could not. consti-
tutionally, share. Though he always read very carefully
the books Oliver pressed on him, mostly terribly wet but
sincere English autobiographies like Barbellion or Mark
Rutherford or Richard Jeffries, it was, in the end, rather
abjectly as a barrier from the rest of the school that he
valued this neat, solemn friendship—and for unremitting
criticism of school-life. (“Our headmaster seems to think
that each new M.G. outside the prefects’ room makes us
one stroke more firmly the Eton of the south.”) When he
had asked him if he should sell the picture, Oliver had
merely said, “Well, I suppose if you need the money . . .”
There it hung, with its cold greys and sour greens,
quite dead. Till about six months ago he’d always felt
there was more to see in it than he so far had. And, in fact,
he’d kept making discoveries: from little things like the
ages of the gang children in the far distance and the crab-
meat effect of the brush-work of the abattoirs, to why it
was a perfect late romantic subject. But now he’d stopped
being able to surprise it at all, or even to look at it steadily.
Then sell it? That was, after all, what his mother had
done with the rest of them that had hung two deep round
her sitting-room walls from the day of her wedding to—it
must have been —1935, when she suddenly, in celebration of
some obscure marital landmark (or hope? though it was
still three years before he was conceived), redecorated in
white with Marie Laurencin’s and heavy black German
furniture, and the old gums and diggers had gone off—for
a satisfactory price—to the Gallery. He’d never asked why
she had kept the “Maribymong,” or, much later, put it in
his room. Had she perhaps hoped that in some vague way
it would prompt, or warn, him? He must find out.


But it was this bloody essay that had finished it ofl. He
slumped into the chair and replaced page one,
SYNOPSIS. Introduction. THE LIFE: No talent
in family—ship’s arrival —mother’s re-marriage—
apprenticed to lithographer —meeting with Condor at
Beaumaris —first Heidelberg camp —the 9in. x sin.
exhibition—first one-man show —Government House
patronage —appointment to Gallery school —war artist
—paralysis. Anecdotes: theosophy —ventriloquism—
“1 invented gum-tips!”—“Noon paintings because that’s
when we got up.” —Views on Art: Artist as professional
man —reticence —“Left most often the likeness side of
the face.” —“After I have selected my subject very
carefully, I try and paint what is in front of me as
exactly as I can.” THE WORK: Early period —genre
painting —the bush—Middle period —creeping city—
portraits—Last paintings—dawns—winter evenings—•
opinions of Roberts, Streeton, McCubbin and Dr
Ursula Hoff. Conclusion —excuse for none.
Or no excuse. But there it was. What the essay had
lost him was his old sense that behind the canvas was a
knowable, perhaps uniquely congenial mind. The longer
he’d sat over the artists’ published correspondence, or nod-
ding in the Australian room at the Gallery, the more he’d
searched the dolls’-village suburb of Heidelberg itself for
anything —views, buildings, trees (the planes along the rail-
way cutting?) —that might have been a link with the camps,
the more mute and hollow his old grandfather had become.
Only occasionally when talking to his mother did the old
boy himself seem to flash out for odd seconds —and then
always in a dimly querulous and petty way, since,
apparently, after he’d married again (his nurse, with some
money of her own) he’d at last felt it safe to show his scorn
for his son and his family.
Suddenly, crashes all round him like falling tin trays
resolved themselves into his father hosing the sleep-out
roof.
“Cooler now?” came his voice with the last cast. “Your
mother’s missed all this part behind the jacaranda.”
Russell, fighting down all the inadequate, hostile words,
laid himself carefully on the bed and gave up. As the noise
of water faded a smell of warm, wet soil enveloped the
room, an almost edible smell. It was that dead half-hour
before tea when hunger makes all action futile. Next door,
behind the jacaranda, he could see, soused in the last sun-
light. the giant coral tree hung with scarlet infants’ slippers.
He fished his steel shaving mirror from the top drawer of
the desk. This much at least he owed to Alexander John:
this dim. ugly old mug. Putting his forehead to its fore-
head. screwing up its eyes, and squaring its narrow chin, he
said. “One day, by God, I’ll shock them by doing some-
thing.”
ROCKING to and fro on his heels before the fireplace, his
father was deep in an office story, as Russell, coming
into the well-lit dining-room saw him for a moment as a
stranger: the Brightonite—in golf shoes, slacks, white nylon
shirt, bow tie, this dummy with grey, curling hair and
heavy, pipe-smoker’s, atebrin-tanned face, the agony stained
hnes on which were bogus, bogus, bogus.
“I was telling your mother, Russ, that this time I think
w e’ve really got Minyip East —you remember, that fellow
they transferred and promoted against my recommendation,
'was away when it came up at the committee, but . . .”
Russell stopped listening; he could rely on his father’s
ham-actor trick of the long pause before the pay-off line to
rouse him in time for the right response. His mother was
stacking things on a tray at the serving-hatch. How had
she ever come to marry him? It must have been his look
of a younger and more dependable version of those ex-
officers she’d known in her first years out of school; pro!>
ably, too —ironically—the appeal for someone just back
from a visit to England, of his artist’s background . . .
. . And when he came along the big chief simply
said, ‘I agree with you, old man, f-o-r-g-e-r-y,’ ” his father
concluded.
“Fancy ... all that time,” his mother said, setting their
plates round the table, and then, as they took their places
(to Russell), “And, now, what about your day?”
How fair she was! Russell, from the corner of his eye
caught his father at his ritual hair-smoothing—scooped
palms, the dandy settling his surface.
“The usual Friday,” he said, “Latin, Spare, English
Expression, English Literature; Australian History, Spare,
Spare, Spare.”
“And is the master . . . the one you call ‘Flogger Bob,’
getting any better?”
“No, I’m afraid not. But, really, it’s all so very
boring .
“I hope, when I’m 90 Em not as blase as you are now,”
his father said.
God! were they in for a dose of his father’s maggotty
old maxims?
“There’s another angle to this Minyip business that
should interest you, Russ —you remember my scheme for
the self-receipting repayment slip . . .”
Reprieve. And to think only a year ago this man had
seemed, though thorough-going, merely an adult of the
ordinary sort, that is to say, a muffler, a self-deceiver,
somnambulist: dim but decent, really pretty decent.
“Oh, Dad, the idea that he could influence you by
any last minute flattery!” —but sarcasm never paid, and he
plunged on in, “Mum, I’ve been thinking, you know, I might
sell that picture of grandfather’s ... I mean that’s all right,
it is mine to sell and so on, isn’t it?”
“Of course, dear,” said his mother.
“Which one’s that?” said his father.
“The river, the big grey one in my room. Why did you
keep it. Mum, when you got rid of the others?”
“Because I liked it,” she gave her wincing little smile.
“Why, especially?” lowering his head over his salad.
“Well, it's so —I don’t know —well, so sad. A real old
man’s picture. He has given us up, but there’s nothing
else to love.”
“Oh, rot,” said his father. “He hadn’t an ounce of
love in him. It was all show and pretence. I ought to know.
He . . .”
“Mum means he would have liked to ...”
“I know what your mother means, and I know what
he was like. He’d go for weeks without noticing me and
then make a terrible fuss of me when visitors came. Then
when he found I couldn’t draw ... He was an atrocious
father and a failure as a man. Anyhow, I’d prefer not to
discuss him.”
Russell, barely concealing his triumph, shut one eye
and looked along the great steak of his nose—the clever
child, stirring the muddy adult waters in rewarding places:
out came turtles, old bead lampshades, yellow scum.
“I meant ‘us’ very generally,” his mother said apolo-
getically.
Just as the silence had begun to be painful his father
said, “People who think they’re outside the ordinary rules
are always to be pitied.”
Oh. a quince face was not reply enough for that?—
Russell roused himself, “You don’t really mean that, do


8
o many
things that
make life
happier
come through
S Sc L steel pipes
I
■R
g*
I
il
Hi
I
r
■
TPhROUGH steel pipes of every conceivable
size, flow the oil and raw materials that keep the
continent’s industrial wheels turning; the life
preserving water; gas, steam and the electric
current that provides power, lighting and com-
munications.
Steel pipe is so easy to form and join and has
the inherent strength and stability to take tough
assignments for long periods. Costwise, steel pipe
stands alone for low initial cost and low installa-
tion cost.
Before finalising your next project, talk “steel
piping” with Stewarts & Lloyds; the leading
Australian producers of welded and seamless steel
pipes.
STEWARTS and LLOYDS (Distributors) PTY. LIMITED
BRANCHES: All Capital Cities, also Tow nsville, Rockhampton, New castle, Wollongong,
Geelong, Fremantle, Darwin and Alice Springs AGENCIES: Cairns, Mackay, Kalgoorlie.
SSG.i.6I


|OU ? What you really mean is that they should be perse>
cuted.”
“Now. Russell, you’re being childish. I’m not in the
mood for one of your debating society turns. Wipe that
2re at patch of black off your forehead —what is it? —from
[he fly-wire? And why can't you come to tea decently
dressed?”
“Perhaps both of you would like to hear about my
day. now.” his mother said brightly. “Let me see. it didn't
start awfully well—though 1 suppose that’s not the w ll to
put it —I had a visit from old Mrs Fullarton. poor old
thing. Her little nephew, you know, the crippled one . . .”
Holding his coffee cup before his face, Russell studied
his four equally real thumbs. His mother’s voice was still
that of a young girl. Though it was awfully sweet of her.
2 ently declaring peace like that, he happened to have shot a
bull's-eye. and it hurt not to see it scored.
“. . . so that the poor little chap will be able to move
from room to room.”
“Excuse me a minute, mother —1 can do this while
you’re still talking. Russ, just how large is this picture of
yours? The time we sold the others to the Gallery 1 worked
out an average square inch value that you ought to stick
out for. plus an inflation adjustment . . .” He’d already got
his gold pencil and little pad beside his saucer.
“Oh. I don’t know, about five feet by four feet.”
Russell said.
“Well. 1 was really almost finished, anyway,” his
mother said. “The only other things were all that i’ose-
shifting- that’s a day’s work by itself oh. yes. and 1 had
a ring from Arthur Hamilton . . .”
“The didgery-doo man —if he’s coming tonight. I’m
going to be out.” Russell said.
“That's no way to speak of Mr Hamilton.” his mother
said.
“Oh. I can’t stand all that jindyworabak crap about
the blight of the white man’s music . . .”
“Russell. I won’t have you speaking like that. Arthur
Hamilton is a very great friend of your mother’s —and of
mine -and you should show a proper respect.”
“But can’t you see he’s a tabby, an utter phoney?”
“That’s enough!” roared his father. But it was his
mother’s stricken look that made him bite down his retort,
stand up and walk stiffly from the room.
pHIS was- Russell smiled —a favorite image of himself,
this shadow two paces long flowing along the pavement
in front of him. drawing him forward with mop hair and
rippling sleeves, his clothes loose upon him. only his heels
and the line of his shoulders hard against the night. Two
Hours’ walking in a great mindless loop round the boun-
daries of Brighton had returned him to his own street —
and preoccupations —refreshed. He’d end the day wit’’ a
swim.
It was time to admit his disappointment in his grand-
father masked a disappointment with himself. That the old
Hoy had been —like most painters —a very ordinary man
Hehind his special gift, and —even more than most —a
Mature of his group, inseparable from it, were things he’d
jessed from, the start. What, in the year of discovering
Honne and Faulkner, really hurt was that he, himself, could
d°no better in this, the one exercise he really cared about:
an awful, dragging, copy-cat effort, his essay had somehow
c Hoked the life out of even the one or two quite fresh things
felt sure of when he began writing.
For instance, his own visit to his grandfather’s orchard,
as a child. Scenes of a frail, gaga old man sitting on a
rocker on buffalo grass under a date palm, with a black
cloth round his forehead; of his eating soup with as much
difficulty as a child of two; of his voice bubbling up with
exactly the same sound as the school drinking-fountain.
And set about these, a chill, stone barn sunk into a hillside
with a smell of apples you could lean against, and a hot,
wooden kitchen, unlined, with cakes just coming from the
oven; dogs with country names, and gates too hard for boys
to open.
And here. now. was his father’s little gate, that any-
thing could step over, badly needing oil. The only light
showing came from a rose-shaded bed-lamp—the Hawthorn
composer of aboriginal music must have long since gone.
As he walked on down the street it was the same next door,
and the next, and the next: a whole suburb fallen asleep
over its time. A block away. now. was the sea: he could
smell it. even hear its slow scuff.
Yes. quite apart from the life, there was the art. And
it was- Russell sighed—after all. his essay’s failure with
that, which had killed it. Most of the pictures, when he'd
started, had seemed merely Australiana; the question was
whether he could come to like them by learning more about
how they were done. In a way he had. but it was still a
strain. Because he’d kept looking for some personal state-
ment in them, he ended by preferring them in opposite order
to the critics. Best of all. one called “Brighton Beach” —
just a girl with a parasol in the middle distance on a pre-
municipalised beach. Then a whole group of small canvases
done just before the war of farm cottages, orchards, old
stables on the city’s fringe, not merely terribly pretty, but
threatened and fragile, too. Then one or two of the late sour
ones like “Maribyrnong River.” putting the boot into the
flatulent nationalism of his own famous work of 30 years
before.
Russell hoisted himself up on to the concrete sea-
wall and looked along the dark, empty beach: there was
absolutely nothing to connect this with Grand-daddy’s
painting. That was another thing his essay had rejected,
his private fancy that old Alexander John had been about
to start his girl-on-the-beach picture the day Condor had
found him. and had gone back to it only when sure of his
new technique. But how hopelessly antique it all was had
only really hit him last week in front of a camera shop. In
the window was a large photograph of a rubbery, nude girl
lying on her elbows on the sand, her face turned in a vapid,
cheese-cake smile, her legs cut off at the knees like a carcass.
Her breasts were of only slightly finer rubber than the rest,
and all that was left of the romantic movement was the
faint trace of a brassiere across her tanned side.
Though there was not a soul on the beach, the muni-
cipal lights, set between improbable Norfolk Island pines,
still beat down against the sloping sea. Russell began to
undress. It had been after all a curious hope to find an ally
in a grandfather: he saw now he’d have to find his own way
of closing with his father and all that lot. What wouldn’t
he give, though, for two serene, lucid winters to match the
old boy’s two splendid, gregarious summers at the start of
his career. He’d decided, long ago, he suddenly realised,
what to do with “Maribyrnong River”: he’d give it
(property was thus appalled) to Oliver, they suited each other
so well. As he waded out into the still darkness, discs of
sensation slowly climbing his legs, there spread at his back
a widening arc of reflected beach lights, chemical yellow,
till looking back waist-deep to shore, the whole sea became
an enormous tiger-skin, glossy and gently breathing. It
would keep. It would all keep.


Business, Robbery, Etc.
THE BUDGET
Big Words, Small Figures
By Eugene Bajkowski
Any fair attempt to assess the Budget
must start from considering what
were the real alternatives confronting the
Federal Treasurer.
In preparing his Budget Mr Holt was
faced with a sluggish economy and a
2.7 p.c. unemployment level caused by
the necessary but painful credit restric-
tions introduced last November, and a
solid phalanx of powerful critics repre-
senting sectional vested interests. The
basic alternatives were either to continue
the Government’s attempts to change the
structure of the Australian economy or
to try to please everybody, and go back
to the 1959-60 speculative and inflationary
boom. His budgetary performance
should be evaluated in this context.
No doubt, the easy way would have
been to lift the anti-inflationary controls,
ease all credit restrictions, reduce the
sales tax on consumer goods—particu-
larly motor vehicles —and mop up
unemployment by indiscriminate pump-
priming. This would have produced an
immediate, and probably spectacular,
boom in consumption and employment
and made the Menzies Government
extremely popular at the next Federal
elections.
Instead of the angry mutterings from
some car manufacturers, retail traders
and the like now filling the columns of
the daily press there would have been
a loud chorus of praise.
There is also no doubt that prices
would have soon risen, followed by
soaring production costs, inflation would
have reappeared and the export drive
would have become seriously endangered.
The boom would have been artificial and
short-lived and in a few months we
would have been back where we started
—a year later and considerably worse off.
Tt can’t be said strongly enough that the
Australian economy was suffering
from many chronic ailments before last
November’s surgery. Incomes of primary
producers were lagging more and more
behind earnings of the secondary indus-
try, which was itself developing serious
internal imbalances between the con-
sumer and producer goods sectors. At
the same time over 80 p.c. of the nation’s
export earnings came from overseas sales
of primary produce. The terms of trade
continued to be adverse. Exports of
manufactured commodities were jeopard-
ised by rising production costs.
This year the United Kingdom’s
probable entry into the European
Common Market made immediate moves
to change the direction of our foreign
trade and establish new markets in Asia,
Latin America and Africa imperative.
However, the greatest rate of growth
was occurring in the wrong sector of the
economy. Durable consumer goods —-
particularly motor vehicles, electrical
household goods and luxury articles —
and service industries ran far ahead of
the basic productive sector. Very high
rates of profit earned by manufacturers
of durable consumer goods attracted
capital and labor in excess of real require-
ments and saturation points were reached
in many instances. However, the market
was artificially expanded by a rising
volume of hire-purchase financing. All
this lured away capital and labor from
the basic industries, which could not
match the high and inflationary interest,
profit and wage rates offered by the con-
sumer goods sector. Prices and costs
rose and a strong speculative element
entered into share-market transactions.
]Vro economy can go on chasing its own
tail indefinitely. No nation can
hope to maintain a high rate of economic
growth relying on consumer-goods
industries rather than on basic industrial
output. It is clear that Australia, while
depending on primary produce for its
export earnings and on the basic indus-
tries for its economic growth, was rapidly
becoming a “milk-bar economy.”
Abundant funds could be found —at
high interest rates, but who cared —for
the manufacture of cars, TV-sets, house-
hold trinkets, a huge volume of adver-
tising, land speculation and hire-
purchase. But building bridges, roads,
factories, dams, port facilities, even
homes, offered a lower rate of profit and
capital was hard to come by. The same
applied to stock-exchange investments,
with firms producing consumer goods
able to afford higher dividend rates and
show better capital appreciation than
capital goods manufacturers.
Last November’s restrictions were
aimed at rectifying this. The first step
was to dampen the rate of expansion of
the more inflationary sectors. This was
achieved by somewhat sledge-hammer
methods, but quickly and effectively.
Unfortunately, but inevitably, some un-
employment appeared. The next step
was to bring down prices and reduce
imports without reintroducing controls.
This, too, was achieved to a consider-
able degree albeit by the painful process
of depressing domestic demand. Capital
funds were augmented by the I.M.F.
loan.
From this point of view Mr Holt’s
Budget indicates the continuation of
determined attempts to reshape the Aus-
tralian economy, and make it strong
enough to meet the challenge of
approaching difficult times. The
Treasurer’s firmness deserves praise and
support.
But it is not enough to dampen the
non-essential sector. Adequate incen-
tives and direction must be given to start
investment and labor flowing to capital
goods producers. The capital sector
itself must be aided to expand its employ-
ment and output capacity. Things do not
happen all that automatically. If no
positive action is taken, the economy will
either remain stagnant or start slipping
into the bad old ways by force of inertia,
These considerations provide the
second criterion for a critical examination
of the Budget.
Presenting his estimates, Mr Holt said
“that the decline in particular industries
has been enough to cause a fall in total
employment and a rise in unemployment.
The Government sees this as the most
urgent feature of our present situation,
We have always stood for full employ-
ment and it cannot be denied that,
through our long term of office and often
under difficult circumstances, we have
held very close to that goal. We put
it foremost now in our immediate
economic plans.” With this statement of
policy, obviously intended to silence those
critics of the Government who accuse
it of striving for an under-employment
equilibrium, there can be no dispute.
ViR Holt also said that he shares the
view “that the ebb in production
and sales has in the main gone about as
far as it is likely to go and that an up-
turn will occur soon.”
This is probably so, but positive action
is required to ensure that this upturn
does not occur in the wrong direction,
So far there has been pitifully little trans-
fer of capital and labor to the producer
goods sector, even though Mr Holt
asserts that “through this phase of re-
adjustment, some major industries have
continued to increase both their output
and their capacity for further output,’
Mr Holt's contention that “there has been
a valuable shift of labor and resources
to essential branches of production
not substantiated by statistics.
Mr Holt sounds sincere and convincing
when he says that the Government full)'
appreciates the nature and magnitude of
economic problems confronting it, bow
in the Short and long run. He speaks
forcefully of the immediate need to cure
unemployment, of the coming Comm 011
Market difficulties, of the need to increase
public and private spending, easing bank
credit, of balanced long-run develop-
ment, of “strong and continuous growth,
founded upon increasing populah° n !
rising productivity and diversity 0
occupations, skills and culture.” j


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720)
Assets exceed £177,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
Kindersley House, Bligh/O’Connell Streets, SYDNEY
F. H. Egerton, Manager for Australia.
CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
(Incorporated under the Companies’ Act of New South Wales on Bth March, 1950)
(ASSETS EXCEED £7,500,000)
m
P.A. 5,6 or 10 Years.
SJB9A * Vd
%
SHORT TERM RATES
.8% 12 Mths.’ Notice
7y<
P.A.
0 6 Mths.’ Notice
6i% 3
.A.
Mths.’
6% 1 Mth.’s Notice
7
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
Funds may be withdrawn in a personal emergency.
Increased interest rates apply on renewal of investments.
Interest paid quarterly FREE of Exchange through the
BANK OF NSW.
Prospectus and Application Forms Obtainable From
Any branch of the BANK OF N.SW.
The Company's Offices. Ground Floor. Cambridge House,
249 George Street. Sydney 'Phone: lit' 3542
Ground Floor, Cambridge House. 411 41 :> Lonsdale Street,
Melbourne 'Phone 67-0792
Suite 110. Ist Floor. Da Costa Building.
CS Grenfell Street, Adelaide 'Phone St-025
Suite 53A. sth Floor, T& G Building. 137 Queen Street, Brisbane
—'Phone: 24-509 20-981
Morton House. 5 T'nion Street. Newcastle West - 'Phone: B 1001
Berner Credit Company Pty. Ltd.. 117 Bayliss Street. Wagga.
'or Any Member of a Recognised Stock Exchange 1
I N DEI? WRITING BHO KKKS :
RALPH W. KING & YUIIdL (Members of the Sydney Stock
Exchange)
LEONARD G. MAY & SON (Members of the Stock Exchange
of Melbourne)
CORRIE & CO. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
Brokers for the Issue in Newcastle: F. S. Scorer & Co.. T. & G.
Building. Cur. Hunter & Watt Streets. Newcastle. (Members
of the Newcastle Stock Exchange)
Brokers for the Issue in South Australia: S. C. Ward & Co.,
25 Grenfell Street. Adelaide.
(Members of the Stock Exchange of Adelaide Ltd)
Brokers for the Dsne in Western Australia: Donald ,T. Carmichael
A- Co.. 135 St. George's Terrace. Perth. (Members of the Stock
Exchange of Perth)
Trustee for Stockholders : Bankers & Traders' Insurance Company
Limited
Investigating Accountants for the Underwriting Brokers: Smith
Johnson & Co
Registers: Sydney. Melbourne Brisbane. Adelaide, Canberra
Registrars: Bank of N.S.W. Nominees Pty. Ltd.
Applications for the debenture stock accepted only on one of
the forms of application attached to a printed copy of the
prospect us
The Federal Treasurer wants
H to see a spread of growth
through all States and Terri-
tories in our Commonwealth
. achieved through stability,
not at the expense of it.”
According to Mr Holt, this
stability means “not only a
steady level of prices and costs,
but also a balance between
demand for goods and the
supply of goods, full employ-
ment of labor and industrial
resources, and a balance over
the years in our external
receipts and expenditures.”
To what degree, then, does
the Budget offer dynamic
guidance for the economy to
achieve all these aims? To
what extent does the Budget
provide for expansion of basic
industrial output, assistance to
primary and export producers
and brisk development of
natural resources?
The Treasurer obviously
relies on extra-budgetary
measures, set in motion some
time ago, as the main lever to
bring about an immediate
business recovery. The Budget
itself offers only modesi
stimuli, intended to supplement
the effect of earlier fiscal moves.
Pensioners have been given a
paltry ss. a week, unemploy-
ment and sickness benefits
have risen by 10s. to 17s. 6d.
The most important is the sub-
stantial redaction in sales tax
on a wide range of household
goods.
This is about all, and about
as much as could be safely
offered under the circum-
stances to bring about a
general recovery. No doubt
there is bitter disappointment
among some business circles,
but, after all, it was the
Treasurer's duty to disappoint
them. Steps to aid recovery
must be as selective as the
credit restr ctions should have
been in the first place.
But the Budget does precious
little to effect basic changes in
the economic structure and
encourage long-term develop-
ment on sound lines, and
largely ignores the balance-of-
payments problem.
The aid to primary pro-
ducers is limited to a tax deduc-
tion for expenditure on under-
ground water-pipes and a
more generous taxing of
income derived from compen-
sation for stock compulsorily
destroyed to control or eradi-
cate disease. The Budget also
sets aside £1 million for build-
ing of roads for the cattle
industry in Queensland and the
Northern Territory.
There are some minor tax
adjustments in favor of mining
and afforestation companies.
The Government also intends
to continue subsidies for oil
search, lifting the handouts
from £2,300,000 to £4,100,000.
The specialist services of the
French Petroleum Institute
experts will be used for a
further year.
Payments to States will rise
by £31,921,000 to £384,868,000.
The capital of the Common-
wealth Development Bank will
be raised by a wholly insuffi-
cient £5,000,000. The Com-
monwealth will aid N.S.W. in
improving coal-loading facili-
ties in Newcastle. But that's
about all.
After Mr Holt's expression
of commendable foresight and
economic realism in the earlier
part of his Budget speech these
figures are most disappointing.
There is no guidance, no
direction, no dynamic vision.
So much is being said every-
where about the need to export
and expand the potent al of
capital industries. This Budget
provides no incentives for a
flow of investment and labor
to products of capital goods
industries, no inducements for
exporters —instead there is
some relief for retailers and
manufacturers of domestic
consumer goods and hire-
purchase companies, as if the
Budget’s only purpose is to
liven up a little the daily
business.
This was the time for bold


Why put yourself under the griller?
a
4
■
f
if
. HR
*•.,« r
. ... ?. \.jj V 3#-* /r . —~|.
> .
•
Keep heat above ceiling line
with CANE-ITE BATTS
Summer heat beats down on
your roof builds up in
the space between the roof
and the ceiling, and then
heats the whole house—and
it often stays heated long
after the sun has gone down.
That’s why you need
Cane-ite Ceiling Batts.
Quickly and easily laid
between the ceiling joists,
Cane-ite Batts make a bar-
rier to heat, keep it from
penetrating your home.
They keep the rooms below
up to 15° cooler at a
cost of roughly £3 a room.
You don’t need even to
hammer the proverbial nail
to install Cane-ite Batts —•
a morning is plenty of time
to pop up through the man-
hole and insulate a house.
Why not get this comfort
for yourself? You can get
Cane-ite Ceiling Batts from
all hardware stores and
building suppliers.
Manufactured by the Building Materials Division
of The Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd.
Showrooms at Sydney, Newcastle, Wagga, Wollongong, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Townsville, Adela'de, Perth, Hobart.
.CSR7
and imaginative steps —intro-
duction of realistic depreciation
allowances for selected indus-
tries, encouragement for
investment in the primary
sector, incentives to exporters.
The opportunity was missed in
this document of big words
and little figures. A dull
document.
Depressing the rate of
growth of the non-essential
sector by itself is necessary but
not enough. Unless the Gov-
ernment makes an effort to
stimulate the capital goods and
rural industries it will be faced
with a threat of economic
stagnation and rising un-
employment. And if it is
faced with that threat political
pressures may force a return
to the boom economy it has
been trying to eradicate.
THE BUDGET
Comments Are Varied
'T'he Federal Treasurer’s Bud-
A get speech was awaited
with keen interest throughout
the Commonwealth and in
many overseas countries. As
expected, comments vary
widely.
On the whole, responsible
critics approve restraint in
measures aimed at stimulating
the economy in the immediate
short run. However, repre-
sentatives of the motor indus-
try and some retail interests
are bitterly critical.
On the other hand repre-
sentatives of primary producers
welcomed Mr Holt's Budget
policies.
Mr T. M. Scott, president of
the Australian Woolgrowers’
and Graziers’ Council, said :
“Mr Holt has brought down
quite a normal Budget and the
Government is to be congratu-
lated for having resisted pres-
sure to introduce measures
which could result in a resurg-
ence of inflation.
“Restraint of inflationary
pressures is the prime objective
of the rural industries and this
should be borne in mind before
leaping to criticise the Budget.
Owing to the relative size and
continuing nature of Federal
expenditure, the scope avail-
able to the Treasurer for stimu-
lating activity without also
stimulating inflation is small.
Reading the plaintive criticisms
of the Budget, one could be
pardoned for thinking that we
have a Socialist economy in
which business hangs on the
dictates of the Government
rather than one in which
the initiative rests with
private enterprise. A more
positive approach to national
objectives by those upon whom
continued prosperity depends is
needed.
“The grazing and other pre-
dominantly export industries
are much more affected by the
decisions of industry and com-
merce, the Arbitration Com-
mission and the Tariff Board,
than by the contents of the
Budget and it is in these direc-
tions that we must strive to
achieve a better appreciation
of our situation and of our
essential role in the mainten-
ance of full employment and
national development.”
Mr Warren D. McDonald,
chairman of the Common-
wealth Banking Corporation,
felt “that the Budget proposals,
including the reductions in sales
tax on consumer durable goods,
should provide some further
stimulus to the economy. He
hoped this stimulus would be
sufficient to take up the present
slack. During 1961-62 there
would be a large inflow of
young people leaving school
into the work force which
would increase by about
100,000 and this, added to the
113,000 of registered unem-
ployed in July, 1961, pointed to
the need for an increase i n
total expenditure.”
Mr McDonald pointed out
that important steps were taken
prior to the Budget to stimulate
the economy. Although the
effects of these measures had
not yet been reflected to any
extent in published statistics,
they should soon begin to be-
come evident. Since the re-
laxation of bank credit, banks
had been approving loans at
a greater rate but there was
normally a lag of a few months
before new loans were actually
drawn. He said that “the pre-
Budget and Budget measures
taken together should help to
achieve the desired results but
we should guard against rely-
ing wholly on the home market
to take up the slack.”
He was confident that Aus-
tralia's development, particu-
larly in the field of transport in
distant areas, would be aided
by the Budget proposals.
Mr C. W. Fletcher, chair-
man of the Australian Hire
Purchase Conference and chief
spokesman for the h.-p. and
finance company interests, said
that “the reduction of sales tax
on furnishings and appliances
included in the Federal Budget
should provide a badly needed
stimulus to sales, but it is a pity
that a similar reduction was not
applied to motor vehicles. Such
a reduction would have been
particularly effective as hire-
purchase companies now have
some funds available.” Mr
Fletcher said that “although
the amount owing under hire-
purchase agreements has con-
tinued to fall for six successive
months, including a fall of £6f
million in June, the hire-pur-
chase companies have become
more liquid, which is desirable
in itself.”
NORTHERN TERRITORY
Crocodile Skins Boom
XTow it's crocodile skins. With
good quality saltwater
crocodile skins fetching up to
15s. a circumference inch —
adding up to about £2O for a
ten-foot croc —Northern Terri-
tory hunters are having a boom
period. The current season is
said to be the best for several
years and some 60 hunting
parties are in action in the
Territories rivers, creeks and
swamps.
Reports from Darwin say
even freshwater crocodile skins
are selling for about ss. an
inch. Previously there was no
real commercial market for
them.
Some pearling luggers are
being converted and fitted out
for crocodile shooting, and


parties of weekend hunters are
operating from Darwin. Most
of the crocodile shooting is said
|0 be going on between the
western reaches of Arnhem
[and and Western Australia.
There is always a steady, if
limited, demand for crocodile
s lins which are used in the
fashion trade. From time to
time a change in tastes pushes
up the demand, and sends
prices for skins soaring.
Overseas markets take most
of Australian crocodile skins,
which are mainly exported to
Hong Kong and other Far East
centres and France.
EMPLOYMENT
Queensland Silver Lining
Sydney still had 15,025 jobless
' struggling on the dole at
[lie end of July. In chilly Mel-
bourne 15,712 were receiving
unemployment cheques. Un-
employment in country centres
remained considerable.
But Queensland was living
ip to its reputation of the
Sunshine State. The onrush of
seasonal work in the food pro-
cessing industry made it the
first State in Australia to show
a drop in the number of job-
less.
On the whole, despite the
shock temporary lay-offs in the
motor vehicles and rubber tyre
industries, the employment
situation seems to have taken
a turn for the better.
There was an actual fall in
the number of jobless in
Queensland in July, and in the
other States the rate of growth
ofunemployment slowed down.
The total number of regis-
tered unemployed at the end of
July rose by 1755 to 113,439.
This compares with a rise of
»0O to 111,700 in June.
Mr W. McMahon, the Com-
monwealth Minister for Labor
and National Service, said last
week that employment in 2700
larger private factories surveyed
hy his Department fell by 3084
8r .6 p.c. in July. However,
seasonal employment in the
food manufacturing industry in
Queensland increased, offsetting
the rise in jobless in other
States. The total number of
ttnemployed now represents
J hout 2.7 p.c. of the estimated
Work force of about 4.2
Millions.
Factories producing textiles,
knitted goods, paper and paper
S°ods and motor vehicles
Manufacturers remain the worst
M Short time was worked in
factories during the week
June 23.
On the other hand, the num-
cr of vacancies increased,
during July an average of 7060
Jew vacancies were notified to
Department each week —
first increase since January.
°hl number of unfilled vacan-
cies at the end of July rose by
901 to 13,209. During the same
time the number of persons
receiving unemployment bene-
fits increased by 4345 to 61,499.
At the same time trading
banks stepped up their lending
in July by £14.8 million to
£1034.9 million —the highest
level for six months. This was
in spite of a continuing fall in
deposits.
The ratio of advances to
deposits went up by 1.3 p.c. to
60.8 p.c. Non-interest bearing
deposits dropped sharply (by
£34.6 million), but this was
partly offset by the £20.5
million increase in interest
bearing deposits.
On the whole bank liquidity
improved by 2 p.c. in response
to releases from statutory re-
serve deposit accounts by the
Reserve Bank, aimed at allow-
ing trading banks to cater with
the increased seasonal pressure
on their lending facilities.
Although the slight improve-
ment in the unemployment
position, particularly in Queens-
land, and the higher rate of
bank lending are largely due to
seasonal uplifts, indications are
that business confidence should
pick up soon.
Certain employment difficul-
ties may continue for a while,
but the much healthier position
in the foreign trade balance,
and the sharp rise in Australian
gold and balances held abroad,
should provide a solid back-
ground for recovery.
In the week to August 9,
1961, the Reserve Bank’s gold
and currency reserves held
abroad rose by £5.3 million to
£479.1 million. This is the
peak for seven years, and re-
flects the positive effect of the
Government’s economic policy
on our balance of payments
position.
ADVERTISING
Too Far, Too Fast?
By V. E. THOMPSON
'T'here is no doubt that adver-
tising can be one of the
most profitable investments a
company can make. Of recent
years, however, there has been
a marked tendency to throw a
totally unreasonable share of
the burden of creating sales on
to what is, after all, only the
voice of industry.
The result has been much
wasteful expenditure in a
frantic desire to be “different”
and the development of adver-
tising claims, many of which
are completely unbelievable to
say the least.
In this Australia has followed
the pattern developed in the
United States of America,
where the F.C.C. is endeavor-
ing to clean up the mess by
inflicting penalties on those
responsible for creating the
fake demonstrations and speci-
ous claims which have become
part and parcel of the current
American advertising scene.
But how has this position
arisen? How has advertising
managed to get so far off the
rails? I believe the answer lies
with industry itself.
In both America and Aus-
tralia the war years ended with
vastly expanded production
facilities, and it was only
natural that business should
wish to see these utilised to the
full. The suddenly unleashed
demand, which followed the
cessation of hostilities, obscured
the real issue for some time
but the end result was a flood
of products and services which
were related solely to produc-
tion and not to market needs.
As a result, competition
reached fantastic proportions
and manufacturers automatic-
ally turned to advertising to
gain “an edge” on the market.
Dazzled by vastly expanded
advertising appropriations, the
advertising companies at-
tempted to solve the problem
by creating a form of competi-
tive advertising which has
become increasingly vicious.
Countless examples of near
fraudulent TV “tests,” exag-
gerated survey findings, and so-
called “off-beat” advertising
are familiar to everyone. Only
retailers —whose advertising re-
sults are immediately measur-
able —seem to have kept their
heads, and the powerful posi-
tion of the retailer in today’s
marketing set-up is probably
due to this factor as much as
anything else.
The increased advertising
appropriations also uncovered
another problem—the lack of a
sufficient number of fully ex-
perienced advertising men and
women to control the careering
advertising juggernaut. This,
in turn, led to the introduction
of every type of mental crutch
the pseudo-scientist could un-
cover.
The inherent feeling for mass
behavior, which marks the born
salesman and the real builders
of the advertising industry was
thus replaced by motivational
studies, consumer research,
statistical surveys, shelf counts
and much data of a similar
type which, at best, is a labored
way of sparking a worthwhile
creative idea.
The same situation is evident
on the sales side where industry
—in its desperate attempts to
win out against competition—
found itself forced into the
position of building up its sales
force with men possessing little
or no real sales ability, hoping
to make up the difference by
sales conferences and profes-
sional sales training courses, in
fact anything rather than admit
that many of its sales proposi-
tions did not offer the prospect
of a single valid reason for pur-
chasing.
This puts the problem back
where it belongs—in the lap of
the industry itself. Give even
an average salesman a good
proposition and he will have
no difficulty in selling it. Take
the sensational success of a
genuinely wanted product such
as filter tip cigarettes during the
cancer scare, for example. This
surely shows that the market
as a whole will buy what it feels
it needs regardless of the adver-
tising tricks and techniques so
many manufacturers demand as
an alternative to genuine
creative thinking within their
own ranks.
That a change is coming is
shown by the “new discovery”
of at least one overseas agency
that the only type of advertising
that pays is that which presents
a worthwhile buying proposi-
tion to the prospect. This can
be a new model or a new
feature in the product itself,
a new use, a premium, a more
convenient form, of packaging


or a worthwhile price advan-
tage.
Admittedly the number of
good selling ideas are few. But
if the industry gets down to
the heart of the matter and
plans propositions of merit it
will find little difficulty in sell-
ing them, even if the resultant
advertising sheds many of to-
day’s gimmicks which are in
no way a satisfactory substitute
for practical thinking at the
production level. Advertising
will certainly be a lot healthier
for the change and advertising
expenditures will bring more
results to the advertiser through
the return to a saner and more
commonsense outlook.
SYDNEY MEAT TRADE
High Retail Prices
Although cattle prices in
Sydney have fallen by
about 30 p.c. during the last
year, consumers buying meat
retail from city and suburban
butchers’ shops have not bene-
fited by the drop. In general,
retail prices have not reflected
the substantial reductions in
wholesale quotes for cattle
slaughtered at Homebush State
Abattoir in Sydney.
It is difficult to say who
collected the difference, but it
was definitely not the retail
buyer. Sydney housewives
have frequently complained
that beef prices were high, par-
ticularly for the better grades.
However, Mr C. W. Hodgson,
president of the Wholesale
Meat Traders’ Protective Asso-
ciation, feels that retail meat
prices have followed the trend
on the wholesale market pretty
closely.
It is expected that recent
rains may soon cause a stiffen-
ing of the prices of cattle at
Home bush abattoir. This
time the price variation will
probably be passed on to the
retail customer.
AIRLINES
Sydney a Host to IATA
"Oehind the glamor fayade of
** jet streaks in the blue skies,
and the gentle smiles of charm-
ing air hostesses, lies the grind
of fierce day-to-day competi-
tion.
Rivalry is especially keen
among the international air-
lines. It comes out in things
big and small, in affairs great
and petty.
Every commercial air route,
each new touch-down point is
the subject of tough negotia-
tions, which frequently call for
a quiet but coldly impressive
show of force. Even such
things as an extra bread roll or
posting the mail for tourist-
class passengers, an extra
slice of ham for a mid-air
snack, have been known to
cause long and bitter conflicts
between the world’s giant air
concerns. ,
Stakes are high. A single
passenger may bring in several
hundred pounds in fares. But
the costs are also high and
research and capital equipment
run into many millions of
pounds.
However, above all this
comes the need to compete
against rival forms of trans-
port—the shipping lines, the
railways, the overland bus
routes with exotic link-ups.
Air travel offers speed and a
reasonable degree of comfort.
The modern passenger ocean-
liner counters this with a
degree of comfort which
touches on luxury, relaxation
and recreation—at a much
lower price in money terms.
But to an ever-increasing
number of people time means
even more than money. And
so the struggle goes on. Time
v. money, and comfort remains
the main issue, sometimes
resolved by compromise.
All this calls for compli-
cated time-tables and fare
schedules, synchronised with
a scientific precision. If the
international airlines fail to
offer a quick and convenient
link-up to their passengers at
vital points, the whole industry
will be the loser. Everybody
recognises the need for an inter-
national organisation of the
world’s leading airlines, with
supervisory and technical
functions.
lATA—the International Air
Transport Association —is such
a body, with a membership of
92 airlines which carry most
of the world’s scheduled traffic
in passengers, cargo and mail.
lATA unites the smallest and
the largest airlines, from the
great globe-girdling companies,
such as Pan American and
Qantas, to the short-distance
helicopter lines. Even the Iron
Curtain, which divides almost
everything with political,
economical and psychological
fences, has failed to prove a
barrier to the lATA. Its mem-
bers come from 60 countries
on both sides of the Iron
Curtain. Thus the Soviet
Union’s Aeroflot is not a
member, although a party to
some lATA technical agree-
ments. But Poland's Lot and
Czechoslovakia’s Ceskoslo-
venske Aerolinie N.P. are.
Each year lATA holds a
general meeting attended by
the top executives of member
companies. These meetings
discuss the whole range of the
air industry’s activities, includ-
ing fares, time-tables, travel
documentation and reciprocal
agreements with non-members,
and are held both in open and
closed sessions.
Sydney has been selected as
the host city to the seventeenth
annual general meeting, to be
held in the Chevron Hilton
Hotel on October 23 to 27,
1961. The Prime Minister,
Mr R. G. Menzies, and the
Minister for Civil Aviation, Mr
S. Paltridge, will address the
opening session. Sir Hudson
Fysh, one of the founders and
chairman of Au s tra 1 i a's
Qantas, will take office as the
seventeenth president of lATA,
succeeding Mr A. Rusck, of
the Scandinavian Airlines
System.
Closed sessions will hear
reports by the Director-
General, the executive commit-
tee and the financial, legal,
technical and traffic advisory
committees. A feature of the
meeting is the absence of a
fixed agenda—matters are dis-
cussed as they come up in
reports of the specialised
committees.
Special subjects will include
a statement on the proceedings
of JATA’s recent symposium
on supersonic air transport.
The meeting will also elect
the president of the next
plenary session, which will be
held in Dublin, Ireland. The
member countries play host to
JATA’s general meetings in
turn.
Although the meeting is still
many weeks away, prepara-
tions are well under way. A
stream of publicity material is
flowing steadily from the office
of JATA’s public-relations
officer, Mr S. R. Cohen, in
Montreal’s University Street,
Canada. Newsmen have
already been told that Sydney’s
Lord Mayor, Aid. H. Jensen,
will hold a civic reception for
the delegates at the Town Hall
on October 24. A day earlier
the delegates will be entertained
by the Minister of Civil Avia-
tion at Sydney University’s
Great Hall. Qantas, the host
airline, will tender a formal
dinner at the Chevron Hilton.
Although this is the first
general meeting to be held in
Australia, this country has been
extremely active in lATA ever
since it was set up after the
Second World War.
Qantas Empire Airways and
Australian National Airways
(now Ansett-A.N.A.) —an asso-
ciate member —were among the
founding members in 1945.
Trans - Australian Airlines —
also an associate member-
joined lATA in 1948.
Tasman Empire Airways is
also a founding member, and
New Zealand National Air-
ways is an associate member.
Sir Leonard Pitt, TEAL’S
chairman, served for several
years as a member of lATA'S
executive committee.
Apart from Sir Hudson Fysh
there are eight other senior
Australian executives serving
with lATA.
SHORT TERM MONEY
Loans Reach £100m.
'T'he aggregate loans accepted
A by authorised dealers on
th e Australian short* term
money market reached £lOO
million in the week ended July
12, 1961. This should have
some stimulating influence on
the general level of economic
. .
ac IVI
Trading bank loans to the
market have decreased from
weekly averages of £44.4 mil-
ji°n > n April to £34.4 million
> n June—about 35.5 p.c. of the
total loans to the market. The
J* ural Ba " k ' s Economic and
Business Digest says that in-
er,est on loa ? s . accepted in
July were a minimum of 2.25
p.c. and a maximum of 4.88
p.c.


PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
R. H. ALLEN, M. R. L. DOWLING
P. R. LEVY, A. P. REYNOLDS. N. R.
COURSE (Melbourne Resident Partner).
Delfln House, 16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Building, 150 Queen St.,
Melbourne. 67-5957 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables: “Rosdale,” Sydney.
Melbourne or Wollongong.
JOHN N. ROBERTSON
Member of the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKER.
Temple Court,
422 Collins Street, Melbourne C.l.
Telephones: 67 4804, 67 2465
Telegrams & Cables:
ROBFALK, MELBOURNE
A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. F. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER
{Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Fife Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31 2761 P.O. BOX
(4 Fines) No. 1887 W
The WILDCAT
COUMN
Lend Lease Corporation Ltd
Not everybody is complaining about
the Budget and last November’s
credit squeeze. Lend Lease is one of
the bustling, dynamic, ably managed
concerns that has gone from strength to
strength all through the last term, despite
the credit restrictions, dampened business
confidence and assorted panic-mongering.
Paid capital more than doubled, total
group revenue jumped from £2,170,155
to £4,584.577, net profit after tax increased
by more than two times and disclosed
earning rate on the much higher average
one-class capital remained above the very
satisfactory 21 p.c. level.
Holding an informal court for financial
journalists in his spacious, air-conditioned
office —the large, elegant windows over-
looking Sydney’s wide Macquarie Street
—Mr G. J. Dusseldorp, Lend Lease’s
astute managing-director, emphasised
that the group’s profits are earned on the
drawing boards. The Lend Lease group
remains basically a construction com-
pany. Credit difficulties have not affected
it in the same way as land speculators.
In fact, slacker trading conditions gave
it a better opportunity to pick and choose
materials, sub-contractors, labor, etc.,
resulting in greater efficiency. It appears
that the main handicaps resulting from
the credit squeeze were delays in some
contract settlements.
A leading Sydney-registered builder,
real-estate developer and financier with
interests in a motel company, Lend Lease
Corporation Ltd was floated in March.
1958. Very quickly it established itself
as a vigorous growth stock on the
sharemarket.
The initial Lend Lease float was spon-
sored by Civil and Civic Contractors
Pty, which took up 40 p.c. of the £lOO,OOO
paid capital, that by June 30, 1961 had
risen to £1,970,291 in ss. ords. Succes-
sive takeover issues gradually watered
down Civil and Civic's holding to about
35 p.c.
Civil and Civic itself was originally
set up as a joint venture of the Royal
Dutch Harbour Co. and Bredero
Bouwbedrijf N. V., of Holland, both
leading Dutch companies in this field.
Civil and Civic, operating on a small
paid capital (£85,000), supplemented by
Dutch loans and ploughed-back earnings,
has had a very successful run since it
was formed in 1951. Association with
lend Lease has been very close
throughout.
Last May Lend Lease announced that
negotiations were opened with Bredero
to take over the Dutch interests in Civil
and Civic in exchange for shares in
Lend Lease. These negotiations resulted
in Civil and Civic becoming a fully
owned subsidiary of Lend Lease late in
the last financial year. Bredero’s con-
sideration was equivalent to about a
20 p.c. shareholding in Lend Lease. This
is expected to be watered down by new
takeover issues.
Mr C. H. Locke, Lend Lease’s chair-
man, says that “in relinquishing their
ownership of Civil and Civic in exchange
for Lend Lease shares, the directors of
Bredero’s have shown consideration for
the natural desire in Australia that a
company of this importance, which is
engaged in work wholly within the Corn-
wealth, should not remain permanently
under wholly overseas ownership.”
This is a constructive and commend-
able attitude, and sets an excellent
example to many other foreign-sponsored
firms.
Last term's major developments
included the takeover of: J. Connolly
Ltd, metal window-frame manufacturer
with plants in N.S.W., Queensland and
W.A. ; L. E. Bowman and Co. Pty,
Sydney timber merchants; Unbehaun
and Johnstone Ltd, Adelaide electrical
suppliers and engineers ; the purchase of
an automatic brick-making plant and
lightweight aggregate plant ; and the
acquisition of a 50 p.c. share interest in
Motels Amalgamated Pty, operating in
N.S.W. and Victoria.
The annual report says that integration
of manufacturing subsidiaries into the
general group structure is proceeding
satisfactorily. These subsidiaries produce
basic materials and components for the
building industry, which are extensively
used by the group itself —substantially
reducing costs.
However, the policy is that these sub-
sidiaries retain their particular identities
and act as suppliers to the building
industry as a whole. They are not
intended to be merely manufacturing
adjuncts to the group.
Lend Lease House in .Sydney was com-
pleted last year and became the group’s
luxurious headquarters. Lend Lease
Investments Pty and Lend Lease Accept-
ance Limited were formed to consolidate
control over the group’s long-range
property investments, and over the pro-
vision of finance to purchasers of the
group's products. Successful takeover
offers were made to Light Concrete Hold-
ings Ltd and Autobric Industries Ltd.
The National Capital Development
Commission approved the group's plans
for five office blocks at Hobart Place,
Canberra. A large retail shopping centre
in the national capital is also planned.
Income from all sources for the year
to June 30, 1961, amounted to £4,584,577
(up £2,414,422).
After paying £3,736,641 for expenses
of operations, production and administra-
tion (up £1,870,571), providing £31,256
for depreciation (up £28,449), meeting
all other costs and setting aside £193,118
for taxation (up £118,833), consolidated
net profit for the year was £139,656
higher at £266,845:
To Re Re
June, Profit, f— —Dividends N serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1958.. 2,098 2,098 2,098
1959.. 29,004 8 p.c. - 11,000 18,004 20,102
Preliminary expenses w/off, £5424.. 14,738
Surplus on consolidation, £144,515 .. 159,253
Share-premiums, £349,500 .. .. 508,753
1960. .127,189 10 p.c. = 60,256 66,933 575,686*
Profit sale assets, £54,359 .. .. 630,045
Share premiums, £707,863 .. .. 1,337,908
Less tax underprovided, £5370 .. 1,332,538
Less added intangibles, £78,000 .. 1,254,478
Unexplained reduction, £9786 . . 1,244,692
1901. .266,845 10 p.c. = 124,686 142,159 1,380,851
* Subject to £114,776 intangibles at 30/6/61.
This was equivalent to an earning rate
of 21.4 p.c. on the much higher average
capital employed during the year, and
compares with 22 p.c. earned in the
previous year and 21.1 p.c. in 1959.
The well covered steady 10 p.c.
dividend cheque absorbed £124,686.
Reserves received £142,159 and also
benefited by £54,359 profit on sale of
assets and £707,863 share premiums but
were reduced by £5370 tax underprovided
in the previous year, £78,060 added
intangibles and £9786 unexplained
reduction. Consolidated reserves and
undistributed profits were disclosed at


Your banker
or stockbroker
knows...
m
m
mlm
'v>
TODAY’S
SAFEST FINANCIAL
INVESTMENT
Reg.
First
Mortgage
Debenture
Stock
P.A. for
8 and 10 years
REID MURRAY
Acceptance Limited
FIXED LONG TERM STOCK
SHORT TERM NOTICE STOCK
7 Vz<y o
P.A. on 12
mths. notice
6<7b
P.A. on 6
mths. notice
5<70
P.A. on 3
mths. notice
P.A. at call
Applications accepted only on forms attached to the Prospectus, Available from:
REID MURRAY ACCEPTANCE LTD.
403 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 67-1924
Any branch of the
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Any member of a
RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE IN AUST.
Or Joint Underwriting Brokers
TOLHURST, HENLEY, MUNCKTON & CO.
401 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members ot The Stock Exchange of Melb.
CUTTEN & HARVEY
97 King William Street, Adelaide
408 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of Stock Exchange of Adelaide Ltd.
PAID UP CAPITAL £7,000,000
RMA. 1»V
GUARANTEED BY REID MURRAY HOLDINGS LTD.
£1,386,851, subject to £114,776
intangibles. This gives a net
tangible assets backing of
Bs. 7d. for each ss. ord. unit.
The balance-sheet reflects
the group's rapid development
over the last 12 months.
Paid capital at June 30 last
was lifted from £783,233 to
£1,970,291 in ss. ords. by the
one-for-four issue, at a share
premium of 2s 6d., and the off-
market placement of 500,000
ss. ords. —at ss. a unit pre-
mium—last April, and by issue
of scrip to finance successful
takeover bids made during the
year.
A further 2,000,000 ss. ords.
will be issued to Bredero’s as
purchase consideration lor
Civil and Civic Pty. This will
raise capital to £2.5 million.
Loan capital increased sub-
stantially. The funds state-
ment shows that additional
mortgage debentures raised
£2,508,950, mortgage loans
£1,690,343, and unsecured notes
and loans —a new item—
£los,lo7. Bank overdraft
increased from £43,805 to
£253,363:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1000. 1961.
Paid capital .. £783,233 £1,970,291
Reserves .. 575,686 1.380,851
Debentures .. 974,800 3,483,750
Mortgage .. 556,000 2,246,343
Notes, loans . . 105,107
Overdraft .. 43,805 253,363
Deposits .. 748,760 425,719
Creditors .. 809,836 1,055,838
Provision for
taxation . . 86,308 202,002
Final dividends 41,703 71,312
Minority
interest . . 3,259 152,963
Due under con-
tracts . . 1,463,430 560,206
£6,086,820 £11,913,745
Land, buildings,
plant, etc... 650,986 1,620,659
Shares . . . . 196,542 357,092
Trading invest-
ments . . 3,189,010 7,436,568
Book-debts .. 1,673,295 1,746,326
Cash .. .. 340,271 638,324
Intangibles . . 36,716 114,776
£6,086,820 £11,913,745
Minority interest soared from
£3259 to £152,963 in the wake
of takeovers, but contractual
obligations were much lower
at £560,206.
Land, buildings, plant, etc.,
were shown at a book value of
£1,620,659 (after deducting
£191,170 accumulated depre-
ciation provisions).
Mr Dusseldorp, the manag-
ing director, told The Bulletin
that the small depreciation
provision charged against the
year’s revenue was due to Lend
Lease’s policy of selling most
of its plant and equipment
after the completion of a job.
New equipment is bought
for the next job and the group
tries to reduce the use of its
own plant and equipment to


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today's values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
75 >EARS OF SERVICE
JO THE AUSTRALIAN FVftLU
FINANCE & INVESTMENT
COMPANY LIMITED
SHAREHOLDERS' FUNDS, £891,419.
TANGIBLE ASSETS, £3,184,264.
INTEREST RATES FOR DEPOSITS
(NOW CALLED UNSECURED DEPOSIT NOTES)
WITH RIGHT OF RECALL
ON 30 DAYS’ NOTICE
3 months . . . . SV2To p.a.
AND OVER
APPLICATIONS must be made
on the form enclosed with the
prospectus, which is obtainable
from
Members of the Stock Exchange
ANY BRANCH OF A.N.Z. BANK
The Registered Office of the Com-
pany, William & Crown Sts.,
Sydney. Telephone FA 0322.
Financing world-
famous products
distributed by
The Hastings
Deering Group
of Companies.
FORD
Cars and Trucks
FORDSON
Tractors
A.E.C,
Trucks & Buses
CATERPILLAR
Diesel Tractors
in Queensland
HYSTER
Fork Lift Trucks
JOHN DEERE
Agricultural
Machinery
LISTER
Engines
GROUP SALES
IN 1960
£14,757,281
’MAIL THIS COUPON'
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE &
INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
G.P.O. Box 4333, Sydney.
Please send me, without any obligation on my part, pros-
pectus dated 1/4/61, giving full details of your terms
deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS
B. 26/8
HD82.8
the minimum. A very con-
siderable proportion of plant
a nd equipment is hired. Hir-
ing charges are allowable
deductions taxwise and reduce
the effective costs of opera-
tions.
Trading investments jumped
from £3,189,010 to £7,436,568.
These include £4,926,766 land
and buildings (up £2,443,965)
and £1,149,340 work-in-pro-
gress (up £568,385).
The company’s chairman,
Mr C. H. Locke, says that the
group's future is “closely com-
mitted to area development
and urban renewal, and the
size and scope of projects
which we are currently under-
taking reflect this established
policy.”
The Canberra project will
involve about £2.5 million. In
Sydney the Australia Square
project is planned to open up
the congested city area between
Pitt and George Streets, next
to Hunter Street.
It is intended to expand
steadily the proportion of
group earnings derived from
the ownership of leasehold and
freehold properties. “This will
increasingly form a hard core
of group assets and profits,
which should keep pace with
any inflationary trends, whilst
producing income least affected
by economic fluctuations. To-
gether with the industrial
investments, property invest-
ments will ensure stability of
the group . . .”
Lend Lease ends its report
on a note of cautious optim-
ism : “We believe that a large
element of the uncertainty in
the building industry which
followed the introduction of
the Government’s financial
measures last year has now dis-
persed, and that we can look
forward to a period of stability
and orderly expansion.”
One final point. Lend
Lease’s board has earned the
gratitude of financial com-
mentators for presenting an
attractively produced and
informative report. It is to be
hoped that this policy will
become a general rule for all
business enterprises listed on
the share-market.
To an independent observer
Lend Lease’s future appears to
be one of continuous, confident
and dynamic expansion. High-
density building has excellent
prospects. Last term the aggre-
gate value of projects com-
pleted amounted to £1,862,000.
At balance date, 30 of the 198
lots of the Macquarie Heights
housing estate ' were sold.
Eight properties, valued at
£5,060,000, were under con-
struction, and 22 properties,
with a total estimated value
on completion of £18,600,000,
were in the planning stage.
The Budget should, if any-
thing, enhance the group’s
prospects.
At the last sale in Sydney
the ss. ords. fetched 16s. 9d. a
unit. The immediate return is
3 p.c. on the basis of the steady
10 p.c. dividend distribution.
Kinnears Ropes (Aust.)
Ltd
"Established in Victoria 87
years ago, Kinnears Ropes
(Aust.) Ltd, manufactures
manila, sisal, nylon and coir
ropes, binder, baler and bag-
sewing twines (“harvest-
twines”), as well as various
threads, yarns and twines pro-
duced from jute, hemp, flax
and cotton. Production >is
handled by Geo. Kinnear and
Sons Pty, the principal operat-
ing subsidiary. Products are
marketed under the well-known
and highly-regarded “Emu”
brand.
B.D. Mops and Buffs Pty,
the second operating sub-
sidiary, pays its way manufac-
turing industrial mops and
buffs from materials mainly
supplied by Geo. Kinnear and
Sons Pty. It was established
in 1956 to take over a going
concern.
Kinnears acquired public
status in 1954. Shareholders
participated in a one-for-five
bonus issue, July 22, 1959. The
div. rate has been steady at a
comfortable 9 p.c. since 1955,
the co. breaking the ice with
an 8 p.c. distribution in the
previous year. Paid capital,
£903,000 at flotation, is now
increased to £ 1,083,593, all in
f.-p. 10s. ords. The co. has
maintained a consistent policy
of heavy plough-back of profits
and there is little doubt that
this factor, together with
managerial efficiency, has been
instrumental to a great extent
in getting the co. over its
present difficulties.
Last term was marked by
heavy competition and trading
difficulties caused by the credit
restrictions. But the board
feels “there will be an improve-
ment in the demand for flax
canvas yarns” this year, par-
ticularly from Government
departments, which are cur-
rently ordering 530,000 yards.
The removal of import
licensing, coupled with the
credit restrictions introduced
in November, 1960, “caused a
very severe contraction of
sales of jute and viscose yarns,
used in carpet manufacture.”
Flax canvas also suffered,
though to a lesser degree.
All this seriously affected


RNt.N
Invest in
The Longest Established National Hire
Purchase Company
AMC
in which the Bank of N.S.W.
has a 40% shareholding
REGISTERED
NOTES
INTEREST RATES
g%
PER
ANNUM
Application for Registered Notes can be accepted
only on the printed form included in the pros-
pectus obtainable from the Bankers to the issue,
Bank of New South Wales (all Branches),
any A.G.C. Branch, and your Stockbroker.
PAID-UP CAPITAL: £6,875,000
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
Corporation Limited
142 Phillip Street, Sydney • BW 2673
Branches and offices throughout Australia
ASK THE 'WALES' FOR DETAILS
Kinnears’s results. Since the
company’s raw material re-
quirements are ordered several
months ahead, an acute stocks
problem arose —especially with
raw jute and synthetics. The
chairman says that the com-
pany continues to face this
problem.
Moreover, this forced rise in
inventories, coupled with the
general restrictions on credit,
strained the liquidity position.
This had led to staff retrench-
ments.
However, although the raw
materials stocks “are extremely
high both in terms of quantity
and value, it is considered that
in relation to world prices for
these commodities” the com-
pany is “in a sound position.”
Consolidated net profit for
the year ended June 30, 1961,
declined by £7865 to £179,262,
after setting aside £63,632 for
depreciation (up £12,159) and
providing £121,300 for taxation
(up £6300):
Parent and Subsidiary.
To Re- Re-
Jne.,Profit. , —Dividend—serves, serves.
30, £ p.c. £ £ £
’54..111,111 8 = 72,240 38,871 91,785
Staff fund, £25,000 66,785
’55..165,957 9 = 81,270 84,687 151,472
Tax overprovided, £2746 . 154,218
’56..167,419 9 = 81,270 86,149 240,367
Capital profit, £1251 .. 241,618
Added intangibles, £2lOB .. 239,510
Tax overprovided, £437 .. 239,947
Parent and Subsidiaries.
’57-187,249 9 = 81,270 105,979 345,926
Tax overprovided, £9508 . 355,434
Preliminary expenses, etc.,
written-off, £114.. . 355,320
’5B-138,832 9 = 81,270 57,562 412,882
Tax overprovided, £lO5 .. 412,987
’59-191,622 9 = 81,270 110,352 523,339
Res. capitalised, £180,593.. 342,746
Tax overprovided, £ll6 .. 342,862
’60..187,127 9 = 97,523 89,604 432,466
Tax underprovided, £7613.. 424,853
’61..179,262 9 = 97,523 81,739 506,592
This was equivalent to an
earning rate of 16.5 p.c. on the
average ord. capital, compared
with 17.3 p.c. in the previous
year and 21.2 p.c. in 1959.
The dividend rate was steady
at 9 p.c. The dividend cheque
absorbed £97,523, leaving
£81,739 to reserves which were
disclosed at £506,592.
Theoretical working capital
increased by £149,369 to
£578,181.
Stocks rose by £415,686 to
£1,012,705. Book debts, bank
overdraft and creditors were
higher:—
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1960. 1961.
Paid capital .. £1,083,593 £1,083,593
Reserves . 432,466 506,592
Outside interests 50 50
Overdraft . 57,825 204,686
Creditors, etc. . . 164,949 445,279
Staff fund ... 17,147 17,147
Tax provision .. 115,000 121,300
Final divs. . 54,179 54,179
Inter-eo. balances 43,344
£1,968,553 £2,432,826
Freehold . . 638,145 656,553
Plant, etc. .. 236,794 291,676
Investments v . 52,358 63,825
Stock . .. 597,019 1,012,705
Debtors, etc. . . 283,467 407,187
Short-term deposits 160,000 —-
Cash, bonds .. 770 880
£1,968,553 £2,432,826
Net tangible asset backing
works out at 14s. Bd. for each
10s. ord.
The new hard-fibre equip-
ment purchased in the previous
term is “producing twines of
top quality at most economic
cost.”
The company seems to have
a solid financial framework,
but the immediate prospects
depend largely on the general
economic conditions. On the
whole Kinnears’s ability to
almost maintain its earning
rate despite adverse trading
conditions is very encouraging.
At the last sale the 10s. ords.
changed hands at 20s. a unit,
making the immediate yield
4.5 p.c. p.a. on the basis of the
steady 9 p.c. dividend distribu-
tion.
COMPANY NOTES
Alliance Holdings Ltd
A lliance Holdings Ltd has
-**-cut div. handouts from 15 to
12j p.c. Consolidated pre-tax
profit, in the 12 months to June
30, 1961, was reduced from
£465.467 to £400,434. Tax pro-
vision took £155,548 (down
£39,204), consolidated net profit
coming finally in a slightly
lower £244,886 (down £25,829),
or 13.2 p.c. on paid capital, in-
creased during the 12 months
from £1,650,000 to £1,850,000.
The co. suffered abnormal
losses of a non-recurring nature
in the financing of motor
vehicles in Victoria but these
losses have been fully-
accounted for.
Total outstandings, in line
with reduced turnover, dropped
£783,164 to £14,372,593. Total
borrowings fell £270,394 to
£9,108,444 and of these, those
maturing within the next two
years aggregated £5,752,000.
Amounts due to be paid to the
co. in the same period totalled
£12,381,000.
The wholly owned subsidi-
ary, National Alliance Insur-
ance Co. Ltd, continued to pro-
gress and a satisfactory profit
was achieved.
Alliance Holdings ss. ords.
fetch Bs. 6d. on Sydney ’Change
to return 7.3 p.c. from immedi-
ate purchase.
Cambridge Credit
, T'he managing director of
■*- Cambridge Credit Cor-
poration Ltd, Mr R. E. M.
Hutcheson, reports that con-
solidated net profit after tax
for the year to June 30, 1961,
rose by £52,088 —or 68 p.c.—to
£127,935.
The earning rate on the
higher average capital em-
ployed during the year was
18.1 p.c., compared with 18.7
p.c. in 1959-60. The profit was
struck after setting aside
£12,057 for depreciation (up
£6605) and providing £72,181
for tax (up £29,867). The an-
nual dividend rate is steady at
p.c.
During the year paid capital
increased from £507,500 to
£782,500.
Neon Electric Signs
of Neon Electric
*** Signs Limited have an-
nounced a share-split which
will be followed by bonus and
cash issues.
Existing 20s. ords. will be
split into ss. ords., and nominal
capital increased to £500,000.
The bonus issue, to be made
from the company’s asset re-
valuation reserve, will give


HELP
LEGACY
all the year round.
Donations: 169 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney. BM2OOI.
AUTHORS
invited submit MSS all
types (including Poems) for
book publication. Reason-
able terms. Stockwell Ltd.,
Ilfracombe, England. (Estd.
1898.)
Professional Engagements
SCOTCH COLLEGE,
MITCHAM,
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
MASTER required to teach Grade
VI or VII. Duties to commence in
February, 1962. Resident accom-
modation available for single man.
Applications in writing to
Headmaster, Junior School.
Missing Friend
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
VICTORIA
To: DOUGLAS CHARLES CRICHTON
of address unknown. —-TAKE NOTICE
that your wife NORAH CRICHTON
lias instituted divorce proceedings
against you in the Supreme Court
of Victoria for a dissolution of her
marriage to you on the grounds of
desertion and failure to pav maintenance
and FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that
unless you file an Answer herein in
the Office of the Registrar Supreme
Court, Melbourne on or before the 9th
day of October 1961 the case may
proceed in your absence.—PAUL 0.
XU NAN & BLOOM, 42:> Little Collins
Street Melbourne, Solicitors for the
Petitioner.
Divorce Notice
TO JAMES DICKINSON formerly of
Dromana Victoria. -TAKE NOTICE
that your wife MART HON'ORA
DICKINSON has commenced proceed-
ings against you in the Supreme Court
of Western Australia for divorce on
the ground of presumption of death or
alternatively on the ground of separa-
tion IF you desire to defend such pro-
ceedings you must file your answer in
the Central Office of the Supreme Court
at Perth within TWENTY-EIGHT days
from the date ot this publication In
default of your so doing the cause may
proceed and the Court will pronounce
Judgment and make a decree against
vou in vour absence DATED this 26Sh
day of August 1961. FRED CURE A N
A FERRIER, Forrest Place, Perth,
Western Australia, Solicitors for the
Petitioner. —G. 1. STAPLES, Acting
Registrar.
Missing Persons
Will any descendants of ALBERT
LESLIE CAMPBELL, who emigrated
to Australia in about 1878 please com-
municate with K. M. CAMPBELL,
Wic-klands, Little Horsted, Uckfield
Sussex, England.
shareholders one for each two
of the new ss. ords. held at
October 5, 1961. The cash
issue, at par, will be on the
same terms.
Both new issues, which to-
gether will double the existing
paid-up capital of £105.000, wili
rank for dividend from July 1,
1961, not participating in the
final dividend for the year
ended June 30, 1961.
OIL AND MINING
Clarence River Basin Oil
rviRECToRS of Clarence River
Basin Oil Exploration Co.
N.L. report that samples of
gasified mud from Clifden No.
2 bore at Grafton previously
sent for analysis to the Depart-
ment of Mines show traces of
hydrocarbons, consisting of
Ethane, Propane, Butane and
Isobutane.
Results of the analysis seem
to indicate that samples from
the bore do not constitute a
commercial possibility. How-
ever, directors say that “the
presence of these higher hydro-
carbons in the drilling mud
improves the possibility of the
occurrence of oil in the area.”
Drilling at the Clifden No.
2 bore ceased at 1485 ft. for
engine overhaul, and w'as
scheduled to recommence on
August 16, 1961.
South Alligator United
Uranium
TAirectors of South Alligator
Uranium N.L. and United
Uranium N.L. have announced
their ‘intention of forming a
partnership to investigate and
develop economically workable
mineral deposits in Australia
and, in particular, in the
Northern Territory.” The new
venture will be called Group
Ventures N.L.
The idea is to diversify the
interests of South Alligator
Uranium N.L. and United
Uranium N.L., and find means
of using the two companies’
technical organisations and
field equipment after expira-
tion of their contracts with the
United Kingdom Atomic
Energy Authority for t h e
supply of uranium oxide.
No public issue of shares
will be made at present and
the two promoting companies
will have equal shareholdings.
Timor Oil Ltd
nr'iMoß Oil Ltd reports that
* Mr Harold Svoboda, exe-
cutive vice-president and pro-
duction manager of Sunset
Petroleum, and Mr E. Mays,
Tradewinds’ chief drilling
engineer, left for Timor Island
by charter flight together with
special technical equipment
which they brought from the
United States.
The board was advised by
Mr Svoboda that he would in-
spect the Matai No. 1A well,
where good oil shows were
previously encountered, and
then decide whether a new
technical approach to sidetrack
the well would be warranted or
“whether it would be more
expeditious and economical to
shift the rig to the next
scheduled well site at Matai.”
Mr Svoboda said that in the
next hole new techniques would
be used to overcome problems
of heaving shales.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 657
Across
I—ltalian1 —Italian river girl managed mixed tea fruit. (11)
6 —Word-perfect representative of the Irish strike. (3)
B—Beautiful8 —Beautiful European valley publicity in the motor. (8)
10 —Essay on poetry in the Russian city. (6)
14 —Not quite semi-ground, but went abroad. (9)
15 — Way behind an affirmative fer-
ment. (5)
16 — Thin tavern in heaven. (6)
17— Half of a toy strain well known
by Hamlet, alas! (6)
20— Make certain. (6)
21 — The ant hiding where invaders of
England quite often landed. (6)
24 Plants part of a play in 101. (5)
25 Capital place for saucy aspira-
tion. (5)
26 — Honey might answer to this
member of Attila's mob. (3)
27 — Crayon petals arranged with
irregular pleats. (6)
29 — Murderer reorganised an argu-
ment before a court. (8)
30— Spotted old saying is cut. (3)
31 — The French swell's sporting side
didn't keep anger bottled
up. (3, 3,5)
Down
1 — Hardy girl after the author of
“The Raven” —Elizabeth Barrett
or Mrs Hemans, for instance. (7)
2 Magic fin scene, (anagram) (13)
3 —Plonk of an inhabitant of
Gadara? (8, 5)
4 Foreign born. (3)
5 Couple in tow. (3)
7 —An individual characteristic to
the alternative apostate. (7)
9 —Correspondence college is
upset. (4)
11 — Wrecked lady is through when
the sun’s up. (8, 5)
12 — Hero’s last king damaged a
hunter’s deceitful device. (8, 5)
13 —The first person and Diana
turned to this dope. (5)
18 — Clothe some monkey in niedical
practice. (5)
19— Creep is among culinary prescrip-
tions. (7)
22 — The Chinese puzzle mutton to
taste. (7)
23 — No longer held in the reef. (4)
28— The right angle that is the wrong
statement. (3)
29 — Musical performers include you
in the keynote. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 656


You can buy
peace of mind!
1
>
' .cSS
Wi
$
<s
*
u. t
V
<w
&
;v
*
/*
.
: v;
■
II
Ifl!
I::':::
Sil-
a
*8
ifi
©
• <¥■«• # '-v
/ ;
mi
•*
m
'
■:.. I
•I
: • : : :••'
.
C S :
i
y<\
■H
r ■.
.
sm mm
a
■
I BHi
■■■■Hiras
n
r!
IISI
i inM 11 ■ ■ ■■■■■■■■■
p
Let City Mutual show you how
The greatest luxury a man can have is peace of
mind ... the knowledge that he will have more than
just the bare minimum to live upon in retirement
gnd that whatever the future may hold, his wife and
family will be free from financial fears. Yet this
greatest of luxuries is also one of the cheapest
to own.
Besides the peace of mind it gives you, a policy
with City Mutual carries with it many other benefits.
For one thing, it partly pays for itself because you
can deduct the premiums from your income tax.
Moreover, City Mutual is an all-Australian Society
with no shareholders all its distributable surplus
goes directly to you in the form of regular bonuses.
Your life assurance programme, like any other
financial plan, must be properly designed to meet
your family’s changing needs and your own personal
ambitions.
Let the City Mutual help you keep it up-to-date.
Your passport to peace of mind — a policy with
THE
CITY MUTUAL,
LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LTD.
(Incorporated in N.S.W. in 1878 )
Head Office i 60-66 Hunter Street- Sydney— Telephone 8W2021
4134
