

The Bulletin
Registered in Australia for trans-
mission by post as a newspaper.
October 7, 1961
K
WHAT'S
WRONG WITH
UNIONS?


' •• •••!
* A .1V A.*wW.v•>: ' '
s §|&: .. $ y> P||sS: ?' ■' % "
• V •-. • :' .'•*'' •:•
•■•^•?MM!A>»j.w.'iji>:i!i
: '.
a
ps|s|||pisis g n f IllPitf®
' p j
mm
€
m
m
-
t/'
mm
/
sssat
.: .
P:-
<=£■
gfc
-«►*— im-
■ Hl« -
<3
<
6 - £ •-
C• • :
2
SPiPxPP
:
■-
71
pMI $< -.-
I*lllll
wmmmm
lllliil
' ' •"■'
M®
Ew
■ -
&S*o
■
L "
m » <
&'<’■•■ >*•:. ' A x • • \-x •‘li-,TV,i...
g:| $ s ssZ< "v"
mMm
mm
% , | || | |&a§ra|g&j
f ‘
llillli
■
ia
itpiliis
■PRSPff
* «
.-. •■.•.v;o>:v:.va ,
;.• 'V •••y . •■ >■'■<;■; *S
1849:
gS&MMtSBSs
VISSB
THE MAN IN THE STREET TODAY can guard
against all of the insurable hazards through A.M.P.
Life or A.M.P. Fire and General. Any A.M.P. man
will gladly advise you on insurance and estate problems,
entirely without obligation.
Australia’s LARGEST and oldest
life assurance organisation
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
HEAD OFFICE. 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Offices in cities and towns throughout Australia and New Zealand and in the United Kingdom.
A.M.P. members enjoy the unquestioned security afforded by funds of £500,000,000
wkkh the Society seeks to invest to the greatest benefit to members.


TEARING OFF A STRIP
By Lovell Jones
HI p.H. WHAT >
ARE YOU READING?
I'M READING THE RUSSIAN REVOLUTION,
THE PEASANTS REVOLTED AGAINST THE
IDEA OF 10WER Cl ASS
MIDDLE ClflSS AND UPPER
(TASSJINAIIY THEY COT RID v<
.Of THE MIDDLE AND UPPER CIAsT/
SO,NOIV THfVft ONLY GOT
LOWER CLASS PfASANTS,MIDOIL CLASS
peasants, and upper
CLASS PEASANTS.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; Phone: 5971.
Vol. 82
No. 4260
Disposing of New Guinea
ON moral grounds who can criticise the Dutch for offering the
sovereignty of West New Guinea to the United Nations on
the condition that it allow for eventual self-determination and
with the understanding that in the meantime the Dutch go on pay-
ing the bills? This is not a Congo walkout; the Dutch will continue
to accept their responsibilities. And it can only be described as
“colonialism” by those who will use that word to describe anything.
The Indonesians have of course rejected it. They do not want
self-determination in West New Guinea. They simply want its
acquisition. Afro-Asian reactions so far have been cautious. There may
be a feeling that this is some kind of a plot, that the Dutch are
going to maintain in one way what they have found difficult to
maintain in another. But, with the United Nations exercising
sovereignty it should surely be possible to provide against the fulfil-
ment of this suspicion.
There may be one moral criticism of the Dutch suggestion. The
United Nations is at present an unworkable institution. The crisis
caused by the Secretary-General’s death and Mr Khrushchev’s in-
transigence make its future so uncertain that to hand over the future
of several million people to it could be an act of the gravest moral
—and practical—irresponsibility. For this reason final judgment must
be suspended until we see what happens to the United Nations.
But given that something good happens to the United Nations
the only objections to the Dutch plan are legal, or strategic. The
Indonesians dispute its legality, but since they are not prepared to
have the legality of their own case tested, United Nations
sovereignty and ultimate self-determination seem a reasonable alter-
native to legal arbitration. From the strategic point of view, there are
two criticisms that will interest Australians: that the Dutch action
will force our hand in East New Guinea; and that a transfer of
sovereignty might infuriate Indonesia and make her a bad neighbor.
W E have had so long to take the initiative in New Guinea and
put up to the Dutch a plan that we could both follow that it
really serves us right if our hand is now forced. Perhaps we have
reached the stage where almost any policy is better than none and
the present Dutch policy, if applied to East New Guinea, might be
as good as any. It would involve some kind of United Nation’s
guarantee of all the New Guinea territories and some unification of
their government so that when the time came for self-determination
one of the proposals could be Mr John Kerr’s “Melanesian Federa-
tion.” There are many faults in such a suggestion: but what are
the alternatives?
The idea that we should curry favor with our friends and
neighbors the Indoensians, by urging the transfer of West New
Guinea to Indonesia is a piece of cynical real politi\ that is really
quite illusory. To arbitrarily dispose of several million human beings
as a concession to buy friendship will not buy friendship; it will be
exploited as a symptom of weakness. Friendship between nations is
not gained by cynical concessions. And the disposing of other people
can produce such a corruption of the morals of the nation that does
the disposing that it may not know when to stop; eventually it too
may become disposable.


This Australia
INTERFERENCE
Enemies, Real or Imagined
By MUGGA
ALBERT McNOLTY
Piecemeal
TTo rank-and-file trade unionists the
*- most persuasive point in defence of
unity tickets is that any action by the
A.L.P. to end them would constitute
“interference” in trade union affairs.
Trade unionists, the argument runs, must
be free to run their own affairs, stand for
union positions (in alliance with other
unionists, if they like) and vote as they
please.
As a contribution to the unity-ticket
debate this is fatuous and misleading ;
neither the A.L.P. nor any other body can
deprive unionists of these rights for the
simple reason that they are guaranteed
by law. The argument is in fact a smoke-
screen to confuse the real issue in the
unity ticket situation—whether a unionist
who is also an A.L.P. member should be
allowed by the A.L.P. to jeopardise the
party’s electoral prospects by associating
with Communists in union elections.
The only penalty which can be visited
upon a unity-ticket culprit is in his
capacity as a Labor-party member, not
as a unionist. If the A.L.P. expels such
a member, how does this constitute inter-
ference in trade union affairs? The per-
son’s A.L.P. status is affected, but surely
not his role as a trade unionist?
Fallacy or not, the cry of “non-inter-
ference” in trade union affairs is a power-
ful rallying-cry for officials who live by
unity tickets and an influential argument
among unionists generally. No trade
unionist likes to think that his union is
being manipulated by outside forces, and
many officials are skilled at exploiting this
legitimate attitude —even to the point
of branding newspaper comment on
trade union affairs as “interference.”
Last week officials from 30 trade
unions met in Melbourne to set up an
organisation dedicated to resisting
“interference” in trade unions. Fifteen
of their number were appointed to draw
up plans to “protect the trade unionist
from outside interference,” and a further
meeting to consider these plans was
scheduled for this week.
The leaders of the move were those
veterans A.L.P. defenders of unity tickets,
Messrs Albert (“Peace Medal”) McNolty,
W. Brown (president of the Melbourne
Trades Hall Council) and D. McSween,
secretary of the Clothing Trades Union.
Needless to say, the-meeting was not
called to discuss unity tickets. Instead it
directed a blast against the activities of
"dozens of disruptive full-time semi-
secret agents of the notorious National
Civic Council’’ and "persistent political
attempts to filch from the ordinary trade
union member his right to control his
own union.”
In the peculiar jargon of this group,
an N.C.C. agent is more or less anybody
who opposes them for a trade union posi-
tion, or who thinks that the Victorian
A.L.P. Executive is other than perfect.
In this way the N.C.C. has had wished
on to it several people of atheist or
Jewish persuasion. There was no mention
of the activities of full-time Communist
organisers who flit round the Melbourne
waterfront “fixing” things for the party.
However, it is clear that the new com-
mittee has more targets than N.C.C.
agents, real or imagined. One of its
long-term campaigns will be the repeal
of Federal legislation giving rank-and-
file trade unionists the right to have
ballots supervised by the Commonwealth
Arbitration Commission.
Under legislation, initially introduced
by the Chifley Government in 1949 and
widened by the Menzies Cabinet in 1951,
1000 members or one-tenth of a union's
membership (whichever is the less) may
petition for a court-supervised ballot in a
Federal union. In the case of a union
branch 500 members or one-fifth must
sign the petition.
The legislation was aimed at prevent-
ing rigged ballots and at helping minority
groups in unions get protection against
stand-over tactics by existing officials.
Introducing it in 1949, Dr Evatt stressed
that “the proper control of the affairs
of a trade union was by its members—
not by any individual or body which is
not a member.”
The Evatt bill obliged petitioning
members to establish a prima facie case
of poll malpractices. This requirement
was removed by the Menzies Government
after unionists had complained that little
could be done AFTER a ballot had been
rigged—action was needed to stop the
rigging.
Formation of the committee is also a
form of insurance against any eventual,
belated action by the Federal A.L.P. to
enforce the unity-ticket ban in Victoria.
The last-ditch threat of the Victorian
A.L.P. bosses against the Federal party
has been to hint at the formation of yet
another “Labor party” in Victoria if there
is Federal intervention.
This would be the “Industrial Labor
Party,” and the roll-call of the 30 unions
at last week's meeting is meant as a show
of strength against the A.L.P. Federal
Executive, which met in Canberra the
following day. On paper it looks impres-
sive, but if it came to the point not all
of the officials involved would walk into
the wilderness of an “Industrial Labor
Party.” Most of them have sound
instincts of self-preservation, even though
they may be temporarily beguiled by Mr
McNolty and his associates.
MUSIC
The Irony of Being a
Permanent Conductor
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
GEORGES TZIPINE
Ability counts
Victorian Symphony Orchestra is
living up to its reputation as one of
Melbourne’s cultural trouble spots. The
conductor, M. Georges Tzipine, wants to
seat the string players on the basis of
their ability, instead of the public-service
principle of seniority. As a result ques-
tions have been asked in Parliament, no
doubt, at the instigation of the powerful
Musicians’ Union.


M. Tzipine, who is aged 54, came from
Paris in April to take up his position as
permanent conductor and, no doubt, by
now is realising the two-fold irony of the
title. He is the fifth “permanent” con-
ductor the orchestra has had in ten years.
Moreover, he does not have the right,
which conductors of European orchestras
enjoy, to hire or fire players. Whether
he can get away with re-arranging their
seating remains to be seen.
Of previous conductors, Alceo Galliera,
Juan Castro and Walter Susskind each
lasted about two years, while Kurt Woess
set a record by holding on for three.
After Kurt Woess finished up in Novem-
ber, 1959. the A.B.C. general manager,
Sir Charles Moses, gave a brief resume
of their failings. The trouble with Castro
was that “he wanted to spend more time
composing than conducting,” while Gal-
liera “wanted to do just half the number
of concerts performed by the Sydney
Symphony Orchestra.” As for Woess,
“the feeling was generally that we ought
to get someone better known and of more
stature.” M. Tzipine, who was approached
to take the job during his 1960 tour as
a visiting conductor, cannot say he wasn't
warned.
The French conductor's 1960 tour was
memorable for his demand that the
A.B.C. ban all music critics from his
concerts. “Never in the world have 1
read anything like what the Australian
critics say,” Tzipine said. “In France
they would be laughed at. I welcome
constructive criticism, but it is time these
critics were banned. I was warned about
Australian critics, and especially Mel-
bourne critics, before I left Paris.” The
critics, needless to say, were delighted.
No other conductor had ever taken them
so seriously.
M. Tzipine also announced that he
would never agree to becoming perman-
ent conductor in Melbourne while the
critics remained in their jobs. Neverthe-
less, he returned this year under a con-
tract entitling him to spend five months
of every year abroad. He promised that
within two years the V.S.O. would be
one of the finest orchestras in the world
and that the 500 concert subscribers lost
in the past year would be recovered. As
a first step he had the male members of
the orchestra dressed in tails instead of
dinner suits. The critics applauded this.
The players accepted the tails, but M.
Tzipine's rearrangement of the orchestra’s
seating was a blow at the deep-rooted
conservatism which is the foundation
of all successful trade unions. The
Musicians’ Union not only seeks per-
manency of employment for its members
but also promotion on basis of seniority.
The questions asked in Parliament by the
Deputy-Leader of the Opposition (Mr
D. Lovegrove) were a measure of the
crisis provoked by M. Tzipine's musical
chairs.
Mr Lovegrove asked the Premier, Mr
Bolte, “Whether he will inquire into the
circumstances which are causing dissen-
sion in the Victorian Symphony Orches-
tra since the appointment of its present
conductor? Whether the Government will
use its influence with the A.B.C. to pro-
tect the livelihood and reputations of
competent Australian musicians whose
abilities in the service of the V.S.O. have
been recognised under other conductors?
Whether the Government will endeavor
to ensure that the adequate musical talent
available in Australia is used to provide
conductors and leaders of the V. 5.0.?
Whether the Governrnen will increase
the present subsidy to the V.S.O. by at
least an amount necessary to compen-
sate for the increases in price and salary
levels since the present subsidy was
determined?”
Mr Bolte replied that the agreement
between the A.B.C. and his Government
regarding finance for the V.S.O. was due
for renewal and that the matters raised
by Mr Lovegrove would be discussed.
Seeing big trouble looming, the Victorian
Acting-manager of the A.8.C., Mr A. J.
Winter, also issued a statement:
“Changes relating to the seating of
players were being “considered,” Mr
Winter said, but these did not affect “the
future of members of the orchestra and
do not involve the recruitment of new
players.” The conductor would not be
given the right to hire or fire without
the Musicians’ Union being consulted,
Mr Winter added.
At the moment, M. Tzipine must feel
completely coralled. There is the A.8.C.,
which wants to regain the lost concert
subscribers (3000 in the last ten years,
according to Musicians’ Union president
Mr A. Bendall) and the Government,
looking for plenty of country concerts
in return for the £25,000 it puts up.
On the third side there is the Musicians’
Union which wants to go on being hide-
bound, while out in front are those
critics.
THE SUBURBS
The Bennelong Battle
BY PETER KELLY IN SYDNEY
LORD MAYOR JENSEN
A G.M.-H. man?
As he looks up from his desk at
Sydney’s Town Hall at the statuette
of an aboriginal woman, a lock of
Napoleon’s hair, and a porcelain bear (the
bear was given to him by the Mayor of
West Berlin, Herr Willy Brandt), the
Lord Mayor, Aid. H. Jensen, must
wonder how long it will be before he
enters his final political haven, Federal
Parliament.
Last week he was the centre of a pre-
election explosion when the N.S.W.
Chamber of Automotive Industries
announced that as a “democratic pro-
test' against the policies of the Federal
Government they would give financial
support to Aid. Jensen in his election
battle.
The seat the Chamber and the A.L.P.
hope Aid. Jensen will win is that of
Bennelong, held for the Government by
the relatively inconspicuous Minister for
the Army, Mr J. O. Cramer. Bennelong,
mistakenly thought by some to be a
blue-riband Liberal seat, includes the
eminently respectable and growing
middle-class areas of Hunter s Hill, Lane
Cove, Gladesville, Chatswood West,
Artarmon, Gore Hill, Ryde and North
Ryde.
Over the last few years the character
of the area has been changing. North
Ryde was once composed largely of dairy-
farms, market-gardens and the “small”
farmers, who lived comfortably on the
outskirts of most capital city areas. These
people have sold out, cashing in on the
boom prices available for suitable hous-
ing sites, in their place are many Housing
Commission and War Service homes —
“all of them,’’ as Labor organisers, say,
“potential Labor voters.” And judging
from the voting returns they may be
right.
For j nsta nce, in 1955 Mr Cramer won
the seat when he polled 25.628 to the
Labor man, Mr H. Coates, 16,607. In
the 1958 election, when the electors had
increased by approximately 5000, Mr
Cramer dropped 100 votes, the D.L.P.
gained 1702 and Mr Coates increased his
figure by 2334. This year there will be
at least 3000 more voters on the roll,
and whereas it is thought by some that
Mr Cramer is “safe,” he will have to
fight hard if he wants to match Aid.
Jensen s highly organised campaign,
So far as the electorate itself is con-
cerned, there has been evidence only of
Aid. Jensen’s campaign. One of his
more imaginative gimmicks has been a
i ea fl e t called “Antidotes” which is
intended to give hints to householders
on household poisons. The biggest anti-
dote for the Bennelong electors, of
course, is the Lord Mayor. Of 1000 of
these handed out on Saturday morning
at North Ryde shopping centre, campaign
organisers said they only found two
dropped on the footpath. “No, it is not
just a gimmick,” one of Aid. Jensen’s
organisers told The Bulletin. “It is


something useful, and it must gain him
some votes.” Which wasn’t a bad defini-
tion of a gimmick as far as The Bulle-
tin was concerned.
No one really knows if the Chamber of
Automotive Industries is giving Aid.
Jensen more than financial support, but
in the sweltering heat of last Sunday two
Liberal voters, one a barrister and one a
businessman, were door-knocking on
Labor’s behalf. Whether it was the heat-
wave or Aid. Jensen’s “Father of the
Year” image which has made them
switch sides is uncertain. Maybe they,
like Jensen, have become ardent socialists.
Which, of course, raises the interesting
point that if Aid. Jensen has signed the
A.L.P's pledge of socialisation, does he
intend to nationalise the motor industry
when and if he sits in the Federal House?
Or does he believe that “What’s good for
General Motors is good for Australia”?
FORM REVERSAL
A "Booze and Betting”
Budget
FROM A BRISBANE CORRESPONDENT
T. A HILEY
Fingers carnation
Never let it be said that a politician
can't change his mind. Thomas
Alford Hiley, Liberal member for
Chatsworth in the Queensland Par-
liament, and also Treasurer in the Nicklin-
Morris coalition, is a case in point.
In 1954, when he was leader of the
Liberal Party, then in Opposition, Hiley
had quite a lot to say when the Govern-
ment introduced a Bill to provide for
referenda on off-course betting.
Said Hiley, carefully fingering his in-
evitable carnation: “I now want to
expiain why on reason and prejudice I
am opposed to any extension of betting
facilities to off-course betting shops . . .
In years of practical experience in
accountancy I have known cases where
men have made a complete and utter mess
of their lives ... of bad breaches of
trust involving embezzlement ... In my
experience of all the factors that can
unsettle a man’s life and can lead to
these things, horse racing and betting on
horse racing are by far the major ones
. . . they are the cause of broken lives
and ruined fortunes.”
Last week in State Parliament, intro-
ducing his fifth deficit Budget, Hiley
disclosed that the Government would
shortly legislate to provide off-course
betting in certain areas of the State,
“Reason and prejudice,” apparently, have
been tossed overboard in favor of the
cool million a year net which is expected
to be raked in.
Quizzed by the press, “Honest Frank”
Nicklin was a little vague about the exact
nature of the legislation. There has been
no final decision yet, he said, on the
actual areas involved, and M.P.’s are
puzzled how the Treasurer could estimate
so exactly the extent of this new source of
revenue.
By and large, however, it seems that the
areas involved will be outside a 20-mile
radius of a race-track. Country punters,
it seems, are the fall-guys in this one —
just as country people have been the fall-
guys in the new transport taxes, which
apply only to people living outside a 20-
mile radius of the main cities and towns.
Twenty is becoming almost a mystic
figure in Queensland under the coalition!
According to the Treasurer the new trans-
port taxes will yield an additional
£535,502 this financial year, despite assur-
ances to Country Party rank and file by
“Honest Frank” that the new State Trans-
port Act had not increased taxation.
Drinkers are also being lined up
against the wall in the Government’s
frantic rush for funds. Hotel licensing
fees are to be increased from four to
six per cent, on turnover, and once again
the Treasurer anticipates an extra half
a million a year—which certainly won’t
be paid for by publicans.
On the educational front, the spread
of “Pizzeycal Culture” continues—-
defined by irreverent Brisbane wit, Dr
J. V. Duhig, as “culture on the lowest
possible level.” Quite a fair bit of money
is to be spent by Education Minister
Pizzey on high and primary schools,
mainly in the metropolitan area, but the
State can't keep up with the generous
Commonwealth grants to its rapidly
expanding university. The Treasurer
calls this a warning sign to the uni-
versity.
Extraordinarily generous but unspeci-
fied concessions involving probate and
succession duties have been granted to
people living in (or investing) in the
most sparsely populated portion of the
State: —up around the Gulf country,
where a couple of Liberal members have
recently acquired pastoral interests.
As forecast several months ago, rail-
way losses continue to rise under the
management of Liberal Minister Gordon
Chalk, with an optimistic forecast of a
mere £3 million working-account deficit
this year. Throw in interest and depre-
ciation and it seems that the Queens-
land railways this year will cost the tax-
payer about £l5 million —quite an
extraordinary effort even for a business-
man’s Government.
Opposition reaction to the Budget was
predictable. A.L.P. Leader Jack Duggan
called it a “booze and betting” Budget.
Q.L.P. Leader Paul Hilton said it
reminded him “of a bankrupt who wishes
to borrow to bet.”
It is difficult to know what the
Treasurer really thinks of it. Normally
he has a carefully hand-picked gallery
listening to his Budget address in rapt
silence. They weren’t there this year.
Neither were any members of the Con-
gregational Church, of which Mr Hiley is
also treasurer. On the grounds of pure
“reason and prejudice,” perhaps it was
as well that they weren’t!
AFFILIATIONS
Brief Revolt
FROM A PERTH CORRESPONDENT
TPhe brief revolt of W.A. Public Works
Department painter George Sapelli
against paying his union affiliation fee of
4s. to the Australian Labor Party may
end this week if he can't find work as a
private contractor.
"‘it looks as if I might have to pay the
4s. and make my protest later if I want
to get work,” he told The Bulletin.
Mr Sapelli, who is a member of the
W.A. state executive of the Democratic
Labor Party and president of its Innaloo
branch, was sacked from his job as a
Public Works Department painter be-
cause he refused to pay the affiliation fee
to the A.L.P. and thus made himself un-
financial.
His appeal to the Arbitration Court
was disallowed when the Industrial
Registrar told him he could not intervene
in the dispute because the union rules
provided for the payment of the affiliation
fee as part of the union dues, and the
painter's award provided for preference
in employment to financial members of
the union.
He made his stand, despite an assur-
ance by Painters’ Union secretary J. G.
White that the union could get over the
problem by not including his name on the
affiliation list. Mr Sapelli claimed the
money might reach the A.L.P. through a
general political donation.
“I would not agree to pay the fee if
the union undertook to hand it over to
the D.L.P.,” he said last week. “I am
opposed to political influence in unions.
It’s their job to look after the social well-
being of their members.
“If any union member wants to con-
tribute to the A.L.P. or any other party
he should be able to do so, but it should
not be compulsory.”
While Sapelli was consulting his solici-
tor last week to find out what right he
had to refuse the affiliation fee under the
union rules, Works Minister Wild said
the department could not by law employ
any unfinancial member of any union
while financial members were out of work.


"IT'S A BLATANT MOVE BY THE GOVERNMENT TO USE THE SECURITY SERVICE
TO EMBARRASS THE LABOR PARTY FOR HAVING FOUNDED IT."


MALAYS
"A Name to Frighten
Children With"
FROM KEITH WILLEY IN DARWIN
A. R. DOWNER
“ Surrender”
IN Darwin, Mr Dick Ward, legal counsel
for two Malays threatened with
deportation, predicted: “In Malaya,
Downer will become a name to frighten
children with.” Perhaps Ward, who is
Port Darwin representative in the N.T.
Legislative Council, was feeling a little
heated —people in Darwin are very heated
over the deportation orders —but whether
or not the name of Alexander Russell
Downer is enough to frighten Malayan
children, it certainly does not stand high
in Darwin at the moment.
In Darwin, the two Malays, Daru bin
Saris and Zainal bin Hashim, have been
in and out of custody and in and out of
hiding so many times that even Darwinites
are having difficulty in keeping up with
the moves. To southerners, not accus-
tomed to the headstrong ways of Darwin
people, the affair has all the interest of a
thriller film.
On September 25 Daru and Zainal after
a few days in hiding, gave themselves up
to Administrator Roger Nott with a new
plea that they be allowed to stay in
Darwin.
Backing them up was a deputation of
civic and church leaders, which included
Mayor, Harold Cooper, and the presi-
dent of Darwin Rotary, Lou De
Courcey.
Police were ready to take the Malays
into custody but, on orders from Can-
berra, they were released on giving under-
takings they would not abscond and
would report daily to the immigration
office. However on Thursday they went
back into hiding.
Mr Ward said Immigration Minister
Downer had ignored his letters seeking
access to papers which he needed as a
base for legal action on their behalf.
Word spread around Darwin early on
Thursday that the police had been
ordered to set a trap for Zainal and Daru
when they made their daily call at the
Immigration Office that morning.
Pressmen, who called at the office soon
after 10 a.m., found a police patrol
car hidden at the back of the building,
out of sight of the street. Inside,
security and regular police were waiting.
However, the men did not turn up.
At noon an immigration officer handed
Mr Ward a letter stating that Daru and
Zainal were to be taken into custody and
would leave for Singapore on a plane the
next day. Immediately Mr Ward sent a
telegram to Mr Downer expressing his
“disgust.”
Mr Ward said: “The undertaking
signed by the two men carried the
implied meaning that they would be free
from interference until this matter was
resolved. I am staggered at the methods
used and treatment of them and can only
say that Mr Menzies and Mr Downer
wouldn’t know an Asian if they stood
on one.”
All that afternoon loudspeaker-vans
toured the city, calling on people to
attend a mass protest meeting on Darwin
oval at 8 p.m. The 500 people who
attended unanimously passed a motion
that Darwin would resist attempts to
deport the Malays “even if it means
breaking the law.”
Mr Ward told the crowd that Mr
Downer's methods in appealing to the
men to give themselves up, then allow-
ing them to go free on an undertaking
they would not abscond, and finally
arranging to take them into custody when
they reported in on Thursday, could be
expressed in a simile: “It was like call-
ing a dog from a kennel, then patting it
on the head, followed by a kick in the
ribs.”
The meeting started a “fighting fund”
to finance an expected long battle, and
appointed a 14-man body called the Dar-
win Anti-Deportation Committee.
With tempers rising the Anti-Deporta-
tion Committee fired off a telegram to
the United Nations: “The citizens of
Darwin, Australia, wish to bring to the
attention of your committee on these
matters a violation of the Universal De-
claration of Human Rights.
‘They further bring to attention that
this is a case of a Government refusing
to heed the will of the people. It is
suggested that it is time the immigration
policy of this country be examined in
the light of the principles and policies set
down by the United Nations.”
Another telegram went to Mr Downer
urging him: “In the interests of reason-
able treatment of the Malays to lift his
deportation order so they can move
freely in Darwin until issues are resolved.”
Mr Ward said he believed the Malayans
could not be deported legally anyway. He
would test provisions of the Nationality
and Citizenship Act which, he said,
classed Malayans as British subjects and
“protected citizens.”
The tragedy is that this affair has been
allowed to go so far. In the light of
recent events —which will have been well
publicised in Asia —the claim that our
immigration policy is an economic, not a
racist, conception, must ring hollow.
This Darwin hubbub could have a
serious effect on opinion in Malaya, one
of our few genuine friends in Asia. And
it is not over yet.
The real villain of the piece is the
indentured labor system under which, by
Mr Downer's admission, “many hun-
dreds” of Asians have been allowed into
Australia as cooks and in other specialised
occupations.
It is time Australians had a good, hard
look at the indenture system. While pay-
ing lip-service to the national policy, it
provides pearl divers for the few luggers
still operating out of Broome and Darwin,
and cheap kitchen labor for Chinese
restaurants in the south.
In effect, it is a form of slavery, often
ending after many years—as in the case
of Daru and Zainal —in personal tragedy
and heartbreak.
As a system it is surely indefensible.
Clearly we should either admit these
people as migrants, with the same rights
and wages as Greeks, Italians and other
Europeans ; or we should stop the cheap
labor flow immediately and learn to dive
for our own pearls and make our own
dim sims.


RACIALISM
"Black Against White
On a Global Board"
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
ERIC BUTLER
“Heritage”
Mr Eric Butler’s “Australian League
of Rights” is still distributing its
nauseous, mindless, race - propaganda.
Residents in Melbourne suburbs have
recently found in their letterboxes a
leaflet headed “Our White Australia”
which invites readers to make further
inquiries to the league at 430 Bourke
Street. Since the issue of the leaflet, how-
ever, the league has moved to 273 Little
Collins street, where it shares an office
with “The Heritage Bookshop” and
“Dietary Health Products.” American
experience suggests that diet and race
crankery often go hand-in-hand.
The leaflet purports to be a defence
cl' the White Australia policy, but is, in
fact, a disgusting piece of anti-semitism.
Its opening paragraph claims that colored
migrants in Great Britain are responsible
for the alleged spread of sexual licence,
venereal disease and leprosy. The real
villain, however, is the “international
Jewish conspiracy” which seeks to achieve
world domination by encouraging inter-
marriage between negroes and Europeans.
The leaflet quotes from “a racial pro-
gramme for the Twentieth Century,” a
book allegedly written by “The Com-
munist-Jew” Israel Cohen in 1912 (when,
of course, the Communist party did not
exist). The Jewish conspiracy, having
fomented race riots in U.S.A., Africa and
England, now has its eyes on Australia.
Beyond this nonsensical claim, there is
no mention of Australia in the leaflet.
The title is merely a cover for several
hundred words of anti-semitic rubbish.
Further light was thrown on the morbid
activities of Mr Butler and his friends last
week when the League of Rights held a
seminar in the Rob Roy room at Scott’s
Hotel on the theme of “world revolution.”
Papers were presented by the Rev. Mr
Norman Hill, Mr Butler himself, and
Queenslander Sir Raphael Cilento, who
has an international reputation for his
work in tropical medicine, public health
and refugee care.
Mr Hill, who is vicar of St Mark’s
Church of England, Fitzroy, is well-
known as an anti-Communist and an up-
holder of the White Australia policy. He
believes that “confusion” over racial
questions is exploited to use Christians
in subversive causes.
This is not the first time that Mr Hill
and Mr Butler have found common
ground, but the participation of Sir
Raphael Cilento came as a surprise to
many. His paper was entitled “The
Exploitation of Race in the Struggle for
the World” and in it Sir Raphael devel-
oped the theme that the cold war is based
on inflaming the colored against the
white. ‘Black is being played against
white on a global board,” he claimed.
Sir Raphael has always been a defender
of the White Australia policy, though
usually he has based his support on the
orthodox "economic grounds” argument.
This approach to White Australia is
still widespread, particularly in the Labor
party and does not necessarily imply
racism. Sir Raphael’s paper, however,
suggested that he has now gone a long
way towards accepting Mr Butler’s weird
view that racial relations are the motive
force of world history at the present time.
The record indicates that off-beat poli-
tical movements have fascinated Sir
Raphael for some time. In 1953 he was
one of the founders of the Democratic
party, which ran a Senate team, headed
by himself, in Queensland. According
to Sir Raphael, the Democratic party
stood half-way between Liberal and
Labor. Running with him on its Senate
ticket was Mr W. J. Herbert, an econo-
mist and former A.L.P. member, and Mr
C. W. Russell, a former Country party
M-H.R.
In 1954 Sir Raphael stood for the
House of Representatives against the
Federal Treasurer, Mr (now Sir) Arthur
Fadden, this time as an Independent. He
announced that if he could get into Par-
liament he was confident he could form
a central coalition from dissatisfied back-
benchers of the Liberal, Labor and
Country parties. He received support in
this campaign from the “Truth” news-
papers, controlled at the time by Mr
Ezra Norton.
EDUCATION
More Staying at School Longer
FROM A CORRESPONDENT IN HOBART
'T'he announcement by the Tasmanian
A Minister for Education, Mr Neilson,
that more of the State’s children are
remaining at school longer might cause
surprise to those aware that although the
State pioneered, soon after the war, a
compulsory attendance at school until the
age of 16, many children have been
exempted from this rule.
More recently, children have been
encouraged to remain at school. Re-
casting of School Board certificate con-
ditions has made it possible for a child
to get some tangible qualification. The
certificate might be utterly beyond his
capacity, but he can complete his allotted
time at school £ nd get a certificate which
states his attainments in those subjects
which he studied Previously, a child
with no academic ability would have
nothing to show for his remaining at
school.
The conditions of apprenticeships are
becoming more demanding, encouraging
a boy to qualify for a skilled trade which
insists on high entry standards. Without
some background of scholastic attainment
the boy of 1962 will have poor prospects
of entry into worthwhile trades.
Other children are being held back for
an additional year by new matriculation
standards.
According to Mr Neilson, only 55 per
cent, of those children who enrolled in
1952 in Tasmanian high schools remained
for the fourth year, and fewer than 19 per
cent, continued into the fifth year.
Of the 1956 intake, almost 67 per cent,
and 25 per cent., respectively, continued
into their fourth and fifth years.
Today, nearly 74 out of every 100
children enrolled in high schools in 1957
were still at school, Mr Neilson said.
He suggested that the big expansion
of high schools might be a contributing
factor. There were now 27 high schools,
against only eight in 1955, he said.
There has also been a considerable
change in the pattern of secondary educa-
tion. According to Mr Neilson, only
37.5 per cent, of those undergoing second-
ary education in 1952 were in high
schools. By last year, the figure had risen
to 57.5 per cent. Some of the so-called
“modern” schools have become high-
schools, and some area-schools which
previously provided “modern - school”
courses for senior pupils now provide
high-school courses.
Last year, 9.1 per cent, of all secondary
schoolpupils sat for matriculation exam-
inations, a 50 per cent, increase on the
proportion of 1956. Rather more than
half of the candidates passed.
At the private schools, there is increas-
ing emphasis on pupils remaining an
additional year to do their matriculation
exams.
In Victoria and W.A., matriculation is
normally undertaken at the end of the
twelfth school year; in N.S.W. and


"It's either a realistic tableau symbolising the eternal struggle between forces of good and evil, or we've
mixed up the dates of the crusade!"
Queensland it comes at the end of the
13th year. But in Tasmania it is expected
at the end of the eleventh year, as depart-
ment schools provide lor only five
years of secondary education.
Both Mr D. V. Selth, headmaster of
Launceston Church Grammar School, and
the Rev. Mr R. H. Dean, principal of
Scotch College, Launceston, have criti-
cised the Professorial Board of the Uni-
versity of Tasmania for its responsibility
for the “confused state of secondary
education in Tasmania.” Mr Dean has
warned of the development of “an
irrational situation” in which the scope
of matriculation requirements has been
increased concurrently with a pronounce-
ment that the examination should be
passed within a year of the pupil's passing
the Schools Board examination.
POLES
"A Man of Impressive
Agility"
BY A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
IyTEMBERS of Australia’s Polish com-
rnunity had recently a very strange
visitor. He was Dr Jan Frankowski, a
member of the Pol'sh Seym (Parliament)
under the present Communist dispensa-
tion. Dr Frankowski, a prominent mem-
ber of the World Peace Council, dropped
in on his way back from Hiroshima
where he participated in Communist-
organised “peace" meetings.
A visit of an M.P. from Poland would
not be such an important event, were it
not that Dr Frankowski is a Communist
M.P. with a difference. He is called a
“Catholic M.P.” Thus, when DrFrankow-
ski tries to meet Poles in Australia, who
would not talk to a Communist, he talks
like a Catholic struggling hard to defend
the faith of the nation in present condi-
tions. At the same time, whenever a bill
is debated reducing or abolishing some
rights of the Church in Poland, Dr
Frankowski is produced to approve it on
behalf of Polish “Catholics.”
A nlan of | mpressive agility all his life,
he has been a deputy for about 16 years.
He was the only politician in Poland
allowed to parade as an “independent”
(and later “Catholic”) M.P. while Stalin
lived. Now, when some genuine repre-
sentatives of Polish Catholics are toler-
ated in the Seym, Frankowski sees to it
that they are opposed and contradicted at
every step by him, “also a Catholic.”
Frankowski appeared to those who
talked to him as a suave practitioner of
double-talk. With all the frills of “com-
plete frankness” he was trying to peddle
his special line: everything is not too
rosy under the Communists, but is it so
rosy here, or in the U.S.? We have
secret police and so have you, etc.
Catholics are free in Poland because the
Communists are concerned with their
influence in two other Catholic countries
—ltaly and France.
In Sydney and in Melbourne, Frankow-
ski tried his best but does not seem to
have succeeded in splitting or fragment-
ing the Poles. Maybe it is difficult to
split or fragment a body which is rather
amorphous, but the fact is that he could
not fool anyone ; or nearly anyone.
The “Polish Catholic Weekly” ("Tygod-
nik Katolicki”) very promptly published
his extraordinary record of betrayal and
duplicity and the matter may be con-
sidered to rest here. But not quite.
It is rumored that Dr Frankowski and
one of the pseudo-Catholic organisations
which he helps to run for the Communists
have a great deal to do with recommend-
ing which Polish priests shall be per-
mitted to go out to countries like
Australia, Canada, Argentina, etc., for
missionary work or work among
migrants.
If this is true, then Dr Frankowski
may not have failed so completely if he
merely reminded recent arrivals among
Polish priests that Big Brother watches
them . . .


PLAIN ENGLISH
Australia's McCarthyist Terror?
It is not known at the time of writing
why the Federal Government has pre-
vented Mr Brenner from entering Aus-
tralia. All that is known is that after
his appointment to a position at Adelaide
University, he failed to get an entry per-
mit. He subsequently announced that
he had been a member of the Stern Gang
in his youth and that he had applied for
membership of the Israeli Communist
Party in 1950, but had been rejected
because his standards of self-criticism
were not high enough.
This almost complete lack of infor-
mation has not stopped critics from
blaming the Security Service for the
whole thing. The most extreme form of
criticism is that the Security Service pre-
vented a university appointment by
digging out Mr Brenner’s Stern Gang
membership and his self-alleged applica-
tion to join the Communist party. This
type of criticism —for which at this stage
there is no evidence whatever —is, never-
theless, made by the kind of people who
demand evidence of the order of divine
revelation when the attack is on their
side.
For one thing we do not even know
whether the Security Service reported
anything. If they did make a report
there is no evidence that they took any
initiative in making it; the immigration
authorities may —and probably did —call
for a report. And it may not have been
a report from our Security Service but a
report from a sister agency in England.
And the Security Service is not an execu-
tive body ; it reports to the Government
and the Government makes the decision ;
if it is to be attacked it can be attacked
not for reporting when reports are called
for (which is its job) but for getting its
facts wrong. If Security’s facts are right,
but it seems that it is the Government
that has acted wrongly, it is not the
Security Service but the Government that
should be attacked. But before attack-
ing the Government one must recognise
that we have not got the faintest idea
whether the Government acted on the
facts as presented by Mr Brenner or on
some other set of facts, so that an attack
on the Government based on Mr
Brenner’s say-so may be irrelevant.
Above all, there is no evidence that
this was designed Government interfer-
ence with a university appointment
(which would be a bad thing); it was
Government interference with a non-
Australian’s right to enter Australia. In
itself this is neither a good nor a bad
thing ; these cases are to be judged on
their merits. Very few people deny the
Government’s right to control immigra-
tion ; what one discusses is the policy it
follows in controlling it.
In this case —at least at the time of
writing—we do not know what the
policy is, but for the sake of argument
take a hypothetical and politically
neutral case: if the University of
Adelaide had appointed to its Physics
Department a Sicilian leper who was a
member of the Black Hand Gang and the
Government refused this contagious
assassin an entry permit, this action
would be generally applauded. A policy
of restricting the entry of chronically
contagious criminal persons would be
widely accepted and if academics felt that
nevertheless this infringed on academic
freedom it would be their duty to say so ;
but to be honest they would also have to
admit that the Government was carrying
out an immigration, not an academic
policy, and to proclaim clearly that it was
irrelevant to academic freedom whether
university staff transmitted leprosy to the
public or organised murder gangs. Then
the rest of us could make up our minds
about that.
'T'ake another less politically neutral
hypothetical case: suppose the Politi-
cal Science Department at Melbourne
University decided that, to ensure that all
points of view were represented in politi-
cal science courses, it was necessary to
hire a known Nazi who specialised in
racial questions to lecture on German
political institutions. Following its
immigration policy the Government
might not give this man a permit. Once
again, if the academics wished to protest
and also wished to be honest, they would
have to admit that the Government was
following an immigration, not an
academic policy, but that for reasons
they would have to explain they felt it
was necessary that universities be
especially privileged to import Nazis.
Academics have very largely made
fools of themselves in Australia in the
Orr case by accepting violent judgments
on Orr’s “innocence” without doing
their own homework on the evidence. It
is to be hoped that the desire of some of
them to launch a scare campaign of
“McCarthyism” against the Security
Service will be overwhelmed by the
scholarly sense of others and that, what-
ever protests they care to launch on the
Brenner case they do not try to hoax the
public with talk of a Security Service
wave of terror against academic free-
dom, or some other thing they have read
about in a book.
If they wish to protest there are issues
they can take up. They may believe, for
instance, that anyone who is appointed
to a university position in Australia
should be privileged in that he should be
automatically granted an entry permit—
whether he is contagious or infectious,
Nazi or Communist. Or they may wish to
draw lines and let in, say, the infectious
but not the contagious, the Nazis but
not the Communists. If they believe in
special privileges for academics (whether
unqualified, or according to a selective
list to be drawn up) it is their duty to
say so.
/~\therwise there is no peculiarly
academic question to raise, only mat-
ters of public policy which, of course, it is
also their duty to discuss. Here they
might call for a declaration from the
Government as to what its immigration
policy is and what kinds of people it
wants to keep out and in this context
under what part of that policy Mr
Brenner was considered an undesirable
migrant and what evidence it had to this
effect. Whether the Government can or
should answer them is a matter of dis-
agreement, but they can certainly press
that it should. The Government may
answer that it is not in the public interest
that it should ever explain why it makes
decisions on entry permits. If the
academics disagree with that they can
say so.
By this stage what can be talked about
responsibly is clarified: (a) Should
release details of individual cases when
freely or selectively immune to immigra-
tion policy? ( b) Should general
immigration policy be publicly an-
nounced? (c) If it is announced —is it any
good? id) Should the Government
release details of individual cases when
called on to do so? (e) And if it does —
are the facts in a particular case (i) true
and (ii) related to proclaimed policy?
That discussion on the Brenner case
will proceed in such orderly fashion is
unlikely. Even in the age of Hiss and
the Rosenbergs, Fuchs and Nunn May—
and Melbourne University’s own lan
Milner —there are woolly-minded liberals
who deny the necessity for a Security
Service (even though it was set up by
Mr Ben Chifley), and they will take up
this case —and be joined by interested
parties who are not woolly-minded
liberals —and use it to attack the exist-
ence of a Security Service even though
all that Security can ever be legitimately
criticised for is for getting facts wrong.
And we cannot debate that unless we
know what it said in its report. As yet
we do not even have evidence that it
made a report.
Apart from this, there are those who
are impelled by two emotive catch
phrases “McCarthyist terror” and
“academic freedom.” The former has
a bookish flavor that would seem not
to be based on actual observations in
Australia. The latter, though a real
issue, is sometimes used as a supernatural
charm.


GERMANY. RUSSIA AND THE WEST
A SOMEWHAT HOLLOW JOKE
By SEBASTIAN HAFFNER
The story of the so-called Berlin crisis to date —which is
in reality a crisis of the alliance between Germany and
the West —can be summed-up in the following strip-
cartoon dialogue:
Khrushchev (suddenly): Give me Berlin!
The Western Allies: No, no. Never.
Khrushchev: All right, then give me Germany.
The Allies (perplexed, humming and hawing a little):
Mhm, mhm . . . All right.
We hear a great deal nowadays about the freedom of the
West Berliners which we shall defend, if need be, even unto
death. But it so happens that the freedom of the West Berliners
is the one thing not at present directly under attack. We are
not asked to surrender West Berlin. What we are asked is
to join with the Russians in imposing permanent partition
on Germany, or at least to give some token that we recognise
the existing partition as legitimate and will stop opposing it.
This token might take the form of subjecting our presence in
West Berlin to East German conditions and our communica-
tions with West Berlin to German controls. But what matters
to the Russians is not the particular shape or form of our
consent to German partition. What matters is the consent
itself.
About this, the real issue, we hear nothing of resistance,
nothing of “No, no, never," not even a plain, clear “No." We
hear, on the part of the Western Governments, a certain
amount of humming and hawing: on the part of Western
public opinion, an increasing amount of voices advocating
unconditional and relieved surrender, which in Britain has
reached the proportions of a full-throated, loud and cheerful
chorus.
Since some of the advocacy of surrender on the real,
the German, issue is based on the artful pretence that surrender
on Germany is the most elegant form of defence of West
Berlin, let it be said in parenthesis that it is of course nothing
of the kind. Berlin —“West Berlin” —is a side issue in the
present dispute, its immediate surrender is not demanded, and
the attack on it is for the time being confined to indirect means.
But, of course, Berlin —“West Berlin" —cannot in the long run
stand once Germany has fallen. The bigger surrender sooner
or later implies the lesser one. This is too obvious to need
proof.
Moreover, on the local Berlin issue, since we are at it, all
the tokens and instalments of surrender now demanded have
already been made or offered, so that the heroics about defend-
ing “the freedom of the West Berliners” have even now
acquired the ring of a somewhat hollow joke. What have
been demanded in Berlin for the time being are three things:
(1) To end the unity and integrity of Berlin and its special
Four-Power status, and free movement throughout the
city, and swallow the annexation of the Soviet sector —
“East Berlin"—by East Germany. All this has been
turned into an accomplished fact by the coup de main of
August 13, and the accomplished fact has been accepted
by the Western Powers in the exact manner in which
Hitler’s weekend coups were accepted a quarter of a
century ago.
(2) To deprive Berlin of the three functions which up to
now formed its political raison d’etre : viz., to act as a
token of the Four-Power obligation to re-unite Germany,
as a refuge, and as a shop-window. Truncated and
immured, “West Berlin" has ceased to be any of that.
It has instead been turned, in Willy Brandt’s vivid phrase,
Sebastian Haffner has been associated with “The
Observer” (London) for some twenty years as a foreign
editor and diplomatic analyst, recently as its Berlin
correspondent. He has just resigned because of
“political differences over the Berlin and German
question.” This article is published concurrently in
“Encounter.”
into a ghetto of freedom. This has happened with full
Western acquiescence.
(3) To whittle away the freedom even inside that ghetto by
all kinds of qualifications and limitations ; especially by
the prohibition of free speech insofar as it offends or
threatens to subvert the sensitive Communist regime in
East Germany. This, too, has already been conceded
in principle, both in Geneva, 1959, and more recently
by President Kennedy when he offered the Russians the
suppression of “genuine irritants" in West Berlin. In
this way, incidentally, the Western Allies may still easily
become the gaolers of "West Beilin" instead of its pro-
tectors —or, one should rather say, the ushers of the real
gaoler. But let that pass.
As I said before, Berlin is not the real issue at present.
It is, for the Russians, the handle with which to winkle the
Western Powers out of their alliance with Germany ; for the
Western Powers, the screen behind which to effect some quick
scuttle in the real, the German, issue.
British public opinion is now practically agreed that Mr
Khrushchev should have his way in having German division
in some form or other internationally signed and sealed, and
that in particular the existing East German State, which has
just had to resort to the physical walling-in of its citizens in
order to prevent them from running away from it, should be
accepted by the Western Powers as legitimate, permanent and
sacrosanct. Some of those advocating this do so in a tone of
regret, some in a tone of cheerful realism, some in one of
undisguised glee. But I notice no clearly dissentient voice.
The British Government has, at the time of writing, not yet
shown its hand, but it rarely goes against a unanimous public
opinion.
HPhe other Western Governments have also not shown their
hand yet. But with the possible exception of President de
Gaulle, none seems inclined to take a firm stand on the issue
or even to face and state the issue clearly. The impression


one gets is one of deliberate evasion and obfuscation. Public
opinion in America, France and the other NATO countries
appears to be left with official guidance and tends, though
as yet in an uncertain and perhaps somewhat shamefaced
manner, to follow the British lead.
The overall impression, therefore, is that of a Munich
in the making. Its terms can already be clearly seen taking
shape: recognition of German division, acceptance of East
Germany (though perhaps without immediate de jure recogni-
tion), international legislation of the rape of East Berlin, a
Russian guarantee for the unmolested presence and access of
the Western garrisons in and to West Berlin for a certain
period, in return for Western guarantees for the removal of
“irritants” in West Berlin. Some particularly zealous commen-
tators would like to add to this list a ceiling on German arma-
ments and the recognition of the Oder-Neisse frontier, but these
are gratuitous offers of things which the Russians have so far
not asked for and which they may even disdain to accept.
(Whether the Russians have a genuine interest in Western
recognition of the Oder-Neisse frontier is most doubtful.)
In any case, if it comes about this settlement will, like the
original Munich of 1938, be advertised as a triumph of Western
statesmanship, a successful defence of Berlin, and, if necessary,
as the salvation of peace —peace with honor, peace in our time.
Again like the original Munich, it will be overwhelmingly
popular in Britain, though I daresay some people will feel a
little ashamed. In America and France there will be a more
widespread unease, but it will pass. As for the Germans, they
will be expected, like the Czechs in 1938, to be duly grateful,
and many people will be genuinely surprised and indignant
when they are not.
What I do not see anywhere in the press is the admission
that a settlement of this kind will be a direct violation of
the letter and the spirit of the alliance with Germany entered
by the West in 1954—incidentally, a British initiative—and
will in effect amount to a tearing-up of that alliance. Nor have
I found anybody asking himself what the likely consequences
of this tearing-up will be, not so much for Germany (who cares
for the Germans?), but for the West in general and for Britain
in particular. But some consequences seem bound to follow.
An event of this magnitude will hardly leave the international
landscape as it was before.
The alliance between Germany and the West is embodied
in the Paris Treaties of October, 1954. The Paris Treaties are
made up of a somewhat untidy jumble of protocols and letters,
dealing with a variety of subjects—the setting-up of WEU,
Germany’s accession to NATO, the restoration of her
sovereignty and its qualifications, military and armament ques-
tions, guarantees for Berlin (which, incidentally, go far beyond
the “freedom of the West Berliners”), etc. The central piece
of the Treaty, however, is an exchange of letters in which the
Western Governments and the German Government lay down
their mutual obligations in the question of German unity.
These obligations are quite precise. Germany renounces
force as a method of re-unification. The three Western Powers
in return pledge to make the cause of German re-unification
their own and pursue it by every diplomatic means ; and more
particularly commit themselves, pending re-unification, not to
recognise German division, but to treat the Government at
Bonn as the only legitimate Government in Germany.
In short, the three Western Powers are in the Paris
Treaties explicitly, unambiguously, and solemnly committed in
writing to leave undone exactly that which they now apparently
propose doing. They are, of course, free to treat these commit-
ments as a scrap of paper and to tear them up, perhaps with
the explanation that this is poetic justice because certain former
German Governments also used to tear up treaties like scraps
of paper (although it might be worth a moment’s thought that
these former German Governments came to a bad end, and
exactly because of this habit). They should, however, at least
know what they would be doing. They would not just wiggle
out of some inconvenient clause more or less unnoticed by
their partner, but they would tear the heart out of the Paris
Treaties and bring the alliance with Germany to an end.
■COR FROM THE GERMAN point of view, these clauses
are the purpose and justification of the alliance with the
West. Without them, this alliance would become, from a
national German point of view, meaningless and indeed
suicidal. No nation can possibly agree to its own permanent
division or remain allied with partners who over its head agree
on such a division with a hostile third party. To expect such
a thing from the Germans is no more realistic than to expect
it from anybody else. This is so self-evident that it needs no
proof or argument.
All the more astonishing that this obvious and inescapable
implication is never clearly faced. The discussion about this
policy ends where it should begin. As far as I know, not one
of those journalists who advocate recognising German division
has had the fairness and honesty towards his readers to say
clearly: “What I advocate means (or even: may mean) throw-
ing over the German alliance. Let us clearly recognise this
and do it with our eyes open.” Maybe then some of the
readers would begin to wonder whether this was really the
highest wisdom in the present world situation.
Especially if the imagined journalist were courageous and
truth-loving enough to add this further statement: “Let us
also face it that we shall, by acting as I propose us to act, most
probably give the Germans a sense of betrayal and mortal
insult, infuse them with a furious wish for revenge, and lay
them wide open to any Russian offer which might minister to
this wish. Let us clearly recognise this, too, and still do the
deed with our eyes wide open.” This statement, too, would
hardly go beyond the obvious. In case anyone should doubt
it, he has only to cast his mind back to the pre-history of the
Paris Treaties in Germany.
THE PARIS TREATIES and the Western alliance embodied
in them were accepted in Germany after the biggest
national debate and crisis of conscience which the country went
through since the years 1930-33. The Germans had to choose
between a Russian offer of immediate national unity at the
price of neutrality and isolation and a Western offer of partner-
ship and alliance, but with unity deferred. It is still almost
a miracle that they rejected the former offer and accepted the
latter.
The Russian offer was contained in the famous Stalin
note of March 10, 1952, and was maintained, even improved,
and positively urged on the Germans by Moscow for almost
three years. The Germans in the end, after much division and
bitter heart-searching, rejected it and accepted the much less
glittering Western offer instead, for a number of reasons. Not
all of these reasons were, of course, selfless. Clearly the
Germans speculated that by the addition of their own potential
they would render the Western camp overwhelmingly strong
in the long run, to their own gain no less than everybody
else’s.
The German decision was nevertheless overwhelmingly
an act of magnanimity; this makes it so memorable and sur-
prising. The Germans knew they were doing the West an
immense favor ; they were saving NATO, the basis of security
for Britain, France and the rest of Western Europe. For with-
out the German contribution NATO was bound to remain a
dead letter, and America was bound to drop it as a bad invest-
ment. They also knew they were paying heavily for doing
the West this favor: they had to accept foreseeable Russian
wrath, the unenviable position of a Western front-line country
and potential battlefield, and, worst of all, the long postpone-


ment of that national unity which had been theirs for the
asking had they taken the Russian option instead. The balance
of advantage in this transaction lay clearly, at least for a longish
initial period, on the Western, not the German side, and the
Germans knew it and accepted it with their eyes open. All
they sought and got in return was the Western pledge set out
above: a simple pledge of comradeship and loyalty. If this
is now repudiated at the first test the Germans will have been
cheated indeed.
It is a matter of debate in Germany to this day whether
the decision of 1952-55 was the right one. The indefinitely
prolonged, and recently cruelly sharpened, sufferings of the
East Germans weigh heavily in the other scale ; and some of
the original patriotic opposition is still alive. On the whole,
the majority of German public opinion has nevertheless sup-
ported the Western option—though perhaps more with the head
than with the heart —and the bulk of the dissenting minority
has over the years more and more acquiesced in it. The
Western-German alliance has, on the German side, worked far
better than could originally be expected. The Germans, let us
face it, have during the last six years been as good as gold.
They have neither been shirking, half-hearted, and looking
over their shoulder for renewed Russian blandishments, as
they well might have been, nor have they been blustering,
bellicose, pushing neo-Nazi, “militarist and revanchist” as the
Communist legend has it. They have been loyal, modest,
tactful, dutiful, patient under the strain of hope deferred, and
long-suffering in the face of many unjust and undeserved
discourtesies.
TF ALL THIS should now be rewarded, at the first moderately
serious test of Allied loyalty under pressure, by an eagerly
contrived anti-German Munich, it would not need the eternal
latent German capacity for furor Teutonicus to produce a
reaction of extreme and violent bitterness. This reaction would
set in at a moment when the Germans have just turned the
corner and become a Power again.
What makes things worse are some of the arguments with
which the proposed sell-out on Germany is supported in the
British press. (Many articles in the British press nowadays give
the impression that their authors think the Germans cannot
read English.) One such argument is that the Germans them-
selves do not want reunification, from which they can only
draw the conclusion that hitherto they have been too patient
and too tactful about it. Another peculiar imputation which I
have read is that the German Government would perhaps feel
“secretly relieved” if the West and Russia between them
sealed Germany’s partition. This reminds one of the famous
dictum that “the fox likes being hunted.” Only in this case
the fox can read.
Another argument which is bound to produce hatred with
German readers is that “East Germany exists, has existed, and
will continue to exist.” This is exactly the reason why Britain,
together with the other signatories of the Paris Treaties, has
committed herself not to accept or recognise East Germany,
but to use any diplomatic opportunity which time may offer
to put an end to its illegitimate existence. If it did not exist,
no such commitment would indeed have been necessary. By
opting for the West and not for Russia in 1955, Germany
consciously accepted the terribly wounding fact that a Com-
munist puppet State would exist in East Germany for a good
many years. In return for this sacrifice the Western Powers
accepted the obligation at least not to recognise this puppet
State, but to work for Germany unity. If commentators now
use the reason for this obligation as a reason for breaking it,
i! is really rather more than flesh and blood can be expected
to bear.
Anyhow, the simplest experience of political psychology
suffices to foresee that the German Munich now so loudly and
so widely called for will, if it comes to pass, have the same
effect on the Germans that the Czech Munich of 1938 had on
the Czechs: that of turning the most touchingly loyal, if also
most exposed and endangered, member of the Western alliance
and community into its bitter and vindictive enemy. (The
Czechs became the most useful and active collaborators of the
Nazis from 1938 to 1945, and are the only really willing and
loyal allies of the Russians in Eastern Europe now. They
have been lost to the West.)
If this happened with a key Power like Germany, it would
of course be an international revolution of the first magnitude.
Germany is today, if not still the third, certainly the fourth
Power on earth, and its separation from the West will be an
event comparable only to the West’s loss of China in 1949.
The question is what consequences will this international
landslide probably have. Obviously at this point we leave the
firm ground of the safely predictable and embark on the sea
of speculation. But in making so momentous a decision as
that now advocated with so little detectable thought, it is good
to risk a little sea voyage of this kind. If the authors of
Munich in 1938 had had a slightly more speculative turn of
mind they might perhaps still not have avoided the Second
World War, but at least the awful and almost deadly surprise
of the Soviet-German pact. It would admittedly have taken
a chess-player’s gift for political combination to see in advance
that the Munich of 1938 carried within it the seeds of that pact.
Rather less of this gift is needed to see that the German
Munich now clamored for will again bring about this deadly
constellation. Indeed, this will be its most natural sequel,
and many extremely unlikely and surprising things would
have to happen to prevent it from materialising if the political
consummation which some political commentators so ardently
desire comes to pass.
From the German point of view, things are fairly clear.
The mildest consequence which the Germans could draw
would be to regard themselves only as freed from their pledge
of “no violence for unity,” to start a war or civil war of their
own, and to confront the West —still formally their ally—with
the choice of coming to their aid or letting the Russians
advance to and beyond the Rhine. This, however, would be
rather too sophisticated to happen in practice. Far more likely
is that the Germans would, simply and not unreasonably, con-
clude that the West was both weak and treacherous and that
the choice they had made in 1955 was now finally and bitterly
proved to have been the wrong one. They would curse the
day they made it, wish to goodness they had accepted Stalin’s
offer instead and pray to heaven that it were repeated. They
would quite understand that this time Russia would not again
offer them unity for mere neutrality, which they have anyhow
grown out of now, but only as the price of a change of alliances.
Some of them would probably positively welcome such a
change of alliances as the handiest means of revenge on their
betrayers: There is no hatred like the hatred of betrayed love ;
cf. the Czechs.
T>erhaps the West would rely on Dr Adenauer to stand up for
it even then. But Dr Adenauer is 85 ; he has been politi-
cally—and perhaps even physically?—noticeably weakened by
the events of this August ; and he would not long survive the
destruction of his life’s work. One cannot rely on a man one
is simultaneously destroying.
The only question is: would the Russians make the offer?
Here the advocates of a German Munich will put forward two
hopeful speculations of their own. The first is that Mr
Khrushchev is a secret friend of the West who wants nothing
better than a permanent settlement with America. Britain and
France at the expense of Germany, and that therefore the
German Munich will this time really bring peace in our time.
The second, slightly contradictory one, is that Mr Khrushchev
is a true world revolutionary who will never sacrifice a Com-
munist regime like that of Herr Ulbricht in East Germany for
the sake of a classical power-political deal with a capitalist


Power like a restored and reunited Bismarckian, eastwards-
orientated Germany. Moreover, people like to add at this
point with a delighted little laugh, “he really hates the Ger-
mans.”
I am in no position to refute either of these assumptions
compellingly. I can only say that the first seems to me
demented and the second a little too simple. Mr Khrushchev
is certainly a true world revolutionary, but he is also a
dialectician —in plain English: a wily old bird, who, unlike
many of our Western statesmen, looks beyond his first move
to the second and third. He is also certainly emotionally anti-
German (incidentally a rare occurrence among Russians), but
this has not prevented him even in the past from starting odd
little bouts of political flirtation with Dr Adenauer now and
then ; and, come to think of that, Herr Ulbricht is a German
too. To expect Mr Khrushchev to refuse the plump eagle which
is Germany for the mangy sparrow which is Herr Ulbricht’s
East Germany if the West offers him the exchange on a plate,
merely from reasons of comradely sentimentality or anti-
German prejudice, is banking rather high on the supposed
romantic strain in the Soviet leader.
To speak seriously, I wonder whether any of those
British leader-writers who have dealt with the present crisis
has taken the trouble to put himself mentally in Mr Khrush-
chev’s position and to ask himself why Mr Khrushchev should
be so eager to force the West by hook or crook into some
recognition of East Germany: what is the ultimate advantage
he can hope to reap from such a paper transaction? The
advantage must be considerable, for he would hardly go to
the brink of war for its sake otherwise.
He himself says that he wants everything nice and tidy
before the German militarists get their atom bombs. But this
makes no sense, because if the Germans are really so mili-
taristic and bellicose as he paints them and if they really get
their atom bombs, paper agreements will not stop them taking
it back by force one day. Austria was for 20 years recognised
by the whole world, and the Anschluss expressly forbidden
and renounced in several solemn treaties. This did not save
Austria in 1938. What counts in these matters is power and
will, not paper.
Clearly what makes the Allied recognition of East Ger-
many so immensely valuable to Mr Khrushchev cannot be the
recognition as such, which adds nothing to East Germany’s
stability and security and little even to its prestige, but the
repercussions of this recognition on the alliance between Ger-
many and the West, which I have set out above —repercussions
which Mr Khrushchev undoubtedly has the intelligence to
foresee, even if leader-writers have not. The recognition of
East Germany is nothing to Mr Khrushchev, the consequent
breach between Germany and the West is everything. Still a
doubt? Consider this: Mr Khrushchev has never lifted a
finger to help Herr Ulbricht in his frantic, and hitherto
unsuccessful, endeavors to get recognised by such countries as
Guinea, Ghana or even Cuba. Who recognises East Germany
is a matter of total indifference to him—except in the case of
the Western Powers, the allies of Germany. What interests
him is their betrayal of the alliance with Germany, nothing
else.
"Out, we must go on to ask, in which quarter, and in what
way, can Mr Khrushchev turn to book the Western Ger-
man breach once he has brought it about? Only—this answer
seems to me compelling and inescapable—in Germany, and
only by turning Germany round and changing her from an
ally of the West into an ally of Russia. The three Western
Powers will still, after their breach with Germany, be seen
from Moscow as an opposing bloc, with which Mr Khrushchev
will continue to have many world-wide quarrels ; and one of
them, America, will inevitably continue to be the real, the
ultimate enemy, the citadel of capitalism, which must be first
isolated and then laid low. But Germany (with whom Moscow
has no overseas quarrel whatever) will be cut loose and con-
veniently isolated, powerful enough to make a valuable ally
but not powerful enough to stand alone, betrayed, bewildered,
frightened and angry, an enormous, juicy fruit ready at last
for plucking. Once Germany is prised loose from the West
there is nothing but Ulbricht to stand between her and a
Russian alliance: and Ulbricht, of course, becomes expendable
for Russia in such a case. It would be imputing to Mr Khrush-
chev an incredible and almost insulting degree of stupidity to
believe that, having engineered at great risk the difficult feat of
getting Germany betrayed by the West and thus separated from
it, he would then leave her standing about in a corner unused
(perhaps to satisfy some emotional want), instead of taking his
winnings, turning her round and netting her in.
He is now, at this moment, in the process of demonstrat-
ing to her that she has only to expect blows from both sides
as long as she sides with the West: angry blows from Russia,
treacherous blows from the West. Once this demonstration
has done its work the time will obviously have come to demon-
strate the opposite: to show that Germany can have all her
heart's desire —unity, security, courteous treatment, why, per-
haps even her Eastern pre-war frontiers or their equivalent—
as soon as she sees the light and sides with the right people.
I REPEAT I cannot prove compellingly that this is Mr
Khruchshev’s game to those who are determined to believe
otherwise. All I can say is that if it is—and I can see no other
that makes sense to me, given his present proceedings —he is at
the moment receiving a fantastic amount of unpaid and
unsolicited aid towards its success. Nor can 1 see what possible
advantage Britain can expect to reap in return for this freely
given aid, except perhaps the emotional satisfaction of German-
baiting, which with some journalists seems lately to have become
an ersatz for patriotism. But not all the new Munichers are
even German-baiters. What can drive them? Perhaps fear of
war? Perhaps the lure of “peace in our time”? But can they
really be that stupid? After all, they have the experience of the
betrayals of Czechoslovakia in 1938 and of Poland in 1945.
Did the former save the peace? Did the latter bring peace?
One cannot really assume that so many political writers
and analysts have suddenly become unable to master the most
primitive lessons of experience. Rather is one reluctantly
driven to the suspicion that many of them are at the moment
mentally incapacitated by an excess of fear. Certainly they
often seem insufficiently collected nowadays to consider the
implications of proposed actions —or even of their own words.
The most august organs of our public opinion, for all their
well-rehearsed routine manner of fine cool-headedness, are not
ir this summer of 1961 behaving like sober men in full control
of their reasoning faculties. Rather they bring to the mind of
the reader the picture of a scared man who, in his secret
panic, is running straight into that from which he wants to
run away.
“Stay away from that television and you'll be o.k."


TANNER’S TYCOONS
“My wife's interested in culture — what's yours do ?”
“Staff relationswise . .
“What do you mean, ‘Khrushchev Wont
take my call' ?''


"All this responsibility! HoW did I know he took sugar in his tea!"
. . with alarm the growth of Governmental
bureaucracy with its attendant lack of human
content and . .
' Take the broad view and delegate.”
cisioC Junior fyatoutiuz - -.
■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■
“They all call me Col here — don't you t
Rutherford ?”


FORUM
WHAT'S WRONG
WITH THE UNIONS?
This is the second article in a series. Next week's
will be "What's wrong with planning?"
AUSTRALIAN wage earners live in a world of economic illusion. All
around them are signs of apparent progress: there are more people,
total production is going up, buildings are going up, there are more cars
on the roads, there is more money in people s pockets and endless tal\ about
the expansion of a young country. Whole inefficient industries are propped
up in which standards of production, skill and mechanisation are low yet
the workers in them are as well of as anyone else. Beneath the illusions the
facts are dismal. Australia’s productivity overall is barely rising. The total
increase over a period of time is perilously little more than nil. All this fuss,
and we achieve next to nothing.
Some of the reasons for this were
indicated last week ; the failure of many
Australian businessmen to be efficient
capitalists ; the national ethos of Govern-
ment protection of the weak and
inefficient ; the obsession with static full
employment ; the lack of interest in or
incentive for creative capital reinvest-
ment ; the comparative absence of inno-
vation ; the lack of cheap development
capital ; the failure of both Government
officials and businessmen to understand
what the other is talking about.
To these reasons we must this week
add the almost completely irrelevant
clamor that comes from the Australian
union movement, archaically controlled,
politically obsessed, inflexibly bound to
the ideologies of last century. And in
the centre of this musty setting stands
the Commonwealth Arbitration Commis-
sion, with painstaking dignity and skill
implementing a wages policy that is the
laughing stock of the world, that takes
economic planning out of the hands of
the Government and that, more perhaps
than any other simple factor, is the cause
of periodic unemployment and the frus-
tration of our export industries.
Put simply, the Commission’s resump-
tion of the policy of annual adjustment
of the basic wage on the consumer price
index means this: the wage increases will
not be backed by increases in produc-
tion ; prices and costs will therefore go
up ; the consumer price index will there-
fore go up ; wages will therefore go up ;
and so on. Since the rest of the world
does not owe us a living it will not be
engaging simultaneously in this idiocy ;
so the costs of producing our exports
will be going up without the rest of the
world being prepared to pay more for
our goods. Internally two other things
will be happening: our inefficient indus-
tries will be becoming even more
inefficient and will seek further Govern-
ment protection which will further
increase prices; and inflation will be
shuddering through the economy to such
an extent that the Government will
finally attempt to check it by disinfla-
tion which will mean, amongst other
things, unemployment. Until the Aus-
tralion union movement is ready to accept
a sensible policy of wage restraint the
Government, faced with a short-sighted
wages policy that is out of its control,
can offset it only by inducing recessions.
To the understanding of this series of
paradoxes most union officials add little
but confusion. For reasons to be dis-
cussed in a moment, the comparatively
small amount of time many of them
spend on union affairs is almost com-
pletely concerned with putting up absurd
wage claims and perpetuating a belief in
high money wages (as distinguished from
increases in purchasing power). For
justification they confuse total production
with productivity (a confusion that is
perpetuated by far too many business-
men) and point to increased money profits
(as spurious as increased money wages).
That productivity is most likely to be
increased by capital reinvestment from
profits is ignored. As is the fact that in
some years total money wages rise at a
higher rate than profits. The results are
that U.S. worker output per worker in
manufacturing is twice that of Australia’s,
that the amount of capital equipment
and mechanical power per factory worker
in Australia is well below the amount
per worker in the U.S.A. (or in Canada),
and that this is a problem that in Aus-
tralia is little discussed.
It is an untrustworthy rhetorical device
to invoke the opinions of the man-in-
street. But on this occasion there is
increasing evidence that the wage earner
does not fully believe in cost-of-living
adjustments any longer. He likes getting
his 12 bob, or whatever it is ; but he
knows —and if he doesn’t his wife will tell
him —that he will not be better off for
long ; and that if he is on a margin he
will gradually become comparatively
worse off in the reward he gets for his
skill. The inflationary effects of basic
wage increases have long been familiar
to many of those Australians who are
otherwise marked by no economic sophis-
tication. Most countries have at least one
widely accepted economic verity: you-
have-to-export-to-import, for example.
Ours is that increases in money wages can
be illusory.
Why do we go on with it? For one
thing, pure sentiment. It is an Austra-
lian institution reflecting our love for the
underdog. Even if it does him no good,
it would be wicked to do away with it.
For another, it protects wage earners in
the inefficient industries ; it might just be
decisively more difficult to keep rewards
for labor high in those industries by
Government protection if the basic wage
policy did not settle the issue. Perhaps
the most effective reason is the widely
shared belief —the world’s experience to
the contrary —that this type of regulation
is the only way of preventing industrial
chaos by keeping “the workers” happy.
Connected with this are interests that
have an inbuilt stake in the maintenance
of the arbitration system.
This illusion —and we believe it is an
illusion —is most sedulously fostered by
union officials for institutional reasons
that make one despair of the conformist
future of our once pioneer-minded union
movement. With a few exceptions, Aus-
tralian unions are still dedicated to
“socialism” and nineteenth - century
“working-class movement” ideologies.
This dedication is more than a merely
superficial kowtowing to old ideas; it
is given daily practical effect by the
mutually suicidal link between the
unions and the Australian Labor Party.
This is not to suggest that most unions
would not normally support the A.L.P.
at elections. That is quite a different
thing. What enervates union life and
binds it to old attitudes is the fact that
to a very large extent union leaders run
the Labor party ; its day-to-day problems
are theirs ; their real obsessions are often
not those of union leaders at all, but of


Hstab'ished 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jACKSGK &
. o'SULUVam
PTYLTD A
r'.
TRADE
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TOPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE HAND ifACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOK BINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
73 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
If any “Bulletin'’ illustration
takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you
a price for the original.
party-machine men. Under these circum-
stances considering the economic interests
of their members, and of the nation’s
economy, is not their primary interest:
their primary interest is the future of the
Australian Labor Party.
Further bedevilling the unions
approach to economic problems is the
strong influence of the Australian Com-
munist Party. Readers of The Bulletin
will not be unfamiliar with the results
of Communist strength in the unions on
internal union democracy, on the A.L.P.
and on Australian attitudes to foreign
policy. But here we are concerned only
with the economic effects of Communist
strength. And it is disastrous. Com-
munist union officials are primarily con-
cerned not with union affairs, certainly
not with the country’s prosperity, but
with power, with controlling what they
call “mass organisations.” And one of
the methods by which they gain power
and maintain it is by making false pro-
mises ; ever since Lenin seized Russia
partly by making impossible promises
Communists have made a practice at all
times of outbidding their opponents in
“militancy” and inducements. With the
Communists setting the pace within
individual unions, within Labor Councils
and the A.C.T.U., an atmosphere of com-
petitive unreality is set up that alone—
apart from the wishes of those concerned
—makes it impossible to urge a realistic
approach to wage demands and national
productivity. To show genuine concern
for productivity (viz., to do something
about it) lays a union official open to
demagogic Communist attacks.
The situation becomes even more dan-
gerous when, in addition to this con-
stant attitude, one has the particular
position that has prevailed for the last
six years, namely, that for reasons con-
cerned solely with the A.L.P. and that
have nothing to do with the interests of
union members, many A.L.P. union
leaders practise collaboration, even open
collaboration, with Communist unionists
because they want to defeat, or not rely
on, the D.L.P. No sense on productivity
can be expected from the union move-
ment until it rids itself of the Com-
munists, or at least declares them to be
enemies.
"Cven so, there are many inadequacies
in union leadership other than its
bedevilment with politics, the chief of
which is that the calibre of union officials
has declined. In the more exciting days
of union history gaining a union posi-
tion was one of the few ways in which
the young talented underdog could pull
himself up by his bootstraps. Now he
can go to a university. And the induce-
ment to sacrifice is less; there is no
longer a desperate situation of wage
earners to which a man could feel that
he must devote his life. Dedicated men
still hold union office, and able men.
But there are far too many duds —
especially among “moderate” A.L.P.
union officials —who could not match
elsewhere even the all-too-Jow salaries
they get as union officials. Some of them
even drink too much —self-important
drones blathering away in bars to their
hangers-on, their incompetence concealed
by the fact that the arbitration system,
Government inspections and the A.C.T.U.
do their work for them. The institutional
protection of union officials is one reason
why some of them are so bad.
Even the good men are hampered by
the stinginess of their members or the
size of their unions. Fees are often too
low or membership too small to support
an efficient union secretariat. As well as
its obviously political, diplomatic and
propaganda requirements, a union man-
agement needs lawyers’, economists’,
journalists’ and accountants’ skills to keep
it going. A good union leader should
know almost as much about the indus-
tries his members work in as the manage-
ments he deals with ; if it is a bad
management, he should know more. To
do this he needs research assistants to
tell him about it. His knowledge of
industry should extend beyond a know-
ledge of the working processes and shop
conditions of his members to a general
understanding of how the industry looks
from the board-room. He should bar-
gain like hell if the occasion demands it;
but if he wants to tear strips off the
management for inefficiency he should
know what he is talking about.
In real life—and this is a fault of the
whole union movement and of many
managements rather than of individual
union officials —he must spend much of
his time deliberately making industry
inefficient by inventing or maintaining a
host of restrictive practices. In theory,
he accepts the principle that better living
standards depend on productivity. But
the day-to-day concern of his members
with productivity is simply to restrict it —
by opposing new types of machinery or
altered production methods, by maintain-
ing or imposing dargs on output or the
pace of a job, by overmanning equip-
ment, by the costly and inefficient over-
lapping of work involved in demarca-
tion and by other attempts at direct job
control. Australian productive efficiency
is befogged by thousands of restrictive
practices for a multitude of reasons.
One complex of reasons comes from
the ordinary union member’s or union
leader’s desire to retain his bargaining
power. This sometimes plays a part in
long-term negotiations, but not as often
as it should because if it were being
negotiated on it might be possible to swap
a restrictive practice for a concession
from management and that would be the
end of it. Instead, at the shop level,
workmen tend to cling to restrictive
practices for partly psychological or even


superstitious reasons; any concession
is a retreat and piecemeal undermining
of “conditions” and if there is a cult of
opposition to the boss and non co-opera-
tion in production nothing should be
yielded. Restrictive practices give a feel-
ing of security from the young or the
more energetic and some possibility of
“cushy” jobs for the old or inefficient.
They are a way of keeping the boss in
his place and keeping things the same.
A usual explanation of this is “depres-
sion psychosis.” Unless jobs are invented,
in hard times they will run out. This is
certainly a widely accepted premise, but
in many industries its practice is con-
nected with the immobility of labor that
is inbuilt in Australian full-employment
policies. The workman wants to control
employment in his own plant. He doesn’t
want to move. Efficiency is a threat to
his immobility and he can invoke all the
ideologies of depression psychosis to
explain his lack of desire to walk across
the street and get a different job.
TThe desire to preserve craft skills even
in the face of progress leads to
restrictive practices “to preserve a craft,”
that is to say, it is in the interests of a
craftsman that his craft should be ineffi-
cient. The hard apprenticeship necessary
in a craft union builds attitudes to work
that may become old-fashioned as a
result of technological progress, but for
reasons of status the member of a craft
union wants to preserve them. In some
industries —the metal trades is one —the
maintenance of a number of craft unions
is now out-of-date ; but they survive and
it is necessary for their survival that
craftsman’s “skills” (viz., slow ways of
doing things) be preserved. The desire
for status can be operative in other ways.
For example, progress may mean that a
senior workman no longer needs an
assistant; but he wants to go on having
one anyway.
The various tensions of union politics
are inextricably mixed with disputes on
restrictive practices. The many expen-
sive demarcation disputes come from
touchy union clashes over which union
should control the man who does some
borderline job. Demarcation disputes do
not pretend to have any relation to
efficiency ; as well as the time wasted in
settling them the settlement often leads
to over-employment and higher costs.
Flamboyantly “militant” union leader-
ships sometimes carry out national cam-
paigns to impose restrictive practices
(e.g., “one man per crane per day”)
thereby assuring their membership of
their solicitude for its interests. The
Waterside Workers’ Federation cam-
paigns all the time against disunited and
weak employers to attempt to enforce
complete “job control,” with the union
taking over altogether from manage-
ment. At the same time restrictive prac-
tice disputes can be used to embarrass a
union leadership in a faction fight; job
issues are fought at the shop level to
expose the leadership’s lack of militancy ;
the leadership may take up an issue it
does not believe in, thereby weakening
its possibility of negotiating anything in
trust with the management, which has
no confidence in the union’s ability to
enforce any agreement. It need not even
be a union faction fight. Some Shop
Delegate Hampden may simply have
decided to try his strength against the
boss and the union.
But given the almost complete lack
of practical interest in productivity in the
union movement one might assume that
at least management's interest in produc-
tivity would impel it to reduce restrictive
practices. All too often this is not so.
Full employment, Government protected
managements are often quite supine in
meeting shop aggression. They want to
retain scarce labor. Efficiency does not
matter; they can always add the cost
of inefficiency to their price. They allow
new restrictive practices to grow up and
curry favor by not enforcing starting or
knock-off times, by extending meal-hours
or smoko-breaks, by tolerating absentee-
ism and actively encouraging “sickies”
and overtime rackets. Lax or over-
concessionary employers can in this way
even undermine the efficiency of other
employers in the industry. Particularly
where gangs of men move from one
employer to the next a lowest common
denominator is quickly set by bad
managements.
On the other side of the coin, some
managements are too “hard” and imper-
sonal. They rely too much on the arbi-
tration system ever to establish any work-
able relationship in discussing differences
with their employees. Everything they do
is either challenged or forced on them
and then settled by third parties. A mul-
tiplicity of craft unions in their industry
may sometimes make it difficult to use
an informal approach, but even here if
managements would take the trouble to
consider industrial relation techniques, to
explain their actions sometimes and
develop a sense of trust and co-operation
in their employees, efficiency might
increase. It is a dying fashion, but hating
or distrusting one’s employees is no way
to get their co-operation. And it may
only be when Australian managements
learn how to be neither exclusively
“hard” nor exclusively “soft” that they
might begin to undermine union obses-
sion with restrictive practices, or even
to change the nature of unions so that it
is possible to negotiate long-term agree-
ments in which restrictive practices are
dropped in return for other concessions
to the general betterment of industrial
efficiency.
'T'o expect very much initiative to come
from the unions themselves at the
present state of Australian union history
is unrealistic. To understand why, con-
sider for a moment how an A.L.P. mem-
ber becomes a “moderate” union official.
Forget about the Communists, who train
their men, or the D.L.P. for that matter,
who do the same. Forget the exceptional
A.L.P. men and consider the history of
the ordinary union member whose
ambitions begin to prickle . . .
Before he becomes an organiser he
must learn how to talk about union
business (and talk about little else) at
union meetings. The more parochial and
low level he can be, the more he may be
trusted. He can talk about conditions
at this shop or that, about breaches of
awards (dirty lavatories, inadequate
lunch-rooms, failing hot water). He can
warn of other unions that show signs of
poaching members. He will be sur-
rounded by general apathy, but to catch
the attention of his masters he should
have a working knowledge of popular
political slogans, not too far ahead, not
too far behind. Accommodating himself
to the A.L.P. will involve him, perhaps
for the rest of his life, in blandly switch-
ing his system of beliefs, so the sooner
he gets used to it the better.
What he now has to do is to organise
enough votes to win. If he can wriggle
his way into the favor of the men who
run his union they may do this for him.
If he is a “rebel” he must do sufficient
conforming for them to buy him off with
a position. Now he is an organiser he
does not know how to talk to manage-
ments. From being an implacably hos-
tile abstraction they now become rational
human beings with whom he must
negotiate. He knows little about indus-
trial law, probably less about the state
of the employers’ industry and probably
nothing about the meaning of produc-
tivity. If he is any good, he will learn.
But he may very well rely on the courts
and Government inspectors to prop him
up and do his job for him, and on politi-
cal intrigue to keep him in his position.
He becomes a kind of policeman, ensur-
ing that shops keep to awards ; his only
diplomatic weapons are threats. If he
makes enough of them either the
employer will give in, or he will go to
court and someone else will make a
decision.
He will operate to a background of
almost complete apathy from his mem-
bers, and will begin to welcome this.
A little Communist support, or a little
N.C.C. support might be privately
accepted, according to the union and
the period in history, and his political
policy may change accordingly. But
activity from his members will be a symp-
tom of trouble. Productivity? If he
becomes important enough for Albert
Monk to give him a trip somewhere that
will be a word he picks up, according to
the luck of the draw, in America or
China.
This is the kind of man who all too
often occupies a key position in deter-
mining the productivity of industry in
Australia.


Wheat farmers! Here is the revolutionary new
LYSAGHT
Mil-purpose
SILO*
* Patent Pending 55007/59
ORB
X .
m
m
ii
m.
IS
BWW
i
:?S?8
-" ■ <
m
m
mm
Specially designed for
your needs after extensive
field research based on
the supply of over 20,000
units in the last decade.
Here is a silo that will
earn money for you all the
year round. When not
being used for bulk grain,
it becomes a perfect all-
purpose storage unit simply
by opening the doors and
slipping out the bulkheads.
Many new time-saving, money-saving advantages!
• Full-Size "Walk-In" Door (silos from
1,200 bushels upwards) enables silos
to be emptied and cleaned with a
minimum of time, effort, discomfort.
• Easier, Faster, Cheaper Erection.
• Vertically Rigidised Walls and 6-
Ply Horizontal Ribs for added
strength.
• Revolutionary New Robust Posi-
tive-Action Bagging Outlet
complete with bag holder and steel
cover.
• Auger Chute in bottom bulkhead
behind the door.
• Wider Turned-Down Eaves on
Roof Panels.
• Fully Rodent-Proof Construction.
• Improved Centre and Side-Filling
Hole Assemblies complete with
hinged lids and positive fastenings.
ALL THESE PLUS THE FOLLOWiNG
OPTIONAL EXTRAS cuts overall costs
up to £lOO.
• Easy-to-install Heavy-Gauge Steel
Floor . . . suitable for conical or flat
bases.
• Steel Earth Ring.
PRICES (F.O.R. Newcastle)
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
Offices in Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Fremantle


LETTERS
"The Bulletin" and Communism
Sir,
The problem discussed in your Plain
English page on September 23 should be
of great general interest. Practically
everyone is “against Communism." But
somehow it is nasty and wrong to be
an “anti-Communist” —that is, to actu-
ally do or say anything damaging to this
totalitarian conspiracy in our midst.
The Communist party always seeks to
give itself an effective propaganda-cover
under which to conduct its power opera-
tions. One of the most successful of its
propagated notions is that active an f i-
Communism is negative, nasty, undemo-
cratic, and not respectable. It is a notion
that appeals to a surprisingly wide range
of intellectuals and other chaps.
If you present to these thoughtful
liberal minds, with their fine sense of
moral values, a factual account of Com-
munist fraud or intimidation or mal-
practice, they will go off like a gramo-
phone: “morbid anti - Communism,”
“smear,” “McCarthyism,” etc. etc. And
they will always end with a complicated
proof that people who actively oppose
Communism are actually aiding it, while
if everyone did nothing in a sensitive
open-minded way there would be no
problem.
There is no one cause or cure that can
be propounded for this sort of betrayal
of the democratic cause by default. But
one factor at the present time is worthy
of mention, namely, the failure of the
so-called Revisionists to do what they
might have done to inject a more realistic
awareness into the local scene.
There was a time when the Communist
party talked of revisionism as the “main
danger.” This referred to the attitudes
that came to the surface after the Hun-
garian revolt and the murder of Imre
Nagy, and led to criticism and disaffection
within the party and expulsions and
desertions from it, especially on the part
of intellectuals.
However the September issue of “Com-
munist Review” sounded a different note
when it made the brutally accurate state-
ment that the revisionists have become
“politically emasculated.”
With only one notable exception, none
of the intellectuals w ho left the party or
were thrown out has continued to be a
force in the political scene since he lost
the backing and discipline of the party.
Yet no party trains its operators for
political effectiveness as the Communist
party does. Every party member of any
value is schooled continuously—in his
home State, at the National Marx School
at Minto in N.S.W., and for postgraduate
training at specialist schools for tech-
niques of subversion in Russia and China.
It might be expected that those who
have had such training in political war-
fare wouid, once they had become dis-
illusioned with the Communist party,
turned their trained skill against the party.
They could form anti-Communist cadres
of immense value in a democracy, where
so few people have the knowledge and
skill to combat Communism. They know
the party's methods ; they also know' its
neuralgic points, its shams and hidden
weaknesses and fears. As intellectual
fighters for truth and freedom, they could
help destroy the propaganda camouflage
under which the party operates.
But the sad fact is that the revisionist
intellectuals look like wet firecrackers the
morning after. Out of a list of prominent
ex-Communists —lan and Amirah Turner,
Bob and Daphne Gollan, Stephen Mur-
ray-Smith, Bill Irwin, David Bearlin,
David Martin, Neville Hoffman. Helen
Palmer—only one, Ken Gott, has become
a realistic and damaging opponent of
Comunism.
David Bearlin made one sally against
the party. he showed how Unity Tickets
were fixed up on the waterfront, and who
better than a former waterside comrade?
But he has apparently become dis-
heartened and fallen silent.
Perhaps the most disappointing are the
Turners and Gollans. What has turned
them into woolly and futile people play-
ing the role of non-party Leftist “idealists**
of the kind which they, while in the party,
must have regarded with scorn as dupes
and nonentities?
Perhaps, in their immediate academic
environment, they find that woolliness is
the thing to wear. But to a wider public
some better evidence of where they really
stand is desirable. They could say a
great deal ; and they could take a stand
on many issues. But so far the party can
crow in triumph: they are “politically
emasculated.”
G. DALLINGER
Black Rock (Victoria).
Sir,
Not anticipating that I would command
so much of The Bulletin’s attention
(Bulletin, September 23) I had deliber-
ately attempted to make my recent letter
as short and concise as possible. In-
evitably, I suppose, there has been some
misunderstanding of my point of view.
The plea for “democracy of spirit”
naturally included the right of The
Bulletin— or any other newspaper —to
put the situation as it sees it. Nor do 1
protest against a newspaper publishing
details of any infringements of people’s
rights (which is what thuggery and non-
ethical behavior amount to), 1 do, how'-
ever, feel that a newspaper —especially
in Australia, where one paper may com-
mand a whole market —has an enormous
responsibility to ensure factual correct-
ness, and to be as impartial as possible
in its coverage of its chosen field. 1 am
not satisfied that any Australian news-
paper conforms to this ideal.
To take two specific points. It was
central, though implied, in my letter that
1 did not agree with your attitude to the
“Who is Sylvia ?"


world situation, especially in South-east
Asia. The situation there is emphatically
NOT as simple as your argument pre-
supposes. If a general pattern is needed,
I would suggest that of emerging national-
ism. Communism, because it seems to
support the same ends (anti-colonialism,
opposition to the very real dollar domina-
tion in the area) is attractive. Its dis-
advantages are realised only later. Cer-
tainly it “overshadows” the area, but it
is a vastly less powerful force than that
of nationalism. The thing to do is to
foster truly neutral regimes with a solid
popular base, giving them ample technical
help without strings, keeping military
“aid” to a minimum. Backing reactionary
“anti-Communist” regimes is of no help,
as the consequences of the U.S. (Boun
Oum) coup in Laos showed. The strongest
non-Communist Asian regime today is a
staunchly neutral India.
I would like next to comment on your
understanding of the expression “neutral”
where it is applied to people within Aus-
tralia. I very definitely am not referring
to “a few dozen revisionists.” I am talk-
ing about the large and growing, though
unlabelled, group of people, especially
young people, who cannot accept Labor,
Socialist, or Communist political attitudes,
nor those of the Right. They are, in the
classic sense, uncommitted, and even in-
different to a political process they may
with justice feel is useless. They could
be described, perhaps, as liberal-radicals.
For myself, I can be pretty sure that the
Left is pursuing outworn ideals, but
others, disgusted with the antics of those
who claim to be defending democracy,
might well find some refuge there. I
would like at this point to emphasise that
I am not chasing moonbeams, but am
concerned with an observable though in-
articulate phenomenon. It is included in
none of the political categories of the
30’s, but is still there.
Might I also point out that some of
the arguments used to support your posi-
tion are just such as I have complained
of? To argue for the correctness of a
policy by taking the presuppositions of
that policy as fact is easy, but of little
use. Furthermore, to dispose (intention-
ally or unintentionally) of the expressions
“smears,” “loaded language,” and “the
highest possible objective plane” by
examination solely of the first is nearly
as bad. For the information of your
readers, the second expression referred
chiefly to your correspondent Mr Buckley,
though more generally to The Bulletin,
the third being a protest against just such
over-simplification as your comments
applied For, if I may repeat this point,
any kind of simplification or generalisa-
tion in political discussion does violence
to the truth. Hence it also tends to
obscure our grasp of the situation. The
“two camps” view may prevent us from
seeing and grasping essential opportuni-
ties: as in Laos when the U.S. attempted
to replace a stable and impartial neutral
in government with a friendly right
winger, and immediately sparked off a
conflict in which the neutral perforce
allied himself with the Communists.
Everyone in his right mind politically is
anti-Communist. But by no means all
are “anti-Communist” in the sense I feel
The Bulletin to be: it is largely a matter
of degree. Public opinion in the U.S.A.
is dominated by widespread anti-Com-
munist hysteria, so much so that rational
choices in the foreign policy field are not
always open to the Government. I would
hate to see this happen in Australia. I
would also hate to see us, for concentra-
tion on the one danger, fail to see the
many others (and not least those of out-
look) which threaten democracy in Aus-
tralia and elsewhere.
K. J. WALKER
Alphington (Victoria).
Sir,
If the exposition and criticism of Com-
munism does drive neutrals openly over
to the Left it is only because their sym-
pathy potential is already with the Reds.
The neutral group is often secretly on
one side or the other, but shirk responsi-
bility, and in many cases haven't the guts
to take a positive stand and any pressure
from “morbid anti-Communism” can at
most bring them out into the open.
Should we cease to expose the insidious
trickeries and deceptions of Communism
a far greater number of well meaning
people would become the innocent victims
of the greatest deception in the history of
mankind.
ANDREW TOBIN
Katoomba (N.S.W.).
Sir,
It would seem quite a coincidence that
you published in your issue of September
23 two letters from men who hold, it
would appear, diametrically opposite
views. William Yeo, State President
R.S.L. has well said, in my view, that
he hopes the 250,000 members of the
R.S.L. in this country “will become an
attacking spearhead against Communism.”
Mr George Peterson, Secretary Unanderra
A.L.P., says: “The Bulletin is obviously
an avowed supporter of the system of
capitalist exploitation.”
No doubt you may get plenty of abuse
in your fight. But it would be well for
people to know that capitalism can be
conh oiled by enlightened people, but
Communism can never be controlled
since it is the antithesis of liberty.
F. H. THOMPSON
Merimhala (N.S.JF.).
Sir,
Thirty years a reader and contributor,
I congratulate you on the new but still
reactionary Bulletin, but —
Anton Vogt
Will have to hustle
To match the thoght
Of Bertrand Russell.
M. L. BREEN
North Essendon (Victoria).
THE RIGHT TO SIT DOWN
Sir,
I see civil liberty in terms of creation
as well as protest. At least two of
Bertrand Russell’s companions—Arnold
Wesker and John Osborne are good
examples of this creative spirit. The
same spirit which drives this generation
to form jazz bands by the hundred and
create music and to spend their holidays
in Europe helping refugees to build new
homes. Young men like Karel Reisz,
Francois Truffaut, John Cassavetes mak-
ing films under their own initiative,
using wholly new concepts in their
approach. Well they see the world as
a challenging place to live in, ruled over
by a set of politicians who look and
sound like leftovers from an Edwardian-
Etonian age. Can you imagine Mr Mac-
millan going to see “Look Back In Anger”
or to hear Chris Barber’s jazz band? No,
I cannot. In fact, does he or his govern-
ment give any indication that a contem-
porary idea, thought or action ever occurs
to them? No wonder my generation feels
frustrated, no wonder they are driven to
sitting down in Trafalgar Square. After
all, if “The Times” reported it there is
a slim chance that Mr Macmillan might
read about it.


LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
! A YS
- u
i\ \vj\ tvj
fHs>
Audi
Established ISOS in Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
The "Atlas” has seen
many Battles, including
the Battle of Waterloo,
and has emerged from
them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT
MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England)
N.S.IV. Branch:
Kindersley House,
Itlipli - O'Connell Sts., Sydney
The reason that this movement has
been a success is partly the fault of the
popular press. From the very beginning
they only bothered to report that “Ban
the Bomb” people did not wash for weeks
at a time, never had haircuts and went to
all night jazz parties. Along with this
was the usual bland hints of sexual promi-
scuity, drugs, etc., just the stuff for bored
housewives and timid business gents.
Now the movement is beyond newspaper
mockery ; it has finally struck ordinary
people that someone like themselves is
trying to avoid being obliterated by
Russia.
By sitting down in the road they are
not trying to establish that action as a
civil liberty, they are simply protesting
and calling attention to their ideas. This
is only a variation on the suffragette move-
ment —how can you claim that civil dis-
obedience is something exclusive to
Bertrand Russell? I think Bertrand Rus-
sell and the Government w'ould be very
pleased if Sir Oswald Mosley and the
race rioters contented themselves with
sitting in the road. Unfortunately they
do not, they are not happy until they are
bashing somebody up. As for the “dis-
gruntled housewives,” “The Sydney Morn-
ing Herald” (23/9/61) reported the case
of 60 housewives in the North of England
who staged a sitdown protest against the
local council over putting tar on the
village pavement —well? did Bertrand
Russell try to stop them?
Why these sneering remarks about men
of intellect being “God Almighty” and
“intellectually fashionable”? Are you
jealous of Bertrand Russell’s intellect or
do you have something against intel-
lectuals?
When World War 111 starts, the British,
with the aid of an American early warn-
ing system, have 20 minutes of life left.
Then they will be wiped out. America
will be lucky to save her own skin, let
alone anyone else’s. Something has to
be done or you must make up your mind
to the consequences. “Banning the
Bomb” is a way out, but not for me. I
would rather be dead than red.
W. DILLARD
McMahon’s Point ( N.S.W. ).
Sir,
What element is there in a civil dis-
obedience campaign that hurts society?
After all by sitting on a footpath are
you really committing a breach of the
peace or are you letting a government
know that you violently disagree with its
policy but because you respect the prin-
ciples of democracy you are not going to
use force to achieve your object? Why
shouldn’t you be allowed to sit on a foot-
path and may incidentally obstruct traffic,
if you do not tangibly hurt your fellow
man, and indeed, think that you may be
able to save him and yourself from
nuclear death? Is the small inconveni-
ence caused to some motorists at all rela-
tive to the freedom of expression needed
in a democracy?
In a democracy one of the fundamental
rights of a man is to be able to do any-
thing so long as he does not hurt his
fellows. You may not agree with his
point of view and you may think his
behavior “shabby” and “circus”-like (your
words) but that is his business and not
yours. If you gaol that man you are
not defending democracy but the smug
and satisfied politicians who think they
know what is best for us and what they
can get away with.
If The Bulletin wants to be an honest
forum of thought then it should be the
the light of the individual in the unthink-
ing darkness of our conformist society
and not indulge in the superficial practice
of stamping on the individual or engage
in mutual backslapping with the con-
formists.
DAVID H. LETCHER
Queen’s College,
University of Melbourne.
COMMUNISM IN UNIVERSITIES
Sir,
Although the debate on Mr Church-
ward’s Political Science lectures and read-
ing guides has been in progress for a long
time, I think that a comment should be
made on the irrelevancies which have
been introduced to distort the real issue.
The point of Mr Buckley’s letters, as I
read them, is that a University lecturer
has omitted a number of important facts,
about the topic he is lecturing upon,
and omitted from his reading-lists books
which adequately deal with these facts.
Therefore, Mr Walker’s remarks about
the Marxist approach (Bulletin, Sep-
tember 23) are irrelevant because Mr
Buckley has not been concerned with the
personal opinions of lecturers, unless
these lead to inaccuracies in their factual
accounts ; also because, as Mr Buckley
apparently knows (since he has not used
the word “Marxist”), there is a lot of
difference between having a “Marxist”
view of history and political-social
relationships and having a C.P.S.U.
(Communist Party of the Soviet Union)
view.
Equally irrelevant are the remarks
about students taking lectures with a
grain of salt. I certainly disagree with
some of the opinions of most of my lec-
turers, as do most students. But I do
expect them to give accurate accounts
of the facts —-if these, too, are to be taken
with a grain of salt, there is no point in
having a university. A university is con-
cerned with ideas and opinions, and these
naturally and rightly conflict ; it is also
concerned with accurate scholarship,
which forms the basis for these. If a
responsible staff-member presents to
students clear inaccuracies, or omits
essential facts, for any reason at all —be
it through incompetence, fear or dis-
honesty, be he Catholic or Communist,
Jew or Buddhist —he should not be
allowed to hold his position. If Mr
Buckley’s allegations are correct, Mr
Churchward, in his 1953 Political Science
B course at least, was an incompetent
lecturer.
The personal smears upon Mr Buckley
call for some comment. Two at least
are particularly inappropriate. There is
Mr Hughes’s disgusting insinuation about
Mr Buckley's consistency of approach
when it comes to Catholics lecturing on
topics like the Reformation (Bulletin,
August 8). Mr Buckley is in the rare
position for a Catholic of having attacked
publicly, and in print:
“Catholics who ... try to push a so-called
Catholic line in tutorials and discussion —-a line
based on sectarian prejudices rather than a
true vision either of the Church or of the
studies themselves (such as), Catholics who
feel compelled to rush to the defence of the
Spanish Inquisition and to whitewash its every
aspect, rather than make a genuine and objec-
tive study of the historical issues.” [See “The
Incarnation and the University” (Newman
Society of Victoria, 1955, and Geoffrey Chap-
man Ltd, London, 1957), p. 86.]
Similarly, Mr Walker’s association of
Mr Buckley with “fanatical anti-Com-
munists” is unfair to one who has often
criticised those whose opposition to Com-
munism is fanatical rather than sane,
realistic and soundly based. Mr Walker
is typical of those who class as “fanati-
cal” —and thus to be ignored —anyone
who is aware that the Communist threat
to the world —and to true academic free-
dom) must be revealed and firmly
opposed, no matter how unpleasant the
job may be.
CHRIS WATSON
Port Melbourne (/ictoria ).


OUT and ABOUT
DON’T BE A SNOB
It is extremely naughty
To call snub-nosed people haughty.
Never go by exteriors
Even when judging superiors;
It is always better to wait until the time
is ripe
To judge a cow by its tripe.
Anton Vogt
Sixty Seconds of Miss Leigh
A s far as you can work it out, Miss
Vivien Leigh had a daylong re-
hearsal. then a hairset and a facial. Then
she went home and got all dressed up in
a Lanvin-Castillo white satin evening
dress with a purple Thai silk stole. Then
she went to Sydney’s St James Theatre
and appeared on stage for 60 seconds
before the first performance of the revived
“Gone with the Wind.” Then she went
home, took off the Lanvin-Castillo even-
ing dress and purple silk stole and had an
early night before her opening in “The
Lady of the Camellias.”
All this might have been rather a fag
for Miss Leigh, but probably most of
the audience thought it worth while to
pay five guineas for 60 seconds of Miss
Leigh plus nearly four hours of “Gone
with the Wind.” Perhaps some were dis-
appointed that Miss Leigh didn't stay for
the film, but, after all, she had seen it
before
We did have 60 seconds of Mr Robert
Helpmann, too. Mr Helpmann recalled
that he had had his first audition in the
theatre on that very stage at the St
James. Afterwards he had been told he
had absolutely no future in the theatre.
Mr Helpmann smiled happily, as if he had
known even then that he did have a future
in the theatre, and as if he were sure
he has one even now.
As for “Gone with the Wind,” even at
the age of 21, it might still have a future
The holiday crowds are flocking to it. To
those who had seen it before, it may
have seemed a little longer, a little more
false, but, compared with the more recent
lengthy films, rather soothing.
Ruth Wallis in Adelaide
T ast week Adelaidians were goggle-
eyed with amazement. Miss Ruth
Wallis had come and gone without a peep
of protest from the censor.
It seemed both illogical and impos-
sible. First, the songs Miss Wallis sang
are banned in Adelaide. The Court was
sudden death on a shop which had sold
Ruth Wallis records some time ago.
E.M.I. had been warned not to sell Tom
Lehrer records in Adelaide, and Tom
Lehrer himself was censored to ribbons
by the Chief Secretary, Sir Lyell Mc-
Ewen, and as a result had to shorten his
programme in the Adelaide Town Hall.
Very recently the Attorney-General
decided that the innocuous little poems
of the late-lamented Ern Malley could
still be subject to prosecution if distri-
buted in Adelaide.
But Miss Wallis defied the logic and
the psychology of the town. She was
advertised unashamedly as “a saucy
singer,” she sang her little snigger num-
bers. But Sir Lyell was complacent and
content; the police went about their
normal affairs. No one was struck with
the utter mystery that songs which are
banned in the record bars could be o.k.
in the Town Hall.
The irony of it is that no one would
have been unduly perturbed if Ruth
Wallis had struck censorship trouble.
Her songs are dreary manifestations of
the adolescent itch, and Adelaide could
quite happily have taken them or left
them alone.
"A Mature Intellect"
"Tt requires a mature intellect to
appreciate the nobility of colonial-
ism,” Singapore’s former Chief Minister,
David Marshall, sarcastically repeated this
“What's new ...?”


remark, made originally by British
Colonial Secretary Lennox-Boyd and a
largely Malayan audience at a packed
Melbourne University meeting cheered.
Marshall, who resigned as Chief Minis-
ter in 1956, said he knew nobody in
Singapore who did not recognise that a
merger with Malaya was the logical
political development. “Both economic-
ally and militarily, Singapore is as neces-
sary to the Federation as the thumb to
the hand,” he said.
Marshall believes that “unconditional
neutrality” is the only way an independent
Singapore can survive. “It wouldn’t even
take an H-bomb to make us and part
of South Johore a sizzling hole in the
ocean.” he commented.
Fifty Pounds a Snooze
Tn Victoria, police have the right to
A judge a motorist under the influence
and take his car keys, leaving him to do
anything he pleases except drive. In
Queensland, any motorist who feels tem-
porarily incapable of driving and pulls
to the kerb to sleep it off is liable to
immediate arrest and a charge of being
“drunk in charge of a motor vehicle.”
The penalties are the same as for a
wild drunk who careers all over the road,
or the traffic risk who tries to drive home
although feeling less than capable at the
wheel —maximum fine £lOO (usually £5O),
and suspension of licence for up to six
months Naturally most people try to
make it home rather than pull to the
kerb and become sitting ducks.
Many Queensland drivers consider this
a foolish law, and spokesmen for their
organisations said so emphatically at a
conference on traffic problems last May.
Now the Government has bowed to this
opinion, but in a manner which sets a
new standard in doing things in a left-
handed way.
In amendments to the Traffic Act, it
has provided two scales of penalties for
drunks who drive and those who sleep
off the effects before driving. In the first
instance the maximum fine is to be raised
to £2OO. In the second, the offenders will
face the smaller but still stiff penalty of
£5O.
Apparently Queenslanders are ex-
pected to regard the amendment, with
its lesser penalty for sleeping it off, as
a good thing. As one Brisbane newspaper
put it. this will ‘‘encourage a driver to
rest in his car when he feels he is under
the influence.” At £5O a throw, strange
encouragement.
That Was Australia
Notice from a way back boiling-down
dance-room: —
“No persons or person is allowed to
dance more than once or twice running
with the same partner. Any young lady
requested to dance with a gentleman and
refuses will be called on to give an ex-
planation of the matter. This rule will
be strictly enforced.
“All those young men wishing to join
will please pay in their money by Tues-
day 14 or will be too late to join. This
has been decided by the club’s meeting
on Thursday last.”
— “Bulletin,” November 3, 1900.
We were talking about books when a
Queensland friend just in from the
Never-Never interjected: “You don’t know
what you have to be thankful for. I’ve
seen men reading the labels on jamtins
because they were at any rate print, and
then a discussion on jam would start,
which would last until we turned in.
Salmon-tins are not so much prized, be-
cause there is nothing on them, as a rule,
but the picture of a fish and the name
of a canning co.; but, then, they lead to
good fish yarns and from fish generally
on to snakes. To pick up a Lea and
Perrins’ Worcestershire sauce-bottle with
the cover intact is luck indeed; but the
acme of delight is the arrival of a
Wolfe’s Schnapps bottle sent through
post from the nearest town; its printed
matter in the Lord-knows-how-many ton-
gues having gained for it the name of
“The Library.” When you come to be so
hard up for literature as to treasure a
jamtin or a sauce-bottle you’ll know the
value of books.”
—“Bulletin,” May 26, 1900.
When is the N.S.W. Government going
to remove those hideous alleged statues in
Sydney Centennial Park, the effects of
Parke’s love for ’igh hart? They are
a public danger, as the horses shy at
them. For a young country, better no
art than bad art.
—“Bulletin,” September 9, 1893.
Feiffer
mh ,cmim
V 9
I'M OUT Mm
HAPPW oor
H6RC. f
\IIOT COLD/
\ \ *
$or wu 186
AWM HAPPJ6R
IMTHgR^f
t
Ml CMOfj,
\ \
OUT H6P6 ; MAM ec
HOT 01T I KW0U)
mm i stand.
175
%
io rmc
mo caw
pur rea?
ft cm ' T HU/fT fO O/
ITS COLO AW(7
TH6R6 A*6
met..
COAIIN6 /M ?
m COHB OCTOBER
moo RBHemz if i
pip or if i omr
ITS SRIAT ONCS V/m
Gif ISGtD TO IT/
i me
BOmiR.
TH6RC
m roo
maom
96CWM.


FOR THE OBSERVER
Don't Sack the
Cleaning-woman
A victim of automation, my poor wife
has grown weaker and weaker
through the years.
In the old days, when her tools of
trade as a housewife consisted of such
things as straw- and hair-brooms (10s. the
pair), a wrinkled washboard (3s. 6d.), a
hand wringer (£2 10s.) and a second-hand
treadle sewing-machine (£l5), she used to
sing like a lark as she went about her
work. With the warm whiteness of
thick soapsuds on her shapely arms, she
was a pleasure to watch as she worked
and carolled happily.
But nowadays, when our house is
stuffed with domestic plant and machinery
valued at about £3OOO and supposed to
do most of her work for her, she
finds no fun in it any more. Machine-
minding has made her a nervous wreck.
Confronted by the thermostat on the
electric range, a complicated automatic
switch on the iron, a vacuum-cleaner so
powerful that it sucks the paint out of
the skirting-boards, and an electric
wringer on the washing-machine that can
rip my favorite pyjamas to bits in the
twinkling of an eye, she has become
something of a mechanic and an elec-
trician. But it has been at the expense
of much of her womanhood.
She is still basically feminine, however,
and this was made clear recently, when
we engaged a cleaning-woman to take
some of the weight of her housewifely
toil off her shoulders. On the morning
of the first day on which this good
woman was due to appear at our house I
was awakened before the dawn by the
piercing scream of what seemed to be jet
bombers bent on destruction.
It was only the vacuum-cleaner, of
course, and when I went sleepily out,
thumbing my eyes, there was my wife,
with her sleeves ol!ed up, half the
carpets rolled up, and all sorts of other
things rolled up. working like a tiger.
“What’s this?” I mumbled. "You on
night shift?”
“The cleaning-woman’s coming today,”
she hissed, desperately, through a cloud
of dust.
“Good. Come back to bed and leave
her something to clean,” I said.
She switched off the cleaner and gave
me an awful look. “Bed indeed!” she
snapped. “Do you think I’m going to
have that woman going around telling
people I’m a sloppy housekeeper?”
And there it was. 1 got no more sleep,
and by the time the cleaning-woman
arrived the house was spotless-, which
very much disturbed and upset the
cleaning-woman. She felt mistrusted and
unwanted.
“But there’s nothing to do,” she wailed.
“The whole place is just beautiful.”
x
Flattered and pleased, my wife began to
look less challenging and defiant. “Never
mind, darling,” she told the cleaning-
woman. “Come into the kitchen and
we’ll have a cup of tea.”
They had the tea, and a chat about
their last few operations and the sins
of husbands that lasted almost until
lunch-time. But the cleaning-woman, a
rathe- attractive and not too old widow,
was an honest woman. She wanted to
earn her money, and she became restive
again. She started to mumble unhappily
about thanking us very much, but it was
obvious that she wasn’t needed here, and
she wouldn’t come again.
“Do something,” my wife ordered me
in a piercing whisper. “We've only just
got her, and we can't lose her already.
I need her.”
This direct appeal softened me, and
almost before I knew what 1 was doing
I had made the great sacrifice. I had
taken the cleaning-woman into my room,
which hitherto no female, not even my
beloved spouse, had been allowed to
t ouc h
“There you are, Mrs Rumbucket,” I
told her. “That’ll keep you busy for a
while, anyway.”
The cleaning-woman turned a little
pale when she noticed a silverfish reading
Thackeray on a corner of my desk. The
silverfish in my room have grown to be
larger than rats, and our cat-before-last
was torn to pieces by them. However,
they were still a trifle scared of me, and
this one folded himself inside the book
and continued to digest it inwardly. The
cleaning-woman produced an insect-spray
from somewhere.
“That will be no good,” I told her,
loftily. “There’s a double-barrelled shot-
gun in the corner, see? Shells in the
right-hand drawer.”
Resolutely, she closed the door, and
though there were sundry bangs when
the gun went off, and occasional explo-
sions of dust and rubbish through the
windows, she did not come out of my
room until evening. When she did, the
place was ruined. I’d never be able
to find anything again among the neat
piles of books and papers, in such awful,
stifling cleanliness. Low howls of misery
were coming from beneath the floor-
boards, where the surviving silverfish
were having nervous breakdowns. But
the cleaning-woman was happy.
“I’ll be here at the same time next
week,” she promised, as she took her
money.
I spent the next week nursing my poor,
demoralised silverfish, and sometimes
looking for books that were lost in the
orderliness. Anyway, we had got the
woman started, I consoled myself, and it
would be worth the sacrifice if things
went smoothly from now on. But, sure
enough, in the wee small hours of the
day of her second visit, there were the
jet bombers again.
“For the love of Mike!” I protested
"Milly Bryson! Where've YOU been tucked away?"


to my spouse. “Let the woman do it.
She wants to do it Look at the wonder-
ful job she made of my room last time
“If you want to live like a pig you
can.” snorted Anastasia. “I’ve created
a good impression with this woman last
week, and you don’t think I want her
to think it was just because she was
coming, do you?”
I was beaten. I withdrew, miserably.
Then it occurred to me that I would
again have to face the hurt, mistrusted
look in the gentle brown eyes of the
cleaning-woman when she turned up
once more and found nothing to do. I
couldn’t bear it. I had to act.
While my wife slaved away in the
other rooms, I shut myself up in mine,
and got it ready for the cleaning-woman.
I emptied the ash-tray in the middle of
the floor, and ground all the butts and
rubbish into the carpet with my feet.
I kicked books all over the place, and
opened a bottle of beer specially to spill
it all over my typewriter and desk. The
silverfish came out and watched happily,
no doubt sure in their simple minds that
old times and happy, careless ways were
to be restored.
It was probably a severe shock to the
silverfish when Mrs Rumbucket arrived
and sailed into them again. But they had
at least half a day of unhindered fun,
while my wife and the cleaning-woman
had a cup of tea and a bit of a chat
about the worthlessness of men. After
that the cleaning-woman sailed into my
room and showed that she quickly became
accustomed to a new environment by
snatching up the shotgun and blowing
to pieces at close range the very volume
of Thackeray that my scholarly silver-
fish had been reading.
And so things went on for several
weeks —but it could not last. Now I
was the one who would collapse under
the strain. Every Thursday morning, as
regularly as clockwork, the jets arrived,
and I had to spring out of bed and dirty
up my room for the cleaning-woman.
I could no longer find anything. My
silverfish, discouraged, migrated in a
body to the public library, where they
ate 63 volumes and a junior librarian
in their first week.
Eventually, I took the only way out,
but I am by no means happy about it.
After all, my wife stood by me during
the depression, and has been my cherished
companion for many years. She is the
mother of my children, and was to have
been the prop and consolation of my old
age. That anything like this should have
happened to us now is one of those
cruelly incalculable vicissitudes of life
which nobody can foresee. Though not
completely sure that it is the right thing
to do, I have decided upon this course,
and shall stick to it.
As soon as the divorce becomes abso-
lute, I shall marry the cleaning-woman.
I am sure it is the only way to stop
her from ever again cleaning out my
room.
GAVIN CASEY
FOR THE CONSUMER
Putting Yourself
in the Picture
How do you go about buying some
paintings, that is, if you are starting
from scratch with nothing excepting
those awful prints Aunt Agatha gave you
for a wedding present? Between the
dedicated and astute collector and the
hangers-on, who visit every gallery
exhibition and buy nothing, there seems
to be a large number of people who
would like to buy an Australian painting,
or perhaps several, but who feel out of
their depth in a gallery.
Perhaps they feel it will be like going
into those awesome, elegant arcade shops,
which reportedly “won’t let you out
unless you buy something.” - Perhaps they
read of nearly £200,000 paid for a Goya
at Sothebys and feels that they will be
embarrassed by a too-modest bank
balance.
However, art galleries are about the
easiest places to get out of without buy-
ing. Some dealers even hate parting with
pictures. Others have an aversion to
seeing people as owners of paintings
which don’t seem to “belong” to them.
In any case, if you attend the opening
of an exhibition, the sherry-drinking,
gossiping crowd is a perfect cloak for
the novice. The only thing is that they
will also prevent you seeing the pictures.
Art-dealers are also very used to people
buying on a budget. They can find you
a drawing sometimes for as little as ten
guineas. Some of the more accommodat-
ing will hold a picture for you and will
accept £5 or so, whenever you can
afford it.
As far as the galleries are concerned
there are really only two types of clients.
There are the big spenders —the few big
private collectors, the public galleries and,
to a lesser extent, business houses which
are at last getting round to something
more exciting than the firm's calendar
to decorate the walls of their million-
pound buildings.
Then there are the people who have a
certain amount of wall space in their
new house or home unit, and who shop
at the gallery for perhaps a few months,
or until the wall space is filled. Then they
retire as art collectors, and the gallery
might not see them again for years.
Apart from the national and State gal-
leries, the private galleries in Australia
have virtually no regular customers. So
they are entirely used to people coming
off the street and buying a few pictures.
In fact, that is how their business works.
They are used to all sorts of people,
from those who want something 24
inches by 36 inches, in blues and greens,
to fit the space between the piano and
the door and to match the wallpaper, to
those who simply haven’t an idea what
they want.
The first thing which the novice art
collector need know is that Australian
private galleries and art-dealers do not
charge for admission. Every week the
galleries get people standing on the'door-
step and asking how much is it to come
in? If you wanted to go to a gallery
in Paris, perhaps to pick up a few
Picassos or Buffets, you would have to
pay for admission to the gallery.
Once you are in the gallery, if the
dealer realises you are a beginner he will
probably suggest that you visit other
galleries, and perhaps wait several months
looking at all the new shows until you
really know what you want.
All galleries carry a stock of paintings,
other than those featured in the current
display, and you can, of course, ask the
art-dealer to “look out” for a certain
type of painting or one by a certain artist
for you.
A gallery will also find you an artist
if you want your portrait painted,
although you may not always be able to
get the painter you want. “The top
portrait-painters look for a face with
character, but often the people who can
afford the price haven’t got the charac-
ter,” one said.
If you want to by-pass the galleries,
you can seek the artist out in his studio
and commission something, or buy some-
thing, direct. Of course, whether you
like the commissioned picture or not you
have to pay for it.
Although you will in this way save the
commission paid to a gallery, you may
not save money. Only a gallery can know
the “ruling” price of an artist’s work.
The artist himself may have an inflated
idea of what his picture is worth. In
fact, some galleries say that the worse
the artist the more preposterous the price
he is likely to demand.
What is the profit to a gallery? There
is absolutely no set commission to gal-
leries. An artist must make the best
arrangement he can. In Paris, where
there are something like 30,000 artists a
gallery may charge as much as 75 per
cent. There the competition between
artists is so keen that they will pay over
three-quarters of their earnings to a
gallery, just to get their pictures in public
view.
In Australia the highest commission
might be about one-third. Melbourne
galleries can charge as much as that, but
commission rarely goes above 25 per
cent, in Sydney.


However, if it is a very well-known
artist the percentage could be consider-
ably less, because the gallery is assured
of high prices and a sell-out. If, for
example, William Dobell were to have
an exhibition now (very, very unlikely)
with the market price of his pictures as
high as 2000 guineas, a gallery could
charge only three or four per cent, and
do as well as by charging an unknown
artist 25 per cent, for pictures priced
under 100 guineas, which might not sell
anyway.
In some cases, the gallery not only
feels little certainty of profits, but must
ask the artist for a guarantee against
losses, and to cover insurance, cost of
printing catalogues and so forth. How-
ever, one gallery-owner said it is very
difficult to ask an unknown artist for a
£5O guarantee when he has just tried to
borrow 10s. for a meal.
Sometimes they suggest that the artist
show one or two pictures in a group
show, which is, after all, a beginning.
What really keeps artists and galleries
going is that people’s tastes change. A
young couple might be very happy at
first with a couple of decorative pictures,
priced at perhaps 30 or 40 guineas.
After some months, or some years, they
loathe them. They want something
better, which is, of course, something
pricier. And so it goes on, until, if you
can afford it, you are bidding for a Goya
at Sothebys, or, if you can’t afford a
Goya you are sneaking out of the Louvre
with the Mona Lisa hidden under your
topcoat.
PATRICIA ROLFE
ABORIGINALITIES
The Ringer of the Outback
TThe ringer of the Outback is a man
worth knowing. Moulded to his en-
vironment. he belongs to a race of men
found only in the Inland. Unhurried,
tough, quiet-spoken and undemonstrative,
he has seen and done things which border
on fantasy when viewed by conventional,
civilised standards.
The best horseman in the world bar
none he talks quietly of the night the
mob rushed and took the yards with ’em,
of night horses and lonely watches, and
the big mobs being walked down from
Camooweal to the Channel Country.
There’s always an odd one waiting at the
pub for a lift to the next station. And
always with a hefty, tarp-covered swag
that serves as a seat as well. Time for
him doesn’t matter a damn.
We picked up our first ringer at
Bedourie, heart of the Diamantina Chan-
nel Country, shire area 3800 square miles,
population 300. Bedourie would be about
as desolate an outpost as Birdsville, but
the bore head is a beaut. There’s a
ringer’s whip, too, that’s been hanging on
the wall of the pub bar for 42 years. The
ringer was killed by a fall from a horse,
and this was the best way they could think
of to remember him.
Our ringer had come up from Pandy
Pandy, over the South Australian border,
after breaking down a cheque. But for
a tube of tooth paste, he’d be ringing the
ghost herds in the sky, for a fire in the
camp destroyed nearly everything he had.
The toothpaste exploded and awakened
him.
He d just finished repairing the pub
fowl-house when we arrived. Some come-
down for a ringer! We took him on to
Bouiia and the fancy pub. Swag balanced
on shoulder, he shook hands with both
of us at the same time. Somehow I
couldn’t identify him with that pub in
Boulia, but he seemed confident enough.
They always do, and they always are.
Take the one at the ’Dangie. We’d just
loaded 28 gallons of petrol (at 7s. a
gallon), straight from the drum at the
police station. The old bus was down at
the stern, and there was a rough trip ahead
into the Territory. Dubiously, we re-
garded that hefty, tarp-covered swag.
Then we looked at him, and you know
the rest. His dead-pan expression hadn't
changed, but his eyes gave him away. He
knew we’d take him from the first, the
same as we did.
You can’t leave a ringer to cool his
high heels in a place like the ’Dangie. He
just doesn’t belong to the big smoke!
R. A. MONCRIEFF
Requiem
TTalf a century ago something happened
-*- A in the life of a Sydney commercial
traveller and ex-N.S.W. broadjump cham-
pion named Bill Masterton.
What it was we’ll never know now.
Maybe family trouble ; maybe he'd just
HAD life generally. Anyway, Bill Mas-
terton went bush.
Outback, he pottered around for a
while, then holed up in a cave at Red
Bank copper mine in the Gulf country,
near the N.T.-Queensland border.
There the ex - commercial traveller
settled down to become part of bush
legend.
Probably not more than a score of
white Territorians ever met him. But
everyone knew OF him.
To get to his mine you needed a four-
wheel drive vehicle, or a horse. Having
neither, Bill forgot the outside world —
except for one trip to Sydney, in 1919,
when his wife died.
The life of the surrounding Garawa
natives became his life. Sometimes even
hermits need cash. So Bill would mine
a bit of copper and grade it, sending out
only the best. A carrier would call
periodically and take it in to Burketown.
Bill's cave was 12 feet high and 20 feet
deep, furnished with bag and timber
chairs and cleaned out daily by Garawa
lubras. Bill lived on bush tucker, includ-
ing bower birds. One of nature’s gentle-
men, he once asked a rare woman visitor
(there with her husband) at mealtime:
“Madam, would you kindly serve?”
Years ago a native named Murdering
Tommy tried to kill Masterton. The her-
mit returned violence with kindness and
the tribe made Tommy an outcast. Word
leached Darwin recently of the hermit’s
death, aged 91, after living in his cave
for 48 years.
KEITH WILLEY
"I once played rector for St George."


ATOM
Australian Paper
Manufacturers Limited
(Incorporated in New South Wales)
HEAD OFFICE : South Gate, South Melbourne, Victoria.
Mills at Melbourne, Broadford, Fairfield and Maryvale, Victoria;
Botany, N.S.W.; Petrie, Queensland; and Bayswater, W.A.
Sales Offices in all State Capitals
HIGHLIGHTS FROM THE 1961 ANNUAL REPORT
For the 12 Months Ended 30th June, 1961.
SALES
Low priced imports and “dumping” of overseas products combined
with the Government’s “credit squeeze” reduced sales to 278,869
tons as against an expected level of 320,000 tons. Last year’s
tonnage was 300,229 tons.
CAPACITY
AND
PRODUCTION
Capacity increased to 338,000 tons for papers and paperboards
but because of reduced demand in second half of year production
was 293,310 tons. Woodpulp production totalled 86,316 tons.
SELLING PRICES
Average selling prices again remain substantially unchanged.
TARIFF INQUIRY
Requests made for increased rates of duty, and action to prevent
“dumping” and repeal of “drawback” provisions.
PROFIT
Net profit of £1,610,693 for the year.
DIVIDEND
Final dividend of 5% making unchanged 8% for the year. Total
payment £1,290,800.
CAPITAL
CHANGES
Ordinary capital increased by £1,400,000 by conversion of
Unsecured Notes (1958-1961).
DEVELOPMENT
AND
CONSTRUCTION
Botany No. 7 commenced production September 1960.
Petrie “Inverform” unit started successfully.
Site work commenced Port Huon, Tasmania.
Planning work for Spearwood Mill, Western Australia.
Improvements effected at all Mills.
New Head Office building completed and occupied.
FORESTRY
Plantings continued in Victoria and Queensland.
APCEL LTD.
“DAWN” tissues successfully launched and favourably received.


REVIEWS
MUSIC
Behind the Velvet Curtain
\X/hen Goossens was appointed director
of the Sydney Symphony Orhcestra,
he arrived with the promise that he would
make it one of the six finest in the world.
This implied, as Neville Cardus observed
several times, that Goossens was one of
the world's six best conductors. Un-
stated premise: an orchestra is as good
as its conductor.
Before he had seen or heard a local
orchestra, Joseph Krips remarked to a
reporter for the Melbourne "Age” that
no major orchestra was bad: some were,
at times, badly conducted. Unstated
premise: an orchestra plays as well as
its conductor demands.
just how true is this truism? With
sensible allowances made for other
factors, it is, apparently, true enough.
Many things—tradition, security of em-
ployment, personal dedication, harmony
among its members —contribute in their
several degrees to the basic efficiency of
an orchestra ; but the best conceivable
combination of these just brings the
orchestra to that point at which a good
conductor can take over. An orchestra
favored in this way, by chance and by
circumstance, has a high potential, but
this still has to be made real, in season
after season and performance after per-
formance.
Now the cultural environment of our
orchestra is. if not singular, at least
curious in many respects. How'ever cos-
mopolitan we may think ourselves in this
present decade, however popular it
is to push aggressive Australianism into
the nether darkness and play up our con-
tinuity with the cultures of Europe, there
are some things about our transplanta-
tion which just cannot be wished away.
In Paris or Berlin or Vienna, the cultiva-
tion of orchestras is a process which has
been clarified and confirmed, in one way
or another, over more than two centuries.
It may be true that their patronage has
passed from church and court to state
and city, through the hands of the rich
19th-century middle class: but perhaps
this movement is more important to the
social historian than it is to the practical
musician who works in and with the
orchestra. The line of development is
there none the less ; generations of citizens
have grown used to the idea that orches-
tras exist just as town councils exist, that
orchestral music is as natural as the
drinking of lager or Pernod. Chairs in
the orchestras themselves are competed
tor, and the players do take their jobs
with unsparing seriousness. Frequently
(this is eminently true in the history of
the Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra) the
world's most celebrated chamber music
ensembles come into being among the
personnel of the best and most meticulous
orchestras —which is an indication, if not
proof absolute, of the quality of playing
which the musicians demand of them-
selves.
In the back of Australian history there
are no noble courts. Churches have
been more concerned with pioneering than
a magnificence stemming from a some-
time union of church and State. The rich
middle classes have not, by and large,
affected a taste for the arts. We have no
orchestral tradition, consequently, and
the history of our local orchestras has
been chequered enough to leave a balance
of doubt and fear in the attitude of
musicians and their union. In Mel-
bourne, to cite a case, a number of the
present players were in the band 30 years
ago, when a permanent orchestra w ; as a
mere visionary notion of Professor
Bernard Heinze. How different must
their attitude be to that of an aspirant
to the Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra!
lie >ees himself as entering an immemorial
institution, while they can remember the
collapse of orchestras during the depres-
sion, the bitterness of the coming of
talkies, and decades on end of new
orchestras whose desperate endings fol-
lowed so hard upon the enthusiasm of
their beginnings.
We should be able to see that aristo-
cratic chatter about perfectionist stan-
dards in orchestral performance, however
noble the ideal it postulates, does not
embrace the whole truth about orches-
tras and their direction. No one wants
to see high standards compromised, even
for the sake of keeping players in their
jobs ; but an orchestra is a communal
enterprise. Working conditions, systems
of promotion, job security —these are
things which demand a voice in the
council, and which must carry some
weight against a conductor’s discipline
and absolute authority.
In Melbourne we have had a little,
though not much, of this chatter in the
past few weeks, when rumors of dissen-
sion in the orchestra crept past the velvet
curtain behind which the administration
works. Basically, the trouble seems to
have been sparked off by a few specific
criticisms levelled by a visiting conductor
at the string groups in the orchestra. In
moving to remedy any weaknesses spot-
lighted by these remarks, Mr Tzipine has
apparently come up against an obstacle
not unknown to former “permanent” con-
ductors —the clash between a conductor’s
right to alter the membership and dis-
position of his players, and the players’
rig.it to hold their jobs, and to attain
promotion in the fullness of time.
There is no easy solution to this clash.
It has sent other “permanent" conductors
away unhappy. It has, on the other hand,
improved our standards of performance,-
by replacing mediocre with better players.
But to establish a really just, and at the
same time fruitful, balance between per-
forming standards and job security takes,
I imagine, more than a coup'e of genera-
tions. It is a problem which presents
itself to us in a peculiarly ffiarp and
prickly form because we lack the ameni-
ties of a long orchestral tradition. One
thing only is tolerably clear: that the
infernal and cryptic secrecy with which
the administration surrounds these diffi-
culties —as if they were something to be
ashamed of!—-is more seotic than any
amount of public outcry, however gulled
by enthusiasm and parti pri\ the public
may be.
KENNEIH HINCE
ART
Old Sydney
Saii Herman. Retrospecvive Exhibi-
tion. Argus Gallery. Melbourne.
Since settling in Australia in the late
’thirties, Sali Herman has become one
of the country's most distinguishe 1 and
widely-exhibited painters. His present
retrospective exhibition includes over a
hundred works, mostly on loan from a
huge assortment of well-known and
private collections (which gives some
measure of his success), works which
cover his most productive years in Aus-
tralia and which include also some work
done overseas.
Despite his very lengthy period of
industrious artistic activity, he reflects
very little of the fashions which have
changed about him. In his very ealiest


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£A363,000,000
•
Offices :
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z,
days he displays some interest in the for-
malities of cubist painting and kindred
movements, but never to the point of
distortion or abstraction. He has
remained above all a subject painter, and
it is in his view and treatment of his sub-
jects that his merit lies.
Certainly his most notable achievement
is that he has divined the charm and
interest of our familiar background. He
excells in the surroundings most Aus-
tralians would like to destroy, in terraces,
in iron lacework, in narrow streets and in
broken-down outback sheds. Old Sydney
inspires his best work, crowded, sunny,
ramshackle and beautiful. The impres-
sion of the man that emerges suggests
a lively humor, keen, untiring observa-
tion and a true painter’s faith in the
originality and clarity of his vision. There
is a lightness and freshness in his work
that establishes the immediate appeal
necessary to painting, and though his sub-
jects are repetitive, they are not dull.
Rather would they add to the pleasure
of living for anyone familiar with the
suburbs Herman paints so lovingly.
This year’s work is something of a
variation —a mixture of outback exotica
and desolation, all in stronger colors and
moods, which demonstrate that the tra-
ditional view of our Far North as a
human wasteland whose main strength is
its mystery, may still be applicable.
Among so many familiar scenes the
Aboriginal Burial Grounds’ series is
striking, a neat blend of a curious subject
with a well-organised formal pattern,
BILL HANNAN
Poet of the Scrub
William Salmon. Macquarie Galleries.
Sydney.
C'lade-trained William Salmon’s keen
eye, together with his preoccupation
with searching realism, place his work
quite outside prevailing fashion. This
approach is deliberate and without trace
of naivete, for he is well aware of what
is happening in the art world. He seems
intent on drawing the substance of his
art from direct experience, which is more
difficult and rarer than is commonly sup-
posed. The attempt would fail were it
not supported by impressive technique
and thorough draughtsmanship.
Salmon has, in a sense, “discovered”
some of the most unpicturesque features
of the Australian scene: the humbler
aspects of heath or scrub, the infinity of
small plants, the character and shape of
tiny bits of rock. Some of the earlier
pictures resemble a finely-woven tapestry
of forms which coalesce into muted greys,
greens or browns. The result is as far
from the ideals of the Royal Art Society
as it is from that of the abstract expres-
sionists. The effort and concentration
have placed the artist en rapport with his
subject in a way often missing in con-
temporary painting.
“Rubies in the Goldfields” sets accents
of red against neutral earth, while warm
lights gleam through an intricate web of
twigs and branches in “Golden Earth.”
Several Hill End landscapes recreate
the atmosphere of a semi-ghost town
where shacks and abandoned houses sway
earthwards in weathered and wooden
decadence. A hint of underlying drama
animates the dun colors of “The Western
Stores,” while the orange “Church in the
Afternoon” becomes a symbol for the
dying sun we cannot see.
“Mountain I,” the largcct painting, is
barely saved from monotony by a
nervous filagree of trunks and branches
which enable space to assert itself against
the green wall of hill. “Evening Light”
could easily be taken for a well-arranged
abstract in a low key were it not for its
insistent atmosphere, while the recent
“Leaving the Beach,” with its almost
expressionist vigor, promises well for his
future development.
J. HENSHAW
The Brink of Bankruptcy
The Half-Dozen Group. Vida Lahey.
Contemporary Art Society. Brisbane.
Half-Dozen Group are holding
their coming-of-age show. For 50
years Brisbane and Queensland have been
on the brink of bankruptcy, aesthetically
speaking. The oldest and biggest art
society has gone over the brink already
because the members regarded Art simply
as a “very nice hobby.” Imagine Michel
Angelo or Cezanne thinking that way.
About 1940 six semi-professional artists
broke away and, surprisingly enough in
our warm climate, took art seriously.
The half-dozen have increased since, and
their shows are always a source of com-
fort to those who like good painting.
This year’s show turns up a very high
average quality. A fine accession to the
ranks is George D. Williamson, a Scot
whose bush-architecture landscapes are
striking in their firm construction and
brilliant color. Nutter Buzacott, Marion
Finlayson, Wilson Cooper, Joy Roggen-
kamp and Mrs Pedersen show very good
work. John Rigby’s self-portrait is well
painted but awkwardly posed. These
people deserve praise and support.
For the most of her life Miss Lahey
specialised in still life in water color,
and in this field had no equal in this
country and few, if any, abroad. In any
medium she was outstanding in Aus-
tralian art and was one of about five
Queenslanders who rose to the top. She
commanded a faultless technique and was
always a thoughtful painter. Her present
show, her first in many years, while deli-
cate and charming, shows a loss of grip
in a very difficult field, flower studies.
The four little landscapes done in a
masterly pointillist technique with an
exquisite color scheme reveal some of
her old skill. The large figure study
seems to me to have come from her
great past: it shows a woman pre-
paring afternoon tea and reminds me of
what the New English Art Club, under
French post-impressionist influence, was
doing around the turn of the century.
The general tone is necessarily sombre,
but the light is still strong in the rich
hues of the furniture. This is a splendid
picture.
Roy Churcher, an English newcomer
who paints very well and runs the best
Art school in Brisbane, has just founded
the local branch of the Contemporary
Art Society. He has the support of
John Rigby, Margaret Olley, Joy Roggen-
kamp, Andrew Sibley and others less
well known. In the vast desert of Bris-
bane’s dull representational colored
photography this move was badly needed.
I wish the young people luck.
J. V. DUHIG


# 'Ceresan" Dry-seed Picktq
more bushels...
!zssi
to the acre!
Whether it be wheat, barley or
oats you are sowing the one pickle
that gives you the greatest disease
control is ICI 'CERESAN' . . . follow
Departmental recommendations.
'CERESAN' is a must for pickling
barley and oats . . . you must use a
mercurial dressing to control diseases of
these crops. 'CERESAN' the only
pickle for barley and oats!
When vour Wheat trader
eath -mm...
‘(eres an*
MERCURIAL DRY-SEED PICKLE
Available from
Halqi&ty's
or your local ICI Supplier
SAG. 227 X. 9681
ev erTvll?* P . aful,cr *
every VA , tu " cr °
m2**"*
YOU-* * W ««l
_ W GROWinci
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LTD.
FILMS
Fresh Vigor
La Verite. Sydney Lido.
HThe truth about Brigitte Bardot is that
she is a great actress. As malleable
as modelling clay, she can respond to
every nuance demanded by a good direc-
tor ; and she has a splendid one in Heri-
Georges Clouzot. Her role in “La
Verite” is one that demands intelligence,
sensitivity, and passion. Moreover, it
requires the ability to develop from the
“symbolic” Bardot of earlier films, with
her animal magnetism and naivete, to a
maturity that can comment on the tragic
consequences of precisely that kind of
behavior. In this sense, she not only
excels her previous best performances
but transcends her own type. I can think
of nothing more difficult to achieve.
Perhaps most of the credit should go to
Clouzot. A superb director of “suspense
thrillers,” he too has gone beyond mere
shock tactics to produce a film which is
not so much violent as an analysis of
the causes of violence. Superficially, it
is just another story of lovers falling out;
a gun going off ; and a trial, at which
conflicting evidence is sifted, not merely
to establish the guilt of the accused, but
to establish motives. Actually, it goes
beyond all this, to offer a comment on
justice itself. Under Clouzot’s direction,
the court-room dramatics become subord-
inated to a philosophical debate between
those who seek justice and those who
seek charity. It is because he never loses
sight of this larger theme that Clouzot
can put fresh vigor into stock situations,
wresting drama from what would seem
melodramatic in real life. A very large
supporting cast responds splendidly and
not least Bardot’s young lover, played by
Sami Frey. Each is that curious mixture
of good and evil which we recognise as
human.
ANTON VOGT
THEATRE
Spring Fever
They Walk Alone. Independent.
Sydney.
A lthough recent statements from the
theatre’s board of directors should
have prepared us for horrors, nobody
quite expected Sydney’s Independent
Theatre to get down quite as low as they
have done with the latest production.
Called “They Walk Alone,” this is a
sad and stupid play, plucked back by
Mr Peter Summerton from the graveyard
of bad plays of the thirties. Why, only
some fever of spring could explain.
Not that the play has nothing. It has
everything. But everything. A crazy
servant girl, who is not only good looking
but also nymphomaniac, who plays the
chapel organ at late hours, who seems
to combine primitive magic and
ritualistic killing in her murders of young
farm-hands, who flirts with all the males
of the household, who talks and lies out-
rageously—the sort of role that could
appeal to a misguided actress with a taste
for the morbid, perhaps, but with no
other justification whatever.
Even in its own genre of psychological
thriller, “They Walk Alone” is well be-
low acceptable standard, and as a piece
of playwriting it is full of carelessness
and contrivance. How Mr Summerton
persuaded himself that this shocker had
anything whatever for the Sydney
theatregoer will remain a minor mystery
of our day.
The cast acted in the desperate, auto-
matic way that players have when they
know they are appearing in a stinker.
I felt sorry for them, sorry for the de-
signer who wasted a stunning set, sorry
for the lighting man who worked hard.
KEVON KEMP


Ben Chifley. L. F. Crisp. Longmans.
50s.
The Red Page
Stumbling Towards the Light
By LLOYD ROSS
During the period of the Curtin-Chifley
Labor Governments, pipe-smokers
behaved as if they had an advantage over
others in the battles for preferment,
whether in the public service or the Labor
party. They were not seen without a pipe,
hanging from the corner of their mouths,
obtrusively and continuously, as they
repeated a Chifley anecdote in the grating
voice of a music hall burlesque.
Professor Crisp in this biography of
“Ben Chifley” ignores the poseurs of the
pipe, acknowledges the sincerity in the
“image,” but develops a rounded and
detailed life-story, which succeeds brilli-
antly in separating the superficial from
the man-of-principle.
The judgment of Ben Chifley depends
on recognising this distinction. Already
reviewers have revealed their failure to
appreciate the basic fact that the unique-
ness of Chifley was not that he refused
to wear evening dress in the royal
presence, nor that he liked bands (and so
Canberra public servants attempted to
march to preferment behind proposals
for a local band), nor that he rejected
conventional proofs of achievement, but
that the greatness of a national leader is
to be judged by the principles, which he
followed —even when he faltered in his
following.
Jn the mood of a devotee, Professor
Crisp has drawn out and described the
principles which motivated Chifley—
solidarity with the Labor party, devotion
to the cause of the people, whether ex-
pressed superficially as “the light on the
hill,” or realistically in measures to main-
tain full employment, confidence in the
future of Australia, loyalty to his col-
leagues, both big and small.
Professor Crisp is as austere as Chifley
himself in recreating the biography of
a loco-driver who became a Prime Minis-
ter. Jn his search for accuracy he is as
relentless as the Chifley who obeyed
traffic signals in his youth, followed
Union decisions in the 1917 strike, battled
into Parliament through the fogs of the
“Lang” days. Though Chifley often
attracted the superficial, Crisp relegates
into footnotes the anecdotes, which re-
viewers already are lifting into headlines.
Yet, Professor Crisp has identified him-
self too completely with his subject. Too
frequently it is Chifley speaking, the
Chifley who believed he was marching
towards the light on the hill, when he
was, in fact, stumbling.
In the early period, the historian and
the devotee are in harmony—the fight
against poverty, the problems which
faced a Catholic who married a non-
Catholic, the activities of a railway
worker in a country town in New South
Wales, the political ambitions of a keen
unionist, in defeat and in victory, then
persisting after defeat until Chifley
became a cabinet minister under John
Curtin. Neither the personal nor political
story has been told before so accurately,
so warmly.
Much of the warmth and the under-
standing come from the success with
which the author identifies the man with
a country town in New South Wales,
both describing and symbolising the
humanity of the town with the expan-
sion of the man from a town to the
nation
This story culminates in the brilliant
chapter when the author analyses con-
vincingly the reasons why Chifley suc-
ceeded Curtin as leader of the Parliament-
ary Labor Party and as Prime Minister
of Australia. Judgment and devotion
combine completely.
The author, then, falters as he ap-
proaches the crises in Chifley’s later years
- —the decision to nationalise the private
banks, the fight against the miners in
1949, and the failure to carry the party
with him in opposition to the anti-Com-
munist measures of the new Menzies’
Government.
Professor Crisp describes the incredible
scene when Chifley informed Cabinet that
he proposed to nationalise the banks: “On
Saturday morning, when all else had been
despatched, Chifley asked Evatt to out-
iine and explain the judgments. Chifley
summed up by saying that the Govern-
ment could either swallow the decision
and await an attack by the private banks
on the vital sections of the 1945 Acts, or
they could remove the challengers by
nationalising the banks. He himself
recommended nationalisation. McKenna,
who had known what was coming and
was therefore watching for the reaction,
afterwards recalled that for a moment
there was “complete stunned shock,”
gradually thawing “into ‘a good deal of
jubilation.’ Here, after all, was some-
thing which had been in the party plat-
form since 1919 —much longer than any
of those present had been in the Com-
monwealth Parliament the ultimate
challenge to the heart of the economic
system whose weaknesses and injustices
most of them had campaigned against for
a lifetime. No Labor Cabinet before
them had confronted the challenge
squarely. Chiiiey asked each Minister in
turn around the table to express his
opinion Those present spoke unani-
mously for nationalisation.”
I describe this scene as “incredible,”
because no one seemed to realise the
turmoil that would follow ; because the
decision was irrelevant in the future and
out of character with the principles and
beliefs of Chifley ; because “Labor” let
itself be trapped by an idea “nationalisa-
tion,” that it had seldom followed as a
guide ; and because the decision, which
constituted the most important “socialist”
challenge to the economy of private enter-
prise was not followed by a serious cam-
paign of propaganda and education.
Like others. 1 have selected this issue
as a key, but not because I would paint
Ch'fley as a doctrinaire socialist, nor as
a sinner from Fabianism against his will,
but because his biographer must realise
that this is a test for both writer and
subject. It is, I emphasise, not the only
test.
If the purpose of the decision was not
to advance Labor's policy of nationalisa-
tion but to keep Parliamentary control
of financial policies, then the decision
was so tragically irrelevant that it justifies
the view not only that Prime Minister,
Cabinet and Caucus were losing touch
with realities, but that the decision, its
implementation, and its consequences
were most illuminating in the significance
that they bring to Prime Minister, party
and biographer. It is not sufficient to
indicate, as does Professor Crisp, that
Chifley did not desire nationalisation, if
the decision to nationalise, not only was
found to be an unnecessary measure to
keep control over financial policies, but
led to political disaster. Chifley and
Cabinet lost their nerve —not because
they failed to march courageously to
their Sedan, but because their decision
was irrelevantly determined, irresponsibly
made, pathetically implemented. “But
what good came of it at last?”
Quoth little Peterkin:
“Why, that I cannot tell,” said he
“But ’twas a famous victory.”
Professor Crisp fails to face the ques-
tions about Chifley and Labor that are
raised more and more from this stage on-
wards. Was Labor so haunted by the
concept of nationalisation that it could
not judge a crisis realistically? Or was
there so much devotion to a word that
the basic political and economic factors
of the process of nationalisation were
ignored? Why choose “nationalisation”
as an alternative to the 1945 Act if
nationalisation would fail not so much
constitutionally, but politically? Were
there aspects of Chiflley’s character and


BOOKHUNTER
D*>pt. “D," Box 2071, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.O. Sydney.
BECOME A
FREELANCE WRITER!
AND EARN IN YOUR SPARE TIME
There is a constant demand for well-
written stories, articles, pars, radio
and TV scripts, etc.
Write today for free details of STOTT’S
excellent Correspondence Courses in
Literary subjects.
Stotts Correspondence College
159 Flinders Lane, Melbourne; 149 Castle-
reagli St., Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Bris-
bane; 21 Grenfell St., Adelaide; 22 Howard
St., Perth.
L CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON j
1 To STOTT’S: Please send me, without any I
(obligation, your Prospectus, and full par- i
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
I MY NAME 1
I ADDRESS 1
I AGE (S.B. 1691) I
' 1
actions which led him in certain situa-
tions to make grave mistakes of judg-
ment?
But, especially, if nationalisation was
the choice, why make this decision with-
out preparation, without campaign plans,
without organisation?
Professor Crisp is too devoted to the
memory of Chifley, too identified with
his subject so that he shies at the judg-
ments of a biographer, even when he is
describing authentically and relentlessly
the events.
To say this is not to deny the qualities
of scholarship which Professor Crisp
reveals in his biography, nor the greatness
of Chifley and the affection which he
aroused ; nor the historical justification
of the Labor party, but that individuals
and party meet problems and face crises
about which not only are differences of
opinion inevitable, but which demand
that analysis be pursued ruthlessly, im-
personally. Such an analysis is hindered
by those who regard Chifley as a father-
figure.
Unscrupulous Worldling
Mary Cole, Countess of Berkley. Hope
Costley-White. Harrap. 275.
Tn 1785, Mary Cole, the beautiful and
A virtuous daughter of a Gloucestershire
butcher, was seduced into a bogus
marriage by Frederick Augustus Fitz-
hardinge, sth Earl of Berkeley,
an unsavoury middle-aged rake, whose
lands stretched from Gloucester to
London. Mary proved unexpectedly intel-
ligent and ruthless; she reformed the
family estates, and made herself so in-
dispensable to the Earl that he married
her in 1796. The pair then forged and
“discovered” documents, designed to en-
able their eldest son “Fitz” to
inherit the Earldom, by proving
the bogus marriage legal.
Mary's desperate and unsuccessful
attempts to induce the House of Lords
and the world in genera! to recognise
Fitz as the Earl of Berkeley form the
remainder of this somewhat priggish and
old-fashioned book ; and a pretty story of
criminal folly and maternal obsession it is.
Fitz was a. vicious and mercenary scoun-
drel; yet though his father left him Berke-
iey Castle and £34,000 a year in rents, his
besotted mother actually tricked her fifth
son, the true Earl (because the first son
born in wedlock) into signing away to
Fitz rents in Berkeley Square worth
£lB,OOO a year! Naturally, most of her
seven sons turned out badly, and resented
their mother’s attitude as much as they
disliked each other,
~ , .
authoress admire such
a ' voman - Why is she so sentimental
over er aristocracy of the soul ? On
her own showing, Mary Cole was an
unrelenting and unscrupulous worldling
Her story is a revelation of the power of
! i,les >° "P™ m f n ’ s h f arts ; bu < tbe b °° k ,
! s tediously written. Mary and her Earl
had at least o ne posmve merit: they
encouraged Edward Jenner, .heir personal
Physician m his researches into smallpox,
CATHERINE MACKERRAS
When the Lettuce Goes Limp
A Bohemian Affair. Ray Mathew.
Angus and Robertson. 17s. 6d.
A. Engaging, lively stories, creamily
readable . . .
B. I clawed my way from page to
page; 1 thought we’d never reach the
end.
A. Readers like these short sentences,
strong clear plots, and handsome virile
narrators. And in the best stories,
surely, there’s a world of a kind caught?
B. As the blurb promises: “Sydney
bohemia in all its moods . . . fascinating,
lovable characters . . . strange loves?”
A. Well? Take the best ones now.
You must admit the title story is
successful?
B. Yes, I do, and I thought “A Love
Story” (minus the introduction) and “A
Long Ride” were good, too. But the
question is (as Pound put it): Can one be
interested in the writings of a man whose
general perceptions are below the
average?
A. Remember the answer was, Ye-e-es,
if he sees something we don’t.
B. Well, does he?
A. You won’t allow he’s described
Sydney—well, bohemia, freshly and for
the first time?
B. I find it very difficult to believe.
Are there really lovers up there who
call each other “in moments of artistic
ecstasy” “Britannia” and “Newfound-
land” (p. 98) ; “splendid Lawrence-
character” girls who “forget ... don't
care” which man impregnated them, insist
on having the baby and living mateless
on “club” charity (Story 4); would-be
novelists who marry wealthy girls and
murder them and their mums, too, for
the money (Story 6); or (approved of)
people who talk like this at sculpture
exhibitions:
“ ‘lsn’t it awful,’ she said. ‘The show,
I mean. So earnest. But you must admit,
well, you must admit that some of it —
strange as it seems —has something. Feel-
ing for texture! Stone quality! Solidity!
It’s there. You do know it’s there.
“ ‘But is that all it’s trying to achieve?’
asked Joe, the voice of reason. ‘ls it
enough to try for?’
“ ‘Not human,’ I said. ‘And that’s
what art is about. All this is fun-and-
games. Like Edith Sitwell.’
“ ‘Not like Catherine the Great,’ said
Phillipa, and we all laughed.”
They laughed there, you see. Would
you?
A. It’s mean to use bad bits like that.
I meant the general setting of the stories
—the parties, cafes, boarding-houses,
studios . . . and all the various people
(he’s got quite a range) held together by
the presence of the narrator-protagonist.
Those girls, Lorna and Ina in “A
Woman’s Word” now, were very
plausible. Why do you say he can’t see
anything?
B. Take the sentence: “I feel like
death a bit, and like life a bit, too,
because that’s what death feels like.”
A man who can write that is capable of
any atrocity.
A. He writes quickly, of course. Spon-
taneity’s a great thing with him all
round. You’ve admitted that three of
these stories were good.
B. Yes, though “A Long Ride” has
the precarious balance of all stories about
the loss of male virginity ; and “A Love
Story” reads very like recorded anec-
dote, and “A Bohemian Affair” like a
confession.
A. So confession’s out! Don’t be
absurd.
B. Of course not. But it helps if a
writer knows a bit what he has been up


to—or at least if he can bring a little
detail to bear. Kerouac’s “Subter-
raneans” now—an analogous and suffi-
ciently slobby tale —is about twenty times
sharper than any of this. Curiously
similar latent themes, too: inferior
potency, diffuse guilt at sexuality,
obsessive doubts about sincerity and
artistic integrity. Gay, engaging stuff.
A. Oh, come now, you’re being too
tough altogether. Say something nice to
finish. This is Australia.
B. Yes.
ALAN DAVIES
A Host of Theories
Painting and Sculpture in Europe 1780-
1880. Fritz Novotny. Penguin
Books. 90s. (sterling).
book is one of the many volumes
being produced to make up the
“Penguin History of Art” under the
general editorship of Nikolaus Pevsner.
The books produced so far are clearly
the result of thorough research on the
particular phase of art with which they
deal. The format is a pleasant relief
from the host of plush productions which
have flooded bookshops over the last ten
years. The bulk of art publications have
relied on glossy prints rather than the
quality of their texts to validify their
existence.
The year 1780 is the date of the
completion of Kant's “Critique of Pure
Reason,” 1880 the approximate date of
Cezanne developing his definitive style.
The hundred years is a century of
Romantic art, a century of the develop-
ment of landscape painting, of social
revolution and Darwin’s theory. In this
period the painter is on his own as an
individual more than ever before ; the
result: too much intellectualising, a host
of theories.
What makes the nineteenth centur>
important? The type of role thrust upon
the artist makes it a prototype for our
own time. It produced Goya, Daumier,
Courbet, Cezanne, and with the Impres-
sonists it marks the end of a period of
illusiomstic painting begun in the
Renaissance.
One main problem arising in any such
work is the use of terms. The chapter
headings of this book make group dis-
tinctions between Classical painters and
the Romantics. Such terms are always
disturbing and often questionable. David,
as a Classical painter, conforms in his
treatment of subject, particularly when
contrasted with Delacroix. His com-
position is a deliberate reaction against
the work of Baroque painters and yet
his “The Murdered Marat in His Bath”
is, to me, basically a romantic picture.
It conforms with the attitudes of
Romanticism. Like Delacroix’s “Massa-
cre at Chios’’ it ennobles and idealises
away from the truth, not for reasons
of form and pictorial construction but to
arouse our sentiments for the kind and
humanity-loving Marat or to damn his
murderess and her cause. The very
Classical manner of the painting appears
to be assumed lor an ultimately romantic
reason. The fact of assuming classical
modes is in itself an action which could
be termed Romantic.
The same criticism could also be
levelled at the grouping of Ingres as a
Classicist. Both these painters are, of
course, everywhere referred to as Classi-
cal. One solution to this problem is to
develop a set of final and inflexible
definitions of terms used when referring
to the work of artists and periods of art.
Another solution is to drop all such
terms. They are all too vague and cannot
hope to do justice to a painter's work.
There is little Novotny can say of the
sculpture of this period. As he points
out:
“Not only had sculpture nothing
to add, but it even found itself at
a disadvantage in everything con-
cerned with the principal charac-
teristic of the period, namely the
trend toward Naturalism.”
Certainly there is little of note in the
way of nineteenth-century sculpture and
the most interesting work produced in
this field is by painters and the painterly
Carpeaux. (The author in dealing with
Rodin and Hildebrand sees them as the
two important figures leading sculpture
into the twentieth century and treats them
accordingly.)
The main question which arises out
of reading such a book is whether the
whole business of the art historian and
the art theorist is in any way justified.
If the art historian is a waste of time
and a dead parasite in the fur of the
artist, his critic bears a similar relation-
ship to him. Who knows who will bite
the rat's bead off?
R. WALLACE-CRABBE
Wreck of Talent
Branwell Bronfe. Winifred Gerin.
Nelson. 555. 6d.
Til iss Gerin’s book has all the virtues
of a great biography: it is written
with the detached yet complete sympathy
which is the only justification for a
serious study of a private person’s weak-
nesses and failures.
The tragedy of Branwell Bronte's life
was that he could not grow up. An only
son in a family of girls, three of whom
lived long enough to prove their genius,
Branwell was perhaps the most brilliant
child in the family. The childhood fan-
tasy world of the Brontes is well enough
known not to need recounting here.
Emily and Anne with the Gondal saga.
Charlotte and Branwell with the Angria
legend ; their beautifully made magazines,
their imaginary realms. Branwell's sisters
were able in time to face up squarely to
the responsibilities life would bring them ;
but Branwell would never be able to quit
the kingdom of his dreams. He would
turn back from the disappointments and
deceptions of daily life to its imaginary
compensations until gradually his fantasy
needs invaded his whole mind and led
him to destruction. He always wanted to
be the marvellous admired boy who
could write Greek with one hand and
Latin with the other, at the same time ;
the promising painter, writer and
musician ; the dazzling child.
The real test came for Branwell when
he left home for the first time at 18 to
study painting in London. The whole
world seemed to be ready to open in
front of him, but he spent only five drab
days in London. He did not use his intro-
ductions or make any necessary con-
tacts ; he did not set about his work, but
loafed dejectedly in pubs. He returned
home to the consoling sympathy of his
devoted father and sisters, to evade his
want of direction in drink, and, before
very long, in drugs.
Various attempts were made to help
Branwell find himself—and in the end
these became pathetic attempts at re-
habilitation. He was set up for a while
as a professional portrait painter in Brad-
ford ; he went on working intermittently
at his poems : he became a tutor at
Ulverstone where he started to translate
Horace's Odes and became a close friend
of Hartley Coleridge. After an unhappy
early love affair he applied for an
appointment in the 'Railway Company, a
position which he thought would satisfy
his need for novelty and adventure and
give him the sense of living at the centre
of a new and exciting age. It was not
long before he was dismissed, a ruined
man.
In his last sad years he was haunted
by neurotic fears, without a centre of
repose, torn by an excessive need for
other people. Anne tried to help him
by getting him a job as tutor to the
Robinsons, and this was to end in his
tragic love affair with the calculating
Mrs Robinson.
At different times he worked at his
novel “And the Weary Are at Rest.’’
which remained a fragment. Miss Gerin
says that it is lively, occasionally witty,
marred by Branwell's old literary faults
—confusion, diffuseness, vulgarity—but
is the best thing he ever wrote. And it
is important “for it supplies both the
refutation and the explanation of the
exorbitant claim that Branwell wrote
’Wuthering Heights.' ”
Charlotte wrote to a friend very soon
after Branwell's death: “I do not weep
from a sense of bereavement —there is no
prop withdrawn, no consolation torn
away, no dear companion lost —but for
the wreck of talent, the ruin of promise,
the untimely dreary extinction of w'hat
might have been a burning and shining
light.”
VIVIAN SMITH


POEMS
The Corridor
Picture first of all
Pottering down a swarthy corridor
A man who meanders slowly and in thought,
Who does not greet occasional brushers-by
Nor even see them, being finally
Swathed in the layers of himself.
His head is a clenched fist,
Closed hard upon its pebble of concern,
Its grain of doubt, that keeps him pacing here
When lawns outside are lolling under the breeze,
When cloud is blown to cloud, and spray to spray:
The blank doors pass him by.
This chiming corridor
Leads rigorously enough from here to there,
Path for the young, the hurrying on their way
(If one can claim they share a common way
Or wear their colors with a common style
Of human sympathy).
From clattering doors they come
And revolutionise the corridor.
Was it a space? A box? Then it becomes
A new society upon the hour,
Bent suddenly towards some shimmering goal:
Progress or bold retreat.
Alone yet touching, they
Push past, gossiping, stumbling to the door
That leads outside, to some reality,
Hazy but guessed at. And the corridor
Disgorges them upon the outer air,
Region of doves and palms,
Mustiness falls again.
The passage has no meaning once again,
Except that one man, stocky, sober, turns
Nervously on his heel and paces back
Alone. But is he more or less alone
Than wanderers in the light?
CHRIS WALLACE-CRABBE
The Pondroths
Little, limber, cagey, coy,
With not a hair to call their own,
Not a tooth in all their gums,
Not a voice to pipe or moan ;
Olive, copper, amethyst,
Minutely stippled, quietly plain,
But shaped like nothing but themselves,
They skelter through the leaves again.
Perfect is their camouflage ;
Not a glint suggests they come
Briskly through the garden-bed
(Some no bigger than your thumb).
On some chalk-white breast you slumber,
Easy, unaware and slack ;
But in the blowsy light of morning
See what questions mark their track!
CHRIS WALLACE-CRABBE
Modern School
(Outer Suburbs: Melbourne.)
Although it’s difficult to quench the sun,
The children ask me to pull down the blinds.
Before obliteration comes, I look
Toward the dead volcanoes and the town
Of Donnybrook that won’t erupt again—
There my great-grandparents argued and found gold,
And I am left to prospect for those days
While forty children paint, talk for an hour,
Heedless of the Scottish ghosts that stand
Like thistles in a sea of stone and weed.
Nearer, although official blinds have shut,
Are properties once known as “German Town”
Where Germans cut their rigid farms from stones ;
And now each month the sane, Lutheran Church
Contains a congregation of the past.
Children make their patterns meaningful,
Decipher what they can before the bell . . ,
So I attend and partly nod and care
For I still dread what graves the hills portend^*
And I look toward the clean, complacent walls.
But ghosts are packed away with far less sound
Than implements when lessons end. For me
Iron and glass resume their tedium
Without deep gentleness as children work,
Forgetting as they work the hour that’s been.
R. A. SIMPSON
Hunted Hare
Again I spring the lean hare’s trap of fear.
He footfalls from my foot across the field.
He thinks that I’ve been hunting him all day,
Coming upon him where he lies concealed.
It seems his fear attracts me to each place
He goes to ground, hides, listening to his heart-
Beats like a kettle-drum.
It draws me there
Although I spare him not a single thought
Until the moment when I turn to go
Homeward across the field my different tracks
Chosen at random.
Suddenly at my toe
The hare explodes from out root of flax
And panics up the hillside.
Does his day
I all-unwittingly must dominate.
The things I fear as surely seek me out,
Hate treads me down,
Until I cease to hate.
W. HART-SMITH
Iceberg
Strange range of crystal stillness ; living glass
Gliding, glistening past us, blistering white.
Taut piano-string of sound; ear-vibrant wall;
Precipice of silence ; thunderous rock-fall.
Oh, hidden knife ; oh, disembowelling thrust;
Hammer of great might; rock none shall pass.
Ship's soul of death, death-dealing in the night.
Woman, so beautiful, whom none may trust.
This is all feeling and adventure, this
Phantom island lost and found again.
No summary of its beauty, or its terror,
Completes its full description. Say it is
Lack of heat. Say it is Nature’s error:
Solid lighter than its liquid. Say “It is . . .”
JOHN BLIGHT


A BILLET IN THE BALIEM
The Dani prefer big pig feasts to white civilisation
By PETER HASTINGS
I WAS sitting in the hotel and it was Wednesday morn-
ing. There was a call on the telephone. Could I be ready
in an hour to leave by Cessna for the Baliem? The
weather was clear inside and outside the Valley, and if
1 didn’t go now I might not be able to get there at all. I
packed a few things and went out to the airport. My pilot
was Dave Steiger, a dry, laconic American who worked for
M.A.F. (Missionary Aviation Fellowship). Its pilots fly
for Protestant Missions in Africa, South America and New
Guinea. They are paid very little money and are on practi-
cally constant call. The Baliem, he said, was only 70
minutes’ flight away, but sometimes it could be a rugged 70
minutes, especially when cloud built up over the two
entrances, which was a great deal of the time. Sometimes
when it was clear in the Valley it was impassable outside.
Sometimes it was the other way. You could never tell.
The country to the south of Hollandia is poor and
arid. The coastal mountains give way to the Lakesplain—
a vast, flat swamp around the edges of which a few, under-
nourished native tribes seek a living. Beyond the Lakesplain
the foothills begin to climb again towards the massif of the
great central spine of New Guinea which runs from the
Wissel Lakes in Dutch New Guinea clear down to Bulolo
in Australian New Guinea—a vast, geologically twisted col-
lection of mountain ranges, valleys, rivers and divides in
which live the greatest collection of New Guinea peoples.
On both sides of the border they are the most recent to
come under Administration control. In fact, some thous-
ands haven’t yet been reached at all. By and large they are
the most intelligent and energetic people in New Guinea —
relatively free from disease in the high altitudes, they are
thought on both sides of the border to be the coming
political force.
The Pass Valley into the Baliem is a narrow gap
between mountains rising to about 12,000 ft. It was tilled
with great cumulus sufficiently broken up to give patchy
glimpses of the Valley itself. Tremendous limestone cliffs
dropped several thousand feet into the rain and mist below.
Ugly, dark forest covered the lower slopes broken up into
a series of small valleys whose floors were about 5500 ft.
This is where the U.S. Air Force D.C.3 crashed in
1944 killing all but four people. The Air Force parachuted
Filipino medical troops into the valley, made a glider strip
and managed to get them out. The Pass Valley people are
among the most hostile in the Valley System, and the
Administration has yet to bring them under control. They
still resentfully remember the plane and intruders and
remain resentful of them.
In a long, low dive we passed into the Baliem itself.
After the great valley systems of Australian New Guinea
it was—except for the tremendous cloud-misted mountains
ringing it—disappointingly small. Below us appeared a flat,
green plain about 40 miles long and perhaps 20 miles wide.
In the near distance was a collection of aluminium huts. It
was Mamena, the administrative headquarters for the
Valley.
On the strip there was a high wind, and it was cold.
A great cloud moved down the valley. Rain fell heavily and
briefly, and we sloshed through mud to the hotel —a com-
fortable, aluminium building with separate bedrooms and
living rooms, a mess and a bar which was to be opened
that night.
WE were surrounded by Dani people, mainly boys. They
are gourd people, as are all the mountain people in
Dutch New Guinea. They were well built and some of them
good looking. They smiled if you smiled at them. Other-
wise they just stared with a curious, impersonal inquisitive-
ness. I handed a boy two bananas and an orange. He ran
off with the bananas and a little later I saw him throw the
orange in the mud. Dani women trudged along the muddy
tracks carrying huge bundles of firewood. Old and young
men just stood hugging themselves against the cold. To-
wards dusk they had all disappeared into their villages.
We had afternoon tea with the Assistant District
Officer, Carl Sneider, and one of his patrol officers, .loop
Veling. Wamena is controlled from Hollandia. so that
Sneider is the senior officer. He is just 29. Veling is 23.
They are both good looking and enthusiastic. What are
the Dani like?
“Terrible people really,” said Sneider. “They are
tough, independent and completely unco-operative. They
don’t like us and do anything we ask very unwillingly.
“What they like to do is to run an exclusively male
society, have wars, have big pig feasts and keep to them-
selves. They don’t even like each other very much. They
don’t think much of white civilisation and, in fact, are
rather contemptuous of it. However, you'll see something
of them in the next few days, and I’ll be interested in your
reactions.” Had many journalists been up to the Baliem?
He grinned. “We have had two British correspondents, a
British I.T.V. man, a Japanese TV crew and a writer for
‘The New Yorker’ just recently who joined the Harvard-
Peabody Museum Expedition. They’ve been up in one of
the valleys with the Kurulu people for four months. They’re


due in tonight. They’re on their way out to Hollandia.” It
sounded like Grand Central.
We went for a short walk around the huts and houses
that comprise Wamena. I saw a group of Dani with hand-
cuffs and chains attached to collars around their necks.
“Prisoners doing sentence,” explained Sneider. “That man
there is a murderer. The others have committed various
crimes from pig stealing to wife stealing. We punish them
according to their own code. So long as they know they have
done wrong by their own cultural standards we punish them.
A murderer is not as bad as a pig stealer in their own eyes.
Sometimes a wife stealer is worse, especially if it leads to
war. A murderer gets about four months. A pig stealer
might get more. It depends.”
That night the entire white population of Wamena
came in to celebrate the opening of the bar, including the
local Catholic priest. Sneider said that the Dani regarded
him as a freak because he had no wives. For that reason,
among others, some missionary nuns were brought in and
Dani suspicions were allayed. The priest was a good drinker
and acted as croupier for an interminable game of roulette.
He was expert and quick and smoked my cigars between
long drinks of beer, Scotch and jenever. The rest were
Administrative personnel, a patrol officer from one of the
outlying posts and Wamena's one and only settler —a
pathetic little Indo-European who had a typically Baliem
bad-luck story. He had come up to grow vegetables, cab-
bages. lettuce, tomatoes and cucumbers. But the air-freight
problems had beaten him. Either he had a glut of vege-
tables ready for Hollandia and all planes were grounded for
a week or there was a plane every day and he had no
vegetables. When we went to bed at one in the morning the
cheerful, bearded Franciscan was standing at the bar. It
was his shout.
'"THURSDAY. A cold, wet morning. Outside the ground
is muddy. We are to go to a village near the Baliem
River by jeep—the last remaining, serviceable vehicle in
Wamena. We get halfway and are bogged. We get out and
walk. The mud is incredible. The water-table lies close to
the valley floor’s clayey, loamy surface. You can’t walk on
the tracks and if you walk on the edges you slide into hidden
ditches and swamps. The grass is poor. Nothing much
grows except the carefully tended native sweet potato
gardens. An experimental plot of coffee-trees looks very
sick after the splendid growths in the Australian New
Guinea valleys. Passionfruit withers on the vine. A few
head of experimental cattle look fat but have ticks. A
couple of horses frisk in a swampy meadow. The Dani call
them big pigs. Danis are everywhere, the women carrying
huge loads on frail shoulders, boys and young bucks just
hang around. The women, especially the young ones, have
a sweet, patient beauty. They stop and stare and break into
slow smiles. The men greet us. “Nayak,” the greeting of
man to man. “La-Okh.” the greeting of man to woman.
The translations are unprintable. They wear nothing except
the gourds, and, for women, a skirt made of canes that
miraculously hangs around their hips.
Joop wants to see a man in the village who refuses to
work on the jeep track to Pyramid, a patrol post about 30
miles down the Valley. Why has he refused to work? “I
don't know, but he must work. They must all work or be
punished. These people must catch up somehow and we
haven’t much time.” Will they succeed? Joop smiles. “No
chance. They are much too independent and unhelpful.
They don't give a damn for our civilisation. Last year we
sent two chiefs down to Hollandia. They were unimpressed
by the plane trip. Cars in Hollandia surprised them, but
not for long. They found the paved roads too hard and
they pointed out there was no mud in Hollandia. and. as
everybody knows, pigs die without mud. They admired
knives and axes because they can use them. They expressed
actual wonder over only two things—the ocean and the
shells on the shore. They admired the ocean for its salt.
One chief owned a tiny salt patch in the Baliem and he
would dearly have liked to own the whole Pacific Ocean
when he saw it. But only for the salt. The shells, as you
know, are universal currency in New Guinea. For perhaps
20,000 years shells have trickled into the Baliem in return
for axes and goods. They took back bucketfuls of them.”
The village is divided into an inner and outer stockade.
The yards are a sea of stinking mud and pig excreta which
threatens to seep over the tops of my jungle boots. The
smell is distasteful. A long kitchen runs one side of the
stockade. At each corner is a woman’s roundhouse. Fenced
off is the men's house. The village is deserted except for
two elders. They come towards us, their shell money neck-
ties glinting in the sunshine. Pigs squeal and splash up
mud. They come forward with outstretched hands. They
seize you by the wrist, shake it lightly. “Nayak, nayak.”
They shake their heads. “Wa. wa, wa.” They are surprised.
One of them drums his gourd. More wonderment. Would
we come into their house and sit down? I am reluctant,
but have no choice and follow Joop by diving into a small
opening in the house.
It is wonderfully clean. New grass lies thick on the
floor. A small fire smoulders aromatically in the centre. The
remains of the morning meal are neatly stacked on a platter.
1 light a cigarette. Soft hands implore me for a cigarette for
each of them. They try to light them from the flame and I
gently put the cigarettes into their mouths and make suck-
ing noises. They catch on. thrust the cigarettes so far back
into their mouths only the glowing tips extrude from
pursed lips. They inhale with deep satisfaction. We talk.
They display mild curiosity about our coming and our
origins. Joop they know. Where, he asks, is the man who
wouldn't work? They don’t know. When will he return?
They don’t know. “That means I’ve got to splash through
the mud tonight with armed police and arrest him. It's the
only time. He’ll be asleep up here.” Joop points to the
ceiling just above our heads. “They seldom go out at night
because of adat.” Adat, the fear of all New Guinea peoples
of the ghosts and witches that are abroad at night.
One of the men asks me softly if I have white women?
Can I get him some? He would like to try them and see
what they are like. Of course he will arrange Dani girls
in exchange. Fair’s fair. How many wives have 1? Only
one. He shrugs. How many has he? A cagey look comes
into his face. He has none. He doesn’t know. “He has
three or four,” says Joop, “he is quite well-to-do. But he’s
cagey. You might want to take them away.” The other
Dani lifts down a split piece of bark attached to a piece of


twine. He thrusts it into his mouth, grips it with his teeth
and flicks one end. It is idle music and sounds like the noise
of a distant cicada. I pick up an arrow in a slot overhead.
Gently it is taken from me. It is sacred.
We leave and trudge back to the hotel across the muddy
jeep track. The sun comes out suddenly from behind cloud
and it burns like a razor cut. At the other end of the Valley
it is raining. Somewhere, it seems, it is almost always rain-
ing. The Valley gets about 180 inches of rain a year.
T UNCHTIME, We sit in the mess, eat tasty Indonesian
food prepared by the Indo-European housekeeper and
listen to Radio Australia’s plummy accents. A group of
Dani walk unconcernedly to the doorway and look in. They
look at the chairs, the furnishings, the laden table and the
huge transistor radio. One or two flick their gourds.
“Nayak.” Joop hands them some krupuks, those delicious
Indonesian chapatties. They like them. They make sucking
noises for cigarettes and I lose half a packet in a matter of
seconds. They smell rather evilly.
Outside, his back to the sun, stands a Dani. He wears
quite a lot of shell money and a handsome turban with
many bird-of-paradise feathers. I can just see his eyes
rolling slyly around in their sockets. He looks absurdly like
Holbein’s Henry VIII. It is the turban, I think. Joop smiles
at him and he advances to the doorway, and for the first
time I see him clearly. The rolling, prominent eyes sur-
mount a hideous hole. There is no nose and a slit for a
mouth. Yaws. “Nayak.” The sound is like a coin
dropping in a tin can. He advances indomitably
with outstretched hand. “Nayak.” 1 desperately
wish him elsewhere. Joop motions him outside and
he stands at a window looking at me craftily. He
knows how I feel. “Yaws,” says Joop. “We
haven’t got much of it up here, thank God. And
it’s terribly easy to cure. It’s related to syphilis,
but is non-venereal. If we can inoculate everybody
with penicillin the disease can be easily arrested,
although the scar tissue remains for ever. The
problem is to get hold of everybody to inoculate
them. But they know the value of medicine. Even
in the semi-controlled areas our medical teams can
travel without armed guards. These people are
the most materialistic in the world. If a thing has
value to them then they’ll accept it. Not otherwise.”
Are the Dani people actually dangerous as I have been
told? “Well, yes and no. They are hostile and independent
and therefore will resist anybody who comes interfering,
and we have to interfere. It takes a long time to bring them
under control.” He takes me to the window. I can see from
one end of the Valley to the other. In the shifting sunlight
it is a cloth of green and its surrounding mountains a bril-
liant blue. “Between one end and the other,” says Joop,
“and in those subsidiary valleys you can see are 40,000
Dani. I know it’s hard to believe, but it’s true. There may
be more.”
He continued. “We have six or eight patrol posts in
the Valley each occupied by a patrol officer and armed
police boys. Sometimes I am away for several weeks at a
time patrolling those valleys. Those innocent hills you see
rise nearly 2000 ft. Most are less. Up and over and through
the mud day after day. I have to arrest murderers, wife
stealers and pig stealers. Always at night when they are
asleep. Sometimes they resist and I must fight them bare-
fisted in the men’s houses. A few months ago I arrested a
chief and on the way back was ambushed early in the
morning. The Dani always attack in the morning, I
ordered my police to fire over their heads. I heard one of
them say, ‘Don’t be afraid. He is only firing over our
heads and is afraid to kill.’ One of them was on top of
me with a spear and I shot him dead. I had to, otherwise we
would have been wiped out. These people are intelligent
and determined.” He gestured towards a range of jagged
mountains. “See that valley? Not far away is it? Perhaps
20 miles in a direct line, but at least five days there and
back. And it’s completely uncontrolled, or very nearly so.
Yet missionaries live there. Many of the valleys are com-
pletely uncontrolled. We haven’t the men or the resources
to complete the job. It will take time.”
What would happen if all of the tribes federated instead
of fighting one another? “We would be wiped out in a day.
But they don’t federate. Even though they are all the same
race and language most of the tribes are hostile towards
each other and prefer to fight each other than to unite
against us.” A slow smile spread across his handsome, sun-
burned face. “It is curious you should mention that. To-
morrow you are coming on patrol in the Pugima Valley. I
want to see about a chief who has been preaching federa-
tion. He has asked us to leave several times. Now he wants
others to join with him. We’ll see.”
'THURSDAY night. The Harvard-Peabody Museum
A Expedition arrives accompanied by a Dutch patrol
officer who has been on loan as an anthropologist. They
are hostile to begin with and make it clear they have no
time for journalists. They are pleasant, earnest young men
and one is a noted anthropologist. Another is the son of
Nelson Rockefeller. The leader is Bob Gardner, a good-
looking, serious man who has made a film of the expedi-
tion’s four months with the Dani. I sense a story
and there is. I learn that through high-level
negotiations in The Hague and Washington the
expedition was given permission to enter an uncon-
trolled area in the Baliem.
The Administration accuses them of entering
not an uncontrolled area but a semi-controlled area
and stirring up a number of tribal wars so that
Gardner can take his films of the primitives at play.
Not only, says the Administration, does he film the
wars, but also the deaths of five adults and a child
as well as other scenes showing Danis plucking
arrows from still-living people. The Administra-
tion’s point is that its first task in pacifying an area
is to forbid tribal wars. The patrol officers and
police who enforce this law come to represent
peace and authority in Dani eyes. Therefore, says
the Administration, if Europeans easily confused
in Dani eyes with the Administration—come into an area
where the Government message is known and stir up wars
for their own purposes it amounts to criminal irresponsi-
bility. If they had gone to a genuinely uncontrolled area
and done so the Administration would not have objected,
for the message has not yet been delivered.
Gardner quietly and emphatically denies all of this.
First, he says, the expedition did not stir up wars. The
Kurulu people came to him and said they wished to fight
the Wittaga people. Did the Europeans object? He replied
they neither objected nor approved. It was not their busi-
ness. Second, he denies that five men and a boy were killed.
He says three people died from wounds received from
ambush before his expedition arrived. Third, the expedi-
tion actually stopped the Kurulus from fighting the Wittaga.
And so it goes on. In Holland one of the leading Catholic
newspapers, “The Tide,” accuses the Government of white-
washing the affair. But, then, “The Tide” is very pro-
missionary and the missionaries are more bitter than the
Administration in Wamena and Hollandia over the affair
Then there is also the point that the expedition was arranged
a year ago and what was then an uncontrolled area chosen
for it was not by the time the expedition got there. It is
confused and confusing. It is not my row and I am thank-


WORLD-WIDE
K 246
100% British Made
the light
that never
fails...
The Tilley Storm Lantern
is proof against wind
and weather. . . giving
12 hours of brilliant
light on one filling
(1* pints of ordinary
kerosene).
For economical everyday
use, for unfailing service
in an emergency, you
can put your trust in
TILLFY.
Obtainable from all good Hard-
ware Stores. In case of difficulty
write to:
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY PTY. LIMITED
1092 MT, ALEXANDER ROAD, ESSENDON, W. 5. AUSTRALIA
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Chartet A D 1720)
Assets exceed £177,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
Kindersley House, Bligh/O’Connell Streets, SYDNEY
F. H. Egerton, Manager for Australia.
ELECTRIC
HYDRAULIC
LIFTS
ELEVATORS PTY. LIMITED,
877 Dowling Street, Waterloo. FF 3931,
Represented in nh States. Tcicvr'tnts:
AUSTRALIAN AGEN PS for Express Lift Co.. Lin,,
H vdelec.
Eng Lind.
ful I am not involved in it. There is probably truth and
misunderstanding on both sides. I go to bed.
pRIDAY morning. It is raining dismally as we start out.
A There is loop, my friend Auke Steensma and three
armed police carrying carbines. The patient, sweet-smiling
women line the road. They are so gentle, I say. “They are
bitches,” says Joop succinctly. “Not always but often
enough. They cause more wars than pig stealing. They
entice men into adultery or they will leave their husbands
and go and live with another tribe.”
He continues. “One way or another they cause wars.
Of course the men often drive them to it. They beat them
with wooden clubs and the women get fed up and leave
them. But often it is provocative.” We slip and slide to-
wards the river. Young black boars challenge my path. I
hiss at them and they run squealing into the swampy grass.
Along the track I see the turbaned head of Henry VIII. It
comes nearer. His eyes glint at me with evil amusement.
1 look into that terrible crater and realise he is force fed. It
is an added horror. “Nayak.” The coin drops into the tin
can and I push ahead. At the river’s edge the Indo-
European police sergeant starts up a motor-boat. We cross
the Baliem. It is turbulent, muddy brown and icy cold.
On the other side we disembark and push across the
fields. I can see the entrance to the Pugima Valley—a small,
not high pass surrounded by high hills. We push up the
trail and in the thin, high air my heart begins to pound. I
become slower and slower. My head aches. The top of the
pass looks miles away. I stagger up. slipping and sliding.
Joop bounds like an antelope on long, brown legs, a pistol
at his side. I begin to hate him. At the top he allows me
to sit down and I smoke. The Pugima is fantastic. It is a
wide, circular amphitheatre with one narrow entrance. A
round, green plain surrounded by green and blue moun-
tains. their tops shrouded in moving cloud, their bases in
rain. I now know how high they are. We slide down the
limestone cliffs into the plain and make for the aluminium
house of a missionary. He is not there. He is in Holland
or America.
I raid one of his water tanks and drink like a mad-
man. The ground changes. Ditch after ditch, wide ones
and narrow ones. The only bridge is a slimy pole. If I
miss 1 am waist-high in muddy, cold water. I miss twice
and then the Eurasian police start to help me. One holds
my hand as I start the precipitous crossing. The other grabs
my hand on the other side. 1 start jumping ditches rather
than risk those awful poles. My eyes sting with sweat. How
much does Joop receive for this sort of life? “We come out
here and do a year’s special school at Hollandia and receive
£l5 a month, plus keep. After we get through we get £4O
a month but no keep. After three years we get £65 a month
and no keep. I get extra for patrolling, but spend 60 per
cent, of my income in paying for board and lodging at the
hotel.” 1 think —no theatres, no bars, no women and this
sort of work for about £2O to £25 a week. Holland under-
pays her servants.
We near a native garden and men begin to run. The
women smile and go on working. We head into a village and
slip through the mud to the men's house. I sit on a dry spot
and smoke and wonder why I came. I give the Eurasian
police cigarettes. Joop bounds out. “The man is gone.
We go to the next village.” I grimace at Steensma and
slide through mud to the stockade. Outside it happens.
One, two, three, a dozen Dani warriors stand up in the
long, swamp grass. I must have been within inches of two
of them. They are unarmed and all smiles. The crisis is
over. They are not in trouble. “Nayak.” The men come
over. The young ones are handsome despite the black
pig grease all over their faces. They smile slyly and make
sucking noises. No dice. I’m running out of cigarettes.
An old man grabs my wrist gently. His name is


Bennilu. He will come with us to the next village. The
bridges are worse and the water deeper. He and two friends
insist on helping me. Bennilu extends a hand. It has no
fingers. It is mutilated in mourning for dead relatives,
common in women but rare in men. It is done with a sharp
stone and is agonising. Suddenly we are in a native
garden. It is dry and hard. It is also a miracle. It must
be half a mile in length. It can’t be, but it is. It is com-
pletely irrigated with long, deep channels. The potatoes
grow abundantly in the red earth. I watch the men dig-
ging with a thick, blunt caber. They must have the strength
of an ox. We stop in the middle and Joop takes Bennilu
aside and talks earnestly. The sun emerges in a brilliant
blue sky. I have neither cap nor dark glasses and wonder
how long 1 can stand it.
Joop pays Bennilu and two others in shells. They have
informed. Joop smiles. “The man we want comes into
the infirmary for treatment. I can get him tomorrow. It’s
important to get the right man, and I think this is the one.”
Bennilu rushes back to me and takes my hand. “Nayak.”
He will help me over every bridge until we get back to the
Baliem River. He does, too, until the slippery trail forks
further on and he decides to go home instead. I climb a
steep pass and nearly collapse. Two old women come up
the pass and give us a wide detour. We are men and they
are only women. “La-okh.” They smile and pass on. The
route down the pass is across limestone outcrops into a rain
forest. It is sheer hell. I slip and fall bruising a knee-cap.
Two Dani materialise from nowhere and start to
help me down through the mud and undergrowth.
We cross the river and trudge home. Henry VIII
waits for me on the trail, but I’m too tired to care.
SATURDAY. I can hardly walk and I’m
worried. We look like being trapped in the
Valley. Neither Steiger nor any other pilot can
get in and they won’t try again until Monday. We
head down river in a patrol boat. Three armed
police, a new Eurasian patrol officer and Steensma
and myself. The patrol officer has had it. He came
in from an outpost the day before and requested a
transfer. A year is long enough. He is very slim.
I suspect he has been knocked about on those night
arrest patrols. Not much fun for £2O a week. The
river is freezing and I didn’t bring a jumper. It is
also monotonous and inhabited by lugubrious looking birds.
It takes two hours to get to Tulem, which is run by Ed
Maxey, an American C.A.M.A. (Christian and Missionary
Association) missionary. He has a nice house, a nice wife
and a nice little boy. A daughter is at school in Hollandia.
He refers to the superb view as a “bow of beauty.” He
believes he has made converts among the Dani. I don’t
believe him. I’m beginning to appreciate the Dani. He was
attacked in 1959 and it was a near thing.
“The Dani pigs got sick. It happens. They blamed
me or any Europeans around. They came and said I had
to leave. I said I’d come to preach Creator talk and
wouldn’t. They then said I’d better or they would kill us.
The pigs got worse and I couldn’t buy a pig from them to
find out what was wrong with them. The Dani thought it
was sorcery wanting to buy a sick pig. They’re shrewd in
their own way. When I got one and a Government biologist
started probing it with needles they were sure of it. You
see that strip down there? Well, I got some friends off
from there one morning and came back to the house and
the whole of that hill was bristling with Dani with bows,
arrows and spears. They said they’d come to kill me. My
friend Jerry Rose and I walked up to see them. Our wives
locked themselves in this house with our children. I
started to talk to them. I said we were both the same
people though different in color. You see, they don’t think
we’re human.” He notes my surprise. “That’s sure right.
They think we are ghosts or ancestors but not human. I
talked to a chief. I put my hand against his. I pointed out
his nose and mine, his mouth and mine. ‘See, I said. We’re
the same. Human. But some time long ago you lost the
Creator talk and I’ve brought it back to you. Look, I said,
you and I are even going bald.’ That’s usually good for a
laugh, but not this time, brother. They were mean.
“They argued and argued. I told Jerry Rose to pray,
and our prayers must have been mighty earnest, for my wife
tells me she could hear me right on down in this house.
Finally one of the chiefs whose wife I had cured after an
abortion—there are many abortions here —said he wouldn’t
be party to it, and took his warriors off. The others said
they would do what they came to do. They didn’t, though,
and stayed around arguing. The D.O. got a message in
Wamena and came rushing up. We were saved, but it was
sticky.” We went on talking, and he told us much about
the Dani. About the wife who recently committed suicide
just behind a hill which we could see. Her husband beat
her and she took her children and walked a few miles away
into enemy territory. The men met her at the pass and
killed her. It was a Dani suicide. The nub of it was that her
husband was shamed before his tribe for her killers cele-
brated her death with a pig feast and war dance. She
had foreseen all that and planned her suicide that way.
Revenge is sweet.
Rain looms up down the valley and we race
down to the boat and chug downstream. It is now
quite bitter. High on a mountainside I see a Dani
garden bigger than the Sydney Cricket Ground. It
is inclined at an angle of 45 degrees and tiny figures
work in the walled gardens. The walls are to keep
pigs out. It looks like Cumberland. I should like
to go up there in the icy, rarefied air, but know
that I never will. A Cessna buzzes the river. It is
Steiger. We race back to Wamena and he is waiting
for us. Rather than see us stranded he has taken
a risk on the weather and the Pass Valley.
In the Pass Valley cumuli builds up like
atomic clouds. At 13,000 ft you can scarcely see
the ground. Steiger makes a wide turn and I can
see those gaunt, terrifying limestone cliffs plunging
dizzily down into fog and rain. He turns away and
tries the only other pass, Bokondini. There is a
tiny hole in the clouds, a few unerving glimpses of savage
valleys and we are over the range and losing height. As
we fly back towards Hollandia I think of the Dani with
whom I have fallen a little in love, and a ponder a funny
and tragic story.
Missionaries are apt to claim converts, and sometimes
a Dani tribe will embrace Christianity overnight. One very
unwise missionary finding a Christian tribe on his hands
persuaded them to bring their holy stones and fetishes into
a central place where he publicly burnt them. Twenty-four
later the Danis, finding themselves no better off and
possessed of no magical powers, rejected Christianity and
returned to being Danis. They also felt angry and resentful.
They had been conned. They came around to the mis-
sionary’s house and stole his transistor radio. Lugging it
up a hill, they accidentally started it and a voice blared
forth. They commanded the voice to be silent and it
refused. After a while they became angry with it and started
to beat the voice in its wooden box. It still wouldn’t be
silent. Angered beyond measure, they took the voice to a
ditch and lowered it in the water. They held it under until
the voice was drowned. They then took the dead voice
back to the missionary’s house. It was full of mud and filth
and a total loss. In a gesture of supreme contempt they
threw it in the door and departed.


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company of
Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlement of claims
Directors:
ALFRED S. WHITE. Esq., Chairman; E. G. CONES. Esq., T. K. MAGNEY
Esq., A. G. PARKER, Esq., DOUGLAS WAD LEY, Esq.
H. H. MOULTON, Esq., Managing Director. B. J. LANE, Esq., Manager
Phone: BU 7401 (Branches in all States) 16/20 Bridge Street. Sydney
■fQ
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters
Weal for farms, stations and for
hot-water systems, and household
requirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last a
lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of “Curvi-
linear” Mining Tables. Rapid Magnetic
Machines and Ellison Switch Gear.
Business, Robbery, Etc.
THE TRADE SHIP
Off to the Persian Gulf
nro most Australians the Middle East means oil, sheiks and
Dervishes stepping out from the pages of “A Thousand
and One Nights,’’ and cloak-and-dagger political intrigues.
Political crises, occurring with a monotonous regularity, keep
this part of the world well in the front-page news.
Although political instability frightens off many foreign
investors, and the overall living standards are still low by
comparison with the economically developed Western countries,
the Middle East is rapidly becoming an important market for
capital and durable consumer goods. The Persian Gulf
countries are major oil producers and control sizeable oil
revenues, adding up to almost £625 million a year. After the
end of the war. concerted efforts have been made to develop
a modern economic structure and raise the standard of living.
Oil revenues are being used to import capital machinery and
certain durable consumer goods, although in some cases far
too great a proportion of the national income is still being
squandered for the benefit of a few.
The rising demand for capital goods is a direct result of
economic development drives undertaken by Middle Eastern
Governments. Long-range economic plans and hefty oil earn-
ings indicate that market opportunities will continue to improve.
At present demand is mainly for heavy and medium capital
equipment, including electrical and agricultural machinery,
contractor's plant, machine tools, locomotives, rolling stock,
specialised irrigation equipment, heavy-duty vehicles, railway-
signal equipment, etc. There are some opportunities for
durable consumer goods such as cars, spare parts and domestic
electrical and sound-producing equipment, etc.
Competition is brisk, especially in the durable consumer
goods field. The Middle East lies in the centre of the inter-
national lines of communication, and suppliers from Europe
and Asia have good access to the market. This may place
Australian exporters at a certain disadvantage. However,
chances seem reasonable if the goods are competitively priced.
The Sydney-based Metal Trades Export Group, which
is very much interested in developing the Middle East export
market, emphasises the importance of price competition and
the need for direct personal approach.
Australian goods are still relatively little known, and there
is an immediate need to acquaint local buyers with our
export possibilities, particularly in the capital goods sector.
Following the success of the Straat Banka trade-ship
mission to South-east Asia, the British India Steam Navigation
Co.’s M.V. Chandpara has been chartered to visit Pakistan,
Iraq. Kuwait, Bahrein, the Trucial States and Iran. The ship
is scheduled to arrive in Karachi on March 9, 1961. It will
then call at Muscat, Dubai, Umm Said, Bahrein, Dammam,
Mena-al-Ahmadi, Kuwait, Basra, Khorramshahr, Abadan (or
Bandar Shahpur) and return to Karachi on April 11.
The Metal Trades Export Group is strongly urging its
members to participate in the new trade-ship venture, and
points out that —under the new export incentives scheme —
the full cost of renting space, setting up the display and
other expenses connected with the trade-ship project will be
deductable at the rate of £2 for every £1 spent for income-tax
purposes. The cost of renting space on M.V. Chandpara
ranges from £lOO to £5OO, depending on the type and the area
of space required.
It appears that Iraq, with its population of over
6,500,000 and a strong foreign exchange position—the country
has about 9 p.c. of the world's proven oil reserves and is the
fourth largest oil producer in the Middle East —offers the best
market opportunities for Australian goods, particularly capital
equipment. Expansion of the oil industry has doubled Iraq’s
national income since 1950. Great efforts are made to increase
production capacity and develop the basic industries. The
country is still basically a primary producer and depends on
an extensive irrigation system. This offers possibilities of
developing a market for Australian irrigation equipment,
agricultural machinery and produce-handling equipment.
Iraq’s total oil revenues amount to about £125 million a
year, of which half goes to the ordinary budget and half to
the development budget —with a special emphasis on improving
agricultural methods and output and establishing and expand-
ing the secondary industries.
Since the 1958 revolution, General Qassim’s (Kassem’s)
Government has imported capital and consumer goods from
East Europe, and this has made the Iraqi market even more
competitive.
TThe Metal Trades Export Group points out that delivery
-* dates and good spares and services facilities are important.
Sales of machinery must be followed up by periodical visits
by technical experts. Good agency connections and personal
contacts are essential.
Other capital equipment and heavy engineering products
imported by Iraq include locomotives, rolling stock and railway
equipment. The Soviet Union is an important competitor for
diesel locomotives and has a “Technical Co-operation Agree-
ment’’ with the Iraqi Government. However, good workman-
ship. early delivery dates and good post-sales maintenance
could help Australia win a slice of this lucrative market.
Holden vehicles have now appeared on the Iraqi market,


mam
FINANCE & INVESTMENT
COMPANY LIMITED
SHAREHOLDERS' FUNDS, £891,419.
TANGIBLE ASSETS, £3,184.264.
INTEREST RATES FOR DEPOSITS
(NOW CALLED UNSECURED DEPOSIT NOTES)
WITH RIGHT OF RECALL
ON 30 DAYS’ NOTICE
3 months . . . . 5V2% p.a.
6 months . : ; . 6% p.a.
9 months . ; ; . 6V2% p.a.
12 months ;s; ; 7% p.a.
18 months . ; : . 7V20/o p.a.
• FIXED DEPOSITS
2 years . . i . . 8% p.a.
3 years . BW/o p.a.
AND OVER
APPLICATIONS must be made
on the form enclosed with the
prospectus, which is obtainable
from
Members of the Stock Exchange
ANY BRANCH OF A.N.Z. BANK
The Registered Office of the Com-
pany, William & Crown Sts.,
Sydney. Telephone FA 0322.
Financing world-
famous products
distributed by
The Hastings
Deering Group
of Companies.
FORD
Cars and Trucks
FORDSON
Tractors
A.E.C.
Trucks & Buses
CATERPILLAR
Diesel Tractors
in Queensland
HYSTER
Fork Lift Trucks
in Queensland
JOHN DEERE
Agricultural
Machinery
in Queensland
LISTER
Engines
GROUP SALES
IN 1960
£14,757,281
MAIL THIS COUPON
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE &
INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
G.P.O. Box 4333, Sydney.
Please send me, without any obligation on my part, pros-
pectus dated IJ4/61, giving full details of your terms
deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS
HD82.10
8.7/10
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED
Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), SIR EDWARD R. KNOX (Vice-Chairman),
R. J. VICARS, A. MURRAY JONES, HUGH DIXSON,
D. A. T. DICKINS, K. B. MYERS, A. E. STEPHEN
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of Every Description
J. O. LEWIS, General Manager.
and the distributors are aided by a recent increase in Customs
duty on the heavier-type cars. There should be opportunities
for supplying Holden spare parts and accessories. Lower prices
would be a major help.
All imports into Iraq require a licence, but at present the
system is administered liberally. The agent must nominally
be an Iraqi national.
Iran at the moment is experiencing balance-of-payments
difficulties, but if the oil revenues are maintained and current
restrictions on non-essential imports strictly enforced it should
become a good market for capital equipment in about two
years. Iran is capable of absorbing large quantities of elec-
trical machinery, agricultural and irrigation equipment and
plant for a wide range of light industries.
Kuwait imports motor vehicles, machine tools, construc-
tion materials and household equipment. Competition can
only be described as fierce. As far as Australia is concerned
domestic electrical and sound-producing equipment is the most
promising line, particularly since electricity charges were
reduced recently.
Bahrein may be developed as an outlet for household
equipment, but there is acute price competition. Radio- and
TV-sets are now supplied by West Germany, lapan and the
Netherlands. The Holden has made its first appearance but,
unfortunately, the West Germans are already well established
in the motor-vehicles market —both Volkswagen and D.K.W.
have a network of garages staffed by German mechanics, which
greatly improves their selling chances.
Other Persian Gulf areas can absorb varying quantities of
Australian capital equipment and consumer goods. Unfortu-
nately, all too many of our potential buyers know very little
of the range and quality of Australia’s industrial output. The
Straat Banka mission to South-east Asia was a major success
insofar as it has established a concrete and favorable image
of Australian products in the countries visited.
The Chandpara trade-ship venture should establish an
important foothold in the Persian Gulf ports.
But it must be remembered that lasting results on the
highly-competi'tive international markets can be achieved only
if Australian exporters can show that they are able to match
or beat their trade rivals on price, quality, delivery and service.
Personal contacts are essential and exporting by remote control
alone cannot be successful.
VICTORIA
"Background to a Million"
'I7'iCTORiAN shareholders are obviously getting keener and
’ keener on making ever better investments. In addition to
reading carefully the financial pages and subscribing to the
more technical publications, they are going to attend a series of
lectures on investment arranged by the Australian Shareholders’
Association in Melbourne.
The series of talks on assessment of shares, rights of share-
holders and company takeovers —under the tempting title of
“Background to Making a Million”—will be opened on
November 9, 1961, by the Victorian Attorney-General, Mr
Rylah.
Speakers will include Mr A. M. Parker, managing-
director of Universal Flexible Trusts Limited, Mr Gordon
Bruns, assistant Chief Economist of the A.N.Z. Bank Limited
and author of “The Stock Exchange,” Miss Phyllis Baker,
secretary of Reid Murray Holdings Ltd, Mr W. J. Baker, a
Melbourne stockbroker, and Mr E. R. Smail, a chartered
accountant and company liquidator. Professor Zelman Cowan
will preside over a symposium on takeovers.
The days when one could invest and speculate merely “by
the nose” are now almost gone. Public companies are becom-
ing bigger and bigger and financial transactions more and
more involved.
At the same time shareholding in public companies is
becoming more and more widely spread. The number of small
investors is increasing. Not every shareholder can be expected
to be an investment expert, but almost anybody with an


MERCANTILE CREDITS LIMITED
Twenty-sixth Annual General Meeting 29th September, 1961
CHAIRMAN'S ADDRESS
Ladies and Gentlemen,
1 have pleasure in welcoming you to our 26th Annual Meeting
of Shareholders to present to you the Balance Sheet and Report
for the twelve months ended 30th June, 1961.
The year under review has been a most difficult and trying
period, but I am pleased to report that a consolidated net
profit of £332,761 was achieved, being an increase of £81,529
(or 32.4%) on the 1960 year.
The dividend on the 7% preference stock units was paid during
the year as it became due. As to the ordinary stock units, an
interim dividend of was paid on the 4th April, 1961, and
this, together with the Directors’ recommendation of a final
dividend of 7-j% which will be submitted for your confirmation
later at this Meeting, will make a total dividend for the
year of 15%.
In view of the troublesome year, 1 consider the results were
due to careful management and further diversification into other
profitable avenues of investment. Furthermore, in the first half
of our year, we did not participate in the rush to write new
business, particularly in the second-hand car field where reduced
deposits and extended terms were being offered to attract
business. Consequently we have had few repossessions and bad
debts in this category. Our present business continues to be
transacted on a conservative basis.
BALANCE SHEET AND ACCOUNTS
To augment the details already given in the published Balance
Sheet and Accounts, a few remarks on the consolidated figures
may assist Shareholders.
The net profit of £332,761 mentioned above took into account
a loss incurred by one of the subsidiaries acquired at the
beginning of our year. This loss was aggravated by the Federal
Government economic measures, but positive steps have been
taken to remedy the position. Notwithstanding the loss incurred,
the net assets of the subsidiary are greatiy in excess of the face
value of the shares issued in respect of the acquisition.
Paid-up Capital at 30th June, 1961, was £2,367,076, being an
increase of £520,065 which includes £120,157 of the 1961 options
taken up at the end of June. The balance of the options,
£129,843, was allotted in July and August which brings our
Paid-up Capital today to £2,496,919.
Shareholders’ Funds total £3,008,630, being an increase of
£704,750 for the year represented by net increase in Ordinary
Paid-up Capital and Share Application Moneys £395,675, further
Preference Capital £lOO,OOO. Premium on Consolidation and
Assets Revaluation Reserve £179,602, and the additional carry
forward in the Profit and Loss Aopropriation Account of
£29,473.
Current Assets, before deducting Income Yet to Mature
(£3,079,061), amounted to £18,098,328, being an increase of
£2,325,785 for the year. Our Receivables in respect of real
estate transactions have been shown separately as distinct from
those arising from the more conventional type of business.
Income Yet to Mature calculated by us on the same basis as
in the past represents 30.36% of Real Estate Receivables and
16.31% of the remainder. The corresponding figure for the
previous year was 15.53% in respect of all Receivables.
DIVERSIFICATION OF ACTIVITIES
Our Company was established essentially as a Hire Purchase
Finance Company but, as most major retailers are now financing
their own extended sales of household and electrical equipment,
there has been a reduction in the domestic hire-purchase
business offered to us. Statistics show the fall in hire-purchase
outstandings of all Companies from November to June was
substantial and this will be reflected in profits for this current
year.
We have greatly extended our business into leasing and, to a
smaller degree, into the home purchase and personal loans field.
As from Ist July, 1961, all new leasing contracts are being
transacted by Mercredits Limited, the Company’s wholly owned
subsidiary which was acquired in May, 1961.
A new phase of our activities, which is indicated for the first
time in the Balance Sheet under the heading Leased Properties
(£52,660), is the acquisition by us of freehold properties for
leasing to established businesses. This facility is of particular
advantage to those companies or firms who may require
additional premises but do not desire to deplete their working
capital to provide such premises.
CANBERRA BRANCH
A new branch at 89 Petrie Street, Canberra, under the manage-
ment of Mr Stan C'assilles, was opened in February, 1961, and
has already shown satisfactory results.
TRADING AND ECONOMIC CONDITIONS
The year under review has been one of marked contrasts. In
respect ol the first six months, turnover and profit of the
Company increased b'y over 50% when compared with the
corresponding period of the previous year. Then, following
on the introduction of the Government's economic measures
m November which particularly affected hire-purchase companies,
confidence in the hire-purchase finance industry was shaken, with
the result that the amount of borrowed funds available to our
Company was reduced month by month, the net decrease
'tom December to June in the case of cash deposits alone, as
distinct from debentures and notes, being in excess of £1,170,000.
In addition, it was necessary to conserve funds for the redemp-
tion or maturing deposits and debenture stock, and in particular
the Secured Notes which are due on the 30th of September,
the cumulative effect of all this was a substantial reduction in
business written in that period, resulting in a decrease of business
tor the lull year compared with the previous year’s figure.
The purpose of the increases in Capital made in 1960 was to
enable the Company to extend its borrowing capacity to take
advantage of the business offering at the time. Following this,
the Company’s second issue of Debenture Stock for £1,000,000
was filled by the 15th November and with oversubscriptions
closed with a total of £1,751,500.
The reaction to the changed economic conditions in the hire-
purchase industry was closely followed by difficulties in the
secondary industries which depend to a large degree on hire
purchase or extended sales for marketing of their products.
Substantial falls in production occurred in automotive and
electrical consumer goods industries. There is no doubt that
the inability of finance companies to provide funds on the
basis to which dealers were accustomed was a major contributing
factor, ihe close relationship between these industries and our
own is obvious when it is realised that about 70 per cent, of
all new cars and 40 per cent, of used cars were sold by means
of hire-purchase agreements. About 75 per cent, of all
electrical consumer goods and about 80 per cent, of all television
receivers are sold on hire purchase and extended sales. These
industries directly employ more than 400,000 workers—better
than one in ten of the work force —not to mention the many
hundreds of thousands more indirectly dependent on hire
purchase for their jobs.
It is expected that moneys allocated to home building will be
reflected in greater demands on the hire-purchase companies, thus
assisting the recovery.
The Australian Hire Purchase Conference —the representative
body of the hire-purchase industry—of which your Company
is a member, kept the public and the Government fully
informed as to developments (and possible developments) during
this time.
I am sure that, as a result of the events of the first part of
the year 1961, there is much more real understanding both of
the role of hire purchase in the economy and of the problems
of the finance companies.
As I have said on previous occasions, hire-purchase charges
are lower in Australia than in many other countries and
competition keeps them that way, but the fault with hire purchase
in this great country of ours is that there is no uniformity by
the States as regards deposits, rates, stamp duty, etc. Take
New Zealand with no independent States; they can promulgate
one set of regulations to cover the whole country, thereby
ensuring orderly controls.
In spite of these difficult business conditions, we and other
established finance companies have shown satisfactory profit
figures whilst at no time endangering commitments to debenture
and note holders. This has been made possible by the closest
attention to the type and amount of business undertaken and
maintaining a desirable position of liquidity.
I believe that 1962 will see a return to improved economic
conditions. I say 1962 because it will be a slow process, for the
effect of the actions of November last on the confidence of
the people cannot be remedied overnight by the wave of the
political magic wand, and as business conditions return to normal
1 hope your Company will benefit thereby.
STAFF
Our Executive and Staff are entitled to special mention and
full marks for their efforts during the year. I am sure you
will join me in saying to them “Thank you for a job well done.”
D. C. CAMERON,
Chairman.


IXL
Tills World Famous Brand Is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of: —
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in: —-
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY, LTD.
(A member of Commercial Union Australia Group)
ESTABLISHED 1812
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
F. S. WATSON, Manager
elementary knowledge of sharemarket transactions and arith-
metic can ascertain the basic facts from most published com-
pany reports if once shown how. The more sophisticated
investor can never learn too much.
The need for elementary investment education is made
obvious by the recurring cases of fleecing of the public by
unscrupulous operators. The small investor, often risking his
life’s savings, needs protection against the shady dealers, phoney
“share peddlers” and the various “door-to-door-knockers” —
all offering the gullible “something for nothing,” usually on
the strength of attractively printed bits of spurious “scrip.’
People who know something about investment are less
likely to fall into such traps, while the solid public companies
can only benefit from having enlightened shareholders.
LOANS
N.S.W. Law Liberalised
r T''HE only thing that can be said about the State Cabinet’s
decision to introduce the emergency legislation to liberalise
the N.S.W. Moneylenders and Infants Act, which dates
back to 1941, is that this sensible reform has been long
overdue.
The N.S.W. Government may be commended for altering
the Act —once designed to protect the underprivileged against
usurious practices, but now full of legal loopholes by means
of which repayment of certain borrowings may be avoided —
and bringing it into line with the realities of the business
world.
Not that the Government acted without pressure. There
has been a consistent clamor for changes in the outdated
law, which has put New South Wales at a disadvantage by
comparison with the other States and has caused considerable
flight of capital.
Last May the Bar Council of N.S.W. and the Law Society
of N.S.W. made public a report on legal deficiencies in the
Act. This was followed by a good deal of comments and
suggestions from the press and businessmen. Mr B. Ganke,
founder of the then newly-established Sydney Mortgage
Exchange and managing-director of B. White Pty Ltd, a well-
known Yagoona (N.S.W.) real estate firm, even offered to
meet the cost of drawing up a draft amending bill “for sub-
mission to the N.S.W. Government ... as the most positive
way of helping the Government to take speedy action . .
The emergency legislation will, among other things, allow
the Court to reopen moneylending transactions entered into
before or after it is passed, and will excuse technical breaches
of the Act —except transactions involved in Supreme Court
judgments—as well as exempt from provisions of the Act any
loans to corporations, loans in excess of £5OOO to individuals,
debenture issues with public companies. It will also limit the
moneylenders’ liability for technical breaches to loss of interest
only but tighten up existing provisions preventing lending com-
panies from having common or interlocking directorates. This
is intended to curb monopolistic controls. The Minister for
Justice will have some discretionary powers to exempt com-
panies from the lending provisions of the Act in special cases.
The economic effects of the new legislation should benefit
New South Wales by halting, or at least decreasing, the drift
of investment capital to other States. There might even be
some increase in purchasing power in N.S.W. through the
freeing of some loans—although not necessarily on the scale
the State Government seems to anticipate.
There was quick praise from the hire-purchase industry.
Mr R. E. Honey, chairman of the N.S.W. Division of the
Australian Hire Purchase Conference, felt that the Govern-
ment’s action was “gratifying,” and that it would “make it
possible for finance houses to lend money on a safe and
realistic basis.” Mr Honey estimated that N.S.W. was losing
about £lO million a year because of loopholes in the 1941 Act.
If business is to function and develop normally the legal
provisions governing financial matters should be kept under
constant review and not allowed to lag far behind the changes
brought about by economic growth.


A. L. NEYITT & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER,
N. \V. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building:,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31 2761 P.O. BOX
(4 Lines) No. 1887 W
JOHN N. ROBERTSON
Member of the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne.
STOCK AND SHAKE BROKER.
Temple Court,
422 Collins Street, Melbourne C.l.
Telephones: 67 4804, 67 2465
Telegrams & Cables:
ROBFALK, MELBOURNE
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
R. H. ALLEN, M. R. L. DOWLING
P. R. LEVY, A. P. REYNOLDS. N, R,
COURSE (Melbourne Resident Partner),
Delfln Honse, 16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Building, 150 Queen St.,
Melbourne. 67-5957 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables: “Rosdale,” Sydney.
Melbourne or Wollongong.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
John Mcllwraith Industries
Ltd
Tnvestors subscribing the John Mcll-
A wraith register are assured a steady
div. income together with prospects of
capital appreciation, the more so since
“building permits for homes are now
rising slowly" and “business is better than
it was in June and July.” Indeed profits
have evinced a steady upwards trend ever
since assumption of public status in 1951.
Management has met economic condi-
tions, good and bad. with a stout heart
and an energetic trading activity and its
policy has paid off.
Originally founded more than a century
ago the Victorian-registered John Mc-
llwraith Industries Ltd is one of the
largest manufacturers of builders' and
plumbers' supplies in the Commonwealth.
Its products are distributed throughout
Australia and include sheet lead and lead
pipes for acid plants, plumbers' brass-
ware, baths, sinks, basins, hospital equip-
ment. electric stoves, stovettes. stainless
steel sinks and washing machines.
The 5s John Mcllwraith ord. stock
units are presently fetching around
20s. 6d. in share trading to return an
immediate yield of 3.7 p.c. from the
current 15 p.c. div. rate.
The widespread and diverse activity
of the John Mcllwraith organisation,
with its factories established in all States,
is contained in the manufacturing and
merchandising endeavor of an aggregate
22 subsidiaries. The group has exhibited
a marked and rapid expansion, especially
in recent years, and basic strengths have
been buttressed by assimilation of various
and rival enterprises. In this sense John
Mcllwraith wields a tactical advantage
in the high market premium attaching to
its ss. stock units and the takeover tech-
nique, exploited to the full, has facilitated
a growth which in other circumstances
would not have been possible.
In last term the co. issued scrip,
£517,428, with premiums totalling
£1,203,554, to acquire the following cos.:
Metal Products Holding Co. Ltd. (Bris-
bane brass founders and die casters),
Copper Products Pty. (Melbourne mer-
chandiser in brass, copper and aluminium,
rod, tube and sheet), Brent Industries
Pty. (Melbourne manufacturer of cis-
terns, ballcocks and hot water units),
Buchanan Cameron and Roberts Pty
(hardware merchant of Box Hill, Vic-
toria) and L. D. Investments Pty (manu-
facturer of pressed steel baths and basins,
enamelled pressings for the home appli-
ance industry and pressings for the motor
and allied industries, at Moorabbin, Vic-
toria). The assets of Domestic Appliances
Pty (Western Australian hardware mer-
chandiser) and C. R. Palmer Pty (to be
merged with John Mcllwraith (W.A.) Pty)
were also acquired, both transactions
negotiated on a cash basis calling for
settlement by December 31, 1963.
Trading conditions were extremely
competitive during the 12 months ended
June 30 last with building activity in the
last qua:ter much reduced on previous
levels. However, and according to chair-
man Mr John Mcllwraith Smith, “despite
difficult conditions, I am pleased to report
that your company had another success-
ful year.” John Mcllwraith operates its
own brass and extrusion press, supplying
a large proportion of brass rod require-
ments for its forge and machine shops
and Victorian manufacturing activity is
in process of centralisation at a new fac-
tory at Coburg—“most of the Richmond
plant is now operating at the new Coburg
factory ’ and final transition should be
completed before the end of the year
when economies of operation will make
themselves felt in reduced overheads,
costs, etc
Sales were once again a record last
term and consolidated trading profit was
finally returned up £165,292 at £1,390,271.
After paying all expenses, providing
£134,450 for depreciation (up £34,366)
and setting aside £488,661 for taxation
(up £35.861), consolidated net profit rose
by a heftv £91,138, or 13.8 p.c., to
£752,787.
This was equivalent to an earning rate
of 30.6 p.c. on average ord. capital, com-
pared with 34.5 p.c. in the previous term,
31.9 p.c. in 1959, 30.6 p.c. in 1958 and
27.5 p.c. in 1957 (all on lower average
capital):
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. —■■ serves. serves.*
£ & & &
1954. .304,237 121 p.c. = 168,630 135,607 476,682
Goodwill written-off, £6OOO .. .. 470,682
Unexplained addition, £l2 .. .. 470,694
1955. .390,854 124 p.c. = 168,630 222,224 692,918
1956. .366,793 124 „ ~168,630 198,163 891,081
1957. .371,346 13f „ ~185,493 185,853 1,076,934
Share premiums, £260,623 .. .. 1,337,557
Goodwill written-off, £225,000 .. 1,112,557
1955. .455,033 15 p.c. = 223,240 231,793 1,344,350
Assets revaluation, £153,834 .. 1,498,184
1959. .485,256 15 p.c. = 227,586 257,670 1,755,854
Share premiums, £150,065 .. .. 1,905,919
Assets revaluation, £558,923 .. .. 2,464,842
Reserves capitalised, £426,185 .. 2,038,657
1960. .661,649 15 p.c. = 287,675 373,974 2,412,631
Share premiums, £1,203,554 .. .. 3,616,185
1961. .752,787 15 p.c. = 384,128 368,659 3,984,844
* Subject to intangibles, £2,054,298 at 30/6/61.
The div. rate, well covered and substan-
tial, was steady at 15 p.c., the cheque
absorbing an increased £368,659 (up
£80,984). Reserves benefited £368,659
plus the share premium increment to rise
a total of £1,572,213 to £3,984,844 but
subject to intangibles, up £1,059,063 at
£2,054,298.
There was a substantial rise in funds
employed. Overall liquidity improved.
Theoretical working capital advanced
£1,086,404 to £2,803,824. Loans (£470,000
in short term paper and £1,427,174 in
long term paper) climbed £1,391,284 to
£1,897,174; bank overdraft declined
£188,334 to £281,964. The net increase,
£1,202,950, has been used partly to
acquire the Western Australian assets
mentioned earlier, partly to meet the cash
consideration in purchase prices of other
businesses acquired and partly to finance
further building construction at the
Coburg site:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1959. 1960. 1961.
Paid capital .. £1,517,240 £2,130,925 £2,648,353
Reserves ... 1,755,854 2,412,631 3,984,844
Outside interests 2 2 2
Overdraft .. 328,692 470,298 281,964
Loans .. .. 439,690 505,890 1,897,174
Creditors .. 412,881 583,255 630,500
Tax provision .. 314,071 484,632 536,949
Final div. .. 113,793 159,819 198,627
£4,882,223 £6,747,452 £10,178,413
Land, buildings.. 1,109,959 1,560,173 2,511,950
Plant, etc. .. 609,372 759,058 1,142,739
Investments .. 17,562 17,562 17,562
Stocks .. .. 1,757,305 2,101,177 2,900,370
Debtors, etc. .. 973,693 1,311,903 1,544,771
Cash .. .. 918 2,344 6,723
Intangibles .. 413,414 995,235 2,054,298
£4,882,223 £6,747,452 £10,178,413
Higher book values of stock, debtors,
land and buildings, plant, etc., and
creditors are largely due to the inclusion
of figures of new businesses acquired. In-
vestment in land and buildings climbed


AND SERVICES
J
&
III?!!
imiOT
B
WHEREVER
YOUR INTERESTS LIE
THE MANY SERVICES
AND FACILITIES OF
THIS BANK CAN HELP
YOU
Ask the manager of your
nearest branch for particulars
BC
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
C.B.C. SAYINGS BANK LIMITED
£951,777 to £2,511,950; in plant, etc,
£383,681 to £1,142.739—b0th in at cost
or valuation less depreciation. Net
tangible asset backing works out at Bs. Bd.
for each ss. stock unit.
Since 1952 the earning rate on the con-
stantly growing average paid capital has
risen from 20.6 p.c. to 30.6 p.c., and the
dividend distribution from 12| p.c. to
15 p.c. This is a remarkable performance.
Expansion continues and John Mcllwraith
has every claim to be classed as an ex-
cellent growth stock. The scope of the
John Mcllwraith organisation is such
that, where hardware items are concerned,
the total and complex requirements of the
building and plumbing industries can be
met, no matter how extensive the under-
taking may be.
•
R ..
eromo/es
Qrambles has proved itself a veritable
13 profit spinner in its first seven years
as a public co. The co. has engaged m
a species of empire building, financing
its prodigious expansion by frequent
share issues, unsparing use of loan capital
(overdraft and convertible and unsecured
notes) and hefty plough back of profits.
Paid capital has risen from £120,000 in
1955 to £2,138,858 as at June 30 last.
The original co. was established in
Sydney in 1925 as W. E. Bramble and
Sons Co. Pty, specialising in road trans-
port. In 1954 it was converted to a
public co. under the name of W. E.
Bramble and Sons (Transport) Co. Ltd,
and continued to operate as a general
carrier, Customs-agent, removalist and
storer with headquarters in Newcastle
(N.S.W.). The present name was adopted
in 1958.
It is characteristic of the co.'s progress
that it has grown both by the develop-
ment of its existing subsidiaries and by
the introduction of new cos. into the
group. Takeover activity rose to a
crescendo proportion in 1959/60,
whereas, by contrast, the 12 months to
June 30, 1961, has been “a period of
consolidation and internal reorganisa-
tion.”
The group's main spheres of opera-
tion today are in the transport, Customs
and shipping, and engineering fields. The
transport division covers general com-
mercial carrying services, operates local,
intrastate and interstate networks in
collaboration with rail, sea and air ser-
vices, provides specialised transport and
movement services for the co.'s major
clients concentrated in the Newcastle,
Port Kembla (N.S.W.) and Whyalla (S.A.)
districts, and. as well plant and equip-
ment hire services to industry and the
waterfront in Sydney, Brisbane and
Adelaide.
The Customs and shipping division, set
up in 1959/60, ranges a very comprehen-
sive service which is to be extended as
opportunity allows. It has achieved a
sound measure of consolidation in spite
of trade restrictions and “is trading
satisfactorily.'’ In October, 1960, fur-
ther facilities were added by the acquisi-
tion of Cleland's Bonded and Free
Stores Pty.
Investment in the engineering division
was considerably reduced last year ; the
funds released to be channelled into other
profitable aspects of the Brambles enter-
prise. A process of rationalisation was
set in motion: the engineering activities
in Whyalla, previously carried out by
Booth Engineering Ltd, acquired in 1960,
were curtailed and the base facilities pre-
viously used by that co. made available
to the rapidly developing transport activi-
ties of Brambles Transport (Whyalla)
Ltd. Then, after close of accounts, in
August last, the subsidiaries, Kelly and
Lewis Pty of Springvale, Victoria, and
United Development Corporation Pty of
Sydney, were disposed of for cash to the
English firm of Mather and Platt Ltd-
Kelly and Lewis and Booth Engineering
had both been acquired by Brambles in
1959/60.
During the year the operations of
subsidiary, Morison and Bearby Valves
Pty, at Adamstown (N.S.W.), were


51%
GOVERNMENT-GUARANTEED!
THE
SYDNEY
WATER
BOARD
Cash and Conversion
LOAN
Offers Absolute Security
FOR 7, 10 or 20 YEARS!
The New South Wales Government unconditionally guarantees
payment of interest every 6 months AND full repayment of
principal at maturity.
An Authorised Trustee Investment in N.S.W., Queensland, Western
Australia and Tasmania.
CASH AND CONVERSION. This gilt-edged opportunity is not
limited to cash investors. Holders of securities in Loan No. 156
(5£ per cent., matured Ist October, 1961) are invited to convert
to the new loan and gain 5f per cent, without interruption.
YOU CAN INVEST OR CONVERT TODAY—
At any office of the —
@ Commonwealth Trading Bank;
® Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited;
® Bank of New South Wales;
® Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited;
Or through a Stockbroker.
Or at the Sydney Water Board Offices.
THE SYDNEY WATER BOARD LOAN
Underwritten by lan Potter & Co.
rationalised with the operations of sub-
sidiary Morison and Bearby Pty, at
Carrington (N.S.W.), so that the former
co. became an operating division of the
latter. The assets of this former co. (the
valve division), including the vacated
land and buildings at Adamstown, have
since been purchased for cash (in
August) by C. A. Burgmann Pty.
Engineering activities, though reduced,
are still extensive and include recovery
of steel-scrap from open-hearth slag and
refuse, by-products of steelworks opera-
tions at Newcastle and Port Kembla, and
the manufacture of non-corrosive alloys
for the chemical and food industries
(through the subsidiary, W. G. Pickrell,
Sydney).
Despite a period of diminished general
commercial activity and despite height-
ened competition and heavier expenses,
Brambles hammered home the 12 months
to June 30, 1961, to record increased
turnover and increased profits. In the
circumstances performance must be con-
sidered as exceptionally satisfactory.
Profit margins were generally lower.
Consolidated pre-tax profit finally
advanced £39,680 to £841,703, after pay-
ing all expenses and writing-off £727,205
for depreciation (up £250,496). Provision
for taxation absorbed £223,429 (down
£67,781), leaving consolidated net profit
£107,461 higher at £618,274:
W. E. Bramble and Sons (Transport) Co., Ltd.,
and Subsidiaries.
To Re-
June, Profit. , Dividends. v Reserves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1956 .. 00,175 15 p.c. 34,207 25,908 288,249
Tax overprovided, £B9 .. .. 288,338
Intangibles written-off, £240 .. 288,098
Share-premiums, £16,000 .. .. 304,098
Capital profits, £14,102 .. .. 318,200
Less sale subsidiaries, £15,904 .. 302,290
Reserves capitalised, £73,780 .. 228,510
1957 .. 08,561 15 p.c. = 51,379 17,182 245,092
Brambles Industries, Ltd., and Subsidiaries.
Decrease pie - acquisition profits,
£14,997 230,695
Intangibles written-off, £2248 .. 228,447
Share-premiums, £378,000 .. .. 006,447
Capital profits, £4002 .. .. 010,449
1958 .. 159,530 20 p.c. = 79,655 79.575 690,324
Capital profits. £63,921 .. . . 754,245
Premium on consolidation, £92,060... 846,305
Intangibles written-off, £13,348 . . 832,957
1959 .. 321,022 20 p.c. = 151,589 109,433 1,002,390
Share premiums, £919,015 . . . . 1,921,405
Reduction capital reserve, £14,092 .. 1,907,313
Capital profit, £11,419 .. .. 1.918,732
Intangibles written-off, £43,542 .. 1,875,190
To staff-fund, £36,240 . . . . 1,838,950
Premium on consolidation, £295,125-2,134,075
Reduction general reserve, £lO,OOO 2,124,075
From inner reserves (subsidiaries),
£22,720 2,146,795
1960.. 510,813 20 p.c. = 257,842 252,971 2,399,766
Share premiums, £719,057 . . . . 3,118,823
Capital profit, £11,355 .. .. 3,130,178
Adjustment, surplus on consolidation
£34,179 3,095,999
Adjustment minority interest, £lOOB 3,097,007
1961 .. 618,274 20 p.c. = 403,785 214,489 3,311,490
* Subject to intangibles, written-off in 1959.
Earning rate on the higher average
capita! was 30.6 p.c., compared with 41.1
p.c. in the previous year, 42.3 p.c. in
1959, 42.5 p.c. in 1958, 21.4 p.c. in 1T57
and 35.7 p.c. in 1956 (all on lower
capital). The div.-rate was maintained
at 20 p.c. (£403,785), despite capital
increases during the year. Reserves bene-
fited £214,489 undistributed profits,
£11,355 in capital profits, and £719,057
in share premiums, rising, in all, a hefty
£911,730 to £3,311,496.
Paid capital, as mentioned earlier, has
increased rapidly since Brambles’ initial


T*e wise matx
invests
p.A. f° r 8 3
n d io y ears
BEG. FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
An investment in Reid Murray
Acceptance Ltd. is an investment
in one of Australia’s best-backed
Companies. All told, the Reid
Murray group includes: 197 Retail
Stores, 7 Wholesale Warehouses,
Real Estate Companies in 5 States,
and the Finance Company for the
group—Reid Murray Acceptance Ltd.
Applications accepted only on forms at-
tached to the Prospectus. Available from:
REID MURRAY ACCEPTANCE LTD.
403 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 67 1924
Any branch of the
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Any member of a
RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE IN AUST.
Or Joint Underwriting Brokers
TOLHURST, HENLEY, MUNCKTON & CO.
401 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melb.
CUTTEN & HARVEY
97 King William Street, Adelaide
Members of Stock Exch. of Adelaide Ltd.
FIXED LONG TERM STOCK
SHORT TERM NOTICE STOCK
71%
6%
5%
P.A.—on 12 months' notice
P.A.—on 6 months' notice
P.A.—on 3 months' notice
PAID-UP CAPITAL £7,000,000
RMA.22V
GUARANTEED BY REID MURRAY HOLDINGS LTD.
public float and last term saw a further
increase (£493,994), 1,975,976 ss. ords.
going out September 16, 1960, share- and
convertible note-holders participating
one-for-four at a premium of 7s. 6d.
Shareholders (in some instances note-
holders, too) had previously shared in
equity increases: a two-for-five (ss. ords.)
at par in February, 1956 ; a three-for-five
(7 p.c. ss. registered unsecured notes, half
of them convertible into ords. at par at
the end of 1959 ; the balance redeemable
in cash at par December 1, 1962) at par
in November, 1956 ; a three-for-ten
(8 p.c. 7s. 6d. registered unsecured con-
vertible notes, convertible one-for-one
January 1, 1963) at par in November,
1959 ; and a two-for-five (ss. ords.) at a
premium of ss. in January, 1960, con-
vertible noteholders participating. The
balance-sheet, at June 30 last, shows paid
capital, £2,138,858, all in ss. stock-units,
unsecured registered 8 p.c. convertible
notes, £387,000, and unsecured registered
7 p.c. notes, £102,000.
The consolidation, in last term, of
the growth attendant upon earlier expan-
sion of capital investments is reflected in
a slower rate of increase in the book-
values of fixed assets. The book-values
of freeholds and leaseholds, and plant,
etc., in at cost or valuation, less provi-
sions for depreciation and amortisation,
advanced £l6O, 38 (£759,152 in the pre-
vious term) and £637,095 (£1,128,036)
respectively:
Consolidated Figures.
1959. 1960. 1961.
Paid capital .. £758,697 £1,644,864 £2,138,858
Reserves .. .. 1,602,390 2,399,766 3,311,496
Minority interest 420 102,160 35,000
Notes .. .. 591,000 489,000 489,000
Term loans .. 75,589 558,278 623,016
H.-p. loans .. 60,272 150,455 160,880
Overdraft.. .. 473,502 485,263 567,717
Sundry creditors,
provisions .. 762,019 1,259,794 1,179,705
Tax provision .. 230,431 310,969 267,771
Final dividend .. 75,869 160,963 213,886
£4,030,189 £7,561,512 £8,987,329
Freehold, leasehold 526,230 1,285,382 1,445,420
Plant, etc. .. 1,315,843 2,443,879 3,080,974
Investments .. 314,816 319,974 319,431
Stocks .. .. 643,673 1,454,735 2,037,677
Debtors .. .. 708,404 1,732,720 1,892,328
Cash, etc 521,223 324,822 211,499
£4,030,189 £7,561,512 £8,987,329
The liquid position appears to be very
comfortable with theoretical working
capital up £617,137 at £1,912,425. Stocks
on hand jumped £582,942 to £2,037,677,
while debtors advanced only £159,608 to
£1,892,328. Stocks could be in excess of
normal requirements.
Future prospects seem sound. The
expanding national economy needs
efficient transport services. The group’s
growth will call for more capital raisings.
The handsome div.-rate has been com-
fortably maintained, and the co. has
accumulated large reserves.
At the last sale in Sydney the ss. ords.
fetched 225. each, for an immediate return
of 4.5 p.c. on the basis of the steady
20 p.c. div.-rate. The 8 p.c. 7s. 6d. conv.
notes last changed hands at 20s. each.
The yield to date of conversion is 11 p.c.,
including a hypothetical capital gain. The
immediate yield is 3 p.c.
Net tangible asset backing works out
at 12s. 9d. for each ss. ord. on the
consolidated accounts.


Missing Friend
MICHAEL, Gordon Joseph, formerly of 3 Orammond
Boulevarde, Caringbah, N.S.W., G Canning Highway,
East Fremantle, W.A., and 22 Stockdale Hoad.
Hilton Park, Fremantle, W.A.- —Will he, or any
person knowing his address, please communicate
J. J. KIF.I.Y, Solicitor, 17 C'astiereagU Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Oivorck,
TO IVOR LLEWELLYN REES late of East Banks-
town Sydney. TAKE NOTICE that MARIK IRENE
REES has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1948 of
1901 in the Supreme Court of New South Wales on
the ground of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards It you wish to defend
you mat enter an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney within G weeks from the publication of this
notice and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. S. T. HODGE k CO., Solici-
tors, of 4 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES- In Divorce.
TO HENRY EDWARD CASTERS late of lloxton
Park Sydney. TAKE NOTICE that VALERIK
CASTLES filed a Petition for Divorce No. 29»G
of 1960 in the Supreme Court of New South Wales
on the ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court Mint Building
Macquarie Street Sydney within 6 weeks from the
publication of this notice and obtain a copy of tlie
Petition without charge from MESSRS. S. T.
HODGE k CO., Solicitors, of 4 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES- In Divorce.
TO ALBERT WILLIAM WALKER late of Sydney
New South Wales. -TAKE NOTICE that VALERIE
IRENE WALKER has tiled y Petition for Divorce
No. 1441 of .11)00 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years and un-
winds. It' you wish to defend the suit you may
enter an appearance within six weeks from the dale
of the publication of this Notice at the Divorce
Registry Mint Building Macquarie Street Sydney.
A copy of the Petition may be had without charge
from E. R. ABIGAIL CO., Solicitors, 115 Pitt
St reel, Sydney. -C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
Divorce Notices
Matrimonial Causes Act 195!)
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
Matki-moniaj, Causes Jurisdiction
To WALTER SYDNEY MULLIGAN—TAKE NOTICE
that ESMA MAVIS VERENA MULLIGAN has filed
a petition for divorce, number 2439 of 1961 on
grounds of desertion for a continuous period of not
less than two years. If you wish to defend you
may enter an answer in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court. Mint Building, Macquarie Street,
Sydney on or before the 6th November 1961 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge from
R. FORBES - SMITH & CO.. City Agents DAVIES
STEWART k DUNN, 77 King Street Sydney. If
you do not wish to file an answer but wish to
receive a copy of each document filed in the pro-
ceedings you should file a Notice of Address for
Service on or before such dale. —C. A. H. HARMS
Registrar.
I3C hi VORCE \o. 1). 183/196L ~
TO HARRIS KENNEDY NEWTON late of 7 Keys
Street. Naenae, Lower llutt, in the Dominion of
New Zealand, but now of parts unknown, the
husband of PATRICIA ROSE NEWTON oi 7 Keys
Street, Naenae, Lower Hutt, in the Dominion of
New Zealand. TAKE NOTICE that your wife has
filed a petition for divorce on the grounds ot
Adultery. A copy of the petition, with an annexed
notice containing information for you, will be for-
warded on application to my otfice. If you do
not file an answer to the petition on or before
the 6th day of November, 1961, the Court may hear
the petition and pronounce judgment without your
being heard. A marriage is not dissolved until the
Decree Nisi made in the first instance is later made
Absolute, and a Decree Nisi is NOT a defence to
a charge of bigamy. Dated at Wellington this
sth da.v of September, 1961. A. W. KELLY,
Deputy Registrar, Supreme Court, Wellington.
Friends or the abovenained HARRIS KENNEDY
NEWTON are asked to forward this advertisement
to him.
Mr. JOHN FRANCIS JEFFRIES, of Paragon
Chambers, Kelburn Avenue. Wellington, is the
Solicitor for the Petitioner.
Positions Vacant
SYDNEY CHURCH OF ENGLAND
GRAMMAR SCHOOL
NORTH SYDNEY
Master to teach French with Latin or German.
Apply to Headmaster giving details ot
qualification.
B. H. Travers,
Headmaster.
Positions Vacant
SYDNEY GRAMMAR SCHOOL,
College Street, Sydney
Applications are invited for the following posts
in 1962:
1. A Master to teach “A” Form, 6th Primary
Grade, and if suitably qualified to exercise
general supervision over three Primary
Classes.
2. A Master to teach a 4th and sth Grade
Primary Classes.
Salary scale in the range £1250 - £lB3O for
qualified men. with State superannuation.
Applicants should apply in writing to the
Headmaster, Sydney Grammar School, College
Street, Sydney, giving the fullest details of age,
qualifications, experience, etc.
ADULT EDUCATION
Workers’ Educational Association of N.S.W.
requires Secretary for Sydney region. Com-
mencing salary, £1,750, with a range of £2,450.
Applications close 9th October. Full details
from the General Secretary, W.E.A., 52
Margaret Street, Sydney. (BX 2222).
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC SCHOOL
situated in the Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Buildings.
Junior House separate from the
rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on application
to
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 661
Across
I—A frightener of the nervy pest given a bit of barrack-
ing. (7)
s—Spanish city of rope eggs. (7)
9—String love to disappear somewhat in the style character-
istic of 5-across. (11)
10— Possesses chopped ash. (3)
11— Transport haystack's mirth. (7)
12 — A non-professional one to
espouse a capital Chaldean
address. (7)
13— Is mama disturbed by a steamy
emanation? (6)
15 —Part of the world giving tidings
with discomfort. (3, 5)
18 — A lady of civil distinction
offering a church service about
days gone by. (8)
19— Inkspot to be squiffy. (6)
22 —Graduate weapon with poise. (7)
24 —Top of the street? (4-3)
26 — An old and grubby vessel which
may be serviceable but back-
ward. (3)
27 — Furtive tribe to fore-ordain 150
with South American metal for
a start. (11)
28— About Mussolini's diets. (7)
29 — Be overbearing with work by
newspapers. (7)
Down
1— The material thing is that mutton
is under a dollar. (7)
2 How's a woman-chaser miss
nuts? (4-5)
3 What credit squeezes check hos-
tility to manuscript in harbor
bars? (5)
4 Duck parent has redskins. (6)
5 Feature a finish for a prayer
among Celestials. (8)
6 A preparation for showing her
up to some listeners with
Joison. (9)
7 —A dreadful chore is by no means
colorless. (3)
B—Algerian naval base belongs to
Joison who's well out of a
place. (4-3)
14 —Stupid Missouri boy, 1 see. (7)
16— This makes one rock formation
caper over some string of
ships. (9)
17 — Weapons needed as eras upset
little islands. (8)
18 — Lobster with capital enlarged
twenty-fold gets a “hood." (7)
20— Birds in bone quarries. (7)
21 — Secretly robbed between Quean-
beyan and Cooma. (6)
23—Behold a place for sleeping with
bases for earrings. (5)
25 —A pose affected by a fabu-
list. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 660


V
I
;
1
?.
A u§
*
8
f
§
ar.
i
w
o
3*
r
ro
Only “The Australian Financial
Times” gives you an investment guide
when you want it —at the start of the
week.
Investors all over Australia have
welcomed the clear, concise and
authoritative information in “The
Australian Financial Times” every
Monday.
The latest details from all Aus-
tralian Stock Exchanges, from New
Zealand, London, Wall Street, and a
weekly Company News Digest pro-
vide the knowledge which is indis-
pensable to investors.
For a review of last week’s
“Financial News” and a preview of
the week to come, ask your newsagent
to deliver to your home or to your
office . . .
THE AUSTRALIAN
FINANCIAL TIMES
INVESTOR'S AND BUSINESSMAN'S WEEKLY • PRICE 1/6
TELEPHONES
MELBOURNE MFJ34I
SYDNEY B 0 6 6 6
EVERY MONDAY 1/6 (2/- w.a. and TAS.)
