

The Bulletin
CHRISTMAS BOOKS
Registered in Australia for trans-
mission by post as a newspaper.
December 9, 1961
Profile
of a
Campaign


'I
Here's the name
Ithaf makes the
ln|
I tyres . . .1 I
you SAVE
because you get
more when you
buy GOODYEAR
Every tyre that carries the
name Goodyear makes available
to you the experience and skill
of the world's biggest rubber
company. Look at this
Imperial Nylon, for
instance; this is the safest,
strongest tyre you can buy.
The tough, long-wearing
tread gives positive
traction at all times.
The body is built with
Goodyear's exclusive 3.T
Nylon for greatest resist-
ance to bruise damage,
tyre heat and flex
fatigue. The wider
margin of safety this
tyre gives at high-
speed makes it safest
under any conditions.
See it at your Goodyear
Dealer, Garage or
Service Station.
good/year
L279A


TEARING OFF A STRIP
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney;
Box 2521; Phone: 27 5971.
,Vol. 82
No. 4269
Warts and all
JUST as politics is the art of the possible, to those who care to
think before they cast their votes, voting reflects an examination
of possibilities. It necessarily becomes a choice between im-
perfect parties. There are no perfect governments and the only
“perfect” political parties are those that have no power. How a party
is likely to behave if it achieve office, and what effects that behavior
is likely to have on events, are the only realistic ways of judging
parties.
It is not to Mr Menzies’s discredit that these have been the as-
sumptions of his election campaigning. What was at first attacked
as “complacency” now comes out as a blunt Australian honesty that
is rare among politicians. By making no new promises about his own
party’s performance he has left it, warts and all, to be judged by the
electors. And he has attempted to do the same with the Labor party.
Mr Calwell has had, of necessity, to repaint his party’s image. If
he left the warts on his party, his speeches would sound as if they
had been written by the D.L.P. It is responsible thinking to offset his
promises and his general policy by referring to the facts: who are
the men who would carry this policy out, and what is the nature of
the party behind them?
There are, of course, some good men in the parliamentary Labor
party. But they have been demoralised by the compromises they have
made with their political enemies in the A.L.P. over the last seven
years of united-front domination,. And there are also some dreadful
ratbags and there are also some men who act as if they were agents
of Russian or Chinese foreign policy. Unlike Mr Menzies,
Mr Calwell cannot choose his own Cabinet; it would be
chosen for him by Caucus and it would represent an attempt at
compromise. Given tensions, it would either split or, given the
demoralisation of the good men, it would go neutralist abroad and
authoritarian at home.
Mr Calwell faces an additional pressure that Mr Menzies does
not suffer: the Federal A.L.P. Executive. And that body is still domin-
ated by the kind of thinking represented in the Victorian A.L.P.
Executive. And that body—despite its election stunt of carefully staged
dismissals of unity ticket offenders who may be re-admitted next
year —seems to represent the thinking of a united front between
the A.L.P. and the Communist party.
No doubt Mr Menzies has some nincompoops and some rebels
in his parliamentary party. But they are not representatives of a
machine that dictates to the Liberal party. And this is a fundamental
difference. All Prime Ministers have to get along with colleagues of
whom they disapprove or whom they may even regard as their
greatest enemies. But, if a Prime Minister is effectively controlling
his party, this is merely one of the perils of politics. If, as with Mr
Calwell, he does not effectively control his party, his internal party
enemies may dictate his policies. If that happens, a puppet inhabits
the Prime Minister’s lodge.


THIS AUSTRALIA
THESE ELECTIONS
NEW SOUTH WALES
The Key is a Donkey
Correspondents in each State forecast the election result. Their views are not necessarily those of The Bulletin.
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
New South Wales is generally the
State which puts Federal Govern-
ments in office or unseats them. This
time there may be some swing against
the Liberal Government but it would
be a miracle if the results could unseat
Mr Menzies. (That honor now lies with
Victoria.) It has been a slow, dull cam-
paign, enlivened only by the TV pro-
grammes, whose results are unpredictable.
In the House of Representatives the
present party strengths are: Liberals 16,
Country Party 8, and Labor 22. Of these,
the most likely to change are the seats
of Hume, Phillip, and —if there is a
swing against the Liberals of over 2 per
cent. —Gwydir, Lawson, Evans, Robert-
son, and Mitchell. In the 1958 elections
D.L.P. preferences decided the seats of
Hume and Phillip—and if, as I expect,
the D.L.P. vote rises, their preferences
will be even more important. In Hume,
a swing of only 2.6 per cent, against the
Government could give Labor victory
over the sitting Country Party member
Mr C. C. Anderson. Arthur Fuller, a
former Labor Whip who only lost this
seat by 608 votes in the 1958 election,
has campaigned vigorously and should
win the seat.
Labor party officials say they expect
to win Mitchell but nobody could pos-
sibly forecast this result. In 1958, there
were 52,888 voters and there are now
75,000. The sitting member, Mr Roy
Wheeler, won with a majority of 6474.
How on earth anyone can forecast how
an extra 22,000-odd votes will be
allotted I don’t know. My guess is that
Mr Wheeler will be back in Canberra
next year.
In Phillip, Labor stands a better chance.
Parts of the electorate, Bronte and
Bondi, seem to have been hit by unem-
ployment. In 1958, Labor only lost the
seat by 1498 votes and a swing against
the sitting Government member, Mr
W. J. Aston, of only 1.8 per cent, would
give Mr S. Einfeld victory. Mr Einfeld
is president of the Executive Council of
Australian Jewry and this must be of
some advantage in an area where there
are about 4000 Jews in a voting popula-
tion of about 41,000. Both Mr Menzies
and Mr Calwel] have spoken at Phillip.
Mr Leslie Haylen, the Labor member
for Parkes, could be defeated. Both the
Liberals and the D.L.P. have worked
hard against him, and some A.L.P. mem-
bers have deliberately not over-tired
themselves on his behalf. If he is defeated
(he won by only 826 last election) there
will be few in his party who will mourn
his passing. Mr Menzies, Senator
Spooner, and other Liberal spokesmen
have spent much of their TV time ex-
plaining the complexities of Senate
voting. They have urged people to be
careful and not vote informal. (The
number ot informal votes for the Senate
in the 1958 election in N.S.W. was
244,828, or 12.46 per cent.). Here in fact
lies the key to the election in this State
-—the Senate.
The present party representation in
the Senate is two Country Party, four
Liberal party, and four Labor party.
Only two of the five returning Senators,
Spooner (Liberal) and McKellar (Liberal),
are standing for re-election Senators
McCallum (Liberal) and Armstrong
(Labor) were both casualties in party
pre-selections and Senator Reid (Liberal)
is retiring. An initial two-all result for
the major parties is certain. The main
interest lies in the fifth position, with
Mr J. Kane, the general secretary of the
D.L.P., standing an outside chance ot
being returned.
In the 1958 elections the D.L.P. got
a vote of between 4 and 5 per cent.,
but this year it drew first position or.
the voting paper so it should also get
the 5 per cent, donkey vote (those voters
who put their number one vote in the
first square and vote straight across the
paper). That should give Kane a primary
vote of about 10 per cent. If he can bring
that up to 124 per cent, he should be
elected, because when the first two Labor
and two Liberal candidates have got
their winning quotas, they will have
exhausted 68 per cent, of the votes (you
need 17 per cent, for your quota), leaving
32 per cent, to be settled. If he does get
124 per cent, of the primaries, that wiii
leave about 20 per cent, between the
Liberal and Labor candidates, one of
whom must almost certainly get less than
Kane, and be eliminated. In either case
the preferences will go to Kane, and he’ll
be in.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
The Stay put State
FROM AN ADELAIDE CORRESPONDENT
Tn South Australia life goes on just the
A same—Federal election or no Federal
election. Any early interest in South Aus-
tralia died quickly. There would need to
be an unprecedented swing of giant pro-
portion to change any seat in South Aus-
tralia None of the parties, except possibly
some of the politically blind fanatics,
expects any seat to change. In these elec-
lions, because of the death of Senator
Pearson, there are six positions in the
Senate to be allotted. Most commen-
tators have been courageous enough
to state quite openly that with the D.L.P.
virtualiy out of the field in South Aus-
tralia there will be a three-all result. In
the last Senate election the Labor party
received 43.4 per cent, of the Senate votes
and the Liberal party 41.4 per cent. The
next highest was the D.L.P.’s 4.9 per cent,
South Australians are proud of their corn-
paratively low informal vote (7.7 per
cent.) which apart from Queenland’s 7.2
per cent, is the lowest in Australia,
T ~ u „ ~
.>" ' he H ° use f Representatives the
party strengt s are Liberals live and Labot
SlX '. ° rac hcally speaking there are no
swing seats. For instance, in Kingston,
which in South Australian terms is regar-
ded as ‘ swinging,” the sitting Labor
member, Mr P. Galvin, polled 25,607


while Mr C. W. Anderson, the Liberal
candidate, received 21,442. Mr B. R.
Crowe from the D.L.P. polled 3321. But
like most seats in Australia there has
been an increase of 7000-odd in the voting
population.
Even if there is a slight swing against
the Government, as expected, it is still
unlikely that the Government will lose a
seat. Boothby is the Government’s
“danger” seat and it would need 11.05
per cent, or 8896 Liberal voters of 1958
to change their minds. In South Australia
it is pretty pointless talking in terms of
“swinging” percentages and the only
interest for observers is to note whether
the D.L.P. can increase its share of the
voting.
VICTORIA
A Possibility of
"No Change "
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
nPHERE are six borderline seats in the
House of Representatives in Vic-
toria. So marked is the apathy of the
Victorian electorate —a State usually con-
sidered favorable to a Government —that
it would not be surprising if the 33 seats
were again divided, as they now are, into
A.L.P., 10; Liberal, 18; C.P., five.
Of the six, Indi, Maribyrnong, Lalor,
Batman, Bruce and Bendigo, the most
likely to spring a surprise is Indi, where
the Liberals have a real opportunity to
unseat Holten, the Country Party retiring
candidate, who won it from the Liberals
in 1958 on A.L.P. preferences. For some
reason Mr Holten has made himself
unpopular with the A.L.P., and Labor's
preferences will be given to the D.L.P.,
then the Liberals and lastly C.P. As it
is likely the D.L.P. will be eliminated
before the A.L.P., this means the Liberals
will get the Labor preferences. The Indi
primaries in 1958 were: C.P., 12,322;
Liberal, 12,420; A.L.P.. 9758; D.L.P.,
5416; with finals of 22.735 and 17,505 in
favor of Holten.
Labor is very fearful of losing Lalor
and the services of the former Minister,
Pollard. The enrolment has risen from
65,256 to 86,489 since 1958. and a very
high percentage of the new voters are
migrants. Mr Pollard is popular among
the established voters, but he is 67 ; his
Liberal opponent. Kemp, is 37. Labor
lost ground at the State election and
Pollard's opponents aren't letting rest any
of his very Left-wing interjections in the
House. He won in 1958 by 1500 only.
The D.L.P. vote is strong (11,000) and
increasing.
Labor reckons its surest chance of a
gain in Victoria is in Maribyrnong, which
was a reasonably safe Labor seat until
the Liberals won it in 1955. A swing
of .82 per cent, only is required.
On State election figures Labor must
lose Batman. They give the party a
deficit of 3138, compared with an abso-
lute majority of 1204 in the 1958 Federal
poll. The electorate includes chiefly
Northcote, a Labor suburb, and lvanhoe,
an expanding middle-class suburb. Bird,
the A.L.P. member, has been sick ; but
Labor is not very alarmed because the
party claims it has always polled under-
strength at State elections.
At the Bendigo by-election in the
middle of last year the A.L.P. (Beaton)
defeated the Liberal (Snell) in a poll of
more than 42,000 by 133 votes after the
distribution of 6200 D.L.P. preferences,
all of which, except 900, went to the
Liberal. This time there is a new D.L.P.
candidate, Ronald Anderson (and an ex-
Czech Independent. Milar Lorman). The
chief parties nearly always have a close
vote in Bendigo. The Liberals can hope
only for the perceptible D.L.P. rise to
continue in Bendigo, but Mr Beaton has
been active in his 16-month tenure of
the seat.
One of the most interesting seats in
the Commonwealth is Bruce, where the
Liberal (Snedden), A.L.P. (Ewert) and
D.L.P. (De Sachau) candidates are repeat-
ing their 1958 campaigns. Bruce includes
Dandenong, now a large industrial centre
which suffered in the economic down-
turn, particularly at General Motors-
Holden's, and the Government is hardly
popular with any section of the motor
industry ; but a swing of 4.52 per cent,
is required to unseat the Liberal, and,
more importantly, the D.L.P. says its last
election drift of 38.5 per cent, of its
preferences will never happen again.
The average D.L.P. drift is 12 per cent.,
and in 1958 the D.L.P. was not as well
organised as this year. Bruce's enrol-
ment is 87,000, the largest in the nation,
and a tribute to the growth of big indus-
try under the current Government.
Or State figures, Victoria will prob-
ably elect a Liberal and a C’.P. senator,
two A.L.P. senators and either a second
Liberal senator or Senator McManus. In
1955 Senator McManus headed the
Senate voting paper. On this occasion
he heads the fifth team named.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
Dogged Apathy
FROM A PERTH CORRESPONDENT
HThe party leaders had varying luck in
•*- Western Australia. The Country
Party's jack McEwen, who was the first to
lly in after two days of whistle-stop
meetings, expressed surprise at the lack
of public interest in the election. A few
days later, however, some 3500 turned
out to hear Mr Menzies in Forrest Place,
while his evening meeting at Geraldton
was attended by about 1000. Mr Calweil
and Mr Whitlam and Senator Cole also
tried Forrest Place at lunch-time, but
without proving anything like the draw
that Mr Menzies was. Gough Whitlam
spoke to the Fremantle wharfies, but
his chairman had to twice ask the men
to stop talking among themselves and
listen to the speaker. Menzies aside, the
campaigning only drew a response of
dogged apathy.
Calweil and Whitlam both concen-
trated on two issues of considerable
Western Australian interest. The first was
the airline services to Perth which most
Western Australians consider are inade-
quate. The other was that the Com-
monwealth's contribution of £l4 million
to the £4l million new broad-gauge rail-
way from Kalgoorlie to Kwinana was
too small.
The most likely change on December
9 is the defeat of Mr Vic Halbert
(Liberal) in the rural seat of Moore. The
seat had been held for many years by
Mr Hugh Leslie (Country Party) but in
1958 A.L.P. preferences turned the seat
over to Halbert. This time the A L.P.
preferences will go to Leslie and this
will ensure his return to Parliament.
The contest in Canning is another
Liberal-Country Party clash, and a very
open one. Five Ministers (McEwen,
Adermann, Paltridge, Hasluck and
Freeth) have been in the campaigning
and both parties have put up strong
candidates. On past form, it looks as if
A.L.P. preferences may give the seat to
the Country Party, but the campaign
is essentially one of personalities, rather
than politics.
Labor's only Western Australian seat,
Fremantle, is safe for Mr Kim Beazley.
With swings of less than one per cent.,
Labor could win back the northern Perth
electorate of Stirling, now held by Mr
E. Cash (Liberal) and Kalgoorlie, held
by Mr P. Browne.
Mr Fred Chaney (Liberal) seems safe
in the Perth electorate where he had a
4000 majority in 1958 after a narrow
win in 1955. However, he has his worries,
owing to the itinerant character of the
Perth electors. Roughly half the voters
change every three years which makes
Perth one of the most fascinating seats.
Senator Agnes Robertson is not
running again and her place as No. 1
Country Party candidate is being filled
by Mr E. W. Rowse. He is expected to
be returned, with the Liberals and A.L.P.
each getting two Senate seats.


QUEENSLAND
Stuck Like a Limpet?
FROM A CORRESPONDENT IN BRISBANE
For 12 years now Queensland has been
the Menzies Government’s “old
faithful”, returning 15 out of that State’s
18 members to the Government's benches
in the last elections, despite three terms
of neglect.
The Government has done little to
remedy this neglect in the past three
years. There has been the Mt. Isa loan,
—£2o million to be paid back (with 54
per cent, interest) in the next 20 years,
which Premier Frank Nicklin described
as “niggardly.” There has been a £5
million grant at the rate of £1 million a
year over the next five years to build beef
roads in the Gulf country.
Queensland has got little else —certainly
nothing in the way of assistance com-
parable to that given to southern States,
either in the form of direct grants or ihe
expenditure of the Commonwealth’s
massive budget.
Supply Minister Alan Hulme, a
Queenslander, allotted his home State
£795,000 out of a £5O million budget.
South Australia, with three-fifths of
Queensland’s population, got £19,394,000.
The same story can be told in relation
to every Federal department over the
last 12 years, but still the State has stuck
like a limpet to Menzies.
Not even the most optimistic Liberal
or Country Party supporter expects the
Government parties to escape unscathed
this time.
The Q.L.P. has linked with the D.L.P.,
but rank-and-file feeling in Queensland
is not nearly as strong as it is in the south.
Former Treasurer Ted Walsh, State Q.L.P.
member for Bundaberg, is critical of the
amalgamation and is not campaigning.
Former Gair Government Attorney-
General Bill Power has quit the party.
Labor should be in the box-seat in
Queensland, but it could be in for a few
surprises, northern inertia being what it
is. Labor analysts are claiming eight
certain victories. A more realistic
appraisal indicates that Labor may get
four seats.
Griffiths, a sprawling metropolitan elec-
torate embracing two entire State Labor
seats, and sections cf four others, was won
for the Liberals by Mr Chresby in
1958 on Q.L.P. preferences, by the mere
handful of 50 votes. He meets the same
Labor opponent, and the Q.L.P. has put
a new man into the field. Chresby has
slaved in the electorate, but if Labor
can't win Griffiths it can forget about any
other seat in Queensland.
Bowman, held by Mr Malcolm
McColm for the Liberals, adjoins
Griffiths. Mr McColm’s majority last
election was 5181 votes, and the A.L.P.
scents a kill in this area. Mr McColm,
however, has a strong personality, and
a brilliant war record, and he might not
be as easy to unseat as he looks. To the
near north, Mr Bandidt won Wide Bay
in 1958 by 3422 votes. The Q.L.P
influence in Bundaberg and Mary-
borough has definitely weakened since
then, and he could be hard put to it to
hold the seat. Here again, however, Mr
Bandidt has proved a capable and tire-
less member, and has probably built up
a strong personal following.
Exactly the same thing, with even
more emphasis, goes for Herbert, where
sitting Liberal member Murray is re-
garded as the best candidate put for-
ward by Queensland for a decade, with
possible hopes for Ministerial appoint-
ment. Mr Murray won the seat by 1156
votes on a joint Country Party-Liberal
endorsement, and then exercised his right
to join the Liberal party.
For the rest of the State, it looks like
no change. For the Senate, ex-Premier
Vince Gair is an even-money bet for
the Q.L.P. He drew No. 2 on the Senate,
next to the Liberals, and he is expected
to get a fairly large disgruntled Liberal
vote.
TASMANIA
Out of Step
FROM A CORRESPONDENT IN HOBART
A fter an unnaturally quiet campaign,
Tasmania seems still to be true to
its habit of being out of step with other
States.
Those who saw the Victorian election
being fought on Federal issues are intri-
gued by the situation in Tasmania, where
State issues, such as equal pay for men
and women and the move to force Laun-
ceston to adopt Saturday-morning closing
of shops, loom larger.
Like South Australia, Tasmania does
not vote the same way in Federal as in
State polls. While South Australia tends
towards Labor in Federal voting, but
resolutely returns a Liberal Government
for the State, Tasmania regularly votes in
a State Labor Government, while tending
more towards the Liberals for Canberra.
Tasmania’s five M.H.Rs. and 10
Senators are often better-known and more
active locally than the State members.
The personalities of Senate candidates
may cut across party how-to-vote cards.
There is no Country Party, and in the
House of Representatives the D.L.P.
candidates can be ignored, except for
their preferences.
The Minister for Customs, Denham
Henty, and R. C. Wright are Senate
certainties. The party has drawn top
position on the ballot paper.
Labor has Senate Opposition Leader
N. E. McKenna and A. G. Poke seeking
Senate re-election, and D. M. Devitt is
third team member. Sydney resident
McKenna has had his absenteeism spot-
lighted by the row over Labor Senator
Bill Aylett’s transfer to the Gold Coast,
but he is safe. Poke is in danger from
Devitt.
The fifth seat will almost certainly be
fought out between Orchard, the third
Liberal, Morgan (No. 1 D.L.P.) and the
(extremely) Independent, Dr R. J. D.
Turnbull. George Cole proved in 1958
that the D.L.P. can win a Tasmanian
Senate seat. The big question is whether
Morgan can win votes as Cole did in
1958 when in each division he got about
twice as many primaries as the D.L.P.
Representatives candidate.
Wilmot has been regarded since 1946
as the unassailable preserve of G. W. A.
Duthie (Labor), who so earnestly gets
to the grassroots that he often cuts across
the tracks of local Labor members of
State Parliament, and Davies (Labor),
because of population changes, seems
safe in Braddon.
In Bass, Lance Barnard (Labor) has
not been prominent. Opposing him is Fred
Marriott, who has resigned his Bass seat
in the State House after 15 years. Marriott
must be conceded a chance.
There are 575 fewer voters in Denison
than in 1958 making Defence Minister
Athol Townley even more secure.
The voters who have gone are mainly
Labor supporters now living in govern-
ment-housing areas in the surrounding
division of Franklin, where enrolment
has jumped 4336 since 1958. C. W. J.
Falkinder (Liberal), the youngest man in
Canberra when he first won the seat, is a
winning campaigner. He had an absolute
majority of 2665 in 1958 but the going will
be very tough this time.


Tanner
"WHY COULDN'T HE MARRY JACKIE KENNEDY?"


SOLITARY
The "Envelope” Man
of Fremantle
FROM A CORRESPONDENT IN PERTH
MR R. HUTCHINSON
Backed up
Fremantle jail prisoner Kenneth
Cawthray has another 36 years to go
before he equals the world record for
solitary confinement, but with more than
two years of what prison authorities
officially call “semi-segregation” behind
him he is doing very well by Australian
standards.
Like Robert Stroud, the “bird” man of
Alcatraz who spent 38 years in solitary
confinement, Cawthray has been segre-
gated from other prisoners because of
his attitude towards jail regulations.
A wrangle over his treatment began
when South Fremantle M.L.A. Harry
Curran said he had interviewed Cawthray
in prison and found a completely dis-
pirited man.
He said Cawthray had told him he had
been kept in either a small night cell or
a work cell for the whole of tw'o years,
except for an hour a day when he was
allowed to exercise.
He filled in his time by reading, folding
envelopes or talking to himself. At no
time was he allowed to speak to other
prisoners. Curran said this treatment was
barbaric and inhuman and the case
warranted a Royal Commission into the
prison admisistration.
Chief Secretary Ross Hutchinson denied
that Cawthray was kept in solitary con-
finement, but did not deny that he could
not speak to other prisoners. He said he
was in the general cell block on full
rations and was being helped with corres-
pondence study courses.
Several ex-prisoners visited local news-
papers and substantiated Curran's story.
One went further and said there was a
limit of 28 days of solitary confinement
and more could not be imposed without
the authority of a visiting J.P., which was
not given in Cawthray’s case.
A doctor was dispatched to the jail to
examine Cawthray, and reported him
mentally alert and in virile and robust
health. He had only attended one sick-
parade in 12 months —for flatulence.
Chief Secretary Hutchinson backed up
this statement with a claim that Cawthray
could have appealed against his treatment
to a visiting magistrate or to the Comp-
troller of Prisons at any time. He had
not done so until a fortnight ago, and
the Comptroller-General would see him
this week.
Nobody has yet said what alternative
there is to the continued “segration”
or “solitary confinement” of Cawthray.
He is serving an 11-year sentence for a
variety of offences, 14 of which were
committed when he broke out of Fre-
mantle two years ago and was recap-
tured at gun-point after a six-day hunt
involving most of the metropolitan police
force. After his recapture he was declared
an habitual criminal, to be detained at
the Governor's pleasure after his sen-
tences expired.
So far, Cawthray shows no signs of
emulating Robert Stroud, who used his
solitary life to become one of the world’s
leading authorities on bird diseases, and
whose unsuccessful struggle to keep his
birds and equipment against prison regu-
lations made him a sympathetic public
figure in America.
Mr Hutchinson has said that Cawthray
has been kept in semi-segregation “be-
cause he has broken just about every
prison regulation there is.” Presumably
he is being kept there because of the
fear that he would do the same thing
again if he resumed contact with other
prisoners. Under these circumstances he
may yet earn the title of the “envelope’’
man of Fremantle.
NEW ZEALAND
The Smokers in the Schoolroom
FROM PAT LAWLOR IN NEW ZEALAND
Tn 1959 tobacco consumption per head
of population in New Zealand was
4.691 b. per year. In climbing to 5.301 b.
per head in 1960 the New Zealand figure
topped the United Kingdom figure of
4.981 b. and challenged the Australian
figure of 5.491 b. This does not seem to
worry New Zealand so far as adults are
concerned, but it is now suggested that
children make up a fair proportion of
the smokers.
While schoolchildren puff away in
quiet places, young people who work in
offices and factories openly flaunt their
fags. It is not uncommon to see girls
of 13 and 14 smoking in the streets, in
trams and in buses. Cashing in on the
smoking craze among schoolchildren
some shopkeepers sell “singles” or neatly
wrapped-up packages of “fours.” One
or two of the ultra-enterprising actually
sell “halves.” Profits on such minute
quantities are considerable.
Concentrating on the school aspect of
smoking, the Department of Health has
published a 16-page booklet, entitled
“Smoking Habits of School Children.”
The facts and figures disclosed have been
sufficiently alarming to inspire leading
articles in the Press and discussions by
Local bodies. Generally the report was
taken seriously, but one or two people
considered that the Department's inves-
tigators had been told exaggerated
stories by the children.
The survey carried out by the Depart-
ment covered 4274 children at nine
secondary schools. Here is a brief con-
densation of question and answer:
(1) Have you ever smoked or tried to
smoke a cigarette?
The replies showed that more than 89
per cent, of all boys and more than 63
per cent, of girls had smoked and that
13 for boys and 16 for girls were the most
popular smoking age.
(2) At what age did you first smoke
or try to smoke a cigarette?
The answers showed that boys began
to smoke at 11 and girls a year later.
(3) At what age did you start smoking
one or more cigarettes a week regularly?
Here the girls beat the boys. More
than 63 per cent, of girls had developed
the habit in less than two years com-
pared with more than 45 per cent, of
boys.
(4) Have you smoked a cigarette in
the last four weeks?
The replies here were somewhat in-
conclusive, but it was estimated that 128
boys and 20 girls got through 40 or more
cigarettes per week.
The booklet stressed the need for
education in primary and secondary
schools on the danger to health from
smoking. This education has begun and
will be more strongly developed shortly.
A film is to be shown in the schools;
this has been designed to gain the interest
of the children. This is obvious from
the title, “Space Flight.” This picture
has been prepared by the National Film
Unit which has in other propaganda
films shown a remarkable capacity for
gaining interest.
The campaign against smoking by
schoolchildren was begun in 1957 by the
then (National) Minister of Flealth, Mr
Hanan, who attacked the problem with
all the enthusiasm of one who, until he
became a non-smoker, used to get
through his 50 cigarettes a day. The
Labor Government then came to office
and the campaign was carried on by
their non-smoking Minister of Health,
Mr Mason. Now the subject is once
more under the control of Mr Hanan
and there is talk of the campaign being
further developed.


“But, Mum, I'm not contemplating aggressive action — it's only a deterrent to Tommy Clancy's
conventional weapons."
SPORT
The Decline of the Shannon Rise
FROM GOODWIN EWENCE IN LAUNCESTON
Vl7ithin a few years the drama involv-
’’ ing the Tasmanian Hydro-Electric
Commission, the State’s trout-fishermen
and the microscopic snow caddis, on
which the trout feed, will be over. Then
the famous Shannon rise will exist only
in the notoriously long memories of
trout-fishermen.
Until 1911, the snow, or snowflake,
caddis {smicridea grisea) existed in small
numbers in a few restricted reaches of
Tasmanian highland streams where the
water flow and temperature met their
critical requirements, scarcely known to
entomologists or anglers.
Then, with the damning of the southern
outlet of the Great Lake at Miena, the
Shannon River was controlled, and the
few hundred yards of its course imme-
diately below the dam became the breed-
ing ground of millions of the caddis.
As the larvae on the rocky bottom
hatched, the caddis swarmed over the
river like snow, a prey to the trout which
crowded voraciously to feast on them
in what became known as the Shannon
rise. Casting among the reckless trout,
anglers enjoyed exciting fishing along this
short stretch of the Shannon.
But if man’s first regulation of nature
aided nature, his later reversal of the
natural order was disastrous. The chang-
ing pattern of Tasmanian hydro-electric
development, which had begun with the
regulating of the Shannon to a power-
station downstream, led to the Great
Lake becoming the storage for water
needed when new, stream-fed power-
stations ran dry in summer.
In winter, the Shannon was restricted,
and it became a torrent in summer. This
upset the conditions demanded by the
snow caddis, and by 1951 the Shannon
rise was a shadow of what it had been.
The rise began on December I—it1 —it is
invariably within a few days of that date
—but the hatch was poor and bags were
small. Anglers reproachfully turned on
the Hydro-Electric Commission, though
it had done much for them by creating
readily accessible highland lakes.
Commissioner A. W. Knight denied
that the winter flow was less than it had
been in years of excellent rises. The
weather, he suggested, had reduced the
hatch.
By 1953 it was apparent that the altered
flow was affecting the snow caddis.
Yet by 1959 the situation was restored.
The hatch was the best for some years.
It began on December 2, and by 6 a.m.
that day John Brooks, of Melbourne,
had his limit bag of a dozen trout. In
five days he grassed 49 —and three to six-
pound trout are everyday average fish in
the Shannon.
Last year the rise was very poor and
disappointed anglers again spoke despon-
dently of there being no caddis to lay
eggs for 1961, but nature has again
contradicted the prophets. The hatch
began at the end of November, in cold
conditions and rather early, but it was
immediately apparent that it would be
the best since 1954. However, fishing
was poor, possibly because there were
too many noisy sightseers and too many
anglers splashing about in the river. “If
you were a fish,” said one old-timer,
“would you come up with all this noise
going on?”
This week will reveal how 1961 will
go down in the records. And another
year or two remain. Then, it seems, the
Shannon rise will end for all time, for
when the £3O million Poatina project
is completed Miena dam will become a
permanent barrage, the Shannon will
cease to flow, and the waters of the
3600 ft. Great Lake will flow northward
to the Tamar at Launceston, producing
420,000 h.p. in Poatina’s cavern power-
house on their way.


THE AUSTRALIAN
INSTITUTE OF
POLITICAL SCIENCE
will hold a Summer School at the
Albert Hall, Canberra, 27th/29th
January, 1962 on the subject,
“Problems of Growth in the Aus-
tralian Economy.’'
Speakers will be:
ECONOMIC GROWTH, by Mr
Colin Clark, Institute for Research
in Agricultural Economics, Oxford.
Discussion to be opened by Sir John
Crawford, Director of the Research
School of Pacific Studies, Australian
National University.
PROSPECTS FOR GROWTH IN
PRIMARY INDUSTRIES, by Mr
G. D’A. Chislett, Economist, Aus-
tralian Woolgrowers & Graziers
Council.
PROSPECTS FOR GROWTH IN
SECONDARY INDUSTRIES, by Dr
J. Vernon, General Manager, Colo-
nial Sugar Refining Company Ltd.
Discussion to be opened by Dr
W. A. Westerman, Secretary,
Department of Trade.
GROWTH AND STABILITY, by
Professor Donald Cochrane, Dean
of the Faculty of Economics and
Politics, Monash University.
Discussion to be opened by Mr M.
Newton, Managing Editor, Austra-
lian Financial Review.
SOCIAL AND POLITICAL AS-
PECTS OF AUSTRALIA’S ECO-
NOMIC GROWTH, by Mr W. E. R.
Francis, President, Law Council of
Australia.
Discussion to be opened by Mr
R. J. L. Hawke, Australian Council
of Trade Unions.
POLICY FOR OPTIMUM GROWTH,
by Professor H. Arndt, Australian
National University.
Discussion to be opened by Mr
R. H. Scott, Economist.
Post this coupon for full
information to:
THE SECRETARY,
Australian Institute of P olitical
Science,
34 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
Name
Address
State
- For election matter in this issue requiring
signature, Donald Horne, of 252 George Street,
Sydney, is responsible.
MINORITIES
Freedom Fighters in Battle
for Bennelong
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
HARRY JENSEN
Student of “New Class?”
Uarry Jensen, Lord Mayor of Sydney
and Labor candidate for Bennelong
in the Federal elections, could hardly have
guessed when he visited Yugoslavia last
June that the visit would become an elec-
tion issue. Yet on December 2 leaflets
criticising Jensen for his favorable com-
ments on the state of affairs in Yugoslavia
were distributed to Bennelong electors.
The leaflets were distributed by the
anti-communist group called the Yugoslav
Freedom Fighters and Jensen may have
guessed they would act because a deputa-
tion of five members of the group visited
him in the Town Hall on his return and
told him just what they thought of his
jaunt.
They read a letter to him which con-
cluded. “Sir —You have recently visited
Yugoslavia. Whatever your reasons for
that visit we oppose them. Your visit to
Yugoslavia we consider another slap in
the face of Yugoslav people, and your
remarks after your return an insult to
our intelligence.”
Presumably the Lord Mayor's remarks
which insulted the Yugoslavs' intelligence
were that he would recommend the Yugo-
slav “workers’ management councils”
idea to the A.L.P. The delegation presen-
ted to Jensen a copy of Milovan Djilas's
book “The New Class” and pointed out
the passages which expand Djilas’s claim
that “Yugoslavia's so-called workers'
management and autonomy . . . has been
increasingly relegated to one of the areas
of party work.”
The book was inscribed by Yugoslav
ex-servicemen, the South Slav Democratic
Union, Serbian National Defence Associ-
ation. the Serbian Orthodox Community
and the Slovene Social Club.
The inscription also contained a
message for the Lord Mayor : it expressed
the hope that by reading the book he
would “learn the true nature of com-
munism and its institutions.”
The “No-Jensen” campaign is the latest
but not the last of the activities of the
Yugoslav Freedom Fighters who are an
active, non-party, non-sectarian group
centered in Sydney but with affiliations
overseas, particularly in England.
For instance, on July 26 this year, they
gatecrashed a Chevron-Hilton luncheon
given by the United Nations Ladies’
Auxiliary where the wife of the Yugoslav
Consul, Mrs Zet Josilo, was guest of
honor. They addressed the women,
pointed out that although Yugoslavia was
recognised this did not necessarily imply
approval, asserted that although the Yugo-
slav Consul appears civilised he represents
a dictatorial, totalitarian, communist
regime which has caused untold suffer-
ing to Yugoslavs since the war. Some
women left, some applauded.
The Chevron-Hilton was the scene of
their next coup. During the I.A.T.A.
(International Air Transport Association)
conference in October they somehow
managed to take the Yugoslav communist
flag down.
On November 25, the Consul, Mr
Josilo, arranged a celebration of what he
terms Yugoslavia’s national day, that is
the day on which the communist constitu-
tion was instituted. About 200 turned up
at Paddington Town Hall but a group of
Freedom Fighters entered the hall, distri-
buted leaflets and demonstrated against
Tito. Outside they overturned the Consul's
Mercedes-Benz and smashed the wind-
screen.
The Freedom Fighters as a group cut
across the linguistic, political and ethnic
differences which have so often divided
Yugoslavs. They are united by their belief
that those in the homeland cannot be
expected to fight the communist tyranny if
the Freedom Fighters don't give a lead.
They believe in a free, democratic, united
and federated Yugoslavia. They are
loosely connected with the Sydney-based,
national monthly, ZAR (“The Glow”),
which has a 2000 circulation and appears
mainly in Slovene but with articles also
in English and Serbo-Croat.
More will be heard of the Freedom
Fighters. On special occasions such as
national days a heavy police guard is
advisedly mounted at the Yugoslav
Consulate, Double Bay, just in case the
Freedom Fighters come serenading with
stones.


PLAIN ENGLISH
IN THE STALLS FOR 6d.
PUTTING up a scheme is always
a dangerous diplomatic practice
unless you are sure the scheme
will be accepted. If it is not
accepted it merely encourages others
(enemies, do-gooders, stickybeaks) to
put up counter-schemes in which you
may become entangled and which you
may even be forced to accept.
This is the lesson for the usually
prudent Dutch in what turned out
to be their ill-fated resolution seeking
United Nations’ sovereignty over West
New Guinea. Everything went wrong
with the proposal, and even the Nether-
land’s extraordinarily able representa-
tive in the U.N., Carel Schuurman, for
the first time since the Dutch Indo-
nesian dispute has been up in one
form or another before the General
Assembly, made a mistake in assessing
his votes.
DUTCH PROPOSALS AND U.N.
COUNTER-SCHEMES
VjUHEN the Dutch proposal went to
the General Assembly, the
counter-schemes came in. India’s
resolution that the Netherlands and
Indonesia resume talking was on the
face of it a great deal less dangerous
than the U.S. proposal that in any pro-
cesses of self-determination Indonesia
should have “reasonable” access to the
people of West New Guinea. Nothing
could have been calculated to “per-
suade” large sections of the West New
Guinea peoples to turn to Indonesia
more quickly than “reasonable” Indo-
nesian access to West New Guinea.
As things now stand, the Dutch have
lost ground. Nothing disguises the
fact that 41 nations voted for Indo-
nesia, and in the coming months
Indonesia will redouble its efforts to
increase that number —with some
chance of success. The Dutch Foreign
Minister, Joseph Luns —to whom a
complete solution of the West New
Guinea problem is an idee fixe—now
hasn’t got a new card in his hand.
The Government, Opposition and
largely uninformed people of this
country bear a very large share of the
blame for this Dutch defeat. The
Dutch have shouldered the West New
Guinea burden against the unyielding
hostility of Indonesia with very little
help from us.
The fact that they were sufficiently
desperate to put up such a resolu-
tion is in some ways a direct criticism
of the fact that Australia has never
been willing to support the Dutch to
the extent that was necessary to trans-
fer Australian-Dutch interests into
realities. What do we seek in New
Guinea? If for strategic reasons and
from a genuine belief in self-
determination we believe that the
Dutch should stay, then we should
have given them every aid. If we be-
lieve that in the long term Indonesian
friendship is worth more than tem-
porary Dutch occupation of West New
Guinea, then we should say so. In the
event we have sought to have our
cake and eat it or, as the Dutch
proverb has it, sought to sit in the
stalls for sixpence.
DISADVANTAGES OF “WAIT
AND SEE”
r T , HE people of West New Guinea
have received little encouragement
from the people of this country in any
really meaningful terms, and have
been actively discouraged from look-
ing towards their fellows in eastern
New Guinea for active co-operation
in the job of creating one country. In
the coming months—all that may be
left us—before the results of new
Indonesian pressure begin to be felt,
the Dutch will undoubtedly go through
their sums again and check the
answers. We should do the same.
A policy of “wait and see” can at
times have many advantages. But the
issues in West New Guinea can now
easily be misinterpreted in such a way
that they could touch off some of the
most belligerent potential in Afro-
Asian attitudes. We have had a quiet
time of it so far. But our luck may
not last. And it won’t last if the
Dutch continue to have to go it alone.
This is the most immediate problem
for the new Australian Government.
IN THE DAYS BEFORE INDO-
NESIAN INDEPENDENCE
TN the meantime it is worth noting
that during the General Assembly
debate an interesting set of facts was
brought out about the attitudes of
Indonesian independence leaders to
West New Guinea when they first
began talking about independence in
1945. They are taken from a book
written by Professor Muhammad
Yasmin, a prominent Indonesian, who
provides verbatim reports of the days
immediately preceding the proclama-
tion of independence.
He quotes Dr Soekarno as then say-
ing: “We are not obliged, either on
moral or international grounds, to
become heirs to the Dutch ... As to
Papua, I do not know the desires of
the people of Papua, but I am willing
to assume that the people of Papua
has, as yet, no understanding of
politics.”
Dr Hatta. who proclaimed Indo-
nesian independence along with Dr
Soekarno. at that time said: “Per-
sonally, I am quite willing to state
that I do not bother at all about
Papua. That can be left to the people
of Papua themselves. I recognise that
the people of Papua, too, has the right
to become a free nation.
“Only in relation to Papua I heard
statements yesterday which are rather
disquieting, because they can create
the impression abroad that we would
start by making claims which seem
imperialistic . . . We would not be
content with Papua alone, but we
would also have to claim the Solomon
Islands and so on up to the Pacific
Ocean. Would we be able to maintain
such a large territory? Have we
enough strength to be able to rule
such a great territory?”


PROFILE OF A CAMPAIGN
By MUGGA
IT cannot be attributed to lack of money—although all
parties have been short of it; it is not due to the impact
of television —it is the same in country towns where
there is no television; it is not because the public is
apathetic about the shape of things to come; it cannot be
due merely to the easy familiarity existing between Mr
Menzies and Mr Calwell (in contrast to the bad feeling
between Mr Menzies and Dr Evatt) —though this may have
watered down the mud. Yet the fact remains that this
has been one of the dullest elections in Australian history.
Where the trouble may lie is that party leaders were
slow to break new ground. We do not have an Establish-
ment in this country which throttles debate; but by a freak
of circumstances we have Establishment politics. This was
a politicians’ election which, like poets’ poetry, was not
for the general reader.
Take for example the issue, which, after all allow-
ances are made for public apathy, is pretty generally
recognised as a major issue—Australia’s survival in an
uncertain world. Only the D.L.P. bothered to define this
issue properly (whatever one thinks of its solution). Mr
Calwell did not want a foreign policy election on the lines
of the last American election. He had committed himself
to abolishing SEATO as a military alliance, to recognis-
ing Red China and admitting it to the United Nations
(“All nations should be in the United Nations”). In short,
his policy boiled down to a mixture of neutralism and
appeasement. The less he said about it the better in case
he gave ammunition to the Liberals and the D.L.P. On
the other hand, Mr Menzies didn’t make too much too
early of Labor’s foreign policy, because, although his policy
of commitment was obviously a sounder one. he would
have had to explain away his actions over Suez. South
Africa and in the United Nations as Mr Calwell emptied
his bucket. So out went foreign policy except near the end.
Or take the Labor party’s attitude to the Communist
party, unity tickets, peace fronts, and all that. Mr Calwell
spoke of an “unbridgeable gulf” between Labor and com-
munism (one might have expected stronger and more pre-
cise words), but some observers were mystified by his
unwillingness to exploit the victory of the A.L.P. member.
Mr C. Fitzgibbon, over the communist Mr T. Nelson in
the waterside workers’ election. The reason obviously was
that the Labor party did almost nothing to help Fitz-
gibbon. and again the less Mr Calwell said about it the
better. In Melbourne some A.L.P. members actually sup-
ported Nelson. The Victorian State Secretary. Mr Cyril
Wyndham. issued a circular stating that party rules pre-
vented the A.L.P. from supporting Fitzgibbon. and the
Federal Secretary. Mr F. Chamberlain, backed Wyndham
It was the alliance of the National Civic Council and Mr
“Gus” Alford with anti-communist A.L.P. men that swung
Fitzgibbon to office. If Mr Calwell had taken up the Fitz-
gibbon case as a Labor party victory over communism the
whole sordid scandal of A.L.P. support of Nelson would
have quickly been exposed, leading to a general airing of
unity tickets, peace fronts, fellow-travelling Senate candi-
dates and the rest of the skeletons in Mr Calwell's capacious
cupboard. On the other hand. Mr Menzies took almost a
fortnight to attack in anything approaching specific terms
the A.L.P.’s compromising stand on communism. But no
sooner had he done so than Mr McEwen came out and
announced: “We are not here to try to get your votes by
running down any other political parties” (and scored a
rare good mark from “The Sydney Morning Herald” for
saying it). This may at least have suggested he could have
run down a political' party or two like nobody's business if
he wanted to, but it ruled out a sustained attack. One
assumes the Government preferred to leave the early work
to the D.L.P.. perhaps because it did not want to collect
the backwash, perhaps because it preferred to let com-
munism ride as a “sleeper” in the early part of the cam-
paign. However that may be. the Melbourne “Age”
regarded Senator Cole’s references to “treachery and faint-
heartedness” on the part of some A.L.P. men as “offen-
sive.” when it was the plain truth. Again a major issue
that would have raised headlines was ruled out for major
discussion.
Development of the north was a big issue which
received passing mention all round (and some good A.L.P.
documentaries on TV), but since there were no voters there
to speak of it lacked urgency; however, the elections have
done a good P.R. job on de\elopment of the north. Mr
Calwell pledged himself not to nationalise anything for
three years, so no one was supposed to talk about that.
“Personalities” were ruled out because Mr Calwell and
Mr Menzies did not care to engage in them. Since it
would have been an act of insanity for Mr Menzies to
have attacked the D.L.P., and since Mr Calwell (although
trying to pinch parts of its policy) did not want to give the
D.L.P. any publicity, it. too. was barely mentioned,
although in the Victorian State elections it commanded the
first loyalty of about one-sixth of the voters. New Guinea
policy was patted on the back and then forgotten, though
an Australian election without it is like a French election
without Algeria.
The European Common Market was widely mentioned.
Even their worst enemies could not pretend that Mr
Menzies or Mr McEwen played down the dangers involved.
But with this, too, there were no policies involved (except
for the D.L.P.’s Pacific Confederation, which got lost in
the wash); it was an issue of who would be the best negotia-
tors. an old team or a new.
So the issues canvassed were not necessarily new
matters that might have interested the voters but old
bromides that the political leaders decided they could
safely swallow' in public while the electorate looked on.


Mr Calwell plugged unemployment and the desire for a
change and Mr Menzies plugged his record. Unemploy-
ment was probably the best Mr Calwell could do. It had
its uses as an image-tarnisher and time-for-a-change indica-
tor. Heaven only knows what he would have done with-
out it.
With the politicians not talking about the things that
would have made people cross the road to listen, it was
not surprising that the crowds were small. In Perth three
people turned up to hear one Government Minister; in
Melbourne no one turned up to hear another. In Gerald-
ton, W.A., the Liberals brought out the bagpipes to
welcome Mr Menzies, but even there, where Nelson won
a majority of votes in the watersiders’ elections, the meeting
was small and quiet. There were no gimmicks. Only the
Student Action committee in Melbourne disturbed the
peace, and clearly they only got away with it because the
rest of the public let them.
AT the end of the first week of campaigning it looked as
if Mr Calwell was technically up on points (if points
can really be scored in a dull campaign). From a purely
performance viewpoint, it was as if we were back in 1949
with the names changed and the interest lacking. Mr
Menzies, like Mr Chifley, stood on his record. Mr Calwell,
like Mr Menzies in 1949, attacked the Government and
promised happy days again, although he used a few more
metaphors than Mr Menzies. On paper he had unemploy-
ment, the Fitzgibbon victory and in N.S.W. the support
of “The Sydney Morning Herald” and “Sun” and partial
support of “The Daily Mirror.” It wasn’t 1949 of course.
Mr Menzies then had the groundswell of the great post-war
revulsion against planning and austerity and many months
of campaigning already behind him —against communist
strikes, socialisation of banks and inflation. In 1961 Mr
Calwell started cold. He had been too busy with his own
party’s squabbles to do any preliminary campaigning. In
the preceding Victorian State elections, despite unem-
ployment, his party had even lost a seat. “The Sydney
Morning Herald’s” last-minute spurt was unlikely to make
up for that, and he shied off using Fitzgibbon. Still Mr
Menzies, to his critics and the point-scorers, seemed com-
placent and on the defensive. He risked seeming indifferent,
out of touch, unenterprising. His refusal to appear on the
A.B.C. television programme “The Candidates” was quoted
against him. Mr Calwell challenged Mr Menzies to say
whether or not he was satisfied with the state of the
economy (“Have you stopped beating your wife?”). Time
was filled in costing Mr Calwell’s promises: £l7om. said
Mr Calwell; £3oom. said Mr Menzies in reply, bringing
it up to £soom. the next day; £3oom. said Mr McEwen the
same day; £24om. said Mr Holt. With everyone publicising
Mr Calwell’s promises, no one was talking about the
A.L.P.
Mr Menzies first took the initiative on Friday. Novem-
ber 24, at Geelong. The Labor party, he said, was dis-
united —“three or four groups almost with knives in their
hands.” Although the next day the Victorian A.L.P.
belatedly expelled a unity-ticketer, Mr Calwell counter-
charged at Ringwood on the 27th. Mr Menzies. he said,
had surrounded himself with “supine Ministerial yes-men
and sycophantic aspirants for office.” (Try saying that 12
times quickly.) Mr Menzies had already dumped Lord
Casey, Mr Fairhall, Sir Neil O’Sullivan, Sir Wilfred Kent
Hughes, and the next to go would be Senator Spooner.
The ice now cracked, if not broken, Mr Calwell then tried
alliteration. Mr Menzies, he said, had been “mauled at
Manhattan, derided at Delhi and scuttled at Suez.” On
Wednesday the 29th in the agricultural pavilion at Bega,
N.S.W., Mr Menzies finally got around to rolling the com-
munist question up to Mr Calwell. He demanded that Mr
Calwell say where Labor stood and why it was going to
repeal the 1951 Clean Ballot legislation. In reply Mr Cal-
well produced his “unbridgeable gulf” and reached for his
anti-McCarthyism. Mr Menzies kept at it for the rest of
the campaign.
On debating points Mr Menzies had evened the score;
unemployment was now only one of the issues. The elec-
tion stumbled on from incident to incident; the A.B.C.’s
“Candidates” programme (as surprising for the A.B.C.’s
refusal to give in to Mr Menzies’s boycott as for the boy-
cott); the odd Liberal, such as Malcolm McColm, who
ignored the boycott; the poor showing on TV of most
candidates, despite closed circut practice for some; the
Adelaide meeting where Mr Menzies could not speak, as
the lights had failed, and the audience listened to Mr Calwell
on a transistor instead; Mr W. C. Wentworth’s 104 tele-
grams, each of 561 words, costing £728 (but one of the
few good statements on nuclear testing); the street duel
between Mr Holt and Mr Arnell over unity tickets; Sydney
Lord Mayor Jensen's recruiting of quizmaster John Dease
to speak for him at Bennelong and his glossy pamphlet
which the Liberals claimed “The Sydney Morning Herald”
paid for, though a writer in the “Sun-Herald” claimed the
automobile business paid for it; the claim of Mr J. J. Clark.
Labor member for Darling, that he personally had saved
the people of Cobar and Broken Hill from having Asian
masters —a reference to the abortive takeover bid for
Broken Hill South; the police ejection of three hecklers
from Mr Calwell’s Brisbane meeting; Mr Tiger Brennan’s
door-knocking campaign in the Northern Territory, where
no public meetings are held, attacking “His Elegance, Mr
Menzies;” the withdrawal of Mr Leslie Haylen’s first how-
to-vote Senate ticket which, despite an Executive ruling,
placed two Left-wingers above a Right-winger; and Mr
Haylen’s subsequent announcement that the D.L.P. (“this
terrorist organisation”) was threatening to blow him up.
One curiosity was the attitude of the Press to the
D.L.P.-Q.L.P. The papers in each State reported its meet-
ings with varying degrees of detail—except in Sydney, where
“The Sydney Morning Herald” and “Sun,” at the time of
our going to press, had set a new standard in journalism by
not reporting one single D.L.P. statement, yet attacking the
party in their editorial columns and commentaries as a
nark party that exaggerated communist threats. Even the
papers which recognised its existence in the news columns
often had difficulty in understanding what it was all about.
The “Age” needed such words as “hysterical,” “nightmare”
and “humgug” to account for it. and the Adelaide “News”
and Sydney “Daily Mirror” ticketed it off as “a negative
destructive force,” although the “Mirror” featured an
article by the D.L.P.’s General Secretary. The Launceston
“Examiner” was one of the few that attempted to find out
what makes the D.L.P. tick. The Sydney “Daily Telegraph"
and the Melbourne “Herald” group of papers were the onl
papers that regularly reported D.L.P. candidates’ state
ments as if they belonged to a party commanding the
allegiances of at least one-tenth of the electors.
The two biggest comic turns in the election were fr '-
vided by the Melbourne Student Action Committee ; ..a
“The Sydney Morning Herald.”
Leading candidates in Melbourne suffered from the
heckling, singing and the attacks on what they called f e
“White Australia Policy” of the Melbourne students. They
were more irritating to Mr Calwell than to Mr Menzies.
who seemed to have a better understanding of how to
handle slapstick. At his first big Melbourne meeting Mi


•m
mmrnmm
whatever you choose
to drink . . .
LASSETER’S LAST
To 1 i parts
Gilbey’s add 1
tspn. sugar and
the juice of a
fresh lemon.
Half fill tall
glass with
crushed ice;top
up with cold
soda; garnish
with lemon
slice.
THE GIMLET
Add 3 parts
Gilbey’s to one
part lime juice.
Stir, add ice and
cocktail cherry.
■
min
GIN
k ‘
■jT" '-fc
don’t say gin... say
GILBEY’S
„ UJJ
HELP
LEGACY
oil the year round. Donations: 169
Elizabeth Street/Sydney. BM 2001.
Calwell had to sneak in the back door to avoid them and
forgo the triumphal march down the aisle amid thunderous
applause.
On the last Monday in November, when Mr Calwell
addressed a small meeting in Ringwood, Victoria, one of
the students, who is also an A.L.P. member, handed him
a copy as he walked in of Mr Calwell’s confidential circular,
to all endorsed candidates, on immigration policy in which
he described Asian students who wanted to stay in Aus-
tralia as “escapists and deserters.” At question time the
student, waving his blue party-ticket, asked Mr Calwell if
he were really the author of this “insult to Asians.” Mr
Calwell said yes and denounced the student for publicising a
confidential circular in a damaging way. As he left the hall
he told him: “You had no bloody right, young man. if you
want to change any of our policies, change them in the
party. Otherwise start a party of your own.”
This has been the first time students have played a
prominent part in an Australian election, but their mixture
of holier-than-thou attitudes, larrikinism and conceit
(esoteric in-group jokes against Mr Menzies: “Good on
you. Norm, you’re in the Everage country all right”) did
their cause more harm than good.
More sustained was “The Sydney Morning Herald’s”
decision to support the Labor party. It followed a con-
ference in the “Herald” building in Broadway on Friday,
November 17, between Mr Calwell and Mr R. A. G.
Henderson, the “Herald’s” managing director. (Mr Calwell
left by the back door.) The “Herald’s” editorials found
Mr Calwell “bold and challenging . . . exciting . . . lively
... a breath of fresh air after the long stagnation of Gov-
ernment thinking.” Only unity tickets “disturbed” its
euphoria, as it invented its own image of the A.L.P. and
then praised it. Its campaign reached its high point of
comedy on December 1 in a manifesto entitled “The
‘Herald’s’ Political Principles.” in which it explained that,
since the Liberals had espoused Socialism, the Labor party
was the hope of free enterprise. The low point was reached
when the “Herald’s” afternoon paper, the “Sun.” dis-
covered Mr Menzies’s “heart murmur.” On Tuesday,
December 2. a 2SM radio reporter asked Mr Menzies: “Sir.
we had a rumor that you had a heart murmur.” According
to the reporter. Mr Menzies treated it as a joke and said:
“You are inventing the rumor, my boy.” The “Sun.”
however, announced on its posters: “Heart Rumor.
MENZIES ANGRY.” It then reported this incident in a
way that reminded one that a former “Sydney Morning
Herald” editor had once described the “Sun” as one of the
worst newspapers in the world. An estimate of Sydney
reaction was that the “Sun” may have gained a few votes
for Mr Menzies.
How is this election going to go? The campaign, short
of any last-minute hungers, was a classic example of what
the late Mr Chifley had in mind when he suggested that
elections were often decided three months before the cam-
paign began by the political images then prevailing in the
minds of the electors. We know what images were in the
minds of Victorian electors at that time, and it is hard to
see how the election campaign would have changed them.
Whatever images were already in the minds of the rest
of Australia would probably still be there. Our guess is
that the image of the A.L.P. as a party not yet fit kT govern
is stronger than the A.L.P.'s last-minute attempt to stick
that label on to the Liberals. As elections go, this one
may have been summed up by Senator Spooner when he
said: “Obviously the extent of the informal vote will deter-
mine the result of the election.”


“It’s marvellous the difference a coat of paint makes to a room !”


MY LIFE IN OILS
By DON WHITE
IN 1959 I wrote a terribly good article called “1400
Miles in an Arab Dhow.” I sold it —immediately—to
the Adelaide “Chronicle” for £3 13s. 6d. (one illustra-
tion). Never the type of writer to rest on my laurels,
I sat down before my trusty Olivetti and typed it out
again. This time I called it “30 Arabian Nights” and
sold it to the Dunedin “Evening Star” for £4 10s. 6d. (two
illustrations). By now the Muse had me feverish in her
grasp. I typed it out again—three times. “30 Days
Before the Mast —Arab Fashion” (Wellington “Evening
Post,” £5 55.); “From Basra to Karachi in an Arab Dhow”
(“Seacraft.” £9 95.) and “Sinbad the Sailor, That’s Me!”
(“Junior Telegraph,” £5 55.).
I typed it out once more. Listlessly. Muses work a
40-hour week. too. I couldn't even think of a new title. I
pushed the typewriter away from me, petulantly, and
applied for a job with a typewriter company hawking black-
and-red ribbons and reams of bank. They made me wear
a hat.
It was still 1959 when I sold a black-and-red (standard)
typewriter ribbon to the secretary of the Bissietta Art
Gallery.
“Put it in for me,” she said, quite hysterically.
“Machines terrify me!”
I ribboned the machine. She watched with open-
eyed, unhidden admiration, the way stenographers wriggle
their toes and watch men with pneumatic drills and sweaty
armpits.
“I’ll make you some tea,” she said, and she did,
although she poured the tea into a cup containing two
Bonox cubes and she didn’t have any milk or sugar.
I told her that I wasn’t really a typewriter-ribbon
salesman at all, but that I was a writer, and I showed her
a clipping from the Adelaide “Chronicle” and a copy of
my book, “Get Up and Go,” which I happened to have
with me. She had never met a writer before. She paid me
265. on the spot for a copy of my book. I autographed it
for her.
She told me that she wasn’t really an art-gallery
secretary at all, but that she was an artist. I had never
met an artist before (although I have Albert Namatjira’s
autograph on a Central Railway menu card), and when
she said she wanted to paint me as the eyes of Moses, I
said yes.
I went to her studio in West Ryde (her mother
and father thought it was their home) and posed. Came
a mosaic as John the Baptist (the neck-bone still connecka
to the —shoulder-bone), charcoal drawings as Colette’s
Cheri, some bad-tempered conti studies and an oil as
St Sebastian after the archery bit. Sebastian was my
favorite. She’d caught that look you get when you find
your pay packet’s been docked for being late on Tuesday.
Then an evening sitting on the edge of the kitchen
sink, swinging our legs, drinking tea and Bonox (“our
drink”), Sharne said, “You’re going to paint!”
“No!” 1 said.
She said, “Yes!” Did not her position as secretary
to Professor Bissietta (the Professor Bissietta) entitle her
to pass on his gems of artistic knowledge to me. After all,
he was Italian.
Her mother loaned me the faded blue smock that she
had worn as a hairdresser at Elizabeth French (I look
very Montmartre) and Sharne prepared my palette, my
easel and my canvas, showed me how to hold the palette
without looking like the Tivoli ballet and what to do with
turps. “Now,” she said, all excited. “What are you going
to paint?”
“You! As Anna Christie.”
“Oh.” she clasped her hands together, reverently.
“Tolstoy!”
I did a self-portrait next, and, though the eyes were
too far apart, it was quite superb. I painted my friend
Vernon next, and then Shame’s mother, then Sharne again.
Then I painted myself again. Then, “Now what?”
“Exhibit, of course!” she said.
You who have never painted, never put Rose Madder
to canvas, you can’t begin to imagine the thrill, the spine-
tingling excitement of the verb “to exhibit.”
“The Archibald,” I said, holding my breath, religiously.
(Me in the National Gallery!) “No.” “The Blake?”
(Me in Mark Foy’s!) “No.” “But there aren’t any other
other exhibitions in Australia. Are there?” (I was very
young in 1959.) “We’re going to exhibit at the Festival of
Falling Leaves. At Tumut, N.S.W. It’s a good beginning.”
The fever-pitch days that followed. The filling in
application forms, the labelling the pictures, the varnishing
them, the framing them, the packing them, and the moment
of supreme self-revelation . . . pricing them.
Then. Success! The proprietor of The Hovel in
Kings Cross asked me if I could let him have one or two
paintings for his decor. “I might be able to sell one of
them,” he didn’t promise. Sell!
I gave him Shame’s mother as the Witch of Endor
(1 mixed too much Veridian with my flake white) and one
of Sharne as Rosaleen Norton, but he didn’t sell them.
The cafe was 12ft square. It was lit by four candles.
One evening (I went there every evening. For
coffee.) a girl (university type, mauve stockings and lip
salve) looked up at the Witch of Endor and said. “I’ll give
Kevin a portrait for his birthday. He’ll hate it!”
I insinuated my way from the seat next-to-her-but-
one to the seat next to her and said, “At your service!”
My first commission. She gave me two pictures of
her boyfriend and offered me a fiver, including frame.
“Better be good,” she admonished. “John Hearder’s only
five bob more.”
I did it over the weekend. She seemed pleased enough.
“I like the patchwork-quilt effect on the face, all ihose
different colors,” she smiled. Then enthused. “And I'm
mad for the frame!”, paid me five singles and left.
Fortnight later the portraits came back from Tumut.
Presumably all the leaves had fallen. But I’d been hung!
Then, somehow, life seemed empty again. The sight
of the faded blue Elizabeth French smock on the bed-
room door didn’t excite me to dreams of the National
Gallery any more. I had painted. I had exhibited, l had
been commissioned. What more had art to offer me?
I sold two reams of yellow bank to Walton-Sears. The
secretary on the third floor was a blonde dream with a
voice . . . oh, what a voice! ... a voice like steaming
coffee with a dash of rum.
“Why aren’t you on the stage?” I said.
“Yes?” she said in that bottle-department-espresso
voice.
“I’ll write a play,” I swore.
“Oh, yes!” she said. “Yes.”


KELLY RIDES
AGAIN
As told to
GARY SHEAD
“Edward Kelly, will you stop
ruining my biscuit-tins /”
“//e found he had to wear glasses
“For me /”
“Will you pipe down,
Mother /”
“May I have your autograph P”
“/ don t care what you say, I like
baroque ornament.


BUT WHY ALBANIA?
By SALVADOR DE MADARIAGA
The two big housewives cannot afford to call
each other names—at any rate in public
“T'T7'7 r HEN housewives fall out truths fly about.” says
VX/ a Spanish proberb. The once-united Communist
** party is split, and so seriously that truths are
beginning to fly about. The object of the dispute
is Albania, and the David who dares stand up to the
Goliath of Moscow is Mr Hoxha, the micro-Stalin of one
of the smallest communist States. Why Albania?
This question is more complex than might appear at
first sight. The first way to understand it is the most direct:
why should Albania be the only (or the first) satellite to
rebel against the tyranny of Moscow? The answer is plain.
Because it is not contiguous to the Soviet Union. In order
to punish Albania, the Soviet tanks would have to break
through other satellites, plus Yugoslavia as well.
This is no mere truistic observation. This, in fact,
means that, were it not for that fateful contiguity which
binds them to silence, the bigger satellites would have
broken the unanimity of the communist world much earlier
than little Albania has done. Everybody knows that the
Poles bear up with Gomulka because they want to spare
themselves a Soviet invasion.
But “Why Albania?” admits of another meaning. Why
should the doings and the sayings of this little communist
party swell into so much importance? The answer may not
be quite as clear as in the first case; but it is not very
mysterious either. We have to bear in mind that com-
munists have a language of their own; that when they say
“peace” they mean “surrender to communist conditions”;
when they say “anti-party” they mean “anti-Khrushchev”;
when they say “peaceful coexistence” they mean “com-
munist subversion”; when they say “democracy” they mean
“communism”; and so forth. That well understood, the
Albanian conundrum becomes clear: when the communists
say “Albania” they mean “China.”
The two big housewives cannot afford to call each
other names —at any rate in public. So the Soviet Union
attacks Albania, meaning China; and China defends
Albania, meaning herself. But what are the defence and
the attack about?
This question is no less complex than the first. On
the surface it seems that the trouble comes from a differ-
ence of attitude towards Stalin, on the one hand, and
towards the tactics to be followed in the cold war, on
the other. By and large, the Chinese or Albanian attitude
is more pro-Stalin and more aggressive towards the West
than the attitude of Moscow. These differences, however,
may well turn out to be more in the nature of symptoms
than of actual causes of the trouble. The root of the crisis
is no other than the growing discontent of the communist
parties of the world with the dictatorial ways of the
Communist Party of the Soviet Union.
Out of 81 communist parties attending the 22nd
Congress. 41 sided with “Albania”-China against the Soviet
Union, since they abstained from condemning Albania as
Moscow had proposed. This is undoubtedly the most
serious split ever observed in the hitherto monolithic struc-
ture of world communism. But the question arises: were
all these parties voting as they did because they felt more
pro-Stalin and more aggressive than Khrushchev?
Doubts on this point are justified. The leader of the
opposition—much as he may hide his hand —as Mao Tse
Tung. Now Mao Tse Tung rose to power not with the
help of Stalin but against Stalin’s advice and wish. It is
difficult to believe that the Chinese leader would go the
length of an open split with the Soviet Union for the sake
of the memory of a man to whom he owed less than
nothing.
Grave as this Sino-Soviet split evidently is for world
communism, the second public and dramatic condemnation
of Stalin by his successor is graver still: Mr Khrushchev
must have acted on powerful reasons to act as he has done,
and in the way he has done. Though trained by years of
experience to stand now on their feet, now on their
head, as it pleases Moscow, other communist parties must
sooner or later come to find so much apish slavery intoler-
able. The first grumblings have been heard within the
Italian party. The November meeting of its Central Com-
mittee heard the ill-veiled complaint of Togliatti about the
casual way in which big decisions are taken by Moscow
without any information being previously offered to com-
rades abroad; and Senator Terracini, perhaps the most
prominent communist figure in Italy after Togliatti. pointed
out that “the monstrous process of degeneration” revealed
in the 20th and 22nd Congresses could not be due only to
one man; and that other revelations might follow which
might “sweep away even Comrade Khrushchev.”
This language is new in the communist world. A wind
of freedom and emancipation is blowing over communism,
even in Russia. This wind is bound to be deadly for
communism. The expulsion of the body of Stalin from
the communist sanctum sanctorum is bound to have untold
effects. Stalino and Stalingrad may change names; but who
can save from ridicule the holders of Stalin prizes all over
the world? Who can guess what the Russian people will
think of the condemnation of Stalin for crimes against his
country and mankind, when everybody knows that Mr
Khrushchev was one of his trusted lieutenants? Com-
munism seems to be entering a period if disintegration.
Only one thing can save it: a naive “Let’s talk and be
friends” from the “Why not?” West; a de jure, or de facto,
or tacit, or discreet recognition of Herr Ulbricht; a failure
to recognise that since Mr Khrushchev is moved to horse-
deal on peace, the time has come to stand out for liberty.


C.S.R. Co's half-yearly report
Points from General Managers
report to shareholders
In his recently released report to shareholders, Dr. James
Vernon, General Manager of The Colonial Sugar Refining
Company Ltd., mentioned:
• hope of stability in Fiji
• financial results in building materials and chemicals depressed
by imports and low sales
• steady profitability of sugar activities in Australia and New
Zealand.
Dr. Vernon said: “The position in Fiji has been advanced bv the issue of the
report of the Fiji Sugar Inquiry Commission and it is hoped that stability will
be reached in accordance with the recommendations of the report.
“Uncertainties and adverse factors, including the level of imports of
some goods and the slow rate of sales recovery in others, persist in the Australian
economic scene and continue to cause anxiety over a considerable area of the
Company’s affairs. The financial results of our Building Materials Division and,
even more, of our chemical activities have been depressed by these influences
during the half-year.
“The profitability from our sugar activities in Australia and New Zealand
is steady.”
THE COMPANY’S
SUGAR ACTIVITIES
Raw Sugar
Australian raw sugar mills: The Com-
pany’s seven mills in Queensland and New
South Wales are expected to make about
300,000 tons of raw' sugar in the 1961
season, the same amount as in the previous
season.
Fiji raw sugar mills: The report of the
Fiji Sugar Inquiry Commission was pub-
lished earlv in September and the main
recommendations of immediate importance
include—
1. The establishment bv legislation of:
• the positions of independent chairman
of the sugar industry, independent vice-
chairman, and independent accountant;
• a sugar board composed of the above
three persons;
• a sugar advisory council consisting of 18
members including the members of the
sugar board.
2. A draft contract to continue until 31st
March 1970 for the cultivation of cane and
its sale by the growers to the Company.
To carry out the proposals in the report
there will need to be substantial alterations
and adjustments to the manner in which the
industry has been operated. Some provisions
in the report and the recommended contract
are not welcome to the Company and it is
likely that some parts are not as the growers
would have wished. However, the Company
has publicly stated its considered opinion
that were the parties now' to seek variations
the careful and deliberate planning of the
Commission would be nullified in large
degree; and that the only practicable course
seems to be for all parties and persons con-
cerned to accept without alteration the cane
contract and the relevant legislative machin-
ery, all as recommended and interpreted
in the Commission’s report.
Refined Sugar
Australia: Sales of sugar products for the
half-year ended 30th September were
243,000 tons, an increase of 4% on the
corresponding half-year of 1960.
New Zealand: Sales of sugar products by
our subsidiary, New Zealand Sugar Co. Ltd.,
were 52,700 tons for the half-year ended
30th September, a small increase over the
corresponding period of 1960.
SUGAR INDUSTRY
MATTERS
European Common Market
At this stage we see no reason why the
Commonwealth Sugar Agreement should not
be accepted by the Common Market coun-
tries on a continuing basis; or, alternatively,
why its substantial equivalent should not be
guaranteed on a long term basis. However,
this matter must obviously become part of
the negotiations. The whole question has the
closest possible attention of the Australian
Commonwealth and Queensland Govern-
ments, the Sugar Industry Associations and
this Company.
BUILDING MATERIALS
There are indications of a very slight
improvement in the building trade but we
expect that it will be some time in 1962
before any steady expansion again becomes
apparent, even if there is some positive
stimulus given by the Commonwealth
Government.
C.S.R. Fibreboard Group: This group in-
cludes Masonite and Timbrock hardboards,
Cane-ite insulating board and Acousti-tiles.
Sales of these products during the Septem-
ber half-year were slightly less than for the
same period last year.
Pyneboard Pty. Ltd. (60% C.S.R.): The
quality of the Pyneboard made at Oberon,
N.S.W., is very good by world standards and
sales have been close to plant capacity.
Pyneboard (Gippsland) Pty. Ltd. (50%
C.S.R.): We have entered into this 50-50
joint company with Australian Paper Manu-
facturers Ltd., to make Pyneboard in Vic-
toria.
Dr. James Vernon
The Ruberoid Company of Australia Pty.
Ltd. (60% C.S.R.): The Ruberoid factory
at Altona in Victoria was completed and
began manufacturing bitumen-impregnated
felt roofing in September.
Floor Tiles: Our Vinylflex (Vinyl asbestos)
floor tiles are continuing to hold a sub-
stantial share of the Australian market
because of their high quality. However, we
and other local manufacturers are suffering
severely from imports, which over the past
two years have increased from negligible
quantities to about 25% of the total market.
C.S.R. Hi-vinyl floor tiles are now being
sold and are receiving favourable notice
from architects and builders.
Plaster Products: Because of the reduc-
tion in housing construction in all States,
the total demand for these products has been
lower than for the same period last year.
Mineral Fibres Group: Sales of B.T
Fibretex mineral wool insulation and
Styltone acoustic tiles have continued to
improve although at a slower rate.
The demand at home and abroad for blue
asbestos fibre from our mine at Wittenoom
remains firm.
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS
Sales of chemical products from C.S.R.
Chemicals Pty. Ltd. (60% C.S.R.), which
have been depressed during the half-year,
have improved slightly over the last month
or two in tonnage although prices arc
generally below those of 18 months ago.
Severe competition has developed in world
chemical markets, mainly because of excess
plant capacity in many countries. The Aus-
tralian chemical industry has been under
the heavy pressure of very low prices quoted
for importation into Australia.
A protective tariff has been imposed on
imported vinyl acetate monomer and the
bounty on cellulose acetate flake has been
renewed until 1964, although at a lower
rate than previously. Our request for tariff
protection on ascorbic acid (vitamin C) has
been refused and production has ceased.
C.S.R.C.-Dow Pty. Ltd. (50% C.S.R.
Chemicals): Production of styrene monomer
has commenced; it is being supplied to the
adjoining synthetic rubber factory at Altona,
as well as being used for polystyrene plastics
production.
B. F. Goodrich-C.S.R. Chemicals Pty. Ltd.
(40% C.S.R. Chemicals): Sales of Polyvinyl
chloride (PVC) have been low during the
past few months but are now improving.
Certain changes in the tariff have brought
more stability than hitherto to the protection
on PVC. CSR7I3A


FORUM
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
AND THE STUART CASE
After the Stuart case South Australia may
never be the same again
By PETER KELLY
A r about 2.30 p.m. on Saturday, December 20, 1958, nine-year-old Mary
Hattam and a friend, Peter facobson, went to play on the beach of
a small country town called Ceduna, 516 miles from Adelaide. Some
time during that day, after her friend had gone home, she was reported
missing and it wasn't until 12.30 a.m. that a group of men eventually
discovered her body lying in a cave near where the children had been
playing. After a subsequent examination by a Dr Kathleen Thompson,
the child was found to have been raped and her s\ull battered. Two
days later, on Monday evening, a party of police took, a “slightly built
dark man” with them to the police station for questioning. They arrived
there about 10 p.m. fust before midnight, the man, Rupert Max Stuart,
who had at first denied any k now^e^-Se °f t^ie crime, printed his name
at the bottom of a confession typed out for him by a policeman.
After a “footprint test,” made with the aid of black trackers, the police
arrested Stuart and charged him with the murder.
A. month later, on January 21, 1959,
at a preliminary hearing in Ceduna, he
was committed for trial in the Supreme
Court of South Australia. The case even-
tually began on April 20 and on Friday,
April 24„ 12 good men and true found
/,im guilty of murder and the South Aus-
tralian judge, Mr Justice Reed, had no
alternative but to sentence him to death.
Unless he appealed to a higher Court
or the Government saw fit to commute
his sentence, Stuart was to be hanged
on the 28th day after his conviction.
His subsequent application for leave to
appeal to the Full Court of South Aus-
tralia against the conviction and sentence
was turned down “without the slightest
reservation.”
It was then that a small, almost acci-
dental, incident occurred which subsequ-
ently affected many people. Stuart, who
was in jail, had been visited in turn by
a Salvation Army officer, a Lutheran
pastor, as well as by a Catholic chaplain,
Father John O’Loughlin. Father O’Lough-
lin who, like the other prison pastors, had
found Stuart uncommunicative, men-
tioned him and his case to a Father
Thomas Dixon, M.S.C., who lived a mile
from the jail and who had spent two years
on a mission station among the Aranda
(or Arunta) tribe —the tribe from which
Stuart carne. After borrowing the trans-
cript and Stuart’s confession Father Dixon
had doubts that the confession which he
read could have been dictated by Stuart.
Stuart appealed to the High Court of
Australia against his conviction and
sentence; and this Court, although
“certain features of this case have caused
us some anxiety,” issued a judgment
against him. The only two chances he
had now of remaining alive were if the
Executive of the South Australian Gover-
nment changec his sentence to life impris-
onment or if he appealed to the judicial
committee of the Privy Council to set
aside three Australian judgments. In
Australia’s “Hanging State” his chances
of having the death penalty set aside
were, to say the least, extremely meagre.
The Executive, despite petitions, tele-
grams and exhortations from prominent
Australians, took only 20 minutes to
decide that: “The prisoner is left for
execution in the due course of the law.
No recommendation is made for pardon
or reprieve.”
Otuart’s solicitors, Mr J. D. O’Sullivan
and Miss Helen Devaney, took the
only course open to them and appealed
to the Privy Council. This appeal, too,
was rejected but the Council, in O’Sulli-
van’s words, “gave a pretty clear hint
that there is a case for the South Aus-
tralian Executive Council studying new
evidence.” Because of the by now increas-
ing demand for some form of new hear-
ing, because of doubts thrown on the
Stuart confession, and because a possible
alibi had been discovered as a result of
the efforts of Father Dixon and the editor
of the Adelaide “News,” Mr Rohan
Rivett, the Playford Government set up a
Royal Commission. The Commission was
one of the most controversial ever to sit
in Australia. Stuart’s counsel, Mr J. W.
Shand, Q.C., dissatisfied with the way
the Commission was conducted, withdrew
from it. Mr J. L. Travers, Q.C., president
of the Law Society of South Australia,
was willing to appear, but as a result of
what the Adelaide “News” described as
“a clumsy manoeuvre to prevent Mr
Travers from appearing” he did not
appear. For a time Stuart was unrepresen-
ted while the Commission proceeded.
New counsel, this time from Victoria, Mr
J. Starke, Q.C., appeared for Stuart and
although not finally successful survived
until the Commission ended. On October
5, 1959, before Mr Starke had in fact
officially appeared for Stuart, his sentence
was commuted to life imprisonment.
The Royal Commissioners’ report was
handed down on December 3 in the
South Australian Parliament during its
last hours before the Christmas recess.
The Commissioners had found the verdict
against Stuart wholly justified and he
is now serving his sentence of imprison-
ment for life.
A/f r Ken Inglis, the South Australian
historian and “Nation” commenta-
tor has written an excellent book* amply
documenting the background and events
of the Stuart case. It is certainly one of
the best bits of social exploration I have
read, combining the skills of an historian
and a journalist, although the lack of an
index is a sad fault.
After the Stuart case, South Australia,
which had been founded by the colonial
reformers to be among other things “a
refuge for pious Dissenters of Great
Britain” and “a place where the children
of pious farmers might have farms,”
may never be the same again for in one
sense during the Stuart case the South
Australian Establishment itself was on
trial. Mr O’Sullivan and Miss Devaney.
Stuart’s solicitors, left South Australia
to practise in Victoria. Mr C. Villeneuve
Smith, Stuart’s junior counsel, was also
admitted to the Victorian Bar. The
Crown Solicitor, R. R. St C. Chamber
lain, Q.C., and Mr G. F. Brazel, Q.C..
the senior counsel for the Crown lawyei
assisting the Royal Commissioners, were
promoted when the retirement of one
judge and the death of another shortly
after the Royal Commission left two
* The Stuart Case. K. Inglis. M.U.P.
2 7 5. 6d. (paperback).


FINANCE & INVESTMENT
COMPANY LIMITED
SHAREHOLDERS' FUNDS, £893,311.
TANGIBLE ASSETS, £3,075,026.
INTEREST RATES FOR DEPOSIT
(NOW CALLED UNSECURED DEPOSIT NOTES)
AND OVER
APPLICATIONS must be made
on the form enclosed with the
prospectus, which is obtainable
from
Members of the Stock Exchange
ANY BRANCH OF A.N.Z. BANK
The Registered Office of the Com-
pany, William & Crown Sts.,
Sydney. Telephone FA 0322.
Financing world-
famous products
distributed by
The blastings
Deering Group
of Companies.
FORD
Cars and Trucks
FORDSON
Tractors
A.E.C.
Trucks & Buses
CATERPILLAR
Diesel Tractors
in Queensland
HYSTER
Fork Lift Trucks
in Queensland
JOHN DEERE
Agricultural
Machinery
in Queensland
LISTER
Engines
GROUP SALES
YEAR ENDED
30-6-61
£12,857,865
‘MAIL THIS COUPON
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE &
INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
G.P.O. Box 4333, Sydney.
Please send me, without any obligation on my part, pros-
pectus dated 1/11/61, giving full details of your terms
deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS
• ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••A H D82.I I
B.9/12
vacancies in the South Australian
Supreme Court. There are too
many questions of fact, sensational inci-
dents and reverberaticns surrounding the
case for them to be detailed here. But
one extract from the Royal Commission
is worth quoting.
When Shand was cross-examining
Alexander Adam Phin, police witness
(who had since retired from the force),
to test his evidence on three different
explanations of a discrepancy, the fol
lowing exchange took place:
“Mr Shand: Is that the one you say is
the real explanation?
Napier, C.J.: He is not obliged to
explain anything.
Mr Shand: If he says he can't explain
it . . .
Napier, C.J.: It is for him to say
whether he wishes to go any further or
whether he wishes to leave his evidence
where it is.
Mr Shand: If you want to stop me
cross-examining I will stop.
Napier, C.J.:I have not the slightest
intention of stopping you but as far as
I am concerned 1 have heard enough of
this.
Mr Shand: If you are going to take
that attitude when cross-examination is
going on 1 think in this case cross-
examination must be essentially severe.
Napier, CJ.: If you feel it is helping
you to convince us well and good.
Mr Shand: I feel it is impossible to
convince Your Honor on this because
Your Honor says you don’t want to hear
any more of it.
Reed. J.: That is a rather startling re-
mark to make.
Mr Shand: It may be but I make it
and maintain it.
Napier, C.J.: You are at liberty to
maintain it and it is for you to say how
you are exercising your discretion but
you have a Court or you have a tribunal
that is in the habit of hearing evidence
and of assessing the value of a witness
and the value of an oath. Everybody
makes mistakes at times.
Mr Shand: If Your Honor regards it
as a mistake before I complete my cross-
examination it is useless to cross-examine
further and I sit down.
Napier, C.J.: It is for you to say what
you wish to do but you are perfectly at
liberty to continue and you can stay
here as long as it suits you.”
Next morning Shand withdrew from
the Commission.
TTowever. Ken Inglis gives the key to
the case on the second-last page of
the book: “Some of the disagreements
described in this book may never be
resolved among those who remember the
case. This is true in particular of judg-
ments about motive (my italics). Were
Stuart’s legal representatives disin-
genuous in what they put before the
High Court and the Privy Council? Did
the Government resort to a Royal Com-
mission rather than a formal judicial
inquiry in order to avoid an appeal?
Did Shand walk out because he genuinely
believed that the chairman was protect-
ing a police witness, or was this merely
a pretext for an action planned in
advance?
There is no way of absolutely deter-
mining anyone’s motive about anything.
T n r ’ to u revealed through
<nm„,L T. 0n \ pre ‘
sumption of other peoples motives.
On one side during the case it was
evident that a lot of prominent personali-
ties in the case followed this kind of
logic: the police have charged Stuart,
police officers are good men who “thirst
after justice,” therefore he is guilty.
One wonders why the Stuart case has
not convinced the Playford Government
of the need for the abolition of capital
punishment. During the Stuart case a
Private Member’s Bill was introduced in
the South Australian Parliament by Mr
Don Dunstan, M.H.A., seeking the
abolition of capital punishment. It was,
of course, defeated. If nothing else
comes of an affair which shocked and
bewildered most Australians, why can’t
Sir Thomas now introduce this measure?


LETTERS
A NEW CASE FOR STATE AID
Sir,
Ross Parish in his article “A New Case
for State Aid” (Bulletin, November 25)
rests his case upon a set of assumptions
which are dubious, to say the least.
One would challenge, for instance, the
old myth that State departments are ipso
facto opponents of change and so rigidly
organised as to discourage “experimenta-
tion and innovation.” Ten years' experi-
ence in a State education department has
demonstrated to me that in fact the
reverse is the case. Experimentation is
encouraged in both content of courses
and methods of teaching, regulatory
activities of inspectorial staffs notwith-
standing. Indeed, they welcome it.
Another assumption I find curious is
that the disappearance or shrinkage of a
State system and the subsequent enlarge-
ment of the private schools would auto-
matically ensure educational progress.
Mr Parish admits that few private schools
“have carved out niches for themselves
in terms of academic excellence, or educa-
tional merit or novelty, alone.” What he
will no* admit is that the majority of such
schools have had ample opportunity to
do so during the last hundred years but
have never bothered. That they ever will
bother is doubtful. Whilst the suckers
(parents, or governments, if Mr Parish
had his way) pay the fees why should
they—unless some other body such as
the State public school system sets the
pace, as in fact it is doing today. Mr
Parish blames inbreeding. He could also
add ingrained conservatism which would
be harder than ever to dispose of if the
public school system were to be destroyed.
Mr Parish refers to the drafting of
teachers to remote areas, which, he says,
deters many from entering the teaching
service. Are we to suppose that teachers
will serve more willingly in such areas
under an educational system run by
private enterprise? If he knew anything
of educational history in Australia he
would be aware that, but for governmental
intervention, there would have been
nothing but the most rudimentary educa-
tional facilities for country people.
Mr Parish’s article shows a shocking
ignorance of conditions in both private
and public schools. It is based on theore-
tical assumptions for which the author
has little basis in fact. No system is per-
fect, but spare us from the cut-throat
competition and resulting wastage of
public funds, if Mr Parish had his way.
And one shudders to think of what would
happen to the hard - won gains which
teachers have but belatedly achieved!
I suggest a short course in the history of
Australian education plus a rudimenary
study of the State educational systems of
Australia as a remedy for the deficiencies
in Mr Parish’s thinking.
R. L. DAVIS
Echuca High School (Victoria).
THE TAYLOR AFFAIR
Sir,
Your report on the events following the
proposal that Mr Ralph Taylor, State
Secretary of the A.R.U. and a member
of the Tasmanian A.L.P. State Executive,
should attend the W.F.T.U. conference in
Moscow makes interesting reading
(Bulletin, November 18). It is of particu-
lar significance that it was the rank and
file which protested at this glaring breach
of both A.C.T.U. and A.L.P. rules. Not
a word was heard from A.L.P. leaders;
they were apparently content to have a
member of their executive attend a com-
munist conference and to have a com-
munist foisted on the A.R.U. as Acting
Secretary during Mr Taylor’s absence.
It is of significance also that Mr Fitz-
gibbon’s win over the communist Nelson
for the Federal secretaryship of the
W.W.F. was achieved by the rank and
file without any official assistance from
the A.L.P. and in spite of the active oppos-
ition of some A.L.P. leaders.
These are the most encouraging
developments in the unions for many
years as they show that the rank and file
are no longer content passively to accept
the A.L P. policy of collaboration with
communists and that, given a positive lead
—in the case of the W.W.F. election,
provided by Industrial Grouper Alford—
they are capable of ousting the com-
munists from the positions of strength
in which they have become entrenched
since the time of the split.
D. A. KEARNEY
Rose Bay (Tasmania).
A LITTLE BIT OF ACTION
Sir,
The most disturbing feature of the
campaign waged by students in Mel-
bourne (Bulletin, November 25) to bring
immigration policies before the
attention of the electorate, is the way
in which attempts are being made by the
Press, and by Government Ministers to
discredit the students as communists or
fellow-travellers. This was most evident
at a meeting held in Toorak on Wednes-
day November 22 last, at which Mr
Downer spoke, and at which 50 or so
students turned up, complete with faces
blackened by greasepaint.
The Melbourne “Sun” reported the
meeting on page 2 of its November 23
edition and emphasised strongly that Mr
Downer was booed after saying that Aus-
tralia offered sanctuary to people from
Iron Curtain countries.
In actual fact this statement was made
after the Minister had implied that this
would not be to the liking of those
unwashed students here to disrupt the
meeting The students quite rightly
rejected the inference made by Mr
Downer with cries of “That’s not the
point!” and “Were not reds!” Students
also enthusiastically applauded his state-
ments to the effect that Asians in Austra-
lia would not be deported back to their
country of origin if that country had
fallen under communist domination. This
incident was conspicuous by its absence
in the report in the “Sun.”
Ministers and newspapers who indulge,
however spasmodically, in this sort of
activity, are doing a grave disservice to
themselves, and to the political life of
the country. Communism, like anti-
Semitism, is a serious business, and those
who insinuate that their opponents are
either communists or anti-Semites with-
out any evidence are behaving quite
irresponsibly.
RAY EVANS
Camberwell (Victoria).
HAM FUNERAL IN ADELAIDE
Sir,
I would like to correct at least two
mistaken impressions unfortunately, and
I am sure accidentally, given by
Geoffrey Dutton's otherwise excellent
review of our production of “The Ham
Funeral” (Bulletin, November 25).
The fact that the review is in part a
history of the play, and in part more a
criticism of the play than of its produc-
tion, has been responsible for these
impressions.
• May I therefore make it clear that:
Firstly, I sought an introduction to Mr
Patrick White for the Guild through Mr
Dutton and thereafter the Guild
negotiated directly with Mr White for
the premier rights of his play, which he
generously granted.
Secondly, it was Mr White’s wish that
the play be produced for us by John
Tasker to whom the Guild expresses its
congratulations for an outstanding pro-
duction already acclaimed not only in
Australia but overseas.
HARRY MEDLIN
(Chairman, Adelaide Uni-
versity Theatre Guild)
Adelaide.
A CORRECTION
Sir,
In my article on “Oil From Coal”
(Bulletin, December 2, 1961), 1 quoted
Mr Malcolm Newman as believing that
if the £7O millions spent on oil prospect-
ing in Australia had been devoted to
research on production of oil from coal
this country might be on the way to
independence in respect of oil fuels. Mr
Newman suggests that this may lead the
reader to believe that he is opposed to
the Commonwealth oil-prospecting pro-
gramme. I did not intend to suggest
this. I know that Mr Newman is a keen
supporter of the Commonwealth oil-
prospecting programme and has said so
on many public occasions.
M. H. ELLIS
Sydney,


'Ceresan" Dry-seed Pickle
bushes
more
■ ■
□
i-M
Mi
I'A 7
to the acre!
Whether it be wheat, barley or
oats you are sowing the one pickle
that gives you the greatest disease
control is ICI 'CERESAN' . . . follow
Departmental recommendations.
'CERESAN' is a must for pickling
barley and oats . . . you must use a
mercurial dressing to control diseases of
these crops. 'CERESAN' the only
pickle for barley and oats!
When vent What Met
aik-0mw0...
*
*
MERCURIAL DRY-SEED PICKLE
Available from
Miaigeiym
or your local ICI Supplier
5AG.227X.9681
.
' i ;
ns v
ffc Ynim d remembe
YOU * * INC °Ht
? W CgQtVWc
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LTD.
MIGRANT CAMP BLUES
Sir,
Mr Desmond O’Grady in his other-
wise well put and interesting article,
“Migrant Camp Blues” (Bulletin, Nov-
ember 11), when mentioning immigrants
from the Southern mainland of Italy and
from Sicily, wrote: “(they) were handi-
capped in their attempts to learn English
as they did not know Italian.” Two infer-
ences could be drawn from this statement.
First, that the knowledge of Italian is an
advantage when learning English. If true,
it might well follow that a non-English
speaking immigrant from, say, Germany
would be advised to try and learn Italian
before attempting to master the intricacies
of the English language. Second, that in
the south of Italy people have a different
mother tongue from those in the north,
that is if Mr O’Grady did not wish to
imply that perhaps they communicate by
signs alone.
I wonder, Sir, what would your readers
have to say, were the other Mr O’Grady
(better known as Nino Culotta) to follow
in the footsteps of his namesake and,
when writing of Australians in Italy,
express the view that: “They were handi-
capped in their attempts to learn Italian
because they did not speak English.”
J. MORAWSKI MORE
SERVANTS 1961
Sir,
1 was very interested in your article
“Servants 1961” (Bulletin, November
4). Having spent five months on a sheep
station as “lady help” I feel like warn-
ing any young girl who decides to go
out west 1 was working at Mitchell,
50 miles from Roma.
Don't let “lady help” fool you. Help
is right—right for the lady of the house
to get out every day and any night she
wishes, knowing she has a ready-made
baby-sitter.
For working ten hours a day and
six and a half days a week 1 got the sum
of £lB a fortnight (tax taken out). I
also had my fares from Brisbane paid
there and back. My food and board
were supplied and I was able to save
much more than 1 would ever have done
at a city job.
My duties included looking after three
girls aged four, five and seven, and three
of the naughtiest children you could
ever find. My knowledge of child up-
bringing was negligible and they took
advantage of me as often as possible.
In my opinion it is a mother’s place to
put her children to bed and to lead
them in saying their prayers. But I did
this, too.
Also the house was big and old, and
very hard to keep clean. No vacuum
cleaners there; the straw broom was
the only weapon I had to clean the place
up. Of course when it rained the mud
would be brought into the house —
usually when I’d just finished mopping
the floor.
I was told by the employment agency
that there Tvouldn’t be any cooking on
my part. The only cooking I didn’t do
was the baking and making sweets. I
didn’t complain, though, as it was good
experience. Another good thing was that
I was taught to drive, and as soon as I
got my licence I was able to drive into
town several times a week.
This gave me the opportunity to spend
the one night out I had in the five
months I was there. I went to a dance,
but it was one of the worst I’d ever been
to. Half the men were drunk, and not
only on beer.
It is very hard to have any social life.
I found that if any eligible male came
to town, the girls nearest to town had
a better chance with him. Everyone else
was married.
No TV out there either, only the
radio, which I listened to as often as
possible, and, of course, routine had to
stop to listen to “Blue Hills,” which I
found “deadly dull.” As far as I could
see, no public holidays were observed ;
anyhow, no double time was paid.
I have no idea just what duties a


lady help is expected to do, but I did
cooking, cleaning, ironing (the washing
was done by the “lady”), polishing,
gardening, mending and looking after the
children.
No wonder 1 got away from it as
soon as 1 could ; so would any normal
girl who realises she’ll have to do
enough of that when she is married,
but she'll have washing machines and
vacuum cleaners, etc., to help her out.
One thing about going out west —it
has made me appreciate the city life.
YVONNE BROWNING
Kings Cross (N.S.W.).
COLONIAL CORROBOREE
Sir,
A few days ago I received from
London the notices of the Australian
play “The One Day of the Year.’’
1 have the reviews of the following
London papers: “The Times,” “The
Financial Review,” “The Standard,”
“The Manchester Guardian,” "The
Observer” and “The News,” and 24
hours after receiving these 1 was handed
a copy of The Bulletin dated Novem-
ber 4, 1961.
Your correspondent Ray Mathew
seems to be the only writer who con-
demns the play and most of the cast.
The insinuation that the audience was
stacked is unjust and unfair; the fact
that the main Press writers did not
attend until the third night proves that
their judgment was not influenced by a
supposed stacked audience.
The Bulletin used to be known as a
100 per cent. Australian magazine but it
now seems to be out of character. Mr
Ray Mathew can be excused if he resents
Alan Seymour's portrayal of Australia’s
beloved Anzac Day, because we know
that in this country Alf Cook only repre-
sents a small percentage of Diggers who
celebrate Anzac Day in this way. We
must admit, however, that his type does
exist, not only in Sydney, but in almost
every capital city of Australia. When
1 saw the play in Sydney a few months
ago, 1 was impressed with the extra-
ordinary true portrayal of these charac-
ters, who in this way make it their one
day of the year. The trouble with Mr
Mathew is that he has no knowledge of
a home of the All Cook standard, there-
fore he is in no position to criticise the
play.
W. HAMMOND
Glenelg (S.A.).
A SNEER FOR CIVIL LIBERTIES
Sir,
The Melbourne correcpondent on the
subject of the breathalyzer (Bulletin,
November 25) seems to be a prime
example of the type which becomes
hysterical the moment anyone shouts,
“This is an attack on Civil Liberties.”
It is certainly amazing that the Bar
Council should have developed mass
hysteria also ; but in this case, it cer-
tainly does not speak for the legal pro-
fession as a whole.
There is no essential difference be-
tween the giving of finger-prints, and
the giving of a breath sample ; or be-
tween the baker giving a bread sample,
the milkman a milk sample, for analysis,
and the car-driver giving a breath
sample ; nor is there any difference in
the subsequent Court procedure. In all
these cases, the persons taking the
samples and those making the analyses
have to appear in court and subject
themselves to cross-examination on their
procedures and their techniques.
Your correspondent’s statements, “The
Liberals have been too long in power
in Victoria. The Cabinet no longer
speaks lor the people,’’ etc., are com-
pletely contrary to the facts. It is only
four months since the Government was
returned with an increased majority in
the House of Assembly ; and it is only
in a minority in the Legislative Council
because, in the interest of retaining their
own seats and power, the majority
refuses an electorate re-distribution, thus
continuing a distribution which takes no
account of population movements and
increases in the last two generations.
J. A. B. FORSTER
Emerald (Victoria).
AS EXPECTED
Sir,
Your analysis of A.L.P. foreign policy
in the article “As Expected" (Bulletin,
November 25) was neither objective nor
completely factual. It is absolutely wrong
to suggest that recent decisions of A.L.P.
Federal Conferences have expressed hos-
tility towards either Japan or the United
States. In the case of the latter country
all recent Federal Conferences have car-
ried declarations of friendship.
A.L.P. policy on the question of
Communist China is exactly the same
policy that has been adopted by other
Commonwealth countries such as the
United Kingdom, India, Pakistan and
Ceyion. In fact, it could be suggested
that a majority of the Commonwealth
supports the stand taken by the U.K. Con-
servative Government, which is certainly
not Left-wing or neutralist.
It is significant to note that Australia
had a favorable trade balance with
Communist China last year to the extent
of £36,138,000. If it is wrong for the
A.L.P. to extend diplomatic recognition
to the Peking regime then, surely to be
objective, you must equally oppose
economic recognition that has been
extended by the Menzies Government to
Communist China.
The Bulletin lost a wonderful oppor-
tunity in discussing the foreign policies
of both major parties to explain the
actual purpose of Australian troops
stationed in Malaya. The Prime Minister
in his statement on June 16, 1955, said
that the Australian troops would “be
available for use against the communist
terrorists.” An earlier announcement by
Mr Menzies which had been sent to the
SEATO Council brought forth a message
from the Council welcoming “the decision
of the Australian Government to seek
Parliamentary approval for participation
by Australian forces in a strategic reserve
to be established in Malaya as an import-
ant part of the Treaty area.” The
inference here is that they would be under
some type of SEATO control.
However, we now find that the emer-
gency has ended in Malaya. The Federa-
tion is politically stable and the
communist terrorists have been reduced
to a small harmless group on the Malay-
Thai border. Last year during a tour
through Asia I decided to visit Penang
to see Australian troops in action, but on
arrival 1 was told by the Army officer
who met me at the airport that since it
was a holiday all the troops were on
leave! The only person I could see was
the O.C. of a battery who kindly invited
me to lunch. They are supposed to be
the first line of defence for Australia and
it is logical to assume that they would be
ready at a minute's notice.
The Menzies Government in the
current Federal election has failed to
justify the presence of our troops in the
Federation of Malaya. Under the U.K.-
Malaya Defence Agreement. Australian
troops can only be used with the per-
mission of the Malayan Government, and
during the recent crisis in Laos the
Federation Government made it very
clear that the troops could not be used
for SEATO purposes.
The basic philosophy of A.L.P. foreign
policy is that it is important for Australia
to enjoy friendly relations with the
countries to our north, and during the
period of the Labor Government from
1945-1949 it supported the independence
of India, Pakistan, Ceylon and Burma
and sought a cease-fire in Indonesia. As
a result of this policy Australia enjoyed
a high reputation in Asia ; however, due
to the blunders of the Menzies Govern-
ment, Australia is in danger of losing
Asia’s goodwill and it is this aspect of
the party’s foreign policies that your
magazine should have discussed.
L. A. LAMBOURNE
Sydney.
A POLISH CONTROVERSY
Sir,
J would like to thank you for the
publication of Mr Bajkowski’s report
concerning the Sydney activity of The
Australian Polish Association of Aus-
tralia, Inc. (The Bulletin, October 28)
which proves that you are honest and
without prejudice towards the very com-
plicated problem of assimilation and
integration of migrants into the Austra-
lian community.
The letter of Mr Piotrowski (The
Bulletin, November 18) gives evidence
to the peculiar publicist's methods of
A.P.A.A. “personalities'’. This unjust
and personal attack against Mr Bajkow-
ski doesn’t contradict any of Mr Bajkow-
ski’s charges against A.P.A.A. as such.
His journalistic and social activities are
well known as well as very appreciated
by the Polish community in Australia.
The attack of Mr Piotrowski, however,
who is completely unknown amongst
Poles, puts him in striking light.
R. GRONOWSKI
(Editor of “The Polish
Catholic Weekly”)
Melbourne.


When A.M.P. was founded
s % l&v. \ % s % ' | 'sn-* **>': ' s .\ •• % & >\' s •• % v . *
in 1849, doctors
looked like this
mm
Si
t:
/ i
iiV
t
y
. >
ii
O
tfclt
US
tfOW.-
r
111 I I
52548
A.M.P. has the right remedy when freedom from money
worries will speed recovery. No need to wonder where in-
come will come from
• When sickness or accident strikes,
H When old-age and retirement approaches.
Ask your A.M.P. man for details of
• The new A.M.P. Professional Income Protector
Policy, and the
• A.M.P. Tax-Free Superannuation Plan.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
Australia’s largest and oldest life assurance organisation
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. Offices in cities and towns throughout
Australia and New Zealand and in the United Kingdom
A.M.P. members enjoy the unquestioned security afforded by funds of £500,000,000
which the Society seeks to invest to the greatest benefit to members.


OUT and ABOUT
PUBLIC SPEAKER
Small knowledge, allied to conceit,
Will keep a speaker on his feet:
Reciprocating, audiences adore
The heavenly tedium of a bore.
Anton Vogt
A Further Note on Censorship
A leading Melbourne bookseller is
prepared to swear on a stack of
banned books that books held up recently
(because the contents were somehow
judged on the titles) —although not for
long—include “Before We Go to Bed,”
“Rufus the Seafaring Rat” and “French
Short Stories of Today.” The last is a
conventional anthology. The first two are
children’s books; “Before We Go to
Bed” by Enid Blyton.
So Much for Religion
“IV/Ty Fantastic Life” by Eric Baume
is the Sydney "Daily Mirror’s”
answer to the “Sun’s” life-story of Jack
Davey by Lew Wright. We don’t par-
ticularly want to give the “Daily Mirror”
free plugs, but no one should miss a line
of Baume.
Here is a sample:
"But 1 will not tolerate sectarian
attacks on Catholic or Protestant. Which
brings me to my religion. J am not
reluctant to discuss it.
“1 want to make this perfectly clear.
I don’t worship the trappings of organ-
ised religion. I go to the services of all
churches, as i feel moved to do so. I
worship almighty God.
“I go to the synagogue only on the
anniversary of the death of my brother,
the late Lieut.-Commander Allan Baume.
“1 have a profound respect for people
of faith. I have no respect for the
atheist, i can understand the agnostic, but
not the atheist, who is blind to everything
around him.
“It is perfectly clear that something
must be created by something. Which
came first, the chicken or the egg? No
matter about the question of precedence,
but it is perfectly obvious that either one
had to be created.
“So much for religion.”
Moomba with Doombha
A/loombaing —getting together and hav-
ing fun —is an old Melbourne
custom. Now the locals can moomba
with doombha. Recently a group of
travel agents, just back from Japan, gave
the first local performance of the
doombha, which is Japan’s answer to the
cha-cha
A first-hand description is that doing
the doombha dancers move around, to
and away from each other, energetically
employing shoulders, legs and hands, and
at regular intervals uttering cries which
can only be written as “Huh!” The result
is said to be invigorating.
Handing Over to the Natives
Papuan natives may have their mission-
inspired idea of “pie in the sky with
God and I” drastically altered when they
take over control of the London Mis-
“No, no, Wilson! The child, not the elector!”
sionary Society work in the Territory.
Natives are to control the L.M.S. through
a new body, the Papuan Church. This
Church is to be controlled by natives who
will have authority over personnel and
finance supplied by the L.M.S.
Behind this move by the L.M.S. is a
desire to show the natives something of
the hard work needed on the long road
to self-government. Critics —and there
are many critics of the missions in
Papua-New Guinea claim that the
mission view of life is doing nothing to
prepare natives for the change that’s
coming to the Territory.
A European Christian is sophisticated
enough to temper his beliefs with a
practical approach to everyday problems.


But a native raised under the mission
umbrella believes completely that all men
are good, kind and fair and that God wilt
see him through.
This is the main criticism against the
Catholic and Protestant missions but
there are many other grounds for attack
in the actions of Nonconformist sect
missions in New Guinea.
The high cost of being a Christian
is one sore point with the anti-mission
faction, ft allegedly costs a native £l5
—spread over his induction period—to
be accepted as a convert to one of the
most popular of the Nonconformist
sects. This mission, operating mainly on
the New Guinea side of the Territory,
draws most of its converts from planta-
tion laborers. To a plantation boy on
355. a month, £l5 is many years’ savings.
But the mission convinces him that if he
wants to get to heaven he’ll have to be
accepted on their unity ticket. It is
impossible to get the figures of how
much money the missions take into the
Territory and how much they take out.
The £l5 mission, in particular, is be-
lieved to show a large profit on its
operations in New Guinea.
"South Pacific" Blues
A s "South Pacific” nears its fourth
year in Sydney, the show has begun
to lose money and the “Last Weeks”
posters are about to go up.
The run has paid as an extravaganza
should. Gross for this one city is nearly
£BOO,OOO. Take away exhibiting and
operating expenses, £125,000, and
£675,000 is left to be split three ways
—£475,000 to Fox, £150,000. to Hoyts
and £50,000 royalties to ToddA-O.
Even to pre-TV motion-picture people
the figures are super-colossal.
Now, 16 years after the war it was
alleged to depict, the film fails to excite
or charm. Better theatre music is freely
on offer ; the script is elementary, and
the picture would once have been called
“chocolate boxy,” but not now that
chocolate-box designers are ahead of
Hollywood.
That Was Australia.
1 he following sentences are taken from
the leading article in the sober-minded
and perfectly serious Brisbane “Courier”
(11/7/02). Speaking of the two suc-
cessive half-million deficits it says:
We only mention this to show the
difficulties which have to be faced. But
the Government has a duty to perform.
Ends must be brought together. SHALL
IT BE DONE BY STERNLY ECONO-
MISING OR BY BORROWING?
Ihe Ist sentence isn't intended as
shrieking comedy—the “Courier” doesn’t
frivol in its leader columns. In England,
or in any sanely financed community, such
a remark would probably appeal to the
public sense of humor; and grave and
eminent financial authorities would laugh
hilariously as they saw the editor go
by, because every time they saw him
they would be reminded of the joke
of the century. The editor who calls
borrowing a making of ends to meet —
who seriously discusses whether the float-
ing liability left at the close of the
year should, or should not, be manfully
paid off by turning it into a permanent
liability —who propounds it as quite a
possible alternative that the country
should get out of debt by getting into
another debt of the same size—such a
person is hardly in any English-speaking
country bar Australia. In Australia he is
more than possible, and more than pro-
bable; he is a permanent institution.
Ihe habit of handing out the 1.0. U. and
remarking that that liability, thank God,
is at last settled, has taken- such deep
root that an Australian journalist can
ask sternly, in big type, whether his
State is going to let things drift, or man-
fully borrow enough to pay its debts,
and he can do it without raising a smile.
About £9,000,000 of Australia’s permanent
or floating debts were accumulated in
this way. Australia is quite accustomed
to the situation.
—“The Bulletin,” July 26, 1902
A Sydney newspaper recently gave a
circumstantial account as to how Kissing
Point, on the Parramatta River (N.S.W.) ,
came by its name. It is alleged that
Macquarie, at a picnic thereabouts, gave
the toast “Queen Caroline, and the ladies,
I kiss you all,” and that a lady imme-
diately said, “Governor, I will, with your
permission, name this spot ‘Kissing
Point.’ ” Historian Bladen says that
the origin of the name is uncertain, the
popular explanation being that Governor
Phillip—not Macquarie—on landing there
kissed his wife, but the explanation won’t
hold good, as Phillip did not bring his
wife with him. Of course Phillip might
have kissed some other man’s wife on
the spot. Some early Governors were
not too particular so long as the lady
was good-looking.
—“The Bulletin,” July 28, 1904.
Feiffer
IVS REVAMPSP MM
PSO6^M
Foe the eMfe-
66MCM. I'M
601U6 TO
Major im
Sacrifices,! (
7H6
cHfl cm CM
MMM -VR&Wr
ive smoii?
m Learning
to do without,
3 - T|N'ATS horn
M live without
jfcws in i|oor
newspaper.
cM
toms emc -w
evßouep w
Defense Pos-
ture, 2: febi:-
aiion
Adjustment
Principe
of Linder
ground
LIViJIO-
m c p cfi '
|MMM- WiM'M Sim Fog
) Pre-emptive Liberalism,
. lb iAIPtR Dg-SCVARFIp.
' (soiw if w covlv om
Mjpir'm class ok>
Fundamentals of-
Dropping it on Them
Bef ortThei] Drop it
on Us. its a must/
CM CWA CH*
iu
SWITCH To
THAT, m „
ww
mre v
M 6 TO
,
Morality;
m i pour
KMU)' I'M
MOT 600 Q AT
PTAP lAU6UA66S.
rHA CHf l q/j
weir its mposw&u 10
Wf evTKYTHJNS. I HAP
TO pR OP OUT OF
, MiJftanj
Music
, Appreciation
I 10 tfUPH
intervention.
IM M^f
Mon Interven-
tion COU&6-
* WCHfIW
ma.m.i p wu
HAVc A FRc£
?6RiOQ ' WHM
CWJT MOU 5:6,V)
UP iUITH M 6 R)g
PR. U J Cc'6
The. Tedi-.
nioues of
Brain
waehjng
I WCI/gR H£Afl?
OF IT- (OHATS
WASH (06 ?
r Cf if 1
CifA
CM
fm nor
wrz
fJkCTLH.
irs
sone-
TH(M6
W
6mm y
OOBS.
m Uh r .


JOURNAL
STOC K G* ST ATI ON
aruU
O&COKPORATIH6
ON SALE THIS FRIDAY
EDUCATION SUPPLEMENT
Also FREE COLOURED 1962 CALENDAR
Education is vital to a modern progressive community. The Greater Public Schools
and Associated Schools of N.S.W. are moving with the times. “Country Life” features
this week its Education Supplement, a guide to leading schools and a record of the
chances awaiting your child in the future. A MUST for every parent.
“Country Life” is published each Friday and regularly features all phases of the
Pastoral and Agricultural industries, livestock reports, stud news, turf, motor,
wool, fat stock and store stock pages, field days reports, scientific research in
laymen's language, women's interests, etc.
“Country Life” subscribers also receive FREE throughout the year other handy
lift-out informative and illustrated supplements on Animal Health, Beef Cattle,
Yearlings and Thoroughbreds, Stud Merinos, Poultry, Wool, Dairying and Pig
Raising, Agricultural Machinery, and the Fat Lamb Industry.
A Country Life subscription is an ideal gift for young and old. On sale all Principal
Newsagents, City and Country.
Price 9d. per copy, or 37/6 per annum post free.
COUNTRY LIFE NEWSPAPER CO. LTD.
50a Pitt Street, Sydney. Phone RUIBI2.
TRAVEL
Room With Bath
Tt must have been the wine-filled air of
Capri and a song that drifted across
the water that made me suddenly remem-
ber Alberto. I was standing under a
grape arbor watching the fishing boats.
A fisherman was singing “Santa Lucia.”
Alberto was a young Calabrian I had
met years before when he was a prisoner-
of-war in India. He was a dark-skinned,
small-built, charming young man with
a wonderful sense of humor and love of
life. Like most of his people he wore his
emotions on his sleeve and it wasn't
too difficult to put him into a boiling
rage, especially if the argument involved
a woman. I used to help him with bis
English, and in this way I learnt some
Italian. It passed the long days and nights
of boredom which hung over camps
during the stagnant war years.
It had all been a long time ago and I
had quite forgotten Alberto until I heard
the fisherman singing “Santa Lucia.” It
was the song Alberto taught me to sing
in Italian. 1 remembered how he said
I must pay him a visit on his farm of
olives and oranges in Calabria. Now,
here I was, suddenly very close and with
plenty of time at my disposal.
I was told no one goes south of Naples.
I never thought to ask why. There on
the map lay Calabria—a large chunk of
southern Italy with a coastline on the
sun-drenched Mediterranean right across
from Africa, and a black dot showing
Catanzaro —the town close to Alberto’s
farm.
The train to Catanzaro was not too
comfortable. Sleep became impossible
with the noise, the smoke, the endless
drinking of wine and eating of salami
and garlic. There were consolations—
millions of fire-flies danced in sparkling
clouds across the fields and a huge orange
moon bathed the countryside in a soft
blue light.
To be packed in a carriage on hard
wooden seats, with dozens of large
women, hundreds of children, wine-
soaked men, livestock in wicker cages,
uncountable varieties of luggage and the
continual consumption of garlic-smelling
food, is not what I had bargained for. I
was more than a little pleased when I
finally saw the words Catanzaro and
emerged tired and bleary-eyed at the
dilapidated station.
The local carbiniere did not recognise
the Italian I had learnt in the north, and
it took a lot of theatrical gesticulatory
explanation in the hot sun to make him
understand. He then took the paper with
Alberto’s address on it, called a horse-
drawn victoria and told the half-asleep
driver where to take me. The driver wasn’t
too sleepy to demand far more than the
normal fare because the journey to the
farm, which lay somewhere across the
green olive groves that rolled away on
either side of the station, was pericoloso.
We skirted the town of Catanzaro,
gleaming white on the top of a steep
hill. After a little while I began to think
it might have been wiser to have ciimbec
that steep hill and found a hotel with
nice cold bath. It was getting hotter anc
hotter.
After cursing profusely, the driver
finally stopped. Just in time, because the
road ended suddenly at the edge of
slope that went precipitously down unti
it disappeared into the heat haze that
swam over the distant, dusty olive-groves
Realising I now had to walk I regredec
bringing my large, heavy case. Just as
I was wondering how I would get to the
farm, along came a cloud of dust out of
which trotted a man on the back of a
donkey. Trailing behind them were two
donkeys.
The driver of the victoria explained
where I was bound and, to my great joy,
the man on the donkey burst into a
strange but recognisable English.
Not only did he speak English but he
knew Alberto and lived next door to him,
as near next door as one can live on a
farm in Calabria. Being a thorough
southern Italian gentleman, he dis-
mounted, strung my case on the back of
one donkey, picked me up and placed
me on the other and led us down between
the dusty olive trees to the distant valley.
The journey took several hours, each
one intensifying the discomfort. The bony
back of the donkey was harder than the
wooden seats in the train; I no longer
bothered to brush the dust away. It just
settled in a grey film over me so that it
became difficult to see where I left off
and the donkey began.
Suddenly, in a yard alive with fowls and
other livestock, and a welter of scream-
ing, ragged children, in front of the
propped-up walls of a decaying yellow
house, we stopped.
There was no doubting the fact we had
arrived somewhere. A small boy, who
turned out to be one of many brothers,
dashed into the house and returned
seconds later with a photo of Alberto
and me taken in India. They knew who I
was and all that remained was to find
Alberto,
The small brother set off for Catanzaro
to find him. The family, not used to
entertaining foreign guests, did not
quite know what to do with me. They
decided to leave me in the yard, brought
a chair and some rough, red wine that
did nothing to alleviate my terrible
thirst and let the chickens run around
me and weird dogs snap at my grimy
heels.
Suddenly a sharp whistle startled me.
Crashing through the dusty orange
trees to the rear of the house came
Alberto.
Our reunion was a happy one, except


lit#
HU
mm ill
tm
d
SB
w;»BHH mttn>x<>w
mm
II
>.
m
MW e 9 Wl IWMUIMy
fig
ilifiii?
m:U : :
[ !
- %
The most advanced silo yet introduced!
new
ORB
LYSAGHT
All-purpose
❖
* Patent Pending 55007/59
Years ahead, with
full-size “walk-in” door
at no extra cost.
EACH FEATURE PLANNED TO SAVE TIME AND MONEY!
• Full-Size "Walk-In" Door (silos from 1,200 bushels up-
wards) enables the silos to be emptied and cleaned with a
minimum of time, effort and discomfort.
• Easier, Faster, Cheaper Erection.
• Vertically Rigidised Walls and 6-Ply Horizontal
Ribs for added strength.
• Revolutionary New Robust Positive-Action Bagging
Outlet complete with bag holder and steel cover.
• Sampling Outlet and Auger Chute in bottom bulk-
head behind door.
• Improved Centre and Side-Filling Hole Assemblies
complete with hinged lids and positive fastenings.
• Wider Turned-Down Eaves on Roof Panels.
• Fully Rodent-Proof Construction.
ALL THESE PLUS THE FOLLOWING OPTIONAL EXTRAS!
Cuts overall costs up to £lOO
• Easy-to-install Heavy-Gauge Steel Floor . . . suitable for
conical or flat bases.
• Steel Earth Ring.
PRICES (F.O.R. Newcastle)
includes steel floor.
AUGERS
Highly efficient vertical Grain
Augers designed to centre fill
all Lysaght Silos from 1,200
B. to 3,700 B. are available.
Prices; £97. £lO9, £ll6.
(F.O.R. Newcastle.)
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
Offices in Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Fremantle.


that I seemed to be even further than
ever from my cold bath. Taken inside
the house, I was besieged by relatives and
friends who filled the small room in the
centre of which stood a bare trestle table.
The fowls wandered in freely from the
yard and roosted on tables and chairs.
Glasses and bottles of wine were fetched;
salami hanging from the ceiling was
brought down, huge loaves of dark bread
were piled on the table and the scent
of garlic filled the over-heated air.
If I looked dirty my hospitable hosts
did not seem to mind. It was a free-for-
all happy-go-lucky mixture of people and
livestock and after a while it became
difficult to distinguish them through the
haze of vino.
After the sun had mercifully gone
down, thoughts were turned toward where
I would sleep for the night. The family
insisted I sleep in the house and even
went so far as to prepare a rough trestle
bed. Where was the soft bed I had so
longed for? Alberto, who must have
sensed my discomfort, insisted he find me
a hotel for the duration of my stay in
Catanzaro.
It was a long climb uphill to the town.
Alberto led the way through narrow,
tortuous, garbage-filled streets until finally
we came to the main street and a hotel.
The manager spoke no English and I
gasped out what I wanted in my own
Italian—a room with bath. But it seemed
I was asking for a strange thing in Catan-
zaro. Room with bath! I explained care-
fully, demonstrating, illustrating as best
I could.
“Ah! Si, si. Capito,” the manager
suddenly cried and said he would prepare
such a room. He told us to take supper
while this was being done. We waded
through spaghetti, fruit and more red
wine and then, at a point when I felt I
could no longer hold up my head, a very
pleased-looking manager returned and
informed me the room was ready and
would I please come this way.
I followed him, staggering a little, but
with sudden-found elation, down corri-
dors, up stairs and down more corridors.
Finally, and with a gesture of triumph,
he flung open the door of the last room
at the end of the corridor.
“Camera con bagno, signor!”
Inside the room I stopped dead.
It was a fairly large room, white-tiled
from floor to ceiling. On one side of the
room was a divan bed. on the ether a
wash-basin and toilet and against the
far wall, complete with all its plumbing
requirements, lay a long, white enamel
bath —filled with cold water.
It was, without question, a room with
bath —or perhaps more correctly it was a
bathroom with bed. But whatever it was
there was a bed and there was a bath —
full of cold water. The exact definition
of the room could wait. .. the bath I had
dreamed about for so long could not.
PHILIP DELL-CREED
Establishing a Tradition
FOOD
C'ometime in November when the jacar-
andas were out and nothing lay
between us and the long Christmas holi-
day except the end-of-the-year exams, my
mother would say, right out of the blue :
"This year we’ll go on a picnic. Take
a cold lunch and drive to one of the
beaches for the day. It's quite ridiculous
to go on the way we do, year after year.
You have to change some time. Establish
your own traditions.”
She would pause in what she was doing
to glance at the sky.
“It’ll be another scorcher this year,”
she would confidently predict. “Anyway,
I've made up my mind, I’m not going
through that torture in the kitchen
again.”
We three girls would then, as we usually
did in our household, nod and say
nothing. Mother would go back happily
to whatever she had been doing. She
was a busy and contented housewife, but
an inept one. While other people can
fondly recall the wonderful cakes and
pastries which their mother made, or
can still produce from mothballs the
beautifully hand-sewn dresses they wore
as children, I can remember only the
acrid smell of yet another forgotten batch
of jam and can iecall finding under a
shrub in the garden, months after it had
been lost, the first and only piece of
knitting my mother attempted.
It was to have been an elaborate bed
jacket in feather and fan stitch and
finished as a twisted strip of about six
inches of grimy pink wool.
Mother’s burst from the blue in Nov-
ember would not be the end of the matter.
A few weeks later she might say some-
thing like: “We won’t bother with a
turkey this year. A couple of chickens
will do. We'll take cold meats and plenty
of salad. And fruit salad in a jar. No
plum pudding, of course.”
We girls would again nod and say
nothing. And then nod again significandy
to each other when only a few
days later it became clear that
the annual pilgrimage to Auntie Maggie's
for the baking of the Christmas cake
was about to take place.
As Mother was such a notably poor
cook her part in the proceedings was
merely to blanch the almonds, pit the
cherries and do any other preparatory
work she could be trusted with. She
would do this at home, then pack half
the ingredients in a basket and we'd go
off for the day to visit her sister Maggie.
Maggie was a wonderful cook, Mother
conceded often and enthusiastically.
Maggie baked up to eight or nine
Christmas cakes in a day. The day we
went to Auntie Maggie’s for the cake-
baking was one of those rare, disorgan-
ised days which we enjoyed more than
any of the planned treats of our holidays.
At the end of the day, Mother, sated
with gossip and cups of tea, would care-
fully bear home her cake in a tin lined
with greaseproof paper.
A couple of days later she would
repack the basket and we would all go
off to her other sister, Emily. Emily was
also a splendid cook, Mother declared
often —in Emily’s, not Maggie’s hearing—
and at rhe end of the day there was
another Christmas cake in our pantry.
There was really no duplicity in
Mother’s cake acquisitions. Each Aunt
was well aware of the existence of the
other cake. All that was kept from them
was Mother’s honest opinion on which
was the better cake.


Kstab’ished 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
S-jackson &
L . oSUI.LIVa\;
pTYLTD G
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. litd.
Incorporating
Walson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Pa pet Merchants,
Marmfactu rin g Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EM ROSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS St. OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
During Christmas Auntie Maggie
would visit us with her family.
“I’d like to try Emily’s cake,” she
would say. “Just to see how it turned
out this year.”
She would take the smallest square
from the plate, just a mouthful, and we
would wait the unvarying verdict.
“It's a nice cake,” she would say slowly,
after a sip of sherry to wash it down. “A
very nice cake. That is, if you like a
moist cake. Personally I prefer a dry cake.
I make a dry cake myself. Something not
so, well, puddingy. But Emily certainly
is a good cakemaker.”
In her turn Emily would come and
pronounce on Maggie's cake.
“It's a good cake,” she would say.
“That is, if you happen to like a dry
cake. 1 prefer something more moist
myself. You could have that sort of cake
any time during the year. That’s Mother's
recipe and 1 make it myself for the child-
ren s lunches. But at Christmas I think
you need something richer. I make Mrs
Sheridan's cake at Christmas.”
Mother, who always said she couldn't
have made a Christmas cake to save her
life, would agree with both of them and
keep herself supplied with two cakes each
year.
But the cake-making days at the begin-
ning of December didn’t in Mother’s
mind really commit her to anything. “We
have to have something in the house
over Christmas,” she would say, “People
will be dropping in at all odd times.”
But somehow once the cakes were in
the house smelling rich and fruity every
time the cupboard door was opened there
was no turning back.
Mother would do her Christmas shop-
ping piecemeal, bringing back rich foods
among the day-to-day household shop-
ping Finally, a turkey would be bought
instead of the promised couple of
chickens. “It comes out cheaper than
chickens if you work it all out,” she would
say. Turkey was cheaper every year.
On Christmas morning, in spite of the
fact that the preliminary pattern had been
exactly the same as in previous years,
there was still a lingering uncertainty.
Perhaps this year we were going on a
picnic. We girls might, perhaps, make
sure we had a dry surf towel cr swimsuit.
Father almost always got the car out into
the driveway. He might check the oil and
water or wipe the windscreen, but when
he saw Mother come down into the
garden with the secateurs, he would put
the car back in the garage.
Mother’s priority task on Christmas
morning was to pick the hydrangeas and
Christmas bush. For weeks before
Christmas a subject of earnest specula-
tion between Father and Mother was
whether the Christmas bush would be a
“good color” that year. The hydrangeas
were also a cause for family anxiety—
whether a hot spell would cause them to
flower too early or even scorch the
blooms.
But more often than not the hydrangeas
survived and the Christmas bush was a
“good color” and Mother sang carols as
she picked the flowers on Christmas
morning.
The flowers were left for an hour or
so, heads first in cold water, then the
stems were bruised and burnt and aspirin
was added to the water in the vases. But
always by lunchtime the big, blue heads
and the tiny red flowers were drooping
sadly.
By lunchtime Mother was too cross
and exhausted to worry more. She
muddled on steadily through the morning
in the steaming kitchen as the day grew
hotter and hotter.
Somewhere around one o’clock we
would sit down to our Christmas dinner.
Mother, her face flushed and slightly
damp, would bear in the sizzling turkey,
which might be overdone or underdone,
there was no telling.
The temperature might be in the nine-
ties. Generally the chief topic of conver-
sation was whether a southerly would
bring a cool change later in the day. A
southerly would mean relief from the heat
for all those families sweltering after a
hot meal in their homes. It meant also
that those families, envied but somehow’
disapproved, who had actually gone on
picnics would have to scamper from the
stinging sand and sudden rain on the
beaches, gather up the remnants of their
picnic lunches and pile into their cars to
drive home on roads crowded by the
sudden evacuation.
Talking about the chances of a south-
erly and perhaps occasionally scratching
an odd mosquito bite, we would stolidly
eat our way through turkey and then
Mother would bring in the plum pudding.
Invariably, 1 think because Mother over-
cooked it, it fell to pieces when it was
taken out of its muslin bag and had to
be scooped up with a spoon rather than
cut with a knife. But mother always insis-
ted that it be set afire with brandy. It
looked more like a scrub fire than the
traditional blazing glow.
At the end of the meal Mother, not a
whit abashed, would look through the
window at the blue sky and say,
reflectively:
“You know, it’s ridiculous in this
climate to try io keep up this sort of
thing. Just because they do it in the old
country. We have to break with tradition
some time. Next year we’ll go to the
beach and have a picnic.”
In the torpor induced by the hot. heavy
mea! we would almost believe it as she
believed it herself.
I used to think of those Christmases
often as the time came near for my first
Christmas in a cold climate.
In London in November when the
days grew shorter and people speculated
on the possibility of a white Christmas,
but without much confidence in the
chances, I was filled with a sense of the
wrongness of it all.
On Christmas Day our small group of
expatriates ate a turkey and plum
pudding dinner, and as the afternoon
closed into darkness at three o’clock we
sat around the fire and talked of cold
Christmas dinners eaten under the sun on
a golden strip of beach. Yet I'll swear
no one spoke from experience.
Now after some years I am home and
Christmas is Christmas again. Nothing
is changed, or almost nothing.
Each of my sisters makes me a cake
because I’m no sort of cook myself and
they’re both splendid at it. One of them
makes a dry cake, from Grandmother's
recipe, and the other prefers a moist cake
and uses Mrs Sheridan's recipe.
Only the other day 1 looked out of the
window and something made me say,
“This year we'll go to the beach for the
day and have a picnic lunch.” But 1 really
mean it. it’s been hot already with scrub
fires in the forest. And you must break
with tradition some time.
SALLY FORREST


ABORIGINALITIES
The Fitzroy River
Crossing
The road runs straight for the horizon
across an immense, lightly timbered
plain. Coming towards me in the dis-
tance is a drovers’ “plant" and four
horsemen. As I come up to them I see
that the stockmen are four aborigines.
Two of them are riding mules. Ihe
stockman I speak to, mounted on a tall,
bay horse, is hard to understand. He
is shy at meeting me and speaks in a
pidgin-English which is strange to me.
They were taking a mob of cattle into
the Fitzroy River crossing. It appears
that on one of the night camps the
cattle broke away and the stockmen lost
them. The aboriginal I am speaking to
is unconcerned at the loss. He has sent
a boy on to the station to tell the boss.
He tells me that the cattle will make
back to their country near the station
and that next year they will round them
up again.
The stockman’s horse is quiet, with the
hobbles around its neck. It stands paw-
ing the earth with one forefoot. I stroke
its forehead as I stand talking to its
rider and the horse nudges me and rubs
its eyes against my jacket.
The road is climbing and winding
part. Doesn’t push himself forward,
through ranges. Coming round a bend,
I find two cars pulled up by the road-
side. There are two men and a girl and
they have been camped there for some
time. Part of the engine of the first car
is dismantled but the two men and the
girl are sitting under a canvas shade they
have rigged. They are taking it easy.
One of the men tells me that some
intricate part of his engine is broken.
They have sent, by a previous passing
traveller, down to Perth for a new part.
They have been camped there thr : days.
“It should be here in a couple of days
time.” The first man tells me. “They’ll
send it up by plane.”
The girl asks me if I will have a cup
of coffee. She is in slacks and a shady
hat and walks across the road to the
fire to put the billy on.
The man whose car has broken down
is telling me of their stay at the Fitzroy
River crossing. “There’s a new, open-
air pub there.” He says. “One night I
heard a stockman singing at the bar.
He’s got a beautiful voice. One cf the
songs he sang is still going through my
head. He’s a real stockman, too.”
“Well,” I say, “I’d like to meet him.
What’s his name?” “Jerry Ash,” my
friend tells me. “When you get to the
crossing, ask at the pub for Jerry. He
works on a cattle station around there.”
I have had my second mug of coffee
and the afternoon is getting on. A big,
empty semi-trailer pulls up beside us.
There is some talk about putting the
broken-down car on the semi, and taking
it on to Wyndham. “Thanks all the
same,” says the man whose car is
broken down. “But they couldn’t help
me at Wyndham. We’re right here.
We’ve got tucker and water, ard the
part should be here in a couple of days.”
The semi-trailer men climb up into the
cabin of their truck and wave as they
move off. “Can I take any message to
the crossing for you 0 ” I ask my hosts.
“Well,” says the admirer of the singing
stockman, “if you run into Jerry, ask
him to sing for you.”
The Fitzroy River is a wide, sandy
river with steep banks. It is beautiful,
clear, drinking water, and is lined with
paper-bark trees and huge, spreading
river-gums with white limbs and torsoes.
The modern, “open-air” bar of the pub
is the first I have seen designed for
the hot, dry climate of the Kimberleys.
It is roofed, but open on three sides.
Concrete steps lead up to its bar and
cool, concrete floor.
The first man I spoke to in the bar
was Nugget, an old, short-statured, yet
vital man wearing stockman’s clothes, a
stockman’s hat, and a red handkerchief
knotted round his neck. Nugget was try-
ing to run sheep out at Laurff Downs.
“But the dingoes are bad.” he was say-
ing “They breed out in the Leopold
Ranges. “I’ve seen twenty dingoes, I’m
not tell: 0 a tale, twenty of the b s,
attacking a calf, the cow hornin’ ’em
away. We get £1 a scalp for dingoes.”
“Well, I took up sheep,” he said as
he reached for his whiskey and water.
“Too old for cattle. Got smashed up.
Horse ran me into a tree and smashed
me behind the head. Horse was killed.
Too much trou' !e with cattle, ridin’
round ’em at night an’ singin’ to ’em.
You want to meet Jerry Ash? Well, he’s
out at Jubilee, in charge of the cattle-
camp. He’ll be in this weekend. No, I
won’t have another. Came in here to
pick up a black-boy, but he’s gorn.”
Nugget climbed into his hoodless
Land/Rover, sang out, “Be seein’ you.'
and drove off in the dust.
I am camped about a quarter of a
mile up the river under spreading, white-
limbed river-gums. This evening, gather-
ing firewood, I find that I am wandering
through, and walking over, headstones
and graves lost in the grass and crossed
and recrossed by goat-tracks.
Here is a headstone inscribed: “In
Memory of Michael O’Connor, an old
pioneer. Erected by his many Kimberley
friends.”
And here is a memorial stating simply:
“John McGuigan.” The letters are nail-
punched into a small square of
galvamsed-iron.
I find that I am standing on a half-
buried concrete slab. I brush earth and
dust away to read the rough inscription:
“John Green.”
I turn round and find that what I
though was a protruding red sandstone
boulder is a headstone inscribed: “In
Memory of James Lennon, Prospector.
Died 14-9-08.”
There is a child’s grave: “Janet
Ansomme Clark, Aged 9 Months.”
There are other nameless graves here,
with the dusty, worn goat-tracks wander-
ing over the whole place.
I stand in that place with the firewood
still over my arm. Who was this pros-
pector who died before I was born? I
hear a voice speaking out of the dust.
“It was a wild country when I came up
here. I came with horses and pack-
horses. I was prospecting for gold. I
had my dream, and my terrors and fears
in the loneliness of this land. The
aborigines were wild. They dragged their
spears through the grass with their feet
as they came up to your camp.
“I had a black woman. She did not
understand me, but she eased the lone-
liness and the torment in me. I lie here
under the stars and under the burning
sun. The rains seep down and cool my
bones. You, who see the sun and the
stars, the river, the white-limbed trees,
who hear the prolonged crescendo of
the screaming cockatoos, you stand in
this place and wonder at this grave, and
at that grave, but look behind you.
“Here is another grave. I am speak-
ing to you out of the earth. I searched
for gold. I would be a rich man in the
cities in the south when I found it. You
search for poetry. Some search for
wealth, or love, or fame. Some leave
children behind them. Some leave books,
or poems so that they may live on in the
minds of others. But it is all meaning-
less. You who stand on my grave, living,
listening to the speech of the dead, your
words may be read or they may be for-
gotten when you are dead. But you will
not know nor care whether they are read
or forgotten, as I do not know, nor care,
nor remember if ever I found gold, or
love, or fame.”
It is a name written on a sandstone
boulder at the Fitzroy River crossing.
Yes, and there are other graves which
have no memorial.
The golden hair of my fire is leaping
and flowing in the wind. In the fire-
light, the huge, smooth, muscle-rippling
torsos of the trees, their white-limbed
branches, stand up, and are outflung like
forked lightning against the stars. White,
writhing branches reach down low to the
ground.
It is time to turn in. Those other
sleepers will not trouble me. Those men,
those pioneers, are sleeping in the mother
earth. The deep blanket of the earth
covers them, covers them from the cold,
piercing stars of the nights, and the merci-
less suns of the days and years.
ROLAND ROBINSON


REVIEWS
MUSIC
Creative Pastiche
Stravinsky Concert. Melbourne Sym-
phony Orchestra. Melbourne.
Tt is some time now since music has
A been high society in Melbourne, and
Stravinsky’s single concert was like a
breath of those old, roaring, well-
remembered years, before the foyer of
fashion deserted the Town Hall for the
musical comedy theatre. And, be it said,
it was a mightily heavy and over-per-
fumed breath, much more in keeping
with the hideous appointments of the
Palais Theatre than with the slender
delicacy of the music. To find a seat
meant cutting a swathe, more or less
brutally, through a luxuriant crop of
decolletes and coiffures, with attendant
bored and balding males: and hearing
the music, in my quarter at least, needed
a pretty deep-level and concentrated
ignoring of the choir of grinding springs,
kept in agitation by the ladies’ anxiety
to see their whole 40 minutes of this
celebrated master.
For those who could watch with their
ears, it seemed that Melbourne was not
as well served as Sydney. Instead of
“Apollon” and the “Symphony of 1945,”
we heard the “Jeu de Cartes” and “Baiser
de la Fee,” which are certainly not less
Stravinsky, but are less important music.
It fell to Robert Craft to conduct,
colorlessly and with redundant two-
handed gesture, the most substantial of
the evening’s works, the “Symphonies of
Wind Instruments.” Stravinsky elected for
himself the long ballet “Baiser de la Fee,”
which is interesting from several points
of view, but not at all stirring music.
It is interesting, for one thing, as a
datum in aesthetic theory, because it
brings Into critical pitch the relations of
form, content, and originality. Apart
from the connective tissue of material
which Stravinsky has elaborated from
the thematic fragments (and even here
the music is constructed in short units),
irtually all the basic melodic ideas are
he work of Tchaikovsky.
In most cases these are not used
'i naturel, and there is a high degree
ff intelligent and sophisticated artifice put
nto the alteration of intervals, contrac-
ions of phrases, and selection of dis-
parate themes which are brought into
lose relation.
Still, if you have tried to organise your
istening experience into any kind ol
pattern, to extract from it even a vague!-
formulated theory of the nature of
music, it is hard to accept “Baiser de la
Fee” as an original art work—not, at any
rate, as you can accept the “Ninth
Symphony” of Bruckner. It remains a
superior kind of arrangement: a kind
so superior, in fact, that you have to
make a new category for it, calling it
something like creative pastiche.
The category, if not the name, was in
fact adopted by the Parisian composers
who for several decades made themselves
unrivalled masters of its practice. Poulenc
is the best case in point. What is in-
volved in this creative pastiche is not
the imitation of someone elses manner,
but the reorganisation of certain tiny
themes and fragments from his music,
which leap out of the brisk light context
of your own work with such suddenness
that they tease or shock an educated
audience.
Well done, as Poulenc can do it, this
can be quite amusing ; it may even be
memorable, as the unexpected sound of
great music often is under unlikely
circumstances. But it is a dangerously
ambiguous trick which may easily sound
satirical: and, if you have the talent of
a Poulenc, you cannot afford to be
satirical at the expense of Mozart.
Stravinsky's ballet is not in this class,
partly because there is a smaller gap be-
tween himself and Tchaikovsky. It is a
work which speaks both familiarity
and deeply affectionate respect for
Tchaikovsky, and which in certain of
its inner moments suggests a meditation
on his music and personality. It is com-
pletely adult music, and this was a pity
for the Palais audience, which recognised
and admired the waltz and the familiar
song. The charming irony of this
recognition did, I must confess, give me
a certain quizzical pleasure, but I would
not have minded the loss of this in
exchange for the chance of hearing one
of the more central of Stravinsky’s works.
KENNETH HINCE
THEATRE
Self Satisfied Ruritanians
Romanoff and Juliet. Peter Ustinov.
Union Theatre Repertory Company.
Union Theatre. Melbourne.
“noMANo FF And Juliet” is a political
satire set in an imaginary republic—
supposedly the smallest country in
Europe. However, it has real Russian and
American ambassadors in it. Nowadays
even imaginary countries cannot escape
the cold war. The ambitions of the repub
lie in the sphere of world politics are
purely negative: it aims only to remain as
it is. But in order to do this it has to
expend a great deal of diplomatic effort in
keeping both East and West at bay. It
regards both great Powers with amused
tolerance —seeing the Russians as humor-
less and too terribly intense, the Ameri-
cans as humorless but not quite so intense.
The Ruritanians, as represented by
their President, the General, see them-
selves as wordly, sophisticated fellows of
infinite jest. They also have quite a
different sense of values from the Russians
and the Americans. This is symbolised by
the mediaeval clock which stands in the
city square. It is wonderfully old and
charmingly inefficient. It has no hands
but it has a set of life-size figures, includ-
ing various saints and Death, which come
out and strike the hours and the quarters.
But because it is so old the mechanism
does not work very well, and sometimes
the figures do not appear for hours, and
then they all come out at once. Conseque-
ntly nobody in Ruritania can ever be
sure of the time, which exasperates the
Russians and the Americans. But the
Ruritanians are pretty sophisticated
about time. They have had so much of
it in their past. Equipped with all this
ancient wisdom and mature humor, they
are able to see the Russians and the
Americans as rather simple people
vulgarly squabbling over power, and
causing others, more sophisticated and
more peaceful, a lot of inconvenience
and some amusement.
The solution to the problem of this
pointless feuding is—love. Juliet Mouls-
worth, daughter of the American ambas-
sador, falls in love with Igor Romanoff,
son of the Russian ambassador. The
President of the republic, who under-
stands that love is more important than
international politics, engineers their
elopement and marriage. Unlike the
Montagues and the Capulets, the Roman-
offs and the Moulsworths are united by
the marriage of their children.
Although the play was received enthusi-
astically by the first-night audience, to


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRAL!AX INSTITUTION
Established ISIS
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON HERBERT M. DOUGLAS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS
A. C MAITLAND. Managing Director. R. A. CATI.EY, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
“I insist on clean Writing."
me it seemed a sorry hotch-potch of a
little wit and good comedy and a lot
of appalling farce and long-winded
sermonising It only goes to show how
difficult it is to write good political satire.
Seeing this play gave me a renewed
respect for the genius of George Bernard
Shaw.
The action keeps switching around
between the household of the Russian
ambassador on one side of the city square,
the household of the American ambassa-
dor on the other side, and the President,
who has no household, but is always to
be found outside in the square, keeping
an eye on the front doors of both estab-
lishments. The Americans have been well
observed by Mr Ustinov and he has
written some pleasant light comedy about
them. But when he is writing about the
Russians he changes to heavy-handed
farce. One reason that suggests itself is
that Mr Ustinov has not actually observed
any Russians because of the difficulty of
viewing, sympathetically or otherwise,
through the iron curtain.
The result of this unbalance in the
play is a iack of balance in John Sumner's
production. The Americans are well acted
and the Russians are unmercifully ham-
med. George Whaley does a beautifully
restrained and very funny piece of
character acting as the earnest, “other-
directed” American ambassador. The
nerveless Freddie, Juliet's rejected finance,
devotee of statistics and pillar of the
refrigeration industry, is also played
with intelligence and subtlety by Malcolm
Robertson.
This brings us to the General, President
of the Republic, the part originally
created by Peter Ustinov. The General is
recognisable as an image of the Euro-
pean. just as his country is an image of
Europe, caught between the two jugger-
nauts of the U.S. and the U.S.S.R. Mr
Ustinov sees him as the product of many
centuries of civilisation, with the mature
political wisdom inherited from two
thousand years and more of varied poli-
tical experience, and the ability to realise
that there are more important things in
life than power and efficiency. Actually
he seemed to me a hackneyed figure and
a self-satisfied prig. The few cynical
witticisms he throws off in no way com-
pensatt for the intolerable deal of smug
moralising that halts the action of the
comedy at regular intervals. Noel Ferrier
plays the part competently, but it seemed
to have inhibited his natural ebullience.
The best thing in the whole production
is Frank Thring’s private comment on
the final message of peace and goodwill
to all men. He plays the part of the arch-
bishop, 'he ancient ecclesiastic who
unites the son of the Soviet with the
daughter of the U.S., under the nom de
guerre of H. E. Rod. In the final tableau
he is discovered on an upper level leering
cynically down on the United Nations
below—the veritable incarnation of the
high criticism.
MADELEINE ARMSTRONG
FILMS
One Up for Hollywood
The Sundowners. Zinnermann. Syd-
ney Embassy.
Return to Peyton Place. Sydney
Century.
There have been a lot of good shows
on lately, and I've praised them. The
main difference between “ The Sun-
downers” and the rest is that the other
good ones have been for sophisticated
audiences only. “The Sundowners is
for every kind of audience. It’s a warm,
rollicking, human story, beautifully
filmed and expertly acted by a handful
of international troupers, who do a better
job of presenting Australia than Austra-
lians have hitherto been able to do by
themselves. But the Australian actors, led
by Chips Rafferty, are crackerjack too.
It’s a pleasure to see a bit of genuine
Australiana that will be. lapped up
wherever it is shown, without conces-
sions or condescension.
As a mere New Australian, I stake my
reputation as a critic on Zinnermann's
genius for catching the local color, the
local idiom and the local humor. The
odd thing is that he manages to do that
for a period that is passing into history:
the 'twenties. Half the present popula-
tion of Australia hadn’t arrived, or
hadn't been born then, so they get a bit
of social history thrown in for good
measure. (I was in Australia in the
'twenties, and vouch for its authenticity.)
Cleary’s story is already something of
a “classic,” and therefore all the better
for retelling. There's a drover, a rolling
stone who doesn’t want to settle down,
and his wife, who does ; their young son ;
and an English ex-cavalryman, ex-
rrerchant-marine jackaroo, who joins up
with them. The rest is local color, with
one incident after the other, pretty much
as in real life. There are the mobs of
sheep and the shearing gangs, the two-up
school and the boozy parties, the brawls
with the other jokers, and the wise-
cracks among cobbers. To pep it all up,
there’s a bush-fire and a fair bit of the
local fauna . . . But everything is under
control: neither overdone nor sloppy
Riding high, wide and handsome
through it all is Robert Mitchum. almost
incredibly Australian. Peter Ustinov is
his perfect, ultra-English foil, as round
as a barrel and as funny as a piece of
string. Deborah Kerr, too, is a gem.
But then the whole film is a gem, or I'm
a Dutchman.
P.S. Return to Peyton Place? Not
likely.
ANTON VOGT
ART
Cardboard Pomp
Cedric Flower. Macquarie Galleries.
Sydney.
Shows as amusing as Cedric Flower's
are rare events in an art world where
the heavies alone, it is imagined, possess
any weight at all. Humoi rates low
among artistic qualities but Schopen-
hauer considered it the one divine attri-
bute of man. These wryly conceived,
shrewdly realised paintings, whose mild
satire turns on the antics of the Trojan
war, ripple with good-natured laughter.
Flower, always a gifted decorator, chooses
to blend the archaic forms of Greek
vase painting with a stage designer’s
cunning sense of spatial arrangement.
His sure, rapid execution invests the
whole concoction with a valid artificiality.
Portraits of heroes, Odysseus. Achilles,
Hector and a particularly engaging Paris,


Visit Adelaide next March for Australia’s greatest programme of
MUSIC . OPERA . DRAMA . DANCE . JAZZ . ART & PAGEANTRY
The Second
ADELAIDE FESTIVAL
March 17-31, 1962
* /
#
iflliSwi
i.
"'t
I'Mpl UgllWf
MIN' " '. j.
*r ■ ‘
mtiiuift
,w,..«i«hihhhwih»iihw . *
t
■iy»" .Zrammr* • • :
w
**
T
Full Programmes and Booking Order
Forms are available now from
All Airlines and Travel Agents
The South Australian Government Tourist Bureau:
28 Martin Place, Sydney, N.S.W.
8 Royal Arcade, Melbourne, Victoria.
18 King William Street, Adelaide, S.A.
or from the Festival Office, G.P.O. Box 392, Adelaide, S. A.
OF ARTS
• The London Philharmonic Orchestra
• Choir ol the Royal Christchurch Mu; cal
Society
• Yehudi and Hephzibah Menuhin
• Baskhar & Company, Indian Dancers
plus
• A season of 4 Operas by The Elizabethan
Theatre Trust Opera Company.
• 4 new drama productions including
the Australian Premiere of Archibald
MacLeish’s Pulitzer Prize play,
• Return concerts by the Dave Brubcsk
Quartet.
BOOKINGS
NOW
OPEN
flaunt ornate helmets, feathers and
escutcheons in a wild display of card-
board pomp. Events of war unfold ; the
Greek commanders quarrel vociferously
(as the noisy inscriptions indicate),
armies clash without too much violence.
Trojans die, the gift-horse arrives and
the city burns to a pleasantly formalised
heap. The luscious queen of the
Amazons joins the fray with a charm
lacking in her illustrious counterpart,
Aphrodite, who looks very much like
something out of a boarding-house. She
sails skyward, wounded hand upraised in
a gesture of trembling indignation ; the
whole pose is hilariously funny. The
Gods Zeus and Poseidon fare little better.
Zeus angrily hurls his thunderbolts but
would frighten few kids; Poseidon
looms above the fleet like a giant
caryatid as god of the local fishmarket.
Flower makes the most of the con-
ventionalised mask to extract telling
visual puns. The quality falls a little
wfith a few scenes from the story, such
as “Helen’s Parents.” All radiate charm
within the accepted conventions and this
substantiates the ideas. The merit of this
mannered style full of borrowings is due
to a high degree of adult sophistication
touched with adventure. Some witty
comment is made on the intriguing ques-
tion which students of Homer have never
been game enough to ask, namely, why
did such heavily armored soldiers choose
to fight desperate and bloody battles
without pants?
J. HENSHAW
An Unequal Struggle
The Claude Hotchin Prizes. Romola
Clifton. Skinner Galleries. Perth.
TThe oils section could have given the
judges no trouble at all; Miss Ailsa
Small's "Up the Gorge to Tallerang
Peaks" is the most lively painting in the
show. Indeed, it contrasts very sharply
with the rest of the pictures, which are
mostly a little tired and often look as
though they were painted simply as entries
in a competition that someone else was
bound to win anyway. But even without
the foil of its monotonous companions,
“Up the Gorge" is striking. It represents
a gorge running up from a foreground to
twin peaks on the horizon, and in style
and coloring it resembles a Namatjira,
except that an obsessive, Pre-Raphaelite
attention to detail, and a hypnotic man-
agement of space make the picture expres-
sionistic rather than representational.
Everything is sharp, three-dimensional
and over-illuminated: it is rather like a
scene viewed through the wrong end of
opera glasses, or slides in a 3D viewer. But
this landscape threatens to swallow one
up, the illusion comes alive and menace*
the observer; we have at once a repres-
entation and an allegory of a landscape.
The water color section was won by
Bryant McDiven’s “The Beaching,” an
excellently spare and formal boat piece,
but this, like the rest of the section, is as
frigid as may be. There is nothing at all
in the water color section beyond tech-
nical skill and though, (as in Cyril
Lander's two entries), the skill is con-
siderable, it all looks sadly pointless.
Miss Clifton has shipped out from
London an exhibition of oils, water colors
and pen sketches, which is at present
showing at the Skinner Galleries. The
water colors are pretty and blameless —
though the wilted vertical lines in many
of the architectural subjects suggest a
subsidence that may not always have
occurred in the originals. The oil colors
are too like water colors; they have very
little feeling for texture, and the com-
position is posterish rather than painterly
The best things are some of the pen
sketches of orators in Hyde Park and
natterers at cocktail parties. These catch
the fleeting moment and fix it with a
voguish elegance and they show the
line which Miss Clifton ought perhaps to
follow up. The deft and decorative
recording of momentary impressions suits
her better than topographical drawing, or
the unequal struggle between her style
and the exigencies of oil paint.
PATRICK HUTCHINGS


The Red Page
Australian Books for 7962
By DESMOND O’GRADY
A ustralian publishing entered the 60’s
with a good deal of concern about
rising costs and increased competition
but the 1961 record, with younger pub-
lishers consolidating their position and
an interesting crop of titles, should keep
its hopes alive. Australian writers had
quite a bit to say in 1961, whether they
said it through local or overseas pub-
lishers: among the novelists who pub-
lished were Patrick White, Morris West,
Xavier Herbert, Hal Porter and Hugh
Atkinson ; poets had a good year with
books by Francis Webb, Vincent
Buckley, John Manifold, Val Valhs,
Thomas Shapcott. David Martin, Ronald
McCuaig. Elizabeth Riddel, Frederick
MacCartney, Evan Jones and Ray
Mathew ; Ray Mathew also had a book
of stories out, as did Alan Davies; and
there were two collections of stories —
one Faber’s, the other “Coast to Coast.”
Apart from this imaginative literature,
there was a deal of more general works,
including the two case books —Inglis on
Stuart and Eddy on Orr —Jean Mac-
Kenzie on Australians and Peggy Warner
on Asians, Rawson and Creighton Burns
on Australian politics and Henry Mayer's
symposium on Catholics and the Free
Society. There was a full complement
of Australiana and historical, sporting
and children's books.
The book trade was hit by the recession
and also by the reduction of the New
Zealand market where booksellers have
problems of import licensing. A survey
of 1962 publishing prospects, although
necessarily incomplete, shows a heaithv
amount of initiative and diversity. This
probably reflects more than anything else
the changed attitude of many book
buyers: whereas even a few years ago
they were uninterested in Australian
books, nowadays, in increasing numbers,
they look for Australian books before
overseas ones.
Novels announced for 1962 include
Gavin Casey's “Amid the Plenty” and
Ron Tullipan's “Of Ten Summers” (Aus-
tralasian Book Society), “Yaralie” by
Donald Stuart (Georgian House in con-
junction with Michael Joseph), “Picnic
Races” by Dymphna Cusack (Heine-
mann), “Ballarat” by Eric Lambert
(Shakespeare Head) ; E. V. Timms
completes his historical novels with the
posthumously published “The Big
Country” (Angus and Robertson) and
the same firm will bring out new novels
by Helen Heaney, Thea Astley and Juliet
Roiletson. Rigby announce “The Hive
of Glass” by A. E. and J. T. Martin and
“Blow the Wind Southerly” by Kay
Brownbill, Ure Smith promise a novel
of contemporary Sydney, MacDonald
will bring out an Olaf Ruhen novel,
Hutchinson will publish novels by
Edward Lindall and James Preston, and
Heinemann Donald Mac Lean’s “The
World Turned Upside Down.” There
will be at least three books of short
stories Hal Porter's “A Bachelor’s
Children” (Angus and Robertson), John
Morrison's “Twenty Three” (Australasian
Book Society) and “Coast to Coast
1961-62" (Angus and Robertson).
Perhaps the success story of 1961 has
been the good sales for Australian poetry.
The Commonwealth Literary Fund is to
be congratulated in sponsoring these
volumes. Without the C.L.F. it is doubt-
ful if they would have seen the light, but
those taxpayers who worry about their
money being squandered on poetry
should be consoled with the thought that
the books, in the event, sold well. So
there was little, if any, call on the Fund.
For 1962 Cheshire promises four books
by South Australian poets: Robert
Clarke, J. J. Bray, Max Harris and
Geoffrey Dutton. Edwards and Shaw
will bring out volumes by David Camp-
bell, Irene Gough, Peter Bladen and
Roland Robinson while Angus and
Robertson will publish "Rutherford and
Other Poems” by Douglas Stewart, a
volume of selected works and a book of
her bird poems by Judith Wright, and
“Australian Poetry 1961,” edited by
Leonie Kramer.
Tliography and autobiography are
usually considered neglected fields in
Australian waiting but Crisp’s “J. B
Chifley” should be followed by Lloyd
Ross’s “John Curtin” and Angus and
Robertson promise Sir Earle Page’s auto-
biography, “Truant Surgeon,” and Miles
Franklin’s “Childhood at Brindabella”
for 1962. Ure Smith hope to bring out
Rose Lindsay's autobiography, “Ma and
Pa,” while Rigby's have announced a
biography of Sir Thomas Playford by
R. H. Reed.
In the related field of history there
is “The Sydney Scene” by Alan Birch
and D. S. Macmillan (Melbourne Uni-
versity Press) which is planned as a com-
panion volume to Grant and Serle’s “The
Melbourne Scene.” Two histories of
Australia have been announced: M.U.P.
are bringing out Manning Clark’s and
Angus and Robertson Marjorie Bar-
nard’s. Landsdowne Press will publish a
book of John Thompson’s radio profiles
of famous Australians and Cheshire will
launch Hugh Anderson’s biography of
John Pascoe Fawkner.
Ever since the aborigines began to
decrease there has been an increasing
volume of books about them. The
anthropologists Ronald and Catherine
Berndt have written “The First Austra-
lians" for Ure Smith who are also bring-
ing out “Australian Aboriginal Art’’
which will have both color plates of bark
and cave paintings and an authoritative
commentary. Rigby have “Dreamtime
Justice’’ by Vic Hall, story of aboriginal
killers, and Angus and Robertson
announce “Aboriginal Art and Design’’
by r.oman Black
Georgian House has an ambitious art
books programme for 1962 with studies
of Clifton Pugh by Noel Macainsh.
Sali Herman by Daniel Thomas,
John Olsen by Virginia Spate and Albert
Tucker by Alan McCulloch. Rigby
have “The Paintings of S. T. Gill" with
a commentary by Geoffrey Dutton, and
James Gleeson is writing “History of
Australian Art” for Ure Smith.
Literary criticism has found a con-
venient outlet in the Lansdowne Pr„ss
“Australian Writers and Their Work”
series which promises five 1962 titles:
Henry Lawson by Stephen Murray
Smith, Henry Handel Richardson by
Vincent Buckley, Kenneth Slessor by
Max Harris. Christopher Brennan by
James McAuley and A. D. Hope by Alan
Nicholls. Cheshire will bring out "Tra-
dition in Exile” by J P. Matthews, a
comparative study of 19th century
Canadian and Australian poetrv.
Two economic studies which should
be of major interest are “The Structure
of the Australian Economy” by P. H.
Karmel and Maureen Brunt (Cheshire)
and “Australia in the 1960’5” by St Clare
Grondona (Hutchinson). Hutchinson are
also bringing out two volumes of
reminiscences by writers who have
settled here. John Naish's “Mark, the
Syrup and the Ashes” and Gunther
Bahnemann's “1 Deserted Rommel.”
Cheshire are producing “Australian
Civilization.” a symposium edited by
Peter Coleman, and Lansdowne Press
“The Press in Australia” by Henry Mayer
and “Class in Australia” by Geoffrey
Dutton and Max Harris.
This is just a partial list of the books
due in 1962 but it gives some idea of the
scope of Australian w'riting and publish-
ing. It is to be hoped that the pub-
lishers will strive to maintain high stan-
dards of production and that they will
have the confidence to produce sufficient
runs of each new book so that they do
not price themselves out of the market.
The publication of worthwhile books is
not a business where quick returns are
assured but if a book is worth printing
it should be worth stocking for a year
at least.


GIFT BOOKS FROM ANGUS & ROBERTSON
OUR CHANNEL COUNTRY
by A. M. Duncan-Kemp. Describes
life in south-western Queensland.
“A remarkable book by a remarkable
woman. I cannot help thinking that
not only will the book be an Austra-
lian classic, but the country itself
will take a rightful place in any
future assessment of our primal
riches.” (Australian Book Review)
28/6 (post 1/3)
CANNIBALS ARE HUMAN
by Helen McLeod. “This is a color-
ful story, told with a rich wit and
wisdom, a depth of humanity and a
conciseness that make it an im-
portant contribution to the literature
on Papua and New Guinea.” (New-
castle Sun) 25/- (post lOd.)
LA BORA
by Philip M. Jones. A compelling
novel about a man whose job is to
select migrants for Australia in
Trieste. 18/9 (post lOd.)
SELECTED POEMS OF KENNETH
MACKENZIE
chosen by Douglas Stewart.
25/- (post lOd.)
THE BEST POEMS OF HUGH
McCRAE
chosen by R. G. Howarth.
25/- (post 1/3)
IN A DARK GLASS
by Helen Heney. A vivid study of the
life of Strzelscki, the Polish exile and
explorer who was the first to climb
Kosciusko. It is based on both his
Polish and Australian backgrounds.
45/- (post 1/8)
THE FAR SOUTH
by John Bechervaise. Antarctica and
many of its secrets are revealed in
this eminently readable book by a
man who spent four seasons there.
21/- (post lOd.)
THIS IS THE LIFE
by Claude McKay. The lively remi-
niscences of an outstanding figure in
the Australian newspaper world.
30/- (post 1/3)
RAIN IN ARNHEM LAND
by Ann E. Wells. Tribal stories set
in the framework of the everyday
life of three aboriginal children. For
children aged nine to twelve.
16/- (post lOd.)
A JOEY FOR CHRISTMAS
by Margaret Paice. A charming story
for children aged six to nine.
12/6 (post lOd.)
A BOHEMIAN AFFAIR
by Ray Mathew. Short stories fol-
lowing the hero’s childhood in the
country and early manhood in
Sydney. “He writes with freshness
and ease of life in the King’s Cross
area . . . The stories are sad,
humorous, light, thoughtful.” (Mel-
bourne Herald) 17/6 (post lOd.)
KILLERS OF EDEN
by Tom Mead. “The early whaling
days at Eden axe recounted and re-
lived imaginatively in the pages of
this book, as are the exciting stories
of man versus whale and whale
versus whale.” (Newcastle Sun)
28/6 (post 1/3)
THE GOOD LOOKING WOMEN
by Ruth Park. This new novel by
the author of Harp in the South is
an unusual family drama, written
with a fine insight into the ways of
women. 21/6 (post lOd.)
LISTENING TIME
These “Kindergarten of the Air”
stories and verses are the ideal gift
for three to six year olds.
16/- (post lOd.)
BEFORE AND AFTER DINOSAURS
by Lois and Louis Darling. A well
illustrated book for children of all
ages. 16/- (post lOd.)
AVAILABLE FROM ALL BOOKSELLERS
Angus & Robertson Ltd :: 89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
The Delights of Inhumanity
By RAY MATHEW
HTiiE 1840’s, Tasmania, Van Diemen’s
Land, an ugly trinket suspended at
the world’s discredited rump, was freez-
ing. From horizon to horizon stretched
a tarpaulin of congealed vapor so tense
that it had now and then split, and had
rattled down a vicious litter of sleet like
minced glass, that year, that winter,
that day . . .
In this first, fully-quoted paragraph
of his new novel,* Mr Porter announces
like a threat or a promise his subject
and his method ; he will show us a
world where nothing grows, where
trinket and glass hide the discredited
flesh and people trapped in time and
place can be transfixed by the stinging
word, the sudden stab of light. It is a
world of convention with patterns of
seeing and being designed to make all
known, all safe, and capable of imagining
the indifferent sky “a tarpaulin,” the
sleet an irregular (but understood)
“glass.” But even such a world, “a
miniature and foundling London,”
though it may cultivate and conceal its
nature by calling a southerly suburb the
“West End” cannot disguise the sudden
and unthinking violence that jumps
naked out of human feeling.
The young man Queely Sheill is
beautiful. Beautiful means desired.
Hilarious, pathetic actor and hysterical,
giggling cripple ; haughty lady and
intimidated father ; men, women —all—
love, want Queely. All but those who
hate him —the scorned woman, the
masochistic blackboy, and their hate
differs neither in its demands nor its
results from the love the others feel.
Only two people look at him without
moving towards him—the impotent
aristocrat who, with neither passion nor
misgiving, insists on his destruction and
the indifferent, introspective painter
whom Queely listens to, waits on, serves.
This last is Queely's “friend” and Queely
loves him as he loves everyone he knows,
serves him as he serves all, because he,
Queely, is good ; because he, Queely,
recognises need and because he, Queely,
must do what he can. No ’arm comes
of ’uman feeling, no matter what! . . .
Ain’t you un’appy, sir? Ain’t you
wretched ? . . . Queely ’ates blood.
It is Queely talking, referring to himself
always in the third person as though he,
the one we watch and hear breathing,
had no part in the story, the passion
which he acts out for Queety.
Hobart is the scene where the extra?
ordinary-ordinary, impossible and every-
day plot of Queely's life is acted out.
There, by “the Rivulet’s junket of
maggots and putrescence,” he sees “a
gemman” whose “back-turning lethargy,
indiscreet at that felon's hour, in that
felon’s street, dismayed him.” He
approaches this man, is able to approach
him, because “no experience had taught
or would ever teach the young man
prudence, offhandedness or the delights
of inhumanity.” He picks him up. “Sir,”
he says. “Sir, are you —are you
wretched?”
The man answers at last. “‘I am Judas
Griffin Vaneleigh.’ The words meant
nothing to Queely Sheill. They meant,
at that moment, scarcely more to the
man who uttered them . . Known
painter and proved forger, suspected
killer and transported convict, Vaneleigh
is now free to suffer Hobart, paint the
gentry, die. There is nothing for him
but the drudge of waiting, some pride
in his art and a subtly-revealed, growing
(the only growth in the book) change in
his attitude towards the young man who
becomes his shadow.
It is as the painter’s shadow that Queely
enters Cindermead and meets the Lady
Knight (Rose), the Miss Asnetha Sleep
of the twisted hairy legs and Teapot, the
boy she beats. Miss Sleep with her “pain,
her despair, her envy... was always
* The Tilted Cross. Hal Porter. Faber
and Faber. 225. 6d.


ready and decked for downfall and
anguish hours ahead.” - Her self invites
downfall as irresistibly as Queely's
invites destruction. He too waits for
blows, perhaps needs them as the cue to
be himself.
Innocently, he touches the web of
intrigue in which Cindermead lives (a
mesh of sexual and social tensions).
Humbly and honestly, he does what he
feels he must do for the sake of others
and, suddenly, he is trapped in strand and
strand.
There is then a trial, with Lady Knight,
“wearing breasts that could have belonged
to no one but a mother,” an escape from
jail and a shattered body, an amputa-
tion and a stench of Queely when “the
morning of Christmas Eve, eleven days
later, gangrene was well-established.”
There's Queely's death —and Vaneleigh's.
Asnetha's engagement, the drunken wake,
the ball, the Christmas—all happen “that
night, that summer, that year.”
That whole year, that life, acts out its
play in a world of elegance and style,
manners and pretence, parasols and
feathers, and is accompanied always by
the smell of the river, the screams of the
punished, the reek of the living. The
genteel ladies prettify their comedy of
said and hinted, known and never men-
tioned, and their public faces never alter.
By the book's end, they have a new know-
ledge one of the other and are waiting
safe in their marriages for the old chance
to hurt. The lower classes drink and cry.
All go on living. Queely is dead, but he
did give each of them strength to be
most nearly openly what they are. It is
Queely’s paradoxical triumph that he gave
them strength to destroy Queely, the
chance to act out the “’uman feeling”
that was sickening or stagnating in their
hearts.
All this is caught in Mr Porter's extra-
ordinary prose with its knife-edge shine
and amusing, hurting precision. The com-
plexity of plot keeps him from the verbal
extravagance which has sometimes seemed
to make itself more important than
modesty should allow. Here, he is content
to use his more conceited writing for
the creation of scenes —sets—of
Dickensian or cinematic visual brilliance.
The static quality of some of these set-
pieces brakes the reader’s pace and
allows the book’s action to move rapidly
with the assurance that the reader knows
where and how it must take place.
It could be argued that the Vaneleigh
story (based on the Wainewright case)
takes more from Queely's passion than it
adds to it. that the use of phonetic spell-
ing for dialect irritates unduly, but these
are minor objections; in the total book,
these things work. More important, and
indeed the reason why the book fails by
the Dostoyevsky standard it seems to be
setting itself, is the fact that neither of its
two principal characters is active; Vane-
leigh re-patterns his past and acts only
in memory, while Queely participates in
the action involuntarily, waiting always
for others to act the way they ought to
and accepting the consequences when
they act the way they are.
RAY MATHEW
Black Mark for a White Hope
The Lord of the Ravens. Paul Bour-
quin. Faber. 20s.
The Slap. Marion Friedmann. Long-
mans. 15s.
Sermons and Soda Water. John
O’Hara. The Cresset Press. 20s.
Mila 18. Leon Uris. Heinemann,
265.
'T'he term “important book” inevitably
means many different things to
different people. It need not necessarily
be a particularly well-written book—
“Unde Tom’s Cabin” by one definition
was undoubtedly “important” as is
“Wuthering Heights” by another or “The
Jungle” by a third. There may be impor-
tance of style as well as of content and,
most happily, a conjunction of both. In
one sense Dickens surely had “impor-
tance” thrust upon him. Could he, even
had he wished, have turned from the
path of social crusading which his
admirers came to expect him to blaze?
I do not consider any of the four
novels here “important” although many
people will consider “Mila 18” to be so.
“The Lord of the Ravens” is entirely
silly. Children might swallow its totally
improbable “reconstruction” of a 14th-
century English pirate village, its extra-
ordinarily inconsistent characterisation, its
utterly anarchic moral climate —but I
would not recommend it as children's
reading—or anyone else's.
“The Slap" is a nicely written, rather
dim attempt to present a large slice of
the South African problem in microcosm.
It is readable, tragic without very much
actual violence of action, intensely
sincere. But it presents nothing new either
in style or interpretation of racial con-
flicts and misunderstandings, of personal
inadequacies and neurotic involvements.
In “Sermons and Soda Water” John
O'Hara offers three novelles loosely linked
by a common narrator and some cross-
reference of characters. 1 had read one
of them, “Imagine Kissing Pete,” many
months ago in the “New Yorker” and was
extremely impressed by the story then.
Seeing it in book form I found I had to
re-read it for the simple reason that I
could remember almost nothing about it.
So much for importance unless my fairly
accurate memory completely lapsed. And
yet I think O'Hara does, most skillfully
and with fully compassionate under-
standing, convey a valuable picture
of middle-class Americans of more or
less educated sophistication during the
forty years from 1920-1960. His people
progress from youth to middle age against
backgrounds of small town and large
city, suburb and theatre, country club
and speakeasy; boom, depression and war.
This is a thoroughly professional piece of
entertainment which just conceivably
might impress some social historian of
the future as depicting the life of its
times in a specially illuminating way.
And so to Leon Uris who, since he
wrote “Exodus,” is perhaps having
“importance” thrust upon him. He is
regarded as the great white hope of many
(by no means all) Zionists the world over.
In “Exodus” he touched on the resistance
of the Jewish people in the Warsaw
Ghetto during 1943. In order to explore
that saga of anti-Nazi-German heroism
more fully, Uris travelled to Warsaw in
1959, interviewed survivors of the
butchery and toured the site of the ghetto.
He has undertaken tremendous research
elsewhere also, in Israel and among
archives stored in American libraries. 1 am
not for one moment questioning Urn's
facts, or even in the main his interpreta-
tion of them, nor do I suggest he ought
to have suppressed any accounts of
atrocious and perverted cruelties which
this novel abundantly contains. For that
matter Uris has sifted his material —some
episodes of German bestiality simply can-
not be offered in “open court.” Neither
would I maintain that Uris ought to have
written a straight documentary account
from his accumulated material. Uris is
a novelist and novelists are usually best
employed in writing novels. What 1 do
then find most distasteful here is all in
terms of a novel —of the fictional or semi-
fictional protagonists whom Uris has
chosen to typify the Jews of Poland. I
stress “chosen” because a novelist has a
choice where a diarist like Ann Frank
or an academic historian may have none.
Now nearly all of “Mila 18’s” chief
characters are “sensational” in type. Of
the Jewish ones, they are of orthodox
background, though many, at the outbreak
of war, had lapsed from orthodox
religious observance. One tenet upon
which most Jewish people set tremendous
value is that of a completely mono-
gamous, affectionate and united family
life. Like any other people of high prin-
ciples some Jews fail to live up to their
ideals, but in most Jewish communities
the number of contentedly married
parents of kindly treated (although some-
times, it must be admitted, over-indulged)
children, greatly outnumbers the adul-
terers or the sexually unconventional.
Of course, most of us who read novels
(or evening papers or who like to gossip)
prefer to hear about illicit love affairs or
ihe unhappily mated. This taste is
catered for by every literature from
antiquity onwards and will probably
never alter. But Uris would have
improved the balance of his book, con-
sidered purely as a work of literature,
had he included even one stable family
group as contrast for his sensational and
possibly not very typical people. He
might have shown that humdrum folk
are quite as likely to exhibit heroism (and
undoubtedly at Warsaw did so) as more
exotic types. I must say that were I a
Polish Jew, instead of an Australian one,
I should find his account deeply insulting.
NANCY KEESING


A GARLAND OF GIFTS
NEW CHESHIRE BOOKS
AUSTRALIAN PARADOX
Jeanne MacKenzie
30/- (post lOd)
Who ... why . . . what . . . are the
Australians?” latest to pin us down
is an Englishwoman, after a year of
travel and talk in Australia. The wife
of New Statesman writer Norman
MacKenzie, Jeanne gives us her obser-
vations of our social and political life,
and her trenchant survey should set a
lot of people arguing!
A BUSHMAN’S HARVEST
Jack Hyett
32/- (post 1/3)
Jack Hyett follows up the grand suc-
cess of A Bushman’s Year with this
beautifully written and superbly illus-
trated book. He has three themes:
fauna and flora in the bush; the world
of creatures and plants in the back-
yard; and the wonderful response of
children to natural history. A book
for everyone in the family to enjoy!
SO, YOU WANT TO BUY A
HOUSE! Cyril Pearl
15/9 (post 1 Od)
Cyril Pearl’s scintillating wit at it’s
brilliant best! and a dozen or so of
WEP’s zaniest and most irreverent
sketches! At a popular price, it’s the
absolutely ideal book for home-a nd-
garden lovers, sweet-sherry tipplers,
old-boys and young blokes for every
variety of Australian, provided he has
a sense of humour.
LOW COMPANY
Hugh Atkinson
19/6 (post lOd)
An hilarious novel of Sydney bohemian
life, by the author of The Pink and the
Brown. This is mirthful entertainment
in the Christmas party spirit but, as
well, an important non-conformist
commentary on contemporary urban
society.
GAY PROVIDER
Alan Marshall
36/- (post 1 /8)
The fascinating story of the man
Sidney Myer and of the men who built
MYERS Australia’s most successful
retail enterprise and one of the great
stores of the world by one of our
most popular writers. Designed by
Alison Forbes, and lavishly produced,
it is a big book and an important con-
tribution to social history.
ASIA IS PEOPLE
Peggy Warner
27/6 (post 1/3)
Peggy (Don’t Type in Bed) Warner
hardly needs an introduction the
wife of columnist Denis Warner, she
favours us, in her new book, with a
penetrating and witty analysis of Asian
moods and motives, after years of
travel and residence in oriental coun-
tries.
Al all Bookshops Published By
CHESHIRES of MELBOURNE
Screaming on a Hilltop
Milton’s God. William Empson.
Chatto and Windus. 495. 9d.
Deing ingeniously contrary, by chang-
ing the signs round or upending
established positions is a known way of
being original. Both Empson and Robert
Graves, who has also exercised his talents
on Milton, have a good dose of cranky
contrariness to help them with this kind
of new-twist procedure. Empson, for
example, describes how he is going to
rescue “Paradise Lost” from its de-
tractors: “I thus tend to accept the
details of interpretation which various
recent critics have used to prove the poem
bad, and then try to show that they
make it good.”
In particular, Empson’s thesis is that,
whereas critics have said that the poe n
is a failure because it fails to show us
a likeable God, this is the very reason
why the poem is a success! Since
any decent man would dislike the Chris-
tian God, Milton’s unattractive portrait
of Him is a victory for human decency,
and a measure of the poem’s merit. In
short: “The reason why the poem is
so good is that it makes God so bad.’’
This is obviously good spanking stuff,
and it goes to the centre of the modern
critical debate on Milton, which I shall
try to summarise for the gentle reader.
(Academic critics are not gentle readers,
they are close readers —a different
thing).
Walter Bagehot stated the essence of
the modern difficulty with “Paradise
Lost”. Milton had to image God as a
monarch making court decrees and court
'appointments. But something is bound
to go wrong as soon as any secular
analogy of this kind is taken up and
. systematically pressed home, as it must
be if it is to furnish the action of a
heroic poem. Thus Bagehot (whom
Empson neglects) good humoredly says
that “Paradise Lost” is vitiated by the
action being presented as originating in
a political event, the promotion of an
eldest son at court: “Satan may
been wrong, but on Milton’s theory he
had an arguable case at least. There
was something arbitrary in the promo-
tion: there were little symptoms of a
job.”
The late A. J. A. Waldock in Aus-
tralia precipitated the full-scale modern
discussion by taking the •^•'t f er further.
He treated God and Adam and Eve not
as figures in a seventeenth-certury heroic
poem, but as characters in a Henry James
novel. He felt that Adam did the decent
thing by sticking to Eve and disobeying
God, and concluded: “God, to begin
with, does not show to advantage in
that particular story: the story is a bad
one for God.’’
One answer that has been attempted
is to say that WaldocA’s complaint arises
only because he does apply a modern-
realist or novelistic framework of inter-
pretation to the poem. Since that is an
inappropriate framework to apply, the
poem may be held to escape such stric
tures. This is a tempting sort of manoe-
uvre, and has a partial truth to support
it. But I don’t think all the objections
can be made to disappear merely by find-
ing the one, true, appropriate point-of-
view. Indeed, if Empson contributes
anything useful to the debate it is to
remind us that the objections that can
be raised to Milton’s God have very
deep roots indeed.
Empson does not accept the sort of
distinction which some critics make,
between God as a cl iracter in Milton's
poem, and God as He really is, beyond
all fictions or representations. It is not
just T "ilton's God he dislikes as a fic-
tional character ; it is the God of the
Christians that he thoroughly detests;
and he does not intend to let the latter
escape by admitting a distinction between
them.
Professor Empson is very down on
God. “1 think the traditional God of
Christianity very wicked,” he says, “And
have done so since 1 was at school, where
nearly all my little playmates thought
the same.” Elsewhere he says that “what
Christians are worshipping ... is
literally the Devil.” The Christian God
is the worst of all evils because he pro-
motes the worst of all wickednesses, viz.,
torture, and "mucking about with
people's sex.” Empson tells us that en-
countering the Western world after
coming out of Communist China in 1952
was very unpleasant because: “I was
coming back under the power of
Christianity, and the smell already hit
me at the other end of the world.”
You may wonder how remarks of this
sort get into a study of “Paradise Lost,”
but Empson is not a great one for
decorum and is never short of a personal
aside when he feels it may be helpful.
Thus he says that Satan's soliloquy on
Niphates’s top could have been observed
in the way Milton describes, because a
similar thing happened to him: “1 had
landed in Los Angeles . . . and there is
a park in that city which rises to a fairly
bluff summit. I went to the top of it
and screamed ; this was in 1939, so my
feelings need not all be blamed upon
Los Angeles. After 1 had been scream-
ing for a bit I found I was being shot
at by boys with air-guns ; this satisfied
me in some way ; 1 came down the hill
and took the train to San Francisco.”
Well, as you see, Professor Empson
has a jokey kind of way with him, which
we must all try to enjoy ; though I can’t
think what Dr Gough woud say it
Empson happened to take the vacant
Chair of English in Sydney University.
Most of the detailed discussion in the
book is, however, quite tedious, and
sometimes trivial. It exhibits that pro-
pensity to ingenious and perverse over-
interpretation which made Empson
famous in his first book, “Seven Types of
Ambiguity.” His treatment reminds me
of nothing so much as some exercises in
Orrology, built high upon suppositions,


BOOKHUNTER
Dept. "D.” Box 2671, G.P.0.. Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
intricate, tendentious, and revolting to
common, if not academic, sense.
Orrological in style, too, is Empson’s
way of explaining the sinister behavior
of pro-God American critics who praise
Milton for the wrong reasons. It seems
that they are afraid: afraid of being
accused of being a liberal. He adds: “The
story goes that the only way for an aca-
demic American to be quite safe from this
smear, which would cost him his em-
ployment, is to give the secret police
documentary proof that he has beaten
one of his slaves to death with his own
hands ”
Cmpson’s style of discussion hardly
encourages one to comment seriously
on the issues. But 1 should like to make
my own suggestion about the way that
“Paradise Lost” should be viewed.
I think the root of the difficulty lies
in any attempt to turn the Paradise story
into a developed and articulated narra-
tive work of a different kind from its
own. Its literary kind is the legendary.
Certain truths about man’s origin and
destiny are conveyed within a laconic
folk-tale, which is handled with great
restraint and discretion. The transition
to the plot of a heroic poem is bound
to bring trouble. And, generally, the
biblical way of getting us to envisage the
relations of God and the world by certain
analogies, such as fatherhood, lordship,
kingship and so on will break down if
these modes of presentation are pressed
in an over-systematic or over-literal
fashion. Similarly the biblical metaphors
of redemption and atonement will, if
reduced to systematic theological theories,
begin to yield intractable puzzles and
paradoxes. The mysteries cannot be
totally stated and explicated in this way.
Milton of course knew this, yet he was
driven to making this sort of mistake
once he attempted his epic. Perhaps this
indicates a certain rationalistic temper
and arrogance. At any rate, he had to
enclose God within his poem as if God
was a “character” acting within a social
and political situation ; and he had to
use current theological theories of the
atonement as if they were able to provide
the psychological motivations of such
“characters” as the Father and the Son.
It is from this that the artistic difficulties,
the ambiguities and incongruities, take
their origin.
But this fault, which seems so huge
and fundamental, is not really so fatal
to the poem’s merit as one might sup-
pose ; precisely, I think, because the fault
is so obvious, so necessary, so inevitable.
It is by definition impossible to write
with complete success on such a theme.
Knowing this, the common reader
instinctively “makes allowances” when
the difficulties arise which bedevil the
celestial mechanics of the poem, if one
may so put it. He does not let this ines-
capable distortion or failure bulk so large
as to obscure the wealth of human art
and human experience which the poem
has. He sees that the poem is a great
and splendid one: he is Milton’s “fit”
reader, even if not a “close” (near-
sighted?) reader.
Of course, if one personally dislikes
Milton, or has a special need to score
off the God of one’s childhood, one will
seize upon Milton’s difficulties and make
them tell to the utmost either against
Milton or against the real God. And
one will regard the common reader’s
automatic “allowances” for the celestial
blunders or unlikeable features of the
poem as traditionalistic evasion or pious
dullness.
Empson, then, is right in saying that
Milton's poems survive in spite of
apparently serious critical objections. He
is right in saying that Milton’s failure
effectively to justify God's proceedings
does not make it a bad poem. But he is
wrong in saying that it makes it a good
poem. The poem is superlatively good
for a host of other reasons not too hard
to perceive. Meanwhile Professor Emp-
son’s quarrel with the real God is some-
thing they will have to settle between
themselves ; it is of no literary-critical
significance.
JAMES McAULEY
Hegelian Ping-pong
The Traitor. Andre Gorz. Foreword
by Jean-Paul Sartre. John Calder.
445. 9d.
is a typically existential piece of
writing in which Gorz, the author
and main hero, makes the attempt to
understand his own tragic situation,
probes the relations of men with one
another and philosophises on the condi-
tions of human existence and much else
besides. The outcome is a very curious
book, a collection of brilliantly sharp
insights into a variety of human and
social situations most of which centre
on his own family and its Vienna
environment after the coming of the
Nazis. No established literary category
fits this book precisely, although it would
not be far off the mark to call it an
autobiography of sorts. It is terrifyingly
impersonal. Gorz, the central figure,
emerges out of the “slime” of his
environment as “I” only in the last
chapter after he has subjected life
around him to an examination in the
form of “We,” “They” and “You.” The
self-analysis in the last chapter is cruel,
impressively impersonal and compellingly
critical of the life and activities of the
hero himself. In a sense, it is the ideal
type of a clinical investigation which is,
however, made highly original by a com-
bination of Hegelian dialectics, by a
curious amalgam of Marxian and
Sartrian determinism and the smoothest
application of Freudian psycho-analytical
technique I have ever come across.
“The Traitor” was welcomed by the
Left Bank as a great work of art but
the claim can hardly be accepted. The
over-emphasised intellectuality of the
book makes it for the most part almost
unreadable. Gorz himself is by far too
deliberately intelligent, he discovers too
many problems, some of which add up
to nothing more than sheer nonsense.
He is too fond of obscure paradoxes,
he indulges in artificial and heavily
labored contradictions, he plays ping-
pong with Hegelian and Marxian
propositions and he cannot resist the
temptation of coining long-winded and
tediously obscure epigrams. He is
obsessed with the riddles of existence,
with the “determination” of birth and
with the overriding claims of the en-
vironment. He is of course thoroughly
alienated and his book is at bottom the
attempt to overcome the effects of a
very serious form of situational aliena-
tion. This is the central issue of the
book. That he has not convincingly
solved his problem is due to the pedantic
obscurities of existentialist theory. Under
the influence of his master, Sartre
(“Morel” in the book), he has extended
the concept of “alienation” to the very
fact of birth, he has developed an idea
of freedom (freedom equals “being free
from alienation”) which is absurd.
He claims not to be sure that he
exists. Here lies the puzzle: How can
you be free or, in Gorz's labored ter-
minology, how can you be “disalienated”
when the facts of birth enslave you, ex-
pose you helpless to the cares of your
mother? This is a silly and futile ques-
tion because of the unwarranted exten-
sion of the concept of “alienation”
which it entails. But not for Gorz. And
to understand why you must know his
mother.
She is the most repulsive figure of the
book. She, a woman with an (imagined)
aristocratic background, anti-semitic and
a pious Catholic to boot, was “forced”
to marry her Jewish boss, Jacob, a man
of submissive temperament and in-
describable stupidity, a man proud to
have “conquered” an “Aryan” woman,
ready to “conform,” who “found nothing
wrong with Hitler except his anti-
semitism.” Pushed by his castrational
mother to become like “other Aryans,”
and unsupported by his spineless father,
Gorz suffered the agonies of alienation
reserved for the half-caste in the repulsive
political atmosphere of Hitler’s Vienna.
And his attempt to become “dis-
alienated,” to regain his self-respect, to
emerge from the slime of his environ-
ment, is the very substance of Gorz’s
searching self-analysis. The unorthodox
use of “alienation” becomes understand-
able though not acceptable.
To escape his mother and all she stands
for (anti-semitism, Catholic piety,


AUSTRALIAN WRITERS
AND THEIR WORK
General editor: Geoffrey Dutton
A series of critical monographs on
Australian writers
Available
Norman Lindsay by John Hetherington
Patrick White by Geoffrey Dutton
To be Published January 15th
Henry Lawson by S. Murray-Smith
Henry Handel Richardson by Vincent
Buckley
In Preparation
Kenneth Slessor by Max Harris
Christopher Brennan by James McAuley
Charles Harpur by Judith Wright
Adam Lindsay Gordon and Henry Kendall
by A. D. Hope
Henry Kingsley by Leonie Kramer
Martin Boyd by Kathleen Fitzpatrick
Miles Franklin and Brent of Bin Bin by
Ray Mathew
A. D. Hope by Alan Nicholls
Kylie Tennant by George Farwell
Douglas Stewart by Manning Clark
Joseph Furphy by John Barnes
Katharine Susannah Prichard by H.
Drake-Brockman
Judith Wright by Geoffrey Dutton
Poets of the Fifties by R. F. Brissenden
. an enterprising new series.”
The Age
32-48 pages 8/6
Available at all good booksellers
LANSDOWNE PRESS PTY., LTD.,
Tattersall’s Lane,
Melbourne
Ask your bookseller to show you
the range of Penguin Specials. This
series includes many titles of topical
interest, from politics to sociology.
Specials now available:
The Stagnant Society
Life in the 2 Ist Century
The Jazz Scene
Brighter than a 1 000 Suns
Organisation Man
Science Survey 1961
America the Vincible
China: New Age & New Outlook
To be published shortly:
What’s Wrong with the Unions?
What’s Wrong with the Church?
Persecution 1961
Has Man A Future?
PENGUIN BOOKS
Mitcham, Victoria
BOOK SCOUT
r ree search service for your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178. G.P.O. Sydney.
Austro-German attitudes) Gorz descends
into “nullity;” he deliberately decides to
become nothing in order to be reborn
cured as somebody, as a person with an
identity of his own. This is the only
way to defeat his mother! In 1940 when
France, the very antithesis of Austro-
German civilisation, falls to the
“Aryans,” when, as Gorz expresses it,
the French people descended into
“nullity,” Gorz makes the dramatic
decision of identifying himself with
France. And it is a perfectly sane
decision, one made by many Jews before
Gorz who tried to regain their self-
respect in the cosmopolitanism of French
civilisation. It is the identification with
French culture that helps Gorz overcome
the sufferings of his youth. But this
simple and beautiful leap into freedom is
kept from us by the pedantic jumble of
existentialist puzzles. Gorz should have
allowed us to enjoy his freedom with
him ; we are fed instead on meaningless
abstractions.
H. A. WOLFSOHN
Likeable Bedouin
In Search of Sheba. Barbara Toy.
John Murray. 275.
Kashmir. J. P. Ferguson. Centaur
Press. 31s.
Between Oxus and Jumna. Arnold J.
Toynbee. Oxford University Press.
245. 9d.
'"THE best travel books belong to
-* literature. They transcend the im-
mediate aims of the practical tourist
guide to explore and illuminate what is
enduring in the human situation. Their
authors are eminently worth meeting
and each rereading deepens both friend-
ship and understanding. Among the
select few in recent years should be
nominated Wilfred Thesiger’s “Arabian
Sands,” Vincent Cronin’s study of Sicily,
“The Golden Honeycomb,” and possibly
Julian Huxley's "From an Antique Land.”
: Each of these serves to entertain and
instruct, each conveys something of the
importance of living, each reflects the
workings of a civilised mind. The
majority of travel accounts, however,
belong properly to journalism. They are
jerry-built affairs, flimsy, superficial,
given over to a haphazard listing of
incidents as they occur. Hastily con-
ceived, they die in much the same
manner and we are none the poorer.
. Arnold Toynbee’s study of Afghanistan
and J. P Ferguson's record of Kashmir
come near to- the first group, Barbara
Toy’s safari in Africa, the second. All
three are concerned with areas generally
unfamiliar to W'estern readers, all three
are the products of personal experience
yet each brings different motives and
resources to bear on his material. Toyn-
bee surveys the landscape as a trained
historian. Afghanistan he notes “has
been a highway for migrating peoples
and for expanding civilisations and
religions and it has been a keypoint
in the structure of empires.” Ferguson
takes a more academic view. Kashmir
he observes has been shaped by three
great cultures Hindu, Muslim and
Buddhist and “these are not merely
stages of past history but are living,
co-existent forces.” Discriminating, per-
ceptive, aware of the past, both express
something of the humanistic spirit. Toy
on the other hand is a professional
traveller. Behind her search for the
Queen of Sheba lies the assumption of
every poste-restante nomad that it
doesn't matter really where one is, so
long as one is moving. She never lingers
long enough to put up a tent but gallops
on, a likeable Bedouin.
“In Search of Sheba” is a record of a
25,000-mile journey she made by Land-
Rover across the Sahara to the Congo
and into Ethiopia, the land of the Queen
of Sheba, by way of the Sudan. It is a
formidable feat through desert and
jungle, passing such places as Fort Lamy
near Lake Tchad. Khartoum, Addis
Ababa and Harar where the poet Rim-
baud lived. What she sees is supple-
mented with snippets of information,
gossip and history, scraps picked up on
the run, to produce an entertaining,
somewhat breathless story.
It is probably unfair to mention in the
same context the names of explore-s of
the Victorian era. Yet the fact stands
out that men like Speke, Doughty and
Burton, to drop a few names, could all
turn in a prose of quality that makes
the modern journal appear lightweight
in the comparison. The latter, if anything,
provides evidence for the heretical view
that it is possible to live just as intensely
merely by standing still.
J. P. Ferguson proposes his scholarly
piece of reconstruction in these terms:
"The history of the Valley is by no
means merely a record of local events
but is linked up with the great figures
and historical movements that affected
the whole continent of Asia, and an in-
terest in the events of Kashmir’s past
forms a good introduction to the
treasures of Asiatic life and literature.”
He traces out the main periods of her
history, bringing it up to date with two
important sections on the current dis-
putes with Pakistan and China.
A valuable chapter using contemporarv
documents is devoted to the early
travellers in Kashmir—their descriptions
of the fine scenery (“all who behold,”
writes one, “bite the finger of astonish-
ment with the teeth of admiration”), the
cultivation of silk, the earthquakes, the
monotony of the music (“with each note,”
another observed, “they seem to dig their
nails into your liver”), and of course
the cruelty of rulers, tyrants like
Mihirakula, King of the White Huns,
whom the people knew was coming by
the vultures which flew ahead of him.
“Between Oxus And Jumna” is an
account of a four months’ journey
Arnold Toynbee made to Afghanistan.


AUSTRALIAN GIFT BOOKS
...V"
::
THE RUNAWAY by Ruth Morris
Roam the Queensland outback with Joanne,
“the runaway,’’ her horse and blue heeler
pup. Days on the track in the dust and
heat, nights by the camp fire. A book for
all ages. 15/6
VANISHING AUSTRALIANS by George Farwell
This well known outback traveller tells of old timers with whom he has
talked and camped along the inland tracks. Here are drovers, shearers,
cattlemen, cooks and others who made the Australian legend. 22/6
WITH HOOVES OF BRASS
In his dramatic new novel Robert Close writes of the inhabitants of
a mill camp in Victoria’s tall timber country. Caught in the hopeless
tangle of their ambitions and frustrations, these people finally have
to face a terrible calamity that brings their personal troubles to a
striking climax. 18/9
PUBLISHED BY RIGBY LIMITED, ADELAIDE
Pakistan and India, following for part
of the way in the footsteps of Marco
Polo and Alexander the Great. There
are good descriptions here of Balkh, “the
Mother of Cities,” for example, and
Herat where the tombs of famous men
lie, and his comments on the past are
nicely turned and revealing.
On more general issues the text is
unhappily marred by some very indif-
ferent thinking. He has something to say
in a concluding chapter about basic
democracy, foreign aid to under-
developed countries, nationalism, and
earlier on about the growth of civilisa-
tions. One cannot recapitulate the views
expressed here but I should say in each
case they fail to stand up to examination.
Take one small example. In discussing
the wars between Britain and Afghanis-
tan in the last century he observes:
“At least half of the uncounted millions
of war dead who have given their lives
since the institution of war came into
existence must have died fighting for a-
bad cause. How much longer,” he asks,
“is this evil institution going to be treated
as if it were not the public crime that
it is?” I would say here that judgments
like “good” and “bad” are terms in-
appropriate to such social movements
as “causes.” “Causes” are neutral—they
either succeed or fail.
DOUGLAS TERRY
A Cheshire Cat
Spiegel the Cat. David Martin. Illus-
trated by Roderick Shaw. Cheshire.
30s.
A Smell of Burning. Thomas Black-
burn. Putnam. 10s. 6d.
As A. A. Phillips said in “Meanjin”
earlier this year, “David Martin is
the most improbable Australian who has
ever existed —if indeed he should now be
classified as an Australian writer.” He
is a German-speaking Hungarian Jew
who has lived in, and written of, Israel,
Spain, India, and now Australia.
Australia, and indeed the English-
speaking world, should be grateful to
him for this new and delightful “story-
poem.” “Spiegel the Cat” is a version
(Martin says that it is “neither a trans-
lation nor an adaptation in any strict
sense”) of a tale by the famous 19th
century Swiss writer, Gottfried Keller.
The tale formed part of Keller’s collec-
tion about an imaginary Swiss town,
“The People of Seldwyla,” and apparently
(and rightly) has the status of a folk-tale
in German.
To summarise the story in bare prose
would be to destroy it. Suffice it to say
that the feline hero lives in the eminently
desirable town of Seldwyla, where
They got up late, went late to bed,
Because their ancients told
How once there was an early bird
Who caught an early cold.
They burnt their candles top and tail,
Nor did they find it strange ;
Sun, rain or hail—they still made hay
To prove that proverbs change.
Through misfortune, he falls into the
clutches of the Municipal Sorcerer, who
is as satisfactorily nasty a piece of work
as one could wish to encounter in a story.
Very properly, Spiegel outwits and
punishes the Sorcerer, and the moral is
pointed and the tale adorned by a
proverb and a pious wish:
When wicked schemers burn their
hand,
They say: “He bought a cat.”
Yes, “he bought Spiegel’s cat,” they
say—-
That was not wisely bought!
Like Florian’s plots, kind reader,
may
All evil come to nought.
Spiegel the Cat belongs with Reynard
the Fox and Brer Rabbit. Martin says
that “Keller’s work has entered into the
European tradition as a symbol of the
Swiss spirit”; Put Spiegel belongs every-
where and to everybody—one doesn’t
even have to be a cat-lover to enjoy him.
David Martin has done an excellent
job of presenting him in English. The
verse, whether ballad metre, rhymed
iambic pentameters, or rhymed anapests,
remains always as sure and poised as
Spiegel himself:
He liked on narrow bannisters
Or gutter-pipes to rest.
The shakier were the bannisters
The firmer the intent
With which his virile mind pursued
Its philosophic bent.
The reviewer is genuinely embarrassed
to stop himself from quoting passages
to illustrate the sheer high spirits, the
sardonic wisdom, the wit and tenderness
and humanity, all treated with a high
technical skill, which inform the poem.
The book is beautifully produced, and
the drawings by Roderick Shaw do not
detract from its charm.
'T'homas Blackburn’s new volume (his
fifth) is both more pretentious (in
a non-derogatory sense) and less satisfac-
tory than “Spiegel.” When I first began
to notice Blackburn’s poems in English
periodicals some years ago, he was
writing highly wrought and highly
charged poems, often on mythological
themes. He reprints some of these at
the end of the present volume, and one
of them, “Pasiphae,” does not suffer in
comparison with A. D. Hope's sonnet
on the same theme.
Blackburn has extended his scope:
there are moving poems here on such
subjects as an attempted suicide, a child’s
shocked witnessing of a parental quarrel,
a failure between lovers to communicate.
He remains technically accomplished,
and has obviously a passionate care for
the discipline of his craft (despite a very
queer, possibly mannered, addiction to
needless and jarring inversions).
This is, in fact, an excellent little
volume. What is the cause then of my
slight dissatisfaction? To repeat com-
ments that I have made elsewhere, I
think that Blackburn’s poems, like those
of other young poets in Britain, America,
and Australia, lack roots, lack the dis-
tinctive flavor that a sense of belonging
gives. For all the internal evidence,
Blackburn’s poems could have been
written and published here ; as those
of Chris Wallace-Crabbe, say, could
have been written and published in
England.
As if for clarity was needed
A creature on all fours and blinded,
And prerequisite, such a night,
For the beatitudes of light.
(Blackburn)
Cry out and beat your mittened
hands
And mourn the long-departed sun;
No flower can break the iron loam ;
This white land has become your
home.
(Wallace-Crabbe)
At least though, like Wallace-Crabbe,
Blackburn does write poems, and for
that we should be thankful.
T. H. JONES


m
f S Of
mature
perfection
r
VINTAGE
ng?-**
mm
%govc^
ASK ALSO FOR ST. AGNES BRANDY
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company of
Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlement of claims
Directors:
ALFRED S. WHITE, Esq., Chairman; E. G. CONEN, Esq., T. K. MAGNEY.
Esq., A. G. PARKER, Esq., DOUGLAS WADLEY, Esq.
H. H. MOULTON, Esq., Managing Director. B. J. LANE, Esq., Manager
'Phone: BU 7401. (Branches in all States) 16/20 Bridge Street, Sydney
Business, Robbery, Etc.
THE U.K. AND COMMON MARKET
"Leakages" Not Encouraging
T ast week’s ‘‘leakages" of the speech reportedly made by
Mr E. Heath, Britain’s Lord Privy Seal, before a minis-
terial meeting of members of the European Economic
Community confirm earlier indications that the United
Kingdom will have to sacrifice a large proportion of its primary
produce trade with the Commonwealth. Mr Heath, who is
in charge of Britain’s negotiations with the Common Market
bloc, will no doubt persevere in his efforts to save as much as
possible of the existing Commonwealth trade framework. But
the present indications are that —apart from such products as
wool, which has never been in any real danger from the
Common Market merger—his success is likely to be marginal.
According to Reuters, Mr Heath said that the U.K. is
confident that “solutions can be found to Commonwealth
problems fully compatible with the substance and the spirit
of the Treaty of Rome.” He then added that Britain desires
“to become a full, whole-hearted and active member of the
European Community in its widest sense” and participate “in
the building of a new Europe.”
It is quite reasonable to expect that in the long run Aus-
tralia—and the other Commonwealth primary producers —will
adjust to these historic changes, and may actually benefit from
the rapidly rising economic prosperity of the U.K. and Western
Europe. But initially an important part of our traditional meat
and dairy produce market may be lost. This seems to be a
near certainty.
The gist of Mr Heath's “leaked” speech is his acceptance
of the four basic European demands, which will make special
treatment of Britain’s Commonwealth partners difficult. The
United Kingdom is said to have accepted “without qualifica-
tions" the elimination of internal tariffs between member
countries, the common Customs tariff against imports from
outsiders, common commercial policy and common agricul-
tural policy.
These principles are the cornerstone of the Treaty of Rome
and provide the Common Market with its economic raison
d’etre —it is therefore amazing that so many hopes are being
pinned on Britain’s supposed ability to talk the Europeans
into waving them aside.
In this context the possibility of major concessions to
Commonwealth primary producers is remote—Australia, New
Zealand and Canada are not fledgling underdeveloped African
nations which had been economically linked with France —a
founder member of the Common Market —before their recent
independence. The new African States do not supply the
United Kingdom food market, and were never regarded as
serious competition by the European Economic Community’s
primary producers. Even then, the question of their associate
membership was a thorny one.
Britain seems unable to secure real concessions even for
its own subsidised agriculture—although its farm-support policy
has almost become a way of life. Speaking at the annual
Conservative party conference at Brighton last October, Mr
C. Soames, U.K.’s Minister for Agriculture, said clearly that
the entire farm-support system will be changed—the pill was
sweetened by his statement that the change would be made
regardless of the outcome of Common Market negotiations,
but the fact remains.
The six original Common Market partners demand free
access to the U.K. food market—protected against the rest of
the world by a common tariff —as their price for allowing the
highly competitive British industrial products into the Com-
munity. This is the crux of the matter. If demand will rise
rapidly and there will be room for agricultural produce from
outside the enlarged Common Market, then Australia and other
Commonwealth countries will probably be given some priority
—but not before.
Fortunately, there appears to be a growing political appre-
ciation of the importance of preserving a prosperous and
powerful British Comonwealth as a major force in the Free
World. Last week the Italian Senator Giuseppe Caron, who is
the vice-president of the European Economic Community,
said in Milan that all efforts should be made to enable the
United Kingdom to maintain its essential links with the
Commonwealth. Although this is a rather vague statement —
carefully shorn of direct economic implications—it is an
encouraging pointer.
The true test will come when technical negotiations on
commodities, which seem inevitable, will begin. This could be
the most appropriate time to secure the best terms for
Commonwealth primary producers.
For instance, both Australia and New Zealand supply the
British meat market with lamb—it is unlikely that English
eating habits will change overnight—while West European
countries are not great lamb producers. A way may be found


COMPANY
THE
UNITED INSURANCE
LIMITED
Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), SIR EDWARD R. KNOX (Vice-Chairman),
R. J. VICARS, A. MURRAY JONES, HUGH DIXSON,
D. A. T. DICKINS, K. B. MYERS, A. E. STEPHEN
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of Every Description
J. O. LEWIS, General Manager.
to reta ; n at least a part of the British lamb market without
seriously affecting the Common Market meat producers.
The fact that news of Mr Heath’s statement to the
Common Market Ministers has come by way of a curious
“leakage” is rather unfortunate. At certain stages details of
ticklish negotiations need not be published immediately—but
at least the Commonwealth Governments, which were promised
to be kept posted on the progress of the talks, should have
been advised in confidence. “Leakages,” however accurate,
often result in a lot of unnecessary distrust and suspicion. The
United Kingdom's traditional trade partners deserve to be
given every opportunity to adjust themselves to the impending
changes.
E.B.
MARKET RESEARCH
An American Newcomer
A fter a careful study of local possibilities, Riches Research,
Inc., of U.S.A., has decided to take the plunge and join
the growing fold of market and investment research organisa-
tions operating in Australia.
To start off, the American parent is incorporating Riches
Research, Inc. (Aust.), Pty Ltd as a private company in
N.S.W. Hitherto undisclosed Australian interests will have a
50 p.c. capital interest in the new venture. Beginnings are
as yet modest, and it is expected that initial operations may
have to be subsidised by the parent to enable the local offshoot
to quote competitive fees and establish itself. An Australian,
Mr David Parker, formerly of Huddart Parker Industries Ltd,
will be in charge of the Sydney office
Riches Research, Inc., was started in California by Mr L.
Victor Riches. A former academic economist and a member
of Stanford University's economic research unit, Mr Riches
subsequently set out on his own and succeeded in attracting
a substantial volume of “intermediate” market research,
economics and management consulting and urban planning
business. Riches Research concentrated on the smaller and
intermediate firms which could not afford large-scale market
investigations handled by such organisations as the Stanford
research team, which normally do not accept contracts under
U.S. $50,000.
Projects handled by Riches Research in the United States
include a survey of the American steel industry for Japanese
steel interests and an investment opportunities survey in
Nigeria, Africa.
Mr Riches visited Victoria three years ago and last month
spent another four weeks in N.S.W. and other States. He then
decided to set up an Australian branch.
Mr J. E. Sutherland, a Melbourne law graduate who joined
Mr Riches’s team after graduating Master of Business
Administration from the University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton
Graduate School of Finance, was appointed director of the
Australian division.
Mr Sutherland told The Bulletin: “Our objectives pro-
vide more than a passing interest. Although we hope to
establish the confidence of the Australian business community
in our research facilities, our immedate objective is . . .
representing American firms contemplating entering upon the
Australian market. Additional services offered include informa-
tion with respect to the United States market for Australian
exporters. It is intended to initiate research projects in
America based on investment opportunities evidenced by
research in Australia. Further, it is anticipated that a flow of
funds on a participating basis with Australian enterprise will
ensue.”
He said that Riches Research, Inc., in the United States
has four different departments—business and economics,
management engineering, urban planning marketing studies and
transportation research. “The effect of such diversity specialisa-
tion within a single firm is to bring outstanding specialist
knowledge to any one single project.”
An interesting American concept is the advisory council
which Mr Riches has developed for his organisation. Mem-
bers of this council are well-known retired specialists, whose
advice is sought on problems related to their particular field
of interests. Membership ranges from ambassadors to retired
university personnel.
Mr Sutherland added an interesting point about Riches
Research, Inc.’s, policy of accepting fees in local currency and
investing most of its profits in the country where they are
earned. The company also accepts shares of client companies
in part payment.
“This reduces the cash outlays of our clients and helps
preserve liquidity, and in turn enables them to commission
research projects which they otherwise would not be able to
afford. At the same time our company is able to acquire scrip
of local companies and participate in their profits.” Mr
Sutherland felt that this policy has enlarged Riches Research’s
market potential and was largely responsible for the company's
rapid growth.
The latest entrant to the highly competitive market
research industry faces a challenging task in trying to establish
itself. But, if the quality and price of its work should be as
satisfactory as the directors hope, Riches Research, Inc., may
do well in Australia.
JAPAN
"Buy Japanese" Drive Starts
Tapan continues to experience an alarming drain on its
** foreign exchange reserves caused by a heavy adverse balance
of trade. According to an official statement by the Japanese
Finance Ministry, foreign reserves at the end of October, 1961,
declined by a further U.S. $lO4 million to U.S. $l5OB million.
The latest fall, which is the third largest since the war,
is attributed to the sales of U.S. dollars—amounting to $146
million—required to finance payments for imports by author-
ised foreign exchange banks, including “import usance
accounts” approved last June. In addition, U.S. $4O million
of “Euro-dollar” accounts have to be liquidated.
These balance-of-payments difficulties have given rise to
an intensive “Buy Japanese” drive, sponsored by the Japanese
Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI). “The
Japan Times Weekly” reports that MITI “will conduct tests
to compare Japanese products against imported goods for five
years, starting from the forthcoming fiscal year.” The paper
adds that MITI, not unknown for its sporadic protectionist
policies which have occasionally seriously worried the overseas
trade section of Tokyo’s Foreign Office, is “demanding a
budget of Yen 200 million for the quality assessment tests
next year when chiefly heavy machinery, including machine
tools and construction machines, will be analysed.”
It seems that at this stage Australian exports to Japan are
not endangered. But some American manufacturers have
expressed alarm over the possible falling-off of Japanese
machine tools imports from the United States. However, if
Japan’s balance-of-payments crisis should drag out, the
volume of our basic exports may be affected. The foreign
trade gap may also force Japan into a stilfer attitude towards
tariffs and quotas imposed on Japanese goods on foreign markets
or a protectionist trade policy at home. Both are undesirable.
Fortunately, there are signs that the rate of decline in
Japan’s foreign reserves is slowing down —-the monthly deficit
has eased down from U.S. $ll6 million in August to U.S.
$lll million in September, and U.S. $lO4 million in November.


A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. L,. NEVITT. A. C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock E.rchanoe)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual life Building.
Queen Street. Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “N E V ITT CO”
Phone: 312761 P.O. BOX
(4 lines) No. 1887 W
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
K. H. ALLEN, M. R. 1,. DOWLING,
P. R_ LEVY, A. P. REYNOLDS. N, R.
IOGRSE (Melbourne Resident Partner).
Delfin House, 10 O'Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Building:. 150 Queen St..
Melbourne, 01-5957 (1 lines).
Telegrams and Cables: “Rosdale,” Sydney
Melbourne or Woolongong.
Joins N. Robertson, Thompson
and Co.
Members of the Stork Kxebange of
Melbourne.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS,
TempJe Court,
422 Collins Street,, Melbourne, C.I.
Telephones*. 67 6154, 67 6155
Telegrams and Cables:
ROBFALK, MELBOURNE
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
H. C. Sleigh Ltd
Tn an industry in which economies of
•*- scale are predominant and rationalisa-
tion is necessary, H. C. Sleigh Ltd clearly
shows signs of financial strain in its last
term’s results. Marketing and sales,
although effective, have failed to produce
the record results achieved in 1960.
Two new international oil giants have
commenced operations during the last
twelve months in a quiet manner. Phillips
Oil Products Limited (50 p.c. owned by
Phillips Petroleum Company of America)
and Amoco Australia Pty Ltd (wholly
owned subsidiary of the Standard Oil
Company of Indiana) are the two new
entrants. It is easy now to appreciate the
logic of Ampol’s bid in May 1960.
Ampofs proposal clearly showed recog-
nition of the “problem” of the petroleum
industry in Australia.
Marginal profit on the sale of petroleum
and oil products is greater in Australia
than in many other parts of the world.
Measurements of the market and market
tactics compare more than favourably
with overseas experience. Therefore it can
be expected that other international oil
companies will examine our market more
closely Increased competitiveness will
continue, and marketing and sales will
assume paramount importance.
As an oil company H. C. Sleigh Ltd is
young. Incorporated in June 1947, growth
has been rapid for this Australian distri-
butor of petroleum products. Marketing
is conducted under the banner of “Golden
Fleece.” Besides petroleum and oil other
income-producing activities include:
marketers of “Hardie” tyres, tubes, etc.
with manufacturing plants in New South
Wales and Victoria; ship owners, agents,
exporters and merchants.
A significant development in petroleum
marketing was achieved with the introdue-
fioa of Golden Fleece Activ-8 (marketing
response has been very satisfactory).
Major contracts for the supply of avia-
tion fuel to the R.A.A.F. and the R.A.N.
and other Commonwealth and semi-
governmental bodies are also held by
the company.
Export income was supplemented by
coal exports at a record level of half-a-
million tons. Endeavors to develop and
promote the export of iron ore, magne-
site and other minerals are receiving the
company’s close attention. Increase in
other export items was only slight.
Group sales for the year ended June,
1961, rose by only 9.4 p.c. to £37.1 million
(last year a rise of 53 p.c. to £33.9 million).
Net profit from trading was down
£325,552 to £2,181,693 after transferring
£105.603 to staff funds (up £15,851) and
providing £921,999 for depreciation amor-
tisation (up £136,199). Income from
investments was lower at £1173 (last year
£4898).
After providing £1,069,076 for taxation
(down £19,448) consolidated net profit
was £263,315 lower at £1,191,224:
Parent ami Subsidiaries.
, Divs.
Pref. To Re- Re-
Jne., Piofit. 5 p.c. ,• -Ord. , serves. serves.*
£ £ p.c. £ £ £
'56.. 608,590 30,000 124=314,333 264,207 |
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. ..I
W/off share exes., £18,750 .. .. j
Share premiums, £191,860 .. ..)
To insurance reserve. £16.864 .. |
Less sale assets, £26,405 .. .. |
p.c. t a ipr qxn
’57..1,077,054 39,000 121=400,843 637,211 f A ’
W/off goodwill, £34,098
W/off share exes., £16,250 ..
To staff fund, £15,000
Profit sale assets, £3099 ..
Tax overprovided, £13,603 ..
To insurance reserve, £24,866
To shipping reserve, £lOO,OOO .. I 9 -go 9-U
58.-1.366,022 39,000 121=587,041 739,98] f 7 ’
Share premiums capitalised, £4SS-,172 j
Share exes, written-off, £5030 .. |
Goodwill written-off, £26,276 ..J
To insurance reserve, £19,667 ..)
Profit sale assets, £264 .. .. ]
Tax overprovided, £27,992 .. .. I „ 797
To shipping reserve, £170,223 .. j zt
’59..1,212,141 44,417 121=641,048 526,696 |
Share exes, written-off, £14,036 .. |
Asset revaluation, £1,530,079 ..)
Share premiums, £2,737,559
Decrease shipping reserve, £90,055..
Profit sale assets, £66,096
Lets tax underprovided, £11,965 7,887,137
Less intangibles w/off, £32,545
Unexplained reduction, £125
*60..1.454,539 82,012 124=846,161 526,366
Less transfer to staff fund, £lOO,OOO
Share premium reserve, £956,891..]
Property revaluation reserve, £370,990 |
Increased shipping reserve, £ 44,869 |
Tax overprovided, £222 .. .. [- 9,335,187
Profit sale assets, £2,8-81
Less intangibles w/off, £44,510 ~
61.-1,191,224 82,012 124=992,415 116,797 .
* Subject to intangibles £1,452,203 at 30/6/61.
Preference capital dividends (6| p.c.)
absorbed £82,012. The ordinary dividend
cheque of £992,415 (up £146,254) repre-
sents a steady dividend rate of 12? p.c.
Visible profit ploughed back amounted to
£116,797 (the lowest since 1956).
The earning rate on considerably
increased overall ordinary capital was
13.96 p.c. (after deducting the preference
divs.) compared with 20.3 p.c. in 1960 and
22.8 p.c. in 1959.
The company's chairman this year
drew attention to the fact that sales to
Government and semi-government, as
well as institutional customers, form a
considerable section of the group’s turn-
over in petroleum products.
Movements in reserves illustrate
changes in internal finances. Share pre-
miums added £956,891 while property
revaluation of £370,900 shows the effects
of the 1960 “oil rationalisation plan.”
Shipping and other contingencies rose by
£44,869. Tax of £222 was overprovided
and an additional £2BBl was netted from
the sale of assets. Intangibles of £44,510
were written off leaving reserves of
£9,335,187 (subject to intangibles of
£1,452,203).
Preference shares were split in October
1960 into ss. units. At present net tangible
assets for ss. preference shares are 80s. Bd.
and net tangible assets for the ss. ordin-
ary share fell to 9s. 4d. on consolidated
figures.
A year of consolidation for the com-
pany has apparently left it in a somewhat
weakened state. Diversification into
rubber products per medium of the
Bardie Rubber Company Ltd through
figures marketing and advertising cam-
paigns produced a sound source of
income. Fifteen tyre retailing and retread-
ing businesses in various States were
acquired in the last twelve months. Expan-
sion was largely financed by the issue of
shares in H. C. Sleigh. Approximately 80
retail tyre subsidiaries are now owned or
controlled by the group. Current expan-
sion entails marketing operations in Vic-
toria, South Australia, Western Austra-
lia and Tasmania.
The new refinery at Kurnell, owned by
Australian Lubricating Oil Refinery Ltd
(Sleigh 25 p.c., Caltex 50 p.c., Ampol
25 p.c.), is producing satisfactorily and
at present comprises mainiy earthworks.
This provides an important step towards
higher grade lubricants. The refinery rep-


resents an important part of the com-
pany's future plan.
New bulk storage terminals will soon
be completed at Fremantle in Western
Australia and Trial Bay in New South
Wales bringing the total number of sea-
board terminals to ten. Eight new country
bulk depots were opened during the year
bringing (he total to 45 as at June, 1961,
and seven more are either partially com-
pleted or about to be commenced. The
number of country agents has risen by
64 to a total of 981.
The wholly owned subsidiary, Sleigh
Exploration N.L., has been formed to
provide the company with an interest in
oil exploration. The undertaking to pay
£700,C00 over a period of seven years has
been agreed upon by the company to
intensify exploration activities. Payments
of this nature are deductable for income
tax purposes.
Consolidated balance sheet figures for
K. C. Sleigh provide us with the com-
pany’s perspective. Paid capital rose by
£3,282,173 to £12,683,787. Creditors
increased £1,365,158 to £8.686.792. Over-
draft was reduced £ 1,383,987 to
£1,941,681. Minority interests were
further increased to £94,489:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Paid capital— 1959. 1960. 1961.
Preference •• £1,100,000 £1,261,715 £1,261,715
Ordinary . . 5,128,222 7,397,559 10,179,732
Deferred . . 742,340 742,340 742,340
Deferred “B” 500,000
Deserves . . 3,261,727 7,887,137 9,335,187
Advance share
premiums .. 306,411 306,411 306,411
Outside interests 3,.627 88,530 94,489
Mortgages .. 537,000 •
Notes . . . . 1,725,644 1,793,709 3,618,709
Advance note
subscriptions 990,954
Overdraft . . 1,011,370 3,325,669 1,941,682
Creditors .. 3,447,525 7,321,634 8,686,792
Staff funds . . 58,931 134,562 211,199
Tax provision. . 1,012,027 1,172,898 1,203,554
Final divs. .. 345,431 492,644 570,410
£18.680,255 £32,915,762 £38,652,220
Freeholds . . 5,872,413 10,810.566 13,791,725
Leaseholds . . 622,086 766,487 772,588
Plant, etc. . . 6,292,351 9,569,144 11,560,003
Shares other cos. 247,136 3,000 24,459
Stocks .. 2,228,188 5,035,774 5,403,713.
Debtors .. 3,082,552 5,063,023 5,647,529
Intangibles .. 335,529 1,067,759 1,452,203
£18,680,255 £32,915,762 £38,652,220
Freeholds increased by £2,981,159 (in-
cluding £1,900,979 property appreciation)
to £13,791,725. Book value of plant, etc.,
was £11,560,003 an increase of
£1,990,859. Current stocks show an
increase of £367,939 to £5.403,713
(which shows the strained financial posi-
tion). Book debts decreased by £15,494
to £5,647,529 which shows on average
a decline in activity.
In August, 1960, 64 p.c. convertible
notes of 10s. were issued on a basis of
one-for-ten to ordinary holders and
two-for-five to option and 7\ p.c. note-
holders at par. This issue raised
£1,825,000.
In October, 1960, ten million deferred
“B” shares were issued to overseas trade
associates. These shares carry voting
rights but rank for dividends only after
ordinary shareholders receive 15 p.c. (for
example, if the dividend of 20 p.c. was
paid to ordinary shares, the deferred
shares would rank for 1 p.c.). These
shares were paid to Is. per share and
the capital of £500,000 raised was used
to purchase a number of service station
properties previously leased.
in February, 1961, an issue of shares
to existing holders of ordinary shares,
options and convertible notes, increased
ordinary capital by £2,592,811. The
premium from this issue amounted to
£648,203 (Is. 3d. a share).
For a year of “consolidation for the
company” there is evidence of internal
financial shuffling. The chairman has
pointed out that subsidiaries apparently
“did not contribute to consolidated
profits in the manner we are confident
they will in the future.” Also it was
noted that financial restrictions imposed
by the Government did not leave the
company unscathed.
In November of this year the company
announced the raising of £2 million by
private placement with institutions of
8 p.c. unlisted registered unsecured notes
redeemable in 15 years. It is also accept-
ing deposit money from holders of notes,
options and shares with interest rates
ranging from 4\ p.c. for six months to
8 p.c. for ten years.
It would appear that H. C. Sleigh Ltd
is finding difficulty in servicing ordinary
capital. At the last sale in Sydney the
ss. ords. fetched 10s. 3d. for an imme-
diate return of 6.1 p.c. on the basis of
the steady 124 p.c. dividend distribution.
Strata Development Cor-
poration Ltd
nP'HE disappearance of Streets Ice Cream
-*■ Ltd as an independent entity on its
takeover by the Unilever organisation
brought both pride and regret to the loyal
hearts of its N.S.W. South Coast share-
holders.
Set up in the ’2os by Mr Edwin
Street, Streets Ice Cream Ltd tackled a
market which was dominated by Peters
and generally considered unbeatable in
those days. From humble beginnings, the
company grew until in 1959 its turnover
exceeded £2 million, and in its last three
years recorded average profits of almost
34 p.c. on capital of £544,162. When
Unilever bid £5 10s. cash for each 20s.
ordinary share and £5 2s. 6d. cash for
181,403 20s. convertible notes. Streets’
directors would have felt justifiably
pleased with the company's success. And
the share and noteholders, largely resi-
dent in the. South Coast area from
Wollongong and environs down to
Moruya and beyond, with personal con-
nections with the board, felt grateful for
this outstanding leadership.
Since shareholders had to decide about
the alternative investment of their cash
funds, directors, recognising the personal
goodwill which they had built up, con-
templated the idea of forming a new
company from the ashes of the old, to
channel the funds into the area in which
they had been won. And so emerged
Strata Development Corporation Ltd,
set up to develop the Wollongong, Port
Kembla and South Coast districts par-
ticularly, by “assisting in the expansion of
industry and commerce by sponsoring
the provision at fair prices of good home
sites, of homes, home-units, flats and
shops and of service industries and by
producing a financial reservoir which will
not only be available for expanding pro-
jects but will provide a means whereby
the shareholders can ensure a wide
diversification of investments media
through the one channel.”
The objects as set down in the Memo-
randum of Association are:
Investment in land and buildings and in
development of real estate . . . including land
subdivision and building of homes, home-units,
commercial, industrial and other buildings for
sale and letting.
Investment in shares and other securities.
The supply of finance for homes, home
appliances and business ventures.
Underwriting and sub-underwriting of issues,
and financial assistance to companies approach-
ing public-company status.
The company does not intend to restrict
its activities to the N.S.W. South Coast
area, tut will take advantage of invest-
ment opportunities in other fast-growing
areas, such as Sydney, Newcastle and
Canberra. Directors have claimed—and
rightly—that the South Coast area, based
on the steel industry in Wollongong and
Port Kembla, is one of the fastest grow-
ing areas in Australia with abundant
opportunities for profitable investment by
management with specialised knowledge
of the area.
Strata was set up with an authorised
capital of £2 million, of which 4.000,000
ss. shares were offered for public sub-
scription. The board comprises three
members of the original Streets board
and two others with special knowledge
of the South Coast area. Although the
reservoir of cash received from Unilever
totalled almost £4 million, Streets’ ex-
share and -noteholders were given prior
right of application to i,400,000 ss. shares
or £350,000 worth. The company was
incorporated in May, 1960, but the shares
were not listed until July, when the specu-
lative land boom was looking most
dangerous and the very word “develop-
ment” assumed nasty overtones.
Although the shares were well distri-
buted, and the underwritten issue had
been immediately over-subscribed, the ss.
ords. touched Bs. briefly and rapidly
declined to around 6s. when the stags
got out. Four months later, the Novem-
ber economic measures directly aimed at
share and land speculation dampened
enthusiasm of investors for the various
investment companies and occasioned
some hard thinking by Strata’s directors.
The original intention was to concentrate
on subdividing, but the confidence of the
land buyer and home builder was damp-
ened by the announcement of the restric-
tions and increasing unemployment.
Strata therefore looked for diversifica-
tion within a specified field —by the end
of the first full year of operations to
June 30, 1961, directors were able to
report the establishment of three active
subsidiary companies.
Net trading profit for the year was


1
CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act of New South Wales on the Bth March, 1950.
(ASSETS EXCEED £9,1)90,090t
PER ANNUM
5 OR 6 YEARS
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE
STOCK
REGISTERED t
REDEEMABLE DEPOSIT
NOTES
INTEREST PERIOD
9Vz% P.A. J or 6 years
9% P.A - 4 years
QVz% P.A. 3 years
8% P.A 2 years
7 1 /i% P.A 12 months
P.A 5 months
INTEREST PERIOD
9Va% P.A 4 years
9%- P.A 3 years
BVz% P.A 2 years
8% P.A 12 months
P.A 6 months
6 f /a% P.A . 3 mths! notice
P.A. 1 month’s notice
Funds may be withdrawn in a personal emergency
Interest paid quarterly FREE of Exchange through the
Bank of N.S.W.
Prospectus and Application Forms
obtainable from:
Any Branch of the BANK OF N.S.W.
OR
The Company's Offices: Cambridge House, 249 George Street. Sydney. 'Phones:
BU 5657, SU 5542. Cambridge House. 411-413 Lonsdale Street. Melbourne.
Phone: 67-6792. Suite 53a, sth Floor, T. & G. Building, 137 Queen Street,
Brisbane. 'Phones: 24-509, 26-981. Suite 110, Ist Floor. Da Costa Building,
68 Grenfell Street, Adelaide. 'Pbone: 87-025. First Floor, Cambridge House,
767-773 Hunter Street. Newcastle West. ‘Phone: 61-0441 (15 lines). Berner
Credit Company Pty. Ltd., 147 Bayliss Street, Wagga. 'Phone: 4588.
OR
Any Member of a Stock Exchange
Underwriting Brokers:
rnonlc (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
COnnlE & CO. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
LEONARD G. MAY & SON (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
Brokers for the issue in A.C.T.: T. J. Thompson & Sons, C.B.C. Chambers, Petrie Street, Canberra
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange). Brokers for the issue in Newcastle: F. S. Scorer & Co,
T. & G. Building, Cnr. Hunter & Watt Sts., Newcastle (Members of the Newcastle Stock Exchange).
Brokers for the issue in South Australia: S. C. Ward & Co., 25 Grenfell Street, Adelaide (Members
of the Stock Exchange of Adelaide Ltd.). Brokers for the issue in Western Australia: Donald J.
Carmichael & Co., 135 St. George’s Terrace, Perth (Members of the Stock Exchange of Perth).
Brokers for the issue in Tasmania: P. S. Shadferth & Son, Commercial Bank of Australia Buildin®
Cnr. Elizabeth and Collins Streets, Hobart (Members of the Hobart Stock Exchange).
Trustee: Bankers & Traders' Insurance Company Limited.
Registrar for Debenture Stock: Bank of N.S.W. Nominees Pty. Ltd.
Registers: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Canberra.
Applications for the debenture stock accepted only on one of the
forms of application attached to a printed copy of the prospectus. CC.112/IM
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the Manager,
who will quote you a price for the original.
given as £53,285, after providing £8497
for depreciation and £35,136 for tax.
This represented an earning rate of
5.3 p.c. on paid capital at balance date.
Directors decided not to endanger
liquidity by recommending a dividend for
that period, but announced that if present
trends continued consideration would be
given to the payment of an interim divi-
dend in March, 1961.
The parent company is engaged in land
subdivision, financing other businesses,
share investment, sub-underwriting and
financing subsidiaries.
Housing subdivisions acquired were
Unanderra Heights, Unanderra ; Cleve-
land Road Estate, Dapto ; “Gownie
Glen” Estate, Balgownie ; “Alpark
Estate.” Albion Park, and by the pur-
chase of the issued capital of Shell-
harbour Home Pty Ltd and Bushlands
Pty Ltd —Barrack Heights Estate, Bar-
rack Point, and “Brentwood Park Estate,”
Figtree Heights. Commercial sites
acquired were on the corner of Flinders
and Bourke Streets, Wollongong, the
corner of Princes Highway and Railway
Street, Corrimal, and in Market Street,
Wollongong.
A useful complementary business was
acquired by the takeover of R. Fretus
Pty Ltd in September, 1960. This com-
pany will construct roads, and sub-
divisional works, for the group's own
development projects, and will also tender
for outside work. The earthmoving
business has been run by Mr Fretus for
many years and he will continue as
company manager. Thus Strata is using
the technique of takeover experts in buy-
ing good management. Directors reported
late last September that this subsidiary
had contracts on hand sufficient to keep
the plant fully occupied for the current
financial year.
Strata Finance Pty Ltd was formed in
October, 1960, to conduct hire-purchase
business in the home-appliance field.
Because of the tightness of money, this
subsidiary blossomed and business was
written on very favorable terms with
South Coast retailers who themselves
took the major risk.
After a rather plaintive cry about the
suddenness and severity of the Govern-
ment’s November measures, Strata’s
chairman, Mr K. C. Wiseman, conceded
a measure of praise to “the economic
advisers of the country for the brake on
land prices ; for the direction of the
wind of caution on to expansion pro-
grammes and business transactions ; for
the virtual elimination of ‘overnight’
developers ; for the increased demand for
money ; and, more closely to home, for
the opportunity to acquire our first motel
on satisfactory terms.”
A motel built by American Motor
Courts Ltd, in Princes Highway, Wollon-
gong, N.S.W., at a reported cost of
£150,000, and two months later, in
February, 1960, taken over by Latec
Investments Ltd was in turn acquired
by Strata —for cash and presumably at a
discount.
The motel is one of the largest in
N.S.W., comprising 73 units, its own
restaurant —which also caters for the


NOW AVAILABLE IN THE FAMOUS
INTERNATIONAL PACK
c The new round bottle ’
Hi
* A- ,
: - V
«
m
■l^W
■■■■
iuimmi
mSzoiQ
( WHITE
FSBUCHAKAJ
ASGOW SCO
$ . : '
V
BLACK & WHITE
„ BUCHANANS
CHOICE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
' - fd-i?
•VT;
H
Wmmmi
m
■
You’re so right ...
insist on
‘BLACK & WHITE
SCOTCH WHISKY
“BUCHANANS"
By Appointment
Scotch Whisky Distillers
w
io Her Majesty he Queen
James Buchanan & Co. Ltd.
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO. LTD.
GLASGOW, SCOTLAND
LONDON
4721
general public—and a swimming pool.
Directors made a detailed survey and
introduced measures to improve service
and comfort which they say have
increased the occupancy rate rapidly.
The motel did not operate as part of
the group until the new financial year,
but directors are confident that if profits
continue at the current rate the overall
results of the group should improve.
The balance-sheet as at June 30, 1961,
shows the results of Strata’s operations
at balance date:
1961
Capital: ordinary £1,000,000
Profit and loss account .. .. .. 53,285
Mortgage .. .. .. .. 20,000
Creditors 26.191
Deposits .. . . . . .. 56,300
Tax provision .. .. .. .. 35,136
£1,190,912
Freehold properties .. .. .. 113,860
Plant, equipment . . . . . . 69,641
Investments: real estate subdivisions .. 373,552
shares in public companies .. .. 51,594
short term deposits . . . . . . 101,540
Debtors .. .. 267,046
Work in progress, stores .. .. 56,069
Cash .. 106,645
Goodwill, preliminary expenses . . 50,965
£1,190,912
Debtors included loans and hire-purchase
contracts outstanding—less provision for
doubtful debts, £304,374, less provision
for unearned interest and terms charges.
£37,328.
Were it not for credit restrictions,
Strata could have made more profit in
its maiden year, and perhaps paid a divi-
dend. But the recession brought a more
sober approach to business. The directors
feel that the company benefited by the
slowdown, which compelled it to con-
centrate closely on the basic establishment
of the company and on the selection of
initial methods of operation.
Strata seems to have made a sound
beginning. The ss. ords., having
recovered from below par prior to
announcement of the year's results, at
around ss. 2d. appear to be fair value
for investors willing to tuck them away
for a couple of years.
Steel is described as the one certain
boom industry, and B.H.P.'s recent
development has been in favor of
the Port Kembla area rather than New-
castle, compelling development of the
Port Kembla inner harbor. This makes
prospects for the company's future growth
appear favorable. It now remains for
the old ice-cream men to prove their
mettle in real-estate development and
finance.
COMPANY NOTES
Consolidated Press
/Consolidated net profit of Consoli-
dated Press Holdings Limited for
the year ended June 30, 1961, was
£61,394 lower at £348,850, after pro-
viding £173,350 for depreciation and
amortisation and setting aside £210,771
for taxation.
Directors say that results for the year
were affected by a loss incurred b\ a
subsidiary acquired during the year, the
necessary entry into suburban publica-
tions and the general economic conditions
resulting from credit restrictions imposed
in November, 1960. Since balance date
business has continued to be “tight,” but
there are indications of improvement,
and it is expected that the balance of the
current year should be more profitable
than the corresponding period in last
term.
Paid capital rose from £1.993,959
to £2,228,835 (including the £1.000,000
prefs.). Expansion continued. Con-
solidated reserves, accumulated profits
and share premiums rose from £2,056,068
to a massive £2,672,411, showing the
underlying strength of the group. Despite
the increase in ordinary capital, net
tangible asset backing improved from
J2s. sd. a ss. unit to 13s. a ss. stock unit.
Earning rate on the higher ordinary
capital was a satisfactory 22.5 p.c.
At the last sale in Sydney the ss. ords.
changed hands at 19s. 6d. a ss. ord.,
making the immediate yield 3.2 p.c. p.a.
on the basis of the 124 p.c. dividend rate.
Of the dividend, 3f p.c. was tax free.
OIL AND MINING
Australian Associated Oil-
fields
A USTRALIAN ASSOCIATED OIL FIELDS
N.L. and its associates report that
drilling has commenced at Glentulloch
No. I well. The last reported depth
was 238 feet. Surface casing will be set
at 260 feet. The Glentulloch well is
situated 12 miles west of Injune town-
ship (Queensland) and is in the northern
part of Authority to Prospect 55. it is
the first to be drilled in the new area
by the group. The company says that
the site was selected after intensive
seismic surveys carried out over the last
two years.
Timor Oil Ltd
ITVlrectors say that drilling operations
will be resumed “in close proximity”
to Matai No. 3 well. “The stage is thus
set for the deep hole to be drilled in an
area where oil shows were previously
encountered.” The rig is being shifted
from the old site close by.


HIGHLIGHTS FROM NATIONAL BANK
CHAIRMAN’S 1961 ADDRESS
Mr. J. A. FORREST, Melbourne, 29/11/61.
EXPORT INCOME MUST RISE. To achieve steady national progress, we must concentrate upon
lifting our export income. This is fundamental to any lasting solution of our recurring
balance of payments problem. Export income has not kept pace with national develop-
ment. The ratio of exports to national production was over 15% in 1938/39, but only
13.5% last year, and would have been lower but for abnormally high wheat sales.
Exports would need to have been about £loom. higher to equal the pre-war ratio.
MORE EXPORTS ARE PART OF DEVELOPMENT. As individual citizens, we must grasp the
idea that expansion of exports is a part of national development just as surely as is the
new dam, the new railway line, the new factory. To raise export income by anything
like the £2som. a year suggested by the Export Development Council is a gigantic task,
and its magnitude and importance must be brought home to the nation. There must be a
nation-wide urge to produce for export.
RESPONSIBILITY OF GOVERNMENTS. Creation of the appropriate climate within Australia
to aid production for export is a responsibility of governments. This would be a valuable
complement to the help in various other ways being given by government to private
enterprise to build up export income.
ENCOURAGEMENT OF IMPORT REPLACEMENT. Full encouragement must be given production
that will replace imports. In appropriate ca ;es, greater and perhaps wider use should be
made of the tariff to aid efficient local manufacturers. If costs are to be reduced,
production facilities must be fully employed. Testing production of tropical and
sub-tropical agricultural products in northern areas, and searching for oil, are examples
of possible import replacement. But because of growth, on average over the years,
imports may not be greatly reduced, and could even increase.
OUR EFFORTS MUST COMPLEMENT CAPITAL INFLOW. Our young and developing country,
with excellent long-term business prospects, merits the full attention of overseas friends,
whether their interest be productive enterprise or portfolio investment. But we should
not be content to rely upon them for maintenance of our international financial stability.
On too many occasions we have been doing this. If necessary, we must accept whatever
sacrifices may be needed to enlarge our contribution as an international trading partner,
because economic isolation is an impossibility for Australia.
ACCOUNTS. Assets increased by nearly £4m. to £368m., an all-time record. Net profit rose
by £94,000 to £1,074,000, also a record. Increase in expenses was £177,000, and higher
profits were achieved mainly because of morer realistic charges for certain services, and
additional income from increased business in some sections of the Bank’s operations.
STAFF THANKED. The Bank’s staff in Australia and London were thanked for the high
standards maintained, and the service given over the year.
IJ)
THE NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
(Inc. in Victoria)
Registered Office: 271-279 Collins Street, Melbourne.
890 Offices throughout Australia. Total Assets: £368 million.


rrv.
wm
A happy
choice for
Christmas
ifts
-costing exactlyy
ou want
to spend! >
OPEN A
C.B.C. SAVINGS
ACCOUNT
It’s bound to be appreciated!
*-And, of course, put C.B.C. money
boxes in the children’s stockings!
Money grows in the
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK
<m
LIMITED
at your nearest branch of
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
Divorce Notice
TAKE NOTICE that ELIZA BETH
NAGY has filed a petition Number
2086 of 1961 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse
for two years and upwards. If you
wish to defend you may enter an answer
in the Divorce Registry, Mint Building,
Macquarie Street, Sydney by 29th
December 1961 and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from
FLANNERY, MURA & CO., Solicitors,
29 Bligh Street, Sydney, New South
Wales.—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar
in Divorce.
Speculator's Diary
Monday, December 4.
Reluctantly I am passing
up the opportunity to tell
you how to vote on Saturday
because I find it’s time for me
to present my Annual Report
—well, everybody else has been
presenting their annual reports
so why shouldn’t I?
So ... . Ladies and Gentle-
men, your Speculator has
pleasure in submitting his
second Annual Report and
Accounts for the year ended
30th November, 1961. This
was my second year as a Stock
Exchange speculator and 1 am
able to report that my nefari-
ous operations again produced
a satisfactory result,
Profit: The profit (partly
on paper) for the year was
£1752, compared with £lll5
for the previous year. Capital,
which was originally £2OOO
two years ago, increased during
the year from £3115 to £4867.
It is pleasing to note, there-
fore, that the previous year's
earning rate of 55 per cent on
capital employed has been
fully maintained this year.
Taxation: Again no provi-
sion has been made for taxa-
tion. In other words, the
Commissioner hasn’t caught up
with me yet.
Depreciation : No provision
here, either. My only fixed
assets are my wits and they're
not always too fixed. Besides,
they are daily becoming more
easily replaceable, thereby
obviating the need for any pro-
vision for plant replacement.
Year’s Trading: During
the year 165 transactions were
made covering some 90 differ-
ent companies. All but 21 of
these were profitable and more
than half of the losses were
sustained in the three months
following the introduction of
the Government's economic
restrictions last November.
Eight times during the year
recourse was made to shorting
and only once (on ICIANZ)
was a loss suffered.
From time to time I am told
that 1 would make almost as
much money if 1 held on to
one lot of shares instead of
always trading. The answer
to this is that 1 would have
lost £154 on the year if I'd
kept the shares 1 held last
November 30!
In the opinion of your
Speculator, the year's opera-
tions have not been affected by
any items of an abnormal
character—not even the wicked
Government's economic policy.
Directors: There is no
need to express the customary
regret at the passing of any
of the directors as 1 am in sole
control. I simply retire and,
being eligible, offer myself for
re-election.
However, 1 would again like
to express my regret at the
unseemly language used by Mr
George Petersen in The
Bulletin of September 23,
when he described me as a
respectable bludger exploiting
the capitalist system and who
should be in jail for theft.
Disgraceful thing to say.
Auditors: 1 wouldn't dare
appoint any.
Annual Meeting: None
has been arranged, but you are
cordially invited to avail your-
selves of the facilities at the
Chevron or the Hotel
Sydney any time you’re in
those localities.
Current T rading : 1 finished
the year with £BB5 in cash,
having sold my A.C.I. (at 78s.
cum rights) and Rio Tinto (at
15s. 7d.) during the last fort-
night.


Positions Vacant
ALL SOULS’ SCHOOL
CHARTERS TOWERS, N.Q.
Masters required to teach:
1. Book-keeping, Typing and General Middle-
school Subjects.
2. Latin and English.
Duties commence First Term, 1962.
Resident or non-resident; housemastership with
free flat available for suitable man. Apply
Headmaster.
THE KING’S SCHOOL,
PARRAMATTA
Master required to teach Maths and/or Science,
beginning First Term 1962.’ Applicants should
send details of qualifications and experience
and copies of two testimonials to the
Headmaster.
WORLD UNIVERSITY SERVICE
GENERAL SECRETARY
To administer the policy of W.U.S. through-
out Australia. Pref. graduate wtih admin, exp.
Public speaking ability and typing desirable.
I nit. appointment, two years. Sal., £9GO-£ 1,200.
Information: World University Service, Union
House, University of Melbourne. FJ 6513.
Applications close 20th December.
IT'S ONLY
K
and there's
more to
read for
the whole
family in
Everybody's
Divorce Notices
JN Till-: SCPRKM E COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALKS. —In Oivorck.
TO NELLIE HUXLEY late of 42 Canberra Street,
Lane Cove. TAKE NOTICE that WILFRED KEITH
HUXLEY has filed a Petition for Divorce No, 2888
of 1961 on the ground of desertion. If you wish
to defend, you may enter an answer in the Divorce'
Registry, Supreme Court, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, by the sth January, TOO 2, and obtain
a copy of the Petition without change from
Me DO aln LI. AND MOFFETT, Solicitors, of 6 Wynyard
Street, Sydney. if you do not wish to file an
answer, but wish to receive a copy of each document
filed in the proceedings, you should tile a notice
of address for service on or before such date. —
C. A. FI. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH M ALES. In Divorce.
TO RONALD RIVERS-LLOYD late of 352 Hargrave
Park. North Liverpool.—TAKE NOTICE that
SHIRLEY RIVERS-LLOYI) has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 34 10 of 1901 on the ground of desertion.
If you wish to defend, you may enter an answer
in the Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mint Build-
ing, Macquarie Street, Sydney, by the sth January,
1962, and obtain a copv of the Petition without
charge from MeDONELL AND M OFF ITT, Solicitors,
of 6 Wynyard Street, Sydney. If you do not wish
to file an answer, but wish to receive .a copy of each
document filed in tile' proceedings, you should file
a notice of address for service on or before such dale.
C. A. FI. HARMS, Registrar.
Missing Friend
UFORCE IiKANYILLE MILLER formerly of N-lia
in tlie State of Queensland but now of parts
unknown TAKE NOTICE that ROLAND D'AiRAGO
•formerly of 28 Filbert Street, South Caulfield in
the State of Victoria but now of 15 Holroyd Avenue
East St. Hilda in the said State has filed a Petition
for Divorce against his wife .Margaret. D’Ar.ago and
you .as Co-Respondent in the Supreme Court of
Victoria which Petition is numbered 853 of 1960
on the ground that the said Margaret D'Arago has
since the celebration of the marriage been guilty
of adultery with you. If you intend to defend
this suit you must enter an Appearance at tire office,
ot the Prothonotary, Supreme Court, Law Courts,
.Melbourne, on or before the 2nd day of January.
1962, and file an Answer on or before the 1:211]
day of January, 1962. Should you fail in do this,
the suit will proceed in your absence and you may
be ordered to pay 1 costs. A copy of the Petition
and Citation and the Petitioner's Affidavit in support
of his Petition may be obtained by you without
charge on application to the Petitioner's Solicitor*
whose address is hereunder —GILLOTT MOIIR &
AHERN, Solicitors for the Petitioner, of 95 Queen
Street, Melbourne.
Missing Friends
TO: DAVID JAMES MACDONALD SAME founV-ih-
practising as a solicitor at 6 Russell Street, EssendotC
i« the State of Victoria. TAKE NOTICE that the
Supreme Court of Victoria will be moved on Monday,
the sth February, 1062. at the hour of 10.30 o’clock
in the forenoon or as soon thereafter as .counsel
can be heard by counsel on behalf of the I.aw Institute
of Victoria for an order that the name of you, the
ahovem.med DAVID JAMES MACDONALD' SYMIi,
be struck off the Roll of Barristers ‘ and Solicitors
of the Supreme Court of Victoria or for such other
order as the said Court thinks lit on the grounds
of misconduct by you upon the report dated the
23rd October, 1961, of the Statutory Committee under
the Legal Profession Practice Act 1958 after inquire
into questions as to your misconduct. It you desire
to defend this motion you must appear before the
Supreme Court of Victoria on the , sth February,
1062, upon the hearing of the said motion. Notice
of the said motion and all other relevant documents
may be inspected by you at the office of the
Prothonotary of the Supreme Court of Victoria,
corner of William and Lonsdale Streets, Melbourne,
during the normal office hours. —ARTHUR HEYMAN-
SON. 6 MeKillop Street, Melbourne. Solicitor lot
the Law Institute of Victoria.
TO: JAMES ARTHUR KITCHEN formerly rtf Mos-
mtni near Sydney in the State of New South Wales,
hut now of parts unknown. AND TO any person
knowing his whereabouts, TAKE NOTICE that Allen
Kitchen and Norma Anderson intend to make appli-
cation for a grant of Letters of Administration in
respect of the Estate of your late wife Dorothy
Mary Kitchen.
You must accordingly give notice of your inten-
tion to claim in the Estate to the undersigned or
to The Registrar of Probates Supreme Court, King
Street. Sydney, on or before 18th December,, 1961.
Otherwise the said application may proceed on the
presumption that there is no claim for entitlement
in the Estate other than that of the-said applicants.—
SHAW McDonald & <CO„, Solicitors, 11<C Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
HELP
LEGACY
all the year round. Donations: 169
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. BM 2001.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 670
Across
I—Pick1 —Pick courage. (5)
4—Mountain put back 1001 b. of flour of the after-
birth. (9)
8— Trotter otters a tyre repair when reversing. (5)
9 Litigant suggests there's nothing fancy about the
squabble. (9)
11— The French wine 1 offered with a girl. (7)
12— Introduce them to a little brother with the Italian and
involve them in an imbroglio. (7)
14 —Architectural order add the key-
note softened Richard. (5)
Id —He carelessly goes to the mother
country during such an emer-
gence. (9)
17 —Desert inquiry as to whether you
used to be 28-across? (9)
19 —Possible indication of the emo-
tion of those who cannot pay
rents. (5)
21 — A memory-jogger about a resi-
due. (9)
22 — Genuine thousand in the king-
dom. (5)
24—Kitchen equipment which makes
King George crook against
Queen Elizabeth. (7)
26 — Unusual as a straying con-
stable? (7)
27 Consequently the football umpire
has metal-bearing rock. (9)
28 — Antelope from the East
country. (5)
Down
1 — The old man has a friend with
reference to 4-down's office. (5).
2 Bring to light a horseshoe dia-
gram on the little North Carolina
bowling spell. (7)
3 ; —A good book managed with
striking success. (5)
4 Chime of the Italian river and.
when retired. Queen Elizabeth
and a pontiff. (4, 9)
5 'One changed in a . considerable
time. (3)
6 Game place in Africa. (7)
7 They may help its to survive 51
cats. (9)
1-o—English literary figure caus-
ing some interference to
4-down. (9. 4)
13 — Beauty good for such a one ta
superlative surroundings. (5)
14 — What is above is not .above, and
what is left is not left! (9)
15— See her ahead of qne foreign
dear. (5)
18—Mother's in the river lor seven
days in Paris. (7)
20 —Avenue is a crip-pled one. (7)
22 — Weapon taken front the dis-
orderly flier. (5)
23 — Married one parent to a
fellow'. <5)
25 —'Falsehood. (31
Solution to Crossword No, 669


The weather at a glance...
from the M.L.C.
Weather Beacon
THE MUTUAL LIFE AND CITIZENS’ ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED (incorporated IN N.S.w.)
in
:s*
*
r
m
A
% i ■ &;$:
A
ft
ill
i: :
:
lH
W
m
* i
*• I
| /
/
/
■
/
MMI
V
1111
»'
♦
fWss
ill
fifliifliiiiimiflifiaißi
MSHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
IUIBIIIIIIIIIUIIIII
luifliuiiiiiißimig
■RHRiISHHHHI
jUjjjjj
aiasßiiiiilfliHiiisiii
lIIIBHIIIIIIIIIUIH
mm
ElBB3Bllllllf«!IIgl
iibbbbiiiiiiibbiihb
iiibiiiiiibhiiibriii
EHIIIBIBII6ISIRBIII2 R
HBBHUHHmßSilßiliiiiliiiiiiiiSiiißii
■iflisaissra
mmmm
seiggns
mss
SSSBii
II
MS
1186
SS
M
uia m
lIHIIIUI
lIUIHNEI
iiui!!!>!>
■■■■■■BlBB
TEMPERATURE FORECAST
When the lights are:
Rising Becoming warmer
Falling . /....... i..... Becoming cooler
Steady No change
WEATHER FORECAST
WHITE:
Steady Fine
Two Sec. Flashes Clearing-
Half Sec. Flashes Windy
RED:
Steady Rain
Two Sec. Flashes Change developing
Half Sec. Flashes, Strong winds and rain
The forecasts come from the Weather Bureau
by remote control. The signals are for short-
range forecasts and are adjusted at 6 a.m.,
noon, 4.30 p.m., 10 p.m. and when a change
is imminent. Keep an M.L.C. Weather Beacon
Signal Guide handy. Write or telephone for
the pocket-sized card.
AND THE M.L.C. FIRE AND GENERAL
INSURANCE COMPANY PTY. LIMITED
• r i .•*•*» f j. ~
A - ■ ■ I'-: , r
MLC.29.P^
