

The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
,i , - Prt m ... •••< ils gmjp. .. k .
mi ~ ■ _ _ . _ _ .
22* 1961
Price 1/-
Personal
Harney in orbit .
Business
Euthanasia of the Investor?
Overseas
China’s great leap backwards •
Women
Do they exist?
iA 800 for* Bradmania


The Red Page
Rake’s Progress
Memoirs of William Hickey. Edited
by Peter Quennell. Hutchinson
425.
Of all the rogues, rakes and toughs
who have ever written their autobio-
graphics, few are more entertaining
than William Hickey, and it is good
to see him brought up for an airing
again in this handsome new edition.
He has been hard to find since his
memoirs were first published in four
volumes between 1913 and 1925. and
most Australian readers must have
been forced to make his acquaintance
only in the tantalising glimpse of him
to be found in Kenneth Slessor’s
p Gem
Hickey was born in 1749. the seventh
son of an Irish lawyer who settled
and made his fortune in London. The
father, who appears as a highly
respectable character in the memoirs.
continually deploring the vices, follies
and extravagances of his undutiful son.
must also have been quite a lad in his
day, for he made a runaway marriage
at the age of seventeen, simultaneously,
so it seems, running away from his em-
ployment as an articled clerk to an
attorney after throwing a leaden ink-
stand at his master’s head; and, pro-
ceeding to London, laid the founda-
tions of his fortune in one night’s
gambling at the hazard tables when he
and a Colonel Mathews, who had
staked him, shared the loot of over
3000 guineas
tIT , i
The number seven seems to have
Wil * iam
fevemLsofbuUn W
, r- , • . . . ,
settled firmly into the course which he
was to pursue for the rest of his career.
At that tender age he was taken into
bed and rudely fondled by a pretty
maidservant, Nanny Harris, who had
been dismissed from her former em-
ployment by the Duchess of Man-
Chester “for debauching Master
Montagu (her only son) when thirteen
years old.” In the same year young
Hickey decided to go to sea in the
Royal Navy and talked his parents into
agreeing, though at the last moment he
changed his mind because Captain
Gambier. who was going to take charge
of him, warned him that he would have
to eat the fat with his meat when he was
at sea. And still in that same year
l, “ ’
t f , e company at dinner by
ss n & off his bumper of claret and
observing that he wished he was a man
i hat 1 might drink two bottles every
da 3b”.
Drink, pretty girls of the lower
orders, adventure at sea: thus was the
pattern of his life determined, and he
was singularly faithful to it. School
at Westminster, despite the fearful
floggings with which his errors and
absences were reproved, was only the
slightest obstacle to his manly educa-
tion, for he enjoyed the protection of
his elder brother Henry who was then
knocking around London with a se
of choice blades; and under their kindly
tutelage
many a bumper of claret and cham-
pagne I have drunk at taverns and
brothels, accompanied by the most
lovely women of the metropolis, and
this before I had completed my
fourteenth year.
Thus equipped to make his way in
he world, Hickey was taken into his
father’s law firm. He saw the corona-
tion of King George 111 in West-
minster Abbey, when the attendant
noblemen and spectators, more prac-
tical (one imagines) than those who
endure such ceremonies today, pro-
vided themselves with pork pies and
baskets of champagne to sustain them
through the day. He acquired the
friendship of. among others. Blasted
Bet Wilkinson. He several times nearly
drowned himself from his habit of row-
ing about the Thames in a canoe with-
out being able to swim when it cap-
sized. as it invariably did. He was
caught in bed—-or only just managed
to escape into the closet in time—with
Fanny Temple, who was established as
the permanent mistress of one of his
father’s most respectable friends; and.
to sum up, as he himself sums up his
studious days in the law, “Great part
of the day 1 generally passed at tennis,
billiards, the Red House, with Silver
Tail [a harlot] and in every sort of
dissipation: my nights, as already men-
tioned.”
The only trouble with this mode of
life was that it was expensive: to cope
with which Hickey steadfastly em-
bezzled from his father’s firm the sums
that were set aside to pay counsels’
fees. etc. The inevitable discovery by
his father was long delayed, but awful
when it came:—
Upon entering the chamber he
was in I burst into a passion of tears,
bordering upon convulsion. The
source of my father's were dried up,
quite exhausted ; he uttered not a
syllable, but looked so agonised that
my uncle, who was present, alarmed
for his life, eagerly and instantly
taking hold of my arm, led me out of
the room.
The only thing his father could think
of to do with the young reprobate was
to ship him off to Madras as a military
cadet in the East India Company’s
service; and, taking leave of his sorrow-
ing friends, one of whom advised him
to “cut off half a dozen rich fellows’
heads and so return a nabob,” in that
far port Hickey duly arrived. During
the voyage they had a bet as to whether
anyone could swallow a ship’s biscuit
within four minutes (which was
narrowly accomplished): two young
passengers who had quarrelled' were
urged into a duel in which, though the
pistols were not loaded with ball as
they thought, both nearly died of
fright; and Hickey observed himself
one sunny day suddenly to be sailing
over a great reef of rocks which, though
lot on the chart, were most perilously
lose under the keel.
For reasons not difficult to under-
hand. Hickey did not like Madras very
much. The hot wind hit him like a
blast from a furnace; the ship’s car-
penter, on encountering it, instantly
died; and when a friend ashore took
Hickey for an early morning ride to
have breakfast with another friend,
they found the man dead in his bed.
So, taking in China and its women on
he way. Hickey at once returned to his
istounded parent.
Whether he was mollified by
ncmories of his own wild youth or
whether he had just got into the habit
of forgiving his son, the old lawyer
put up with this visitation pretty well.
He took him into the law firm again;
Hickey returned cheerfully to his old
mode of life, sometimes sailing with his
friend William Cane in pleasant excur-
sions reminiscent of Sam Pepys on a
picnic, sometimes brawling with the
rowdy set known as the Mohawks,
mostly drinking and wenching with
infinite enjoyment and the most appal-
ling consequences “Woman, dc.r
lovely woman I never could resist.
There was scarcely one of any
celebrity upon town but what I was
acquainted with”—and it was not until
his expenses tempted him into a second
course of embezzlement that his father
seriously took umbrage once more.
The best thing to do this time with
the embezzling young law clerk, his
father thought, was to have him for-
mally admitted as an attorney and then
ship him off to Jamaica to practise
law among the unfortunate inhabitants
of the West Indies. Cleverly evading,
by going ashore to get drunk, a mass
shipwreck in the Downs where many
lives were lost, off Hickey went; and,
after he had watched the surgeons
unavailing attempts to resuscitate a
sailor (who had fallen overboard) by
bleeding him, duly arrived at King-
ston. The black girl who waited at
table did not please him and, to his
astonishment —a point that really
should have been settled before he left
England—no new attorneys were
allowed to practise in Jamaica. So
what could Hickey do but. like the
o Continued on page 26)


gfhuygu
j '' ? ..' V .
o
:■• .v ■
A
m
mm
mi
*-,
■--
, ~h4& •
■ttm
Free Services
... TO THE FLOCK
AND HERD BREEDER
Let us assist you to se/ect
your herd or Stud Bulls,
Flock or Stud Rams
These Services are
free to every breeder
Elders Stud Stock Team, with their wide experience
and complete knowledge of Stud Stock, are available
at all times to render full Service to buyers.
Elders Stud Stock Departments in five Capital Cities,
backed by a network of 200 Country Branches, are
to-day giving unequalled and complete Service to
Breeders all over Australia.
Take advantage of this free Advisory Service by our
experts: they are specialists in Stud Stock.
Prompt attention at all times. Phone your nearest
Elder Branch.
Elders complete Service to the Man on the Land covers Wool, Merchandise, Livestock, Travel, Skin
and Hides, Insurance Chartering, Property, Rural Finance.
ELDER,SMITH & CO., LIMITED
ADELAIDE, PERTH, ALBANY, MELBOURNE, GEELONG, SYDNEY,
NEWCASTLE, GOULBURN, BRISBANE, LONDON


The Bulletin
FEBRUARY 22, 1961
Vol. 82
No. 4228
INDEX
COVER STORY
A 800 for Bradmania
CURRENT AFFAIRS
Plain English
Doubt on Police Methods;
Children Bear the Brunt;
Car Trouble; The Big
Tote 8
Political Points 11
DEPARTMENTS
Aboriginalities 32
Personal 16
Service and Information 59
Society 6
FEATURES
Milingimbi Trading Day 45
Look Back at Anger 50
Australian School-days. No. 4.
Hal Porter 51
Bang Goes My 0.8. E. 52
FICTION
The Zagreb Cafe, by Desmond
O'Grady 47
FINANCE
Business, Robbery, etc.
Euthanasia of the Investor ? .40
New Zealand Feels the Pinch 44
Wild Cat Pages 55
LETTERS 53
MAN ON THE LAND
Rabbits —A New Industry? 34
Good Husbandry 35
OVERSEAS
China's Great Leap Backwards 19
Young Turks, Old Turks 20
Overseas Pointers 21
REVIEWS
The Red Page
Rake’s Progress 2
Verse 28
Shows 23
SPORT
Cricketers with the “Sick Look” 37
All Praise, No Prize 37
John Schofield 39
WOMEN
Autumn Hats ; Inside Colors ;
Lady or Girl 30
NEXT WEEK
Norman Lindsay—
As He Is
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street.
Sydney; Box 2521; Phone: BU 5971
What Use is the
Censorship Board ?
'’jTHE continuance of the ban on “Lady Chatterley’s Lover” by the Com-
monwealth Government will perpetuate the belief that somehow
Lawrence’s novel is the book of the age. In fact, those who support literary
censorship of this kind might well consider the bad effect on unformed minds
of a banning that gives exalted status to a work of art and makes all the
university undergraduates, say, want to read it. Reading it is unlikely to
make them commit adultery, or consort with gamekeepers, or use rude words
or whatever it is that reading “Lady Chatterley” is supposed to make people
want to do. But what the ban is likely to affect is their literary judgment;
mere “frankness” and notoriety are likely to become the standards by which
books are judged. The whole “Chatterley” affair encourages irrelevant
standards in literary criticism.
The Government, which seems to be cracking the whip—rather than the
board of experts set up to advise it on these matters —probably does not itself
think it all that important that “Lady Chatterley” should be banned; it is
probably concerned that import censorship might collapse if “Lady Chatter-
ley” is let in. Here it ignores the fact that it has got a board of advisers who
are supposed to advise it on questions of literary standards. Surely this
should be enough to guarantee a fairly workable sorting out of books of
literary standard from others.
The trouble is that the setting up of the board, which was originally
hailed as a liberal measure, may have turned out to be a bit of a hoax. There |
are reasons for believing that when it comes to a test case the board is doing j
what the Government wants, that it may become an institutional device for I
lending literary respectability to the butchery business of censorship. If this |
is so we would be better without it. If it is not so, and if the board is anxious,
to preserve its reputation for independence, it should start making public
statements. On a matter of public interest such as “Lady Chatterley” it should
announce what the voting was on the board, and who said what. Otherwise
it might be better if these matters were left to a judge and jury.
HOPES that some uniformity can be achieved in censorship at the forth-
coming conference of censorship authorities should be very forcibly
dashed. There is a lowest common denominator in these matters, and its name
is Victoria. The Victorian Government has given itself the task of preserving
our national purity, and any uniform system will end up as a device for apply- j
ing Victorian standards throughout the Commonwealth. We would be better
off with the present muddle—-in which the Victorian Government can tab
action against a book that has been let into Australia by the Commonwealtti
Government —than one in which Victoria could dictate to the other States.
In the what-to-do? department two things stick out. If the Literature.
Censorship Board is uneasy about its position it should acquire some courage
and speak out; one well-timed resignation might do the world of good. Ant-
one can exhort the Penguin company to print an edition of the book in Aus-
tralia and if necessary have a test case in every State. It would probably g eta
series of different decisions, which might in itself be a good thing. And it
would find some use for all the money it must have made out of the book
in England. I


MARK ANTONY KHRUSHCHEV
" come to praise Lumumba, not to bury him!"


Society
7* “• • - faithful reproductions made
♦ * overseas from the finest imported
beachwood.” —Sign in the window of an
Elizabeth Street (Sydney) department
store.
+*♦
Time and Machines
\ Melbourne correspondent who is
not, he claims, over-fastidious about
his films, wanted to see the new w'ell-
reviewed version of “The Time Machine”
from H. G. Wells's story. But in an
instant when his back was turned it
flashed on and off at the narrow old
Lyceum in Bourke Street. He began a
telephonic marathon.
He first called the once-mammoth
chain of picture once-palaces: would
the film now go to the suburbs? “The
Time what?” shrilled tlje telephonist.
“Time Machine,” he spelt out. “You’ll
have to ring again,” she said suspiciously.
“That department’s at lunch.” “Never
heard of it,’’ the department admitted
later. “Is it a short?”
He next tried the second once-large
chain. “Not on our lists,” they said, but
suggested another chain. He dialled it.
“No one here from that show,” said the
eventual answerer. “They went through,
didn’t they?”
Finally he discovered the distributors,
an enormous Hollywood firm, and felt
he would be onto some real Madison
Avenue public relationships at last.
“What?” shrilled the telephonist. “Is it
16-millimetre or something?”
Returning to his 17in. TV-screen our
correspondent reflected that Wydascope,
Stereophonies and Aromarama may be
helpful in combating the cosy little set
in the living-room, but telephonists are
important, too.
❖ *
Palace and Pub
'T'heatregoers who return from
London moaning about no bars in
Sydney theatres will find, when the Palace
reopens on February 24, only a narrow
passage separating the side exit of the
stalls from Adams’s Hotel. There are
rumors of a sealed door between dress-
circle foyer and an Adams lounge ; this
has interesting possibilities for theatrical
revivalists.
The theatre is naturally linked to the
pub: George Adams built it in 1896, at
a cost of £40,000, because “there was a
definite need in Sydney for a cosy
theatre, suited particularly to that class
of comedy and dramatic productions
which required a closer intimacy between
the players and the audience than could
be gained in the larger and older
theatres.”
The Palace opened on Saturday,
December 19, 1896, with a variety show
presented by Phil W. Goatcher, first “Sole
Lessee and Director,” who was respon-
sible for turning the auditorium into
kind of Taj Mahal, full of minarets
trellised balconies, canopies and what
looked like huge sheets of Benares brass-
work. There were 14 numbers on the
bill, including Mr A. Bellman and Miss
Lottie Moore, in their “Society Sketch
entitled ‘Mistaken Identity,’ introducing
Graceful Dancing, Negro Songs, Cake
Walks and high-class solo and duet sing-
ing,” and Miss Clotilde Antonio, billed
as a “Contortionist and Hand Balancer
—the Wonder of the 19th Century.”
Shelagh Delaney’s play about the
English schoolgirl and her negro lover,
with which the Elizabethan Trust will
reopen the Palace as a playhouse, would
have seemed a bit too intimate for a
Palace audience in those days; should
it drive any of the present-day audience
to drink—well, the bar is just across the
passage.
The Adams people are looking forward
to the theatre trade, hoping that the new
curtain-time, 8.15, and Friday 5.30
matinees will bring in diners before or
after the show —they haven’t exactly
prospered from the Palace’s second-run
film audiences.
**«•
Warned Off
A/Telbourne Public Library trustees
*** have warned professional betting-
system operators off their newspapers
and periodicals. That, said the Chief
Librarian, Mr John Feely, was what rules
against “indiscriminate use” of files
meant. “Indiscriminate use” cost £l5O
last year for repairing old volumes of
Victorian newspapers after some half-
dozen systematic researchers had spent
up to 40 hours a week leafing through
them and making copious notes.
Not that Mr Feely has anything against
betting systems ; but, he says, no other
public library in Australia allows
visitors to look over old news; :.pers
without taking a swab as to whether they
can get the information elsewhere, and
whether their research purposes are
genuine and worthwhile. For their part,
the system men talk of mdiscriminate
discrimination.
* * *
Verse and a Farmer
A farmer who came to town for all
the verse-readings of the Adelaide
Festival last year was so pleased with
them that he offered to pay for monthly
readings at the “Advertiser” sound-snel,
in Elder Park by the Torrens, from
November to April, for three years, ho
one Sunday afternoon each month Aus-
tralian poetry booms out over amplified
to audiences of up to 300 sitting a n
lying on the lawns. The readings nave
attracted so much attention, reports poe
lan Mudie, that the organisers have no
been invited to perform in the Nunotup
(Barossa Valley) park on February >
and the anonymous donor has said
will continue to pay for the sound-sne
readings “for as many years as the P rese .
quality of the performances can
kept up.” j


fyden’s Mistyke
of Sydney’s most incurable theatre-
J lovers has been brooding for years
0 the Loewe-Lerner musical: why on
jf th did they have to call it “My Fair
1( ly”? There’s nothing in it even faintly
gbolic of London Bridge falling down.
DC brooding friend has come up with
It idea that Loewe-Lerner were pun-
jug; “My Fair Lady” is just the way
Doolittle in her guttersnipe period
gild have spoken of a “Mayfair Lady,”
liis giving us a taste of both of her
forlds.
+♦+ *J*
for the Asking
Brisbane butchers may no longer wrap
v their fresh meat in stale news—they
Hist use clean, plain paper. This is be-
muse of hygiene, although outside Bris-
hne hygiene does not apply, and this
is because, says the Health Department,
■try organisations have not applied
b hygiene. They have not applied for
disease, either, but it is hygiene and not
I disease that is to be had for the asking.
*> *l* *>
Deep Sea Bookkeeping
the League of Ancient Mariners, com-
/ prised of old salts and enthusiastic
Itailubbers in about equal numbers, with
ji distinguished list of patrons, exacts a
“Mummy, when will I learn not to swim ?”
modest subscription and spends the lot
on an annual outing in a chartered ferry
on Sydney Harbor and a less publicised
annual smoke night—both with plenty of
chanties.
The latest balance-sheet shows that
subscriptions realised £619 for the year,
and that entertainment expenses
amounted to £605. There were a few
odd bits of expenses and spending ; and
a donation of ten guineas to something
or other meant that the year’s expendi-
ture exceeded income by £lO 11s. Bd.,
leaving £36 Is. in the bank —that’s dead
reckoning. It’s to be hoped there are
enough subs, in hand for the annual
outing, which this year will be on
April 15.
«J*
A large Sydney store sells maternity
frocks in its sportswear department.
That was Society
Charity organisations again! A Laun-
ceston (Tas.) committee which runs a
sort of Home for Orphans recently de-
dined the usual Christmas offer of a num-
her of citizens to take the children on a
holiday trip. The charitable ladies gave
Js a reason for rejecting the kindly offer
that holiday picnics were not good “for
children who were being brought up as
servants.”— “Bulletin”, January 22, 1914.
1 see it mentioned in a recent cable,
conveying details of the Society divorce
case, Vereker v. Vereker, that “remarks
■de in the visiting-book disclosed a low
■ral tone.” This reminds me of a month-
old letter from a bright young Australian
"ho has been grazing on John Bull’s run
lately. “At pompous houses in the
country.” she says, “they have visitors’
books in which you are expected to jot
down amusing trifles. You should see
®me of them—whew! The newest and
bluest stories are all there. Hence the
ttew title, ‘The Blue Book’.” Apparently
|be up-to-date visiting book is something
111 the nature of a naughtygraph album.
— “Bulletin”, January 15, 1914.
A recent unsuccessful action against
w manageress of a Melbourne “Home of
Rescue”, for alleged wrongful detention,
closed some queer points of view.
lamtiff had been put there by her hus-
a nd to wean her from an alleged passion
or tanglefoot. As the chief features of
home” were a mangle, a washtub and
1 12-foot wall topped with barbed wire,
e not unnaturally grew bored with it.
owever, she was kept there for six
months. The jury found that the mang-
ling and so on had done her good, and
that she should be grateful to her kindly
husband, who had put these relaxations
in her way. The matron opined that a
husband had a right to keep a wife in
such an institution “as long as he chose”.
And from these views neither the judge
nor anyone else in court, barring the
plaintiff, appeared to' dissent.
— “Bulletin”, March 5, 1914.
The aldermen who are advocating the
destruction of the Moreton Bay fig-trees
in Sydney claim that the latter are neither
“useful nor ornamental.” They lie. The
lowest bough of a Moreton Bay fig-tree is,
nine times out of ten, the best possible
place on which to hang an alderman. The
trees have a sombre loveliness which is all
their own, even when unornamented in
any way. Festooned with dead aldermen
they would take on an added beauty.
— “Bulletin”, May 28, 1914.
The law made a brilliant ass of itself
at Richmond (Vic.) the other day, in
dealing with three young children. Hav-
ing ascertained that (1) the youngsters
were in an advanced state of disrepair,
aggravated by semi-starvation and lack of
clothing, (2) their father was an up-
standing, lusty person with a passion for
beer, (3) the mother, though willing, was
physically unable to earn enough to keep
them properly, the Law arrested the
mother for having “insufficient lawful
means of support”. One can only conclude
that the insufficiency was the beer-stained
husband. — “Bulletin”, May 28, 1914.
TOW-TRUCK FOLLIES
“A magistrate suggested licensing tow-truck
drivers, after convicting one of assaulting
another in an argument over towing two cars
in collision.”
In the peaceful countryside
When two ecstatic cars collide
The passengers in bloodstained trance
A wait the summoned ambulance —
A calm Australian pastoral,
But tow-truck drivers spoil it all.
Those passengers who are not dead,
With bandaged limb or bandaged head,
No more than summer breezes moan,
While in a seemly undertone
The undertaker’s tout supplies
His card, his sympathies, his price.
But tow-truck drivers, coarse and crude,
With grating gears and teeth, intrude;
Neither desires a hand with tows —
From argument they come to blows
As though imbued with a decision
To re-enact the cars’ collision.
/ cannot see that licensing
Will overcome this kind of thing
As much as curbing means of trade
In line with regulations made
Back in times as old as Chaucer’s,
Declaring them Disorderly Hawsers.
SWILLIAM.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Doubt on Police Methods
Melbourne barrister Frank Galbally
last week took the unusual step of
going into the witness-box in the
Coroner’s Court to give evidence on
behalf of a client who claimed that he
had been “subjected to a scientific
assault” while being questioned at police
headquarters. The episode has again
aroused disquiet among Victorians about
methods used by police in dealing with
accused persons, or persons about to be
accused.
Mr Galbally was appearing with Mr
R. A. Smithers, Q.C., for William
Longley, 35, waterside-worker, of Coven-
try Street, South Melbourne, charged
with murdering his wife, Patricia
Longley, 32, who was found shot in their
home on January 6.
Earlier in the inquest Dr A. A.
Bartholomew, Psychiatric Superinten-
dent at Pentridge Jail, gave
evidence of injuries he examined on
Longley’s body on January 10 —the day
after he was interviewed by police at
Russell Street headquarters. There was
an injury behind the neck consistent with
repeated “rabbit-killers,” bruises on the
body and cuts behind each ear.
Dr L. A. Guile, Assistant Psychia-
trist at Pentridge, supported Dr
Bartholomew’s statement that Longley's
chest “was a slaty, bluey-grey color”
with six bruises superimposed. He
believed the injuries would have occurred
between 24 and 48 hours before he saw
the accused on the afternoon of January
10. Longley had told him that police
had assaulted him with punches and
“rabbit-killers.” Injuries on Longley’s
back were consistent with his claim that
police had kicked him while he lay on the
floor.
The third medical man to give evi-
dence was the Senior State Government
Pathologist, Dr Keith Bowden. He said
he examined Longley on January 25 and
found bruises which could have been
from 10 to 21 days old. “The police flew
into me,” Longley had told him.
Later Detective Angus Ritchie, of the
Homicide Squad, described an interview
with Longley at Russell Street on January
9. He denied that he or a fellow detective
had ill-treated the accused.
The fourth witness to testify to Long-
ley’s injuries was Mr Galbally himself.
He told of the change in Longley’s
appearance between the time he left him
at Russell Street on January 9 for police
questioning and when he next saw him
on January 10. “Longley walked to me,
but his walk was not that of an appar-
ently fit man ; it was more of a shuffle,”
Mr Galbally said.
Longley himself, from the witness-box,
gave an account of beatings he allegedly
received from police after he voluntarily
reported for questioning about his wife’s
death. He was also cross-examined about
injuries he may have received during the
quarrel with his wife on January 6.
Late last week there was a surprise
turn when Maxwell Carl Skinner, sales-
man, alleged that Longley had described
to him in the City Watch-house how
another prisoner gave him his injuries.
Skinner claimed that Longley told him :
“The part I have to get over, Max, is
this. It is the slips I have made. The
only way to get over this is to say I have
been bashed by the police.”
Skinner was followed in the witness-
box by John Walker Hudson, who
reported that he had received verbal
threats warning him not to appear as a
witness for Longley. His evidence con-
cerned Longley being in great pain in an
adjoining cell in the City Watch-house,
where both men were prisoners on
January 9.
If it is established that Longley suffered
violence at the hands of the police it
will strengthen the cry in Victoria for an
independent inquiry into police methods.
Last year there were numerous cases
in which accused persons complained of
police bashings. After one case, in which
a 47-year-old man claimed two policemen
had robbed him of £33 and thrown him
into the Yarra, the two were sentenced
to two years’ jail by a General Sessions
judge. There were many allegations of
bashings and bullying in connection with
a series of cases involving migrant driving-
school proprietors who had been using
graft to obtain licences for pupils who
had not submitted to tests. A detective-
sergeant who appeared in one of these
cases claimed that police themselves were
involved in this racket. About the same
time, a policeman was convicted of steal-
ing from bodies in the morgue ; another
became involved in a pig-stealing inci-
dent ; and two others were suspended and
committed for trial over the theft of
some carpet they were assigned to guard
in a disused suburban theatre.
As the Chief Police Commissioner, Mr
Porter, observed, “We’ve had a bad run.”
Children Bear
the Brunt
''The individual who stands out against
bureaucracy is always worth two
cheers unless pure cussedness is the
motive, but current cases in Melbourne
and Sydney have not raised much sup-
port from the sidelines.
In Sydney, 10-year-old Jon Wilkes has
been arriving daily since the beginning
of the school year at the Beecroft Public
School and spending the day in the
shelter - shed because he is barred from
attending. In Melbourne, Ann Hare,
11, has been refused permission to com-
plete her final primary year at Ring-
wood School; so she is not attending
school at all. In each case the children
are victims of rezoning, and in each case
the Education Department is cast as
the villain.
Jon Wilkes’s sister, 11, has been
allowed to stay at the Beecroft school
and so, says Mrs Wilkes, has the son
of a teacher who lives as far away as
the Wilkes. Each day Jon asks the head-
master, Mr E. Dill, for admission and
each day it is refused. Jon’s parents,
backed by the Beecroft Parents’ and
Citizens’ Association, claim there is no
overcrowding at Beecroft, and question
whether the Minister for Education, Mr
Wetherell, can refuse admittance to
pupils once they have been enrolled in
a school. Mr Wetherell claims the depart-
ment’s policy requiring children to
attend schools close to their homes is
flexible.
Mrs Wilkes met Mr Wetherell on Feb-
ruary 13. She found him, “pleasant,
adamant and not interested in similar
cases” (where children had been allowed
to stay at the school of their choice).
Mr Wetherell said children may be
allowed to remain at a school, provided
there is no overcrowding. Mrs Wilkes
insisted Jon’s classes were not crowded.
Mr Wetherell suggested that if Jon went
to another school there would be no
complaints.
Relations were not so cordial follow-
ing a meeting of the Beecroft Parents’
and Citizens’ Association a few days
later. No one yelled “Fascist,” but Mrs
Wilkes called Mr Wetherell “a dictator,”
and he said she was making Jon “a
potential Hitler or Mussolini.” Today
(Wednesday) the Beecroft P. and C.
association will take legal action against
the department if Jon, together with three
other children whose parents have kept
them at home, are refused admittance
to Beecroft school.
Mrs Hare is full of fight. The new
school her daughter has been assigned
to is certainly closer to her home than
the Ringwood school and on the same
side of the Maroondah Highway. But
there is no bus to the new school, which
is 20 minutes’ walking distance away,
while it takes Ann only 10 minutes by
bus to reach Ringwood school. Mrs
Hare explained: “I refuse to let her
attend Antonio Park not because I have
anything against the school but because
of the principle involved. I’m willing
to be taken to court if necessary • • ■ •
The Education Department is using m
child like a chattel. Before, she was
sunny and happy child, keenly interest
in school. Now she is moody and east y
upset; all her interest in school wo
has gone.”
The respective rezonings have
90 Beecroft and 70 Ringwood children,
but a few children are bearing the br
of the anti-bureaucracy battle. .
is why the cheering from the side I
has been subdued. As Jon Wilkes as •
“How long is this going to go on.


Car Trouble
i part from a home, a car is the biggest
/»single money commitment —and the
yggest single bet on his own future earn-
jg.power and solvency—that the average
citizen makes in his lifetime. That is
f [,y booming car sales, with instalment
payments to dribble in later, are the
frst to be spectacularly hit when credit
j squeezed.
The sum to be tied-up in a car-pur-
diase is so intimidating that, with the
sioneylenders that much more nervous
about lending, the commitment is put off
until better times, and the car manu-
(acturer loses another prospective order.
So the car industry is hit, it cannot
escape being hit. and, indeed, it is very
lard for it to prove that it is ineligible
tube hit. Australian car-manufacturers,
looming sensationally last year as cars
were given away in exchange for promises
to pay, have been losing orders by the
thousands since Mr Harold Holt’s
Squeeze-Day,” November 15, made
promising very much more difficult,
it that point, also, a lift from 30 p.c.
to 40 p.c. in sales-tax made cars much
more costly to buy—on terms or other-
wise. Between pre-squeeze October and
post-squeeze January, motor-vehicle regis-
trations throughout the nation fell 46
per cent. The dismissal of 2600 workers
from General Motors-Holden was an
inevitable result; so too was the cut of
700 cars a week, worth £840,000, in
G.M.-H. production.
Although U.S. car-manufacturers were
blamed for the nation’s economic reces-
sion in 1958 (“They’ve been making
models the people don’t want”), it was
clear that this was just politicians’ talk
and that the car industry, as usual, had
been hardest hit by a recession generated
by other forces. Again, sagging of the
American economy towards the end of
1960 (when car - manufacturers were
booming) was followed at year’s end
by sagging car sales.
Right now the U.S. industry is stand-
ing down 80,000 men for a week to cut
production ; a million of the latest models
stand unsold in the nation’s salerooms.
And even in West Germany, second-
biggest car producer in the world, where
no recession has yet arrived to check
the country’s rapid post-war industrial
expansion, there is now some nervousness
as to whether the booming car produc-
tion is healthy. Professor Ludwig Erhard
at Bonn is one who is emphatic that it
is not. Perhaps the time is not far dis-
In future, “The Bulletin” will be
on sale on Thursday in most parts
of Australia. It will still be on
sale on Wednesday in Sydney.
tanl when a slump will be forced on
car manufacturers there, by tighter credit
control. A huge accumulation of liabili-
ties (£17,000,000) by the Borgward
company, which the City of Bremen is
itself propping up with finance for the
sake of its citizens, suggest that Ger-
many’s troubles are close at hand.
At all events, it is quite inescapable
that, if credit has to be tightened any-
where for any reason, it is the car indus-
try which will be stricken first. And
the sickening spectacle of 2600 Australian
workmen being sacked at a week’s notice
cannot alter that. Supply and demand
make the conditions in which there is
work for them or no work. The great
questions are to what extent the demand
factor should be artificially stifled by
Government action, and whether the
stifling has been too drastic.
Mr Hasluck’s
Steal
HThe technique of choosing for an
1 appointment a political opponent of
tonnage, at a moment when he can be
ill-spared for a number of reasons by
his own party, is now well established
with British Commonwealth Conserva-
tives and Liberal Governments.
Mr Paul Hasluck had already used the
technique before he snatched Mr Roger
Bede Nott from the bosom of Mr
Heffron’s official family, in which he had
been serving as Minister for Agriculture
since 1957, after a year as Minister for
Lands and Mines.
Mr Hasluck’s previous essay was the
appointment as Northern Territory
Administrator of Frank Wise, who had
been Premier of Western Australia from
1945-47, and Minister for Agriculture,
Lands, Mines and the North West before
that, and Labor’s Chairman of the
Federal Post-war Rural Reconstruction
Commission. Mr Wise's appointment to
the Northern Territory came in 1951,
when Federal Labor was getting ready
for an all-round attack on Territory
policy ; it curbed the Opposition's ardor,
though Labor was not amused to have
in the office one of its own brood with
a national reputation on everything con-
nected with the Far North.
The Northern Territory deals hard
with Administrators. Between World
War I and the Hasluck era they mostly
led miserable lives. The Federal Govern-
ment has tried them in all sorts and sizes,
but few have fitted the job.
The various shifts and changes in
methods of government, such as sub-
division of the Territory into three zones,
all saw it becoming shabbier and shab-
bier and more under the thumb of the
Red unions until World War II gave it
a shot in the arm and the tourist trade,
A Case History
Although the Federal Treasurer's
** stirring appeal to N.S.W. to give
up the C-series index adjustments to
the State basic wage looks certain to
pass into the limbo of forgotten
things, it is not without interest as a
case history in the political manage-
ment of unwanted controversy.
Mr Holt's appeal was more a matter
of personal than practical politics. He
called a press conference in the morn-
ing before the Loan Council opened
—at just the right time to ensure that
he got the afternoon-paper headlines,
which would give an impression of
resolute action from a stern-visaged
Federal Treasurer. But the way the
N.S.W. side tells it, Mr Holt was less
zealous to approach Premier Heffron
than might have appeared.
The story from Macquarie Street
has it that Mr Heffron himself, after
press queries, went to Mr Holt that
day to bring up the subject. The dis-
cussion was brief and ended the way
most discussions with Mr Heffron end
“~with a promise that the matter
would be considered by Cabinet some
time.
Mr Heffron emerged to tell the
Canberra press that the whole ques-
hon was a matter of Government
Policy. Back in Sydney, he asked Mr
Maloney, Minister for Labor and
Industry, to prepare a report for
Cabinet.
There was always the theoretical
Possibility that the N.S.W. Labor
Government might decide to drop the
C-series and try to get out from under
'he resultant trade-union criticism by
using Mr Holt’s announcement as
proof of some kind of irresistible
Federal Government pressure. But
this would only have happened if the
N.S.W. Government felt it was facing
some kind of crisis in State finance.
And Mr Heffron came back from
Canberra rather complacent about the
state of N.S.W. Government finance
compared with other States.
As far as it is possible to talk with
any precision about Left and Right in
the N.S.W. Parliamentary Labor party,
Mr Maloney is rather to the Right of
the rest of State Cabinet. For an ex-
Trades and Labor Council official, he
is spectacularly unpopular with the
current Trades Hall ruling group. If
anyone were to have led a move for
the dropping of the C-series index and
be damned to whatever the Trades
Hall might think, it would have been
Mr Maloney.
But by the next Cabinet-meeting it
was clear that he was not going to
bring in a report suggesting anything
like that. In fact, it was known that
Mr Maloney was strongly for the
retention of the C-series index.
Cabinet didn’t discuss the matter, and
Mr Heffron later indicated that it
wouldn’t until the report came—that
is, some time in the indefinite future.
And that is where the prospect of
N.S.W. dropping the C-series index
remains.
The next index figures aren’t due
until late April, to take effect in early
May. Then, presumably, the whole
ritual controversy will be revived, only
to be interred again after a few weeks.


the aerial services and the Tennant Creek
finds gave the Red centre a future —
though not before Vestey’s meatworks
had become derelict and most of the
shipping lines that used to call at Darwin
had been driven away by N.A.W.U.
harassment.
Wise’s five years were about the most
progressive the Territory has had in
modern times. They saw the develop-
ment of gold and uranium, the beginnings
of the revolution in cattle-transport and
the establishment of Darwin as a great
aerial-transport depot.
Mr Nott will make a good administra-
tor, but his appointment, again at a
juncture when Labor in Canberra was
about to make an issue of the North on
the occasion of a change of adminis-
trators, has been greeted with strangled
rage in Federal A.L.P. circles and with
some dismay in Macquarie Street, where
some colleagues do not hesitate to call
the new appointee a traitor.
His departure leaves Mr Heffron to
cope within a few weeks with (a) the
Legislative Council referendum ; ( b ) a
periodic election to fill 15 vacancies for
a suicide squad in the Council; (c) the
election to fill a casual Council vacancy ;
(d) a donnybrook over the Ministerial
vacancy ; ( e ) a by-election for the Liver-
pool Plains seat, held possibly on the
personal vote for Mr Nott by a mere 500
—all this with the Liberals and C.P.
ganging-up and going all out to win, and
with the New England New State move-
ment on the rampage.
The Big Tote
/~\N March 10, the first day of the V.R.c
autumn carnival, Victorians in
selected centres will be able to bet legally
away from the local races for the first
time.
The off-course tote, modelled on the
successful N.Z. innovation and headed
by two experienced New Zealanders, will
begin to operate with a Victorian staff.
There are, of course, a few features
of the new tote that will irk the punter
who likes to wait until the horses are
being called into the barrier stalls, then
rush up a back lane or furiously dial
an s.-p. number in the hope of getting
a bet on ; but these people are few com-
pared with the vast majority who want to
put on a bet and go home and attend to
the tomatoes.
Much of the opposition to an off-course
tote has come from the more important
s.-p. operators and from on-the-course
bookmakers. Nothing will convince the
Victorian Ring that it is not the inten-
tion of the V.R.C. committee gradually
to eliminate all bookmakers. The book-
makers’ suspicions probably arise from
a feeling that the V.R.C. is being unduly
influenced by the successful New
Zealanders. There are only a handful of
illegal bookmakers in N.Z. Controllers
of racing there are convinced that book-
makers have an unhealthy influence on
racing in Australia, especially in Sydney.
A Bulletin reporter who visited N.Z.
two years ago and examined the work-
ings of the off-course tote from each side
of the counters was greatly impressed by
it all. He has now had a first look at
the Melbourne set-up and found it very
much the same.
As in most N.Z. towns, the tote’s head-
quarters have been established (in
Lafrobe Street) on the edge of the city’s
heart. But N.Z. began the off-course
tote more timorously with two branches
in small provincial towns. Victoria’s
system will open in the country at
Geelong, Ballarat, Bendigo, Shepparton,
Morwell and Moe —the chief provincial
cities and the fastest-growing country
towns. The three suburban opening
centres will be the former outer suburbs
of Reservoir, Williamstown and Essen-
don ; other centres will be at Dandenong
and Frankston.
The off-course tote board has not
publicised its real-estate moves, probably
for financial reasons, but it has quietly
acquired shops in many suburbs and is
recruiting and training staff for them.
The most irritating feature of the N.Z.
tote is the delay of up to two hours
between the closing time for bets on a
race and the time the race is run. New
Zealand racing and trotting clubs show
little interest in the public other than m
the percentage from their bets; their
concern is for owners, trainers, jockeys
and members. It was made clear that
this delay would not be tolerated in Vic-
toria. Telephone betting, of which there
is little in N.Z.., will be catered for 111
Victoria, with special numbers and codes
and credit accounts of as little as f-
Betting on interstate races will not be
possible until, as is likely, similar on-
course totes'are established in the States
now harboring s.-p. bookies.
An Ugly Fact Remains
/An February 10, only three months
after the Perth criminal court had
sentenced him to 18 months’ imprison-
ment on a charge of stabbing 17-year-
old Barry Francis Whitfield in a fight
between Australian youths and Italian
men in the industrial suburb of May-
lands, Antonio Pizzata went back to
his job as a laborer in a brickworks.
Between his imprisonment and
release Pizzata had become something
of a public martyr in Western Aus-
tralia, not because he was thought to
be innocent of the charge but because
his action was generally said to be
justified.
For an Australian community to
condone an act of stabbing is extra-
ordinary enough to warrant examina-
tion, and when it is put under the
microscope the Pizzata case reflects
little credit on those who, unwittingly
or otherwise, placed this reticent little
Italian in a situation where many felt
he was justified in defending himself
by the methods of southern Europe.
Antonio Pizzata came to live in
Maylands four years ago when his
wife and family arrived to join him
in his new country. He lived quietly
in a converted shop,' paying off his
new home at £26 a month. He speaks
a little English, but his wife speaks
only Italian, so that his social contact
with his new community was-limited.
Some time last year —opinions differ
on just when—he and his family
became the target of a disgusting and
senseless campaign of persecution by
a gang of Australian youths who fre-
quented a milk-bar in a neighboring
street. family were called Dings
and Wogs ; his daughter was waylaid
in the street and abused ; windows of
his home were broken ; bottles were
thrown into his front room ; his tor-
mentors urinated through the letter-
slot in his front door. Several times
he sought police assistance, and on
the night of the fight that led to his
arrest he was returning from the police-
station after giving evidence of the
latest offence.
During his trial Pizzata consistently
claimed that he did not use the knife
which inflicted a deep wound in the
side of Barry Whitfield, penetrating his
lung. 3ecause of the nature of the
wound the Crown upgraded the charge
from unlawful wounding to wounding
with intent to do grievous bodily harm
—a charge which carries a maximum
penalty of life imprisonment. The
jury convicted Pizzata only on the
lesser charge, and in sentencing him
Mr Justice Virtue said he had taken
the element of provocation into
account.
When the circumstances leading to
the charge received publicity, a pro-
longed and spontaneous outcry fol-
lowed. Public sympathy was unani-
mously with Pizzata, and some citizens
at Maylands banded together to help
his family while he was in jail and
to press for his release through a
petition to the Governor. Attorney-
General Watts considered the possi-
bility of pardoning Pizzata, but said
that such a step was “impracticable.”
He said the jury’s verdict was unani-
mous and there could be no question-
ing the judge’s discretion in such a
matter. However, the question of an
earlier release could be considered.
There was little public reaction to
Pizzata’s release last week; most
people felt that justice had been served 1
by the mitigation of his sentence. Yet
one awkward question remains to be
answered before the case passes out
of. public memory. Was he given
adequate police protection before he
took the course which landed him in
jail?
Many people who have been active
in bringing his case to public notice
feel that he did not. The ugly fact
remains that the gang of youths who
persecuted him was not broken up
until after Pizzata was charged.
This incident will not help to per-
suade other New Australians that it
is better to go to the law than to seek
their own revenge for real or imagined
wrongs. Pizzata himself echoed the
sentiments of the migrant when he
was asked on his release what he
would do if the persecution was
resumed. “I will telephone the police,”
he said, “but I will defend myself and
my family if necessary.”


POLITICAL POINTS
I TYPICAL propaganda
The latest issue of the Communist
) Tribune” states: “A combined meeting
0 f boilermakers and ironworkers of
jubilee Engineering works unanimously
carried a vote of ‘no confidence’ in Iron-
workers’ Secretary L. Short. Copies of
the decision have been sent to the
A.C.T.U. and all unions in the metal-
trades group of unions.” Of the 60,000
ironworkers, ten of them are employed
at the company mentioned.
• •
MAKING MONEY
Mr Reg Ansett, 52-year-old chief of
Ansett-A.N.A., Australia’s other airline,
denied recently that he has been ruthless
with the small operators whose companies
have been swallowed by Ansett Trans-
port Industries. “What I have done is
to weld the private airlines together to
give real competition to T.A.A. You
can always make money the easy way,
but 1 like the challenge of making it the
hard way.”
• •
ABORIGINES AND ALCOHOL
In an Australia-wide poll 51 per cent,
of people said they were in favor of
full-blooded aborigines being allowed to
buy alcoholic drinks. With only 35 per
cent, against and 14 per cent, with no
opinion, it is about time that the Federal
and State Governments decided not only
to investigate the whole question of the
rights of aborigines but to do something
about it.
• •
CONFUSING
The Sydney “Sunday Mirror” of Feb-
ruary 19, in an article by Dr Peter Russo,
stated: “The Mali Federation, an inde-
pendent State in West Africa, is composed
°f the Republic of Senegal and the
Sudanese Republic.” When the Republic
of Senegal withdrew from the Federation
on August 20, last year, the Federation
ceased to exist. On September 29, the
Republic of Mali (formerly the French
Sudan half of the Federation) and the
Republic of Senegal were both admitted
to membership of the General Assembly
of the United Nations.
• •
election speech?
Mr Keith Cameron Wilson, M.H.R. for
Murt, said at a Port Adelaide Rotary
flub meeting that the Government’s
policy was to have a nation developing
?? ra Pidly as possible, maintaining as
h| gh a rate of immigration as the country
could absorb, with full employment and
lability of currency. Full employment?
• •
r HE ANNUAL FIGHT
Federal and State Ministers deadlocked
* n Canberra on February 17, when trying
0 negotiate a new Commonwealth-State
loa n housing agreement, the principles
of which are that the Commonwealth
provides loan advances to the States for
State Housing Commission and other
home-building. Under the old agreement,
which expires on June 30, the Common-
wealth lent £37 million to the States at
an interest rate of 4 per cent. The two
major points on which there was dis-
agreement. with the States on one side
and the Commonwealth on the other,
were: The interest rate which, following
the bond-rate increase, should apply to
advances made by the Commonwealth ;
the proportion of funds which should
be made available from State allocations
for building-societies and other approved
institutions. The Commonwealth wants
to raise the interest rate to 4f per cent,
and increase the proportion of money
going to housing-societies from 30 to
33j per cent.
• •
VISITS TO CHINA
The A.C.T.U. has decided to oppose
more flagrantly the International Con-
gress of Free Trade Unions’ policy of
no reciprocal visits to China or Russia.
The A.C.T.U. Interstate Executive
decided in Melbourne last week to accept
an invitation to send five delegates to
the May Day celebrations in Peking, and
a three-week tour of China. The execu-
tive will appoint two of the delegates
and the State Trades and Labor Councils
the other three. Discussion on a similar
invitation from Russia was adjourned
until its May 8 meeting.
• •
PRAISE AND CYNICISM
Melbourne “Age” leader. “The A.L.P.
should be applauded for committing itself
firmly to a reform (constitutional) that is
so necessary, and for reminding Australia
of that need. But, as a featured plank of
party election policy, reform of the Con-
stitution and the pledge to hold the
referendum which is inevitably involved
in it, lack lively political appeal.”
• •
IRON ORE
There has been a good deal of proper
caution about the Federal Government’s
approach to the export of iron ore, and
National Development Minister, Bill
Spooner, has stressed that our iron-ore
resources must be managed to protect
our own industrial future. Export from
many areas, including Yampi, is banned,
and these include the greater part of our
demonstrated reserves of 368.3 million
tons, including 308.2 million of high-
grade, with more than 60 per cent. iron.
There will be a lot of negotiation and
investigation before exports start, but it
seems that the major iron contributors
to our balance of payments will be Mount
Goldsworthy and some other Western
Australian deposits.
"Pssst. t Next-best thing—an unexpurgated list of four-letter Words!”


"COME UP AND SEE ME SOME TIME!"


A BOO for Brad mania
By LINDSEY BROWNE
nisT about now, as always when
cricket team selection is top item
for newspaper squabbling, Sir Don-
J aid Bradman will be copping a con-
siderable tonnage of jibe, abuse and
llT ath from many thousands of people
who have seen fit to fall out of love w ith
jin since, twenty and thirty years ago,
ley saw' fit to glorify his every deed
I nth national idolatry.
True, there are still plenty of Brad-
nan loyalists who, like me, think affec-
tionately of the present Don in his waist-
coated middle-age, who understand the
forces which made him a man of guarded
reserve in his wary dealings with a some-
ihat malignant world, who believe in the
joy that an inner circle of friends finds in
lis steadfastness and straightness and
i fun, who believe that Australia's shrewd-
st cricket brain is still up there under
that thinning thatch of fair hair.
But evidence of a post-war "set”
against Bradman, by many who once
adored him (as well as by those who had
agrudge from the days of his earliest tri-
umphs) , is unmistakable. So it is that, on
| every hand for a week or two and when
(and if) adversity strikes mid-year in
England, we are going to read daily the
snipings of ex-internationals and jack-in-
office has-beens and never-wasses that
the Australian selectors (especially Don)
are a bunch of blind bunglers with a
wanton determination to wreck cricket.
The selectors will be accused of pig-
headedly sticking to old mistakes in-
stead of admitting them "like men” and
repenting gracefully. It will be said that
they put "States Rights" above true
national need, that they squib the in-
spired gamble for play-safe stonewall-
ing, that they play favorites so that old
family friends and deferential cap-tip-
pers win selection while less diplomatic
cricketers of talent are left behind to
wonder why. . . .
Worse than that —in pubs, in clubs,
nn street corners, in lunatic asylums, at
two-up schools, and even in dormitories
where people talk in their sleep—lots of
ordinary citizens are going to take up
the cry. “These drongoes’ll never get
® out!” “How often does a fellow
have to fail to lose his place?” “Brad-
fnti’s so determined not to be told his
business by anybody else that he'll
Prove it by not taking anybody’s ad-
'lce > even when it’s good.”
It will be idle chatter, a picnic for
mow-alls playing at the game that
Mediocrities so often play—the game of
lev enging themselves for their own
against the world's somebodies.
* *s part of Mr Nobody’s standard be-
av *°r as he daily plays the desperate
Ne of not having to look inside him-
self and recognise. The chatter will make
him “big"—and it will run like plague.
And out of it all will emerge once
again that absurd picture of ex-god
Bradman booted out of heaven to be-
come a diabolical scoundrel with sulphur
on his breath, a pitchfork where once
there was willow, and a horn or two
sprouting up top to divert some atten-
tion from the malevolent grin. This Don
will be fiddling while cricket burns, and
upon its charred flesh will prey the
wrong sort of bats!
The weathercock of popularity is
known to spin itself giddy on its axis
even at the best of times, especially
where stars and stardom are concerned,
but why in reason has it had to swing
so far around as it has apparently done
in the Bradman case—alue north to
glory in one generation, due south to
odium in the next?
Is the change in Bradman, or is the
change in the crowd that such a turn-
about could happen? Perhaps a little of
both but probably the answer has
been there inside Bradman right from
the far-off days when he, a country kid
who had trained superb eyes and muscle
reflexes with a stick and a bouncing
golf-ball, came up from Bowral to Syd-
ney to practise with the great.
'TPhe answer lies, of course, in what
* Bradman could do as a player (for
his deeds could not fail to take him
to popularity and glory) and what he
was as a person, as a man among his
fellows (for it was clear from the earli-
est days that. Bradman, out of shyness
and out of honesty, wasn’t much given
to the pleasant little hypocrisies and
glad-handing by which “popularity” can
be sc easily bought.)
Glory stayed with him all his playing
days for the doing was still there to
argue the Bradman legend to the whole
wide, doting world. Glory left him there-
after because, the deeds over, only the
man remained and that man, if not
given to the hypocritical humbug of mak-
ing himself hail-fellow-well-met in his
earliest days of stardom, was even less in-
clined for it at the end of a career upon
which the jealousy, slander, spite and
mischief-making of others had pressed,
every moment.
These pressures, which a politician or
a public-relations man would have
known how to ease at once, worked upon
Bradman in ways which tended to widen
the gulf between him and some team-
mates and opponents-—the wider the gulf
became the greater became the demand
upon Bradman to make a show of being
“one of the boys" and the greater became
his resistance to any such claptrap con-
cession. He lived in a world of traps; the
gulf had made them. He could not cross.
Shakespeare’s Coriolanus could have
saved himself and held his place by a
few well-chosen concessions to an im-
moderate mob; out of honorable prin-
ciple and pride, he would not and he
could not, and he died accordingly. He
preferred to. And many will always think
that he was right—as a person, if not as
a politician. Ditto, Bradman.
He had every right to be acknowledged
and admired for the person he was, when
he first burst into the cricket world to
make his records. At least, it’s apparent
from the reminiscences of commentator
Johnny Moyes, close friend of Bradman
from the earliest days, that young Don
was a damned nice kid ... a bit shy, an
engaging grin, a quiet and sensible con-
fidence in his own ability to play good
cricket w ithout getting big-headed about
it. He was a naive country boy from a
loving home and a friendly community,
and he was even old-fashioned enough to
play the piano for his own relaxation and
pleasure.
This was the boy who, in 1926, after
slaughtering local bowlers to the tune
of a triple century and a double century
in the recent past, came up to Sydney
to practise before the State cricket
selectors. Inwardly excited about being
among the great, he was nevertheless
quietly confident about himself in an
inoffensive way which might still have
seemed faintly provocative to some of
the seniors, who “owned” cricket pro-
prietorially and expected a tradesmen’s
entrance attitude from young knockers-
at-their-door.
Among other things, this boy from
the bush listened politely to their advice
as fcr changing his own peculiar method
of holding the bat—and, carefully


weighing it, did not take it! Already
there were hints of a personality who,
carefully, would make laws for himself
from within himself and not unques-
tioningly accept them from elsewhere.
His practice impressed, he was steered
into a Sydney grade team and some
minor representative matches, and in
1927- he was scoring his first century
in his first innings in Sheffield Shield.
A week later N.S.W. was playing
Victoria in Melbourne, my father and
I being among the spectators. I was a
rabidly one-eyed Victorian, and my
father was a rabidly one-eyed New
South Welshman, and neither of us ever
wasted an opportunity to jeer at the
other’s team. My father crowed cruelly
over my “bunch of mugs” when Vic-
toria lagged on the first innings; 1 brought
steamrolling schoolboy irony to bear on
his bunch when N.S.W.’s second
innings’ wickets began to topple.
Morgan, Phillips, Andrews—all well-
known N.S.W. identities—were back in
the pavilion for a mockable pittance of
runs. Then up on the board went the
next batsman’s name.
“BRADMAN,” it said.
“Never heard of him,” I yelped to
Dad in high glee. "Bet he's a mug, too!”
And as far as 1 was concerned, he
was —out for five. Victoria won; but,
to this day, I can still see the name
BRADMAN on the Melbourne score-
board as it was then and marvel at how
little it meant to anybody there that day!
Within two years, that meaningless
name was to become the most meaning-
ful name in all the world’s cricket—a
century against Victoria in Sydney later
that season, a score of 340 not out in
the corresponding fixture of the next
season as well as three centuries in Tests
against Chapman’s England team, three
more single centuries and a double and
a world record-breaking 452 not out in
the next. And the sensational 1930 Aus-
tralian tour of England to follow—a
record Test score of 334, and two Test
double centuries as well.
“Not up to Test match standard,”
veteran bat Charlie Kellaway had been
opining in press comment after Bradman
had failed in the first Test of Chapman’s
1928- season, to be dropped to twelfth
man for the second. Some of the old
brigade were like that; the power to say
“No” and keep the young in their place
was one they liked to exploit, perhaps
excusably if they had the sort of
stomach ache that prevented Kellaway
himself from playing through the first
Test.
Three things are specially worth re-
membering about the conditions of big
cricket at the time when Bradman came
into it, for all three of them had a
bearing on both the performances he
was to produce and the kind of man
which, through these performances, he
was to seem to be to some of his
fellow players.
"piR$T, big cricket when Bradman
came was something of an old man’s
game—or so it appeared to those who.
like me, were schoolboys at his career’s
beginning. To boys of that time, big
cricket seemed the impenetrable pre-
serve of very old men Bardsley,
Macartney, Kellaway, Andrews, Hobbs,
Blackie, Ironmonger, Grimmett, Ryder.
Ponsford and Woodfull were younger,
but even Woodfull, teaching us geo-
metry at Melbourne High School,
seemed to be more up in father’s gene-
ration than ours. Big cricket wasn’t for
boys, it seemed—until Don Bradman
suddenly proved that it was, and every
boy in Australia adored him for it!
Second, the age of individual mara-
thon scoring had already begun in big
cricket when Bradman came into it.
Indeed, on the very day that Bradman
was making his first Sheffield Shield cen-
tury of a mere 118 in Grimmett’s
Adelaide, Ponsford proved that his 429
of the previous season (against Tas-
mania) was no fluke by piling up a world
record 437 against Queensland, to follow
it with 202 against N.S.W. and 336
against South Australia. And in Brad-
man’s first Test season, he notching only
single hundreds, England’s Walter Ham-
mond three times scored magnificent
double-hundreds. Bradman observed the
example.
Third, and this is a point that needs
to be emphasised whenever it is insisted
that it was merely the selfish pursuit of
records which prevented Bradman from
gracefully throwing his hand away when
he got to the mere 100, his first season
of Test cricket consisted of matches that
were to be played to a finish, no matter
how many days they took.
This very factor of unlimited time
made it binding on every batsman to stay
at the wickets as long as possible. The
old-fashioned idea get your hundred,
and get out!—went by the board. Ham-
mond, with three double-centuries, was
a pulverising match-winner and a head-
line hero throughout the series. Bradman,
among the pulverised, again observed the
example.
Bradman went to England in 1930 to
out-Hammond Hammond—and he did.
This time it was he who was the pulver-
ising match-winner and the headline
news. Bradman, never thrown off balance
by all the hero-worshipping that England
gave him on that sensational tour, was
lionised everywhere by press and public.
Then, as for many years to come, his
domination of the world’s cricket news
and eclat had the effect —no fault of his,
essentially of robbing limelight from
other Australians who had been accus-
tomed to some share. They didn’t ljfo
“At one period it almost seemed that
the game of cricket was subservient to
the individual Bradman,” says ex-inter-
national Jack Fingleton. “His colleagues
frequently felt that they were mere lay
figures or items of scenery to be arranged
to provide a background for the princi-
pal actor.”
This was understandably hard for his
colleagues to swallow—but the thing that
really irked them was that Bradman as
some of them remember it, made'no
identifiable effort to bridge the widening
gulf himself. His team-mates could not
forget the occasion when Bradman, pre-
sented with <£ 1000 by an admirer of his
Test 334, did not throw a party for them
all, a procedure which struck them as
being the proper thing to do. It may not
have struck them that Bradman, already
shouldered off by elements of envy and
talk of his being “not one of us”, had
himself judged how much they deserved
of him, if anything. In any event, he was
a quiet fellow not partial to parties and
high jinks.
Dradman’s opponents also developed
** much distaste for him, but it is hard to
believe that much of this did not proceed
simply from the humiliations which his
skill imposed on them on the playing
field. Bowlers specially hated him—pro-
bably because of the hidings he gave to
them, but often because they had to com-
pensate themselves for that by not liking
the man. The sheer impudence of the
grin he wore when he came to the
wicket, for instance!
“That grin,” says Fingleton, “was the
cheekiest, the most challenging, and the
most confident thing I have seen in sport.
It was such as to rip the innards out of
any bowler. . . .”
Bowlers sensed that Bradman’s sole
aim was to make them look silly—and,
at times, to make them look silly was in
fact his objective.
Once Victoria's veteran left-hand bowl-
er, Bert Ironmonger, had claimed Brad-
man’s wicket cheaply in a first innings in
Sydney, and one newspaper writer made
so bold as to claim that Ironmonger had
the wonder batsman’s measure.
“Did any of you chaps see the article
about Ironmonger and me?” Bradman
said in dressing-room conversation that
morning.
“Yes,” somebody said, “we did.”
“It will be quite interesting to see what
happens today,” said Don, whose second
innings was to come soon after.
It was quite interesting! Ironmongers
bowling was cut to ribbons by one of t e
most lethal displays of daring stroke-play
that Sydney ever saw. A score of 167 a
top-speed! »
Some say that, on occasions like t a ,
Bradman's wish was not so much
make fools out of the bowlers as to ma
fools out of the newspaper writers w
had ventured such anti-Bradman °P"j
ions. Certain it was that he held the new
paper tribe in great contempt, a fee i
that intensified as his career progress >
for it was to that quarter that he ascri


of the mischief done to himself as
Jriclceter and as man.
•year after year spiteful criticism fol-
ded him,” says Johnny Moyes. “In
(onl e quarters every minor blemish was
nragnified. If there was no real blemish,
on e would be created for the occasion. In
, cricket he found success, and other’s
jjnvy. For the first time he was touched
'by bitterness, which changed his outlook
ant! introduced an element of wariness
that had not been there before. The
armor of reserve was forced on him, and
|e never lost it because there were always
some who seized every opportunity to
hurt.”
The worst of the anti-Bradman spite
1 1 came during (and arose out of) the
bcdyline Tests of 1932-33 where the only
meaning of bowling, to orthodox bats-
men, was: “Get out or get killed!” This
was a form of bowling devised primarily
lo quell the Bradman scoring machine,
and some of his team-mates, less invent-
live than he in dealing with the new
Ihreat, resented the fact that the skill and
“record-greed” of one man should have
brought all the murderous ness and strife
ofbodyline upon them, too.
Bradman, who once appeared likely to
become a champion tennis player, found
ways of running around the bodyline
bowling which, though it looked grotes-
que and comical, enabled him both to
escape being hit and to score breezily (if
briefly) on the vacant offside of the
ground. It was a plan he had worked out
after intense thought about the new
problem—and the crowds loved it. The
astonishing daring of his methods could
not have been equalled by anyone else
alive and he made plenty of runs, if not
at the stupendous Bradmanesque level of
Tier years. '
"Bradman was frightened of me,” said
fast-bowler Larwood when he got back
lo England after that ugly season. And
fee were questions about Bradman’s
courage among some of his team-mates
"ho, not having been able to score more
fe a fraction of the runs he scored,
found it consoling to report that they had
heavily outscored Bradman in bruises
More spite.
No one who knows of the tremendous
Personal battle over fading talent and
taking body that Bradman had to make
feead his 1948 team unbeaten through
ln English season will have any doubts as
fehe quality of the courage of this man!
Why, the very independence he has
; 0u 'n all through his career in his re-
l Usa j to truckle to malice as a way of dis-
arming it—that is courage! Defiant in-
dependence was the thing which many
Australians, though hating the man more
bitterly than any other visiting sportsman
who has ever come here, found to admire
in England’s captain of the bodyline
series, Douglas Jardine. And, indeed,
there is something wry in the inconsis-
tency with which a cricket writer like
Jack Fingleton admires in Jardine what
he decries in Bradman!
So it went on through the ’Thirties
till war came-—some team-mates hated
him, some opponents loathed him, press-
men went gunning for him because (for
their sins) he was un-co-operative, off-
field lionising trespassed on the privacy
and quiet living he loved so well; and
everywhere the crowds loved him! On the
field, he gave cricket everything he knew.
Off the field, he wanted every citizen’s
right to a private life. Neither way did he
have much interest in compromise.
The reason why he was once so popu-
lar and why he is now much less so
probably rests in that. On the playing-
field, he almost invariably knew how
to jolly a crowd along—once in every
three times he batted during his career
he made a century; and he made cen-
turies so frequently (117 in all) that if
he had had as many innings as W. G.
Grace he might have made 501 cen-
turies, and if he had had as many
innings as Jack Hobbs he might have
expected to chalk up about 444 of them.
Off the playing-field, he is much less
skilled in jollying a crowd along—or,
at least, he is no more “skilled” than he
wishes to be as a private citizen who
believes his honest intentions deserve to
be treated as such. He just will have no
truck with the tricks by which people
“sell” themselves. He knows the weight
of the antipathy which old enemies have
persistently engendered against him, but
it would be unlike him to give them the
satisfaction of answers which could be
tacit admission that he is on the
defensive.
HThe personality projected through his
* own books is not an entirely engaging
one. True, as he fists this or that record
of his earlier • days,: and indicates briefly
the pleasure it gave him. there is neither
pussy-footing mock-modesty nor self-
puffing. The facts are Stated barely,
almost with cold judiciousness.
One sensesiGsome unattractiveness,
though, in passages where he feels
pressed to emphasise the good deeds he
has done for others in cricket, and again
in passages where he feels pressed to
dig up pinpricking critical trivialities of
years ago and demolish them with high-
piled argument. He has not been able to
forget the pinpricks, which might argue
one or more of several things—extra-
ordinary sensitiveness under that hard
outward pretence of indifference to
praise or blame, a sense of guilt about
his own diplomatic ‘.‘errors”, an over-
ready aptitude to suspect and detect en-
mity in others. But, after all, is it any
wonder?
Whatever it is, there is certainly a
“set” against Bradman (call it Brad-
mania, if you like) among Australia’s
crowds of cricket fans these days. Per-
haps it means no more than the (radi-
tional Australian rejection of “the boss”
—for Bradman is now a boss.
Whether, in fact, he dominates the
Australian selection committee or not
can only be known to the committee’s
members and their confidants, but it is
clear that most people think chosen
teams are a reflection of his thoughts
and his will. He gets the blame.
Indeed, he even gets the blame for
such bits of ugly cricket as the go-slow
tactics introduced by Benaud towards
the end of the last Test against
England in Sydney. He might even be
blamed for the slow-down by the Aus-
tralians on the second-last day of the
Test against the West Indies in Adelaide,
a device which —as it proved—helped
Australia to save a game that seemed
already lost!
The shrewdness of that had the Brad-
man stamp—and that is the same
shrewdness, which goes into all his
cricket judgments, including his work
as a selector. One of those judgments—
and it is one which, even now, should
endear him to everybody who loves
cricket —is that fast scoring wins
matches. Time after time, he has
emphasised this doctrine, and applied it
as an Australian selector. He finds no
greater pleasure than in Australian bats-
men who can carve up an opposing
attack at speed and no greater worry
than in opposing batsmen who can do
as much to our bowlers.
“Had he not been such a great
cricketer,” says his friend Johnny
Moyes, “he would have been, without
any reservations a popular member of
the community. It is because he was so
superior to all of his time, because he
forced himself into the headlines by his
amazing deeds, because he was such an
attraction that when he played no one
else mattered, that certain people hold
these reservations.
“Would jealousy otherwise have
grown and developed as it did? Had he
been less great, is it likely that critics
would have spat so furiously? If he had
not climbed to such heights, would his
success have been attended by so much
heart-burning?”
And the Bradman heart must still
burn, and burn it will, no doubt, for
as long as this giver of great joys shall
live—for Bradmania is at large in the
land, and, boo it as his loyal admirers
will, the littleness of the Bradmaniacs
ensures that it is here to stay. What a
reward for a nation to gi,ve a hero! .


PERSONAL
Harney in Orbit
Once a year, as the sun’s heat con-
centrates towards the southern limits
of the Tropic of Capricorn, Bill Harney
packs a couple of well-travelled suit-
cases, bids a temporary farewell to Alice
Springs, and sets off to make his seasonal
and all-too-brief appearances at points
south, east, and sometimes west. His
purpose is to visit his sisters, Mrs Laura
Hinds at Narrandera and Mrs Beattie
Escreet at Rockhampton ; but in his
peregrinations he manages to touch the
lives of an amazing number of friends,
and like as not to give them after-dinner
stories sufficient for a couple of months.
In addition he is likely to make tele-
vision appearances, give radio talks and
appear on the pages of half-a-dozen
newspapers. In recent years he has
always had a new book or two to
announce ; and to judge by the wealth
of anecdote that comes tumbling, ever-
fresh and startlingly abundant, from his
good-humored but keen-edged mind, their
incidence will increase rather than
diminish as his years mount up.
It is easy to make surface judgments
about Bill Harney —to know all about
him and to have him pinned down. But
such judgments are invariably inadequate.
For with a flow of reminiscence that
seems to amount to total confession he
never manages to tell you what he is
doing, but only what he has done. He
has written his last book, he says ; in
a few months there will be another at
the publisher’s. How he manages to
produce the amount of material he sends
away, Bill alone knows; visitors to
Ayers Rock, where he is custodian, seem
to absorb the whole of his time ; at the
Alice you’ll always find him with leisure
to spend ; his travels, both local and
general, would totally occupy a lesser
man. Yet the flow of books that comes
from his typewriter runs parallel to a
hardly lesser flood of articles, stories,
poems and lengthy letters to more friends
than the average man can count.
His opinions and his observations are
his own ; he leans on no man for direc-
tion. He is capable of giving, without
any notice, a long well-balanced talk,
bubbling with laughter and strung on a
cord of shrewd, penetrative and highly
individual observation of human values.
“/Courage?” he says. “Now here’s a
peculiar thing.” And he launches
into an anecdote of a little native girl,
deputed to look after an old woman of
her tribe and lead her about on a stick.
The little girl and the helpless woman
are attacked by a dog-maddened pleuor
bullock, and, each clinging to the stick,
take evasive action until the last moment,
when the girl cries to the old woman to
lie down. The bullock leaps the prostrate
figure, the little girl who is now his sole
target climbs a tree- —and is too frightened
to come down when help appears.
Told in Bill Harney’s rich bush pidgin
with attentive mimicry of voice tones,
accompanied by gesture and the facial
contortions applicable to little girl, old
woman and pleuor bullock, the near-
tragedy becomes richest comedy; eyes
all round are streaming with the tears
of mirth. But underneath are always the
questions; What is courage? What else
BILL HARNEY
Life Ever Clamant
could she have done? What would you
or 1 have found to do?
Bill Harney is a living legend. He has
invested the Rock with magic. He knows
his country as few men do. His interests
range from geology to botany to anthro-
pology ; they go up to the stars and
down below the ground and are never,
at any moment, divorced from human
reactions and emotions. Life is ever
clamant to Bill ; no aspect of it is beneath
his notice.
His stocky figure was waiting for me
when I drove down to the ferry wharf
to meet him on his Sydney visit, just
ended. His thatch of white hair crown-
ing a vigorous, healthy head set him
apart from the crowd of passengers ; as
he is always set apart from the crowd
by his mental energy, his vivacity and
the multiplicity of his interests. At close
quarters his dominant features are his
eyes, of a strong light blue like the
blue of a Centralian sky, like lighted
windows, sparkling and vivid with
promise of the interest that lies behind
them.
Twenty minutes after he had come into
the house he had discussed eight or nine
subjects and was sitting with a pair 0 f
scissors, cutting out preferred patterns
for a set of boots for a crippled dog
“Get a nice soft kangaroo-hide, not too
big. That’s the best for these,” he said.
Literary criticism starts him thinking;
it never worries him. “Max Harris is a
nice fellow. And dead right what he
says: my world would collapse around
me if 1 got laryngitis. And that's true
for Bob Menzies, too. Ain’t it?”
He can quote Shakespeare from appa-
rently any page, recite “Locksley Hall”
as well as a selection of bush-ballads that
would treble the size and the attractions
of the “Bulletin Reciter,” recall the
name and eventual fate of every battler
who ever got north of twenty-three, and
enliven the prosaic biographies of the
area’s notable men with anecdote after
anecdote inducive of a nice perspective,
TIE has a high respect for the indi-
“ viduality and the rights of the
human ; his long contact with the under-
dog sometimes makes it appear that his
sympathies are larger in this direction,
but that would not be the whole truth.
His adversaries are those institutions
which tend to reduce or to eliminate the
dignity of the individual , he makes no
sweeping generalisations, but the targets
of his severest criticism tend to be
certain administrators of such institu-
tions ; and if he has enemies they can
be sought here, too. But Bill Harney’s
enemies would never constitute a
menace ; his weapons against them are
laughter arid a wide understanding of
human frailty ; and no man is better
armed.
When Albert Namatjira died, Bill
mourned a friend in a short poem in
The Bulletin. Of the 35 poems he has
had in this journal alone, that one was
for me the best. 1 found in it also the
most eloquent testimony to the dead
artist which I have read.
One idiosyncrasy is notable in Bill:
even his closest friends never know
what he is doing, what his literary inten-
tions are, or how he proposes to carry
them out. They only know what he has
done. Hall-a-dozen times he has told
me—mendaciously—he has written his
last book ; when he tells of a new one
forthcoming you know that not only is
it at the publisher’s, but that it has been
accepted. I never believe him now when
he says he is “written out”; 1 hope to
read new Harnevs for vears to come
OLAF RUHEN
Trio of Granny-killers
With the not-to-be-missed crickei the
West Indians have offered us all
summer, isn’t it conceivable that, by then
next visit, Mohammedanism and Mor-
monism will have taken root here to
ensure a larger supply of grandmother
to provide funeral alibis for truant Aus-
tralian workmen? Two grandmothers are
just not enough—yet there was a time,
not so long ago, when cricket-lovers


e( j hard at work because there was
.'aion for thinking that only their grand-
! 0 thers were playing out at the ground!
That’s the real grandmother’s funeral
jlljis last Test series ; that other brand
I ’‘grandmother-cricket,” dynamic as a
on crochet day, has been
g eC ( stone dead. And the chief
assassins? Kanhai, Sobers, Alexander—
£[l w ho have put youth, cheek, adven-
[S a nd swashbuckle back into cricket,
J played it as if it was a yarn by
Sabatini.
Little Kanhai, 24, the most tiger shly
iloodthirsty chaser of runs and humi-
L tor of bowlers in modern cricket,
[jaded into our bowling as his com-
Ljtriots hack into sugarcane—a 50 in
Brisbane, an 80 in Melbourne, two flops
(Sydney, two centuries in Adelaide, and
Ino venomous 30s in Melbourne at the
jaish. He cutlassed into our bowling
w jth a repertoire of strokes unmatched
since Bradman’s time —and, all through,
ledid it with a batting demeanor full
of nose-thumbing impertinence.
Nobody in the game hits the ball as
savagely as he does ; even with the ball
half-way in flight, it sometimes seemed
tet Kanhai could only be deciding to
lave one of his quieter moments, and
lien would come that last split-second
thirl of furious energies: drives which
sent the ball screaming off to put miles
between itself and his hate; sweeps
which included Kanhai’s sweeping him-
self off his own feet ; pulls with the bat
lying down like whipmaster on galley
slaves. Enough energy to the stroke here
to stock a Trevor Bailey or a Ken Mackay
for an innings!
There’s something so obsessed and
passionate in the convulsion out of which
Kanhai makes his runs that nobody can
ke more emotional than he when, by
some accident, some mad suspension of
the laws of nature, he gets out and is
obliged to forsake his passion for runs.
ROHAN KANHAI
Huroiliator of Bowlers
theatrical display of churning petu-
ance which followed his second-innings
dismissal in Adelaide was proof enough
°fthat—proof enough, too, that the one
? re at thing in all of Kanhai’s world that
flw orth having is the turn to bat!
That is probably why he fields so
too —just to hurry the
tatting turn along. Speed and anticipa-
tion in his groundwork, and a whiplash
throw which —as in Melbourne the other
day—can shatter stumps three times in
ten minutes of riskily stolen runs! That’s
Kanhai in the field. Probably no single
incident in the Sydney Test so decisively
delivered the match into the West Indies’
hands as the dream catch, a cobra on
a swallow, which Kanhai took from a
Bobby Simpson leg-glance. Indeed, it
might not be rash to say that it was the
most wonderful catch ever taken on the
ground within the memory of most who
saw it.
Kanhai topped the tour averages for
his team—lo 93 runs in 17 completed
innings (best score 252) at an average
of 64.2. He made most runs for his
team in the Tests —503 at an average of
50.3. And so he goes home to British
Guiana in the joyful knowledge that, as
far as Australians are concerned, his
homeland, once famous only as being the
source of the world’s rarest postage
stamp, is now famous for something else
—him, Rohan Kanhai, bowler-garrotter.
TTall Garfield Sobers is from Barbados,
where the inhabitants have a way of
compensating themselves for their
geographical tininess by the hugeness of
their cricket scores. They like to pile up
runs rather in the manner that their
patron saint, Captain Kidd, piled up
plunder. Sobers threatened to do it here
during the series—and, indeed, he scored
one match-saving century and another
which was a match-winner —but over the
series as a whole he did not have the
every-time certainty of a Kanhai.
But, on the occasions where he did
get right on top of the bowling, the style
and range of his strokes were so pic-
turesque that it would not have been
any great surprise if the people asking
him to pose for them had been painters
rather than press cameramen. The sixer
which he hit straight back over fast
bowler Meckiff’s head in the Sydney Test
—and off the back foot —was batsman-
ship of command and adventure of a
kind for which memory can give few
parallels.
If the gallant poise of Sobers’s batting
was not always evident throughout the
series, the crowds down south, who,
unlike Brisbane’s and Sydney’s, were only
allowed glimpses of it, found plenty of
consolation in the unrelenting thrust of
Sobers’s versatile bowling.
If he wasn’t spinning out both our
openers in the last Melbourne Test with
“Chinamen” and wrong-uns at slow-
medium, he was cramping all the later
batsmen with the non-stop snap and
pressure of his fast-medium bowling.
After his marathon bowling in the last
Test, batsmen and umpires alike might
have been forgiven for thinking that the
heart and sinew of this man were some-
how plugged into a secret source of
voltage out there in the middle.
Sobers, now 24, holder of the world’s
record for Test cricket (an innings of 365
not out against Pakistan), bowled more
overs in the Tests than Australia’s star
bowler, Alan Davidson. He bowled 191
overs to Davidson’s 174, and he collected
15 wickets at an average of 39.2. He
made 430 runs at an average of 43. This,
indeed, is all-round cricket in the Keith
Miller tradition.
erry Alexander, 32-year-old
veterinarian from Jamaica, had none
of the great individual distinction
of Kanhai and Sobers in his bat-
ting methods good plain pugnacity,
and plenty of willingness to put
those footballer's shoulders (he was
a triple Blue at Cambridge) to good
use. Considered by most Australians as
a near-rabbit when he began this tour,
this “tail-ender,” batting at No. 8 for
GARFIELD SOBERS
Secret Source of Voltage?
most of the series, passed the half-century
at least once in every one of the five
Tests. He made the team's “tail" as long
as a boa-constrictor's, and had something
of that creature’s attitude m his approach
to plodding bowlers.
Now considered by many cricket-lovers
as the best wicketkeeper-batsman the
game has known, Alexander topped his
team's Test batting averages—4B4 runs
in eight completed innings (best score
108), average 60.5. More than that, the
runs were made at a hot pace. Just as
hot a pace as Australian cricket-lovers
will have to set themselves as they get
on with that job of increasing the national
supply of perishable grandmothers by the
time the West Indies come here again—
and may Allah (or Brigham Young) let
it be soon!
* €>
Into the Silence: —
In Brisbane, at 76, the Rev. John Frank
Turpin Short, a leading figure in the Queens-
land Congregational Church. He was twice
president of the Congregational Union and was
secretary between 1930 and 1950.
In Melbourne, at 49, Albert Eric Pope, per-
sonal secretary to the Minister for Mines and
Water Supply in six successive Governments
since 1948.
In Melbourne, at 67, Patrick Francis
O’Collins, deputy-chairman of the City Mutual
Life Assurance Society and a member of the
Newman College council since 1927.
In Hobart, at 88, Henry Briner McChristie,
who until his retirement five years ago was the
oldest practising dentist in Tasmania. For over
40 years McChristie was honorary dentist at the
Royal Hobart Hospital, the blind and deaf
home and the Hobart jail.
In Perth, at 80, Bert Kortlang, former inter-
state cricketer for Victoria and “father” of
Western Australian baseball.
In Perth, at 69, Frank Mauldon, Professor
Emeritus of Economics at the University of
W.A. From 1941 Mauldon worked to establish
a faculty of economics and commerce at the
university—a scheme which came to fruition in
1955. In the early war years he began a study
of the W.A. economy and community income
—work that became a feature of the university
economics research programme.


...*r
'--3
•IS;
' w& •: »j
ltWjj<kJUUUlU<W<B|litiMMt|! | SBBWy 1,
.Sfc-.
THERE'S NOTHING LIKE A NEW CAR . . . AND NO NEW CAR LIKE A HOLDEN
THIS IS THE CAR
DESIGNED FOR YOU
Come... try it today!
Holden is the only car especially
designed for you, the Australian
motorist. Every feature of Holden
—engine, body, suspension, trans-
mission—is engineered specifically
for Australian conditions. So the
money you spend on Holden is
better spent than on any other car.
HOLDEN IS A LUXURIOUS CAR
Inside the car. That’s the best
place to discover the extra luxury
Holden offers for your money.
Outside, Holden’s beautiful styling
has the added value of fade-re-
sistant Magic-Mirror Finish.
HOLDEN IS A ROOMY CAR
Holden gives you more overall pas-
senger and luggage space than in
any other car of comparable price.
HOLDEN IS A PROVED PERFORMER
Holden, with its famous 6 cylinder
engine, its economy, reliability
and long life has been proved in
the hands of more than 750,000
Australian owners.
HOLDEN COSTS LESS . . HAS HIGH RESALE VALUE
Holden is still the lowest priced
6 cylinder car you can buy. And its
combination of features at low first
cost gives you unmatched value
for money. When the time comes to
trade, Holden saves you money
through proved high resale value.
Visit your Holden Dealer’s show-
rooms today and see all the extra
value you get in Holden. Your
Holden Dealer’s trade-in valuation
on your present car and the con-
v enient GMAC
Hire Purchase Playi
will make it easier
for you to buy.
gfhugf
A 193
HOLDEN
Australia's Own Car
REGD. FROM £BB5 PLUS TAX
SEE YOUR HOLDEN DEALER TODAY
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S PTY. LIMITED


OVERSEAS
China
The Great Leap Backwards
By RODERICK MACFARQUHAR
r ess than three years ago, the large
claims made for Chinese agricultural
I progress were being examined with awe
[ startled Asian leaders. From India,
ateam of experts went to investigate the
methods used to achieve the reportedly
vast increases in output.
Now, for the second year running, the
news from China is of overwhelming
natural disaster, and Asians appreciate
that the Chinese have not found any
magic formulae for conquering nature.
Experiments with Chinese methods in
India have proved that they are far too
wasteful. What went wrong? Peking has
bad very bad luck with the weather ; and
natural disasters have been compounded
by bad policies. At the end of the first
Five-year Plan in 1957 grain production
lad increased by an average of only four-
million tons a year. In percentage terms
this meant that the expansion of food
supplies was only just keeping ahead of
population. China had to think, too, of
stepping up agricultural exports to the
Soviet Union to repay loans for the pur-
chase ol industrial equipment.
The “great leap forward” of 1958 was
the solution arrived at by Mao. Its basic
principle was that the well-organised use
of massed labor—in the communes —
could achieve the vital additional in-
creases in grain production that economic
advance on the more “traditional” Soviet
model had failed to yield. Fortunately
for the proponents of the new hectic
method of advance, the weather was kind.
While the grain harvest was probably
substantially less even than the revised
figure of 250 m. tons which the Chinese
claim was produced, the increase was
represented by sweet potatoes, not rice
or wheat; and much of it rotted as
the peasants sweated in front of their
home-made steel furnaces instead of
gathering it in. But even so the achieve-
ment was considerable and the Chinese
leaders might be excused if they allowed
it to go to their heads. Whether or not
they believed their own statistics for a
time is uncertain, though there can be
no doubt that the grain target of 525 m.
tons they initially set for 1959 was fan-
tastic by any standards. But what is
certain is that they were completely
misled by their experience.
The Chinese leaders clearly felt that
by intensifying farming even more —by
planting much deeper and closer, by
weeding more often—the experiences of
the experimental plots could be repeated
over large areas. To provide the labor
for this intensified farming, they decided
to cut down the area sown to grain and
to employ more people on smaller areas.
Unfortunately, it turned out that, quite
Tarantel Press, West Berlin.
U.N. EXCHANGE SPEAKING—HELLO! ARE YOU STILL SWEARING?
—I’M GOING TO DISCONNECT...!”
apart from the exaggerated claims made
for the experimental plots, specially high
yields could not be obtained under con-
ditions in parts of the country differing
considerably from those in which the
successes had originally been achieved.
More important still, the Chinese
leadership had fallen victim to its own
propaganda in believing that in 1958 it
had shown that man could tame nature
simply by the exercise of will. In 1959,
China experienced some of the worst
natural disasters on record. Over a third
of the cultivated land was affected.
Despite the impressive water-conservation
campaigns of the previous two years,
drought was the major cause of the
trouble. But the Chinese may have had
only themselves to blame for the large
number of insect pests, which also caused
considerable damage, by killing off insect-
eating sparrows in 1958.
Dut a m o r e disastrous directive must
have been the decision to reduce the
amount of cultivated land. Though the
Chinese still claim to have produced over
270 m. tons of grain, Western experts put
the figure nearer 190 m. The human fac-
tor, too, must have been important. The
peasant, deprived of his plot, and ordered
by often inefficient officials to work all
hours, had little incentive to produce
more than he himself needed. The
Chinese learnt some lessons. In 1960,
the order was to “walk on two legs,”
to combine an expansion of land under
cultivation with the drive for increased
productivity. Furthermore, they realised
that hard work by itself would not pro-
duce higher yields. Agriculture must be
mechanised as fast as possible ; tractors
and fertiliser must supplement human
labor. Until the final figures for 1960
are released, the precise meaning of this
shift in terms of investment policy can-
not be known. But the original aim was
to double the amount of rolled steel avail-
able for agricultural machinery and to
increase the acreage mechanically culti-
vated by 40 per cent.
Even if this latter target has been
reached it means only that five per
cent, of China’s land is mechanically
farmed. The disasters of 1960 under-
line the intractability of the prob-
lem. This time as much as half of a
presumably expanded acreage was
affected. Whatever figure political “face”
forces the Chinese to claim, the real out-
put was probably only about 180 m. tons,
even less than the previous year. There
have even been local famines, probably
caused by inefficient distribution, for such
an output is sufficient to feed the Chinese
population adequately by strict nutrition
standards.
What the Chinese peasant must be
wondering is why a government which
has made so many extravagant claims
has been unable to make good its boast
of mastering nature. And what the
Chinese leaders must be wondering is
what the weather has in store for them.


Israel
Young Turks, Old Turks
By ALFRED SHERMAN
The “Lavon Affair” which precipitated
Israel’s latest Government crisis,
should perhaps be called the “Ben-
Gurion affair.” Pinchas Lavon’s demand
that he be cleared of all responsibility
for an intelligence scandal that took place
six years ago when he was Defence
Minister is not at the root of Jerusalem s
present difficulties. The real issue is
resistance inside Premier David Ben-
Gurion's own Mapai party to his efforts
to alter significantly the State’s political
and economic structure and choose his
successor. Indeed, this is what triggered
the Lavon affair.
In recent years, the 74-year-old Premier
has become increasingly sceptical about
the ability of his party’s old guard to
either carry out sufficiently strong defence
and foreign policies or continue to win
the support of Israel's changing popula-
tion. The country's poor financial con-
dition has been a growing source of
concern, too. Its balance-of-payments
deficit is still equal to almost one-third
of the national income, even though
immigration has not been a major burden
for some time now.
On the political side, therefore, Ben-
Gurion has been advancing the careers
of relatively young men who have
achieved prominence in the Army, in
administration or as members of his own
entourage. Their loyalties are to him
and to the State rather than to Mapai
and its moderate socialist ideology.
CMnce 1957, for example, the Premier
has been ignoring party seniority and
elevating men like Moshe Dayan, the
former Chief of the Defence Staff, who
is now Minister of Agriculture, and
Shimon Peres, the former Director
General of the Defence Ministry, who
is now Deputy Minister for Defence.
Dayan, whose father has been a promi-
nent Mapai member for 40 years, is
generally regarded as the “crown prince.”
On the economic side, Ben-Gurion has
called for Government control of many
of the enterprises and social services now
owned and operated by the Histadrut
(General Federation of Labor) and the
Jewish Agency. Aside from the effect
that this would have on the economy, it
would shift the balance of power in
Mapai.
These policies have, of course, evoked
considerable opposition within the party,
but opinion on how to combat them best
is divided. Some believe the “Young
Turks” should be accepted—providing
they give the party machine and union
stalwarts their proper share of power and
patronage because they strengthen
Mapai's position at the polls. Others
urge a delaying action, arguing that the
new men can easily be cut down to size
once Ben-Gurion retires. Still others fear
that unless they fight back now against
what they consider to be an undue con-
centration of authority in Ben-Gurion’s
hands, the Young Turks will become so
firmly entrenched in power with his help
that their succession will certainly be
insured.
The spokesman for this last group is
Pinchas Lavon, General Secretary of the
Histadrut and long a leading figure in
Mapai. But his motives are not merely
political. He bears a real grudge against
the Young Turks from the days when
he was forced to resign as Defence
Minister
The Lavon affair really began with
Ben-Gurion’s resignation from the
Premiership in December, 1953. At that
time, the balance of power in Mapai and
the Cabinet temporarily shifted to those
favoring a “soft” defence and foreign
policy, personified by Moshe Sharett,
who was named to head the Government.
Lavon, then a Minister without Portfolio
and a close confidant of the retiring
leader, was made Defence Minister.
Friction developed between Lavon and
several high-ranking Army officers and
Defence officials when it became appa-
rent that Ben-Gurion was, in effect, still
running the Ministry from his Negev
retreat at Sdeh Boker. It was brought to
a head by the now famous affair.
Some years before Lavon took over
his post, Israeli military intelligence had
set up its own channels for gathering
information from Egypt. (No one in
Israel —or anywhere else, for that matter
—could object to the intelligence unit’s
carrying out its proper function, par
ticularly since Egypt considc.s itself at
war with Israel and daily threatens to
annihilate it.) Late in 1954, Egyptian
authorities arrested a number of
Egyptians and foreign nationals for
planting incendiary bombs in motion
picture houses, British and U.S. Informa-
tion Centres, and other public buildings.
Apparently they were trying to spread
panic and thus prevent an imminent
rapprochement between Egyptian Presi-
dent Gamal Abdel Nasser and the
Western Powers. The Egyptian Jews
concerned were sentenced to death or
long terms of imprisonment for sabotage
and espionage, and an Israeli captured
with them committed suicide in his prison
cell.
The Egyptian disclosures caused con-
siderable indignation in Israel among
those in the know, particularly in the
Army. An investigation launched rather
half-heartedly by Sharett failed to come
to any firm conclusion as to who was
responsible for the adventure. The then
Director of Military Intelligence (whose
name has been withheld by Israeli censor-
ship) claimed that it was inspired bv
Lavon ; Lavon, in turn, claimed com-
plete ignorance of the incident and
charged that it was the work of young
Army officers and Defence officials eager
to discredit him. In the end, Lavon
resigned and the officer who testified
against him was shifted to a new post.
T ater in the year Lavon refused a post
in a new cabinet being formed by Ben-
Gurion, who had returned to the Premier-
ship. Lie chose, instead, to be nominated
General Secretary of the Histadrut by
Mapai, which has an absolute majority
of 60 in the Histadrut's 107-man execu-
tive committee. Since this post is equal
in status to a Cabinet job, the whole
affair seemed to have been patched up.
But the bitterness lingered.
It was not until 1960 that Lavon. who
had already emerged as leader of the anti-
Dayan faction and had been openly
denouncing the power enjoyed by Ben-
Gurion and his entourage, announced the
discovery of new evidence which proved
he had been framed by the Young Turks.
The Premier then appointed a commis-
sion headed by a High Court judge to
re-examine the matter, but Lavon refused
in advance to accept its findings and
demanded that he be publicly exonerated
by Ben-Gurion himself.
The struggle set all Israel buzzing.
Sympathy was strong for Lavon as a
“second Dreyfus’’ fighting for justice and
against one-man rule. But the tide of
opinion began to shift when he refused
to accept a full judicial inquiry and
failed to produce the evidence to back
— Emmwobd, in London “Daily Worker."
“AND DON’T FORGET TO DUCK; WE DON'T WANT ANY TROUBLE
WITH THE R.S.P.C.A.!”


,j s charges against Dayan and Peres.
It also became apparent that his story
ontained several inaccuracies and incon-
sistencies. Worse still, in the eyes of his
own comrades, he put the party in a
ver y difficult position by splitting it down
11,/ middle, dredging up matters which
should have been left alone, and strain-
ing the rank and file’s confidence in the
Government.
After a good deal of in-fighting, with
Ihe coalition parties joining the tussle
mostly on Lavon’s side, Ben-Gurion has
come out on top. At a meeting held
February 4 in Tel Aviv, Mapai’s Central
Committee voted 159-96 to oust Lavon
from his Histadrut post, as Ben-Gurion
had demanded.
But while Lavon and his followers are
for the moment down, they are not out.
The harshness of the debate at the Tel
Aviv meeting and the unusual strength of
the vote against the Premier clearly indi-
cate that there are limits beyond which
the party will not let him go. It is now
obvious that Ben-Gurion must depend on
the support of Mapai’s middle-of-the-
roaders, who are willing to defend his
authority only as long as he does not
attempt to introduce unwelcome political
and economic changes or extend his
power and patronage into fields they
traditionally regard as their own.
In addition, the struggle has given
rise to new financial problems. For in
his bid to win increased support inside
Mapai’s trade union wing, Lavon has
supported unusually daring wage de-
mands which Ben-Gurion and his fol-
lowers cannot reject without great
embarrassment. These demands include
real wage increases of six to eight per
cent, (aside from the annual upward
“drag” that comes from upgrading,
seniority and added family allowances),
and guarantees against further increases
in direct and indirect taxation.
Since over three-quarters of the national
income is generated in the public sector,
and there are few high or even above
average incomes or property holdings
remaining that are untaxed, these in-
creases can be achieved only by raising
the current deficit (i.e., more foreign
loans and aid), or by cutting into invest-
ments or exports. But political conditions
being what they are, the trade union
organisers can afford to ignore these
economic considerations, and the Gov-
ernment must do likewise, though it
cannot really afford to do so.
Two factors have prevented the present
crisis from damaging the whole structure
°f Israeli politics: Ben-Gurion's stature
! n the nation which makes him vitally
"oportant to Mapai and buttresses his
power inside the party ; and the con-
ned ready availability of foreign aid
ln d loans which, in part at least, permits
™ e satisfaction of almost all sectional
" e mands and tones down the sharpness of
'l l6 current economic struggle.
Since neither David Ben-Gurion nor
® current high level of foreign aid
be available indefinitely, however,
? ere is a natural time limit within which
lsrae h social democracy will have to set
s bouse in order. The Lavon affair is
in indication of what can happen if it
Overseas Pointers
THE AMERICAS
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
President Kennedy, who emphasised
during his election campaign that
America should appoint Ambassadors
solely on the basis of merit and that the
ambassadors’ linguistic ability should
reach the standard required in the foreign
service of European and South American
countries, has not fulfilled his promises.
General Gavin will have to speak with
General de Gaulle through an inter-
preter ; General Franco will have to
learn English if he wants to speak to
Kennedy’s representative directly, and
none of the three men in the running for
the Rome post knows Italian. Moreover,
none of the men for these key posts in
Rome, Paris and Madrid has a suitable
background. Mr. Earl Smith, a Palm
Beach golfing partner, a great friend of
the Kennedy family and of ex - Cuban
dictator General Batista, has been
appointed Ambassador to Switzerland,
while a friend of an old Kennedy crony,
Mr Grant Stockdale, a Miami real-estate
dealer, will go to Ireland.
ARGENTINA
For the second time in two weeks Presi-
dent Frondizi’s Government has suffered
defeat in a minor election. The govern-
mental candidate in the Mendoza
province election for the national con-
gress on February 12 polled 14 per cent,
of the votes, only 4000 more than those
given to the new Peronist party. The
Democrats (Conservatives) had a substan-
tial victory in this rich province, and the
People’s Radicals gained ground. Their
continued success would spell defeat for
President Frondizi’s Government when
half the national chamber Deputies come
up for election next year.
AFRICA
ANGOLA
Authorities in Luanda, the capital of
Angola, have seized cameras, films and
dispatches, cut telephone calls and
censored messages in an effort to black-
out news of the succession of riots and
incidents in this colony of 200,000
Portuguese and 4,300,000 Africans. But
they have only been partially successful
in this, as in their attempts to isolate
Angolan Africans from the changes in
the rest of Africa. The laborers they
contract to South Africa and the
Rhodesias make invidious comparisons
with home conditions, and others are in-
fluenced by events in the adjacent Congo.
TUNISIA
In an interview given to the Tunisian
weekly “Afrique Action” two weeks ago
President Habib Bourguiba said it would
be catastrophic if negotiations between
France and the Algerian rebels were not
started within a month. General de
Gaulle, who has had to ensure that he
did not split the French Army and the
nation, is at last ready to negotiate and
has invited Bourguiba to Paris. Bourguiba
has astutely maintained good relations
with both France and the F.L.N. leaders
over the past six years, so he may now
be able to save the pride that is at stake
on both sides. Promoting a settlement
would also serve his own ambition of
Tunisia-Libya-Algeria-Morocco federa-
tion (the Maghreb), which would be an
answer to Nasser’s U.A.R.
MIDDLE EAST
TURKEY
If the number of political parties com-
peting is any measure of democracy
Turkey is once more democratic. Six
parties applied for registration on Febru-
ary 11 after the lifting of the ban on
political activities. As Mr Ismet Inonu’s
Republican People's party commands the
support of 80 per cent, of the Con-
stituent Assembly, and the Republican
Nationalist party has the other 20 per
cent, the new parties will firstly attempt
to attract the 4,000,000 voters who for-
merly backed Mr Menderes’s Democratic
party.
ASIA
PHILIPPINES
A bomb thrown from a speeding car
destroyed a corner of President Carlos
Garcia’s house on February 16, but the
President was at a summer resort 250
miles from Manila. It is thought some
of the few remaining members of the
Hukbulahap terrorists were responsible.
Indications are that President Garcia will
be eliminated democratically next
November. Diosdado Macapagal, as
spokesman for a “new, anti-corruption”
generation, is already campaigning as
Liberal candidate for the Presidential
elections. In 1957, when he ran for the
Vice-Presidency, he polled 160,000 more
votes than the Nacionalista President


Garcia. Anti-Garcia Nacionalistas say the
party will split if Garcia runs again for
the Presidency in nine months’ time.
PAKISTAN
Pakistan and Russia have reached agree-
ment on the terms for the Russian oil-
search in Pakistan. The terms are “no
risk-no profit” ones —that is, contrary to
the practice when British or American
companies prospect, the Russians will
not invest in the search, but if oil is
found they will not receive any profits.
Despite the failure of Western companies,
Pakistanis are convinced they have oil-
deposits, so the outcome of the Russians'
drilling will greatly influence the im-
proving relations between the two
countries.
EUROPE
GERMANY
Seven bishops from West Germany,
together with other churchmen and lay-
men, were refused entry to East Berlin
for the opening church ceremony of the
All German Synod of the Evangelical
Church on February 12. At the Synod
Bishop Dibelius declared that the Church
was facing a “battle for life or death”
against East German attempts to impose
political conditions on it. Bishop Lilje,
of Hanover, would be the logical choice
when Synod elects a successor to Bishop
Dibelius as chairman of the Church
council, but Bishoo Lilje was one of those
refused admittance by East German
authorities. These authorities have
labelled the Church the “NATO Church"
because it offered pastoral care to both
East and West German forces and the
East German forces rejected the offer.
ALBANIA
China’s economic support in exchange
for Albania’s ideological aid may force
Russia to increase its grants to Albania.
This was the prospect at the opening of
the Albanian Communist party congress
in Tirana on February 13. Last month
Russia agreed to increase its goods
exchanges with Albania by 7 per cent,
while East Germany increased its trade
by 55 per cent, and agreed to extend
credits to Albania’s investment pro
gramme. Mr Khrushchev had snubbed the
Albanian leader, General Hoxha, in his
New Year message and Herr Ulbricht,
the East German leader, and last year
called him “dogmatic and sectarian.”
After the new trade agreements were
announced General Hoxha praised the
Soviet Union, attacked dogmatism and
—perhaps to be on the safe side —
revisionism.
Africa
All or Nothing
By CLIVE BARRY
'Two years ago I walked over the alpine
meadows and mountain moorlands
of high African country in an attempt
to assess the educational needs of the
people who lived up there. The scenery
was bracing, the atmosphere was in-
vigorating and to any of the people
impudent enough to discuss my task 1
gave a pretty brisk injunction to mind
their own business.
Today a European and three Africans
are setting out to walk a grid pattern
over stinking - hot bush country in
Southern Rhodesia. In an area of a
1000 square miles those four walkers
undertake to count the 30,000-odd huts
(which do not cluster conveniently into
villages but scatter thinly across the bush
country). Also they will take blood
smears from the people. And a con-
siderable part of their time will be spent
in explaining who they are, what they
are doing, and who sent them. The day
has gone when an administrative officer
could walk into bush country and con-
fidently perform a task with sublime
single-mindedness.
In his work-cluttered laboratory in
North Avenue in Salisbury, the capital
of Southern Rhodesia, Dr O. Mastbaum
takes time out from organising malaria-
eradication teams in Southern Rhodesia,
Mozambique, the Union of South Africa,
Swaziland, Zululand and Bechuanaland
in order to help his African microscopists
squint at the sixty thousand blood smears
that will stack up over the next year.
“It is not just lack of staff, lack of
equipment, lack of funds that slows us
down,” says Dr Mastbaum. “Even
though our task is purely scientific,
political interference takes up a good deal
of our time and energies.”
An example of political interference in
a scientific task is the decision to disallow
World Health tuberculosis surveys in
Nyasaland. This decision does not mean
that Dr Hastings Banda is disenchanted
with the World Health Organisation but
merely that he resents World Health's
partnership with federal government.
Also in Nyasaland at the moment the
Malawi Congress frowns upon the anti-
smallpox campaign and as a result vac-
cinations are at a standstill. The director
of medical services in Nyasaland reports
55 cases of smallpox during the last week
including six fatal. The Union of South
Africa now insists upon smallpox clear-
ances for people entering from Nyasa-
land.
In the African political game it would
seem that half-measures are often im-
possible. Dr Banda, a quietly-spoken in-
telligent little man, would be the last to
assert that smallpox vaccinations and
tuberculosis surveys were not beneficial.
But in striving to rid himself of the
federal government he is constrained to
rid himself also of benefits associated
with it.
This all-or-nothing political pheno-
menon was perhaps best exemplified j n
the early days of the Mau Man uprising
in Kenya when hillside terracing was
destroyed not because it was regarded as
harmful but because the hated European*
introduced it.
Next month in Kenya when Africans
will have a majority of seats in legislative
council we will be able to see if this
all-or-nothing political phenomenon is
still in evidence. In the long run, the
country that selects and discards judici-
ously from foreign cultures without
regard to the total demands of political
prejudice will prosper best. And cer-
tainly this principle is being increasingly
recognised by Africans everywhere.
At a conference held in Salisbury to
review the constitution of Southern
Rhodesia it was decided that Africans
should be given the vote if they have
completed two years of secondary educa-
tion, or have earned £240 per annum.
Mr Joshua Nkomo, leader of the National
Democratic Party, who began by demand-
ing one man one vote at the conference
in the end agreed to accept this com
promise. Apparently he was under the
impression that with the provision of
greater educational facilities for Africans
in Southern Rhodesia, an African-backed
party like his own would in ten years
hold a voting majority in the country.
This may be true, but a better hope is in
the concentrated demands for increased
African wages so that more Africans
will become eligible to vote by earning
more than the stipulated £240.
—Mauldin, in “The St. Louis Post-Dispatch."
ANOTHER INTERNAL AFFAIR


Shows
Rossellini’s Return
[FILMS
Winner of the Golden Lion award at
the Venice film festival of 1959 “The
Secret of General della Rovere” is a
triumph for Roberto Rossel-
lini who directs it with the
authority which made his
early postwar films so
memorable. Those films done in
collaboration with an invaluable
scripter, Zavattini, had both docu-
mentary and artistic truth but his
control wavered when he attempted films
of psychological exploration with his
wife, Ingrid Bergman, as star. In “The
Secret of General della Rovere” he has
regained his assurance: here his faithful
reporting is combined with the strong
and imaginative narrative of Indro Mon-
tanelli’s eponymous novel.
Bardone, an ingratiating Neapolitan
rogue, manages to pay for his unsuccess-
ful card-gambling in German occupied
Genoa by defrauding relatives of those
arrested by the Germans. They give him
goods and money to arrange release or
better treatment for their relatives be-
cause Bardone claims to have influence
with the German officers. His deception
is discovered by a Colonel Muller, one
of the most sympathetic German officers
seen outside of German films, who takes
a liking to Bardone and decides to put
his histrionic ability to use.
Colonel Muller's men had killed
General della Rovere shortly after he
had landed from an English submarine
to link up with the partisans. His death
has been kept secret and Muller offers
Bardone a chance to save his life by
impersonating General della Rovere in
a Milan prison so that he can inform on
the Resistance fighters imprisoned there.
Seven Milanese are arrested by the
Germans and among them is the parti-
sans’ leader. Muller believes he will
identify him as soon as he contacts Bar-
hone but the decoy gradually assumes
General della Rovere's qualities as he
feels the prisoners’ respect and witnesses
|heir courage. Finally Bardone is locked
111 a room with 19 others, including the
seven who were picked up in Milan, for
a whole night: in the morning ten will
shot as a reprisal for the killing of a
fascist. As expected the partisan leader
f eveals himself to Bardone but rather
'han disclose him to the Germans the
former swindler faces the firing squad
himself.
Vittorio de Sica is magnificent in the
role which allows him such a vast range
from plausible swindler to reluctant hero.
and he makes all the intermediate stages
thoroughly convincing. He is such a
dominant figure that one regrets the occa-
sions when he has acted the silver-haired
sugar-daddy. (At Sydney Savoy).
“Rififi and the Women”
This attempt to continue the Rififi
series is mediocre perhaps because Jules
Dassin, director of the original, has been
replaced by Alex .loff re. The story of the
planning and execution of a bank
robbery, it promises to be an exploration
of the politics of an underworld run by
characters with attractive names such as
Bug, Blue Spot and Pirate. However, the
plot is too complex with irritating loose
ends (what happens to the New York
detective who walks in on Bug's hide-
out?) and ends conventiojnally in a
shooting match in which six die includ-
ing Nadja Tiller who, despite a bullet
through the shoulder and others through
the heart, smiles peacefully as she col-
lapses because she has found true love.
She works hard, as does Robert Hossein,
but they are too young and beautiful to
be interesting. One wishes for an old sen-
timentalist such as Jean Gabin and a
few of the cunning character sketches
which often make routine French films
worthwhile. (At Sydney Gala.)
O'G.
“The Devil’s Disciple”
Playing General Johnny Burgoyne,
who lost America for the British,
Laurence Olivier won it back again from
Burt Lancaster and Kirk Douglas in this
film version of Shaw’s play, although
Lancaster as the parson who didn’t know
his own strength, and Douglas as the
villain who was prepared to die for his
friend, played hard and well. But, silken,
sinuous and insinuating, it was Olivier’s
film ; and a very good film it made,
proving, as broadcasting proved long
ago, that when you have great dialogue,
as in Shakespeare and Shaw, new methods
adapt themselves to it. (At Sydney
Regent.)
R.McC.
ART
Streeton in Retrospect
Jt is a long time since we last had
such an opportunity of contemplating
the achievement of Streeton as that
offered by the selection from his works
now at Melbourne Athenhaeum Gallery.
Here is the man who perhaps, more
than any other of his time, turned Aus-
tralia’s eyes to the splendors (idealised,
perhaps) of her landscape. Along with
Roberts, the foremost member of the
famed Heidelberg school, he shunned
the tired strictures of the academies no
less than the stylistic innovations that had
captured the art world overseas. He
stuck simply and skilfully to his task,
and the results testify to a man's great
singlemindedness of purpose.
Nevertheless one of the most surpris-
ing, and disappointing, aspects of this
exhibition is the many inadequacies it
reveals in Streeton's technical equipment.
His flower studies, for instance, and his
various interior scenes, seem awkwardly
selfconscious and unresolved. It would
appear that Streeton’s best work was done
when he transferred his easel out of
doors and was not hampered by such
considerations as the arranging of his
subjectmatter in the accepted fashion
(e.g.. “Old Friends,” “Roses and Em-
broidery”) or the contriving of special
light effects (“Interior, Evening").
When he tries to infuse a dimension
of drama into his work by, for instance,
exaggerating light, color or tonal con-
trasts his painting again verges on the
banal. Objects that find their way into
his canvases lose meaningful relationship
to each other: people to landscape, and
so on. An exception is his grand scale
“St Paul's, London,” a master work
within the limitations of his talent. Prob-
ably the best painting in the entire show
is of the foreground houses, all looking
a bit the worse for wear, and huddled
together as if intimidated by the bulky
majesty of St Paul's which rears above
all to dominate the picture.
Among the notable things about this
work is the extreme ease and naturalness
of Streeton's handling of light as it
catches hold of and reveals those objects
in its path. The one poorly considered
aspect of the painting is the sky which
gives one the impression that Streeton
was a man given to nostalgia, even home-
sickness, and that memories of the Aus-
tralian heavens kept intruding on the
subject immediately under contemplation.
A series of watercolors (30 to 45) reveal
Streeton in a gentler mood: But here we
find less penetration than in his oils. These
represent a simple reaction to scenes
which range from the exotic (“Santa
Maria Della Lucia, Venice”) to the
ordinary (“Shipwright’s shop. Liver-
pool”).
Streeton is well worth this second look :
he also deserved an exhibition which
paid more attention to such necessary
details as catalogue notes and the list of
dates of his paintings and watercolors
where possible.
A. S. Jorgensen
French Influences
Two shows in Perth afford contrast in
French influences, a transition from
classicism to impressionism.
Surprisingly, it is the elder artist who
has enjoyed the release offered by Manet,
moved on with Monet, and matured with
Cezanne, Matisse and Gaugin. When
she left Perth at the beginning of the
century, after studying here with James
Linton, Kathleen O'Connor immediately
felt at home among the artists of Paris.
She stayed there 30 years. Miss O’Con-
nor's large retrospective exhibition at the
Hotchin Gallery, the summary of a life-
time of painting, shows the gradual
movement of style and appreciation, cul-
minating in the power and vigor of new


works produced since her return to
Western Australia.
The early Parisian pictures are
economically suggested impressions of
city life, groups in the Luxemburg
Gardens, nurses of the first World War,
old ladies gossiping ; all 'lively in move-
ment and wit, subdued in color, studies
in brown, white, and grey, accented with
swift black: as though Australian eyes
were most impressed by the diffused
northern light. Next comes a period of
still life and portraiture, a leap into
color distinguished by love of a full brush,
a deeper interest in form and design to
be followed by still greater freedom, more
light, richer paint, more delicate shades,
a complete abandonment (in flower
pieces) of black and brown or even tone
nothing but pure sparkling light, as if
return to Australia has brought a final
delight in life that reaches a peak in great
bunches of native water-lilies.
The same increasing interest invests-the
work of David Strachan at the Skinner
Galleries. This young Melbourne artist
reached Paris 13 years ago, after studying
at the Slade and briefly visiting Australia
to work with George Bell. Untouched
by contemporary influences, except for
an interest in space and pattern found
in kitchen pieces, he works with classical
Ingresesque calm, giving a deep serene
glow to all his pictures, a richness in-
voked by oil and glaze. ,
His preoccupation with form, subtle,
not tedious, is most notable in his flower
paintings. “Flowers at a Window” recalls
Adrian Feint; without the stylised design,
but fresh vision creates an urn of field
flowers, flowers with a melon, and “White
Flowers” (with . lovely green shadows)
•thrust, into a pewter mug. Tranquillity,
and timelessness are the predominating
qualities of Strachan’s work. Comparing
his viewpoint with that of abstract
painters, and-his quiet virtuosity, with the
exhibitionism of some collage addicts,
it will be interesting to see how he will
now react to the Australian environment.
F.D.
New Fountain
The monolith by Gerard Havekes
which stands beside his new fountain in
Hyde Park, Sydney, commissioned by
the Walker family “in memory of
Frederick Joseph Walker and all who
pioneered the primary industry in Aus-
tralia” is impressive enough in itself.
It is large and crude and primitive,
very four-square ; but then even if it
were not sculpted it would be a nice
large chunk of Sydney sandstone. Any-
body who likes Stonehenge should be
able to like this, except that it is not so
big ; and besides, there is force enough
in the big stone faces stated to represent
Fire, Earth and Water.
* But as a whole the fountain and mono-
lith are a muddle. As a melancholy by-
stander said, “At any rate it will give
the pigeons a drink.”
No part of it bears any relation to
another or to the whole. In the first
place, standing five yards or so away
from the basin, and constructed of dif-
ferent material, the monolith has no
perceptible connection with the fountain.
A few old lichen-covered rocks left
casually lying about may in time, when
the monolith itself has grown lichens,
lead you at least towards the fountain,
since they also are sandstone ; but then
you come to the pool which is littered
with quite a different kind of rock-
rounded river stones probably from the
Nepean—and then to the basin which
is paved with colored tiles.
What have colored tiles to do with
either sandstone rock or river stones?
What have natural rocks and stones to
do with pre-Sumerian monoliths? And
what has a pre-Sumerian monolith to do
with the life of the land in Australia?
D.S.
Sydney Art
Farmer's Blaxland Galleries are show-
ing a lively exhibition of international
posters which, though it does not exactly
take the breath away, is so much better
than the two recent exhibitions of Aus-
tralian posters in Sydney that it might
do a lot of good.
It is curious that, in a phase of art
which lends itself so readily to stylised
design, so many of the posters, except
those from Germany, should be largely
photographic ; but at least the French
and Italian cities and sea-coasts make
very attractive photographs. For what
political significance it may have, the
exhibits from Communist countries, from
China to Czechoslovakia, are as unenter-
prising as those from Britain and the U.S.
The Macquarie Galleries has a ragged
show of paintings at eight guineas, which
has sold as well as such bargain-shows
usually do. Along with a number of
abstracts, which are sometimes nice bits
of color, there are some reasonably
attractive works by Enid Cambridge,
Donald Friend, Judy Cassab, Joy Ewart,
Arnie Kingston and Ross Morrow.
D.S.
THEATRE
“Roots”
Arnold Wesker is on a good subject
in the shame of children for their parents,
at Sydney Independent. He is quoted as
saying, “I am at one with these people,
it is only that I am annoyed with them
and myself.” That is, in the role of
Beatie, daughter of a family of Norfolk
farm-laborers, he is trying to wake up
the working classes to Higher Things
than the weather, popular songs and six-
pence on the Award.
Beatie has been living for three years
with a London Left-wing intellectual
Returning to the country, she* tries to
turn the hand-to-mouth thinking of her
father and mother towards Ronnie’s ideas
on politics, music and art, sometimes
standing on chairs and tables to parrot
them ; but having gathered her mutinous
relatives to meet Ronnie, she is shocked
by a letter in which he reneges. In the
ensuing recriminations she finds she is
able to spout like naughty Ronnie on her
own behalf.
Beatie has been looking for roots, not
in family, but in culture ; and all she
finds is an anecdote about her mother’s
belief that pains in guts work through
to shoulder-blades. Told by almost every
member of the family, with a final version
by Mother herself, it is deftly woven into
the play, and must strike harmonics off
audiences far removed from farm-
laborers. The dialogue, designed to sub-
serve Wesker’s cold vision of present-day
countryfolk as they are, reinforces with
reiterated ugliness the boredom of
people Henry Lawson attacked so long
ago: “Haven’t any ambitions ; haven't
any ideas.”
But anyone who has lived among city
intellectuals would probably find Beatie’s
second-hand spouting of Ronnie's cul-
tural drainage more boring than the
conversational counters of her “dirty and
mean” relatives. Dialect or Dialectics—
we are attracted by the unfamiliar. Per-
haps a realisation of this is why Wesker
is angry “with them and myself.”
Girls who have lived three years with
intellectuals are generally more flattened-
out emotionally than Cherrie Butlin made
Beatie. .She acted with the mannerisms
of a cute kid, and shared with Janice
Copland, who played her sister, a habit
of pouting or smiling before speaking
that in a boxer would be called telegraph-
ing punches. Doreen Warburton, as the
mother, acted best: cool and withdrawn,
her face set in Red Indian immobility
when she disapproved, she was frighten-
ingly ferocious when roused ; though in
their passive ways Ben Gabriel, as the
father, and Donald Macdonald and
Kenneth Whiteley as brother and brother-
in-law were unexceptionable. Terry
Arnold did an old gaffer with more
sympathy for himself than conviction for
the audience.
“Fisher’s Ghost”
Douglas Stewart’s one-act comedy at
Sydney Theatre Club was preceded by
some fine singing of Australian folk songs
by “The Rambleers,” whose success owed
much to their guitarist. In using these
singers as the first part of the entertain-
ment the producer, Kevon Kemp,
his set with the historical atmosphere
of convicts and pioneer farmers.
The audience, their chairs set side-
ways to the length of the hall, knew
the scene well by the time the play
started ; an uncurtained platform covered
with grey tarpaulin and with a backdrop
of black cloth, a grey tree of gouache
lath at one end, and at the other a section
of genuine split-rail fence wrenched fi olll


the countryside. After a blackout Alec
flood, as Frederick Fisher, was seen
perched on the fence.
Mr Hood sustained well the
bitterness the author divined in the
murdered man, sneering at the bumbling
constable (Robert Lehane) who could
n ot find his buried body, recurring and
recurring to his grievance: he had been
murdered and someone was going to pay
for it. His voice had an edge like a rusty
razor's.
With interpolations from Charles Tas-
man as an old gaffer, and the aid of
Robin Jones, a doubtfully aboriginal
boy. in finding the body, the little play
resolved itself into two main dialogues
between Fisher and his murderer, George
Worrall. As Worrali, Ronald Curran,
the spotlight on his face distracted with
fear, made a first-rate punching-bag for
the ghost's sarcasms, his eyes staring and
rolling while point by point, the author
exhausted the possibilities of a ghost to
frighten a murderer. The body having
been discovered and the murderer hanged
the second dialogue between the ghost
of Worrall and the ghost of Fisher, dis-
mayed to think that they would now
haunt each other for ever, reminded one
of the brilliant ending of Stewart's poem
about Quiros, when the winds blew both
ways at once.
But the bit of theatre by which the
ghost was to vanish in an explosion and
a puff of smoke as he lit his pipe was
denied us ; the explosion missed its cue:
in this way the production left much to
the imagination ; but not Stewart’s wit,
or his possibilities as a writer of full-
length comedies.
“Bridge of Sighs”
Norman McVicker’s production of this
play by Thomas Muschamp, about the
refugee couple who camped on the bridge
between two countries at cold war, re-
opened the redecorated Pocket Playhouse
at Sydenham, Sydney.
At the end of the tiny auditorium,
suave in its new coat of unrelieved off-
white, the single scene glowed with its
blue sky. its brown bridge built of
movable blocks over its river of draped
blue cloth, its striped barriers on either
side of the bridge, its sentiyboxes with
|heir telephones to Moscow and Wash-
ington.
In the sentryboxes and on the river
and the bridge Philip Weston as a frontier
guard and Peter Potok as the opposing
frontier guard patrolled, commiserated,
showed each other photographs of rela-
tlv«, and harangued. On the bridge the
re fugees, Ellen Bland and Paul Bland,
[tfused to go or return, announced the
formation of a new nation on their
neutral territory, and built a cubbyhouse
stones from the bridge in which to
ave their twins. Hugh Johnston, as a
smuggler allowed to come and go because
" e was pure politically, contributed his
COr nments and advice. Marie Byron, as
an American Red Cross official with a
Powerful Washington senator for a hus-
aH and Ben Boyd, as a Bengali not
influenced by Moscow, argued their
Oologies .
a was unexceptionable. Mr Weston
n d Mr Potok were particularly good.
The production was almost flawless. The
scene was like a Farmer’s or David Jones
window in the springtime. So the fault
must have been with the audience ; or
it could be that the Shavian style has
become a cliche, or that we have gone
cold on the Cold War. What the Pocket
Playhouse needs is an Atom Bomb, or
the play of political ideas will die of
boredom.
Ronald McCuaig
“Strike a New Note”
Never in this reviewer’s memory has a
Carroll-sponsored show so lacked theatri-
cal vitality, and never, surely, have there
been so many technical breakdowns at
an opening night (Melbourne Princes
Theatre), from sets which creaked and
jerked at the slightest provocation to a
sound-system whose fantastic range of
whines, buzzes and dead silences com-
peted with those trying to use it for their
amplification—and did they sometimes
need it!
The impression one gained of every-
thing inanimate on stage having been
hurriedly put together, and everything
more or less animate (i.e., the dancers
and singers) having been inadequately
rehearsed, might not have mattered so
much if the organisation of the show,
especially the sequence of its features,
had shown imagination and showman-
ship.
The opening dance routine was the
show's least spectacular and most point-
less ; and Miss Atwell’s first piece, played
on her grand, as opposed to her honky-
tonk, piano, certainly failed to establish
her with her audience on the matey,
cheerfully musical terms to which she
has been accustomed. In fairness it
must be added that through it all Miss
Atwell smiled and wisecracked endear-
ingly ; and that her artistry at the key-
board, not in the class of a Cortot on one
level, a Liberace on another, or a Brubeck
on another, yielded sufficient fingerstyle
acrobatics and scintillating dashes of
sound to make one frequently sit up and
take notice.
But surely she deserved a better sup-
porting team and a slicker, quicker pro-
duction.
A. S. JORGENSEN
Brisbane Group
Brisbane Arts Theatre is using Art
Unions and Drama Queens to get finances
for its own theatre; its studio group
performs one-act plays at the Country
Women’s Club, Brisbane Prison, and
similar bodies ; and this year it intends
presenting four plays in the round, having
had some success with “The Man” and
“Rope” last year.
Its 1961 repertoire will be “Rebecca,”
by Daphne du Maurier (March 1-4) ;
Detective Story,” by Sidney Kingsley
(April 26-29); and “The Admirable Crich-
ton,” by Sir James Barry (August 23-26).
From June 28 to July 8 the theatre will
tour Shakespeare’s “Julius Caesar” to
Warwick, Toowoomba, Redcliffe, South-
port and Nambour.
NEW RECORDS
Tschaikowsky’s Symphony No. 6:
Boston Symphony Orchestra under Pierre
Monteux (R.C.A. L 16263). Monteux,
always a sensitive conductor, avoids the
too-frequent tendency in the long first
movement to slam the emotional pedal
to the floor. Elsewhere he gives it breadth
and dignity. He is particularly well served
by his violins in the Slavic violence of
the third movement.
Rhapsody in Blue; An American in
Paris: Warner Bros’ Orchestra under
Heindorf, with Bert Shefter, solo pianist,
and Dan Lube, solo violinist (W. B.
Vitaphonic, 81243). This music is treated
with such almost classical care by such
outstanding soloists that it may well be-
come a definitive recording of these
Gershwin works. The engineering of the
high-fidelity sound is faultless.
Beethoven Symphonies 1 and 4: Carl
Schuricht and the Paris Conservatoire
Orchestra (H.M.V. Concert Classic
Series, OXLP2OOI6). Only six years
separate these two symphonies—but the
“Eroica” is between them ; the first is
still in the 18th century ; the Fourth
leaps straight into the 19th.
The Button-Down Mind Strikes Back:
Bob Newhart (Warner Bros. W 1393). in
this, the second series of his satirical
comments on the foibles of present-day
man, Newhart makes automation, retire-
ment parties, bus-drivers’ schools, mon-
keys, and a woman-run airline company
the butt of his pungent humor and sly
dry wit.
Opera Ballets: Berlin Radio Sym-
phony Orchestra, conductor Ferenc
Fricsay (Deutsche Grammophon LPEM
19211). The complete ballet music from
“Faust” “Aida” and Otello” ; “Dance
of the Hours” (almost the only excerpt
by which Ponchielli’s “La Gioconda” is
now remembered), and the Waltz and
Polonaise from “Eugen Onegin.”
La Cucaracha: Cuco Sanchez and
Dueto America (Philips 807597 L). These
“songs of the Mexican Revolution,” taken
from the sound-track of the award-
winning film, would suggest that that
upheaval was conducted on leisurely
lines, with the troops much more in-
terested in soft lips than hard bullets.
Stardust: Tex Beneke and his
Orchestra (R.C.A. CAMS 6). “Lazy
River,” “Rockin’ Chair,” “Lazy Bones,”
"Bye Bye Blues” —these titles set the
unhurried dance-tempo of these dozen
pieces.


Prodigal Son with whom Peter Quen-
nell justly compares him. return once
more to his father?
He was. in all honesty, a little
embarrassed this time at the thought of
meeting his sire; the more.so since his
father’s (improbable) parting words to
him had been “Go. base and vile young
man.” and since after that, staying with
some humble friends of the family who
were maintaining him before he sailed
for Jamaica, he had been caught in bed
with their daughter. But other friends
now. with his father’s connivance,
arranged for him to go out to India
once more, this time as an attorney at
Calcutta. He sailed; and when once
more he unexpectedly arrived back in
England after a year or two of exile,
it was with money in his pocket and
with some sort of petition-of-rights to
present to the Government on behalf
of his Calcutta clients.
Thus his family was able to receive
him with complacence, which his sisters
did by dressing him up as a nun when
he was drunk and taking him. so
attired, to the theatre; while the merry
harlots whose company he instantly
sought out again, took him to a dinner
where they served the surly Mr Mor-
daunt with a pie containing live frogs
—a creature for which Mordaunt had
an unaccountable aversion.
Mordaunt was a dear friend of
Hickey’s from their days in India to-,
gether. so it was natural that Hickey
should spend the greater part of his
prolonged stay in England in stealing
the affection of his mistress, Charlotte
Barry; which he did to such good effect,
despite the most violent and out-
rageous objections from Mordaunt,
that when he left for India again, by
way of Portugal. Charlotte accom-
panied him. For the first time in his
life he seems to have felt what could be
called love for this charming girl and
the story of her early death in India—
after a typhoon almost worthy of
Conrad and the most exciting adven-
tures when they were captured by the
French in Trincomalee —makes a
pathetic conclusion to Peter Quennell’s
selection from the memoirs. However,
it is only just to add that, in pages
omitted here. Hickey was able to con-
sole himself with, amongst others, an
Indian mistress known as “Fatty.”
Peter Quennell could be thought a
little excessive when he claims in his
foreword that Hickey’s self-portrait is
“at least as vivid and entertaining as
that designed by James Boswell.”
Hickey was too insensitive to have the
depth and variety of either Pepys or
Boswell, too tough to have their uni-
versality as human types, and though
his narrative has considerable histori-
cal value, he does not mix in the same
exalted company as the one did at the
court of Charles the Second and the
other at the court of Dr Johnson. But
if you confine Peter QuenneH’s tribute
to the precise words he uses, “vivid
and entertaining.” it is fair enough.
The memoirs as he has abridged them
from the original four volumes (them-
selves an abridgment from the MSS.)
are as vivid and entertaining as Bos-
well’s “London Journal” and that is
saying something.
Douglas Stewart
Love’s Labors
Shakespeare’s Rival. Robert Gittings.
Heinemann. 225. 6d.
Some time back Gittings did some
detective work on Keats’s affair with
the mistress of an Irish politician which
threw a new light on “The Eve of St
Mark”; and by following Keats about
London he was able to show that scenes
from his poems were not imagined but
reproductions of landscape and archi-
tecture still on view.
In this new book he sets out to
show, from a study of history and
Elizabethan texts, that “Love’s Labor’s
Lost” was first written as a masque for
performance in the household of
Essex, and was later revised (after Essex
had fallen from favor) for performance
before Elizabeth. In the first version,
says Gittings. the Spanish dandy,
Armado, was a satire on Perez; a
Spanish aristocrat who had been
hounded out of. Spain and was venge-
fully trying to provoke an English
attack upon Spain. In the second the
satire was transferred from the person
of Perez to the verse of Gervase Mark-
ham. one of the Essex entourage, one
of the finest horsemen of his time and
one of its most popular authors.
Not only is Markham’s verse, in his
poem “Devoreux,” the butt of Shake-
speare’s final version of Armado, says
Gittings, but also Markham is prob-
ably the “rival poet” of Shakespeare’s
sonnets. Up to now the rival poet of
the commentators has been George
Chapman, the translator of Homer
The series of eleven sonnets. 76-86, says
Gittings, are written against a poet who
is supplanting Shakespeare with a
patron, and they culminate in No. 86'
Was it the proud full sail of his
great verse.
Bound for the prize of all-too-
precious you.
That did my ripe thoughts in my
brain inhearse,
Making their tomb the womb
wherein they grew?
Was it his spirit, by spirits taught
to write
Above a mortal pitch, that struck me
dead?
No, neither he, nor his compeers by
night
Giving him aid, my verse astonished.
He, nor that affable familiar ghost
Which nightly gulls him w'ith intelli-
gence.
As victors, of my silence cannot
boast ;
I was not sick of any fear from
thence.
But when your countenance filled up
his line,
Then lacked 1 matter; that
enfeebled mine.
The line about the “proud full sail"
was no reluctant tribute to Chapman,
says Gittings. but sarcasm at the
expense of Markham, whose verse is
anything but full-sailed. On the other
hand “Devoreux” is a long poem in
praise of Essex, his brother, his women
—the whole Essex faction; and in it is
the stanza:—
O thou almighty power which didst
infuse
Spirit into my spirit, to dare to do
This act of memory (which they
refuse
Whom both desert and worth have
called thereto).
Breathe endless life into my faint-
ing Muse,
That I may write, and by my writing
woo
Saints to displeasure, when ingrate-
ful men
Suffer thee sleep so long in darkness
den.
The spirit that breathes life into
Markham’s muse, says Gittings. be-
comes, under Shakespeare’s sarcasm,
the spirit “that nightly gulls him with
intelligence.” while
reference to the tomb in his sonnet is
a reflection on Markham’s P * n
which an epitaph entitled “The
Tombe” is boxed between stanzas. 23/
and 238; there is a photograph of the
page to demonstrate this.
In his conclusion, Gittings goes on
to discuss, without pinning it down too


heavily-, the question whether Mark-
'll is the rival poet of the sonnets
jnd Essex the patron, and that the
park Lady may be Lady Rich (Essex’s
sister). He seems also fairly sure that
John Florio was the original of Holo-
fgrnes in “Love’s Labor’s Lost.” Earlier
in the book there is some fine discus-
sion of the play, especially as to its
derivation from the Italian Commedia
deil’Arte tradition, which should be of
profound interest to those who dis-
cussed so fiercely John Tasker’s
exquisite and fantastic production of
it at the University of New South Wales
last year.
Ronald McCuaig
Twelve Hundred
Pages of Hitler
The Rise and Fail of the Third Reich.
William L. Shirer. Seeker and
Warburg. 635.
While the books that have already
been written about the twelve years of
Nazi ascendancy would form a Hima-
laya if they were collected together.
Shirer has written a volume running
into more than 1200 pages, and remark-
ably enough, partly drawing on new
material which does not seem to have
been tapped to any great extent, and
which even now is only tapped a little.
It would be an almost impossible
labor for any writer to sift the 485
tons of German Foreign Office docu-
ments captured by the United States
First Army, plus General Haider’s
shorthand diary of the war years, or
the multitude of other diaries, includ-
ing those of Goebbels and Jodi. Chief
of Operations of the High Command,
the High Command’s own record, the
60.000 files of the Naval Archives, the
transcripts of endless telephone tap-
pings. the stenographic records of
“Fuehrer conferences.” the notes of
Hitler’s tabletalks. the “hundreds of
thousands” of captured Nazi docu-
ments assembled as evidence at the
Nuremberg war trials and the detailed
records of interrogations.
Whether it is therefore too early to
consider the history of the Third
Reich in proper perspective and dis-
passionately Shirer himself debates. He
concedes that there is “much merit”
1,1 the view he found prevalent in
France, when he went there to do
Search, that “nothing more recent
the Napoleonic era should be
tackled by writers of history.” But
does not prevent his ponderous
'olume from being a valuable addi-
jj°n to the writing about the Third
R e ich, provided it is not accepted as
definitive historical writing. It limns
me story of Hitler's life, and those of
I ls hand, on a vivid canvas, but the
great fault that could be found with it,
as history, is that it is confined to this
one aspect of the Nazi eruption.
A reader from Mars—indeed any
reader w'ho knew nothing about Europe
in the immediate years after World
War I —must pursue his development
of his theme with an increasing
consciousness of its incompleteness. It
seems impossible, studying the mad-
nesses. the cruelties, the deceits —the
swashbuckling of the Nazis which out-
Castros Castro —that any nation could
have followed such leaders unless it
were completely demented and fit for
a straitjacket.
Those who saw Germany even in.
say, the winter of 1926-27 when it
snowed heavily all the way from the
Orkneys to Jerusalem would under-
stand better. And even then things
were not at their worst. They had been
much worse three years and more be-
forehand in the days of the inflation
which reduced 1.000.000-mark notes to
the status of pipe-lighters. The coun-
try still was full of unemployed. You
could drive for hours between large
cities and scarcely see a motor-vehicle.
Berlin was lit with a sort of reckless
gaiety as if the end of the world were
just round the corner, many shop-
windows full of shocking pornography,
the erstwhile owners of the fashionable
shops of the Friedrich-strasse either
among the morning list of suicides or
watching with hate the “usurpers/’ the
Polish and other foreign Jews believed
to be financed with Russian gold.
Propaganda for Communism was
everywhere, the restaurants of the
Kurfuersten-Damm debauched, per-
verts canvassing of a morning in the
Pariser-platz. It had the air of a city
going to pieces on the night before the
entry of the conquerors in a riot of
false gaiety and extravagance paid for
with borrowed money.
In the country village halls one
found the Wanderkindchen—the bands
of youngsters of both sexes, hungry,
trying to keep their spirits up. with
nothing much to do. no hope, all with
the question on the lips: “Where can
we go?” All eager for new worlds that
did not want them.
Along the borders (except in the
British sector, where you found the
West Surreys riding round on bicycles,
children on the handlebars, but no
arms, as if Cologne were an English
county town) there was hate of old
adversaries. Bitter hate of the Poles
over the detachment of East German
territory; bitter hate of the French who
themselves nursed still the idea of a
new revanche for the blood of Verdun
and the Somme, and who made no
secret of it in occupation areas.
The first sound one heard even in
the dark snow months of winter was
that of the French bugles as the guards
went down the street in Kehl across
the bridge from Strasbourg, in the old
German-conquered French territory of
1870. and the inhabitants stirred out
shivering in the snowy dawn to pay
respect to the long French fixed
bayonets of the changing guards of
the occupation troops.
The year 1927 was the year in which
Hitler was first allowed to speak in
public after his interlude of imprison-
ment in Landsberg. It was the year,
also, of the feverish revival built on
vast foreign loans, following the opera-
tion of the Dawes Plan and the stabi-
lisation by Schacht.
Germany was coming back into the
great world, securing reconciliation.
Stresemann made a good impression at
Geneva the year before and Germany
was being taken out of the corner where
it had been stood for years as the
world's bad boy and fed sweets to
encourage it to be good. Its industrial
output was rising steeply. It was be-
ginning to climb out of the mire.
During this sunburst of prosperity,
industry, for which the inflation had
wiped out its debts, was entering on
a sort of revel of amenity building, and
the billions of dollars of loan-money
were flung about with gay abandon.
It would have been difficult indeed
to think that the comic little man one
saw speaking to a crowd that could
have been accommodated round the
umbrella of a thimble-and-pea man in
1927 could be the leader of a party
which would poll over 810.000 votes
out of 31 millions in May. 1928, an
election that saw the Social Democrats
of Stresemann win 153 seats in the
Reichstag with a million and a quarter
more votes than in the previous poll.
It would have been even harder to
foresee that he could three years later
have been on the way to complete con-
trol of the Reich.
But the year in which Germany
seemed to have re-established itself,
with a stable Government and pros-
perous years ahead, only provided a
cliff to fall from, when the awful crash
into depression came 18 months after
the 1928 elections. Everything came at
once —the overnight growth of masses
of “unemployed, hungry and des-
perate.” as Shirer says; the death of the
devoted Stresemann. the rebuilder, the
centre of political gravity, the stabiliser,
on October 3. 1929.
He had led Germany into the League
of Nations. He had negotiated the
Dawes and Young Plans, brought
reparations within the capacity of the
country to pay, had been a main builder
of the Locarno Pact which seemed to
offer long-term peace to Western
Europe.
And as if his death were not enough
to bear, since it left Germany bereft
of the one man who seemed able to
both lead it and command the confi-
dence of its former enemies, there came
three weeks later, on October 24. the
resounding crash of the New York


Stock Exchange, the signal-gun of the
depression in which everything that
spelt hope for Germany tumbled into
the pit.
The stream of foreign loan money
dried up and world trade with it. The
loans became due without anything to
pay them with. Big banks, little busi-
nesses, jobs, the whole economy fell out
of control into a pit of starvation,
misery and bewilderment. Germany
became a living skeleton. Hitler wrote
of that time: “Never in my life have
I been so well disposed and inwardly
contented as in those days. For hard
reality has opened the eyes of millions
of Germans to the unprecedented
swindles, lies and betrayals of the
Marxist deceivers of the people.”
His success surprised even himself.
The Germans showed at the election of
September 14, 1930, that they had for-
saken their erstwhile leaders and were
prepared to follow anybody who
showed signs of promising them even
faint hope. They split their dominant
votes between the extreme parties. The
Communists improved their vote by
1J million, increasing their seats from
54 to 77. If there had been no Hitler in
the field there might have been a Com-
munist Germany. And to many moder-
ates and even conservatives Hitler’s
hate of Communism justified him.
The middle-class parties, Strese-
mann's Social Democrats and the
Right-wing Nationalists lost between
them over four million votes, and
mostly to the Nazis.
The latter had expected to quad-
ruple their 812,000 vote of the previous
election and win perhaps 50 seats.
They actually polled 6.4 million votes
and became the second-largest party in
the Reichstag with 107 members.
Feverish organisation, continuance of
the depression and, above all, lack of
leadership worth the name in the
opposing parties, the injudicious in-
volvement of the Army in politics and
the intrigues of frightened men with the
Hitlerite leadership of the Nazi party,
led to the point at which the Nazi
vote for Hitler against Hindenburg for
the presidency in April, 1932, after one
abortive poll, rose to 13.4 million.
The party won a slightly larger poll
at the election of July, 1932, and 230
seats which made them easily the
largest party in the Reichstag, with the
Social Democrats reduced to 133.
The fact that the Communists gained
twelve seats and were the third-largest
party (89) illustrates the uncertainty of
the electors about where they could
hope to turn for help and the reasons
why Hitler in the succeeding years
turned so fiercely on the Communists,
a party very much like his own in
habits and ideas about “national
democracy.”
Also why his ferocity was so straitly
directed against the Jews. It was the
Jewish banking houses of Frankfort
Ring-Barked Tree
A ring-barked tree
naked as martyred St. Anthony
landmark as far as e„ z can see,
is a haven for 1 z wild bee.
Absorbs their arrows c selessly
in uncomplaining agony.
Its wounds
bleed a dark sweet honey.
N.Z.
W. HART-SMITH.
Blue Macaw
Like the Spanish Bourbons, the parrot
Remembered nothing ;
But then, again like them,
There was nothing he forgot.
Fed the ambient air a mish-mash of
words,
The object of utterance being biscuit,
Bonne-bouche,
Or at least attention ;
Crowded “Ullo dearie” and “G or save the
Queen”
With tiresome Anglo-Saxon obscenities.
Fie was too young when they brought
him from the Amazon,
Too small a brain to bear
Remembrance of those sea-green tossing
trees
Breaking on the further blue of skies.
The pity it is,
For he cannot now come down from his
perch
In the pub near Tom Ugly's .nt,
Fly over the water under the bridge,
Take the sea from green to blue,
Leave the tedious detail of urban land
To Mick, pulling handles disconsolate —
”Ave yer seen me blue macaw?”
VICTORIA.
MARY FININ
Rocks
(FOR CLIFTON PUGH)
I
Rocks among the clouds are still,
Darkly stand upon the hill —
Faces, shadowed on our side,
Meaning with a sombre pride
Light-held faces turned away,
Faces looking from our day,
Looking from a lichened hill,
Looking with a granite will,
Back towards a fiery spring,
Back where flames break thundering
Up from out the shattered earth,
Shattering with their livid birth
Craters of earth’s broken womb.
High in palls of ash they loom,
Over earth’s dark laval blood,
Tumbling in a burning flood,
Flickering with a crimson pride
Brutal flames that thrust aside
Lu '/ composures of the plains—
World of ash and boiling rains.
II
Violent hordes turn silent, cease.
New topographies o ; peace
Fold beneath a million years
Shapes whose naming day now nears.
Overlays of chastened earth
Shrink towards a silent birth.
Weathered clear, a face, a bone.
Heads emerge —and each a stone.
11l
High upon the hills of Earth
Rocks appear and brood their birth.
Brows whereover centuries wing —"
Emblems of a fiery spring.
victoria.
NOEL MACAINSH.
A Poem For My Wife
O could one write as one makes love
When all is given and nothing kept,
Then language might put by at last
Its coy elisions and inept
Withdrawals, yield, and yielding cast
Aside like useless clothes the crust
Of worn and shabby use, and trust
Its candor to the urgent mind,
Its beauty to the searching tongue.
Safe in the world’s great house with all
Its loves and griefs, at ease among
Its earthly fruits, original
As earth and air, the body learns
Peace, while the mind in torment burns
To strip the cloak of daily use
From language. Could one seize and
move
The stubborn words to yield and sing,
Then one would write as one makes love
And poems and revelations spring
Like children from the mind's desire,
Original as light and fire.
TASMANIA.
WALTER LEHMANN.
T wo Sonnets on Trees
(1) The Great Tree
Bare fact of a tree : trunk tiard in earth
until the roots tear out the food enough
to force a hundred branches out in leaf:
solid limbs to task the seasons with,
branches holding decades in their girth:
—it is itself, yet it is self to move
beyond the thrust of greeds, past threads
that prove
only the formal consequence of birth.
There is no bare fact even of a tree.
There is no proof simple enough to touch,
no touch we can believe. My fingers catch
at bark, twig, seed. Th re’s no captivity
to hold them in. The act escapes from me,
Matter is form to hold such mystery.
(2) Silky Oak
While droughi turned all the country
numb and slow
it felt the furious quickening to come
and understood the panic sap’s alarm,
that woman source which sent its hungers
through
the winter-dry unnourished limbs. Now,
though
its leaves are brittle, brass-spiked flowers
form
and swell with honey that is full ®
cream ;
and quick as lust the cruel blossoms grow.
The da fill out its brazen wealth of
combs
its lovely clasps that lock the precious
seed
until the sun turns gold and bright ami
glad
and lovely in its arms and summer com
to quell the ache and pacify the need
and calm the unquiet centre of its gr~e •
QUEENSLAND. THOMAS W. SHAPCOTT.


BOOKHUNTER
Dent. “D” Box 2671, G.'r.O.. Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—Motion,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.0., Sydney.
Ibich, as ordinary commercial trans-
actions, had financed many of the
Communist deals abroad. It also ex-
plains why, with reason, fear of a
Communist Germany was growing.
Hitler naturally was concerned with
the power of the only party which, be-
side his own, had made electoral gains,
,ather than with its political and other
morals. And thus there was no moral
barrier for him to surmount when
occasion arose to make use of Russian
facilities to train his officer-corps and
[or other purposes.
Nothing in a word to prevent him
from entering into arrangements with
the Kremlin.
That he did set Germany to work.
Id secure control of the country when
the age of recovery throughout the
world was just beginning, and that he
was able to give politics a focus and
to capitalise the hates of the years of
Die Krisis assured his command of
Germany. Conditions made it possible
[or him to take credit for having
achieved everything that a revival of
the global economy achieved, also for
some pie on top of it. provided ostens-
ibly in the face of bitter attempts by
the wicked outside world to destroy the
Reich.
To the history of the war years,
and the preliminary ones to it, the years
of Munich and the Nazi-Soviet pact,
Shirer’s book adds little of capital
importance but a great deal that is
explanatory and illuminative of detail
and motive. His additions to secret
history are valuable, and his book
will be used as a standard work of
reference; but it is a pity that it is not
more condensed and written with more
detachment.
M. H. Ellis
Children’s Hour
Dangerous Secret. Written by the girls
and boys of the A.B.C. Children’s
Hour Argonaut’s Club. Australian
Broadcasting Commission.
With very little guidance from its
e j|'tor, John Gunn, each of the nine
chapters in this volume was contri-
ved by a youngster and each of its
surprisingly good illustrations by
another. The names of the authors and
artists are given here, but not so as to
'dentify the writer of any one chapter
0r the painter of any picture. Thus
Vty is maintained in this astonish-
Vty level tale.
One says “level” in the sense of style
"the story itself is anything but; being
| n e *uberantly rorty affair of adven-
. \ e \ eaves, treasure, desperadoes,
Vsing and altered wills, police and
riu mphant “we always knew who
one it” kids. It is informed by a
Vfd and sensible logic—-no one by
Vname of Challis Gall, decide the
children, could be other than villain-
ous.
But otherwise of logic there is little,
of food much, of Daisy Ashfordisms
fewer than one optimistically expected.
For this last reason it is not one of
those books that will greatly appeal to
adults; but, being none the worse for
that, it ought to delight its intended
audience tremendously.
Nancy Keesing
A Roman Emperor
Hadrian. Stewart Perowne. Hodder
and Stoughton. 375. 3d.
Although history has no meaning,
there are always those who turn to it
for comfort, precedent or significant
parallel. Ancient history in general
seems to have a special appeal. Its
outlines are clearer, its parts smaller
and more manageable, it has richness
and variety. But getting down to par-
ticular names why should anyone be
interested in Hadrian? The reasons
are not difficult to find. The reign of
Hadrian marked the zenith of the
Roman Empire as a political and social
institution, and it was Hadrian who
made the triumph of Christianity
inevitable.
Part of the attraction for us. then, is
that Hadrian was one of the architects
of the world as we still know it. but
much of it must lie in Hadrian himself,
a man of great versatility and achieve-
ment whose views more than any other
Roman emperor are close in spirit to
those of our own. Yet if he is a con-
temporary he remains, for all the docu-
mentation. something of an enigma, his
personality eludes us. In “Memoirs of
Hadrian.” a recent novel by Marguerite
Yourcenar, the full complex man was
examined with rare psychological in-
sight. Now in this excellent survey
historian-archaeologist Stewart Perowne
attempts to place him in perspective.
Hadrian, like his predecessor and
cousin Trajan, was of Spanish, origin.
His was a remarkably gifted per-
sonality—“the universal genius” in the
words of H. A. L. Fisher. At the age
of forty-two he became emperor and
died a natural death twenty years later.
Perowne lists his three greatest achieve-
ments. First, by his legal, administra-
tive and military reforms he made pos-
sible the splendid Antonine age.
Secondly, Hadrian left a tremendous
legacy of architecture. Thirdly, by
banishing the Jews from Jerusalem he
profoundly changed the direction of
Jewish and Christian history.
Perowne is not a professional his-
torian and this possibly accounts for
the stylish vigor of his account. He
has brought together a vast amount of
material and without any apparent loss
of scholarship made it immensely read-
able. A few of his judgments, how-
ever, seem to ignore the evidence. He
argues, for example, that the modern
bullfight is “the direct descendant in
unbroken line of the Roman amphi-
theatre and the Roman spectacle.”
But this is carping. On the whole, it
is a sound piece of writing made the
more attractive by some thirty excellent
photographs and maps.
Douglas Terry
Reviewed Briefly
Tangahano. Frances Keinzly. Peter
Davies. 18s. 9d. There is an assertive
frankness about the book that makes
one long for more subtlety and less
crudity, but one must allow it a com-
pensating vigor and force, particularly
in the descriptions of Tangahano, the
small shanty-town near Auckland
where a dam is being built, and where
money can be made fast. The money
draws Judd Pilgrim there, with his wife
Kathy and their young children, but it
is in Tangahano that the harmony of
their life together is undermined.
« * * *
Phogey! Malcolm Bradbury. Max
Parrish. 17s. This is armchair humor,
altogether too ephemeral to justify
publication at its price. The author,
a “Punch” writer, defines a “phogey” as
a person who wishes today was yester-
day and contrives to pretend that it
is, and his book expands the “phogey”
attitude to life.
* * * *
A Dancer in Darkness. David
Stacton. Faber and Faber. 18s.
Surely only a writer of enormous self-
confidence would undertake to rewrite
as a novel the story of the tragic
Duchess of Malfi immortalised in the
poetry of Webster's play. This is what
Mr Stacton has undertaken to do.
FI is publishers praise the power and
distinction of his writing, but this
reader found it pretentious and not at
all memorable.
* * * *
Family Favourites. Alfred Duggan.
Faber and Faber. 16s. This title seems
badly chosen. It is hardly memorable
or striking and gives no indication of
the book that follows, a narrative about
the Emperor Elagabalus who ruled in
Rome during the third century. It
seems that Mr Duggan, through his
narrator, a soldier called Duratius,
would have his readers sympathise with
Elagabalus. This reader liked Duratius
well enough, but nobody else at all.


Women
SHAGGY, CRAGGY LOOK...COLOR...LES GIRLS
Interstate Rivalry
If Australian women are to be really
well dressed with all their accessories
matched in color there should be some
spot midway between Sydney and Mel-
bourne, say. off the Hume Highway
near Yass, where the various manufac-
turers would meet twfice a year and have
a nice, long chat about what each is
planning to do.
As things are, about two-thirds of the
hats w'hich Australian women wear are
made in Sydney and about the same pro-
portion of dresses, suits and topcoats are
made in Melbourne. In each case, the
missing third is made in the other city
or production is spread rather thinly
over smaller manufacturers in the other
States.
But at no stage do the hat manufac-
turers tell the dress manufacturers what
colors, fabrics or shapes they intend to
use, and the dressmakers keep all their
secrets to themselves.
That women don't find themselves in
red hats with purple dresses or in balloon-
shaped hats on top of balloon-shaped
dresses might appear to be only a matter
of luck. The luck, actually, is that all
Australian manufacturers copy or adapt
overseas fashion and that while a dress
manufacturer in Melbourne is busy
absorbing the detail of a photograph
from “L’Officiel” a milliner in Sydney
is copying the lines of the hat worn by
the model in the same photograph.
The Australian wholesale dress trade
has no effective organisation for pro-
moting greater overall sales. No one
has appeared with the temerity and tough-
ness to form an association similar to
those which exist in Paris, London and
in the New York garment industry. The
officials of these organisations impose
their will with a ruthlessness which the
members would not tolerate if they were
not convinced of the financial and other
practical benefits of unity.
If Australian dressmaking forces are
scattered, the milliners are on the march.
Within the past few years they have
formed the Millinery Manufacturers’
Association. The association claims it is
a national body although the Victorians
rather pointedly refer to it as the N.S.W.
Millinery Manufacturers' Association.
However, some Victorian milliners and
millinery suppliers were represented at
the autumn showing of the association in
Sydney and won some awards.
The association has 35 N.S.W. and six
Victorian members. The guiding force
behind it is Mr Hedley Bryant, a public
relations consultant. He would prob-
ably do anything short of picking
up scissors and plying needle to make
more hats and sell more hats. Mr Bryant
has nursed his association along since
its first parade three years ago w'hen not
only the hats but the food and drink
were dreadful. Now there is a first-class
presentation, the hats are exciting and
the milliners are looking much happier.
Mr Bryant regards the suppliers to
the trade as the backbone of the associa-
tion. These are the people who import
and treat the hoods from which hats are
made, and the dyers or the blockers.
Every hat shape requires a new block
which is hand-carved at a cost of about
£l5. Mr Bryant is inclined to the view
that whatever it is that makes people
able to create imaginative hats is the very
thing which prevents them being easily
moulded into a close-knit organisation.
Fie sees little prospect of the Australian
wholesale dress trade ever organising to
promote the industry as a whole. There
is, in his view, less prospect of makers
of hats and dresses ever co-operating
on plans or promotion.
Flowever, he sees one gleam. Most
fabrics for accessories, including leathers,
are dyed by the same firms. So there is
no real reason why shoes, handbags,
gloves and hats, when they are made
locally, cannot be exactly matched in
the shops or be available in the same
range of tones.
Mr Bryant’s plan is to canvass the
dyers on the 12 colors which are most
in demand by their clients. He will then
take samples of these 12 colors to the
millinery manufacturers and leather-
goods makers (in other words, to the
dyers' clients) and ask them to select the
four colors out of the 12 they feel will
be most popular or practical for the
coming season. He will then take the
result of this poll back to the dyers. The
four colors selected will be specially pro-
moted and matched accessories in these
four colors, at least, will be offered to
shoppers for the next season.
Mr Bryant sees no point in promoting
colors out of the blue, as it were. “In
the past shops or other fashion firms
have launched such colors as ‘Eliza
bethan-pink’ or something like that,” he
said. “It might come out bright salmon
in fabrics and rosy-red in shoes and
handbags. It’s useless. The only way to
get colors in the same family is to take
professionally-prepared samples of the
color to the dyers, the people whose job
it is to dye to exact shades.”
'What was new in the Millinery Manu-
facturers’ Association autumn showing?
They are calling it the Shaggy, Craggy
Look, which comes down to rough-
textured fabrics and furs and high crowns
twisted, pleated or folded into more or
less elaborate convolutions.
The dyers have been busy with gold
leather. Many hats have gold leather
bands and hats for after five are pretty
confections of gold gauze.
Day hats are mercifully plain, slouch
shapes. Some of these are leather, and
considering how difficult even kid is to
work into hat shapes they are modestly
priced around the four- and five-guinea
mark.
A novelty fabric is fibreglass. One
hat in this synthetic looked like a rather
harsh melusine and it’s doubtful if it has
much value beyond novelty.
Mr Bryant said that all the hats shown
in the parade and all the prize-winners
were in the milliners’ normal ranges.
“For our spring parades some of them
might make a special creation,” he
admitted, "but the factories are on
holiday over Christmas and until
January 15. Then they have to get their
stock into the shops in February. There
simply wouldn't be time to make anything
special to try to win one of our awards.”
Incidentally, is the presence of a hatless
woman at a millinery parade as untoward
as one in church?
One male milliner was so upset by the
fact that some women had come without
hats that he went off and chose some
models at random among the award-
winners on display and almost literally
pressed them on the offenders. The
offenders appeared embarrassed. For him,
no doubt.
Among the hatless ones was Miss Nan
Sanders, who directs the Wool Bureau's
promotion. Miss Sanders admitted that
she "hated hats” and wore them as little
as possible. Miss Sanders, who was re-
sentful that she should be expected to
wear hats always, has for some time
been trying to persuade people that wool
is suitable wear for all seasons and all
occasions. She is probably having as little
luck with her at-all-times-and-all-seasons
approach as the angry milliner.
Decorating Edicts
The latest home-decorating edicts are
that feature walls are out and that there
should be only two colors used in each
room. What, then, has happened to the
color consultants who a few years ago
were producing booklets showing four


or live colors in a room and even four
wa lls of different colors?
Apparently, nobody shouted, “Off with
their heads!” They are still sitting
ca lmly in their offices advising people not
to have feature walls and not to use
more than two colors to a room. As one
of them said cheerfully, “Well, that's
progress.”
Of course, the color consultant cannot
take entile responsibility for what people
do with paint in their homes, even after
they have taken up a good deal of the
consultant's time. People have a funny
habit of going just a little bit further
than they should, adding just one more
color and ruining a well-planned scheme.
The color consultants can only advise.
They have no more power than, say, a
salesgirl who tries to steer a fat lady
away from splashy roses towards discreet
greys and navy-blues.
Trying to keep a balance between what
people want and what people should
have, they often suggest colors and
furnishings which they would not dream
of having in their own houses but which
are perfectly good in their way.
“People are mad about lilac for bed-
rooms,” one consultant said. “But I
wouldn't touch it myself. If I were doing
a new bedroom I'd have white walls,
perhaps with a gold carpet and some
interesting furniture.”
The general tendency indoors is
towards lighter colors. Conversely, more
people are asking for darker colors for
exterior paintwork.
Walls are merely a background to the
room. Where feature wails are sug-
gested, it is because the consultant feels
something in the room, perhaps the fire-
place, is worth drawing attention to. The
feature wall is commonly only a shade
darker than the other walls.
Colors currently liked include drift-
wood (which is a grey-beige), gold, tans
and. olive-greens.
Of course, the ban on feature walls
and the return —it is a return —to simple
color schemes is, as the saying goes,
no skin off the paint companies' nose.
The same areas have to be covered with
Paint, and light colors need to be re-
painted more often than dark.
Amended regulations on the heights
°f ceilings mean that more of them are
painted white. Some ceilings now are
°nly Bft high, and if a dark color were
used it would seem that the ceiling was
ev cn lower.
Color consultants are often called in
lor home-unit buildings. As most of the
units are sold empty, light colors are
used. These pale colors do not commit
new owners to such a definite scheme
°| decoration and they have the effect
°‘ making the empty rooms look bigger
than they are.
Although color consultants, most of
'j'nom do a technical-college course in
dpsign or in color, get some rather odd
Vle wpoints from members of the public.
ui°st of them feel that taste —or, at least,
knowledge—is improving. They feel that
he average housewife knows far more
uhout color than she did a few years ago
an d is far more confident in its use.
Do Women Exist?
It’s mounting an old and tired hobby-
horse to say that women in Australia
have a hard time of it ; but there is one
notable difficulty, and that is to find any
evidence of your existence. To the
advertising boys, to the boys in industry,
even sometimes to the gentlemen oi the
press, you are a female or a lady.
Men in Australia—or perhaps they are
only gentlemen or males hardly ever
seem to think of a woman as a woman.
It's thought either that she can be
delicately dismissed as a lady or that she
will disappear behind the generic female.
An advertisement recently asked for
a “Female executive” (Definition: a
female executive in Australia is someone
who is still chained to a typewriter but
who cannot decently be asked to make
the tea) and went on to say, in that
nauseating, cosy style advertisements for
staff use these days: “The lady we wish
to appoint . . .”
There is something quite frightening
in this. If a firm cannot call a spade a
spade, a woman a woman, how does it
select its staff on the executive level?
Foreladies are different. Foreladies
generally come from the class of people
who do constantly refer to women as
ladies. There's always a lady at the door,
and they always say to the lady next
door, and the lady at the corner shop
says to them. Foreladies are explicable.
You know that the personnel manager
doesn't think of them as anything but
women, but you realise he knows that
if he wants to get an amazon for the
oxywelding section he must certainly
advertise for a lady.
Perhaps even more distressing than
being publicly labelled a lady or a
female is being privately classed as a
“girl.” Being one of the “girls” doesn’t
take one as far into the grandmother
age-group in Australia as it does in
America, but the whole business goes on
far too long.
However, this is one way in which men
suffer more than women. Although men
don't get fobbed off as gentlemen or
males as often as women become ladies
or females, they do go on being “boys”
longer than women are “girls.” Nothing
is more ludicrous than to see a bunch
of middle-aged businessmen —pompous,
self-important and perhaps within months
of their first coronary—being solemnly
referred to as the “boys.”
Along with the preoccupation with
ladies and females, there is an Australian
passion for feminine endings. Typistes.
Comptometristes. The positions-vacant
columns are full of them. Recently an
interstate airline company unblushingly
advertised for a receptioniste.
When the Queen was in Australia in
1954 the correspondent of the London
“Daily Express” was so entranced by the
typistes and comptometristes, and by the
columns and columns of positions vacant,
that he filed a story at a penny a word
Commonwealth cable-fee to his paper
about them, and the typistes and comp-
tometristes made the front page.
“Inspiration be damned! I've just struck GOLD!”


When Birds Hiss
Setting aside the well-known vocal
performances of domestic geese,
what is to be said of the curious hissing
sounds produced by certain wild jirds,
and quite small ones at that, in time of
stress?
The question arose recently when
another birdman and I chanced upon
an example of the not-often-found nest
of a spotted quail-thrush, a pretty bird
of the open-forest country which scrapes
an excavation against a grass-tuft or the
base of a tree, lines it with shredded
bark and dry leaves, and there lays two
or three eggs.
Because the eggs in the nest under
notice were about to hatch, the mother-
bird was very reluctant to leave on being
disturbed, and when she did so she ran
only a yard or two away, then fluffed
her body-feathers, elevated and spread
her decorative tail and emitted a pro-
nounced hiss.
“There’s a warning for you,” said
my companion. “She’s trying to imitate
a snake.”
Although he didn’t intend that last
remark to be taken seriously, the hiss
was in fact quite snake-like; and, as
another oddity, there arose the considera-
tion that the only other Australian bird
known to utter such a sound (as far as
we could recall) was also a ground-
nesting species—namely, the speckled
warbler, a sparrow-sized sprite which
excavates like the quail-thrush but adds
a roof to its nest.
In the case of the speckled warbler,
however, it is the nestlings, not the adult
birds, that produce distinctive “warning"
noises The parental pair utter, when
alarmed, a series of grating notes, and
sometimes an agitated song—like operatic
performers proclaiming their woes —but
the immature youngsters are apt to go
one better by emitting a chorus of
sinister-sounding hisses.
A woman who examined a speckled
warbler’s nest in Victoria some years
ago has recorded how scared she became
on placing a finger near the entrance.
“Before it reached the tunnel,” she says,
“such a loud and vicious hiss came from
within that 1 tumbled backward with
fright, for through my mind flashed
thoughts of tiger snakes . . . As I
approached the nest a second time, again
that vicious hiss sounded, and then I
realised that young birds, and not a
reptile, occupied the nest, and that nature
had given these babies their own defence.”
In the United States, too, hissing is
ascribed to some few kinds of birds
(adults in one case, nestlings in another),
but in each recorded instance, instead
of being ground nesters, they are species
that breed in hollows.
One American writer, after referring
to the hiss of the copperhead snake as
“a most courage-taking sound,” says that
the “best imitation" of that noise he has
ever heard is the explosive hiss of the
brooding Caroline chickadee, a small,
tit-1 ike bird that nests in hollow' stumps.
Not content with using the word
“imitation,” that writer labels the chicka-
dee’s hiss “protective mimicry,” thus
"Who the hell does he think he is—the Voice of Australia ?”
committing himself to the theory that
the bird actually imitates the snake.
This, surely, is nonsense. There need,
be no doubt that hissing by a bird is
a defensive (or an offensive) device, but,
at basis, it is simply a primitive, natural
sound, and its resemblance to the “warn-
ing" noise of a snake is purely fortuitous.
ALEC CHISHOLM
Story of a River
late afternoon we were fishing with
the dark people just below the Bre-
warrina (N.S.W.) settlement at the edge of
the Barwon River.
The river was coming down in flood
—a wide, yellow-brown, eddying and
swiftly flowing stream. We were catching
catfish, although a week before, when
the river was not in flood, the dark
people had been catching cod.
The banks of the river are steep, of
almost bare, yellow-brown earth. Here'"
and there along the banks huge river-
gums are left, standing with their exposed
roots going down into the water.
It was sunset behind the river-gums,
and the sky was staining the bend of
the wide, swirling river in beautiful
parrot colors. Now and again, with a
high, sharp whining sound, or a lower
“rush-shush-shush" of wings, V-forma-
tion flights of duck would pass swiftly
overhead and down our view of the sky.
Old Garra (short for Garibaldi), who was
fishing near me, was telling me something
of the history of the river.
“Old King Clyde was the boss of the
stone fish-traps down here in the river at
Brewarrina. When the old people wanted
to get fish down at the traps the old king
would tell them to stand out on the
banks.
“ ‘Ngimbi durriai,’ that old king would
talk. That means: ‘Wait here now. I
go in to get the fish.’
“The old king would dive down into
the river. He would sort of talk under the
water to the fish. When he did this you
would see all the fish going into the
stone fish-traps. Our people wouldn t
have to spear them. They could just
walk into the water and catch them under
the gills and fill their bugguda, their dilly-
bags, up with them.
“The old people call the deep hole in
the river here Mirrigunna. The white
people call it The Four Mile. And there
used to be a paddle-boat come up here
years ago. The name of the boat was
The Wandering Jew, and old Captain
White was its captain. When it waS
running up and down the river it used to
carry wool from the big stations around
here. There'd be a hundred bales on the
steamer and a couple of hundred on a
barge towed behind. That boat is sti


jn the river near the town. It was burnt
down to the water.
“One day when this boat was coming
up the river it stopped right in the middle
of the Mirrigunna hole and couldn't
move. If the old people were alive they
would have told you. Something was
holding the boat and the big paddle-
wheels couldn't shift it. Something was
holding the boat fast so that it couldn't
move.
“There was an old king on board, one
of the natives from here, his name was
King Clyde, and he dived overboard and
swam down underneath the boat. He
made the boat free. He reckoned it was
the Warwai, that's the big snake in there,
ft was only a clever old man like him
who could make that snake let go. He
reckoned that the snake had hold of the
boat.
“Once when it was raining a couple of
fellers from here went to town in a
rowing-boat. They had to pass this hole,
and they saw the Warwai laying up near
the bank. There was a big old river-gum
on the bank, and the snake had its head
in the roots and its tail was in the water.
It was a hell of a big thing. Old Ray
Soloman, he got out and he walked, he
wasn't going to stay in the boat. Jemmy
rowed out around it.
“That snake is like rainbow. It’s all
colors, its body is. If you was to go swim-
ming in that hole you’d never come back.
Nobody fishes or swims there. They call
it the Mirrigunna. You won’t even see
cattle swim there, they just have a drink
and then get away from it.
“This river is all silted up now. The
steamers can’t get up here any more. It
was never like this in the olden days
when the old people were here. Now
they’ve got to weir it up to hold the
water. Why it is I don't know, but it was
always a big, full river when the old
people were here.”
ROLAND ROBINSON
The Tough Boys
13illy and Tommy were tough—real
** tough. They were field-hands on
the canefarms, and the canecutters had
a lot of fun with them for a while.
Billy would say to someone: “Hit me
on the head with that maul. See how
much I can take.” And he’d take his hat
off and bow his head.
“How's that?” they'd say after the
first smack.
“Harder,” Billy would reply, “I can
take more than that.”
“ Faster , Mum! Faster!"
So they'd go to Tommy and tell him
that Billy could take more hard smacks
on the head with a maul than he could.
Whereupon Tommy would uncover his
head and invite them to have a go.
It seemed funny to us at the time, but
since then we've learnt a lot about
scrambled brains in the boxing profes-
sion and know that it wasn’t so funny.
But it was a rough place where most
men prided themselves on their toughness.
Eilly and Tommy weren't masochists.
They had a keen competitive spirit and
liked to show off. And, having no brains
or ability, they showed off their tough-
ness.
Another thing they revelled in was
being hauled aloft by the hair of their
heads by a strong man standing on the
tail of a dray. It gave you the creeps
to see their scalps stretching and the
sinews standing out from their necks.
They always worked barefoot, and if
you sang out to them and threw them a
hard clod they’d kick it like a football,
bursting it like a bomb. And, of course,
there was always competition. Billy
would say “Throw me a bigger one.”
One day he copped a clod with a gibber
in it, and although he limped away
looking sick, he reckoned it didn't hurt
a bit.
There were a few aspiring pugs among
the canecutters, and they were quick to
take advantage of the peculiar vanity of
Billy and Tommy. They used them as
chopping-blocks. Billy and Tommy
couldn’t fight any more than they could
chop cane or get timber or anything else.
They weren’t even good field-hands. But
they loved donning the gloves and taking
a hiding from those aspiring pugs. And
for nothing!
The grand finale to all this was the
banana-eating contest. It took place on
the verandah of the cocky’s homestead,
and people came from miles around. The
bananas were stacked up in bunches, and
Billy and Tommy went to it. I forget
how many dozen Tommy wolfed before
he was sick. He was well in front of
Billy, but Billy won on what you might
call a T.K.O.
LES SUCH
That Was the Country
Since the Act for the suppression of
Comboism was passed in New South
Wales, promising a “sixer” to the bush-
whacker that strained Black Mary to his
hairy chest without the blessing of Mother
Church, many boundary-riders, rabbiters
and cod-hunters in Riverina have taken
the dusky damsel as their legal rib. Let.
it be said the average Black Mary is no
small potato as camp cook and, despite
a penchant for pinching her white lord's
tobacco, a fair house keeper. She hangs
out the wash every Monday as regularly
as White Mary. At the Ralranald Show
the prize for home-made bread was hung
on the exhibit of one Lucy Bell. When it
transpired that she was a station gin the
judges made noises suggestive of astonish-
ment. — “Bulletin”, March 5, 1914.
Ettamogah has one of the best known
vineyards in N.S.W., and that is about all
the place can show for having any desig-
nation of its own. Ettamogah is not a
native word, but was borrowed from the
natives of one of the islands, and means,
of all things, “Comeanaveadrink.” When
the Albury-Sydney line was opened, some
30 years ago, Ettamogah, about seven
miles from Albury, was not a scheduled
stopping-place. However, the then drivers
and guards evidently knew the meaning
of the word, and the train would pull up
and those in the know would sprint to
the cellars, about a quarter of a mile
away, and look upon the wine when it
was red, white and striped. In course of
time the train got so into the habit of
stopping to kill a few snakes that the
railway bosses made the best of a bad job,
and Ettamogah is now among the sched-
uled stations. — “Bulletin”, March 5, 1914.
For an all-out “go” give me a rough-up
between two camels. Witnessed one be-
tween a burly bull and a lighter-built
variety of the four-legged swagman lately
at the back o’ Bourke. The little camel
gripped (he big fellow’s shinbone in the
first round and went for a fall, but the
heavyweight dropped to his knees and
chewed about six pounds of biltong front
his adversary’s shoulder. The little fellow
was soon on his feet again and in the
second round secured another fall. With
feet and mouth the big chap fought furi-
ously, inflicting sundry nasty bites and re-
ceiving some . thumping body blows that
might be heard across at Broken Hill. In
the third round the big fellow himself
secured the fall and threw himself with
tremendous force on the fallen bull,
crushing him to death. Abdul went for
the Winchester, seeing the plight the vic-
tor was in, and soon there were two dead
camels in camp.
-— “Bulletin”, March 19, 1914.
I’vf. just been to a wedding. There was
only one other guest, and we met the
bridal couple on the street corner and
walked to the “Manse”—a derelict cottage
with a broken window propped open by
an old toothbrush. The pastor explained
that it was his busy day and that he had
just been tending the fowls. But he soon
appeared in a black coat that was evident-
ly kept for such solemn occasions, and got
to business with some celerity. After he
had scrambled through a stock prayer and
a few other remarks, we signed the agree-
ments and left hurriedly. The “pastor”
had earned a sovereign, Heaven was ap-
peased, the bride had her licence to wear
the ring, and the bridegroom was per-
fectly happy until he found that another
“pastor” in the next block would have
done the job for 15 shillings, and that
down the street the registrar would have
done it for only half a soy.
— “Bulletin”, April 2, 1914.


THE
MAN
ON THE
LAND
Domesticated Rabbits-A New Industry?
Tn every particular except
name domesticated rabbits
differ from wild rabbits —but
the name is unfortunate, be-
cause of its associations. Bred
and raised always in captivity,
the conformation of the domes-
ticated rabbit is more akin to
that of the hare ; its various
breeds are reared only for pro-
duction of meat, fur and wool,
for which purposes they are
artificially fed. Properly deve-
loped, the keeping of these
rabbits could lead to an
important new' industry.
Approved breeds of domes-
ticated rabbits for both fur and
meat are: New Zealand White,
Belgian Giant, White Viennese,
Dutch and Chinchilla. Rex
and Chinchilla are best for fur
production, and the Angora
rabbit is a wool producer,
though also suitable for meat.
The New Zealand White, Bel-
gian Giant and White Viennese
breeds all originated from the
Blue Bevern rabbit of France
and Belgium ; the Dutch breed
comes from Holland ; Chin-
chillas have been developed
from a domesticated rabbit
known in England as “Afri-
can” ; the Rex breed was
evolved in France from a
domesticated rabbit which had
very dense fur. Angora rabbits
originated centuries ago in
Asia Minor, where they were
bred for their long and abun-
dant wool.
A licence is needed for keep-
ing domesticated rabbits and
“The stalk brought you!”
can be obtained in N.S.W. from
the Department of Agriculture,
provided rabbits are kept in
strict accordance with the con-
ditions laid down. Under
N.S.W. conditions, batteries of
wire cages have been found
most suitable for keeping these
rabbits, which are fed on vege-
table tops with the addition of
high-protein rations in pellet
form. There is no danger of
rabbits escaping from these
cages and. even if they were
let out, they could not survive,
being quite incapable (owing to
their origin) of competing with
predators or of foraging.
Provided they are properly
looked aft e r, domesticated
rabbits are not subject to
disease, although myxomatosis
could ruin a venture. The most
popular breed in N.S.W. is the
New Zealand White, does of
which produce on the average
four or five litters a year, each
litter averaging seven or eight
kittens. (In good conditions,
does have produced up to seven
litters a year and sometimes
had as many as 12 kittens in a
litter).
Marketing for meat is at
about eight weeks old, when
the live weight is between 4ib
and 51b and dressed weight
between 2+lb and 31b. Market-
ing of quick-frozen carcasses is
being encouraged by the Aus-
tralian Domesticated Rabbit
Breeders* Association, which is
also developing a market for
domesticated rabbit skins.
Market development of both
meat and fur depends on
volume of production, because
regular supplies of carcasses
and skins must be available to
local and overseas buyers be-
fore definite arrangements can
be made.
Production of domesticated
rabbits is not yet far enough
advanced as a commercial pro-
position in Australia for details
of costs and markets to be
assessed, but overseas experi-
ence shows that efficient pro-
duction will bring good profits.
There certainly seems to be
an opening here offering a
future for anyone used to
breeding and tending these
animals—as many European
migrants must be—or for any-
one prepared to give the idea
a proper fly. Initial capital out-
lay for cages, feeding appara-
tus, etc., may be high, but—
when run as a commercial ven-
ture, preferably in conjunction
with some other form of
activity—a domesticated-rabbit
farm can be kept fairly con-
centrated so far as land-space
goes. Feed can be home-grown
and the high-protein pellets are
obtainable from most feed
merchants. There are books
available on the subject which
can be recommended to anyone
interested in keeping the
rabbits.
The main difficulty to be
overcome is the prejudice and
suspicion of many pastoralists,
who quite understandably feel
that these may only become
one more pest to add to the
depredations of their wild
namesakes or to interbreed
with them and form an even
more voracious destroyer of
pastures. The N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Agriculture which
checks each application for a
licence to keep these animals,
most rigorously, is quite
emphatic that there is no
danger on this score. On the
contrary. Agriculture Minister
Nott is anxious only that all
who can, will take advantage
of this opportunity of extend-
ing Australia’s agricultural in-
dustry.
Alice Springs Show
Programmes for the second
Alice Springs Show (May
19 and 20. 1961) will be avail-
able very shortly and may be
obtained by application to the
Hon. Secretary, Central Aus-
tralian Show Society, or from
the office of Messrs Greatorex,
Marriott and Waters, Todd
Street, Alice Springs.
A brief resume of the
schedule may be of interest to
intending exhibitors. There are
18 sections and well over 300
classes, including a horse sec-
tion of 28 classes, a cattle
section of 34 classes, poultry
(36 classes), agriculture (38
classes), horticulture (42
classes), home industries (58
classes) and schoolchildren <29
classes). There are also certain
sections for pigs, sheep, goats,
cage birds, dogs, cats, photo-
graphy, crafts, pets, commer-
cial and other stands, and art.
Entries for all classes, except
horses-in-action, horticulture
and certain classes in l* l6
photographic section, close on
May 4, and entry forms are
enclosed in the programme-
book.


h
ARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
•
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£A363,000,000
•
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
SHAVE— FASTER, CLOSER
Anywhere . . Anytime
WITH A
LORD RIAM
BATTERY POWERED
SHAVER
Yes. Wherever you may be and at anv time . . .
HOME, OFFICE, TRAVELLING, HOLIDAYS'. . . touch
the switch for the fastest, smoothest shave ever. Only
two 1.5 volt standard batteries give months of easy
shaving, MADE IN SWITZERLAND. Guaranteed.
Complete same day service. Adjustments only . . . free
. . . at any time.
Send for your LORD RIAM shaver NOW
PRICE ONLY
92/6
Complete with
Batteries.
POST FREE
CIT T OTJT—P () S T Nowl
QUALITY APPLIANCES, j
412 Hard.v’s Chambers,
J)e Mestre Place, Sydney. I
Please post at once LORD RIAM 1
shavers. Cheque/postal notes/money
order enclosed for £ : :
NAME
ADDRESS *
Please print name and address in block letters.
Money refunded if returned in 7 days.
m
mm.
m
Good Husbandry
By “C.B.M.”
it cannot be stressed too often.
1 1 feel, that serving the land
j s a vocation, not just a means
whereby a man can make a
quick fortune and retire. It’s
a calling which demands initia-
tive and enterprise, but it offers
jn return a power of self-
expression, both in work and
in comradeship with men of
similar interests, afforded by
few other livelihoods.
At the present time, with
prices for wool, grain and other
forms of agricultural produce
down, the man on the land has
got to explore every possible
means of lifting his returns.
Australia is a primary-produc-
ing country, with about 80 per
cent, of its export income
coming from the earth. Main-
tenance of our living standards
depends on our ability to ex-
pand revenue from this source.
Therefore anything that can
be done to increase returns is
important to our way of life
and the prosperity of the in-
dividual farmer. We need
more rural production and
lower relative costs, and we can
best achieve these aims by
giving some thought to land
economics—particularly to the
personal efforts that each
farmer can make towards their
attainment.
Men who are well established
on the land can generally be
left to their own devices, be-
cause they are usually pro-
gressive and eager to adapt any
modern technique. From my
own associations, though, 1
have found that the less success
ful men do not operate on these
up-to-date niethods usually
not from their own choice, but
from lack of means and oppor-
tunity. So I venture to address
my comments to the mixed
farmer and small grazier, both
of whom are more likely to be
up against it.
Even if the prospects for
wool, grain, fruit, etc., may not
look encouraging, a balanced
spread of activities will still
keep revenue coming in. .A
wing to increased raising of
livestock—fat lambs, cattle.
Pigs and poultry—is worth con-
sideration. This diversified
type of farming was the secret
of success for the early German
settlers in S.A. in extremely
hard conditions. Anything we
ca n export helps to pay our
overseas bills. Buyers from
other countries are available
a od somehow we must sell at
their prices.
Conservation—of fodder,
and soil—is vital in one
form or another in any sound
farming programme. There are
many methods, varying accord-
ing to locality, but in all farm-
ing ventures it’s the capital-cost
of plant that matters. If it will
not pay a small landowner to
buy machinery, he should en-
gage a contractor to do the
job for him, thus saving capital
outlay, cost of repairs and in-
surance, and other running
expenses. The secret is to
know when to spend and when
not to. If you are considering
some project or want additional
gear, my advice is: when in
doubt, lay no cash out —so long
as the programme you have in
mind can be done with reason-
able efficiency without outlay.
Schemes for dealing with
soil erosion are often set out
in elaborate form—excellent in
detail, but beyond the means
of the average landowner. In
conversation with an officer of
the Soil Conservation Depart-
ment (which is doing a good
job, although its work is not
widely advertised), 1 learned
how much can be done in a
modest way by diverting water,
felling timber in the path of
small streams, filling holes with
refuse, and cultivating small
scoured patches before plant-
ing them with grass. All this
could be done without modern
equipment and at practically
no cost or labor, beyond per-
sonal effort.
Greatest asset of all is a
thorough knowledge of live-
stock, because without it there
could be heavy loss. Diseases
and their prevention are the
most important subject to
study, because the death of an
animal means loss of capital
which no one can afford. C lose
oversight is the answer to this
—1 can quote a farmer 1 know
who keeps his ewes in a well-
sheltered paddock of about 30
acres at lambing time and visits
them constantly, with the result
that his losses are negligible.
This may not be possible on a
large station, but 1 have seen
many instances where greater
care would have brought better
results.
Breeding of stock is im-
portant, but the significant fact,
sometimes lost sight of, is that
feeding is equally important.
This may seem a simple opera-
tion, but it isn’t. Much practi-
cal experience is needed to see
that nutritious feed goes into
their mouths.
Build up a useful farm plant
for carrying out minor repairs,
but don’t go much further than
anvil, vice, welder, and a few
other items. It is much cheaper
and generally more satisfactory
to go to the local engineering
works to get any larger job
completed. The farm mechanic
is all right, but from my obser-
vations the car, truck or tractor
under his hands is generally in
pieces awaiting some essential
part.
Well-kept fences are the sign
of a successful man —and also
one of the main factors in en-
suring good relations with your
neighbors. Nowadays, when
concrete posts can be made by
an amateur and a cheap, port-
able wire-strainer will last a


lifetime, these can be main-
tained almost as a sparetirne
job.
Sometimes the reason why
certain men in a district in-
variably top the market for
livestock' or grain is that their
land naturally carries better
pastures or deeper soil, but
generally it’s a case of better
husbandry and better presenta-
tion. Size, weight, condition
and appearance of marketable
produce is what brings the
price. A farmer must strive to
present his produce in its most
attractive form. Here’s a field
for research which would be
valuable to many individuals.
To give two examples: wheat,
barley and oats should be har-
vested dry and clean, if they
are to be acceptable to the
buyer—especially one overseas;
an extra penny or two a pound
can often be gained just by
careful handling of the wool-
clip, however small.
Keep a lookout for new
means of increasing revenue.
Only recently 1 noticed that
Australia is importing large
quantities of passion - fruit,
which could easily be grown on
our own suitable lands. Christ-
mas hams also have to be
imported. Here are a couple
of instances, doubtless there
are more. The alert land-man
ought to cash-in on such oppor-
tunities, and he must at all
times note and study market
trends.
To sum-up: farming is no
longer a haphazard business
but must be a well-planned
operation if it is to succeed.
Although less hard labor is
needed nowadays, the essential
of success still remains good
husbandry, which is only an-
other way of saying sound
economics.
Zebu Crosses for Desert Test
tVtHEN it was decided about 10
years ago to import Zebu
cattle from the U.S.A. for
experimental work in tropicai
Australia the factors involved
included resistance to heat and
ticks. An elaborate experiment
is now in progress in the
Northern Territory to test
steers which have a proportion
of Afrikander or Brahman
(Zebu) blood against cattle of
European breeds in the arid
central area of Australia.
On the N.T. Administration’s
desert grazing block, in sandy
spinifex country 90 miles north-
west of Alice Springs, experi-
ments aimed at increasing the
productivity of a large area of
the so-called “desert country”
of the Centre have already been
carried out. The one now being
“Of course, I learnt th' game during the
nineteen-thirty slump.”
made will be of wide interest
to cattlemen everywhere.
The animal-industry branch
of the N.T. Administration is
collaborating with the division
of animal genetics of the
C.5.1.R.0. Thirty weaner steers
—Brahman-Shorthorn crosses,
Brahman-Hereford crosses,
and Afrikander - Shorthorn
crosses from the National
Cattle Research station at
Belmont (Q.) have been at
Alice Springs for several weeks
settling down in their new
environment in preparation for
the test. About 20 locally-
bred Shorthorn steers of similar
weight have been bought.
The experiment aims to find
out whether steers containing a
proportion of Afrikander or
Brahman blood do better under
the harsh conditions of the
spinifex desert than locally-
bred cattle of European breeds.
Animals of both groups will
be depastured on the desert
bloek. and periodic compari-
sons will be made over the next
year. Preliminary observations
will be made as the test begins
this month of the skin charac-
teristics, heat tolerance and
body weights of the animals,
and during the year weighings
and other observations will be
carried out.
The officer in charge of Bel-
mont station, J. F. Kennedy,
and officers of the animal in-
dustry branch will visit the
desert block this month after
the N.T. scientific liaison con-
ference to be held in Darwin.
When the experiment ends it is
hoped to extend observations
to other pastoral areas in the
Territory.
Bullock Teams at
Sydney Royal
/“\N Friday, March 24 and
Saturday, March 25 —first
two nights of the 1961 Sydney
Royal Easter Show —there will
be a bullock-team display,
where three bullock teams will
show spectators a part of Aus-
tralia’s history which has almost
died out.
Two of the teams which will
be seen in this display (spon-
sored by the Sydney “Daily
Telegraph” and the “Sunday
Telegraph”) are still working
carrying timber in N.S.W.-—one
at Maitland, the other at Bulah-
delah. The third team comes
from Boggabri, where it was
formed last year for the cen-
tenary celebrations. The dis-
play, which will be educational,
will aim to show the public
different types of wagons used
for carting wool and timber.
Dwarf Apple-Trees
'Two Bathurst (N.S.W)
A orchardists—George Meier
(president of the Bathurst
Fruitgrowers’ Association) and
Jim Reedy returned from
overseas much impressed by
the dwarf and semi-dwarf
varieties of apple-trees they
saw grown on trellises in the
U.S.A.
These dwarfs, they said,
were yielding 1000 cases, and
more, of fruit four years after
planting. The Americans have
developed the smaller apple-
tree because they contend that
spraying and picking of larger
trees cut profits too much.
In the opinion of the
Bathurst men, these smaller
trees have a future in Aus-
tralia, especially under irriga-
tion, with heavy applications
of fertiliser and intensive cul-
tivation.—“Bunda.”
Fodder-Tree Trials
Txtensive trials of Leuaena
glauca, a potentially valu-
able fodder-tree, are being
made in northern and central
Queensland by the State Agri-
cultural Department, following
a visit lately made to Hawaii by
assistant-director Mr Marriott
to study the tree and its
management.
The tree was planted in
northern QueensUnd in early
days of settlement, but never
became popular or highly
valued for providing fodder.
Then in 1953, during a visit to
Queensland, Mr Hosaka, of the
University of Hawaii, told of
the high value placed on
leuccena by ranchers on the
island, who claim that from
use of the fodder their cattle
gain up to.Jlb. liveweight a day
at a stocking-rate of two beasts
to the acre. This induced the
C.5.1.R.0. to introduce varie-
ties from many parts of the
world, though subsequent trials
met with little success.
Present tests are being made
from seed of better-yielding
varieties and will continue
through the summer.
There has been some criti-
cism of this decision, because
it is alleged that the leaves of
the tree contain an alkaloid
which affects horses and sheep,
causing loss of hair and woo,
if eaten in any quantity, even
though cattle thrive on it. h IS
also said that in favorab e
locations the tree has a ten "
dency to grow into dense
thickets, impenetrable to stoc •
A strict watch will need
be kept on the experiments
make sure that the tree do
not get out of hand and becom
a pest. —“North.”


SPORT
Cricketers with the “Sick Look”
By LINDSEY BROWNE
There will be much more
satisfaction in writing about
Australia’s 1965 touring team
than about this year's bunch
which conforms rather too well
with the ‘'sick look,” said to
be all the rage in English
fashion design just now. By
1965, all the thousands of kids
who have been inspired to play
kerosene-tin cricket again by
the derring do of the West
Indies will begin to throw up
some star-quality talent into the
cricketing limelight.
“I feel sick,” said Victorian
batsman Bill Lawry when
notified of his borderline selec-
tion—and, by and large, the
Australian cricket-loving public
might well have been feeling
the same when the whole panel
of names was set before them.
Sick, not because the chosen
are such a colorless f.a.q. batch
of players, but because the
hard-pressed selection commit-
tee could hardly have done
better out of. the talent avail-
able to them.
Give or take a name here
and there, where the balances
are microscopically fine any-
way, it is clear the selectors
have done their best to make
an effective combination, and,
colorless though it is, it would
be no great surprise if this Aus-
tralian team was obstinate
enough to prevent England
from dragging the ashes away
from it. The tactical cunning
of Benaud’s captaincy and,
predictably, the negativeness of
England’s own cricket can do
much to camouflage the over-
all mediocrity of this year’s
tourists.
There are four or five bats-
men from whom, with all going
Well, a Test century or two
might be expected, though
similar expectations were dis-
appointed by almost all of
them in the recent series against
•he West Indies. There are
Perhaps not more than two
bowlers who can be expected
to develop the kind of pene-
tration that could put Eng-
land’s batting into retreat. For
me rest, they appear to be no
I’We than serviceable spare-
Parts who can offer plodding
soundness, with the occasional
hash in the pan.
. The backbone of the tour-
side’s batting will be
Harvey, O’Neill, McDonald,
Simpson, Mackay, Lawry,
Booth and Burge, with David-
son and Benaud at no time to
be disregarded in this depart-
ment if energy is left to them
after extended bowling forays.
Harvey, O'Neill, McDonald
and Simpson are capable of a
very high rate of success, on
their best form and with luck
tipping slightly their way, but
the fallibility of all of them
has been not infrequently
shown.
Notable deeds might be
expected from Booth whose
batting disposition has a
tenacity, judgment and versa-
tility that could carry him into
the Test matches before the
season is far advanced. He has
been consistent enough against
all types of bowling over recent
seasons and “1 - feel - sick”
Lawry has not to suggest
that he can adapt himself
readily to the unfamiliar
behavior of the ball on green
English pitches.
The backbone of the tourists’
bowling will be Davidson,
Benaud, Kline, Misson, Gaunt,
Quick, McKenzie and Mackay,
with both Simpson and Booth
certain to be called on for a
lot of supporting work. All
told, this is the most unimpres-
sive bowling battery to repre-
sent Australia in England in a
lifetime and its members are
worth a closer look.
Davidson, for whose new
ball bowling the last England
team could find no sure
counter, is going to have to
work so hard in England that
those vulnerable leg muscles of
his will need constant coddling.
His spectacular record-break-
ing successes against the West
Indies, who so often gave him
the co-operation of their flash-
ing run-productive offside play,
is not likely to be repeated by
England’s top batsmen. These
Englishmen have much the
same attitude to the ball out-
side the off-stump as the Ascot
fashion parade had to Eliza
Doolittle’s conversation.
Benaud, who appeared to
have lost his dominance in the
first couple of Tests against
the West Indies, reasserted
himself impressively in the later
games, and left his fans in
no doubt that he still has the
gift of keeping Englishmen as
nagged and confined as he did
on his earlier encounters with
them.
Kline has been the subject
of great argument already,
there being many keen students
of the game, that the place
should have gone to his rival
in the left-hand break-bowl-
ing department, Johnny
Martin. I wonder. Kline is
a much steadier bowler than
Martin, and, though he turns
the ball a good deal less, Eng-
lish conditions are likely to
increase the degree of turn
enough to give him penetration
of a kind that, in Australian
conditions, has been sadly miss-
ing. With this, and accuracy,
Kline could be the big sur-
prise-packet of the tour.
lan Quick, left-hand bowler
of the orthodox kind, has also
caused some raised eyebrows,
because his figures during this
last Australian season have
been laughable. The truth
of the matter is that there has
been no orthodox left-hander
in Australian cricket for many
years who has been able to do
much better in our conditions,
season by season. English con-
ditions (of a kind which Quick
turned to good account on the
last Australian tour of New
Zealand) are a different propo-
sition, and Quick, too, may be
counted on for some big sur-
prises over there.
Fast-bowler Ron Gaunt and
almost-fast Frank Misson are
good honest pluggers from
whom the higher grades of
bowling inspiration cannot, on
the evidence so far, be looked
for. Gaunt's selection is
counted as a lucky one in many
places—paltry figures the whole
of the season until the last
game, when he took 10 wickets
on the pace-deadening Bris-
bane pitch. His biggest rival,
unselected Des Hoare. took 40
good wickets during the season,
most of them on the pace-
helping Perth pitch.
Young Graham McKenzie,
at 19 the team's baby, also
made his best impression on
this Perth pitch where the
scudding nip of his deliveries,
projected in rather the Maurice
Tate style, proved an embar-
rassment to most batsmen who
faced him. He may yet prove
to be as spectacular an ex-
ploiter of English conditions
as Queensland’s Ron Archer
was when he first went over
there.
Amateur Athletics
All Praise, No Prize
By GEORGE CRAWFORD
HPhe control of amateur
athletics —the major sport
of Olympic Games —is becom-
ing more and more amazing
for its confusing inconsis-
tencies.
Various countries have dif-
ferent and puzzling views on
amateurism. A situation arose
recently in Sydney which
illustrates the confusion that
exists among our own officials.
Former Olympic sprinter
John Treloar, who has main-
tained a keen interest in
athletics since his retirement
after the 1952 Games, received
an invitation from a chewing-
gum manufacturing firm to
write a series of hints for young
athletes.
The firm offered Treloar
payment —believed to be £5O
—for his trouble. Treloar
thought this was an opportu-
nity to do some good for his
sport, so he referred the matter
to the New South Wales
Amateur Athletic Association.
Still a true-blue amateur,
Treloar had no intention of
pocketing the money, and sug-
gested that the N.S.W.A.A.A.
and a club he formed last
year, Sutherland, share it.
N.S.W.A.A.A. officials were
not sure whether the receipt
of money in these circum-


gfh
gf
Ready to FLY away at £5,555
Full Instrumentation Retractable Tricycle
Undercarriage Excellent All Round Vision
All Metal V.P. Propeller Max. Speed 160
m.p.h. Dual Control
ECONOMY—3O w.p.g.—4.5 g.p.h.
CRUISE SPEED—I4O m.p.H.
FUEL INJECTION—WaIter M 332 Engine—
-140 h.p.
RATE OF CLIMR—TOO ft./min.
RANGE—4OO milct
LUXURY—4 place
COMPLETE AFTER-SALES SERVICE
AND FULL RANGE OF SPARE FARTS
mst
m
mm
’
The AERO 145
today’s BEST BUY at £13,900
Let us demonstrate to you 1960’s wonder 4-5 place
twin-engined aircraft. The “Aero MS’s” spacious interior
appointments and aircraft workmanship give you
unequalled value i.i its price range, for PERFORMANCE,
ECONOMY, SAFETY and COMFORT.
The world-renowned Walter M 332 engines ensure twin-
engined safety with single-engined economy. Normal
consumption is quoted at 10 gallons per hour. These
engines incorporate the latest design in fuel injection
and supercharging. Total output for take-off is 280
b.h.p. Cruising speeds up to 170 m.p.h. are obtained
with a total endurance of 7 hours.
For the business and professional man, the “Aero 145”
is the answer to all transport problems. Operation into
small areas can be carried out in perfect safety, with
take-off distances under normal conditions being 230
yards.
★ LEASE PLAN
★ HIRE PURCHASE
★ TRADE-INS NEGOTIATED
• 40 MILLER STREET. NORTH SYDNEY.
XB 1174
DIJLMISON
AIRCRAFT PTY. LTD.
A TEST FLIGHT CAN Bl
ARRANGED WITHOUT
OBLIGATION, AND AT
YOUR CONVENIENCE.
HANGAR 274.
BANKSTOWN AERODROME.
UY 1241
stances would violate amateur-
ism. After a discussion they
referred the matter to the
Amateur Athletic Union of
Australia for a ruling.
Yet immediately preceding
Olympic Games and Empire
Games the officials welcome
donations from manufacturers,
business houses and others to
send athletes abroad. Also,
manufacturers and business
houses have been known to
sponsor individual athletes.
It is a fantastic situation, but
no more fantastic than athletics
affairs in many other countries.
After last year’s Rome
Olympic Garres. American
track stars Glenn Davis and
Ray Norton signed up to play
professional football and
decathlon hero. Rafer John-
son, decided to go into films.
In Germany, Armin Hary
has been considering offers to
become an actor and Carl
Kaufmann has joined the Walt
Disney outfit as a tenor.
In Ethiopia. Bikila Abede’s
victory in the Olympic mara-
thon race reportedly earned
him promotion in the
Emperor’s bodyguard. Also,
according to reports. Abede has
found gifts on his doorstep.
Undoubtedly the fame those
men gained as Olympic athletes
opened their way to money-
making chances.
Davis and Norton will not
be able to compete as amateur
athletes again. According to
rules, men who switch to pro-
fessional sport automatically
forfeit their status as amateur
athletes.
But if Hary becomes a screen
star and Kaufmann a stage
star there is no rule to say
they cannot continue as
amateur athletes!
Officials probably will over-
look Abede’s military promo-
tion, but they must be rather
concerned about the reports
of presents to him.
Also in this unruly set-up in
amateurism America tolerates
athletes taking advantage of
scholarships in colleges and
universities. Noted Australian
athletes have gone to America
under this scholarship system.
Peter Mullins, Morris Curotta,
Jim Bailey, Alan Lawrence, Pat
Clohessy and Alex Henderson
were among them.
Their prowess as athletes
unquestionably gained them
this privilege. How often do
you hear of Australian univer-
sity students being offered
scholarships to continue their
studies in American univer-
sities? Not very often.
The Amateur Athletic Union
of Australia has frequently
challenged this American
policy, but it has failed to win
the support of the International
Amateur Athletic Federation.
It is well known that athletes
receive State aid in the Iron
Curtain countries. The Inter-
national Amateur Athletic
Federation tolerates this too,
although many countries look
upon it as a sort of semi-pro-
fessionalism.
Toleration of such things as
scholarships and State aid is
a weakness which tempts
athletes to exploit their talents
for gain. The gain usually
takes the form of expense
money and gifts.
I remember a noted Ameri-
can athlete once telling me of
a tour he made of South Africa.
He said he was presented with
diamonds which he traded for
cash when he returned home.
I also remember another
American athlete's statement
after looking at the displays in
Sydney jewellers’ shops.
“I bet they give good prizes
for athletics here,” he said.
When [ told him such prize-
giving was not tolerated in
Australian athletics, he replied,
“Most unlike many other
places I’ve been in.” He then
admitted that he had converted
all his valuable prizes into
cash.
In Europe at present athletes
are under close scrutiny follow-
ing suspicions that some have
been receiving excessive
expenses. World famous stars
Armin Hary (Germany),
Martin Lauer (Germany) and
Dan Waern (Sweden)" have
been mentioned.
Hary, in fact, has been i n
danger of disqualification fol-
lowing a recent investigation.
There has been talk that the
two Olympic gold medals he
won last year might be with-
drawn and his world 100
metres record of 10 seconds
removed from the books.
It is interesting to recall
that in recent years the
Amateur Athletic Union of
Australia has had difficulty in
arranging visits from overseas
stars. Is it because the athletes
know they cannot capitalise on
visits here? They would
receive only the bare expenses
they are entitled to as amateurs.
The Amateur Athletic Union
of Australia and its affiliated
State Associations stick rigidly
to the rules of amateurism—
perhaps too rigidly, as in the
case of the chewing-gum
manufacturing firm's offer to
John Treloar.
Our officials could well
slacken their views a little.
Encouragement of some mild
form of sponsorship would give
athletics a much needed lift
in Australia. After all, surely
one of their main considera-
tions should be the potential
entertainment value to the
sporting public of visiting and
local track stars.


Melbourne's Best Prospect for Sydney Races
By JOHN SCHOFIELD
At last the Melbourne horse Dhaulagiri has won a
“name” race. On Saturday Dhaulagiri won the Alister
Clark Stakes at Moonee Valley from the consistent handi-
capped Savage, with Gabonia, also a recent winner, third.
Had Savage succeeded it would have been his sixth suc-
cessive win.
Dhaulagiri is a four-year-old by High Peak (imp.)
from Solar Circle and Saturday’s win was his ninth, and
his second in succession.
Early in his career Dhaulagiri showed great promise,
but as his racing continued he seemed just good enough
to run second when there was a horse of note in the
field.
Nilarco beat him in the Queen Elizabeth Stakes at
Flemington ; Declaree beat him in the Sandown Cup,
llumquh in the Caulfield Cup, Tulloch in the W. S. Cox
Plate and the C. B. Fisher Plate. Last year Stormy Pas-
sage, from Adelaide, beat him in the Alister Clark Stakes.
Prior to Saturday Dhaulagiri had won the Blarney
Stakes at Flemington, beating Nilarco and Jack’s Count
in the easiest of style. Perhaps with age he is develop-
ing the little extra that he needed to turn some of his
seconds into wins.
At all events the A.J.C. officials will be eagerly await-
ing his arrival in Sydney to contest the big races against
Tulloch and company. Dhaulagiri certainly looks Mel-
bourne’s best prospect.
T'he fifth generation of the Thompson family has entered
A the payroll of Widden Stud, situated in the Widden
Valley out from Denman, N.S.W. James, the son of
A.J.C. committeeman, Mr Frank Thompson, has com-
pleted his schooling at King’s and is now “strapping"
yearlings ready for the Easter sales in Sydney.
Perhaps it was a happy omen on Saturday that Kil-
shery should win the First Juvenile Handicap at his first
start in a race. Kilshery, raced by Mrs H. F. Porter and
Mrs A. W. Harvey and trained by T. J. Smith, had not
impressed the stable sufficiently to rate him as a real
chance.
But, ridden by George Moore, Kilshery showed early
speed, loafed along in the middle stages and then unwound
a run that easily carried him past the favorite, North
Port, and the smart galloper, On The Move, to win by
a length and a quarter.
Kilshery is by Edmundo (imp.) from Lady Pirouette,
and Lady Pirouette was a gift from James’s grandfather,
the late A. W. Thompson, who also was a committeeman
of the A.J.C. James was a very young schoolboy when
Lady Pirouette showed superlative form as a two-year-
old. Racing rules did not permit Thompson running the
filly in his name. He had to lease her.
Lady Pirouette is by Whirlaway (imp.) from Hecuba,
a half-sister to the great racehorse and successful sire,
Ajax. Hecuba’s sister, Hesione, was also a smart two-
year-old, who produced Septet, a top-class racehorse until
he met with an accident.
Yearlings by Edmundo (imp.) were sold for the first
fime at last year’s sales. Edmundo (imp.) is by Owen Tudor,
the son of Hyperion, and his stock were so much admired
that he is credited with the record average price for a
first-year stallion.
Tt was good to see Alcibiades sprinting home the winner
of the Novice Handicap at Randwick on Saturday.
The race was run over one mile and a half, and it was
the first time Alcibiades was tried as a stayer.
Perhaps the success might encourage other owners
t° lend a hand in the policy of Sydney racing clubs of
framing race programmes to develop stayers.
For too long Sydney racing pandered to the sprint-
ing type horse—pandering so much that in recent years
the staging of any long distance race, Cup or restricted
event, was a hazard from the point of view of the numeri-
cal strength of the field.
A good deal of the vaunted superiority of the New
Zealand stayer is due not so much to his real ability but
to the failure of Australian racing to develop the staying
potential of the stock bred here, and so to produce horses
to stand up to the challengers from the Dominion. There
racing lends itself more to producing stayers than sprinters.
Alcibiades began, like most horses, in sprints. He won
a six-furlong maiden handicap at Canterbury Park, mak-
ing a run over the last half-mile that carried him to a
convincing win. He was then tried in mile races, brought
back to a sprint, and then given one race over 10 fur-
longs. But the stayer’s distance is undoubtedly his dish.
There was one other very satisfying angle about the
win. Alcibiades is by Achilles, an Australian-bred stallion.
When he raced, Achilles developed top-class form, win-
ning, among other races, the Epsom Handicap carrying
topweight at 9.2. He is by Ajax from Minnamurra, a
daughter of the noted sire of broodmares, Brueghel (imp.).
Like most of the Australian-bred stallions which are
put to the stud there was not a great deal of patronage for
Achilles. Even now there are only six yearlings by him
listed for sale at Easter. Yet he has sired horses like
Troy, Grecian Vale, Grecian Lustre, Greek Warrior and
dozens of other winners. If statistics listed winners in
proportion to runners Achilles would be well up on the
list.
TJrobably we will have to wait until the spring to see
A the latest sprint find, Flash Time, matched against
the champions. Stable plans are to go along easily with
this three-year-old son of Newtown Wonder (imp.) and
Nisi Prius, winner of five of his last six races.
It looks as though Flash Time takes over in trainer
Frank Lewis’s stables where old Grenoble leaves off.
Certainly Flash Time is the best sprint prospect seen for
a considerable time.
His only recent defeat was by Gili in the Challenge
Stakes, and, all things considered, this gave a very strong
pointer to Gili's success in the Autumn sprints.
On Saturday Flash Time was asked to race at level
weights with Skyline—a classic winner—and to concede
weight to older and well tried sprinters.
It was a pretty hard task to ask of a three-year-old
that he should carry 8.9 and lead all the way at Randwick,
but he did and ran the remarkably fast time of lm. lOfs.
for the six furlongs. Flash Time was not entered in any of
the autumn races, nor will he be entered for the winter
sprints in Brisbane. Lewis’s view is that he will be a
much better proposition as a four-year-old.
Newtown Wonder (imp.), one of the most prolific sires
Australian breeding has known in recent years, had pro-
geny almost wholly confined to chestnuts and bays. Flash
Time is chestnut.
He is dead now, and the last crop sired by him
are yearlings catalogued for the Sydney sales at Easter.
And for the first time there is a grey among them!
This youngster is a filly from the' imported mare
Heirog, who is by Bobsleigh from Academia, whose dam
was by the grey Roi Herode —thus the grey.


Business, Robbery, Etc.
Euthanasia of the Investor?
IN the days when gas-
company shares were an
important type of investment
on the Stock Exchanges it was
a well-known fact that the
majority of gas-companies
were regulated by legislation
which not only restricted their
dividends but also provided
that new issues of shares
should be put to public auc-
tion so that the gas-company
would get a maximum amount
of capital funds with which to
earn the dividends payable on
Ihe par-value of the shares
sold to investors.
Thus it was that the maxi-
mum dividend of (perhaps)
8 p.c. represented only (say)
p.c. on the amount of
money paid at auction for the
shares. And 6y p.c. (say) was
mathematically all the com-
pany needed to earn on those
funds in order to pay that
8 p.c.
From the investor’s point of
view this statutory provision
for getting something
approaching the market-value
of new issues by auctioning
the scrip was a disadvantage ;
it took away the attraction
which new capital-issues other-
wise had where a company
was not a public utility within
the terms of the legislation,
and it put gas-co. scrip into
a class where security alone
was the principal merit; but
even security was discounted
later on when Socialist legis-
lators began to interfere with
the old charters of public
utilities.
Oddly enough, today,
even where there is no statu-
tory requirement to do so, the
tendency among many com-
panies listed on Australian
Stock Exchanges is to get some
of the market-value of their
shares into their funds as
capital, or by some similar
means to take advantage of
the mai ket-value of their
shares to reduce the burden of
dividend requirements in rela-
tion to the pur-value of their
capital.
A traditional way of doing
this was to charge a premium
on new issues of shares. The
Bank of Australasia, before it
merged with the Union to
become the A.N.Z., made a
habit of charging a substan-
tial premium on new issues of
shares, and the high dividend
it paid to shareholders was by
no means as big (in share-
holders’ hands) as it appeared
when the premium charge was
added to the par-value of the
shares.
Premiums are still charged
by some companies, but
other methods of deferring (or
reducing) the burden of divi-
dends in relation to capital
have been in vogue.
Before the recent Treasury
action, one was to issue conver-
tible notes at a rate of interest
lower thin the dividend-rate,
the date of conversion being
projected several years into the
future. This had the further ad-
vantage of providing tax-free-
dom (to the company) on the
interest paid on the notes up
to the time of conversion,
after which dividends paid on
ord. shares could only be met
from profits which had borne
tax.
Sometimes these notes are to
be converted into ords. for a
lower par-value of ords. than
the par-value of the notes.
Occasionally the notes were
issued without carrying any
interest, the conversion rights
(with the ords. at perhaps a
high market premium) being
the sole attraction.
Sometimes existing share-
holders are sidetracked alto-
gether by “over-the-counter”
sales of shares to the general
public at a premium only
slightly below that prevailing
on the sharemarket.
In other cases “options” to
take-up shares at some future
time may be sold by a com-
pany more-or-less as a deferred
premium.
Another method of obtain-
ing cheap equity-capital is to
make a bonus-issue by revalua-
tion of assets, reduce the total
dividend to what it was before
the bonus-issue, and then to
pay the reduced rate of divi-
dend on new capital-raisings.
The bonus-issue itself tends to
raise the market-value of the
shares, and as it blends into
the company’s financial history
it has the effect of keeping
investors satisfied with the
lowered dividend and attract-
ing sharemarket support on a
basis which provides the pur-
chaser of the shares on the
open market with as perhaps
as low a yield as 2 p.c.
In all the foregoing cases
it is necessary for the shares
of the company concerned to
be at a high premium for that
sort of financing to be accept-
able to the sharemarket.
nPHE parallel with the gas-
-*■ company style of finance
should be clear enough. Today
it is a rare thing for an ex-
panding company not to make
use, capital-wise, of the market
premium on its shares in order
to cheapen the cost of raising
new equity-capital. It is most
unusual nowadays to see a
concern raise four lots of
equity-capital at par over a
period of 18 months, as has
been the case with Allied Mills
Ltd. Mostly extreme finan-
cial finesse is employed, and
the result is that the yield
to the investor is cut to a
minimum. But, until the
late - 1960 share - slump, the
investor has been generally
satisfied by the fact that his
shares have gone on to higher
and still higher premiums on
the Stock Exchange.
That, of course, never hap-
pened with gas-eo. scrip.
There was a statutory limit to
the divs. which could be paid
With expanding present-dav
industrial cos. there is no
statutory limit, but in the case
of many companies (including
8.H.P.) the question must
arise as to how long hope of
a really remunerative dividend
is to be deferred.
Tt is on hope deferred that
A the sharemarket generally
is living today.
Analyses carried out by
various firms of stockbrokers
show that parcels of shares
bought in most leading Austra-
lian industrial and financial
companies in 1939 show a poor
income yield today, even
allowing for cash issues, bonus
issues and note issues taken-up
over the past 20-odd years.
Allowing for inflation, the yield
looks even more miserable.
Very few market “leaders”
can justify the prices being paid
for them (even at present lower
levels) on their dividend per-
formance of the past 20 years.
This situation has been
brought about, to a great
extent, by the fact that net
profit-earning, in terms of
real money, is becom-
ing more difficult. The
write-offs allowed by the
Treasury for depreciation in
assessing company-tax have
become notoriously inade-
quate, and expanding com-
panies find that replacement
of plant calls for fresh capital
(or profit-ploughback) to the
extent that depreciation provi-
sions have been inadequate.
Another factor has been the
generally high company-tax
on all earnings, now at the
rate of Bs. in the £ regardless
of what shareholders pay on
dividends received.
Further, there has been an
almost chronic shortage of cheap
mortgage-money for the past 10
years, and bank credit has been
tight. In an economy expand-
ing at a fast pace the shortage
of capital has become rather
painfully apparent to progres-
sive companies which have
sought to keep their capital at
a minimum by employing
overdraft or mortgage finance.
A major factor inducing
great financial finesse has been
the policy of the various
wage-fixing and hours-fixing
authorities. Notwithstanding
the introduction of the 40-
hour week in 1948, real wages
paid to employees are now
higher than ever, and the pro-
prietary side of industry has
been expected to absorb many
of these concessions to wage-
earners. This has restricted
opportunities for earning the
same rate of profit, allowing
for currency depreciation, a
was previously the case ' 1


Consult the man who
can ad vise you on
your investments*..
® e "'ll tel] you how to increase your income. Invest in Cambridge Credit Corporation
‘■united First Mortgage Debenture Stock.
0
2
p A. 10 YEARS
P.A. 4 YEARS
interest paid quarterly
FREE OF EXCHANGE
SHORT TERM RATES
8% P A. 12 MONTHS* NOTICE
7%p.a. 6 months* NOTICE
6% P.A. 3 MONTHS' NOTICE
5%P.A. | MONTH’S NOTICE
RENEWAL INTEREST RATES apply to all invest-
ments. FUNDS MAY BE WITHDRAWN in a
personal emergency.
AMBRIDGE CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
m
m
CC 39A
For PROSPECTUS and APPLICATION FORMS, apply:
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
ANY MEMBER of a Recognised Stock Exchange.
THE COMPANY’S OFFICES,
Ground Floor, Cambridge House. 240 George St., Sydney.
’Phone: BU 5542.
2nd Floor, 110-114 Collins St., Melbourne. ’Phone: 63 9358
—UNDER W KIT IN G BRO KE RS—
RALPH W. KING & YUILL
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
CORRIE & CO.
(Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
LEONARD G. MAY & SON
Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
REGISTERS: SYDNEY. MELBOURNE, BRISBANE,
ADELAIDE, CANBERRA.
Applications for the debenture stock accepted only on
one of the forms of application attached to a printed
copy of the Prospectus.
j, as meant that many company
managements have had to
■pinch” their shareholders
jjore and more in order to
accumulate the necessary
ploughback to finance part of
present-day programmes of
capital-expenditure.
A disturbing aspect of all this
is that many company
managements have ceased to
protest about the miasma of
inflation that obscures the real
deterioration in company earn-
ings. Some companies have
become so “institutional” that
their directors are only nominal
shareholders, and the staff is
often looked after by super-
annuation funds on a basis
much more satisfactory than
the real income interests of
shareholders.
The capital-financing prob-
lems of many companies today
are often the result of side-
effects of Treasury and
arbitration-court policy, out of
both of which inflation
emerges as a major overall
factor. The result had been
a grotesque distortion of the
financial system of the Com-
monwealth, making one
shudder at thoughts of any
further Governmental inter-
ference in the control of the
economy, or any major
arbitration-court concessions
to union demands.
If the policy of handing to
the wage-earner the greater
part of any increase in pro-
ductivity resulting from
present-day investment in new
capital assets continues, and
if the overall Welfare State
policy remains such a heavy
charge on industry, the
deferred hopes of shareholders
in relation to an adequate
return on their investment
eventually are likely to remain
hope deferred.
In which case, in the
absence of eventual disillusion-
ment in respect of 2 p.c. yields,
and in the event of a con-
tinuing appetite for “pie in the
sky,” it may be accepted that
the Keynesian conception of
the “euthanasia of the
investor” has almost arrived
—drugged by a capital-appre-
ciation and “inflation-hedge”
complex into accepting
a 2 p.c.-3 p.c. yield from
equity shares, and condoning
a new-issues policy that denies
full participation in profits at
the nominal rate of ordinary-
share dividend.
It is only a shortage of
equity shares, prompting high
bids on the Stock Exchange,
that has for the past decade
disguised the fact that profit-
earning, and more particularly
dividend-distributing, are not
keeping pace with inflation in
other types of incomes in
Australia.
Down Again
TTeavy dismissals of staff by
Holden, to be followed by
Ford, rocked the sharemarkets
and caused butterflies in the
stomach in Canberra where
previously there had been a
feeling only of repletion and
complacency.
The dismissals earlier by
B.M.C. had not been the cause
of much concern ; but for the
producers of two best-sellers
like the Holden and the Falcon
to cut staff was a startling in-
dication of the effect of the
sales-tax increase (from 30 p.c.
to 40 p.c.) on the motor indus-
try.
Undoubtedly there have been
interests ready to make the
most, politically, of reactions
from the Government’s econo-
mic policy, and the sackings by
G.M.-H. have been played-up
to the full in interested quarters
CJome reaction seemed about
due in the automobile in-
dustry anyway. But, psycho-
logically, the situation has" been
accentuated by the present state
of the political economy, and
the shocks administered to the
Liberal system by the shape of
two of the Government’s
counter - inflationary proposals
—the compulsory calling-up of
30 p.c. of the funds of life-
offices, and the disallowance,
as a tax-deduction, of interest
paid in 1960-61 in excess of
that paid in 1959-60. These
provisions seem not only to be
not Liberal ; they also seem to
verge on the unconstitutional.
The new bond-rate, though
anticipated in most quarters,
probably had an influence in
the downturn of the share-
market. It confirmed a bond-
market trend that was already
well established, but it was con-
firmation, and to be heeded
anew.
The new short-term rate of
£5 9s. 1 Id. per cent, on bonds
maturing in April, 1963, will
be attractive to many people
hitherto seeking a higher rate
than the previous 4| p.c., from
“unsecured notes” and the like.
It could also cause a run to
redeem the old special bonds
carrying a lower rate over a
longer term.
All in all, Australian share-
markets took a sharp knock
last week. The downturn was
no respecter of persons. It
caught many operators on
the wrong foot, or, more
aptly, with their left hand
hardly knowing what their right
hand was doing Some stocks
previously unduly depressed
were still going up when more
popular stocks in the recent
market recovery were sharply
on their way down again. By
the end of the week the down-
ward trend had gone right
through the market, which was
steadying again.
Reports of a falling-off in
building activity affected other
sections of the market. It may
have only needed a couple of
knocks of a particular nature
to precipitate what many
prophets had been predicting
would happen anyway: which
was that the hardest pinch of
this year would be in February
and March, with gradual
recovery thereafter.
The moral for everyone was
obvious: to buy stocks on
merit and prospects, and not to
gamble on overall market
trends. It is no real hardship
to live with good stocks yield-
ing 5 p.c. or more and to dis-
regard the market for a few
months.
Many companies which have
been ploughing - back profits
over the past decade in order


Invest in
The Longest Established National
Hire-Purchase Company
AOC
in which the Bank of New South Wales
has a 40% shareholding
DEBENTURE STOCK
(NEW ISSUE)
Short
Term
12 months 5 3 /a% p.a.
9 months 5%% p.a.
6 months 4%% p.a.
3 months 4V*% p.a.
Long
Term
6to 10 years 7% p.a.
5 years
4 years
3 years
2 years
6%% p.a.
6Vz% p.a.
6%% p.a.
6% p.a.
Application for Debenture Stock can be accepted only
on the printed form included in the prospectus
obtainable from the Bankers to the issue
Bank of New South Wales (All Branches)
any A.G.C. Branch, and your Stockbroker.
PAID-UP
CAPITAL
£6,875,000
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
Corporation Limited
142 Phillip Street, Sydney • BW 2673
Branches and offices throughout Australia
Underwriting Brokers: lAN POTTER & CO f
T
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters
Ideal for farms, stations and for
hot-water systems, and household
requirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last a
lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
k Agents and manufacturers of “Curvi-
linear” Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic
Machines and Ellison Switch Gear.
to expand production have now
reached the stage where plough-
back should taper-off and the
new plant should add to earn-
ing-capacity. A selection of
companies which have financed
expansion out of ploughback
and have so avoided over-
capitalisation could be a re-
munerative exercise in the
present market.
Buying Assets
A nyone who likes to see more
than his money’s-worth in
assets behind the stock he is
buying should have a look at
Ford Sherington Holdings (Syd-
ney), Frederic Ash (Newcastle),
Cuming Smith (Melbourne),
Gillespie Bros. (Sydney), R.
Fowler (Sydney), Hodgson's
Holdings (Sydney) and Equit-
able Building (Sydney).
On the published figures,
Ford Sherington and Frederic
Ash probably show more mar-
gin in assets above the present
market price than the others,
but all would disclose an even
stronger position, asset-wise,
after an expert revaluation.
This applies particularly to
Cuming Smith in Melbourne.
Some of the stocks have
suffered momentary setbacks
under present trading condi-
tions, but all should hold their
dividends comfortably. At
present prices the yields offer-
ing from Frederic Ash (6.7
p.c.), Ford Sherington (5.3 p.c.),
Gillespie’s (5 p.c.), R. Fowler
(5 p.c.) and Hodgson’s (8 p.c.)
are all 5 p.c. or over.
1.C.1.A.N.Z.
r writing-up of 1.C.1. con-
solidated assets by £13.5
million last year was done with
the objective of bringing them
into the books at replacement
cost, less an allowance for age
and remaining useful life.
Depreciation will be written-
off henceforth in amounts
designed to extinguish the
value of the assets at the end
of their working-life. As a
result of the revaluation and
additions during the year, the
book-value of fixed assets rose
from £26.3 million to £41.3
million, of which £24.2 million,
subject to the year’s deprecia-
tion provision, is in plant.
Depreciation provision for
the past year was £2.5 million,
compared with £2.1 million in
the preceding year. The rise
is small compared with the
write-up in the value of assets.
But it would appear that 1.C.1.
had already been charging
depreciation at a rate in excess
of that allowed by the taxation
authorities on the old book-
value of fixed assets.
Revaluation will probablv
make depreciation tax-free to
a greater extent than hitherto
Even so, 1.C.1.’s tax provision
(at £2.4 million, against £2
million) seemed more than
adequate against total net
profits (including outside in-
terests) of £3.3 million.
1.C.1. met additional com-
petition during the year, from
imports as well as from
domestic production. Prices
were reduced, but new lines
were added to the sales-range,
and in the current year the co.'
expects to export goods to the
value of £1 million.
During 1959-60 turnover in-
creased by £3 million to £63
million, but profits showed only
a slight increase. Still, dis-
closed at 18 p.c. on ord. capital
(£17.1 million), the present 10
p.c. div. was well covered. At
645. the ords. show an immedi-
ate return of 3.1 p.c. on a
10 p.c. basis, and a yield of 5.6
p.c. to disclosed earnings.
1.C.1. shares went as high as
84s. 6d. in 1960, and there have
been no capital changes since
1958. Recent expansion should
pay-off eventually.
Z-z-z-z or XXXX ?
Tn the wake of the offer of un-
listed and non-voting “Z”
shares by Carlton and United
Breweries (Melb.), Queensland
Brewery has received an offer
from Brisbane - domiciled
Castlemaine Perkins Ltd of
one 10s. ord. for every two
Queensland Brewery ss. ords.
or four ss. prefs.
The Castlemaine Perkins
(Fourex) shares are freely
dealt in on Brisbane ’Change
and have long been a highly
regarded stock. During the
past five years capital has been
doubled by the issue of bonus
scrip provided by revaluation
of assets. But valuations and
profits seem still to be con-
servative. The div. is to be
dropped from 12 p.c. to 10 p.c.
following last year’s one-for-
four bonus-issue.
On the market (if a real
market exists for C.U.B.’s “Z
shares) there is little to choose
between the two offers. But
the ready negotiability of C.P.
scrip and the fact that C.P. ' s
a neighbor (even if a vigorous
rival) of Queensland Breweiy
should influence shareholders
in the northern State towards
Fourex. Control would then
remain in Queensland.
So far Tooth (Sydney) has
not shown its teeth in any 0
these interstate negotiations-
The Tooth family is weH
known in Queensland, but tne
brew isn’t established in tn
north to the extent that the
Carlton product is.


CUSTOM
CREDIT
PROPERTIES
LIMITED
offers
£500,000
REGISTERED FIRST MORTCACE
rerextihe stock
Secured by Freehold Mortgages
And listed on the Stock Exchanges of all Australian Capital Cities
hgf
INTEREST
is paid in equal quarterly
instalments, free of exchange
anywhere in Australia.
FULLY GUARANTEED hy
Custom Credit
Corporation Limited
whose assets in Australia
exceed £80,000,000
A copy of the Prospectus
covering this issue of Regis-
tered Debentures has been
lodged with the Registrar of
Companies, Sydney.
FOR lO YEARS
Applications must be made on the Forms enclosed in the
Prospectus which is now available from:
ALL MEMBERS OF AUSTRALIAN STOCK EXCHANGES
Every Branch of
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
Each of the 48 Branches of:
CUSTOM CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED
and
CUSTOM CREDIT PROPERTIES LIMITED
130 New South Head Road, Edgecliff, Sydney.
Secretary General: KEITH LOVE. Telephone: FM 5861.
CPL 3.161


Estab'ished 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
■jACK&ON &
-OSULLrVXIy . J
PTY LTD 'Jr'
**«S Sr '
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS. BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS'
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
•‘JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
QUEENSLAND
INSURANCE
Co. Ltd.
Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE &
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies
throughout the World.
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies .. .. .. 2/-
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
New Zealand Feels the Pinch
"IyTEW Zealand’s overseas
reserves are still causing
concern. By January 25 they
were down to £56 million,
compared with £84.5 million a
year before and £59.8 million
two years ago.
During the year ended
December 31, 1960, there was
a deficit of £27.4 million in
overseas exchange transactions,
compared with a surplus of
£21.9 million in 1959.
The 1959 surplus was
achieved in spite of a net
capital outflow of £15.1 mil-
lion, while in 1960 net capital-
outflow totalled only £3.7
million.
On current account there
was a deficit of £23.8 million,
compared with a surplus of
£36.9 million in 1959 and a
deficit of £33.5 million in 1958.
The net capital-outflow in
1960 included £6.3 million for
the repayment of long-term
debt due in the United King-
dom, and £4.4 million by way
of official investment in the
U.S.A. to complete the estab-
lishment of a fund for the
repayment of debt (secured by
gold) due in 1961.
Compared with 1959, total
receipts increased by £l.B mil-
lion to £345.7. million, a small
fall in export income being
offset by an increase in other
receipts.
Total export receipts fell by
£5.9 million to £3OO million, a
fall of £18.9 million in receipts
for butter and cheese being
partly offset by increases under
other commodity headings,
particularly wool.
The fall in receipts for both
butter and cheese compared
with 1959 was due to lower
prices and, in the case of butter,
to a lower volume of sales.
Meat
The increase in meat receipts
from £73.3 million in 1959 to
£77.5 million in 1960 was
caused mainly by higher prices
obtained on the London
market for an increased quan-
tity of New Zealand lamb.
Meat receipts would have ex-
ceeded £BO million, but the
period between the date of
shipment and the remittance of
the corresponding overseas
exchange to N.Z. lengthened
during the year as a result of
the high bank-rate in the
United Kingdom, which made
it cheaper for meat-exporters
to obtain their temporary
finance in N.Z.
Wool
Receipts for wool increased
by £6 million to £104.5 million.
Prices during the 1959-60
season were substantially
higher than during the 1958-59
season, and, consequently,
receipts for wool during the
first half of 1960 at £70.9
million were £l3 million higher
than during the first half of
\ 959.
Ffowever, prices fell at the
opening of the 1960-61 season,
and receipts during the second
half of 1960 were £7 million
lower than during the same
period in 1959.
Total payments compared
with 1959 increased by £51.2
million to £373.1 million.
Increases under the headings of
private import-payments and
private other payments were
only partly offset by a decrease
in Government “other” pay-
ments.
Government Payments
Government overseas pay-
ments which totalled £51.8
million, fell by £3.0 million,
compared with 1959. Debt-
interest and payments for
Government imports were at
approximately the same level.
Other Government pay-
ments decreased by £2.9 mil-
lion. Government overseas
investment, though including
£4.4 million invested in the
United States for future debt-
repayment, was £6.4 million
less than in 1959, while Gov-
ernment debt-repayment and
other Government current pay-
ments increased by £2.6
million and £BOO,OOO respec-
tively.
The increase in debt-repay-
ment was more than covered
by realisation of securities
from official holdings overseas.
Payments for private imports
increased by £49.6 million to
£255.8 million. Import-control
was eased to some extent dur-
ing 1960, and, together with
greatly increased demand for
imported goods compared with
1959, resulted in this increase
of 24 per cent, in private
import payments, which was
the main reason for the change
from a surplus in 1959 to a
deficit in 1960.
Trade with Malaya
N.Z. and the Federation of
Malaya have signed a trade-
agreement providing for
preferential rates of duty. In
addition each Government has
entered into certain specific
obligations. N.Z. has agreed
to abolish the primage duty of
3 per cent, on natural rubber
and latex and has also bound
itself not to increase duty on
this commodity.
N.Z. has also undertaken not
to increase rates of duty on
the following Federation pro-
ducts: canned pineapple (io
per cent.), sago and tapioca
(free), tin (free), and certain
named varieties of timber
when imported as logs or
rough-sawn (3 per cent.).
The Federation has agreed
not to increase duties on the
following N.Z, commodities
which are now free of duty:
beef, veal, lamb, mutton, skim-
milk powder for both human
and animal consumption, milk-
based infant food, tallow and
newsprint in rolls.
The Federation has also
undertaken not to increase the
present duties of six Malayan
cents per pound on N.Z. frozen
butter and of 1\ per cent, on
cheese.
Both countries have agreed to
guarantee minimum margins
of tariff preference which at
present apply to certain
important items in each
other's trade.
N.Z. could be the source of
pulp for paper-mills which
his Government contemplated
establishing, th e Malayan
Minister of Commerce and
Industry said.
“We will require much
more paper in the years to
come. Our population, which
is nearly 7,000,000, is
increasing at the rate of
250,000 a year, and under our
education programmes more
people are becoming literate,”
he said.
New Loan Rates
The N.Z. Government opened
a £ 10-million loan on February
1. Terms are: per cent., to
mature on November 15, 1963,
at par ; 4-f per cent., to mature
on November 15, 1965-66, at
par; and 4f per cent., to
mature on November 15, 1970-
72, at 99 per cent. This longer-
term stock will yield £4 17s.
3d. per cent, to the investor.
The rates are in line with
current market yields.
The market for N.Z. shares
has shown little overall change
this year.
Capital-issues figures for
1960 illustrate one reason for
the comparative tightness of
money, which has had a sober-
ing effect on the market. Issues
involving new finance approved
for the year amounted to £25.1
million, against £14.4 million
in 1959 and £10.2 million m
1958.
Total approvals amounted to
£72.6 million, against £55.0
million in 1959 and £32.8
million in 1958.


Milingimbi Trading Day
By ROLAND ROBINSON
IX was trading day for the
aborigines at Milingimbi
Mission in the Crocodile
Islands. Huge shady
tamarind trees, planted long
ago by the beche-de-mer gather-
ing Macassars, lined the yellow
crescent of the beach. There,
the full incoming tide of the
pale-green Arafura Sea lay
[calm, brimming, lazily lapping
[ jnd hissing along the sand.
But the bare, trodden, sun-
and shadow-mottled space
around the store and under
the trees was crowded with ex-
pectantly waiting aborigines.
The women, always naked to
the waist, wore mission material
shirts of apricot, mauve, blue,
red and yellow. The younger
men wore loin-cloths of vary-
ing colors also, but the old-
men, with their traditional tufts
of beards, wore often an old
pair of shorts, or the traditional
“naga,” a strip of cloth hang-
ing in front of them from the.
waist.
The children, especially the
very young, ran about quite
caked. I remember one little
boy with a vivid, yellow ochre
fish painted diagonally across
the rich chocolate brown of his
stomach. The fish seemed
alive, undulating and breathing
with the little boy’s movements.
The aborigines stood about
ingroups, talking among them-
selves. Families, and the more
primitive groups, the bush-
aborigines, kept themselves
apart, sitting or standing,
watching, among the trees.
They were waiting for the
store to open and they had with
them all the examples of their
arts and crafts, on which they
had been working from time
to time for the past week.
At the store, a big, rough,
galvanised-iron shed, the mis-
sionary’s wife would value the
articles. The aborigines would
then buy tea, sugar, flour,
honed foods, lengths of dress
Material, knives, axes and
tobacco. Now “the people”
Were waiting. The women had
arge. circular mats, woven
from pandanus fibre, dilly-
bags and all kinds of shopping
baskets. The men had mainly
Paintings and carvings, rninia-
ture canoes and specially
oarved and painted spears and
boomerangs.
Every six weeks or so a
lu Bger would come round the
P e nlous coast from Darwin. It
" oll ld unload its cargo at the
beach. 44-gallon drums of
petrol were just tipped into the
water and allowed to wash
up on to the beach. After a
couple of days, the lugger
would depart, loaded with the
mission’s arts and crafts, for
Darwin, where they would be
sold to tourists.
Some time previously, I had
seen the Mission lugger arrive
and anchor off the beach, it
had come from Goulbourn
Island and was both engine-
powered and driven by sail. I
was amazed to find that its
crew was comprised entirely of
aborigines from Goulbourn
Island, and this included the
captain and the engineer.
Manned by its native crew, the
lugger had been plying for
years along the coast, without
a single accident On this
occasion, the lugger brought
the Mission's head carpenter,
a full-blood aboriginal, who
was going to repair boats and
do building work at Milin-
gimbi.
I was sitting on a log on the
outskirts of the crowd with old
Johnny Dai-ngung-ngung.
Johnny called me his son, and
he was my narrator and trans-
lator of the myths 1 was gather-
ing. Now Johnny rose and
signed to me to follow him.
We walked through the
crowd with various individuals
calling out to us and making
obscene references, one sug-
gesting an unnatural relation-
ship between the old-man and
myself. Johnny answered them
in the joking manner in which
the remarks were made. Reach-
ing the farther side of the
crowd, Johnny said, “Bush-
blackfeller bin come up. ’lm
friend belong me.”
'T'here was a cool wind blow-
ing. 1 did not see them at
first, but crouching and sitting
in the deep shade was a group
of naked aborigines. They
were the real wild aborigines.
We came up and Johnny sat
down with them. 1 sat on one
heel near Johnny. These
aborigines were young men,
crocodile hunters. They had
broad, clean, lightly bearded
faces with pronounced cheek-
bones. Their hair, in long,
greased, twisted strands, came
down to their shoulders. One
man, crouching with one knee
under his chin, shivered like an
animal in the cool wind as he
crouched, listening. These men
wore only hair-belts of plaited
human hair, with a pearl-shell
pendent in front. Their
weapons, shovel-nosed spears
and spear-throwers, lay on the
ground at their hands.
Only now and again could I
catch a word that I understood.
But I knew that Johnny was
one of the old-men at Milin-
gimbi with authority and sacred
knowledge. He was not talking
to these men merely of the
bargain the missionary would
drive for their crocodile skins.
Johnny told me that these men
did not smoke our tobacco.
They did not want our tucker,
“dm savvy bush-tucker,”
Johnny said. They wanted a
tomahawk, iron for spears.
They belonged to the jungle
and the tortuous, mangrove-
lined rivers.
Johnny told me that these
men would not remain at the
mission. They were “bush-
blackfellers.” When they had
sold their crocodile skins and
got what they wanted for them
in return, they would not stay.
“This mission only rubbish-
place to ’im,” Johnny ex-
plained. “Mm go back along
’im country.”
1 had gone into the store to
look over the paintings that
were coming in. Two aboriginal
women were assisting Mrs Bell,
the missionary’s wife, with the
trading. Outside, under the
raised flap of the counter
window, was a babel of ex-
citedly talking and trading
natives. Then one woman’s
voice was raised above the rest.
The others, as though the out-
burst was expected, fell silent.
The speaker I recognised
as Gingineir. Gingineir was
a real aboriginal suffragette
Years ago, she had voyaged
with her husband in a canoe
round the hundreds of miles of
perilous coast to Darwin.
Gingineir’s husband had died
in Darwin with “the cough.”
His widow had stayed and
worked in a white lady’s house
and had often been to the shop
of aboriginal arts and crafts.
There, being an interested and
intelligent woman, she had
noted the prices that her
people’s paintings, mats and
baskets were bringing.
These prices, naturally far in
excess of the payments made
to her people for creating the
articles, had roused Gingineir
to anger and indignation. Now,
having lately returned to the
mission, she had chosen her
time to give Mrs Bell the benefit
of her anger and knowledge.
Mrs Bell, confronted with the
facts of the glaring differences
between Milingimbi and Dar-
win prices, tried to explain and
defend herself.
I had seen these “battles of
wits” between intelligent
aborigines and white people
before. Mrs Bell, attacked
before all “the people,” was
clearly at a disadvantage. At
last, as the discussion pro-
gressed, and the native woman
methodically destroyed every
one of the white woman's
defences, Mrs Bell made the
mistake of resorting to tears.
“All-about bin angry, Missus.
You bin cheat ’em us along
these baskets,” Gingineir said.
“Don’t you dare talk to me
like that, Gingineir. You don’t
understand,” retorted Mrs Bell,
beginning to get angry also.
“Me savvy all right. You
want to pay all-about more.
All-about savvy you bin sell’em
along Birwin for twenty-five
tchillin’,” the native woman
came back.
“Gingineir, you make trouble
all the time. How do you know
“Have you heard this tale about the Wife of Bath ?”


that I sell your mats and
baskets in Darwin for all this
money?” challenged Mrs Beli.
“Ar know all right,” shrilled
Gingineir. “Ar bin along Bir-
win shop. Ar bin look along
my people’s baskets. You bin
sell ’em for twenty-five tchillin’,
an’ all-about you bin pay one
tchillin’.”
“You don't understand,” ex-
plained Mrs Bell. “All that
money comes back here to
build up this mission for you
and your people.”
“Which way that money
come back along mission?” the
aboriginal woman argued. “No
more. You bin cheat ’em all-
about along these baskets.”
“Oh, how can you talk like
that?” Mrs Bell answered,
beginning to search for her
handkerchief. “You know Mr
Bell and I came here to build up
this mission for you people and
for ——.” At this point Mrs
Bell burst into tears.
But Gingineir was not to be
placated by tears. Shaking her
finger in the white woman’s
face, she said. “No more you
little-bit-cry, Missus, Ar not bin
tell you properly yet.”
Rallying herself, Mrs Bell
stanched her tears. “Look,
Gingineir, Mr Bell has ex-
plained all this before to you.
You don't want to understand.
Now, will you please let us get
on with the trading?”
Many of the women had
their mats and baskets on the
counter, waiting for the argu-
ment to finish. It seemed that
“all-about” thought that Gin-
gineir had had her say. Gin-
gineir left the counter, calling
over her shoulder as she did
so, “All-a-time we bin row
about this. Ar no more bin
tell you properly yet.”
A painted “Drone-pipe"
which one aboriginal
handed in took my eye. Its
motif of caterpillars and leaves,
repeated lengthways all round
the pipe in the traditional,
stylised manner, made a rich
and delightful effect in its fresh
ochre colors. I went round to
this man and told him how
much I liked his painting.
Then I asked him if he could
do the same painting for me
on flat bark as the drone-pipe
was too heavy to take back
to my country. “Yoo,” he
answered, “make ’im properly.”
By midday the main busi-
ness at the store was finished.
During the afternoon occa-
sional purchases were made
by the aborigines with the
silver they had. When I came
back to see how my painting
was shaping I found the artist
waiting with the painting
already finished. I liked it very
much and paid the artist on the
spot with silver. Then, as I
walked down through the camp
under the tamarind trees to find
Johnny, I saw the dancers.
In the sandy earth, three girls
were dancing in line. They
danced facing a tall, splendidly
built young aboriginal who gave
them the song, the beat and
rhythm as he sang and hit the
two song-sticks together. The
song-man was Leodardi, one
of the many sons of the tribally
powerful old-man Weltjenmir-
ree. I had often spoken to
Leodardi. I had admired his
physique, but had never seen
him dance before this.
Appealing as the three young
girls were, it was Leodardi who
arrested one's attention. He
had what is called in ballet,
“line,” a natural harmony of
the disposition of his body and
limbs, from the proud carriage
of his head to the position of
his feet. Add to this a striking
and savagely primitive face,
wholly intent on the song and
the dance which he gave to the
girls, and you have a picture
of this “number one" dancer.
I learned later from Leodardi
that he was a poet. An abo-
riginal poet, or song-man, is
not merely concerned with the
language, he is responsible for
the song, the dancing, and the
body-painting of the song-
dance. An aboriginal “poem”
is conceived as a fusion of all
three. This was well explained
to me when 1 was discussing
the matter with Leodardi and 1
asked him how he went about
making up his “bungui,” his
song-dances.
Leodardi told me that he
did not “make up” his poems.
He told me that, sometimes,
when he was out hunting, he
would come to certain places
in the bush. In these places,
he said, there was “something”
which told him to remain still
and quiet. Presently, spirits
would emerge from the bush.
They would be painted and
decorated for the dance. As
he watched them, they would
begin to dance, singing and
hitting their song-sticks to-
gether. “I keep quiet,” said
Leodardi. “Bye and bye, I
catch that song ; 1 catch that
dance ; I catch that painting.
I come back along the camp.
I give that ‘bungal’ to ; my
people.” ,
That evening, it seemed, the
camp was happy and contented.
The old people had tobacco
which they smoked either in
a crab’s claw, or the long,
straight smoking pipe with its
cartridge - shell bowl. The
women, especially the young
ones, had new lengths of bright
dress material. The children
were happy with boiled lollies
and sometimes a tin of fruit
or jam. In the camp, fires we»
flickering and tea was bei n »
boiled or, rather, stewed A
cool wind kept the mosquitoes
away. It was a good night for
singing and dancing.
That evening we saw and
heard many dances and songs
which the young people p er
formed for us in the camp
These were not the “bungui
indee,” the big, sacred cere-
monial dances. These were
camp dances and songs. Many
of them came from far off
places like Elcho Island and
Goulbourn Island. They were
popular song-dances and we
sat in the dust with the older
people and kept time to the
dancing and singing with our
clapping hands.
The tide was ebbing as we
walked back along the beach
to our camp. A cold, strong
wind was blowing from off the
sea. A long, incoming wave,
its curving hollow filled with
a shoal of reflected stars, rose,
curled and, with long, low
thunder, spent itself. A
Macassar - type canoe, which
had brought other island
visitors to Milingimbi for the
trading day, lay on its side on
the beach. Occasional lumines-
cent tongues of the waves ran
up, hissing and licking along
its sides.
Overhead, the dark cloud of
the tamarind trees, the shoals
of bright stars, seemed to be
hurled backwards and inland
on the night. The waves, the
stars, the deserted emptied
canoe, spoke to me of the
Milingimbi myth of the two
Fertility Sisters, the Djanka-
wau.
From the eastern sea these
sisters came. They stayed at
Buralku, the Island of the
Morning Star, the Island of the
Spirits of the Dead. There
they made a canoe and filled
it with “rangga,” the sacred,
totemic objects of all forms
of life. They set out from
Buralku, following the sun. A
glistening, leaping fish curved
over in front of the canoe,
leading the way. Night and
day,' night and day, the Sisters
voyaged, their paddles keeping
time to their singing.
At last, wearied out, they
landed at the mainland. They
left the canoe, itself a mother-
symbol, emptied of _> ts
. “rangga,” on the beach. Tie
Sisters travelled far in| an ’
distributing the life -
totems as they travelled. *■
sea and the stars, the deserte
canoe with the tongues of
waves running up to hiss an
lick along its sides, made '
story real to me that nigh
we walked home along
beach at Milingimbi aftei
trading day.


THE ZACREB CAFE
By DESMOND O'GRADY
Ix would be a smack in any
Australian eye to see, in
Patterson Street, Darling-
hurst, “The Zagreb Cafe.”
That was Irene's opinion, but
she kept it to herself while her
husband Ivan helped affix the
green - painted, wrought - iron
sign which spread the whole
width of the window and car-
ried, pendant, the wooden
lettering: Ivan Radic, Prop.
Although she counted herself
Australian, Irene's thickish
ankles and wrists hinted at
Germanic origin, and her
parents, in fact, had believed
her Austrian. Had they read
a study of the behavior of
migrant children they might
have been less bewildered by
their daughter's development.
But they were too busy pro-
viding fodder for such works:
to ensure that Irene shared
their nostalgia for Austria they
thought it sufficient to talk in
Austrian, to show her persis-
tently a few indistinct photo-
graphs and to lecture her
about them, to make a silent
pact that their Elwood home
be furnished Austrian style and
to feed Irene exclusively on
Austrian cooking. Conse-
quently she found everything
Australian exotic and desirable.
Pomewhat thick ankles and
wrists ; but even now, in
an unglamorous role, shelling
peas, and in a dress, as usual,
of clashing colors —red and
gold—lrene was handsome.
Placid was the word for her ;
she must have learnt patience
and placidity early by sitting
through repeated accounts of
episodes in Austria’s glorious
history. That school of sub-
mission taught her also to
®sset plaints for years without
making them articulate. She
was cossetling singlemindedly
at that very moment, and if
Ivan had not been so busy with
•he sign, he would have
noticed her brooding expres-
sion or that too many of the
Celled peas rolled unheeded
down her skirt onto the floor,
and he would have guessed
that she was cursing the Croat
colony.
Before this cafe venture Ivan
had turned a ramshackle Mos-
man weatherboard house into
a hostel wnose clients were all
single Croats and mainly new
Rivals. He was so much at
home there that Irene had to
beg him to take her out ; when
he did she pointed to the things
she found so fresh after grey
Melbourne: the ships from all
over the world, the yachts’
colorful spinnakers, the sunset
through the grid of the bridge ;
but he looked at these as if
they were somebody else's
photographs. At that time
Ivan hurled into the backyard
any food Irene prepared or
bought, claiming that he could
cook something better than
that “muck.”
When their boarding-house
was sold to make way for
home-units, so releasing Irene
from the Croatian enclave, she
- found a way to employ Ivan's
only and vaunted talent. She
leased a single-story Darling-
hurst restaurant and rented a
nearby terrace-house so small
- and so packed with the furni-
ture Ivan insisted on bringing
from the boarding-house that
there was no possibility of their
being crowded by Croats again.
But by the time the “Zagreb
Cafe” sign was installed most
of Ivan’s scattered lodgers were
eating at his restaurant regu-
larly.
This ensured a steady
clientele, but Irene saw that the
sign, together with their card
games, their horseplay and
shouting, made the place more
a Croatian club than a
restaurant where Australians
would eat. Worse still, Serbs
came to the Zagreb. Irene, who
waited on the tables while
Serbo-Croat taunts and threats
were swapped between the
rival groups, told Ivan they
made her feel like a foreigner
in her own country.
She said it more than once
while he was working, face
aglow under his cook’s hat and
the fair hairs of his arms glis-
tening, and she repeated it at
night, although almost ashamed
to complain when he was so
contented. Unaffected by the
sticky January heat, Ivan lay
in bed, his red-and-white
convict-striped pyjama coat
visible above the sheet, and
one hand shielding his eyes
from the light Irene needed to
sew a button on her nightdress.
“They pay for food we eat,
Irene.”
“But others would come if
they weren’t there,” said Irene,
meaning she merely wanted
Ivan to abandon his past so
they could live like other
people.
“They come, too, if they
want to.”
From the time they began to
gather at his boarding-house
Irene had discovered Ivan was
closed to her when she tried
to prise him from his Croat
friends.
“They reckon they need a
passport to get in—don’t tell
me you don’t know it.”
“You see we make good
business ; don't bother.”
She stopped searching for a
second button to appeal to him.
“It’s my fault, I know, Ivan ;
but I can’t live only with
Croats.”
“You tell me many times,
Irene.” His red - and - white
vertically-striped pyjamas
twisted like a barber’s pole as
he turned on his side away
from Irene. “Is their country,
too. In the democracy they
come here if they want.”
Which was so much worse than
his normal English that he
must have already been slip-
ping info a Croatian dream.
A T the end of February most
of the Serbs left and those
who remained did so because
they still held Ivan’s meal-
vouchers which, sold at £2 10s.,
entitled their holder to both
midday and evening meals for
a week.
A nearby second-hand shop,
which had been a favorite
haunt of spiders and blowflies,
was now occupied by a Serb,
Milisev Mejcovic. He was
serving meals in a space cleared
among dust-coated bric-a-brac,
but arrangements were so
makeshift that only patriotism
made the Serbs eat there.
Ivan called Milisev a “Cut-
throat Serb” as soon as he
heard of his arrival ; and the
first sight of him strolling past
the Zagreb one windy after-
noon confirmed his prejudice.
Milisev’s brown, weathered
face was not improved by a slit
of a mouth and a drooping left
eyelid, but he looked strong as
well as sly.
He was barely past the Zag-
reb when Ivan called Irene to
watch his retreating figure: the
head round as a nut and hard
as iron under the short, spiky
black hair, a welt of taut fat
over what looked to be a
canvas butcher-blue shirt,
baggy slacks, antiquated boots.
For a moment Irene saw her
father strolling, thoughtful,
through the house.
“That's him, is it?” she
asked Ivan, knowing it was.
“He walks along his own
street,” said Ivan, sure the
street was his.
“He’s not doing you any
harm,” said Irene, already
jealous of the bond which
made Ivan ignore her to stare
after Milisev’s diminishing
figure.
“He looked at our Zagreb
out of sleeping eye and gave
cat’s smile,” was all Ivan's
answer.
He did not bother to men-
tion that he had spat at Mili-
sev's boots as he passed.
"Derhaps Milisev did spy and
smirk: two mornings later
Ivan came shouting back to the
house where Irene was making
their bed, and dragged her to
see the outrage. She spelt out
the word that took up the whole
restaurant window in 3ft-high
white letters —UTASA —but it
meant no more to her than to
the other onlookers until Ivan


explained the Utasa had been
Pavelic’s terrorists in Croatia's
fight against Serbian oppres-
sion.
She thought of her father
talking of the battles of the
First World War and hated
that Serbian stain, so foreign
to the drowsy street, which
seemed to suffer a perpetual
hangover from the depression,
where cats sunned themselves
on doorsteps in the milky-blue
morning, and only cars moved
quickly.
Irene said, grabbing for
Ivan's arm as if her touch
could dissolve his rage: “It’s
nothing, it doesn’t mean, any-
thing, not here.” Which
showed only that she did not
want to understand.
Ivan was still planning a
reprisal against the window
painting when, searching for a
pair of scales one afternoon,
Irene found that the small
storeroom of the Zagreb had
caught fire. Ivan’s rejoinder,
to stuff Milisev's garbage-cans
with stale fish and bad eggs,
was weak, but he wanted to
concentrate on a crushing blow
rather than on minor forays. In
the meantime he steadily lost
the contest and his customers.
As well as rallying the Serbs
Milisev attracted Australians:
he had rid his premises of junk
and made a bare but spacious
restaurant which advertised
Australian dishes at low prices.
Why didn't Ivan do the
same? His pride as a cook
would not let him. Then why
not at least change the name
of the place? His enemy had
called his dump The Waratah.
Has anyone ever heard such
fawning Ivan wanted to
know when Irene explained
what the waratah was. No,
he would not change to another
name, apart from the money
he had spent on it, the wrought-
iron sign had become a banner.
He dispatched some friends
to eat at Milisev’s and then
complain loudly about the food
and service. Milisev's counter-
blow was more effective: he
supplied duplicates of Ivan’s
weekly meal-tickets to his
friends, wfio enjoyed meals at
the Zagreb’s expense, threw
Ivan and the voucher system
into confusion, and further
reduced his takings. Next
Milisev engaged two wait-
resses, both young and attrac-
tive, so that Irene felt old at 34.
A hopeless passion could
not have corroded Ivan
any quicker than the struggle
with Milisev. but he rejected
Irene’s pleas to leave the
restaurant and go elsewhere.
That would have been to admit
defeat.
Irene accepted the weakness
Ivan had revealed in combat
with Milisev, but it was too
much for her when he began
to make appeals for his cus-
tomers’ sympathy. She told
him the few Australian cus-
tomers would be uncomfort-
able or derisive. Hearing such
pleas, he replied that they were
heartless, inhuman.
The image of Ivan’s hot
face, elongated by his cook's
hat, as he detailed his enemy's
baseness for his customers'
benefit was with Irene as she
went to see Milisev. She chose
an afternoon when Ivan was
in town and an hour, four,
when The Waratah was closed
to customers.
The restaurant's blinds were
lowered against the April sun
so Irene, on entry, was lost in
its darkness. Scraping noises
drew her to the kitchen, where
she found Milisev seated at a
newspaper-covered table hold-
ing a half-eaten sausage forked
from the pot in front of him.
Irene suspected the sausages
sat cold in their fat and that
they were his meal for the day.
A mattress lay under the
The older We get, Darkle, the harder it is to leave
a comfortable bed.”
table. If he lived like this, if
he could exist on cold sausages
and sleep on the floor, how
could Ivan compete with him?
Milisev stuffed the rest of the
poised sausage in his mouth,
turned an eye, whose drooping
lid looked like the other side
of the moon, on Irene, and
asked her did she want to eat.
The self-sufficiency of the man
was as gnarled as a mallee-
root ; Irene's ass urance
•faltered.
Che warned him that the
police would be called if
he did not cease his attacks.
“Tell the Croat to stop,”
suggested Milisev; “he spits at
me, he lies about me. he sends
men to smash my restaurant.
You talk to him, not me.”
Milisev had finished his ex-
plorations in the pot. He
cleaned his fork with a sheet
of newspaper before folding
his arms: “He's Utasa ; he
looks at me with hate. Make
him swallow that.”
Irene stepped down into the
cramped kitchen to announce
the glad tidings. “You both
have to forget your old hates
and start a new life..”
“W e know what it
means . . .“ Milisev started ;
but rather than continue he
examined his forearms while
Irene questioned that “We,” that
bond between Ivan and Milisev
which made her the outsider.
A dozen sonorous blowflies
explored the dust-filmed sur-
face of the skylight through
which sun filtered on to Mili-
sey ; he bulked in that minus-
cule room like a toad at the
bottom of a sun-filled well.
“Can't you leave him
alone? She leant across the
table towards Milisev.
He revealed chipped yellow
teeth as he laughed. “Aus-
tralia does not mind”—he
raised hands like white flags —
“no opinion." He stood to fill
a glass with water. “Your
country"—he pushed the glass
towards Irene, then jerked the
water down the sink —“we
prefer wine. Here you change
men? Teach him to love the
Serb.”
Milisev slitted his good eye
to gauge Irene’s reaction, but
she merely repeated that Ivan
would stop hostilities as soon
as Milisev did.
“Now the Utasa send women
to fight for them.”
“Ivan doesn’t know I’m
here,” Irene answered and saw
that Milisev had believed she
was Ivan’s emissary.
“Tell the Croat,” Milisev
said slowly, smiling, “that I
won’t touch him because his
wife pleaded so well for him.”
Irene had always suspected
Milisev was not the scoundrel
Ivan thought, and now she
wanted to thank him, but his.
stony smile inhibited her.
Not until she told Ivan of
Milisev's promise did Irene see
that it was, for him, an insult
The winter months passed
without further provocation
from Milisev, but the shame of
Irene's betrayal was always
with ivan. No longer did he
with fitful eloquence, turn his
soul inside out like a glove
for an Irene complaisant as
Mona Lisa. He did not give
her the beating she deserved,
but cut her out of his life.
Nightly, on returning from
the restaurant, Irene went to
bed while Ivan constructed a
bladder-and-hose contraption
with which he intended to
pump a sticky substance
through The Waratah's fan-
vent and on to the floor of the
cafe.
“He make me do this thing,'
he would shout exasperated as
Irene begged him to stop, for
he was sure the Serb was
preparing a surprise attack.
Irene consoled herself with the
knowledge that Ivan's prepara-
tions were so painstaking that
the resumption of hostilities
might be delayed indefinitely,
and meanwhile Ivan's superior
cooking was slowly winning
customers. It was a satisfying
stasis, the best solution Irene
could hope for, short of moving
elsewhere.
Our in October King Peter
arrived. Many months
before Ivan had reproved Irene
because she said, referring to
Milisev, "But you’re both Yugo-
slavs. aren't you?” so when she
read of the King's trip she
cautiously asked. “Is he your
King?” As Ivan had left her
with no doubts that Peter was
a Serb she was sui prised that
he closed the Zagreb one Sun-
day evening to go, with other
Croats, to a reception for the
King.
Irene feared that the Croats
would cause trouble at the
meeting or after it, and she
knew that Ivan, by working
long hours, at last had his
pump and bladder contraption
ready. As she lay in bed await-
ing his return from the recep-
tion Irene estimated the cost of
a resumption of the senseless
struggle and saw the familiar
nightmare-Europe she dreaded.
The scene was a narrow
street lined by tall houses whose
grey facades were veined with
the rust of dried blood. People
went about their business, but
all of a sudden cavalry blocked
out the far end of the street
and proceeded noiselessly to
ride people down, to hack them
with cutlasses as white and
weighty as their no-faced riders.
In the next scene the street was
busy once more when shooting


FaijJt Ist ih c
Jpulure
\
0
Australia’s expansion in the post-war period
is reflected in the fact that more than one thousand
million pounds in overseas capital has been invested
here since 1945.
About half of this total has come in within the
past five years. Most of the inflow has been in the
form of direct investment. Much of it is accounted
for by the plough-back of profits from branches
and subsidiaries already established.
To this practical proof of the faith abroad in
Australia’s future. Britain has contributed nearly
two-thirds and North America—the United States
and, to a lesser extent, Canada —about one-third
in volume.
Now, the value of this investment is to be
regarded in terms greater than the bare capital it
represents. While its main effect is to give an
impetus to development and construction, it also is
accompanied by the introduction of modern
methods and industrial skills that are of immense
national worth.
With all of these advantages, it is still
supplementary to our own effort. Of the gross
private investment in Australia these days, about
ten per cent, is from overseas; the other ninety
per cent, is financed out of our own savings
and resources.
Imposingly good as this altogether has been,
it is only a prelude to what is ahead of us now.
Our immediate business is to maintain this
interest, both at home and abroad, by showing
still further courage and enterprise in our
Australian undertakings.
The highly attractive conditions for investment
are here for all to see—a stable political system, a
fast-expanding economy, a rising population, a
skilled work force.
Given the determination to check inflation and
to face up to the problem of mounting costs —
which are very largely governed by efficiency and
effort —there is every reason to believe that the tide
of investment in Australia will rise steadily higher.
And the surest way to stimulate the faith that
others have in us is to generate it within ourselves.
JS heard, and the rumble of
inks; bewildered people
lugged furniture from their
louses to build barricades as
[he blind tanks rolled on spiked
Jacks towards them.
Another scene: this time the
Hack was made by men in-
jistinguishable from the others
In the street. They shot and
tnived their unsuspecting vic-
ps, but their leader merely
jugged what seemed to be a
jfollen vacuum cleaner which
clanged metallically against the
;o bbles until he found his prey,
[hen, with a grating change in
direction, he switched the
nozzle and, just as she had seen
happen to a Japanese soldier
in a film, flame spurted from
|e hose onto the victim’s
iutcher-blue shirt and Irene
recognised Ivan, unchanged but
[or the froth flecking his livid
jiips, as the aggressor
1 For a moment she thought
lie clank, clank, clank she
leard was caused by the metal
«uum cleaner base surfing
lie cobbles, but as she sur-
faced to consciousness, bolt-
eyed with shock, she realised
that Ivan, in the next room,
was dismantling his bladder-
ffld-hose contraption.
'You'll be arrested for using
it.” she called, .“you must be
mad to start trouble all over
again.’
“I finish now,” Ivan called
lack, while Irene pictured
Milisev’s restaurant smashed
or treacly with Ivan's smelly
concoction. There was a final
wenching sound from the
other room before Ivan, dis-
hevelled . entered the bedroom.
“How many hours work
gone!" He lobbed a length of
hose into a corner.
Irene asked, “Why?”
He began an account of the
reception.
“So many Serbs there, it was
Croatia in occupation time;
hut tonight there was nothing
ft could do about, we waited
for the visitor’s arrival.” He
went on to describe the excite-
ment even the Croats felt at
Peter’s entry, the cry, “Ziveo
Kralj,” which rolled along the
hull as he advanced, the Croats’
eontempt and pity for the tired
%ire who smiled at the Serbs,
l°fied and even danced for them
“hen he led the King’s dance.
Che Croats saw the King’s
fiothes could be bought in any
% store, but knew the Serbs
"°uld be picturing him in royal
Vendor.
The King spoke. He knew
3s well as the Croats who sat
! e % to jeer at every word
W what his countrymen’s
lusions were, but he did not
Recast that Tito would be
wen from power, he did not
hmmise a return to the home-
land. While he counselled them
to forget their quarrels and
look to an Australian future, a
strange, sad, respectful silence
spread through the hall as if
the audience were gripped by a
performance of “Richard II.”
The Croats found their
throats contracting ; the King’s
words, breaking through their
disdain, hit them with re-
doubled force. Afterwards they
left the hall in silence,- stunned
by the pain of loss. So Ivan
had leturned home, walking all
the way from the city to
exhaust himself, and had dis-
mantled the contraption, which
he would not need any more.
Being a pragmatist of the
emotions, Irene was not con-
cerned to share Ivan's passion
and found his detailed account
of the meeting boring ; it was
enough to know that, once
again, he was talking to her as
he used to, and that he had
abandoned his plan to attack
Milisev. Her heart gave a
hop, step and a jump when she
realised these blessings; she
reached towards Ivan with re
newed tenderness to ease him
backwards onto the bed where
she could kiss him at leisure.
Ivan, for his part, felt only the
emptiness the King had-left . . .
ly/TtLisEV was suffering the
* * same sense of loss. As he
scuttled around the Zagreb
performing like the cut-throat
Serb Ivan believed him to be,
his brain was an ignited cracker
giving off sparks: there is no
Yugoslavia, there is no Serbia,
we are lost here. So his brain
sputtered and spat until the
Zagreb began to burn.
When Ivan and Irene arrived
on the scene the flames were
thick as a forest Before any-
one could stop him Ivan rushed
forward, and with his foot
hooked out the sign: the
wrought iron had survived, but
the wooden Ivan Radic , Prop.,
had been incinerated.
At the same time a sweating
Milisev, wearing his rough-as-
a-sail butcher-blue shirt but
sandshoes instead of boots,
arrived on the outskirts of the
crowd to watch the firefighters
who concentrated on saving the
adjoining buildings.
Irene turned from restraining
Ivan to see that sly Serb face ;
she must have taken initial
steps, but it seemed that in one
bound she cleaved the crowd
and landed on Milisev’s hip.
Openhanded she slapped at him
before bystanders dragged her
away; but as Milisev bent,
overwhelmed, and she flailed
him around the neck it seemed,
in the fire’s reddish light, that
she was embracing him, her
liberator.


LOOK BACK AT ANGER: "Hop” on the British Navy
—From The Bulletin, September 12, 1891.
THE BRITISH AUXILIARY SQUADRON
YOUNG AUSTRALIA: “So you have come to protect our property, our mothers ,
our wives and our sisters."
OFFICER OF SQUADRON: “Yes, don't you know, and to marry the latter —if there's
— aw—money in it.”


Australian School-days —IV
Summer, of Course
By HAL PORTER
G 1 ippsland, Bairnsdale,
summer, of course.
Outside the late Vic-
torian brick school,
ifternoon cicadas in the em-
powering European oaks,
■lanes and elms are running
down like dentists’ drills. Fri-
day, Inkwells cleaned. Black-
board blacked. Strap well-
iarned - resting till Monday,
flie class, 20, drones with the
droning blowflies (20 of them).
Heads weighed downward by
(oot-long curls or gushes of
nitty hair, the girls languidly
prick stitches into soiled poly-
jangles of . . is it huckaback?
Their glass bangles tinkle. Their
lee th are mignonette-green.
They had a bath last Saturday.
Their hankies live above the
clastic of their bloomer-legs.
They lose hair-ribbons, news-
paper-swaddled lunches of
plum - jam-bloody sandwiches,
skipping-ropes with wooden
handles Boys lose shanghais,
lops, jew’s-harps, pen-knives.
The boys flannel - singleted,
galatea-bloused, bare-footed, all
nncircumcised. un - vocational-
guidanced, un - medical-inspec-
ted, un-intelligence-tested, dirty-
necked, scab-kneed (those grass-
and - grave! footpaths!) are
“modelling” in p 1 a s t i c i n e.
Teacher, properly sacrosanct on
the platform at the table with
its ink-mapped maroon serge
doth, what does he in alpaca
coat and wing-collar, or she in
voile blouse, write or dream
about? Matters not. Hucka-
back, plakka, love-letter or
dream, all are earmarked ; all
occupy positions physically, in-
tellectually and socially indica-
tive. The pattern of relation-
ships is rigid. And safe.
Boys dressed as boys, girls as
girls, teachers as teachers, we
know who we are : adult, child;
smartie, dope ; rebel, crawler :
middle - class, working - class.
No psychological pusillanimi-
ties. No democratic delusions
J nd dishonesties. No analyti-
cal handouts or one-upping
Empathies White right and
black wrong assure us of
decision and safety.
Tomorrow’s Saturday—fish-
'ng, swimming (the trudgeon
stroke), fruit-pinching, China-
man - baiting, cicada - hunting,
freedom, the world. And
summer. Of course.
To middle-aged me this sum-
mer-embalmed sense of safety,
mdividuality and sane humanity
sums up State School 754,
Bairnsdale, in the 20’s of —it
seems unbelievable —this cen-
tury. Was it really, as I think,
a more accurate foretaste of
Life than education tries to
offer now?
Were teachers wiser instinc-
tive psychologists and proxy-
parents than the subsidised pro-
duction - belt experimentalists
now winkling out childhood
neuroses with Hebraic-Yank
assiduity? What quality had
the headmaster, then, that made
him—clattering false teeth,
boots with turned-up toes,
watch-chain, cleiical grey and
all —a respected God, and his
weekly sixpence for the best
“composition’ on Thrift or
Honesty a Victoria Cross? Miss
Harvey, plump and pink as a
cabbage-rose, what disciplinary
power, insidious but indubit
able, had she? It made us
discipline us to rule unsmudged
red lines, and color with greasy
crayons those elaborately diffi-
cult shapes Ireland and Tas
mania. On the showier hand,
the disciplinary arts of Mr
Daniel Samuel Treagus (Grade
6) seemed those of Satan as
whom he was as handsome.
‘You wr-r-r-r-iggling worms!'’
he would metallically bray
“If the gr-r-r-r-eat angel Gabriel
himself stood on this platform,
you’d defy him!” He en-
chanted us with a flesh-and-
blood terror (no TV image he)
for he knew we knew he knew
we wouldn't, under his brim-
stone gaze, defy a caterpillar.
But how we parsed! And
swam! He taught us to swim
... the boys, that is. There
was no mixed bathing in Marie
E. J. Pitt’s willow-and-old-hop-
kiln-lined Mitchell River. Fully-
clotned, hatted, booted (boots
devilishly pointed), he paced the
bank, bearing a pole from the
tip of which, on rope and belt,
there strained fishlike a flailing
nine-year-old dog-paddler. Back
and forth Mr Treagus raved
like Ezekiel on the buffalo-
grass, terrifying platypus and
kingfisher, sweating, patient,
feared, trusted, a teacher. We
swam for that fisher of boys.
Those sorts of teachers, how-
ever crabby, crazy, sawny,
pernickety, tempestuous,
motherly, vague, hot-blowing
and cold-blowing, were dedi-
cated. And human. They were
not political fancy-men, fad-
sellers, childhood-betrayers or
confidence-men on a soft cop.
They knew, as we did, how
wicked and wonderful children
are. We got the vitamins of
education from their attitudes,
along with the roughage of the
curriculum. What was that
curriculum, anyway? -
With steel nibs, and ink
watered-down to baby-blue, we
prophetically wrote, thin up-
strokes,, firm downstrokes,
Look before you leap, Pride
goes before a fall, All that
glisters is not gold. Time, at
least, makes that ink no paler.
By heart (strange, sad ex-
pression) we learned a million
useful uselessnesses. “Harry
Dale the Drover,” “Daffodils,”
“Abou ben Adhem.” The
countries of the British Empire.
The products of China. How
to find a North and South Line.
We were convinced Nijni-Nov-
gorod was on the Volga, that
adjectives qualified, and the
nominative was used after all
parts of the verb to be. We did
Model Drawing. We sang:
Recessional, When Britons
fi-ir-ir-ir-irst God bless
the Prince of Wales, Men of
Harlech. Miss Harvey, gaily
firm, marched us in singing
Abie, my boy and I’m for ever
blowing bubbles. When we
read The Boer and his horse
the girls cried, the boys swal-
lowed the tops of their wind-
pipes ; we all laughed ourselves
flaccid when read “Three Men
in a Boat.”
'"T'here were no warder-like
A compulsions to “play” over-
organised games, no dog-in-the-
manger sex instruction, no
trumped-up commerce between
adult and child. We told
parents and teachers nothing
unfit for them to hear. They
were wisely equally mum. It
was as good for us to be free
to believe, for example, that
cabbages fostered babies as
for them to believe us ignor-
ant, as memories of their own
childhoods should have advised
them we weren’t. We did not
bore each other by trumping
reality with small truths. We,
and they, had taboos. Prides
and modesties were thus mutu-
ally respected.
The English are unmistak-
ably the most civilised people
on this globe. Even we rustic
children of the 20’s were —un-
avoidably—Australian-English.
I prefer not to assess how far
from Australian - English the
barbaric luxury in which child-
ren of the 60’s exist has taken
them, how far from civilisation
and individualism on the con-
veyor-belt of tinned ciphers.
Back to those school-days
and that seeming perpetual
summer. School picnics!
Under the vast oaks and pines
earlier councillors grew for
present ones to vandalise, in
the “Tannies” (Botanical Gar-
dens), teachers in Sunday best
shouted “Ready! Set! Go!”- for
us in Sunday best and lined up
for exhilarating races: bun-
and - treacle, egg - and - spoon,
apple-in-tub, blindfold, three-
legged, sack, wheelbarrow,
piggy-back, obstacle.
Those picnics occurred as
regularly as the seasons and the
games and fads custom allotted
each season: marbles, cigarette-
cards, matchbox tops, mouth-
organs, Button Day buttons,
stilts, water-pistols, bird-nest-
ing, kites, mushrooming, black-
berrying and jacks (stained
purplish with Condy’s Crystals).
1 see the boys playing football
or shinty or stacks-on-the-mill.
I see the girls bouncing balls,
or skipping, or flouncing about
at rounders or “Queenie.” I
see that we played these games
without a busybody adult jolly-
ing us into boredom. In short,
I see that we were self-reliant,
endlessly busy at work or play.
In retrospect, how wise, how
civilised, those parents without
refrigerators or washing-
machines were,- how astute and
far-seeing those teachers were.
I see them—Mr Taylor the
headmaster, Mr Treagus, Miss
Harvey, Miss Turner, Miss
Mosley, Miss Suding—lined up
with us beneath the Monday
lected under the river-bank
hawthorns. We did not bore
morning flag, ready to meet our
evasions, ruses, hypocrisies and
needs with their dedication,
their devotion, their adulthood
and skill, their wisdom and
their leather straps. We place
right hands on left breasts. We
eye the flag. We chant:
“I love God and my country.
I honor the flag. I will serve
the King, and cheerfully obey
my parents, teachers and the
laws.”


Bang Goes My O.B.E.!
By XAVIER HERBERT
The last thing I am in-
terested in is politics.
To me, essentially the
student of human
nature, management of human
affairs is at best only a com-
promise with the untidy reality
of human nature and never can
be better than that.
Why, then, should I allow
that political hotchpotch which
has been described by eminent
Pommies as “The Common-
wealth within the Common-
wealth” distract and distress
me for half my life? I think
it is because what is involved
is not so much political as
personal, and I don’t mean
personal only to me. but to
every Australian worthy of the
name
I first heard the term in
London. At the time some sort
of imperial conference con-
nected with establishment of
the new order was in progress.
Perhaps it was the signing of
the Statute of Westminster. I
wouldn't know about such
things.
Australia’s destiny on that
unhappy occasion was in the
hands of the Rt. Hon. James
Scullin, Prime Minister of the
period. As he was leader of
the anti-imperialistic Australian
Labor Party and a man of
Irish descent, 1 felt sure he only
needed to be roused a little to
see the danger in that to which
apparently he was conceding.
Therefore I set about rousing
him. Not wishing to present
myself to him with the seat out
of my pants, I wrote him a
letter.
Just then l was in a mood
of high patriotism. I happened
to be where I was through not
having known where 1
belonged. Like a fool, 1 had
come trapesing across the width
of the world to find my father-
land, had bankrupted myself
seeking my origins in bog and
fog and the ivy-clad ruins of
a past that meant nothing more
to me than palaeontology.
Yearning in exile, I had looked
back across the globe, beyond
■the murk and stink of the old
world, over the wide, clean
southern oceans, under the wide
blue skies, to Terra Australis,
my brownland, my home-sweet-
home!
the term Common
wealth, from Common
Weal, or Common Good,
properly describes a body
politic constituted by a people
united by compact under one
form of government and system
of laws. That fits our Aus-
tralian nation exactly. In fact
the term to us is more than a
title. It is even an inspiration.,
to strive for creation of some-
thing special in the way of a
human community, based oil
that “Common Good.” It seems
to me that those who chose the
title for us did so with some
deliberation, conscious or not.
I connect the name with the
fact that our coat-of-arms,
instead of being surmounted by
the Crown as are the emblems
of the States that had their
origins as British colonies, is
topped with a star. I feel that
the fathers of our nation had
the vision of a community
eventually free completely of
the old-world domination under
which, perforce, they founded
it —hence the title, which could
serve a republic, and the Star,
which acknowledges no throne.
I also feel that our British
Betters (who pretend equality
with us under the Statute of
Westminster) are more aware
of the significance of our Com-
monwealth than we ourselves
generally, and that they resent
it, because they see it as a threat
to the lordship by which they
live. Their resentment is
evident to me in the snigger
veiled in that favorite saying
of theirs: “The Commonwealth
within the Commonwealth ”
Thus do they belittle a thing
that to us is great. The British
have a genius for that kind of
thing.
I will go so far as to suggest
that the very choice of the title
B r i t i s h Commonwealth of
Nations was made with deliber-
ate intent to hamstring our
nation. If we’d had true
friends in the imperial con-
clave at which choice of the
title was mooted, surely they
would have said: “We can't
use the term Commonwealtn
without clashing with Austra-
lia.”
1 did not understand the set-
up nearly so well when I wrote
that screed about it to Jim
Scullin. What I did then was
simply to stress the matter of
the inevitable confusion and
the pretty certain humiliation
we must suffer in the end. 1
pointed out that this institution
he was lending himself to
establish was not in the least
what is meant by a Common-
wealth, there being nothing
common politically, economic-
ally, or socially about it. It
was rather a fraternity of fully
autonomous States. I asked:
What’s wrong with the title
Fraternity of Nations? Not
only was it more appropriate,
but it sounded far better with
its implied declaration of kin-
ship. Let them call it the
Fraternity of British Nations,
and leave the name Common-
wealth to us who saw it first!
That’s how I put it to Jim.
In my lively imagination I saw
him presenting it to the august
body about the Imperial Con-
ference Table, heard them
hemming and hawing as they
gave way before my impas-
sioned argument, heard my
Prime Minister, in his moment
of victory, order his under-
lings to go find the unknown
young patriot and literary
genius who so dramatically
had saved his honor as leader
of the Australian Common-
wealth and the beloved Com-
monwealth itself, and bring the
brave lad to him.
T was given to such dreaming
just then, living in a garret
on about 17s. 6d. a week, rent
included, yearning for my
homeland, waiting for a miracle
to bring me enough money to
pay my passage across the
English Channel and buy me a
bike on which to ride as far as
roads would lead me home-
ward, even if 1 could get no
futher than where 1 might die
with my eyes on the Southern
Cross.
1 wonder did Scullin put it
up to his masters and have it
thrown out on the voices, or
whether he threw it out him-
self, into the w.p.b. they gave
him there in Westminster Hall?
1 haven’t the faintest notion
because he did not even ack-
nowledge receipt of my letter.
Nor did I ever think of look-
ing him up back home to ask
him. For one thing, I did not
think highly enough of him to
want to know him; for anothei,
my patriotism cooled off con-
siderably after a spell back
home in the unadulterated
society of my countrymen.
Not that I had to go home
to discover the worth of my
countrymen in general. Alien
as I felt in the company of
Pommies, I preferred it to that
of the Aussies I met abroad,
the loud-mouthed bushies on
wool-cheque-busting binges, the
bleating intellectuals who called
their country a “moribund
hole” because it had not taken
them at their own valuation.
The one thing left to me to
do was what Englishmen them-
selves resort to when fighting
lost causes, which is to write
to the “Times.” This I did
Again I stressed the inevitable
confusion, but cunningly in-
cluded the English in it this
time, by bringing in the matter
of Cromwell’s Commonwealth.
I also pointed out how much
more honest and homely was
the term Fraternity. Finally 1
appealed to the traditional
sportsmanship of the English
for support in averting a move
that must humiliate their
brothers Down Under.
1 hadn't the slightest doubt
that my letter would be pub-
lished. When I received a note
from the editor thanking me
for my contribution, my imag-
ination ran on to the great
controversy that must ensue,
the verbal clashes between
those who would support me
and those who would be op-
posed, “F airp 1 a y Golders
Green” and “Indian Army Re-
tired,” “Flog Them Barking-
stoke” and “Pro Bono Publico."
But I was anticipating wildly.
I learned that one of those
polite notes from the editor of
the “Times” constitutes a
brush-off.
I was saved from further
rebuffs by suddenly losing in-
terest in the cause. It was just
then that 1 conceived the idea
for my novel “Capricornia.”
For a few weeks I lived night
and day in the drafting of that.
Then I sold my typewriter for
£6, rolled a bit of a swag,
bought a bike in France for £l,
and set out for home. It was
my intention to ride across the
world to Singapore. Fortun-
ately I did not have to go so
very far. If I'd had to keep
on, most likely I would have
finished up as a eunuch slave m
Allahabistan or some such
barbaric country. 1 mention it
to prove the patriotism 1 lay
claim to.
What I would like to know
is whether anyone else of d‘ e
7,000,000 or so born Austra-
lians feel the same about this
“Commonwealth within the
Commonwealth” business as I
do. I have never yet met any-
one who did. I wish 1 had
For if I had, I would have pin
him or her up to making this
last protest for me, so that -
might continue in that gr ea
hope I share with the rest o
the Australian literary brother-
hood of someday clicking
the matter of Birthday or Ne
Year Honors. As it is-Jj* f
moral—bang goes my 0.8-k


LETTERS
Significance of Rockwell
Sir,
It was with some concern
lhat I read your editorial on
Qeorge Lincoln Rockwell (B.
11/2/ ’6l).
The only reason for hinder-
ling Rockwell’s entry to Aus-
tralia is, it appears, that he is
a public nuisance. Unlike our
own orators in the Domain,
Ibis “Halfpenny Hitler” “delib-
erately attempts to cause people
to hit each other,” and actively
encourages peace-breaking, for
which reasons you have tried
to dismiss him as having no
political significance whatso-
ever. To do so is only to be
blind to a small but, for many,
a frighteningly real and not
new political force.
If this man’s ideology and his
small band of followers can
give us no cause for concern,
bow is it that articles, letters
and editorials in the press of
many countries have been con-
cerned with him for at least
naif of this past year?
Are there some in Australia
who are afraid that Rockwell
might find support among Aus-
tralians if he was given the
opportunity to broadcast his
policies here? I refer you to
a full-page article in the Sydney
“Sunday Telegraph” of Janu-
ary 29 which notes that the
Australian Nationalist Workers’
Party has at present 750 full
members and a mailing-list of
1000. Commander Rockwell
himself is aware that the above
figures are greater than mem-
bership tallies of his American
Nazi Party throughout the
whole of the U.S.A.
I think it is clear that Rock-
well is a figure against whom
most Australians will rise to
condemn. In so condemning
he revival of Nazism it is to
be hoped that Australians will
be made to clarify their own
ideas about what they want
from the political parties with-
® their country today.
That Rockwell should not be
denied his visit does not mean
be should be assisted. Hearing
b>m, perhaps crushing him,
®ay stimulate at least some of
tts into demanding from and
Putting into the existing token
Opposition party in Australia
a much-needed new vitality.
Aud if that is the net result of
Rockwell’s visit it will have
been too important to have
been prevented.
HENRIC NICHOLAS
St Paul’s College,
Newtown {N.S.W.).
SPIRIT OF THE
ABORIGINES
Sir,
Congratulations on your
publication of “The Umbali
Massacre” as reported by an
aboriginal to novelist Randolph
Stow (B. 15/2/’6l). For a long
time I have thought that our
journals had not the courage to
publish such things, or that the
general public did not want to
hear about them.
Mr Stow’s method of letting
the aboriginal tell the story is
excellent. Our aborigines are
natural storytellers in their own
right, with both a dramatic
sense and a heroic sense of
understatement. This story is
typical of stories which our
dispossessed aborigines all over
Australia can relate.
Intelligent aborigines, who
believe that their future in-
evitably lies in the civilisation
of the white man, will tell you
that they do not want to drag
up the past. And yet such a
story as Mr Stow’s can only
rouse indignation among
humane white people and make
us more than ever determined
to remove the present “abori-
ginal problem” from this, our
present time.
Mr Stow’s remark in his
covering-note about the abori-
ginal narrator’s father, who
could fly disembodied from
Forrest River to Wyndham and
perch in a tree like a bird, and
of the narrator’s belief in the
ghost-woman at Umbali, is
consistent with the beliefs of
aborigines throughout Aus-
tralia, whether detribalised or
not.
Mr James McGrath, a full-
blood of the Bunjalung tribe
of the North Coast of N.S.W.,
who lives at Redfern and who
works for the Department of
Railways, will tell you of his
own belief in this respect.
Tribally, Mr McGrath is a
“Ngaloongirr,” a “clever-
feller,” a man possessed of
supernatural powers. His totem,
his “jurraveel,” is the eagle.
I have asked Mr McGrath to
tell a disbelieving white audi-
ence of this power. Briefly,
this “Ngaloongirr” said: “If I
was out in the bush with you
and I wanted to disappear, I
might tell you. I would walk
behind a tree and disappear.
After a while you would see
that eagle cruising around.
When I was ready, I would
change back into a man again.”
This is not fabrication. This
is anthropologically sound,
tribal belief. Our aborigines
are a deeply religious and
spiritual people. They not only
believe in the spirit; for them
there is no division between
the material, or physical, and
spiritual worlds.
ROLAND ROBINSON
Rose Bay ( N.S.W. ).
ART OF HATS
Sir,
That burst of theorising
about men’s hats (B. 8/ 2/ ’6l)
prompts me to stress the sug-
gestion that they are, and
always have been, worn mainly
for protection, whether against
sun, wind, rain, blows either
accidental or with intent, wood-
peckers, pigeons, the influence
of the stars, or what have you.
As with all art forms, decora-
tion should be subordinate to,
and in harmony with, function.
Take the standard Army head-
gear. First, the slouch hat.
With its tough felt, high crown
and wide brim, it is obviously
designed as shelter from sun
and rain. True, the left side
of the brim is normally worn
looped up, but this is a com-
promise. The soldier is called
on at times to slope arms, and
he must be able to do this with-
out knocking his hat off. When
protection is more important
than drill movements it can be
let down. The crease in the
crown is a bit of restrained
decoration that gives the hat
an individual appearance. The
band and badge are both func-
tional and decorative ; the one
helps to keep the hat in shape,
the other is a handy identifica-
tion, for other Armies wear
similar hats.
Then there is the tin hat —a
reasonably effective defence
against bludgeons and bullets,
and a weapon in emergency.
Not really beautiful in its
pristine starkness, but a few
dabs of paint, or a net stuck
with twigs, are allowable, for
they serve also as camouflage.
The forage cap is worn
mainly at night, and is designed
to keep the head warm. Folded
flat, it slips into the pocket or
under the epaulet when not in
use. The buttons look purely
ornamental. But, no. In bleak
weather button the flaps down
under the chin, covering the
ears and converting it into a
type of balaclava.
Normally, civilian hats fol-
low the same principles. The
bushman’s hat, for example, is
the counterpart of the slouch
hat. For adornment the band
may be of snakeskin or plaited
leather. Besides being an
article of apparel, it has a wide
variety of uses, from beating
“This job makes me tired."


Start the day rjghtj
m
■H
mm
* -•%
mZSfc
Sss^!* c
•i#**
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANC
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A D. 172 U)
Assets exceed £173,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
Kindersley House, Bligh/O'Connell Streets, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton, Manager for Australia.
out fires to giving the dog a
drink.
The fireman’s, miner’s or
rigger’s helmet serves much the
same purpose as the tin hat,
though in civvy street the blows
are mainly accidental. The
cloth cap is mainly worn at
night or in climates where the
sun is not a major problem.
The peak serves the double
purpose of a handle when doff-
ing it to a lady and an eyeshade
against artificial lights. The
button is in good taste as a
finishing touch.
How do these new hats men-
tioned in the article measure
up to the above principles?
The beach hat is all right.
Plaited straw is light, and
sufficient protection against
sun and glare. As bright
colors are expected on the
beach, there is nothing wrong
in plaiting it of different-
colored straws. And a fringe
is as good a way as any to finish
off the brim. A bright-colored
cord, perhaps, to counter the
sea breeze ; but leave the pur-
poseless knick-knacks where
they belong, in my great-aunt's
drawing room.
But the other hats mentioned,
in which decoration is exalted
above function, are an excre-
scence on the art form, like
so much other modern art. Of
what use is a liin. brim? As
much, I would say, as a dormer
window, complete with balcony
and parapet, on a house with
a loft too low to be used as an
attic.
J. B. CAMERON
Biddeston,
via Oakey ( Qld .).
THE BIGGEST BATTLE
Sir,
What does Josephine Purnell
consider “bigger things” than
the “Communist bogey” (B.
25/l/’61)?
Lenin established Leninism
with 17 supporters in 1903.
He conquered Russia with
40,000 supporters in 1917.
Today Communism controls
some 1,000,000,000 people. At
that rate of conquest, how
long can Western civilisation
prevail?
Josephine Purnell would be
well advised to remember that
“To the Communists an enemy
does not remain a human per-
sonality with rights, but an
opponent to be liquidated.”
Communists have boasted
they could turn out every light
in Victoria. Isn’t that enough
to indicate our vulnerability?
What is a bigger issue than
Christianity versus Com-
munism? Has J. Purnell
already conceded the battle?
A. W. Hartwig
Auchenflower (Q .).
UNFAIR TO QUEENS-
LAND?
Sir,
The article on Queensland in
your January 25 issue is
typical of the misconceptions,
published mainly in Sydney and
Melbourne, that do more harm
than good.
Social services in Queensland
are no different from those
elsewhere in Australia.
Over recent years Queensland
has provided over 20 per cent,
of the export income of Aus-
tralia with 14 per cent, of the
population, and this has con-
tributed to the success of
southern manufacturers who,
in turn, do good business with
this State.
The Commonwealth Govern-
ment and southern capitals
have put very little money into
this State for development pur-
poses. It has nearly all gone
into N.S.W., Victoria and
South Australia. The £2O
million wanted for the Mount
Isa Railway scheme, which will
directly increase export, was
only granted after it had served
its purpose for political foot-
ball at the Commonwealth end,
and then at a higher interest
rate and on a shorter term than
similar loans to other States.
A recently published report
from Canberra about housing
allocations to the States dis-
closed that Queensland was
receiving, on a population basis,
the smallest assistance in the
Commonwealth —£3 million, as
against £5 million for South
Australia, £lO million for Vic-
toria and £l3 million for
N.S.W.
On the matter of irrigation
you are all at sea. It is no
good irrigating land to produce
crops for which there is no
market. Dr Bradfield was com-
pletely wrong about his Bur-
dekin scheme, because he based
his stream flow on European
data, and the actual stream flow
is only one-third of what he
calculated. The Burdekin, if
turned, would never reach the
far inland.
Incidentally, half the stream
flow in Australia is in Queens-
land. The sugarcane fields are
in the wet belt, and very little
of the area needs irrigation ; it
depends upon the ripening dry
season to increase sugar con-
tent.
Total secondary industry in
Queensland still exceeds South
Australia. Despite the great
mining and pastoral assets here,
we are still the third manufac-
turing State, but percentage-
wise to population South Aus-
tralia would be greater.
I suggest that you might help
Queensland more, and the
Commonwealth, if you did an
impartial survey of the position
and directed attention to the
benefits to be derived from in-
vestment in a State that has the
raw materials available.
R. A. McCLELLAND
Brisbane.
A VERY ABLE COM-
MENTATOR
Sir,
As one who buys The
Bulletin primarily for its finan-
cial columns may I point out
that the “old” Bulletin was
the only paper which, at the
height of the recent stock-
market boom, consistently
warned investors that a down-
turn was imminent.
It did this per medium of
a very able commentator who
headed up the Business
Robbery section.
The position now is that that
column contains matter which
belongs to the Wild Cat
column. I therefore conclude
that the commentator referred
to is either on holidays or has
left the magazine.
If the latter is the case I
can only hope that he is not
replaced by one of those
“smart” journalists referred to
in Business, Robbery recently
as having sneered at Staniforth
Ricketson's warnings.
GERALD GRIFFIN
Coburg {Vic.).
[That very able commentator is
still heading the Business, Robbery
section.— Ed.]
OPINIONS OF THE NEW
“BULLETIN”
Sir,
Your “Letter from the
Editor” detailing the changes
and the reasons for them was
most interesting. This, and the
generous number of letters
from readers opposed to
change, show clearly that you
are willing to co-operate with
readers in shaping the new
paper. It calls for equal co-
operation from readers; so I
send the following ideas, and
will stick with The Bulletin
while it develops its new per-
sonality.
(1) Why not a “History of
The Bulletin,” week by week,
and later in book form? This
would be a real contribution to
Australian history. It would
also help to keep your old
readers happy. Such a book
must be written sooner or later.
Why not now, while you have
the men to write it and readers
for it?
(2) Without dropping the
Red Page, could you expand
the brief reviews into a fuller
cover of current books? Lots
of us living in the country sub-
scribe to a city library and find
it hard to select books with the
aid of the arty-crafty, Leftish
young gentlemen who do the
reviews in the daily papers.
(3) What about a good hard
look at the Man on the Land.
I am a farmer, and an occa-
sional contributor to M.0.L.,
but I fear it has had its day.
We need specialist advice on
individual problems. This is
probably beyond the scope or
The Bulletin. It is almost
impossible adequately to cover
Australian rural affairs in a
national paper without being


Divorce Notice*
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO KATHLEEN POOTS formerly of 18
Rosebank Street Kings Cross in the
State of New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that JOHAN FREDRIK
POOTS has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 3023 of 1960 on the ground of
desertion for 3 years and upwards with-
out just cause or excuse If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Mint Building
Macquarie Street Sydney by the 24th
day of April 1961 and obtain a copy
of the Petition free of charge from
Messrs. David S. Dind & Co., Solicitors,
67 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO JOZSEF GROSZ late of Shortland
in the State of New South Wales. —
TAKE NOTICE that SYLVIA VIC-
TORIA GROSZ has filed a petition for
divorce No. 3121 of 1960 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for 3 years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Divorce Office Mint Building Macquarie
Street Sydney by 17th April 1961 and
obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from R. S. Woodgate, Solicitor,
27 Watt Street, Newcastle. —C. A. 11,
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO FRANK GORDON late of Carra-
mar known as JAFFA. TAKE
NOTICE that MURIEL IRENE
GORDON has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3386 of 1960 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry Mint
Building Macquarie Street Sydney by
the 2nd day of May 1961 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge
from Geoffrey See, Gillis & Co., Solici-
tors, 28 Martin Place, Sydney.—C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
If any “Bulletin” illustration
takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you
a price for the original.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper,
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney.
NEW SUB./RENEWAL
(Please cross out one)
Please find enclosed my cheque!money-order f0r .......
months’ subscription to The Bulletin.
RECIPIENT:
ADDRESS:
DONOR:..
ADDRESS:
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 125.; \ year—£l 6s. Post
free. British C’wealth: £3 3s. 6d. Foreign: £3 16s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight—Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British C’wealth: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to “The Bulletin” or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
superficial and perfunctory,
phe best of luck in your
[difficult task.
C. S. PRICTOR
j foodend (Vic.).
Sir,
Now that you are using
professional writers the result
j, a y be more erudite; but
more people read for relaxa-
tion than instruction, so your
worthy effort could be in vain.
. However, no doubt you have
made the change because you
could not afford to continue in
the old way ; so all of your
friends, even though they may
lave given away The Bully,
wish you success.
GWEN HART
Itherton (Q.).
Sir,
The changes are timely and
will supply a journal to match
the metamorphosis of Austra-
lian cultural interests.
Present-day readers demand
more than parochial snippets.
Ve have reached international
nationhood, and your index
covers an excellent range of
interests.
Australian short-story
writers can hold their heads
high, and The Bulletin can
he green reading for many
months in anyone’s book-
shelves.
C. A. Manthorpe
Brighton (S.A.).
Sir,
The one feature of the paper
that was was the number of
people who contributed
towards it, and so we had on
paper the coming together of
people in two countries seeing
things and recording them,
starting arguments and settling
them and giving us a slant on
our own living history that
was unique.
Also, cut to par. size, what
they did say was short and
crisp and had a punch. Now
\ few select journalists are
Jiving us in a page what we
often got in 10 lines.
What you have done is taken
•to guts out of the paper and
substituted a big flabby paunch.
However, I wish you good
luck.
So long, mate. It was nice
lowing you.
M. McCLENNAN
'Mkland ( N.Z. ).
Although at first disgusted by
to changes, I have come to
a PPreciate some of them,
topping the social page is
a Sood idea, as we have plenty
* °ut social doings in other
Papers.
Society of 1880s-90s is most
entertaining. By the way,
haven’t we got polite over the
years!
I’d like to see more of Phil
May and the other old-time
artists who really were funny.
(Mrs) I. BETHERAS
Clematis {Vic.).
Sir,
I have read readers’ views
on The Bulletin changes with
interest, and note the expected
core of sentimentality and
aversion to change running
through the ones from older
readers. But most people seem
to be willing to give the new
look a trial.
The new Bulletin, to me, is
head and shoulders over the
paper of the last few years.
Whereas before I was in the
habit of skipping through it
and forgetting about it, I now
find a paper to be picked up
any time during the week and
read and reread. It’s full,
meaty, and gives me plenty to
think about.
P. VANDERSCHAAR
Canowindra ( N.S.W. ).
[The Bulletin thanks all those
readers who have offered advice and
criticism of its new format. A
magazine cannot, however, go on
printing letters about itself indefi-
nitely ; so this correspondence is
now, reluctantly, closed. It was
impossible to publish every letter
received, but all comments have
been noted, and further comments
will be welcomed.— Ed.)
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; > and no MS . will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
T.T.: “Birdwatching” can’t be
rushed like that... .P.L.M.: Just
the chorus:
Architects are waxing lyrical
On their new and greatest miracle:
Matchbox blocks for workers
clerical—
Funny dear? Why, it’s haus-
terical....
....Arthur W.: Correct:
My poetry, 1 must agree,
Displays a lack of symmetry,
It’s like the horn tips of a steer —
A good point there, a good point
here.
The simile is plainly seen—
There’s lots of “Bull” packed in
between.
. ...A.S.E.: You are more amus-
ing in bed than at your funeral....
J.S.McQ.: Send us an article about
your island... .H.P.: Quite a nice
sort of tootle.. . .J. 8.: Alas, uncon-
scious of their doom your little
victims play... .C.R.H.: Well,
that's a lot of interesting thoughts
about crabs. Now you should cook
them into a poem... . A.R.: But
what precisely are “the clandestines
of a rugged land”? ... .L.R.P.:
Leave it to Kipling R.A.W.:
Not quite, but it has atmosphere.
J.C.: We’ll have a sample of
ODE TO OUR AUSTRALIAN
LIFESAVERS
Where a group of bronzed figures
collect among the sands —
Alert and ever watching-—whilst
crashing breakers surge—
Where midst the foaming waves a
pleasure seeking band
Of beachlovers find delight in buoy-
ant salty splurge.
A fine built group, the best athletic
youthful men
Dedicated to the task of guarding
life —
Our lifesavers their lines and reels
aready, in unison
Prepared to meet emergency, a call
from one in strife
The team is ready—into action
springs, our heroes yet unsung.
. ... J.C.: Just a peep at
BATHERS, MODERN STYLE.
These pants of these queer bathers
Are only a baby’s nappy,
And being such a saver
Are sure to please a chappy.
Excuse my mirth about these suits
But if you could but see
Those figures, large and small —
beauts
Swim near naked in the sea.
... .R.H.: “How about a little light
relief for the new Bulletin —a little
nonsense?” Hm . . .:
HORSENSE
I knew a man who trained a horse
to stand upon its head.
He taught it every circus feat, from
lying on a bed
To taking pot and whitewash brush
to paint the stable door,
But this big creature ate so much
—it kept its owner poor.
He had an idea. At the time it
really seemed quite good.
“I’ll teach it yet another trick —to
live without its food.”
Each day he gave it less and less to
put in its inside,
And almost had succeeded when
the darn thing up and died.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
National Bank of Australasia Ltd
'T'he Australian banking - system has
been operating under a tight net of
Government controls and Reserve Bank s
directives for so long that it has virtually
ceased to have an economic policy of
its own. The trading-banks’ major effort
is to adjust quickly and effectively to
official edicts, and then follow in the
wake of the Government’s fiscal policy.
In these circumstances the traditional
banking - business affords but modest
profits, and the banks have turned to
adjacent fields of finance to supplement
their earnings.
Established in Melbourne in 1857, the
National Bank of Australasia Ltd ranks
among the three leading trading-banks
in Australia. After opening ten new
branches, converting ten receiving-offices
to branches, and opening 13 receiving-
offices (also closing one), the National
ended-up with 881 outlets at September
30, 1960.
In addition, there is a 40 p.c. capital-
interest in Custom Credit Corporation
Ltd, a leading national h.-p. financier.
Consolidated gross earnings for the
year ended September 30, 1960, were
£1,337,775 higher at £11,645,262. But
expenses rose by £1,485,252 to
£10,054,955, and, after setting-aside
£610,023 for income and land tax, etc.
(down £98,065), consolidated net profit
slipped by £49,412 to £980,284:
National and Subsidiaries.
Dividends. Writ- To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. 8 p.c. ten-off. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Surplus liquidation Q.N. Bank,
£500,000 5,934,866
1953.. 669,004 538.082 100,000 30,922 5,965,788
9 p.c.
1954.. 741,394 605,342 100,000 36,052 6,001,840
Share premiums, £1,008,904 .. 7,010,744
From inner reserves, £991,096 .. 8,001,840
Unexplained addition, £7135 .. 8,008,975
195.3.. 900,056 762,640 137,416 8,146,391
19.36.. 954,152 908,013 46,13-9 8,192,530
1957.. 926,807 908,013 18,794 8,211,324
11 p.c.
1958.. 972,322 1,109,794 8,073,852
9 p.c.
1959. 1,029,696 908,013 121,683 8,195,535
1960.. 980,284 908,014 72,270 8,267,805
This was equivalent to an earning-rate
of 9.7 p.c. on the unchanged paid capital
(£10,089,037 in 5,589,037 20s. ords. and
7,200,000 12s. 6d. paid ords.), compared
with 10.2 p.c. m the previous year, 9.7 p.c.
in 1958 and 9.2 p.c. in 1957.
The div.-rate was steady at 9 p.c.,
absorbing £908,014. Reserves benefited
by £72,270 and were disclosed at
£8,267,805.
Expansionary conditions prevailing
before last August’s Budget, and the
credit-squeeze were reflected in a marked
rise in advances (up £24,081,739 at
£180,592,453). Deposits, bills payable,
provision for contingencies, etc., jumped
by £16,674,493 to £309,490,996:
1958. 1959. 1960.
£ £ £
Paid capital .. 10,089,037 10,089,037 10,089,037
Reserves . . 8,073,852 8,195,534 8,267,805
Deposits, bills
payable, pro-
vision for con-
tingencies . . 273,655,789 292,816,503 309,490,996
Due other banks 269,364 296,578 9,494,032
Notes in circu-
lation . . 47,478 47,478
Final dividend 655,787 454,007 454,007:
292,791,307 311,899,137 337,795,877
Cash, Govern-
ment securi- -
ties, other
liquid assets 74,752,731 102,849,356 99,340,738
Statutory de-
posit with
Commonwealth
Bank . . 41.137,000 39,137,000 45,894,000
Advances ' . . 164,252,421 156,510,714 180,592,453
Premises, furni-
ture . . 8,971,902 9,548,671 9,512,084
Other assets . . 3,677,253 3,853,396 2,456,602
292,791,307 311,899,137 337,795,877
Advances as p.c.
of deposits . . 60.0 53.5 58.4
Liquid assets as
p.c. of deposits 27.3 35.1 32.1
The Reserve Bank’s restraining hand
was evident in the £6,757,000 increase
(to £45,894,000) in the statutory reserve
deposits, which have replaced special
accounts.
To help meet the increasing pressure
on the National’s credit facilities, borrow-
ings from other trading-banks leaped
from £296,578 to £9,494,032. Holdings
of cash, Government securities, and other
liquid assets were slightly lower at
£99,340,738. Book - value of premises,
furniture and other assets were lower.
The ratio of advances to deposits rose
from 53.5 p.c. to 58.4 p.c. Liquid assets
represented 32.1 p.c. of deposits (35.1 p.c.
in 1959). Total advances (average of
weekly figures) of all trading-banks in
September, 1960, amounted to £1077.5
million—a rise of £147.9 million, com-
pared with the same period a year ago.
In October, 1960, advances totalled
£1092.2 million. Some corrective action
by the Reserve Bank was necessary, and
this was not disputed by the National's
board.
“Between March and October, a heavy
adverse movement occurred in our over-
seas balance of payments, and this factor,
and the seasonal flow of tax funds to
the Government, w'ere the main cause
of a very sharp rise of £l5B million in
the advances of the trading-banks. In
addition, there was a reduction of £64
million in deposits. The combined effect
of these movements was a severe loss
of liquidity amounting to £222 million.
With such a large drop in liquid funds
and prospects not bright for the normal
seasonal replacement over the comin»
summer, it was obvious that
bank advances must be severely cur-
tailed.” On the other hand the bank’s
chairman, J. A. Forrest, said that “an
alteration of interest-rates was far too
long neglected by the Government.” A
useful start has now been made toward
greater flexibility in interest-rates.
Last November, the governor of the
Reserve Bank, Dr H. C. Coombs, said
that trading-banks were “given further
guidance” about their lending policies
“to ensure that restraint on bank-finance,
and the directions in which it was avail-
able, contribute promptly and effectively
towards reducing expenditure, both in-
ternal and external, to levels that the
economy could afford.” The aim is to
achieve “a considerable reduction” in
outstanding advances by the end of next
month.
Most of the affected sectors of the
economy have been quick to respond
to the treatment. The motor-vehicles in-
dustry, the growth of which was recently
described by the Prime Minister as
“abnormal,” has been sorely hit, and has
begun widespread retrenchments. Bank-
overdrafts and consumer- and trade-
credit have been drastically cut. The
sails of h.-p. concerns, including Customs
Credit Corp., have been trimmed. In
this sense the shock-treatment, has been
successful. But the real question is
whether these essentially short-run (and
short-cut) fiscal measures will cure the
basic long-run economic ailment without
recourse to at least some degree of
import-licensing or devaluation, unpalat-
able as the thought may be in some
quarters. There are doubts, if making
some selected, and admittedly inflation-
prone, sectors of the economy financially
embarrassed will remedy the overall
situation, aggravated by a flood of im-
ports and constant cost-rises in export-
industries. An obvious need exists for
some tax-concessions for the export-
producers, especially after the recently-
introduced non-deductibility taxwise of
fixed-interest charges.
In the long-run, National’s share-
holders have little to worry about. Their


PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
R. H. ALLEN, M. R. L. DOWLING,
P. R. LEVY, A. P. REYNOLDS, N. R.
COURSE (Melbourne Resident Partner).
Delfln House, 16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
25-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Building, 150 Queen St.,
Melbourne. 67-5957 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables: “Rosdale,” Sydney.
Melbourne, or Wollongong.
h
Telegraphic and Cable Address:
“Hatinax” Sydney.
Hattersley & Maxwell
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone: BW 17?1—BYV 8088.
J. B. & Frank Charlton
F. B. Charlton, J F. Charlton, J. M. Fay,
C. A. B. Marjason, J. L. Russell.
{Members of Brisbane Stuck Exchange )
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Third Floor, City Mutual Building',
309 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telephone: 2 2775, 2 4349
Branch Office: A.M.P. Building, 445
Ruthven Street, Toowoomba
Telephone: 2 5200
gfh
jdvestment is secure. The bank has
iS rned something of a reputation for a
jjaht-fisted policy on scrip-issues, but the
| V ,.cheques have been dependable, if
jot extravagant.
The 40 p.c. share-interest in Custom
Credit Corp. is a valuable asset, which can
te expected to bring-in a steady return,
fire visible net tangible asset - backing
fo rks-out at 325. lid. for each f.-p. 20s.
sr d. and at 255. sd. for each 12s. 6d. paid
ord., on the basis of consolidated
accounts.
At the last sale in Sydney the 20s. f.-p.
ords. changed hands at 295. 3d. a unit,
for an immediate return of 6.2 p.c. on
lie basis of the 9 p.c. div.-rate. The
12s. 6d.-paid ords. fetched 17s. Hd. for
m immediate yield of 6.6 p.c.
Horwood Bagshaw Ltd
During the year the co. has had so
many major projects in hand that
space available in this report is insufficient
logive shareholders information in gteat
detail,” say the directors in their annual
address to shareholders.
A manufacturer of agricultural
machinery, harvesting forgings, castings
and broadacre equipment, general engi-
neer and well-boring contractor, Hor-
nood Bagshaw Ltd is based on South
Australia. A subsidiary, Mitchell and
Co. Pty, holds the Victorian State fran-
chise for Lister engines, etc., and produces
todder-conservation equipment and other
agricultural implements. Selling a con-
siderable part of its output to primary
producers, the group is influenced by
seasonal changes.
Last term South Australia and a por-
tion of Victoria experienced a severe
drought. Despite this, aggregate turn-
over was said to have been higher than
in the previous term.
Horwood Bagshaw presents a con-
solidated balance-sheet but not a con-
solidated p.-and-l. account, and this
restricts an appraisal of the co.’s affairs.
It was said that “probably the most
significant factor which emerges from
lost year’s sales achievements is that the
co. has not only obtained a greater per-
centage of the market availability for its
Products, but that the spread is now
more evenly balanced as between States
bn was the case up to recent years.”
Parent net profit for the year ended
lone 30, 1960, edged-up by £lB2B to
£104,609 after providing £47,146 for
depreciation (up £1504) and setting-aside
£16,000 for taxation (down £11,000):
,— —Dividends- N
Pref. Ord. To Re- Re
Mi. Profit 6 p.e. 8 p.c. serves. serves.
SI, £ £ £ £ £
,s »6.. 66,846 4600 35,409 26.837 624,563
Profit sale assets, £.14,540 . .. 639,103
Tax overprovided, £3334 .. .. 642,437
Reduction capital reserve, £l9ll .. 640.526
57.222 4609 40,000 12,622 653,148
Profit sale assets, £15,006 .. .. 668,154
Tax overprovided, £16,371 .. .. 684,525
Research and development written-off,
£50,047 .. - 634,4 78
To prov. long-serviee leave, £28,748 605,730
.. 10 p.c.
”B*., 69,803 8393 50,000 11,410 617,140
Surplus sale, £2169 619,309
Tax underprovided, £3046 .. .. 610,263
6 & 8 p.c.
Ws9 .. 102,781 18,466 50,000 34,315 650.578
Tax underprovided, £1658 .. .. 648,920
Adjustment subsidiary interest, £7006 641,914
Dividend received, tax-free, £B9B .. 642,812
Tax-free reserve disclosed, £6lOB . . 648,920
104,609 18,466 63,083 25,060 673,980
* 15 months.
fall in the tax-provision looks
anomalous. After satisfying the pref.
div. requirements, the earning-rate was
equal to 14.1 p.c. on the higher average
ord. capital, compared with 16.9 p.c. in
the previous term, 12.3 p.c. in 1958 (9.8
p.c. adjusted on an annual basis), 10.5
p.c. in 1957 and 12.4 p.c. in 1956.
The adequately covered ord. div. was
steady at 10 p.c., of which 1 p.c. was
paid from a newly disclosed £6lOB tax-
free reserve. Reserves benefited by
£25,060, the tax-free reserve and a £B9B
tax-free div. from a subsidiary. They
were reduced by £1658 tax underprovided
in the previous term and £7006 adjust-
ment of interests in a subsidiary, and
were disclosed at £673,980 (parent only ;
consolidated reserves were shown at
£728,589, after adding-in £54,610 surplus
on consolidation).
During last term Horwood Bagshaw
took-over E. B. J. Chaplin and Co. Ltd
(crane-manufacturer) and Chaplin Crane
Hire Services Ltd. This was “a major
step in the diversification programme”
The manufacture of cranes was trans-
ferred to the Edwardstown (S.A.) plant,
which has been made the centre of all
types of general engineering work. The
co. also acquired J. Todd and Son Ltd,
structural steel and general engineers.
These takeovers lifted Horwood Bag-
shaw’s paid capital from £500,000 to
£627,500, in 27,018 6 p.c. 20s. cum. “A”
prefs., 49,641 6 p.c. 20s. cum, “B” prefs.,
173,341 8 p.c. 20s. cum. “C” prefs. and
2,510,000 ss. ords.
The consolidated balance-sheet reflects
improved liquidity. Stock was £211,640
higher at £1,411,575. Book-debts rose bv
£177,606 to £350,969:
Paid capital— 1958.* 1959.* 1960.*
Pref £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Ord 500,000 500,000 627,500
Reserves .. .. 658,016 686,065 728,589
Loan .. 33,595 47,717
Mortgages .. 147,750 140,750 167,662
Notes .. .. 229,875 220,000 485,000
Deposits .... 11,650
Overdraft . . 288,656 249,861 351,228
Creditors . . 174,916 171,301 294,675
Tax provision . . 10,507 40,600 23,267
Long-service provn. 42,954 11,022 18,337
Final div. .. 41,093 39,233 46,216
£2,343,767 £2,342,427 £3,051,841
Freehold property,
plant, etc. .. 944,726 967,673 1,287,409
Stock . . . . 1,212,482 1,199,935 1,411,575
Debtors . . . . 185,462 173,363 350,969
Cash .. . . 1,097 1,456 1,828
£2,343,767 £2,342,427 £3,051,841
* Parent and subsidiary.
Bank overdraft and creditors decreased.
Theoretical working-capital was £167,912
higher at £1,030,649. Book-value of fixed
assets increased by £319,796 to £1,287,469.
The co. issued 275,000 8 p.c. 20s. un-
secured notes during the year to help
finance its expansionary programme.
The first stage of the re-layout of build-
ings and plant at the Victorian subsidiary
was completed, improving manufacturing
facilities and conditions, and ensuring a
better production flow of materials. This
is expected to reduce production costs
and improve the utilisation of available
plant.
Current prospects are reasonable Pas-
toral conditions in South Australia are
favorable and heavy reserves of fodder
have been accumulated, although the
districts north of Hav '.er continue to
be dry. The outlook for the general
engineering industry in the State is, on
the whole, good.
At the last sale in Sydney the ss. ords.


changed hands at 7s. a unit, for an
immediate yield of 7.1 p.c. p.a. on the
basis of the 10 p.c. div.-rate. The 20s.
“A” prefs. fetched 17s. and the 20s. “B”
prefs. 17s. 3d., both for an immediate
yield of 7 p.c.
Net tangible asset-backing works-out
at 10s. lOd. for each ss. ord. on the basis
of consolidated figures.
Malcolm Moore Industries Ltd
Keener competition was faced through-
out the year, but all members of the
group increased turnover, maintaining
“satisfactory margins of profit.” Earnings
were aided by the co.’s ability to offer
a wide range of products on the market.
Production efficiency improved
The Victorian-registered Malcolm
Moore Industries Ltd is a manufacturer
of overhead and mobile cranes, bulk-
handling equipment, conveyor-systems,
road - making machinery, mechanical
farm-implements, hydraulic equipment
for use in tractors and with tractor-
attachments, power - steering units,
hydraulic-transmissions, pumps, valves
and structural steelwork. Other products
include tools, jigs, dies, gauges, presses,
power-packs, hoses, couplings, pipe-lines,
shovel-loaders, etc. Structural and engi-
neering work is carried out for the
Snowy Mountains hydroelectric project.
The group also distributes heavy trucks,
loaders and a large range of roadmaking
machinery, tractors and associated equip-
ment. There is a network of five sub-
sidiaries :
Moore Crane and Engineering Co. Pty.
Moore Conveyor Co. Pty.
Moore Road Machinery (Aust.) Pty.
Moore Hydraulics Pty.
Moore Engineering (C'ooma) Pty, producer oi:
tunnel supports, structural steelwork, and
structural and general engineer working on
Snowy Mountains contracts.
Consolidated net profit for the year
ended June 30, 1960, was £12,586 (or
6 p.c.) fatter at £201,218, after providing
£65,962 for depreciation (up £10,258) and
setting-aside a mere £30,000 for taxation
(up £5000):
(Consolidated Figures.)
, —Dividends To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 5 p.c. / — —Ord.- N serves, serves.*
£ £ p.c. £ £ £
1955. .183,310 20,000 15 = 97,500 65,810 877,354
Overprovisions for tax, £45,077 . . 922,431
1956. .153,087 20,000 7-1= 71,750 61,337 983,768
Profit sale assets, £16,834 .. .. 1,0p0,602
Tax overprovided, £7724 . . . . 1,098,326
Loss.
1957 . .163,123 20,000 Nil 825,203
Profit sale assets, £29,733 . . . . 854,936
Tax overprovided, £2lBB .. .. 857,12-4
Div. overprovided, £3333 . . . . 860,457
To provision stock-losses, etc., £400,000 460,457
Profit.
1958.. 80,045 20,000 3 = 43,200 16,845 477,302
Asset revaluation, £246,120 .. .. 723,422
Stock written-off, £190,000 . . . . 533,422
Valuer’s expenses, £.5233 . . . . 528,189
Loss sale assets, £7755 . . . . 520,434
Tax overprovided, £822 ... .. 521,256
1959.-188,632 20,000 7 =lOO,BOO 67,832 589,088
Tax overprovided, £648 . . . . 589,736
1960. .201,218 20,000 8 =115,200 66,018 655,754
* Subject to intangibles, £21,046 at June 30, 1960.
After paying the pref. shareholders
their 5 p.c. entitlements, this represented
an earning-rate of 12.6 p.c. on the un-
changed average ord. capital, compared
with 11.7 p.c. in the previous term, 4.4
p.c. in 1958 (after adjustment for tax
overprovision), and a loss in 1957.
The tax-provision looks very slim on
the earnings disclosed, but this may have
been caused, to some extent, by previous
losses and the contractual nature of a
considerable proportion of Malcolm
Moore’s activities.
The ord. div.-rate was lifted from 7 p.c.
to 8 p.c., absorbing £115,200. Reserves
benefited by £66,018, and also by £648
tax overprovision in the previous term,
rising to £655,754 (subject to £21,046
intangibles at balance-date).
Liquidity improved. Theoretical work-
ing-capital was £55,445 higher at
£994,806 Current stock and bank
accommodation were higher:
Consolidated Ba i,a\ <■ e-shbet.
Capital- 1958. 1959. 1960.
Pref £400,000 £400,000 £400,000
Ord 1,440,000 1,440,000 1,440,000
Reserves .. .. 477,302 589,088 (555,754
Overdraft .. .. 647,055 730,139 629,524
Creditors .. .. (598,640 473.751 549,552
Tax provision .. 20,000 25,100 30,000
Final divs. .. 49,867 64,267 78,667
£3,732,864 £3,722,345 £3,783,497
Freeholds .. 317,015 548,4,27 550,378
Leaseholds . . 291,388 .297,136 309,279
Plant, etc. .. 615,081 563,918 566,995
Investments . . 87
Loan . . . . 59,4(50 59,200 53,250
Stock .. .. 2,085,381 1,789,302 1.899,817
Debtors .. .. 331,567 425,950 368,931
Deposits, etc. .. 11,839 17,306 13,801
Intangibles .. 21,046 21,046 21,04(5
£3,732,864 £3,722,345 £3,783,497
Book-debts, creditors, deposits, etc., de-
creased. Net tangible asset-backing is
£6 3s. 9d. for each of the 400,000 5 p.c.
20s. cum. prefs., and 28s. iOd. for each
of the 1,440,000 20s. ords.
Newly marketed products, built by the
co. in Australia under licence from over-
seas firms include heavy - duty crushers,
mobile asphalt-plants, screening-plants,
aggregate - spreaders and self - propelled
rubber-tyred rollers.
The co. is spending more than £60,000
on the establishment of a new factory
and office at Perth, and on new offices
at the Brisbane works. New offices will
also be built for Malcolm Moore's
Sydney works, and for the conveyor-belt
subsidiary at Springvale (Vic.).
Competition remains very keen in all
phases of the group’s activities, but the
current year was reported to “have
opened strongly.” Trading to date is
satisfactory. But the generally quieter
economic conditions may be reflected in
the co.'s turnover. Prospects seem reason-
able, if not spectacular. The group has
a good interstate spread, and this helps
to make its position less vulnerable to
fluctuations.
Doldrums on the sharemarket make
Malcolm Moore’s scrip interesting. At
the last sale in Sydney the 20s. ords.
were traded slightly below par at 19s. 6d.
a unit. This makes the immediate yield
8.2 p.c. on the basis of the present 8 p.c.
div.-rate.
The prefs. changed hands well below
par at 10s. 6d. for each 20s. unit, making
the immediate return 9.5 p.c.
Motel Corporation (Aust.) Ltd
Paid capital of Motel Corporation
(Aust.) Ltd is now £215,759 in 364,036
ss. f.-p. ords. and 1,098,000 ss. ords.
paid to 2s. 6d. (less £12,500 outstanding
allotment money).
The co. was registered in Queensland
in December, 1959. It is based on Bris-
bane, with interests spreading throughout
the Sunshine State, including Rockhamp-
ton, Bundaberg, Mackay, Noosa Heads,
Caloundra and Hervey Bay. There are
three subsidiaries: Reef Motels Pty,
Noosa Properties Pty and North Coast
Hotels Ltd.
The initial float on December 8, 1959
offered the public 1,000,000 ss. ords. at
par, payable 2s. 6d. on application with
the balance callable in two Is. 3d. calls.
A total of 10,000 ss. ords. was reserved
for directors and subscribers to the
memorandum of association. In March
1960, the co. acquired North Coast Hotels'
Ltd. Purchase consideration was satisfied
by the issue of five ss. ords. for each two
20s. North Coast ords., plus 3s. 2d. cash
for each share. This secured for Motel
Corporation the Reef Hotel (formerly the
Caloundra) at Caloundra.
Mackay Motels Pty was set up at
Mackay jointly with the prosperous and
rapidly growing Carapark Motels Ltd.
Each co. holds a 50 p.c. capital-interest
in the new venture. This link with Cara-
park, which also involves a joint book-
ings-scheme, should prove valuable in
future.
New units are being erected for the
Reef Tropical Motel at Hervey Bay (Q.),
acquired by the co. in December, 1959.
Another motel is being built at Bunda-
berg. A “hotel-motel” at Noosa Heads
(Q.) was opened for partial operation
last October. The co.'s Reef Motel at
Clontarf began full-scale operations last
November. Business is reported to be
satisfactory.
Initial costs have been heavy. Last
term, most of the co.'s motel-units were
in operation for seven months only, and
the main emphasis was on development.
A net loss of £15,839 was incurred for
seven months to June 30, 1960:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
Tune J.oss f Dividend ——> serves, serves.*
30, £ p.c. £ £ £
Share premiums, £4375 . . .. . . 4,375
Difference par value and cost shares in
subsidiary, £19,807 .. .. .. 24,182
19(50 . . 15,839 8,343
* Subject to intangibles, £28,7(57 at 30/6/’6O.
Reserves were disclosed at £8343, sub-
ject to £28,767 intangibles. Better results
are forecast for the current term.
Consolidated balance-sheet put current
assets slightly higher than current
liabilities. There was £44,400 of 8 p.c.
debentures:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
1960.
Paid capital , .. .. £215,759
Reserves ... .. .. 8,343
Debentures . . . . 44,400
Overdraft .. .. 14,283
Inability under li.-p. . . 681
Creditors . . . . 9,389
£292,855
Freeholds . . . . 190,885
Furnishings, plant . . 47,801
Shares associate co. . . 2
Stock 2,291
Debtors .. .. .. 12,831
Term-deposits, cadi . . 10,278
Intangibles . . . . 28,767
£292,855
Freeholds appeared at £190,885.
Well-run motels are popular in Aus-
tralia. Demand for travel accommoda-
tion is high, although competition is
keen, and customers discriminating. Tha
present credit-restrictions may dampen
the growth in demand but, on the whole,
the future looks promising.
At the last sale in Sydney the ss. f.-p-
-ords. could be bought for 4s. 6d. a unit.
Net tangible asset-backing also works-out
at 4s. 6d. for each ss. f.-p. ord. unit, on
the basis of consolidated accounts.


SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Information Sought
Details of the Dred Scott case ?
Scott was a Missouri slave who
s taken by his owner in 1834
Illinois, where slavery was pro-
ved. While on free soil he mar-
and had two children, but he
y his family were later taken
it to Missouri. In 1848 he sued
freedom on the ground that his
[dence in a free State had given
i the status of citizenship.
|Hie Supreme Court of Missouri
ly that his return to Missouri
Lit that his status reverted to
lit of slave, and that he had no
Jjmlirtg in court. Then the U.S.A.
jcuit Court, who heard an appeal
1850, decided that he had stand-
jin court, though he remained a
JVC.
Hie case was argued before the
feme Court of the U.S.A. in
1)5, and the decision (not unam-
ious) was that Dred Scott was not
citizen, that the Constitution
aranteed security in private
toperty, and that the value of such
roperty in a slave could not be
Mitutionally invalidated in any
We, even by the Federal Govern-
ed Chief Justice Taney not only
landed Scott to slavery but went
it of his way to proclaim the
ipromise of the Circuit Court
)il and to deny the right of Con-
es to make slaves or their
pendants citizens
* * » *
Whence is the term shrapnel
lived? What is the precise mean-
id the term ?
Shrapnel is a type of ammunition
ngmally constructed of a spherical
® shell containing a large num-
!i of bullets and enough powder
]• burst the shell when the fuse
the charge. It was at first
« spherical case-shot, and was
S| Bned to attain a larger range
* grapeshot or common case-
The bursting charge was of
just sufficient strength to open the
shell, the bullets being thrown out
in a cone-shaped shower covering
a large front.
The later kind of shrapnel had
its bursting charge in a cylinder in
the middle of the elongated pro-
jectile used with rifled guns. It
was invented in 1784 by Henry
Shrapnel, an officer of the Royal
Artillery, adopted by the British
Army in 1803, and first used in
action in 1808. Shrapnel was
increasingly used during the nine-
teenth century, being valued for the
effect of overhead bursts against
entrenched infantry.
In World War 1 shrapnel pro-
voked the invention of the
“shrapnel helmet” and early anti-
aircraft guns used it almost exclu-
sively. But by 1939 the fragmenta-
tion effect of high-explosive ammu-
nition had improved so much as to
render shrapnel almost obsolete.
The term was loosely retained to
mean splinters from high-explosive
shells, and is still commonly in use
as such
When were the Sheffield Shield
Hatches inaugurated ?
The first competition for the
Sheffield Shield, which was a gift
from the Earl of Sheffield, sponsor
of W. G. Grace’s visiting team ot
1891-92, was held in 1892-93. It
was between New South Wales, Vic-
toria and South Australia and was
won by Victoria. In the first eight
seasons of the competition Victoria
had four wins, New South Wales
three and South Australia one.
Queensland was admitted to
Sheffield Shield cricket in 1926-27
and Western Australia in 1947-48.
* • • »
Haw is the par rating of a golf
course arrived at ?
The most up-to-date system, as
used by the New South Wales Golf
Association, is to rate each hole
separately and sum the ratings.
The course is rated on normal play-
ing conditions and the rating basis
is the play of a theoretical “scratch
golfer.”
Holes are rated fractionally, thus
the “scratch golfer,” on two
different holes with a score of four,
may be expected to be on the green
with his second shot more often on
one than the other. One hole with
a par scare of four may be rated
at 3.9—where one birdie is expected
in 10 tries; another at 4.2 —where
two “one overs” or “bogeys” are
expected.
The three basic par holes are
those of about 150 yards for a par
three, 350 to 400 yards for a par
four, and 525 to 575 yards for a
par five. These would have good
fairways and fairly large greens.
Fractional ratings by which holes
are assessed as easier or more diffi-
cult than these basic types use
these criteria: the length of the
hole; the prevailing wind; the
topography, width, condition and
number of hazards of the fairway;
and the topography, visibility, size
and condition of the green.
When the ratings of the holes
are summed, the tractions are dis-
pensed with to give the par score
for the course. A half or more
becomes the next highest whole
number and less than a half the
next lowest whole number. Thus
a total rating of 70.4 would mean
a score of 70.
» * • *
Is existentialism an atheistic
philosophy ?
Existentialism denies predeter-
mination and offers no dogmatic
solutions to the problems of ulti-
mate origins and endings. Man can
shape his own destiny, but all
human activities are regarded as
equivalent and are destined to be
fruitless. Sartre is an atheist, but
claims that an existentialist can be
a Christian. Many Catholics
adhered to existentialism before
1948, but in that year it was con-
demned by Rome. Communists also
condemn it and say it is incom-
patible with dialectical materialism.
h it an inflexible rule that MSS
of' short stories and articles sub-
mitted must be typewritten ? If
so, does this stipulation apply to
the publishing world in general ?
Handwritten short stories and
articles submitted to The Bulletin
are always read, though it is much
preferred that they should be typed.
As a general rule most publishers
will not accept handwritten MSS.
There are several firms which under-
take to type MSS and advertise-
ments appear regularly in the lead-
ing dailies offering to do work of
this kind on an hourly or piece-rate
basis.
* * • «
What is a suitable scale of
charges, either by the hour or by
the garment, as a home dressmaker ?
Much depends on the quality of
the work and the speed with which
it is done. However, it is best to
charge by the hour and a rate of
ss. per hour would be a good basis
to work on. Materials should be
charged for separately at cost, or
slightly more if they are difficult
to procure.
♦ * * *
Wants
Words of the poem from which
these lines are taken:
Little Bush Maiden wonder-eyed,
Playing alone in the creek-bed dry;
With a small green flat on either
side.
Walled in by the Moonbi Ranges
high.
—5O.
Copy of “Vision Splendid,” by
Tom Ronan.—sl.
"Answers to Correspondents”
appears on Page 55.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 631
! Across
M? ne .of the greatest stimulants are inland, hiding. (9)
H'ossibly saucy prank. (5)
~The Old Country’s criminals used to get this tea
managed before games have one turning it on. (14)
pbame enough for the deed of a bounder Frenchman. (8)
w)r turns firms with very ornate decoration. (6)
14 — A French revolutionary who lost
her offspring to the Pied
Piper? (5)
15 — Resembling billiards equipment,
the clue is misrepresented by
Kennedy’s predecessor. (3-4)
16 — Ran into the New York
opera. (3)
17 — Chap about to state St
Ignatius’s address. (7)
18 — Nora’s disorderly crime. (5)
19 — The most pleasant insect is
injured by it. (6)
20 — Pine dropping in the unfeeling
producer of paintings with an
outer luminous ring. (8)
23 —Behaved like obedient kinder-
gartners and blew up! (3, 5,6)
25• —Adelaide’s colonel is short of
pounds—that’s one of the out-
comes of power! (5)
26 —Shingle disorderly nudes found
between Cronulla and Kur-
nell. (4, 5)
Down
1— Volcano upset some limb portent
and article books originally not
admitted to the New Testa-
ment. (12)
2 Lasso. (5)
3 Reports to get a feature journa-
list’s gift. (4, 3,4)
4 A chap’s warned a sentry,
(4-3, 3)
5 Correspondence college is
upset. (4)
6 One may be punished with it for
a disreputable act. (3)
7 —Advancement for movement. (9)
9 —Society’s underdogs let down 150
non-dogs. (5, 7)
12 — Idol quavers (anagram). (11)
13 — Company turned to any male
doctor on a solid figure. (10)
14 — Flandcuffing some chap with a
clasp. (9)
21— Essayist gets a degree with study.
What could be rasher? (5)
22 — Course upset rainy seasons up
north. (4)
24 —Remark of the deprecatory
pharaoh. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 630


First choice of modern-minded
home planners...
qrjs
LYSAGHT
STEEL SHEET ROOFING
' . t
8$ -•
S
■
m
I ■#
II
SH
r~m
l :
iill
4M.
s
,
'.ll'N* P
M' s
:FI, ;>:•>'
v -
**»
* % i
'**'■ -Mx-
*•*. *>
■■ ■
IP i
mmm
4 ■
-r.m
m
Today ask your architect about the Lysaght Steel Sheet that
will blend perfectly into your new home plan.
He may recommend Klip-Lok, the smart self-locking low-cost
steel sheet used in the home above, or he may feel that Corrugated
suits your plan better. In certain instances, Flat with its
edges rolled and lapped may be suggested.
Whichever is your final choice, it will add the crowning touch
to your modern home and you can be sure it will stay smart
and serviceable for many years to come . . .
Just published . . . fascinating new guide to the newest trends in
home design. Send for your copy today! Fill in and post coupon below.
r
w/rA
mil
?oV»°
*&*&!
*o** &
John Lysaght (Australia) Pty. Limited, “B.
Port Line Building, 50 Young St., Sydney.
Please send me, without cost or obligation, the new Lysaght
Portfolio of Low Cost Home Plans.
NAME '
ADDRESS
STATE.
3 TYPES
TO CHOOSE
FROM
Corrugated: Lysaght Red Orb
Sheet, made especially rigid
for roofing purposes, has almost
endless applications in the
tiding industry. Available in
aIT wanted widths and lengths;
also pre-painted in aluminium
where speedy finishing is a
factor.
Flat: Essential for forming
guttering, downpipes, etc.;
also widely used for special
roofing purposes and effects.
*Klip-Lok! New smartly ribbed,
heavily galvanized Steel Sheet
with self-locking shoulders for
flat and near flat roofing, and
wall cladding. In cost-saving
unbroken lengths to 50 ft.
No. 222046
gfh
Gllcc
