

The Bulletin
ghg
ƒghgf
and The Observer
fgh
ABORIGINES
-OUR
if iß?f M ! m i-'
NATIONAL
PETS?
•■***''*"' . '*.T« * •>'•' ' &
C , c -
By KYLIE TENNANT
Santamaria on
Mountbatten
Honest
Frank Nicklin
Autumn Books


" A "
if
■. ' s >-. y > < ..
—*
*i i h im**
Tl
A
Nl-A ~
\ \
»-
_rx
L‘ ’Vv.
J—s
i
x —V
_v
- > '// I P T -XiJ&r
■ nJL ,/co * ,-J
;\ SO
•**»£ **»
v>':
Si
ft
m **?3
irn
■ ■•■■■
/
r
■X.
/
■ .-.V
fe*> ,SgK
- ! I
/
mi
:;§P>
VIEW FROM
THE WINDOW
A bumper-to-bumper tenseness ... the strain of driving on
congested roads . . . the fear of accident . . . the encum-
brances of a multitude of necessary road restrictions . . . the
anxiety of finding a place to park at journey's end . . . these
factors do not worry the viewer at the window.
He has finished reading his newspaper and settled back
for a few minutes of soliloguy . . . to watch the scenery
parading by the window, secure in the knowledge that his
destination will be reached at a known time.
OF
£
<6
-<
Q
CO
<o
<o
*
ri
The right track? You'll find it reaching out into
every corner of the State 6,000 miles of railway
track the same royal road along which a young
Colony progressed to a prosperous State over the
span of a century.
NEW SOUTH WALES COVERNMENT
RAILWAYS


Society
Out of the Red
A young Sydney advertising man has
a gimmick that outclasses all com-
petitors in the sales-promotion business.
Next to the artificial cactus and the air-
conditioning apparatus in his office are
his bookshelves —packed with the works
of Marx, Engels, Lenin and Stalin. He
finds that these give him a good talking
point, and inspire confidence in his
capitalistic clients that he really knows
how the enemy ticks. He may be playing
it a bit too hard, though: it would be
a pity if one day he were dragged off
screaming through some Security Service
mistake, leaving his competitors to water
his artificial cactus with artificial tears.
The Italians Celebrate
Just 31 years ago, on March 29, 1930,
Marconi gave a somewhat fanciful
demonstration of the capabilities of his
discovery when he pushed a button on
his yacht in Genoa Harbor and turned
on the lights in Sydney Town Hall.
This event, and other links with Italy,
are being dusted off this week by the
350,000 Italians all over Australia, as
they prepare to celebrate the centenary
of the unification of the city-States of
Italy into one country.
About the time that this risorgimento,
or re-birth, was taking place, under the
influence of Garibaldi and Mazzini, the
first sizable group of Italians to settle
in Australia were arriving here under
rather unusual circumstances. Together
with a number of French and Spanish
men and women, they had originally
landed in one of the wildest parts of New
Guinea. They had been persuaded into
this course by a plausible French mar-
quis, who had gone round Europe offer-
ing willing adventurers plots of land in
New Guinea, complete with houses and
impressive ducal titles to go with them.
All anyone had to do to become the
Duke of a large, rich, productive estate
“We Were practically married , had set the date. Then , so help me , he
turned into a prince !”
in New Guinea was to pay the marquis.
So many people accepted the offer that
the French Government tired to expose
the marquis and prevent the settlers from
sailing. However, some were so eager
that they sailed illegally from a Spanish
port, in the leaky ships provided. Many
died en route, for lack of food and
water. More died of malaria and natives
once they landed in the New Guinea
jungles. Eventually two still-healthy
Italians rowed out to sea and told the
strange story to some passing Australian
sailors, who in turn spread the word in
Sydney. , , .
When Governor Parkes heard about
this he offered the survivors of the mar-
quis’s scheme refuge in N.S.W. Those
who were left mainly Italians were
picked up by ships and landed at Lismore,
where they were given land. The “little
Italy” that grew up there has survived
the past hundred years—the oldest Italian
settlement in Australia.
The Italian communities in Australia
are noting with some satisfaction that
the anniversary of their national inde-
pendence coincides almost to the year
with the centenary of what they con-
Ider to be Australia's own declaration of
imocracy —the Eureka Stockade.
Italy can even claim to have had one
f its subjects mixed up in that affair —-
ne Raffaello Carboni. Carboni was a
icturesque fellow who spoke several
inguages and spent his life adventuring,
le was in Ballarat on some scheme of
is own when the trouble broke out, and
30k part in the defence of the Stockade,
le was later imprisoned, but finally
cquitted, whereupon he wrote, in English,
racy account of the whole struggle,
"arboni then went back to Italy to write
he Italian version, but was lost to sight
n the rising excitement of the risorgi-
nento.
To get an Australian flavor into their
:elebrations, the Sydney Italians are
planning to emulate the butchers and the
arewers by having a mass picnic in a
:ity park. They expect 15,000 people
lo eat and drink on the grass together
in a gathering that might, one knowledge-
able Italian warns, “last for several days
and nights.”
Getting Places —Mixed
A distraught traveller rushed into a
A Brisbane airline office: “Has the bus
gone yet for the next Sydney plane?”
The booking clerk said he thought it
was still outside. “Give me your ticket
quick,” he said ; “you’d better take your
suitcase with you. The passenger raced
out. Two hours later he was back.
“Look,” he said, “Fve done the trip to
Lone Pine and back. Where do I go
now?”
SAYING OF THE WEEK
Quite frankly, / think that Lady
Chatterley’s Lover” is a rotten book. It’s
juvenile, pornographic, dull . . .
—Vladimir Nabokov
INDEX
• Aborigines Our
National Pets? 7
• The Mountbatten Visit 11
• The Love joy Touch 13
Aboriginalities 42
Business, Robbery, etc. 44
Consumer-Observer
Letters 52
Look Back At Anger 61
Man on the Land 55
Overseas 23
Personal 18
• Honest Frank Nicklin 14
• The Devils Come to
Town 17
• Autumn Book Supple-
ment “
Plain English f*
Political Points
Red Page
Service
Shows
Society cn
Sport fa
This Australia
Wild Cat Columns oz
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty Ltd, Box 2521 G.P.0., Sydn y


Last Posts
Adelaide aldermen have ordered that
all timber and wrought-iron verandah
posts in Rundle Street, home of the big
department stores, be removed because
they give the place a “small town look.”
They spoke also of some “wretched old
posts” at the corner of Rundle and King
William Streets. Owners of the old Bee-
hive Building in question, quite a land-
mark, said no ; to replace their post-
supported verandahs with cantilevered
awnings would cost £lO,OOO. Other
opinion is that the “small town look’ is
being taken by the Council itself, which
is trying to replace the good old colonial
atmosphere of the city with characterless
office blocks. Look at New Orleans, they
say; years ago that city made a law
forbidding anyone to remove wrought-
iron posts and verandahs because of their
period character. But then. New Orleans
was the birthplace of jazz, whereas
Adelaide was a mortuary unto Tom
Lehrer.
Outcasts , Coming or Going
'l/OYAGERS used to the all-friends-
* togetherness of interstate passenger
ships are in for some shocks on overseas
liners, which, restricted for years, now
have an open go with coastal commuters.
Overseas liners have an unwritten caste
system. Passengers going from Sydney
to Europe treat the passenger to Adelaide
or Fremantle as a poor relation playing
“They own the ground , pay the rates. We can do nothing about it!"
at plutocracy, a humbug and hypocrite.
The stewards hardly veil their contempt.
And, on the romantic level, it is well
known that there is no percentage in
ogling anyone who will be on board for
only a week.
It also works in reverse. Passengers
returning from Europe are so fed up with
themselves, each other and seaboard
routine that newcomers who board the
ship at Fremantle and want to be en-
thusiastic about food, deck games,
lounges and pools are regarded with
boredom and irritation—thus again the
coastal commuters are forced to wonder
if they’ve been using the wrong soap.
POLONIUS AT THE SHOW
“Satan and The Virgin Mary each won an
award in the Arts and Crafts toy section at
the Royal Easter Show.” “Girls charged with
rioting at Parramatta Training School appeared
in the Children’s Court in bikinis of their own
making.”
Satan and Mary both rejoice
At Sydney Show among the toys;
Each has been given an award,
So long live Crime, and Praise the Lord !
The day may come when crude bikinis
Of Parramatta's Miss Locktinis
Will share a prize with some creation
Of the Country Women’s Association.
For images of bad and good
Are carved from the same block of
wood;
Bikinis, now, are worn for sport
Or being presented-in at court,
While up and down around the Show
The razor-witted Axemen go
Who chop no wood, whose only toil
Is cutting up the logs of spoil:
Therefore, Laertes, be discreet,
In whom both good and bad ends meet;
Beware lest Axemen come to grips
And separate you from your chips!
SWILLIAM
That was Society
It is some years since artist Charles
Conder left Sydney to try his fortune in
Paris, where he has had several pictures
hung in the salon. Then Phil May went
to London to put the cope-stone on a
world wide reputation. Sculptor Bertram
Mackennal next left—and now his name
is a proverb with the best of them in any
statuary’s studio. Artist B. E. Minns, des-
pite bad health, has steadily built up a
reputation for himself. And now a cable
tells that three Australians have had pic-
tures accepted in the London Academy’s
latest exhibition: Arthur Streeton, one;
David Davies and Percy Spence, two each.
Longstaff's pictures have been purchased
by London buyers. E. H. Fox has ex-
hibited in the Paris Salon, and young
Quinn is also Europeanly known.
“Bulletin”, May 13, 1899.
No one can reasonably say that the
Newcastle (N.S.W.) Children’s Court
shoidd be economised out of its job be-
cause it has nothing to do. According to
the local police inspector, “Eighty per
cent, of the crimes of the district during
the past few months have been com-
mitted by children.” On a recent day 23
youngsters faced the magistrate —mostly
on breaking, entering and stealing charges
—and that was reckoned typical of every
weekly court day. Seemingly the im-
mature brigand of Coalotropolis under-
stands the value of “organisation”; in
almost every suburb he has formed him-
self into a “society”, and christened him-
self the “Black Hand”, or some such fear-
some monster. The court dealt with 364
cases last year; and the only explanation
the moralists can find for the epidemic
is the tired old one of “the evil influence
of the moving pictures.”
— “Bulletin”, February 7, 1918.
Si.eath, m.1.a., on the Sydney jury-
squaring industry; —
The jurymen of Sydney have a trades-
union ... a co-operative society —and if
any of your relatives get into a tight
corner, and have no hope of getting off
if justice is done, you may see hanging
about the courts a number of men who
will say, “Well, how much can you give
to make a certainty of it?” And if you
can bid up to their figure they make
some mystic signs to the chaps in the
box, and it is all right; there is no con-
viction. That is done regularly.
— “Bulletin”, October 28, 1899.
It was deemed necessary to post notices
on the railway station at Flemington this
year, respectfully requesting members of
the Y.R.C. not to give their members’
tickets to “women loitering about the
station.” — “Bulletin”, November 18, 1893.
If you want a testimonial for the new
6-o’clock closing law in New South Wales,
ask the “old man” of any troopship or
liner in port. In the old days the crew 7
and plenty of the longshore men used to
get blazing drunk after knock-off time
every night. These times they cut off by
the dozen for a drink at midday, and that
is the end of their toil till next morning.
—“Bulletin”, August 10, 1916.


THE EASTER BUNNY
More than 1000 people will be killed or injured in road accidents this Easter.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Laos is India’s Fault
'T'he rights and wrongs of Seato
intervention in Laos should be
sorted out under headings.
Legally there is obviously a right:
if the Government of Laos asks for
intervention, it can get it.
And morally no non-Communist
need feel any qualms about coming
to Laos’s protection. The Western
Powers have suggested a policy of
internationally supervised neutralism
which would give the people in Laos
an opportunity to do whatever it is
they want to do with themselves with-
out outside pressure ; the Russians do
not outwardly quarrel with this, but
they have tried to spin discussion out
until the matter is settled in their way.
No one except the kind of person
who feels that anything our side does
is automatically wrong need feel guilty
about Seato’s desire to neutralise Laos
and turn it into a buffer State in the
cold war. Some of us may doubt
whether it is in fact possible to guaran-
tee neutralism and fear that the
Communists might exploit “neutral-
ism” while we honored our side of
the bargain, but that is another matter.
The central facts are that for once
we came up with exactly the kind of
compromise on Laos that the non-
Communist neutralist critics of the
cold war have urged on other issues
and that the Communists, not really
wanting a neutralist solution, played
the diplomatic game as usual. Given
that, threats of intervention and then
intervention itself were all that was
left to us if we believed in what we
were doing.
While under the headings of legality
and morality the issues are clear-cut;
it is when we come to the practical
side of the matter that it becomes —
for some, anyway—more difficult to
be definite.
The purely nitwit reaction that
Laos is not of strategic importance is
not worth much discussion. Heavens
only knows what is of strategic
importance if Laos isn't. It has a
common border with Thailand, and
that puts it right in the front line. The
kind of armchair strategist who, re-
fighting the Wars of the Roses or some
other ancient battle, assumes that West
Berlin or Formosa are of no strategic
importance cannot apply his argu-
ments to Laos —if he has an atlas.
Not that it would matter if Laos was
at the bottom of the ocean ; if it was
being contended for in the cold war
that very fact would give it strategic
importance.
Whether armed intervention would
work is another matter. It would work
if it forced the Communists into
accepting the neutralist compromise,
and that is presumably its purpose. It
might work if it meant that both sides
openly put armies into the field, as
they did in Korea, even if the result
was merely another partition. It
might not work if modern Western
forces were matched with Chinese-
style guerrillas and infiltrators ; we
find it hard to win wars of this fashion
—especially when we haven’t all that
many modern Western forces.
(Although we did so in Malaya, it
may have been because of the lack of
an adjoining Communist frontier.)
TTowever, if the Communists do not
accept our compromise there is
nothing else we can do. And we shall
at least be protecting Thailand (and
thereafter Malaya) if we force a buffer
State, or even a partition. This type
of calculation may seem cold-blooded
to some ; but what may be at stake
in Laos is not only the fate of its
2,000,000 peoples but of all South-east
Asia. After the unexpected period of
stability and peace that followed the
Indo-Chinese war the battle for the
whole area that lies to our north now
seems to be back on.
How equipped is Seato to fight it?
With only one South-east Asian
country a member of Seato the answer
is obviously: not very well. Almost
no one now believes in Seato, yet some
of the criticism sets too high a stan-
dard to be realistic.
There are some things that Seato
has done. It was whipped up from
the only material offering after the
fiasco in Indo-China and turned into
something that looked like a military
alliance. There are all kinds of
reasons why more than a military
alliance is needed in South-east Asia
and why even a military alliance would
be better if everybody was in it ; but
Seato at least was a military alliance
and it provided the only immediate
way to contain the advance of Com-
munism, when Communism was
already in the field. There is a much
greater feeling of confidence in the
area now, than there was after Indo-
china’s collapse ; this may not be
primarily because of Seato’s existence,
but it had something to do with Seato
that the South-east Asian regimes did
not simply disintegrate.
The most idealistic criticisms of
Seato are that it does not work as a
general economic agency for the
South-east Asian area. It is quite true
that it would be a great thing if all
the developed countries levied one per
cent, of their national incomes and
sent money to South-east Asia (they
would, of course, have to send it to
India, the Middle East and Africa as
well), combining this with huge tech-
nological training programmes so that
the South-east Asians would actually
be able to work the machines they
bought with the money. Even some-
thing a little less ambitious would be
a good thing: South-east Asia is the
only unstable part of the world adjoin-
ing Communist territory and needs
special treatment more imaginative
than the Colombo Plan.
Cohort of this, the main criticism of
Seato as a military alliance is that
it isn't. As a deterrent, apart from a
few odds and ends, it adds up to the
U.S. 7th Fleet. Yet fundamentally
this is a criticism of India, not of
Seato. At some time India must face
up to its task of heading a military
alliance of Indian and South-east
Asian Powers that guarantees the
independence of the South-east
Asian States. Seato could be asso-
ciated with this alliance. To suggest
it now may be unrealistic. It may
need another disaster or two to do
the trick. The loss of Laos might do
it. But sooner or later India must face
its moral duty of taking the lead in
this field, of putting principle and men
into a necessary alliance. That cer-
tainly should be the objective of Seato
statesmen.
Otherwise we shall never be able
to man an effective deterrent in South-
east Asia. In the kind of policing of
the peace needed there, men —and
plenty of them, and Asian men at that
—are needed. India knows this. It has
a huge Army of its own. But we have
to find a way in which that Army can
be associated with the defence of
South-east Asia without the Indian
Prime Minister feeling that he is play-
ing too active a part in the cold war,
a matter about which he still has some
delicacy of feeling. There are risks
in stepping aside and letting another
man —and an unreliable one on past
performance—take the centre of the
stage. But if you have the U.S. 7th
Fleet behind you, the risk might be
worth taking. It is certainly time that
India began showing a regard for the
continued independence of the coun-
tries now “liberated” from colonial
rule.
By OBSERVER


Our National Pets ?
By KYLIE TENNANT
Ii -■ —vuggai!” the aborigines of the
I | North Coast settlement called
mockingly after the old black
man. Women sneered at him
om verandahs. They knew he was on his
<ay to pay his rent. But what could he
o ? The “ Government ” which owned the
ouses had arranged to take his old
uck and sell it if he didn t pay. Without
is truck he could not get to his work on
he Main Roads job. How many times
ad he heard : “They cant chuck us out
'hey own us like dogs and they’ve got
7 keep us”? Some people paid a little
ent at harvest time blit it had to be
crewed out of them. That was a point of
onor. Now he had lost the respect of
is people. They were calling him
Duggai” —the lowest and dirtiest insult
hey could use. It meant —“white man.
pODAY the very people who could
never address an aboriginal in simple
riendship are exercised in their minds
>ver The Aboriginal Problem. It makes
hem feel uneasy that in a population of
en million there are 70,000-odd people
vho are known to be ignorant, miserable,
11-housed, ill-fed and in many cases ill-
reated. As Mr Paul Hasluck, now
Minister for Territories, once said in Par-
iament: “When we enter into inter-
lational discussions and raise our voice,
is we should raise it, in defence of human
rights and the protection of human wel-
fare, our very words are mocked by
thousands of degraded and depressed
people who crouch on rubbish heaps
hroughout the whole of this continent."
The aboriginal does not regard himself
as a Problem but as a man looking for a
job, food, shelter for his wife and kids.
The problem from his point of view is a
social one—he wants a better place in
society. He, as a true Australian, feels
the Government should do something
about it. From the white side any number
of his well - wishers are urging the
Government or rather seven separate
Governments to do something about it.
The present policy in all States is
“assimilation," an unhappy word which
suggests a piece of roughage being slowly
absorbed by the social gastric juices.
“Assimilation" in recent years has taken
on a new and better meaning: helping
aborigines to better housing, better educa-
tion, more skilled work and more oppor-
tunities. The seven States between them
spend £4 million each year on aborigines.
The Australian public today is ready to
glamorise the aboriginal as a kind of
national pet Some dark people feel this
is all very nice and just what they deserve.
In others hostility to the kind Govern-
ment, represented by police and welfare
officers, is a social attitude. Only by
examining each State separately can you
make some sense of what the Govern-
ment is doing.
Victoria
THE Presbyterian minister answered a
knock on his front door. It was an
aboriginal man and his wife. A fortnight
ago they had gone down to Melbourne for
a holiday with £l5O. Now they hadn’t a
penny and were begging their way back
to Mooroopna, living on hand-outs and
getting a lift here and there. They had
worked hard for their £l5O and like true
aborigines they had spent it in one
glorious burst. Why should they worry ?
White men are ashamed to beg but the
aboriginal, through long hard practice,
is an artist.
Legal Position. Because Victoria has
such a small percentage of aborigines
the law is no different for them as for
anyone else. The Aborigines Act (1958)
gives the Welfare Board power to nego-
tiate with the Housing Commission to
build houses on land purchased by the
Board. New regulations give the Board
power to control aboriginal stations at
Lake Tyers, Framlingham and elsewhere.
Population. The numbers are increas-
ing and will increase. An “Aboriginal”
is any person of aboriginal blood ; most
are half-castes or lighter. There are no
full-bloods in Victoria. Although the
aborigines move into Victoria from New
South Wales there is little movement
across the border into South Australia.
Aborigines know jvhere they are well off.
Housing. T he Mooroopna Housing
Settlement is a special project which has
proved very successful. Houses are being
built by the Board for aborigines at
Robinvale where it is hoped that tenants
will adapt themselves as they did at Moo-
roopna where they bought new turmture,
tended gardens, paid their rents meticul-
ously in advance. The rents were only
15s. a week. Police are preventing any
further shack-building on the reserve by
the river. As families move out thes#
shacks are demolished. Only five shacks
are left of 32. In the city 30 aboriginal
families are tenants of the Housing
Commission. (Compare this to Sydney
where aborigines squeeze into slum houses
in overcrowded dirt.)
Administration. The Welfare Board is
badly understaffed. This means that in-
justices and special pathetic cases may
escape its notice. The helpful attitude of
white townspeople offsets this lack of
official manpower.
South Australia
“No accurate census has been obtained
of the number of aborigines in South
Australia mainly on account of their
nomadic habits . .
“The Board is satisfied that the
aborigines of the State are well - cared
for . .
“General behavior has been good
except for over-indulgence in alcohol ...”
“The worst offenders have been
expelled from the mission. Employment
has not been plentiful . .
“The Board is concerned at the arrears
of rent which have accumulated . .
“Because of the increase of cases at the
hospital of pneumonia and dysentery an
assistant nurse has been engaged . . .”
—Extracts from the Report of the
Aborigines Protection Board, 1959.
Population. South Australia has over
5000 aborigines and part-aborigines, the
half-castes predominating.
Legal Position. The Aborigines Act
provides that the Aborigines Protection
Board may grant exemption to aborigines
where, in the opinion of the Board, “the
aboriginal has attained a standard of
intelligence, development and character
whereby he should be exempted.” Limited
declarations are granted and “uncondi-
tional” exemptions. The limited declara-
tion may be revoked. If it is not it
becomes unconditional in three years. In
1959, 25 males and 37 females were
granted limited declarations. 14 males
and six females were granted uncondi-
tional exemption. To be exempted means
to be cut off from the aboriginal people,
to obtain no benefits, handouts or help.
“The Board is of the opinion that all
exemptions should be revokable.”
Housing. Not so good. Ernabella
Mission provides a buffer for nomads
just entering civilisation. There are a
number of religious missions which vary
in usefulness.
Employment. Aborigines from Point
Pierce shear most of the sheep on the
Eyre Peninsula. At Coober Pedy
aborigines are engaged in opal gouging.
Point Pierce. At Point Pierce there is
a co-operative store. “We don’t try to
make a profit out of our people,” a
dignified aboriginal director said. “We do
make a profit and distribute a dividend
a fortnight before Christmas. We take
orders for toys and get it all back. We
aim to fill a need.” Land at Point Pierce


reserve is leased to local farmers. There
has been some talk of allowing aborigines
to lease some of this land for themselves.
The Rocket Range. That grand old
champion Dr Duguid of the Presbyterian
Assembly was the most active in protest
against infringement of The Central
Reserve (roughly 65,000 square miles and
made of equal portions of the Northern
Territory, Western and South Australia.)
In 1946 the Federal Government took
control of a large tract to form a Rocket
Range. This begins at Woomera, crosses
the Central Reserve and continues across
Western Australia towards Ninety Mile
Beach. Part of this was returned to the
Reserve in 1957.
In 1956 in the South Australian section
of the Reserve 1000 square miles was
leased to the South-West Mining Com-
pany and in the Western Australian sec-
tion some 7000 square miles were cut
out from the reserve for the same com-
pany. In 1956 the Federal Government
took over more of the Reserve from
South Australia at Maralinga for the
explosion of atomic bombs. It took part
of the Reserve in Western Australia for
building a meteorological station. The
Ooldea Reserve was alongside what is
now Maralinga. The aborigines were
compulsorily moved 80 miles south.
The Minister for Supply stated: “The
question of compensation does not arise
as there has been no interferance with
the aborigines’ way of life.” Graded
roads, earth-moving equipment, fast cars,
tractors now cross the reserve which is
connected with the North-West Railway.
Education. There is one aboriginal girl
at the University of Adelaide.
Western Australia
“There have been some instances of
children raised at Mount Margaret
Mission, given a scientific training in
stock work and in the case of women
in domestic science, going to find em-
ployment on a nearby station only to
find they were expected to camp around
a fire without facilities of any kind. In
one instance a couple (the woman had
been raised on the Mission from the age
of three months) had lived at the Mission
all their lives, were married at the Mission
and sent to a station in response to a
pastoralist's request for such a couple.
When they arrived they were told where
they could make their fire. The change
was too abrupt and the woman was found
with her husband on the outskirts of
Kalgoorlie living the life of a nomad
native. She was weeping bitterly when
found by the missionary.”
—From the Report’ from the Select
Committee on Native Welfare on Con-
ditions in the Laverton - Warburton
Ranges Area, 1956.
Administration. Conditions in Western
Australia were definitely bad but in 1948,
with the appointment of S. G. Middleton
as Commissioner of Native Affairs,
matters took a decided turn for the
better. Some observers would say that
basically Western Australia’s policy is
more practical and forward looking than
that of any other State. As Commissioner
Mr Middleton is not afraid to battle for
“his” people. His attitude is paternal but
in the best sense and the reports of the
Venerable Harry-Three Cheers
for budgeree White Australia!
From The Bulletin, November 3, 1910.
Welfare Department are full, frank, and
detailed.
Commenting on the Department’s
unsuccessful struggle to take back the
Allawah Grove Reserve from the Army,
which had jumped the claim during the
war, Mr Middleton reported: “The
inescapable conclusion is that natives
were not wanted anywhere in the metro-
politan area 50 years ago, and they are
not wanted today ; for 50 years attempts
to provide them with a sanctuary have
been successfully obstructed by white
residents backed up by local authorities ;
for 50 years aborigines have been forced
to live the typical lives of half-caste
outcasts and sometimes treated like pye-
dogs and for 50 years they have, of
course, reacted accordingly.”
Population. Western Australia has the
most complex problems with “natives”—
(all people with any trace of aboriginal
blood are “natives” in Western Australia)
—ranging from the desert dwellers and
nomads —“unclassified natives” —who are
estimated to number 1000-2000; full-
bloods—B32s who are increasing on
pastoral and mission stations and decreas-
ing elsewhere ; and mixed-b100d5—7673
of them who are increasing at the rate of
5 per cent, a year since 1929. This in-
crease in mixed-blood people is a big
question mark in a State with a small
white population. Under the Native
Citizenship Rights Act “natives” must
apply for a certificate of citizenship.
They must appear before the Citizenship
Board to support their application.
Children of successful applicants would
automatically have the same citizenship
rights as the parent.
Education. Child welfare payments—
after five years of effort on the Welfare
Department’s part were paid for
aboriginal children to mission stations
in 1949, and from that time the Depart-
ment has continued to subsidise the 29
Christian missions to the tune of 39 per
cent, of its income. The missions care
for 1200 native children. For each child
the Lotteries Commission gives them
7s. 6d. per year but only the Roman
Catholic and Anglican missions have
overcome their conscientious objections
and accepted it. Private schools of the
Roman Catholic Orders and the Seventh
Day Adventists keep to the school
curriculum and there are Government
schools at most other missions. The
Department has consistently followed the
policy of employing “native” clerks in
its office and the first native to attend the
University of Western Australia is now
a fully-fledged Welfare Officer. Four
others have passed through Teachers’
Colleges and there are many in white-
collar jobs as clerks, typists and nurses.
Housing. Some 97 houses have been
built for aborigines, 25 in residential
areas. The Narrogin Scheme has been
particularly successful. New residents
moved in, dug themselves gardens, bought
clean new furniture and proved good
tenants. On camping reserves there are
clean huts with chimney, fireplace,
verandah, where less civilised aborigines
can qualify for full housing.
Employment. Western Australia suffers
its full share of droughts, falling wool
prices and other setbacks for unskilled
labor. There has been a drift eastward
of aborigines with a big concentration
around the goldfields where work is
scarce. Aboriginal boys are being trained
at agricultural colleges and the Native
Welfare Department (by an amendment
of the Native Welfare Act) has now the
power to buy land improved or unim-
proved, spend money improving it and
then sell or lease it to suitable natives.
Four farming blocks in the Great
Southern District have already been
bought. This is rich fertile land and the
boys at the Agricultural Colleges will
become eligible to take it up. More land
(eight blocks) at Esperance Bay has been
reserved for aboriginal farmers scattered
between blocks to be occupied by white
settlers and the American Chase Syndi-
cate. This policy is important because it
is one of the first founded on giving the
aborigines a chance to own property in
land.
The Pindan Experiment. On the other
hand the Department looks with no
friendly eye on the D. W. McLeod
experiment in co-operative living near
Port Hedland. The Commissioner wrote
that in 1954 when the price of minerals
dropped these natives, 300-odd, were
“practically starving” and applied to the
Department for assistance. This was
promptly given and stores moved in. The
Department offered to complete the pur-
chase of Riversdale Station on which
McLeod's company had paid £6OOO of
the £IO,OOO purchase price, also Yan-
derra Station (price £9000) worth, in the
Commissioner’s opinion, half that price,
as it was abandoned and unstocked. The
offer was refused and nine months after
the liquidation o£ the company McLeod
returned and led his 300 away from the
Department again. Their finds of
minerals have now put the Pindan people


nto a much happier financial position,
mt there is still disagreement about
eadership. The experiment is interesting
n that it shows aborigines will endure
tardships, and hard work, for the pur-
>ose of asserting their independence,
iome have now returned to pastoral work
>ut others continue the experiment in
o-operative working.
New South Wales
"It would do your heart good to see
he co-op. at Numbahging. The account-
mt is equally impressed by the
iccounting records and procedure and by
he ability of the aboriginal girl shop-
issistants in the store. It is all due to
he enthusiasm of Rus McCrohan, the
schoolteacher here at Cabbage Tree
iboriginal Station. After six months
he assets are £ISOO with a membership
>/ 40 out of a population of 150. There
ire 30 acres of crops, millet, sugarcane
ind vegetables. The Post Office in the
•tore handles all classes of postal business
ind its efficiency was highly commended
yy the district Postal Inspector. Only
iborigines handle this and the agency for
he Commonwealth Bank. In five years
he co-op. should provide 50 per cent, of
Cabbage Tree’s income. They are plan-
ling experimental plots for pineapples,
yananas, ginger, and the establishment
)f a picture show. This is the first
iboriginal co-op. in N.S.W.”
—From the Report of the Rev. Alf
21int, Director of Aboriginal Co-opera-
ives for the Australian Board of
Missions.
Administration. Sixteen aboriginal
•tations are maintained by the Aborigines
rVelfare Board. These are a kind of
immunity settlement to provide a place
r or aborigines who cannot fend for
hemselves. All able-bodied men are
sxpected to work and support their
amilies. They receive the same wages
is white men. If unable to work the
>eople are given rations, clothing,
jlankets. The tone of these stations
varies with the superintendent in charge.
Dften there is little social activity or
lone at all. Reserves are set aside for
he exclusive use of aborigines. They
>ut up their own humpies, but in some
jlaces houses are provided by the Board.
‘Supervision of the majority of reserves
s exercised by the police.” Aborigines
ire entitled to social service benefits
rrespective of where they live. Com-
nonwealth pensions are only paid to
iborigines “living off Stations and
Reserves.
Population. Full-bloods number 235
vith half-castes 6600, and lighter-mixed
floods 6761, bringing the total of the
Jstimated aborigines to 13.596. Of these
5001 live on Stations and Reserves under
he control of the Aboriginal Welfare
Board.
Legal Position. Aborigines may apply
r or Exemption Certificates from the
\borigines Protection Act (1909-1943).
Careful inquiry is always made before
Ley are issued. In 1957-58 there were
117 Exemption Certificates issued with
:wo-dozen refusals to grant exemption,
rhe Board can expel an aboriginal from
my reserve for misbehavior. Aborigines
ind part-aborigines have had the right to
yote in N. S. Wales State elections since
The Westralian method
From The Bulletin, July 2, 1903.
1902 and in Federal Elections since 1949.
They are often banned from seeking
board at hotels and even aborigines with
Exemption Certificates may be refused a
drink. There is resentment against the
Exemption Certificate as this may cut off
an aboriginal from his own people who
have no “dog licence.”
Education. The last separate school
for aboriginal children was closed at
Gulargambone and they are given the
same schooling as the white children in
the same schools. No aboriginal in
N.S.W. has as yet attained University
education.
Housing. There are more Assimilation
Committees working for the aboriginal
than in any other State and they are all
badly needed. Most of the 13 commit-
tees are on the North Coast or in the
north-west where there is a heavy con-
centration of aborigines and white
opinion is harder against them. Housing
has improved. In the city the aborigines
are mainly in the slums, although there
are others living ordinary suburban
lives.
The best example of the kind of
obstruction that goes on against their
obtaining houses in county towns is the
case of the Cubawee Reserve out from
Lismore. In 1957 the Lismore City
Council considered the application for
the use of Leechy Scrub by the Abo-
rigines Board to assimilate 15 aboriginal
families. The finance committee sent the
application back to the council saying
there was no finance. Next year, 1958,
there was a letter in the local paper
signed by “33 ratepayers protesting
against a new scheme to house abo-
rigines in four groups of four housing
sites in different parts of the city of
Lismore. (“The Council should give
consideration to the fact that whole areas
of property adjoining reserves will
immediately fall in value considerably. )
The Lismore Aborigines Welfare Com-
mittee found that any of its proposals to
erect homes for aborigines were always
turned down by the Council. Later in
1958 the Council, in reply to the Abo-
rigines Welfare Board, said it was not
"Why, you’ve got a head like Socrates,
Jacky!”
"No plurry wonder! Bin drinkit bout
tub o’ rum last night.”
Front The Bulletin, December 31, 1930.
willing to have future recreation and
park lands made available for aboriginal
housing. If the Board objected to the
swamps and floods at Cubawee it should
buy a suitable site elsewhere, but the
Council could not involve itself in
expenditure. In 1959 the City Engineer
reported that there was no site owned
by the Council suited to housing the
aboriginal settlement at Cubawee. The
Council later affirmed its decision not
to make Leechy Scrub available. Next
year the Health Inspector reported that
a sanitary service to Cubawee Aborigines
Reserve would be out of proportion to
the Council’s finances. The Trades and
Labor Council had said the sanitary con-
ditions were the cause of the hookworm
outbreaks. The analyst’s report showed
the water from the creek at Cubawee
was unfit for drinking or domestic
purposes. Bores had been sunk on the
reserve, but the water obtained was
unfit to drink. Carting water, he added,
would be too costly.
Fifteen years ago the Board drew up
a plan for rebuilding the houses at Cuba-
wee, but the unsuitability of the soil and
the distance from all amenities had made
them decide to seek a new site. This
month (1961) the Shire Council will ask
the Aborigines Welfare Board if it will
be prepared to meet the cost of installing
a water-supply to Cubawee Reserve. The
Health Inspector said he expected the
present conditions would continue
indefinitely.
Employment. The Railway Depart-
ment, the Main Roads Board, the
Water and Sewerage Board employ
aborigines, but most follow seasonal
work such as shearing and pea-picking.
Many make good money and are just
ordinary members of the community
with their own homes and cars. Some
towns in N.S.W. are “bad” towns for
aborigines. Some are “good.” This
depends on the civic leaders and the
people of position who really run the
town.
The Welfare Board is paying for boys
apprenticed to skilled trades. They have
sent some of them to live at Tranby


Co-operative Centre in Glebe where
aborigines from other States also come
while they are learning skilled trades and
how to form co-operatives among their
own people.
Queensland
“When you talk about aboriginal hous-
ing in Queensland you ought to see
Gar butt out of Townsville. After the
war people without homes were moved
in temporarily to this big Army camp.
They were supposed to be there three
to six months, and children, black and
white, grew up while they waited for
houses. The community baths, toilets
and laundries are indecent and disgrace-
ful. When you've got clothes on the line
you’ve got to watch them. Most of the
white families have been taken away.
Two dark families got houses recently,
paying deposits of £250. 7 he houses will
cost £4OOO and they can be put up for
£BSO. The dark families left at Gar butt
go along to the Housing Commission and
are told, ‘There are no vacancies —you
must wait your turn.’ But they know
they’re always last.”
—From Alf Stanley who has married
a white girl, built his own good home
with his own hands, w'orks in the Railway
workshops with 1000 other men who, he
says, “never notice the color of my skin.
Administration. Queensland has more
aborigines than any other State. There
is more work for them, the climate suits
them and there is a free-and-easy attitude
with a paternal Director of Native
Affairs, Con O'Leary, in charge of the
Department of Native Affairs. Nothing
if not approachable, he will personally
encourage those aborigines who need help
or blast the hide off those who commit
some fault. “Why is it,” a visiting M.P.
asked, “that the aborigines I see here are
happier, freer, better dressed, more inde-
pendent? They don't slink and cower
like the abos. where I come from.’’
Population. The total colored popula-
tion is 46,234. This is made up of abo-
rigines (“controlled” or “on the settle-
ment,” 10,284), others wandering at their
own sweet will, 1080. Of the half-castes,
7920 are “controlled.” The others who
are just part of the population (“non-
controlled”), 19,700. There are also
7250 Torres Strait Islanders many of
whom work on the mainland. Of the total
19,700 have full citizenship rights. The
Torres Strait Islanders have an anoma-
lous position (under The Torres Strait
Islanders Acts 1939-46); 1080 non-
controlled aborigines have “part” citizen-
ship; and the rest come under The Abo-
rigines Preservation and Protection Acts
(1939-1946). There are 12 Church Mis-
sions, most of them in the isolated Cape
York, and six Government Settlements.
Also three Hostels which almost rank as
settlements in their own right. The
Country Reserves are not as important
as in other States. They lie near country
towns. The Department encourages Wel-
fare Associations among the aborigines
themselves. Cherbourg Settlement is a
show place which even has a trim and
pretty team of marching girls who win
cups.
Legal Position. This month the Federal
Council of the Aboriginal Advancement
League is holding its Conference in
Queensland. They have invited represen-
tatives of the Government to attend
because if any Act is worth throwing
away it is the Queensland one. It gives
far too much power to the administra-
tion. (No marriage between aboriginals
shall be celebrated without the permis-
sion of the protector of the district in
which the parties to such marriage reside.)
The director is the guardian of any abo-
riginal child under the age of twenty-one.
The aborigines have legally little right of
protest against any injustice. There is
strict supervision of anyone wishing to
visit settlements and the right to do so
may be refused them.
Employment. Aborigines (controlled)
cannot spend the money they earn with-
out permission of the local protector.
Many aborigines work on cattle stations
at very low wages and have little redress
against iil-treatment. For years the
A.W.U. has tried to get a variation of
the award to cover full-bloods but has
met with determined opposition from
graziers and no success.
Education. No aboriginal in Queens-
land has attained University standard.
Two young men have Teachers’ College
certificates. The total number of abori-
ginal children at secondary-school is 18.
Girls qualify as nurses, some boys
become skilled tradesmen, but the
Queensland standard of education for
aborigines is not remarkable.
The Northern Territory
Administration. The Department of
Territor.es, created by the Common-
wealth Government in 1951, administers
“external” territories and the Northern
Territory was, rather carelessly, thrown
in. This can be only a temporary measure
until the white population of a little
under 20,000 increases and it becomes a
State, in full measure. Luckily the new
Minister was Paul Hasluck, an intelligent
and humane man who had for many
years been vitally interested in aborigines.
Conditions in the Territory were particu-
larly bad. The 16,000 full- and mixed-
bloods were regarded as a source of
cheap labor. Mr Hasluck was on a prong.
He and his department wanted the abo-
rigines to have just as many rights as
anyone else, but also they wanted to
spend money bringing the education,
housing and conditions of aborigines up
to standard, and money could scarcely
be spent on aborigines if you just turned
them adrift as part of the general popu-
lation, said they were citizens and that
was that.
Legal Position. The result was a rather
awkward evasion called The Welfare
Ordinance (1953) which set up a Welfare
Branch under a Director. This was
passed by the Northern Territory Legis-
lative Council with the Wards Employ-
ment Ordinance which can provide
money up to £IOOO to set up deserving
wards in some skilled craft or enterprise,
train wards up to university standards
or otherwise improve their education.
By the Welfare Ordinance all people
of mixed blood automatically became
full citizens —about 1900 of them. The
other 15,300 odd were declared “wards.”
They still have no right to vote. Their
wages, property and children are under
restrictions, not fully controlled by them. ;
They can be moved about where the
Director thinks fit. At the Federal Coun-
cil of Aboriginal Advancement Leagues
(1959) this Ordinance came under fire.;
It is not favorably regarded, but it is a
makeshift giving the Welfare Branch
power to make improvements. Only the
next five to ten years will show the
results. Certainly well over a million is
now being spent on the aborigines of the
Territory. Staff increased from nine in
1938 to 131 in 1957. (Salaries yearly are
£278,654.)
Education. Overall education has im-
proved. Pre-school education has started.
Thirteen special Administration schools
have been set up. Subsidies are offered
to station-owners who will set up schools
on their properties, but this offer has, in
some cases, met with indifference. There
are three subsidised schools on pastoral
properties. As these properties are where
the aborigines live and work the attitude
of property-owners counts. In 1953
there were 1061 full-blood children at
school. There are now at least 2185.
Housing. There are rules laid down
for minimum standards of housing for
aborigines which station-owners often
blandly ignore. Housing on Mission
stations has been improved as the result
of Government subsidies on a more
liberal scale since the Welfare Branch
commenced work. The 13 Christian
Missions vary in efficiency and their
attitude to the aborigines. The 14
Government settlement also depend on
who is in charge. There are now 17
reserves totalling 95,000 square-miles
or 42,880,000 acres. Don’t think of this
as farming land. It isn’t.
Employment. This is the big problem:
the owners of properties and the big
companies still pay as little as possible
for what they regard as labor less efficient
than that of white men. The Director
complained that the minimum wage of
£2 a week for a man, plus allowances for
wife, children and clothing, was made
their standard and few allowed margins
for skill. Such owners resent the Wel-
fare Officers’ attempts to improve the
condition of “wards.”
The Next 100 Years
matter how many hand-outs you
-*-* give, gifts are always suspect
if you hold the giver in subjec-
tion. He would sooner be able to
buy it for himself. Most good Wel-
fare Departments realise that training
the aboriginal to do things for them-
selves, either as individuals or co-opera-
tive groups, is the only way. They are
often demoralised and have no coher-
ence. In tribal society there was no
“leader” or “king.” A group of experi-
enced men made the decisions. Today
there are a few “spiv” leaders of their
own color who talk loud and who are
not trusted. Aborigines are often fine
judges of character.
“Well,” one of them said at a con-
ference of white men, “I’ve been listen-
ing to all these heads saying what good
blokes the abos. are. They’ve only been
talking about us for a hundred years and
I guess they'll go on doing it for the next
hundred.”


The Mountbatten Visit
By B. A. SANTAMARIA
WHETHER one considers the
Athenian, Roman, Spanish,
French or British empires, each
at the height of its influence has
claimed and exercised political respon-
sibility for the “management” of a sector
of the known world. This exercise of
political responsibility has been based
upon superior military and economic
power. Ultimately the time comes when
economic primacy and military superior-
ity alike vanish and are replaced by the
pre-eminence of another power. The
disappearance of military and economic
primacy inevitably takes with it the
capacity for the political “management”
of former dependencies. These seek their
own autonomy either because they have
developed real interests separate from
the mother-country or simply because
they wish to emphasise their independ-
ence.
What is left is not only a moral and
cultural achievement, but a moral and
cultural pattern of behavior. The great
heritage which Britain gave to the world
was the concept of the rule of law and
the independence of the judiciary as the
guardian of personal freedom, a seed
which has germinated in the most
improbable soils in Asia and Africa.
India and Nigeria are outstanding
examples.
Most empires, however, have faced the
temptation of attempting to reassert their
political authority at a time when the
military and economic foundations of
political power have vanished. If the
history of empires teaches one lesson, it
is that this attempt to reassert political
authority cannot succeed. In addition,
the attempt breeds unnecessary tension
between the former imperial power and
its erstwhile dependencies, a tension
which may even threaten their cultural
unity.
I wonder whether we are not running
into a similar problem as a result of the
recent visit to Australia of Earl Mount-
batten, Chief of the United Kingdom
Defence Staff, and the forthcoming visit
of Lord Carrington, First Lord of the
Admiralty. If informed press comment
on the purpose of Earl Mountbatten’s
visit is correct —and I merely ask the
question —is there the possibility that
Britain is seeking to reassert a military
and political responsibility in relation to
Australia’s foreign and defence policies
at a time when the political interests of
the two countries have diverged very
greatly?
The revolutionary changes in Aus-
tralia’s foreign and defence policies since
1941 can be quite briefly summed-up.
Prior to the Japanese attack in 1941 a
militarily weak Australia was protected
by the European power in South and
South-east Asia and particularly by
British predominance, symbolised graphi-
cally by the presence of the great naval
base at Singapore.
The fall of Singapore on February 15,
1942, was not only a temporary reverse.
It marked the elimination of European
power from the crescent linking India,
Indonesia, the Philippines and Japan. It
became accepted that the former imperial
powers no longer had the military, poli-
tical and economic strength to reassert
themselves. Whatever its desires might
be, Britain did not have the power to
afford military protection to Australia.
The arrival of General MacArthur sig-
nalised a new era in Australian defence
and foreign policy. Insofar as this
country depended upon allies for its
defence —which unfortunately it does to
far too great an extent—this dependence
would in future be on the United States
rather than upon Great Britain. John
Curtin's dramatic announcement of
December 27, 1941, gave public expres-
sion to Australia's new position:
“The Australian Government regards the
Pacific struggle as primarily one in which
the United States and Australia must have
the fullest say in the direction of the
democracies’ fighting plan....
“We know the problems that the United
Kingdom faces. We know the constant
threat of invasion. We know the dangers of
dispersal of strength. But we know, too,
that Australia can go, and Britain can still
hold on.
“We are, therefore, determined that
Australia shall not go, and we shall exert
all our energies towards the shaping of a
plan, with the United States as its key-
stone ”
IF the informed reporting of the Aus-
tralian press as to the purposes of the
Mountbatten visit is even generally
accurate, then the developments which
may issue from it seem to challenge all of
these assumptions. The facts as reported
by the “Sydney Morning Herald’’
(23 /2/’6l) and by the London “Times”
(24/2/’6l) seem to be as follows: Earl
Mountbatten spoke to the Prime Minister,
to the Australian Cabinet, to the Leader
of the Opposition, to the Chiefs of Staff
and to the Australian Defence Commit-
tee. The Australian Defence Committee,
containing as it does the Chiefs of the
Armed Services, the permanent heads of
the Prime Minister’s, the Defence and
the External Affairs Departments and the
Treasury, is obviously the supreme politi-
cal body controlling Australia’s defence.
According to the “Sydney Morning
Herald’’ report, Earl Mountbatten
declared that Britain proposed to increase
her nuclear and atomic weapons in
South-east Asia and also to increase the
deployment of new conventional weapons
in order to meet the possibility of mili-
tary aggression from Communist China.
The correspondent reported that Mount-
batten urged Australia to increase her
contribution to South-east Asian defence
(this was denied by the “Times ’ corres-
pondent). A unified British command
which would embrace Australian and
New Zealand troops as well as British
forces was also projected.
The proposal for a unified British
command in South-east Asia —if it has
been made —is one which warrants the
closest investigation, firstly from the
military and then from the political view-
point. From the military viewpoint, the
effectiveness of a military command
must primarily depend upon the size and
the equipment of the military forces of
which it disposes. It is very difficult to
see that Britain will ever be in the posi-
tion to dispose of such forces in the
South-east Asian area as to remove Aus-
tralia's almost complete dependence upon
the support of the United States. In this
situation a unified British command,
including Australia, can dangerously
complicate Australia's already difficult
defence problems.
The most recent British White Paper


on Defence, which was presented to the
House of Commons on February 13, 1961,
and which was followed by the speech
of the British Defence Minister, Mr
Watkinson, on February 27, very ex-
plicitly reveals Britain’s present military
position.
If all present plans are fulfilled —and
it is very doubtful whether they can be
—Britain will in 1965 have no more than
400,000 men serving in the three arms.
At the maximum, this will comprise
180,000 in the Army, 135,000 in the Air
Force, and 88,000 in the Navy.
By 1963 approximately 160,000 are
expected to be serving in the Army. Of
these today 40 per cent. (64,000) are
attached to Britain’s N.A.T.O. forces.
Strong strategic reserves are maintained
in Britain and in Kenya (where constitu-
tional developments soon to take place
may make it impossible to station troops
in future). This leaves almost infinitesi-
mal garrisons available for service in
Cyprus, Malaya and Hong Kong.
These forces, small as they are already,
will not be increased. The likelihood is
that they will be reduced. The White
Paper, according to the Manchester
“Guardian,” “promises a periodic review
of troop deployment and says that we can
expect these and the change to all-
Regular forces to lead to ‘some reduc-
tions in our forces in overseas theatres.’ ”
In the course of the Defence debate Mr
Watkinson said that, “We are examining
our position in Malaya.” He added that
Malaya was reaching Commonwealth
status and the British Government would
no doubt find it necessary to make
reductions.
Of the 88,000 force allotted to the
Navy by 1965, already 85 per cent, are
serving as part of N.A.T.O. Thus only
15 per cent, are available for service over-
seas. Of the 135,000 men allotted to the
Air Force, 50 per cent, are already
attached to N.A.T.O. It must not be for-
gotten that the British strategic reserve
in the United Kingdom and the British
contribution to N.A.T.O. are today below
promised strength. Proposals already
canvassed in Britain are that some of
the Gurkhas at present stationed in
Malaya should be switched to Britain
(“Economist,” February 4 and 18).
What is being said by the unilateralist
forces and the British Labor Opposition
the alternative Government —is also
worthy of consideration. Mr Richard
Crossman, this year’s Chairman of the
British Labor Party, has stated:
“There is already a gaping chasm be-
tween the minimum manpower required to
fulfil our Nato and Commonwealth obliga-
tions and the manpower actually available.
“I am convinced that the right way to
solve this is to cut imperial commitments,
even though this may finally involve with-
drawal from most of our overseas stations
east of Gibraltar. A mere pruning of
commitments will leave the dilemma un-
resolved.”
In the light of this analysis it is obvious
that Britain will reduce rather than in-
crease the forces which she can con-
tribute to a unified defence command in
South-east Asia. Is the deficiency likely
to be made up by greater nuclear power?
It is difficult to see how this is possible.
The “Blue Streak,” Britain’s single inter-
mediate range ballistic missile, has been
abandoned. For the next 10 years the
major means of delivery of nuclear
weapons on which Britain will rely will be
manned bombers. It is recognised that the
manned bomber is vulnerable because
the long runways which it requires
are stationary targets. It is for this
reason that the Americans are developing
the Polaris and Minuteman missiles which,
since they can operate from moveable
launching pads, do not present a station-
ary target. Whereas the United States has
at present 17 atomic submarines, Britain
has only one completed and one projected.
It is clear therefore that, through no
fault of its own, the forces which Britain
can dispose of in South-east Asia are
minimal and are likely to be smaller
rather than greater. The united British
defence command in the Pacific would
therefore depend considerably on what a
country like Australia could —or more
practically, would —contribute. Aus-
tralia’s present contribution to the
strategic reserve in Malaya is one infantry
battalion, two destroyers or frigates based
on Singapore, periodical visits by the air-
craft carrier H.M.A.S. Melbourne, one
Canberra bomber squadron and two Sabre
fighter squadrons. It is technically pos-
sible to add one battle group, at present
in Australia, to the Malayan reserve.
When all of these are added to the British
contribution, it is apparent that a unified
British defence command would be mili-
tarily negligible.
T do not believe that important figures
" like Earl Mountbatten put forward
proposals inherently insignificant. Is it
possible that the purpose of the unified
British defence command is less military
than political? The “Sydney Morning
Herald” appreciation of the Mountbatten
proposals contained this significant para-
graph:—
“The British Government’s view is
believed to be that this (unified command)
would strengthen its hand in asking the
United States to agree to closer co-opera-
tion in South-east Asian defence.”
If this is the real purpose underlying this
suggestion then it could be more ex-
plicitly expressed in plainer language.
To date, Australia and New Zealand have
followed the same foreign policy “line”
as the United States in refusing to give
diplomatic recognition to Communist
China and in voting against the admission
of the Chinese Communist regime to the
United Nations. Is the real purpose of a
united British command the creation of
a different political alignment on the part
of Australia and New Zealand so that
they would follow the British rather than
the American line on these critical issues?
Would the fact that the Commonwealth
would then speak with one voice in favor
of diplomatic recognition of Communist
China and a favorable vote on her admis-
sion to the United Nations be used to
exercise pressure upon American public
opinion and then the Kennedy Admini-
stration to change the American attitude?
It has been reported from Washington
that one of the purposes of Mr. Menzies’
discussions with President Kennedy was
to underline the undesirability of Britain
and the United States speaking with
different voices on these issues. If Mr.
Menzies did indeed discuss these issues
with President Kennedy, what was he
aiming at? It was hardly likely that he
would be suggesting that Britain should
change her attitude to approach that of
America. Could it be that he was sug-
gesting that America should play down
her opposition to Red China’s admission
to the United Nations, thus adopting the
British viewpoint which in the end can
only mean full-scale American recog-
nition of the Communist Chinese regime?
I am only asking questions. The issue,
however, is cr'tically important for Aus-
tralia, for if Mr. Menzies is proceeding
along these lines the policies he is pro-
posing are hardly sensible from the view-
point of Australia’s defence.
A realistic statement of the South-east
Asian situation begins with the clear
appreciation of the expressed intentions
of the Chinese Communist leadership—
that it is determined to eliminate every
atom of American influence in East and
South-east Asia. It would be nonsensical
to seek to eliminate the American in-
fluence in Korea, Japan, Formosa and
still allow pro-American governments to
operate in Australia, Malaya, South Viet-
nam and the Philippines.
The one force which inhibits the reali-
sation of Communist China’s ambitions
is the existence of the the defence arc
which runs parallel to the Chinese main-
land and which depends upon strongly
anti-Communist regimes backed by ade-
quate military power in South Korea,
Japan, Formosa and other points south.
It is this pattern of political and military
power which, since the end of the Korean
conflict, alone has kept the Chinese Com-
munists in check. It depends upon a
series of treaties between the United
States and these countries and in the confi-
dence which these countries have in
American intentions.
If the United States weakens its atti-
tude, first on the question of Red China’s
admission to the United Nations, and
second, on the issue of recognition, the
consequences are clear. The Communist
Chinese have clearly stated that they will
not enter any international body in which
the Government of Chiang Kai-shek is
accorded any standing whatsoever. This
was carried as far as a refusal to partici-
pate in the International Olympic Com-
mittee unless the Formosan Chinese were
first expelled. They were expelled. The
Communist Chinese admission to the
United Nations would mean the previous
ejection of the Chiang Kai-shek Govern-
ment, even as the representative of For-
mosa. Again the Chinese Communists have
specified that they will not accept diplo-
matic recognition from any country which
does not abrogate all of its relatipnships
with Chiang Kai-shek and automatically
give the Red Chinese the right to


liberate” Formosa as it has “liberated”
ibet All of these facts are quite well
nown.
For the United States to accept either
f these propositions means to throw For-
losa to the wolves. If Commonwealth
ressure on America is successful in per-
vading the United States to adopt the
British viewpoint in relation to Communist
'hina, then obviously South Korea,
apan, the Philippines and South Viet-
am must realise that the Americans are
roken reeds. The power which would
iermit Formosa to fall to her Communist
nemies could equally be pressured
ato abandoning them as well.
' sum up what I have said in relation to
- Earl Mountbatten’s visit briefly. If
,arl Mountbatten seriously proposed Aus-
ralian participation in a unified British
lefence command in South-east Asia, it
ould not be for military reasons since
he available forces from Britain or else-
where are mimimal. The proposal could
inly be directed to creating a single
Commonwealth alignment on foreign
>olicy in relation to Communist China—
he British alignment —and to bringing
:onsequent pressure upon the United
Itates to accept the British position.
The British position was stated clearly
»y Lord Home, the British Foreign Sect-
ary, only a few weeks ago, when he said:
“The facts of international life require
that China should be admitted to the
United Nations. Hitherto the choice has
been between the admission ol China and
the break-up of the United Nations. To
that there was only one answer. It is
now for the United States Administration
to state what its attitude will be.”
Unity of Commonwealth policy along
hese lines is sensible for Britain —but not
or Australia. As long ago as July, 1953,
3. F. Hudson, Fellow of All Souls
College, Oxford, in an important article
n “Foreign Affairs,” wrote these
vords:
“British foreign policy and strategy are
ultimately based on a scale of priorities
which set Europe and the Mediterranean
first, the Middle East and the Indian
Ocean second, and the Far East by a long
way third.
“If in time of crisis certain interests
have to be thrown overboard to lighten the
load, those which are located beyond
Singapore must be the first for sacrifice,
and those from Suez eastward must be
next; but the needs of security in Europe
can never be sacrificed because the very
existence of Britain as a nation depends
upon it.”
If these anxieties which I express have
iny foundation in fact then I suggest
that we must question the direction in
which Australian foreign policy is tend-
ing. When the correspondent of the
“New York Times,” Homer Bigart, inter-
viewed Mr. Menzies in Canberra a month
ago he reported that the Australian atti-
tude towards Communist China was
weakening perceptibly. Since that date
reports of Mr. Menzies’ representations
to President Kennedy do not indicate any
strengthening. The Federal Secretary of
the Australian Labor Party (Mr F. E.
Chamberlain) has been reported as
saying—and significantly has not specifi-
cally denied —that Formosa should be
handed over to Communist China.
Is there to be a bi-partisan Australian
foreign policy—based on the sacrifice of
Australia’s vital interests?
The Lovejoy Touch
By LINDSEY BROWNE
As the Japanese became less and less
likely to capture the 20-man radar
post on a rock in Torres Strait
in 1944, the art of the theatre
stealthily moved instead to capture the
Australian sergeant in charge—aged 20,
name of Lovejoy (though that, of course,
wasn’t what the other men called him!).
He merely suggested a bit of a concert
as a way of relieving the post's collective
boredom and even went so far as to paint
scenery with his shaving brush —a deed,
by the way, in which the brushstrokes
unconsciously went in rhythm with the
music of the tinpot band rehearsing
nearby. Out of this accident an act was
cooked up for Lovejoy to do—he was to
paint, with the appropriate rhythm, “The
White Cliffs of Dover” and “Red Sails
in the Sunset” while the band got on
with the music.
So came to a stage for the first time the
same Robin Lovejoy who, widely
acknowledged now at 37 as the most
obsessed, gifted, perceptive and perfect-
ionist producer of all resident Australian
play-makers of his generation, is soon to
take 21 months' leave from his post as
Director of Drama for the Elizabethan
Trust in order to study theatre trends
in U.S.A. under the terms of a fellowship
from the Harkness Foundation of New
York.
Born in an obscure outpost of Fiji,
which was his home till he was 15 and
ready to become a very bad audit clerk in
Sydney, he had, as the only artistic bent
of his childhood, drawing and painting—
the most memorable accomplishment
being the painting of his father's fowls
in green enamel. As the enamel was
applied directly to the feathers of the
fowls themselves, it was made subtly clear
that young Robin wanted an art that had
living movement in it, an aspiration (or
a symbol) which none should challenge on
the ground that the fowls all died! In-
deed, most of the “birds” he “painted” in
later years —“You Never Can Tell and
“House of Bernarda Alba” for the Metro-
politan Theatre, Devil Take Hei <md
half a dozen other operas, “The Rivals’
and “Long Day’s Journey” and “Ah!
Wilderness” and “The Hostage” for the
Elizabethan Trust —took wing soaringly.
Certainly, these were all productions
which delighted me. As a music and
theatre critic through Robin Lovejoy s
own time of growth, it is among the
happiest of my remembrances that 1, it
not often enough perceptive, was able to
see and applaud this man s merit and
potential from the beginning. And 1
became even more of a Lovejoy fan when
I met the man —complete absence of the
gush and glad-handing by which so many
theatricals manufacture their goodwill an
air of suspicion in those dark watcnful
eyes which would accept nothing by
mere outward appearances a long V-
shaped face with chin so long that it
weighted the mouth too heavily for
smiles often to banish sullenness, and talk
ROBIN LOVEJOY
No gush, no glad handing
that cut hard down to sense even though
there was a protesting nervousness which
suggested his awareness that unsugared
sense can be antagonising.
I knew when I talked with him over
dinner at his Cremorne home the other
night that these things have not changed
in him, though the years of successful
self-proof have mellowed him to a degree.
They have given him cordiality and confi-
dence and a sensible belief in himself,
but they have not given him (and for
every theatre-lover s sake, I hope they
never well!) any feeling that he can pro-
duce a play now without the toimenting
inner battle and questioning that leave
him, after opening night, spent and self-
doubting and angrily wondering about
the worth of it all, of the pain and of the
thing that the pain has brought forth.
Frankly, I do not think that Robin
Lovejoy will ever be able to give up
the theatre. Like a drug, it both grips
and wrecks him. Addiction cannot be
readily stopped, except where the will
is fierce. But this man s will is strong,
so we talked like this:
Browne: Do you think you'll ever
give the theatre away, Robin?
Lovejoy: I don’t know. I think I get
a sort of masochistic pleasure out of
facing the odds that seem to be against
me at the beginning of every new produc-
tion. It always seems impossible. Im-
possible! But I sometimes wonder
whether the theatre is really very useful
in our society these days, when the things
the theatre is trying to say could often
be better said by the techniques of other
mediums like films or TV. Pei haps the


theatre can adapt these techniques more
to its own purposes, and that’s a thing
I intend to study among the university
drama groups of America when I get
over there. But if theatre is an
anachronism, 1 don’t want to be the nurse
at its deathbed. I rather think, though,
that the invalid isn’t as sick as all that!
Browne: It must have been pretty
unusual for a man without academic
qualifications to get this Harkness
scholarship? I haven't got any myself,
and l know what that can mean in the
way of closed doors and lost oppor-
tunities, even in one’s mental and
emotional equipment.
Lovejoy: It’s unusual, yes. I left school
after the Intermediate. I’ve olten thought
what a help academic training could
have been —and yet I know so many
university-trained people whose thinking
is conditioned by what they have been
told. “Prof. So-and-so says this ; Prof.
Somebody-else says that." There is a
lot to be said for knowing things out of
your own experience. I don't think 1 m
really sorry that that's how it's happened
with me
Browne: Where else but the theatre
could you happily use what you know?
Lovejoy: Advertising, perhaps . . .
Browne: Wouldn't you feel a bit of
a prostitute?
Lovejoy: Why? Perhaps that's a case
where it's more honest to be a prostitute
than not to be. I've got a tamily to
think of —what I wish myself to be for
them, what they wish me to be for me,
what I wish myself to be for me, what
they wish me to be for me. It'll take a
lot of thinking.
(Robin, I knew, was in one of his
“spent” states ; he was only a few days
past the opening night of his production
of “Taste of Honey” for the Elizabethan
Trust at Sydney’s Palace.)
Browne: But you couldn't really turn
away from theatre?
Lovejoy: Production just isn't being a
traffic cop. The whole problem of human
communication is involved in it all the
time —a producer has got to advise, to
sympathise, to soothe, to upbraid.... to
uplift! And the constant emotional drain
of it!
Browne: Do actors worry you?
Lovejoy : I do the best I can with
the people I have, and I think they do
their best with me. Some don't need
direction at all, or hardly any. They
know at once what is wanted. Others
do what is suggested without greatly
caring or understanding ; a move or an
inflection that has meaning is done in a
mechanical way that takes real meaning
out of it.
Browne : Perhaps that’s because many
of them are, mainly, busy radio actors.
Lovejoy: Not always. So many radio
players are confused when they get on
a stage, though. Is it any wonder?
They’re on the run from station to station
—an Irishman at 10, a Scot at noon, a
hillbilly at 3, a bush drunk at s—and5 —and
always acting with only one part of the
personality. The voice! This technique
of acting only with the voice makes it
difficult for them to achieve any sort of
real character identification on stage—
and yet many of them know they have to
try it because of the TV opportunities.
Browne: The players who give you
what you want almost as soon as you
think of it must be blessings.
Lovejoy: Take young Lewis Fiander
—his gift for doing the right thing
instantaneously is quite extraordinary.
And I might say that he gave away radio
opportunities worth about four times as
much as the stage work he wanted to do
with us! In a bit of dialogue with
Fiander, I've known another player to
inflect a line quite wrongly and yet Lewis
somehow has immediately been able to
make a subtle change in his own inflec-
tion which has pulled the whole thing
back into shape again . . .
Browne: You must have been glad
you gave up acting yourself.
Lovejoy: No! All I wanted to be
when I came back from the war was an
actor. As a matter of fact, the first design
I did came about by accident, too, like
almost every other step I talk into and
along this theatre career. It was “Lady
Windermere's Fan” at May Hollinworth's
Metropolitan Theatre. The appointed
designer withdrew, May asked me to
take over, I was scared that I didn't know
enough about how to go about it and
refused —so, just to provoke me. May
cunningly pretended to be trying to do
the design job herself. The provocation
worked. I did it.
Browne: Why didn't you use your
own name for some of these early
designs?
Lovejoy: My name! It sounded so
made-up and phony! It's always given
me a lot of trouble and amusement. The
troops were filthy about it. And lots of
theatre contacts earlier on sometimes
used to call me Mr Merrywether or
something like that—and one old actor
at a party seriously called me Robin
Goodfellow all through! So I thought
it better in my early days to just call
myself Neil Clark for some of my work.
Browne : Have you been much wor-
ried by the overdone cry that the Eliza-
bethan Trust isn't doing enough Aus-
tralian plays?
Lovejoy: No. Seven productions of
Australian plays is surely a pretty good
answer to that. In any case, there’s no
point in doing an Australian play which
has no other recommendation than the
fact that it is Australian. It has to be a
good play.
That is characteristic of the Lovejoy
thinking on all theatre matters —the
things to be demanded of plays and of
the stage and the things to be demanded
by theatre people of themselves, torment
though they will, must be no less here
than in the severest of the world’s theatre
capitals. This is the only kind of think-
ing out of which Australia can hope to
generate big theatre of its own. And that
is why. after his American journey,
Robin Lovejoy must come back to us.
Honest Frank Nicklin
Dy JOHN HIGGINS
This is the first in a series of profiles of State Premiers
The “mystique” of one man's per-
sonality today is spread like a
gossamer net across the patchwork
of Queensland’s first coalition non-
Labor Government for a quarter of a cen-
tury, softening the ugly angularities and
concealing the widening fissures in its
hastily erected edifice.
“Mystique” perhaps is not quite the
correct word, with its implication of
brooding, occult power. For the aura
in this case is benign, paternal. It may
be better to revert to the jargon of
Public Relations and talk of depth images
when one assesses the current position
of the Premier, George Francis Reuben
Nicklin, the 66-year-old, 15j stone, retired
pineapple farmer, who took the reins
of Government in Queensland in 1957
after the miracle of the Gair Government
split, and after having sat quietly on the
Opposition benches for almost exactly
25 years.
His public image is that of “Honest
Frank," a father type, and his political
enemies have been unable to deface it,
although they claim a blurring in its out-
lines at the end of four years of Govern-
ment. But from Cape York to Coolan-
gatta, from Brisbane to Birdsville, the
great mass of people, even that 57 per
cent, who did not vote either Country
party or Liberal party in last year's
elections, still see it clearly. If anything is
wrong it is not “Honest Frank's” fault,
they say. He may have been taken for a
ride, but when he finds out he wili rectify
it.
Party propagandists are playing the line
for all it is worth. The Premier has
taken his Cabinet with him to the main
provincial cities and some unimportant
towns (notably Winton in the far central
west), where he revels in the atmosphere
of country informality. He speaks com-
paratively rarely in Parliament, but acts
more and more as a front man for the
opening of shows, church halls, industrial
orojects in the city and country, and so on.
The benediction of his almost fantasti-
cally ingrained courtesy falls on friend
and foe alike, and more than any other
single factor it has played down rapidly
developing antagonism between Country
party and Liberal executives as well
as rank and file. A faint note of irasci-
bility has crept into some of his recent
statements, an irascibility totally foreign
to the man, which his enemies hail as the
first signs of a crack under the mounting
pressure of Government. But even then


it is so mild in nature as to barely warrant
notice outside the charmed circle of
political insiders.
Elevation to the Premiership has not
altered the simple, frugal habits of his
lifetime. A non-drinker, non-smoker, he
still cooks the meals and washes up when
he travels the State in his private railway
coach —just as he used to do when he
travelled it from 1941 to 1957 as Opposi-
tion Leader to what was then the most
strongly entrenched Labor Government
in the history of the British Common-
wealth.
In those days, of course, only a hand-
ful of stalwarts would meet his coach,
but the attendance has grown considerably
since August, 1957, when Labor Premier
Vince Gair paid the full penalty for buck-
ing the party machine, and exacted pay-
ment in the form of political annihilation
for the A.L.P. in answer Queensland
pressmen still chuckle at the true story of
the “pukka sahib” type who came to the
coach in one country town during the last
elections and asked for “the Chief, with
an air of implied familiarity. He s cook-
ing dinner,” a pressman reclining in the
tiny lounge replied. “I said the Chief not
the chef, old boy,” said the pukka sahib
type. “He’s still cooking dinner,” said the
pressman. And, of course, he was. After-
wards he probably did the washing up.
That is pure Nicklin. And it mani-
fests itself in a score of different ways.
The Premiership has not affected his
interest as a key executive on north coast
life saving clubs, as the patron ol half a
dozen north coast R.S.L. clubs, one of
which (Palmwoods) rightly honored him
as a foundation (1922) member and holder
of every office in the sub-branch with the
Gold Badge of Life Membership in 1957.
And it is fairly typical of Mr Nicklin that
he said at the time he regarded the honor
more than he did the Premiership.
Personal tragedy has dogged his foot-
steps since he gained office. His wife,
Georgina, died late last year after an
almost interminable series of operations
beginning in 1957. Childless, Mrs Nick-
lin was one of those self-effacing women
who are the backbone of Australian pro-
vincial life —president of the Palmwoods
Women's Auxiliary of the R.S.L., a
champion cook (home made jams), ex-
hibitor and judge in a score of country
shows, a pillar of the local Presbyterian
Church. In 1955, Mr Nicklin told the
Queensland Parliament that he was proud
of the fact that his wife had worked for
years alongside him on his 22-acre pine-
apple farm. The same year saw the death
of his mother in her mid-eighties. Prom
her South Brisbane home for a score of
years she would watch the flag being
lowered on Parliament House and then
put on the dinner for the arrival of her
son, and she continued the practice up
until her death.
As Opposition Leader from 1941 to
1957, Mr Nicklin was not an inspired
speaker (he still speaks with a slight
stammer) but a solid debater who never
once at any time or in any place under
any circumstance descended to personali-
ties. He makes his points rather in the
style of the schoolboy debater, or the
local authority chairman or show
society president, and he is an ideal proto-
type of these positions.
FRANK NICKLIN
Like Eisenhower ...
His courtesy is legendary. It is even
said today that he gets out of his chair
when the office boy comes into his room —•
only it is probably untrue! But if the
office boy stumbled you could bet that
Mr Nickjin would be the first to pick
him up, dust him down, and send him on
his way rejoicing.
It is this paternalism of Mr Nicklin’s,
this innate fatherliness demonstrated over
a lifetime, that has endeared him at least
personally to political friend and foe
alike, and built up such a strong public
image without any of the tricks of pro-
fessional public relations. Bui is his
fatherliness limited by an absence of
paternal sternness when it is needed, of
real parental authority? His technique
of Government appears to be based on
that of another post-war politician,
President Eisenhower, who had a
similar depth image of paternalism
with the American people. I he
Eisenhower method of Government was
to delegate full authority, and leave it to
the boys. Mr Nicklin, on a lesser scale,
of course, is doing this in Queensland,
and he has his counterparts of Poster
Dulles under him. As a result, the same
accusations of lack of real leadership,
baffling, inconsistencies in policy, danger-
ous essays in Brinkmanship aie being
charged to Mr Nicklin s account.
tt is pointless to compare Mr Nicklin
I with past Labor Premiers over the last
30 years or more. Not even his most
fervent admirers would consider con-
ceding him the ability of a Theodore
or a McCormack, the implacable deter-
mination and ruthless ferocity of a
Porgan Smith, the suave strength of a
Cooper the sledgehammer common-
sense authority of a Hanlon or the
flamboyant arrogant ability ot a Oair.
It may be true that he has made fewer
mistakes— both political and persona
than any or all of these men but then
of course, as a Nicklin critic has pointed
out, you can't make mistakes if you ne\er
8 a fairly formidable case can
be built up for a theory of basic weakness
behind the facade of Nicklin charm.
After four years in office, the Govern-
ment still does not give the impress of
a coalition headed by a determined
leader and a united Cabinet. Rather it
gives the impression of 11 individual
Cabinet Ministers working away piece-
meal. Bills come before the House in
such a state of unpreparedness that it
is not uncommon for them to be with-
drawn or substantially amended by the
Government parties in Caucus after the
initial debate. Expediency appears to be
the motto. If a measure is greeted with
strong criticism its fate is doubtful. Labor
Ministers under strong Premiers gave the
appearance at least of a united team,
quick to one another’s defence, ready in
a flash to launch a spirited counter-
attack. In the Nicklin-Morris coalition,
each Minister seems to be on his own,
giving the impression not so much as
of a “blow you Jack, I'm all right”
mentality, but rather the impression that
the balance of Cabinet knows little or
nothing about the proposed legislation.
Mr. Nicklin himself has almost a fetish
about Cabinet responsibility and the
rights of Ministers. But surely there is
a limit to a Cabinet Minister’s preroga-
tives. In most Governments the Premier
sets the tone, gives his Ministers broad
general lines to work on —and woe betide
them if those general lines are not fol-
lowed.
It is not difficult to imagine a Gair,
a Hanlon, a Cooper, a Forgan Smith, a
Theodore or a McCormack cracking a
whip at his Cabinet, threatening a recal-
citrant, inefficient, incompetent, or lazy
Minister with the axe of a “spill.” The
imagination boggles at a Nicklin doing it.
Nowhere does this divorce between
his left hand and his right hand show
up more than in Mr Nicklin’s dealings
with his turbulent Deputy Premier, Ken
Morris, Police, Tourist, Labor and In-
dustry Minister, and leader of the Liberal
party. An incredibly brash product of
post-war politics, Mr Morris assumed
leadership of the Liberal party in the
early ’fifties, when its fortunes were at
its lowest ebb. (Its Parliamentary repre-
sentation was eight out of 75.) He had
no opposition, coldly ambitious Tom
Hiley (now Treasurer) having resigned
in apparent disgust at the futility of
Opposition to what looked like a perma-
nent Labor Government. Moody, bully-
ing in his approach to political problems,
Mr Morris is disliked by the Country
party, and his long list of solecisms has
kept the Liberal Party in a state of
embarrassment. His advice to a school
of Young Liberals (whenever you see a
head hit it), his bitter public disputes with
Brisbane’s urbane Lord Mayor (Aider-
man Groom), his capacity to rush into
print at the least provocation —all these
things have repeatedly jarred the new
Administration, and left a distinct im-
pression that Mr Nicklin has little or
no control over his Deputy. Mr Nicklin
has stuck loyally to him, however, and
it is only the protective mantle of this
loyalty that has prevented open clashes
between Morris Liberals and Country
party backbenchers.
At the moment Queensland is in a state
of uproar over proposals to start an oil
refinery.


There are suggestions that in his
ha-ae to obtain a refinery and capture
credit for the Liberal party, Mr Morris
may have jeopardised tne whole venture.
He has certainly antagonised every oil
company in Australia and agreed to terms
that may prove costly to the Government.
It is a fact that within hours of Mr Morris
triumphantly announcing a deal with
Amoco, and assuring Queenslanders that
no other company was interested, Ampol
announced that it had been contemplat-
ing an £lB million refinery at Rockhamp-
ton, and that Mr Morris had never
consulted with them. Ampol heads were
later closeted with the Premier, and in
State Parliament the Opposition mounted
a full-scale attack which drew the Premier
into the debate in defence of his Deputy.
It was the sort of situation which just
would not happen under strong Labor
administrations —or strong non-Labor
ones for that matter, Nicklin critics claim.
As a matter of interest, the agreement
with Amoco was signed by Mr Morris
-—not by Mr Nicklin. Quizzed on this
in Parliament by veteran Q.L.P. politician
and former A.L.P. Cabinet member Mr
Ted Walsh, Mr Nicklin said he felt it was
Mr Morris’s due in view of the hard
work he had put into securing the agree-
ment. “A very modest man,’’ was Mr
Walsh's sardonic comment.
On the broad general front, there has
been no sign of determined overall
developments at the end of four years,
apart from the normal forward process
of routine administration. The only two
major developmental plans under way
are the Weipa bauxite project in the
Peninsula and the Mount Isa scheme,
and both these were on the way under
the Gair Government. As far as Mount
Isa was concerned, Liberal Treasurer
Hiley flew' to America to get money for
the project from the World Bank, and
met with a rebuff. The Federal Govern-
ment also refused to play ball with
Queensland as it has done with practically
every other State on projects worth con-
siderably less to Australia as a whole.
Why? Don’t they trust Queensland? Or
is it that Mr Nicklin (in the latter case
particularly) is not tough enough to get
what he wants? In Loan Council meet-
ings, Mr Nicklin has gone south like a
lion (“Nicklin Will Fight” is a typical
pre-Loan Council “Courier-Mail” head-
line) and come back like a lamb. He
has even got less than his Labor pre-
decessors (£K million was trimmed off
the roads grant) despite Queensland’s
solid support for the Menzies Govern-
ment. Federal members claim that
Queensland has only itself to blame be-
cause of its failure to present its case
properly. Lack of strong determined
leadership again?
In the vital field of transport, the
Nicklin Government’s handling of the
situation has been nothing short of
pathetic. The State's ribbon railway
system, basically laid down in the nine-
teenth century, lost over £l7 million (in-
cluding interest) in the first three years
of his Government, a substantial increase
on Labor's deficit record. Six branch
lines have been closed, the closure of
others is threatened, while road trans-
port has been subjected to vicious restric-
tions and penal State taxation. Under
Liberal Minister Gordon Chalk country
people are getting a caning through this
policy, but Country party Premier Frank
Nicklin doesn't seem capable of doing
anything about it.
De that as it may, the image of Honest
** Frank, built up over a generation, is
still a formidable hurdle for the Opposi-
tion parties in Queensland, and the best
guarantee of the continued life of the
coalition. The 64-dollar query over the
next few years is whether Mr Nicklin
can play his part in maintaining his public
image now that he has been drawn into
the direct vortex of Government, and
still control and lead his coalition.
"Better keep an eye on those three, Fred."
Certainly he has all the superficial
qualities. A big man physically, he has
the craggy, jutting, wrinkled face you
could expect to see on a recruiting poster.
It would not be out of place there, inci-
dentally, because World War I saw young
Nicklin earning a Military Medal and
getting Mentioned in Dispatches with the
49th Battalion in France, and during
World War 11 he attended an Army camp
and emerged as C.O. of the 6th V.D.C.
Battalion. He invariably wears his
R.S.L. badge to all functions, and his
easy smile, friendly blue eyes and slightly
boyish off-handedness combine to present
an easily saleable asset in the field of
public goodwill. Whether Mr Nicklin
can continue to play his part in main-
taining his public image could well
depend on the extent of his insulation
from all but familiar circles and familiar
faces.
Those circles and faces are very
definitely circumscribed, however, for
despite his long term in opposition, it
is an odd fact that until he became
Premier in 1957 Mr Nicklin had remark-
ably little to do with the behind-the-
scenes public life of the State. He was
seen at show society functions and
occasional sporting banquets, but the run-
of-the-mill grind of semi-social, politico-
business metropolitan activity common to
party leaders passed him by —or rather
he passed it by. When Parliament rose,
Mr Nicklin rose with it and headed to
the near North Coast, to his pineapple
farm, to his life-saving clubs, his cricket
matches (he once made a Country Week
team), his tennis games, and the general
intimate and personalised routine of the
rural politician.
Not for him Chamber of Commerce
or Manufacturers' Association luncheons,
tete-a-tetes with prominent industrialists
and pastoralists, dinners with visiting
celebrities, or the intimate backwaters of
the Queensland, Brisbane, Tattersall and
Johnsonian Clubs. This is now the world
into which he has been plunged by the
Premiership, and it is not difficult not
to imagine him there as a seasoned poli-
tician, at long last triumphantly afloat on
the heady but treacherous cross-currents
of Government, but rather still as a naive,
“nice,” small-time farmer who ventured
cautiously into this unknown element in
1932 after the shipwreck of the Moore
Government, now cautiously clutching
the sides of his home-made canoe, peer-
ing sometimes in honest bewilderment
and other times in genuine trepidation at
whirlpools and eddies, and buoyed up by
a simple, impenetrable, rustic dignity, but
ever in fear of a final slide to disaster
and oblivion.
Something good will go out of politics
when Frank Nicklin retires, something
wholesome, fresh, possibly a little
nostalgically anachronistic. Something
negative and slighty depressing will also
go. In any attempts to assess his current
standing, it could perhaps be said at this
stage that he will go down in Queens-
land’s history-books as the nicest bloke
the State ever had for a Premier —and
the most ineffectual. Politically speaking,
if times are good during his reign, he
may be very, very good—if not he may
well be horrid.


The Devils come to Town
By RAY MATHEW
Because of the vision of Peter Hall,
the theatre company that used to
be confined to the tourist’s museum
at Stratford-on-Avon now has a
residence in London and a repertoire of
plays by Webster, Shakespeare, Girau-
doux, Whiting. “The Devils,” the play
by John Whiting which had its world-
premiere in February, was commissioned
for this particular company in this par-
ticular theatre by the same particular
Mr Hall. The play, an adaptation of
Aldous Huxley’s “The Devils of
Loudun,” is worthy of a place in such a
repertoire and is a splendid justification
of the commissioning form of patronage.
It is unlikely that any other company
in England would have tackled the play,
unlikely that the author would have
shaped it in so demanding a form unless
guaranteed by a commission, unlikely
that the play could have meant what it
does mean in any less demanding form.
Australia’s chance of seeing an adequate
performance depends probably on the
Stratford company’s willingness to tour
with it; it demands not only the kind
of actors they have, classically trained
and not afraid to speak fines, but also
on the particular technical skills of their
backstage crew.
Its cast of 24 (not counting extras) act
out the drama in a series of scenes that
follow, overlap, take place simul-
taneously in a flow, a flood of movement
that carries the audience with it and gives
the impression of many fives, lives that
seem to happen “anyhow, in a corner,”
but that somehow or other touch and
affect one another. They are bound
somehow in the one pattern, a pattern
obvious to us but not to them and itself,
merely a panel in a pattern that none of
us can see.
All the brilliancy of its technique, and
the fascinating leger-de-main with which
Mr Peter Wood has staged it (everyone
in the English theatre is called Peter)
would be nothing if the play itself were
nothing. But it happens that this is the
most socially-conscious play in London,
the quickest in movement and the most
provocative in meaning. And it is these
things without the weirdness of Pinter,
the earnestness of Wesker or the logic
of Bolt. It is also the most contem-
porary, if that word means relevant to
contemporary society.
/~VN the surface it is the story of an
actively amorous seventeenth-century
priest who is desired by an inactively
amorous nun whom he has never seen.
She sees her desire as the devil’s torment.
Why does the devil assume the shape of
the priest Grandier? In an hysteria of
fear and despair she believes herself
violated by him who is both priest and
devil. She denounces him and is
exorcised.
He is tried, convicted, tortured for
a confession and eventually burnt. His
refusal to confess is proof positive of
Sister Jeanne —Dorothy Tutin
From “ Punch .”
guilt: Satan has sealed his lips and made
him impervious to pain, his moans were
the devil’s deceit. At the end, Sister
Jeanne (Dorothy Tuten) stands alone.
“Grandier, Grandier,” she whispers. Her
great role done, she has nothing left but
life.
A horrifying story of perverted sex?
A session on the analyst's couch? An
attack on the religious life? A defence
of it? A Tennessee Williams play with
an historical setting? Whiting's drama
is none of these things. Although the
characters attempt to rationalise their
motivations, there is very little attempt at
characterisation ; this is not a psycho-
logical study. The religious file in the
play is ritual or rule, a device aimed
against despair or exposure ; the play is
not a study of organised religion. Prayer
is an accusation or a plea or, more
usually, a soliloquy ; all else is, as Sister
Jeanne says, “formal.” It is a play
about society, the individual in society,
how he appears to use it and is, appar-
ently, used by it; “you never know where
it will end,” grieves Sister Jeanne, remem-
bering how she thinks it all began.
Grandier believes that he himself is
shaping things towards his eventual sal-
vation-damnation ; he justifies his sins
as movement towards God, and welcomes
his downfall, but is actually unaware of
the tremendous forces that will crush
him—nationalism that he cannot see and
people that he will not see. He argues
with bishops and plots with governors
defies the Church and practises some of
the virtues beside his parishioners.
He knows the risks and defies them,
but it is the little people, members of an
organised society, who shape his end
without being able even to visualise
exactly what it is they are doing. It is
not his sins of lust, pride, presumption
that bring him down ; it is the hysterica
virgin, the scientific surgeon, the winge-
ing chemist —the desire, the envy, tht
malice in their hearts, the vices that it
suits society to use.
He goes to the torture believing in his
martyrdom, his triumph; a man who
lived for his senses will die the same
way, offering God “pain, convulsion and
disgust” and defying his interrogators
with their demand for confession. But
he, too, at the end, after the most sicken-
ing scenes of horror Fve witnessed on
the stage, when he is flung on the ground
at Sister Jeanne’s feet, rolling in pain
from his shattered legs, whispers, even as
he denies having ever seen her: “Look
upon the thing 1 am.” He is no longer
a man. What is he? Greater? Less?
There is no answer. It is the play-
wright's business to ask questions,
not to answer them. Every scene he
gives us is lucid, every interpretation of
action offered by the characters is
credible, but the effect is like life. One
looks back on the action when it seems
all done and wonders how, where, why
it began to go wrong ; could it have
been altered? “The intention was good,”
says Sister Jeanne ; perhaps the whole
action was good if one could ever see
the pattern, see the action really done —-
although then one would hardly be
interested enough to look.
There is no praise too high for Mr
Whiting’s and Mr Wood’s ability to
convey the feeling of a community act-
ing and reacting —the priests, politicians,
merchants, clerks, soldiers, women ; all
of them equal before the sewer-man (an
important character in the play and the
hero's confidant) and all of them some-
how involved in the one, and every,
individual death. The play begins with
a young man hanging on a gibbet and
it ends with death and death-in-life. But
there is no despair, no depression in the
audience ; one feels it all as a tremendous
expression of the ability to doubt, to
question ; is exhilarated-exasperated by
how far man can go.
Yet the play fails by the high stan-
dards the author has set himself. He
seems unable, or unwilling, to allow his
characters to reason logically; their
dialectics, long speeches that promise
revelation both to the characters and to
us, have been praised for their “rhetoric,”
and that seemed, in performance, to be
all they were. This may mean merely
that the speeches baffled the players, who
contented themselves with sounding fine
and letting meaning go hang.
Nonetheless, Mr Whiting’s play
belongs in the great repertoire where it
finds itself; it feels like a major play.
In its ambition it belongs to the great
modern theatre of France and Germany ,
in its achievement it makes Mr Whiting
belong, not among the promising, where
theatre-managers have allowed him to
languish, but among the most exciting
English writers of today.


PERSONAL
Passion Play Producer
'T'he newest theatrical producer in Aus-
tralia to have his work seen all
over the country is a short, soft-spoken,
curly - haired young Roman Catholic
missionary from Dublin, Father Thomas
Shorthall. His cast of 80, with music,
costumes and scenery, flew into Sydney
last week in a chartered aircraft to stage
the lona Passion Play at White City.
“I've done a bit of amateur theatricals
myself,’’ explained Father Shorthall on
Thursday night, in the gangway under
the stands, as members of the cast milled
around him in their costumes. “But
leaving aside that God wanted it, I'd
say that it has come off because every-
body has contributed what expert advice
they could, and I've been lucky enough
to be able to do what they suggested.”
The company, after its first national
tour, is now on its way back to Brisbane
for its final performanees on Good
Friday, after drawing huge attendances
in Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth
(15,000 to one performance), and Alice
Springs (2000).
Father Shorthall formed the company
in a small way at lona College, near Bris-
bane, in 1958. a year after he arrived in
Australia as a member of the Oblates
of Mary Immaculate, a Roman Catholic
Order founded after the French Revolu-
tion. His present travelling cast of 80
is made up of volunteers, augmented in
each place by 60 local players.
Father Shorthall uses a script written
in the U.S. by an unknown author. It
follows the pattern of the simpler
Passions of the Tyrol, rather than that of
Oberammergau.
Father Shorthall has been surprised by
the interest shown by other Churches
in his production. First-nighters in
Sydney last week included Archbishop
Gilroy, Archbishop Gough (who asked
to meet the cast) and leaders of all other
denominations, including the Salvation
Army. (1 he first night was specially pre-
sented for priests, nuns, and churchmen
ot all kinds —"a black and white
audience," as one attendant put it.)
"In medieval times the Passion was
the poor man’s Bible,” said Father
Shorthall, before hurrying away to check
the lights with the electrician. “We call
ours the busy man's Bible. I meet many
intelligent people who just don't know
the story of Christ. We give it to them in
an easy form.”
• •
No Audition or Anything
A bove the voluminous moustache that
_ surmounted the ample figure wedged
into the deep armchair, the eyes gleamed
keenly.
“I haven't been to Australia before
because nobody asked me. I wasn't going
to come all the way out here and have
to look around for work,” said the
familiar hoarse, fruity voice. “Besides,
with a television series, radio, a film a
year, and a pantomime, I haven’t got
much time for these ’ere flighty trips.”
But with a contract in the pocket of
his tweed jacket, reputedly paying him
£1250 a week, “Professor” Jimmy
Edwards is on a brief tour of Australia
and New Zealand, doing single
appearances here and there. Perpetually
relaxed, genially dispositioned, and wear-
ing an expression that suggests that he
has just had, or is just about to have, a
satisfying pint of beer, Jimmy Edwards
is the picture of a successful comedian
-—although with a watchful glance that
suggests that he can hardly believe that
fooling around with a trombone and
pretending to be as dumb as Mr Glum
could have kept him in the big money
for nearly 20 years.
Perhaps because he found getting into
show business was so easy, Jimmy
Edwards seems willing to do anything
and put up with what comes.
“It only cost me a pint of beer,*’ he
JIMMY EDWARDS
In For a Pint
explained. “I was in London after the
war, wondering how I could earn a
living. 1 had an M.A. from Cambridge,
but I could hardly imagine myself as
a teacher —not a serious one, anyway.
“Then I saw in a paper that a flying
instructor I'd had in Canada, a chap
named Brett Porter—l believe he’s been
out here producing plays for television
—was in town. I looked him up, and
he suggested I try show business, as Fd
always been in the camp concert parties,
assing about.
" 'Gordon Crier’s got a variety show
on the 8.8. C. on Wednesday night—buy
him a pint and he'll put you on,’ said
Porter. And so he did —no audition or
anything. It was dead easy.”
Decisive Mayor
T\arwin’s “Big Bill” Richardson has
left the Northern Territory to settle
permanently in Brisbane. This could be
another sign that the boom years which
followed the war have ended —to be
replaced, some say, by apathy, or, as
others say, by steady, if slow, progress.
Bill Richardson was a part of that
boom. He came to the Territory in 1952
as a contractor, overlanding with a con-
voy of 16 tradesmen to build the town
of Batchelor for the spectacular new
uranium find. There he built 48 houses,
an air-conditioned laboratory, a hospital
and sisters' quarters, a community centre,
a reservoir, a swimming pool, a mine
septic system and lent several of his men
to help with the construction at Rum
Jungle mine
In Darwin he built 317 houses, includ-
ing 100 along the old Fannie Bay air-
strip under a £446,000 Government
contract, and put up seven new school
classrooms.
Richardson's stormiest and most color-
ful period was as Darwin’s first post-war
Mayor. Decades before, the Town Coun-
cil had collapsed in a mess of debts,
recriminations and brawls and was not
revived until 1957. Richardson's part in
the revival was decisive enough to win
him an 0.8. E. But for Richardson,
Darwin would not have its recently
completed Olympic Pool, which was built
in the face of bitter opposition from
“color bar” advocates.
Later Richardson stood successfully for
the Legislative Council seat of Larra-
keyah and held it until his resignation
recently to go to Brisbane. He struck
a gloomy note before leaving Darwin:
“1 fear for the future of Darwin unless
the Government does something quickly
about its expansion and development.
For years I have thought the only way
of doing this is to free the Territory from
taxation for ten years. 1 consider ten
years the maximum time we are going
to be allowed to populate here. The best
and only defence for the North is popu-
lation. And on that we will stand or fall.”
He has ideas also about a Government-
appointed commission to run the Terri-
tory for a set time on businesslike lines.
Has he anyone in mind for chairman?
A good guess would be Laurence Lucius
Darcy ("Bill'') Richardson.
• •
Into the Silence:—
In Melbourne, at 53, Sir Kenneth Green,
senior puisne judge of the Supreme Court of
Tasmania. Admitted to the Bar in 1932, he
served during World War II as a captain in
the 12/50 Bt. and the Legal Corps, then
became a member of the Legislative Council
from 1946 to 1950. In 1950 he was appointed
to the Bench.
In London, at 76, Sir James Shelley, former
Director of Broadcasting in N.Z. and Professor
of Education at Canterbury University. He
commanded a fine knowledge of Shakespeare,
and was a personality and influence in the
N.Z. art world.
In Adelaide, at 93, F. G. Scarfe, business-
man and sporting personality. He was chair-
man of Harris, Scarfe Ltd from 1919-33 and
was on the board of the S.A. Gas Co. for 50
years. For 24 years he was S.A. consul for
the Netherlands, and was decorated for his
services by Queen Wilhelmina. An A.R.C.
committee member, he had two Derby winners
to his credit.


This Australia
Bolte’s Bold Strategy
Vhat the Liberals are attempting to
do in Victoria this year is to win an
Dsolute majority in both Houses in the
tate Parliament, almost eliminating the
ictorian Country party ; then, a few
lonths later, join forces with the Country
arty to help put Menzies back in
anberra.
The “war on the Country - party”
olicy for the State elections (coming up
robably in June or July) was declared
y Premier Bolte at the State Liberal
onference a few weeks ago. This has
eartened State members and they are
(leeting for the closing weeks of this
•arliament, convinced that they can win
he majority they want in the Legislative
Council, as well as retain, or increase,
heir present majority in the Assembly.
However, the powerful, aged and
:asily-frightened Liberals in the back-
oom, who were there before hall the
urrent crop of young Liberal M.P.s
vere born, do not share this easy
iptimism ; and, on past form, would
litch the State Liberals without a qualm
o avoid jeopardising Federal prospects.
Bolte’s bold strategy, and his tactics,
00, seem sound enough. He has
innounced that the Liberals will contest
jvery one of the 66 Assembly seats and
all (17) the Council seats which will be
vacant. At present the Liberals have 39
M.L.A.s, with Labor 18 and C.P. 9 ; the
Council tally is 17, 9 and 8 respectively.
One of the reasons for the ambitious
Liberal bid was the remarkable win for
the Government in Ballarat North on
November 12. In this seat, held by
Ru&sell White for the C.P. and vacant
when he was appointed chairman of the
Trotting Board, the C.P. vote slipped by
more than 15 per cent. At the 1958
elections, White won by more than 5200
votes ; at the November by-election A. T.
Evans, the Liberal, won by 3600.
There can be little doubt that the
deciding elements in the by-election,
aside from the loss of Mr White’s per-
sonal votes, were the continual sniping
at the Government by the C.P. and the
Liberals’ assiduous propaganda about a
Labor-C.P. alliance.
The C.P. sniping at the Government
has become the biggest political bore in
Victoria, and the Liberals were angered
when the C.P., instead of heeding the
by-election lesson, combined with Labor
in the Legislative Council to defeat the
bill which would have re-distributed
Council Provinces in the metropolitan
and near-metropolitan areas.
Whether the C.P. will form an election
pact with Labor or not depends simply
on the relative merits and demerits of
an exchange of preferences. In Ballarat
North, the C.P. gave the independent
second preferences, Liberal three, Labor
four and D.L.P. five.
The C.P.’s prospects are not bright.
An alliance with Labor would lose much
country support ; some already has been
lost because of its voting with Labor to
defeat popular legislation and because of
ceaseless attacks on the Government,
occasionally on the least pretext.
The Country party is still vexed with
the D.L.P., which has a sizable vote of
15 per cent., if no State members, in
Victoria.
Little, if any, assistance can be
expected from that quarter, and the
D.L.P. vote could have interesting results
in Gippsland South, Rodney, Murray
Valley, Mildura and Swan Hill if it is
given to the Liberals. These electorates
have previously been ceded to the C.P.,
but, elated by the Ballarat North vote,
the Liberals are wondering what they
may have been missing all these years
in those electorates.
Swan Hill is particularly interesting.
The sitting member has not been re-
endorsed, and there probably will be
endorsed and unendorsed C.P. candidates.
With D.L.P., A.L.P. and Liberal candi-
dates in the field, the Liberals have good
prospects.
D.L.P. preferences will be vital in the
Council, but even if they go to the
Liberals, the Government may find the
task of winning the extra seat needed to
give it a Council majority insuperable.
The Council provinces of nine Liberals
will be vacant and these members may
not do more than hold their own. Vital
provinces are Bendigo and Ballarat which
went Labor and Liberal respectively at
the most recent Council elections alter
the Liberals had got D.L.P. preferences
in the ratio of 10 and 8 to 1 respectively,
a remarkably disciplined vote, indeed, but
still inadequate to give the Liberals
Bendigo.
The swing against the C.P. and the
lack of popular interest in the d.spirited
and dispiriting A.L.P. may give the
Government another province ; but early
books on the doube event would have
the status quo —a majority in the
Assembly and a bare minority in the
Council —as favorite.
N.T. Waits for
Justice
ttor nearly a year the Northern Terri-
r tory has been without a Supreme
Court judge. This has brought about a
situation which Territorians righ y
wrongly, construe as yet another example
of Canberra’s complacency towards the
only colonised white community in the
world.” ,
“Aunt Sally” is the Attorney-General
(Sir Garfield Barwick) who
would share bottom place with Tern
tories Minister Hasluck in any N.T.
public opinion poll.
Since that famed humanist and expert
on the aborigines Mr Justice Kriewaldt
died last May, Sir Garfield has been
hawking the job around Australia. At
£4725 a year, plus house, car and tax-free
allowances, the N.T. judgeship would
seem an attractive prospect. That it is
not, is an indication of how great are the
rewards in the legal profession.
Two Northern Territory lawyers have
been offered elevation to the Bench. Both
refused. Last week a judge, well known
in his own State, was flown to Darwin
on a hush-hush trip to 'look over the
ground” before making a decision.
Meanwhile Territory courts are in
chaos. Soon after Mr Justice Kriewaldt
died, South Australia's senior Local Court
judge, Mr Justice Gillespie, took over
as “acting judge.” He left the Territory
on September 1. Mr Acting Justice
Clarke —a former S.A. Police Magistrate
—was summoned from retirement to help
out. He heard criminal cases only, while
the civil list piled up, and, in any event,
went south in November. He returned
next month but finally quit the Territory
on February 20. Now he is off to
Christmas Island to hear a murder case
and will be out of Australia for at least
a month.
The injustices have been many. Ex-
policeman and Northern Territory repre-
sentative Rugby League footballer Tony
Dykes, accused —and later convicted of
bigamy, had to wait months for his trial.
Suspended from the Police Force and
with two families to support, Dykes
would have been in a desperate position
but for an order direct from Canberra
to give him temporary employment with
a Government department.
Top lawyer, Dick Ward, has stressed
the hardship caused by the ten-month
backlog of divorce cases. Women
expecting babies have been denied the
opportunity to re - marry beforehand.
Aboriginal citizen Albert Marrego, jailed
for six months for supplying liquor to
a fellow-native, has been unable to appeal
and has already served several weeks of
his sentence in Fannie Bay jail. Perhaps
half-a-dozen white men and half-castes
are in a similar position.
Possibly the most glaring case of all is
that of three aborigines who may have
been denied Australian citizenship for six
months. They have applied to have their
names removed from the Register of
Wards (known locally as the “Stud-
book”). But until a permanent judge is
appointed their cases cannot be heard.
Dick Ward and others have repeatedly
called on the Government to raise the
status and salary of the N.T. judgeship
if they are unable to attract applicants
easily at the present level.
But there is no way of repairing the
hardships and injustices of the past ten
months. To Territorians it seems part
of a pattern of off-handed, though auto-
cratic, government, which they feel cares
little about anything in the north except
the welfare of permanent public servants.


Hospital in Hazard
IT is unusual for a Cabinet Minister
to threaten a hospital, but that is
what N.S.W.’s Minister for Health, Mr
W. F. Sheehan, did when he suggested
in State Parliament that the Government
should divert the £1,109,206 subsidy it
pays the hospital each year to building
a new hospital at Randwick.
Since the days when the University
of New South Wales was still the Uni-
versity of Technology there has been
talk of transferring Sydney Hospital to
Randwick, where it would serve as a
training school for the N.S.W. University
and also release land in Macquarie Street
for the proposed extension of Parliament
House. Legislation for the hospital's
transfer has now passed the Legislative
Assembly, but has been held up in the
Legislative Council, which has appointed
a Select Committee to examine it. And
Australia’s oldest hospital, founded in
Macquarie’s day as the Rum Hospital,
has become the centre of the most violent
controversy in its controversial career.
One root of the trouble, according to
Dr George Bell, a member of the hos-
pital’s board of directors, is that the
hospital and Professor Baxter, Vice-
Chancellor of the University of New
South Wales, are “incompatible.” Dr
Bell complained that, contrary to usual
practice in teaching hospitals, Professor
Baxter wanted nothing less than absolute
authority for his clinical professors in
all spheres. Hence the hospital would
prefer to remain a teaching hospital for
the University of Sydney, as it had been
for the last 50 years. Sir Herbert Schlink
claimed the hospital’s transfer would be
disastrous, not only for the hospital, but
also for medical education at Sydney
University, for with the increase in
students in recent years the ratio of
of patients to students had already
dropped dangerously low: from 8-10 per
student to 4 per student.
One neat solution which was proposed
for the hospital was that it should stay
put, but be rebuilt, while the new Par-
liament House should be on the Con-
servatorium site when the Conserva-
torium is incorporated in the Opera
House. An observer proposed that the
new Parliament could well be incor-
porated in the Opera House.
Politics, according to Mr Sheehan, who
should know, had reared its multiple
head. The Legislative Council was giving
its dying kick by appointing a Select
Committee ; “This House,” he said, “has
ceased to be a House of Review; it
has become a House of Revenge.” The
Leader of the Opposition, Mr Askin,
called Mr Sheehan’s statement “the
essence of irresponsibility” and Mr Leslie
Davis, vice-president of the hospital, with
admirable understatement, described it as
an “implied threat.”
Most people accept the politician’s
preoccupation with the main chance, but
they are sensitive when it comes to
paralysing a hospital which, among other
things, treats over 210,000 outpatients and
95,000 eye and casualty cases yearly, or
to denying medical students a chance to
complete their training. Those trying to
make a political football out of the
Sydney Hospital case are liable to stub
their toes badly.
Rustlers Ride
in Queensland
TF\espite the encroachment of light air-
U craft, jeeps, two-way wireless, and
the kerosene refrigerator, it is still wild
in the wild, wild west. At Charleville
on March 14 a seven-day police court
hearing of a cattle-rustling charge was
concluded with the committal of four
stockmen defendants for trial before a
Circuit Court jury next month. Thirty-six
witnesses were called by the Crown, in
the main, hard-eyed, leather-faced gentry,
wearing riding boots and various styles
of can't-tear-’ems.
Number of cattle involved in the
charges is 70 —22 bullocks, eight cows,
and 40 heifers. They are alleged to have
disappeared during the course of a round-
up on Milo Pastoral Company, and found
their way to Charleville saleyards, where
they were in due course knocked down
to unsuspecting buyers.
Milo is one of those vast western
Queensland properties, taken for granted
in the area, but virtually unknown to
most Australians. It’s about 120 miles
north-west of Charleville to the home-
stead, which is on the eastern edge of a
huge lease of 1490 sq. miles, close on
1,000,000 acres. The 1947 stock returns
(latest available) show Milo as then
carrying 41,266 sheep, 490 cattle and 126
horses. Between Milo and Charleville,
however, is also Amborthela, owned by
Milo, a mere 720| sq. miles (463,120
acres), carrying (in 1947) 17 horses, 2314
cattle and 10,214 sheep. The two proper-
ties combined are about a quarter the
size of Wales. Jackeroos have, quite
literally, gone mad on Milo, the desola-
tion of its immensity proving too much
from one round-up to the next.
Next month’s Circuit Court hearing
should provide south-west Queenslanders
with their biggest couse celebre since the
Moongool Cattle Case in Roma in the
early ’fifties, when seven head of cattle
held under police guard in a police yard
mysteriously disappeared in the early
hours of the morning on which the case
was to open. They were found later in
the day in saleyards on the outskirts of
the town. They were dead, of course,
with their ears, containing vital earmarks,
and sections from their rumps containing
vital brands (allegedly altered) missing.
The case made history in its way,
technicolor photographs of the allegedly
stolen beasts being admitted as evidence
for the first time in history, while the
hides of the dead beasts, complete with
their heads, covered half the courtroom
floor. Criminal barrister Dan Casey
secured an acquittal for his clients largely
on the grounds that the Crown had failed
to prove the defendants (neighbors of
Moongool) knew beyond doubt that the
beasts were not theirs when they were
inadvertently included in a mob headed
for the border.
Disgruntled cattlemen claimed the ver-
dict meant you couldn’t even catch a
cattle thief in the act and get a con-
viction. Charleville’s case has different
features, and its outcome will be awaited
with intense interest by Australian
graziers.
Fremantle’s
Uneasy Truce
AN uneasy truce lies over the Fremantle
waterfront at the moment, but the
war between the Waterside Workers’
Federation and the newly formed Fore-
men Stevedores’ Union could flare up
again at any time.
The struggle by the W.W.F. against a
foremens’ union which has the sanction
of the State Arbitration Court, employers
and the Fremantle Harboi Trust has so
far cost it £lOOO in contempt payments
—and it has cost the West Australian
community a great deal more as a result
of the 15-day strike over the issue early
in February.
More than £1 million worth of goods
were left on the Fremantle wharves
during the strike, and it was reliably
estimated that fruit and vegetable growers
alone lost £600,000 in unfilled orders, etc.
A great many technical arguments have
been raised around the dispute, but they
can all be reduced to the simple issue of
a powerful union struggling to retain its
monopoly on the waterfront.
Technically, the W.W.F. bases its
objection to the fledgling union on two
provisions in the F.S.U. award —that all
newly appointed foremen must join the
F.S.U., and that employers can instruct
any foreman, whether a member of the
W.W.F. or the F.S.U., to work double
shifts with overtime. The W.W.F. has
announced its intention of approaching
the State Arbitration Court to seek rectifi-
cation of these provisions.
As usual in waterfront disputes, a stiff-
necked attitude on both sides has swollen
the simple issues into an old-fashioned
Socialist-capitalist brawl. The employers
have never concealed their eagerness to
get the foremen away from the W.W.F.
The union has never concealed its con-
tempt for an organisation it regards as
a company union.
Despite the undiplomatic attitude of
the employers, the W.W.F. is obviously
in the wrong. The Commonwealth In-
dustrial Court put the issues clearly when
it fined the W.W.F. £lOOO for contempt
earlier this month. Mr Justice Dunphy


said the union had been party to a strike
designed to crush a new union. It is
against trade-union principle for a strong
union to attempt to destroy a weak one,
he said.
One of the most disturbing aspects of
the dispute has been the long delay in
bringing the Federation into contempt
for its actions. Although the dispute
started last May, it was not until Decem-
ber that two judges of the Commonwealth
Industrial Court came to Perth and
issued an order forbidding the W.W.F.
from taking part in any ban restricting
work at Fremantle for six months. The
next day waterside workers held a stop-
work meeting, and eight days latei the
union was fined £lOO for the stoppage.
The February strike had been on for 10
days before it was decided that Com-
monwealth Conciliation Commissioner
Mr Justice Ashburner should intervene.
It was more than a month later that the
Federation was fined £lOOO for contempt.
Mission Mills
Grind Slowly
Anthropology is a suspect occupation
and Presbyterian missionaries have
long memories. These thoughts are pro-
voked by the ban on Dr Donald F.
Thomson, Research Fellow in Anthro-
pology at Melbourne University, from
visiting Presbyterian mission stations for
aborigines on Cape York Peninsula. The
ban, imposed by the Presbyterians, is
backed by the Queensland Government,
and the reason for it is criticism of the
stations which Dr Thomson published in
the Melbourne “Herald” almost 15 years
ago.
Dr Thomson, 59, is one of the world s
most distinguished anthropologists and
has spent many years in the field, mainly
in the Cape York and Arnhem Land
areas. His early academic training was
in agricultural science at Melbourne Uni-
versity, and he later worked there as a
demonstrator in botany, and at Sydney
University in zoology. His doctorate is
none of your two-year Ph.Ds. but a
solid D.Sc. granted for his work in
anthropology. He reverted to biological
science for two years in 1930-31, when
he worked at the Walter and Eliza Hall
Institute on the venom of Australian
snakes. In 1937 he was seconded to the
Commonwealth Government following
reports of widespread tribal fighting in
Arnhem Land. Dr Thomson's assign-
ment included doing what he could to
establish friendly relations between the
tribes during the two years he spent in
the region. He returned during the war
on special R.A.A.F. duties.
Dr Thomson’s present interest in Cape
York is to conduct a survey for C.5.1.R.0.
into plants used by the aborigines. The
news that he had struck trouble was
described by the Melbourne University
Staff Association as unwarranted inter-
ference with academic freedom. Its
president, Mr J. A. McDonnell, said,
“This is the Professor Gluckman case all
over again,” and laid the blame for the
ban on the Queensland Government.
The situation was rather more com-
plicated than that. The Queensland
WHO WINS?


Government is quite willing to allow Dr
Thomson to visit the reserves under its
control at Bamaga, Palm Island, Cher-
bourg and Woorabinda, but it is not
prepared to exert pressure on the Presby-
terians to let him into their missions.
“The Government feels that the Church
has every right to exercise autonomy in
these matters,” Native Affairs Minister
Dr Noble said, “even on the principle
that a host has at least the right to select
his guests.” Dr Noble also claimed that
the Anglican Church had banned Dr
Thomson from its missions.
The anthropologist himself has refused
to comment, merely saying that the affair
was in the hands of the Melbourne Uni-
versity Staff Association. Logically,
another party to the dispute could be the
Prime Minister, Mr Menzies, who is sup-
posed to have unsuccessfully sought
Queensland Government backing for Dr
Thomson's entry to the mission stations.
As Acting Minister in charge of
C.5.1.R.0., Mr Menzies could legiti-
mately be questioned about the matter
on his return to Australia.
The article by Dr Thomson which the
director of the Presbyterian Assembly's
aboriginal missions, Rev. James Sweet,
described as “A masquerade of the
truth,” was one of a three-part series
which appeared in the last days of 1946.
They were hard-hitting in the extreme ;
neither the police, the Government nor
the missions were spared for their respon-
sibility in what Dr Thomson saw as the
destruction of a race. He attacked what
he called the “incompatible roles” of the
police as protectors of aborigines and as
policemen. He spoke of the Palm Island
Reserve as the “Queensland Govern-
ment’s Devil’s Island near Townsville
from which few ever returned.” About
the missions, he complained that reserves
had been “divided up without any regard
to the wishes of the aborigines among
missions of various denominations, and
placed directly under the control of
missionaries who are appointed “pro-
tectors and who have absolute jurisdic-
tion over the reserves and their people,”
and he claimed that many of the mis-
sionaries had “neither aptitude nor
training” for the work.
“Each mission organisation had its
own methods and policy. But all agreed
in one regard —that they set out to
destroy the native culture.” On Cape
York Peninsula “entire cultures have
been wiped out, even within the past two
decades.”
This seems to be the only point on
which Dr Thomson has received any
reasoned reply in the current dispute.
Dr Noble said that since 1946 the num-
bers of aborigines and Torres Strait
islanders in Queensland has grown from
19,500 to 25,450.
But even if Dr Thomson’s prediction
proved wrong, this seems no valid reason
for barring him from the area. The
attitude shown by the Presbyterians not
only smacks of long-cherished spite but
must also have the effect of making
many people believe that there are still
things to be hidden on the missions. It
will be interesting to see what Presby-
terian Mr Menzies makes of it all when
he returns.
POLITICAL POINTS
rF the Australian branch of the Com-
munist party follows its Consti-
tution it will hold its triennial Congress
this year. The meeting will probably
be the most crucial in its history
since the Comintern intervention
around 1930 because the party is
almost certain to elect a new presi-
dent and new secretary. Federal
president “Dick” Dixon, who re-
cently suffered a stroke in Moscow
(he is still recuperating there), will
disappear and the present secretary
Lance Sharkey, will probably go
into voluntary liquidation.
The A.C.P. is reputed to be the
most Stalinist in the world: party
members were not given the text of
Khrushchev’s 1956, 20th Congress anti-
Stalin speech ; they had to go to the
New York “Herald-Tribune” to read it.
The leadership said at the time that
the “capitalist press” had concocted
it. Even after the Hungarian revolu-
tion the officers waited several weeks
before admitting the existence of the
“counter-revolution.”
The leading contenders for President
Dixon’s throne are Jack McPhillips
(former Federated Ironworkers Assis-
tant Secretary) and Jackie Hughes
(dapper Jackie, who used to run the
N.S.W. Clerks’ Union, is a former
member of the New South Wales
State Labor party, which amalga-
mated in 1944 with the Communist
party). The industrial wing of the
party will go for McPhillips, but the
politicos, who have been in control
for years, will plug for Hughes, a
good unity-ticket man. For the more
important position of secretary the
two possibilities are Central Commit-
tee member Aarons (N.S.W.) and the
Victorian bureaucrat Ted Hill.
Aarons adheres closely to the Chinese
line of no peaceful coexistence ; Hill,
although more Stalinist than Khrush-
chev, is still known as a “Moscow”
man. If the McPhillips-Hill ticket
wins against Hughes-Aarons the Aus-
tralian Communist party is more likely
to adopt a Russian ideological line ;
if the other wins we are in for a
long period of Chinese truculence.
• •
of righteous anger will flow
from Australian peace-lovers
when they hear what the Americans
have done to Dr Linus Pauling. At the
end of a long investigation into Dr
Pauling’s national and international
peace offensives, a United States
Senate sub-committee said: “We be-
lieve it is accurate to state that Dr
Pauling looks with favor on the Soviet
Union and has participated promi-
nently in many of the most notorious
front activities of the Communist
movement in this country and inter-
nationally.” This Nobel prize-
winner was one of the stars at the 1959
Communist-sponsored Peace Congress
in Melbourne. Along with “Jolly
Jack” Priestley and other celebri-
ties he toured the suburban circuits
urging Melburnians to come out of
their villas and fight for Peace. In
certain circles in Melbourne heads
still bow, knees bend, and breasts
are earnestly beaten whenever his
name is mentioned —which is often.
His name and respectability were used
less than three weeks ago at Labor's
“Atomic Week” rally when Mr Sam
Goldbloom told a congregation of 400
that he had received a letter from
Pauling, announcing yet another “no
more nuclear-weapon countries” peti-
tion he was circulating around the
world. Mr Goldbloom was also
pleased to announce that Sir Mac-
farlane Burnet, Professor Marcus Oli-
phant, Dr Bart Bok, Sir John Eccles,
Professor Frank Fenner, and novelist
Patrick White had already joined the
cause. No doubt these gentlemen will
now be asked to sign a petition de-
nouncing the Senate sub-committee as
a McCarthyist conspiracy.
• •
Parliamentarians have one thing in
A common all over the world —
their salaries and allowances. The
poll for the new New Guinea Legis-
lative Council had not been announced
when Administrator Don Cleland was
able to disclose that a daily sitting
fee of ten guineas would be paid to
the elected and nominated members
for every day, excluding Sundays,
that they were absent from home to
attend meetings of the Council or on
Council business. Travelling allow-
ances would be actual expenses, plus
£1 a day for incidentals and plus
fares. The official members and the
non-official nominated members will
get £75 a year “incidental allow-
ance.”
• •
A lthough it is risky these days to
forecast party affiliations, the
Queensland Labor Party is expected
to join forces with the D.L.P. early in
May. One of the effects of this will
be to give the D.L.P. some slight hope
of winning a Senate seat in Queens-
land.
BY MUGGA


OVERSEAS
Italy
Marxists on Probation
By NEIL McINNES
The Vatican and the Italian prelates
have lately stepped up the denuncia-
tion of “Marxism,” meaning by that not
Communism or alliance with Communists
but all independent Leftist thought that
owes anything to the classic Socialist
tradition. Following the Pope, who inter-
vened in his capacity of Vicar of Rome,
and the archbishops of Palermo and
Genoa, the archbishop of Ancona has
recalled that “Marxism” is the “heresy
of heresies,” whether or not it entails
subservience to Russia or the Communist
movement, simply because it preaches a
message of ‘liberation’ to poor people
‘oppressed’ by capitalists and made
‘wicked’ by poverty.” As so often with
the Church’s sweeping pronouncements,
this has reference to a particular situation
that has arisen in Italian local politics.
Yet the matter is of more than parochial
interest because an identical situation
could arise in a dozen other countries
where the mass of the working class is of
Communist or fellow-travelling obedience.
The Italian extreme-Left consists not
only of the C.P. but the important Italian
Socialist Party (P. 5.1.) of Signor Nenni.
After the Hungarian uprising, the P.S.I.
renounced its alliance with the Commu-
nists and declared itself autonomous,
wnile still a workers’ party committed to
neutralism abroad and collectivism at
home. It is easy for the Church and the
Right to argue that this divorce is more
apparent than real, since Signor Nenni s
troops continue to collaborate with Com-
munists “on the ground,” e.g., in shop
committees and village councils. But that
is natural: workers and peasants are
not going to desert their traditional Com-
munist allies unless they are assured of
being re-admitted to the political nation
by the democratic parties. There would
be no point in abandoning collaboration
with Communists, which is often fruitful
in trade union struggles and petty local
politics, just to become a fringe party
denied a say in democratic politics be-
cause of past association with Com-
munists.
The P.S.I. is poised in a political void,
and I suggest that its position is that
of millions and millions of workers and
peasants in Italy, France, all the Mediter-
ranean countries and Latin America. It
wants to be a Leftist party without col-
laborating with Communists and their
Russian masters, and yet it hesitates to
break with the C.P. without being
guaranteed a role in the national political
game—which means, in multi-party States
like Italy, that it wants its votes to count
when Cabinets are formed instead of
being subtracted and disregarded as at
present. The Communist party and the
Catholic Church have a common con-
cern in such cases: to make sure that
independent Marxists like Nenni are not
re-admitted to the “bourgeois” circle but
driven back to collusion with the C.P.
That would strengthen the support of
the C.P. by maintaining its moderate
fellow - travelling wing, and it would
enable the Church to "go on pretending
that anti-clericalism and nationalisation*
programmes are only and always the
doctrine of Russian agents. On the other
hand, if the independent Marxists were
let out of quarantine it is probable that
the Communists would lose not only their
allies, but a large part of their troops,
because very many workers would stop
voting Communist if it were proven that
the democratic parliamentary system
allowed scope for genuine extreme-Left
activity, if only for effective opposition
and criticism.
The ruling Christian Democrat party
and its centre-party allies in the present
Fanfani Ministry (Social Democrats,
Liberals and Republicans) are of this
latter opinion and have decided a cautioui
experiment, to put the P.S.I. on proba-
tion. The local government elections of
November produced a deadlock in
Florence, Genoa, Milan and elsewhere:
no giunta or council could be formed
by the patented democratic parties, so
they resolved to enter local coalitions
with the P.S.I. This is a very grave
breach of doctrine on their part, since
the official Italian view—dictated by the
Vatican and the Liberals’ newspapers —
is that the Nenni-ites are nothing but
crypto-Communists. The Right wing of
the Christian Democrats and the Liberals
would, in the past, have brought down
the Government for much less, but they
know that a Cabinet crisis today would
lead President Gronchi to send them
to the country and if Kennedy and
Khrushchev happened to be on cooing
terms at the time of the election, the
result could be disastrous for the con-
servatives.
So they have had to acquiesce in the
experiment of working with the P. 5.1.,
S o far only in three major cities but
possibly soon in many others and maybe
in the more important provincial govern-
ment of Sicily which is similarly dead-
locked. The risks, argues Signor Fanfani,
are limited, since local governments do
not make foreign policy. The possible
gains, however, are considerable: if it
is demonstrated that the P. 5.1., given the
Tarantel Press, West Berlin.
friends and helpers


opportunity, is indeed willing to work
as a democratic party and not as a front-
organisation for the C.P., the basis for
more liberal policies in Italy will have
been significantly widened. And the main
appeal of Communism disgust and
despair among the militant poor about
the effectiveness of democratic politics —
will have been seriously reduced. All the
centre parties have now accepted this
wager, with widely varying degrees of
enthusiasm. The main threat resides in
those of Signor Nenni’s lieutenants who
are exactly what the Church says they all
are: crypto-Communists and who there-
fore deplore the experiment of collabora-
tion with “bourgeois” parties. They, the
Communists and the Catholic Church
will make every conceivable effort in the
months ahead to prove that national-
bourgeois parties and national-Marxist
parties cannot work together (in the sense
of opposing each other by open legal
means) within the democratic rules,
The Church has seldom been so
exasperated with “its” politicians, who
are once again subordinating questions
of the highest principle to calculations of
expediency, if not to downright political
cowardice. The Archbishop of Genoa
has written in person to the secretary of
the Catholic party warning him of the
immense moral danger he is running by
consenting to work with the C.P.’s late
allies. Naturally, prelates, purists and
other idealists believe (and the more
credit to them) that all such mundane
political combinations involve grave
moral danger. But those whose kingdom
is of this world will think that consider-
able moral risks are worth taking if
there is the chance of winning back
millions of the poor from sterile obedience
to the Communist party.
Marshal Sarit
Siamese Strong-man
By HENRY BAGEHOT
HPhe Siamese have always liked to have
a ruler who will take their decisions
for them. From 1781 to 1932 the Kings
of the Chakri dynasty ruled as absolute
monarchs, widely loved and respected
above all for the way in which they
saved their country from the imperialist
ambitions of France and Britain. Today,
however, the head of the Chakri family,
King Phumipol Aduldej, is a constitu-
tional figurehead with little or no say
in the day-to-day affairs of Siam. This
country, of such initial strategic impor-
tance in the world struggle, is in effect
ruled by Marshal Sarit 1 hanarat.
The Marshal is now 52, a tall and
powerful man, running to fat, but
astoundingly full of physical vitality con-
sidering the pace at which he now lives
and the serious illnesses from which he
has suffered.
He was born in the north-east of Siam,
where the people have the same language
and customs as those of neighboring
Laos. Quite often a family will have one
son prominent in Bangkok, while another
is working in Laos. Today one of Sarit’s
cousins, General Phoumi Nosavan, is
leading the Right-wing rebel committee
in Southern Laos and hostile critics of
Sarit openly suggest that Sarit is lending
moral—and perhaps material —support to
Phoumi because of ties of cousinage.
Though Sarit’s family were reasonably
well-to-do they did not belong to that
charmed circle of people close to power
in Bangkok who could afford to send
their sons abroad. Sarit graduated well
from his military cadet class and acquired
a reputation as a brilliant soldier, attrac-
tive to women and with a capacity for
attracting the loyalty of his friends.
His hard - drinking and swashbuckling
approach to life made him popular with
the easy-going Siamese who feel suspicious
of anyone who does not know how to
enjoy himself. Sarit also got—and has
kept—a reputation for looking after the
interests of friends and subordinates.
Here again hostile critics suggest that
this is a better trait in a platoon com-
mander than in a Prime Minister.
From 1951 to 1957 Sarit was in com-
mand of the First Army, which is
stationed in and around the capital, and
was at the same time Deputy Minister
of Defence. In a country in which the
recognised method of changing a govern-
ment is by a bloodless coup d’etat, the
commander of the troops in the capital
is automatically drawn into the political
game. For years Sarit seemed to be con-
tent to be merely the loyal subordinate
of Marshal Pibul. Pibul, one of the
leaders of the 1932 coup which over-
threw the absolute monarchy, had been
Prime Minister under the Japanese, had
spent a short time in jail and emerged to
regain power by one of the almost tradi-
tional bloodless coups.
Gradually, however, Pibul and Sarit
drilted apart. Pibul’s schemes became
more grandiose while the public,
conscious of corruption and inefficiency
in day-to-day administration, grew tired
of exhortations to show their “culture.”
Pibul’s idea of culture may be judged
by the fact that during the war he had
solemnly ordered all Siamese women to
wear hats, shoes and stockings and issued
official instructions that all civil servants
were to learn ballroom dancing and kiss
their wives before they left for the office.
Sarit would not have taken this too
seriously if he had not suspected that
Pibul was leaning increasingly on Sarit’s
rival, General Phao. Phao, Chief of
Police and Minister of the Interior, was
in every respect the opposite of Sarit. A
bon viveur with a good taste in vintage
clarets, he could impress Western visitors
in the morning with his quite un-Siamese
energy and efficiency, and charm them in
the evening by deputing his lieutenants to
take them on a tour of Bangkok’s hectic
night life. At the same time he was up
to his neck in the opium trade and
behaved in an equally un-Siamese way
to his political opponents who showed
a tendency to “disappear.” The establish-
ment of police paratroops represented a
real challenge to the Army.
Sarit, meanwhile, seemed content to
knock back brandy and whisky with his
Army friends. Phao's newspaper empire
began to build up Phao as Siam's “strong
man’’ and Phao flirted with politicians,
some with Left-wing sympathies. In 1956
Pibul came back from a world trip full
of enthusiasm for giving more democracy
to Siam. There were to be really tree
general elections. The electorate would,
Pibul assumed, show their gratitude by
giving him a vast majority. It all went
hideously wrong. Orators propounding
the wildest schemes began to harangue
the crowds in front of the Royal Palace.
When the elections came in February,
1957, Pibul could scarcely muster an
audience while the veteran Liberal
Khuang, with a subtle mixture of clown-
ing and passionate oratory, addressed the
largest political meetings ever held in
Siam. Sarit kept aloof from the campaign
and left the rigging of the elections to
his rival Phao. Khuang, who had really
won seven of Bangkok's nine seats, was
given only two. Siam’s normally apathetic
students staged a protest march and the
opposition newspapers had a field day.
Sarit rose to the occasion, pacified the
students and hinted that he, too, thought
the elections unfair. Faced with mount-
Cummings, London “Daily Express."
“DR LIVINGSTONE, I PRESUME."


ing unpopularity Pibul and Phao re-
doubled their intrigues with the Left and
when, in October, 1957, Sarit carried out
a bloodless coup there was general relief.
Typically, Sarit, with Phao at his mercy,
put him on a plane for Switzerland and
a luxurious retirement. Pibul fled the
country and is now in Tokyo.
Sarit became Supreme Commander of
the Armed Forces and Minister of
Defence, and, partly because of ill-health,
preferred not to become Prime Minister.
New and honest elections were held,
though half of the Assembly consisted of
nominated members to ensure a Govern-
ment majority. There was a noticeable
upsurge of Leftism, and intrigues amongst
Assemblymen helped to discredit the
whole parliamentary system.
In October, 1958, Sarit, who had had
a major operation in the U.S., flew home
from convalescence, took over the Gov-
ernment from his own nominee and
proclaimed a “National Revolution.” The
Assembly was dissolved and more than
100 Leftists jailed (many of them are still
there) Parliamentary democracy has
never had deep roots in Siam and Sarit's
move was generally welcomed. The old
impression of a genial soldier, too fond
of drinking with his cronies to take
decisive action, has gone. Sarit has
flown all over the country in his
helicopter, arriving in an open - necked
shirt to organise relief after a pro-
vincial fire. Inefficient administrators
have been sacked and the best brains
of the country employed in various
councils. A Constituent Assembly is
drawing up a constitution that will leave
Siam with a strong executive. The
Siamese currency has never been more
stable and foreign investment is actively
encouraged.
There is still a good deal of corruption,
but this does not seem to worry the
people very much. Siam's natural wealth
and relative underpopulation have pro-
duced a toierant, rather indolent people.
The Siamese, too, enjoy Sarit's direct —
sometimes earthy —way of speaking and
respect the way in which he not only
gives an order but makes sure it is carried
out. They are not in the least shocked
that Sarit runs a vast complex of business
imprests—this follows Siamese tradition.
Staunchly pro-Western, Sarit has been
in favor of a strong line towards the crisis
in Laos and has made no secret of his
personal support for the Right-wing rebel
group of General Phoumi. He has
travelled little abroad, does not seek the
company of foreigners and takes on occa-
sion a somewhat parochial attitude to
foreign affairs. He takes a pessimistic
view of the Vietminh-inspired Pathet Lao
movement being admitted into a coalition
and feels that Seato must find some way
to ensure that Laos does not come under
Communist influence. By temperament
half-way measures and compromises are
uncongenial to his nature.
Siam is not the only country in Asia
recently to have found the decisiveness
of military rule more congenial than the
uncertainties and factionalism of parlia-
mentary democracy. Will Sarit have the
farsightedness to make permanent the un-
doubted benefits he has conferred on his
country by preparing for a future in
which he is no longer there?
Pointers
THE AMERICAS
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
President Kennedy presented his Latin
American “Marshall Aid” plan with a
great deal of flair. First of all he sent
a number of special envoys to the Latin
American countries and then he outlined
the plan at a White House reception
for Latin American diplomats. In all this
he did nothing to upset Latin American
pride, but in requesting a 600 million
dollars appropriation from Congress he
underlined the urgency of the situation.
He pointed out that almost half the
adults in Latin America are illiterate and
that half the children of school age have
no school to go to ; that the average
life expectancy is only 46, in some areas
35, compared with 70 in the United
States; that infant mortality is 110 per
thousand, compared with 30 in the
United States ; that in one major capital
a third of the population lived in
“filthy and unbearable slums,” while
in another country 80 per cent, of the
entire population was housed in make-
shift shacks and barracks; that the
population had increased 30 per cent, in
the past ten years, so that by the 1980 s
the continent would have to support more
than 4000 million people, and that the
average annual product a head was only
280 dollars. Kennedy aid will be con-
ditional on social patterns being modified
by administrative, tax and land reforms.
Moreover each country will have to fol-
low’ a satisfactory long-range develop-
mental plan, but Kennedy has promised
immediately increased co-operation in
stabilising commodity markets and a
larger food-for-peace programme.
AFRICA
KENYA
The reversal of the “irrevocable ’ deci-
sion taken by the leaders of the Kenya
African National Union not to visit Jomo
Kenyatta on March 24 in order to seek
his views on the colony’s political crisis
may indicate that Kanu is prepared also
to revoke its irrevocable decision not to
join the Government until Kenyatta is
unconditionally released. There is a split
between Kikuyu and Luo members of
Kanu on this issue with the Kikuyu
asserting that the party should not co-
operate in making the new constitution
or accepting ministries. Although it has
the support of the majority of politically
minded Africans the Kanu had made
several tactical errors since the election,
not the least of them being to allow
Kenya African Democratic Union dele-
gates to visit Kenyatta in Lodwar alone.
SPANISH SAHARA
Spain has reinforced her Saharan garrison
as a result of the kidnapping of 11 oil
technicians and has lodged a complaint
with the United Nations regarding the
Moroccan threat to her territory. She
has asked the Rabat Government for the
liberation of the captured technicians,
punishment for those responsible, the
return of stolen material and compensa-
tion. It is difficult to know the full story
of the kidnapping because communica-
tions are so poor in this region, but it
is clear that the question of rights to
the oil which is being found in abundance
in the Sahara will complicate Arab-
European relations already tense because
of nationalism.
SOUTH AFRICA
The South African Dutch Reformed
Church, the Nederduits Hervormde
Kerk, has decided to accept apartheid
in worship by holding separate services
for white and non-white members. The
Church is one of the big three of the
Dutch Reformed Churches, which repre-
sent the biggest denomination in South
Africa.
EUROPE
ITALY
The Socialist National Congress, which
concluded in Milan on March 20,
approved the report and policy of its
secretary, Signor Nelli. His group
emerged with 45 of the 81 seats on the
new central committee, which represents
a loss of two seats to the pro-Communist
wing of the party, but Nenni intends to
use his narrow margin to support the
elements in the minority Christian Demo-
cratic Administration which are anxious
for the long-discussed “opening to the
left.” Signor Nenni sees this as a break-
ing down of the barriers between
Socialists and Catholics.
WEST GERMANY
The local elections in North Rhine-
Westphalia and Lower Saxony in which
12,000,000 people voted on March 19
resulted in a considerable increase in the
Christian Democrat support while the
Social Democrat vote remained steady
and the Free Democrats confirmed their
position as the country’s third party. As
these local elections were held in par-
liamentary election year the result has
been interpreted as a sign that the
Socialist party’s “new look,” which was
adopted at their Hanover conference in
autumn, is not sufficiently distinguished
from that of the Christian Democrats to
attract new supporters.
POLAND
For the first time in five years Cardinal
Wyszynsky, on March 19, challenged
claims by Mr Gomulka, the Communist
Party leader, that there was no persecu-
tion of the Church and that any Church-
State conflict was due to the Vatican’s
hostile policy. Cardinal Wyszynsky re-
futed this by stating that the Holy See
had never given him instructions on “how
Polish bishops should conduct Church
affairs in their own country.” He attri-
buted the bad Church-State relations to
the 20 Government-sponsored organisa-
tions which promoted atheism and to the
Government’s plan to abolish religious
instruction in the schools. He made his
attack on the regime while addressing
Polish physicians, but in a sermon the
day before, apparently referring to the
Communist leaders, he said, “I tell you,
Caesars, that you will bow to your God,
and you will serve only him and no one
else. Satan is mighty but man will not
bow his head before him. The regime


is dependent on Catholic support in the
forthcoming elections.
FRANCE
More than 80,000 teachers and head-
masters in all State primary,
secondary and technical lycees in Paris
and eight surrounding departments struck
for 24 hours on March 10. The strike
culminated six weeks of half-day rolling
strikes called because successive Govern-
ments since 1957 have admitted the
validity of the teachers’ demand for a
5 per cent, salary increase, but have
refused to grant it because of its infla-
tionary effect. The teachers have
threatened to sabotage the examination
system and are already doing so in the
technical schools. The civil servants are
also demanding an immediate average
5 per cent, wage increase and on March
14 staged a nation-wide 24-hour stop-
page. More than 12,000 strikers paraded
through Paris but the Government has
declared that all increases must be aligned
with increases in national productivity.
ASIA
CEYLON
Ceylon looks like continuing without
a government in the north and east
of the island for some time unless a
compromise is quickly found on the
Tamil problem. What started as a
demand for recognition of the Tamil
as well as the Sinhalese language has
developed into a political and racial
grievance which may lead to separatism.
The credit for this deterioration can be
given to those Dr N. M. Perera, the
Trotskyist party leader, describes as
“trigger - happy megalomaniacs.” “We
will govern or get out” said Finance
Minister, Mr Felix Dias Bandarianike,
when protests were first heard from the
Tamil regions on February 20. He was
determined not to repeat what he thought
was the 1958 mistake: prevarication
leading to violence. This time troops
made a brutal attack on satyarihas (non-
violent demonstrators) who lie in the
entrances to Government offices and
effectively prevent anyone from entering.
The troops’ brutality has united all the
Tamils behind the Federal party in their
anti-Government campaign and action by
the million Indian Tamil workers on
the rubber and tea estates could wreck
the country’s shaky economy.
CHINA
A fortnight of heavy rain has meant
an end to the drought threat in many
parts of China, particularly South Hupeh,
North Hunan and even inland provinces
such as Szechuan but the situation in
some north-western areas is still serious.
Many of the provinces have announced
that they are to implement one of the
plans to increase output: they will en-
large the areas under early varieties of
rice, maize, potatoes and other crops.
Victor Raul Haya de la Torre
Voice of Peru
By J. HALCRO FERGUSON
Two hundred delegates of the World
Peace Congress, a Communist-front
organisation which enjoys Cuban sup-
port, met in Mexico City at the beginning
of March. The meeting's main purpose
was to gain Latin-American support for
Soviet foreign policy, and at first glance
the 4000 people who turned up for the
first public session might appear impres-
sive. But when one bears in mind that
the population of Mexico City is over
4,000,000, the gathering seems less signifi-
cant.
A truer perspective can be gained by
comparison with the crowd of 100,000
which gathered in a square in Lima,
Peru, a much smaller city, to hail the
recent return from abroad of the Peruvian
leader, Victor Raul Haya de la Torre, a
Left winger, but a convinced anti-
Communist.
Victor Raul, as he is universally known
to his followers, heads A.P.R.A. —
Alianza Popular Revolucionaria Ameri-
cana. As the title indicates, the movement
was originally intended to cover the whole
of Latin America, or, as A.P.R.A. prefers
to call it, Indoamerica.
In this aim it failed, but in Peru it
achieved and holds a massive appeal, par-
ticularly to the rural “Indian” popula-
tion, the urban proletariat, and a con-
siderable section of the intelligentsia—
notably those connected with the 400-
year-old University of San Marcos.
A.P.R.A. was founded in 1923 with
a basically Socialist programme. Haya,
a San Marcos graduate, spent some time
at the London School of Economics,
then a very radical institution. To these
basic tenets were added some purely local
ones, such as the “reintegration” of the
aloof and poverty-stricken Indian
majority, and, in the international field,
the “interamericanisation” of the Panama
Canal.
Almost from the start, the movement
aroused the bitter hostility of Peru’s con-
servative ruling classes, who regarded it
as merely Communism with a different
label (ironically, the Peruvian Commu-
nist Party, which is not very bright, was
equally hostile to A.P.R.A., as being
social-democrat, deviationist, i.e., a com-
petitor). As a result A.P.R.A. was con-
sistently refused registration as a political
party, on the casuistic constitutional argu-
ment that it was an “internationalist”
body and not an indigenous one.
Some Peruvian Governments did not
stop at the building of legalistic obstacles ;
in 1930 an estimated 6000 Apristas were
shot among the desolate ruins of Chan-
chan, a prehistoric city in the northern
desert.
Nevertheless, the movement continued
to grow underground, and in 1946
achieved legality by a swift change of
title to People’s Party just before an
election. 1 here was little time to prepare
for polling date, but A.P.R.A. (now the
People’s Party) secured enough votes to
form a coalition Government with the
Liberals under President Bustamante y
Rivero (the man who authorised the Kon-
Tiki expedition after the Peruvian Navy
had turned it down).
However, like all coalitions, this proved
an uneasy alliance. The Apristas, after
years of persecution, showed a tendency
to do as they had been done by. The
Liberals, on their part, tended to jib at
the unconventional economic changes
proposed by the Apristas. Foreign capital,
either way, was being frightened away,
and local law and order was being
frightened away, too.
The Home Secretary, a retired
Brigadier-General called Manuel Odria,
decided things were getting out of hand,
called in the Army, deposed the Govern-
ment, outlawed A.P.R.A. and put a price
on Haya’s head as a “common criminal,”
charging him with non-political crimes.
Haya, pleading political asylum, sought
refuge in the Colombian Embassy, where
he stayed for five years because the
Colombians would not give him up, and
Odria’s Government would not give him
a safe-conduct. Finally, the latter’s face
was saved by a somewhat sybilline ruling
of the International Court in the Hague,
and Haya was allowed to go into exile.
Shortly after, Odria, who explained to
a North American newspaperman: “I’m
tired ; my name isn’t Franklin Roose-
velt,” called elections and refused to run
again. His candidate did not win, but
ex-President Manuel Prado, by profes-
sion a banker, did —after promising to
legalise A.P.R.A., and thus capturing
most of the Left-wing vote.
But the stability of the administration
has only been possible because of the
support of A.P.R.A., which now repre-
sents the great majority of the electorate,
and which is virtually certain to form
a government after next year’s elections.
Haya himself has been taking the oppor-
tunity of his party’s temporary aliena-
tion from power in a series of foreign
visits calculated to bring him up to date
on international trends. But his sup-
porters have not been idle in the mean-
time.
The crowd which met him on his return
to Lima was evidence of this. So were
the bands and the marching ranks of
trades unionists, nurses and other groups
which heralded his arrival, and the fact
that the stewardship was so disciplined
that the police had nothing to do but
look on—and listen to Haya addressing
the crowd for 155 minutes.
They were listening, in effect, to the
voice of Peru. But not only of Peru,
for the now moderate socialism of
A.P.R.A. is shared by the governments
of several Latin American countries and
by powerful oppositions in others. They
represent the genuine competition to
Castro in today’s social revolution. The
Communists meeting in Mexico are
locally almost as irrelevant as the few
remaining Right wing dictatorships.
—Observer Foreign News Service.


FOR THE CONSUMER
The Democratic View
of Mink Coats
Buying a mink coat on lay-by would
seem to represent the fullest expression
of the Australian way of life. After all,
we do live in a democracy, and no good
Australian should see any reason why
mink coats should be for the rich and
idle only. Also, Australia is a country
where time payment has been highly
developed, and if the family television
set, washing machine and lawn mower
are on h.-p., why not Mum's mink
coat, too?
At any rate, Australian women do get
their furs on h.-p. They are either put
on lay-by and not received until paid
for, or they are bought under extended
credit with, usually, a time limit of 12
months. According to Mrs Stella Cor-
nelius, of Cornelius Furs, Sydney, buying
a fur is often a family affair with every-
one sitting around the salon giving advice.
“That’s how' we sell most of our furs,”
she said. “1 know people often say to me,
‘You really must see life with all those
old sugar daddies coming in and buying
mink for their popsies.’ Well, 1 don’t
know what the wages of sin are, but they
certainly aren't paid in fur.”
In recent years a totally new attitude
to furs has developed. A fur is no longer
a once-in-a-lifetime purchase, a sad piece
of dead animal put around a woman’s
neck, and left to hang there discon-
solately like a rabbitskin nailed to the
woolshed door. Also, these days fur
is not for ihe few, but the many. Every
woman thinks she can have a bit of fur.
even if it is only a trimming. You can
buy mink buttons to trim a topcoat or
suit-jacket for about 7s. 6d. each which,
one might truthfully say, brings mink
within the reach of everyone.
“Thank goodness we've got away from
the ‘heirloom’ idea with furs,” Mrs Cor-
nelius said. “When Father would come
in and say his daughter was making her
debut and needed a fur, he would then
buy her something and say, 'Now, dear,
this will last you a lifetime.’ We've got
right away from that ghastly thing of
women wearing the same bit of fur year
in and year out, of buying a style which
they think will never go out of fashion
because it never is in fashion.
“These days most women realise that
the value is in the skins and that, no
matter how expensive a fur is, it is well
worth while having it remodelled every
few years to bring it up to date.”
Mrs Cornelius said that her firm
thoroughly approved of the idea of ex-
tended payment for furs.
“I find that most people plan their
buying very carefully,” she said. “We
even have girls in their early twenties
buying expensive furs. No, they wouldn't
buy a mink coat, but they do buy mink
stoles. They either save up until they
have the full price, or they put the fur
away on lay-by and make regular pay-
ments.”
Mrs Cornelius said that these days
every woman felt she could have a bit
of fur.
‘‘One of the biggest schools of thought
on furs at present is ‘a little, but good.' ”
she said. “If you really want ‘a little,
but good' you can easily have a collar
or tie. We have a saleswoman whose job
is looking after the fur trimmings and
it’s a full-time occupation."
The biggest part of the “a little, but
good” fur trade is in hats. This season
there are more hats than ever and they
are in a greater variety of shapes and
sizes. However, the pull-on cloche which
hides all the hair, and which brings out
beads of perspiration on the coolest brow
at cocktail parties, is still one of the
most popular. The furriers design their
own hats mostly. The fur, either brim
or crown, is cut and shaped first and
then the work goes to a milliner.
Another part of the “a little, but good”
fur business is trimming for dresses and
coats. Cornelius has now developed a
business line of supplying the dress trade.
Furs have to be matched to the manu-
facturer’s range of colors and the pieces
of fur have to be cut to the exact shape
required by the manufacturer.
The newest thing in fur this season is,
of course, kangaroo. Mr Max Cornelius
has just returned from an overseas trip
during which he placed orders for
kangaroo coats and jackets with Gunther
Jaeckel, of New York, and with Nina
Ricci, of Paris. Although Australian
skins have been exported before, this
will be the first time that we have sent
made fur garments overseas.
The kangaroo fur, which has been on
the market here lor about three months,
isn't even a cousin to the old kangaroo
rugs. It is extraordinarily soft and supple,
qualities which have been achieved in
the fur and, more importantly, in the
leather after several years’ research by
several people in the fur trade.
It is available in several shades of grey
and beige, but the most exciting color
is a buttery, creamy color. Most of the
furs exported have been three-quarter or
full-length coats but a short, sporty jacket
has, so far, been the most popular item
here. This sells at about 34 guineas. A
bolero is about 29 guineas. The short
jacket, Mrs Cornelius feels, can be worn
with casual clothes or even for informal
evening wear.
There are also kangaroo-skin rugs and
bedspreads. A bedspread in the new pale-
colored fur is a most luxurious-looking
thing and, according to Mrs Cornelius, it
is very popular with interior decorators
both here and in the United States
Mrs Cornelius says that kangaroo fur
will most certainly last a lifetime. She
says that since her firm had put it on
the market the switchboard has had
several calls from kangaroo shooters,
offering skins. However, her firm bought
only from established selling depots and
the kangaroo must be winter-caught. 1 he
firm's experts judged only about eight per
cent, of the skins offered as suitable for
treatment. Then, after treating and
dyeing, a further 50 per cent, had,
generally, to be discarded.
FOR THE OBSERVER
The Rocking Chair
A Comfortable Conversation-killer
Once upon a time, all of 10 years ago,
a friend asked me whether I wanted the
old rocking chair which had belonged
to my maternal grandmother, and which
I had stowed away in our box-room. It
was tattered and needed major repairs and
I was glad to get rid of the old thing.
Since that day when Grandma s rocking
chair left our house to reappear at my
friend’s place, re-covered in tapestry and
restored to its colonial magnificence, I ye
noticed the gradua sneaking back into
fashion of that comfortable conversat.on
killer—the rocking chair.
First it began appearing in .he back-
ground of magazine pictures taken in
pe ,. haps Wlth
purple velvet upholstery. Then about
three years ago slick fashion magazines
had their models posing on the old


rocker. I remember one, a lovely blonde
in a glamorous shirtmaker brocade even-
ing dress, shamelessly rocking herself to
sleep.
Socially-prominent matrons from
fashionable suburbs began ferreting
among the secondhand shops for rockers,
and the race was on. No rocker was too
old or too bedraggled to be restored and
claimed as having belonged to great-aunt
Flo, who rocked her w-ay out from the
U.K. aboard a sailing ship in the old days.
Recently 1 was out to dinner, a small
but smart dinner party where the hostess,
always up to the minute with her Geor-
gian silver, antique furniture, etc., had
three rocking chairs in her sitting-room.
Three husbands all with the well-known
masculine failing of falling asleep after
the coffee, foolishly made for these
seemingly innocent pieces of fashionable
furniture with such cries as “Ah, nice
comfy old chair!” In no time they were
not just nodding or snatching a quiet
snooze when the conversation lagged ;
they were shamelessly snoring, rocking
themselves into the deepest slumber.
Our hostess said bitterly that she had
decided that three rockers were over-
doing it a bit. She had discovered that
no one could knit or watch the most
tantalising TV programme in a rocker
without going to sleep.
Although these left-overs from another
way of life could at one time be picked
up cheaply at secondhand furniture shops
or off rubbish tips, they are now getting
scarce. Smart stores are selling them
for anything from £23 to £43, and some
Sydney furniture stores have up to
two months’ delay on delivery of them.
A well-known Sydney antique-dealer said
he had given up advertising for rocking
chairs, as most of the old ones seem to
have been brought out of the attic now.
It is best to buy a new one, he said. You
can get them contemporary or colonial
style, and he’d even make them look like
antiques, if necessary.
SHEILA PATRICK
Two Beggars,
Nodding
“Would y’like to see two beggars,
nodding?”
The question had a piquancy, no mis-
take about that, delivered as it was at
half-past five in the morning by a
breathless six-year-old, eager to impress
her mother with this latest addition to
her repertoire.
There is an agelessness about the
games children play. A Greek child in
400 b.c. might have asked her mother
if she’d care to see two beggars, nodding.
American Phyllis McKinley wonders
how, without a bugle call and with the
calendar giving no warning, children
yet know it is the Time for Hoops, the
Time for Tops, the Time for Playing
Hopscotch.
She would wonder, too, about the
newest craze: what far-off bugle set
those fingers knotting pieces of string
into a circle, and those hands weaving
and lifting over and pulling out to make
all sorts of patterns. The tw'o beggars,
nodding, for instance, emerge as tw'o
rather pathetic bent index fingers, clut-
tered about with string.
The cup and saucer, a solo variation,
involves catching part of the pattern in
between the teeth, lifting the string over
the thumbs, and then, “Hey presto,”
she says, “a cup and saucer.” Now while
the cup and saucer, the tramlines and the
cat’s whiskers are recognisable, well, suffi-
ciently recognisable, the fish on the
plate, and the froggie on the plate can
only be classified as Impressionistic and
unrecognisable.
The frustration of the creator is in-
tense. “Can’t you see!” “ Can’t you see!”
she says, with the fish on the plate
spread out between impatient fingers.
“There’s the fish!” pointing with her
nose; “Can’t you see the fish?” But the
frog and the fish remain elusive.
What is the mysterious bugle prepar-
ing to sound for next week? Could it be
hopscotch?
P. MORATH.
Lenten Specials
Among the quaintest survivals from
prewar years are the “Lenten Specials,”
which most of the food stores advertise,
and the supplements on cooking for
Lent which appear in many women’s
magazines around this time of the year.
The “Lenten Specials” in the shops
can be anything from herrings in tomato
sauce to black caviar. They are all
meat-free, but, in point of fact, there is
only one day in Lent (apart from Friday,
which is a day of abstinence throughout
the year) on which Catholics do not eat
meat, and that is Ash Wednesday. The
regulation which formerly made Wednes-
days in Lent meatless days was suspended
in the early postwar years. Otherwise,
some Anglicans and other Protestants do
not eat meat on Good Friday as a
voluntary gesture. Just the same, it
seems rather foolish for the shops to
undertake extensive advertising and for
those cooking editors to find new ways
of cooking macaroni cheese when so
little is involved.
Feiffer
l 1
IjJCRC A
DICTATOR/
ft
mee....
A
STCOM6
HA*)-
A -
TITAN...
tdiTfl A
RvrHtss
010 POU36R AA)O
AfO ipOM 6R\P /,
on rne
H6IM of
eowmuT!,
-6vr
LOVtO.
THE i AW 15
MY i-AW. M
PEOPLE ARE
MV PEOPLE.
WHOMEVER
l CONQUER
REMAINS
comuEzeoi
*
PREMIER BERNARD.
KING BERNARp.
EMPEROR
BErmarp.
CZAR
BERfOARp.
so<4
THEN
COOU?
I MEET
6IRE6/


The Red Page-Autumn Book Supplement
What's to come in 1961
Angus and Robertson
A forecast by Australian publishers of their outstanding books for this year.
publication on February 24 of
Sydney’s First Four Years, the
first annotated edition since 1793 of
the narratives of Watkin Tench of the
Marines, opens the list of what may
well prove to be one of the most
memorable years in Angus and Robert-
son's publishing history.
The spring list of Australiana will
include the magnificent two-volume
edition of the Endeavour Journal of
Joseph Banks, edited by Dr J. C.
Beaglehole of New Zealand. The two
volumes will exceed 900 pages, with
20 illustrations in full color and 60
pages in black-and-white, printed by
Van Leer in Amsterdam. Accompany-
ing it will be Volume V of Biblio-
graphy of Australia (1851-1900: A-K)
by Sir John Ferguson.
The Secret of Alexander Harris,
edited by Alec H. Chisholm from an
autobiography by the author of
Settlers and Convicts, resolves the con-
troversy on Harris’s identity that fol-
lowed the issue of that book, with an
Introduction by Professor Manning
Clark, in 1953. An introduction to
“The Secret” by Alexander Harris’s
grandson, Grant Carr-Harris of
Canada, sketches the family history.
Documentary books will include
Killers of Eden by Tom Mead, one of
Sydney’s well-known journalists, who
writes about the killer whales that for
close on a century have visited Twofold
Bay where the whalers have used them
like sheep dogs to round up whales;
The Far South, a vigorous book about
Antarctica by John Bechervaise. who
has spent three years there; Helen
McLeod’s Cannibals are Human, a
frank, uninhibited account of life in
the New Guinea Highlands by a dis-
trict officer’s wife; and Vince Kelly's
Rugged Angel, the story of Australia's
first policewoman, Lillian Armfield.
In the novel Xavier Herbert reap-
pears with his massive Soldiers’
Women, dealing in realistic terms with
the lives of the women of an Australian
city during World War 11. Phillip
Jones, a newcomer, in Time of the
Bora examines the destinies of a group
of refugees in North Italy under scru-
tiny for migration to Australia. Helen
Fowler’s new novel, The Blazing
Straw, revolves about an Australian
girl enmeshed in the revolutionary
activities of Irish patriots in Dublin.
Then there are Marjorie Barnard’s
extensive History of Australia; Com-
modore, in which Sir James Bisset com-
pletes the story of his 50 years at sea;
and Claude McKay’s lively reminis-
cences of journalism in This Is The
Life.
Helen Heney tells the story of the
complex personality of Count Strze-
lecki, discoverer of Mt Kosciusko, in
her biography, In A Dark Glass. The
voyages of Sir Douglas Mawson to
Antarctica in 1929-31, which narrowly
beat the Norwegians to claim lands
now part of Australian Antarctica, are
presented by Dr Grenfell Price, who
provides a commentary on Mawson's
own journals in The Winning of Aus-
tralian Antarctica.
Among the poets to appear are
Ronald McCuaig (Collected Verse),
Ray Mathew (South of the Equator),
Elizabeth Riddell (Forebears), Vincent
Buckley (Masters In Israel), Kenneth
Mackenzie (Selected Poems), and Hugh
McCrae (Best Poems). Christopher
Brennan's Prose is expected in the
spring.
For children there are books by
Margaret Paice, Ivan Southall and
Ann E. Wells. Sheila Hawkins’s
Australian Animals and Birds offers
a guide, beautifully illustrated in color,
for children.
In the technical field the most im-
portant new books of the year will
be Poultry Management and Produc-
tion, by Allan A. McArdle. a South
Australian expert temporarily in India
as adviser to the Federal Government
in the rehabilitation of the poultry
industry there, D. A. Sutherland's
Introduction to Agriculture, H. D.
Lamond's Dairy Cattle Husbandry and
a revised edition of Wallis's Timber
Handbook.
Colin Roderick
Melbourne University Press
taURING 1961 Melbourne University
Press will publish between 40 and
50 titles.
Visions and Profits: Studies in the
Business Career of Thomas Sutcliffe
Mort, by Dr Alan Barnard of the Aus-
tralian National University, is based on
both family and company papers—-
essentially a business biography but
also a personal story. In Mort’s day,
Sydney's business world was small and
closely knit; some 20 men controlled
the main economic institutions. In
some measure, Mort’s story is theirs
too, for they all worked in, and were
affected by, the one environment.
Margaret Kiddle's Men of Yesterday
is a social history of the Western Dis-
trict of Victoria, 1834-1890. Nearly
600 pages, with many contemporary
illustrations, it is a vivid, fascinating
story, based on a wealth of letters,
diaries, and family papers. Finished
in a dramatic, courageous race with
death, and prepared for publication
by the author’s colleagues in the Uni-
versity of Melbourne, it is a story
never likely to be attempted on so
convincing a scale again.
Next comes David Scholes’s Fly-
fisher in Tasmania. K. S. Inglis s
The Stuart Case, of 360 pages, sur-
veys that dramatic story which stirred
the whole Commonwealth and sub-
jected legal processes and political in-
stitutions to searching scrutiny.
R. A. Swan, working with both
scientists and administrators, has
brought together the long, epic story
of Australia and the Antarctic. It
begins with the sealers and whalers,
and closes with the International Geo-
physical Year and the Antarctic Treaty
of 1959. Professor Griffith Taylor adds
a particularly strong commendation in
his foreword.
Don Rawson's Australia Votes: The
Federal Election of 1958 (on behalf
of the A.N.U.) is a thorough study
of a kind not hitherto attempted in
Australia. Alan Birch and David
Macmillan, of the University of Sydney,
are editors of The Sydney Scene, 1788-
1960 (a companion to Grant and Serle
The Melbourne Scene, 1803-1956), the
story of a city and a community as
seen and recorded by contemporaries,
and freely illustrated from etchings,
drawings and photographs. Weston
Bate has written the History of Brighton
(Victoria).
The first volume of Manning Clark's
long-awaited History of Australia is
now in active preparation. It begins
with the earliest speculations about the
Antipodes, surveys the great voyages
of discovery and examines the story
of Australian settlement under Phillip,
Hunter. King. Bligh and Macquarie.
No full-length narrative history of
Australia has been attempted for many
years; and the second volume is al-
ready well advanced. The project may


run to four volumes, spread over several
years.
Last, but not least, there will be
several more “Melbourne Paperbacks,”
the first of the larger-page “Australian
Paperbounds,” and, whenever possible,
further Australian editions of books
from overseas University Presses to
continue the policy established in
1960-61 with Joseph Jones.
G. F. James
THE MEDICAL NOVEL
OF THE YEAR . ..
“I SWEAR AND VOW,” by S. Olivier.
' " _ ' _
Sold 250,000 copies in America—
hospital drama with a vengeance, 22 6
THE BOOK YOU WILL WANT TO READ
“THE KAMPA STORY,” by Rampa.
Author of the “THIRD EYE" . . . .
the final and complete answer to all
his critics and he has given his
guarantee that every word is true.
31/6
NOW THE STORY CAN BE TOLD
“THE FALL OF HONG KONG,”
by T. Carew.
An extraordinary story read with
pride and shame 31 6
AT ALL BOOKSELLERS
HUTCHINSON & CO.
Australian Immigration Policy
In the Autumn issue of
“Quadrant,” Sir John Latham takes
issue with the critics of Australia's
immigration policy, in particular the
authors of the pamphlet “Control
or Colour Bar?” published by the
Immigration Reform Group at Mel-
bourne University.
Sir John Latham’s contention is
that Australian legislation is not
materially different from that of
Asian countries, and that “when the
policy is fairly stated and under-
stood it forms no obstacle to genuine
friendship with Asian peoples.”
Autumn QUADRANT 1961
Annual subscription £l, payable to
Box 4714, G.P.O. Sydney
BOOKHUNTER
lJrpt. "I)” Box 2671, 0.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, ete. .Moderate
fee only if successful.
BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.0., Sydney.
I
I'
<
HAVE YOU EVER
TRIED THIS ?”
o feature of
Th# ▲mfraitan
Woman's Mirror
GET YOUR COPY TODAY
Cheshire
/CHESHIRE'S first major book this
year will be the anthology, They
Came to Australia, edited by Alan
Brissenden and Charles Higham: in
which visitors to our shores, from Dam-
pier through Mark Twain to Lawrence,
Muggeridge, Toynbee and Pringle, give
their answers to that perennial and
parochial question “And how do you
like Australia?”
Catholics and the Free Society, edited
by Henry Mayer, with essays by K. S.
lnglis, R. N. Spann, Brian Fitzpatrick,
B. A. Santamaria and others, will ex-
plore, from conflicting points of view,
the myth and matter of Roman Catho-
lic influence in Australia.
Almost as a pictorial counterpart
to Robin Boyd’s “Australian Ugliness.”
(of which two editions have already
been sold and a third is being printed)
Best Australian Houses, edited by the
Royal Australian Institute of Archi-
tects, will be a large and beautiful-
volume to show the best of domestic
building from all States; Neil Clere-
han’s text is a controversial and in-
formative essay on the development of
domestic architecture.
A volume of three verse plays. The
Sun in Servitude, by the late Professor
C. R. Jury, who saw himself as an
Australian heir to the Greeks and
Romans, will have many novel ideas
in typography and some ethereal
drawings by Richard Beck. Poetry of
a different kind will be represented by
David Martin’s Spiegel, the Cat, a
rollicking story-poem based on a
European masterpiece. It will have
ten full page drawings by Roderick
Shaw.
A symposium on Australian Civili-
sation, based on the assumption that
there is such a thing as an Australian
civilisation, will be edited by Peter
Coleman with chapters by A. G. L.
Shaw, Arthur Phillips, Manning Clark,
Max Harris, James McAuley. Vincent
Buckley, Robin Boyd, Donald Horne,
Don Rawson, Norman Mackenzie and
others.
A Sunday Kind of Love is a volume
by Alan Davies, a political scientist
whose one or two published stories
have already drawn attention to an
unusual talent. His stories, to be
illustrated by line drawings, are largely
set in the inner suburbs of Melbourne.
We will be publishing two fictional
books with an Australian historical
background; in Tree by the Creek,
John McKellar retells the story of the
Burke and Wills expedition and
Nancy Adams's The Saxon Sheep is the
story of the importation of Saxon
Merino sheep by the Templetons and
Forlonges. The author is descended
from the Templetons.
We shall publish at least three books
for children. Golden Dan by Frank
Kellaway, Allan Aldous’s Thirsting
Land (a factual book on the immense
importance of water in Australia) and
a new book by Robin Boyd about the
historical and social background of
buildings from convict days to the
glass houses of today.
For the Christmas rush, when more
books (and more television sets?) are
sold in three weeks than are normally
sold in three months, we will have Alan
Marshall's The Gay Provider, the story
of Sidney Myer and his retail colossus;
a new nature book by Jack Hyett; a
travel book by Peggy Warner; a slim
book in which Cyril Pearl descends
from the refined heights of literary bio-
graphy and is concerned with a few
merciless home truths; and She’ll be
Right, a book by James Mackenzie,
who. with her husband Norman Mac-
kenzie, had been a temporary Austra-
lian and now looks back on us, not
exactly in anger but very near to it.
Some other books will come out
this year; and none of them will be
paperbacks.
Andrew Fabinyi
Published in England
/"AUITE a few Australian authors are
to be printed by English publishers
this year. One of the most interesting
books should be Hal Porter’s novel
about Wainewright which, though it
does not yet appear on their list, is
said to have been accepted by Faber.
Just released on Heinemann’s list
is Heatwave in Berlin (205.), by Dym-
phna Cusack, about a German mig-
rant and his Australian wife who are
involved in an upsurge of neo-Nazism
when they visit his wealthy parents in
Berlin.
Others to come from Heinemann in-
clude: The Interloper, by Noni Braham,
set on a huge cattle-station in north-
west Queensland; The Fringe Dwellers,
by Nene Gare, set in W.A., where the
author is the wife of the Protector of
Aborigines; There Is No Refuge, by
Gwen Kelly, about love in an academic
background; September Comes, by
Frances Margaret McGuire, the life of
a wealthy grazier and his family, who
have left their property to settle down
to social life in Edwardian Adelaide;
The Living Come First, by Jack Dan-
vers, a mystery thriller set on a big
sheep-station near Alice Springs.
Hodder and Stoughton will have
Face of Fortune, by James Workman,


MM
Australian Writers Speak
This year promises to be one of the most memorable in
our publishing history. Outstanding titles in every field
are on the way. We give details below of our most recent
books and some that will be published soon. There are
many more to follow novels, general literature,
children’s, education and technical books—as well as the
new series of all-Australian paperbacks.
RECENTLY PUBLISHED BOOKS
SYDNEYS FIRST FOUR YEARS
by Captain Watkin Tench of the Marines. The most
readable story, by one of the founders, of the adven-
turous foundation of Australia. Rich, vigorous, exciting,
and abounding in human interest, it combines the two
original books, A Narrative of the Expedition to Botany
Bay and A Complete Account of the Settlement at Port
Jackson. 50/- (post 1/8)
THE STORY OF BATHURST
edited by Bernard Greaves. Written by the best authori-
ties in Bathurst, this vivid story of the growth of the
city from the days of Governor Macquarie up to the
present is of vital interest to all who have connections
with the “Queen City of the Plains.” 24 illustrations.
42/- (post 1/8)
INVEST YOUR MONEY WISELY!
by W. H. Roberts, B.Ec. “Apart from being a guide to
the novice investor, the book is also a guide to invest-
ment practices during boom and recession periods. He
deals with all types of shares . . . and the myriad other
things associated with investment ... a good refresher
course for people already versed in the stock market.”
(Daily Telegraph) 21/- (post lOd.)
WITH THE WEST INDIES IN AUSTRALIA, 1960 61
by A. G. (Johnnie) Moyes, who captures all the excite-
ment of the most sensational cricket Australia has seen
in a long time. It’s a lively, critical story of all the
matches, with scores and statistics in detail. Illustrated
with 12 pages of action photographs. 25/- (post 1/3)
TO BE PUBLISHED SHORTLY
COMMODORE: War, Peace and Big Ships
by Sir James Bisset. The third and final volume of his
grand story of fifty years at sea, telling of his rise to
the top of his profession as captain of the Queen
Elizabeth and Queen Mary.
To be published April.
SOLDIERS' WOMEN , , . ..
by Xavier Herbert. A brilliant portrayal of Australian
women in wartime; his first major work since
Capricornia. To be published in June. 30/-
SUCCESS THROUGH A POSITIVE MENTAL ATTITUDE
by Napoleon Hill and W. Clement Stone. The book that
swept America. Opens the door to a new way of life
for young and old, through a dynamic approach to the
problems of daily life.
To be published 9th May. 307-
COAST TO COAST, 1959-60
selected by Cecil Hadgrajt. Humour, satire, adventure,
love . . . the year’s best Australian short stories.
To be published early April. 21/-
• Look out for the Pacific Books
• A & R's new all-Australian paperbacks
Titles in the first series, to be published in July, are: .^XVV^“b2’VPaTerson -
Hungerford The Man from Selection and Our New Selection by Steele
Rudd - CoonnX by Kathanne S. Prichard - Ben Hall the Bushranger by Frank Clune.
• To be published at a popular price
available at all booksellers and
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney


about an attempt by a man convicted
of a murder to track down, after his
release, the one for whose crime he was
unjustly imprisoned; Richie Benaud’s
Way of Cricket; The Island of Terrible
Friends, by Bill Strutton, the story of
an R.A.M.C. doctor’s work among
British commandos and Yugoslav
partisans on a small island encircled
by German-occupied territory during
the last war; and, taking in a New
Zealander, Sir Edmund Hillary’s own
story of the Trans-Antarctic Expedition
of 1958 in No Latitude for Error.
Hodder and Stoughton will also have
two children's books: Flying Doctor,
by Michael Noonan and The Racketty
Street Gang, by L. H. Evers. Dents
also have an Australian juvenile on
their list, Phyllis Power's Sabotage in
the Snowy Mountains.
Hamish Hamilton is keeping track
of James Aldridge, whose The Last
Exile takes place in Nasser’s Egypt
during the Suez crisis; and Michael
Joseph has a first novel by an Aus-
tralian: Be Ready With Bells and
Drums, by Elizabeth Kata, the story
of a fight to break away from a sor-
did home life. Another from Michael
Joseph is Moreton Bay Adventure,
by Ruth Cilento with illustrations by
Margaret Cilento, a book of boys’
adventure.
Fabers have coming up shortly The
Story of Australia, by A. G. L. Shaw,
revised second edition of this general
history of Australia; Coral and Color of
Gold, by Roy Struben, about the
author's trading adventures in the
South Seas and gold-mining in New
Guinea; and three children's books:
Henrietta In Love and The Proud
Duck, both by Aaron Judah, and The
House Next Door, by Carol Odell.
In the middle of the year Robert
Hale will publish two books dealing
with outback life—another from the
irrepressible Bill Harney, and Life On
The Daly River by Nancy Polishuk.
Collins expect to have a new Jon
Cleary novel and a new Catherine
Gaskin.
S. W. K.
The Books To
Buy A re
“BOOKS THAT
LIVE”
‘ NOT SUCH AN ASS,” by Henry Cecil.
Cecil uses his skill as a Novelist to
present the law in action .... satis-
fying as well as amusing 18/9
“CONCISE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF
ARCHAELOGY,” by Cotrell.
The whole world is covered and there
are 176 pages of illustrations .. 61/9
“THE LOTUS AND THE ROBOT." by
A. Koestler.
An important hook by author of the
“SLEEPWALKERS” 31/-
“COME HERE TILL I TELL YOU,”
by P. Campbell
The author is a name known to all—
new book by one of the funniest men
alive 31/6
•COVENANT WITH DEATH,"
by J. Harris.
The story of perhaps the greatest
battle —the battle of the Somme in
which over half a million men were
killed 26 -
“1 HE INCOKKI I'TiBLES,” by tiuthrie
Wilson.
The theme is appointments in our
time .... we meet the Incorruptible
candidates in correct exteriors with
their fallible and sputty humanness
uncovered, and await the judgment of
the. . . . incorruptible seven.
MAN OI IHE WORLD/' by Cornelius
Vanderbilt, Jnr.
i he full story of the author’s years
as a presidential agent for F. D.
Roosevelt 37 3
“MISSION FOR MY COUNTRY” by the
Shah of Iran.
Ston - of the King of Persia .... 37,3
AT ALL BOOKSELLERS
THE HUTCHINSON
GROUP
PENGUIN BOOKS
Titles for March include:
J. P. Sartre: The Age of Reason
Albert Camus: The Outsider
Max Frisch: I’m Not Stiller
Georgian House
first book on our list from March
onwards this year is Charles Troe-
del’s Melbourne Album. This interest-
ing series of colored lithographs of
Melbourne in the years 1863-64 has
long been one of the rarities of Aus-
traliana. It consists of 24 plates in
color, and the new edition will also
contain an introduction and notes on
the plates by Clive Turnbull. The
volume will be a handsome cloth-
bound book, 11” x 8”, and the price
will be £6 6s.
The Driven by Donald Stuart, author
ot “Yandy” is being published by
Georgian House in conjunction with
Michael Joseph Ltd., the joint arrange-
ment being the outcome of the visit
to Australia in 1960 of Mr Charles
Pick, of Michael Joseph Ltd. It is
the story of the droving of a mob of
cattle from a station to the railhead
by two white men and three aborigines.
Georgian House will begin publish-
ing this year what it is "hoped will
be an extensive series of monographs
on the work of living Australian artists.
The plan is to publish the volumes at
the rate of four each year, and arrange-
ments have already been made to pub-
lish books on the work of the follow-
ing artists: Arthur Boyd, critical text
by Franz Philipp; Russell Drysdale,
critical text by Professor Joseph Burke;
John Brack, critical text by Dr Ursula
Hoff; Clifton Pugh, critical text by
Noel Macainsh; Sali Herman, critical
text by Daniel Thomas; Godfrey Miller
critical text by James Gleeson; Albert
Tucker, critical text by Alan McCul-
loch; Sidney Nolan, editor not yet
appointed. The volumes will be crown
quarto in size (10” x 7J”), with eight
plates in color and 30 in black and
white. The project is under the general
editorship of Dr Bernard Smith.
Edgar C. Harris
Jacaranda
JACARANDA enter their sixth year
of activity with the publication of
their first collections of poetry, their
first book of reminiscences, a docu-
mented record of the Orr case and a
significant technical work on sheep-
farming. We are planning also to
expand our Pocket Guide series and
two of the new titles, Moths and
Spiders, will be the only works of their
kind with a specifically Australian
coverage in print.
Probably the most exciting of the
new list, for the general reader at any
rate, is Joseph Porter’s Roll the Sum-
mers Back, due in May. Mr Porter has
written on outback subjects for “The
Bulletin” under the pseudonym of
“Spinifex” and his style is the spare nar-
rative of the yarn. He worked as horse-
breaker, ’roo-shooter, opal miner,
clerk in the boiling-down works at
Longreach, eventually going off to
South Africa as a trooper in the New
South Wales Bushmen’s Contingent.
Causing no less interest in a more
restricted field is W. H. C. Eddy’s Orr.
Is the ex-Professor of Philosophy at
Hobart University an Australian Drey-
fus? Has there been a grave mis-
carriage of justice in Tasmania? This
big book of 700-odd pages sets out
to re-examine all of the evidence.
Nothing is omitted, evidence which was
excluded from the Court hearings on
various grounds is all admitted and
checked here, statements which were
accepted in court and at the enquiries
are subjected to rigid scrutiny and the


“truth” of some of them is exposed as
doubtful. This is a book whose con-
sequences could be far reaching. The
book is sure to cause considerable sen-
sation in both academic and legal
circles.
Australia is not a land of big sheep
runs. Statistics prove that something
under ten per cent, of our sheep are
owned by the big grazing companies.
The rest are in flocks of 2000 or less
and are quite often only part of the
activity of the farmer. J. W. Jordan's
Practical Sheep Farming is a book for
these men. Mr Jordan has had wide ex-
perience of sheep under all conditions
from the Riverina to Queensland.
In poetry we will publish Time on
Fire —Tom Shapcott's first volume—
and Dark Wind Blowing by Val Vallis.
Finally, as a contribution to Austra-
lian scholarship, Quintus Servinton is
to be reissued. Most people know that
this was the first novel written in Aus-
tralia, published at Hobart town, the
book of Henry Savery, convicted and
transported for forgery. The reprint
is edited by C. H. Hadgraft.
Brian Clouston
Lansdowne Press
'"pHE Lansdowne Press, Melbourne,
will publish 22 titles in 1961. The
success of the first seven titles and
the infusion of new capital will enable
Lansdowne to expand its activities
rapidly.
Cricket —The Australian Way, edited
by Jack Pollard contributed to by most
of the Test team and some great
players of the past, will be published
about the time of the first Test in
England. Another sporting book is The
Secrets of Australia’s Golfing Success,
by Kel Nagle, Norman Nida, Peter
Thomson, and Jim Ferrier. Both these
books have been accepted from synop-
sis by a leading British publisher
using Australian produced sheets, and
will be on sale in England about
September.
The first two titles in our series,
“Australian Writers and Their Work,”
Patrick White by Geoffrey Dutton, and
Norman Lindsay by John Hetherington,
were received so enthusiastically by
the book trade, and public, that four
more titles are planned for 1961.
Henry Handel Richardson by Vincent
Buckley and Henry Lawson by S.
Murray-Smith, are in manuscript, and
two more are being written.
Ern Malley’s Poems, introduced by
Max Harris, with comments and reflec-
tions by the leading protagonists, will
appear early in April. This is the first
time the full story has appeared, and
it makes fascinating reading.
Bill Wannan’s Hay, Hell and Booli-
gal will be similiar to the successful
“Bullockies, Beauts and Bandicoots,”
which sold over 8000 in the six weeks
before Christmas and A Treasury of
Frontier Tales, will be a collection
THE
ELEMENTS
OF
STYLE
by William Strunk Jr.
Revised by E. B. White
of "New Yorker" fame.
No matter what your profession, whether
you write essays, papers, reports or letters,
if you write any word in the English language,
this book belongs on your desk.
THE ELEMENTS OF STYLE is a graphic,
concise guide for writing correct, effective
English. It gives, with wit, brevity and clarity,
concrete rules of English usage and composition.
Since its publication “the little book” has
enjoyed enormous success throughout the world
and has earned the praise of distinguished
writers, educators and reviewers.
Paper 10/-
Clofh 24/9
do they understand you 7 .
A guide to effective oral com-
munication by Wesley Wiksell.
Do you always say exactly what you mean?
Are you a good listener?
Here is one of the few books on the most
common yet most baffling aspect of com-
munication —informal, face-to-face
communication.
49/-
Order through your bookseller or Write
for further information to:
Y
MACMILLAN • NEW Y#RK
? Costlereagh Street, Sydney. 26-3760


from Australian writing, plus stories
and yarns collected by Wannan. We
are producing one children’s book, a
story of Burke and Wills, Journey
Into Mystery, by Ivan Southall.
Liars and Letters Anonymous, sub-
titled “the case-book of an expert
witness,” by Oscar Mendelsohn, public
analyst, wine expert, and television
personality, is a book of extraordinary
interest. Many of the cases he discusses
are set in Australia. In the humorous
field, w'e have a collection of Alexander
MacDonald, the “Daily Telegraph”
columnist, entitled The Worst Of Alex
MacDonald (title chosen by the author).
The book will be illustrated by Clarrie
King. “Telegraph" cartoonist, and Nino
Culotta is writing the foreword.
Lloyd O'Neil
si
■
m
V
TS^ 1
CONTROVERSIAL
‘The controversy about Britain's
biggest modern military failure—
the fall of Singapore will be re-
ignited by this remarkable book
from the enemy’s side.'
Sunday Mirror, Sydney.
AUTHORITATIVE
Colonel Masanobu Ts uji’s story of
the M alaya conquest is authoritative
and candid. It compels close atten-
tion as both a lesson in history and
a narrative of personal experience.'
Newcastle Morning Herald.
O
EXCITING
As a narrative of personal experi-
ence it generates pure excitement
.... an d the atmosphere of jungle
fight ing is created with great truth.'
The Mercury, Hobart.
FACTUAL
This book conveys the impression
that he (Tsuji) is an honest man,
scrupulous with facts and telling
the truth as he sees it.’
The Age, Melbourne.
ESSENTIAL
If the full story of the Malaya cam-
paign is to be known it is essential
that this book be read.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL
BOOKSELLERS
35/-
PUBUSHED BY
ERE SMITH PTY. LTD.,
166 PHILLIP ST. SYDNEY
Rigby’s
VV7HEN the Australian author pub-
lishes in Australia alone his market
is about one-tenth of the U.S.A. poten-
tial, about one-quarter of that of Great
Britain, Franklin Watts in U.S.A.
the big ones get away. This was why
Rigby's of Adelaide embarked on a
vigorous campaign to initiate simul-
taneous publication of their books in
a number of countries.
A children's book, Rangatira, by
Lindsay and Tindale, was published
simultaneously by Harrap’s in Great
Britain, Franklin Watts in U.S.A.,
Reed's in New Zealand and Rigby’s
in Australia and was an outstanding
success in all countries. This appears
to be the answer to the problem of
publishing juveniles in Australia, and
Rigby's will issue Gabsy, by Aldyth
Angwin of Ballarat, Victoria, under
this plan in May. Then will
follow In Good Hands by E. M.
Newstead, and The Little Wave by
Ruth Hefi’ernan of Barwon Heads,
Victoria, a fantasy of a little wave
which would like to be a huge breaker.
1 he same close co-operation with
overseas publishers is maintained with
novels and general literature. The
most important event for Rigby’s in
1961 will be the publication of The
Runaway by Ruth Morris of Mel-
bourne. Then there is With Hooves of
Brass, by Robert S. Close, set in the
timber country of Victoria —Robert
Close has matured as a writer and there
is none of the crudity of “Love Me
Sailor.”
Set in Western Australia, If Golde
Ruste, by H. H. Wilson, presents a
picture of a small coastal town facing
up to the prospect of invasion during
World War 11. Colin Thiele's novel
Sun on the Stubble, set in the South
Australian German farming district in
the years between the World Wars, is
mainly humorous and has much of the
appeal of “On Our Selection.” Several
chapters have already appeared in “The
Bulletin” as short stories.
Cobba Cobba, by Francy de Grys,
tells of the experiences of the author
and her husband in charge of the La
Grange aboriginal depot in the north-
west of Western Australia. George
Farwell has drawn on his knowledge
of the outback to write The Vanishing
Australians, and in From That Day to
This Myrtle Rose White returns to
her old bush home at Wonnaminta, to
recall much of her life in the inland.
V. M. Branson
Ure Smith
TJRE SMITH published six books last
year. This year projects that are
in hand may lift our output to about
15 titles, which is not far short of
what we believe is the optimum number
for a firm of moderate size.
Our year’s work has just begun with
the launching of two important lists
from America: those of the University
of Michigan Press and the Michigan
State University Press, which we now
represent. Their handsome books range
widely in scholarly, scientific and
general fields of interest; and their
prices here, unlike those of many
American books, are not staggering.
The first of our own publications in
1961 is Frank Leechman’s The Opal
Book, due in April. This is a complete
guide to the gem, in its occurrences
overseas as well as in Australia, written
by a man who has had extensive experi-
ence in the field and as a lapidary.
In late April we will republish Nor-
man Lindsay's Saturdee.
Boys growing up leads to girls going
wrong, and “Saturdee” leads to One
Rose Less, a new Australian mystery by
Pat Flower, concerning a redhead who
is a politician’s mistress.
In May, coinciding with the Com-
monwealth-wide appeal for funds by
the National Heart Foundation of Aus-
tralia, we will publish The Fats of Life,
by Dr H. M. Whyte.
June is John (Culotta) O'Grady’s
month. His third book is No Kava For
Johnny, and it finds him in the form
that made Weird Mob and Cop this
Lot (their sales exceed 370,000) such
successes. This time the narrator is a
young Samoan. Wep is the illustrator.
Between July and November, which
is the end of the publisher’s year if not
of the bookseller’s, we should have
a Sydney novel entitled The Dyehouse,
by Mrs Mena Calthorpe; The Jack
Davey Story, an informal biography
by Lew Wright, who was Davey’s per-
sonal assistant for several years; re-
written and enlarged editions of Bill
Beatty’s Unique to Australia, and
Ronald and Catherine Berndt’s book
about the aborigines. The First Aus-
tralians; and an engaging long story
for older children by Ruth Park. The
Hole in the Hill.
Alec Bolton


British Publishers in Australia
By A. W. SHEPPARD
£YNICS might think that the weather
had much with it; but this
is the time of the year when British
publishers flock to Australia to see the
brightest jewel in their crown, the
market that takes just over 27 per cent,
of their whole output of about 21,000
titles per annum.
It is certain that if Australia pub-
lished the same proportion of our
demand for general books as is done
with primary school texts, as an
example, British publishing would find
itself in difficulties —unless it got more
control of publishing in Australia.
This is one of the obvious tendencies
on the publishing front today.
Longmans Green, for example, are
to issue more books and series printed
in Australia than at any previous times.
The Heinemann group of companies
has a policy of publishing most of its
Australian authors in Australia, except,
for some strange reason, Morris West,
and this has meant that these books
are always more readily available in
Australia than when printed and pub-
lished abroad. Collins have had this
policy for some time and there is reason
to assume that the visit to Australia
this year of the head of the printing
and distribution side of Collins has
something to do with the possibility
of more printing and publishing in
Australia.
One of the facts of life is that print-
ing costs in England are rising so
rapidly that they will soon approach
Australian costs. If costs in Australia
could be lowered by better equipment
being used, on a minimum of two
shifts without excessive overtime pay-
ments, we would be able to print and
publish as cheaply.
Although it is not the opinion of all
booksellers, many believe that Aus-
tralian publications are more important
to them than overseas although they
generally make more gross profit on
importations. When an Australian
book is successful the bookseller
usually can get stock of it quickly;
stock is in Australia when the reviews
are having their effects and repeat
orders can be filled at once without
waiting eight weeks or so for the books
to come from England, during which
time the interest has waned and a new
interest has been created. If “Weird
Mob” had been published overseas it
is doubtful if it would have sold 10
per cent, of its present total and every-
one would have been losers, author,
publisher, booksellers and the public.
The success of this book was due
almost as much to the merchandising
policy of the publisher as to its content.
Timidity and lack of vision are the real
enemies of successful publishing in
Australia, not small population, or lack
of authors.
Australian publishers are showing a
bit more dash at last. Angus and
Robertson have resumed publishing
and their competitors such as Shake-
speare Head, Cheshire, Lansdowne and
M.U.P. are active. Thus the British
publisher is facing much more active
local competition than ever before.
For this reason it is assumed that a
well-known British publisher has taken
up some of the preference shares that
A and R. are placing privately in Aus-
tralia and London. The British house
in question has its own organisation
here for publishing and distributing and
even has a stationery and printing
business as well.
As never before, the British pub-
lishers are determined to keep their
proportion of the market here. They
have been strikingly successful with
their “egg-head paperbacks” especially
Oxford and Unwin books. Much less
is being done to increase the size of the
market.
Another aspect of book-selling in
Australia where this “concentration”
tendency is seen is in representation.
Only a few years ago the majority of
representatives were small firms, with
select lists of Houses whom they could
represent personally. Today the small
representative is disappearing and the
representation of British publishers in
Australia is getting into the hands of a
few “empires.” For example. Heine-
manns represent 14 publishers; Cassells
nine and this is to be added to shortly
at the expense of yet another small
independent representative; Hutchin-
sons have 12 different houses on their
list.
The pattern for the future seems
fairly clear. More British interest in
publishing in Australia, if only in Aus-
tralian editions of best-sellers; British
publishers participating more directly
in the distribution of books in Aus-
tralia—we might even see them owning
bookshops as many do in Britain; con-
centration of representation in a few
hands which might be able to bring
more pressure to bear on booksellers,
or alternatively might carry some of
the loss risk on dead stock; and even
more liveliness on the part of Aus-
tralian publishers. It is to be hoped
that the small independent Australians
will be established properly before the
competition from Britain becomes too
severe because, in the long run. these
small independent publishers will
enrich our culture more than will the
big fellows overseas.
AUSTRALIANS:
NINE PROFILES
BY JOHN HETHERINGTON
Preface by Norman Lindsay
Nine full-scale profiles of men who
nave bulked large or continue to
bulk large in the life of Australia,
and who, for better or for worse,
personify elements which we vaguely
regard as strains of our national
character. They are: George Vasey,
Hugh D. Mclntosh, Alan Marshall,
Sir Keith Murdoch, Chester YVilmot,
Phillip Law, Harry Hopman, Damien
Parar and Peter Russo.
I his is a forcefully and brilliantly
written book. It represents an achieve-
ment, a step forward, a new element
n Australian writing. It is being,
and will be, praised and criticised,
it is bringing forth delight, admiration
and irritaiion. It is a book easy to
read, yet demanding attention, a
book of warmth and cold assessment.
This book cannot, and must not, be
ignored.
30/-
MY LADY LIFE
A Writer’s Story
BY ALAN D. MICKLE
Alan Mickle’s first book was pub-
lished in 1910. His last: “After the
Ball’’ in 1960. His new concise story
of his writing life includes excerpts in
prose and verse from many of his
books. It is a fitting climax to his fifty
years as an Australian writer —a job
which he, as others, found arduous,
financially unrewarding and often
without sufficient response. This
volume of memoirs cum anthology
will lead many, to their joy, to the
rediscovery of an endearing writer.
21/-
at all booksellers
Published by
W .
F .
CHESHIRE


Boswell Wins Again
Boswell for the Defence. Edited by
William K. Wimsatt, Jr and Fred-
erick A. Pottle. Heinemann. 375.3 d.
tT would be a great mistake if the
editors of the greatest English
journalist and biographer, just because
they have access to the masses of his
papers discovered up cottage chimneys
and tucked away in old castles, should
turn Boswell into a bore. He is not
that in this massive and handsome new
volume—in fact, he is superb—but he
only just escapes.
Surely it must be assumed that
readers of the Boswell saga are
familiar with his other published
writings, especially with the Life
of Samuel Johnson ’; and there
can be only the faintest interest in
reading now, say, this passage from the
new book: —
Friday 9 April. This morning
being Good Friday, I went in good
frame to Mr Johnson's. Frank said
there was nobody with him but Dr
Levett. 1 never knew till now that
Levett had that title, or rather took
it. We had good tea and good cakes,
1 think cross-buns. I then accom-
panied Mr Johnson to St Clement’s
Church in the Strand. He was
solemn and devout ....
when you are already familiar w ith
the same scene in almost the same
words in the “Life”:
On the 9th of April, being Good
Friday, I breakfasted with him on tea
and cross-buns ; Doctor Levett, as
Frank called him, making the tea.
He carried me with him to the church
of St Clement Danes, where he had
his seat; and his behaviour was, as
I had imaged to myself, solemnly
devout.
Something may be said for this repeti-
tion. It has some literary interest as
showing how little of the freshness
of his journal Boswell lost when he re-
wrote it in the “Life"; how often, in
fact, he improved on it. It is interest-
ing as a discovery of source-material,
and a demonstration of Boswell s
methods. It has distinct value in the
scheme which the editors of the present
series obviously have in mind, of try-
ing to present, volume by volume, a
complete Boswell autobiography; as,
for the years in which he kept his diary,
we get a complete life of Samuel Pepys.
But the truth is that Boswell, wffio
worked by fits and starts, did not
write a complete, unbroken record of
his life and it is rather idle, however
ingenious is the pasting together of
letters, scraps of diary and editorial
interpolations, to pretend that he did.
He was Boswell; there is no need to
try to present him as another Pepys.
The literary and critical interest in
the variations of text and in the reve-
lation of his methods is really very
slight, rather pedantic, and it would be
much better to discuss these matters
in a critical monograph rather than to
demonstrate them at such length as is
done here.
The period of this book takes in
the year (1763) of Boswell’s “Journal
of a Tour to the Hebrides” and one
can only be grateful that the editors
have not discovered some fresh, variant
account of that delightful episode to
print unnecessarily here. What they
can do to repeat the “Tour” by means
of correspondence and a long editorial
recapitulation, they do.
One last point that should be made
in this ungrateful account of the editor's
learned and devoted labors which
after all provide a lot of entertaining
reading, with a few fascinating new
sidelights: Boswell is always Boswell——
is that editorial pedantry, even if
humorously intended, can be carried
too far. It really doesn’t seem neces-
sary, when Boswell records on August
12, 1774. summing up his conduct for
the year, “But I had been much intoxi-
cated —I may say drunk six times,
to add the editorial footnote: —
On 21 June, 9, 19, 22 and 29 July,
and 1 August.
Can't the poor fellow get drunk
without these academics counting up
the number of times? Do they pro-
pose to haul him before the \ ice-
chancellor?
But the last part of this volume,
about a third of the total, after you have
got through another rather disappoint-
ing summary of some of Boswell s
court cases, brings us to the case in
which he defended John Reid, a poor
drover and farmer, on a charge of
stealing or “receiving” 19 sheep: and
that is where the book comes mag-
nificently to life.
Boswell was so moved by compas-
sion for Reid, and by admiration for
his own compassion—by a complexity
of emotions such as must seldom have
been seen or felt in the hardheaded
fraternity of the law —that he kept
a complete diary of the case. It makes
the most moving and dramatic read-
ing, of peculiar poignance for Australia
for, though it would have been to
America rather than to Botany Bay
that Reid would have been sent if
Boswell had been able to get the death-
sentence commuted, we cannot but
have a special interest in such subjects
as sheep-stealing, transportation, and
the barbarities of 18th century law.
Dressed in his ceremonial white
smock and high white nightcap
trimmed with black ribbons, Reid went
to the scaffold in the streets of Edin-
burgh declaring “Mine is an unjust
sentence”; but the real human interest
of his case is not whether or not he
was innocent—he had stolen sheep
many times before, and one could
hardly doubt that he was guilty at
least of receiving—but in the cruelty
of a death-sentence imposed for so
small an offence as receiving 19 sheep
and in its effect on Reid, his family and
on Boswell.
Never before has Boswell displayed
himself in such a variety of moods and
attitudes; never before, even in his
gloom in Holland, even in his elation
in London, even when he was falling in
love with Margaret Montgomerie, has
he shown himself —however deeply he
may have felt on those occasions—so
profoundly moved. He doesn't seem
to have cared so very much about his
client on the day of the trial when the
verdict went against him; being too
much pleased (and with reason: “Bos-
well was great!” said an eyewitness)
with his own oratory: —
Michael Nasmith came home with
me between five and six, when we
dined, drank some porter and port
and a bottle of claret. I was in a
kind of agitation, which is not with-
out something agreeable, in an odd
way of feeling. Having heard that
a verdict was found against John
Reid, I went at eight to Walker s
Tavern, where the jury were met (I
having first visited my client and in-
timated his fate to him), and being
elated with the admirable appearance
which 1 had made in the court, I
was in such a frame as to think my-
self an Edmund Burke . . .
But the thing grew on him. Seeing
the unfortunate and stoical Reid daily
in the prison, talking to Reid s loyal,
patient, humble and most miserable
wife, he came to feel that he must
move heaven and earth to save his
client’s life and have the sentence com-
muted to transportation: and every-
thing that man could do he did:
appeals to the judges, petitions to in-
fluential noblemen, more petitions to
the king. When every move failed —-
perhaps simply because the judge’s
prestige had to be maintained
Lord Pembroke to Boswell ....
Lord Rochford would have urged for
mercy had he been able to do it,
but he and the King too indeed think
the judge must resign if, after his
report, any mitigation of the sentence
should take place .... The King
was certainly disposed to transport,
but the judge’s report was too
strong —
Boswell started to bring into opera-
tion a nightmarish plan to cut Reid s
body down from the gallows and to
attempt to revive him by the singu-
larly modern method of mouth-to-
mouth breathing. .
Margaret, Boswell’s ever-amiable
and sensible wife, was horrified by this
plan, as were others of his friends, and
at the last minute, the night before the
execution, after he had completed his
difficult arrangements about cutting
down the body and working on it in
a nearby stable, Boswell abandoned
the scheme: which was just as well, for
in the event Reid was kept hanging for


three-quarters of an hour, a period
which even Boswell admitted would
have made resuscitation impossible.
Margaret, incidentally, was the
central figure in one of the biggest
scenes in this drama when, on the night
when all hope of a reprieve was lost,
Boswell came home and got “mons-
trously drunk” and, in his state of
“mingled frenzy and stupefaction”—
“I do not recollect what passed”—
hurled at his wife, as he learned from
her next morning, a candlestick with a
lighted candle in it. It was not a
very pretty thing to do, but at least
it was done out of misery.
Reading this fantastic document,
when Boswell is remorselessly remind-
ing Reid of his doom, tormenting him
to confess the truth, deciding to walk
right onto the scaffold with him to
hear his last words, arranging to have
his portrait painted in prison as a
curiosity or a souvenir, watching the
condemned man's every twitch of emo-
tion, it is impossible at times to avoid
regarding him as a sadist. But it is
clear that he was thrown right off his
balance by the affair, and it is equally
impossible not to give him full credit
for his humanity: “Well.” said one
of his colleagues, “God has blessed
you with one of the best hearts that
ever man had.” The final conclusion
which one must come to, so far as
you can ever reach finality with so
complex a character as Boswell, is
simply (once again) that he was a great
biographer: watching Reid, or watch-
ing himself, he missed nothing.
It is pleasant to be able to add, hav-
ing somewhat criticised the editing of
this volume, that there is an excep-
tionally nice index. It was compiled
by Miss Delight Ansley.
Douglas Stewart
Wesker and Co.
I’m Talking About Jerusalem. Arnold
Wesker. Penguin Plays. 4s. 6d.
New English Dramatists, No. 2.
Penguin. ss. 6d.
r yHE' trouble with the Wesker trilogy
is “Roots.” The two other plays,
“Chicken Soup with Barley” and the
recently-published final play “I’m
Talking About Jerusalem’’ make a
comprehensive, if deliberately episodic,
study of the Kahn family. “Roots”
goes off at its apparent tangent, follow-
ing Beatie Bryant back to her Nor-
folk family and displaying characters
who do not figure in the other plays.
It breaks the back of the cycle if one
wants the simple, chronological vir-
tues of the old-fashioned “family-saga”
play.
But it is possible that the trilogy has
form of a less obvious kind. “Roots”
and “I’m Talking About Jerusalem”
both deal with characters away from
the mainstream of the family life,
and in effect deliberately show the
influence of the Kahn family at work
Beatie Bryant in “Roots” comes to
her own mentally slovenly family and
in the famous exchanges of the last
act swears she will “get you s
thinking if it’s the last thing I do.”
ohe fails, in the author's own words
they will never change. But she has
significantly changed as a result of
her liaison with Ronnie Kahn. And
he is the result of his wildly dedi-
cated, politically tom-fighting family.
In a nice piece of counterpoint
Jerusalem shows the influence of the
Kahn family in reverse: daughter Ada
reacts against the high-pressure com-
mitment of her mother by opting out of
the family environment and. as Robert
Muller puts it in his coolly objective
introduction to the published text,
attempts Socialism-in-Action rather
than Socialism-in-Argument. The two
later plays can then be looked upon
as two separate streams flowing—in
opposite directions—out of the central
source of “Chicken Soup with Barley.”
Mr Wesker can create warm, engag-
ing characters and mostly manages
the difficult feat of making politically-
motivated people genuine human
beings rather than mouthpieces for
his opinions or mere reflections of
changing trends over the years. He
eschews well-roundedness, and anyone
who warmed to the lovable, wrong-
headed Sarah Kahn of the first play
mid expects to find her satisfyingly
“worked-out” in the final one may be
disappointed. His special gift is to
give us these people on the hop. We
look into their lives for awhile and
because Sarah is as tetchy, unintegrated
and altogether three-dimensional in
1959 as she was in the thirties and
forties, that is how we get her in the
last play. (No Jalna or Rakonitz
matriarchal sentimentalising here).
And yet the overall impression of
the trilogy is of something rather
slight, sketchy and finally a little less
than satisfying. Glimpses of vivid
people and a comment on the chang-
ing political attitudes of the times do
not seem enough to occupy us for
three plays. And to acquaint us with
certain facts Wesker sometimes inserts
speeches as blatantly synoptic as a
Pinero butler. His major gift is a
lyrical warmth long absent from Anglo-
Saxon plays, and for this alone our
thanks.
“The Kitchen” is the other Wesker
play, outside the trilogy. Unlike most
English playwrights he uses directly
autobiographical material and this com-
presses some of his experiences as a
kitchen-hand and pastrycook into two
acts of vigorous, even riotous tragi-
comedy. An assembly-line restaurant
kitchen with its harassed waitresses,
bickering chefs and cross-currents of
domestic and professional conflicts is,
according to the author, the world in
microcosm.
A good idea, and it begins promis-
ingly, but again the play does not live
up to its promise. The first act would
play superbly and could be an ex-
tremely funny theatrical experience.
But the second act repeats rather than
develops, and the climactic incident of
a steward’s self-wounding, though it
somewhat crystallises the play’s ten-
sions, exasperations and frustrations,
does not seem to grow organically from
the material of the first act. In fair-
ness it must be said that it is difficult
to judge this kind of play from a
reading of the text. It needs perfor-
mance, and very good performance.
BOOKS THAT ARE
TALKED ABOUT ...
“POPE JOAN,” adapted by Lawrence
Darrell.
A masterpiece of irreverence, witty
and improper in parts 18/9
“HOW TO BE INIMITABLE,” by
George Mikes.
In How to Be a Alien —tlie inimitable
Mikes pins the inimitable Bentley both
at their super inimitable best .. 10/9
“THE JOY OF MUSIC,” by Leonard
Bernstein.
A runaway best seller in America, now
available in Australia —the author well
known to every one now takes on the
role of instructor in the difficult art
of popular musical appreciation .. 31/-
“A CURSE OF BLOSSOM,” by Crewe.
The truth about present day Japan—
the author writes of the idiocies and
inadequacies of Japanese culture as
well as ideals and refinements . . .
illustrated 26/-
Coming Later in the Year
“THE EMERALD WHALER,” by W. J.
Laubenstein.
A book every Australian will want to
read, the true story of the rescue of
G Irish Political prisoners from life
imprisonment in Australia by the
heroic efforts of the captain and crew
of the vessel “CATALPA.”
AT ALL BOOKSELLERS
HUTCHINSON & CO.
PAPERBACKS
EXODUS 8/6 SONS AND LOVERS
BRAMBLE BUSH 5/- THE SECOND SEX ..
SUZIE WONG 5/~ THE SUNDOWNERS
CIVILISATION OF KEN. ITALY —Burckardt
MACQUARIE’S WORLD —Barnard
CIVILISATIONS OF POLYNESIA —Suggs
THE ANCIENT MYTHS —Goodrich
7/6
5/-
5/-
9/9
7/6
6/6
6/6
ETC., ETC., ETC.
(Postage 9d. Book, plus 3d. each one after first)
THE POCKET BOOKSHOPS
10 PENFOLD PLACE, 25 BOULEVARDE ARCADE.
BW 3119 SYDNEY 25 3427


before its total theatrical impact can
be assessed. This can be said of most
plays; but especially here with tenuous
characterisations and the fast, overlap-
ping effects of people on the move.
“A Resounding Tinkle” is one of the
non-representational experiments which
have exercised 20th-century play-
wrights for some years. Unfortunately,
the operative word is “Tinkle.” Some
witty dialogue, some very funny “gag ’
routines, a deadpan Lewis Carroll-type
logic, and even a delightful spoof of
the BBC television panel programme,
The Critics, do not add up to a conclu-
sive evening’s entertainment.
This play is, in effect, a treatise
on experiments in the drama. The
author’s mouthpiece intervenes to dis-
cuss dramatic method and the subtle
interplay between audience and
players. An actor portraying a back-
stage technician delivers a harangue
which is at once a send-up of the cur-
rent technological fetish and motiva-
tional research. In his “Critics” se-
quence the author amusingly antici-
pates all kinds of criticism that could
be made of his play. But the remainder
of the play itself would have to be a
magnificent tour-de-force of language,
ideas and theatrical device to make
the criticism appear the piffling and
irrelevant thing the author seems to
intend.
The play is not a tour-de-force of
anything, but rather an endurance trial,
especially, I should think, for an au-
dience. More experiments, yes, are
needed; the more the better in this
boiling-up transitional stage of our
theatre. But what hasn’t been done
already? Nothing, one is tempted to
think. Most of these “new” attempts
seem a watered-down English version
of robust European experiments of
at least a generation ago. And I still
can’t rid myself of the old-fashioned
bias which considers the most impor-
tant element of a play is the liveliness
and humanity of its characterisations.
Which brings us to Mr Osborne.
Begun before “Look Back in Anger”
and apparently reworked and finished
afterwards (with the noble assistance
of Anthony Creighton) his play in this
Penguin collection is a modest and un-
aggressive study of a talented (or un-
talented?) scrounger who lives for
awhile off a lower-middle-class Eng-
lish family whilst inwardly loathing the
caricatures of human beings they are.
It ends in gentle irony with the family
happy because his “ship has come in,”
which means he has had a small com-
mercial success with an obviously tatty
play, and Dillon himself apparently
settling for it, selling out his bold
ambitions.
The play, “Epitaph for George
Dillon,” shows Osborne’s strengths and
weaknesses even more clearly than
“Look Back in Anger.” Devoid of that
play's element of hysterical denuncia-
tion it deals sympathetically with its
cliche-ridden people and, in fact,
achieves the right distance from them,
producing an objectivity unexpected
from this author. Dillon himself, how-
ever, another Jimmy Porter-John Os-
borne, is not created in the round
and never comes through quite clearly
as a person until towards the end of
the play. His own spoken epitaph sums
up Osborne himself as much as the
character and certainly indicates the
romantic glow of self-dramatics with
which he at that time tended to view
himself. But when the play has been
put away its atmosphere and its people
linger in the mind.
This is at once pleasing and dis-
tressing; pleasing if one still believes
that it is the human beings and the
insights into them we receive from the
playwright that are the important things
in the theatre; but surely distressing
when we keep coming upon so many
experiments, so much ploughing-up
and toppling-down, so many new
paths being dashed along . . . and so
few memorable plays being written
in the attempt. When the vivid people
of Osborne and Wesker come out of
a play as topsy-turvily “different” as
N. F. Simpson’s “A Resounding
Tinkle” it will be a great day for
British theatre indeed.
Alan Seymour
We Buy
and Sell —
NEW AND
. SECOND-HAND
BOOK
Call and see our large
and varied stock
of
second - hand
USIC
All school and University Students
will be interested in our compre-
hensive collection of Text Books, new
and second-hand.
Our mail order Department caters
for all out-of-town customers.
TYRRELL’S
BOOKSHOP
202 - 204 George Street,
Sydney.
Telephone: BU 1578.
Familiar Secrets
No High Ground. The Secret His-
tory of the Hiroshima Bomb. By
Fletcher Knebel and Charles W.
Bailey. Weindenfeld and Nicolson.
345. 3d.
COME secrets are not worth keeping
and some are not worth revealing;
and some are worth neither keeping nor
revealing. Unfortunately, a good deal
of this “secret history” is of that sort.
That is, when there is a secret; for some
of these secrets never were secrets and
some are no longer secrets; an example
of the first, that Truman, after Pots-
dam, said Stalin was an “5.0.8.”; of
the second, that Oppenheimer, being
recognised as a security risk, was re-
tained on the Los Alamos project by
peremptory direction of General
Groves of the War Department.
This might be unfair to the authors
who would not maintain that every-
thing in here is secret history. But that
is their own fault; for we do not know
where the thin line falls; only (from
the preface) that they were given access
to secret documents —which begs the
question —and denied access to others,
and are rightly hostile about that. It
is their own fault, too, for telling us
so much that is irrelevant—secret or
not; for example, how Tibbets named
his 829 the Enola Gay after his mother;
and so much that is so uninteresting
that it ought to have been kept secret,
for example, the prayer that the chap-
lain of the 509th pronounced before
the flight took off.
These things might have their place
in some book on some aspect of the
bomb. But a “secret history” has
deeper implications which involve the
nature of war-time society and its rela-
tion to such things as censorship,
scientific research, military control,
executive government and espionage.
Any account of the secret history of
the bomb should at least take these
things into account; otherwise we
might just as well have a straight narra-
tive of the bomb, which is the most


we have got here (and in a number of
other works).
A further difficulty, however, is that
the history of the bomb is not one
connected development. Part of its
interest is that it is for modern times
also the history of science, the history
of politics and diplomacy, the history
of warfare and the history of morals.
That accounts for the unsatisfactory
nature of this book on a documentary
level; nearly all the characters are
here, if you want to refer to them
(civilian, military, political, scien-
tific and so on). But they all
pivot about the bomb as though the
bomb created them, and their actions
are accounted for by the bomb, which,
other than in immediate scientific
terms, is unrelated to ordinary social
causes.
There is an alternative procedure, it
is true, if you are writing a more
specific book as Mr Jungk was in
“Brighter Than a Thousand Suns,”
but that was an attempt at the history
of a theme and this is supposed to be
a general history. These objections are
given more point by a spurious realism
which tells us how many sleeping pills
one of the crew took and how another
wore his good luck religious medal and
so on. Something ought to be done
about this vicious and now fashionable
practice; there is no merit that I can
see in describing a typical day in the
life of the Japanese family of Yama-
guchi, no apparent justification in
choosing it rather than another. There
is a place for this sort of thing—but
in a book of quite another type.
Having said all this, it should be said
that the book does give you a fair,
overall (if disconnected) survey of
what happened. The description of the
training of the 509th Group and the
flight of the mission over Hiroshima
has great immediacy. The material on
the events inside Japan is too sketchy
to be of value; it does not compare
with the writings of Kase, but the com-
parison is, presumably, not a fair one.
A reasonably clear notion is con-
veyed of the magnitude of the Ameri-
can administrative achievement which
has hardly ever been adequately ex-
plored. Its primary value lies in
scattered material which the reader can
develop by following up in other
sources.
Alwyn Karpin
Creative Thinkers
Adventures of the Mind. Edited by
Richard Thruelsen and John Kobler.
Gollancz. 295. 9d.
IycARK VAN DOREN begins his
introduction to this volume: —
The mind adventures, and the mind
stays home. If this book both terri-
fies and reassures its readers, the
reason will be that it shows man
doing both of those extremely diffi-
BOOKS for 1961
Selected new titles include:
JANUARY TO MARCH
D. M ARMSTRONG: Berkeley’, Theory of Vision
PAT/J 0 ’ PP ‘ XU ’ 106, full Cl ° th * 27 /6
ELSIE N CAinWFM assistance of the Australian Humanities Research Council
nwJ R fn L V ast W,tneB# for Robert Loui, Stevenson
Au^ral^aJd l NZ°fdit 384, with 24 pa^e3 of and a map. 45/-
JOHN BUSHNELL:/ ust raUan
l. Townsend/Gynaecology t r 3^l°, by Sir Alexander Fitzgerald ’ 37/6
DA C« ‘ c| lO c l PP '- *’ 331> With ' 6I iUuS - < lin ' a " d half-tone). 63/.
DAVID SCHOLES: Fly-fisher in Tasmania
W.th a foreword by His Excellency Lord Rowallan, Governor of Tasmania
a i AM^RIrAD^ 1 PP ‘ X 1V ’ 21 °’ Wlth 32 plates> 15 text figures, map. 37/6
ALAN BARNARD: Visions and Profits—Studies in the Business Career of Thomas
Sutcliffe Mort*
... A full clotb> PP- 256 » frontispiece, and 4 pp. of half-tones, 45/-
MARGARET KIDDLE: Men of Yesterday— A Social History of the Western District
of Victoria, 1834-1890
Royal Bvo, full cloth, pp. xviii, 5 74, with 24 pp. of illustrations, 63/-
K. S. INGLIS: The Stuart Case
Demy Bvo, pp. 348. Full cloth, 42/-; paperbound, 25/-
APRIL TO JULY
L. FIGGINS: Repeated Blood Transfusions in Bone and Joint Infections
A. G. AUSTIN (ed.) : Melbourne Studies in Education, 1959-60
J. O. N. PERKINS: Economic Relationships of Australia and Britain in the 1950’s
ROYAL SOCIETY OF VICTORIA: Darwin Centenary Symposium (2 vols.)
D. W. RAWSON: Australia Votes—A Survey of the 1958 Federal Election*
R. ROSECRANCE: Australian Diplomacy and Japan, 1945-51*
AUGUST TO OCTOBER
ROBERT A. SWAN: Australia in the Antarctic
W. BATE: A History of Brighton (Victoria)
A. BIRCH and D. MACMILLAN: The Sydney Scene, 1788-1960
J. HOPE MACPHERSON and C. J. GABRIEL: Marine Molluscs of Victoria
S. ENCEL: Cabinet Government in Australia
C. M. H. CLARK: A History of Australia
Vol. 1 : From Earliest Times to the Age of Macquarie
* On behalf of The Australian National University
MELBOURNE PAPERBACKS
The next four titles w ill be: R. T. PATTON: Know Your Own Trees (5/6);
MARJORIE BARNARD: Macquarie’s World (7/6); GEOFFREY SAWER:
Australian Government Today (5/6); ROBIN BOYD: Australia’s Home (8/6)
Melbourne University Press
PARKVILLE, N. 2, VICTORIA (Head Office and Editorial)
369 Lonsdale St., C.l, Victoria, and 321 Pitt St., Sydney (Trade)
London and New York: Cambridge University Press. Toronto: The Macmillan Co. of Canada
FOR THE BEST IN READING
THE PATH TO LEADERSHIP F. M. Viscount Montgomery 265. Od.
(MONTGOMERY’S MEMOIRS
now available in FONTANA BOOKS) 7s. 6d.
THE FIERCEST HEART Stuart Cloete 225. 6d.
TWO FIRST NOVELS by AUSTRALIAN WRITERS
THE GREEN STICK James Doughty 20s. Od.
OF THIS EARTH Gordon Robson 20s. Od.
AT YOUR FAVORITE BOOKSHOP
PUBLISHED BY COLLINS
Vladimir Nabakov: “Invitation to a Beheading ~0/j Post lid.
Graham Greene: “A Burnt-Out Case” . . W P° st
Ambrose Reeves: “Shooting at Sharpeville post
Hesketh Pearson: “Bernard Shaw Sost l/r>
George Cyriaz: “The Bargainers" S/# nost 1/11
Herbert Read: “Art Now »,/_ nost 2 2
“The Second Picture Book of Britain in Colour • i 2 ' /2
Tt'llvahpth David • “French Provincial Cooking ••••■•• '
Elizabeth David. F vr lT tsh AND FOREIGN BOOKSHOP
EFG oa MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY, GROUND FLOOR B\V 9807


cult, courageous things. And it
shows man doing them now.
The book is a collection of 21 essays
by “creative thinkers.” There are bound
to be purists to object to a collection
like this, people who would much
prefer to read a whole book of Bertrand
Russell’s, or Edith Sitwell's, or Jacques
Barzun’s, or Fred Hoyle s, or by
Aldous Huxley, Aaron Copland. Sir
Herbert Read, Lewis Mumford or
Walter Gropius. But it is pleasant to
meet them all together; and to meet
for the first time Loren Eiseley, Paul
Tillich, Edith Hamilton and S. I.
Hayakawa in such company is the best
recommendation to a further reading
of their work.
Unavoidably in this book at this
time there is a certain awareness of
cliche. Bertrand Russell, Herbert
Read, Loren Eiseley, Jacques Barzun
and others are all saying, according to
their various views of life and qualities
of experience, that the human race
will have to improve its ethics if it is
to survive. Russell points out: —
Although we have been told on
Sundays to love our neighbor, we
have been told on weekdays to hate
him, and there are six times as many
weekdays as Sundays. Hitherto, the
harm that we could do to our neigh-
bor by hating him was limited by our
incompetence, but in the new world
upon which we are entering there
will be no such limit, and the in-
dulgence of haired can lead only to
ultimate and complete disaster.
Aldous Huxley foresees that fairly
soon drugs which will make mystical
religious experience easy for people
will be cheap and available and that
the world religions will be forced to
adapt themselves to a situation in
which the realms hitherto explored by
ascetics, mystics and saints will be
viewed by vast numbers of men. This,
he thinks, may well begin a true
religious renascence that will be far
more in keeping with the needs of our
times than the temporary fervors and
conversions achieved by Evangelism.
But Aaron Copland is concerned
with none of this, and his deceptively
simple essay that seems so gentle (and
in one sense is gentle) is nevertheless a
strong indictment of intellectual (musi-
cal branch) snobbery as well as of
complacency and unwillingness to
listen to new idioms. Edith Sitwell
thinks that the apparent lack of public
interest in poetry is the fault of bad
critics who, she thinks, are mostly failed
and disgruntled poets. I am not per-
suaded that she makes her case, but if
she fails she fails with some deft
touches of wit that together with some
similar touches in Barzun's plea for
honest scholarship are welcome in :his
serious book.
Nancy Keesing
Sculpture
The obstinate block, mere weight,
oppressed his hands
that sought and failed to find what lay
within —
oppressed his heart that could not com-
pass it.
The shape that waited there was future,
fate,
the word he had not learned, the thing
that stands
around the corner that w'e cannot turn.
He left it where it stood, and went
away.
Humped in its shroud of future it
remained
until its hour and his at last came
round.
His time, its space full-circle met that
and for their marriage hammer and
chisel rang
strokes that, like notes, upon the
marble sang.
QUEENSLAND.
JUDITH WRIGHT.
Ten Years Ago
I
For many days I thought about the
Church,
Then saw your commissars as saints
and said
That you were right, although the
morning beach,
As water moved across the pebbles,
sand.
Spelt frothy lies.
So waves retreat while other shadows
threaten.
II
Fanatical, your father talked all
through
The meal of politics that grew'—and
loomed
Until I saw Karl Marx and not a kind
Potato face:
You fed upon his life,
Grew taller, so that you could march
tomorrow
To celebrate and claim the first of
May.
111
Twelve months of arguments, then
evening sand
And paler lights exclaiming you must
leave
Because “our failures were too deep
and hard —
Couldn’t be lost.’’
Perhaps you thought of what
We said when days were eager, warm
—and when
We touched and knew one circle as
the world,
Not just a multiplicity of lines,
Of areas without a name and centre.
The waves passed over and proclaimed
my fear.
VICTORIA.
R. A. SIMPSON.
My Lady
Clothed in pools of flaccid wax
My lady sits on a knobbly lax
And she is beautiful to see,
He-he,
And strokes her sleek lascivious flea.
Without the window birds and all
Beck and book and white and cool
And they are good to hear,
Hear-hear,
And much is bountiful and cheer.
I will not whisper passers-by
Nor strive to keep the pansy dry
But let it w'ander at the knees,
Yes-yes,
It well may wonder as it please.
N.SAV.
ERIC C. ROLLS.
A Kitchen Poem
Nov/ the land shawls itself in gloom.
The mountain puts enchantment on.
I sit in this plain-spoken 100 m,
And soon the cares of day are gone:
Crows, starlings, eelworm, codlin
moth,
All nature's murderous hosts are
sweeping
From thought upon night's tide like
froth.
Now tired with light my son is
sleeping.
Too great with child to sit at ease
Beside the window stands my wife
Dreaming herself away from these
Four walls to scintillating life,
Where brats and all their fierce
demands
Don't happen. Brains are put to use.
Where tongues are cool with wit, and
hands
Unstained by work or walnut-juice.
Dear wife, let keen bluestockings
grieve
Over their academic wrongs ;
Astringent lady poets leave
The real world for unreal songs ;
Career-mad women reaffirm
Their stand against male dominance ;
Elegant busybodies worm
Scandal from every careless glance.
Used to each other as to air
We do not speak. But over all
My ripening fields and orchards where
Orion leads a waterfall
Of stars, and dying summer’s led
To fruitfulness, your beauty lies.
Children and work and daily bread
Are rich beneath your royal skies.
TASMANIA
WALTER LEHMANN.


The Flood of Paperbacks
YyITH a new series of paperbacks,
Australian or English, being
launched almost every day—Rigby’s
of Adelaide is the newest Australian
venture; Every mans Library in paper-
backs the latest arrival from England
—the market is obviously being flooded
with this kind of reading-matter; and
how the trend is going to work out
is anybody’s guess. The only safe pro-
phecy anyone can make at the moment
is that we are going to have more and
more paperbacks: Dr Niemela Novak
of Sydney is soon going to start a new
series with a reprint of Seaforth (Ken-
neth) Mackenzie's novel about his
school-days in W.A., The Young Desire
It: the first six titles in Angus and
Robertson’s series are to be published
about July this year.
In some ways it is disconcerting to
see Everymans, that noble old library
which for so long has been giving us
the world’s classics —in durable format
and at a cheap but ever-increasing
price—descend to paperback style: it
just doesn’t look right to see Boswell’s
Life of Johnson got up in yellow and
red with a jaunty caricature of Bos-
well on the cover, to compete with
all the other garish items on the book-
stalls. But still some of the other
covers are quiet and attractive — Pride
and Prejudice, for example—and the
type is reasonably large, the paper
reasonably white, making the total
effect a good deal more readable
than the early and wartime Everymans.
The Rigby series sell at 4s. 9d. each
and the first four titles, just pub-
lished, are The Man Hamilton by
Vance Palmer, Land of Mirage by
George Farwell, Bumping into Friends
by Alan Marshall and A Sea with
Many Islands by Michael Page. There
isn’t space in this survey to review
them, but anybody who wants to
know what the Birdsville Track is
like should read “Land of Mirage”;
for George Farwell, who has brought
his book up-to-date for this edition,
knows every stone and every story
of that stony and storied land: —
There are tales told of how
Broncho Smith kept his whole mob
together on a hundred-mile dry stage
‘down to Cooper’s Creek ; of another
trip when he perished the lot in a
dust storm at Mungerannie Gap ; of
Teddie Sheaan beating the drought
by using a plant of camels instead
of horses ; of Jack Clarke’s disaster
at Mulka before the bores went
down . . .
Four new titles to be published next
month are The Dark Outlaw by Frank
Clune, Time Enough Later by Kylie
Tennant, A Voyage in Love by Mungo
MacCallum and The Wind on the
Water by Myra Morris who used to
write short stories for “The Bulletin.”
One great advantage of these Aus-
tralian paperbacks is, of course, that
they are bringing back into print so
many worth-while books that have
been unobtainable for years; and one
of the most interesting of these is
Lawson Glassop’s We Were the Rats,
due from Horwitz in June. This fine
novel about the A.I.F. at Tobruk
was banned (for no perceptible rea-
son) by Court decision in New South
Wales when it was first published.
Presumably the ban will remain in
force for ever in its home State, but
it has always been free to circulate
in other States—if anybody had had
the enterprise to print it.
Horwitz, who are branching out
quite a bit these days, have Ruth
Parks Hie Harp in the South and
Poor Man’s Orange on their list for
this year, as well as books by Darcy
Niland, Charles Higham and at least
three naval-novels by J. E. Macdonnell.
The Angus and Robertson series
is to be called Pacific Books.
The first six titles are Sowers of the
Wind, by T. A. G. Hungerford; No
Boundary Fence, by Frank O’Grady;
Steele Rudd’s On Our Selection and
Our New Selection in one volume;
A. B. Paterson’s The Man From Snowy
River; Katharine Susannah Prichard’s
Coonardoo; and Frank Clune’s Ben
Hall the Bushranger.
Two new titles in the dignified and
attractive “Melbourne Paperbacks”
series from Melbourne University
Press have just been published, reprints
of Marjorie Barnard’s Macquarie’s
World and R. T. Patton's Know Your
Own Trees (a most useful little hand-
book for anyone who can't tell one
gumtree from another; though color-
plates would help still more). These
will be followed in late April or early
May by Robin Boyd’s Australia’s
Home and Geoffrey Sawer’s Austra-
lian Government Today. M.U.P. is
also to publish an “Australian Paper-
bounds” series. These will be in a
larger page-size, will be section sewn
and illustrated wherever possible. In
most cases the titles will also be avail-
able in full cloth. The first three,
expected late April or early May,
will be: K. S. Inglis: The Stuart Case
(255.; full cloth 425.); A. R. Chisholm:
Men Were My Milestones (15s; full
cloth, 275. 6d.); G. A. Modelski:
Atomic Energy in the Communist
Bloc (17s. 6d.; full cloth 305.).
Interesting as it is to see what the
Australian publishers are doing, there
are still the Penguins: who brilliantly
pioneered the paperback in modern
English literature and whose list keeps
up an astonishingly high standard.
Six of the nine orange-covered Pen-
guins for March are translated from
either French or German. Of the
remaining three, one comes from
Russia, one from Italy, and one from
England. Together, they make as
interesting and varied a look at modern
European literature as any single selec-
tion that Penguins have made.
The Penguin people say that in Octo-
ber or November, The Penguin Book
of Australian V erse is being reprinted
in a revised and enlarged edition,
edited by John Thompson and Ken-
neth Slessor. Over 20,000 copies have
been sold in Australia during the
past two years. A volume of Aus-
tralian plays (probably three) is under
consideration for the plays series. This
would almost certainly include Peter
Kenna’s “Slaughter of St Teresa’s Day.”
But when you have noted Penguins,
Everymans and the Australian contri-
butions to the paperback you have still
only taken a dip into the flood. There
are the Faber Paper Editions which
have already surprised us by making
a paperback of T. S. Eliot and, among
20 titles set down for this year, will
publish the four novels of Lawrence
Durrell’s Alexandria Quartet and
Richard Ellmann's Yeats: the Man
and the Masks. There is Macmillan’s
Overseas Library, to do Robbery under
Arms, Bradley's great Shakespearean
Tragedy and seven of Thomas Hardy’s
novels; Methuen's Modern Plays, in
which the already-published Antigone
and The Quare Fellow will be followed
by John Mortimer's Lunch Hour, now
running at the Art Theatre, London;
Mercury Books, a new series pro-
jected by Heinemann, the first eight of
which, to appear in April, will include
D. H. Lawrence’s Selected Literary
Criticism and Thomas Mann’s Stories
of a Lifetime; the same publisher’s
more “popular” Four Square paper-
backs, in which one is glad to see the
inimitable Tarzan coming up for an
airing again; the Hodder Pocket Books
from Hodder and Stoughton (Zane
Grey and Edgar Wallace). . .
Collins’s Fontana paperbacks opened
the year with two outstanding books —-
The Memoirs of Field-Marshal Mont-
gomery and Doctor Zhivago. Alistair
Mac Lean’s The Last Frontier has now
been filmed as “The Secret Ways” and
a Fontana edition of this will be arriv-
ing in Australia towards the middle of
the year. In the religious field are
The Resurrection of Christ by the
Archbishop-Elect of Canterbury, Dr
A. M. Ramsay, together with C. S.
Lewis’s Reflections on the Psalms and
Chesterton’s Orthodoxy. A further
five titles in the Fontana Library will
include Arthur Bryant’s biography of
Pepys, Edmund Wilson’s Axel’s Castle,
and Between Man and Man by Martin
Buber. The same firm’s popular Pan
series will soon print the first Nevil
Shute to appear in paperbacks, A Town
Like Alice. This—in itself an indica-
tion of what has been happening in the
book world —will be the 1000th title to
be published by Pan Books.
D.S.


ABORIGINALITIES
The Magpie
and the Rabbit
A 44-gallon drum of water lay on its
side with the big bung about a foot
off the ground. The bung was not
screwed in tightly and water dripped
regularly from it. The sun had not yet
risen and a flock of Happv Jacks ran
merrily and noisily up and down the
bimble-box trees in search of insects.
A female magpie fed on the ground near
the drum. She turned stones with her
beak and snapped up grubs and crickets,
moving seriously and with dignity.
She heard the water dripping and stood
rolling her head, listening with one ear
and then the other. When she had fixed
the direction of the sound she looked
towards the drum and swung her head
from side to side, regarding it with one
eye at a time, for that is how birds judge
distance. She then walked over to it
deliberately, craned her neck and drank
the drops as they fell.
A rabbit kitten was feeding on short
green couch-grass at the back of the
drum. It fluffed its fur as it nibbled and
its whiskers trembled like shiver-grass.
Its patch of white tail stuck up like a
white handkerchief in the pocket of a
grey suit. It hopped over to the back
of the drum inquisitively, smelled it, then
stood up on its hind legs and smacked
at it with its forepaws. It heard the water
dripping and hopped slowly up the right-
hand side to investigate.
The magpie heard the smacking on the
drum, stopped drinking, rolled her head
again very seriously, and as though pre-
tending she were not curious, walked
stiffly down the left-hand side to see
what was there.
The rabbit found the water drip and
began to drink from the little pool on
the ground. The magpie, so as not to
be surprised by whatever was behind the
drum, walked out in an arc away from
it until she could see behind. She stood
for some time looking about, then
walked back to the water.
The rabbit had drunk enough, and
as the magpie came back on the left-
hand side, the rabbit hopped back slowly
down the right. The rabbit began to
feed as before near the back of the drum,
and the magpie to drink the drips. She
soon turned away, and before moving off
to feed again she stood on one leg,
stretched out her neck and beat her
wings. At the same time the rabbit, who
was not very hungry, jumped playfully
in the air and thumped its hind legs on
the ground as it came down. Each heard
the other's movement.'
More hurriedly this time the magpie
made her arc on the lett to the back
of the drum as the rabbit ran towards
the front on the right. The magpie
dislodged a stick, and the rabbit rubbed
against the drum as it ran along. Each
turned and ran back towards the new
noise. The magpie reached the front as
the rabbit reached the back. Each saw
“Flight Lieutenant Timms Wont have anything to do with Left-wing
movements"
nothing and ran back again. They could
now hear each other running. They ran
faster and faster. The rabbit scuttled at
top speed ; the magpie, all dignity for-
gotten, ran with stretching neck and
feathers awry. Again and again each
ran one side and one end and turned.
At last the rabbit put on a burst of
speed and ran around the drum, up the
left-hand side and stopped at the corner
before the magpie reached it on her way
back. She was tired now and walking
again. She was about to round the
corner when the rabbit suddenly popped
its head right under her outstretched
beak. She gave a harsh squawk, hopped
backwards, flapped her wings and flew
up into a bimble-box tree. The rabbit,
no less astonished, dived straight under-
neath her as she labored to take off and
vanished in a patch of tall grass.
It may have been because the sun was
just rising, but as the magpie on the box
limb ruffled her feathers and tried to get
them back in some sort of order with her
beak, six kookaburras broke into a gale
of laughter.
ERIC C. ROLLS
DEFACED POUND
Vandals have severely damaged a
historic building in Wilpena Pound,
currently being boosted by the S.A.
Government and airlines as a tourist
showplace. Just inside the once almost
inaccessible Pound is a solid, 60-year-old
cottage built of pug and stone by pioneer
farmer John Hill, whose father had
raised the British flag at Glenelg on
Governor Hindmarsh's official inaugura-
tion of S.A. 64 years earlier. Hill battled
for more than a decade to grow wheat
inside the mountain-ringed Pound, build
a causeway across the huge Sliding Rock
that blocked the entrance, and hauled out
his crop with horse teams —only to see
his work destroyed by flood in 1914. His
much-advertised ‘"little house” is now an
eyesore. Hundreds of sightseers have cut
their initials on the walls, some of them
apparently with chisels ; they have even
defaced ceilings and torn up hand-adzed
floors. Now closed off by steel-and-wire
screens, the building cannot be entered,
so the vandals have turned to carving
on magnificent red-gums believed to be
many centuries old. Unless the S.A.
Government can afford to employ a
ranger, there is a case for closing off one
of the finest beauty spots of the Flinders
Ranges altogether.
G.F.
CARPING CRITICISM
What impelled the Victorian Fisheries
and Wildlife Department to take a
Boolarra grazier to Mirboo North court
was the fact that the European carp
(Cyprinus carpio) he proposed to breed
is now regarded as a pest in the U.S.
Colin Eric Pratt, who wishes to be the
first breeder of edible fish on a com-
mercial scale in Australia, was charged
with having put non-indigenous fish into


Victorian waters without the Minister’s
permission. But the magistrate ruled in
Pratt’s favor, holding that his private
waters were not Victorian waters.
Millions are now being spent in North
America in an effort to wipe out European
carp. Canberra and all Australian State
departments concerned are unanimously
agreed that the carp should not be intro-
duced here because it could get into other
waters and harm other fish.
The European carp has unusual eating
habits. It feeds on the bottom and stirs
up mud. Wherever it goes, other fish just
vanish.
MARSUPIAL GRAVEYARDS
"Dones of more than 2000 small mar-
** supials, representing no fewer than
18 species, were found recently on the
floors of four “new” limestone caves
situated in wild country near Buchan in
eastern Victoria. The remains are not
fossilised ; they were deposited, prob-
ably, up to the end of last century. All
of the animals met death suddenly ; they
were brought to two of the caves by
native cats, and to the other two by owls.
Most of the bones represent species
that still exist in fair numbers in east
Gippsland, but at least two types are
more notable: the remains of an extinct
possum, Burramys parvus (it has no
popular name), previously known only
as a fossil and therefore never seen alive
by white men ; and the remains of
"If you really loved me youd get yourself an aqualung!"
Leadbeater’s possum, a species which, if
not extinct, is now extremely rare. In
both cases the bones (of 11 individuals
in each instance) were contained in the
castings of owls, and they were, appa-
rently, the oldest of all the deposits found
in the four animal graveyards.
Remarkable as a whole, these dis-
coveries are highlighted by the revelation
that Burramys —hitherto a shadowy figure
of 10,000 years ago—existed until rela-
tively recently, and by the knowledge
that Leadbeater’s possum was among its
contemporaries. Is there, one wonders,
any chance of either or both of these
curious little animals turning up, alive,
in some quiet spot? Or are they lost
for ever?
PHIL ANTHUS
That Was the Country
A new and flourishing industry has
sprung up in Victoria—viz., cat-farming.
The place of operations is situated at
Christmas Hills, and bears the title of
“Waratah Cattery.” The practice is to
breed the animals for their skins, retain-
ing the finest to sell as pets. When skin-
ned, the deceased Tom or Tabby is fed
to his live relatives, economy and utility
being thus beautifully combined.
— “Bulletin”, April 22, 1899.
Twenty years ago the average shearer
was a derelict sort of person, whose main
ambition in life was to earn a cheque
and then chew it up at the nearest shanty.
He travelled afoot. His objective, when in
search of a job, was not defined. He
might reach a shed and he might not.
His period of toil invariably wound up in
a flood of beer and snakes. What of the
present-day shearer? In many cases he
starts off to the sheds on a motor-bike,
or on a free-wheel or a spanking horse.
He is not a drudge. It is seldom that he
gets up to his marrowbones in beer. He
puts his cheque through the bank. He
retires after cutting out to his selection,
or his mining proposition, or rusticates at
the seaside. The old-time beer-chewer has
been driven out to join the sundowners,
and his whilom haunts will never know
him again.— “Bulletin”, April 14, 1910.
The glorification of the lean, sunburnt
man of the Outback is always popular,
and as far as the individual goes, he is
one of the best. But when he of 30 and 40
years ago is glorified as a nation-builder
and so on, Romance is up against hard
facts. When the cold-blooded historian
of the future gets busy, so far from set-
ting down the westerners of the time as
broad-visioned nation-builders, he will be
likely to catalogue them as shortsighted
wreckers. The historian will not know the
men; he will only judge them by the way
they handled their job. They went out
with hungry hands to pull all they could
from the soil, and cared not a darn for
tomorrow. The West of today tells the
story. Greed and narrow vision led to
overstocking, from which the State, pas-
torally, has not yet recovered. With the
pressure of population some day demand-
ing utilisation of every acre, future gener-
ations will have to coax back the lost
fertility and the saltbush and herbage.
Here and there the job is being tackled
already; and generally the West is being
handled by men more deserving of eulo-
gies.—“ Bulletin”, July 12, 1917.
CASING THE JOINT
A Gulf Country cattleman was telling
a visiting charter pilot about the
magnificent, 225-guinea radiogram he had
recently installed in his Normanton home.
“Why didn’t you let me know?” the
pilot said. “I could have got you one
much cheaper. Besides, I know a man
who’ll make you a cabinet to suit what-
ever type of furniture you have.” “Well
that’s easy,” the cattleman replied.
“Mine’s all packing cases.”
DESERTED BOAT-SHED
A tomb
with the skeleton of a boat,
bones of an oar,
shroud of a fishing-net
with corks afloat
in dead yesterday,
ropes crawling the floor
in search of old knots,
signatures of storms upon a wall
and on the door,
and an old anchor holding it all.
JAMES HACKSTON


Business, Rollery, Etc.
Setback to Home-building
'T'here has never been much
merit in the principle that
it is better for one innocent
to hang than for ten guilty men
to go free, and yet, in so far
as the present credit-squeeze has
brought the building of homes
down towards a standstill, that
is precisely the sort of justice
that the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment's economic curbs are
meting out.
It is not difficult to listen
patiently to argument that curbs
were necessary for the excessive
speculativeness and the reckless
consumer spending which, with
consequent misdirection of the
nation's labor force from
nationally profitable activity,
had been blowing up Australia’s
economic balloon towards
bust; but it is not easy to
be patient with the choking re-
straint these curbs have put on
so genuine and productive an
activity, in the national sense,
as home - building is. Inade-
quately housed, the nation's
work force cannot be reason-
ably expected to rise to those
levels of efficiency and produc-
tivity which are demanded of
it by the nation's total eco-
nomic predicament. Homes
are national wealth. Anything
which hits at the building of
them, hits at every Australian's
welfare, not merely at the
newly-weds who are being
forced to find their qualities
of citizenship at mum's place
or in uncle's garage, or in
shanty-town.
Tt has been frequently em-
phasised by Government
spokesmen that the devices of
the credit-squeeze were merely
temporary in intent and that,
though some hurt might inci-
dentally be done by them to
various industries outside their
real target, these industries
could be expected to regain full
strength as soon as the eco-
nomy as a whole steadied and,
with restrictions off, all would
promptly become as it was
before. It may be that a good
many of the “innocent” indus-
tries hit in this way will recover
quickly —in a few weeks, may-
be no longer than a couple of
months and 1962 will run
along radiantly as if 1961 had
never really happened.
But this can hardly be true
of home- building which,
already much in arrears of need
and demand when the Com-
monwealth's economic thumb-
screw was twisted right down,
is likely to carry the burdens of
the present setbacks deep into
the decade, and the nation as a
whole will be obliged to share
the load and bow under it.
Against the huge current
need for new homes and the
spiralling need for them in the
years immediately ahead, any
continuance of the downward
slide in home building (as in-
dicated in the Commonwealth
Statistician’s figures for Janu-
ary) could well do more total
harm to Australia’s economic
welfare than might have been
done by many of the unhealthy
forces which brought the credit-
squeeze into play.
Over three months to the end
of January (reflecting 2}
months of the squeeze) build-
ing approvals for homes were
down 9 per cent, on the figures
for the corresponding period of
a year before. The February
figures, when issued, are cer-
tain to show a further (pos-
sibly a steeper) drop. And the
slide happens in spite of the
fact that the Governor of the
Reserve Bank, Dr. H C.
Coombs, in November, directed
the trading banks to be espe-
cially restrictive in new lend-
ing for building construction
where social purposes such as
housing are not involved.
Perhaps Dr. Coombs's ex-
ception has been observed to
some degree, and the downward
slide in home-building would
have been quite headlong but
for his mention of it —hut any
drop as large as January's is
dangerously excessive. At the
time of the credit squeeze an-
nouncement it was estimated
that there was an 18 months lag
in housing in Australia, and Sir
Douglas Copland, in a paper
to the Australian Institute of
Political Science, had urged a
step-up of one third in home-
building to clear that backlog
and to provide for the much
greater marriage rate “that is
now imminent.”
Tlf estimated that the number
-“-of Australians in the 20-24
age group would increase by
61 per cent, by 1970 from
670,000 to 1,080,000 —as against
a general population increase of
less than 25 per cent. These
figures point the finger quite
clearly to what the housing re-
sponsibilities of every Govern-
ment are. As Sir Douglas Cop-
land said, “this is perhaps the
most challenging problem of
national importance facing
Australia, and the most urgent.”
Awareness of its urgency is
hardly indicated in such state-
ments as that made recently by
the Leader of the Government
in the Senate, Senator Spooner,
who “soothed” questioners with
the information that “the Gov-
ernment’s financial policy
would eventually lead to
more and better homes.”
With the pre - squeeze lag
in housing not being elimi-
nated, with more migrants on
the way here, with less finance
available for home-seekers to
bridge the gap between total
cost and saved deposit, the
Government should be thinking
verv much less of that “event-
ually” and a good deal more
urgently about the “more and
better.” The squeeze-induced
financial embarrassments of
home-seekers are not eased in
the slightest, either, by the in-
crease in builder's overheads
arising out of their reduced
activity.
r T~'HE Victorian Employers’
-*■ Federation put the case
firmly in a recent newsletter
to members, and urged selective
liberalising of credit with home-
building as the first objective
of any such liberalisation. “The
Central Bank is holding £2BO
million in statutory reserves,”
the newsletter stated, “and the
Government should now give
consideration to releasing some
of this money on a selective
basis designed to stimulate
home-building. The release of
£5O million for this purpose
would be a very useful contri-
bution towards reviving build-
ing activity. This is not a sec-
tional plea. The building in-
dustry is basic to the economy
and, if it is allowed to decline
further through lack of credit,
the repercussions throughout
the rest of the economy must
become increasingly serious.”
The link between housing
and immigration is obvious,
and it is difficult to see how
a full migration programme (so
vital a part of the nation's
general economic expansion)
can be sustained if the nation’s
housing programme is to be so
shortsightedly restricted as it
is right now. And, on that, it is
worth emphasising that, while
migrants will need houses *
home-building will also need
migrants. There can be no
doubt that migration would
help the building industry to
meet the added demands on its-
self that a thorough and ade-
quate campaign of home-build-
ing would entail, for it is esti-
mated that no less than 35 per
cent, of the building industry’s
total work force consists of
immigrant tradesmen.
L.B.
Freight Costs
There can be little doubt that
the cost paid for Austra-
lian goods, both within Aus-
tralia and abroad, includes
excessive charges for carriage
and distribution charges
which have been estimated at
as much as 30 per cent, of the
total product cost.
The stifling effect of this on
Australia's ability to compete
in overseas markets is obvious,
especially when it is remem-
bered that in U.S.A. costs of
carriage and distribution,
representing no more than
about 12 per cent, of total cost,
are regarded as being far too
high for the nation's economic
good.
Americans are now busily


cutting costs down by using
bulk containers of various
basic designs to ship cargo
from points of origin to desti-
nation, without physical re-
handling or disturbing of the
contents at intermediate points.
The method is not new, but,
where only about 2 per cent,
of all cargo at present trans-
ported in the U.S.A. is loaded
in containers, the figure is
expected to exceed 20 per cent,
by 1964.
There is a lesson for Aus-
tralia in a report made last
year by President Eisenhower’s
Secretary of Commerce.
‘’Nearly all goods and services
purchased by the public include
payment for transportation of
one kind or another,” he said.
“Hence, a reduction in the cost
of transport enhances the
national product and enlarges
the opportunities of all for the
consumption of direct goods
and services. Moreover, reduc-
tion of the cost of transport
in relation to other things,
increases flexibility in the loca-
tion of industry, in the
;xploitation of natural
"esources, and in the achieve-
ment of industrial efficiency.”
S. African Trade
r\ESPiTE a steady growth in
Australia’s trade with
Jouth Africa over the years,
he total volume remains rela-
ively small, so that altered
rading conditions (if any),
irising out of South Africa’s
withdrawal from the British
"ommonwealth, cannot be
xpected to be greatly injurious
o Australia.
In common with Australia,
louth Africa has been experi-
ncing a steady worsening of
be terms of trade, which,
ince the early ’fifties, have
een turning against primary
roducers.
In 1959-60 Australia’s total
xports to the Union chalked
p £8,131,076. The main items
fere: oil fats and waxes,
2,017,474 ; wheat, £1,723,629 ;
fool, £1,199,175, and metal
nd metal products £848,627.
The import bill totalled
7,286,045, with precious
tones (£1,751,021), fish
■1,360,377), asbestos (£857,235)
n d industrial diamonds
:553,380) heading the list.
Our exports to South Africa
uring seven months to the
ad of last January amounted
) £5,203,000 (compared with
146,835,000 to U.K. and
264,310,000 to other Com-
tonwealth countries). Imports
>r the same period added
p to £5,184,000 (U.K.
206,382,000 and the rest
f the Commonwealth
516,049,000).
ĝh
P.A. for 8 and 10 years
HOW TO APPLY:
Applications accepted only on forms attached
to the Prospectus. Available from
REID MURRAY ACCEPTANCE LTD.
403 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 67 1924
Any branch of the
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Any member of a
RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE IN AUST.
Or Joint Underwriting Brokers
TOLHURST, HENLEY, MUNCKTON & CO.
401 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melb.
CUTTEN & HARVEY
97 King William Street, Adelaide
408 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of Stock Exchange of Adelaide Ltd.
YOU CAN
SAFELY
INCREASE
YOUR INCOME
WITH
REID
MURRAY
Acceptance Limited
£1,000,000 ISSUE AT PAR
Registered
First Mortgage
Debenture Stock
PAID-UP CAPITAL
£6,000,000
INTEREST RATES
BYiJo^
ry 2 % P.A 2 YEARS
7% P.A 1 YEAR
5% P.A 6 MONTHS
m P.A. 3 MONTHS
4% pa -
AT CALL
GUARANTEED BY REID MURRAY HOLDINGS LTD.


Speculator 's Diary
A ppropriately enough, the
market (as at March 24)
is beginning to look like any
Show-going parent in Sydney —
burdened down, not by sample
bags and children, but by a
never-ending stream of new
issues. Although the market
seems to be holding up bravely
under the weight of these new
issues it still seems to be a
time to short.
So following on my success
with David Jones and, I hope,
with L. J. Hooker (which 1
have still to buy back) I cast
about for any other likely
shorting propositions. Imme-
diately I lit on the Stanhill
group and rebuked myself for
not thinking of this long ago.
There is probably still worse
in store for shareholders of
Stanhill Consolidated so I
shorted 500 at 5/3. Actually,
I would have got a lot more
pleasure out of shorting Chev-
ron Sydney which has been the
blight of the lives of myself
and the rest of the Macleay
Street dwellers since it built
its hotel. It has not only
brought crowds, noise, dirt,
traffic jams and parking meters
to Macleay Street but even
mosquitoes —from the “lake”
at the bottom of the excava-
tions for the 35-storey block.
But I felt Chevron Sydney
shares had already been dealt
with adequately at 3/- so in-
stead I settled for Stanhill.
This week I also sold my
200 Steel Mills which didn't
seem to be getting me very
far. I bought these only on
a rumor which now seems to
have fizzed. Anyway, I made
£2 on the deal which is at least
better than losing. Then I
had to face up to what has
proved to be an error of judge-
ment on my part with Hunt
Bros. I was sure that the suc-
cess of the Ford Falcon would
more than compensate Hunt
Bros, for the credit troubles
which have hit the rest of the
motor industry. But, alas,
Hunt's interim report was only
able to talk about profits being
“maintained"' and I felt that
wasn't good enough in view
of the higher capital. So I
sold at 8/3 for a profit of £6
(including the dividend).
ON the purchasing front, my
only move has been to
succumb to the temptation to
buy some Marrickville Hold-
ings. A couple of weeks ago
I bought Parbury Henty, in
preference to Marrickville,
when I was trying to get a stake
in Proctor and Gamble’s entry
into the Australian soap mar-
ket. Proctor and Gamble is
probably the world's largest
soap manufacturer, outselling
both Lever Bros, and Colgate in
America and Britain. In Aus-
tralia, a subsidiary of Par-
bury Henty is attending to the
manufacture, while Marrick-
ville is handling the distribu-
tion (through Eta Foods). I
put in an order to buy 200
Marrickville at a 22/- limit
and, although it took a day or
two to get that price, 1 finally
succeeded.
So far my maneouvre to
make a few shillings out of
the Queensland Brewery take-
over has misfired, but I'm still
hopeful of a higher bid from
one or other of the contestants.
The week’s trading produced
a profit of only £8 and left me
with £l6l in cash. Details
of the week’s moves to March
24 are:
SOLD
200 Steel Mills at
11/9 £ll5
400 Hunt Bros, at
8/3 £166
500* Stanhill at 5/3 £126
* Sold short
BOUGHT
200 Marrickville at
22/- £225
The shares I now hold are:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Total Per rent
Shares Company Cost Share Price
200 Antill It. £l2:’, 12/- 14/-
400 Motels of A. 145 7/- 8/-
100 Pick-Me-Up 414 81/0 83/-
400 Wattyl 140 7/3 9/6
50 G. E. Crane 280 110/- 10_</6
200 Merica 64 6/2 7/
300 Stocks Hold-
ings deferred 127 8/3 7/6
200 Tom Piper 235 23/- 24/9
400 Pioneer Con-
crete 334 16/3 17/
400 Old. Brewery 221 10/0 10/2
200 Hornibrook 234 23/- 22/6
200 Par bury
Henty 174 17/- 17/6
200 F. W.
Williams 275 27/- 29/-
200 Marrickville 225 22/- 23/3
§l%
m m
'SS'
msm
Si:/
: '•<•>« «. ;-iL
|
:•:• : <>»>✓. »Xv-Ss , »sv '•‘•x-x-x
~. « 5Vi" '■*
••; iXivi-
&
msh.
x-x-/< s
rvim&
m
PIfNTW
A hippier choice for every occasion
• §
WINE
Fine wine adds pleasure to living . . . and you 11
find no happier choice than Angove’s Wine of mature
perfection. Angove’s FINO DRY SHERRY, superbly
dry and appetising, is an excellent introduction to the
distinctive range of Angove’s TABLE WINES . . . each
the result of care and skill in wine making, combined
with the rich soil and sunshine of South Australia s
glorious Murray Valley.
You will enjoy Wine
APERITIF, TABLE AND DESSERT WINE OF HIGHEST
QUALITY: SHERRY, VERMOUTH, BURGUNDY, CLARET,
HOCK. RIESLING. SAUTERNES, PORT, MUSCAT
and ST. AGNES BRANDY of course I
ANGOVE’S LTD., RENMARK, S.A.
WINE MAKERS & DISTILLERS
BETTER BRANDY... ST AGNES BRANDY
N.Z. Notes
Tn his “State-of-the-nation” 1
message last month, the I
Prime Minister, Mr Holyoake, 1
mentioned the “continuing I
burden of expenditure on sub- 1
sidies, which have risen to more
than £l5 million this financial
year.”
Subsequently, it was reported
unofficially that the economic 1
policy sub - committee of
Cabinet was reviewing sub-
sidies, and that it was possible
that cuts would be made.
This brought a threat from
the president of the Federation
of Labor, Mr F. P. Walsh.
Any attempt to cut food sub-
sidies would bring the Govern-
ment into head-on collision
with the Federation, he said.
The Federation was calling
a conference of representatives
of all transport, waterfront,
freezing and dairy unions to
plan protection of the interests
of working people.
The Acting Prime Minister,
Mr Marshall, calmed things
down with a statement that no
decision to remove food sub-
sidies had been made by the
Government and no such pro-
posal had been considered
by it.
N.Z. will need another mil-
lion acres of forest by the
end of this century, it is esti-
mated. The country's pros-
perity is increasingly related to
forest industries, says the New
Zealand Forest Service.
The probable export value
of N.Z.’s forest products in
1965 is given as £l2 million to
£l5 million. In 1939 these
exports were a mere £200,000.
Products of the forest
dominate N.Z.'s export trade
with Australia. Seventy per
cent, of the increase in
exports to Australia from 1946
to 1959 can be directly attri-
buted to the timber, pulp and
paper industries.
The Government intends to
retain the present controls
on capital issues for the time
being.
The main controls now re-
maining are over the interest
rates payable, issues of
capital overseas, hire-purchase
companies, and overseas com-
panies proposing to commence
business in N.Z.
The Minister for Finance,
Mr Lake, said that, if capital
issues control were abolished
now, it would probably be
necessary to take restraining
action in regard to interest
rates and hire-purchase because
of the increased demand upon
savings.


Shows
Musical Converts
According to Wordsworth, every great
and original work of art has to create
a taste for its own enjoyment—and it is
now possible to report from Sydney, after
MUSIC
last week’s concerts, that
he has been proved per-
fectly right as regards the
long-resisted violin sonatas
of Bartok and the “violent” fourth sym-
phony of Vaughan Williams.
A remarkably big, attentive and enthu-
siastic audience attended the performance
°f Bartok piano and violin sonatas by
violinist Maurice Clare and pianist Marta
Zalan in the Darlinghurst “Cell Block”
theatre—an event which, being arranged
by the Bartok Society, could be expected
to have a reasonably sympathetic audi-
ence from the start. But Joseph Post
conducting the Sydney Symphony Orches-
tra could have had no such certainties to
help him as he and the orchestra broached
Vaughan Williams, a composer whom
run-of-the-mill concert audiences have
long and obtusely regarded as a stimulus
only for thumb-twiddling.
This audience proved by the enthusiasm
of its reception for a brilliant per-
formance of the fourth symphony that
it has graduated to a higher level of per-
ception as to the values and meanings
of the music it hears. Moreover, it
showed no sign of sharing the fatuous,
snobbistic prejudice which has dogged Mr
Post’s career in Australia for so long that,
apart from occasional emergency duty,
he has foregone his conducting career to
settle back into the undemandingness (and
unsatisfactoriness, no doubt) of an A.B.C.
office job.
His grasp of this symphony of the
’thirties, sometimes supposed to reflect
through its violences the ugliness of the
Fascist threat, was as distinguished in its
own way, with expert control of weights
and rhythms and tensions, as Sargent’s
was last year in what was possibly the
supreme performance of a symphony in
Sydney in 1960, the Vaughan Williams
“London” symphony. Mr Post’s devo-
tion to this composer, and his ability
to win a devoted response from an
orchestra which only plays well where it
has respect, has been proved before in
recent years by a memorable performance
of the Vaughan Williams “fifth.”
The Bartok works, all from the com-
poser’s hyper - expressionistic middle-
period (which remains a “mystery” to
music-lovers unwilling to mix cerebra-
tion with the emotionalism of their listen-
ing), were the first for violin and piano,
the piano sonata of 1926, and the
immense out - Baching unaccompanied
violin sonata of 1944. The quest for
completely new idioms in all three was a
matter for excitement, the power voltage
in the invention always being so high as
to exclude the mere prankishness, bizar-
rerie and empty shockingness that is the
achievement of many a little temperament
in questing for differentness at any cost.
It is because this power voltage is
beyond the reach of many performers
that the Bartok message, even when
attempted, can rarely be communicated.
Mr Clare and Miss Zalan were scarcely
deficient in that. The boldness, heat and
solid virtuosity of the playing rarely
slackened, except perhaps in part of the
unaccompanied sonata. Mr Clare was,
for instance, quite slow and clumsy in
putting the mute on and taking it off
again where Bartok has provided left-
hand plucking of an open string pre-
to camouflage these “interrup-
tions” to his musical stream.
Lindsey Browne
THREE OUT TRIO
The Three Out Trio, the best contem-
porary jazz group in Australia, have
been dominating Sydney jazz for the last
six months. Melbourne jazz iovers turned
up in large numbers at the Moomba
concert and followed them to the Basin
Street Jazz Centre on March 10 and 11.
Their playing at the centre was better
because the intimate encouraged the
uninhibited.
The group’s style is set by Mike Nock,
a fluid pianist whose long liquid runs
and sharp percussive chords excite antici-
pation and sustain tense interest. The
others, bassist Fred Logan and drummer
Chris Karen, while always giving that
elusive jazz feeling of “swing,” are rigidly
restrained even in the most up-tempo
numbers and during the most inventive,
expressive solos. Their cohesion is at
times unbelievable.
“The Hucklebuck,” a tune everyone
plays, was amazingly fresh, due mainly
to lively bass soloing and close ensemble
leads with some sensitive off-beat cymbal
work. In “Anthropology” when Karen
took a four-bar break in perfect rela-
tionship to the general musical develop-
ment there was a glorious contrast to
the exhibitionistic displays which most
drum solos tend to be.
“How High the Moon” showed
memorably how Nock mixes his quick
wrist-and-finger right-hand technique
with a left-hand elbow swing steady as
a pendulum, and also makes brilliant
use of occasional one-finger technique ;
in ‘No Greater Love” melodic fluidity
of purely bop style was combined with
a much more recent harmonic theory
and sense of rhythm. But the most
moving number was undoubtedly “Little
Niles, a jazz waltz by Randy Weston,
pupil of Thelonius Monk. Beginning with
a plaintive piano introduction in B flat
minor, the tune moved into a haunting
chorus whose unusual intervals gave it
a soft Moorish tang.
Adrian Rawlins
THEATRE:
THE lONA PASSION PLAY
Sydney s White City tennis courts were
filled with chairs half-filled with people.
The huge stands on three sides of them
were also half-filled. At the eastern end
the stage like a railway platform sloped
into dressing-enclosures from which the
mobs came up to accuse, support and
mock the tall and beautifully-spoken
Christ. The accusers, maybe from malice
aforethought, spoke with an “oi” for an
‘'i.” A few middle steps led to an upper
platform from which a finely-acted Pilate
temporised, ordered Jesus to be flogged,
and later washed his hands and let the
Crucifixion proceed.
Great lights shone from the side stands
and from the end stand across the
audience onto the stage. The loud-
speaker system gave an accompaniment
of Handel and Bach records of orchestras
and choirs, and relayed the whack-whack
of the flogging, the thud of nails nailing
Christ to the Cross, and the thunderstorm
that broke on the last moments of the
Crucifixion. Up in the stands boys
carried trays of icecream and soft drinks ;
cigarettes glowing in the audience were
echoed now and then in the sky by aero-
plane lights. The moving scenes of diver-
sified garments went on, all arranged to
be clear from a distance ; the gestures of
Christ in white with an over-garment of
red, the cringing Judas in black and
yellow; the Roman soldiers going
through their drill and dicing for the
garment after the Crucifixion ; while
the reviewer, snivelling with influenza,
wrapped his coat-front against the soft
breeze, thinking that if he survived the
night-out it would be a miracle.
‘THE WOMEN”
After more than 20 years Clare
Boothe’s 42 women do not seem to have
aged at all at Sydney Independent;
maybe because she has been kind to
them, or because her wit has a pickling
effect, or because she knew them so well.
One does not like to say it to so many
actresses and to their producer, Mr Sum-
merton, but art seems to have very little
to do with this show ; all that seems
necessary is to cast them to type and
let nature take its course. But this would
be to set aside natural law, since every-
one knows that women are always
acting ; so with relief one affirms the
delightful acting of Moya O’Sullivan as
that vivacious and slanderous little bitch,
Sylvia Fowler, of Benita Harvey as
Crystal Allen, the lush and gold-digging


intervener, of Tanya Halesworth as Mrs
Phelps Potter, always in a boringly in-
teresting condition, of Shirley May
Donald as Countess de Lage, the eternal
marrier of lively young men. Only for
Joan Winchester is natural law sus-
pended ; as Mrs Stephen Haines, so
light,” as Renoir said of the French
tradition, “so gentle, such good company,
and never noisy,” she is obviously being
completely herself. . ,
The scenes in which Mrs Harness
friends whooped her on to divorce and
back again, in a hairdresser s, a fitting
room, a women's gymnasium, a
restaurant powder-room and other places
where no men abide, were sketchily but
effectively staged. They were taken
rather slowly ; but any faster and you
might have lost some of the wit. The
pantry scene, in which as the colored
maid Margaret Dence was the adroit
means of avoiding having a man in the
cast by acting for the cook the complete
quarrel between Mr and Mrs Haines,
went off with great credit to both actress
and playwright.
Having started this brilliant party ot
women divided against each other but
united in the sad cameraderie of
subjection to men, the Independent
management may find themselves in the
happy position of wondering if they will
ever go ; to see it again is to see a popu-
lar play of one's own time well on the
way to becoming a classic.
Ronald McCuaig
SPOKEN VERSE
Dannie Abse set London back on its
heels in February with a verse-speaking
programme, “Poetry Returns to Hamp-
stead.” The 800-capacity hall was filled,
and a queue of 1000 had to be turned
away.
At the end of the Perth Festival Alec
King arranged an evening of verse-
speaking with music. A capacity audience
of 500 Perth citizens forked out 10s. a
head and went along. The revival of
public verse-speaking has become more
than a campus performance by visiting
poets doing the American circuit. It
seems to be taking on all over the place.
Hiring the Union Hall, charging ss.
a head, with massed gladioli, spotlights,
and the works, the Adelaide University
Masquers did very well with an evening
of Australian verse spoken by the local
poets: Dr J. J. Bray, Robert Clark,
Geoffrey Dutton, lan Mudie, Flexmore
Hudson, Nancy Cato and Stroma But-
trose. Unfortunately a good poet can
often be a poor speaker, and vice versa.
Apart from the dry classical wit of John
Bray and the high spirits of lan Mudie
and Geoffrey Dutton the South Austra-
lians approached their own poetry either
mawkishly or pedagogically.
The teaching profession has obviously
fed a large number of South Australian
poets, and teaching attitudes sit heavily
over this regional group. Verse speaking,
as we know from having heard the
masterly John Laurie in action, requires
a sure verbal elan to be stimulating. All
over Australia the poetic community is
exceedingly elderly, excessively successful,
and without much ardency or intensity.
The young poets are a tiny dismal brood,
perhaps more elderly than their elders.
These conditions may make for a mature
and substantial poetry, but when it comes
to public verse-speaking Australia’s poets
are likely to offer nothing more enlivening
than might be experienced at a vicarage
social.
Max Harris
THEATRE IN NEW ZEALAND
Art is the white-haired boy of the
State in N.Z. Neither have wealthy
citizens and a few business concerns been
lacking in generosity. It seems that the
new National Government is going to
increase the benefactions. At the latest
they have approved of the following
recommendations of the Arts Advisory
Council: the N.Z. Opera Company, with
an ambitious programme in the offing,
£15,000 a vear for three years ; the N.Z.
Ballet Company, £lO,OOO a year for three
years; the N.Z. Theatre Company.
£5OOO for one year ; N.Z. Players Theatre
Trust Board, £2OOO for one year; the
Southern Comedy Players, £lOOO for one
year. The N.Z. Theatre Co. is a new
professional concern and fills the gap
left last year by the N.Z. Players who,
becoming bogged in financial difficulties,
left their affairs, plus debts totalling
£3O,OCX), in the hands of a Trust Board.
The Board now hopes to pay its debts
through the activities of the new com-
pany in the hiring out of its premises and
property. Top man in the Theatre Com-
pany is Richard Campion, one of the
founders of The Players. With him are
Roy Hope and Antony Groser, former
English professionals.
Pat Lawlor
5 IMPERSONATION FILMS
In “Full Sun” (Sydney Savoy) a French
actor, Alain Delon, acting a young
American, murders a similar young
American on the victim's yacht and then
FILMS
impersonates him in Italy ; in
“Odds Against Tomorrow”
(Esquire) Belafonte imperson-
ates a cafe waiter bringing a tray of
refreshments to the side door of a bank
so that his accomplices, Ed. Begley and
Robert Ryan, may force the door after
hours; in “The Great Impostor*’
(Lyceum) Tony Curtis impersonates a
real-life impersonator who impersonated
a college-professor, a Marines officer, a
penologist and a doctor and ended up
operating successfully on Korean
wounded on a Canadian destroyer; in
“Make Mine Mink” (Embassy) Athene
Seyler impersonates a duchess and
Terry-Thomas a policeman to steal furs
for philanthropic purposes; and in
“Casino de Paris” (Gala) Vittorio de Sica
impersonates the author of his plays, who
is in fact his secretary, in order to secure
the affections of young actresses who
want to get on.
The big scene in “Full Sun” is the
glamor murder on the plunging yacht in
gorgeous color, the sails cracking and
roaring while the Rupert Brookeian
Delon leaves the helm to lash an anchor
in sailcloth around the body. His later
impersonations have a precision in
everything done that one misses in the
Curtis impersonations, while the feline
tensity of Marie Laforet as his victim's
mistress outclasses the affections of all
Curtis’s nice young ladies. But she is
matched in the Belafonte film in a scene
where Robert Ryan, Belafonte’s negro-
hating accomplice, minds the young wife
who comes in to ask him to mind the
baby. This film caught up with Europe
on low-income low-life scenes, but Bela-
fonte ruined not only his bank-robbery
in the clash between black and white
robbers, but his picture also in the
gimmickry of a ladder-climbing chase
up and down huge petrol-storage tanks
which symbolically incinerated them.
Belafonte's best scene was as a night-
club xylophone player letting the worry
of being stood-over for racing debts get
into his playing ; but his was pure film,
whereas “Casino de Paris” was stagey,
its sets over-iced cakes covered with
desiccated de Sica, although there was
a fine surrealist circus routine in the
manner of Marc Chagall. “Make Mine
Mink,” also with a stage-play base, was
better ; Athene Seyler and Terry-Thomas
were thickly outlined English comic
types —the Hoity-toity Old Girl, the Mad
Major, the Silly Spinster —a sort of Billy
Bunter strip, with the slapstick, endless
invention and grimy presentation of its
genre, and with a lovely little girl, Billie
Whitelaw, as the Cockney maid who had
been in stir for stealing and had fallen
in love with a policeman. Come to think
of it, it was an almost complete return
to Keystone Comedy.
R.McC.
ART
THE SHOW SHOW
Presumably half the people who go
to Sydney Royal Show are interested in
livestock and the other half in machin-
ery ; and the same is true of the painters
in the art competitions, half of whom
are interested in life and half in abstract
machinery.
First prize in the Sir Charles Lloyd


Jones award for industrial art went to
William Rose’s “Industrial Painting,’’ a
kind of enlarged blueprint or map,
pleasant in color and satisfactory in a
mathematical way; very clean, very
sterile, rather as if it had been painted
by an electronic brain.
Doreen Gadbsy showed a warmth of
feeling for Pyrmont waterfront, as did
Dora Toovey in her “Storm over
8.H.P.” Sali Herman and Margo Lewers
effectively turned industrialism into an
idea.
Paintings in the “Rural” (Modern
Style) were often indistinguishable from
the Industrial—pure abstraction —but in
some cases the appropriate idea got
across: notably in Desmond Digby’s
“Patterson’s Curse” and Ross Morrow’s
“Northern Territory.” John Olsen’s
prizewinning “Painting,” more attractive
than his piece in the National Gallery
acquisitions, has an affinity with the
mechanics of William Rose.
The Rural (Traditional) prize went to
a competent but unpoetic account of the
Hawkesbury River country by Robert
Johnson, and James R. Jackson was
second. The best painting, though it is
repetitive, was Lance Solomon’s “A
Sheltered Paddock,” where a true feeling
tor light and air permeates the canvas.
Sali Herman s red houses and green sky
are inharmonic, too much of a poster.
Herbert Carston’s Darling Downs land-
scape is unusual, the careful painting and
observation reminiscent of Dutch land-
scape.
D.S.
SCULPTURE
At the Rudy Komon Gallery, Sydney,
until April 10, is a small preselection of
N.S.W. entries in the Mildara Wines
prize for sculpture to be decided at Mil-
dura later in April. The prize money,
£4OO, £2OO plus the available “buying”
money, £250, is the biggest ever offered
Australian sculptors. The group, which
includes the models of Gerard Havekes’s
Hyde Park fountain figures and Margel
Hinder’s Blake-winning “Christ On The
Cross,” ranges from sandstone semi-
realism to ironmongery abstractions, the
entire show being dominated by Clem
Meadmore’s “Steel Form 14.”
ANDREW SIBLEY
The opulent Society, Renaissance
Venetian or Florentine, 17th -century
Dutch, the essential culture medium of
great art, has never existed in Queens-
land, a radical egalitarian democracy.
So that if a native son is a candidate for
Herald of the New Dawn, his advent
could be quite an event. Brisbane has
never had more than a slender few first-
rate indigenous artists.
Andrew Sibley has at least a residential
qualification. He is showing 35 oils on
masonite at the Johnstone Gallery. It
is no great slur on this work to say it
is uneven but on the whole worthy and
good. It is roughly divisible into land-
scape, figures and practically representa-
tional portraits.
These last fail to stand up ; the draw-
ing is faltering and as satires, as I believe
they are intended to be, they fail ; satire
is not Sibley’s forte except perhaps in
“Portrait of an Artist.” He is
brilliant in his landscapes, painted
in an individual technique which owes
much to expressionism and abstraction
but is predominantly cubist, coupled with
a divisionist design in broad rectangles
of contrasting but harmonious color.
“Landscape III,” the best thing in the
show, and “Winter at Wallangarra” are
superbly painted in light tones of pale
yellow, tender green and grey. All the
landscapes in this vein are good.
But the abiding impression is of deep
warm humanity. He has thought a lot
about the human predicament and I
doubt if he knows of any solution ; his
people know, if possible, less, they are
flotsam in the cruel trap of life which
yields them nothing. This attitude could
have been melodramatically expressed
but the restraint both of the artist and
subject unite to express the sorrow of
it all and it is done without emphasis. A
whole panel of similar subject and treat-
ment of which “The Pump” is a shining
example, Nos. 2,3, 5, 19, 21, 28, are
moving human documents.
TUCKER IN BRISBANE
Albert Tucker’s oils in their “savage
pilgrimage” around Australia have now
reached Finney’s Gallery, Brisbane. The
improvised gallery gives inadequate scope
for a good display.
Tucker is of course one of the small
but increasing group of artists preoccu-
pied with the “Dead Heart.” He is less
concerned with the physical data than,
almost solely, with his reactions, deeply
felt, which though possibly factitious
have the prodigious power and the
repetitive monotony of a pile-driver.
His expression whether acceptable or
not is unquestionably dynamic. He asks,
in effect, whether man can fit into this
environment and survive: the answer is
quite emphatic and personal.
His train of thought starts with simple
even primitive landscape open unen-
cumbered country, living trees and two
huge termitaries; another, even more
primitive, of ghosts of dead trees in
gibber country; another of a solitary
dead tree surrounded by parrots ; galahs,
possibly (but no goats). Into this he
projects man presented as a replica of
the fabulous monolithic stone men of
Easter Island, massively rough-hewn out
of rock but always with a favorite
symbol, the flat felt hat.
This figure is seen in a long series of
recurrent poses —as a part replacement
of a dead tree giving foothold to the
recurring symbolic parrots ; as merged
in the land ; and finally as skeletal man,
divested of flesh and all soft parts,
crowned with the flat felt hat and wearing
an unnecessary lap-lap. This last is done
in lovely luminous pale grey monotone
giving an effect of light more vivid than
all the rest of this descent to the
reductio ad finem mortuam ; this is the
dead end.
As a self-consistent and vivid expres-
sion of an organised but not terribly
subtle mood this is a great success ; this
imposing mood is strengthened by the
prevailing low tone of the background
done in deep browns, dull grey like the
leaden hue of thunder-clouds, the only
high color being the rich red and blue
of the parrots, a symbol of the joyous
unique survival in such conditions. There
is no doubt of Tucker’s power.
J. V. Duhig


FaiFh in ifie
Future
'• III
m
■H
li
li
&
.
.■5‘
&L?S
m
mm
Easter is with us once more; and in its
seasonal celebration by Christians, Jerusalem wi
be crowded with pilgrims from every quarter oi
the earth. „ . ,
The ancient scene of the first Easter is alway
an inspiring sight. But this year I believe we a\e
reason to look upon the Holy City with even more
devotion and hope. ,
A strong wave of understanding between th
Christian communions has begun. The Archbishop
of Canterbury, Dr Geoffrey Fisher, has walked in
the Holy Land and visited Pope John at Borne
and the Chief Patriarch of the East at Istanbul
Their conversations have centred on that wnicn
unites, rather than divides, the great body
of Christians. . .
This historic development must give joy to
people of faith and goodwill everywhere. And it
should impress most deeply those who have been
privileged, as 1 have been, to kneel at the site ot
the Resurrection. , ,
Before the Tomb of Christ in Jerusalem,
members of several branches of Christendom
worship the Risen Redeemer side by side. Ihey
have been doing that for centuries.
In doctrinal detail and forms of ritual they
may differ, but the essential belief that Christ rose
from the dead at that hallowed place is shared
by them all. The negatives of contention are laid
aside in the presence of that enormous positive.
The wisdom of the spiritual leaders of our time
has shown out in their realising that the same
brotherly tolerance can, and should, be exercised
throughout the whole Christian world.
With belief or unbelief the real issue behind
the tensions that now test humanity, the spirit
enlivening the Christian world in the past eventfu
year serves the cause of all religion, and gives us
hope to replenish our faith in the future of mankind.
Before another Easter brings its pilgrim crowds
to Jerusalem, may the Churches have been brought
still closer together in mutual respect and
whole-hearted understanding. For that way lies the
richer fulfilment of everything a Christian finds in
the eternal message of Easter.
// //as
CLS'
7
Easter, 1961.
Poor Crowd for
Ace Gallopers
By JOHN SCHOFIELD
IT was disappointing that the crowd at Randwick on the open-
ing day of the autumn meeting should only be about
33,000 —2000 more than attended on the corresponding day
last year.
No better programme could have been devised, the feature
race, the Sunday Telegraph Invitation Stakes, being an out-
standing event with 12 runners, winners of more than £250,000
in stakes including a Melbourne Cup, two Brisbane Cups, Cau -
field Cup, and an A.J.C. Derby, and St Leger.
It included, too, Tulloch, the horse battling along after
a record of being the first to win £lOO,OOO in stakes in Australia.
If proof were needed of the value to racing of a cham-
pion like Tulloch it was readily given. When betting opened
on the Invitation Stakes before the first race came on Tulloch s
price was eased to 6 to 1. One bookmaker bet 1 to 1.
Not one Sydney newspaper tipped Tulloch as the likely
winner. Only two gave him a place chance. The book-
makers assessment agreed with this view of the horses pros
P C in offering such a long price about a horse usually at
odds on bookmakers, obviously felt safe.
Sheer weight of small bets brought Tulloch s price down
to 3 to 1 at one stage and he started favourite at 7 to 2 witn
Valerius second in demand half a point longer.
People went to Randwick to see Tulloch, whether he I had
a winning chance or not, and they were there, too, to back
him if only for sentiment. , , r ~~ r hed
What a scene it would have been had Tulloch
Persian Lyric in that last electrifying dash he made or \\c Y*
As Tulloch’s rider, G. Moore, said afterwards, Fancy getting
so close and then being beaten half a head.
Tulloch now has had 46 starts for 31 wins, 10 seconds, and
4 thirds (once unplaced) and £90,174/10/- in stakes. T
£lOO,OOO mark may be reached, but he now has to win
Svdnev Cud to do it, and there is going to be a good price
on offer about his doing that handicapped at 9.13 and giving
Persian Lyric 231 b compared with 211 b on Saturday.
r-F-HE Daily Telegraph Doncaster Handicap next Saturday is
TTaid to be all over bar the shouting. Sky High will be one
of the shortest priced favorites on record.
Skv High's run to win the All-aged Stakes run over one
mile at we!ght-for-age last Saturday certainly was a very
good Doncaster trial. . ~ ,
' At no stage did the three-year-old look like being troubled
as he sped down the straight, seemingly with a good deal 1
reserve but probably running at his top since he cut out
the mile in lm 34}s„ only a fraction slower than the Randwic
and Australian record of lm. 34is.
One of the highlights of the Doncaster will be the meet-
ine aeain of Sky High and Wenona Girl. In the scoring autumn
of 8 their two-year-old season opinions were divided on abou
which was entitled to the higher rating. himself
In the spring of this season Sky High showed himself
risri bst stj: tzstsas
distance than one mile.
was not a commercial breeder at Randwick on Saturday
T H X d,d n not a sigh With relief when Columbia Star went
past the post winner by eight leng hs of his first race a
the remarkably good time of lm. 10fs. for the six iunongs.
Columbia Star is the Star Kingdom-Confection colt who
cost 15,500 gns as a yearling, more than doubling t e pre
VioUS ßre e e C d o e r r d s suffer a lot of adverse publicity because of the
“costly failures” of the yearling sales. Columbta
tainly is not in that category.


Who’s Boss, Players or Officials?
By FRANK HYDE
TYuring the recent contro-
versy over the disciplining
of Dawn Fraser, I was one of
the few who, through micro-
phone and pen, joined forces
with officialdom.
This does not mean that in
this particular issue the Aus-
tralian Swimming Union,
through its officials, was one-
hundred per cent, right, or that
Dawn Fraser was one-hundred
per cent, wrong. But the issue
was clear. A member of an
Australian representative team
under the jurisdiction of, and
subservient to, a duly author-
ised official refused to obey an
instruction and was dealt with
according to the authority of
the body controlling swimming
in this country.
However, if my mail-box is
any indication, the opinions
expressed by the ordinary fol-
lower of sport clearly show's
that public opinion was against
officialdom and, irrespective of
the issues involved, resented
any disciplinary action against
Dawn Fraser. Most of the
reasons given justifying this
stand also showed that senti-
ment rather than reason pre-
vailed, and the good of the
game and the guarantee of
future conformity w'ith rules
laid down were forgotten in
a sympathetic outburst on
behalf of the swimming star.
Surprising was the number
who were violently opposed to
officals in general, and the
widespread “certainty” that
most officials were in sport for
what they could get out of it
was quite frightening. On the
other hand, the spectacular
successes of our stars seemed
to justify, in the minds of the
public, their right to do almost
as they please.
only is this an unfair
assessment of officials in
sport, but it is a dangerous
trend which, if allower" to
develop, could well spell
disaster to sport in general.
Just as “old soldiers never die,”
so too the influence of con-
scientious officials lingers long
after the impact of a star per-
former is forgotten.
As to the amount “taken
out” of a sport by officials, let
us look at an official's career
and the motivating force
behind his or her association
with a sport. Sometimes, not
always, they have been active
participants who, on retire-
ment, feel they owe a debt to
the sport and the youngsters
coming on. Others have never
participated but develop an
interest and a dedication which
in most cases absorbs most of
their time to the exclusion of
any other interest. It is this
dedication which enables them
to give up their time, and
involves them in personal
expense to organise for the
satisfaction of the participants
and the enjoyment of spec-
tators.
So it should naturally follow
that both participants and
spectators should feel indebted
to officials who make the sport
possible rather than resent
them, as is obviously the case
in some of our modern
approaches to sport. Whereas
the reward for star performers
is real and tangible, in most
cases the reward to officials
is the satisfaction that they are
doing a job to the best of their
ability, and are enabling the
participants to actually par-
ticipate.
Let there be no doubt that
without officials there would
be no sport. Some officials, as
some of my irate corres-
pondents point out, do get
overseas trips, but how few
these are in comparison to the
number of officials associated
with sport. If officials stayed
in sport only for the plums to
be had from it, there are cer-
tainly thousands who are
doomed to disappointment.
Officials, being as mature as
they are, are aware of the
need for strict control over
youngsters, irrespective of
whether they are world cham-
pions or beginners. Being a
champion does not of itself
mean that the sportsman is
equipped for dealing with
problems outside of his par-
ticular field of activity, and
the publicity surrounding
modern champions makes it
all the more necessary for
official influence to ensure that
things do not get out of pers-
pective.
IT is apparent that the surge
of Australian success in
sport over the last decade or
so has brought about a decided
change in the relationship
between official and partici-
pant. In professional sports
such as football and boxing,
the advent of payment of
large sums to players has un-
doubtedly been the cause.
During and after the depres-
sion years when, it is contended
by some, football as a spec-
tacle was much better than
now, poorly paid players were
dominated by officials. The
position then was that plavers
accepted that they were to be
controlled by officials, with-
oui whom, their sporting
activity would be non-existent.
There was a respect of player
lor official which was positive,
and many a player was re-
assured by a kindly word from
officials. Players then were
controlled and disciplined and
they responded to it. Then
came the era of bigger bonuses,
of players being feted by
officials and ol players playing
one club off against another to
get a higher figure. Officials
lost their dignity and players
assumed an importance which
was all out of proportion to
their value to the game.
There was no resentment
(and there is none now to
players being paid big money
by clubs), but the disservice to
the game is in their belief that
they are worth those large
amounts being paid them.
That Sydney's (not Mel-
bourne's) professional football
has declined in public lavor is
evidenced by the falling-off in
crowds, and it will not regain
its following until officials
again acquire the dignity they
once enjoyed and players
become entirely subservient to
them. Players cannot be
blamed for the trend and none
is in the game long enough to
have a lasting influence. The
blame, if any, can be laid
squarely at the feet of officials
themselves, for it is in many
cases they who have allowed
eulogy of players and indivi-
dual hero-w'orship to affect
them to the extent of breaking-
down the air of awe which pre-
viously consolidated
influence.
Tn a few short years in Aus-
tralia, Soccer and its
adherents have undergone a
change which clearly highlights
the trend from official to player
control. The early days of the
fight for recognition of Soccer
as a major football code saw
a limited band of officials
administering the game as they
saw fit. Players were directed
from and to clubs to strengthen
or balance. As a result fi>ccer
progressed and establishment
difficulties gradually overcome.
But with recognition and
public support has come the
player who, realising he has
ability, is demanding and get-
ting concessions by holding a
gun at the heads of the
administrators of the game.
By winning a point when
opposed to officials, these
players also take control of the
sport away from the official to
the detriment of the game.
In boxing, apart from the
economic factors which have
reduced the active participants,
here again the demands of
boxers and the submission to
them by officials have been to
the detriment of the sport.
Undisciplined boxers over
the last few years have reduced
the lustre of the game. Boxers’
picking and choosing when,
where and whom they will box
have caused a great loss of
interest among fans. Although
it is a boxer's right, and always
has been, to have a say in
the control of his activities,
some of them in recent years
have had such complete lack
of concern for their obliga-
tions to the game that the need
has been clearly shown for
firmer control by those officials
who should be determining
what is good for the game.
In tennis, too, over the last
few years an inept officialdom
has allowed an uncontrolled,
undisciplined element to reduce
the dignity of the game and of
officials in the eyes of the
public. A strong stand by
tennis administrators would
quickly restore prestige and
regain control of the sport
from those whose immaturity
cannot withstand the “rigors”
of eulogy and indulgence. It
is not too late to realise the
trend, and to ensure that
players play the game, and
that officials control both the
game and those who play it
without fear or favor.


LETTERS
Herbert's Retert to Stephensen
in his statement claiming
editorship of my novel “Cap-
ricornia” (B 15/3/’6l) P R.
Stephensen has made me' out an
unmitigated liar and a prig. As
1 was a, pains, in my article
about the book's history, to
avoid betraying the hostility
that has existed between
Stephensen and myself for
years, his countering article,
How I Edited ‘Capricornia’,”
shocked me. In my own article
I even expressed the opinion
that P.R.S. would be the last
person to lay claim to some-
thing to which he had no right.
How little 1 know the man,
despite all I've had to do with
h, m. ! ..... , f „
Living the simple quiet life
I do, remote from what is so
aptly called the “rat race,” I
tend to forget the reality of
human nature, how downright
dishonest people can be in pur-
suit of their mean ends. Hence
the shock. It's time I came out
of isolation for a while. Vm
coming South someday soon
Then, perhaps, Stephensen will
-eet me in some quiet spo and
call me a liar to my fac* I
have "ever been one to wage
my wars behind the smoke
screen op ■
By the time 1 come down.
hope to have possession again
of the typescript of C apri-
cornia,” which was given into
the care of a friend years ago.
]t will show just how much
p r s. or anyone else had to
do w ith its editing. I shall
put j t on s how. Also, I hope
recover my old Fowler's Eng-
Usage< given to me as a
present before I went overseas
£ bejore
, „ J t L rllct ino
Stephensen s alleged thrusting it
upon me because he reckoned
I needed it. Long before I wro e
the first draft of Capiicorma
I used to read Fowler with my
meals. Eventually I gave it to
a friend. Proof of its vintage is
in the mass of annotation in it.
I will also put that on show, to
give the lie to this ruthless
man's distortion of the facts of
my association with him.
With the years, I had come
to forget that Stephensen in his
chequered career had actively
followed the lines of both those
parties which specialise in mak-
ing the other fellow out a liar
to conceal their own lying. It
looks as if other people might
have forgotten, too. Wake up!
A lot of jackals have yapped
themselves into prominence
over the feast of “Capricornia.”]
I don’t mind —so long as they
don’t start roaring like the lion.
I repeat: NO ONE EDITED
“CAPRICORNIA” BUT MY-
SELF —and I can prove it!
"If you Won't give this slimming business away now,
Agnes, I quit!"
XAVIER HERBERT.
Redlynch ( Qhl .).
A CUT-PRICE ISCARIOT?
Sir,
I sent Mr Menzies six pieces
of silver for his part in South
Africa’s leaving the Common-
wealth.
T. G. FRANKLIN
St Helens, Lancashire (Eng.).
Communists in Universities
Sir,
When the argument is separ-
ated from the verbiage, your
“Plain English” on “Com-
munists in Universities seems
to say that the Federal Council
of the University Staff Assoc-
ciations cannot be trusted in its
investigation of university
appointment procedures. This
because, having protested in
the Ward case, it has failed to
protest against the alleged
refusal of “more than one
Australian university" to
appoint Dr Colin Clark. It has
also failed to recognise that
Communists are unfit to hold
university positions. You
imply that the council is upset
by injustices to men of the
Left but unconcerned with
similar injustices to “conserva-
tives and Catholics.”
The Federal Council pro-
tested against the failure to
appoint Ward not because a
good scholar, and a man who
had been a Communist, was
refused appointment, bu t
because the recommendation
of an academic selection com-
mittee was rejected by other
university bodies which had
neither the competence nor the
evidence to weigh the merits
of the applicants. If you can
produce evidence that Dr Colin
Clark has been treated simi-
larly I have no doubt that the
Federal Council will take
similar action.
You also believe that no
member of the Communist
party is fit for a university
appointment. This is because
“they are conspirators pledged
to undermine the universities, ,
along with the rest of ‘bour-
geois society,’ to fake research,
indoctrinate students, smear
and intimidate their enemies, j
use their influence to get
fellow-travellers into university
positions and even pass secrets
to a foreign Power if they have
any.” If you can produce
evidence that university
teachers, who are also mem-
bers of the Australian Com-
munist party, have collectively
or individually done any ofj
these things I will use my vote
in the Staff Association to have
it adopt the policy you
recommend.
In the meantime I and, I
believe, most of my colleagues,
will recognise in the vitupera-
tive, unsubstantiated, anti-
intellectual quality of your
comment on universities, a
cynical attempt to foster
“McCarthyism, totalitarianism,
and the bigotries of the Middle
Ages”
Robin Gollan
Canberra.
Sir, j
Although the notion of
heresy in a presumably open
society is at first sight rather
odd, Sydney Hook's thesis as
he presents it in the last issue
of the Observer seems defen-
sible. Frank Knopfelmacher's
application of it to the Austra-
lian academic scene is not. Itj
is, in fact, highly irresponsible ;
and as one who was never a


Communist and who, like Dr
Knopl'elmacher, considers him-
self a secular, liberal humanist,
1 find the prominence accorded
by the Observer to his
irresponsibility extremely dis-
turbing.
Dr Knopfelmacher’s methods
are interesting if not original.
He makes startling revelations
of facts so well known as to be
the stalest of news to all but
the completely ignorant ; and
he makes large, sweeping,
dangerous and quite unsubstan-
tiated accusations. With touch-
ing enthusiasm he informs us,
for instance, that according to
Communist theory party mem-
bers are supposed to be poli-
tically ruthless, and also that
Communists were active in the
University of Melbourne some
ago.
There is nothing here that is
lot common knowledge. But
le has also stated (Observer
-1/1/61) that Communist
icademics in Australia have
leen responsible among other
.hings for “quite a bit" of the
ollowing: faking or suppres-
sion of research data, collec-
tion of intelligence for the
)arty, use of the examination
system to terrorise enemies,
md corruption of the system
>1 appointments and promo-
tions. “Observer” in The
Bulletin (15/3/’6l) obedi-
ently toes the same line and
adds that they are “pledged to
• • . even pass secrets on to a
foreign Power.” No examples
of these crimes are quoted.
Occasionally he gives the
appearance of being specific.
Some of Professor Hartwell’s
statements about conditions in
Australian universities are, he
says, “quite false” (Observer
21/1/ 61) —but he does not
tdl us which ones. There is
“plenty of evidence” of “pres-
sure, chicanery, slander
r“Sr- «
offak i a V
avafllhlt' a ' e PUb ,C ‘ y
not fold ShJf 7 aS T We are
not told what or where they
c nm a l• ,
extraordin/rim char S es are
cn ,Id h i SCnOUS : lf 11
could be shown that an
academic had faked research,
rigged examinations, corruptly
influenced appointment com-
mittees, or committed espion-
P“ *
place U in lhe hands of the
a PP ro P ri ate authorities. And
since, by his imputations, he
as thoroughly smeared every
Communist and ex-Communist
academi c in Australia, it would
only be just if he save the
evidence not merely® to the
Security Service, the police and
the Vice-Chancellors of our
universities, but also to th«
Divorce Notice*
N THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
’O CHARLES DAVID NOTT late of
Vollongong.— TAKE NOTICE that
CAROLINE JOAN NOTT has filed a
'etition for Divorce No. 121 of 1901
n the grounds of desertion for three
ears and upwards without just cause
r excuse If you wish to defend you
nay enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Mint Building Macquarie Street
lydney by the oth day of June 1961
nd obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from CHARLES GRIFFITH,
iolicitor, 107-109 Elizabeth Street, S.yd-
ey, New South Wales. —C. A. H.
lARMS, Registrar.
N THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
'O WILLIAM KEITH EYLES late of
Iden. —TAKE NOTICE that ALMA
.INDA EYLES has filed a Petition for
)ivorce No. 1770 of 1900 on the
rounds of desertion for three years and
(pwards without just cause or excuse,
f you wish to defend you may enter an
ppearance in the Divorce Registry Mint
luilding Macquarie Street Sydney by the
3th day of June 1961 and obtain a
opy of the Petition without charge
rom CHARLES GRIFFITHS, Solicitor,
07-109 Elizabeth Street, Svdney. New
louth Wales.—C. A. h! HARMS,
tegistrar.
N THE SUPREME COURT OF THE
'ERRITORY OF PAPUA AND NEW
GUINEA.
In Matrimonial Causes.
’0 JOHN GEORGE MIRFIN late of
>arlinghurst in the State of New South
Vales. —TAKE NOTICE that GLORIA
>AWN MIRFIN has filed a Statement of
!laim for Divorce No. M.C.2O(P) of
960 on the ground of desertion with-
ut just cause or excuse for 3 years
nd upwards If you wish to defend you
aay cause an Appearance to be entered
n the Registry of the Supreme Court
f the Territory of Papua and New
luinea at Port Moresby Papua by the
Oth day of May 1961 and obtain a
opy of the Statement of Claim without
harge from MESSRS. EDWARD
’RANCE. MELVEY & CO., Solicitors,
f 11c Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—
l. CECIL TINGLE, Registrar.
&
l
M
a
l
i
i\
m
*
&
\j: i I
1/
What has this to do
with the C.8.C.?
Quite a lot! We have had a long association with
the wool industry.
To the individual woolgrower we offer a personal,
understanding service. We appreciate his problems.
To the wool industry in general we provide a world
wide banking service.
The manager of the bank’s branch
in your district will gladly tell you
how you can benefit by its wide range
of services and facilities including
C.B.C. savings bank accounts for the
family.
ssSi! ss?
5S
MtiU
i
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK LIMITED


public. A statutory declara-
tion is the customary form in
which such information can be
presented: Professor Alexan-
der has given a lead in the
Ward controversy (v. “Nation ’
25/2/’6l)— perhaps Dr Knop-
felmacher will follow?
R. F. Brissenden
Turner {A.C.T.).
Sir,
Mr Churchward claimed in
the last issue of the Observer
that “a Communist teacher is
capable of maintaining a
reasonable standard of objec-
tivity in his teaching and
research . . . Equally, no aca-
demic worth his salt would be
a party to . . . ignoring of
obviously relevant factors in a
given situation.”
I am not so sure. There is,
for instance, a pamphlet, "The
Myth of Soviet Imperialism ;
Soviet Policy Explained,” by
L. G. Churchward, M.A.,
Dip. Ed., printed by Corona-
tion Press Pty Ltd and pro-
vided with a Foreword by
Brian Fitzpatrick, M.A., in the
beginning of which we are
assured that this is "quite the
most important [publication]
on its vital subject-matter to
appear in our country since Dr
Eric Dark’s book, ‘The World
Against Russia?’ (1948). It is
especially encouraging that
such a publication should be
made at this time, by a lec-
turer in political science in the
University of Melbourne.
That is to say, while we are not
told that the author is a Com-
munist, we are told that by
virtue of his position as an
academic teacher he is
qualified.
It would be a waste of time
to deal with his dreary repeti-
tion of the then current party-
line, but there is one point that
may serve as a fine and rele-
vant example of Mr Church-
ward’s standards of objectivity
in his teaching and research.
Referring to Tito, he intorms
us that "the full extent of
Tito's connections with the
United States and the British
secret services did not come
out until the trial ol Lazzlo
{sic) Rajk in Hungary (Sep-
tember, 1949), and ot Traicho
Rostov in Bulgaria (December,
1949), which trials showed that
Tito's connections with the
Western Powers went back to
1941 and earlier.” A footnote
refers us to a summary of the
trials by the defected Austra-
lian journalist Burchett.
Is it not "ignoring of
obviously relevant factors” to
quote Communist show-trials
as evidence without even men-
tioning the possibility of tor-
ture and like devices for
obtaining the desired confes-
sions?
Is it not doing the same by
accusing Tito of contacts which
the U.S.S.R. made itself and
insisted that its allies, first of
all the U.K., should make with
him?
But this is not all. Mr
Churchward is not ignorant of
the facts of life when it comes
to attacking his masters’
enemies: "The charge of poli-
tical dictatorship has been
demonstrated by the growing
repression of Y ugoslav
workers, peasants and intel-
lectuals. Many have been
executed, while thousands have
been tortured and thrown into
concentration-camps/’
And then, most amazingly,
in a pamphlet on Soviet
foreign policy that carefully
ignores the Stalin-Hitler Pact:
"The relations between a
socialist State and a semi-
fascist regime can scarcely be
friendly and co-operative.”
Mr Churchward's frankly
Stalinist ideas and intellectual
methods are perhaps less dan-
gerous than the activities of
those who try to persuade
others —and perchance them-
selves—that they are progres-
sive Christians, Jeffersonian
liberals or boys from the bush.
At least, Mr Churchward has
always been honest about his
allegiance. He should not now
pretend that a Communist can
at the same time believe that
objectivity is a class prejudice
and that he can maintain that
objectivity at a reasonable
standard.
A. W. Stargardt
Camberwell {Vic.).
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under- ■
taken re contributions voluntarily i
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
P.L.: Gay, but gross... .E.0.L.:
Not quite the first about a walk-
about, and not quite the best....
M.K..: Couplets were heroic, if un-
edifying. .. .W.R. T.: Presents a
clear image in rather undistinguished
verse. Would like to see some
more.... D.E.: Don't bring rattling
chains and draughty corridors into
an Australian ghost story....
R.8.N.: Please decode... .G.F.:
“Incoming Tide" beached....
C.S.T.: “Fate of the Runic" needs
more attention to detail. A specific
shipwreck, if descriptive and not
symbolic, must be accurate.
"
;
*
■
■
■
Si ■■
Z
-
**
'V
;v'
V ••
' > : -
-
m.
■i
•:
■
iWfc>
Reflecting the vigour,
enterprise and
enthusiasm of a growing
nation.
A great
Australian enterprise
y f-/ £
NATIONAL MUTUAL
c/f£ ASSOC/ATION Of a/as/a ltd,
(Inc. in Vic.)
HEAD OFFICE: 395 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE. PHONE 62-6541
SYDNEY: 350 GEORGE STREET. PHONE BL 1271
BRISBANE: 293 QUEEN STREET. PHONE 31-1711
ADELAIDE: 91 KING WILLIAM STREET. PHONE LA 2091
PERTH: 81 ST. GEORGE S TERRACE. PHONE 23-1341
HOBART: 119 MACQUARIE STREET. PHONE 2-2851


THE
MAN
ON THE
LAND
Down to Earth
'll/r: have taken several good,
** hard looks at the Man
on the Land pages —in fact, we
haven’t stopped looking at
them since the new Bulletin
came in. As they say in cer-
tain very necessary establish-
ments which all mankind has
to visit at times: “We aim to
please ...” But we feel that
this is not complete without its
corollary: “You aim, too,
please.” So we feel that, if
we are to please you, we must
put the ball back in your
court, asking you to tell us
what you really want from
“M.0.L.” The pages certainly
have not had their day, if we
can do anything about it.
The “M.0.L.” section was
originally started to help
farmers at a time when The
Bulletin foresaw the depres-
sion and when there were not
so many agricultural papers
available as there are now. We
kept to that idea as long as
we had a predominantly
country circulation ; but, later,
“M.O.L.” —mainly from con-
tributed items —lost its original
point and tended to become
more a centre of discussion
between a small group of
enthusiasts who continued to
support it. With the plethora
of other agricultural literature
at present available, our
“Farm Hints” began to look
a bit outmoded and the whole
tone of the pages became
almost too leisurely—a sort of
extension of the “Abo.” pages,
sometimes.
In this day and age, wt
thought, “M.0.L.” should do
better than that, and we set
about revising the form so that,
once again, all Australia should
have a reason to read the pages
—even if half Australia no
longer writes them.
At present the plan is for
the “M.O.L” to write his own
thoughts on matters affecting
primary production each week
and to add to these reports
from correspondents all over
Australia and from overseas.
This second part —reports from
all directions —cannot be in-
cluded unless readers send
them in ; at present, we have
no correspondents in many
parts of most States, although
I know from personal experi-
ence, that we have friends in
every part of the Common-
wealth.
A t time of writing, the Show’s
the thing! And this year’s
Royal Easter seems to have
lived up to R.A.S. president
granted) may recognise. The
words of a young English
visitor to Australia, after his
first day’s visit to this year’s
Sydney Royal, seem to hit the
nail squarely on the head:
'Well, if this was all I was
going to see, it would have been
worth coming 12,000 miles for ;
but, since it isn’t, show me
more.” Isn’t that the impres-
sion shop-window displays are
meant to make?
said to have done more
than any other man to help
present development of the
Northern Territory, C. S.
Christian, of the C.5.1.R.0. ex-
ecutive, was recently given two
honors on the same day by his
fellow-scientists. Awarded the
medal of the Australian Insti-
tute of Agricultural Science for
his crusading work (particularly
on the huge Ord River irri-
gation scheme, which has stimu-
lated commercial development)
in Northern Australia, he was
also elected president of the
Institute for 1961. Since 1946,
his system of land classification
and survey has been widely
recognised and is used both in
Australia and overseas.
t>apton Constructor, the
** world-famous beef Short-
horn bull (turning the scales
at over one ton and bought for
Strath Playfair’s promise that,
as Australia’s shop window, it
should hold the biggest, best
and brightest display ever.
In the cattle pavilions, or
round the judging ring, or at the
dressage, you will see each year
the same friends and welcome
the annual addition of new ex-
hibitors, contestants and spec-
tators. These, the hard core
of the Royal, provide the main
reason for its constant and in-
creasing success. The Society’s
first consideration is to put on
show 7 the wealth of the land and
the skill of those who serve it
—and hardly anywhere else in
the world is it possible to see
such a display ; but secondary
industry has not been neglected,
while exhibitions of arts and
crafts provide interest (and
sometimes amusement) for
those of every shade of taste
and opinion
It’s by linking town and
country through this common
interest in our national heri-
tage —because Australia is still
young enough to recognise the
truth, which older countries
sometimes forget at their peril,
that in the end everything
comes from the earth —that the
Royal and National Shows of
every State and the smaller
shows and exhibitions held in
our cities and towns play a
greater part than we (some-
times apt to take them for
export, with the greater part of
the Saltoun herd, for a record
breed price of 15,000gns in
1956 by Louis Cadesky, of
Louada Manor Farms, On-
tario), arrived back from
Canada at Prestwick airport
(Scotland) last week to stand
at Denend Pedigree Farm,
Upper Denend, Strichen, Aber-
deenshire.
Constructor, a red bull of
outstanding conformation, was
sired by Calrossie Constella-
tion (himself a son of Calrossie
Welcome) born on January
25, 1955, and bred by Cecil
Moores, of Cairnbrogie, Old-
meldrum, Aberdeenshire. On
May 2. 1956, the evening
before Constructor sailed for
Canada on export, a dinner
was held at an hotel in
Glasgow to pay tribute to his
breeder and purchaser. Since
he has been in Canada, Con-
structor’s offspring has realised
more than 30C.000 dollars and
he has had considerable in-
fluence on the breed during a
comparatively short stay. At
Denend he will be mated with
females by Calrossie Good
News.
The blood of Calrossie Con-
stellation, Constructor’s sire,
is in a number of Australian
beef Shorthorns ; while Bapton
Augusta Ada, sired by Con-
structor in 1956, was imported
by Messrs A. and W. Lambell
Ply, Ltd. of Weenya, Gulargam-
bone (N.S.W.), from Scotland
in June, 1958.
T?rom Queensland comes news
which should be wel-
comed throughout Australia
and overseas. Dairy-research
officers of the State Agricul-
tural Department have suc-
ceeded in getting rid of weed-
taint from butterfat by means
of very fine separation,
neutralisation and salting-out.
Further development of these
methods will be tested next
weed-season. The problem of


removing taints from milk and
cream, and hence from butter,
still remains to be answered ;
but it is certainly a step for-
ward to have confined the
taints to non-fat portions of
dairy produce. There are good
overseas markets for butterfat,
which until now have been
barred to Queensland because
of the taint. This barrier has
now been removed, clearing
the way for an increase in
export-income.
Corriedales are in the news
again. A ram from R. E.
Wettenhall’s Stanbury stud, at
Ceres (Vic.) has notched the
Australasian top-price record.
The ram—Blakely of Stanbury
—is 18 months old and was
bought by the Sociedas Gane-
cara at Carpacanacha, Lima
(Peru), for 2812gns. It's the
third ram to be bought from
the Stanbury stud by this
Peruvian company. Mr
Wettenhall also exported his
1960 Melbourne Sheep Show
champion, Stanbury 39-57, to
Uruguay, together with
another ram from W. M.
Moodie's stud, Nigretta East,
near Hamilton (Vic.). Two
Corriedale rams were shipped
to the Falkland Islands
from Tasmania; one
from the stud of Compton
Archer and Son, Quamby
Plains, Hagley, and the other
from the Cluny stud of R. V.
Bowden and Son, of Bothwell.
A correspondent from the
Victorian Wimmera writes
to say that W. H. Bourchier,
of Coromby (Vic.), who won
the 1960 Southern Wimmera
Wheat Crop Championship
with his 50 acres of Olympic
wheat, has established a new
Victorian and Australian wheat
record with a certified yield of
78.8 bushels an acre. Previous
record was 76.8 bushels an acre
produced in 1953 by L. Lange,
of Natimuk (Vic.).
ROLLO GILLESPIE
m
fr'
-
From the cool
dark cellars at
Coonawarra .. .
come only the finest clarets
and every bottle is matured
to perfection before release;
the discriminating diner will
be well advised to seek it out-
COONAWARRA
ESTATE CLARET
Sole and exclusive purveyors:
S. Wynn & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Distributors: N.S.W.: Swift & Moore Pty. Ltd.,
32 Clarence St., Sydney. S.A.: A. E. & F.
Tolley Ltd., 82 Waymouth St., Adelaide.
QLD.: Swift & Moore Pty. Ltd., 92-96 Com-
mercial Road, Fortitude Valley, Brisbane,
5-3726. W.A.: Charles Edmonds & Co. Pty.
Ltd., 112 Brisbane St., Perth. TAS.: Importers
Pty. Ltd., 140 Campbell St., Hobart. P. A.
O’Byrne & Sons, 274 Charles St., Launceston.
start the day right!
&
-r.
r
ipIHC
fm*
[ -uivVwC
Lj°!2£*
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2/r
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
Growing Herbs
A n interesting feature of the
contemporary renaissance
is its insistence on roots. Recog-
nising that no one arrived on
the earth from nowhere and
that our great-grandfathers
were not quite such fools as
the photographers and Lytton
Strachey would like us to be-
lieve they looked, people are
beginning to turn back the
pages. In doing so, they are
finding that remote forefathers
were quite sensible —almost in
the groove.
In the Middle Ages no one
would have thought of plant-
ing a garden, as we know it,
simply for the sake of growing
prize geraniums or special
varieties of roses. More frugal
ancestors would have laughed
at our idea of “space-fillers,”
for the simple reason that
they valued the land and be-
lieved that every available
square inch should be filled
with some plant which had
value as food or tonic, quite
apart from any purely visual
splendor. Herbs sometimes
flowered—like roses or gera-
niums, and many others—but
it was for their utilitarian value
that they were grown, in a
smaller, more private adjunct
to the farm, within the manor-
demesne or in the cotter s
yard, close to the kitchen where
they were most used.
In consequence, most reme-
dies and indeed most recipes
from the times before antibio-
tics or canned cookery were
thought of contained herbs in
some proportion. The earthy
French, masters of the art of
gastronomy, kept herbs as a
sort of secret weapon to lure
tourists towards highly priced
dishes —d la paysanne or meur -
niere, which relied entirely on
clever use of herbs. More
stolid English country fare
made the same use, less artis-
tically but in its own way
equally effectively.
A formal garden.
Herb-gardens died, though,
except in remoter country
places. In England beside a
Yorkshire manor-house, miles
from anywhere, I've found a
formal herb-garden, planted in
the time of Queen Anne, kept
on so far as its lavender hedges
and flowers go, but otherwise
treated simply as a rose-gar-
den. In Shropshire and along
the Marches of Wales, where
everything is happily 200 years
behind the times of the pre-
sent hurly-burly, I’ve come
across them often and found
them properly tended—and,
for the time the King's ser-
vice allowed me to live there,
was able to enjoy the benefits
of such a garden myself,
Lovely Carolean, sandstone
mansions of Barbados, in the
West Indies, lying back in fields
of sugarcane, each used to have
its separate sunken garden,
planted with herbs,
In Australia, though, the
idea of a herb-garden always
seemed foreign, until my wife
suggested growing mint and
parsley in a plot outside our
backdoor. I added: “What
about thyme, sage and mar-
joram, as well?'' And bought
her a box of Fortnum and
Mason’s herb-bottles to go on
with, as well,
Thinking it over, though,
I suddenly recognised that the
Australian climate is ideal for
growing herbs. And, at that
moment a book called Frag-
ranee and Flavour, written by
Rosemary Hemphill and pub-
lished by Angus and Robert-
son, was sent me for review,
Reading this book, my wire
and I quickly saw that we were
wasting our time in present
attempts and needed advice
from specialists. So we found
out the address of the author
of the book and went out to
visit her.
We found that John ana
Rosemary Hemphill who live at
Somerset Cottage, on the Old
Northern Road, Dural
(N.S.W.), had founded their
herb-garden some years ago.
When we arrived, they were
busy with their interstate
orders, as well as with visitors
but were only too pleased to
show us round their property,
The most striking feature
there is the stone-walled, gco-
metrical enclosure they have
built, about 25ft lc >ng by 18tt
wide, with the w'all 3tt high,
of ballast stone cemented
but not too neatly, so that i


Has a weathered look. The
wall is built double, with a
sspace in the middle about 12in.
wide to contain soil for the
plants to grow in, and holes
have been left for drainage.
In the middle of the garden
Herb-jar in use.
lere is a sundial, with simple,
eometrical beds and stone
aths radiating from it ; on
ne side there is a stone seat,
ith an English lavender bush
rowing above it. There are
edges of the same plant along
le borders of the pathways.
In this garden there are all
inds of herbs —French laven-
er, prostrate rosemary, worm-
ood, lavender-cotton, scented
wallflower, creeping thymes,
alian parsley and applemint,
nong many others, with
rigano and chives in the walls.
We also saw the nursery
here the Hemphills cultivate
ants for sale, and the little
lop where they sell dried
mbs, pot pourri, and pot-
ants from the nursery.
The Hemphills, true enthusi-
ts, are delighted by the inter-
t which has grown up all over
ustralia in their herbs and
eased by the reception of
osemary’s book which has
Id very well and must be
most due for a second, and
issibly enlarged, edition.
Two other enthusiasts
rived while we were there —
te a lady from Hunter’s Hill,
Sydney, who plans to grow
mbs in her garden, having
arned their value during a
ng stay in Italy. The other
dy came from Yass (N.S.W.)
id was hoping to start a
nilar garden beside her
>mestead.
Rosemary Hemphill told us
>w a lot of people who live
flats have also started grow-
g herbs. It’s perfectly easy,
she says, to grow herbs in-
doors, provided you have the
right soil-mixture and can give
the plants sunlight at some
stage during the day and keep
them watered, adding liquid
fertiliser to the watering?can
about once a fortnight. Nearly
all herbs will grow in con-
tainers, and taller varieties, like
Florence fennel, borage and
sage, become sufficiently
dwarfed by the confined root-
space. Herbs with rampant
root systems, she says, (like
balm, winter savory, the mints,
origano, pennyroyal and tar-
ragon) should be put severely
on their own, or they will
choke the others. But herbs
of low or medium growth—
sweet basil, chervil, chives,
parsley, thyme or marjoram—
are most suitable for the pur-
pose of growing in a confined
space. The only herbs which
should not be considered for
this are angekica, chicory and
lovage, which grow too high.
She says there are various
containers on the market which
are suitable for growing herbs
in, and in her book devotes a
whole chapter to suggestions
for growing herbs indoors.
We were both fascinated by
the short visit we made to
Somerset Cottage, and liked
the idea of the wheel-garden
the Hemphills have laid out
beside their formal garden—
this was lately shown in an
exhibition at David Jones
store in Sydney, and is an
excellent way of displaying all
varieties of herb in a small
garden. Meanwhile 1 have
determined to transplant our
own herbs from the vegetable-
patch to the rockery outside
our dining-room window. My
wife is planning to make clove-
oranges and lavender-bags to
send to friends next Christ-
mas in place of Christmas
cards and handkerchiefs
(which seem to have almost had
their day). More than that, now
that the time for visiting
friends in the country is in
the offing, we feel we are in a
position to tell anyone who
asks us a little about the cul-
tivation and use of herbs. If
we can't tell them everything
they want to know, the answer
is simple —refer them to the
Hemphills.
R.G.
lBo>i
(Contractors to Government Municipal
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON
O'SULLIVAN
PTYITD . r-V
TRADE
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
lithographic printers
typographers
monotype and linotype
operators
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS. BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
‘•JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
SHAVE-FASTER, CLOSER
Anywhere . . Anytime
WITH A
LORD RIAM
BATTERY POWERED
SHAVER
l’es. Wherever you may be and at any time . . .
HOME, OFFICE, TRAVELLING, HOLIDAYS . . . touch
the switch for the fastest, smoothest shave ever. Only
two 1.5 volt standard torch batteries give months of
easy shaving:. MADE IN SWITZERLAND. Fully
guaranteed. Complete same day service.
Send for your LORD RIAM shaver NOW
PRICE ONLY
92/6
Complete with
Batteries.
>OST FREE
CUT OUT POST NOW
QUALITY APPLIANCES,
412 Hardy's Chambers,
De Mestre Place, Sydney.
Please post at once LOKD RIAM
shavers. Cheque/postal notes/money
order enclosed for £ : :
NAME
ADDRESS
Please print name and address in block letters.
Money refunded If returned in 7 days.
MM
•;> s ,< ,-,
y K ‘ V> ' - '5?5


The Kangaroo Shooters
By JOHN LEWIS
-w- AST winter a graduate
! from the University of
I J the Interior, Faculty of
Bone-dry Gullies, cleared
£1875 in 17 weeks hunting
kangaroos for their skins on
the sprawling grazing leases in
the far nor’-west of N.S.W.
It was an afternoon in early
May when his utility, laden
with gear so the spring-leaves
looked downwards, rolled
south past the lonely notice on
the white-painted grid-post:
Border Fence Shire of
Brewarrina. There he fired
his first round at a mortally
curious, unsophisticated buck.
Then he drank the last of the
rum in the bottle on the seat
beside him before he climbed
out to do the skinning.
That night he camped on
the reserve near a township 40
miles on where the people were
mostly half-caste or full-
blooded aborigines. He was
grilling a steak next morning
when he met Charlie. Charlie
was a handsome youngster
with skin the color of the bare
brown earth he studied as they
talked.
“What they call you, boy?”
“Me? I’m Charlie.”
“Take a job peggin’ out
skins, Charlie?”
The lad raised his eyes to
consider the idea briefly, look-
ing dully around the distant
horizon.
“Me? O.K. I’ll take a job
pegain’ out.”
“Cookin’?”
“Okay.”
“You know all about it,
Charlie?”
“Me? 1 can peg-out okay.”
The half-caste glanced shyly
at the shooter, slender feet
scuffling the dust.
“How much money you
want?”
“Tenner a week. Tucker.
An’ ten-bob a time.”
At once the man ran a hard
eye over the neat body under
the frayed jersey and jeans,
and at once he saw the bumps
of breasts.
“You a girl, Charlie?”
Eyelashes flickered up again
as there came a whispered,
“Yes”
The white man laughed, “I
got a woman’d skin you alive,
Charlie. Skin you alive, she
heard about you! An' peg
“The Kangaroo Shooters” a vivid picture of contem-
porary life in the outback, will be published in three
instalments.
your hide out on a claypan.”
The girl slouched off, head
hanging, and the man from
beyond the border fence
watched her go with regret and
compassion ; a solitary, lost
figure.
“I’ll be back, Charlie!” he
called after her. “You come
an' see me when I get back.”
He laughed again. “I got to
go on now, but you wait until
1 get back!”
Charlie turned and w'aved
an uncertain arm.
At noon rain began to fall
in great, quickening drops.
The rain built up rapidly,
heavy and unseasonable.
Within another 50 miles the
tyres were rolling through
sticky black mud. You could
still make good time if you
had an eye for the road, slow-
ing at the bogs to decide
whether to charge through or
to put the wheel over and skirt
them on the hard ground
among the timber. Between
then and dusk the ute passed
three mud-plastered station
vehicles, one in tow with a
burnt-out clutch. This was no
time for greetings.
Before the driver the radia-
tor steamed with the engine's
effort. The ute had cost nearly
£6O and if it survived the next
two or three months it might
fetch a pound or two from
some country town garage-
man looking for spares.
As the light failed the
shooter entered the outskirts
of kangaroo country. He
wasn’t yet far enough west to
sight tall reds, but the greys
began to appear in small
sodden mobs, standing
dejectedly among the trees
with backs bent to the weather.
Once he stopped to pick off
the largest of one family and
quickly skin the five dead
animals while the motor
cooled. The further west he
could get, he knew, the less
likely it would be that the rain
would make the track impas-
sable.
He did not camp when dark-
ness came, although he drove
slower, the ute seeming to prop
and pivot from the hind-
quarters on the greasy surface
as a camp-drafting horse does.
Then the headlights burned
dimmer, and dimmer, yellow
and speculative, and finally
the mud became tight enough
under the ute to lock the
wheels. When that happens
you coax your vehicle on to
hard ground, open a tin of
beef and another of mush-
rooms, wind up the windows,
pour a tot of rum and settle
down until conditions improve
for driving.
When the doctors had told
Liddy to look after his
heart he put his money into a
little pub with a rusty iron
roof at a livestock siding in
the centre of nowhere. A
coaching company had staged
horses there when he was a
boy, and after the railway went
through nobody had bothered
to pull the dry-rotted building
down.
Standing on the worn, loose
verandah boards you could
look out for miles over a flat
sea of grass that flushes green
for a few weeks almost every
season and then browns and
dies and powders for the rest
of the year. City folk might
find much that was strange in
the amenities Liddy's pub
offered.
To the casual habitues,
however, students and gradu-
ates from Liddy's university, it
is adequate. And to the owner
it is a place where he can
occupy himself with post-
graduate studies until winter
fur begins to grow every
autumn on marsupials away
to the south and it becomes
possible to make money hunt-
ing them. Medical men would
be astonished at the methods
he has worked out to allow
him to do this without strain-
ing his heart too much or
suffering too much pain.
It was cosy inside Jack
Liddy's ute with the rain drum-
ming down on to the cabir
roof. A cold wind howlec
continuously, fierce gusts shak-
ing the vehicle at intervals, but
bad weather is comforting
when you are warmed, wined
fed and sheltered. He dozed
thinking again of Charlie
There had been something of
great appeal about Charlie, the


sad hope and the helplessness
of the battling young bush
prostitute.
A distant light reflected in
Liddy’s eyes from the rear-
vision mirror and woke him.
A long time he lay and watched
it approach ... If tomorrow
were not a far better day the
day after would be, probably,
but there were people who had
this to learn. He switched on
the tail-light with one indolent
finger before the sedan
squelched up alongside, a
plume of steam rising from
its radiator-cap to be whisked
away on the wind, wheels
enormous with their burden
of mud.
T iddy lowered a window as
the stranger left his com-
panion and ran across. He
was a young, very blond man
with a nylon shirt clinging
wetly to his chest. His shadow
jerked an evil dance before
him in the headlights.
“What you think of it?”
came a thin voice through
chattering teeth.
“Looks crook, mate.”
“You going on?”
“The hell I am.”
Mate . . . you use the word
practically exclusively with
men you do not know at all
until you meet them in unusual
circumstances. Mate is almost
an expression of sympathy and
support in the face of mutual
difficulties.
“Not stopping here ?”
“Too right. What else can
you do?”
“We got to get on.”
“You in a hurry?”
“Going to a shed.”
“But if you get there, you
won't shear for a week.”
Liddy knew from the fleeting
grimace that Nylon Shirt
hadn’t considered this, yet still
he had to get on.
“You from Sydney?” he
asked on impulse.
“Yes,” Nylon Shirt said, and
shook the running water from
his round face and eyes.
Now you could see it, the
Sydney-based shearer. The
city, where time is no mere
convenience, a way of measur-
ing weeks, months, seasons,
but where time has an import-
ance of its own. Time. You
must keep ahead of it. You
must not fall behind. In cities
you do not do things when
they need to be done, but when
it is time to do them. When the
(dock says so, compelling you.
Liddy settled himself back
cautiously. Over long years
of study it had come to him
that impulsiveness was
catching.
“How you off for tucker?”
he asked.
“We got none.”
Got none. No tucker, no
rum, no mushrooms, no time.
The other stood shaking in the
cold outside.
“Look, mate —I got tucker
to last us a month, six weeks.
You just stop and see.”
Nylon Shirt’s eyes widened
as he dismissed at once the
advice of the unshaven, stupid
outback mudlark in his little
down-at-heels truck. He swore,
and returned to the sedan.
The shooter heard the
mumbled conference. Then
the sedan’s motor bellowed and
coughed, bellowed again.
Again steam billowed. Wheels
spun in the deep, yielding
morass. Many times the
Sydney shearers tried. Then
they switched off and Liddy
saw them sitting silently, star-
ing out at the muddy rain-
drops flopping into the broad,
dark puddles.
TTere was a new generation
of shearers. The whole
world changed, but heavy
storms on unmade roads didn't
change. Maybe one day the
Interior, under the impact of
Time and nylon shirts, would
cease to have its lessons to
teach, would adapt itself to
them.
Liddy’s mind rejected the
idea at once, and he slept. The
rum bottle nestled easily be-
tween his legs. Jack Liddy
had a theory about rum help-
ing to enlarge constricted
heart-arteries.
Later that night another
vehicle came crawling along
the flat, ruler-straight road
from the other direction. It
came so slowly that its lights
appeared stationary, but after
two hours of watching the
headlights were blazing on the
pair of parked vehicles.
The newcomer was a jeep.
Nylon Shirt splashed towards
it, talked to the driver. Soon
the jeep turned off the track
and detoured around in reduc-
tion, nudged up behind the
sedan and heaved gently at it
with a fender.
The sedan, Nylon Shirt and
his companion inside, grated
into life once more, gathered
some speed and ploughed off
in the deep tracks of the jeep.
The jeep stalled and refused
to start while the sedan slipped
and slid away in the rain, its
red tail-light flaring up and
down until it vanished into the
night.
The jeep stayed beside Jack
Liddy’s ute all night. At
intervals he would hear the
futile whirring of its starter-
motor until finally this became
uneven and labored and Liddy
knew the battery was flat.
Before dawn the rain eased
and then ceased altogether.
Liddy woke under a grey sky
with the drenched road stretch-
ing gloomily away before him.
It was plain that nobody would
travel on it before noon, if
then, so he drowsed on for as
long as sleep would stay with
him.
Later in the morning he
connected the ute battery to the
jeep’s and got the stranger’s
engine started and running at
a fast idle to charge the ex-
hausted cells. The good-
humored little man and his
patient, faded and uncomplain-
ing wife were touchingly
grateful for the bread and
tinned meat and a knife the
shooter gave them.
At midday he left them.
"Cor 40 miles he had the
doubtful honor of open-
ing the track, a slow and pre-
carious journey. Many times
he stopped to free the wheels
and under-body of mud, and
once the ute slipped off the
crown into a water-table,
where it might have stayed for
ever but for some speedy work
with clutch, steering-wheel and
the thin, bent gear-lever.
There was no sun to dry the
surface, but the clouds stream-
ing high overhead were wispy
and empty. When Liddy
became hungry he opened a
tin. Then he rolled out his
swag on a small rise to rest
until the wind dried the track
a little more.
There would be a wide
spread of feed after these falls.
He thought with an idle stab of
sadness of Eric on his dusty
sheep-block back up north.
Eric had gone away to the
coast to be married and Liddy
had left the pub to his wife
and stood in as caretaker for
six weeks on Eric’s place.
There had been no good rain
there for nearly two years, but
Eric had been convinced that
the storms would come while
he was on his honeymoon.
Liddy had had the melancholy
task of handing the still-dry
and drought-devastated holding
back to its undoubtedly penni-
less owner and his bride —their
honeymoon, the beaches and
tennis-parties and theatres all
behind them, and in their
future an uncertain season, the
last dams drying fast, a bore
turning salty, sheep emaciated
and hidebound.
'The kangaroo shooter drove
into Wanoona, his truck
grimy and mud-daubed among
the shiny town cars. He was
taking the cap off the petrol-
tank at a garage when a burly
fellow appeared at the tail-
board.
‘‘Do you own this tarp?” he
asked at once, leaning his
elbows on the load and finger-
ing the faded green tarpaulin
that covered it.
“Yes.”
“I’m Wilson. Detective.
I’m investigating the theft of
a railway tarpaulin last night.
What’s your name?”
“Liddy.”
“Where you from?”
“Queensland. Place called
Wambo.”
“What do you do?”
“How do you mean, ‘do’?”
“Do for a living.”
“I do many things for a
living.”
“You do, do you? What are
you doing now?”
You are always correct with
police.
“I hope to shoot kangaroos.”
A policeman is a different
kind of man. They have all
been brain-washed.
“You do, do you?”
“Yes.”
The only police that don’t
seem brain-washed are the
older ones who have lived on
remote postings for a long
time with fat wives and many
dirty-faced children.
Where did you come
from?”
“Queensland. Place called
Wambo.”
“Yes, yes! But where did
you come from this morning?”
“Out in the mud between
here and Doogoodah.”
“Where did you get this
tarp?”
Where? Hell, you haven’t
thought about it for years.
You had it before you went
broke on the banana planta-
tion. You had it on that Gulf
cattle place. Did you have it
on the droving trip when the
dingoes followed the flock for
weeks? It had served as a
shade on the verandah of the
homestead of the company-
holding out from Julia Creek.
Pickers? Pickers, perhaps.
“I don’t remember. It might
have been Pickers in Brisbane.
The store.”
Or was it Jordans in Towns-
ville?
“You don’t remember, eh?”


The policeman questions you
abruptly. He is sceptical of all
humanity except most other
police and he does not appear
to listen to answers.
“I think I got it from
Pickers.”
“When?”
“Fourteen or fifteen years
ago. Sixteen years”
“Why did you cut one side
out of it?”
“It was used as a verandah
blind on a house on a property
and the wind tore it.”
“Where?”
“Julia Creek.”
“When?”
“Few years after I bought
it.”
“What’s your name?”
“Jack Liddy.”
“Got a driver's licence?”
“Yes.”
The garage-man stood with
the petrol-hose in his hand:
“Fill her up?”
“Fill her up.”
The detective felt the texture
of the tarpaulin between his
fingers.
“I want to spread this tarp
out and examine it,” he said.
“Railway tarps are black,”
Liddy reminded him.
“I want to see it spread out.”
The shooter untied ropes
and spread the worn canvas on
the concrete, and the police-
man leaned over it, forehead
furrowed, hands on knees.
“What's this here?”
“Maker's trademark, I'd
say.”
“Yes, but what is it?”
“I don’t know. Army dis-
posals?”
The detective straightened.
“I'll help you put it back on.”
“Well, that's only fair.”
“Oh, I don’t know . . As
he moved away the big man
looked purposefully back over
his shoulder: “You said
‘Jack Liddy’?”
“That's right.”
“She's full,” the garageman
said. “Oil?”
“Yes.” Liddy grinned.
“That big bastard hasn’t got
much to do.”
“Ah, someone cut a railway
tarp. in half last night and
took the unbranded bit.”
“Well, he wouldn't come
down the main street with it
spread all over his ute, would
he?”
They laughed.
At the hotel, driving out of
town, the shooter had two
rums with beer chasers and
again met the Wanoona police
force, this time in uniform.
When he entered the bar
there was a knot of sunburnt
men in leather coats and rid-
ing boots at the far end and
he edged past another group
of paler, softer clerks and shop
assistants and joined the first
group. They asked which way
he had come, and if the Doo-
goodah road was open.
Liddy found one was a
drover and switched the talk
to likely kangaroo areas.
Drovers travel slowly but they
get around. He questioned
him on the shooting prospects
to the west of Wanaaring and
on towards the Four Corners,
Milparinka, Tibooburra and
that way.
Soon all the stockmen were
talking with great animation
and enthusiasm about kanga-
roos and where they were to
be found in thousands. There
are more kangaroos shot
around bars than were ever
born, in the same way as mug
shearers run up big tallies in
those places after a bit of
lubrication.
T iddy had decided that there
was little grain among these
chaff-bags of information when
the sergeant entered the bar.
There's nothing like a blue
uniform in a bar to stop all
discussion, and the sergeant’s
words rang heavily into the
silence: “I just want ten of
you blokes. If you don't mind.
Won’t keep you long.”
He stepped forward with an
arm extended, dividing the
drinkers: “You from here
to there come around to the
station with me. It's nothing.
Just a line-up, that's all.”
The stockmen drained their
beers and crowded out through
the door, loose spurs scraping
on the bare floorboards.
“Always said it was just a
matter of time before they
caught up with you, Ted,” said
a thin man, belched loudly
and laughed.
But the policeman remained
stern-faced among the banter
that flew around him.
“It's an identification line-
up, boys. Case of someone
signing a boomerang. Won’t
take long.”
“Never mind, Ted,” said the
humorous one. “I'll bring you
tobacco.”
As they waited behind the
brown-painted police office the
fooling stopped and they fell
into twos and threes, speaking
softly among themselves.
A florid-faced, muscular
fellow in overalls came down
the back stairs of the station
and joined them. While he was
taking a box of matches from
Liddy to light a hand-rolled
cigarette he confided quietly
that he was the man the police
were after: “But it’s not like
they think, see? They had me
in there since three o’clock
askin’ bloody questions, but
what can you tell ’em? It
would have come all right if
they’d kept out of it. Not my
fault it bounced. I got a big
load of ewes on a semi-trailer
I got to get to Paili tomorrow.”
TVText the sergeant ushered
' out a stout, swarthy New
Australian. Cafe proprietor,
Liddy decided. Steak and
onions, sixteen bob.
“Right-oh, boys. Line up,
will you?”
There was a stab of pain in
Liddy’s chest. He unbuttoned
the flap of a shirt pocket and
slipped out a tiny bottle of
pills, swallowed one.
The New Australian and
the sergeant gazed stonily at
the ragged line of sheepish
men while a second policeman
appeared and lounged in the
doorway above. The swarthy
man's eyes slid over Liddy’s
and over those of the over-
ailed fellow beside him. They
came to rest on a slender,
blue-chinned man in a flannel
singlet and dirty dungaree
trousers.
“Zat zee chap!” squeaked
Steak and Onions in quick
excitement. “He take-a my
twenty quid, zee bastard!”
There was a roar of merri-
ment from half of the line.
“Wallace! ” bellowed the
humorous stockman. “Strike
me flamin’ roan —”
“That’s enough! ” barked the
serious - faced sergeant. He
wheeled to the New Australian.
“You sure?”
But now the swarthy one was
not so sure.
“I zeenk so,” he said doubt-
fully.
“Thinking’s not good
enough! You got to know.
And don’t you speak at all.
Just go and put your hand on
his shoulder.”
There was another silence.
All waited. Now, however,
the line-up was becoming a
party.
“1 never wrote out a cheque
in me bloody life!” Wallace
complained loudly to the ser-
geant. “You know me, Jim!”
“Don't waste our time,” the
sergeant told the New Austra-
lian. Steak and Onions’ eyes
wandered unhappily along the
grinning faces, and then he
made a gesture of uncertainty
and resignation.
“That will do,” said the
sergeant shortly. “All right,
boys. All over.”
“Wallace!” crowed the
humorous stockman de-
lightedly. “He picked Wallace!
Can't even write his name,
Wallace can’t!”
END OF PART 1.
JUST PUBLI!
PATRICK WHITE by Geoffrey Dutton
NORMAN LINDSAY by John Hetherington
These two titles are the first of a series of critical mono-
graphs entitled: —
Australian Writers and Their Work
General Editor: Geoffrey Dutton
Four more titles will appear this year
HENRY HANDEL RICHARDSON by Vincent Buckley
HENRY LAWSON by S. Murray-Smith
CHRISTOPHER BRENNAN by J. S. McAuley
KENNETH SLESSOR by Max Harris
8/6 each.
Available from most booksellers.
LANSDOWNE PRESS PTY. LTD.,
4-12 Tattersall's Lane, Melbourne, C.l.


LOOK BACK AT ANGER: "Hop” on Temberance
From The Bulletin, December 17, 1898.
THE REWARD OF VIRTUE
WOMEN’S CHRISTIAN TEMPERANCE UNION ORATRESS: “And 1 reasoned with my hus-
band, and finally induced him to sign the pledge. I felt so exultant, my friends , that 1 threw my arms
around his neck and kissed him!”
A VOICE (a male one, and rather husky): “And serve him jolly Well right!”


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Taubmans Industries Ltd
The Australian paint industry is capable
of a production well above that
required to satisfy local needs. Because,
however, of high internal and non-
competitive cost-structures, it becomes
almost impossible to dispose of surplus
potential overseas —though a small export
market is established in nearby Pacific
islands. Manufacturers, restricted to local
and comparatively limited demand, have
been forced to cut output, and plant, in
general, operates at levels considerably
below the optimum.
But this problem—the problem of idle
capacity —is not of recent origin. Demand
for paint is characteristically seasonal,
and installation of plant is dominated by
the need to cater for both peak and off-
peak periods. Moreover the frequent in-
troduction of new colors, new formula-
tions and new materials has meant con-
tinual fluctuation in the proportion of
the market held by individual manu-
facturers.
Competition in the industry remains
strong, and firms are likely to continue
the development of new and improved
products in an endeavor to maintain or
increase their share of what they expect
to be a slowly rising market.
Formed in 1912 to acquire a business
founded in 1902, laubmans Industries
Ltd is now a holding co. for one of
the largest paint and surface-coating
manufacturing groups in Australia. Pro-
ducts include paints, varnishes, enamels,
synthetic resins and solvents Productive
capacity has been increased almost four-
fold in the last decade. Factories are
situated in all States of the Common-
wealth, and also in Wellington and Auck-
land (N.Z.). In Australia there are more
than 6500 retail stores selling Taubmans’
products. A close affiliation exists with
English paint manufacturer Pinchin,
Johnson and Associates Ltd, London (re-
cently taken over by Courtaulds Ltd),
which has a substantial and controlling
share-interest in the co. ; also with
Fishburn Printing Ink Co. Ltd, of Wat-
ford, U.K. There are valuable technical
agreements with American Marietta Co.,
of Chicago, U.S.A.
The registration of Taubmans Cement
Compounds Pty in 1959 added further to
an already extensive subsidiary net-
work :
Taubmans Group Factories Pty ;
Taubmans (N.S.W.) Pty; Taubmans
(Vic.) Pty; Taubmans (S.A.) Pty;
Taubmans (QTd) Pty ; Taubmans (W.A.)
Pty ; Taubmans (Tas.) Pty ; Industrial
Chemical Products Pty ; Red Hand Com-
positions Co. (Aust.) Pty; Taubmans
Industrial Coatings Pty ; Taubmans Ex-
ports Pty ; Fishburn Printing Ink (Aust.)
Pty. —in Australia and Taubmans Pro-
ducts Ltd ; Pinchin Johnson and Co.
(New Zealand) Ltd—in New Zealand.
The new co. manufactures and markets
pozzolith —a cement additive enjoying a
world-wide reputation —and other inter-
litionally known products under licence
om the Master Builders’ Company of
.S.A. Progress has been satisfactory.
Competition and rising operating ex-
mses, the latter partly offset by im-
roved production techniques (in 1958
le group completed a big expansion and
lodernisation programme), narrowed
rofit mareins over the 15 months to
December 31 last. But turnover m-
reased, and to such an extent (up 9.4
.c.), that the leeway, the reduced
rofit attaching to sales, was made
p. Net earnings rose 7.1 p.c. Unfortu-
ately these figures cover a period of 15
lonths and as such are not wholly corn-
arable with those of the preceding term
a 12-month period). “During 1960 the
pportunity was taken to bring together
tie balancing dates of all subsidiary cos.
o 30th September and to alter the
lalancing date of the parent co. Taub-
nans Industries Ltd —Irom 30th Septem-
*er to 31st December.” The fact remains,
lowever, “that our total sales during the
welve months ended 30th September,
960, showed a marked increase over
he total for the corresponding twelve
nonths of the preceding year.”
Arrived at after providing £225,275 for
axation (the 1959 figure, £254,374, in-
:luded not only income tax but land and
payroll tax as well) and £262,388 (up
:33,946) for depreciation, the £345,003
irofit was £22,785 higher than the pre-
/ious term’s effort and equal, after allow-
ng for the pref. div., to 14.5 p.c. on ord.
:apital. compared with 13.5 p.c., 15.4
p.c., 17.5 p.c. (on average ord. capital),
17.1 p.c. and 33.2 p.c. back to 1955:
Taub&ians Industries and Subsidiaries.*
f Dividends ■\
Pref. To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. 5 p.c. serves, senes.t
£ £ p.c. £ £ £
63. .350.445 50UO 15 = 175,309 170,136 1.49U386
Share premiums, £ 16,3 08 .. .. 1,507,754
Unexplained additions, £1798 .. 1,509,552
Less added intangibles, £14,074 .. 1,495,478
’54..383,562 5000 15 = 176,333 202,229 1,697,707
Add subsidiaries reserves, £12,760.. 1,710,467
Share premiums, £276,367 .. .. 1,986,834
Unexplained addition, £86,353 .. 2,0(3,187
Less added intangibles, £202,801 .. 1,870.386
’55.. 428,549 5000 15 = 191,651 231,898 2,102,284
Share premiums, £204,428 .. .. 2,306,712
Plus reduction intangibles, £10,622 .. 2,317,334
'66..339,222 5000 124= 244,547 89,675 2,407,009
Re-acquisition profits, £6031 .. .. 2,413,040
Addition intangibles, £5250 .. .. 2,407,790
Share-premiums, £51,000 .. .. 2,458,790
Profit sale assets, etc., £40.192 . . 2,498,982
’57..413.759 5000 124= 290,484 118,275 2,617,257
’58..368,001 5000 293,259 69,742 2,686,999
Profit sale assets, etc., £6694 . . 2,693,693
Provisions no longer required written-
back, £20,000 .. . .. 2,713,693
’59. .322,218 5000 124= 293,259 23.959 2,737,652
Profit sale assets, etc., £76,287 . . 2,813,939
Special provision depreciation free-
holds, £68,000 2,745,939
’60..345,003 5000 293,259 46,744 2,792,683
* Aftei eliminatin'' outside interests. t After
deducting intangibles, £279,903 at 30/9/’6O.
Disappointing from an equity point of
view—capital was nearly doubled by a
four-for-five issue in 1955-56 —the im-
proved showing demonstrates managerial
ability to weather difficult trading condi-
tions ... or does it? In any case judg-
ment must be reserved until publication
of results relative to current activity—-
the resumption of normal 12 - monthly
trading. “Present indications point to thet
current year presenting many additional
problems arising from general economic
conditions, and the uneasiness arising
from Government measures and their
possible effect on the building, motor
vehicle and other industries with w'hich
your co. is closely associated.”
The div.-rate, held at 15 p.c. from 1951,
was dropped to 124 p.c. in 1956. There
has been no subsequent variation. Un-
distributed profits (£46,744), together witht
profits from sale of real estate, £76,287,
less special provision depreciation ofl
freeholds, £68,000, lifted visible reserves
£55,031 to £3,072,586.
Analysis of Taubmans’ balance-sheet
reveals a basic and sound financial struc-
ture on the one hand, and at the same
time illustrates the difficulties facing not
only Taubmans but the entire paint indus-
try on the other. Fixed assets bulk large
even though they are conservatively
valued. Freeholds are shown at £2,021,496
(down £31,872 compared with the figure
for the previous year); plant at £791,20S
(down £118,402):
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1958. 1959. 1960^
Prof .. £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OO
Ord 2,346,071 2,346,071 2,346,07
Reserves . . . . 2,966,902 3,017,550 3,0/2,58
Mortgages . . 485,687 473,419 458,67
Creditors* .. 789,686 687,603 832,51
Exchange account 130,875 133,918 135,03
Suspense account 63,801 105,025
Staff fund . . 28,000
Final divs. . . 152,495 152,495 152,49
-I
£7,063,517 £7,016,086 £7,097,96
Freeholds .. 1,985,430 2,053,368 2,021,49
plant .. .. 990,228 909,611 791,20
Investments .. 94 15,0(
Loans . . .. 5,167 86,8.
Stocks .. .. 1,943,826 1,966,158 2,040,9-
Debtors .. •• 1,187,139 1,106,819 1,270,4 q
Cash . . • • 676,897 695,060 528,34
Suspense account „
Intangibles •• 279,903 279,903 - 1 6,9|
£7,016,086 £7,097,96
* Includes provision for taxation.
Fierce competition in a limited marke
has reduced turnover (over a period c
years), and plant and machinery, thoug
capable of a much greater output, ar
only partially harnessed to productior
Theoretical working capital, last term
declined £70,190 to £2,857,749. Increase*
sales saw debtors up £166,644 a
£1,273,463, stocks up £74,787 a
£2,040,945 and creditors up £144,908 a
£832,511. Cash holdings slipped, drop
ping £166,713 to £528,347.
As a growth prospect Taubman
shares remain disappointing, but in th
long-run benefits will undoubtedly accru
to the bona fide investor. Apart iror
possible overseas intervention on the loc:
market, the slack, at present so apparer
in the paint industry, should graduall
rectify itself as the economy grows-
there are reports of increased interest i
the market by overseas suppliers. Flov
ever, as a yield proposition, the ss. stocj
units are well worth attention. At th«
lowest register in many years, pricj
dropped to 7s. 7d. last week. Yield wor|
out an attractive 8.2 p.c.
At balance-date net tangible backii
for the ss. stock-units was 11s. and f<
the £1 prefs. £52 7s. 9d.


5.A. Portland Cement Co. Ltd
L consistent policy of substantial
L investment in modern plant and
achinery has improved production
pacity and efficiency. Demand was
tisfactory and net earnings were higher,
spite rising costs.
Registered as a public co. in Adelaide
1911, South Australian Portland
:ment Co. Ltd shares the South Aus-
dian cement market with Adelaide
:ment Ltd.
The steady pace of industrial develop-
mt in the State provides an expanding
irket. South Australia continues to
sorb large quantities of cement, and
iwing demand keeps both producers
sy.
Cement consumption in the State
ring 1959-60 amounted to 317,758 tons,
iresenting 8.16 bags per capita (8.09
?s in the previous term). The estab-
lment of steelworks at Whyalla, and
v water conservation and reticulation
>jects, should further stimulate the
>wth in demand for cement.
n addition, there has been a steady
rease in the use of cement for roads,
icrete masonry, silos, asbestos-cement
ing, etc. The current credit squeeze
dampened down some private and
li-industrial home-building, but basic
ustrial projects have not been severely
:cted.
'rading profit for the year ended June
1960, was £52,443 higher at £381,406.
er paying all expenses, including
5,000 depreciation (unchanged) and
1,000 provision for taxation (up
,000), net profit for the year was
,443 fatter at £142,906:
To Re- Re-
, Profit. , Dividends serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
. . 67,122 p.c. = 34,184 32,938 204,593
Capital profit, £5412 .. .. 210,005
. . 75,062 8 p.c. = 36,463 38,599 248,604
Tax overprovided, £583 .. .. 249,187
Capital profit, £485 .. .. .. 249,672
. . 87,826 10 p.c. = 45,578 42,248 291,920
Revaluation fixed assets, £297,500 .. 589,420
Capital profit, £1166 .. .. 590,586
Tax overprovided, £1264 .. .. 591,850
.. 94,140 10 p.c. = 46,718 47,422 639,272
Tax overprovided, £5245 .. .. 647,517
Capital profits, £1194 .. .. 648,711
..125,107 10 p.c. 54,694 70,413 719,124
Tax overprovided, £2078 .. .. 721,802
Capital profits, £2212 .. .. 724,014
..129,463 10 p.c. = 54,695 74,768 798,782
Tax overprovided, £1749 .. .. 800,531
Capital profits, £7743 .. .. 808,274
..142,906 10 p.c. = 54,695 88,211 896,485
; was equivalent to an earning rate
16. 1 p.c. on the unchanged average
tal, compared with 23.7 p.c. in the
nous term, 23.4 p.c. in 1958, 21.9 p.c.
957 and 19.5 p.c. in 1956. Tax pro-
)n looked rather high on profits dis-
ed.
he steady 10 p.c. dividend absorbed
695. Reserves benefited by £88,211
were increased by £1749 tax over-
nded in the previous term and £7743
tal profits, rising to £896,485 (free
iquid position at balance date was
ifactory, although theoretical work-
capital decreased by £88,144 to
),145. Current stocks increased but
k debts and cash, bonds, etc., were
;r.
lid capital remained unchanged at
>,945 in 20s. f.-p. ords. Net tangible
asset backing works out at a heftv 52s 9d
for each 20s. ord.:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Reserves ltal " £ 2 4 °’ 945 £546,9 9 45 £546, 6 9°45
•• •• 7 19.124 798,782 896,485
Mortage.. .. 5(510 6 264 4 961
Creditors' 8 " 737 573 ’ 473 573,’?73
f. editors . . .. 111,364 113,919 113 391
Due to subsidiary 23,000 23,000 23,000
Final P Hv-ri 10I !q ” 57,000 72,000 111,000
linal dividends .. 27,347 27,347 27^348
£1,927,027 £2,160,730 £2,296,603
Land, buildings
plant .. .. 1,297,525 1,284,419 1,469,963
ISfJ? •• •• 25,756 25,756 25,756
•* *• 241,797 255,028 285,761
p?ik V *• 175,030 178,714 144,487
Cash, bonds .. 186,919 416,813 370,636
£1,927,027 £2,160,730 £2,296,603
Although the deflationary squeeze may
affect this year’s earnings, the long-term
future seems bright. Australia has a
high rate of economic growth and cement
remains one of the essential materials for
needed basic industrial development.
At the last sale in Adelaide the 20s.
ords. fetched 555. a unit, for an immediate
return of 3.6 p.c. on the basis of the
steady 10 p.c. dividend rate.
Ihe 20s. 7 p.c. registered unsecured
convertible notes last changed hands at
535. a unit, for an immediate yield of
2.6 p.c.
Permanent Trustee Co. of
N.S.W. Ltd
T ast term a call of 4s. a share raised
■*“' paid capital to £150,000 in 200,000
£5 ords. paid to 15s. a unit. Consoli-
dated accounts were published for the
first time. Group earnings were slightly
lower on a comparative basis, although
the parent’s profit was higher. Total trust
funds administered by the group (includ-
ing investments of clients and trusts under
the co.’s administration) increased from
£33,131,316 to £34,880,145. Expenses in-
creased, but the ratio of expenses to total
gross earnings was lower:
Exes. p.c.
Trust Gross of Gross
Funds. Earnings. Exes. Earnings.
£ £ £
’52..30,835,358 146,945 141,705 96.4
’53..31,408,643 151,656 142,997 94.2
’54..30,917,934 152,278 138,653 91.1
’55..30,536,800 156,020 140,161 89.8
’56..30,926,000 160,314 144,147 89.9
’57..31,195,625 165,898 149,568 90.2
’58..31,811,335 167,488 150,360 89.8
’59..33,131,316 175,047 156,886 89.6
Parent and Sub.-tdiaries.
’60.-34,880,145 193,840 169,956 87.7
Permanent Trustee Co. of N.S.W. Ltd
was incorporated by a special Act of
Parliament in June, 1888. Registered in
Sydney, the co. offers a wide and com-
plex range of services provided by cor-
porate trustees.
There have been more and more calls
on Permanent’s expert services in connec-
tion with estate planning, and complica-
tions arising from changes in legislation
concerning debenture and other trust
deeds.
During last term, the Federal Govern-
ment amended the taxation law to pro-
vide for all companies resident in Aus-
tralia, paying dividends to non-residents,
to deduct from dividend payments the
Dividend (Withholding) Tax. This change
has affected Permanent in its capacity
as trustees, distributing dividends to many
beneficiaries and clients overseas.
A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. t. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREKROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Streef, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31 2761 p.O. Box
(4 Lines) No. 1887 W
PRING, DEAN & CO.
H. H. Dean, V. J. Berner, W. L. Hunt,
J. A. Hudson.
Members of the Sydney Slock Exchange.
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
20-22 O'Connell St., Sydney. 33 Bligb
St., Sydney.
Telephone: BW 4011, BW 5505 (6 lines)
Telegrams Address:
Pring Stock Exchange, Sydney.
Cables Address: Linwar, Sydney.
Telegraphic and Cable Address:
“Hatmax” Sydney.
Hattersley & Maxwell
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone: B\V 1771—8 W 8088.
J. B. & Frank Charlton
F. B. Charlton, J F. Charlton, J. M. Fay,
C. A. B. Marjason, J. L. Russell.
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Third Floor, City Mutual Building,
309 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telephone: 2 2775, 2 4349
Branch Office: A.M.P. Building, 445
Ruthven Street, Toowoomba
Telephone: 2 5206
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
K. H. ALLEN, M. R. L. DOWLING,
P. R. LEVY, A. P. REYNOLDS, N. R.
COURSE (Melbourne Resident Partner).
Delfln House, 16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
25-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Building, 150 Queen St.,
Melbourne. 67-5957 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables: “Rosdale,” Sydney.
Melbourne, or Wollongong.


Consolidated figures fon
last term embrace, for the first i
time, activities of the subsidiary
Permanent Trustee Co. (Can-
berra) Ltd and Permanent 1 *
Trustee Nominees (Canberra)
Ltd, and two new wholly owned
subsidiaries recently incorpor-
ated in N.S.W.: Permanent
Nominees Pty and Superannu-
ation Nominees Pty.
The parent's net profit for
the year ended September 30,
1960, was £3431, or about 19
p.c., higher at £21,592. How-
ever, consolidated net profit fon
the same period was £1590
lower at £23,884 (on a com-
parative basis):
To Re- Re-f
Sept.,Prft. , serves, serves.
£ £ £ £j
’50.. 12,035 8 p.c. = 8,800 3285 82,(362.
To staff fund, £2OOO .. 80,662.
To renovations, etc. £lOOO 79,662
’51.. 6,534 6 p.c. = 6,600 79,591
From inner reserves, £3159.. 82.75 S
’52.. 5,240 5 p.c. = 5,500 82,495
To inner reserves, £9OOO .. 73,49 E
’53.. 8,659 7 p.c. = 7,700 959 74,454
Cost renovations, £2402 .. 72,052
’54..13,625 9 p.c. = 9,900 3725 75,777
’55.. 15,859 9 „ „ 9,900 5959 81,731
To provision for contingencies,
£5OO 81,230
’56..16,167 94 p.c. = 10,450 5717 86,952
Assets revalued, £119,878 . . 206,83(
’57..16,330 10 p.c. = 11,000 5330 212,160
To renovations, etc., £lOOO.. 211,16(
*58.. 17,128 10 p.c. = 11,000 6128 217,288
To renovations, etc., £ 1000.. 216,28 f
’59..18,161 10 p.c. = 11,000 7161 223,448
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To renovations, £lOOO .. 222,44!
Added on consolidation,
£18,291 240,74(
Net reduction, £5BO .. 240,16<
’60..23,884 10 p.c. = 15,000 8884 249,01
This was due to the fact tha
in the previous term one of th
subsidiaries had received ar
unusually large commissior
arising from the distribution o
a trust estate, which had beet
administered for a number o
years. Only parent figures wer
published in 1958-59, excludin,
the subsidiary’s earnings.
Consolidated net profit rep
resented an earning rate of ■
shade over 15.9 p.c. on th
higher average capital, corr
pared with 16.5 p.c. (on pareri
figures and smaller avera,
capital) in 1959, 15.6 p.c. i
1958, 14.8 p.c. in 1957 an
14.7 p.c. in 1956.
The dividend rate was mair
tained at 10 p.c., but th
cheque was £4OOO higher i
£15,000 on larger paid capita
Reserves benefited by £BBB
and also by £18,291 added o
consolidation, but were d
creased by £lOOO transfer
renovations and £5BO net r
duction on consolidation, ai
were disclosed at £249,044 (fr(
of intangibles).
Consolidated balance she
figures show a marked grow
in shares in other cos. and
fall in loans on mortgage, wh<
Closes 14th April
SECURITY!!
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
”en-Osit ‘& ‘anQStment Co. Ltd.
Registered in Sydney, Melbourne, Canberra and Brisbane
Financiers Established 1882
DIVIDENDS HAVE BEEN PAID ANNUALLY
SINCE THE COMPANY WAS ESTABLISHED
79 YEARS AGO
ANNUM
15
10
PER
Years
20
6 MONTHS
2 YEARS
9 MONTHS
m
3 YEARS
12 MONTHS
4 YEARS
Interest Payable Quarterly
Free of Exchange
DIRECTORS
T. H. Martin W. R. Schofield (Chairman) Dr. W. F. Pattinson
UNDERWRITING BROKERS
Ralph W. King & Yulll (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange) Kindersley
House, 20-22 O'Connell Street, Sydney.
84 William Street. Melbourne, and at Armidale and Grafton.
BROKERS FOR THE ISSUE IN A.C.T.:
T. J. Thompson & Sons, Petrie St., Canberra (Members of
Sydney Stock Exchange).
BROKERS FOR THE ISSUE IN VICTORIA:
Clarke & Co. (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne),
422 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
BROKERS FOR THE ISSUE IN QUEENSLAND:
Charles Elliott & Son (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange),
356-358 Queen Street, Brisbane.
BROKERS FOR THE ISSUE IN SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
S. C. Ward & Co. (Members of the Stock Exchange of Adelaide Ltd.),
25 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
INVESTIGATING ACCOUNTANTS
Kent, Brierley & Fisher, Chartered Accountants.
APPLICATIONS and PROSPECTUS
Applications will be accepted only on one of the forms of application attached
to a printed copy of the Prospectus which may be obtained from:—
• All Branches of the Bank of New South Wales in New South Wales,
Australian Capital Territory, Victoria, South Australia, Queensland.
• Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange.
• Deposit & Investment Co. Ltd.
Head Office: 74 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. Tel. BW 4521-2-3
AND BRANCHES:
City Road (opp. Grace Bros.) MA 4563—Hurstville 57-8026—Parramatta YL9761
—Bankstown 70-7122—Newcastle B 1040—Wollongong B 2918—Cessnock Cess. 415
—Goulburn Goul. 2485—Canberra J 3992.
Also at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane.


compared with parent figures
for the previous term:
1959. 1960.*
Paid capital .. £llO,OOO £150,000
Reserves .. 223,449 249,044
Creditors .. 35,321 29,947
Final divs. .. 5,500 7,500
£374,270 £436,491
Freehold .. 175,000 175,000
Fittings .. 9,326 9,322
Shares .. 20,000 154,447
joans on mort-
gage, etc. . . 107,412 27,019
Statutory deposit
with N.S.W.
Government 20,000 29,647
3ash, Govern-
ment bonds,
debtors . . 42,532 41,056
£374,270 £436,491
Prust funds
being ad-
ministered .. £33,131,316 £34,880,145
* Consolidated accounts.
ihares in other cos. were shown
it £133,573 less £7OOO fiuctua-
ion reserve, and were said to
>e worth £254,009 at September
|O, 1960. In addition there are
!30,250 “shares of sub-
idiaries.”
Windfall gains cannot be ex-
pected from a trustee co. be-
ause of the very nature and
cope of its operations; but
’ermanent looks a solid and
eliable investment. Business
hould grow, if anything. The
o. is less vulnerable to fluctu-
tions in the level of economic
ctivity or to changes in fiscal
olicy than many other com-
nercial institutions.
At the last sale in Sydney the
ss. paid ords. fetched 245. a
tnit for an immediate return of
.3 p.c. on the basis of the
teady 10 p.c. dividend rate.
Net tangible asset backing
/orks out at 40s. 6d. for each
ss. paid ord. on the basis of
onsolidated accounts.
COMPANY NOTES
mend Lease and Civic
end Lease Corporation
is making a one-for-four
;sue of ss. ords., at a premium
f 2s. 6d. a share. The new
bares have to be paid for in
nil on application by May 5,
961, and rank for dividends
rom July 1, 1961. Books
lose on April 5. The issue
* underwritten by Charles A.
)rd and Minnett, Sydney
rokers. In addition, the co.
as announced a private place-
nent to local and overseas
nancial institutions of 500,000
s. ords. (cum rights) at a
Ternium of ss. 3d. a share, also
anking for divs as from July 1,
961.
The one-for-four issue, and
be private placement will lift
aid capital to about £1,940,000,
aising approximately £840,000
ash (£520,000 capital and
,320,000 premiums).
The managing director, G. J.
) u s s e 1 d o r p, said “the
lirectors are confident that the
urrent rate of dividend will be
naintained on the increased
capital. The additional funds
are being raised by way of
permanent capital, to provide
the basis for additional fixed
interest borrowings planned for
the near future. These funds
are required to finance new
initiatives in the manufacture
of building materials, and for
the financing of several invest-
ment properties.”
Simultaneously, Lend Lease
directors announced that “pre-
liminary discussions have taken
place with Bredero’s Construc-
tion Co., of Holland, owners of
Civil and Civic Contractors
Pty, for the purchase of the
Dutch company’s entire interest
in Civil and Civic.”
The proposed takeover is to
be financed by an exchange of
shares, which, it is understood,
will leave Dutch interests with
less than 50 p.c. share interest
in Lend Lease after the take-
over.
The N.S.W.-registered Lend
Lease Corporation Ltd is a
leading real estate developer,
builder and financier and
manufacturer of building mate-
rials, and operates through an
extensive network of specialised
subsidiaries. Recently, there
has been a marked emphasis on
diversification. This has helped
Lend Lease to weather the cur-
rent deflationary credit storm.
The earning rate on average
capital in 1959-60 was 22 p.c.
and the dividend rate 10 p.c.
Last term’s visible profits
ploughback to reserves
amounted to £66,933.
Civil and Civic Contractors
Pty was formed in 1951 as a
joint venture of the Royal
Dutch Harbour Co. and Bre-
dero's Construction Co., both
leading Dutch cos. in the field.
The first project was a housing
scheme at Cooma (N.S.W.),
under a contract to Snowy
Mountains Hydroelectric
Authority. Since then, the co.
has been associated with numer-
ous well-known building pro-
jects, and is now working on
the first section of the Sydney
Opera House.
In April, 1958, Civil and
Civic sponsored the floating
of Lend Lease, taking up 40
p.c. of the initial £lOO,OOO paid
capital. Successive takeover
issues since then have watered
down Civil and Civic's interest
in Lend Lease to about 35 p.c.
Operating on a small paid
capital (£85,000), supplemented
by Dutch loans and ploughed-
back earnings, Civil and Civic
has had a successful run. Asso-
ciation with Lend Lease has
been close throughout. The
two cos. have a largely common
directorate.
The proposed amalgamation
seems a logical development
and should considerably
strengthen Lend Lease’s com-
CTIS Tk l ) tjouL atom/ &Uh 4
X
o.
PER ANNUM
L lO YEARS
PER ANNUM
I°/
o
PER ANNUM
1
12 MONTHS NOTICE
5 YEARS
REGISTERED FIRST DEBENTURE STOCK
. SHORT TERM
12 MONTHS NOTICE
8% p.A.
6 MONTHS NOTICE
7% P.A.
3 MONTHS NOTICE
svi% p.A.
Investments in short term
term stock are for an in-
definite period. Repayment
is obtained by giving the
notice selected on the appli-
cation form.
Assets exceed £20,000,000
• LONG TERM
10 TO 20 YEARS
9% P.A.
5 TO 9 YEARS
Bvz% p.A.
4 YEARS
8% P.A.
Trustees for Debenture Stock-
holders:
THE M.L.C. NOMINEES PTY.
LTD.
Applications will be accepted
only on the printed form
attached to the prospectus.
INTEREST PAID QUARTERLY
WHERE TO INVEST
Invest at any H. G. Palmer showroom in N.S.W., Victoria,
Queensland, South Australia and A.C.T.
Underwriting Brokers:
N.S.W.: Bernard Curran &
Co., 9-11 Hunter St., Sydney.
VIC.: Vinton Smith, Dougall
& Co, 401 Collins St,
Melbourne.
QLD.: Ernest H. Corser, Hen-
derson & Hale, 334 Queen St.,
Brisbane.
S.A.: Woodhead, Needham &
Tolhurst, 35 Grenfell St.,
Adelaide.
TAS.: H. W. Bayley & Co.,
A.M.P. Chambers, Elizabeth
St., Hobart.
W.A.: Geo. H. Newton, Fuller
& Co., 105 St. Georges
Terrace, Perth.
REGISTERED OFFICE:
321-5 Chapel Rd., Bankstown.
ANY BRANCH OF AUSTRALIA
& NEW ZEALAND BANK LTD.
ANY MEMBER OF A RECOG-
NISED STOCK EXCHANGE.
POST THIS COUPON TODAY!
To: H. G. PALMER (Consolidated) LTD.,
321-5 Chapel Rd., Bankstown, N.S.W.
Please send copy of prospectus to: —
Name
Address


letitiveness. Continued asso-
ation with Dutch interests
irough Brodero’s sharehold-
ig in Lend Lease may mean
ccess to cheaper Dutch
orrowings, a point which is
larticularly important in the
xisting credit climate.
At the last sale in Sydney
he 10s. Lend Lease ords.
etched 12s. (cum rights) for
m immediate return of 4.2
>.c. p.a., on the basis of the
!0 p.c. dividend distribution.
Directors say that the present
let tangible asset backing of
ss. sd. for each ss. ord. will
lot be changed.
New Healing-Goodwin
Contract
A . e. Goodwin Ltd, now a
fully-owned subsidiary of
A. G. Healing Ltd, has received
an order from N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Railways for “the
largest rail vehicle yet built in
Australia.”
The firm will build a special-
load wagon with a capacity of
86 tons, and a tare weight of
86 tons. The estimated cost
exceeds £20,000.
To be known officially as
TW6OO the new rail vehicle is
intended primarily for carrying
heavy transformers, and may
be adapted to carry alternator
stators. It was ordered by the
Railways Department under an
agreement with the Electricity
Commission, and will transport
heavy equipment to new power
houses at Vale’s Point and
Tallawarra (N.S.W.).
This HIGHER interest is
GOVERNMENT-GUARANTEED!
THE
SYDNEY
WATER
BOARD
£s;ls|- %
Cash and Conversion
LOAN
FOR 7, I 0 or 20 YEARS
MORE PROFITABLE Each £lOO that you invest in the
Loan will earn £5/15/- per cent, every year, compared with
the £3/5/- interest from a savings account.
COMPLETE PROTECTION. The New South Wales
Governmem unconditionally guarantees your money—inter-
est payments twice a year AND lull repayment of your
investment after 7, 10 or 20 years, as you prefer.
TRUSTEE SECURITY. The Loan is an Authorised
Trustee Investment in New South Wales, Queensland,
Western Australia and Tasmania.
CASH AND CONVERSION. Apart from cash applica-
tions. holders of Loan No. 145 (£5/5/- per cent., maturing
Ist April, 1961) are invited to convert to the new Loan
and earn higher interest without interruption.
APPLY at any office of the —
# Commonwealth Trading Bank;
O Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited;
# Bank of New South Wales;
# Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited;
Or through a Stockbroker;
Or at the Sydney Water Board offices.
THHSYDNEY
WATER BOARD LOAN
Underwritten by:
Ernest L. Davis & Co. Ralph W. King & Yuill
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
OIL AND MINING
I Western Queen (1936),
N.L.
Speculative fever in early
1954 sent Western Queen
shares to Bs. despite the fact
hat the co. had no interest in
;he oil boom. The tin and
antalite deposits worked by the
:o. at Greenbushes (W.A.) were
not activated by 'Change
hysteria, and in 1955, after
jxtensive sampling had revealed
a disappointing ore-body, min-
ing operations ceased.
Retreat from Greenbushes
involved disposal of mining
options, plant, equipment, etc.
A buyer was found in Tin and
Strategic Minerals Ltd, pur-
chase consideration £17,000.
Of this amount £8487 was
written-off as a bad debt in the
1958-59 term.
Western Queen has a share
capital of £60,000 in 1,200,000
Is. shares. The co. has never
paid a dividend. At balance
date (May 31, 1960) chief assets,
and good ones, too, were cash
£630 (£lBO6, May 31, 1959),
deposits and debentures with
Custom Credit Corporation
£12,000 (£12,000), and 140,000
(120,000) Is. stock-units in Hill
50 Gold Mine N.L. the
market values this holding at
£68,250 latest prices.
Total income during the year .
amounted to £9060 (£8485); j
£8333 (£8000) in tax-free divs.
from Hill 50 and £727 (£485)
from Custom Credit. But after
deduction of directors’ fees
£5OO (£500), secretarial ex-
penses, etc., £1241 (£998) and
£8333 (£8000) transferred to
special tax-free div. account
(£75,525 at balance date), the
p.-and-l. appropriation debt it-
self was £lOl3 greater (£84,187
altogether). Total shareholders’
funds were £51,361 (up £7320).
Maintenance of present levels
of income, dependent on divs.
from Hill 50 Gold, could allow
distributions of up to 12 p.c.
on par-value of holdings, ex-
cluding. however, further par-;
ticipation in unprofitable min-
ing ventures.
The co. holds 125,000 fully-
paid 4s. shares in Day Dawn
Gold Pty., and recent testing
has disclosed ore-values up to
45 dwt. at 3200 ft. Outside the
Golden Mile, Kalgoorlie, this
constitutes the greatest depth at
which such values have been
discovered in W.A. The price
of gold is fixed at a low level,
and so far Day Dawn has not
been able to raise finance
for what must prove a very
large undertaking “arrange-
ments between Day Dawn and
certain Melbourne cos. have
been terminated.’’ In the mean-
time exploratory drilling con-
tinues and the Mines Depart-
ment of W.A. has undertaken
to provide moneys for drilling
on a £1 for £1 basis up to
£5OOO.
“Endeavors are, however,
still being made by the direc-
tors of Day Dawn Gold Pty to
obtain finance to work their
leases.” The Western Queen
Is. shares sold for lOd. each
last week on Melbourne
'Change.
Oil Development N.L.
Oil Development N.L. re-
ports that the Penola No. 1
well in South Australia ad-
vanced 497 feet to a depth o
3362 feet. The section con
sisted mainly of mudstone anc
siltstone, with some porous
sandstones, and calcareou;
sandstone in the lower part o
the section. Drill stem tests
were attempted on porous sand
stones between 3158 and 319'
feet, but “no definite result wa
obtained, due to failure of th
packer because of unsuitabl
wall conditions. ’


SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Information Sought
Biographical description of John
Scaddon, Premier of Western Aus-
; traiia ?
Scaddon was born at Moonta,
* South Australia, in 1876, and was
educated at Eaglehawk, Victoria.
He worked as a miner until 1896.
when he went to Western Australia
and, while working as a miner at
[ Kalgoorlie, qualified as an engine-
driver. lie was elected to the
[ Legislative Assembly in 1904 as a
Laoor member and held the seat lor
| 12 years.
1 In 1910 he became leader of the
Labor party, and in 1911, when
labor was voted into ollice, became
Premier and Treasurer in a ministry
which lasted nearly five years.
Defeated in July, 1916. Scaddon
became Leader of the Opposition,
but left the party over the con-
scription issue. In June, 1917, ha
became Minister for Mines and
Railways in the Lefroy ministry.
but lost hjs seat at a July election.
rhough not in Parliament he was
■appointed Colonial Secretary and
• Minister for Railways in the Mu-
lched Government in May, 1919. a
fortnight later was elected to the
►Legislative Assembly, and exchanged
the portlolio of Colonial Secretary
lor those of Mines, Industries and
Forests. In 1924 he retired from
politics tor six years, then re-
entered the House as a Nationalist
candidate in 1930, and was Ministei
lor Mines and Railways in the
Mitchell Government until 1933.
He died suddenly in Perth in
November, 1934.
What is the. route followed b\
the Birdsviiie Brack ?
1 he track runs south from Birds-
viiie, in south-west Queensland,
along the Diamantina River, skirl-
ing Goyder Lagoon, where there is
a well-known bore. It then passes
between the Warburton River and
Cooper Creek to Mulka, near the
Kopperamana bore, and crosses the
Coopei near the Dulkannina bore.
Beyond that there are crossings of
the Clayton and FTome rivers, and
the track ends at Marree, S.A., the
total distance being 300 miles.
• - * *
If ns ‘I he Kelly Gang ” the first
film made in Australia ?
Bet oie "1 he Kelly Gang" was
made a number of short religious
tilms and a short story-lilm, “John
Vane, Bushranger," were produced.
But Ihe Kelly Gang" was the first
lull-length I eat ure him made in
Australia, and possibly in the
world, though as the film no longer
exists it is impossible to evaluate
this claim. 1 lie film was remade
in 1917 and again in 1920. and both
remakes still survive.
A « * m
Biographical description of Sir
James Burns, founder of Burns.
Bhilp and Co. ?
Burns was born neai Edinburgh
in 1846. At the age of 16 he
emigrated to Queensland with an
cider brother. He lirst went to the
back country io gain pastoral
experience, later joined his brother
in a business in Brisbane, but aban-
doned that when news came ol a
gold strike at Gympie. lie made a
small fortune there, but had to
return to Scotland when his lather
died in 1870.
By 1873 he was back in Aus-
tralia, and opened a business as a
storekeeper and shipping-agem at
Townsville <Q.). where he was joined
by Robert Philp. In 1877 he estab-
lished a new headquarters in
Sydney, and soon alter started a
line of steamers (the Queensland
Shipping Line) trading between
Sydney and Queensland ports. Ibis
line later took over the Australian
Steam Navigation Go.
In 1883 the businesses m Sydney
and Queensland were amalgamated
under the name of Burns, Philp and
Co. Ltd. a move which was fol-
lowed by great expansion. Lines
were run to New Guinea, the Pacific
1 stands and the East Indies; store-
keeping. lumbering and pastoral
O’ , increased in largely un-
developed areas.
Burns was interested in the
\olunteei movement, becoming
commander of the N.SAV. Lancei
Kcgiment in 1897, and afterwards
ol the Ist Brigade of the Australian
Light Horse, lie was a member ol
the Legislative Council from 1908
till his death in 1923, and was well
known lor his philanthropy, which
included the establishment ol the
Burnside Homes for Scottish
orphans.
* • • *
~ a,e T//e words o'j the poem
“Fields of Sorrow”?
I his poem dates back to the 4th
century. Here is a translation from
the Latin original:
lhey wander in deep woods, in
mournful light,
Amid long reeds and drowsy-headed
poppies,
And lakes where no wave laps, and
voiceless streams.
Upon whose banks in the dim light
grow old
E lowers that were once bewailed
names of kings.
• - - *
What is meant by “early-English”
architecture ?
The term “early English” at first
applied to English Gothic archi-
tecture up to the beginning of the
14th century. But it has come to
mean rather that style in favor in
the first halt ol the 13th century.
Gothic ideas were becoming more
and more common towards the eml
of the 12th century, and by the
13th. Englisli architecture was
almost completely Gothic. The
period precedes “high Gothic" and
is marked by its concepts ol height
and slimness, which were to lead
to greater ornamentation. Good
examples are the early parts of
Salisbury Cathedral and the nave
and transept of Wells Cathedral.
Information Supplied
Australian tour of U.K., 1961.
April 29, v. Worcestershire at
Woicesier. May 3-5, r. Deihvshue
at Chesterfield; May 6-9, v. York-
slinc at Bradford; May 10-12, v.
Lancashire at Manchester; May
13- v. Surrey at The Oval; May
17-19, v. Cambridge at Cambridge;
May 20-23. r. Glamorgan at Car-
dill ; May 24-26, y. Gloucestershire
at Bristol; May 27-30, v. M.C.C.
at Lords; May 31-June 2, v.
Oxford at Oxford. June 3-5, v.
Sussex at Brighton; June 8-13. v.
Liist lest at Birmingham; June
14- r. Leicestershire at Leicester;
June 17-20, r. Kent at Canterbury;
June 22-27, \. Second lest at
Lords; June 28-30, v. Somerset at
Taunton. July 1-4. r. Lancashire
at Old 1 rafiord ; July 6-11, y. Third
lest at Leeds; July 13, v. C.G.
Conference at London; July 15-18,
'■ Nottinghamshire at Nottingham;
July 19-21. i. Northamptonshire
at Northhampton; July 22-25, v.
Middlesex at Lords;' July 27-
August I, y. 1-onrth Test at Old
1 1 a fiord. August 2-4. y. Surrey at
Ihe Oval: August 5-8. y. Glamor-
gan at Swansea; August 9-11, v.
Warwickshire at Birmingham;
August 12-15, y. Yorkshire at
Shellield ; August 17-22, y. Fifth
I est at Ihe Oval; August 23-25, v.
Essex at Southend; August 26-29,
v. Hampshire at Southhampton;
August 30-Sept. 1, v. Gentlemen at
Lords. Sept. 2-5, v. an English XI
at Hastings; Sept. 6-8, y. Pearce’s
XI at Scarborough; Sept. 9-11, v.
Minor Counties at Newcastle-on-
Tyne; Sept. 12-13,; v. Scotland at
Edinburgh; Sept. 15-16, v. Ireland
at Belfast; Sept. 18-19, v. Ireland
at Dublin.
Wants
Information concerning the where-
abouts ol I homas William Hutchin-
son, who came to Australia from
County Durham. England, about
25 years ago.—s 6.
Copy of “Who's Who in thu
Bible," by E. Meade.—s 7.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 636
Across
I—Gordon1 —Gordon affected by dope. (6)
4—T he beasts put her in trousers. (81
10 — Tradesman with the airborne gun-pouch. (9J
11 — Food which has been plucked in the post office last
month. (5)
12— Peer into lift) or 500. (4)
13 — Biowne’s lip is not too much
for Benaud. (4, 6)
14 — Diool like a medical man with
a revised version of the Bible. (7)
15— It (lies a tree. (5)
18 —He shortened vehicles kept tor
England! (5)
20 — I lie music critic might review
this improper article. (7)
21 — 1 brushing some little bleatet
with a bite. (10)
24 —Mother. I am hurt. (4)
26 — Pacilies the crescent with
charity. (5)
27 — Pat thinks they're lucky
“paste.” (9)
28 — An important local lady recalls
bygone times in the mass. (8)
29 — Father employs such short
spells. (6)
Down
1 — American famous lor putting out
publications in 48 hours. (9)
2 Not the same sages? (9)
3 Laboriously swallow the plug
up (4)
5 A girl put up with a boy. (5)
6 11 might make a sweet strike one
duck with a hundred and one. (7)
7 Tantamount. (5)
8 — \ beastly fellow had a session
over a year. (5)
9 They don't leave shipborne hat
corks. (8)
15—Pop over the price ol a tenancy
of dad and mum. (i)
16 — They give access charms. (9)
17 — Is the A.B.C.’s manager very
good? My oath! (4. 5)
19— Standard answer from rating
1-down, sahib! (2. 2, 31
21— Behold the Latin with a staud-
in. (5)
22 Asian parent to produce an
egg. (5)
23 — Examinations. (5)
25 —A melody set up as an operatic
showpiece. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 635


I r f. T i
(First issues off the press)
CONVENIENCE
(Right to your mail-box)
CONTINUITY
- 8
(No chance of missing out)
HAVE
AO.
963
DELIVERED BY POST
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
NEW SUB./RENEWAL
(Please cross out one)
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper,
Box 2521, G.P.0.. Sydney.
Please find enclosed my cheque l money-order for
months? subscription to The Bulletin.
NAME:
ADDRESS:
RATES (A/asia): 1 year —£2 125.; \ year —£1 6s.
Post free. British C’wealth : £3 3s. 6d. Foreign:
£3 16s.
N.Z. CURRENCY (Remit to Box 965, Wellington,
N.Z.): A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d. ; \ year-
ns. 6d. British Cwealth: £2 3s. Foreign £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether
the subscription is paid direct to The Bulletin .
or any newsagent in Australia or N.Z.
TH E B U L LETI N
IS AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
NEWS MAGAZINE-
-6o pages of top-flight information. The press,
the radio, TV, will dish you up the headline
news . . . but The Bulletin has time to bring
you the news inside the news.
AND IT’S PACKED WITH
ENTERTAINMENT
Nearly every facet of modern life is reflected
in The Bulletin’s pages, so no wonder
anyone can find a little of himself —or herself
The Bulletin.
