

The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
January 18, 1981
Price 1/-
How To Be
a Senator
WHAT THEY DO AND HOW THEY DO IT
Registered in Australia for transmission by post ae a newspaper.


BE A
SUCCESSFUL
WRITER!
If YOU hare the urge to write and a love of
expressing yourself in words, you can learn to
write Successful Short Stories, Articles, Written
Sketches, Kadio Talks, Pars., Verse, ere.
Head what these students hare to say about
their successes.
‘■During the past six months my accept-
ances have returned me over £200.”
“I list hereunder my acceptance* to the
amount of £IOO/iO/».”
"My earnings from my writing total
almost £70.”
“During the Course I sold five stories,
which more than paid for my fees.”
Write TODAY for full particulars and
free “Successful Authorship” Prospectus.
Stotts Correspondence College
159 Flinders Fane. Melbourne; 110 Castle-
reash St., Sydney; 29# Adelaide St.. Bris-
bane; 81 Grenfell St., Adelaide; 254 Murray
St., Perth.
CUT AM) MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT S: Please send me. without any
obligation, your Pros pert us. and full pur
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
AttJS (SB 265)
The Red Pa ge
The Bold Donahoo
The Wild Colonial Boy. John
Meredith. Wentworth Press. Limited
to 500 copies. 2ls.
John Meredith is an ardent collector
of old bush songs, one of those genuine
and invaluable enthusiasts who pick the
songs up from old-timers on a tape-
recorder, publish them in pamphlets
and sing them at concerts, at the Bush
Music Club in Sydney and on gramo-
phone records. Here he makes his first
substantial public appearance as a his-
torian. with the fascinating story of
Jack Donahoe. or Bold Donahoo as
the songs call him, the Wild Colonial
Boy in person.
As a historian Mr Meredith is a little
naive, or else partisan. More anxious
than he need be to make a folk-hero
out of Donahoe —the Wild Colonial
Boy is that already, without any need
to have sympathetic propaganda super-
imposed on fact —he says that the
offence for which Donahoe was sent
out from Ireland in 1824 “was possibly
of a political nature”: without adding,
as a detached historian must, that it
was also possibly of a criminal nature.
The only evidence which Mr
Meredith is able to bring on the offence
is one of the ballads, an Irish version,
which says that Donahoe was trans-
ported “For being a bold United boy.”
But there is also another ballad, which
Mr Meredith quotes but does not com-
meat on. which, apparently spoken by
Donahoe in person, announces:—
I’d scarce been there twelve months
or more
Upon the Australian shore,
When I took to the highway
As I’d oft-time done before.
Then there is Mr Meredith’s
repeated assertion that, as is claimed
with equal improbability for Robin
Hood and Ned Kelly, Donahoe in his
career as a bushranger around Rich-
mond, N. S. Wales, robbed only the
rich: “On all occasions the small ‘few
acres’ settlers. Government servants
and convicts were unmolested. The
landed gentry were the quarry....
They confined their robberies to the
wealthy landowners or their families.”
There is. of course, a good reason
for generally robbing the rich: they are
worth robbing. But what are we to
make of Mr Meredith’s report, made
on the same page as one of these
assertions?—
On the same evening the two
bushrangers stopped a man named
Reeves, groom to George Cox, of
Mulgoa,. and robbed him of his hat,
jacket, boots and saddle.
Was the groom a wealthy land-
owner? It is likely enough (though
not proven) that a couple of the inci-
dents when Donahoe was said to have
robbed convicts were invented by the
convicts for their own nefarious pur-
poses. But when he robbed a store-
keeper’s cart driven by a man “just
freed from an iron-gang” he does not
seem to have cared that his victim was
likely to get into trouble for allowing
the hold-up to happen. And then there
is the clear statement of one Barney
Hoe. described by Mr Meredith as “an
elderly tenant of Sir John Jamison on
the Regentville Estate”; who. when he
was robbed by Donahoe and (prob-
ably) Jacky Underwood.
....said afterwards that Donahoe
spoke broad Irish and blasphemed
with murderous threats when he
spoke. [Hoe] asked why they did
not attack the houses of swells,
where they would get more valuable
property. They replied that swells
kept “bulldogs” [pistols],
Mr Meredith could have made out
a good case for Donahoe as a victim
of the convict system and a rebel
against tyranny without making these
excessive claims for him; for it is
obvious that, without making naive
distinctions between rich and poor,
Donahoe was firmly against masters
who had been unjust to their convict
servants and he was unwilling, on the
other hand, to rob men for whom fo
had a justifiable respect When he
robbed Captain Lethbridge near Parra,
matta he (or his associates) told the
indignant officer that he was ‘"one of the
worst characters in the country”; butt
when he found that he had bailed up
Captain Sturt he said, “Stand bach
boys. It’s Captain Sturt, and we don’t
rob him.”
A curious hiatus in the book is Mi
Meredith’s failure to comment on the
discrepancy between the accounts oil
Donahoe’s death as given in the
“Sydney Gazette” at the time and in
a ballad supplied by M. H. Ellis, coir
Lasting with the best-known versions
of the ballad of “The Wild Colonial
Boy.”
There can be no doubt whatever
that Donahoe was shot neaij
Campbelltown—by a soldier 'name:
Muggleston or Muckleston; and,
though he had earlier shouted out de-
fiance to the police, he seems to have
died very quickly and quietly from
“two balls, one of which entered the
left temple and one the neck.” Yet
“The Wild Colonial Boy” ballad has
it, as everyone knows: —
He fired at trooper Kelly, and
brought him to the ground
And in return from Davis received
a mortal wound ;
All shattered through the jaw he
lay, still firing at Fitzroy,
And that's the way they ' captured
him, the wild colonial boy.
Even if one can accept Mr Meredith’s
doubtful theory that the Judge McEvoy
who is bailed up in some versions of
“The Wild Colonial Boy” ballad may
have been “derived by a series of
variants from McQuade.” the store'
keeper whose carts were robbed by
Donahoe, there is a problem here that
cannot be explained by simple
“variants” of names. Though ad-
mittedly there weFe some anonymous
troopers present at the death-scene,
according to the records, how do Kelly.
Davis and Fitzroy come to figure so;
specifically and so prominently? Where
is the heroic Muggleston (or Muckle-
ston)? To what Wild Colonial Boy
-—it surely cannot be Donahoe —does
this most circumstantial stanza refer”
Were there two Wild Colonial Boys:
Have their stories come to be blended!
Has Mr Meredith gone too far in try-
ing to fix all the ballads on to Dona-
hoe? A historian must comment on
these problems, even if he canno!
elucidate them.
But this is turning out a very critical
review; and I must hasten to add that
the book is fuff of vivid, colorful and
painstakingly documented accounts of
robberies and daring escapades, infor-
mation that has never before beer
collated; that Mr Meredith has don£
careful and devoted research into tte
“dozens” of Donahoe and
Colonial Boy ballads that exist here
o Continued on page 27)


Wheat farmers! Here is the revolutionary new
LYSAGHT
All-purpose
SILO
* Patent Pending 55007/59
Specially designed for
your needs after extensive
field research based on
the supply of over 20,000
units in the last decade.
Here is a silo that will
earn money for you all the
year round. When not
being used for bulk grain,
it becomes a perfect all-
purpose storage unit simply
by opening the doors and
slipping out the bulkheads.
i mr***
mm
WMWMOB6
MM
iiiilli
WiXi
sr : "
*?:•>
> ------iir-v»,r, : ,vij
v .-.
11
»i
1
m
I
&
FyQ
Many new time-saving, money-saving advantages!
9 Full-Size "Walk-In" Door (silos from
1,200 bushels upwards) enables silos
to be emptied and cleaned with a
minimum of time, effort, discomfort.
• Easier, Faster, Cheaper Erection.
* Vertically Rigidised Walls and 6-
Fly Horizontal Ribs for added
strength.
9 Auger Chute and Sampling Outlet
-■— in bottom bulkhead behind the door
■— complete with bag holder.
9 Wider Turned-Down Eaves on
Roof Panels.
• Fully Rodent-Proof Construction.
• Improved Centre and Side-Filling
Hole Assemblies complete with
hinged lids and positive fastenings.
ALL THIS PLUS THE FOLLOWING
OPTIONAL EXTRAS cuts overall costs
up to £lOO.
• Easy-to-install Heavy-Gauge Steel
Floor . . . suitable for conical or flat
bases . . . cuts overall costs by up to
£lOO.
• Steel Earth Ring.
PRICES (F.O.R, Newcastle)
Steel Steel
Earth Ring Floor
(Optional (Optional
*The 500 Bushel Silo is not equipped
with a door. Price includes steel floor.
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LIMITED
Offices in Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Fremantle.


The Bulletin
JANUARY 18, 1961
Vol. 82
No. 4223
INDEX
COVER STORY
How to Be a Senator .... 12
CURRENT AFFAIRS
Plain English
Newcastle’s ■ Freedom
Fighter; Caught in the
Overdraft; This Other
Eton ............ 8
Political Points ... .. ; .. .. 11
DEPARTMENTS
Aboriginalities .......... 54
Personal .. .. . • 16
Service and Information .. ... 59
Society ............... 6
FEATURES
Australian School-days. No. 1:
Gavin Casey 18
The Lady Is a Tramp .... 32
Singapore Re-assessed .. .. 48
FICTION
Twilight at Lake Callabonna,
by Olaf Ruhen ...... 44
FINANCE
Business, Robbery, etc.
Share market: Second
Thoughts in Canberra? 39
Wild Cat Pages .. .. .. .. 56
LETTERS 50
MAN ON THE LAND
Dollars for Crayfish ...... 33
Wool Planning ... .. .. .. 34
OVERSEAS
Looking Behind Our Backs 19
REVIEWS
The Red Page
The Bold Doncthoo .... 2
Verse 29
Shows 23
SPORT
That Ball Game Played on
Horses .. 36
John Schofield .......... 38
WOMEN
Summer Schools; Amateur
Cooking; Eating Places 30
NEXT WEEK
WHITE OLIPHANT?
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street,
Sydney; Box 2521; Phone: BU 5971.
The Changes in
“The Bulletin”
\yHEN “The Bulletin” began publication it was a rebellious, rambunctious
thunderer living on opposition. It congratulated itself on its modernity and
had an almost revolutionary impact on Australia. Since then it has been many
things, imperceptibly changing all the time.
Now we are attempting to give it a form that will re-introduce it as a force
in Australian public life and serve the growing demand for informed weekly
journalism. In doing this we may make some mistakes; we may even antagonise
some readers; all we can ask them to do, if they have the interests of “The
Bulletin” at heart, is to be patient.
The brute fact that lovers of no-change must face is that unless some changes
had been made to “The Bulletin” it would eventually have gone out of business.
The changes we have made have already begun to revive the paper’s fortunes.
We are confident that as the months pass by more and more intelligent Australians
will find it necessary to read “The Bulletin” every week.
To the devotees of the paper who have supported it in the days of its sales
decline there is this to say; “The Bulletin” has been a great national institution;
in recent years it became the favorite reading matter of a small group of people;
while retaining that loyal group, we wish to enlarge “The Bulletin’s” appeal,
to give it back to the people of Australia as a whole so that it will become a
magazine that is not only revered as an historical phenomenon but plays an
important .part in Australians’ lives.
The technical changes that we are introducing in the paper’s presentation
and the attempt to provide a wider variety of reading matter can be judged in
themselves. Our letters columns are open to readers’ reactions and advice. But
the spirit that will now move the paper should be explained.
We intend to be sceptical of humbug, to expose the enemies of our free way
of life and to face unpleasant facts as squarely as we can summon up the courage
to do. But we also intend to give expression to some of that optimism that keeps
countries going. There are few problems that Australians face that cannot—
with luck—be solved by Australians. And not to allow for at least a ten per
cent, quota of luck in human affairs is unrealistic.
intend to maintain “The Bulletin” as an Australian paper, written by
Australians and concerned with Australian problems and attitudes. But
we do not wish to maintain the illusion that there is one “Australia.” There
can be no more senseless way of approaching the social and cultural life of this
country than to ignore the fact that it is now a country of revolutionary change.
The old patterns are fading. New social designs are being woven of which we
do not yet know the shape. We hope to present week by week some of the raw
material of the new Australia —not the picture of what Australia used to be,
but what it is becoming now. One can snarl at all these changes, if that is one’s
instinctive reaction to change; but before snarling one should begin to know
what the changes are, to be able to sort out the good from the bad.
In foreign affairs we intend to take primarily an attitude of what we hope
will be enlightened self-interest. What does this mean to the maintenance of our
way of life in Australia? will be the question with which we believe we should
be essentially concerned when we look at the affairs of the world.
Prognostications of editorial policy are often tedious and often wrong. A
paper takes shape not only because of what those who bring it out intend to do,
but also because of what happens to them and their readers on the way. For
this reason the real shaping of a paper’s future is always something of a
mystery. Certainly it is very much of an adventure. It is an adventure we hope
you will share.


"IT'S ABOUT TIME WE TURNED AND FACED THESE WINDS OF CHANGE!"


Society
Group Medicine Applied
r T~'HE need for group belongingness seems
to have infected a corner of Sydney’s
medical 'profession. Summoned last
weekend by an Eastern Suburbs resident,
an eager young doctor arrived in the
Sunday - morning social uniform of the
area —light-colored cotton slacks, Italian
cotton sportshirt, open sandals, etc. His
urge to belong was apparently so advanced
that he could not even bring himself to
remove his thick-rimmed sunglasses to
peer down the patient’s throat.
❖ ❖ ❖
The Heart
Has Its Reasons
Tn Adelaide the South Australian Jockey
-*■ Club held a big charity race-meeting
on January 7, and realised something
like £12,000 for the National Heart
Appeal. It was an all-out occasion (and
reputedly the first of its kind in Aus-
tralia) with television stars, footballers,
jockeys, and all the chaste Dianas of
the glamor racket circulating round the
course with bookmaker’s bags, touching
the big-hearted punters for their spare
change and winnings.
Even the strongest-willed gambler
could not close his eyes to the occasion,
for the S.A.J.C. relentlessly kept the
image of mortality before its patrons.
The tougher boys may not have been
much moved by the opening race, the
Cardiac Maiden Hurdle —maidens with
cardiacs have to take their chances with
the rest of us. The second race —the
Vascular Three Year Old Transition —had
them thinking more deeply. All those
Scotch whiskies! Nasty thought!
The 2.45 event was a bluff that deceived
nobody—the Heart Beat Handicap. A
man had only to place a hand to the
chest to know his heart was beating like
anything. But then came the Coronary
Handicap, a grim affair indeed; and
this was followed by the Artery Welter.
The hypochondriac lies embedded deep
within us all, and few imaginations would
not be troubled by the thought of a welter
of arteries! Hardening . . . palpitating . . .
clotting ... It was with 'a touch of
sadistic humor, no doubt, that the S.A.J.C.
polished the day off with a Good Health
Handicap.
If punters went home with their win-
nings intact it wasn’t for lack of psycho-
logical warfare on the part of the rac-
ing-club !
❖* " ❖
Better to Travel
A s Professors Messel and Butler
demonstrate this week, at Sydney
University’s summer school of physics,
the restless and agitated state of the
atoms that make up our world, the rest
of mankind seems determined, somehow,
to compete with nature by a growing
adherence to the proposition that it is
better to travel than to arrive.
Stirling Moss, the racing driver, having
“ Gentlemen! We must expand !”
competed in New Zealand, and due to
race there again shortly, relaxes thousands
of miles away" in Tahiti. (Earlier this
month, while in South Africa, Moss flew
home to Britain for one day, for a
party, and flew back again next day.)
A load of cattle are reported recuperat-
ing from the longest-known continuous
rail journey by stock: 2200 miles from
Cloncurry to Wagga. (Some of them had
to walk across the Northern Territory
before boarding the train.)
Only a few things, it seems, are going
slower—such as the administration of
justice. Fifty people in Sydney, com-
mitted for trial on various offences (and
still quaintly termed “innocent”), spent
Christmas in prison, and cannot be tried
until the middle of February, because of
the summer law vacation.
♦> * ♦>
Return to Old Parts
'T'HE parting of the ways is, to barbers,
an important stylistic manifestation,
as movable and significant as Easter itself,
In recent years, among the youth of
the nation, the parting has been non-
existent, having vanished, apparently for
ever, under the harvesting-machines that
brought in the crew-cut, the college-cut,
the Tony Curtis and the Elvis. But this
year, according to Angelo de Marco,
Sydney’s pace-setting men’s hair-stylist
(he still has a striped pole, of a kind),
the parting is coming back.
The parting is, says Mr de Marco,
eminently suited to the currently popular
“teenager cut” (short; like the college-cut,
but brushed across to one side) and the
Perry Como.
Like cars, hair-styles can be adapted
to Australian conditions, according to
Mr de Marco. The “husky cut,” for
example, was designed “especially to suit
the Australian climate, and for those
youths who spend many hours surfing,
or play a lot of sport.”
The hair is cut very short and brushed
straight down (with a parting, naturally).
The way, in fact, they’ve been wearing
it in Ironbark for a long time.
IMBALANCE
“More women than men arrived from
southern Europe since the middle of 1959, said
a spokesman of the Immigration Department;
this showed the effectiveness of the attempt to
correct the imbalance of the sexes.”
Now that migrant women
Are catching up with men
And women may pursue men
At long last, once again,
Wherever eyes more chaste than chased
In future may be turned
Will be a woman going to waste
And waiting to be spurned.
But let us not take too much pride
In “balancing the sexes”;
On one side or the other side
There ought to be an excess:
Man’s balance is so natural
That women never call for
Conditions which forbid them fall
Whom men refuse to fall for.
SWILLIAM.


The Daughters Depart
The lotharios of Italy and Spain, who
by stern matriarchal surveillance are
denied access to the young ladies of
their own countries, would presumably
be in transports of expectation if they
knew of the unprecedented wave of
unattached, nubile Australian girls de-
parting for Europe this year.
From Sydney, in only one week this
month, nearly 1000 handsome, eager
young things (predominantly blonde—
another fascinating factor along the
Costa Brava) sailed in the Patris and
the Fairsea, tingling with anticipation.
English girls are always welcome in
the Mediterranean countries because of
their determination to demonstrate their
independence, and above all because of
the distance between them and their
parents. (American girls are generally
considered suitable only for trainee
lotharios.) How much more welcome,
then, are Australian girls, who travel
more, care less, and are even farther
from home.
As the spring sunshine warms the blood
in southern Europe, and the roads of the
Riviera corniche and the Sierra Nevada
echo with the valiant putter of motor-
scooters and old London taxis, piloted
by sun-tanned, leggy and adventurous
young ladies from Vaucluse and Toorak,
how many Mediterranean families will
discover, as they receive another post-
card from Gian-Carlo in the vineyards
along the Murray, that they have lost a
son, but gained a daughter—even if only
temporarily?
The Comforts
of Prejudice
'T'o have the courage of one’s prejudices
is one of life’s small comforts. At
an out-of-town house-party a guest
arrived in one of the more flamboyant
American cars. Another drove up in a
severe machine which wasn’t vintage,
merely old. The cars were parked to-
gether. There was the strong smell of
money about the American car and a
vague air of underprivilege about the
other. Leaving, the owner of the Ameri-
can car said: “My God, is poor old Dash
still rattling about in that bomb?” Dash
looked at the other car and said. “Did
you ever see anything so vulgar, so
hideously nouveau riche ?” Then they
both drove off in a warm glow, each
comfortable in the knowledge of his own
superiority.
The Male Animal
A/Trs Agnes Smith, of Caulfield, is a
woman who gets to the heart of
things. Here is an example in a letter to
Melbourne “Age”:
“Many readers have expressed their
views regarding the vice concerning teen-
age girls... .If there were no men, young
or old, filled with sexual lust, and ready
to pay for its satisfaction, how could
the rackets flourish?”
The problem of men, Mrs Smith, is not
really new. In the Beginning. . . .
That was Society
The struggle for existence of the Syd-
ney omnibus has been about finished by
the introduction of penny tram-fares. No
one would be fool enough to build new
buses for the Sydney traffic, and, when the
vehicles now plying are worn out, Sydney
will practically see the last of its buses.
One proprietor, more enterprising than
his fellows, is still determined to fight the
tram. He has had erected over the top
of his vehicles, unwieldy enough already,
a tarpaulin covering, in order to attract
custom in wet weather. It is a pitiful
sight to see this huge two-decker crowded
’bus toiling painfully uphill with but two
horses. — “Bulletin”, June 16, 1900.
Mrs. Fraser, the hysterical and golden-
haired Melbourne lady who shot her hus-
band and then got out on bail to nurse
the stoical gentleman back to life, has
burst forth in a new place. She wants to
cut her golden hair short, and put her
shapely limbs into boy’s clothes, and go
as a spy among the Boers, and her pro-
posal was gravely submitted to the auth-
orities.
The lady says that, among other quali-
fications she has never worn corsets, and
is 37 inches round her snow-white cir-
cumference when measured underneath
the arms; also, when she takes a deep
breath she can expand considerably. The
idea seems to be that she will go as far
as the Boer lines in her present size and
disguise herself by expanding. The callous
McLean, however, has rejected the pro-
posal. Treasurer Shiels, who is also ro-
mantic and hysterical, and given to ex-
panding in the head if not in the chest,
ought to have looked favorably on the
lady’s proposal, but perhaps the stodgy
element in the Cabinet voted him down.
— “Bulletin”, January 13, 1900.
Adelaide is solemly preparing for a
large and creditable drunk when peace
is declared. There is an impression abroad
that the pious city was far behind its sis-
ters over the Mafeking celebrations, and
the leading citizens have determined that
the stain shall be wiped out. Premier
Holder has announced that a supply of
fireworks is on the way from England,
and “ample notice of the date of the
general holiday will be given.” Also, the
breweries are working at high pressure.
— “Bulletin”, June 16, 1900.
An old man with a bag over his shoul-
der called on a Sydney suburban resident
the other day and inquired whether she
kept a boarding house. “No, I don’t. Why
do you ask?”
“Well I thought we could mgke a deal.
I goes round begging victuals all day, and
then I disposes of them to the boarding-
houses.”
He removed the bag from his shoulder
and opened it, and there they all were:
the hard, defiant chunk of corned beef,
the greasy cold roast, the congealed soup-
meat, the indestructible steak, the immor-
tal cold bone of mutton, the fried chop,
the mysterious sausage, waxen potato, and
several substantial nuggets of yesterday’s
bread. — “Bulletin”, December 13, 1890.
MRS GORKRODGERS
Mrs. Gorkrodgers,
Hard and severe,
Six single lodgers —
No place for beer.
Shrewd and suspicious —
Lights out\ at ten,
Cold and officious,
No faith in men ;
Nose for a heater,
Ear for a lock,
Eye for a meter,
Stealth for a knock.
Cacti at windows —
Secret calls barred,
Knows how the wind blows,
Always on guard:
Mrs. Gorkrodgers,
Very close check,
No artful dodgers,
Apartments “respec.”
JAMES HACKSTON.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Newcastle’s Freedom
Fighter
If most of Newcastle is out of work
this week they will be able to thank
one man: Mr Alec Dowling. Mr Dowl-
ing is in his 14th term as secretary of
the Newcastle Trades Hall Council, and
is sub-branch secretary of the Printing
Union and district, agent for the Sheet
Metal Workers’ Union.
Sixty years old, .iron-grey haired,
medium built, brows thoughtfully knit,
Mr Dowling struts around Newcastle
contentedly sucking his pipe and dream-
ing of the day when the Newcastle
workers will rise up against their capi-
talist bosses. His affectation with his
pipe has earned him the nickname of
“Stalin of Newcastle.”
Pleasant-voiced and slow of speech,
he is not shy about approaching national
leaders. In August, 1948, he asked Ben
Chifiey to intervene in a waterfront stop-
page. In June, 1949, he sent him a tele-
gram saying that if a strike at Iron
Knob (South Australia) was not settled
quickly it would stop steel production (!)
and cause unemployment in New South
Wales.
Three weeks later he resigned from
the Labor party, saying: “Proposals by
the State and Federal Parliaments to
intervene in trade-union matters are
reactionary and suggest the Labor party
is approaching its eclipse.” Asked when
did he join the Communist party, he
replied: “Subsequently.” Was he in the
Communist party before he left Labor?
“I joined the Communist party subse-
quently.”
Dowling has a long history of
fighting for the Communist “oppressed."”
He organised a protest meeting when
Lance Sharkey was prosecuted ; he pro-
tested against the Newcastle council’s
refusal to allow the Communist party
and their front organisations to use the
City Hall and city parks. During the
ban he stood up in the public gallery
and tried to address the council. He
was thrown out with the rest of his
members of the “Democratic Rights
Council” who carried placards declaring
“Down with Fascism,” “Stop Fascism
Now,” “We Demand Freedom of
Speech.”
Mr Dowling has always believed in
freedom: he has stopped journalists
from attending Newcastle Trades Hall
Council meetings ; he protested against
the refusal of the Government to allow
a “trade-union delegation” from attend-
ing the Peking “Peace” Congress in
1952; and he has ignored a direction
from the Printing Union directing mem-
bers not to strike.
Perhaps his greatest stand for free-
dom was when he announced “carried” a
motion supporting a miners’ strike at a
hectic meeting in Newcastle. When
some democrat called for a division he
replied : “Forget it. I’m. chairman of
this meeting. It is ended.”
A linotype-operator by trade, which
no doubt accounts for his well-written
and carefully worded statements, he is
a born leader of men, women and
children. In 1952 he marched at the
head of a May Day procession con-
sisting of members from 20 unions, four
surf-clubs, a “Peace” council, Legion
of Australian Women, Communist party
and the Eureka Youth League. Five
months later he led a delegation of Aus-
tralian trade-unions (all Communist-
dominated) to Moscow and helped the
Russians to celebrate the anniversary of
the Russian revolution. When he ran out
of money in Moscow his Trades Hall
Council conducted an appeal to bring
him back.
This father of three and grandfather
of nine is patient. He is still awaiting
the depression which he said, in 1949,
was inevitable. He waits for the Iron-
workers to rejoin his council, which
represents only half the workers in New-
castle (the Ironworkers represent the
other half).
His motto? Well, as he once said:
“Hitler was aided by Social Democrats,
stooges and dingoes in the working-class.
Don’t let this happen here.”
Wyndham s
Way
'T'hirteen so far has been the lucky
number for Cyril Wyndham, who has
just taken over as Victorian secretary of
the Australian Labor Party. Wyndham
had been a member of the British Labor
Party for 13 years when Dr Evatt
plucked him out of Transport House to
serve as the Federal Leader’s press-
relations officer in Australia. And he
was the lucky 13th to win the Victorian
secretaryship last year.
Wyndham, 30, flushed with optimism,
stepped into his new job the other day
with a flourish of confident forecasts, and
followed up by starting a spring-cleaning
and r6organisation.
His first announcement as secretary did
not leave much to be said for his pre-
decessor, Jack Tripovich, who has been
elevated to a seat in Victoria’s Upper
House.
Said Wyndham: “The A.L.P. .must
perfect its organisation, improve its pub-
licity and sell its publicity.” He did not
explain how the Leftish Victorian Cen-
tral Executive could sell its particular
brand of full-blooded Socialism.
His future in the party is at present
under a question-mark. His three pre-
decessors are now members of either the
Federal or Victorian Parliaments—
Senator Kennelly, Senate Deputy Opposi-
tion-leader ; “Dinny” Lovegrove, State
Deputy Opposition-leader; and Jack
Tripovich, M.L.C.
Wyndham’s future, some unkind mem-
bers of his own party whisper, will de-
pend on how effectively he can walk a
tightrope—or play at being a good
puppet. Meanwhile he -is getting £42 a
week for the experience.
The Central Executive, having found
itself a new secretary, is now shopping
for a new assistant-secretary. Bob Bal-
combe, a faithful retainer who filled the
assistant-secretary’s post under Tripo-
vich, resigned when he was passed over
for the top job.
From the Executive’s point of view,
Balcombe’s main disabilities were that
he was a “moderate” and rather too
matey with Albert Monk, president of
the Australian Council of Trade Unions.
The tip is that a Central Executive mem-
ber will sit in Balcombe’s vacant chair.
One name going the rounds of the Mel-
bourne Trades Hall is George Poyser, a
Geelong unionist and Central Executive
member.
However, the main concern of the Vic-
torian strategists at the moment is to
keep Joe Chamberlain at the helm of the
Federal Executive. Chamberlain hasn’t
a high reputation in Victorian A.L.P.
circles as an administrator or political
tactician, but at least he is Left and not
under the thumb of the politicians.
The big fear haunting the Victorians
is that the Federal Executive, if ever
Chamberlain’s guiding hand disappeared,
would intervene in the Victorian branch’s
affairs on such silly issues as unity-
tickets.
This Other Eton
TVTothing could have been more calcu-
lated to enhance the prestige of
Geelong Grammar than its council’s
decision to ask Professor W. F. Connell
and his staff from Sydney University’s
Department of Education to examine
critically the whole range of the school’s
activities. Probably no other school in
Australia would have taken such a step.
In the event the report called “Evaluation
of Geelong Church of England Grammar
School” will become one of the most
important documents in the history


of Australian education that is, if
the council follows up its courage in
calling for the report by publishing it
to the nation.
Its reason for keeping it secret so long
after it was submitted may well be that
it is in several passages critical of the
school’s traditions. It attributes, for
example, the school’s comparative lack
of success in public examinations partly
to “lack of skill on the part of the teach-
ing staff”: “The fact that teacher training
is not regarded as an indispensable
qualification for entry to the staff is in
line with the English independent-school
tradition upon which Geelong Grammar
School leans heavily. The study shows
that, throughout the school, experience
within independent schools both as a
pupil and as a master combined with
good academic qualifications have been
the important qualifications for admis-
sion to the staff. Particular attention is
paid to a degree from Oxford or Cam-
bridge . . .” Professor Connell himself
says: “To me it is inconceivable that
an individual could hope to work succes-
fully within a profession without having
preliminary training and an opportunity
to study the accumulation of knowledge
and of technique concerning the func-
tions of education, the characteristics of
adolescence, teaching, testing, curriculum-
planning and guidance that he should
have at his disposal.” The library in the
Master’s Common Room is “meagre and
outmoded.”
The report also criticises the school's
anti-democratic atmosphere: “I think it
fair to say that there is evidence of
acceptance of authoritarian, almost anti-
democratic, values in more than the
expected proportions at Geelong Gram-
mar. It is not possible to decide here
whether this is a reflection of the social
structure beyond the school (what All-
port calls ‘conformity prejudice’) or
whether it goes deeper and is either
implicit in or is fostered by the way in
which the boys are educated and de-
veloped at the school.”
Again: “The attitude of noblesse
oblige, which staunchly took up the white
man’s burden among the poor and
illiterate in the colonies and among the
depressed classes at home, sits rather
strangely on an Australian’s shoulders
in the mid-twentieth century. This ideal
has about it an air of patronage which
is out of keeping with present-day ideas
of service.”
Professor Connell also has some hard
words to say about the headmaster’s
relations with his staff: “There is con-
siderable admiration to be found there,
but a degree of mutual confidence be-
tween headmaster and staff rather less
than might be hoped for and desired.
This probably comes about, in the main,
because the headmaster expresses his
lack of confidence in the staff by not
spending sufficient time in discussion and
consultation with them. As a con-
sequence, some of his decisions because
they are not fully understood appear
arbitrary and ill-founded.”
There is a lot more in the report than
these criticisms. In its 150 foolscap pages
it covers every aspect from curricula to
the Timbertop experiment in north-east
Victoria, where fourth-forms live com-
munally—“the most exciting and pro-
vocative part of the school,” “one of the
best-conceived and best-executed develop-
ments in Australian education in recent
years.”
The “Evaluation” is the school’s private
property, and it is entitled to do what
it likes with it. But it will be a great
loss to Australian education if the coun-
cil continues to keep it secret —and a loss
to Geelong Grammar, since nothing com-
mands respect so much as willingness to
face criticism openly.
Caught in the Overdraft
In the major squeeze on credit-avail-
ability which Australia is experienc-
ing at present, the people most incon-
venienced seem to be newcomers to busi-
ness and finance, the reafiestate and
“project” companies, the smaller enter-
prises and the speculators.
Old-established big businesses in most
cases seem to have planned their affairs
to meet a situation like the existing one.
Often they have been tipped-off in ad-
vance, though almost anyone who reads
the daily papers and Dr Coombs’s
periodic directions to the banks and occa-
sional press-releases must have realised
in the early part of 1960 that credit could
become acutely tight at almost any
moment
It is amazing, however, how many
really big businesses were taken by sur-
prise in the end. Most of these have
been in the real-estate and construction
game, and part of their philosophy is to
whistle in the dark, however murky it
may be. Optimism is their business. To
some such entrepreneurs any prophet of
difficult credit conditions became a
“knocker.”
In mid-1960 The Bulletin had a
sharp difference of opinion with one
major land-development concern about
the future of real-estate investment and
potential earnings from it. That firm is
now considerably chastened, and it
knows all about the credit-squeeze at
first-hand. But it has experienced
management and strong connections and
should be able to cope,
Other large development concerns with
major building-projects are having their
headaches as a result of the credit-
squeeze. But for every one of these there
are a dozen or more small speculators
in real-estate subdivisions who have paid
substantial deposits on largish blocks of
land, have started to put in streets and
kerbing and who now can’t finance the
rest of the programme. Prospective
buyers of the blocks cant get their
finance as readily as they could six
months ago, either.
With the lifting of import-restrictions
just about a -year ago a new class of
importer came into business because
quotas were no longer needed. It was
fairly easy to get bank finance at that
stage, too. Now these importers are
really up against credit problems.
The motor-trade, and the second-
hand-car business especially, are feeling
the pinch.
Homebuilders and owners of sites
ready for building on have been caught.
Not only is it difficult to get bank
money ; second-line finance through
building-societies and the like is also
affected through the societies’ own over-
draft arrangements.
Life-offices cannot cope with requests
for building-loans at 6 p.c. to p.c.
People have been turning to h.-p. loans
at 6\ p.c. flat (about 13 p.c. p.a.) to see
them through the last 20 p.c. of the cost
of home-purchase.
In western N.S.W. a stock-and-station
agent reports that he is having difficulty
getting payment for valuation-fees, mer-
chandise supplies, etc., because his cus-
tomers are being kept to strict limits by
the banks. Worst of all, credit-restriction
is forcing woolgrowers to buy second-
grade rams for their flocks.
It has been tipped that the most severe
point in credit-restriction will be reached
about March or April. Income-taxes are
usually paid in April and May.
Collie Crisis
'T'he crisis which has developed on
Western Australia’s only coalfield is
a striking example of what can happen
when an irresponsible player is dealt a
strong hand, overplays it and then wants
to wreck the house to cover his losses.
For something like 50 years Collie, a
town of approximately 9000 inhabitants
125 miles south of Perth, has enjoyed an
artificial * prosperity stemming from a
sheltered and pampered industry.
Collie coal is of poor quality, and its
price has never had much of an edge on
New South Wales coal landed at Perth.
The fetish for maintaining local industries
has demanded that it be used wherever
possible. For example, not one of the
dozens of spark-arresters tested by the
W.A. Railways Department has been able
to stop sparks from Collie coal flying
into crops and forests, and locomotives
have caused hundreds of costly fires;
but the railways commissioners have
been permitted to use Newcastle coal,
for which the arresters are suitable, only
when fire hazard is extreme, and then
only at the demand of frightened farmers.
Collie has enjoyed practically a State
monopoly, and Governments have
seldom haggled about the price.
The present trouble began last October
when the Brand Liberal Government de-
cided that using Collie coal was costing
the State £500,000 a year more than it
would if the coal were bought from
other sources. People from Collie were
understandably upset at the prospect of
finding employment elsewhere, moving
their families and leaving their friends —
so a strike was called.
Last November Mr Chamberlain,
national president of the A.L.P. and
secretary of the Labor Disputes Com-
mittee, spilt the beans in his paper “The
Western Sun.” The paper said: “The
dispute at Collie does not represent an
industrial dispute in the generally


accepted sense of the term. Basically it
is a political dispute. It is a dispute in
which the coalmining unions challenge
the policy of the Brand Government.
The Government, in effect through its
policy, is saying that it is justified in
disturbing the economic position of the
town of Collie on the ground that its
policy will provide cheaper coal for con-
sumers in all parts of the State.” It went
on to accuse the Government of ignoring
the human welfare of all miners and their
families.
The Government has undertaken the
responsibility of finding alternative em-
ployment in and around Collie for those
men who would be displaced by its new
policy. It has also guaranteed to protect
long-service leave accruments and pro-
vide £5O as a removal allowance for any
man retrenched who could not be
employed in or around Collie.
As Mr Chamberlain said, the dispute is
not an industrial one but a battle for
control of Government policy. The coal
unions’ only aim is to keep their mem-
bers in employment, and the Govern-
ment has met them on this.
Messel’s Ride
Professor Harry Messel could well
have won prominence among the
Mounties in his native Canada if his
energetic riding of his latest hobby-horse
these last few weeks is any guide.
The head of Sydney University’s
physics school has come up with the
reason for university failures —laziness
(“by laziness I mean the good old-
fashioned traditional idea of just not
working”), and he has used all his flair
for showmanship to hammer home the
message, which should stick if only be-
cause he keeps repeating it.
Messel’s idea is of almost irresistible
appeal to those who hate the young,
to all those with a grudge against uni-
versity students, and for those who like
simple answers for complex problems.
He illustrates his “input-output” techno-
logical attitude to learning with such dicta
as “all matter consists of atoms, all know-
ledge of hard work.” But his blunt attack
has stirred a controversy and raised prob-
ably illusory hopes about new syllabuses,
changed teaching methods and a sixth
school-year before entrance to university.
A cry of “off with their heads” has
chilled the blood of those who have failed
once, and Peter Wilenski, president of the
Sydney University Students Representa-
tive Council, made the point that ex-
clusion from the University after only one
failure would make wastage of qualified
students even heavier than now.
It did not take long for people such as
Dr Malcolm McKay to enumerate other
factors which contribute to failures, but
the only area of agreement is that the
entrance standard should, ideally, be
higher so that selection be made at the
Leaving Certificate rather than at the end
of the first university year.
Messel’s laziness concept is not very
scientific, but he produced figures which
should give pause, especially when he
states that the first-year physics course is
much the same as that for the Leaving
Certificate. “If there is any way at all to
teach laziness, that is it,” said the Pro-
fessor of Organic Chemistry at the Uni-
versity of N.S.W. on hearing this.
Of the 1572 students who sat for
Physics I last year only 850 passed—46
per cent, failed. Messel asserts that 85
per cent, of those who failed did so
through “sheer laziness.” The School of
Physics, said Messel, could not be blamed
for these failures. “We are doing every-
thing humanly possible to get them
through.”
Ben Selinger, of the Sydney University
Science Association, had to disagree with
the professor about this: “The result
of a survey, carried out by Sydney Uni-
versity science students, has measured
student opinion on the help provided by
the staff of the various departments in
the Faculty of Science. In both the first
and second years the Physics Depart-
ment is considered by the students to be
by far the most unhelpful.”
It is doubtful whether the democratisa-
tion of education can be reversed to any
extent, but Messel has announced a plan
designed to raise standards within his
own school. From 1962 there will be
three sections in first-year physics, a new
section for those without previous
physics experience, a more advanced
course for those who had previous study
in physics and the existing distinction
course. Those who do exceptionally well
in the first course will have a chance of
sitting for an extra exam, which will give
entry to the Physics II course. And to
upset those who were rallying around the
idea that there should be a sixth second-
ary year’s schooling on the English pat-
tern Messel said he saw no reason to
extend the Leaving Certificate course un-
less it was widened.
In all this discussion there were two
unmentionable factors which made any
general stiffening of standards unlikely.
Professors have a vested interest in big
enrolments in their faculties, for their
prestige and power is to a considerable
extent tied to the number of students
they control.
Messel, however, is in a different posi-
tion —private industry has supplied most
of the money which has made his school
so powerful, and in this his position is
similar to that of the American schools
which are dependent on foundation-grants
rather than on their students.
The second factor is that Sydney Uni-
versity fears the University of N.S.W.
will undercut it if it gets too tough with
its pupils.
The Borovansky
'T'he Borovansky Ballet, after 15
years as a professional touring com-
pany, is in danger of being disbanded
at the conclusion of its Melbourne season
next month. Although it is reported that
a nucleus of the company may be re-
tained, the outlook for it would appear
dismal if the negotiations between the
Elizabethan Theatre Trust and J. C.
Williamsons to form an Australian Ballet
Foundation break down.
For these 15 years the company has
been a commercial proposition of the
J.C.W. Australian and New Zealand
theatre circuit. In view of the large and
enthusiastic ballet public of Australia,
which promotes and provides overseas
scholarships for dancers, and supports
numerous schools and small performing
companies, it is a pressing necessity to
inquire into the reasons of the Boro-
vansky Company’s failure.
Ballet, like any other art, must speak
the language of the day, must present an
image of its age ; it cannot live in a
romantic, archaic past. M. Borovansky,
hard-working director of the company
until his death last year, was a protege
of the ballet impresarios Diaghilev and
De Basil. He strove to resuscitate the
past; he was out of key with his time.
Diaghilev, a revolutionary in his time,
took the Western world by storm with
his costly, lavish, yet virile spectacles of
ballet. M. Borovansky was haunted and
blinded by these memories.
Ballet, in the Diaghilev tradition, can
be one of the most costly of theatrical
enterprises. The visit of the New York
City Ballet to this country showed us
what was being done in modern ballet,
both as regards artistic economy and
economy of expenditure. With some 32
new and original ballets in its repertoire
it was a revolutionary example that
essential simplicity and economy are
always in good taste.
M. Borovansky was immune to such
events. He continued to present costly
and inartistic productions of such
museum pieces as “The Sleeping Prin-
cess” and “Nutcracker” which financially
wearied his sponsors and artistically
wearied his dancers. Even the specially
commissioned Grinwis ballet, “Journey
to the Moon,” fell into this category, and
at a truly staggering cost.
Far from promoting the cause of ballet
in Australia, the well-meaning M. Boro-
vansky set it back from the time when,
in 1946, he succeeded the highly artistic
and original Kirtfova Ballet Company.
Today Australian ballet-lovers have had
about as much as they can take of time-
worn entertainment and diversion.
What can be done to rescue ballet in
Australia? The Trust-Williamson scheme
points the way. First, we must encourage
—as small, self-supporting ballet groups
are doing here Australian choreo-
graphers, composers, designers, poets and
writers. We must also release from their
R.A.D. bondage our dancers with a
natural balletic style as distinct as those
of Russia, America, France and England.
Second, it may be necessary, as indi-
cated in the proposed scheme, for ballet
to get some form of national subsidy.
The Russian Ballet is more than sub-
sidised. The Royal Ballet, under direct
Royal patronage, is subsidised. The New
York City Ballet came here on a sub-
sidy. Ballet, like the other arts, needs
periods of financial security. What the
audience sees of a dancer on stage is
but the product of the development of
technique and expression in the rigorous
and exacting demands of “class.” A
continually touring commercial company
has little time and energy to devote to
this basically important matter.
These are a few considerations. Their
observance and practice would at least
help to create a distinct form of ballet
of which Australians anywhere could
be proud.


POLITICAL POINTS
new tactics
A new era in electioneering may start
in this year’s Federal elections.
Liberal-party circles in Tasmania are said
to be considering the endorsement of
Mr Frank Quinn for the seat of Rockdale
now held by Labor. Mr Quinn is
better known in Australia as “Franquin,”
the hypnotist-entertainer who retired from
the stage late last year. If Mr Quinn
hypnotises 500 Labor voters he will win
the seat for the Liberal party.
• •
NO USE CRYING
Canberra was recently the scene of a
peculiar drama. For over a year there
has been a battle raging Bega
farmers and vendors of local cows’ milk
for control of the Canberra milk-market.
In the Canberra court last week a tem-
porary public servant was charged with
assaulting one of his permanent col-
leagues in a quarrel over a milk-round
customer. The two public servants were
getting out of bed at 2.30 a.m., doing
their milk-runs, “collar-and-tieing.” and
arriving, poker-faced, at their desks to
sedately push their pens. The permanent
man is said to be on a salary of £l7OO
a year. If Canberra’s cost of living is
that high, we are surprised.
• •
MISCELLANY
Melbourne children were the victims of
an industrial wrangle last week. The
Melbourne Zoo was closed for the first
time in 113 years because of a strike
by the Miscellaneous Workers’ Union.
ITie cause of the strike? Three Zoo em-
ployees refused to join the union: Mr
Mulholland, a horse-buyer; Mr Mac-
kaway, an elephant - driver ; and Mr
Clampett, a. chimpanzee-keeper.
• •
WHO CHICKENED?
Waterside workers in Sydney received
an unusual penalty-rate last week. They
were unloading a consignment of canned
chicken from America, half of which
had broken open during the voyage and/
was rotten. They were given 2s. an hour
extra,as “smell” money.
• •
TRADE
By the end of this month, Australia will
have sold 20,000 tons of flour to Com-
munist China. The Australian Flour Mill
Owners are jubilant at such a large order
and hope this to be only one of many
future orders. The sale was negotiated
by a private trading - company and
handled by the Australian Wheat Board.
The Chinese Government bought the
flour from Australia because it would
not buy from the United States ; there
is a wheat shortage in Europe—so we
were the nearest and quickest choice.
The flour was needed to relieve the little-
known famine in China. There is no
chance with this sale of any delay being
caused by a strike of Australian seamen
or waterside workers ; if there were our
Communist union - leaders would be
severely disciplined not by Menzies
but by Mao.
• •
NEWCASTLE STRIKE
The strike at B.H.P.’s Newcastle steel-
works has already caused at least 2600
men to lose their weekly wage-packet,
and before it is settled the number could
grow to at least 7000. Monthly ingot-pro-
duction loss will exceed 200,000 tons, to
say nothing of the economic loss to
B.H.P. and its subsidiaries. Trouble
began on December 29 when, during the
absence of an Amalgamated Engineering
Union shop-steward at a Safety Commit-
tee meeting, someone instructed a rigger
to finish off the fitting of a steel pin into
a crane —the job the A.E.U. man had
been doing before he went to the meet-
ing. The A.E.U. man, Mr Jones, com-
plained to the corqpany that an unskilled
man had been doing his job which, he
said, was the work of a skilled man.
Since then the whole thing has been
clouded with charges and counter-charges.
The company dismissed 13 A.E.U.
stewards for holding, contrary to an
agreement, a lunch-time meeting inside
the steelworks. Four-hundred A.E.U.
members then struck, and 100 boiler-
makers came out in sympathy. On
January 5, Mr Justice Kelleher ordered
the strikers to return to work before he
would continue the hearings.
The issues have since been confused:
but the fact that the Ironworkers have
refused to become embroiled in it shows
it is a stupid strike. The sooner the men
return to work and a level-headed dis-
cussion is held the better it will be for
the unions concerned, the B.H.P. and the
rest of Australia —with the exception of
the Communist party, which seems to be
taking on the anti-Communist Iron-
workers executive in an election year.
• •
CABINET
Rumors of reconstruction of the Federal
Ministry include a shift of Athol Townley
to External Affairs, of Sir Garfield Bar-
wick to the same Ministry to replace the
Prime Minister, who goes abroad in
February and comes home via Washing-
ton after meeting the new U.S. President;
also the appointment of either Senator
Spooner or Senator Paltridge to Eric
Harrison’s vacant job in London and
somebody to the Consulate-Generalship
in New York vacated by Jos. Francis.
The chances of the last two changes
coming off seffrri not worth betting on.
The Government will want neither
another Higinbotham by-election nor
vacancies in the Senate —especially one
from New South Wales with a State
Labor Government in office.
• •
A PLEA
If tax concessions are going to be given
to manufacturers of goods for export,
will the same concessions be given to
writers who sell their “manufactured”
abroad? Surely if a writer earns
overseas currency he is as much entitled
to such concession as the man who makes
and sells a tin-opener?
• •
HOUSING
The South Australian Housing Trust has
built 40,000 houses since its foundation
in 1937 ; and they are houses —not dog-
boxes. It is putting up more than 3000
houses and flats a year and it caters for
every type of dweller without the
gambling element that touches the New
South Wales housing scheme. Its latest
plan is to provide for “the growing num-
ber of widows and deserted wives with
young children who are in desperate need
of housing at rents within their very
scanty means.” They have low - rental
houses for these and pensioners in 37
country towns —minimum rent £1 per
week and not over one-sixth the tenant
family’s income. Playford had better not
come to New South Wales with schemes
like these—he’d get killed in the crush.
The whole scheme actually provided a
running surplus of £500,000 on total sales
of £14.5 million.
• •
LABOR SHORTAGE
Sydney waterside was 2000 short in labor
again last week five ships without
and three short in the daytime, and 12
short and 30 without at night on January
10. Men who can earn high wages in
the building - trade and elsewhere are
becoming less and less inclined to put
up with the Communist leaders of the
W.W.F. It seems that nothing can be
done about it until the Communist grip
is loosened and the Stevedoring Authority
grows a little more backbone.
• •
EDUCATION
It was pointed out at the Australian
Teachers’ Federation Conference that the
amount spent on education in New South
Wales represented 58.7 per cent, of tax-
reimbursement from the Commonwealth
and 20 per cent, of loan money. And
still the teachers want a Federal emerg-
ency grant and a national committee of
inquiry. It seems to be a case of trying
to provide tertiary education all round
without even sufficient funds to pay for
full secondary education, with the result
that no stage of education is being
carried out at full efficiency.


How To Be a Senator
By ALAN REID
Political humorists have on occa-
sions suggested that the obstacles
to getting an orang-outang elected
to the Australian Senate are not
insuperable. To have the ape ceremoni-
ously made a member of the Federal
Upper House would require, they claim,
only a single act. One of the major
Australian parties would need to be per-
suaded into hanging its party tag round
the animal’s neck (the unusual name
“Orang-outang” on the party’s Senate
ticket could be explained away as that
of a New Australian, and a campaign
could be simultaneously and profitably
conducted emphasising the necessity for
giving New Australians, now a sizeable
portion of the Australian community, a
greater degree of representation in the
Federal Parliament). Once given the
party tag the ape would automatically
go into the Senate.
This is the type of grotesque humor
in which politicians occasionally indulge
in moments of relaxation. But, as humor
so often is, it is an exaggeration of an
existing position rather than a falsifica-
tion of what goes on. By hanging the
party label round a neck and placing
the neck’s owner upon its Senate ticket
a major party cam send into the Senate
—ancj has —practically anyone. For the
Senate while pathetically clinging to the
illusion that it is the “States” house (it
was set up by the founding fathers of
the Australian Constitution to protect the
States’ interests) is far more of a party
house than the House of Representatives.
An independent can —and has—some-
times broken through in the House of
Representatives, but in the Senate never.
Unless you are on a party ticket you have
had it. The electors do not vote for you
as individuals. They vote for a party
group in which you happen to be an indi-
vidual.
As a result of this impersonalised
system into the red-hued, softly opulent
comfort of the Senate chamber with its
deep, cushioned desks, gently yielding
carpet and soporific atmosphere have
gone across the years an extraordinary
mixture of human personality.
Through the chamber have passed
alcoholics, adventurers, seedy individuals
whose early history disappears into a
rather murky past, Labor men who drive
in chauffeur-driven limousines and whose
rise to wealth was bewilderingly sudden,
non-Labor men with a much more atten-
tive eye to the thickness of their wallets
than to the national welfare, eccentrics,
just plain “weirdies” and a much higher
percentage of the superannuated party-
hack and the “good-time Charleys” than
the House of Representatives can boast.
Also through the Senate chamber has
passed a high percentage of political
“hard - heads” —men who realise that the
going is much easier in the Senate than
SENATOR SPOONER
On the outer
in the House of Representatives. This is
the type that set out to get Senate pre-
selections, knowing that once in the
Senate it is much easier to climb in that
chamber to the Ministry and the exercise
of power —real power —than it is in the
tougher, fiercer and more highly com-
petitive lower -chamber.
For the Senate is, like a university is
to a student, what the individual Senator
wants to make it. If he is a loafer, there
is no better loafing-ground in Australia.
If he is a worker he can work as hard
as (and in some cases he does work
harder than) any member of the House
of Representatives.
But the pressure upon him to work is
not as strong as it is in the House of
Representatives. An M.H.R. has to face
his electors every three years; the
Senator, except in the unlikely
event of a double-dissolution, when both
houses—Senate and House of Represen-
tatives —go simultaneously to the people,
every six. The M.H.R. has to nurse
his constituency. The Senator has only
a nominal constituency—his State. Pro-
vided the Senator is there to register his
vote on the rare occasions when a Senate
vote is important, he can get away (as
some have) with chronic drunkenness,
inveterate absenteeism and needs no
qualifications, except the ability to sign
his nomination-papers. Once he is in he
is well looked after. He does not even
have to sign-in for his attendance money
of £4 a sitting day. A Senate officer does
that for him.
Ask any member of the House of
Representatives, harassed by constituents,
out of pocket for his electoral expenses,
with an overdraft at the bank for his
last election costs and having to face
another election within three years
(Senators are elected for six-year terms)
what is the best political job in Aus-
tralia and nine times out of ten he will
get an envious, covetous gleam in his eye
and retort “The Senate.”
And he is not far wrong. The Senator
by and large gets all the advantages of
being a Parliamentarian with few of the
drawbacks. He gets the same basic salary
as a Member of the House of Representa-
tives —£2750 a year—and “extras” only
slightly worse than a metropolitan
M.H.R., getting an electorate allowance
of £BOO a year compared with their £B5O,
But whereas the M.H.R. has almost
invariably to spend his allowance —and
more —if he is to retain his seat, the
Senator is under no such compulsion. He
can spend it if he wants to. But it is
not the electors whom he has to worry
about. He has only to worry about the
party to which he belongs.
Provided he has Number 1 or Number
2 place on the party Senate ticket he is
assured of re-election. It is not his name
nor his personality that carries him in,
It is the party vote. Even if he is
Number 3 —a much more precarious
position—what he does in the shape of
personal effort is not going to affect the
outcome as far as he personally is con-
cerned.
His vote is on a State-wide basis. With
the utmost exertion he could impress his
qualifications for the Senate upon only,
relatively speaking, a handful of voters
who would not matter in the thousands
who decide the result within a State's
boundaries. It is the party-label that will
elect him, or see him squeezed out by
Number 3 on the opposing party’s ticket
if The vote goes against the party to
which he gives his loyalty.
■COR the run-of-the-mill Senator who
arrives, starry-eyed, for the first time
in Canberra it must be as though he is
in Wonderland. In addition to joining
what has been described as Australia’s
best club, he finds he is entitled to a
typist-secretary. He is provided with an
office in his home State at Common-
wealth cost (one of the most hilarious
Parliamentary situations over recent
years must have been when Senator
William Aylett, from Tasmania, sought
—and obtained —permission to switch his
office from the Apple State to Queens-
land’s Gold Coast, where he was then
in semi-permanent residence and in the
throes of setting up a private business)
He is issued with a book of travel
warrants to cover air and rail travel
anywhere in Australia for “parliamen-
tary and electorate purposes”—a defini-
tion wide enough to cover the Common-
wealth, and to enable him to wage at
taxpayers’ expense, say, a private political
vendetta against a fellow Parliamentarian
or some trade-union official on whom
he has a “snout.”


Pree phones are available to him either
in the Commonwealth Parliamentary
offices or in his office. If he is phoning
from home all he has to do is quote the
number of his Trunk Line Authority-
Card to get the expense shifted from
himself to the Commonwealth. (Succes-
sive Ministers for the Interior, whose
Department is vested with the adminis-
tration of members’ privileges, have been
lorced on occasions to protest against
the size of individual phone bills when
it turned out that the Parliamentarians
were making their facilities available to
friends and thereby operating a private
phone service in opposition to the official
Post-office services.)
He, the newly elected Senator, finds
that he has these things. He is treated
as a “big shot.” Ambassadors and lesser
diplomats invite him to their parties.
He discovers that the prefix “Senator”
has a significance. It gets him into the
races free. People fawn upon him and
flatter him. He can, if he wants to,
buckle down and use the facilities avail-
able td'him. He can use them to advance
himself within his party and to become
a power in its deliberations.
Or he can decide to loaf. There is
no need to keep his secretary-typist hard
at it. He has no constituents constantly
pressing him for action as his colleagues
in the Lower House have. He has no
need for his phone facilities, apart from
phoning the man with whom he does
his starting-price betting.
He can drift into the group whose
twin interests in life are to see (1) that
they retain the party pre-selection that
has put them into the easiest job they
are ever likely to have and (2) to have
a good time. He can spend his days
while in Canberra playing billiards, cards,
gambling, drinking, and generally just
whiling away the time and appearing in
the chamber only when the division bells
demand his presence. Away from Can-
berra he can devote himself to the
leisurely life and furthering his own
interests.
Quite a few over the years have
succumbed to this corrupting side of
Senate life. The surprise is not that
some succumbed —that was inevitable.
What is the real surprise is the fewness
—relatively speaking—of those who have
succumbed.
Tn the old days (pre-1949) life in the
Senate was a chancy thing. Then it
numbered only thirty, half retiring, as
they do now (except in the rare event of
a double dissolution when they all go to
the people) every three years.
Senate voting has always been a tricky
problem. Pre-1949 the voting system
was such that if your party won a par-
ticular State, however narrowly, it would
sweep the Senate pool and all the Senators
returned would belong to the one party.
Thus an election which returned a nar-
rowly divided House of Representatives
could produce a Senate in which 27 would
belong to one party and only three belong
to the Opposition (as has happened).
It was in those days an advantage to
he at the top of the Senate ballot-paper.
Labor was the first to grasp this. So one
year—l 93 in N.S.W. put in as
its Senate candidates the famous four A’s
~~Stan Amour, still in the Senate, the late
William Ashley, who later became a
Minister in the Curtin and Chifley Labor
Governments, Johnny Armstrong, a Beas-
ley protege and later also to become a
Labor Minister (still in the Senate but
only temporarily as he has now lost his
A.L.P. pre-selection), and Tom Arthur,
who was to create a sensation years later
when he disappeared mysteriously when
a vital vote affecting the ownership of
coalmines was being taken and was found
dazed hours later muttering of a job he
had been offered by coalowning interests.
But under that system even more
important than to have a name beginning
with A was to survive—to hope that the
expiration of your six-years term did not
coincide with a swing, however slight,
against your party within your home
State. If the swing came, you were gone
regardless of your prominence and value
to the parliament. Survival was more
important than intelligence or diligence.
Then came 1949. The Chifley Govern-
ment decided to double the size of the
House of Representatives, which it pro-
ceeded to do. The Australian Constitu-
tion says that when such action is taken
the Senate must be increased also in size
proportionately.
The Senate was increased to 60. But
the Chifley Government realised that it
was up against a man-sized job in winning
the 1949 election (it was at this election
that the Liberal-Country Party coalition,
still in office, carPe to power).
Arthur Calwell, then Immigration
Minister in the Chifley Government and
now Opposition Leader, had a brilliant
thought. If Robert Menzies, then Oppo-
sition Leader, was going to win (as he
did), his triumph should be a shortlived
one. The thing to do was to confront
him with a hostile Senate, just as Jimmy
Scullin, as Labor Prime Minister, was
confronted .with a hostile Senate during
the depression years of 1929 to 31. Just
as the Senate then broke Scullin, a Labor-
dominated Senate would break Menzies.
How was this to be done? Calwell, of
Irish-American descent and proud of
both, cast his eyes around the world.
They alighted on Eire. Eire had a most
peculiar system for electing its upper
house. It was so involved that only
an Irishman with the Irish gift for under-
standing ballots or a mathematician of
extreme eminence could understand what
it was all about. Calwell was not a
mathematician. But he was of Irish
descent. And he worked out that the
system of proportional representation
imported from Eire and applied to the
Australian Senate would give Labor con-
trol of the Senate. It would place Labor
in a position from which it could knock
Menzies off his Prime Ministerial perch
in the House of Representatives whenever
a suitable —and surefire—issue presented
itself. In that way Labor’s absence from
the Treasury benches would be a brief
one.
Calwell sold the Eire proportional
representation system of voting to Chifley,
despite the fact that Chifley,-himself quite
an able mathematician, was always
reported as being extremely dubious of
its worth.
At first it seemed—from Calwell’s
viewpoint— to have worked like a charm.
1949 saw the Menzies Government
returned overwhelmingly in the House of
Representatives. The Chifley-led forces
retired to the frustrating impotence of
the Opposition benches. But Labor con-
tinued to have a majority in the Senate,
and so was capable of rejecting any
Menzies legislation of which Labor dis-
approved.
Calwell spent his time on the Opposi-
tion benches alternatively gnawing his
fingernails to the quick over being bereft
so abruptly of the power, prestige and
perks that go with ministerial office and
patting himself on the back for his
brilliant foresight in so arranging matters
that he and his Labor colleagues when-
ever they deemed the time ripe had the
power to force the Menzies Government
to the people and (Calwell hoped) from
office.
Menzies never gave Calwell a chance
to play round thoroughly with his new,
dangerous Senate toy. Instead of letting
Calwell force the issue,-he forced it. In
1951 he asked for—and obtained —from
the then Governor-General Sir William
McKell a double dissolution on the
ground that the Senate had held up his
legislation. The Senators—some of them
absolutely dazed (they had accepted Cal-
well’s advice that Menzies would never
be game to go for a double dissolution)
—went to the people with the House of
Representatives and Menzies came back
with a majority in the Senate as well as
in the House of Representatives.
That position (of Menzies having a
Senate majority) has obtained since 1951.
This on its' own must have been galling
to Calwell, chief architect of the new
Senate. But worse was to follow. In
1954, the Labor party had a schism. It
split. The main body of its support
remained faithful to the official party —
the A.L P. But a section followed new
leaders to form a new party —the Demo-
cratic Labor Party.
The history of Labor schisms is that
the minority—in this case the D.L.P. —
is destined for only a brief period of
existence. It tries for a couple of elec-
tions to get Parliamentary representation,
fails, and then withers away.
But the D.L.P. was lucky. Arthur
Calwell and Eire had cleared the way
for it to get Parliamentary representa-
tion. Under the Senate system that Cal-
well masterminded, the D.L.P. has only
to get a comparatively low proportion
of the total vote cast in any one State-
-17 per cent. —and it gets a representative
in the Senate.
The D.L.P. got that proportion in two
States, Victoria and Tasmania, and now
two D.L.P. Senators, George Cole, Tas.,
and Frank McManus, Vic., are Common-
wealth Senators, using the Senate as a
forum, Calwell - provided, to thwart
(hitherto successfully) Calwell's Prime
Ministerial ambitions.
Cole and McManus in their way are
examples of how a “club” spirit operates
in the Senate. Both are former Labor


men. Many Labor members of the
House of Representatives—hearty haters
as they feel their seats may be at stake
because of the very existence of the two
D.L.P. Senators —-will not speak to them.
Some Labor Senators observe the same
practice. But with the bulk of the Labor
Senators there is not the same intensity.
'T'he atmosphere is somehow chummier.
They talk together amiably and
sociably, and not all of them as Pat
Kennelly, deputy Labor leader in the
Senate, an A.L.P. ex-federal secretary,
and a traditional “fixer,” does with an
object in view—to try and reach a posi-
tion in which D.L.P. second preferences
will go to Labor, instead of, as they
do now, going to Government candidates
and making it almost impossible for
Labor to win its way back to the Treasury
benches.
In the Senate there is less of the “dog
eat dog” atmosphere that prevails in the
House of Representatives. If a man in
the House of Representatives comes in
drunk, some puritanical individual like
Labor’s Ned Ward, himself a non-drinker
and non-smoker, is just as likely as not
to draw attention to his opponent’s
inebriated state.
In the Senate, there is a tendency to
cover up not only on the part of friends
but also on the part of nominal enemies.
Kennelly, a tough brawler who
spiritually belongs more to the House
of Representatives than to the Senate,
recently clashed with Liberal Reg. Wright,
the Tasmanian Liberal Senator, who first
voted against the Government’s sales-tax
legislation (thereby creating both a Con-
stitutional crisis and a sensation) and
later abstained from voting for the same
legislation (thereby ensuring its passage).
I thought myself that Wright, himself
no mean brawler, probably had the best
of the exchange into which Kennedy's
pet dog was dragged by the short hairs.
Kennelly suggested that after watching
Wright’s performance on the sales - tax
legislation his dog was probably a better
man than Wright to which Wright re-
torted that in that event the dog would
be far more preferable as a member of
the Federal Parliament than Kennelly.
But such is the “club” atmosphere of
the Senate that the next day Kennelly
was up on his feet saying he had “prob-
ably gone too far” and apologising to
Wright—an apology which must have
amazed many people who have seen
Kennelly in action at one of the less
peaceful A.L.P. Victorian conferences.
While Calwell was basically the archi-
tect of the modern Senate, the present
Senate leader William Spooner, Minister
for National Development, has added
quite a few of the finishing touches.
Opooner is an oddity in that he came
from nothing to the Ministry over-
night. One day he was a candidate for
the Senate on behalf of the Liberal party
(which then had no representatives from
New South Wales in that chamber). The
next day he was a Senator, and, owing
to the dearth of experienced Liberal
senators, a Minister.
I am inclined to think that Spooner,
a machine politician only until he en-
tered the Senate in 1949, did not realise
the limitations he was placing upon his
own ambitions until he actually arrived
in that chamber.
But when he got there he found that
the Senate really meant very little in the
scheme of things. The Prime Minister
—and to a considerable extent the senior
Ministers—had to come from the House
of Representatives. Five portfolios went
to the Senate but usually lesser ones and
only because there had to be some
recognition, even if it was scant, of the
claims of the Upper House.
Spooner could not particularly have
liked that. It was as though he had
reached the end of the political road
before he really started on it.
From the time he came into the Senate
things started to happen.
Neil (now Sir Neil) O’Sullivan was
leader of the Senate when Spooner en-
tered it, raised to that position when
there was only a handful of non-Labor
Senators in the chamber and when
Queensland—O’Sullivan’s home State —
was the only State staying solidly loyal
to the non-Labor cause. While Spooner
was finding his feet, Liberal Ted Mattner,
SENATOR WRIGHT
No mean brawler
from South Australia, World War I
veteran and probably the most highly
decorated Parliamentarian, was raised to
the Senate Presidency, which carries an
extra £2250 a year, a special allowance
of £SOO a year, and other perks for its
holder.
N.S.W. (where Spooner was a key
figure) was on the Senate outer. It was
not long before the wheel —in this case
Spooner—turned, and turned with a ven-
geance. O’Sullivan went. Spooner
emerged as leader in O’Sullivan’s place
to become the most powerful man in the
Senate. Mattner went. As President in
his place emerged another New South
Welshman Alister (now Sir Alister)
McMullin. The Senate started to take
on a different atmosphere.
For a while it was thought that
Spooner, big, grey, imperturbable, slow
of speech and ponderous of movement,
an accountant in private life and a
politician by family tradition, might step
down from the Senate to take part in the
hurly-burly of the House of Representa-
tives with its bigger pickings for
courageous fishermen in troubled waters.
There were rumors that he was “sniffing”
round various House of Representatives
seats that might fall conveniently vacant
through death or appointments outside
politics.
But the “sniffing” did no good
apparently. Nothing came of the rumors.
Spooner confined himself to one of the
most audacious moves attempted in the
Senate probably in the history of that
body. He attempted to snatch the
deputy-leadership of the Liberal party
from under the nose of Harold Holt
when Eric (Sir Eric) Harrison resigned
that post to go to London as Australian
High Commissioner.
It was an unheard-of thing. Ridicu-
lous, said his opponents. Whoever heard
of a position of such power going into
the Senate? ]t would make Spooner, a
Senator, the third most powerful man in
the Government, behind only Prime
Minister Menzies himself and the
Country-party leader John McEwen. It
could not come off.
But it came within an ace of doing so.
Harold Holt won. The results have never
been officially published, but it was by
a margin of two.
CJpooner since appears to have aban-
doned his ambitions and to have con-
centrated upon building up the Senate as
an institution. He has encouraged the
formation of committees'and further fed
the aspirations of those persons within
the. Senate who would like to see its
importance and prestige advanced.
To some extent his campaign has suc-
ceeded—in some instances too well. His
dual role as a Minister and as the leader
of a Senate growing more pretentious in
its claims over recent years have on occa-
sions given him divided loyalties. Such
an occasion was when recently two of the
Government’s supporters, Senator lan
Wood from Queensland and the
unquenchable Wright, insisted that the
Senate’s role was pre-eminent and voted
against a Government measure (which
was embarrassing to Spooner as a
Minister) and in Wood’s case persisted
in voting against it. In part their opposi-
tion stemmed from Spooner’s teachings.
Spooner wanted the importance of the
Senate emphasised. Okay. They would
emphasise it for him. They thumbed
noses at both Menzies and Spooner (in
his other personality as a Cabinet
Minister and not the Senate Leader),
and it was not until Wright withdrew his
opposition (thereby permitting the pas-
sage of the otherwise doomed measure)
that Spooner could breathe freely.
Spooner and the Senate Ministers-
Shane Paltridge (Civil Aviation), Johnny
Gorton (Navy), Denham Henty (Cus-
toms) and the new Minister, H. Wade
(Air) —work as hard as any Minister
or backbencher in the House of Repre-
sentatives, as do their opposite numbers
on the Labor side —Senate Opposition
Leader Nick McKenna (who, however,
has found sufficient spare time to func-
tion as a director of Tasmania’s largest
hire-purchase firm) and Pat Kennelly.
They cannot let up. There are too
many after their jobs. The Senate Minis-
ters get the same as the House of Repre-
sentatives Ministers —£3250 a year over
and above what they are entitled to as
ordinary members if they are senior
Ministers and £2250 extra if they are


junior Ministers, plus a senior Minister’s
allowance of a further £ISOO a year or a
junior Minister’s allowance of £1250,
plus £l2 a day travelling allowance as
senior Ministers, or £lO a day as junfor
Ministers, plus other perks. The Senate
Opposition Leader —currently McKenna
-gets’ £lsoo extra a year, plus an addi-
tional special allowance of £SOO a year,
w hile his deputy—currently Kennedy—
draws £SOO extra a year, plus a £250 a
year special allowance.
These are good “pickings.” Those who
have them have to w6rk hard to hold
them. - .
And it is not only the Ministers and
the party leaders who work hard.
Senator Annabelle Rankin, one of the
few women Parliamentarians who has
“cracked” anything, works as Govern-
ment Senate Whip (£4OO a year extra)
like a dog to keep the Government’s
majority (32 to 28) intact. Senator Jim
Ormonde, Labor and a N.S.W. back-
bencher, turns up everywhere, working
hard on Labor’s behalf, as did N.S.W.’s
Jim Arnold (Labor) until hit heavily by
illness, and there are others.
The women —Miss Rankin, Mrs Ivy
Wedgwood (Lib. Vic.), Mrs Agnes
Robertson (C.P. W.A.), Miss Dorothy
Tangney (Lab. W.A.), and Mrs Nancy
Buttfield (Lib. S.A.) —are all hard workers.
Mrs Buttfield, statuesque, who has no
inhibitions about being a woman in a
man's world, is the lady who seems most
prepared to slug it out with the men and
to play politics, as they do slyly and for
advantage.
She went under Wood’s neck (Wood is
a travel agent in his native Mackay) in
an attempt to secure chairmanship of a
Senate Committee to investigate and en-
courage tourism in Australia and only
failed by a whisker (or, more appro-
priately when talking about this sex, a
kiss-curl). She had the thing so well
sewn up that her rivals had to sabotage
the whole idea of a committee to keep
the chairmanship out of her grasp.
Mrs Buttfield is also a realist in that
she believes that the basic objective of
any politician must be to survive. She
is No. 3 on the Liberals' Senate ticket in
South Australia —always a precarious
position and liable to be a fatal one if
the tide is running against the Govern-
ment. She would like to be higher. Ex-
Senate President Ted Mattner is higher
on the ticket. There has been a quiet
feud going on between the lady Senator
and her highly decorated South Austra-
lian colleague ever since her ambitions
for a safer position on the ticket became
obvious. So far Mattner, longer in the
tooth and with many influential friends
in South Australia, including the S.A.
Premier Sir Thomas Playford, has
managed to stay ahead of his fair (in
the physical sense) rival.
For the Senator who has climbed to
the No. 1 or No. 2 position on the party
Senate ticket, the electors are compara-
tively unimportant. He has a job for life,
so long as he can hold that position. It
is the party, not the electorate, that
decides his (or her) fate.
In the Government parties holding on
to your ticket position is not very
arduous. Mrs Buttfield is the Liberal
exception rather than the rule. Once
you are in you are in. Only in the
absolutely top echelons of the Liberal
and Country parties is the battle for place
and position as naked as it is in the
Labor party. Provided you do not do
something completely stupid and get
found out, you are there for life. The
party will cover up your shortcomings
and your frailties unless you make them
so glaringly apparent that you become
a liability to the party. If that happens
you will be squeezed out but as discreetly
as possible for no party likes scandal of
the type which, if well publicised, would
affect its electoral prospects.
For Labor Senators it is tougher. A
lot of people are after your job. It is a
good job and the “outs” know it and
want to be “ins.” Your best course
is to be “onside” with your State A.L.P.
executive (in Victoria where there is not
the slightest pretence at rank and file
selection the State A.L.P. selects the
Senate candidates arbitrarily as well as
pre-selecting the A.L.P. candidates for the
various House of Representatives candi-
dates ; in this lies the explanation for
that Left-wing and Communist-influenced
SENATOR BUTTFIELD
The Liberal exception
Executive’s tight control over the Vic-
torian Labor representatives in the
Federal Parliament).
Even in N.S.W. where there have been
rank-and-file ballots it is also very wise to
be “onside” with the State A.L.P. execu-
tive. Usually some irregularity occurs
in the ballot and in the washup it is
the Executive which ends up doing the
selecting.
Even honest reform can bring extra-
ordinary results. Fred Campbell, N.S.W.
State A.L.P. president until recently, had
worried for years about the N.S.W.
method of selecting Senate candidates.
So he introduced what was described as
an electoral college system. On paper
it looked foolproof. But those backing
major candidates worked out that if
they combined and put the sitting Senator
(in this case Johnny Armstrong, one of
the capable of Labor’s Senate representa-
tives) last in the order of their preferences
he could not win even if two-thirds of
the college wanted him. They would by
this method create a vacancy for which
they could then proceed to fight between
themselves.
It worked this way and Armstrong has
now lost his A.L.P. pre-selection though
his Senate term does not end until June
30 next. Labor has now decided to
scrap the electoral college scheme asi
unworkable. But that cannot be much
consolation to Armstrong who had no
chance of winning, however popular he
might be with the majority- of the
college.
Illustrative of the way in which the
Senate is in some ways a much more
rewarding haunt of the careerist than the
House of Representatives is what hap-
pened when Wright and Wood staged
their defiance of the Government at the
end of last session over the extra sales
tax which the Government proposed to
impose on motor vehicles as part of its
financial programme.
If Wood and Wright had persisted with
their opposition it could have resulted in
a double - dissolution and possibly cost
some of the sitting Senators the remainder
of their six years’ term (they all have
to face the people when there is a double
dissolution).
One Liberal Senator was quite confi-
dent (and told the Ministry so) that it
would never reach the point of a double-
dissolution, regardless of whether or not
Wright and Wood persisted with their
opposition which had wiped out the
Government’s majority and deadlocked
the Senate (a deadlocked vote in the
Senate is resolved in the negative).
Why was the Liberal Senator so confi-
dent? He had been drinking and talking
with a Senator whose party’s official deci-
sion was to vote against the legislation but
who still had four of his six years’ term to
run and no prospect of getting party re-
endorsement at the end of his term. Said
the garrulous Senator “I'll vote against
the legislation at this stage. But 1 won’t
be voting against it a second time.’’ (Two
negative Senate votes are necessary
before the Prime Minister can ask the
Governor-General for a double-dissolu-
tion). “Why should I vote against it?
I’ve worked it out that if I helped to
bring about a double dissolution, I’d be
losing more than £lO,OOO. That’s what
four more years in this job is worth to
me. I’d be a mug, wouldn’t I, to throw
away that much dough?”
As it happened, he was not called upon
to do this. Wright’s abstention meant
that the legislation was certain of the
passage it ultimately got.
That is the Senate, a quite quaint
mixture of personalities, some smarting
under the. sense of being inferior to the
House of Representatives, others indif-
ferent to much more than the fact that
they have good jobs and want to keep
them, some hard workers, some cheerful
and cynical loafers for the Australian
Senate, like a university, is what the
individual Senator desires to make out of
it.
And he can make much or little. The
choice is his far more than it is in the
House of Representatives, where he is
under closer and more constant super-
vision by his colleagues and electors alike.


PERSONAL
Pearl Man
with a Problem
CTtong in a one-room flat in King’s
Cross, Sydney, is a man with a
secret that he wants to share —but, it
seems, he is casting his pearls before
swine for all the notice anyone is taking
of him.
Dennis George is one of the few men
outside the closely-guarded Japanese
cultured-pearl industry who can treat an
oyster in such a way that within 18
months it yields a perfect pearl worth
up to £BO on the world market.
He is surrounded by pearls, pearl-shell,
oysters in bottles, instruments, maps, and
the best library on pearl culture outside
Japan. He is prepared to teach any Aus-
tralian how to grow pearls (the Japanese
he is disillusioned with, for reasons which
will become clear). And he promises
that within two years he can impart the
knowledge that he acquired so slowly
and painfully and, it seems, fruitlessly.
George arrived in Sydney from Greece
in 1949. He worked as a storeman, a
factory-hand, a clerk, a driver —anything
to learn the language. Then, in 1950, he
read something about the Japanese cul-
tured-pearl industry.
He had the idea of using Japanese
techniques with Australian shell, which
was reputed to grow pearls more quickly
than the shells found in Japanese waters.
The difficulties, though, were stagger-
ing. How was he to find but if the
theory would work? The distances
between Sydney and the tropical waters
were immense ; and there was no tech-
nical information available in libraries
or museums.
George began inspecting oyster-shells
along the Australian coast. In 1953 he
found specimens in Moreton Bay which
looked like those the Japanese used. He
worked on hundreds of these, trying to
find the way of opening the shell without
killing the oyster.
Tt was so difficult that he realised he
■*- would have to study the whole
anatomy and life-cycle of the oyster. He
put specimens in formalin, and returned
to Sydney, his money gone. Back on
the road he went, driving trucks between
Sydney and Melbourne. At places like
Goulburn or Gundagai, whenever he had
a break, he pulled out his specimens and
notebooks and went to work.
From 1952 to 1954 he worked with the
Japanese-type shell, moving always fur-
ther up the coast. In 1955 he had reached
Cairns, and had begun to study the Aus-
tralian black-lip shell, which grows bigger
than the oyster.
By this time George had received a
little information from the C.5.1.R.0.,
some of whose members had done work
on shells and their habits.
He found the black-lip shell very diffi-
cult to work with. He wrote to the
Japanese, and got no replies. A letter
to the Australian Embassy in Japan, ask-
ing for information, was returned to him.
But after six years’ study he felt he
knew something about the shells, at least,
and moved to Thursday Island to start
learning about pearls. He took a lease
on Packie Island, just off the coast, and
in 1956 established the first pearl-farm
in Queensland. (In fact, he believes it
was the. first Australian pearl-farm ever
established ; the Japanese had, of course,
already moved into Western Australia,
with Australian partnership and United
States capital, but no Australian has ever
been allowed to do the actual pearl-culture
in any Japanese company.)
“Pearl culture is marine work of the
highest complexity,” says George. “To
do it a man really needs many specialised
sets of knowledge. First he must be a
diver. Then he must have scientific and
biological knowledge of shells. He must
be an instrument-maker, to fabricate the
fine tools required for the operation. He
must be a fitter and engineer, to build
the cages to keep the oysters—l mean,
DENNIS GEORGE
Pearls Before Swine
soldering is pretty easy if you know how
to do. it, but if you don’t ...”
A fter two years George finally mastered
the technique of the implantation-
the secret that was discovered in Japan
50 years ago or more, and has been
guarded by the Japanese Government and
people like Mikimoto ever since.
The shell is prised open no more than
half an inch, or less (just wide enough to
insert fine instruments) and held in a
clamp. A small slit is made in the body
of the oyster, and a tiny piece of the
mantle of another live oyster is inserted,
“This,” says George, “eventually grows
into the first coating round the nucleus,
after which the layers of pearl are
deposited.”
The nucleus is then put into the same
slit, the shell permitted to close, and
the oyster put back into the water. The
nucleus, incidentally, is like a small pearl
itself, and the best are cut from the thick
Union clam shells found only in the
Mississippi River.
George's activities finally attracted the
attention of Mr Mikimoto himself, who
offered him a partnership in a pearl-farm
deal on Thursday Island. George, who
had registered a company in his own
name but had, after 10 years’ work, no
capital, was keenly interested.
In March, 1960, he went to Japan to
negotiate. He told both the Japanese
Government and the industry that he was
interested only in a 50-50 venture. They
agreed, but George, soon realising that
he would not get a genuine 50-50 partner-
ship, came back disillusioned.
“They proposed the following, which
they said was dictated by the Government,
We would be equal partners, but they
would supply all the pearl-operators—no
Australians would even see that part of
the work. Half the pearls produced
would be for the Australian partner, half
for the Japanese.
“The Japanese would buy the Austra-
lian share of pearls—no free sale was
contemplated—for not much over their
production cost —say, £lO per monme
(That’s the Japanese unit of weight for
pearls. One monme is about three
grams.)
“The Japanese would also sell their
own share of pearls in Japan, and pay
the Australian partner anything they
obtained over production cost, less their
own expenses.
“This was clearly unfair. It meant
that Australian pearls would return about
£lO per monme to Australia. But the
export price from Japan is more like £4O
per monme, and the average resale price
in the States is at least £BO per monme.”
So George won’t have anything to do
with the Japanese —although, he says,
a number of Australian businessmen are
going in with the Japanese in various
places round the Australian coast on
this Japanese-dictated basis.
All George wants, he says, is for some-
body in Australia to become interested
in pearl-farming. He has written to the
Queensland Government, suggesting the)
look into it. So far he has had an
acknowledgment, but no evidence of any
action.
“All I want to do is to find a


young people interested in something
eW) ” he says sadly. “But here they all
have too much of a good time with
their cars and their girlfriends . . . ”
• •
first Lieutenant
When 22-year-old Harry Tamarau was
commissioned from cadetship to a
lieutenancy in the Salvation Army by
Commissioner Frederick Coutts at Sydney
Town Hall last week he made history:
he'was the first Papuan native officer to
be so appointed. Not that he had been
any stranger to Christianity before he
joined the Sallies. He comes of a strong
missionary family. His grandfather had
been an ordained Congregational minister
until his death three years ago ; all his
uncles and aunts are in the same ministry.
His fuzzy hair short-clipped in Western
style, his wide-set black eyes frank and
friendly, Harry has a wide and engaging
smile which springs often to his face ; he
vibrates energy and enthusiasm. But there
is a cut about him that suggests thq deter-
mined reformer. When he speaks of the
need to lift his people out of ignorance
in things medical and spiritual his voice
takes on an unmistakeable seriousness
and sincerity. And when he says, refer-
ring to his forthcoming work in his native
Port Moresby and *of the theological
studies he will continue by correspon-
dence with the training-college in Sydney,
that he hopes to do well “by the grace
of God,” the phrase has not the slightest
ring of self-consciousness about it.
The Army caught up with Harry—or
perhaps Harry with the Army—about
three years ago, when he was in Native
Affairs Administration. He was aware
that he would have been better off finan-
cially had he stopped in Government
service. Then he got to thinking he
might do his own people a service if he
could help break down “the barriers,”
as he puts it; so he resigned and put in
a year at the Salvation Army’s Koki
Hostel. His commission came as the
culmination of 10 months’ intensive train-
ing in Australia.
• e
Theatre to the People
When Neil Hutchison did the 8.8. C.
commentary from the annex at the
coronation of George VI there was no
difficulty in filling Westminster Abbey.
As head of the A.B.C. drama and fea-
tures department he didn’t have to worry
about filling halls or seats. But since last
year, when he became Executive Director
of the Australian Elizabethan Theatre
Trust . . .
If the people wouldn’t come to the
theatre, he would take the theatre to the
People. Trust members were five to one
against a Kings Cross theatre because
of parking difficulties ; hence the Palace
deal, which secures the Trust a theatre in
the heart of Sydney. “This,” he says,
will put on the spot all those people who
alleged that Newtown was inaccessible,
w >th no taxis, no buses—most of the
audiences still come by public transport
'-and no meals in comfort. Melbourne?
Well, it’s the same thing. The Union
theatre is unfavorably placed deep in
the University grounds.”
Also, his past is catching up with him.
He established the A.B.C. Writers’
Workshop, because of which the A.B.C.
this year will televise as many Australian
plays as overseas plays. Now his TV
shows will stop people coming to his
theatres. Last year he went abroad. “At
present,” he says, “TV is doing the theatre
no good. Up to the summer recess,
650,000 less seats were sold in New York.
It was something the same in England.
Outstanding shows were doing as well as
ever, but there were fewer of them.”
The world's dramatists haven’t helped
him, either. “Since the war there has
been more creative work in musicals:
‘South Pacific,’ ‘West Side Story,’ ‘Kiss
Me, Kate,’ ‘Kismet,’ ‘The • Most Happy
Fella,’ and ‘Candide.’ There has been
comparatively little, creative work in
straight drama —a lot of emphasis on
violence and passion, and a feeling that
sex has recently been discovered. Shakes-
peare knew that as well as emotion and
violence there was tenderness and love ;
he presented human personality as a
unity. That is why so many who were
offended by ‘Cat on a Hot Tin Roof’
could understand the horrible dilemma
of Othello.”
Hutchison’s only other handicap, he
says, is being presented as another Eng-
lishman who has got a big Australian
job ; he is a New Australian who has had
since 1945 to pick up the language, his
only un-Australian activity being the
reading of poetry, his only dark secret
the suspicion of writing it.
6 e
Into the Silence:—
In Sydney, at 79, Ernest Graham, former
chairman and managing director of Grace
Bros. He came to Australia from England
in 1906, and joined the firm, then a partnership,
as senior furniture buyer. He was largely res-
ponsible for Grace Bros.’ fame in the furni-
ture and furnishings trade ; the store’s furni-
ture section grew till it occupied three-and-a-
half acres. V .
In Melbourne, at 67, Maurice Patrick Sheehy,
twice mayor of Richmond and a councillor for
15 years. He was M.L.C. for Melbourne for
six years until his defeat in 1958.
The Australian Novelists
I. MORRIS WEST
Although Morris
West could never
be called a nove-
list’s novelist (he is,
for one thing, too
successful), he is a
good example of a
species rare in Aus-
tralia : a crafts-
man who decided
to make a best-
seller, and suc-
c e e d e d. “The
Devil’s Advocate”
was in the top 10
simultaneously in
the U.S., Britain
and Australia.
After some years
as a teacher in a
Catholic school,
West began writ-
ing soap-operas for
Australian co m-
mercial radio, and" thrillers under the
name of Michael East. To compen-
sate for the poor returns, he stepped-
up his output of serials to the point
where he woke up one day in a
nursing-home—-and decided to turn
himself into a novelist.
A long visit to Europe gave him the
chance. “Children of the Sun,” a can-
didly observed account of slum life in
Naples, made him a lot of money.
(It also suggested, briefly, that here
might be a Catholic Orwell.) West
settled down in Newport, Sydney, to
write his “big” novels “It was a two-
year gamble in time and money,” he
admits. His New York agent, a
shrewd New Englander named Paul
Reynolds, helped him get the MS.
finished.
Then cables began to arrive at
West’s place in Newport.
Reynolds thought
the novel was great,
but made a few
suggestions. The
publishers raved
over it, but wanted
certain changes.
The critics who
were shown it fan-
cied its chances,
with amendments.
In typical Madison
Avenue fashion, it
was taste - tested,
depth-probed, and
evaluated, and was
a guaranteed best-
seller before it went
on sale.
At present West
is in New York
for the opening
on Broadway of
the dramatised
version of “The Devil’s Advo-
cate.” He may find the experi-
ence harrowing (although it has already
proved most rewarding), because the
writer-director-producer of the play
is Dore Schary, one of Hollywood’s
most vulgar producers, the man who
killed something in film-director John
Huston (Schary hired Huston to direct
Stephen Crane’s Civil War Classic “The
Red Badge of Courage,” then brutally
re-shaped it himself, claiming that it
had “no story.”)
West still looks unhappy at the
effort required to stay at the top. “My
big worry is the next one,” he says.
It is about the conflict between science
and society, and he has had more than
one go at it. His critics are waiting to
see what he can do with something not
based, as they claim, on the commer-
cial exploitation of Catholic dogma.


Australian School-days—I
The Things You Learnt at State School
By GAVIN CASEY
There could have been few, if any,
places in the world more suitable
for being a boy in than the Kal-
goorlie of my school-days. The
town was big, vigorous and full of life,
yet it was not a city that engulfed and
limited one. It overflowed into the bush,
and this was the real bush, not just a
pattern of farms and roads.
It was flat country, covered with low,
grey scrub, perhaps dull to adult eyes,
but fascinating to us. It was full of
romantically interesting things, shallow
lakes that were often dry but sometimes
filled with water and ducks, rabbits to
hunt, dams in which to swim, abandoned
leases and workings on which to play
dangerous but most satisfying games.
We used to pedal many miles, hunting
and “camping,” getting punctures from
the “doublegees,” cooking bits of meat
and heating up the pies our mothers had
made in the Fettlers’ Huts, seven miles
along the trainline to Menzies. You
could not get lost in that flat country,
because except on the cloudiest of days
(and there were seldom days which were
cloudy at all) the great cloud of smoke
and dust that hung over the big mines of
the Golden Mile could be seen for miles.
Just head for that, and you were right.
One day when we were big boys, about
thirteen, Mick Kyle and I were out at
Gidgee Lakes, about ten miles from town.
We had hunted unsuccessfully, smoked a
lot of cigarettes, and become bored. We
started to swear, just for practice, and
soon the bush was ringing with all the
oaths we knew. There seemed to be no-
body for miles to hear us, and it was
most enjoyable.
Then, out of the bush, wheeling his
bike, with his shotgun tied to its top
bar and his waterbag hanging under it,
walked Billy Miller, who was at that
time our teacher in “Seventh Industrial”
at the Kalgoorlie Central School. There
was a lot of embarrassed silence, very
suddenly.
Billy Miller was, of course, far too
wise and too much a gentleman to then
or ever mention what he had heard, and
we had a fine day in the bush with him.
Billy was a fine schoolteacher and, as far
as I can judge it, by far the best influence
of all my school-days.
Tn the course of a State School educa-
tion you have teachers you like and
ones you don’t, but your luck is bad if
they do not average out pretty well. In
fact, your luck is out if you don’t strike
at least one or two who really inspire
you, accelerate your interest in learning,
and fill you with the hope that you will,
one day, be men like them.
I’d liked Mr Vincent, in Sixth at North
Kalgoorlie State School, and Miss
Sweeny, who had “taken” us for English
and who praised my “compositions.” But
when Billy got me I became* as close to
enthusiasm for study as I have ever been.
Billy was a large, eagle-featured, slow-
spoken man who understood boys, and
perhaps particularly my kind of a boy.
Before the educational theorists had
reduced it to formula and methods, he
worked hard to make hours in school as
interesting and enjoyable as hours out of
school.
One of the reasons, but only a minor
one, why I was happy with Billy was
that neither he nor I believed in corporal
punishment, in days when the cane usually
swung pretty freely. My way of oppos-
ing it for several years had been to
invite “the cuts” by persistent laziness
and misbehavior, get them, refuse to
cry, then shrug it off and boast about it.
The year before I reached Billy’s class
I scored a “possible” and held the record
—the maximum of six cuts, every school-
day. Then that business suddenly
stopped, for Billy never caned anybody
or had anybody caned by the Head.
Sometimes, if your sins were unbear-
able, he sent you off to the Head’s office
to be punished. In such a case, you just
walked slowly, and long before you
reached the danger-zone, another boy
would be sent scampering after you to
bring you back.
Once when we were in another room,
under a teacher in a special subject,
Billy came to get Charlie Bell and myself,
because we had topped the class in an
exam., and were therefore to have that
afternoon the honor and pleasure of tak-
ing the punching-ball and the footballs up
to Armstrong’s cycle store to get them
inflated. One of the major pleasures of
my school-days was watching the stunned,
unbelieving look on the other teacher. A
great cane-swinger himself, he simply
could not believe that Casey would ever
be anywhere but at the bottom of the
class in everything. That man may have
known his subject, but he did not know
me.
As far as I’m aware, Billy Miller never
rose very high in the Education Depart-
ment. Last I heard of him, he was head
of a not-too-large country school, and
he had cause to write to me when I was
overseas. In the letter, he told me just
about everything that had happened since
to all my schoolmates in that class of
many years earlier. It was typical of him
that he should have followed so carefully
all their ups and downs, their successes
and failures, and I have no doubt he did
so for all the many years he taught.
"Dut this cane that I disliked so much
did not make life particularly hellish
for us, except, perhaps, for a very few
delicate or sensitive ones. Our world
was full of fun, and small adventures
and sin of sorts that might, these days!
have made us “juvenile delinquents” and
got us headlines in the papers.
There was some bullying and childish
cruelty. We threw stones at streetlights
and ran like rabbits if we hit one. We
carried leather straps that would wort
penny-chocolate machines, and we had
“pushes” that sometimes got into real
trouble. When this happened, and some
unfortunate kid went off to the Reforms
tory there was awe and terror, and many
good resolutions were made.
Few suffered such harsh penalties, how l
ever. Those were the days of large, not
very well-educated but shrewd policemen*
who would cuff your ear or boot your
tail if they felt it warranted. They rode
large, heavy, ugly bicycles which were
as recognisable as their boots, and if
you had a guilty conscience, and when)
you came home from school the police
man’s bike was resting against your fence,:
you weren’t game To go inside. You were
in hot water if you did, and every dad!
had a razor-strop.
My own dad died when I was ten, so
I never enjoyed much of his guidance,
with the strop or otherwise. But those
were times when any man had time for a
boy who had questions to ask, or fora
widow who had problems with her grow-
ing son. There weren’t many Social
Services, but there were lots of good
neighbors and warm friendship.
While Billy Miller opened my eyes to
all the fascinating things there were inf
books, Police Constable Morris Dunn,
along the street, taught me how to sole,
heel, and otherwise repair a pair of boots,
I went getting firewood with him, and lie
taught me how to handle firearms safely,
and a lot more about being a better bush-
man than Mick Kyle and myself would
have become having swearing-orgies on
our own out at Gidgee Lakes.
After State School days, I did night
classes withqut learning very much at
the Kalgoorlie School of Mines. Those
who thought they had a commercial bent
could go to High School. Only the sons
of people with money could think about
the University in faraway Perth, or an);
thing like that, and there was a lack oe
secondary education for those whose
interest was in things other than engineer-
ing or accountancy and the like.
In spite of this, I have now manage*
for many years to earn my living out'
side both commerce and industry, a»
the plain, hard-working, no-nonsense
grounding we got in my State School days
was a good background for it. With*
push along from occasional inspire
teachers like Billy Miller it developed i"
us tastes, a keen curiosity about those
things that set fire to our minds. ' I
And in those days there was a lifetim*
ahead to find out more, and, it seem e(l
to do all the wonderful things P
awaited doing.


OVERSEAS
Looking Behind Our Backs
By “OBSERVER”
Some enemies of Communism are also
among the worst enemies of anti-
communism. These are the pessimists
who, for propaganda or pathological
reasons, insist all of the time that the
Russians hold all of the tricks, that the
Western democracies are inevitably weak
but Russian tyranny is inevitably strong.
If this is deliberate scaremongering, it
is misguided in its motives. The West’s
real weapon against the threats made'
against it is above all to maintain its
morale, its belief in its separate existence
and its ability to win ; it has the strength
to win ; but it must use it. Given this,
it is senseless to try to maintain anti-Com-
munism by attacking people’s nerves;
the dangers of Russian strength and diplo-
macy should be stressed but their weak-
nesses should also be stressed and above
all the kind of positive action that the
West can take should always be outlined.
Most of us have been born to too soft
a life. Our training kept from us the
fact that life is often a series of improvisa-
tions between disasters. Many New Aus-
tralians knew this, men who have fought
in the services know it, men who have to
solve practical difficulties may still know
it. But the whole prevailing easiness of
life in the nineteen-sixties, combined with
the ludicrous conception of history given
to us, makes it almost impossible to
accept the fact that (with luck) we are
going to spend the rest of our lives in
comfort with an endless possibility of
immediate and final external disaster.
We do not even congratulate ourselves
on this change from the normal human
condition (which is to endlessly expect
disaster from a position of discomfort).
This demand for perfection in human
1 existence can make even convinced
anti - Communists susceptible to Mr
Khrushchev’s policy of putting on alter-
nately his I-believe-in-peaceful-coexistence
and his it’s-back-to-the-cold-war faces
They take so seriously the view that the
Russians hold all the tricks and they con-
sider “tension” to be so -abnormal and
unnerving in international relations
(whereas it is the normal state of affairs)
that, against their better judgment, they
begin to dream of a deal at the summit,
forgetting that Khrushchev wants neither
Peace nor war, but victory.
Meanwhile, as Mr Richard Lowenthal
Points out in the current “Encounter,”
the really important thing that is happen-
lng is not the stops-and-starts policy
(which was used by Stalin, too) but the
fact that the cold war is now all over
the place. Communism no longer
Marches forward only from its own
borders. Khrushchev now has footholds
everywhere. Stalin “never committed the
Power and prestige of the Soviet to any
political action outside a geographically
contiguous area in Europe, the Middle
East and the Far East . . . Khrushchev,
on the other hand, has developed a truly
world - wide policy. He feels strong
enough to apply the full weight of Soviet
diplomacy, with the ultimate backing of
the Soviet military potential at every
crisis-point on the globe, without regard
to geographical contiguity.” There is
now nowhere where the West does not
have to look behind its back.
And just as the pessimists saw Stalin
in Paris in the nineteen-forties and Mao-
Tse-Tung in Sydney in the nineteen-fifties
they now see Khrushchev in every “under-
developed” nation in the nineteen-sixties.
Communists no longer confine themselves
to military occupation of contiguous
territories; they will gqvern the non-
committed world by threats, aid, technical
experts and powerful P.R. That is cer-
tainly what Khrushchev thinks they will
do but so far, although they have had
limited successes (Guinea, Cuba, etc.) they
have had failures (Egypt, Iraq, etc.).
T owenthal’s explanation of the
changes in power structure that
caused this disease also provides keys to
its cure. He says, acutely, that the
difference between Khrushchev’s and
Stalin’s diplomacy reflect five main
changes in world power:
1. The growth in territory and power
potential of the Soviet bloc has led to a
more expansionist and adventurous
foreign policy than Stalin’s continuation
of Tsarist contiguous territorial expan-
sion.
2. The growth of a genuine Western
Alliance has created a unity amongst the
enemies of Russia that makes senseless
Stalin’s policy of letting the “imperialist”
camp rend itself apart: other policies are
needed.
3. The development of long distance
rockets means that threats can be rattled
anywhere, not simply on frontiers.
4. The nuclear stalemate, in which
World war is improbable, means that the
old dread of encirclement is now over,
and that the Russians can take a risk
in local areas not vital to the West.
5. And the emergence of a “Third
World” of neutralist ex-colonial nations
means both that the Russians can now
manoeuvre the United Nations to their
advantage and that they now actually
have a world in revolution which, as
technicians of revolution, they might be
able to exploit.
This situation is different from the
cosiness of containment. It calls for
greater flexibility and even greater nerve.
But it is by no means hopeless.
The fact that the growth of the Soviet
bloc has led to a series of adventures
beyond the territories contiguous to its
borders can be an occasion for optimism
as for pessimism. “Internal police
actions” are no longer possible. Every
Castro can now be his own Tito. The
Russians could run their tanks into Hun-
gary and get away with it. But they can’t
run them across the Atlantic Ocean—as
long as the West makes its clear than the
threat to bludgeon a rebellious Govern-
ment back into alliance is a threat of
nuclear war.
The fact that the West is now in per-
manent voluntary alliance while the Euro-
Asian part of the Soviet bloc is held to-
gether only by terror is so obviously one
up for us that it is a symptom of the
dispirit and pessimism of so many com-
mentators that they make so little of it.
Khrushchev now has all of the anxieties
of holding a colonial empire together ;
we gave ours away. And, although
Khrushchev occasionally tries the old
Stalin trick of playing the anti-Russian
powers off against each other, only lack
of nerve in one of them would ever
make him succeed. If the Western Alli-
ance could withstand the multilateral
backstabbings of Suez, it can probably
withstand anything.
The fact that the development of long
distance rockets means that Khrushchev
can rattle his threats anywhere need not
mean much if we assume he will not use
them. As Lowenthal points out, Khrush-
chev threatens rockets only over issues
(such as Suez and Cuba) where it is safe ;
“Daily Express,” London.
“WERE TOO OLD! WE ONCE SELF-GOVERNED OURSELVES FOR YEARS
AND YEARS AND YEARS ...”


he did not threaten to pump rockets into
the Lebanon when the Americans inter-
vened there. And all of his rocket threats
have failed to dislodge the Americans
from even one base.
The fact that nuclear stalemate means
that he might risk an adventure in a local
area with which the West is not immedi-
ately concerned means that the West
should be concerned all the time with
every local area. If it means that, the
nuclear stalemate can be to our advan-
tage. It can mean that the Russians will
be afraid to attempt anything beyond aid
and P.R.
The fact that the “Third World” of
neutralist powers has emerged means not
that Khrushchev has won the game (nor
that we should slobber all over the grass-
roots of every mighty new nation of two-
million people) but that we must change
our diplomacy. For a while we had the
United Nations as much in the bag as
anyone could ever hope to have it; now
we haven’t; but we can still use it to our
advantage ; we just have to be more
subtle and more flexible about it. In deal-
ing with the leaders of neutralist coun-
tries the West must learn to give all and
in the way of commit-
ment. The West has mote to give than
the Communists—and less to demand
We do not even want neutralist nations
to be anti-Communist; if they are non-
Communist, that will do. The Nationalist
flavor of all of the neutralist nations is,
in this, fundamentally on our side. Al-
though their nationalism may be directed
against individual members of the
Western Alliance at particular times it is
now finally threatened only by the Com-
munists.
Khrushchev will have his successes in
the neutralist nations—he has already had
some—but if we conduct our diplomacy
from the viewpoint of self-interest, rather
than pride, we can end up with most of
the victories. We no longer need other
people’s armies—the Americans have
enough nuclear weapons to kill every-
body. We simply need the final non-
commitment of the neutralists to the
Communist side.
And, in general (another point from
“Stalin’s greatest personal
limitation was his pathological distrust of
all forces outside his direct control ;
Khrushchev’s chief weakness is clearly
over-confidence. That over-confidence is
partly a matter of personal temperament,
partly a natural consequence of the
release of the energies of a great power
from the cramping rigidities of Stalin’s
last years.
“It is also due, partly, to the accident
that all the new Soviet initiatives for a
world-wide competition against the West
. . . were taken during a period when
Western policy was unusually unimagina-
five and unsure, owing to the vacancy of
American leadership in the now ending
Eisenhower era. So far, Mr Khrushchev
has been vigorously “competing” against
a drowsy opponent. He has yet to meet
an awakened one.”
Certainly, if over-confidence and over-
optimism are disadvantages, there may be
strength on our side.
Ethiopia
Why did the Revolt Fail?
By C. JESMAN
Tt is still too early for a detailed post-
A mortem of the Ethiopian mutiny. It
is doubtful whether all the relevant facts
will ever come to light. There is an
obvious desire on the part of the Emperor
to draw a mantle of charity and ex-
pediency over the tragic events.
The dreadful slaughter of hostages, of
dignitaries and of humble people alike,
was presented by some observers as only
the most recent of the military “pro-
nunciamentos,” a traditional feature of
Ethiopian history. After all, Emperor
Haile Selassie I had himself emerged
from a galaxy of lesser princes into the
national limelight as the result of a
military uprising. But this is not a
satisfactory explanation: on the strictly
mundahe and political level the mutiny
was a classical example of treason, ambi
tion, cruelty and cant. The first, and
only, proclamation of the self-styled
government bore the imprint of “pro-
gressive” terminology.
The rebels spoke about “freeing
Ethiopia from the bondage and servitude
of the feudal yoke” which had oppressed
them for 3000 years. That would have
meant, in effect, the dissolution of the
imperial framework of the country. Yet
the rebels found some princes, and bullied
others at gun-point, to lend respectability
to their movement,
In Addis Ababa—-to which the revolt
was confined, for the rest of the country
remained loyal the rebels slaughtered
some of the best public servants Ethiopia
had. The Minister of Commerce and
Industry, Ato Makonnen Haptewold, was
proverbially honest. The Armenian mer-
chants in Addis Abada, and their Greek
competitors alike, used to complain bit-
terly about it: they blamed the late
Minister's probity on his gastric ulcers,
cramping their enterprise. Ras Abebe
Aregaye, Minister of Defence, was a
simple and endearing soldier, with no
personal fortune and a record of brilliant
military service and unsullied loyalty,
Both were butchered in cold blood,
The ferocity of the rebels in Addis
Ababa was wholly out of line with their
national tradition. Perhaps it was due
to the alien inspiration of their rebellion,
The personal betrayal of the Emperor
by the leaders of the mutiny was just
as uncharacteristic. They were all im-
perial favorites..Eij Hailemariam Kebede,
the ex-President of the Ethiopian House
of Deputies, and Girmama Newaye,
Governor of the Jig-Jiga Province, had
their university studies paid out of the
Emperor’s Privy- Purse, and brilliant
careers were opened to them. General
Menghistou Newaye, the leader of the
conspiracy, was a personal friend of the
Emperor. In the past, uprisings in
Ethiopia were organised by the enemies
of the reigning sovereign, not by his
friends.
Not everything was running smoothly
in Ethiopia. The absence of land reform,
the over-centralisation, the hieratic im-
mobility which impeded quick decisions,
could be considered to be the principal
shortcomings of the present system. There
is an enormous disparity between the rich
and the poor. But this is as much the
consequence of antiquated taxation, and
of millenial habits of mind, as of derelic-
tion of duty on the part of the authorities.
There is some speculation in official
circles. Neither absolutely nor relatively
had it ever approached the choice scan-
dals of the Third and Fourth French
Republics. It simmered quietly and none
too obtrusively. In this field, incidentally,
owing to the efforts of the just-murdered
Ato Makonnen Haptewold, the improve-
ment of morale "'was steady, consistent
and considerable.
The Emperor has always aimed at
modernising his country at a pace which
would not produce dangerous conflicts
between a modern outlook and tradi-
tional Ethiopian ways. He was himself
for many years in the forefront of the
progressive and forward-looking elements
of his country and promoted education
assiduously, retaining the Education port-
folio himself. It is quite possible that
recent growing contact between the newly
independent States of Africa and dis-
affected individuals at court may have
had something to do with the uprising,
which was carried out by a small group
of army officers together with a number
of disgruntled members of the educated
class. Now that the revolt has been
suppressed, Haile Selassie will have to
make an agonising reappraisal. The pace
of change will have to be quickened.
N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”
“GOOD HEAVENS— THAT STUFF IS
DANGEROUS”


The Crisis in Caracas
By VICTOR ALBA
For the space of three days recently
the streets of Caracas were a field
of battle between the students, the police
and the army. The democratic Govern-
ment of President Romulo Betancourt
(a coalition of the democratic parties)
has had to employ military force against
the students and against some groups
belonging, to the Communist party and
to the Revolutionary Movement of 1 the
Left. It seems to have been proved that
there were some old friends of dictator
Perez Jimenez among these groups, and
that the money for this revolt, and for
the arms found among the Communists
and the students, was provided by
elements of the government of Fidel
Castro.
It is important, when trying to grasp
the meaning of these Venezuelan events,
to recall their antecedents. In 1945, the
dictator Medina Angarita Was expelled
by a popular movement directed by the
Party for Democratic Action (which
Romulo Betancourt had founded), and
aided by young officers of the army.
Betancourt became the provisional Presi-
dent ; and honest elections, in 1947,
placed the novelist Romulo Gallegos in
power, but the army rebelled and expelled
him in 1948. Then, after ten years of
rule by terror, the dictator Perez Jimenez
was overthrown by the simultaneous
action of the masses, of the navy, and—
to a lesser extent—of the church.
During those ten years, the Commu-
nists had divided their forces. One group
joined the opposition, and was thereby
enabled to infiltrate the democratic
parties. Another group collaborated with
the dictator and made use of his police
to get the democratic leaders removed
from the trade unions, and to create a
highly efficient network of organisation
and propaganda.
In January, 1958, when Perez Jimenez
fell —and went into exile in Miami, taking
a fortune of many millions with him —
Admiral Larrazabal took power, and
ordered the elections of December, 1958.
These gave victory to Romulo Betan-
court all over the country, but not in the
capital, Caracas, where Larrazabal had
a majority, supported by the Party of
Republican Democratic Union, and by
the Communists.
Betancourt set up a coalition govern-
ment, including Democratic Action (his
own party) and the Republican-Demo-
cratic Union (a conservative party, that
of the businessmen).
The capitalists began to show signs of
lack of confidence in this democratic
government by sending their capital
abroad. Economic crisis and unemploy-
ment followed, which was promising
ground for Communist agitation. The
Communists, profiting by the organisa-
tion they had created under Perez
Jimenez thanks ta their alliance with
him, acquired enough influence over the
trade unions to make them separate from
the 0.R.1.T. (the Inter - American
Organisation of Free Trade Unions) and
to sign a pact of friendship with the
Cuban trade unions after Castro’s victory.
The people and the Government of
Venezuela gave Castro a good deal of
help in 1958, the decisive year of his
struggle in the Sierra. After Fidel Castro’s
triumph, the first journey he made was
to Caracas. But little by little relations
the two countries cooled off.
Castro ceased to be an enemy of Trujillo,
against whom the Venezuelan Govern-
ment made complaints of aggression.
Trujillo had organised an assassination
attempt against Betancourt, in which the
President was rather seriously wounded,
and' one consequence of this was that
the American countries in conference at
San Jose (August, 1960) decided to sever
their diplomatic relations with the tyrant
of the Antilles.
Meanwhile, in the heart of the Demo-
cratic Action party, a number of youths
influenced by Fidelism were continually
making trouble. Under pressure from the
trade union leaders in the party, Demo-
cratic Action decided to expel D. A.
Rangerl, the leader of the Fidelist fac-
“Daily Mail,” London.
tion, and his friends, who then formed
the Revolutionary Movement of the Left,
clamoring to do in Venezuela what Castro
was doing in Cuba. This movement
immediately allied itself with the Com-
munists: the troubles started soon after-
wards among the unemployed and the
students, and reached the point of blood-
shed in the last days of November.
That Trujillo, taking advantage of these
troubles, should be trying to injure his
enemy Betancourt, is logical. He hopes
that the army will expel Betancourt, re-
garding him as incapable of dealing with
the disorder. But why should the Com-
munists and the Fidelists attack a govern-
ment which does not command the con-
fidence of the local capitalists, which
has compelled the foreign oil companies
to surrender a higher percentage of their
revenues to the Venezuelan treasury','
which has given wide liberties to the trade
unions and has undertaken a very exten-
sive agrarian reform?
The answer is to be found within the
questions. It is because President Betan-
court’s regime is democratic ; shows a
respect for freedom (imposes no censor-
ship, even during the troubles); because
it carries out structural reforms, creates
schools, builds roads, redistributes the
land ; and all this without belying its
democratic character and without asking
for Soviet aid ... in short, it is because
the Betancourt regime is demonstrating
that real revolution can be made in Latin
America by pursuing democratic
methods. Neither the Communists nor
the Fidelists can tolerate the existence of
such a government.
That is the motive behind Castro’s
television attacks upon Betancourt —-
attacks which, in turn, have provoked the
trade unions of Venezuela to break their
pact with those of Cuba.
By forcing the government to shed
blood in repressive action against those
who always command popular sympathy
in Latin America, the students and the
unemployed, Betancourt’s enemies calcu-
lated that they could discredit the demo-
cratic revolution. To that end certain
students were armed, money was distri-
buted (probably obtained from Trujillo,
as the Venezuelan Government affirms)
and conflicts were provoked. The mass
responded in good faith. The leaders
knew that they could not achieve a
revolution of their kind (using Fidelist
methods), and that at the most they could
only incite the military to stage a coup
d’etat and overthrow Betancourt. But if
that came to pass they would have
attained their objective.
If Betancourt fails, the road before
Castro and his allies will have been made
much easier. Fortunately, Betancourt is
one of the most adroit and intelligent
politicians of the Left in South America
. . . But in such situations intelligence is
not always enough. Forcefulness is also
needed, and power, if a country is to be
prevented from being driven either into
the wasteland of civil war, or into the
cage of a military despotism.


OVERSEAS POINTERS
EUROPE
BELGIUM
The strike has revealed not only a
split between the bankers and the unions
who formerly could agree on dividing
the national wealth between them but
an even deeper division between the
monarchical Flemings and the republi-
can-minded, anti-clerical Walloons. The
strikers’ inability to enlist the support
of Flemish workers in large numbers has
meant they cannot bring irresistible
pressure to bear on the Government.
Moreover, the strikers’ efforts have been
discredited by the vandalism of hooligans
who, in one of many instances, shouted
strikers’ slogans while wrecking a bus
carrying women and children. Perhaps
the way out of the strike stalemate will
be found if the austerity proposals which
triggered it are shelved so that new elec-
tions can be held in peace.
WEST GERMANY
The* Indonesian Defence Minister,
General Nasution, stated in Dusseldorf
recently that in the past four years
Indonesia had received arms deliveries
from West Germany amounting to about
30,000,000 dollars. The Indonesian mili-
tary attache in Bonn added that these
purchases were made with the help of
the semi-official Hermes credit organisa-
tion. A German Foreign Ministry spokes-
man said, on January 4, that the sale
of rifles and machine-guns to Indonesia
had been approved by all the Western
allies, including Holland, and that the
Hermes organisation had not given any
financial assistance in this matter. He
added that the 30-million dollars might
have included other deliveries from West
Germany and that it was impossible to
make a check.
HUNGARY
Mr Gero, the former First Secretary
of the Hungarian Communist party,
has been allowed to return to Hungary
from Russia where he has been working
in a Moscow economic institute. Gero
was exiled to Russia for five years after
the 1956 rising and since then not only
Kadar's Government but also the
Russians have admitted that the leader-
ship of Gero and Rakosi was one of the
causes of the revolution. During the last
few years a number of people who held
important posts during the Rakosi period
have been allowed to take up minor, but
not governmental, posts and Gero’s re-
turn reinforces the impression that the
regime no longer feels threatened by-
reactionary or revisionary forces within
its ranks.
U.S.S.R.
The Russian Communist - party central
committee meeting on agriculture, post-
poned from December 13, was held
on January 10. Shortly before the meet-
ing, the head of agricultural inspection
in the Novosibirsk region implicitly-
criticised Khrushchev’s agricultural policy
in a letter to the Moscow daily “Country
Life.” He asked Khrushchev “to analyse
the complex and delicate problems raised
by land cultivation in Siberia,” then re-
quested greater independence for agrono-
mists and a more scientific attitude to all
agrarian questions.
BRITAIN
The United Kingdom’s most pressing
economic problem is “how -to improve
its productive potential at a greater rate
than has been customary in the past,
so as to match the performance of
other European countries.” This is one
of the major conclusions of a survey of
the British economy just released by the
Organisation for European Economic
Co-operation. It finds the imposition of
credit restrictions so shortly after re-
covery from the last recession regrettable
and advises that investment will have
to be substantially increased and exports
raised to a permanently higher level if
Britain is to break the cycle of alter-
nating expansion and austerity.
ASIA
NEPAL
On January 5 King Mahendra assumed
sole national leadership, banning politics
"for the present.” He claimed to act in
the interests of democracy which he
would build from below as attempts to
build it from above were a failure. Large
numbers of democratic politicians have
crossed into India, the Communist party
has gone underground and the deposed
Prime Minister, under military detention,
has demanded a trial for himself and
his colleagues as well as threatening a
hunger strike. King Mahendra said the
Nepali Congress Government had
brought the country very near to grave
danger ; their most dangerous act seems
to have been a moderate land reform
which gave some security to tenant
farmers and began the break-up of the
large feudal estates.
INDIA
Prime Minister Nehru has maintained
his policy of supporting national and
secular standards against the regional and
communal in his refusal to grant the
Akali Sikhs’ demands for a State of
their own. He has not even had to com-
promise by abolishing Hindu to make
Punjabi the sole official language of the
Punjabi State as was suggested when it
seemed that Sant Fateh Singh, fasting in
the courtyard of the golden temple of
Amristar, would die. He merely de-
ferred the whole matter, on January 9,
when Sant Fateh Singh broke his fast
after appeals from Mr Nehru and the
Akali Sikh political leader Master Tara
Singh. Cynics say the Akali Singh poli-
ticians were even more anxious than Mr
Nehru for the holy man to stop fasting
for if he died they would have to take
up the fast.
AFRICA
GHANA
In an address at University College,
Ghana, on January 4, Mr Amoako-
Atta said that during Ghana’s transition
to Socialism, starting this year, expatriate
commercial banks would continue to
exist but would be faced with no alterna-
tive but to contract out step by step. Mr
Amoako-Atta is deputy governor of the
Bank of Ghana and a member of the
study group which forms the educational
wing'of the ruling Convention People’s
Party.
RUANDI—URUNDI
United Nations observers will watch
the legislative elections held this month in
the Belgian trust territories, Ruandi-
Urundi. The elections wilf mark the
establishment of a democratic structure
and prepare the way for complete
autonomy in May or June when the two
territories will decide about independence
and political or economic union. Never-
theless, it is predictable that Mr Khrush-
chev will claim all the credit as a climax
to the role he is about to play-
liberator of Ruandi-Urundi.
AMERICA
PERU
Fidel Castro has not only been pre-
paring to fight the U.S.A. but also to
overthrow the Peruvian Government, to
assassinate President Manuel Prado and
other political leaders. At least Fidelisffl
seems to have been well in the mind o'
the Peruvian Senate when, on January 5,
it voted to outlaw the Communist party
and other “subversive organisations.”
The chief exhibit in the hearing about
the alleged plot was a sworn statement
from a former official of the Castro
regime. Moreover the Senate decided to
set up a congressional committee to in-
vestigate documents seized in a raid on
the Cuban Embassy in Lima.


Shows
Jeux des Free
THEATRE
Is this to be the pattern for the future?
A young Australian writer attracts
notice with his entry in a nation-wide play
competition, sponsored by G.M.H. and
jointly shares third prize.
His entry is subse-
quently produced in his
home State (South Aus-
tralia) and enthusi-
astically received. Next he moves on
to Melbourne ; the Elizabethan Theatre
Trust, suddenly conscious of a function
that just about everybody has assigned
to it but which it has hitherto done no-
thing about, signs him up for a season as
apprentice playwright with the Union
Theatre repertory company. For the next
few months he works backstage, making
a few minor appearances in such plays as
“Venus Observed,” “Moby Dick,” “The
Ghost Train” and “Sweeney Todd,” and
that is the last we hear of him for some
time.
Eventually his name crops up again,
connected this time to the production of
an Australian play which is to have its
premiere at the Melbourne Union. Mean-
while advance publicity explains that the
young playwright had been commissioned
by the theatre’s administrator and chief
producer, John Sumner, to base a play on
the best-selling novel, “The Mystery of
a Hansom Cab,” written by Fergus Hume
in the 1890 s.
The novel was a serious, straightfor-
ward thriller. The play, under the terms
of the commission, a melodrama. On the
opening night it is an instant hit, promis-
ing to be the outstanding box-office
success of the U.T.R.C’s current season.
Thus Adelaide’s Barry Pree has made
a name for himself ; but some reserva-
tions must surely be raised. Australian
theatre cries out for local writing rele-
vant to the times, or at least that demon-
strates an awareness of directions being
taken overseas, yet we are treated to the
spectacle of a young man dressed as his
great-grandfather and creating a hit be-
cause in 1961 he is so absurdly out of
date.
This reinforces one’s suspicions that if
.an Osborne, a Wesker, a Pinter is to
emerge in our midst he will do so by his
own means; grants, scholarships or
apprenticeships from the establishment
will either conventionalise him into one
of the old safe formulas, or transform
him into a popular mediocrity.
Nevertheless, most audiences will enjoy
Pree’s joke. He has handled his material
with style and imagination. To the stock
conventions of melodrama he has intro-
duced musical effects off-stage, and on-
stage a street-singer narrator to weld the
separate parts into an almost coherent
whole, and a considerable amount of
tally, and sometimes illuminating, music-
hall dance and song routines.
a ,^ ume s novel presented a picture of
Melbourne in the most colorful of black-
and-white shades, evil unmistakably on
the one side, good on the other. This
was at a time when, we learn, vice ran
unchecked through the streets of Mel-
bourne, particularly Little Bourke Street,
bushrangers were a commonplace around
the now deceptively genteel wilds »of
Toorak and status seekers out for re-
spectable and elegant lodgings looked no
further than the St Kilda esplanade.
Nothing Pree’s here-and-there thread-
bare script needed more was skilled pro-
duction and really talented acting: for-
tunately he was on the receiving end of
both. George Ogilvie and John Sumner
combined on the production and revealed
an inventiveness in collaboration which
has not always characterised their work
individually, while a breakdown in a cast
which could boast such names as Lewis
Fiander, Fred Parslow, Mary Hardy,
Patsy King, Robert Hornery (where did
he get that face? it is his greatest single
talent), and Malcolm Phillips was simply
out of the question.
A. S. Jorgensen.
“The Miser”
One mark of good production lies in
apt use of material on hand. Finding
himself assigned by the Elizabethan
Theatre Trust to open the Festival of
Perth drama season in the University
Sunken Garden with Moliere’s “Miser,”
Raymond Westwell (newly appointed
Director of Perth’s National Theatre,
who has come via Stratford-on-Avon
and Dundee Repertory) brought wit,
imagination, and notable virtuosity to
the solving of formidable problems.
Intimate drama in the open air is in
itself a contradiction. Mr Westwell
designed a pewter-tinted spider-web set
with twin arches placed to open on to
garden pools, added a few pewter-blue
brocaded chairs, and allowed floods,
spots, and candles to do the rest. The
result was the most elegant and con-
vincing indoor scene yet created on the
lawn and at the same time permitted
movement behind the set to emphasise
the garden never absent from Harpagon’s
mind, since there he had buried his cash.
Miles Malleson’s adaptation of the
French classic is well suited to a romantic
background and readily indulged the in-
troduction of music and ballet in line
with the original 17th century presenta-
tions. But the cameo-cut edge of Moliere’s
satire undoubtedly suffered some blur-
ring due to manipulations, omissions,
and even additions, of the English
translator.
Clad in a disreputable dark dressing-
gown, the English actor Alexander Arch-
dale, who played Harpagon, fluttered
swiftly back and forth like a huge dis-
abled moth, a neurotic miser querulous
with anxiety but implacable: a more
human and humorous figure than the
monster of Moliere's intention. Ric
Hutton (Valere) came from Sydney to
“manipulate” all situations with grace
and style, while Michael Laurence
(Cleante), looking like a handsome young
Charles II in his dark wig, adroitly
whisked away the centuries between now
and then.
Dorothy Krantz gave one of her best
performances as the intriguing Frosine,
Margaret Anketell, a young Western Aus-
tralian who has recently returned with
honors gained at the London Royal
Academy of Dramatic Art, and Mary
Reynolds, another Perth actress just
graduated from the National Institute of
Dramatic Art in Sydney, made a charm-
ing pair as Elise and Marianne, achieving
a nice contrast between sparkling resolu-
tion and tender-hearted sensibility.
Particularly noteworthy was the over-
all excellence of enunciation —too often
in the past words have been lost in the
open air. Archdale’s light voice,
pleasantly emphasised by the deeper tones
of the young men, was cast with ease,
especially in the miser’s lament when he
stood alone in the garden, spot-lit high
on the stone stairway. In fact, the
orchestration of voices was as beguiling
as the swift flowing movement that took
in the entire space without either sacrific-
ing concentration or dispersing interest.
Altogether the performance achieved
high comedy, well-polished; if one
missed the stark and glittering French
precision, that lack must be debited to
Malleson, certainly not to either players
or producer.
H.D-B.
“Happy Hangovers**
Ever since the 1960 Festival of Arts
South Australian theatre people have
developed the idea of theatrical specialisa-
tion. Intimate Opera flourishes at a high
level in Adelaide, whereas it scarcely
exists in Sydney or Melbourne. An
Intimate Revue Company was also
launched in 1960 on a semi-professional
basis, modelled on Sydney’s Phillip
Street, and determined to lick Phillip
Street at its own game.
Given Adelaide’s small population and
paucity of theatres, the Flinders Street
Revue Company set themselves a tough
proposition. “Happy Hangovers” was
run over Christmas and January
season as an anthology of all their
previous revues, and it provided a chance
to assess progress.
At this stage the provincials have it
all over their big revue brothers in
Sydney in only the music. The astonish-
ing Dave Dallwitz, painter, recorder
player, jazz trombonist, pianist, com-
poser, is one of Australia’s jazz greats
from the Golden Age of Roger Bell
and Lazy Ade Monsborough. Phillip
Street music appears tired and derivative
indeed against the spirit, wit, and origin-
ality of the freakish Dallwitz. But in all
other respects “Happy Hangovers” has


attained a notably high level of amateur-
ism, and no more.
In Lois Ramsay, sister of expatriate
actress Betty Dickson, Flinders Street
has a comedienne of national calibre,
a female counterpart of Barry Humphrey.
Her mimetic presentations of Australian
womanhood are deadly in accuracy and
various enough not to become repetitive.
She was backed up for once by the more
extrovert talents of Phyl Skinner, a lusty
refugee from the Tivoli era, who infused
the more traditional belly-laughs into the
show (Flinders Street naughtiness reaches
beyond the wildest imaginings of Phillip
Street). The rest of the cast, particularly
Cliff Neate, have commendable spirit and
their special moments, but professional
wit and polish still evade them.
All the Flinders Street material is
original: it is a rule of the company
that no copied or derivative material be
used. Some of the sketch and lyric
writing, in particular by Dr Peter Tatham,
Lois Ramsay, Bronte Gallagher, and
Rosemary Burden deserves more than
provincial presentation.
Max Harris
“Babes Out West”: Mosman Town
Hall. .
“The Glass Slipper”: North Sydney
Independent.
“Phillip Street Revue”: Phillip Street
Theatre.
Mosman pantomime has always been
the wine of the country, and this
year it occurred to Mr Frank Allden,
its writer and producer, to translate it
into wild west American: box-office
attendant and ushers were devastatingly
attired as Indian squaws and braves, and
the versified dialogue was gold not en-
tirely separated from the soil.
A Mr Steal (Jim Rutherford) had
bought up the town goldmine, but how
exactly that led to .their arriving in
Alaska to discover another was not clear ;
however, it enabled the men, including
the two principal boys (Betty Parsons
and Helen Clubb) to wear six-shooters
for the protection of Betsy and Rose
(Joan Rutherford and Carol Shepherd),
and Terry O’Keefe to appear as Dame
Shy Anne, an excellent dame, and
generous with the lols, the proprietress
of a company of dancers in rivalry with
those of Diamond Lil. With perhaps
unprecedented ingenuity the rival com-
panies were unloaded from covered
wagons on each side of the stage.
And of course it is these young dancers
who are the wine of the country, from
the abstracted and saucer-eyed tiny tots,
whose strayings from routine are part of
the entertainment, to the older girls kick-
ing off their shoes in the ecstasy of
dancing a can-can after bedtime in
Diamond Lil’s establishment —how much
entrepreneurs might give to be able to
buy and retain the freshness and youth of
such amateur shows!
By contrast the Independent’s panto-
mime, “The Glass Slipper,” was a highly
finished play by Herbert and Eleanor
Farjeon ; a Cinderella smoothed out for
presentation to a Christopher Robin.
Noelann Gandon, the producer, sustained
admirably the tone and style of this
English work, its characters exquisitely
outlined and colored drawings by
'Shepherd.
Lesley Secombe played Cinderella with
charm and pathos ; Janice Copland and
Margaret Dence were rumbustious
comics as the two ugly stepsisters, one
tall with a false nose, the other short
and raddled, both everything good girls
should not be, graceless, ill-mannered and
ill-bred ; Sheila Kennedy was a scarify-
ing stepmother, Wendy Shaw a gloomy
witch changing to a glamorous fairy god-
mother, Bruce Miles a vigorous and
amiable jester, and Jeremy Muir-Smith
a graceful King’s Herald.
The beautifully constructed play is
full of stage devices ; the clock, broom
and fire talk, to explain how kind
Cinderella is to Things ; spirits of water,
fire, earth and air -surround Cinderella
while she is dressing for the ball; and
the trying-on of the glass slipper becomes
a test piece for six young ladies of
quality, and the two ugly stepsisters, in
varying expressions of confidence chang-
ing to mortification when the slipper
won’t fit. The audience of children
lapped it up, their attention waning only
during the songs and some of Cinderella’s
more romantic moments with Prince
Charming (David Goddard); and at the
end the reviewer fought his way out
against a forward scramble of children
invited on stage to meet the actors.
In “Cinderella on Ice” the Phillip
Street Theatre had a pantomime as Aus-
tralian as Mosmari’s and as polished as
North Sydney’s, but this sex-change
Cinderella who reverted to a boy at the
stroke of midnight, and was so relieved
to discover that Prince Charming was
in fact a girl, was hardly for children.
Moreover, Saturday night’s performance
was a last instead of a first; as Margo
Lee remarked from the stage among the
streamers and flash-bulbs after the show,
80 workmen were waiting to puli the
old St. James Hall down and put up
offices in its place.
The bill was mainly the acts the theatre
sent on tour last year, revived from its
repertoire of 14 shows since its opening
on May 5, 1954. They were infinitely
more polished than when one last saw
them; the washing-day opera, the
Tschaikowsky ballet, the parents’ fare-
well to their daughter, the department-
store carol-singers ... in Lyle O’Hara,
Wendy Blacklock, Barbara Wyndon,
Deidre Green, Ron Frazer, Kevan
Johnston, Alton Harvey and Peter Kenna
the audience farewelled an extraordi-
narily well integrated company.
There were no tears ; they might have
seemed out of place in such keen
satirists; but William Orr mentioned
that Ruth Cracknell and Bettina Welch,
who had taken parts in this show, and
Jill Perryman, would be in “Out on a
Limb,” the Bobby Limb show with which
the Phillip Street Theatre will reopen at
150 Elizabeth Street on March 8.
Ronald McCuaig
ART
January Art
Two workmen in yellow overalls, sum-
moned to right some technical defect,
entered the Art Gallery at David Jones
where, in solitary confinement, this critic
was endeavoring to assess the “January
Art Exhibition 1961“ before its opening.
As they went about their work, their
forthright and uninhibited remarks and
reactions to the predominantly abstract
pictures drew the critic into discussion
with these two babes-in-the-wood of
modern art.
Professional critic : How about these
paintings by J. Riske? They’re called
“Microbe,” “Compound” and “Mass of
Vegetation.” You can see they’re an
exploration of the new biological world
of nature. How do they strike you?
Do you think the artist is sincere?
Critic in overalls : You might be right,
mate. They’re not what I go for in paint-
ings. Do I think the artist is fair dinkum?
Well, yes, I do; but I think these paint-
ings mean more to the artist than they
do to people like me and my mate here.
They’re nice, rich, glowing colors, though.
Pro. : You might be able to give me
a clue here with these paintings by Piers
Bourke ; they’re called, “Black Cocka-
toos,” “Spinifex Country” and “Little
Bindi.” You see those white bars and
those two red spots like eyes in this
painting; they don’t actually represent
cockatoos, but I think the artist has com-
bined Impressionism and Abstraction to
express the spirit of these birds and the
desert country.
Overalls: Well, there you go. You
talk about Impressionism. You saw those
paintings on the wall outside as you
came in here? There’s Renoir, and Van
Gogh, and Gauguin, and Toulouse-
Lautrec. When Lautrec paints a woman
he tells you all about her. Those fellows
hit you right in the eye with their paint-
ings. Well, mate, I guess I’ll have to
leave you to it now.
Left to it, out on his own, the pro-
fessional critic noted Kenneth Cook’s
“Ferraris,” an impressionist surge and
roar of color, with a similar whirlwind-'
like turmoil in his “Whirlwind Farm.’’
Large canvases of abstract forms of color
represent Gerard Ebeli, an “action
painter.” J. Rose’s “Still Life” and
“Burnt Trees,” in ordered forms and
vivid color, express the force of abstrac-
tionism seen in nature.
John G. Talbert’s Kosciusko scenes,
huge abstract forms of mountains, ice,
snow, sky and mists, are in contrast to
the more representational, but less force-
ful Snowy landscapes in the Vlaminck
manner by U. Abolins. Also in this
representational section is a fresh, directly
stated impression of “The Camellia,” by
Ada Abbott.
Roland Robinson


For Safe Investing, Long or Short Term
CUSTOM CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
(Assets in Australia Exceed £80,000,000)
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
Interest ranges up to
10 Years and over • « • 8%
4 Years to 9 Years • . 7%
3 Years . . • ( ■ • . 6|%
2 Years • • « • i • ;
12 Months' notice. • f • 5|%
9 Months' notice . • H . 5|%
6 Months* notion . , . • 4|%
3 Months' notice . • • • 3|%
CUMULATIVE STOCK
3 to 20 Years . 6% per annum
Interest is paid in equal quarterly instalments,
free of exchange, on the last days of June,
September, December and March.
©
©
Years
of
For Currency
A copy of the Prospectus covering this issue of Registered
Debentures has been lodged with the Registrar of Companies,
Sydney.
Applications must be made on the Forms enclosed
in the Prospectus, ivhich is now available from
ALL. MEMBERS OF THE STOCK EXCHANGE
Every Branch of
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
Each of the 48 Branches of
CUSTOM CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED
130 New South Head Road, Darling Point, Sydney v
Secretary-General: KEITH LOVE. Telephone FM 5861
RD31.1160


% LOO &MG CAR,
I ff
'-A%sovJr*cf t* 6/ /
o&'Scy /n «r /


in America and in Ireland, printing the
tunes of three of them; and, in fact,
that it is at once so entertaining and so
valuable a contribution to the study of
our folklore that it should surely be
reprinted in a popular edition.
Douglas Stewart
Betjeman the Man
Summoned by Bells. John Betjeman.
John Murray. 16s.
England’s surprise-poet, coming out
of the ruck to talk plain English to
plain readers, has written his autobio-
graphy in blank verse: —
The author has gone as near prose
as he dare. He chose blank verse
because he found it best suited to
brevity and the rapid changes of
mood and subject.
What he says is exactly true. For
the reader who picks it up to see what
it is about it is an excellent account of
the early life of the fourth-generation
representative of the house of Bet-
jeman:—
The Alexandra Palace patent lock,
The Betjeman device for hansom
cabs,
Patents exhibited in ’5l,
Improvements on them shown in
’62,
The Betjeman trolley used in coffee-
rooms,
The inlaid brass, the figured rose-
ware box ...
It is, it seems, a middle-class, but not
an upper-class, family, and his poem is
a first-rate picture of his childhood in
it: of the little girl who was so superior
that Betjeman considered himself for-
tunate to be allowed to visit her; of
the tough boys he had to avoid going to
and from school; of the opinion of “the
American master,” a Mr T. S. Eliot,
of his early verses written at a private
school; of the frightening ceremony of
“basketing” at Marlborough, when the
boys ensured that their victim would
not return after the holidays; and
throughout his schooldays the bicycling
excursions on which he developed so
early that interest in English church
architecture and architecture generally
which made his name as a writer long
before he was considered seriously as a
poet.
Then comes his account of life at
Magdalen, Oxford, where Betjeman be-
came better acquainted with the wine
when it was amber than when it was
read:—
“Harry Strathspey is coming if he
can
After he’s dined at Blenheim.
Hamish says
That Ben has got twelve dozen
Bollinger.”
And so, to his leaving without a
degree, and becoming cricket master in
a private school.
The account is so full of life and
color, it is so solid in its materials, that
those of us who value such solidity and
such clarity in poetry must be disap-
pointed that it still hasn’t got the feel
of poetry. But this is so. Betjeman
has not achieved a personal modulation
of blank verse; he has merely chopped
his narrative into lines with the right
number of syllables:—
He talked of poetry and Cornish
saints ;
He kept an apiary and a cow ;
He asked me which church service I
liked best.
Put it up against blank verse by an
Australian poet:—
In Melbourne, your appetite had
gone,
Your angers too; they had been
leeched away
By the soft archery of summer rains
And the sponge-paws of wetness,
the slow damp
That stuck the leaves of living . . .
In this way life is burned up in the
mind until it fuses into something new;
into poetry. But Betjeman, accurate,
solid and informative, thrusts it
together raw: —
Silk dressing-gowned, to Sunday-
morning bells,
Long after breakfast had been
cleared in Hall,
I wandered to my lavender-scented
bath ;
Then, with a loosely knotted
shantung tie
And hair well soaked in Delhez’
Genet d’Or,
Strolled to the Eastgate....
He moves, all right, but without
moving you.
Ronald McCuaig
2/2 7th Battalion
The Brown and Blue Diamond at War.
John Bums. 2/27th Battalion Ex-
servicemen’s Association.
This war-history starts with the for-
mation of the battalion on May 7,
1940, at Woodside, in the Adelaide
hills* describes the voyage to Egypt
(via India and Palestine), duty at Mersa
Matruh and action in Syria—Adloun,
Miyeoumine, Damour and then the
final occupation—and New Guinea,
where the battalion was sent in August,
1942.
It goes on to describe the Kokoda
Trail and the halting of the Japanese
thrust, the slaughter at Gona Beach,
the Markham and Ramu Valley cam-
paign. and then Balikpapan, final vic-
tory and occupation of the Celebes.
The author —himself a sergeant in the
unit, decorated for gallantry in action
—unpretentiously describes the every-
day life of his comrades during the
monotony of training and in reverse
and victory against a ruthless enemy.
Here is part of his description of the
Kokoda Trail from the point of view
of a stretcher-bearer: —-
Heavy rains again worried us
during the day, and our Air Force
decided it would be nice to strafe
the trees about 200 yards south of
us. I don’t know if they had a
target or not. It certainly didn’t give
us the nicest of feelings when our
boys were coming in so close.
The 28th and we were a sad party
once more ; our pal Private Burke
passed away at midnight and at
dawn Zanker and I dug a grave with
our only implements—the tin hat and
machete. We buried him beside
Corporal Williams. We then washed
and shaved the lads and made them
as comfortable as possible. The
flies were at us in a big way again.
The native boy who took our walk-
ing wounded off on their return
arrived back during the morning and
brought seven sticks of trade-
tobacco ; it was like a Christmas
dinner for the boys—the only smoke
I had seen in days.
There is one mistake, on page 35.
The Royal West Kent Regiment is not
the Buffs but the Queen’s Own —more
familiarly known as “The Dirty Half-
hundred.”
R.G.
Our Wild Life
Jacaranda Handbooks. Australian
Wild Life. Jacaranda Press. Each,
12s. 6d.
The animals and plants of all coun-
tries have been the subject of a vast
literature, ranging in descriptive value
from the bald observations casually
made by some explorer to the cryptic
masses of scale counts, feather colors


BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.F.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print
books. Please s>end your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.0., Sydney.
and dental characteristics of the
systematist.
The behaviorist, ecologist, econo-
mist, geneticist and circus manager all
contribute their appreciation of the
animals in their scheme of things, with
extensive manuscripts. But whatever
the means, the end is always the same;
their collective conclusions are ulti-
mately digested and disgorged as a
series of “handbooks for the amateur”
or “pocket guides” for the instruction
of the man in the street; or, in this par-
ticular field, the bloke in the bush. The
relative literary value of these may be
compared to the “collar” which adorns
the more solid brew beneath, and they
serve the same happy purpose of intro-
duction.
Into this latter class falls the current
“Jacaranda” series, five. complete and
many contemplated, on the birds, fish,
animals, wogs and weeds of our land
which excited Sir Joseph Banks so long
ago. And, in spite of one’s patronising
attitude to such fare, it seems that,
within the bounds of their publication
costs and retail price they have a very
reasonable value. The first two of the
series last year (Sharks and Reptiles)
discovered an interested public.
Latest additions are presented under
the names of the top scientific staff of
the Australian Museum: Gilbert
Whitley, F.R.Z.S. (“Freshwater
Fishes”), Dr. Allen Keast (“Bush
Birds”) and D. F. McMichael, Ph.D.
(“Common Shells of Australian Sea-
shore”).
The introductory chapters to each
booklet follow a set pattern, usually
opening with the assurance that it
makes no pretence to being a compre-
hensive work on the subject, and under-
lining this with the unusual, but very
creditable, presentation of a list of
better references. This is a useful fea-
ture to those of us who are prompted
to make a deeper study, especially as
they are apparently endorsed by the
author. In the various acknowledge-
ments for text and photographic contri-
butions there are lists of names which
are at the highest level in their field.
Both “Freshwater Fishes of Aus-
tralia” and “Shells of the Australian
Sea-shore” are well illustrated in line
and half-tone, and the number of fishes
described by Mr Whitley makes one
wonder if there is as ready a demand
for Australian species by overseas
aquarists as there is for exotics among
the locals. Certainly a representative
aquarium collection of even the small
species adaptable to glass tanks would
be both extensive and colorful. And
why have shells, as living creatures,
been so neglected by the hobbyist and
home student? The cowries alone, in
shape, color and historic interest, would
be a fascinating tankful.
Allen Keast’s “Bush Birds.” although
the first to have any profusion of color
in its plates, otherwise falls down
somewhat on the photographic side.
For instance, on page 21 there are small
blocks of “Young Nankeen Kestrels”
and “Black-shouldered Kite.” I feel
that the one of the young kestrels is
useless, as one would see them
extremely rarely, and because of its
inclusion the reduced size of the kite
block makes that a bit frustrating. Far
better to have had a larger frame of
the latter. There are several other
instances. / ,>Jf|
And although such elite shutter
names as John Waterhouse, Norman
Chaffer and Roy Cooper are acknow-
ledged as contributors, one is
astonished at the opening shot in the
book—the Emu. Essentially a bird of
the plains, it is shown with a dark,
confusing background which gives the
impression of deep forest, with a severe
lack of definition and detail. From the
aesthetic, pictorial and block-making
point of view a far better shot of our
most publicised bird could readily have
been made.
These deflating points are compen-
sated for a little by more color illus-
tration than in other books of the
series. The Cayley group of finches in
color on the backboard is worth a
better inclusion, especially as, for some
reason, it displaces the customary bio-
graphical and portrait details of the
author.
To summarise, this series achieves its
stated function as a “primer” very well,
and at a moderate cost. The quality
of paper is excellent.
Alex Holmes
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 626
Across
I—Fired1 —Fired sovereign took in food, not being entirely ignorant
(8)
s—This5 —This makes the stipendiary magistrate ill-favoured with
excessive self-satisfaction. (6)
10 — A flotilla fast on the feet. (5)
11 — Behold evidence of a chook's amusement in opera. (9)
12 — Throws up hens’ mates. (6)
13—Showing off two characters in
11-across. (8)
16 — 12-across can’t do this poetry.
(3)
17 — -James of Spain is to leave twice,
once permanently. (5)
18— Sofas damaged in a ditch. (5)
19 — One mule wrecked part of the
body. (5) ,
21 — A pick-me-up. That’s the key-
note. (5)
22 Call coppers—that’s suggested by
a brick carrier. (3)
23 — Lug drawn badly enough for an
artist named Matthias. (8)
25 —Squiffy drop from the pen pre-
position. (6)
27 — Wrinkles find the news topping!
(9)
28— An Australian lake from the
East. (5)
29 Outstanding part for Sabrina.
(6)
30 — Holy fuse is damaged ; what a
pest! (8)
Down
1 and 2 —Encumbered socialists in the
lurch. (4, 7,3, 4)
3 Cad keeping mum- in the city.
(9) \
4 Cultivate a place for the cash
(4)
6 Fellow bowling an operatic
heroine. (5)
7 Rig up some dishonesty for the
gentle sex. (7)
8— A hankering for money. (3)
9 Final arguments don’t leave the
uplands undisplayed. (9)
14 — Doing relays. (anagram) (11)
15 — Nuisance and I have a fast time.
(9)
18 —Don’t turn your back on the
elevator’s beautification. (4, 5)
20 —Surpass a bird behind schedule.
(7)
22 —Broken shaft of an injunction to
those disrespectfully covered
(4, 3)
24 —County goes limp. (5)
26 — Capital lunch place. (4)
27 The nave of a wheel. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 625


GIRL WAITING IN THE SHADE
Rhys Davies
A mature and memorable novel by the author of THE PERISHABLE
QUALITY and THE DARLING OF HER HEART - - - 207-
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON : : MELBOURNE : : SYDNEY : : AUCKLAND
Flora Robson
Flora Robson. Janet Dunbar. Harrap.
345. 9d.
This is strangely dour for a
theatrical book; perhaps because the
actress was born of Scottish seafaring
and engineering parents; perhaps be-
cause her biographer has written on
the grim, if salutary theme that hard
work is everything. But the theatre is
still the theatre; G. B. Shaw is still
inimitably G. B. Shaw, always clear,
always forthright, always entertaining,
always provocative; and here —one of
the scores of glimpses of celebrities
which the book necessarily includes, is
G.B.S. in a hitherto unpublished
letter: —
Most Lady Macbeths imagine that
the sleep-walking scene is the great
scene. It isn’t. Anybody can play
it. It plays itself.
The scene that takes out of you all
that you have in you is the one in the
first act (I suspect Mrs. Siddons
primed herself for it with a pint of
porter): for all star Macbeths try to
steal it by swaggering instead of
cowering in a chair and crying
piteously “I prithee peace. I dare,”
etc., in the desperation of a hen-
pecked man, while she towers over
him, storming and raging and
dominant.... But the other big scene
(the dagger one) is yet to come. The
difficulty here is to shew that she is
drunk without making the audience
laugh.
Hard work, plus a natural talent that
showed itself as early as the age of six,
when she was famed at local concerts
in the London suburb of Palmer’s
Green for her recitations of “Little
Orphan Annie,” was certainly Flora
Robson’s recipe for success. Hard
work, talent and, it should be added,
courage; for, coming home from Miss
Croft’s elocution school in Palmer’s
Green, she always had to pass the cats-
meat man with his sinister cry of “Any
ning-a-nings?”; and, firmly believing
that his vocation was to cut up cats and
sell them for food, these were occa-
sions of great terror.
She worked so hard at amateur con-
certs between the ages of six and eight
that she very nearly recited her voice
away; but she was saved by going to
William Stewart of the Hampstead
Conservatoire for lessons in voice-
production, which she took for the next
eight years, Stewart slowing her down
enough at least to refuse on her behalf
her first offer of a professional part at
the age of ten, when Sir Herbert Tree
wanted her for “A Midsummer Night’s
Dream.” She was still taking lessons
when, famous and in her early thirties,
she went to the Old Vic to play Shak-
speare with Charles Laughton and
found to her consternation that her
voice was almost inaudible in the
unusual acoustics of that theatre.
Tyrone Guthrie got an expert over
from Belfast to teach her—once again
—voice-production.
Altogether, covering Flora Robson’s
career from childhood to her triumph
in “The Aspern Papers,” and lit by
anecdotes about everybody who is any-
body in the theatre of the last 25 years,
it is a readable and informative book
and could be particularly valuable to
the aspiring young actress.
D. S.
The Asparagus Trench: John Lod-
wick (Heinemann). At the time of his
death in a car accident in 1959 John
Lodwick was at work on an auto-
biography. The present section, which
he had completed, makes a delightful
little book about his grandfather, who
had been in the .
and who at the agf r " to " tak ®' a way?”
dig an asparagus trenl Fish. Fresh-
ham garden. He decide*,
he didn’t really like aspar|h e youth,
trench would be better putnt said,” he
uses, so he hid in it and thpookin’.”
representing hand-grenades, at MS
grandson. He also wrote a two-volume
novel which he published at his own
expense; tried to make a fortune by
trapping the rabbits on Dartmoor; and
kept a list of women he had known,
with a mysterious plus or minus sign
against each name. Accompanying the
saga of Grandfather is the story of
Lodwick’s schooldays, illumined by a
friend named Storey, who once intro-
duced to the classroom a sheep wearing
a gown and mortar-board.
Family Portraits: LX
Great-great Grandma
Her name escapes the record : let it be
Alice or Sarah, Emily or Jane;
There comes across a silent century
The echo of a mother’s grief and pain.
She had five sons, from two years up to
seven,
And on the voyage out the youngest died.
She could not see him angel-bright in
Heaven
Among the blest, though earnestly she
tried;
She could not help a feeling that they
lied,
Her brother-in-law the chaplain and the
rest
Who spoke of happy meetings in the sky.
She’d held his fevered head," and felt his
fear,
And helplessly she had to watch him die.
(He was her little son, who till that year
Had scarcely moved a few steps from her
side).
So then they buried him. His form sank
down
Among dark shapes of horror, while she
stood
Swooning aboye the deck’s unyielding
wood,
And felt in those cold depths her own
heart drown.
Time and the ship sailed on, and dulled
her pain,
And yet for years and years she could
not sleep
Without one thought that burned her
shrinking brain :
“He was so small, and the ocean was so
deep.”
S.A.
NANCY CATO
The Albatross
At morning we run to the windless sea
And welcome the sun through the streaks
of cloud.
Shells heap in a crowd
Of sponges and weed,
And the sand is fit for castles and a child.
Then the westerly runs against the sea’s
grain
And the sun is distracted across the world.
The clouds are unfurled
From the masts of ruin
And the sand goes wild beneath the ship-
wrecked waves.
Floating in from the doldrums the
albatross
Suddenly arrives, his calm span,
Longer than a man,
Lifting across
The white westerly and lowering to the
grey-blue sea.
From your ruined castle watch him, boy,
Watch him on the fast air, how he saves
From the thick waves
And the lean rain
Some element you must call joy.
S.A.
GEOFFREY DUTTON.


Nomen
SCHOOLS . . . AMATEUR COOKING . . . EATING PLACES
to School
and dental charai
systematist.
The behaviori'
mist, geneticis'
contribute
animals in
extensive
-V
Summer schools, in full bloom at the
moment (a bumper-crop this year),
are in themselves an interesting subject
for study.
A little preliminary research shows that
those who go to summer schools fall
roughly into three categories.
First there are the casual summer-
schoolers who can take it or leave it
alone. Though they may enrol for a
course and enjoy it, they will be just as
happy to go for a trip to Hawaii next
summer should the opportunity arise.
Allied to these are the social summer-
schoolers. They see in the custom oppor-
tunities for travel, to meet people, to find
out what goes on.
This group includes many married
women. It is generally the most socially
acceptable way they can find of getting
off the chain for a while.
The dilettante belongs here, too. She
(rarely he) picks out little bits here and
there and places high a course in which
she may begin the day with a lesson on
golf, follow it up public-speaking and
finish with “Speed Up Your Reading.”
Here, too, are those who take to sum-
mer schools “for medicinal reasons only.”
A course in art, music, creative writing
or drama can occupy the student so fully
that he or she throws off worry and
strain. Doctors often prescribe it. The
nature of the course is not of primary
importance, though international affairs
might not be a very good choice.
In the second category are the sober,
steady imbibers of summer-school fare.
Teachers on refresher courses belong
here, and methodical people who are bent
on getting a good, round general educa-
tion. They go from the problems of
South-east Asia to a study of Africa and
the West and are ready at the next school
for Mass Communication, Education
Propaganda and Brainwashing.
Sometimes they go in for a mass of
information (which makes them very
formidable in quiz sessions). Sometimes
they just need a fresh approach to some
activity which they can use to revitalise
a study or drama group in their home-
town. Occasionally they become con-
noisseurs who may be consulted on where
not to go for certain courses (“No, no,
not there. The mood is quite wrong for
poetry. Try New England.”)
In the third category are the addicts.
Theirs is a compulsive taste for summer
schools. They cannot get enough of them.
They sign up for every course possible,
overlapping and cutting short, travelling
and returning. It is even rumored that
the more advanced cases take off for the
Northern Hemisphere when the summer-
tchool season finishes here.
A typical day at the Summer School
of Drama at the National Institute of
Dramatic Art, University of New South
Wales, will go something like this.
Armed, if you are wise, with a com-
pass and a motor-scooter, you will arrive
at the western side of the University at
9 a.m.
Your first class —in movement—would
alone be worth the £6 6s. fee. Your
teacher is Margaret Barr, a dynamic
woman in a black leotard, her gestures
like those of the Winged Victory, her
commands like those of a Sar’-Major.
As you sit on the polished floor in
your playsuit, you wiggle and wiggle,
throw your arms away, 101 l your head
about and strive to obey while Miss Barr
goes around exhorting, commanding, her
tread like a panther’s, her vitality lead-
ing you from one exercise to another in
ceaseless activity for a full hour.
Having changed, and dismissed the
notion that after an hour with Margaret
Barr work should be finished for the day,
you set out for your next class, on the
other side of the University.
It is in a large and airy classroom
(your compass came in handy) in the
eastern block. Your teacher is Mr John
Tasker, an engaging young man; the
subject, acting.
Here you expand to your fullest ex-
tent, contract to your smallest at his com-
mand. You take an imaginary flower and
smell it. You think sad, nostalgic
thoughts about it; you replace it. You
become an exhausted shopper returning
home. You analyse your reactions. The
hour passes in a flash, but you are glad
that your next lecture, by Mr Robin Love-
joy on the role of the director, is one
of the old type where you sit (on this
occasion in a beautiful little theatre) and
just listen. Frankly, you are tired.
In the afternoon you read plays, choose
parts, rehearse. Some groups even write
their own. At the end of the week you
will present these plays for the rest of
the students.
In the evening you may go to a show
in town, or hear a lecture by Professor
Quentin on the theatre of Shakespeare,
or a recital of the drama of the Book of
Job by Queenslander Thomas Dysart.
This is an experiment,' and you will be
invited to comment (though not in the
presence of the reciter). Or you may, if
you wish, just collapse.
☆ ☆ ☆
Just Love Cooking!
\A?hy is it that when amateurs take
up cooking these days they nearly
always start at the top? They cannot
boil eggs. They cannot make toast. But
they try their hand at Crepes Suzette and
the family have to eat it.
Time was when to qualify as a good
cook you had to be able to boil rice so
that it had the texture of thistledown;
to make a steak-and-kidney pie in which
the rich brown gravy made a perfect
marriage with the melting, crisp and
golden pastry; to serve up a baked
dinner, meat and four veg., in which
every item had been cooked to perfection.
But today we are cursed with literacy,
and anyone with a kitchen and a book
of recipes can set up as a cook. Formerly
the amateur just made coconut-ice. To-
day she makes creme-brulee.
This creme-brulee is a menace. The
trouble is that it has status value. One
writer in a fashionable magazine recently
reported that she always had her cook
make this dessert no matter how inex-
perienced she was. “It establishes a
tone,” she said, and added: “There is no
trick to it if you follow any good French
recipe.”
No trick! Every stage of its prepara-
tion needs a skilful hand. Thick cream
and egg-yolks are made into a custard
which must set to the right consistency
—a delicate business. Then it is chilled
and later sprinkled with sugar. This must
be browned until the sugar caramelises
and then rechilled. Those who can brown
that sugar without burning it or allow-
ing the custard to curdle or melt should
be in the honors class of cookery, not
the kindergarten.
The amateurs don't know this. They
rush in regardless. One, a man, was quite
proud after he had made this sweet. “It
was rather black and runny,” he said.
“But it tasted good.”
The trouble is that there is no fun in
learning how to crack eggs and boil water
and blend flour. There is fun in preparing
Tournedos Rossini, Boeuf Stroganoff or
Schnitzel Holstein. They have class, too.
And if they are nothing like the dishes
their inventors invented, who is to know?
The family have never heard of them
before, very probably. All they know is
that they taste strange and rare.
Another thing about amateur cooks
is that they never cook more than one
dish. Meat and four veg. they may
despise, but even meat and one veg. seems
to be beyond them.
They will cook vegetables, of course,
provided they are sufficiently odd. Red
cabbage with nutmeg is a favorite.
Artichokes with oysters may be con-
sidered. Parsnips sauteed in butter, garlic
and wine may manage to get onto the
menu where parsnips simply served with
butter, parsley and pepper would mi&
out. In any case, vegetables are never
served up by amateurs with a dish. They
either are the dish or they do not appear.
Similarly with sweets. They have no
place in the meal when the amateur
cooks it. He exhausts himself with the
main dish and so fruit and cheese, figs
and nuts finish off. Perhaps it’s just as
well. Better a banana au naturei than
a peche flambee or a Viennese torte from
the hands of an amateur.


About Time
We Had Lunch
Everyone knows those country cafes
whose windows are lined with choco-
late boxes and whose interiors, usually
dark, are filled with marble-topped tables
—cafes inevitably called the Minerva, the
Palace, the Nectar.
From' Tenterfield to Albury they recur,
so similar in pattern and menu that on
one occasion, dazzled by heat and
mesmerised by tar, I had the uncanny
impression that the past 130 miles had
been a mirage,- a projection at 60 miles
an hour through space in order to stand
still. There was the identical street, the
identical cafe, the identical fish, the
identical chips, the same limp lettuce leaf,
the same thin slice of tomato, the same
leering sliver of lemon that had faced us
three hours earlier.
Yet I have learnt not to despise these
conventional eating-houses. In an emer-
gency they are always there and I have
occasionally regretted the lure of the new
roadhouse that leads me to say, “Not
Cessnock, darling, I’m sick of Cessnock.
Now Mary said ...” only to find that
the motel, 40 miles distant, is filled to
overflowing, and the car of hungry child-
ren is forced to travel another 30 or 60
miles in search of refreshment, for it is
a cardinal rule on our longer trips that
we never go backwards. If the roadhouse
is 10 miles the wrong side of the turn-
off, we go on, even if our watches have
crept to a stomach-flapping 2 o'clock in
the meantime.
Life, however, has compensations, due
as a rule to the recurring eccentricities
of mankind. At a beach on the North
Coast my children discovered a cafe that
seemed to them a veritable paradise. The
food was mediocre, but did they care?
Eating in that palace of hanging ferns,
singing birds and overstocked fish tanks,
where the light filtered through dim and
green and cool, they were perfectly
happy. “Let’s come again,” they chorused,
but so far I have managed to escape it.
I have learnt, too, to appreciate the
scrap of human interest. Sometimes a
bad meal can be redeemed by an interest-
ing proprietor.
It was a roadside inn, one of those
new places on an uninhabited stretch of
the Pacific Highway, which a number of
misguided citizens are trying to call the
"Beautizone.” The owners were English
—soft Devonshire voices in a setting so
unmistakably Australian that it was
incongruous. They themselves had accen-
tuated the contrast. Log cabins and little
log sleeping-huts stood among the trees,
designed to lure the replete traveller to
stay overnight in a rural setting rather
than seek the streamlined walls of the
motel further north. They were sur-
rounded by caged parrots and wild-life ;
a would-be sanctuary.
The most interesting character of all,
however, was a boy. His job was to help
at the petrol-pump outside the inn. He
w as handsome in a Marlon Brando sort
of way, and his get-up was original—a
slouch hat, jodhpurs, Wellington boots
an d spurs. Yet his voice was that of a
North Coast cow-cocky. With all the
Hollywood overlay, he had only to speak
to become part and parcel of that lovely
stretch of coast. He turned out to be the
son of the English proprietors.
The attraction of the new service-
station-cum-restaurant lies usually in its
customers. Some of the most entertain-
ing of all companions are the semi-trailer
drivers. On the road people curse them ;
in cafes no one could curse them.
In the cold, cold air of New England
they welcome the warmth of the heaters,
sit arguing and joking over the counters.
In the dimly lit rooms with the icy dark
beating against the plate-glass windows,
they grow with their shadows till their
figures loom bigger than life-size across
the insecure table.
We struck such a pair near Uralla.
They spent their meal arguing aggres-
sively. Threats and insults to the Irish
and Scotch flowed freely.
“Ruddy Irish,” shouted the big fellow.
“Ruining this country just as they ruined
the old. Nothing but bloodsuckers.” He
smashed his first on the table. “And
who ruined the Irish,” retorted his com-
panion, waving his blue-sweatered arms
around his head in the excitement. “No
one but the b Scots. Always butting
in where they aren’t wanted.”
Then just as it appeared that they
would resort to fists, a final insult from
the little man laid the big fellow low.
He slumped across the table. “How
could ye, Mick?” he said, almost weep-
ing. “How could ye? Me own friend.
If that’s what you think you can return
the Christmas card the missus sent you.”
He wiped his eye. Did it really matter
that the pies were not quite as hot as
they should be?
\lTe still regard as our worst experience
* * what we now refer to as our Beatnik
meal. We were misled by the brand-new
sign, “Fresh Fish Cooked While U Wait.”
Anyone who has lived on Tableland fish
for six months can be forgiven for yield-
ing to temptation.
Once across the threshold our mis-
givings grew. The place seemed half-
finished. There was hot a single customer
anywhere. A youth in faded blue jeans
and an exceedingly long haircut looked
us over as if we were a few pieces of
dirt that had dropped from the ceiling.
“Any fish?” we ventured.
He jerked his thumb towards what I
presumed was the kitchen.
“Ask her,” he said nonchalantly. “Her’s
the waitress.”
He resumed his whittling of a piece of
wood.
We sat down at the only clear table and
“her” finally emerged. She was blonde
and young and frowsy. Her hair jived
around her head like a haphazard halo.
Her tight black pants looked as if she
slept in them ; her feet clung through
sheer willpower to a very scruffy pair of
scuffs. There was a look of desperation
in her eye.
“Yerwantameal?” she said.
We nodded.
“Not-chips-in-paper-to-take-away?”
“A meal,” we said firmly. “Fish. Fresh-
fried.”
She looked in agony at the youth.
“Ya heard what the gent said,” he
grunted. “You’d better start cookin’.”
Soon we heard the sound of frying.
Within five minutes clouds of black smoke
were floating across the room. Then
“her” voice, loud and clear, issued
through the gloom.
“Good Gawd,” it said. “There ain’t
no bread.”
This, apparently, was serious, for it
aroused the blue-jeaned youth. In a flash
he was off. Fifteen minutes later he
returned with half a loaf tucked under
one arm. By this time the smoke was
so dense we were barely visible. But it
was only a few seconds more before the
cause of the atmospheric disturbance
appeared on our plates.
It was quite burnt, not singed. Never
before or since have I been served an
elongated cinder floating in grease. As
we toyed with it the cook floated around
the room adjusting the juke-box. The
blue-jeaned youth seemed, very wisely, to
have disappeared.
Tn many ways, however, our moments
of greatest enjoyment have been
derived from our dog, who has been mis-
taken for a Great Dane, a greyhound,
an Alsatian, a St Bernard, a Labrador and
a wolf hound. Normally of independent
disposition,, while travelling he clings
closer than a brother. We do not like to
confine him at stopping-places as he has
the same natural needs as humans. When
we enter a restaurant he usually tries to
slink invisibly along in our rear until
we sit down ; then he hastens under the
table. On this occasion the proprietor,
a Greek, was adamant.
“Ze dog.” he said, “will have to go
out.”
We sighed. Raising our voices in
chorus we yelled, “Outside Jacob,” and
he dutifully went. But “outside” to Jacob
in these circumstances means the door-
step. He lay down, stretched from
portal to portal, one eye carefully cocked
in our direction. Nothing short of an
earthquake would have induced him to
lose that reassuring glimpse of us.
The cafe became unusually empty.
Those leaving gave one horrified glance,
then jumped the obstacle. Intending
customers stopped outside, looked, hesi-
tated and moved on. The proprietor grew
desperate.
“Nice doggie,” he said tentatively.
“Shoo. Go away.”
The nice doggie thumped his tail on
the step, raised his paw in gentle apology
and growled deep in his throat. The pro-
prietor retreated. He-appeared lost in
thought. Finally he came over to us.
“It is sad,” he said, waving his hands
in a generous gesture, “to see ze poor
little dog separated from his master. I
am generous. He may sit with you.”
I suspect our bill was a little dearer
than it ought to have been, but after
all, who begrudges a shilling in return
for such generosity?
GWEN KELLY.


The Oriana
“The Lady is a Tramp”
By S. W. KEOUGH
It was fitting that the first
ship to nuzzle alongside
Sydney’s brand-new over-
seas passenger terminal at
west Circular Quay —itself the
last word in streamlined
modern dockside convenience
—should be the most handsome
and luxurious ship afloat—the
Orient liner Oriana, just
arrived at the end of her
maiden voyage from Southamp-
ton in 26 days to clip four
days off the England-Australia
record.
The new record will almost
certainly be lowered on the
run home, when the great
engines, by then run-in, will
be able to develop the 80,000
shaft horse-power to drive the
two 28-ton propellers to send
her along at her full service
speed of 27| knots.
It had taken two years and
6500 drawings by a co-ordi-
nated team of naval architects,
engineers, interior architects
and designers before the keel
of the great ship was laid.
Of 42,000 tons gross weight,
the £lBm. liner is 804 ft long
with a beam of 100 ft and a
load-draught of 31ft 6in.
One of the revolutionary
ideas adopted was to substitute
aluminium for steel in the
building of the superstructure.
The great saving in weight thus
effected—soo tons —meant that
an extra deck could be allowed
for without making the ship
top-heavy.
Internally, too, the architects
let their hair down. They were
determined that this one would
not have the look of just an-
other “floating hotel.” So they
cleverly designed some public
rooms to conform unobtru-
sively to the ship’s natural con-
tours.
This sweep of vision is
accented everywhere. On the
Verandah Deck the first-class
passengers have four public
rooms, including a magnificent
ballroom, extending over an
unbroken 300 ft.
Evidence of good taste in
the interior decorating is on
every hand. The craftsmanship
in timber, and the variety of
uses to which it has been put,
are in themselves worth a visit.
Colors, too, in the furnish-
ings have been selected with
exquisite taste to blend with
other accessories either by day
and night. And the night scene
is enhanced by the 5000 lighting
fittings in the public rooms and
entrances. Cabins eat up
another 10,000 bulbs.
N The one item you can be
sure is sinkable in the ship are
the carpets —and you sink into
those almost down to the
hocks. There are 11,000 square
yards of them. Cabin accom-
modation is a far cry from
that of the Orient liners of the
1880’s.
Thus, if you browse around
one of the aft decks, you may
come upon this coy little
quotation from instruction to
passengers of a long-past
Orient line voyage:
“Second- and third-class pas-
sengers must provide them-
selves with bedding, cabin-
fittings (except berth-places,
which the company will pro-
vide), knives and forks, table-
and tea-spoons, a hook-pot,
drinking mugs, cups and
saucers, plates and a water-
bottle ( Dolby’s half-crown
water-can and lifebuoy com-
bined is recommended) and a
few pounds of marine soap.”
It would rock those old-
timers who staggered aboard
the old tubs so burdened, if
they could see the comforts
that the tourist passengers (the
equivalent of the old second-
class) enjoy on the Oriana.
They had to take due note
in those days, too, of another
stern ordinance:
“Gunpowder, lucifer matches
and combustibles of every des-
cription are strictly prohibited
from being taken on board by
any passenger.”
The face and tooth varieties
have long displaced the gun
sort as the favorite powder
brought aboard by passengers ;
but even this isn’t necessary,
with arcades of shops to pro-
vide such things; and in the
sea-winds the lucifer can't hold
a flame to the shielded
cigarette-lighter.
Another warning note,
struck by some heavy-father
skipper in the ’Bo’s, would raise
grins from drink-waiters and
passengers alike today:
“The practice of counteract-
ing the natural and proper
diminution of appetite in hot
weather by cocktails, etc., is
especially dangerous, as it leads
to heavy eating.”
Today on a 100-day voyage
a full ship’s complement (688
first-class passengers, 1496
tourist passengers and the crew
of 899, total 3083) eats its
way through 430,000 eggs, 110
tons of meat, 90 tons of fish
and poultry, plus hundreds of
tons of vegetables and fruit
and 450,000 bottles of grog.
The tropics? It doesn’t mean
a thing. They just keep that
sort of climate outside the hull.
And those humble passengers
of the ’Bo’s who had to wash
their own cutlery and plates
would reel back could they
sight the stand of three dish-
washing machines which can
cope with 96,000 pieces of
cutlery, 81,000 pieces of crock-
ery, and 28,800 glasses on non-
stop conveyor-racks going at
Bft a minute, scraping, wash-
ing, rinsing and re-rinsing.
The Victorian era passengers
had to take marine soap on
board with them, because ordi-
nary soap would never have
raised a lather with the salt-
water in which they had to
take a bath. Passengers on,
the Oriana can take baths
all day long if they like. The
ship’s tanks alone have a
storage capacity of 3000 tons of
fresh water. Another 650 tons
is distilled daily.
Against the lush variety of
viands offered the Oriana’s pas-
sengers on staggering out of
their streamlined bunks o’
mornings set this austere fare
-—they called it “Diet” in those
days—suffered by the line’s
third-class passengers in the
days of antimacassars and
whale-boned corsets:
Breakfast
Sunday: Irish Stew.
Monday: Hashed Meat.
Tuesday: Porridge with sugar
or syrup.
Wednesday: Curried meat and
rice.
Thursday: Irish Stew.
Friday: Hashed Meat [No
fish?]
Saturday: Porridge with sugar
or syrup. \
Irish stew for breakfast is
a revolting enough mess to
endure once a week, but twice!
Apparently they all looked for-
ward eagerly to Wednesday.
There was one beautiful
piece of compensation offered
the passengers of those older-
day Orient liners:
“By means of the powerful
refrigerating machines with
which these steamers are fitted
the necessity for carrying live
stock is obviated, which is a
great advantage to passengers.”
It was, undoubtedly, a great
relief not to have a berserk
steer due for the galley stam-
peding up and down the decks
and through the lounge-rooms,
pursued by an irate butcher.
The Oriana’s luxurious
cinema has stalls and d.c., total
accommodation, 318. Among
other amenities are a well-
stocked library; table-tennis
rooms, glassed-in from the
weather ; a silver grill seating
50 which offers something
extra-special for the fastidious.
And everybody eats with stain-
less steel “ergonomic” cutlery,
specially designed so that it is
moulded to the hand.
For good measure there is
iced-water piped to all cabins,
seven lifts to whisk passengers
'tween decks ; TV in pas-
sengers’ and the crews’ public
rooms, the hospital, 15 first-
class special cabins ; paddling
pools for the children near the
main pools aft, where the
bikini-clads may disport on
special bathing decks.
And the casually clothed
passengers may ponder on this
advice given to their grand-
parents who may have come
out on the Oriana’s grand-
father :
“Male passengers will do well
to provide themselves with
dressing suits, which with a
cloak or overcoat can be worn
on deck in the early morning.
Ladies will find dressing-gowns,
or what are called ‘tea-gowns,’
very convenient in the tropics."
But you can’t get away from
the tyrant horologe whether at
work or at play ; and there are
125 electric clocks to let pas-
sengers know that tempus is
fugiting.
The price of a trip? Just
let us turn back mercifully to
what they used to call the good
old days, which were certainly
good in one respect: Fares.
First class, London ro Sydney:
£52 10s. to £7O.
Second Class, London to
Sydney: £3O to £42.
Third Class, London to
Sydney: £l7 17s. to £22.
“The Lady Is a Tramp,” fo f
Oriana is both a lady and
the modern version of the
tramp-steamer. For she will
not be confined rigidly, as the
old Orient liners were, to the
same route of tradition. She
will “follow the money,” to
England, to the U.S., to the
Orient. She will rove, subject
to passenger commitments ot
course, as did the old tramps
where the best freight business
was offering. With Orianai
substitute passengers fo r
freight.


MAN
LAND
Dollars for Australian Crayfish
an active export trade in
T* crayfish tails is the one
bright spot in the Australian
fishing industry. During the
year 1959-60 these tails earned
for Australia about eight and
a half million dollars, an in-
crease of more than 20 per
cent, on the previous year.
Of the total exports the
United States took approxi-
mately 97 per cent. A North
American market has been
built up with a demand
strong enough to take all the
tails Australia can supply.
Canada increased her con-
sumption from 13,0001 b. in
1958- to 115,0001 b. in
1959-
With a coastline of 12,000
miles, it might be expected that
Australia would have ample
supplies of fish for its popula-
tion of ten millions. This, is
far from being the case.
During the year 1958-59,
according to figures supplied
by the Commonwealth Direc-
tor of Fisheries, Australia im-
ported 50,000,0001 b. of fish-
canned, frozen and smoked.
During the same period the
exports totalled 9,000,0001 b.,
of which 90 per cent, was cray-
fish tails.
Fishing for crayfish on a
commercial . basis is carried
out in five of the Australian
States, along a coastline of
about 4000 miles, extending
from the west and south coasts
of Western Australia, along the
South Australian and Vic-
torian coasts, right round Tas-
mania and finally to the more
southern portion of the coast
of New South Wales. Western
Australia is by far the greatest
producer, the annual catch
from that State being 70 per
cent, of the Australian totals.
The catching of crayfish is
mainly a “small man’s indus-
try.” The majority of the fish-
mg boats are operated by their
individual owners, who usually
employ crews on a share basis,
fn most States there are
Fishermen’s Co - operative
Societies which interest them-
selves in the marketing of all
types of fish and in the welfare
of fishermen generally.
The type of boat engaged in
the crayfish industry is usually
ketch or yawl rigged sailing
craft, with auxiliary engine
power. They are stoutly built,
generally of wood, but some
of the larger ones are of steel
construction and are dependent
on engine power only. They
vary in length from about
35ft. to 60ft. or more. The
smaller craft carry a crew of
two and the larger boats three
and sometimes four.
'T'he crayfishing fleet is made
A up of '“inshore” and
“offshore” boats. The former,
generally the smaller boats,
set their “pots” in shallow
water from dinghies. The “off-
shore” boats fish anything up
to five miles from the coast
and at a depth of 25 fathoms
or more. The pots are set
direct from the fishing boat
and are clipped to a long line
at regular intervals, with often
as many as 50 pots on a line,
which is buoyed to ensure re-
covery. For recovery the line
and pots are hauled in-board
by a power-driven mechanical
hauler.
Another piece of modern
equipment on “offshore” boats
is an echo-sounding depth
recorder, electrically operated,
which has replaced the old-
fashioned lead-line.
Practically all the fleet are
equipped with two-way radio.
There are regular times, at
least twice a day, when craft
despatch and receive messages
and report their positions to
their shore station. Special
weather reports and forecasts
are provided regularly—a
small ships’ service by
Commonwealth meteorological
stations.
Fishing skill is not the only
requirement for those who
man these fleets. They must
know their coast intimately so
that they may sail it by day
or night, be good judges of
weather and possess courage
in a high degree. These quali-
ties are put to the test on the
west coast of Tasmania. There
are few rougher or more
exposed coasts;
A fishing-boat is licensed to
carry a certain number of
crayfish pots, according to her
size. There is no regulation
limiting the number of cray-
fish which may be caught in
a day, therefore as many
“shots” as possible are made
each day. A shot entails bait-
ing and setting all pots, leav-
ing them down for three hours,
lifting them and removing the
crayfish. The undersized ones
are thrown back into the sea
and the pots rebaited and reset
in a different place,
A good deal of considera-
tion is given to the setting of
each pot by the “inshore”
fleet. A rocky bottom is
essential, and crayfish are
partial to certain kinds of sea-
weed, particularly one known
in Tasmanian waters as “cray-
weed.”
The live crayfish are placed
in a well in the centre of the
boat a chamber through
which the sea water circulates
freely. The well is divided
into four sections to prevent
overcrowding and smothering.
Larger boats carry a steel tank
and a power pump keeps sea
water circulating.
If fishing is good a boat
may return to port with a full
well—up to 2000 crayfish even
in a small boat —within a week,
but often the voyage extends
to two or three I weeks.
On delivery to a crayfish
packing-shed the live crayfish
—buyers will only accept live
fish—are bulk weighed for
payment and bagged for trans-
port to the processing works.
They can live out of water for
up to 48 hours. On arrival
operators, working in a row
and using a special instrument
which they insert under the
end of the shells, remove the
tails.
HPhe tails are then graded,
wrapped in cellophane and
packed into wooden boxes,
each holding about 201 b. of
tails. Here the crayfish changes
its identity the box is
labelled “Lobster Tails.”
The whole process, from
live crayfish to lobster tails,
has taken 15 minutes. They
await final transport to the
U.S.A. in a refrigerator cham-
ber. The humble cray has
become a frozen asset.
T. A. MILES


Kstab'ished 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Skipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jACK&ON
qSUI.LIVA.Nj . /
; PTYLTD Cfr
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Matiufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, .New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
The Need for Wool Planning and Promotion
Following official release of a survey of the world wool
market [compiled by Lempriere ( Australia ) Wool Futures
Pty., Ltd., and indicating that wool would face a crisis
between 1960 and 1970 ] Australian Wool Bureau chairman
Sir William Gunn remarked: “Inroads into wool markets
are being made by synthetics and cotton because their
research, technical development, publicity and promotion
are creating a huge impact on the trade and consumer.
Wool must be intensively promoted to counter this trend.
To survive, the Australian wool industry must have long-
term planning aimed at price stabilisation and market
security.”
The incentive level for
the 1961 market year for
shorn wool in U.S. has
been set at 62 cents
per lb. This price has
remained stable since
1954. This incentive of
62 cents per lb. was
introduced to uphold
an annual national pro-
duction of some 300
million lb. The law
also limits the amount
available for making
payments to 70 per cent
of the duties collected
on imports of wool and
wool manufacture since
1953. The difference
between the national tar-
get and the actual pro-
duction has narrowed
considerably.
As we all know sheep
health is of vital con-
cern to graziers, and
for that matter every
Australian, because our
national economy de-
pends largely on our
wool cheque. With this
in mind, we find dis-
cerning graziers using
and recommending
Elastrator as the only
method of castrating and
tailing.
Tt is no good making exag-
gerated claims for wool.
Woolmen blame synthetic
manufacturers for doing just
that about their own goods.
Instead research and promo-
tion must now be geared to
find and promote more end
uses for wool.
Even without further re-
search wool already has
enough outstanding features to
justify stepped-up promotion.
Stressing these features is posi-
tive ; trying to make wool do
what other fibres can do more
cheaply and better is negative.
The proportionate consump-
tion of the textile fibres —wool,
cotton, rayon and synthetics —
varies widely in different coun-
tries. Examining wool con-
sumption, two main reasons
can be found for poor con-
sumption in some countries —
low incomes and high tempera-
tures.
But in colder climates, where
the insulating properties of
wool are desirable, the market
could be further increased
where levels of income and
consequent standards of living
are rising. This is already
happening in Japan where
education and industrialisation
have raised living standards.
Climate out-of-doors, at
any rate —cannot be altered.
Potential or growing markets,
therefore, are clearly defined
by nature. Russia, a cold
country, has doubled its con-
sumption of wool these last
ten years and intends to re-
double it in the next decade.
Other potential markets in
suitable climates where there
is adequate purchasing power
are Europe and North
America. Already in North
America, however, there has
been a reduction in the use of
wool in favor of synthetics.
This is due to a large-scale
publicity campaign for syn-
thetics which has succeeded
because central heating of
buildings and transport has
virtually altered the internal
climate in which North Ameri-
cans live during winter.
To counter this trend we
should look towards northern
Asia. If the population of
China could be persuaded to
consume one pound weight of
wool a head a year then (at
a conservative estimate) 500-
million pounds more clean
wool —two-thirds of Australia’s
export wool-clip—could be
sold there.
An examination of other
static or dropping markets dis-
closes that certain weaknesses
in wool have forced manufac-
turers to seek other fibres.
Abrasion-wear and shrinking
of men’s socks led to the use
of nylon fibre. First made in
the U.S.A. in 1938 and now
accounting for more than half
the world’s synthetic-fibre pro-
duction, nylon is very strong,
resists abrasion and has a gloss
finish, an attraction when used
for specialty garments like
ladies’ hosiery. Its biggest
demand is in industry, but it
competes with wool in blended
fabrics, knitwear and cheaper
kinds of tufted carpets.
A crylic fibres (acrilan and
orlon) also compete with
wool. They are used mainly
for knitwear and blankets,
providing warmth combined
with lightness, easy laundering
and retention of shape. Poly-
ester fibres (terylene and
dacron) are also in wide use,
mainly blended with wool for
lightweight suits, sports
trousers and ladies’ skirts.
They retain pleats and will
“drip dry.”
However, from statistics
available from the U.S.A., it
seems that even there where
the high tariff on imported
apparel wool and the changed
indoor climate, make syn-
thetics more competitive,
wool is still the main fibre for
apparel. Its consumption has
remained relatively static, even
though the use of cotton and
synthetics is increasing each
year. But synthetics are here
to stay, a situation that must
be accepted.
Sharp competition exists be-
tween the synthetics them-
selves. Each has its outstand-
ing advantages and evident
weaknesses. But even so, fibres
like cotton, rayon and wool
will feel the main impact from
the increasing choice of syn-
thetic fibres coming on the
market.
Wool promoters must there-
fore study the good points of
synthetics, acknowledging and
using them in blends with wool
wherever possible. At the
same time they must build their
promotion plan on explana-
tion of the advantages of wool
for special uses and its superi-
ority, where that exists, over
the weaknesses of other fibres.
The pattern of production
and manufacture of wool is
entirely different from syn-
thetics, therefore the pattern |
for research and promotion oi;
wool must also be different,
Synthetics, with their calcu-i
lated chemical origin, lend
themselves to uncomplicated j
promotion drives. Wool, on i
the other hand, is subject to a
complexity of processes, each
of which is at times regarded
as an end-point. There are
many middlemen in the vari-
ous stages of wool processing,
and promotion in different
forms will have to be directed
at each of them. This will also
apply to promotion directed at
the consumer.
The public’s supposed
familiarity with wool has been,
a weakness, and wool, having,
no sensational news value,
never makes headlines like ■
synthetics. But this traditional f
familiarity is in truth remark !
ably limited. New facts are!
continually being discovered!
that widen wool horizons and i
reduce costs of processing!
Promotion should be directed
at making these facts known;
to both the industry and the
consumer.
TTwo other problems con-
fronting the wool industry
that do not affect synthetics to
the same degree are variation l
in quality and price. If top
quality wool could be pro-1
duced in regulated quantity
and sold at a relatively static
price it could compete much
more satisfactorily with syn-
thetics. The manufacturer
could then judge wool on $
merits as another fibre
plan ahead to use whichever
material was cheapest and
best. At present he ® uS j
gamble on the price of woo l
and hope that by the time he


THIS BANK PAYS
0
2
pep
ANNUM
ON INTEREST
BEARING DEPOSITS
FOR 1Z MONTHS
AND
4%
PER
ANNUM
ON DEPOSITS LODGED
FOR 3 TO 9 MONTHS
Enquire at any of the bank's
Commonwealth-wide branches and agencies
§
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, Ltd.
(Incorporated in the British Colony of Hong Kong.)
A British Office: ASSETS EXCEED £20,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone: BW 81 3 1 (4 lines). H. G. CRAY, Manager.
FOR CONVENIENCE AND SPEED—
BECOME A POSTAL SUBSCRIBER TO TSTSBzzZZe&to
Write to: Subscriptions Dept., “The Bulletin,” Box 2521 G.P.0., Sydney.
RAI'ES: 1 YEAR (AUSTRAEASIA) —£2 12s. post free; British C’wealth —£3 3s. 6d.; Foreign—£3 16s.
has processed and sold it the
price of wool has not fallen.
The manufacturer has not the
same problems with synthetics.
His long-range development
projects gives synthetics a
firmer grip on the market, and
production can be readily and
economically expanded when
necessary. Also, less money is
needed for advertising the syn-
thetics.
The wool industry must have
a stabilised marketing system
if it is to survive. Some
organisation should buy wool
when supply is greater than
demand and sell it back when
world supply falls. Such an
organisation seems essential
for price stability of a natural
commodity, the supply of
which is governed by variable
climatic conditions throughout
the wool-growing world. The
wool industry is a business, and
the sale of wool should be
regulated in a business-like
manner.
'"Phe future of wool should
be regarded optimistically,
provided we act now with con-
fidence and a sense of realism.
The world demand for textile
fabrics is increasing faster than
the world supply of wool, so
there’s an opening. But we
must heed the warning of Mr
Ewen Waterman, the Aus-
tralian Wool Bureau’s Com-
monwealth Government repre-
sentative, who said on his
return from a special meeting
in London of the International
Wool Secretariat: “Through-
out Europe as well as in the
U.S.A., wool is being out-
promoted at an increasing
tempo. Today’s prices could
be even lower had it not been
for the Japanese influence on
the market. Increased wool
consumption in other Eastern
countries is certain, provided
our competitors do not beat
us in the East tomorrow as
they appear to be doing in the
West today.”
Reorganisation of the Inter-
national Wool Secretariat gives
Australia the leadership in and
responsibility for world pro-
motion policy.
B. C. JEFFRIES
ISRAELI CORRIEDALES
FOR YUGOSLAVIA
An agricultural mission from
Yugoslavia is at present nego-
tiating to purchase Corriedale
ewes bred by Dr S. Goldberg,
°f Griffith, N.S.W., on his
property in Israel. The mis-
Sl ? n had been most impressed
with the quality of the Corrie-
dales and was interested in
Purchasing 200 ewes of the
December drop.


SPORT
That Ball Game Played on Horses
By TOM PRIOR
At Quetta, in Pakistan, there
is a Staff College to which
Bright Young Men from the
Western (politically, not geo-
graphically, speaking) world’s
armies are sent for specialised
training.
Along with their war games,
the B.Y.M. ar& schooled in
diplomacy with emphasis on
the touchy business of “getting
along with our allies.” At the
end of the course, each officer
has to face his classmates and
answer truthfully (but diplo-
matically) any questions about
his country of origin they may
choose to ask him.
As a majority of the students
take a very dark view of the
White Australia Policy, this is
something of an ordeal for the
Australian reps.
Imagine our man’s delight in
December, therefore, when a
Pakistani led oft the questions
with: “In view of the Austra-
lians’ successes in other sports,
and remembering the Austra-
lian equestrian team’s three
Gold Medals in the Rome
Olympics, does the officer think
Australia will beat Pakistan at
polo?”
Having seen the Pakistanis
play polo, the Aussie was able
to combine diplomacy with
patriotism and answer on the
lines of “Well, maybe not this
year but ...”
White Australia was happily
forgotten wTiile the Pakistanis
and Indians discoursed
learnedly on the goal rating of
one Bob Skene (Californian
world : champ., ex-N.S.W.) and
the fabulous polo feats of the
even more fabulous Australian
Ashtons. The Aussie couldn t
get a word in about John
Konrads or Herb Elliott,
He s returned home, deter-
mined to take a second look
at the ball game they play on
horses—if only to strengthen
the Western Alliance. He
couldn’t have picked a better
time.
After a century as “snobs’
hockey,” a game supposedly
played only by maharajahs,
Indian Army colonels, graziers
and other tycoons, polo is com-
ing into its own. More men
are playing polo and more
people are watching them play
in more countries than ever
before.
In India, Pakistan and
several of the larger South
American countries polo is a
near-national game. England
and America have several
hundred clubs between them
and meet in annual competi-
tion for the Westchester Cup
and other international
trophies. (In Manipur, India,
one unnamed but vastly ad-
mired enthusiast pawned his
wife to buy a new mount.)
But nowhere is polo “boom-
ing” louder and the standard
progressing more rapidly, than
in Australia. There are now
53 Australian clubs, 16 of
them in New South Wales.
Crowds watching polo at last
year’s Royal Sydney Show
averaged 35,000 a day, and
individual matches at Warwick
Farm racecourse topped
16,000. (Even when Prince
Philip is playing and Her
Majesty the Queen watching,
English crowds can’t match
that!) Attendances and the
number of men playing have
shown marked increases in all
States.
With the increases has come
the realisation by the general
public that, if polo is a “silver-
tails’ ” game, it is only for the
toughest and gamest and most
skilful of “silver-tails.” And
more and more urban Aus-
tralians are saying “It’s a good
game —why leave it to the
country boys?” If St George
and Collingwood, say, were to
form teams it could be that
those Pakistanis would really
have something to worry
about.
Certainly Australians should
do well. Polo’s skills and
virtues are the ones Australians
like to think of as traditionally
their own: Horsemanship,
courage, quick decision and
initiative, aggression and team
spirit.
Only as to horsemanship will
the city man admit he may be
lacking. And, for the price
of a new set of golf clubs and
the effort it would take to
reduce his handicap 10 strokes,
he can soon fix that.
H. B. C. Vyner, secretary of
the N.S.W. Polo Association
puts it this way: “Nobody can
tell how good he may be at
polo until he has a go. And
it is nonsense to say the average
Australian cannot afford to
play.
“The Ashton brothers, the
greatest polo tearq in the world
for a time between the two
World Wars, paid for their
overseas tours by selling horses
they had broken and trained
themselves. And they had done
all their riding on Sydney
trams until they were well into
their ’teens.
“A polo pony can cost £5OO
or more and a tournament
player needs three or four. But
an unbroken pony can cost £2O
and, broken and trained by his
rider, can prove better than
any other. The Ashtons sold
one pony they had broken and
trained themselves for 10,000
dollars.”
Mr Vyner also pointed out
that polo-sticks cost about £4
if bought over the counter—
but the heads cost 15s. and the
handles only a little more if
made up by the enthusiast
wanting to cut costs.
“Like yachting,” he con-
tinued, “and other sports
which used to be for the rich
man only, polo con cost a
fortune —but only if you want
it to. Believe me, no potential
Bob Skene would be allowed
to leave the sport because he
couldn’t afford it. Everybody
chips in according to his means
and does his best for the team.
Polo is that kind of game.”
TPhe name polo is derived
from Puiu, a Tibetan name
for the ball used in the game-
and the game is nearly as old
as Tibet itself. In 600 8.C.,
historians tell us, the Persians
and Turks interrupted a war
for a game between their
respective champions. The
armies looked on and the game
was such a good one they de-
cided to call off the war.
In 525 b.c. King Darius of
Persia presented Alexander the
Great with a polo-stick and
ball, and Tamerlane, the great
Saracen warrior, ordered his
commanders to use the heads
of defeated enemies instead of
the conventional ball in their
games.
Mongol nomads took the
game to China and Japan, and
by a.d. 800 it was a favorite
sport in India. British
colonisers picked up the game
in the early 1800’s and in the
1840’s gave it formal “modern’
rules basically the rules
under which the game is played
today.
In 1859, Lt.-Col. Robert
Stewart, of the Indian Army>
delivered himself of the
immortal rule: “Spurs and
whips may be used freely, but
only on the rider’s own horse.
After that, polo was a
“natural” for Australia.


ftuffll in i/ic
\
0
Australia’s population has passed the
ten-and-a-quarter million mark. On present levels
of births and immigration it should go on increasing
at the rate of about a quarter of a million a year.
That is the picture in broad outline, without
going too deeply into statistical tables. And to
interpret it properly we have to construe it in terms
of life. The material expansion reflected in this
growth of population is only one side of our
national story.
In the post-war years, for instance, the
percentages in lower age groups have risen. More
than two million children in the five-to-thirteen
years bracket are in our primary schools.
Including the youngsters in the fourteen to
eighteen age group, we find that more than a quarter
of all the lives in this country right now belong to
young people at school, in apprenticeships, or
undergoing training of some kind to fit them for
careers. The internal trend, with all its gathering
effects, is being more or less matched by the
proportion of children in the migrant intake.
Australia is very fortunate that the
youth-content of its population is increasingly high
in this period of exciting national expansion. By
reason of the new age-ratio alone, we are a more
vigorous and vital nation than when a total
population of seven-and-a-half million was recorded
at the census of 1947.
The fresh wave of life comes at a time when
the economy is buoyant and the uncovering of new
resources makes richer the prospect of the
country’s advancement.
And our task is to meet the special challenges
it brings—in education and training, to be sure,
but also in that decentralising of the whole national
effort which will give to our ycfung people their
best and most lasting opportunities.
In a word, our duty is to gear Australia ahead
to meet the demands of its rising life, and see that
the power of its youth is spread well across the land.
Hurrah—Our Stumps are Flying!
By PHIL TRESIDDER
AN Australian Test player told
me in Melbourne, only a
few hours after that astounding
Solomon “cap” incident in
which 65,000 people howled at
Australian skipper Richie
Benaud: “Make no mistake,
we’re the ‘baddies’ in this
series. The crowds want to
see Wesley Hall knock our
stumps flying, or Sobers and
Kanhai cut our bowling to
ribbons.”
That is the impact the West
Indians have made in Australia.
Yet the tourists themselves are
surprised by this reaction. They
have made no conscious effort
to readjust their game to please
the Australian public. They are
simply playing “West Indian”
cricket as they learnt it from
boyhood days in their sun-
baked islands.
Cricket in the West Indies is
more the national game than it
is in England. No'other sport
has anything like the grip on
the average Barbadian, Trini-
dadian, Jamaican or Guianese,
no matter what his age,
religion, color or social stand-
ing. On the cricket field these
differences are merged, and a
man stands or falls by his own
feats and prowess.
The spectators are know-
ledgeable and highly exuber-
ant. They want to see their
side win, a keenness that occa-
sionally carries enthusiasm
beyond the bounds of pro-
priety. Nobody can blame
them, however, for they be-
come so absorbed in the tide
of battle that at times they
loose themselves in general
emotions.
The crowds, in shirt-sleeves
and pretty dresses (the women
are just as keen cricket fans as
the men) sit for hours in the
broiling sun, never missing a
ball. Everybody is allowed on
to the ground before play. The
spectators all join in the pre-
liminary practice as the great
players limber up for the big
game.
There is plenty of barrack-
•ng as play progresses. Peculiar
to the West Indies is the steady
handclap as a batsman nears
his half-century or century.
It’s all very unnerving. The
crowd starts clapping slowly
as the bowler starts his run-up.
If the runs that will bring up
the half-century or century fail
to materialise, the clapping will
hie away sadly. But should
the batsman launch out and
crock a boundary, everyone
•caps up and shrieks his delight.
Qlub cricket is the backbone
of all cricket in the West
todies. Except when a touring
team arrives, the West Indian
cricketer enjoys only two first-
class matches a year. So club
cricket is his big interest. The
first-division club tournaments
are high-class standard. There
are not more than four or five
first-division clubs in any of the
colonies, so that on the aver-
age, every side includes around
two first-class players. The
cricket is confined to Saturday
afternoons. There is some
Sunday play, but it is not com-
petitive.
Four of the West Indian
colonies are generally classed
as first-class in the cricketing
sense Barbados, British
Guiana, Trinidad and Jamaica.
Cricket was introduced around
the 1860’s. Barbados played the
first-ever intercolonial match
against British Guiana in 1863.
No class barriers exist in
West Indian cricket. Cricket is
a game for people from all
walks of life. Professional men
play alongside the under-
privileged. Collie Smith, one
of the world’s great players
before his sad death in Eng-
land, was a product of the
Boys’ Town training centre for
underprivileged boys, near
Kingston, Jamaica.
HThe present team in Austra-
A lia comes from widely
varied occupations. Worrell,
the captain, is a personnel
officer with a boxite company
and holds a degree in econo-
mics. Gerry Alexander, vice-
captain, is a veterinary surgeon
who went to Cambridge Uni-
versity and, incidentally, played
amateur Soccer for England.
Hunte is a civil servant, also
a teacher. Sobers began as a
member of the Barbados police
band, later became a full-time
professional cricketer. Hall and
Lashley were wireless opera-
tors, Smith an insurance sales-
man, Nurse a lumber measurer,
Watson an accountancy clerk,
Valentine a salesman for
Jamaica’s biggest building firm,
and Solomon a clerk on a sugar
estate.
The West Indian players are
brought up mainly on turf or
clay wickets in their home-
lands. The pitches are sym-
pathetic to batsmen keen to
display the aggressive, hard-
hitting stroke-play that has
been featured in Australia.
West Indian cricket in the
international field has a color-
ful, eventful history. Frank
Worrell’s team, now touring
Australia, are writing one of its
greatest pages, win or lose in
this current series against
Richie Benaud’s men.


Time to Woo the Racing Public
By JOHN SCHOFIELD
Tyrow is the time for people in racing to get together with
determination to capitalise on one of the biggest fillips
the turf has had in modern times.
Prize-money at the Easter carnival which opens on
March 25 will total a record £86,150. There is a £15,000
Sydney Cup, £lO,OOO Invitation Stakes, £lO,OOO Doncaster
Handicap, weight-for-age races worth £4OOO, £3500 and
£3OOO, and, in fact, no race carrying less than £l5OO in
stake-money.
Consolidated Press has provided £20,000 as prize-
money for two of the feature races —the “Sunday Tele-
graph” Invitation Stakes of £lO,OOO and the “Daily
Telegraph” Doncaster Handicap of £lO,OOO. With this
boost to the meeting the A.J.C. immediately increased
stakes for other races. The Sydney Cup stake is increased
from £12,000 to £15,000. The Doncaster Handicap stake
is increased most of all. The A.J.C. had fixed this prize
at £6OOO in the original programme, but the “Daily Tele-
graph” sponsorship increases the prize-money to £lO,OOO.
Last year the A.J.C. celebrated the centenary of
racing at Randwick and instituted the Invitation Stakes,
a race under quality handicap conditions over one mile
and a half. Entries were drawn by invitation to the
respective owners from all States and from New Zealand.
This race, and other events, made last year’s carnival one
of the most successful in the post-war era. Its pattern was
to be repeated this year in the hope that some of the new
patronage won then would again be brought back.
In November the Victoria Racing Club staged the
100th Melbourne Cup with a singularly successful carni-
val. All Melbourne racing clubs profited frdm the influx
of people who came to see the top horses of Australia
and New Zealand run in the “build-up” races and at the
Flemington carnival itself. The feeling is that the boost
to the sport from that month of top-class racing is still
being felt in Melbourne attendances and profit from
betting turnover.
Sydney racing needs very much an enthusiastic “shove
along,” and surely the people who depend most on racing
for their economic security are the people who should give
it. There is not a great deal of time, but there is sufficient
between now and the opening of the carnival on March
25 for a “back-to-racing-for-recreation” campaign. Sydney
is at its best in the autumn, when, in addition to the racing,
the Royal Show and the yearling sales combine with
racing to make a gala fortnight.
The Sydney Turf Club has its gala meeting on March
18, when the Golden Slipper Stakes of £lO,OO0 —the richest
race in Australia for two-year-olds—will be run. Meetings
immediately before this all have a value in working up to a
crescendo.
Melbourne worked for more than a year in promoting
the spring carnival. A special committee from the V.R.C.
was the mainspring in co-ordinating all things calculated
to have any influence towards success. Transport,
accommodation, enthusiasm among the city stores were
all swung behind the project.
Above all an all-out endeavor was launched to make
the lot of the general public as comfortable as possible—
and it succeeded. The long-range view was that new-
comers to racing, and former followers Won back for the
day, would recognise a “new deal” for the public and
want to come again.
A.J.C. officials have the experience of the centenary
meeting last year to guide them in promotion of this record
programme. But they cannot succeed alone. Breeders
(whose industry gets a lift each time big prizes are offered),
owners, trainers, jockeys and bookmakers have the
greatest responsibility of all.
Racing, of necessity, is a selfish game for those who
live by it. One man’s success is another man’s failure.
But is it asking too much that for the next couple of
months or so racing should be shown in its most attractive
light?
Those most concerned know best how to do this
without being fold!
TPhe death in South Australia in the latter part of last
year of Hua, aged 26 years, recalled a famous partner-
ship which won many of Australia’s major races —that
between E. E. D. Clarke as owner and James Scobie as
trainer. Hua was the last horse through which they were
associated.
Mr Clarke began racing in 1902 with a son of
Wallace, called Emir, who later was a failure at the stud.
Emir stood at Melton Park stud near Melbourne, now
owned by former jockeys Harold Jones and Edgar Britt.
Still keen to go on with the breeding venture, Mr
Clarke commissioned a friend to select for him a stallion
and some mares in England. The extent of the commis-
sion was £5OO0 —a very small amount even in those days.
The Welkin was bought for £BOO as a sire, and the rest
of the money spent on 12 mares.
One of these was Teppo, probably one of the greatest
brood mares brought to this country. Teppo is ancestress
of Ungar, Trivalve, Nuffield, Murray Stream, Hall Mark
and many other top-class winners. Another mare was
o Light, who became the dam of Gloaming.
Hua was bought in Sydney as a yearling. He came
out at the same time as Ajax, Avenger and several other
good two-year-olds. Hua won the Victoria Derby, but
he was never as good as Ajax, and at the stud he failed
to sire any horse of his own quality, although his sons
and daughters won nearly £270,000 in stakes, and his
daughters are proving good brood mares.
Ounstep, a winner at a recent twilight meeting at Rand-
wick, carried colors made famous 50 years ago by
horses like Aurifer, Flavinius, Hartfell and others raced
by Fred Merton.
Aurifer won a Caulfield Cup, beating Anna Carlovna,
who had been backed for a fortune by her owner, Eric
Connolly. In fact, Aurifer may not have run in the Cup
at all except for Connolly’s betting. Bookmakers, realising
they had been “caught,” induced Merton to start Aurifer
by offering him an extended price, and Aurifer duly won,
to their profit and, of course, that of his owner.
Connolly himself organised more than one “switch”
to upset attempted coups. He was the man who negotiated
the change in programme whereby the New Zealand horse
Nightmarch was sent out for the Epsom Handicap of
1929, which he won. Bookmaker Rufe Naylor had backed
every horse of note in the Epsom Handicap with Night-
march in The Metropolitan, and had so tied up things that
there was seemingly no escape for the bookmakers.
Leader of the bookmakers —the original Jim Hacket —got
the idea that Nightmarch could win the Epsom Handicap,
and through Connolly the changeover was arranged.
Nightmarch won all right, and the doubles book-
makers got a “skinner,” Nightmarch put up the 10lb.
penalty and was just beaten by Loquacious (sister to Wind-
bag) in The Metropolitan, and then went on to win the
Melbourne Cup from Paquito and Phar Lap.


Business.Rollery,Etc.
Second-guessing on Second Thoughts
Last week’s fairly well sus-
tained recovery in the
Australian sharemarkets
reduced the decline in the ord.-
share index since September 16
to just under 18 p.c. At the
opening on January 3 the loss
stood at slightly less than 21
p.c. Towards the end of 1960
the loss had been heavier still,
a week before the closing of the
Exchanges for Christmas re-
cording a depression of 22 p.c.
from the September peak.
At the moment the Ex-
changes look like a market
again, even if at a discount of
18 p.c. on their 1960 peak.
Before Christmas a market
could hardly be said to exist
except for a few outstanding
stocks. There were few sellers
and still fewer buyers.
The Bulletin in its issue of
January 4 asked the question,
Where are the institutions? and
suggested that, though they
had been out of the market for
some weeks, weren’t likely to
stay out much longer.
They appear now to be re-
entering the market. The
amount of funds accumulating
in the hands of life-offices, in-
surance cos. and superannua-
tion funds has been going on
rega r d 1 e s s of the financial
stringency, though the'influence
of the unit-trusts has, for the
time being, declined.
It is likely that the economic
problems of the next six months
have already been anticipated
in many share quotations.
The Federal Government has
called a meeting of the Loan
Council for February 9. It
looks as though the rate of
interest on the next Common-
wealth loan will be lifted
following that meeting.
Between now and February
9 the Government will be
naving second thoughts about
its November 16 economic pro-
nouncements. The sales-tax in-
creases are already in opera-
tlon > but the controversial com-
Pulsory-loan and hire-purchase
tax proposals have yet to be
ratified by legislation. It would
Seem that the validity of either
°t these measures might not
to testing in the High
Already prospects of the
e ttects of these proposals, plus
ne credit-squeeze operating for
°me time and the natural
caction from a prolonged
emulative boom, have brought
considerable deflation in the
speculative zest that existed
prior to September 16. Un-
fortunately, legitimate enter-
prise has been caught in the
same ebbing of confidence, and
that is particularly discourag-
ing in the present state of our
external trade. The adverse
balance-of-payments for the
six months to December 31 has
caused Canberra to ponder very
deeply.
The speculative boom in
shares and land-values which
reached its peak in the third
quarter of 1960 was a menace
to the economy. But the so-
called “remedies” prescribed
by the Treasurer on November
16 are short-cut palliatives that
have no real regard for the
basic nature of our problems.
A lot of second-thinking is,
required in Canberra this year.
Export Benefits?
Suggestions that Canberra
may eventually come
round to doing something to
stimulate the export of manu-
factured goods—such as grant-
ing, on profits earned from ex-
ports, up to two-thirds exemp-
tion from income-tax —arouses
the question of what types of
manufacturing - industry might
be early in the picture.
A traditional exporter of
manufactured products is the
flourmilling industry. It already
has a large capacity for export,
but in recent years has lost a
big part of its markets to
subsidised competition from
other countries, including
France.
It would only be tit-for-tat
in the international trading
game if our flourmilling in-
dustry were granted some help
in its exporting difficulties.
Whether the proposed partial
freedom from income-tax
would put it back in the picture
again it is difficult to say ;
after all, income-tax is payable
only after a profit has been
shown. And profits might still
be hard to earn. But this
season, unfavorable in the
Northern Hemisphere, may aid
Australia.
Flourmillers with consider-
able export capacity are Allied
Mills (Mungo Scott and other
mills), Gillespie Bros., Geo.
Fielder and John Darling.
John Darling has had a par-
ticularly tough time in recent
years. Its 10s. shares recently
fell below par, and profits for
the year to September 30 last
were down to £74,699, com-
pared with £110,713 in the
preceding year and £137,140
and £127,675 in the two years
before that.
In 1958-59 the div. was cut
from 8 p.c. to 5 p.c., and 5 p.c.
was declared again in respect
of the latest year, though profit
barely covered this and the
pref. distribution.
Darlings have an association
with Spillers, of'the U.K., and
are in the bakery business in
Australia through Austral
Bakeries, Ltd., and various sub-
sidiaries.
Allied Mills has stabilised its
earning-power through invest-
ment in bakeries and the mar-
garine business, and the same
applies to Gillespie Bro.s. Hold-
ings, Ltd.
1.C1.-on the Cheap
YX/Tth 1.C.1.A.N.Z. 20s. shares
selling at 665. last week
(against a “highest” of 90s.
for 1960), the shares of Cuming
Smith at 395. in Melbourne
showed-up to advantage.
For every £1 of its own capi-
tal, Cuming Smith owns,
directly or indirectly, about
43 p.c. of one share in
1.C.1.A.N.Z.
This is equal to about 28s.
6d. per Cuming Smith share
with 1.C.1. scrip at 665. on the
market, which leaves the valua-
tion of the Cuming Smith fer-
tiliser empire at about 10s. 6d.
per share.
There is little doubt that, if
listed on the sharemarkets, the
Cuming Smith holdings in
Commonwealth Fertiliser and
Chemicals and Cuming Smith
and Mt. Lyell Farmers Fer-
tilisers, plus the listed interest
in Australian Fertilisers, Ltd.,
would have a saleable value of
at least 30s. per Cuming Smith
share.
This would put the true
market-value of Cuming Smith
shares, even at present com-
paratively low prices for 1.C.1.
scrip, at nearer 60s. than 40s.
Yield from Cuming Smith
shares is just over 4 p.c. on an
8 p.c. div. basis, whereas the
return from 1.C.1. at 665. is
just over 3 p.c. on the current
10 p.c. div.
Repco, 5 p.c.
A lthough the automotive
industry has taken a
knock following the introduc-
tion of 40 p.c. sales-tax, com-
pared with 30 p.c. previously,
motor-cars, like women, are
here to stay.
This suggests that the 10 p.c.
dividend being paid by Repco,
Ltd., out of earnings of a bit
over twice that rate for 1959-
60, is in no danger, and the
ss. shares at last week’s weaker
price of 9s. 9d. should be
worth looking at with a yield
of 5 p.c. offering.
Repco is a big show
paid capital is £5,774,244, all
in ords. It has a very solid
and diversified grip on the
auto.-parts industry, both as
original equipment and for
replacement. It also has con-
trol of several metropolitan re-
boring and auto.-engineering
businesses. For those who are
satisfied with an immediate 5
p.c. yield and ready to wait a
little for further benefits,


Invest in
The Longest Established National
Hire-Purchase Company
k
in which the Bank of New South Wales
has a 40% shareholding
DEBENTURE STOCK
{NEW ISSUE)
Short
Term
12 months
9 months
6 months
3 months
SVa% p.a.
5%% p.a.
4 3 /«% p.a.
4V2% p.a.
Long
Term
6to 10 years 7% p.a.
5 years
4 years
3 years
2 years
6Va% p.a.
bVi% p.a,
6%% p.a.
6% p.a.
Application for Debenture Stock can be accepted only
on the printed form included in the prospectus
obtainable from the Bankers to the issue
Bank of New South Wales (All Branches)
any A.6.C. Branch, and your Stockbroker.
PAID-UP
CAPITAL
£6,875,000
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
Corporation Limited
142 Phillip Street, Sydney • BW 2673
Branches and offices throughout Australia
Underwriting Brokers: lAN POTTER & CO. •>
PRING, DEAN & CO.
H. H. Dean, V. J. Bernec, W. L. Hunt, J. A. Hudson,
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Eevel 9, Kindersley House, Telephones:
20 O’CONNELL ST., and 33 BLIGH ST., BW 4011 1
SYDNEY BW 5505 j 0 nnes
Telegrams Address: PRING STOCK EXCHANGE, SYDNEY
Cables Address: LIN WAR, SYDNEY
MULLENS & CO.
A. H. Urquhart, M. D. Passmore, K. W. A. Bridges, F. H. Mullens
Members oj the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
16 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone Cables and Telegrams
BW 8171 (3 lines) BL 5327 “EMDECELEX,” Sydney
Start the weekend well with
WEEKEND
9
1/- from your newsagent
Repco represents a worth-
while equity.
Gollin, After Split
ollin Holdings shares
changed hands in Mel-
bourne at 7s. each following the
split into ss. units. Cum rights
to the recent one-for-eight issue
the old £1 shares sold as high as
385., against the equivalent of
285., ex rights, last week.
The Gollin trading empire
spreads throughout the world,
and, either exporting or im-
porting, or just distributing
local manufactures, it is gener-
ally kept busy.
Earnings disclosed for the
1959-60 trading-year were equal
to 17.2 p.c. on ord. capital, and
the div. was a well-covered 8
p.c. compared with p.c. in
the preceding year.
Yield at 7s. for the ss. units
from an 8 p.c. div. would be
5.7 p.c. Asset-backing, on
book-values, is in excess of
market price.
Cement Resurgent
Sharp recovery in the shares
of Kandos Cement
(N.S.W.) and Australian
Cement (Vic.) took place last
week, with a rise of about
6s. a share in a few days. Both
issues now stand at around
60s. 6d., compared with a
“low” of 50s. at the worst
point in the late-1960 setback.
Both issues had been up to
over 80s. earlier in 1960.
To the general market jitters
in November there was added,
in the case of Kandos and A.C.,
a fear that the Blue Circle
people (of the U.K., and of
which Commonwealth Port-
land Cement is an Australian
offshoot) would eat into the
A.C.-Kandos market in Victoria
when the new Blue Circle plant
starts operating at Geelong.
But as The Bulletin pointed
out at the time, the new com-
petitor’s plant is going to be
a costly one to install by com-
parison with the A.C. plant at
Geelong, and it will be, to start
with, only a fraction of the
size.
Now, suddenly, the share-
market has taken heart again
and bid up for Kandos and
A.C. in spirited fashion.
Newbold Up
The split to ss. units in the
old £1 shares in Newbold
General Refractories did not
have the immediately desired
effect, since the general set-
back in the sharemarket
occurred about the same time
as the split. The result was that
Newbold touched its lowest
level for the year at 175., and
remained under 20s. for several
weeks.
Last week there was a sharp
recovery to 225. 6d. for New-
bold shares, then a reaction to
around 225.
Newbold is a high-class stock
in a key industry, and the
split to ss. units had the object
of stiffening-up the price in
order to ward-off takeover mer-
chants.
Newbold’s chairman is Ray-
mont Moore, and two other
cos. chaired by him have
recently split their shares—Aus-
tralian Gypsum Industries and
R. Fowler. The split in each
case was made against the tide
of a receding market, and the
result so far has not been
entirely according to plan.
New Interest
HP h e Victorian Electricity
A Commission has opened a
£2-million cash-and-conversion
loan for public subscription at
per- cent, the new rate
approved by the Loan Council
for public authorities.
The commission is a war-
horse of government under-
takings in Australia on the
loan-market, spending every
penny which can be raised on
its vast undertakings and almost
continually before investors
with new loans.
As late as 1955 the commis-
sion was returning late sub-
scriptions to its 4| per cent,
loans; but the change came
late that year when a loan was
49 per cent, undersubscribed!
and another, closing in Jann-j
ary, 1956, was 55 per cent
under.
Then, throughout 1957,1958.!
1959, and 1960, came under-
subscriptions of 42, 30, 50,38,
24, 40, 40, 28, 13, 20 and4opei
cent, to loans which averaged
£2.5 million an offering every
few months. What the under-
subscription would have beet 1
had the rate not increased to,
5\ p.c. cannot be assessed; but i
other public - authority i' ate ?'
of course, had gone up si®’
larly.
W. H. Connolly, chairman of
the commission, is confident ot
a full subscription at the ne"
rate. The authority has turned
in profits of £460,000 an
£423,000 in the last two ye afS ;
and this very interesting ne ''
loan will indicate how deep!
the credit-squeeze has pinches


A y N.Z. BANK
Savings
Accounts
A.N.Z, BANK
Cheque
Accounts
Two banks with one door
AH the benefits of Cheque and Savings Accounts at the
©ne office to save you time and trouble. When you have
your own A.N.Z. Cheque Account it is so easy to pay bills
without bother and the risk of carrying cash.
A.N.Z. Savings Accounts too, are part of the modern,
efficient banking service now being used by thousands of
people in every walk of life.
Remember, A.N.Z. BANK is distinguished by its quick,
personal service and by this shield .
• •
A-N-Z
w
A.N.Z. BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED Cheque Accounts
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND SAVINGS BANK LIMITED Savings Accounts
ANZ4B9. less
{ VM
mm
S&s
tm
fmmm
sir
m
mm.
WVf»
m
mm
A happier choice for every occasion
Aneoves
*• • *
WINE
Fine wine adds pleasure to living . . . and you’ll
find no happier choice than Angove’s Wine of mature
perfection. Angove’s FINO DRY SHERRY, superbly
dry and appetising, is an excellent introduction to the
distinctive range of Angove’s TABLE WINES . . . each
the result of care and skill in wine making, combined
with the rich soil and sunshine of South Australia’!
glorious Murray Valley.
You will enjoy Angove’s Wine
APERITIF, TABLE AND DESSERT WINE OF HIGHEST
QUALITY: SHERRY, VERMOUTH, BURGUNDY, CLARET,
HOCK, RIESLING. SAUTERNES, PORT, MUSCAT
and ST. AGNES BRANDY of course!
ANGOVE’S LTD., RENMARK, S.A.
WINE MAKERS & DISTILLERS
BETTER BRANDY. ST AGNES BRANDY
the commission’s chief sup-
porter, the small investor, and
how attractive the new rate
has been made.
Oil Subsidy
[From H. Youa]
Recently a respected figure in
one of our Australian oil-
search companies said that the
Federal Government should in-
crease its oil-search subsidy to
£lO million a year. Another
suggestion has been for an
annual subsidy equal to five
per cent, of our yearly oil-
import bill. This would amount
to only six-million pounds a
year.
Both of these are interesting
suggestions, but both indicate a
haphazard approach to the
problem of oil-search. Had
they been forthcoming from
neutral observers, they would
carry more weight.
In each case we have heard
no mention of the financial
contribution of the oil-search
companies. Currently, in most
subsidised operations, the com-,
panies match subsidy-payments
pound-for-pound for direct ex-
ploration, and also assume all
overheads alone.
Assuming this arrangement
to continue, then oil-search
companies would have to spend
£lO million annually from their
own resources. Has it occurred
to these respected figures that
there has not been a total of
£lO million financed for oil-
search from the Australian
public in the past five years?
Of course, it is true that
much of the subsidy-money will
flow to the large American
independents and international
oil-companies active on the
continent and Papua-New
Guinea. But is this what our
local independents are fighting
for?
The facts of the issue thus
seem clear—the only way the
local companies could absorb
their share of £lO million in
subsidy-money each year would
°e for the Government to pay
U P to 80 p.c. of costs. With
such a percentage assumed by
the Government, it is only a
step to complete Government
exploration.
point which comes
up may be called the “.snow-
balling effect.” That is, how
1S the oil-search industry, cur-
rently operating on £1.5 mil-
h°n a year in direct subsidy
(.equally matched by company
expenditure) suddenly going to
nf r^ e s P en d a grand total
r £2O million annually?
h is true that if the com-
panies were handed this money


£5/15/- %
GOVERNMENT
GUARANTEED!
,J 7 -
THE
SYDNEY
WATER
BOARD
LOAN
FOR 7, I 0 or 20 YEARS
The higher return from this gilt-edged security is the first
increase since 1956. The New South Wales Government
unconditionally guarantees your money—interest payments
every six: months, together with full repayment of principal
when the Loan matures. 1
The Loan is an Authorised Trustee Investment in New South
Wales, Queensland, Western Australia and Tasmania.
', ■ ... jig .
If you hold securities in Loan No. 143 (£4/15/- per cent.,
maturing Ist February, 1961) prompt conversion to the new
Loan assures you of higher interest without interruption.
How to Invest or convert today!
Apply at any office of the —
• Commonwealth Trading Bank;
9 Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited;
• Bank of New South Wales;
• Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited;
Or through a Stockbroker;
Or at the Sydney Water Board offices.
THE SYDNEY WATER BOARD LOAN
Underwritten by lan Potter & Co.
they might be able to spend it.
They would have to import
foreign personnel, much new
geophysical and drilling equip-
ment, and greatly expand their
local administrative arrange-
ments.
However, oil-search is not a
business in the sense of a
manufacturing or mercantile
establishment. Pouring in ad-
ditional men and material at
one end does not necessarily
bring a proportionate return at
the other.
The effort must be allowed
to snowball. That is, explora-
tion-work leads to further and
more expensive work, so that
expenditures tend to become
larger year by year. This
happens in a natural way as
the newly-gained information
is integrated and the oil-
searchers proceed with ever-
increasing precision to more
localised areas.
Throwing in all the reserves
early in the battle would lead
to wasted and duplicated effort
and would more than likely
lead to early frustration and
dashed hopes.
It has been noted that the
Government has not been
overly impressed by these calls
for more expenditure. It has,
in fact, done a much more
logical thing. It has set a
French team to look into the
matter to see if it is possible
to direct the oil-search to the
more likely areas. In this
manner, it expects to get
maximum results for pounds
allocated. Under the present
system, money is being spent
in relatively hopeless areas.
This must continue until the
Government decides that its
subsidy-money should be chan-
nelled into the more likely
areas.
If this ever happens, there
will certainly be a hue-and-cry
from those who have been
advocating Ihe spending of
more money as a solution. The
report of the French Petroleum
Institute is now a public docu-
ment. It is up to the Federal
Government to decide what
steps it may now take.
Holidaywise, Ltd.
A venture into the holiday-
camp business on a con-
siderable scale is the object
behind flotation of Holiday-
wise, Ltd., registered in Sydney
on December 8, 1960. It will
take over, at par for cash, the
.30,003 £1 shares in Holiday-
Wise (Lake Macquarie) Pty.,
Ltd., which was incorporated
on August 31, 1960.
Holiday-Wise (Lake Mac-
quarie) bought and started to
develop 209 acres adjoining
Lake Macquarie (between Syd.
ney and Newcastle on the
N.S.W. coast), and with a mile
frontage to Dora Creek, half
a mile from Morisset. Lhe
initial project is known as Lake
Lodge. There is a new high,
way—the alternative route to
Newcastle via CessnocL
alongside the property, which
makes it accessible.
The first stage of construe-
tion has been completed. This
represents ranch-type accom-
modation for 480 persons in
eight lodges and a large recrea-
tion-centre and dining - hall,
There is a split-level boatshed
with a sundeck as control-point
for water-carnivals and regat-
tas. There are to be a variety
of entertainment facilities, in-
eluding movies and a dance-
floor. A sewerage system has
been installed, and water has
been reticulated to the property,
A sporting - holiday aspect
is to be the distinguishing
feature of the Lake Lodge
project, but the mountain,
river and lake scenery is also
attractive.
Schoolchildren and youth-1
groups will be catered for par-:
ticularly. The tariff will be
designed to attract younger
people.
The establishment of a
modern caravan-park on part
of the property is contemplated,
It is intended to sponsor
development of similar pro-
jects in other localities as time
goes by.
On an occupancy-rate of less
than 70 p.c. in the case of
schoolchildren and less than
20 p.c. in the case of adults,
net profit (after tax) on a gross!
revenue of £123,300 is put at
£30,400, equal to 24.3 p.c. on |
the proposed capital of
£125,000. A 10 p.c. div. is
spoken of for the first full
year.
The public is being offered
500,000 ord. shares of ss. each
at par. The issue has been>
underwritten by T.'J. Thomp-
son and Sons, members of
Sydney ’Change.
After the issue it is estimated.
that, deducting initial establish-
ment expenses and prelimi-
naries, net tangible assets will :
amount to £104,677.
On the board are David G.j
Molesworth, M. A. Jackson/
Sir Harold Alderton, D. G
McGilvray, Grant F. Walket
and-T. G. Cahill.
The project has many attrac-
tions and appears to be in
capable hands. There is n°
doubt that well-managed tourist
projects in N.S.W. are badly
needed, and this one requires
only to be carried out as
planned to have prospects ot
early success.


PETROLEUM LIMITED
Highlights of Chairman’s Address
In his address to the Annual Meeting of Stockowners held in Sydney
(and simultaneously relayed to subsidiary meetings in Capital Cities within
the Commonwealth) on Friday, January 13, 1961, the Chairman, Mr. L. J.
Thompson, reported:
• SALES:
• PROFIT:
• EARNING RATE:
• DIVIDEND:
• STOCKOWNERS’
FUNDS:
• ASSETS:
• NEW NOTE ISSUE
AND LIQUIDITY:
• RESERVES:
• B. F. GOODRICH
AUSTRALIA PTY.
LIMITED:
• NEW TANKER:
• NEW LUBRICAT-
ING OIL
REFINERY:
• QUEENSLAND
REFINERY:
• YELLOW CABS
HOLDINGS
LIMITED:
• AMPOL
EXPLORATION
LIMITED:
Turnover (for the year ended 30/9/60) £35,351,659—up 8.62%.
Net profit (after tax) was £2,103,883 —up 12.71%.
Earning rate on average paid-up ordinary stock was 19%, although portion of the
Company’s capital, for example investment in B. F. Goodrich Australia Pty. Limited,
is not yet income producing.
Increased by \% to 14%.
Funds total £18,915,745—up 10.33%.
Assets of the Company and its subsidiaries now total £42,434,821 —up 26.36%.
To finance expansion during the year the Company raised £6,373,293 by way of
registered convertible and non-convertible unsecured notes. Liquidity improved by
£1,827,073.
Reserves now aggregate £6,924,674, equivalent to 59% of paid-up capital.
This company, in which Ampol has a 41.49% stock interest, commenced marketing in
March, 1960. Growing sales will make it necessary in the near future to extend the
plant for increased production. Because of this, and the initial costs of development, it
will be some time before there is a return on capital invested.
The Company’s £4,000,000 super tanker of 32,250 tons, will be launched this year and
be commissioned next year.
During the year an agreement was reached whereby Ampol, Caltex and H. C. Sleigh
Limited jointly will build at Kurnell in Sydney a lubricating oil refinery at a cost of
some £13,000,000. In this venture Ampol will hold a 25% interest, Caltex 50% and
H. C. Sleigh 25%. A study of capital and revenue costs indicates that this should be a
sound investment.
The Company is proceeding with its investigation into the economic possibility of
establishing a refinery at Port Alma, near Rockhampton, in Queensland, on 400 acres
of land over which the Queensland Government has granted an option to Ampol.
Since the close of the year Ampol has acquired Yellow Cabs Holdings Limited, which
operates a large fleet of taxi cabs and hire service cars. More than 98% of holders of
issued ordinary shares in this Company accepted Ampol’s offer of nine fully paid
ordinary Ampol shares of 5/-. each in exchange for five fully paid ordinary shares of
5/- each in Yellow Cabs Holdings Limited. With this acquisition and the acquisition
of Yellow Cabs (W.A.) Limited, Ampol, through the internationally known name of
Yellow Cabs, now operates in New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland and Western
Australia.
The 1961 programme of West Australian Petroleum Limited (in which Ampol Explora-
tion has a 1 / 7th share) includes the drilling of a stratigraphic test well in the Perth
Basin some 160 miles north of Perth and a re-examination of selected parts of the
Exmouth Gulf Region, where oil was discovered at Rough Range No. 1 Well in 1953.
Australian
iS»a
fIMPOL
Owned


TWILIGHT AT LAKE
CALLABONNA
By OLAF RUHEN
Ramon Mas the Mushroom Man
stood in his doorway, his bright
brown Spanish eyes registering
recognition. Unk White, The
Bulletin artist, had brought me a mes-
sage from him. This was some time ago,
the year before Ramon died.
“Ah, my friend, come in, come in,” he
said. “For you I have something import-
ant, if you have the time. Have you the
time? For I must show you something.”
I followed him into the dim and sterile
shop that smelled always of mushrooms,
though there was never a sign of the
fungus. Instead the walls were lined,
from floor to ceiling, with stacked square
bottles, each containing a bed of jelly
in which mushroom spores or orchid
seeds were beginning their growth.
The shop and the room behind consti-
tuted his laboratory. Chemist’s scales,
protected by a high glass dome, stood
on the table at which he motioned me to
sit. A large and complicated micro-
scope stood on a high shelf. Everywhere
else, in every corner, against every wall,
the butt-ends of the square bottles
surrounded us.
Ramon pulled a chair to the other side
of the table and sat in it. The jolly, light-
hearted look left his brown owl-face and
was replaced by an expression of the
deepest moment.
“For you, my friend,” said Ramon,
“for you I have —the End of the World.”
Some dramatic impact was lost here,
for I knew Ramon to take a keen
interest in the craft of writing stories, a
keen interest, indeed, in all the various
pursuits and oddities of his friends, and
his friends were'all mankind. So I smiled,
but Ramon wagged his finger at me.
“No, it is true,” he said. “The End
of the World —in a bottle.”
He took a deep breath and I offered
him a cigarette which he accepted, mak-
ing his choice carefully while he arranged
in his mind the things he would say.
“You must understand first of all,” he
said, “that all life is the one thing and no
thing living is exempt from this e-one-
ness. Now I in my business must study
life. I am a scientist and my business is
e-life, which I e-study in my bottles.
Now there are, in my shop, little animals
which may do harm to my plants.”
T looked about me, and he shook his
-*• head.
“The little animals are soil-mites,” he
said. “They are almost too e-small for
you to see. To e-study them I put them
in bottles. I put food in the bottles —
the food that all the world lives on, and
this food is wheat. For the little animals
I even boil the wheat. And all this I do,
I prepare the bottle and fill it full of
food, under the most e-sterile conditions
so that there is no enemy, no disease to
prey upon the soil-mites. There is no
problem for them. They eat and they
sleep and they make love and they have
e-children and they are happy, and what
happen?”
“Go on,” I said.
“They make love and soon they are in
millions. And soon all the wheat in the
bottle is gone and the wheat is all soil-
mites. There is so many little animals in
the bottle that the inside of the bottle
is as it were crystallised, for the soil-mites
crush one another against the glass. And
then because they are wheat they eat one
another. I cannot see them, but I know
they eat one another. And soon there
is only one soil-mite, and he is very
weak, walking on the bodies of the
others. I open the bottle and I find him
—one here, one there, very weak and
listless ; a sluggard, not likely to live.”
“And then?” I asked.
“And then, my friend, I start another
bottle. See.”
He produced a clear glass bottle
filled within an inch of capacity with
boiled wheat. Near the top one or two
of the fat grains looked as though they
had become husks. Ramon unscrewed
the lens from the microscope.
“Here are two,” he said after a
moment. “They make love. Eating,
sleeping, making love. It is too easy for
them and so they must die. That is the
lesson of the animals, my friend. The
world is too easy for them ; so they die.”
I looked through the lens and saw two
tiny white specks on the clear glass of
the bottle separate and run off.
“I have made things too easy for them
and they are doomed,” Ramon repeated,
nodding his great domed head. “This is
what I have for you. This is the end of
the world. This is your story.”
“And when the world has come to ao
end you start a new world, Ramon?”
“There is always a new world, my
friend. There is always another bottle,
And the new world will be much the
same. We shall die, all of us, of too
much of a plenty. We shall live while
we make things, and when we have things
made for us we shall die. You will write
this story, my friend?”
“Some day, Ramon,” I promised,
“Some day I’ll write it.”
“Some day,” he said. “Some day the,
world will come to an end. What do you
write today?”
“A scientist and his diprotodons. They
were animals as big as rhinoceroses. And
this American has come to study them
where they all died in a heap in the
middle of Lake Callabonna.”
Ramon was interested.
“They were swimming things, these?”
“No. The lake is dry. It was dry mud
when they died there, fifty-thousand years
ago. They died together, two - thousand
and more of them.”
"O amon got up and screwed the lens
back into the microscope.
“Then I bet you something. I bet you
they died of too much of a plenty. They
had things all their own way, and so they
died. They came lo the end of the wheat
in the bottle, but the wheat never comes
to an end. This is the end of all life
that it dies of too much life. The same
story, another bottle.”
He picked up the bottled wheat and
put it tidy where it came from.
“How long now,” I asked him, “ti"
the last soil-mite?”
“It’s cold weather now,” he said.
takes longer to come to the end of
world in the cold weather. Maybe two-
three months. In the warm weather, hail


s long. Life is e-stronger in the heat.
It comes e-sooner to an end.”
The whole dome of the sky was a light
steel-blue. There was no wind any-
where, nor any significant movement
except that, where the abundant herbage
further out gave way to the bare trodden
around surrounding the lake-shore, a
stray up-draft of air now and then stirred
up a whorl of dust and was gone, leav-
ing the impression that something cool
was gone, as though a fevered vision had
conceived a ghostly hand drawn back
from a hot brow.
The beasts lay sleepily, grunting
uneasily from time to time. They were
clustered thinly at the bases of the great
branching eucalypts that dominated the
plain. Only two or three of the beasts
shared the shade of each tree, and only
at five or six of the trees within reach
of the eye were the beasts sheltering.
At other trees, scattered amongst the
dry but plentiful shrubs and grasses, lay
herds of the big plains kangaroos. A
wedge-tail eagle hovered high in the sky
above; and across the bare stretches
of land that set the lake remote from
the vegetation, a small group of emus
cantered easily, raising dust behind each
pulse of their high-stepping claws.
From the lake rim the water had
receded ; irregular polygons of baked mud
stretched far beyond the limits of vision
to a point where the heat mirages gave
the semblance of a lake ; the point at
which the water might still be found.
The parrots, feeding quietly on the
ground beneath the trees, were silent
now. At long intervals the movements of
the animals urged some of them, one or
two, a dozen, or a hundred, to the safety
of the lower branches, and when this
happened, as the flock rose, the daylight
was pierced and split by the dazzling
brilliance of plumage and the silence was
shattered with raucous cries.
Some of the boronias were in flower:
the heady scent mingled with the acrid,
stable-yard smell of the herbivores, and
the stench of decay that wafted from the
dying lake-bed.
The beasts were diprotodons, huge
animals, as heavy as hippopotamuses and
very much the same shape. In them the
marsupial kingdom, beginning with the
opossums and the phalangers, had risen
to its most ambitious heights. They had
no rivals; they were perhaps the only
creatures this land had ever seen who had
no enemies: the alarms, the antagonisms
and the excitements of lesser animals
evoked only a mild curiosity from them.
even the babies, carried as they
were for months beneath the great
bulk of their mothers ponderous car-
casses, were vulnerable. The marsupial
wolves were not a match for them ; the
eagles and the monitors could not find
them unattended.
The pouch of the diprotodon, where
ea ch baby rode, was an elementary one,
consisting only of two great ridges of
thick, leathery hide running, longitudi-
ttatly down the massive belly of the
pother, and impressed inwards, so that in
h e early stages one or other of the
close-folded ridges carried the trivial
e 'ght of the fantastically small cub,
which needed no other support than this
and the determined grip of its small
mouth upon the sustaining nipple.
But even in its earliest days the cub
was equipped with the transverse thumb
that gave evidence of the tree-climbing
ancestry of the diprotodon; and its
four legs, thus converted to hands and
gripping tightly, maintained it in its
position when its weight increased.
As the baby developed and, except for
the intervals of feeding and sleeping, it
relinquished the nipple, it learned to
loosen a hold to one side or the other,
to twist and watch the way ahead, and
to grasp, without leaving its position,
handfuls of the lush green foliage to
supplement its milk.
In after-life it had little use for the
inherited tree-climbing hands. No tree
that was scalable could have carried the
weight of a diprotodon, or if it could
the diprotodon, once its bulk was
acquired, could not have maintained itself
in tree-climbing attitudes. The youngsters
sometimes took a brief interest in their
ancestral domain and climbed a little
way ; but even they were afraid to leave
the safety of the trunk for the branches
from edible leaves.
The only remaining use for the grip-
ping hands was in the practice and
play of the beasts in which they lay on
their backs in lush places and rolled
from side to side, gripping and bunching
all the growing plants within reach and
conveying them to the great grinding jaws
from four directions at once.
For this reason it was always easy to
see where diprotodons had been feeding.
There were large cleared wallows where
vegetation had been destroyed as well as
eaten, where all the lesser trees had
been snapped and broken, and the ground
pounded flat. Such wallows were evi-
dence of a community rich in necessities,
a community which had never known
scarcity and was careless of its great
bounty. These sites regenerated them-
selves quickly, and the areas of destruc-
tion were never really widespread, be-
cause the diprotodons did not move in
herds, but in family units.
And there was never real need for
concealment. The abundance of food
and the absence of enemies had made it
unnecessary for the young to learn to
fight, and within the race there was no
rivalry.
A curious system had evolved in which
the young female, when it abandoned its
dam, entered upon a brief period of
solitary existence, while the young male
stayed with the family unit. The male’s
relationship with the family was broken
when he met an acceptable solitary
female.
At no season were there proprietary
fights amongst the males. Mating was
for the duration of life, and an old
diprotodon left solitary by death went
on eating and sleeping and lying in the
sun.
The slow and ponderous movements
of the beasts seemed to give them mass
even beyond that which they possessed.
Their fastest gait was a slow walk, the
feet bunching as they were lifted and
spreading as they were set down ; seem-
ing to ensure a safe hold on the earth.
Their legs were short, and the feet them-
selves in-turned, so that a forward
movement, though slow, presented an
appearance of great determination and
inevitability. When they were travelling
with intent, as they did between water-
ing-place and feeding-ground, at night
and in the morning, they covered perhaps
two miles in an hour.
In mid-afternoon the plain came to
life. One by one, from here and there,
the beasts rose protestingly to their feet
and began to graze, slicing the dry but
“And for punishment you can spend the rest of the day playing
around with this”


thick herbage back close to the earth,
gouging away masses of it, clearing the
land like huge, efficient, unmethodical
machines.
From unseen baths of dappled shade
they lurched into view until the whole
great salver of the plain took the appear-
ance of an anthill in slow motion. They
grazed aimlessly, here pausing to rub
their wrinkled hides against a tree; there,
standing awkwardly upon three legs,
pulling a shrub down to head-level to
strip it of its leaves and small branches.
With the approach of sundown the
movement changed, became purposeful;
and from all quarters the beasts con-
verged upon the lake, long lines of them
traversing the bare wasteland by well-
worn tracks.
the lead a huge bull diprotodon,
two tons of inertia, moved com-
plainingly in the heat. Behind him, at
about ten yards’ distance, his mate fol-
lowed, her bulk ungainlier even than his
because of the well-developed youngster
that clung to her low-set belly like a
strange growth. She grunted and strained,
urging herself to keep up with the bull.
When they reached the well-marked
depression that had been the lake-shore,
the bull halted and swung his head, of
long custom. Here were still the dead,
khaki-colored remnants of the lush sedges;
and here, in the days before the long
drought, in the previous season when the
lake had still lapped its ancient bounds,
he was used to sinking hjs great body
in the water and browsing happily for a
change on the ever-abundant growth of
water-weeds. The water was gone now.
It was five miles away towards the centre
of the lake, and there were no water-
weeds on its verges. It had grown smaller
every day.
The bull stood only a moment, then
scrambled down the bank, sliding through
the gravelly dust.
The sun had set three hours when they
reached the water, and the moon was
high. From east, west and south the
long lines of beasts converged, jostling
and thrusting in the last accumulation at
the goal. Over the last stages they
seemed to hurry, beckoned by the immin-
ence of their plunge into the lake, once
the size of an English county, and now
only a little larger than a swimming-pool.
The last furlong was a nightmare of
sticky, treacherous mud, and the bull
sank and plunged, reversed his footing
and plunged again, sprawling and strain-
ing. until the mud became smoother and
swirled back to fill the tracks he made
and then became liquid, and finally was
muddy water.
He dipped his snout into it, but did
not drink. Head down, he pushed fur-
ther into the lake, nosing and tasting at
the water, thrusting himself between
other bodies as big as his own, squeezing
past them, and coming eventually to one
of the underwater outlets for the springs
which flowed upwards from the lake-bed
and kept the supply replenished. Here
the water was fresher, and the bull drank.
He stayed by the spring a long time,
immersed to the shoulders in the water,
drinking and lifting his head again to
wait, shifting his feet about as they sank
into the mud. Once or twice he turned,
looking for his mate. After an hour h®
headed back the way he had come, push-
ing through the great pack of beasts
which in happier days had been dispersed
along the great shoreline, but now were
brought all to this one pool.
He was nervous of their presence and
their numbers. Near the edge he felt
with his feet the body of a young calf
on the bottom, and reared away from it,
causing a small local commotion.
He found his mate lying on the
outskirts of the press, on more solid
mud. She had not drunk and was moan-
ing with her thirst.
He nuzzled her impatiently, and the
cub, standing amongst her feet as she lay
on her side, followed suit. Protestingly
she rose and, the cub with her, moved
towards the press of bodies ; but when
she came to the thick of them, at the
point where the bull had shouldered
through, she faltered, fearful for the
young one, and came back to the bull,
and waited. At the dawn they were still
there.
Now the bull was nervous and afraid.
By now, he knew, they should have been
back at their feeding-grounds, filling their
insistent stomachs before the sun's heat
made the mid-day sleep imperative. The
rhythm of their lives was broken, and the
bull was afraid, but the cow would not
go to the water. As the sun rose, he
left her.
There were others heading for the
feeding-grounds, but they were moving
against a tide, for more beasts were still
coming or returning to the pool, and
with each head-on encounter the bull
grew more uneasy, and rocked from side
to side before he passed. In a vague way
he knew that the number of the beasts
using the pool had trebled and quadrupled
overnight, and he was worried, for he
was used to a drinking-place he regarded
as his own. He could not know that not
only had the number using the lake been
concentrated together, but that hundreds
of others had changed their habits to
converge on this water because of the
drying-up of the creeks, the springs and
the billabongs that once dotted the wide
plains.
The sun was high when he staggered
at last into the rich grasslands. He
ignored the food and lay down to sleep.
In the same way as the waters had, the
night before, receded another half-mile
in the accelerating effects of drought, so
the great herds of the beasts, converging
on this water and cropping and trampling
the grasses as they came, had increased
the distance from the old shore-line to
the available grazing.
YI/Ben he had slept out his time the bull
* * stood, hungry and weak because he
had missed the morning’s feed. Beasts
were already on the move towards the
water, walking a little, resting briefly, but
lying down hardly at all. They were
strange new beasts that he did not recog-
nise, of his own kind but from the hinter-
land, and gaunt with thirst and the
forced marching ; and he felt the resent-
ment rise in him. He felt that he should
drive them away from his territory, but
he had no knowledge of fighting, nor any
conception of his latent powers.
When one came blundering through
the wallow where he stood, a young bull
followed by an even younger cow, thin
and ungainly and without a cub, the anger
in the old bull’s mind crystallised, and he
prepared himself to drive out the intruder.
He walked up to him and stood, head to
head. The young bull turned obediently
aside. The big fellow put his shoulder
against the other’s and used his weight,
and again the young bull gave way. But
he walked only a step away and stood.
Thus the old bull tried to teach himself
to fight.
He used his great clawed hand, and
later his teeth ; but they met only with
the passive pacifism of his opponent,
And he did not know the technique. He
had no knowledge of the anatomy of
vulnerability.
He did not know that he could tap the
life of the youngster at the throat,
throttling or biting. He did not know
how to paralyse the haunch, slash the
belly, lame the leg, blind the eye, crush
the skull. He just stood, and pushed,
and opened an envious mouth towards the
great unassailable escarpment of the upper
ribs, the muscle-armored shoulder.
The engagement, such as it was, lasted
half an hour. Not even the wedge-tail
eagle, hovering high, gave it the attention
of a moment. There would be no tit-
bits for him from such an encounter, he j
knew. And then the great bull turned!
and set out for the lake-shore and the
water. His intended victim followed
him, puzzled and unhappy.
The lake had not shrunk any more,!
having reached a size at which its puny
springs could keep it replenished ; but its
verges were crammed now with the
bodies of the dead and the dying. The
air was heavy with the smell of death—
not the sweet slavering scent of
but the thin, repulsive stench of the ulti-
mate exhaustion, the heavy breath of
starvation, the gases of corruption. A
huge monitor lizard, twenty feet in
length, was gorging on the carcasses, keep-
ing a watchful but contemptuous eye on
the living beasts. The bull pushed and
struggled until he came to the fresher
water from the springs ; and he drank
deep.
Immediately the cramps seized his
belly and he gave vent to the soft, muted
complaint of his kind, an inadequate
moaning, like the love-song of a rhino-
ceros. Hastily, lifting his feet, slipping
and struggling in a panic, he returned to
the denser mud at the verges, and lay
there
After an hour the pains eased and he
struggled to his feet and went to find bis
mate. She was not far. She was nearly
at the spot where he had left her on the
previous night, but the cub was go® :
The bull stood over her, moaning <
through the night.
The sun rose bright again, for the
two hundred and seventieth day ot
drought.
The beasts could not know that this;’
was the first definite sign of the reces-
sion of the Ice Age, the approach 01
which, some few thousand years before,
had transformed these sub-trop^ 2
plains into a temperate Paradise.
could they know that never again, ne' e


in history would the lake bear water,
except in that tiny pool that was all that
was left, now, near the central mound
spring. All they could know was that
the sun was climbing high and that their
rhythm was disturbed: that now they
were at the water when they should have
been at the feeding-place. Some few
were travelling, some coming, some
going. The rest lay, entangled though
not trapped, in the sticky mud.
When the sun rose high the bull tried
to prod the cow to her feet, but she would
not, or could not, rise. He stirred him-
self and went towards the water. When
he had advanced until it was liquid
enough he lowered himself into it until
only his head was above the surface, as
he had often lain at the lakeside -in
happier days. It was cooler there, and he
more contented, though the pangs of
hunger were beginning to give place to
the more muted and less urgent agonies
of starvation.
In mid-afternoon he came out of the
pool and made his way back to where
his mate was lying. She was dead. He
nuzzled the body for a long time, stand-
ing there with his head against her great
side, his small eyes blinking ; a comic
figure, bloated, mud-covered, puzzled,
hungry and sorrowing, full of his woes
hut lacking the means of expression.
About him the mud-covered bodies lay
sprawled and humped, hundreds on hun-
dreds of them. Here and there was
movement, a slavering head rolling, a
survivor picking his way, the chattering
°f flocks of small birds and the watchful
e .y es , the flickering tongues of the great
hzards. But such life only gave emphasis
to the desolation of death.
night approaching the bull turned
. to the long trail leading to the feed-
n g-grounds. He picked his way to it
jmtongst the silent, mud-covered mounds.
°dies lined the track, too, not thickly
s they lined the pool, but with sufficient
re quency to make it a road of horror
But the bull felt no horror, only hunger
and exhaustion and a vague anger.
A half-mile from the watering-place
he met another of his kind, thin and
gaunt from long travel. Neither gave
way, neither the bull nor the stranger.
Heads lowered, they advanced till their
noses were touching, and they stood like
that. Then the bull laid into his
shoulders and pushed, and the stranger
strained against him. Ludicrously their
heads slid apart, their necks twisted, they
fell, each past the other ; they flopped
in the dust.
Too late, within the bull’s small
brain was born the desire to kill; the
desire was come too late for him to pro-
tect his domain and his family ; in his
adversary it was come too late to win
him to the waters. Only the watchful
vigilance of a creature beset through a
lifetime by his enemies could have
brought either through an emergency
such as this ; only the lessons of an
aggressive infancy could have armed him.
Yet here they were, senescent at the end
of a long road, applying themselves to a
youngster’s lessons.
From the ground the bull swung his
forequarters and bit viciously at the hind
foot of the stranger, grabbing at the
short, heavy cannon-bone with a fore-
foot as though it were the trunk of a
young tree.
The stranger kicked him on the nose,
harmlessly, evading the over-slow clutch
and bite almost by accident.
They dragged themselves to their feet,
both of them, and stood ; looking at each
other, their little eyes red-rimmed, their
purposes great and their methods undis-
covered. Again and again they came to
an encounter; again and again fruit-
lessly ; and there they died, not from
injury- but from frustration and
obstinacy and the sheer excesses of
exhaustion.
They are still there, two faint humps
on the cracked dry bed of Lake Calla-
bonna, in the State of South Australia,
a half-mile from the mound-springs in
the centre of the lake ; for that night, or
the night that followed was the last night
of the diprotodons, the night their
species vanished from the earth.
Fifty-thousand years is not, after all,
a long day upon the calendar of time.
The mud has preserved them where they
fell, the mud and the hot sunny days,
and today their attitudes still attest the
frustration of their intentions. But the
vulnerable ones, the kangaroos, the moni-
tors, the parrots and the wedge-tail
eagles, still crowd the sunny plains.
“T make it simple, my friend,” said
Ramon. “I make it too simple, for
it is not like this at all. If I take my little
animals and give them an enemy, so they
must fight and hide, then they become
cunning. With an enemy they fight and
hide, they conserve and they plan, and
only sometimes they make love, and it
takes e-longer to come to the end of the
world. And then I have not the time for
the study of how the end of the world
comes to be. Some day I think I will do
this: I will give them an enemy ; but
then my world will last longer than will
I. I have not the time, my friend. I
have my work amongst the mushrooms.
But this is very interesting, do you
think?”
“Yes, Ramon,” I said. “It’s interest-
ing.”
He was looking at the bottle through
the lens of the microscope again, shifting
his hand carefully to achieve a focus.
“They do very well, I think,” he said.
“They eat, they make love, they sleep.
They are thriving. Soon they will be
making use of all the resources of the
world ; and soon after that it will all be
over.”
“There doesn’t seem a great deal of
purpose in it, Ramon,” I said, and I
think he misunderstood me.
“Ah, my friend,” he answered. “I have
a great many more bottles. This is some-
thing that I love to watch.”
He picked up his world once again and
returned it to its shelf in the back room.
THE HOLLIDAYS
‘It's a pity they don't grow trees like that nowadays!"


The Real Hinge of Fate
Singapore Re-assessed
By ”EK DUM"
Blurbs are not to be taken seriously,
so the publishers’ assurance that
Masanobu Tsuji’s “Singapore, the
Japanese Version,” subtitled
“Japan’s Greatest Victory Britain’s
Worst Defeat,” “contains crushing evi-
dence for the prosecution ... by the key
man ... the brilliant strategist” who
“creates his story with great truth” and
“striking” fairness, can be passed over with
a cynical smile, more particularly since the
“brilliant strategist” was merely a local
G. 5.0.1. Ops. dealing with tactics and
had nothing to do with strategy.
As a “prosecutor,” presenting “crush-
ing evidence” against anybody, Tsuji is
unimpressive and his “fairness,” all one-
sided, is only striking for its impudence.
His part was that of a minor planner in
one facet of a vast operation which
stretched, a “bold gamble,” all over the
Northern and S. Western Pacific.
His essay is the very antithesis both in
fairness and completeness of exposition
of Fuchida’s and Okumiya’s “Midway.”
The most useful service Tsuji’s book
could produce would be to inspire re-
assessment of the events of Malaya in
December-February 1941-42, in the light
of facts either not available then or sub-
merged under the wave of hysteria which
struck the world at the time of the
disaster.
The gist of his story is that some time
in 1941 —he is often rather coy about
dates —he was appointed to take charge
of a small and ill-equipped military unit
formed for research into the detail of
tropical warfare. It was known as Doro
Nawa, the “unit to make bricks without
straw,” and located in Formosa.
From his task evolved a new Tsuji
whose planning (combined of course with
a little effort by General Yamashita)
resulted noF only in Britain’s worst de-
feat, but in the dismemberment of the
British Empire in Asia. It seems that,
because of “the inefficiency of the British
Army in Malaya” and “the sterling
worth” of the Japanese Army, “the
British surrendered an impregnable for-
tress almost without resistance in hardly
seventy days, even though its military
strength was greatly superior to that of its
Japanese opponents.”
In fact the British forces in Malaya
were far inferior in every material detail
to the Japanese ; in arms, in cohesion, in
logistic capacity and particularly in air-
power which was the key to control of
the seas and movement of invading
forces.
Originally the basic pre-air age theory
of Singapore’s defence wtas that the
Malayan Peninsula was either undefend-
able or defendable only by a force which
it would be uneconomic to use. So the
plan was to provide a defence which
would keep the island only in British
hands for 70 days till a main fleet arrived
to rescue it.
Some people clung to this conception
to the bitter end, including Churchill,
though the Combined Command Con-
ference at Singapore in October, 1940,
recognised that the development of air-
power made it vital to defend the whole
Malayan Peninsula to keep Japanese
bases outside it. Air Marshal Brooke-
Popham later endorsed this view.
Throughout the disastrous 15 months
that followed Churchill seemed com-
pletely oblivious to the real power of the
combined Japanese Navy and Air Force
and to likely effects of defeat in Malaya
on the morale of Southern Asia.
Thus, while the local command’s first
requirement was a tactical airforce of
about 580 aircraft designed to enable
air concentration at any point and pre-
vent the Japanese from establishing air
bases in Malaya, Burma, East Indies,
Australia and New Zealand, they actu-
ally got 158 Hudsons (24), old Blen-
heims (night fighters), rickety Brewster
Buffaloes whose guns jammed as often
as not, and obsolete Vildebeestes with a
speed of 100 miles an hour when they
would fly. The crews of these found
themselves faced at the crucial moment
with at least 700 Japanese aircraft of the
most modern types.
Tt was the same with the land and sea
forces. General Percival called for
at least 48 battalions (including North
Borneo), adequately armed and with a
backing of field and anti-tank guns, two
heavy ack-ack regiments for use in the
Peninsula and 212 heavy and 124 light
A.A. guns for defence of Singapore
fortress.
The total manpower strength on
December 7, 1941, when the blow fell,
was only 19,600 British 15,200 Austra-
lians, 37,000 Indians and, locally en-
listed, 16,800. The defenders included
raw volunteers and a very large bulk of
troops, which increased proportionately
to the whole as last-minute reinforce-
ments came in, who could scarcely form
fours. The Command was short of re-
quirement by 17 infantry battalions, four
light anti-aircraft battalions and. two
tank regiments, and had no tanks at all
and a heavy shortage of anti-aircraft
weapons. The Indian troops, in the
main, answered the description of
General Auchinleck in 1938—“ relatively
immobile and under-armed and unfit to
take the field against land or air forces
equipped with up-to-date weapons.”
They were pitted against well-armed
troops with five years of battle experience
in most cases.
The Royal Navy was in the same posi-
tion. Churchill, when he did send the
Prince of Wales and Repulse, which
were as ill-equipped for anti-air defence
as Malaya itself and with no air umbrella
—though the Indomitable was on the
way—was obviously thinking of any j
Japanese ships that might be about as
raiders in the tradition of the Germans in |
the Atlantic. He described the Prince
of Wales as “our latest battleship, which
can catch and kill any Japanese ship,’
whereas any aircraft-carrier of the sis
in the Japanese Navy could have caught
and killed either Prince of Wales or
Repulse in ten minutes and Admiral
Yamamoto’s 68,000-ton, 16-inch gun
Yamato, in the super - Bismarck class,
could have outrun them both and
pounded them to bits.
The Japanese on December 7, 1941,
had complete control of the sea and air,
Their 25th Army was fully equipped,
fully served by untouchable communica-
tion lines to fully stocked bases a few
hundred miles away. And while they
had been preparing, with the knowledgt
of their victims, for their descent ob
Singapore, the British command in that
ill-fated fortress had been compelled to
watch 800 modern aircraft and 440 tanks
being sent to Russia from Britain in the
five months before their ordeal, apart
from the re-equipment and servicing of
the Middle East, in accordance with
Churchill's policy. His reply to the pro-,
posal of the Chiefs of Staff Committee
in London in January, 1941 —a few days
before the first warning of a possible
surprise attack on Pearl Harbor—to
divert sufficient forces from other areas
to make Singapore safe, had been:
The political situation in the Far East
does not seem to require, and the strength j
of our Air Force by no means warrants, I
the maintenance of such large land forces |
in the Far East at this time.
From the point of view of ultimate
victory, reason was on his side, as it was
later during the five months after Ger-
many invaded Russia when he, gave
priority to keeping the hard-pressed
U.S.S.R. in the field.
npsuji makes much play with the British
claim about Singapore’s impregnability
though he admits that it might have beet
bluff. This it was —deliberate bluff fa'
mulated by Brooke-Popham as a polity
in a vain hope that it would deter th
Japanese from attack if they- could be
made to take it seriously. He thought
the line was to try to deceive them into
believing that “British defence was so
strong, the Commonwealth so united, tk
Americans and Dutch so certain to come
in, that any act of aggression against
British territory must be unsuccessful-
Unfortunately, the wrong people to°‘
him seriously.
Similarly, Churchill’s somewhat childish
and vague plan that the Prince of Wal ei
and Repulse should, by
among the islands, “exercise that kind ®
vague menace which capital ships of tWj
highest quality whose whereabouts af £ |


unknown can impose on all hostile calcu-
lations,” was untenable as an expedient.
Tsuji asserts that “the lack of rear
fortifications (in Singapore) had not even
been considered or discussed by any
commanding officer” and that this fact
wa s not known to Mr Churchill. It is
not true, even though it does tune in
with the tale of the great guns all point-
ing seaward while the landward perimeter
wa s undefended.
It was not true either that the weakness
of defence in the Peninsula was due to
the fact that “to land in Southern Thai-
land, brave the intense heat and the long
distance of 1100 kilometres, and advance
through dense jungle, was probably
deemed an impossibility by what seemed
to the British commonsense judgment.
Brooke-Popham warned the British
Government and Chiefs of Staff in cate-
gorical detail of the exact course which
the Japanese invasion did take. He did
this a full year before the event.
Only a powerful land-based air um-
brella, backed by a fleet containing
carriers and a ground force capable of
holding the Peninsula and keeping Japan-
ese airfields off it, could have defended
Singapore basically.
The big guns that pointed out to sea
would have been comparable, if used in
land warfare against dispersed infiltrating
troops, moving rapidly, with 25 pounders
taken on a quail-shoot. When it came
to actual land attack on the island, only
versatile, mobile and elastic defence
armed with mortars, automatic weapons
and A.A. guns galore and light armor
could have succeeded.
In his assessment of the Japanese
invading force and its tactics Tsuji seeks,
as in other matters, to convey an entirely
false impression. His thesis is that the
attack southwards was something under-
taken under stress of drastic emergency
by the Japanese Government; that it was
hurriedly improvised in September, 1941,
and made with troops unversed in jungle
fighting, and ill prepared. He declares
that the tactical planning of the cam-
paign was in the hands of a “hastily
formed" staff created suddenly for the
particular purposes of the Malayan cam-
paign ; in fact “a scratch team,” operat-
lng “on the Doro Nctwci,” last minute
(Tsuji) “model.”
Actually, all that remained to be done
,n September was to begin the last stage
of an operation which had begun with
•he assembly of the 25th Army and its
•raining in Indo-China, by obeying the
imperial order issued at the beginning of
•he month to “complete the necessary
Preparations for war by the end of
October.”
Modus operandi had been worked out
•?any months before September, 1941.
Nchida and Okumiya in “Midway”
declare that the basic concept of the plan
0 bomb Pearl Harbor and wipe out
lts air units and naval ships, particularly
earners which would interfere with its
“•ddings and freedom of air and naval
Movement, by a “crippling blow,” origi-
nated in the mind of Admiral Yamamoto,
°nimander-in-Chief of the Combined
eet “early in 1941,” and its details
re at once laid down.
In mid-1941, moreover, the Americans
broke the Japanese Naval Code and
some of the despatches which they
decoded contradict Tsuji. One dated
July 14, 1941, from military sources in
Canton to Tokyo Foreign Office stated
that the major purpose of the occupa-
tion of Indo-China was, “when the inter-
national situation is suitable, to launch
therefrom a rapid attack.” It stated:
In the seizing: of Singapore the Navy
"ill play the principal part. As for the
Army, in seizing Singapore it will need
only one. division. In the main through
the activities of our air force .... we
will once for all crtish Anglo-American
military power and their ability to assist
m any schemes against us ... . The
troops soon to occupy French-Indo-China
will be reorganised as the 25th Army Corps
• , All preparations have been made.
That certainly does not sound as if
active military preparations for the
attack on Singapore did not begin until
September as Tsuji insists.
It is clear that the hard-pressed com-
manders and garrisons of the Far East
and of the Dominions in the Pacific
were perforce let down by everyone—
their own Governments included.
A mbassador Grew of the United States
Embassy in Tokyo told Washington,
as early as January 27, 1941, of a report
that plans were afoot for a surprise attack
on Pearl Harbor. His urgent warnings
continued throughout the year. On
November 27 the U.S. Chief of Staff
issued a war alert to the Hawaiian
command.
On November 28 Secretary Hull stated
that there was practically no possibility
of agreement being achieved with Japan ;
that in his opinion the Japanese were
likely to break out at any time with
new acts of conquest by force; that
plans for U.S. military defence should
include an assumption that the Japanese
might make an element of surprise a
central point in their strategy, and also
might attack at various points simul-
taneously to demoralise defence and pre-
vent co-ordination. The Pearl Harbor
disaster investigators found his pre-
science “uncanny.”
Yet the Army Inquiry on Pearl Harbor,
of which the report was not released till
August 29, 1945, found that in the face of
all the specific knowledge of Japanese
intentions “our complacent nation
appeared to be sure, in view of its wealth
and strength and its prestige and leader-
ship, that no one would presume to
attack it.”
The spirit prevailing in the American
forces, in whom alertness and vigor
could have put a different complexion on
Singapore’s fate and the whole Pacific
War situation from the start, is shown by
the evidence of Captain Layton U.S.
Fleet Intelligence Officer, before the Army
inquiry.
Asked what the result would have been
if the U.S. Navy, with two of its carriers,
had discovered the enemy task-force
which attacked Pearl Harbor and had
closed with the attackers at sea, he
replied that “he thought the American
forces would have taken the licking of
their lives . . . because the American
people were not psychologically prepared
for war," or the Navy, as “part of the
American people," either.
To illustrate his point, he related that
during the attack on the Pearl Harbor
base a portion of a squadron of U.S.
planes flying in from a carrier at Ford
Island was attacked by the Japanese
raiders, and though they were fully
armed and their guns ready to fire, he
could “find no record of any of these
carrier planes firing a single shot at any
Japanese plane.”
So the Japanese found Pearl Harbor
stripped for slaughter with all available
defensive aircraft “carefully lined up,
wing to wing, tip to tip in the most per-
fect target position for bombing and
machine-gun strafing.”
They were duly strafed and bombed
to bits. And in the Philippines on Clark
Field and elsewhere, on the morning after
Pearl Harbor and when General Mac-
Arthur’s Intelligence knew for certain
that there was a Japanese convoy off
Camoy Point, the south Cape of the Gulf
of Siam, the recently arrived powerful
bombing force, intended to eliminate the
Japanese bases in Formosa and adjacent
regions from which the attacks on Malaya
and the Philippines were to start, were
served up on toast to the Japanese Air
Force in exactly the same way as the
wretched squadrons of Hickam and
Wheeler Fields in Hawaii. The Ameri-
cans had, incidentally, disarmed Guam as
an earnest of their peaceful intent.
Yet most of the barrage of abuse
settled on the heads of the unfortunate
British of Singapore and Burma. And
the impudent Colonel Tsuji, nearly 20
years later, is to be seen sneering loudly
and rejoicing at having been part of an
army which, with intent which inspired
even the common Japanese soldier,
“emancipated the oppressed peoples of
Asia” from under the cruel British heel
and eliminated the “doctrine of force”
in South East Asia.
It was a little - advertised mercy of
Providence for Australia and for the
world at large that Vice-Admiral
Nagumo’s Task Force which smashed the
battleships and aircraft of Pearl Harbor
failed to achieve its No. 1 priority job—
the wiping out. of five U.S. aircraft-
carriers which fortunately were not there.
Had they destroyed the five carriers which
they expected to find asleep in port, there
would have been no Coral Sea Battle and
no Midway to change the course of the
war and early assure Japanese defeat.
If the carriers had gone down Singapore
and Pearl Harbor would have been only
the beginning of a long list of great dis-
asters to Allied Arms in the Pacific in-
stead of the last of them.
But the “Hinge of Fate,” fortunately,
was not Singapore, as held at the time by
Churchill and now by Tsuji. The door
of good fortune began to close against
Japan when no carriers were found at
Pearl Harbor.


LETTERS
The Changes —Yes and No
Sir,
As one who has bought The
Bulletin weekly for over 40
years, I write to express my
approval of the journal’s new
layout and set-up.
I am now reading it with
renewed interest.
Roy H. Christison
Sutherland (N.S.W.)
Sir,
By losing an avenue through
which the countryman can
present his difficulties and
dilemmas in a light-hearted
manner to his city cousin, and
vice versa, a weakening in the
literary bond is being created.
G. C. Vaudrey
Willunga (S.A.)
Sir,
Herewith the bleat of a con-
stant reader since 1910, a sad
old bloke who does not like
the changed make-up of the
Society and “Abo” pars,
etc., etc. It’s a lousy trick to
play on an old-timer.
I really believe the new set-
up has thrown away a great
deal of “our” paper’s charac-
ter, and most certainly a lot of
its informative and amusement
value.
A. H. Lowe
North Balwyn (Vic.)
Sir,
I have noticed with regret
that your Society and Abo-
riginalities pages are sadly
reduced. It is to be hoped that
this is only a temporary lapse
and that eventually The
Bulletin will be restored to its
former readable style.
In other respects you have
an excellent magazine which
I have bought consistently for
22 years and enjoyed reading.
Patricia Humphries
Pennant Hills (N.S.W.)
Sir,
Congratulations to The
Bulletin and Neil Mclnnes on
“What Asians Think of Us” —
we had it coming!
One criticism when I
turned the page the article did
not continue. Next time three
pages on this topic, please.
G. B. Macafee
Gerald ton (W.A.)
Sir,
I doubt if there are many,
if any, who can claim a longer
association with The Bulletin
than I can.
I have seen 87 Christmas
Days, and my earliest recollec-
tions are looking for The
Bully as it arrived each week
to my father. And after leav-
ing home I always managed to
get a copy almost every week
till I retired for good and
settled down and became a
regular subscriber.
Naturally one misses some
of the old familiar headings,
but I can’t say that I con-
demn the paper on that
account.
R. A. McCallum
Pennant Hills (N.S.W.).
Sir,
As a reader who makes no
claim to be a judge of litera-
ture, the changes in The
Bulletin appear to be mainly
of style or effect. The stream-
lined result is good.
To my mind the most im-
portant change is a very small
but significant omission. The
sub-title of The Bulletin is
still “The National Australian
Newspaper,” but the elabora-
tion, which I had come to
regard as an article of faith,
is missing.
I refer, of course, to the
slogan “Australia for the
White Man.”
Craster C. M. Usher
Hornsby (N.S.W.).
Sir,
In some ways The
Bulletin is now better read-
ing, but it lacks the variety
given by the larger number of
contributors writing out of
wide experience. The enlarged
Red Page is excellent —but
why cease paying for letters?
Perhaps my views are pre-
judiced, as I’ve been a contri-
butor under a number of pen-
names and a letter-writer for
many years.
Charles Meeking
Queenscliff (N.S.W.).
Sir,
The changes in The
Bulletin now seem to be fixed
in a pattern. The Bulletin as it
was is now no more. The new
paper gives the impression of
being a reader’s paper and not
a writer’s paper. The Red Page
retains its customary excellence
and familiar names appear on
many pages—BUT . . .
The “but” is difficult. What
do readers want from a paper?
To me, The Bulletin was
always an adventure. Every
week I met old friends in its
pages and learned from them
something new. They were all
specialists and they all had
something worth passing on.
Now —well, the writers are
specialists, obviously, but it’s
not the same. It is a paper
written by experts. It has
become virtually a closed shop.
Where this shows up most is
the eliminating of the Society
and Aboriginalities paragraphs
and in the Answers to Corres-
pondents.
N. L. Ray
Sydney.
Sir,
The leading article on page
4 is an improvemeut. The
financial pages are the best
feature of the journal, and they
seem to be holding their own.
The sporting section devotes
too much space to racing, and
not enough to other forms of
sport. Aboriginalities was
better when it consisted mostly
of short pars. I can see no
improvement in changing the
Other Fellow’s Mind to Letters.
The Man on the Land is hold-
ing his own. There seem to be
longer articles generally, which
may or may not be a good
thing, depending on how in-
teresting the reader finds them,
William Jarred
Darlinghurst ( N.S.W.).
Sir,
In a world of change The
Bulletin always seemed secure
and unchanged, dependable and
stable. Now all the old tradi-
tional presentation has been
altered, and you have had to
put in a signpost on page 4 to
tell us where everything is.
George Henley
Petersham ( N.S.W. ).
Sir,
When it started, The
Bulletin was aggressively
modern in tune with the times,
It is beginning to become
modern again.
J. Thompson
Nunawading (Vic.).
Sir,
What is all this talk about
changes in The Bulletin? I
bought a copy—and it still
seems to be a mouthpiece of the
most reactionary elements in
Australia. What this country
needs is a weekly magazine of
progressive views, edited by
someone like Dr Peter Russo,
John Ainsworth'
Sydney.
Sir,
Congratulations on openiny
a public forum in your new
Letters page. Now if one dis-
agrees with The Bulletin one
can say so. The Other Fellows
Mind was too much in the
control of a small clique.
A. L. Monro]
Leichhardt (N.S.W.).
|
Sir, j|
Too much chopping and 1
changing. Why don't p 1
decide what changes p 1
want to make—and make the® r
for good and all? The old \
Bulletin used to be too pre- w
dictable ; this one is too unje;
predictable. Perhaps you’Uir
settle down? W
J. T. LIDWEIf
Perth (W.A.). P
Sir, |
Strip-tease . . . Lee Sharr#
. . . What do you think yo u v
doing? Sex-sationalism! :
H. H. Co m
Adelaide (S.A.). p
WHAT DO YOU
THINK?
Readers are invited to
contribute letters, prefer-
ably no longer than 300
words, on subjects of
interest in The Bulletin.
All letters should be
signed with the writers
own* name and address for
publication.
As from this issue no
payment will be made for
letters.


JOHN BULL’S OTHER
CAMP
Sir,
It is customary, I believe,
f or liners on the Europe-to-
j Australia run to take on Aus-
tralian magazines for display
in their reading-rooms. Per-
haps, therefore, a quota of
your issue dated December 28,
1960, has found its way on
board the proud new Oriana.
If so, you are to be compli-
mented in the timing of your
cover story on life in a mig-
rant centre —in particular,
i gradfield Park —an article
slanted so as to include all the
favorable comments and omit
all the unsavory ones.
A number of the statements
made were so glaringly inaccu-
rate that they have incensed
many of the residents, in this
hostel.
From this article we are to
believe that nearly all our
womenfolk are earning so
much money that after taxes
and travelling expenses have
been met, they are still left
with enough to pay extra to-
wards the hostel tariff because
i they are working (255.), an-
other 12s. 6d. per child who is
looked after by the so-called
free hostel nursery, and still
t be able to pay the family tariff
lat the hostel office without
1 touching father’s pay-packet,
t As for the total bill for the
3 family for a week’s accommo-
-1 dation and meals running to no
f more than between £9 and £lO
I —we have three children, and
4my wife does not go out to
3 work because she knows the
youngest wouldn’t bother to
feed himself at the canteen.
, Our tariff amounts to £ll 13s.
’ 6d.—recently reduced from £l2
| 25., as I no longer take the cut
' lunch at midday.
i It seems obvious that reporter
i S* W- Keough paid only a ran-
dom visit. An enforced so-
journ in such a place would
have removed his rose-tinted
glasses.
However, his brief visit ap-
parently did include a midday
lunch period ; yet there is no
1 Mention of the usual plight of
1 man y of the children at this
'.Meal Little children standing
. vacillating at the counters,
jwondering what to have and
'ending up with nothing but
Mashed potatoes on their plate ;
.hers loading their trays with
ore , but often coming to
f/'ef w hen trying to carry them
rough the aisles between the
"airs and tables ; tearful eyes
'keying the sticky mess
■ °ng the broken crockery on
'he linoleum.
r a life these little child-
lead when both of their
parents are at work! Older
children bully them, and they
have to learn the hard way to
fend for themselves. It is not
surprising that some youngsters
run wild and a certain amount
of damage is done to hostel
buildings and equipment.
When parents return after
work they are often too tired
to bother with their kiddies and
are only too glad to pack them
off to bed.
All this makes for a so-called
“Paradise for English child-
ren” in the hostel!
The Immigration authorities
do a great job in attracting us
to Australia, and I am sure
that most of us are agreed in
saying that it is a grand coun-
try with a promising future for
our children, but what a super-
human effort it is to get a
home of our own that is rea-
sonably close to decent employ-
ment prospects!
If Bradfield Park is the
Utopia that your report makes
out, why is it that 300 residents
have recently signed a petition
recording their dissatisfaction
with the food served in the
canteen? And why is it that
a proportion of them return to
the United Kingdom?
It is not the climate (by the
way, Australians do their share
of whingeing during hot
spells; it’s not confined to
migrants) or the country or the
people that cause most return-
ing migrants to make that reluc-
tant decision. It is the homes
situation ; the scandalous prices
of land and the difficulty of
obtaining housing loans.
Rather than our being spoilt
by a temporary existence in
the heart of a district of expen-
sive homes, it is more a case
of obtaining a home-site at a
reasonable price close to where
employment is available.
A Housing Commission
home? Don’t make me laugh!
Isn’t it generally known that
one has to be a resident of
N.S.W. for 12 months before
his family can even put their
name on the waiting-list?
It is not fully realised by
many people that it usually
takes a lot of pluck and deter-
mination to make the big step
of leaving one’s native land to
settle afresh in a new country.
I am sure that most migrants
have the pioneer spirit and
would help to build new towns
and garden-cities away from the
big cities where property is so
expensive should the powers-
that-be give them that oppor-
tunity.
At present we arrive out here
in a wave of enthusiasm for
our new homeland, an enthu-
siasm that wanes as we grow
moribund and desperate in a
“He's been drinking with that pair for years!”
hostel, trying to work our way
out.
NOEL G. WRIGHT
Hon. Secretary,
Bradfield Park Parents’ and
Citizens’ Association
Bradfield Park {N.S.W.).
TO FILL THE EMPTY
NORTH
for areas of intensive develop-
ment along the river Such
areas could be an excellent
start for the system of lease-
hold, with the right to conver-
sion to freehold, advocated by
the Forster Commission.
This system, long tried and
found good in other States,
should attract the right type of
people to the Territory, for
closer settlement, as well as
providing incentive for invest-
ment by large pastoral organi-
sations.
The terms of Commonwealth
resumption of land at fair
market value, subject to a
proper system of appeal, should
guarantee both adequate devel-
opment of land and justice in
security of land tenure.
M. H. Ellis’s articles in B.
28/12/’6O and B. 4/1/’6l give
a particularly clear coverage of
the whole northern scene and
its possibilities.
The fundamental soundness
of the initial Pioneer Highway
and subsidiary-roads phase of
the F.1.D.0. scheme lies in the
fact that, even without artificial
flood-control of the Channel
country, the transport system
involved will make the utmost
use of the flood plains in good
seasons, and in adverse seasons
will provide efficient, economic
through - transport to eastern
and southern fattening areas.
The movement of calves at
weaner age, instead of conven-
tional weaning and growing of
young cattle, will allow the
Sir,
I have followed with interest
your series of articles covering
development needs in the north.
I believe there is much in
D. C. Tilghman’s criticism of
the Forster Report’s recom-
mendation on meatworks at
Darwin.
There is no reason to* believe
that centralising N.T. killing-
operations in Darwin would
be any more satisfactory than
was the N.S.W. centralised
system at Homebush.
Decentralised killing is essen-
tial to the marketing of quality
beef, eliminating long hauls,
bruising and wastage ; provid-
ing growing centres with local
industry, and leaving the owner
some control of his stock until
it is actually killed.
On these grounds Katherine
would appear to be a logical
and excellent site for a 50,000-
head-a-year unit, similar to the
Dubbo, Wagga, Goulburn or
Gunnedah Municipal abattoirs
in N.S.W. This may involve
some conservation of river
waters, and certainly would call


start the (lay right!
wmm
mmm
% ~ ■**
m
t *VE»° E *
stUy**?
THE
ORION INSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
( Incorporated in England)
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT AVIATION
N.S.W. BRANCH: 19 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
TELEPHONES * BU 4387 L. F. THORPE, Manager.
breeding basis to be approxi-
mately doubled within three to
five years. The yearling beef
resulting would be worth, on
the present basis, £4O-£45 a
head, marketed at 12 to 15
months (quality cattle).
The economics of water
conservation and control in
areas as dry as the Australian
interior must take into account
the immense value of the water
conserved. It must also be
remembered that catchment
storages are self-amortising in
terms of conventional irriga-
tion and hydroelectricity in
their own area. The only cost
to be directly debited to inland
development would be the cost
of inland storages, tunnelling,
diversion and control.
This cost, with attendant
development can be accurately
assessed ; no experiment is in-
volved. If prejudice is ruled
out and strict logic adhered to,
the waste of the monsoonal
rainfall in the coastal watershed
will be progressively reduced as
these coastal catchments are
brought into control
To rule out the possibility of
using the excess water of Aus-
tralia’s northern rivers without
exhaustive surveys and conclu-
sive evidence would be defeat-
ism at its worst.
It does seem that, on the
broadest national grounds,
Federal action is both justified
and expedient, particularly in
view of the absolute necessity
to preserve some balance be-
tween primary and secondary
development, and to justify our
tenure of the empty north.
BRERETON P. LEWIS,
President,
Federal Inland Development
Organisation.
Gilgandra ( N.S.W .)
BACKBENCHERS
DEFENDED
Sir,
It is disquieting and depres-
sing to find a man of Alan
Reid’s ability and experience
lending himself to the whole-
sale denigration of our Federal
legislators (B. 4/1/’6l).
This is the popular attitude
founded largely on political
ignorance and fomented by a
majority of the daily news-
papers. The cry is for men of
ability and probity to enter
public life ; the same voice
sneers at politicians in the
mass: the “lowest form of
Parliamentary life” is Alan
Reid’s pleasant description of
one section of backbenchers.
The many admirable men
who elect to dedicate them-
selves to political service of
their country are not by any
means all aspirants for office
who feel a bitter sense of
failure and frustration after
some years on the back-
benches. As ordinary intelli-
gent men they know there are
only so many Ministerial
offices, and State representa-
tion is a factor in selection.
Most of them are content to
serve the cause —the party —
they have been elected to sup-
port.
This lament about their lack
of personal freedom is so much
nonsense. Picture the posi-
tion of a Government not
knowing how the party’s back-
benchers would speak or vote
on the measures it introduced!
Our democratic system would
be impossible if a Govern-
ment could not be assured of
its numbers on division.
No absolute unanimity of
opinion on all matters down
to the smallest detail can be
expected of any considerable
body of men. Some measure
of compromise is inescapable.
Elected members must believe
that the party platform broadly
represents their views and is
preferable to that of the oppos-
ing party.
There is no restriction of
freedom of expression m
Caucus; but it is obviously
essential, except in unimport-
ant matters, that a united front
be presented in the House.
Support of the “independ-
ence” exhibited recently by
Senators Wright and Wood is
nonsensical. They have been
selected and elected to sup-
port the Government. Should
their personal consciences
make support of any measure
utterly repugnant, then they
should resign: there is no
honorable alternative. The
Labor party’s penalty of expul-
sion for falsity to pledges is a
proper one.
Alan Reid has indicated that
members who take their obliga-
tions and responsibilities seri-
ously are kept up to the collar:
their job is no sinecure. On
the whole, the community is
not ill served by the members
they send to Canberra: Par-
liament could be better; it
could be a good deal worse
than it is.
Surveying the Labor benches
at Canberra, it is hard to pick
from them a Ministry which
would have the confidence of
the people as something better
than the team now in office.
Looking over the other side, I,
for one, disagree with Alan
Reid’s classifications. To say
the backbencher is the lowest
form of Parliamentary life is
a wholly unjustifiable slur on
many men of fair ability and
undoubted probity.
GEOFFREY BURGOYNE
McMahon’s Point ( N.S.W .)
CAUSE OF BUSHFIRES
Sir,
M. F. Dixon (B. 28/12/’6O)
Should be pleased to know that
what he advocates is now
being done in South Australia
by the Bushfire Research Com-
mittee.
Whenever there is a serious
fire an on-the-spot investiga-
tion is made in order to ascer-
tain, if possible, how it started.
The damage done is studied,
anything which checked it is
noted and evidence is gathered
as to the effectiveness of steps
taken to stop it.
From data now col-
lected, several conclusions can
be drawn. One is that a belt
of trees whose foliage will not
carry a running fire—such as
weeping-willows along a creek
or kurrajongs on high ground
—give a running grass-fire a
marked check. A similar belt
of trees with non-inflammabl(
foliage will also check a scrub,
fire.
The best of all breaks is not
a strip of bare ground,' such
as a road or a ploughed break,
but one of irrigated pasture
such as lucerne. Where lucerne
will grow without irrigation it
is just as effective, provided
that it is grazed down in spring
to get rid of stuff such as
barley grass, which would
otherwise die off later and’
carry the fire through the
lucerne.
People who plant pines oil
gumtrees close to homesteads l
are asking for trouble ; on the
other hand, good protections
given to the house and out-
buildings by surrounding them
with non-inflammable trees
such as the mulberry, apple,
pear, peach, plum or grape-
vines growing on high trel-
lises.
The same thing applies to
hedges. Some, such as the
cypress, will flare as if they
had been soused with kero-
sene, but “old man” saltbusl ,
in the drier areas and
coprosma in the wetter ones ]
(or where irrigation water is 1
available) are fireproof. j
Better than anything else is'
the old-fashioned stone walls
A strip of irrigated lucerno s
around the homestead en
closure and around haystacks* e
shearing sheds, etc., is fail
better than a ploughed breal tl
of twice the width. e
Mr Dixon is astray, houjfc
ever, in his remarks about tbit 1
causes of some fires. Light o
ning in dry thunderstorms ha ts
started serious fires, and this i| A
beyond human control. Rubj
bish dumped in a scrub pad- p
dock is often responsible f® (b
the so-called “mysterious” fires p (
One source of danger is the m ( a
tin containing oily rags, which p £
are liable to ignite by spofl- 4*
taneous combustion after tfe [ 0
shade temperature passes 1$ w
deg. va
Biggest danger of all in A
heap of rubbish is the oldcai
headlight-reflector, the cleat
glass bottle containing water
or anything else which car
concentrate the sun’s rays
something in the nature
tinder. . L
For years I have been giv®L
practical demonstrations
this point. First I show tl«
any such reflectors or re HvJ
tors will not light a piece 0 )
cordite, the head of a mater 1 '
paper or dry grass. In f aC ju
the heat thus focused can onf a
be borne on the bare skin?*
the palm of the hand. But® 0
a different matter if the sU[ f\
rays are focused on someth® T
whose dark color makes ad;


FOR SPEED
(First issues off file press)
CONVENIENCE
(Right to your maii-box)
CONTINUITY
(No chance of missing out)
HAVE
DELIVERED
BY POST
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper,
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney.
NEW SUB. / RENEWAL
(Please cross out one)
Please find enclosed my cheque I money-order for
months’ subscription to The Bulletin.
RECIPIENT:
ADDRESS:..
DONOR:..
ADDRESS:
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 125.; \ year—£l 6s. Post
free. British C’wealth: £3 3s. 6d. Foreign: £3 16s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight—Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British C’wealth: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to “The Bulletin” or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
absorb heat and whose struc-
ture consists of finely-divided
carbon.
Under this heading comes a
scrap of charred cotton rag or
a piece of old, dry mushroom
or other fungus. This usually
starts to glow within a few
seconds and then is capable of
setting fire to dead grass, rags
or old, dry manure.
H. A. LINDSAY
Bghgate (S.A .)
POOR DEAL FOR
COUNCILS
Sir,
Cynics who say that local-
government bodies are always
complaining about something
should remember- that they
nearly always have something
to complain about. Apart from
inadequate Government assis-
tance for certain types of work
they do, their only source of
revenue is the rates they levy
on the unimproved capital
value of land ; and as income
from this has just about reached
breaking point as far as rate-
payers are concerned, councils
will either have to curtail their
spending or seek some other
source of revenue.
A number of councils within
easy reach of Sydney would
be much better off financially if
the Federal Government would
either agree to pay rates on
land it holds in their areas or
reimburse them to the value
of such rates, even while main-
taining its legal immunity from
the payment of rates.
The Navy, Army and Air
Force hold big areas of land in
the municipalities of Windsor,
Penrith and the Blue Moun-
tains on which no rates are
paid. All this land is within
45 miles of Sydney; and its
total area exceeds 5000 acres
with an unimproved capital
value of well over £l| million.
The Air Force holds nearly
2000 acres, its most valuable
possession being the 461 acres
°f the big aerodrome at Rich-
mond. The unimproved capital
value of this land was £693,000
a fear ago—it is probably a
good deal more now. The
!? proved capital value then was
m million.
vj* lo Air Force also holds
if acres of vacant land in the
indsor municipality valued
‘ £6OOO ; and it shares with the
wy an area of 2841 acres
the Penrith municipality
o°wn as the “ammunition
pa.”
Air Force also has two
j ar stations, one standing on
a modest 45 acres and the other
on 449 acres.
The Department of Muni-
tions owns 906 acres of land at
St Mary’s, in the Penrith muni-
cipality. This includes 260
acres of the factory-lease area
on which a contribution of one
penny in the pound is paid.
This area has been in process
of transfer to’ private enter-
prise for some considerable
time and will then of course
become fully rateable ; but no
rates will be paid on the re-
maining 646 acres on which the
ammunition - filling factory
stands. The Penrith council
would have been about £20,000
better off last year had the
service departments paid the
same rates as private land-
holders.
For some years Penrith coun-
cil has been trying to induce
the Army to set free a strip
of land on the northern side
of the railway station to pro-
vide direct access from that
side. Penrith station is one of
the few in N.S.W. which can
be approached from only one
side. This means considerable
inconvenience to the travelling
public.
The Air Force, I understand,
makes a contribution to the
Blue Mountains City Council
equal to the rates which would
be due on the many houses it
has bought for its staff in the
Glenbrook-Blaxland area, if
they were still held by private
owners. In common with the
other services, however, it pays
nothing for the land it holds
for purely service purposes.
This seems grossly unfair.
FRANK DIXON
Glen brook ( N.S.W .)
PRODUCER REPLIES
Sir, -
Despite Max Harris’s com-
ments on my film, “Into the
Never-Never” (B. 11/1/ ’6O), I
take it as a compliment that a
critic so determined should
have sat through it. It is better
than winning a Prix d’ltalia.
I would express surprise
only that Mr Harris should
have been so critical of the
“hotchpotch” content, as he
put it. I would have thought
that he, of all people, would
not yet have forgotten how
effective the hotchpotch
assembly of unrelated frag-
ments, of either words or
images, can be.
ROBERY RAYMOND
Avalon (N.S.W.).


ABORIFINALITIES
Who Called the Cook a —?
Veteran shearers maintain
• that the old-fashioned, ver-
satile (baker, butcher, pastry-
cook) seven-day-a-week shed
“babbler” is a dying race. A
few survive in the scrub, but
they are, the shearers declare,
as scarce as good-shearing,
straight-necked sheep.
The modern poisoner, they
maintain, is a decadent,
strong-wristed (from opening
tins), jelly-making, cake-buying,
bread-out-in-the-mail, shooting-
through-Friday-night no-hoper.
The shearing-shed cook is
paid on a seven-day-week
basis and is supposed to cook
at weekends. But with the
growth of “suburban shearing”
(local town within striking dis-
tance) many “babblers,” if they
can get away with it, go home
at weekends, leaving the
foreigners to cook for them-
selves. They expect the kitchen
spotless when they return Sun-
day night, too.
It’s cold on those plains—no
fun getting up early in the
morning—and it’s often a saga
to see who can stay in bed
longest, waiting for someone
else to light the fire and cut
the chops.
Finally, about midday, you
hear some poor shearer totter-
ing with malnutrition, swing-
ing Kelly weakly. (You, the
contractor, have them tricked
with your little spirit-stove and
hunk of brownie beside the
bunk.)
If a contractor flukes a gun
babbler he values and guards
him from predatory
The better the coo k, the
happier the team, the cheaper
the mess, the bigger the tallies.
Rival contractors drinking
together in town on Saturday
morning pump each other:
Hear you ve got a new cook
they tell me he’s pretty good.”
The babbler may be the best,
cheapest, soberest and most
amiable “bait-layer” in the back
country. But you don’t tell
your rival contractor that:
“No, you’ve heard wrong. He’s
the dirtiest, crankiest, tin-open-
ing bastard I’ve ever had . . .
plonk man, too . . . left Cock-
adotta Downs kitchen in a hell
of a mess. Nearly lost the
contract over it, too ...”
If the truth had been told
the gun cook later that year
would get a letter from the
rival contractor offering a beaut
“Step outside and say that!”
run and concessions like fares
and being paid for extra men
in the mess.
There are quite a number
of women cooks now in the
shearing industry. The A.W.U.
states that women can cook,
provided nobody in the team —
shearer, presser, rousie—is
related to them.
Old-hand shearers, garrulous
and reminiscent with after-
work 0.P., watch the spotless,
smiling, gaily aproned woman
babbler bustle around the
kitchen, and say: “To think
it’s only 30 years ago since the
old stand-out days, and you’d
be landed with a cranky shovel-
ful of hot coals, gingery-
whiskered with a dribbly pipe,
skin-cracking for grog, old
bastard like the busted oven,
who every night yelled: ‘Roast
on the right, boiled on the left,
stoo in the bucket.’ ”
/ M ANY women cooks carry
their own gadgetry—Mix-
master, frypan, electric kettle,
bread-cutter and transistor.
In a shed last year the
woman cook, first time out,
despite many ultimatums* and
unaware of shearers’ appetites,
would only send down enough
smoko for a file of clerks, not
a swarm of shearers —first man
“off” could eat the lot.
The shearers held a meeting
and decided to “track” the
babbler.
They did not know that the
77-year-old boss of the board
(“60 years of sheds and chops”)
had the night before made
advances to the neat, trim
middle-aged cook. He got hit
over the head with a hunk of
brownie and a barrage of
abuse.
The old boss of the board, in
a spot and very brownie-d off,
persuaded the rep. to do the
sacking.
The rep., a superb shearer
usually, but a nervous returned-
soldier bloke, trembled so much
at the job ahead and cut so
many sheep that the grazier
went to the boss and declared :
“Number 7 must be drunk
today.”
Pass me another chop,
please!
It’s amazing how little that
old devil sex raises its head in
shearing sheds with a woman
cook. The middle-aged cook,
to the young lair rouseabouts,
is an old bag. The shears
man, after shearing and fight;.
140 gigantic woollies, coal
scarcely raise an academic U
if Diana Dors jiggled across
the shearing board.
That is the shearers wives'
lament. The shearers them,
selves ironically assert: “\y e ' r j
either too tired, too* drunk o t
too far away.”
BILL HOWARD.
Kites
Tn West Queensland bore-draini
country, when drains are to|
be delved, hundreds of %
hawks gather overhead. The;
seem to know when a delvti
team is harnessed ; they follow
it out as it goes to work,
circling and soaring endlessly
over the thing until it starts.
They know that when ik
machine reaches the bulrushes
there’ll be something doing.
Crayfish in numbers haw
lived safely and well amon;
the rushes; so have beetle
small fish, all manner of aquatic
life. These are swept ahead oi
the moving delver, picked uy
in the wave it throws, tossed
feet out from the drain, left
stranded by the back-rush o
the water when the delver ha
passed. That’s what the hawk
have been waiting for.
Kite-hawks are first -da
curs, but there’s somethin
grand, almost majestic, in tl
way they sweep and dive I
earth, brush the ground wit
their breast-feathers and pic
up their prey in their talons.
Crayfish, tempers ruffe
mud clogging their eyes am
whiskers, splutter as they dam
ber back towards the drain-
nothing ever makes the mistal
of going in the wrong direc
tion. But a gush of wind,;
brush of feathers, and tl
clutching talons cut them off
The kite is partial to old
men crays. It treats them!
grasshoppers: puts its da*
forward, dips its beak unde!
pulls the head off, drains ti
guts to the ground and feasl
royally on the good meat lid
in its talons.
Fish flounder and flap s
they try to get back to tk
safety and life of the water*
the drain. But almost evei
time a fish is at the apex
its flap, while it hangs mofe
less in the air for a snap of
second, a kite will sweep in a'
take it. It needs the m
precise timing, this ; but t
kites seem to have worked
out perfectly.
The birds aren’t the o [
ones. Men who like era
carry a billy-can slung on*
handle of the delver. Any Pj
ticularly big and choice c [ i


isn’t left for the kite-hawks.
It’s whipped into the billy, the
lid put on again; and when
the delver pulls up for dinner-
camp, while the hawks sweep
an d wheel overhead, the men
do with the cooked crays what
the birds had been doing to
them raw.
F.L.
Contenders
Placental mammals, with
man at their head, are
obviously the lords of this
earth. But their rule isn't un-
disputed. i
Long before the reptiles
arose, way back in the slimy
ages of wondrous, adventurous
experiment, a class of animal
which we call insecta, stole a
march on the other members
of its phylum, the Arthropoda.
This was the age when animal
life was fighting to leave the
water permanently. Some, the
amphibians, took a wrong
turning and have been con-
demned to spend a part of their
lives in water. Others made the
grade, but had trouble design-
ing suitable breathing apparatus
—the spiders, for instance, ex-
perimented with a form of
breathing which limits their size
and their choice of environ-
ment. The insects got way out
in front when they found out
how to conserve moisture in
their bodies and at the same
time breathe freely.
And they’ve kept in front.
There ar e roughly 700,000
different kinds of insects known
to science—about five times as
many species as there are of all
other creatures combined. That
in itself is certain proof of this
class’s superiority.
And consider the numbers in
which a single species can some-
times appear. A swarm of
locusts in the Red Sea area was
shown to cover 2000 square
miles, and somehow or other
investigators reached some
agreement on its numbers. But
it was useless to express them
in figures, so they put it this
way: on the basis of 16 insects
to the ounce, they said the
swarm weighed more than
42,000,000,000 tons.
Figures like that are frighten-
ing if 'you subscribe to the
theory of the survival of the
fittest.
■yLTE’vE got rather more than
" " our share of insects in Aus-
tralia, and some of them have,
one way and another, developed
astonishing skills.
One species can make paper.
The paper wasp, a common
social wasp in the eastern
States, and one which has
recently become established in
W r A., gathers weatherworn
wood fibres from old posts and
dead trees, and masticates
these to form a mash. From
This it produces paper to build
a nest of cells somewhat similar
to the cells of the honey bee.
It’s not very good paper, but
it was better than anything man
could produce when this insect
first went into business millions
of years ago.
Some of our insects can make
sugar ; in fact, they can make
tents of sugar and shelter under
them, secure from rain and
storm. This is done by the
sugar lerps, members of the
scale-insect family—you’ll have
seen them on eucalypt leaves.
The scale is often made of a
material very like table sugar,
but it doesn’t dissolve in water.
We’ve got a wasp which lays
its eggs up to an inch inside
the timber of a growing tree ;
and, because the grub which
will hatch from the egg won’t
be able to bite into the hard
wood, the wasp deposits with
the egg some spores of a white-
rot fungus, which attacks the
wood and softens it up for the
grub. When the grub pupates
it takes with it into the cocoon
some of the spores and passes
them along to the wasp which
emerges.
There’s another wasp which
can find the first wasp’s grub
and lay its egg in the tunnel;
then its grub eats the other
grub, slowly, allowing it to eat
its way out of the heartwood
and through the bark before
finally killing it.
Insects can grow mushrooms
—some ants cultivate an edible
fungus. Others milk aphids for
their honey dew. Some insects
take nectar and convert it to
honey you couldn’t and
others can paralyse an enemy
so that its body is preserved as
food. And they’re all compet-
ing with us for a living on this
continent.
If they win it will be our
fault, because way back in that
great experimental time the
insects made one error. They
didn't develop intelligence.
G.
A DVERTlsement in the Mount
Gambier (S.A.) “Border
Watch”:
“Lost over two stone, 4in.
from bust, Bin. waist, 6in. but-
tocks, at George's Reducing
Parlour. Lady now in attend-
ance daily.” .
100 much for George?
* * * *
A ccording to an advertise-
in the “Murrum-
bidgee Irrigator” (N.S.W.),
Chad Morgan, “the only man
who has eaten an apple through
a tennis racquet and not
broken any strings” was lately
on view at the Leeton Cabaret
Hall.
That Was the Country...
Bushman with £9O-cheque
goes “knocking-down” at
bush pub., gets “d.t.’s”, and
is found dead on verandah.
Policeman sent- for. Comes,
holds sort of inquest, takes
possession of deceased’s horse,
and bullies publican into
giving him balance of cheque
by threatening proper in-
quest. Then another trap
arrives and threatens proper
inquest unless he stands in.
After long wrangle, satisfac-
tory composition is arrived
at, and another is added to
the long list of Never-Never
mysteries.—“ Bulletin”, Aug-
ust 6, 1898.
How Bill voted: “First I
draws a line all round .the
paper, and gets ’em in a ring
fence; then I sees they was
all good blokes, and I puts
me brand on every blanky
one of ’em, my oath!” Asked
what he thought of Feder-
ation.-' “I don’t take much
stock in these here fancy ter-
baccers; give me a plug of
°ld black twist afore the
world,”— “Bulletin”, August,
20, 1898.
I fail to see the refining ef-
ects of near communion
with nature on “a bold peas-
antry; their country’s pride.”
he men look as though they r
ave been chasing a sixpence
to the point of exhaustion,
an d the women are prema-
urely wrinkled, and have
e w an, pensive look that
the bush seems to fix on all
who come under its influ-
ence. The youths differ from
town hoodlums only in want
of alertness and a greater
monotony in their curses.—
“Bulletin”, September 24,
1898.
Invited recently to a pri-
vate party. Rode 15 miles
through thick scrub, and
found I had to pay 2s. for
admission. After dancing we
sat round table to salt mut-
ton and damper; jam in her-
ring-tin, and sugar in pepper
do. Only one spoon available
—passed round. Real object
of gathering apparently. to
pay for ancient ewe, which
would certainly have died of
starvation had they not slain
it.— “ Bulletin”, November 26,
1898.
Safe way of dingo-stiffen-
ing. Poison a marrow-bone
and hang on limb in locality
frequented, with sheets of
bark spread beneath. The
heat melts the marrow,
which drips on bark, whence
it is licked by the dogs. An-
other way: use the paw of a
dog to scratch a hole and
plant therein poisoned meat,
scratching dirt back again
with paw. Dingo smells paw-
marks, and thinking he has
sprung a fellow-robber’s
plant, gobbles the stuff with-
out hesitation. “Bulletin”,
July 2, 1898.


PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney SJtock Exchange
R. H. ALLEN, M. R. L. DOWLING, P. R. LEVY, A. P.
REYNOLDS, N. R. COURSE (Melbourne Resident Partner)
Delfln House, 16 O’Connell St., Sydney—2s-5911 (20 lines)
Prudential Building-, 150 Queen St., Melbourne —67-5957 (4 lines)
Telegrams and Cables: “Rosdale,” Sydney, Melbourne or Wollongong.
Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hatmax” Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
115 Pitt Street, Sydney. Telephone: BW 1771—8 W 8088
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
A. G. Healing, Ltd.
Last November, “after a careful sur-
vey of the activities of, and the
advantages to, both cos.’’, the interests of
A. G. Healing, Ltd., and A. E. Goodwin,
Ltd., were merged.
The merger followed the purchase of
the Healing family interests in A. G.
Healing by A. E. Goodwin and took
the form of a takeover of Goodwin by
Healing.
Shareholders in A. E. Goodwin re-
ceived nine f.-p. ss. A. G. Healing ords.
for every ten ss. A. E. Goodwin ords.
Pref. shareholders were paid-off in cash,
on the basis of 20s. for each four ss. A. E.
Goodwin prefs. This raised A. G. Heal-
ing’s ord. capital by approximately
£1,974,023 to £2,949,023 in ss. units. In
addition there are 475,200 6 p.c. 20s. cum.
prefs., 74,800 8 p.c. 20s. cum. prefs. and
250,000 ss. participating employees’ re-
deemable prefs. (entitled to a 3 p.c. cum.
dividend).
A. E. Goodwin options maturing
June 30, 1963, were converted at the
rate of 90 A. G. Healing ss. ords. for
each 100 A. E. Goodwin ss. ords.
K. G. Healing remained chairman of
the board, which was joined by R. J.
Webster and A. S. Hawley (both Good-
win directors). T. G. Edgar (formerly
joint managing-director) became the
managing-director.
“The general policy and operation of
the cos. will undergo no major policy
change, but a great deal of streamlining,
economy and elimination of overlapping
will become evident over the next few
years.” A. E. Goodwin plants, with
available capacity and area, will add to
A. G. Healing’s merchandising lines. It
will be possible to eliminate considerable
uneconomic expenditure on high - cost
factory-buildings, “so providing funds
for more profitable trading.”
“Increased volume of business is
assured.” A. G. Healing’s board is con-
fident that “the earning-rate of the com-
bined co. should at least be maintained.”
The merger certainly should strengthen
both organisations, which have been
linked by many business and managerial
ties. Both groups will be served by the
extensive A. G. Healing selling-apparatus
and will be able to utilise A. E. Goodwin’s
important overseas contacts.
Founded in Melbourne in 1896, A. G.
Healing, Ltd., is a major distributor of
automotive spare - parts, metal-finishing
materials and electrical-contractors’ sup-
plies. The co. manufactures and retails
radio- and TV-receivers, vacuum-cleaners,
refrigerators, washing - machines, out-
board-motors for boats and small craft,
and chemicals.
There are freehold warehouses in Mel-
bourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide and
Perth. Branches operate in Melbourne
suburbs, Victorian country - centres,
Albury and Newcastle in N.S.W. and
Canberra.
A. E. Goodwin, Ltd., is a well-known
construction-engineer and manufacturer
of diesel-electric locomotives (holding
manufacturing - licences from American
Locomotive Co., McNally Pittsburgh
Manufacturing Corp., Denver Equipment
Co. and Jeffrey Manufacturing Co., all of
U.S.A.), a wide range of heavy-engineer-
ing products, including road-making
machinery, gasholders, floating-roof and
other types of tankage, cranes, power-
house equipment, steel ships and barges
and rolling-stock.
Another engineering specialty is build-
ing and installation of coal-preparation
plants (washers, crushers, dryers, sorters,
etc.). Diesel-electric locomotives are pro-
duced for the N.S.W. Government Rail-
ways and for inter-State lines. There is
some export-trade.
Both cos. had a profitable year. A. G.
Healing’s consolidated sales for the year
ended June 30, 1960, were the highest
to date at £12,300,000 (up £1,790,000 or
17 p.c.). Consolidated trading - profit
before tax was £157,456 higher at
£519,219 after charging all fees and ex-
penses and providing £142,555 for depre-
ciation (up £20,091). Income from rent
was £2313 lower at £7065.
After providing £234,400 for taxation
(up £78,649), consolidated net profit was
£76,494 (36 p.c.) higher at £291,884, repre-
senting an earning-rate of 25.4 p.c. on the
higher average ord. capital (after paying
pref. divs.):
A. G. Healing and Subsidiaries.
f— —Dividends——,
Pref.—,, Ord. To Re- Re-
June, Profit 6 & 8 p.c. 15 p.c. serves. serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
1956 .. 172,575 34,496 106,875 31,204 1.212,437
Add reduction intangibles, £2185 ~ 1,214,622
Profit sale assets, £40,782 *.. 1,255,404
To staff fund, £19,866 ..' ..1,235,538
1957 .. 195,708 34,496 106,875 54,337 1.289,875
Less added intangibles, £2363 . . 1,287,512
To staff fund, £21,663 .. ..1,265,849
Profit sale assets, £12,297 .. .. 1,278,146
1958 . . 277,144 34,496 106,875 135,773 1,413,919
Less added intangibles, £l5 .. 1,413,904
To staff fufid, £23,663 .. ..1,390,241
Profit sale assets, £61,676 .. 1,451,917
1959 . . 215,390 34,496 131,250 49,644 1,501,561
Add reduction intangibles, £4570 1,506,131
To staff fund, £29,463 . . . . 1,476,668
Profit sale assets, £11,173 .. .. 1,487,841
Unexplained reduction, £l4Bl . . 1,486,360
1960 .. 291,884 34,496 155,625 101,763 1,588,123
* After deducting intangibles, now £2lBl.
This compares with 21.1 p.c. in the
previous term, 36 p.c. in 1958 and
p.c. in 1957.
The well-covered ord. div.-rate
steady at 15 p.c. Reserves benefited ■
£101,763 and also by £11,173 profit o
sale of assets ’ and £4570 reduction j
intangibles. Staff-fund received £29J
and there was a £l4Bl unexplained redit
tion, leaving total reserves and m
tributed profits at £1,588,123. *
New products manufactured and sii
cessfully marketed during last ten
included a washing - machine (retailJ
under the Thor brand-name), air-con!
tioning units and auto service-tools.
Paid capital at balance-date J
£1,587,500 (including £550,000 prefs.
£62,500 employees’ prefs.):
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1958. 1959. m
Pref. .. £550,000 £550,000 £a ( i
Ord 712,500 1,037,500 i.Sj
Reserves . . .. 1,420,655 1,508,312 1,4 s
Mortgages .. 831,007 752,660 jjji j
Debentures .. 2,ljjj
Notes .. .. 300,000 300,000 ’ 2
Loans —deferred.. 267,475 1,412,533 1,5154
Loans —current . . 594,900 232,854 jj;
Overdraft .. 1,149,989 1,008,206 955;
Creditors .. 942,848 909,468 1,20?;
H.-p. provision . . 147,725 197,315
Sundry provisions 54,523 32,997 5(1; ■
Staff funds .. 19,163 22,663 29,1
Tax provision .. 215,845 194,316 26!,!
Final div. .. 124,123 148,498 172,1
£7,330,753 £8,307,322 £10,906,?
Freeholds .. 1,362,147 1,449,056 1,496,!
Plant, etc. . . 599,140 700,640 719,:
Stock . . . . 2,897,906 3,209,930 3,H1,
Debtors, etc. .. 2,462,645' 2,938,650 5,3 k! 1
Cash, bonds, etc. 2,179 2,295 202,i 1
Intangibles .. 6,736 6,751 !|
£7,330,753 £8,307,322 £10,9061
Amalgamation with A. E. Good#j
lifted total paid capital to approximate
£3,561,523 in ords., prefs. and employer
shares.
Long - term loan - capital was high;
with £2,124,800 raised in debentof
Book-debts nearly doubled. Currei
stocks were lower. Creditors, h.-p. pj
vision and deferred loans increased.
v . 1
Theoretical working-capital
£1,586,222 higher at £4,990,780. l r
tangible asset - backing works - out
£5 15s. 6d. for each of the 20s. pn
and at 12s. 3d. for every ss. ord. unit
the basis of conservative consolidate
book-values before the amalgamation
The vast organisation seems to bei
good financial form and is guided bfj
efficient and imaginative manage®
Future expansion seems assured.
At the last sale in Sydney the ss. of
fetched 10s. 3d. a unit. The yield is |
p.c. p.a. on the basis of the steady 15||
div.-rate.
Former A. E. Goodwin ord. si ll
holders collected a 3|d. a ss. unit!
div. on scrip ranking for a full y t!
cheque, adding-up to a steady 12? I i
p.a. Other shareholders were paw ]
a pro rata basis. I


0 / 10 YEARS
0 P.A
• a ft a
4 YEARS
8%
SHORT TERM RATES
12 months
notice
7%
P.A.
6 months'
notice
6%
P.A.
3 months'
notice
5%'
month's
notice
Interest Paid Quarterly,
Free of Exchange
For Prospectus, apply—
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ANY MEMBER of a Recognised Stock Exchange
THE COMPANY’S OFFICES,
Ground Floor, Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney.
Phone: BU 5542.
CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT «£gs
CORPORATION LIMITED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
RENEWAL INTEREST
RATES
apply to all investments
FUNDS MAY BE WITH-
DKAWN .
in a personal emergency
UNDERWRITING BROKERS
RALPH W. KING & YU ILL
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange).
CORRIB & CO.
(Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange).
LEONARD G. MAY & SON
(Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne).
REGISTERS: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Canberra.
Applications for debenture stock accepted only on one of the
forms of application attached to a printed copy of Prospectus.
CLIP and POST COUPON
CAMBRIDGE CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED,
Ground-floor, Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney
Please send me, without obligation, a copy of the Prospectus
with Application Forms.
NAME
ADDRESS - B. 18/1/’6l
jtfac. Robertson Miller Airlines, Ltd.
-tost Australia, the Cinderella State,
W land of tremendous but undeveloped
tential, occupying almost one-third of
L Australian continent, is handicapped
L vast distances and general inaccessi-
bly Sandgropers have long realised
the importance of air-transport in the
solution of their problems, and the
arrival of Mac. Robertson Miller Airlines'
first prop-jet aircraft confirms a hope for
better things to come. Management is
already P lannin S purchase of another
Fokker Friendship. These planes cut old
flying-times in half.
M.M.A. has a fleet, in addition to its
latest acquisition, of six D.C.3 aircraft
(including one freighter), one Dove and
one Anson.
As a result of a merger in 1955 when
the publiclv-held Airlines (W.A.), Ltd.,
and the proprietary Mac. Robertson
Miller Aviation Co. amalgamated their
interests, the present line covers an un-
duplicated network of 20,000-odd air-
miles, with 100 scheduled touchdowns
ranging from Albany on the Bight to
Darwin in the far north. As a gesture
to the national interest (and with an eye
to the future), the co. accepts losses on
some one-way routes, although a measure
of Federal relief is received in respect
of outback services. Not least important
is the airline’s role as an auxiliary to
the Flying Doctor Service.
In the 12 months to September, 1960,
M.M.A. lifted gross income £184,618 to
£1,339,761. The improvement was almost
wholly offset, however, by increased
expenses —heavier wage and salary com-
mitments and costs relating to the Friend-
ship service. Gross expenditure rose
£173,714 to £1,238,467..
Revenue was especially buoyant during
the first eight months of last term, but a
downward trend became evident as the
, year progressed. Oil-search activity in
the north-west declined somewhat, man-
ganese exports fell, there was a cessation
of certain aerial-survey work and the
Talgarno Weapon Tracking Base was
abandoned, all of which influences sub-
stantially affected M.M.A.’s traffic.
Consolidated pre-tax earnings advanced
£11,834 to £101,295, but tax, a hefty
£61,445 (up £12,827) and depreciation
£64,741 (up £28,368) whittled away the
surplus, net profit flipping in, finally, a
slightly diminished £39,850 (£40,843 in
1959 and £70,084 in 1958).
In his report the chairman, R. F.
Rushton, draws attention to the apparent
over-provision for tax “the excess amount
beyond that required to satisfy the
liability for taxation on the profit returned
for the year is accounted for by tax on
disallowances, for tax purposes, of (1)
provisions in respect of engine, airframe
and component overhaul and (2) deprecia-
tion charges”:—
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
June Profit. f— —Dividend , serves. serves.
30. £ £ £ £
Tax overprovided, £2l .. .. .. 1,326
1956 .. 38,023 74 p.c. = 35,712 2,311 3,637
Sept. 30,
Capital profit, £4291 .. .. 7,928
1957*. 62,357 7J p.c, = 35,712 26,645 34,573
Preliminary expenses w/ofi, £lO,lBO 24,393
Capital profit, £1770 . . . . . . 26,163
1958.. 70,084 74 p.c. = 35,712 34,372 60,535
Capital profit, £30,233 .. .. 90,768
1959.. 40,843 74 p.c.= 35,712 5,131 95,899
Capital profit, £440 96,339
1960.. 39,850 74 p.c.= 35,712 4,138 100,477
* 15 months to Sept. 30, 1957.
Just clear of the p.c. div.-rate —divs.
have been held steady at 1\ p.c. since the
co.’s inception—profit levels-out a visible
8.4 p.c. on paid capital as against 8.6 p.c.,
14.7 p.c. and 13.1 p.c. in the three preced-
ing years. Reserves rose £4578 to
£100,477.
M.M.A.’s balance-sheet demonstrates a
reduced liquidity. Theoretical working-
capital settled £103,305 to £135,866.
Cash and bonds total £165,188, a drop
of £48,665. Creditors are up £67,608 at
£226,822. Valued at £647,534 (up
£476,561 ; the Fokker Friendship in-
volved a commitment of approximately
£500,000), aircraft and appurtenances
(spare engines, etc.) are included at cost,
and at valuation, less depreciation. Free-
holds and leaseholds, £157,944 (up £2532),
are shown at cost, less depreciation on
certain buildings. Long-term liability,
the balance owing on the Friendship
(secured), is £371,210:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Sept., 30, Sept., 30, Sept., 30,
1958. 1959. 1960.
Share capital .. £476,157 £476,157 £476,157
Reserves . . . . 60,535 95,899 100,477
Long-term liability
on aircraft (se-
cured) .. 371,210
Creditors .. .. 195,209 j 159,214 226,822
Tax provision .. ( 40,806 64,091
£731,901 £772,070 £1,238,757
Freeholds and lease-
holds .. .. 150,242 155,412. 157,944
Aircraft and acces- ]
sories .'. .. [ 188,423 170,973 647,534
Plant and equip- (
merit . . .. J
Shares in Air Beef
Pty 6,500 6,500 6,500
Stocks .. .. 71,997 73,113 104,917
Debtors .. .. 130,498 152,225 156,674
Cash, bonds .. 184,241 213,853 165,188
£731,901 £772,076 £1,238,757
Freight-revenue figures largely in con-
solidated income, with beef providing the
major payload. The D.C.3 freighter is
based on Glenroy, in the Kimberleys,
where the pioneering affiliate, Air Beef
Pty., operates a snap-freezing and pre-
packaging works. With the long trek to
the coastal obviated, a
reduction of two years in the marketable
age of beef has been made possible,
giving cattle-running in the North-west a
new slant. Last year, the twelfth air-beef
season at Glenroy,' M.M.A. carried
1,937,1451bs (up 252,0091b5) of meat and
offal to Derby and a considerable quantity
of stores and supplies, backloading from
Derby to Glenroy and surrounding
stations.
Links with southern facilities are also
provided for the whaling and banana in-
dustries at Carnarvon, the asbestos project


A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER, N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchanged
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor, The National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 81 2761 (4 Lines) P.O, Box No. 1887 W
The Guide for the Investor
THE WILD CAT MONTHLY
Price 2/- per single copy . . . 22/6 a year, post free
Subscription Department: Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney
at Wittenoom and the B.H.P. iron-ore
leases at Yampi Sound, to mention the
more important developments in this
area. Then, too, there are the dollar-
earning pearl- and cray-fisheries at
Broome and Geraldton respectively (crays
were also air-freighted south from Green
Island, 150 miles north of Perth), as well
as a large-scale rice-culture scheme at
Liveringa.
Immense sums of money have been
poured into West Australian oil-search
over the past nine years (there is some
show of further oil-exploration in the
current term), and M.M.A. is co-operating
closely with interests concerned, carrying-
out geophysical-survey flights in addition
to routine transportation. Discovery of
oil in commercial quantities would
broaden the co.’s purview enormously.
The West is becoming more and more
the focal-point of an awakening interest.
There is, more so than ever before,
prospect of great movement throughout
the north. “It is likely that the first iron-
ore to be exported from W.A. would he
from the Mt Goldsworthy deposits
estimated at more than 10,000,000 tons,
60 miles inland from Port Hedland.”
This since the lifting of the export-
embargo by the Lederal Government.
Work has already commenced on the
Ord River diversion-dam at Bandicoot
Bar and the construction of a township
at nearby Kununurra. The State Gov-
ernment has plans for development of a
deep-sea port for the Kimberley area,
probably at Broome, and, further, it
proposes an extension of road-systems
throughout the nor’-west.
Eager eyes are looking at the virtually
untapped mineral resources of the ex-
citingly rich Pilbara district, and, finally
tourists have become suddenly aware of
the peculiar natural beauties of the rugged
Sunshine State not only in the north
but in the south as well —Wittenoom
Gorge, the age-old Stirlings, the Karri-
dale - Margaret river area (the giant
Augusta Jewell cave), the freshwater
streams of the south-west (magnificent
trout- and marron-fishing) and the karri
forests of the deep south.
M.M.A.’s future is indissoluably bound
up with that of the West. Its 10s. ords.
fetch 11s. 9d. on Perth ’Change, to give
an immediate yield of 6.4 p.c. Net tangible
asset backing is visibly 12s. Id.
Regent Motors ( Holdings), Ltd.
Tlemoval of import-restrictions is ex-
pected to increase the supply of
Rover cars from the United Kingdom
(subject to their availability) during
current term. The lifting of import-
controls did not greatly affect trading
results last year. Turnover was good and
earnings rose by 12 p.c.
Established in Melbourne ten years
ago, Regent Motors (Holdings), Ltd., is
a leading distributor of motor-vehicles.
The co. operates through three wholly-
owned subsidiaries: Regent Motors Pty.
(Rover cars and Land/Rovers), Spencer
Motors Pty. (Volkswagen cars and trans-
porters) and Lion Motors Pty. (distribu-
tors of Volkswagen industrial engines in
Victoria, Southern Riverina and Tas-
mania).
In addition there is a p.c.- interest
in Volkswagen (A’asia) Pty.
Lombard Australia, Ltd., a well-known
finance co., has a major holding in
Regent Motors (Holdings), Ltd., follow-
ing the acquisition of the greater part of
the interests of Mr and Mrs L. R. V.
Spencer and Mr G. R. Spencer in 1959.
Sales of motor-vehicles for the year
ended June 30, 1960 1 , exceeded 10,000
units, “creating a record.” Total turn-
over of the group was over million.
All subsidiaries contributed to consoli-
dated earnings. Sales of VW vehicles
“were still restricted by supply.”
Consolidated trading-profit was £34,972
higher at £214,641 after deducting all
charges, kicluding £18,956 depreciation
(up £4837). Income from investments
brought-in another £7257. Tax-provision
absorbed a generous £95,580 (up £21,380),
leaving consolidated net profit £18,233
higher at £126,318, to return 28.3 p.c. on
the average capital:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
June Profit. t Dividend serves. serves.
££\ £ £
1955..135.877 15 p.c. = 33,000 102,877 123,696
Duty-refunds relating to previous years,
£19,400 143,096
Tax overprovided, £227 .. .. 143,323
1956. .217,950 20 p.c. = 44,700 173,250 316,573
Profit sale assets, etc., £482 .. .. 317,055
Tax overprovided, £6421 .. .. 323,476
1957. .251,099 22J p.c. = 50,288 200,811 524,287
Sale of subsidiary, £-43,175 .. .. 567,462
Tax overprovided, £3405 . . . . 570,867
1958. .205,861 25 p.c. = 55,875 149,986 720,853
Profit sale assets, £1022 .. .. 721,875
Less net increase goodwill, £223,500.. 498,375
Tax overprovided, £3341 . . . . 501,716
Debenture-issue expenses written-off,
£15,095 486,621
1959 . .108,085 15 p.c. *= 67,050 41,035 527,656
Tax overprovided, £5374 . . .. 533,030
Assets revaluation, £77,565 . . . . 610,595
Profit sale- assets, £BB4 . . . . 611,479
1960. .126,318 15 p.c. 67,050 59,268 670,747
*On the new £447,000 capital; 30 p.c. on pre-bonus
capital.
This compares with 32.2 p.c. in the
previous term, 92.1 p.c. in 1958 and
112.4 p.c. in 1957 (on lower capital, prior
to the one-for-one bonus-issue in April,
1959).
Div.-rate was steady at 15 p.c. (equal
to 30 p.c. on the pre-bonus capital). The
cheque absorbed £67,050, leaving £59,268
for reserves, which also benefited by
a £77,565 revaluation of freeholds, £5374
tax overprovision written-back, and £BB4
profit on sale of assets. Total reserves
and undistributed profits were disclosed
at £670,747 (free of intangibles).
Bank accommodation (£72,700 in the
previous term) disappeared. Creditors
and current stocks were lower. Book-
debts were higher. Shares in Volkswagen
(A’asia) Pty. were shown at a higher
book-value. Cash and investments at
short - call, etc., jumped from £904
£375,547:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1958. 1959. lg .
Paid capital .. £223,500 £447,000 £44“":
Reserves .. 720,853 527,656
Mortgage .. 35,000 28m
Debentures and
interest accrued * 612,000 649,,
Contract liability 17,860 17,860 p,
Creditors . . 406,742 258,037 228)3
Deposits held .. 233,523 231,847 2905!
Overdraft .. 178,297 72,700 4.
Tax provision . . 129,000 74,200 95-..
Final dividend .. 33,525 44,700 44'J
£ 1,943,300 £2,321,000 £2,
Freeholds, etc, , . 385,289 462,492 52gj (
Leaseholds . . 56,881 63,979 gjj’i.
Plant . . . . 26,967 39,441 3 9 ’ 9f ,
Investments .. 55,044 245,000
Stock . . . . 1,180,185 1,335,859 9203
Debtors . . .. 238,024 173,325 Mj
Cash .. .. 910 904 875,'jj
£ 1,943,300 £2,321,000 £2^
Book-value of freeholds reflected |
write-up. Liquidity improved. Theoreti
cal working-capital looked adequate j
£828,429 (up £11,825). Net tang®
asset-backing works out at 12s. 6d, ft
each ss. ord. unit on the basis of con
solidated accounts.
The board seems confident that currec
term will be profitable. Past earning
rates and the div.-record are excellent
However, recent credit-restrictions, «
the inevitable repercussions on h,-j
sales, have flattened the motor-vehiclt
market and obscured prospects for ft
immediate future. The additional salts)
tax slug, and stiffer h.-p. terms for cat?
buyers, have drastically reduced demani
at the moment. Many consumers vies
the sales-tax increases as a short-tern
measure and are postponing their pm I;
chases of motor-vehicles. The marke a
should be stabilised once the position ii
clarified.
Present economic situation is unfavoil
able to many lines of business usuall|
lubricated by consumer-credit, including
motor-vehicles distributors. Bui long-niS
prospects need not be bleak, although
fierce competition in the industry w|-
remain an important factor.
At the last sale in Melbourne the .r ;
ords. fetched 12s. each for an immediate
return of 6.2 p.c. p.a. on the basis of tl in
present 15 p.c. div.-rate.
I
!gf
Pi
[fii
Clarence River Basin Oil
T\irectors of Clarence River Basin Oi 0I
Exploration Co., N.L., annouot si
that all drilling equipment is now oi .
site at Clifden, 11 miles north of Grafto m e
(N.S.W.). This includes the co.’s rig.au [ £
a 60-foot mast
Dams for water have been constructs fr(
At present a pipe-line is being run o« ni<
a distance of over one mile to secure tb ||l
necessary water-supply. Drilling
tions are scheduled to commence as soffl g Ui
as sufficient water is available. &'■
spudding-in date will be announcttF
shortly. bin


SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
rwnv of “Artist Sketches Col-
P? by Norman Lindsay.-42.
Information Sought
Brief summary of the West Indies’
_ mr 0 f India and Pakistan in
19 )n" 9 all, the team played 22
matches, of which they won twelve,
lost two and drew eight. Five
Test matches were played against
India for three wins and two draws;
,l„ee Tests were played against
Pakistan for one win and two
losses Sobers and Kanhai were the
most successful West Indian bats-
L cn Sobers having an average of
in Tests and 67.57 in all first-
class matches, and Kanhai averages
of 62.4 and 58.38, Most success! ul
bowlers were Hall and Gilchrist.
: Gilchrist did not play against Paki-
stan, but in the Indian Tests took
26 wickets at 16.11 and in all
first-class matches 71 wickets at
0,57. In all Tests Hall took 46
wickets at 17.7 and in all first-class
matches 87 wickets at 15.08. The
tourists scored 18 centuries (includ-
ing two double-centuries by Kan-
hai) and only lour were scored
'against them.
The third Test against Pakistan,
which the West Indies won by an
innings and 156 runs, was the most
Uotable match of the tour. It
was the first time Pakistan had been
beaten in a home Test. Mushtaq
Mohammad became the youngest
icricketer to play in a Test (15 years
land 125 days); Kanhai made 217;
land Wesley Hall took a hat-trick
jin Pakistan's first innings.
• • m m
i Biographical details about Peter
Waite'l
\ Waite was born at Kirkcaldy,
[Scotland, on May 9, 1834. In his
[youth he was apprenticed to an
ironmonger and spent some years
in commercial ventures. He mi-
grated to South Australia at the
age of 25, joining his brother James,
who was part-owner of Pandappa
Station, near Terowie. After work-
ing on this station for some years
he bought, in conjunction with Sir
Thomas Elder. Paratoo Station, and
gradually obtained interests in other
Properties. He was one of the
first to realise the vaiue of paddock-
ing flocks instead of shepherding
inem, and spent more than £200,001)
on providing fencing and water
supplies.
He lived in the country for many
years, keeping a strict eye on the
management of his properties,
cater he was able to hand over
®nch of the work ot management
0 a son. while he himself worked
r °m Adelaide. He became recog-
jsed for his pastoral knowledge and
! er pastoralists constantly sought
advice. J n 1383 he became
; irnian of Elder’s Wool and Pro-
,■ ’ and in 1888, on the amal-
Wu. lon this firm with Elder,
and Co., he became first
hm 'i man directors of the com-
fj.„ concern ;he held this posi-
f °. n un til early 1921.
Waite presented to the
U r , ersit y °f Adelaide his valuable
r f, estate, at Glen Osmond,
l' which comprised 134
f and a house, and in 1915 added
the adjoining Claremont and
Netherby estates of 165 acres. He
wished to help the university to deal
with problems connected with agri-
culture, botany, entomology, horti-
culture and forestry. Three years
later he added to these gifts 5880
shares in Elder, Smith and Co.,
then worth about £60,000, to pro-
vide for the endowment of the
estates after his death. With these
benefactions the university was able
to establish the Waite Agricultural
Research Institute, which W'as
founded in 1925.
Waite died on April 4, 1922, sur-
vived by his wife, a son and three
daughters. Apart from his endow-
ments to the university he was a
generous benefactor of the Salvation
Army and other charities. He gave
£lO,OOO for the establishment ot a
provident fund for the employees
of Elder, Smith and Co., and pro-
vided the funds tor the Adelaide
soldiers* memorial.
» * * •
v.
What memorials were set up in
Australia to commemorate wars pre-
ceding the two World Wars ?
The first war memorial eiecied in
Australia was a tall pillar set up
in 1850 by members of the 99th
Regiment of Foot at army head-
quarters in Hobart, Tasmania, to
perpetuate “the memory of those
brave men of that Regiment who
fell in the service of their Queen
and country during the campaigns
in New Zealand, 1845-46.” A
bronze plaque, donated through a
bequest and unveiled in 1952 under
the auspices of the Royal Austra-
lian Historical Society on the Tar-
peian Way, Circular Quay, Sydney,
records the departure and return ot
the New South Wales contingent
which went to the Sudan War in
1885.
There are many memorials to
those who served in the Boer War
of 1899-1902, including a granite
obelisk in St. Kilda Road, Mel-
bourne ; a sandstone obelisk in
Observatory Park, Sydney; monu-
ments in King’s Park in Perth, the
Hobart Domain and Launceston
City Park, and a bronze statue ot
a mounted infantryman in Adelaide.
The first Australian war memorial
erected on a battlefield stands near
the junction of the Vaal and Mod-
der Rivers, in South Africa. It
bears the crest and motto of the
Queensland Mounted Infantry, com-
memorates a battle fought and won
against the Boers on the first day of
thev 20th century, and records the
names of the first Queensland
soldiers to lose their lives for Aus-
tralia.
• - • *
A short history, and the route
of. the Overland Telegraph Line?
Before 1872 the only communica-
tion between Australia and Europe
was a monthly mail service. The
lack of speedy communications was
a great handicap to the rapidly
developing colonies, and negotia-
tions were opened with the British-
Australian Telegraph Co., by both
Queensland (which then controlled
the Northern Territory) and South
Australia, for the establishment of
a telegraphic link.
The South Australian proposals
were accepted and in June, 1870, the
company made an agreement with
the Government of the day to lay
a cable from Java, which was
already connected with Europe, on
condition that a land-line was con-
structed from Port Augusta to Port
Darwin. The whole line, by land
and sea, was to be opened on or
before January 1, 1872.
Many explorers had attempted to
find overland routes from the
southern and eastern colonies to the
tropical shore of the Northern Terri-
tory, but it was not until the series
of horseback expeditions by John
McDouall Stuart, in 1859-62, that
a corridor was opened through
central Australia, dispelling tneories
of an inland sea or an uncrossable
desert, and proving that this route
would be practicable for an over-
land line.
Later expeditions supported
Stuart’s findings, the political result
of which w'as the transfer of the
Northern Territory to South Aus-
tralia, and the ensuing attempts by
South Australia to establish land
settlement in the far north, at the
mouth of the Adelaide River (1864-
67) and at Port Darwin (1869).
The settlement at Port Darwin deter-
mined the site for the cable ter-
minus from Java.
The agreement with the Telegraph
Co. carried penalty clauses for non-
completion within the specified
time. Construction of the line,
which was placed in the charge of
Charles Todd, S.A.’s Postmaster-
General, became a race against
time, and despite many difficulties
encountered on the three sections
into which construction-work was
divided, the work was completed
by August, 1872. The cable-service
from java went dead just as the
land-line was nearing completion
but was restored on October 21.
The whole story of the construction
is a fascinating subject in itself.
The value of the new line cannot
be overestimated with regard to
commerce and defence.
* * * *
Is there more than one Ninety
Mile Beach in Australia ? How is
such a beach formed ?
There is only one Ninety Mile
Beach, which is an extensive spit of
sand on the coast of Gippsland,
Vic., swept up by the prevailing
south-westerly current of Bass Strait
and enclosing a series of river-fed
lakes. It extends from Port Albert
in the west to Lakes Entrance in
the east, the only gap in the whole
expanse being at its extreme
eastern end near Lakes Entrance.
There was formerly another Ninety
Mile Beach in north-west Western
Australia, but its name was changed
to Eighty Mile Beach in 1946 to
avoid confusion.
* * * a
When was opal atscovered in Aus-
tralia ? When did commercial pro-
duction begin ?
Though there is some evidence
that precious opal was discovered as
early as 1849 near Angaston, S.A.,
the first finds precisely recorded
were made in Queensland, in 1872,
at Listowel Downs and at Spring-
sure. However there was no
recorded production until 1890. The
Listowel Downs discovery was the
forerunner of many others in a
region about 550 miles long by
250 miles wide, extending from
Hungerford in the south to Kynuna,
north-west of Winton.
In New South Wales the first
discovery was made in the 1870’s
in the Trunkey district, south-west
of Bathurst, but the most signifi-
cant finds were made in the 1880’s
when the fields at Lightning Ridge
and White Cliffs were discovered. A
township was established at White
Cliffs about 1890, and this marked
the beginning of commercial pro-
duction in Australia.
Other finds included those at
Paro, in western Queensland, in
1897 ; at Tintenbar, N.S.W., in
1901 ; at Coolgardje, W.A., in 1904
and in the Stuart Range in the
north of South Australia (Coobar
Pedy field).
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
R.D.8.: A little of:
THE REACH
The Stars cloaked by the black hood of
Death ;
Hells of unknown hanging in the fires
of Satans Gallows ;
There to taunt with half hidden gleams
of supposed existence,
Suspended in an agony of timeless
Patience.
Waiting to be cut down for the Van-
quished’® Grave ....
And man strives still onward, perhaps
succeeding, though in inhnitistnal
comparison.
Elsetimes, prostituted below the scorn-
ful ridicule of the leering Cos-
mos ....
. ...P.T.F.: One sentence would
have done to say that he was
drunk. If you can think of a story
about Tom you could use it....
W. 8.: Mo g00d.... E.T.S.: Less
g00d.... R.G.: Fancy (and form)
free.... 1.J.: Owes much of its
symbolism to a series of late nights,
it would seem. Aspirin was taken at
this end..“ Lem”: An “Australian
song that Al Jolson might have
sung" sounds, it’s feared, just like
that.... R.E.: “White Gums” went
close. The city piece didn't img
true... .L.V.: Carbon-copy appre-
ciated but not needed.... K.R.P.:
“Dejected” rejected, then ejected....
N.C.: Set sail:
Onc-e an English mariner. Captain Cook
his name,
Set sail from his homeland and won
immortal fame.
He sailed in the Endeavour with men
who knew no tear.
To seek a new land, in the Southern
Hemisphere.
For he was a jolly great captain
And they were a jolly great crew
They were all jolly good fellows
Hold, courageous and true ....
W.F.: A nice opening in “Chess”
but little development in the middle
game... .K.L.: It’s now out of print
but you still can’t claim it....
Flelen : Mo launching... .J.J.:
From the drawer come:
... an old diary
with old telephone numbers,
innumerable fourpenny stamps ?
and,
of course,
a photograph of Cannes in winter
from the year you started that
novel . . . .
M.D.: Let’s look at:
THE FUTURE
I stand upon the threshold of tlie year
And ponder on the passing of the old.
When suddenly a voice resounds within
my ear
‘Taulter not go forward resolute and
bold.”
“1,0, l,ook how life is stretched afore
thee.
Time can only match your pace for tliou
art Lord.
Hut flinch and hesitate and it will foil
thee.
Unharnessed it bypasseth o’er the ford.”
With dimming tone the pounding voice
receded.
Rumbling distantly Us echo hade me
care.
“The easy path is mundanely ewhunted.
Err not, the one direct is thine affair.”
Determinedly my earthly will responded;
This sapling year, its challenge I
accept.
What ere it teaches before it departeth-.
My name unsullied it will well have
kept ....


/V:
So many things that make life happier...
come 'fhroiiglr’steel pipes
i \ &
I*s
m-.v
■ 5888
HlaillijSiiii
X-:-:
km
Life preserving water . . . the gas and steam for
heating . . . lines of power and lighting ... oil and
the raw materials of industry all flow ceaselessly
through pipes of steel to keep factory, workshop
and laboratory supplied; to keep civilisation,
itself, alive.
Only steel pipe is so economical, so dependable.
Its superior mechanical strength and stability in
price and quality are other good reasons why
steel pipe is so widely used.
Before finalising your next project, talk “steel
piping” with Stewarts and Lloyds, the leading
Australian producer of welded and seamless steel
pipe.
<
f
STEWARTS and LLOYDS (Distributors) PTY. LIMITED
55G.1.60
BRANCHES: All Capital Cities, also Townsville, Rockhampton, Newcastle, Wollon-
gong, Geelong, Fremantle, Darwin and Alice Springs AGENCIES: Cairns, Mackay,
Nalgoorlie
