

The Bulletin
l-
Registered in Australia for trans-
mission by post as a newspaper.
September 2, 1961
WHAT STUDENTS
THINK
A UNIVERSITY SURVEY
A Guide to Glub-land


only£l2ofor this 16g.
10,000 gal LYSAGHT
WATER TANK
fp
i
yp-y-y
mm
v*-
Strong! Long-lasting! The Lysaghit 10,666 gailon|
Flat Plate Water Tank is manufactured from heavy
gauge galvanized steel plate to give many years of
satisfactory service. Assembly is greatly simplified,
too, thanks to accurate pre-drilling and fully bolted
construction. Every feature you are looking for is
included in this tank which is supplied complete,
ready for immediate erection.
STANDARD FITTINGS include internal wind bracing . . .
3" sludge outlet, complete with 9' length of pipe and
plug . . . overflow unit ... 3" outlet fitting . . . sealing
compounds ... all bolts, nuts, washers, etc.
DIAMETER: 19' 6" HEIGHT: 5' 10j"
OPTIONAL EXTRA 22 gauge steel floor.
PRICES F.O.R. NEWCASTLE
10,000 Gallon Water Tank
Optional Extra 22 Gauge Steel Floor
£l2O
£59
ORB
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
Offices in Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide, and Fremantle
POST THIS COUPON NOW
To John Lysaght (Australia) Limited (City)
Note: N.S.W. enquiries should be directed to John Lysaght (Australia) Limited,
Newcastle Works, Newcastle. In other States please refer your enquiry to the
office of John Lysaght (Australia) Limited in your State.
Please send me details of the following Lysaght Prefabricated Products:
WATER TANKS
10,000 gal. (Flat Plate) .. □
25,000 gal. (Corrugated).. □
50,000 gal □
75,000 gal □
100,000 gal □
Hay Shed □
GRAIN SILOS
200 bushel Corr □
2SO bushel Elev. (Corr.) □
500 bushel New Type .. □
1,200 bushel New Type .. □
2,000 bushel New Type .. □
3,100 bushel New Type .. □
3,700 bushel New Type .. □


the
Bulletin
SEPTEMBER 2, 1961
Vol. 82
No. 4255
ANSWERS TO
CONTRIBUTORS
F.R.F.: It was nice to hear from
you again. We are sorry we cannot
take your stories. “George's Wife
lsobel” has appeal but seems too
long at getting to the point....
T.P.M.: This story has been done
many times. . ..S.J.R.: Sorry....
F. : There is a good deal that
is admirable in your stories. How-
ever, “The Bells" is too slight for
us and “Harry" and “Morgan and
the Kid*’ fall away at the end. .
G. : Home was never like this.
.... R.F.: Ruled out of order. ...
M. : Sorry, we have no place for
it....V.P.: Try again.... R.D.M.:
“The Hummingbird" is on her way
back. She did not make a
very credible character. . . . 8.R.F.:
Thanks for your story. You seem
to have a good idea of the form
of a story but need a more con-
vincing theme. ... K.McA.: You
manage the simplicities of country-
town life very well, but would you
get a new typewriter-ribbon....
N. :We do not want city charac-
ters just because they are city
characters. You will have to try
to put aside the standards and
language of the advertising world.
... . M.N.: There was something
"ather appealing about your story,
but it was too confused.... P.J.:
Although you handled this quite
well it has been done before....
M.P.S.: Very near.... K.M.: Con-
vincing but more could have been
made of it. .. .P.F.W.: Just missed
0ut....H.C.: Wish I could plot
like that... .L.V.: Oh, hum...
K.Y.: You have to write a more
subtle prose than that to convey
shades of feeling. . . .H.G.: Wasn’t
that too sad for words!.... A.C.:
Not even Melbourne trams are that
510 w... .A.W.S.: Use it as a
libretto. . . .C.A.L.: Dad and Dave
is too far out altogether. ... A.P.:
Don't believe you.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street.
Sydney; Box ,2521; Phone: 27 5971.
IN THIS ISSUE
Mr. Colwell's Demagogy
T H .E immediate censure of Mr Calwell by practically all commentators
for his gutlessness in refusing to face up to the Victorian A.L.P. Ex-
ecutive and the subsequent almost certain loss of the next Federal elections
naturally dominated discussion of politics last week. This had the effect
of obscuring a calamitous absurdity in Mr Calwell’s speech on the budget.
As Eugene Bajkowski points out on page 42, Mr Calwell’s immediate
economic proposals merely added up to a return to last year’s boom. Elis
long-term proposals had a statesmanlike flourish about them; but they
would have been impossible if Mr Calwell ever had the opportunity to
put into practice his short-term measures. The real absurdity came in when
Mr Calwell tried to get away with his flight into sheer opportunism by
making the extraordinary statement that the Government has been trying
to create in recent months “the myth of the i 960 boom.”
To suggest that there was no boom last year is the very worst kind
of political irresponsibility and demagogy. There were at least three serious
problems last year, all related. There was an inflationary gallop. There was
a balance of payments crisis. And there was a speculative bubble that would
have made a nasty mess if it had burst. Whether he was right or wrong,
it would be responsible politics for Mr Calwell to blame the Government’s
own policies for each of these dangers; or to attack its remedies for them;
but to deny that they existed is merely a play at the electors’ gullibility, a
desperate throw by an ambitious man whose desire for office has already
trapped him into indiscretions about the political advantages of a depres-
sion and the possible movements of the Angel of Death in Melbourne.
If anyone is to take the future development of this country seriously
he has to face up to one unpleasant fact: any development plans are going
to affect the profits of at least some businesses and the jobs of at least some
employees. As a Socialist planner if that is what he is Mr Calwell
should be able to take that in his stride. As it is, we are left with the absurd
picture of a Liberal Government attempting economic planning while a
Labor Opposition becomes the spokesman of disappointed businessmen
and speculators.
A New Vance Palmer Story
'y'ANCE PALMER’S name was synonymous with Australian writing
for a span of years. In a sense he continued the Lawson tradition but
he accepted the local scenery as a natural background for his work and
wrote biography, fiction, plays and criticism without ever falling below a
certain level of craftsmanship. This professionalism was perhaps his greatest
contribution to Australian writing and nowhere is it more marked than in
the stories he produced with a craftsman’s care for over forty years.
Palmer’s best qualities, restraint and balance, and their concurrent
defect, a lack of the dramatic, somehow link him with Melbourne which
he made his home. But much of the most evocative of this Bundaberg-
born writer's work concerns coastal Queensland which is the setting for his
previously unpublished story, “Sunny Morrow,” which appears in this issue.


This Australia
THE A.L.P. CONFERENCE
Labor Through
the Looking-glass
FROM ALAN REID IN CANBERRA
ARTHUR CALWELL
Led from behind
T EWis Carroll would have enjoyed
himself at last week's meeting of the
Federal A.L.P. Executive. The charac-
ters and situations could have come
straight from his pages. There was the
leader —Arthur Cal well—who led from
behind. There were his three principal
lieutenants —Gough Whitlam, his Deputy,
Nick McKenna, Senate Labor Leader,
and Pat Kennelly, Senate Deputy Labor
Leader —who marched boldly into the
Executive to demand the heads of Cal-
well’s would-be executioners —the unity
ticket tolerating and Communist in-
fluenced Victorian A.L.P. executive —and
who 24 hours later were feeling anxiously
their own necks to make sure that their
own heads were still affixed to their
shoulders. There was the executive itself
—two delegates from each of the six
States —which asked to make an inopera-
tive rule operative instead solemnly
formalised steps by which the rule could
be evaded and made less operative. You
would not read about it outside Carroll's
pages. But it happened.
Whatever amusement an onlooker
might derive from last week’s series of
Federal A.L.P. Executive meetings, they
cannot have done Labor any good elec-
toraliy. An analysis of the recent Vic-
torian State elections which saw the
return of the Bolte Liberal Government
with an increased majority has been
prepared. This analysis—again the Alice
in Wonderland theme emerges—was spon-
sored and paid for by the Victorian A.L.P.
and the field work was done under the
auspices and largely by members of the
Victorian A.L.P. The analysis showed
that Labor's poor showing in the Vic-
torian State elections was due mainly to
the policies pursued by the Victorian
A.L.P. Executive, particularly its tolerance
of unity tickets and its record of collabo-
ration with known Communist organisa-
tions and Communists.
If that analysis is accepted it is hard
to see how anything done by the Federal
Executive has improved Labor’s chances
at the Federal elections, probably at the
end of this year.
As I see it, the position is this: (1)
Three of Labor’s four Parliamentary
leaders —Whitlam, McKenna and Ken-
nelly—have confirmed what the D.L.P.
has been saying for years about Victorian
A.L.P. tolerance of unity tickets. If they
are an election issue—and the Victorian
A.L.P.’s own analysis says they are a
major issue—the D.L.P. must be streng-
thened and Labor weakened for, until
now, the A.L.P could dismiss the charges
as “D.L.P. propaganda.” Now they are
no longer “D.L.P charges.” They are
charges endorsed by a respectable section
of the A.L.P.’s Federal Parliamentary
hierarchy.
(2) the fourth Parliamentary leader—
Mr Calwell —has expressed sympathy with
the technical difficulties of the Victorian
A.L.P. in enforcing the Federal ban on
unity tickets because without them the
unions might “fall into D.L.P. hands.”
Implicit in this attitude is the suggestion
that if the A.L.P. has to lose control of
a union it is better to lose it to the Com-
munists than to the D.L.P.
(3) The Executive took no steps to
enforce observance of the ban on unity
tickets. It merely repeated a declaration
that States must observe the ban —a
declaration made before so often and so
ineffectually that it has become meaning-
less. Instead of making the existing ban
operative, it amended it to provide a
formal means whereby it could be evaded
(an advertisement in a metropolitan
newspaper and declarations to the State
Executive and if called for to the A.L.P.
Federal Secretary).
The sequence of events which pro-
duced this situation can hardly enhance
Mr Calwell’s electoral prestige as a
national leader. The “strong man” of
this series of Federal Executive meetings
was Mr j. P. (“Bob”) Brebner, who was
the main spokesman for Victoria. Down
6/5 on the 12-man Federal Executive with
Chamberlain an uncertain quantity when
the week opened, Brebner did a magnifi-
cent job from the viewpoint of the
assailed Victorian Executive. Squally
powerful and possessed of a voice that
he can use like a foghorn, he “trailed his
coat,” played on his opponents' fears and
misgivings, and when necessary carried
the fight into their camp. It was the per-
formance of a virtuoso, very able, very
efficient, and very shrewd. The fact that
he exploited the weaknesses of his
opponents in preference to relying upon
his and Victoria’s dubious strength should
not detract from the technical brilliance
of his achievement in bringing victory to
Victoria. The fact also that the final draft
of the unity ticket resolution which Breb-
ner subsequently moved and the executive
carried —a resolution that leaves the unity
ticket issue still unresolved —was pre-
pared in Mr Calwell’s office was the
measure of Brebner's success.
TV
The Murray Banks Slanders
FROM PAT LAWLOR IN NEW ZEALAND
A s Dr Murray Banks, the American
psychologist-entertainer was waiting
for breakfast at his Auckland hotel a few
days ago preparatory to leaving by air
after a phenomenally successful six-days
visit he was served with writs of arrest.
The trouble was that the stocky, peppy
entertainer who mixes psychology, reli-
gion and sex with such cheerful abandon,
had let his tongue run away in anger.
The result was actions for slander from
Lionel Ralph Sceats, district manager of
the N.Z. Broadcasting Service, and Nod
Holmes, a journalist, each claiming £5OO
damages.
Banks had been furious that a tape
made by him fot subsequent telecast had
been cancelled by Sceats as “unaccept-
able because of inappropriate references
to sex and religion.” Accordingly when
he took the platform at the Auckland
Town Hall Banks made such a vehement
attack on Sceats that the Mayor and
Mayoress of the city walked out of the
show. When journalist Holmes annoyed
Banks by printing in his newspaper report
a remark made by Banks, the latter
denied the implication and uttered “very
gross slanders” against the reporter.
Time is money to Dr Banks ; he was
all in favor of a quick settlement so that
he might go on his way. He promptly
admitted that he had gone far beyond
what was tit and proper, publicly apolo-
gised to both men and consented to an
award of £350 damages to Sceats and £250
to Holmes, plus 50 guineas costs in each
case. The presiding magistrate said he
would treat both actions as being settled
out of court and ordered the immediate


release of the acrimonious entertainer
who was soon on his way by plane nurs-
ing a debit of 24 hours plus a fair slice
of his tour profits.
Whether Banks drew consolation from
the fact that Holmes announced that he
would give his share of the “proceeds”
of the action to charity, is for some other
psychologist, preferably of the non-enter-
taining variety, to decide. But he must
have been well satisfied with his tour for
he filled the Auckland 1 own Hall on four
occasions and Wellington Town Hall
once, at £1 and more per seat; gross
profits were about £lO.OOO, a tidy sum
for six days.
In Wellington where he was billed by
the “Evening Post” as a “psychologist-
comedian” he had such a reception that
even he said it was one of the most
appreciative audiences he had met with
for months. Conservative-minded New
Zealanders lapped up his outspokenness.
Speaking in general terms of Govern-
ment-controlled television and radio Dr
Banks said: “It means they can brain-
wash you. interrogate you, in fact tell
you to do just what they want.” At least
he has revived interest in censorship in
New Zealand where TV is in its infancy
and the responsible officers are not taking
risks.
RELIGION
M.R.A.
on the Wharves
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
V. C. (“Gus”) ALFORD
Drifted out
'T'he death of Dr Frank Buchman at the
Black Forest resort of Freudenstadt
brought the American-Swiss founder of
Moral Rearmament an unexpected tribute
from the Melbourne waterfront. Mr Jim
Beggs, a Waterside Workers’ Federation
job delegate, wrote to the “Age” paying
homage to Dr Buchman “for the unity
he has brought between people and
nations.” He said he and other wharfies
had shared platforms with the late Dr
Buchman and that M.R.A. “is bringing
a new dignity to our class.”
The letter was a surprise to those who
pictured M.R.A. in terms of its sup-
porters from the other end of the social
scale, recalling the titled English ladies
who have so often been its emissaries.
It did not go unnoticed on the wharves,
and Mr Stan Clark, secretary of the
W.W.F. Job Delegates’ Association,
replied to Mr Beggs in stern terms. “The
Job Delegates’ Association does not sup-
port the policy of Moral Rearmament,”
he said. “We believe Moral Rearmament
does nothing to assist the cause of the
Labor movement and wish to dissociate
ourselves from any inference being placed
by the letter in question.”
M.R.A. has a history of sorts on the
Melbourne waterfront. Mr V. C. (“Gus”)
Alford, who recently challenged the late
Mr Jim Healy for the general secretary-
ship of the W.W.F., was for a time a keen
M.R.A. supporter and attended one of its
congresses at Caux, Switzerland, in 1953.
On his return he announced in emphatic
terms that it was “The answer to Com-
munism.” Subsequent events —notably
the alignment of A.L.P. militants and
Communists on unity tickets after the
1955 A.L.P. split—convinced him that
it was not the answer in his particular
sphere of work. By 1956 Mr Alford had
drifted out of the M.R.A. movement and
was concentrating on more political
forms of struggle against Communism.
Some of his present political colleagues
consider that his sojourn with M.R.A.
weakened temporarily his influence on
the waterfront. Mr Alford himself says
he still has a high regard for many of
the leaders of M.R.A., but is satisfied
that his own contribution to fighting
Communism is best made through other
channels.
On the other side of the continent Mr
Kim Beazley provides an example of a
Labor politician who is also an M.R.A.
man. In continuing to represent the
waterfront constituency of Fremantle, Mr
Beazley has a double achievement: not
only is he the only Labor M.H.R. from
Western Australia, but he has had to fight
off determined attempts backed by the
A.L.P. Federal boss, Mr J. Chamberlain,
to unseat him in the preselection ballot.
Among his Federal colleagues it is
often said that Mr Beazley would have
“gone a long way” in the party if he had
not got tangled up with M.R.A. Others
say he has done quite well, anyway, to
hold a seat in a State where the A.L.P.
has been ravaged by Mr Chamberlain's
practices.
What is usually forgotten when Mr
Beazley is baited for his M.R.A. views is
John Curtin’s support of the movement
in 1945. “Moral Rearmament,” the
Labor Prime Minister said shortly be-
fore his death, “is of paramount import-
ance in building a world that will work.”
That is part of the Curtin myth that has
been scrapped over the years.
ABORIGINES
Tribal
Diplomacy
FROM K. G. WILLEY IN DARWIN
T ast year, after the most momentous
' inter-tribal conference since the war,
the primitive clansmen of Roper River
reached a decision on a delicate matter.
For a long time their old men had been
unhappy because the ceremonial hair
belts and feathers used in the sacred
Kunapipi and Yabudurawa ceremonies
were in the hands of western and
northern Arnhem Land tribes who, the
old men insisted, had no right to them.
After brooding quietly for many years,
they decided to do something about it
and a series of conferences began along
the Roper, culminating in the decision
to send an ambassador out whose job
was to find how the Arnhem Land tribes
got hold of the ceremonial gear—and, if
possible, to get it back. As gagawar, or
sacred messenger, they chose old (“about
60") Rembarngga tribesman Tommy
Wururuma, who lives near Mainoru
Station on the southern border of
Arnhem Land.
Tommy is a skilled inter-tribal linguist.
Not wishing to stir up old quarrels, the
Roper River men —according to full-
blood native citizen Phillip Roberts, who
retains his Alawa tribal loyalties—chose
Tommy because of his “diplomatic
qualities.” The ceremonial articles,
Roberts explained, were “priceless.”
Money could not buy them and a skilled
dipomat like Tommy was essential to
negotiate their return.
Ambassador Tommy covered 1000
miles, questioning men of once-hostile
tribes and seeking to influence them
towards return of the ceremonial objects.
With spear and nulla nulla he hunted his
own food along the way. Most of the
time he walked —including one direct hike
of 200 miles to Nutwood Downs Station,
though local tribes paid the air fare to
fly him to Maningreda in the Gulf
Country.
This week —nearly a year after he set
out —Tommy turned up in Darwin, where
he is having treatment for an eye infec-
tion. Then he will go home to report
before an assembly of Roper River tribes-
men. He told Darwin pressmen he was
confident his mission would be success-
ful. The sacred articles, it appears,
passed to the Arnhem Land tribes before
European settlement when the tribes then
had a regular exchange of ceremonials,
since discontinued —though Roper River
natives also suspect some “souvenir
hunting” by visiting Arnhem Landers
over the years.


THE ALBERT PARK INQUIRY
Senator Kennelly's
Bowling Alley
FROM MUGGA
PAT KENNELLY
“I ask no quarter”
A decade ago Senator Pat Kennelly was
the kingmaker in the Victorian Labor
party, leader of The Kennedy Gang.
Now he is fighting to retain his last two
jobs, chairman of the Albert Park trustees,
and his Labor nomination as a senator.
The second has been jeopardised by his
stand against unity tickets, and the first by
his insistence on giving a private company
the right to build on the park a £200,000
bowling alley from which the park man-
agement would get £5OOO a year rental.
This alienation of public parkland so
incensed leading Melburnians and especi-
ally South Melburnians that the Govern-
ment appointed Mr O. J- Gillard, Q.C.,
as a one-man Board of Inquiry to inquire
into whether the Albert Park committee
of management had power to grant the
lease, and other aspects of its manage-
ment. Meanwhile the Trades Hall has
placed a ban on work on the bowling
alley building.
The senator is one of the glibbest talkers
in Labor history, but his gift of the gab
has not been equal to either occasion
so far. The ban may be permanently
damaging, and he is fortunate he is not
seeking pre-selection for the forthcoming
election; his naivety before the inquiry
opened about the employment of his son-
in-law, Mr R. Burke, as secretary to the
management, was quite remarkable for
such a seasoned campaigner. Mr Burke’s
£22-a-week job has “no set hours.” “Is
a person to be barred from working just
because he happens to be a relation of
the chairman of any concern?” he asked.
Thereupon he returned from his Queens-
land holiday and was booed and counted
out by angry South Melburnians.
Giving evidence before the inquiry, the
senator said he had no part in the appoint-
ment ; it was made on the recommenda-
tion of three other committeemen who
had interviewed the son-in-law. (This
important position with no set hours was
not advertised.) “1 ask no quarter and
I give no quarter when 1 am fighting for
this park,” he said dramatically at one
stage. He then went on to agree that
he signed all cheques, drew up agreements
and generally managed the park.
This became clearer when other mem-
bers of the committee began to give evi-
dence. Mr William Cox said the senator
did not try to influence him about the
appointment, but it had never been for-
mally confirmed ; Cr. John Talbot, of
St Kilda, said he devoted very little time
to the park other than attending com-
mittee meetings ; and Cr. Fred Ferry, of
South Melbourne, said what he had
heard about Mr Burke’s qualifications
seemed all right, but he did not know
what he was being paid. According to
Mr Cox, the agenda contained no refer-
ence to the bowling alley as late as June,
and it came as a shot out of the blue
to him when it was mentioned at the
meeting.
The inside story of the Trades Hall
ban on the bowling building is that Mr
Vic. Stout, probably the most powerful
figure still in Lygon Street, blames Ken-
nelly for his defeat for the Federal A.L.P.
presidency, and the ban is reported to
be a retaliatory blow. Pat Kennedy was
at the height of his power in 1947 when
he was Federal secretary and acting Vic-
torian secretary of the A.L.P. as well as
a Minister in the Cain Ministry. The
Victorian Right-wingers, then in control,
regarded him as too wily an enemy and
he lost the pre-selection for Melbourne
West actually while he was Leader of the
Opposition in the Legislative Council in
1952.
A year later he was sacked as Federal
A.L.P, secretary, although the decision
was modified to allow him to resign in
1954, and at that time the Minister for
the Interior, then Mr Kent Hughes,
ordered him to be locked out of the
Federal M.P.s’ rooms after he had
allegedly used large quantities of station-
ery and sent telegrams and made tele-
phone calls from them worth £3BO.
The upsurge of the Left wing in
Federal Labor resulted in his pre-selec-
tion as a senator, but as early as last
November he was reported to be making
overtures to the D.L.P. This no doubt
is one of the reasons Stout suspects that
Kennedy was one of the men who
deprived him of the presidency ; Stout is
an aggressive opponent of the D.L.P.
He appointed himself, when a Cain
Minister, chairman of the committee and
claims that since 1947 his committees
have spent £750,000 on improvements.
Fine quarters for basketball, badminton
and table tennis have been provided in
former Army buildings, and the senator
says he wants to build a “top soccer
ground and a rugby ground, and we want
our motor racing back.”
In 1957 the committee was ordered to
take down fences that had been erected
for motor-racing, following public pro-
tests. This was a sore point with the
senator. The committee was receiving
as much as £4900 for a weekend's racing
compared with the £4650 a year they re-
ceived from the Commonwealth for the
rental of 46| acres.
He then asked the Melbourne “Herald”
and “Sun” to stop campaigning against
the use of the park for car racing. The
newspapers continued to protest. Since
then he has been a bitter critic of them
in the Senate, so that his boast about
giving and asking no quarter is only half
right.
LAW
An R.S.L. Takeover ?
FROM MICHAEL HARRISON IN SYDNEY
After years of unbridled power the
R.S.L. and its clubs are at last facing
a very real and dire threat. The chal-
lenge lies in what appears to be a com-
paratively unimportant move by the
N.S.W. Crown Law Office to gain the
associate members of clubs full voting
rights and the power to sit on club com-
mittees. At present it is fighting a test
case with the Sydney Journalists’ Club.
But journalists are not the ones who really
have to worry. A successful verdict for
the Crown would be a severe blow to the
heart of the R.S.L. —-its hook-up with
licensed clubs.
Briefly, this is the picture: There are
more than 150,000 R.S.L. club members
in N.S.W. Through poker machines and
beer taps last year passed an estimated
(and undisclosed) profit of £3,800,000. By
devious means, the R.S.L. lopped off what
it needed for personal expenses. No one
had any complaints, because under exist-
ing laws all clubs are controlled by full-
time R.S.L. members only—even if there
is a predominance of associate members.
If the Crown wins its case, the com-
mittees of clubs with more associates
than R.S.L. members will immediately
face a takeover by newly-empowered
associates. Few committees, even in
clubs with a high R.S.L. membership,
would escape scot free. As it is the bulk
of associates are heartily sick of the dic-
tatorial, and often unfair, controls by
R.S.L. members. This applies in country
areas particularly, where, with the passing
of the years, the number of war veterans
entitled to an R.S.L. badge has dwindled
to an all-powerful few controlling so
much for so many. In cases like this,
the angry young associates would have no


hesitation in taking over and running
things more along their own lines—lines
that would often be directly in opposition
to the parent body.
And what can the R.S.L. do? On the
surface, nothing. If it closes down every
club that goes against its wishes (the legal
life of the clubs depends on two small
clauses contained in the R.S.L. constitu-
tion) the resultant outcry, let alone finan-
cial loss, would be enough to cripple it
for life. If the R.S.L. takes it lying
down, what happens to the badly-needed
revenue from “welfare activities” and
other carefully disguised fund-raising
gimmicks? In the words of Mr L. R.
Newman, secretary of the R.S.L.
Clubs’ Association of N.S.W.: “A ver-
dict against us could split the clubs and
the R.S.L. Such a move would be disas-
trous for everyone concerned, because
they each rely so heavily on each other
for support.” Yet, that is exactly what
will happen if the test case against the
Journalists’ Club is successful. And no
one is naive enough to think that other
States would waste any time following
suit.
The only comeback open to the R.S.L.
is through the courts. Its main case
against full voting rights is that the R.S.L.
itself owns 99 per cent, of the property
used by clubs, and if associates were
given full membership rights—especially
on constitutional matters concerning pro-
perty —the end product could be chaotic.
“Supposing a club decided to close
down,” said Mr Newman. “An anti-
R.S.L. committee could decide to keep
all the assets itself, or even donate them
to the local Police Boys’ Club, and then
change the constitution to make it legal.
Better,” he said, “we give associates the
right to vote on everything except con-
stitutional matters. That would be the
basis of our legal claim.” This simply
means that the clubs would be back where
they started, with associates voting for
committees whose hands were tied by
unalterable, R.S.L.-type constitutions
anyhow.
There is one, if mild, ray of hope.
For the past few years the R.S.L. has
been playing around with the idea of
forming a Soldiers’ Sons’ Association, to
be run along similar lines to the R.S.L.
and with full club-forming powers. The
current legal moves have given added
impetus to the idea. Over 25 per cent,
of associate members are, in fact, the
sons of soldiers. By giving them an
organisation of their own the R.S.L. gets
rid of the embarrassingly large propor-
tion of associates.
There is only one flaw in an other-
wise workable plan. Who is to say the
soldiers’ sons would be any happier with
the R.S.L. than the other associates ? At
the moment, few of them give a damn
for the R.S.L., and even fewer have
reason to. The prestige of having their
own organisation might work for a while,
but it probably would be only a question
of time before the sparks started to fly
with the parent body. And time is one
thing the R.S.L. cannot afford to mess
about with.
Tanner
"NOBODY IS GOING TO FIGHT ABOUT BERLIN" (Macmillan)


ROYAL COMMISSION
What Happened
in the Goldman Sale?
FROM A PERTH CORRESPONDENT
D. BRAND
Will consider it
In 1955 the colorful Queensland cattle-
man, Mr Allan Goldman, and his
wife Monica drove their Rolls-Royce
from Hughenden station in Queensland
to take up the biggest cattle lease in the
Kimberleys —Moola Bulla station. It
used to be a native settlement providing
for aged and indigent natives, though it
was also run as a cattle station until in
1954 the Native Welfare Department
decided it was running down and
was too big to handle. Goldman paid
£lOO,OOO for the lease ; in 1958 he sold
it to Mr Karl Stein for £150,000 ; in 1959
Stein sold it to interests represented by
Mr lan Thom for £200,000, plus £50,000
for cattle already turned off. Last week
Mr Bill Grayden, the Libera] M.L.A. in
Perth, accused the former Labor Govern-
ment of squandering public money in the
Goldman sale and goaded the Labor
party into demanding a Royal Commis-
sion into the sale of Moola Bulla.
According to the official files tabled
in the Legislative Assembly, three tenders
were received when the property was
advertised for lease and the Goldmans
tendered for £lOO,OOO. A tender of
£120,000 was rejected because it was con-
sidered land included in the tender had
been overestimated in value. There was
no bang-tail muster of stock before the
property was sold and cattle numbers
were shown at 15,000, about 17,000 below 7
the true estimate according to later official
reports. In a statement in Perth last week,
Goldman claimed that he branded 13,500
calves in his first season at Moola Bulla
and that the true stocking capacity was
60,000 to 70,000 head.
Goldman further alleged that the
station contained many thousands of
pounds worth of useless equipment when
he took over, including a cool-store which
had never been used, thousands of motor
parts which would not fit any of the
station vehicles, piles of building
materials, horseshoes, wire rope and
vehicle tyres. His inventory also included
12 unused water pumps and six sewing-
machines. “The place was a derelict, an
utter wreck,” he said. “It had been
shockingly mismanaged and over the
years must have lost in profits and actual
losses many millions of pounds.”
The rfficial files gave a very different
version of the story. One report by pas-
toral inspector R. F. Johnson accused
Allan Goldman and Karl Stein of “bare-
faced stripping of assets included in the
agreement.” During the occupancy of
both Goldman and Stein the files showed
continual argument over failure to
comply with the agreement of sale that
at least 100 miles of boundary fencing
would be erected by July, 1957, at the
expense of the lessee.
In September, 1959, the present Gov-
ernment waived the fencing provisions to
allow simultaneous transfers of the pro-
perty from the Goldmans to the Steins
and from them to interests represented
by Mr lan Thom. On this question
Pastoral Inspector Johnson reported that
repudiation of the agreement would be
the easy way out, but it would mean con-
doning the non-compliance of Goldman
and Stein with the fencing part of the
agreement. The department considered
that both Goldman and Stein were
unsatisfactory lessees and that it should
facilitate the transfer of the property to
the Thom interests. Goldman’s final pay-
ment on the £lOO,OOO purchase price was
made in December, 1959.
Last week Opposition Leader Hawke
asked Premier Brand if the Government
would consider appointing a Royal Com-
mission to inquire into the Moola Bulla
sale. He said all Labor members would
favor such a move. Premier Brand replied
that the Government would consider a
commission if a request was made . . .
POLITICS
The Bolfe Bluff
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
HTML prospect of Mr Menzies stumping
the northern Victorian electorate of
Murray in support of his Deputy., Mr J.
H. McEwen, against a fellow Liberal is
an intriguing one: however it is hardly
likely to happen. The threat of the
Executive of the Victorian Liberal-and-
Country party to run a candidate against
Mr McEwen in the next Federal election
is largely a matter of bluff and counter-
bluff —and even if the Liberals went so
far as to oppose him, the Victorian elec-
tion results indicate that the Country
party leader would romp home, even
without personal help from Mr Menzies.
On the State political level, there is
little love lost between Victoria’s Country
party and its Liberal-and-Country party.
For one thing, the simple Country party
objects to the “and-country” in the
L.C.P.'s name. Historically the feud goes
back to the eight-year period (1935-43)
when Albert Dunstan’s minority Country
party was kept in office by the Labor
party, and the Liberals (then U.A.P.) were
left to fume in opposition. The enmity
is kept alive these days by the fact that
the Country party holds a balance of
power in the Upper House which is can
occasionally use to embarrass the Bolte
L.C.P. Government or wrest sectional
concessions from it.
One example of its successful use of
this power was in 1957 when it combined
with the A.L.P. to knock out Mr Bolte’s
bread reform bill—one of the planks in
the platform on which his Government
had been elected. Briefly, the bill would
have allowed self-employed bakers to
make and sell bread outside the present
restricted hours and would have resulted
in at least some Victorians being given
relief from the stale bread which is part
and parcel of every weekend. The A.L.P.
wanted the biil defeated, mainly tc satisfy
the usual antediluvian trade union atti-
tude towards changes in working hours,
and the Country parly —which had no in-
terest in the matter one way or another —
came to its aid.
The Country party leader, Sir Herbert
Hyland, calls this kind cf nuisance tactic
“keeping the Government on its toes.”
It makes the Country party very unpopu-
lar with the metropolitan press and with
ail Victorians who have a horror of the
day-by-day political instability which pre-
ceded the Bolte Government’s formation.
Mr Bolte has himself described the C.P.
as “a centre of intrigue, counter-intrigue,
gossip, pressurisation and political black-
mail.” Accordingly he set out at the
last election to exterminate it as a political
force. However its nine Upper and nine
Lower House members bounced back into
their parliamentary seats like so many in-
destructible rubber balls. The C.P. still
holds a balance of power of one in the
Upper House, but its dream of a sufficient
swing to the A.L.P. to enable it to play
minority tactics in the Lower House was
not realised.
Relations between Liberals and Country
party members in the Federal sphere have
been far more harmonious. The chief
rift was at the time of the last Federal
election when the C.P. successfully ran
candidates in the Liberal-held seats of
Indi and Wimmera. This C.P. raid caused
some surprise at the time, but most Vic-
torians —who tend to look upon Liberals


“A bold little yoghurt, but lacks finesse. Not one of the GREAT yoghurts!”
and C.P. members in the Federal sphere
a< identical —had forgotten it until the
L.C.P. made its recent threat again Mr
McEwen.
Since then, Mr John Buchan, State
president of the L.C.P.. has made it clear
what he is getting at: he is seeking a
guarantee from the Federal Country party
leaders that they will not try to capture
any more Liberal-held rural seats. We
are giving the Federal Country party, he
said, “the opportunity to assure their
Federal Liberal colleagues that there will
be no repetition of their 1958 perform-
ance.” The ultimatum expires on Septem-
ber 15 when the L.C.P. State Executive
will meet to consider whether in fact to
endorse a candidate against Mr McEwen.
It is a matter which will no doubt have
to be resolved in the Government rooms
at Canberra in the interests of the larger
harmony of the two parties. As a threat
to Mr McEwen’s political career, it is
hardly worth a thought. His electorate
covers almost the same area as the
Northern Province of the Victorian Upper
House which the sitting C.P. member, Mr
Feltham, held in the recent State elections
with an absolute majority of 2233 over
three opponents. Mr McEwen is hardly
likely to be worried by a Liberal opponent
and the L.C.P. executive knows it. As a
colorful method of focusing attention on
their grievance against the Country party
their tactic has something to recommend
tt. but if they are forced to carry out their
threat they will look rather silly.
EDUCATION
Pleading with Caesar
FROM A HOBART CORRESPONDENT
All tastes are usually catered for when
members of the higher echelons of the
Tasmanian public service are filled.
There is due regard for political color and
zeal, for seniority and for ability, not
necessarily in conjunction nor in that
order. Naturally those who have been
less assiduous politically scream “poli-
tics” when a Labor busy bee gets the
rise ; the younger rail at seniority when
an old hands scores, and the oldsters
mutter about new-fangled ideas when an
able young man is promoted. This tradi-
tional routine has, as far as possible, been
followed in the Tasmanian teaching ser-
vice after the appointment on August 1
of a new Director and a new Deputy
Director of Education.
Mr V. R. Long, Deputy Director of
Education since 1955, has been named to
succeed as director when Mr D. H.
Tribolet retires in January. Mr A. V.
Gough, head teacher of five leading
schools since 1944, principal of Laun-
ceston Teachers’ College in 1957 and
assistant to the director since 1959, be-
comes Deputy Director.
Objections are directed mainly against
Mr Gough’s appointment, though there
is general objection to a “dynastic”
system which may, with variations, have
been operating for 50 years, and will in
present circumstances continue until
about 1980. One teacher wrote: “The
present director, after serving the
requisite term as second in command,
became director, governed for several
years with a deputy of his choice under
him, now hands over to that gentleman,
and by also appointing the new deputy
practically ensures the succession until
about 1980.”
Critics also claim that mainland edu-
cationists were barred from applying
because it was laid down that the
appointee should take up duty on August
1, “to work with the retiring director
for four months”; that the deputy’s posi-
tion was not advertised, and that there
has been no move to call applications
for the assistantship to the director,
though both appointees will in due course
step up one rank, thus rendering farcical
the calling of applications for the post
of director. Terms of reference of the
Appeals Board do not cover appeals
against the appointments.
According to the Tasmanian State
School Teachers’Federation: “Not. her
can do more than plead with Caesar to
reverse a decision Caesar has already
made.”


MOTORISTS
Premier in
Street Brawl
FROM AN NDELAIDE CORRESPONDENT
SIR THOMAS PLAYFORD
“Parking meters are a tax!"
IN three quixotic days last week Sir
Thomas Playford came out in delence
of dogs against humans, housewives
against meat prices, and motorists against
city parking meters. His liberal-con-
servative supporters were left not know-
ing which foot to stand on.
A Labor-sponsored bill to protect S.A.
citizens by chaining or leashing savage
dogs on private property could become
cruelty to animals, the Premier said ; be-
sides it would complicate common law
relating to injury and compensation.
Next day, when graziers expressed fears
of the present lamb glut forcing sales
below an economic level. Sir Thomas
condemned master butchers for main-
taining “exorbitant" margins, which he
hoped could be reduced without having
to reintroduce price controls. But what
caused a real flare-up was his attack on
the conservative Adelaide City Council
for littering the city indiscriminately with
parking meters.
There were streets, he said, where rows
of meters stood in lonely splendor “wait-
ing for some unsuspecting motorist to
come along and pay his fine.” To his
mind parking meters were a form of
taxation that should be discouraged, yet
more and more were going in. “The
News” at once ran a front-page picture
of a long new line standing empty along
North Terrace, while the Premier talked
of taking the whole question of Cabinet,
which might have to consider revisions
to the Local Government Act.
That put Councillor W. R. Nicholis up
on his horse. The chairman of the City
Council's works and highways commit-
tee wondered whether the Premier was
not unduly concerning himself with the
job local authorities were j.et up to do.
The object of meters, he declared, was
to ration parking space and see it was
not hogged by a few. Besides, if rate-
payers didn't like what the council was
doing they could always do something
about it at the annual municipal elec-
tions. (He forgot to mention this year’s
gentleman’s agreement by which no sit-
ting councillor was opposed.)
On the other hand. Councillor A. W. B.
Sims, of the traffic and finance commit-
tee, said he thought the City Council had
gone far enough with meters. “They are
pushing the motorist right out of the
city. Indirectly, the council's rates and
taxes revenue depends on them to a large
extent.”
This only deepened public suspicion,
for the million or so silver coins dropping
annually through street meters as though
they were poker machines now finish up
in general revenue. To offset this Coun-
cillor Nicholis quoted the Town Clerk’s
recent report that since 1957 meters had
yielded £238,810, while £282,353 was
spent on “traffic matters," a vague term
that appeared to include setting up traffic
lights, widening streets and cutting back
kerbs —not to mention wages for the
increasing army of parking inspectors and
their summons books.
“I tell you, I'm a bit fed-up with playing second fiddle to a
lump of balsa wood!"
The. whole row had really been
touched off the previous week by Coun-
cillor A. H. Gerard daring to criticise
the Premier for not easing traffic con-
gestion by building an airline and country
bus depot over the railway yards. “The
excuse for not doing so was too silly for
words,” he said. Fighting words. Sir
Thomas at once threatened action to
make the council use its meter revenue to
build off-street parking stations, which
was exactly what it wanted but lacked
power to do ; not to mention finance.
(Councillors estimate an effective station
would cost at least £250,000 and that
private motorists would not pay the high
charges needed to get it back.)
At the height of the fracas one exas-
perated citizen said, “Why don’t they
stop sniping at each other and get some-
thing done?” The real solution appears
to be, as the Town Clerk pointed out
some years ago, a change in building
laws making it essential for all giant new
office blocks to provide their own off-
street or basement parking, as is done
in North American and most European
cities nowadays.
JIM JACKO
The Minister
Regrets
FROM FRANK ROBERTS IN BRISBANE
Queensland Governments are not
given to admitting mistakes, and
Queenslanders were startled last week,
when the Minister for Native Affairs,
Dr Noble, came right out and said:
“I regret that because of some infor-
mation furnished to me not being
substantiated by later evidence, a public
statement 1 made was not entirely in
accordance with fact.”
The Minister could have been com-
menting on any one of several state-
ments he has made in recent months, but
on this occasion he had received a report
on the caning of aboriginal Jim Jacko
by the then superintendent of Hope Vale
Lutheran Mission, Pastor Kernich. Jacko
had run off with a young aboriginal girl.
As a deterrent to others, he caned him
over the back in front of his brothers,
the girl and her father and two tribal
elders. The caning left him unmarked.
He was then sent to a native settlement
at Palm Island. Dr Noble had defended
and exonerated Pastor Kernich when
the incident occurred last April. A
visiting justice to the mission has since
conducted an inquiry and found that
Pastor Kernich should have either asked
the police to take action against Jacko or
else charged him under the relevant act
and brought him before an aboriginal
court. Subsequent to the inquiry, Pastor
Kernich was transferred to another post.


PLAIN ENGLISH
No End to the Affair ?
HThe impasse caused in the Australian
universities by the trade-union
approach to the Orr case of the Univer-
sity Staff Associations is likely to have
such damaging effects on the administra-
tion of Australian universities that it
is now a matter of general public con-
cern. That is why we published last
week an article suggesting that the
Federal Council of the Staff Associations
(or its president and secretary) had made
no serious attempt to enter into negotia-
tions with the University of Tasmania.
On the contrary, by using the language
of ultimatum diplomacy and by a high-
handed insistence on what was to be dis-
cussed and how it was to be discussed
they effectively slammed the door on dis-
cussion of any kind, blamed this on the
university, then censured it. They showed
no interest in discussing general questions
of academic procedure and academic
freedom ; the matter was narrowed down
to the trade-union approach of reinstating
Mr Orr.
If the fundamental issue is the re-
instatement of Mr Orr on the Staff
Associations’ say-so, this issue will never
be settled. How can the Tasmanian
University Council ever agree to his
reinstatement? It believes he seduced
a student and it believes this is a sound
reason for dismissing a professor. His
reinstatement would wreck the working
atmosphere of the university.
Furthermore it must clearly now
consider that Mr Orr is a liar.
He has denied in great detail and
hundreds of times what the University
Council believes he did and what the
Tasmanian Supreme Court judged he did.
He has not only done this. He has will-
ingly become the head —or the figure-
head—of a whole academic movement
(instead of applying for a position in one
of those Philosophy Departments in the
other Australian universities whose mem-
bers have boycotted Tasmania). And
this movement appears to be based on
what the Tasmanian University Council
would take to be Mr Orr's lies.
It has had other reasons to mistrust
him. As well as its belief that he sadly
abused his position in his dealings with
Miss Kemp, his articles in “Pix” and his
attempt to mislead public opinion in
his TV appearance make them feel that
he has proved himself quite unworthy
of membership of a university. And
there is the fact, only recently—and
partially—revealed, that Mr Orr told lies
in his letter of application for the posi-
tion of Professor of Philosophy at the
University of Tasmania. The full facts
of this letter were suppressed by the
intervention of Professor Douglas Wright
in a Melbourne TV interview. It is
astonishing that the Staff Associations
have not considered this letter and
reported on it. Surely they would have
some strong opinions on the necessity
for men to be honest in their applications
for academic positions.
ven these beliefs of the Tasmanian
University Council, how can the
Staff Associations expect Mr Orr to be
reinstated? Perhaps the “Pix” and TV
indiscretions could be overlooked. It
would seem impossible to overlook the
letter of application. But, most important
of all, how can the Staff Associations
expect the University to reinstate Mr Orr
when the university believes that he
seduced a student, that this was grounds
for dismissal, and that he has built up
a whole campaign against the university
on the basis of lies about his relations
with this student?
Ignoring Mr Orr's truthfulness for the
moment, the Staff Associations could, of
course, argue that professors should not
be dismissed for seducing students. But
whether this is a ground for dismissal is
no longer debated. Mr Orr says it is
a ground for dismissal. Most of his
supporters say it is. The Staff Associa-
tions do not take up the issue. There
are those who do not think it is. But by
their own humbug and silence they have
closed that part of the debate.
One gets back to the simple question:
did Mr Orr tell the truth? Earlier in
this case there was much talk of “new
evidence” and new trials. A new trial
would certainly have settled it. But most
of the “new evidence” that has been
revealed has been largely a hoax. It
has consisted either of a further exten-
sion of evidence already presented or a
series of alternative ways in which Mr
Orr’s counsel might have conducted his
case. It is almost unbelievable that the
“new evidence” is strong ; if it were Mr
Orr would have successfully sought a
new trial on the strength of it. A
committee set up by the Staff Associa-
tions to report on, among other things,
the “new evidence” did not bother speci-
fically to report on it.
For some time now, Mr Orr and his
supporters have suggested not a new
trial, but some kind of “inquiry” into
the conduct of the trial and the “new
evidence.” Most of the forms of inquiry
suggested would have no power to sub-
poena witnesses ; could give no protection
against charges of defamation or con-
tempt of court ; and could not bind any
of the parties. The latest suggestion —
made by the Staff Associations’ Federal
officers —that two members of the Staff
Associations should sit in judgment as
the university and Orr debate their case
presents a grave reflection on the Staff
Associations’ honesty in specifically con-
demning the type of inquiry in which
those who have pre-judged an issue pro-
ceed to “judge” it ; for this is what they
are now urging.
A ll of this is not to say that something
could not be done about Mr Orr.
To those who feel that his resignation
should have been accepted when offered,
instead of being rejected so that he could
be dismissed, a reasonable minimum
demand is that the university waive the
£2500 he owes them for unsettled legal
costs, and pay him six months’ salary
(his period of notice). He could then
look around for a job.
But what is really important in this
case is the belief that there were people
in the university out to “get” Orr, that
the methods they used imperilled aca-
demic freedom, that, specifically, the
university inquiries that led to his dis-
missal represented a dangerous precedent
and that professors should have consider-
able security of tenure. These are the
matters the Staff Associations should be
pressing And if they press for discus-
sion of these, they will find they are
pressing against an open door. Not only
did the Tasmanian Vice-Chancellor last
year assure the Staff Associations that he
“would be quite prepared to discuss . . .
any general question of academic free-
dom and procedures.” He said, more
specifically, as long as three years ago:
“The desire of Australian academics to
safeguard the security of tenure against
any distasteful implications of the Court
judgment will be frustrated if they will
persist in identifying it with the personal
issues involved in the Orr case ... If
other universities consider it desirable to
lay down rules of procedure for the dis-
missal of erring professors, this univer-
sity will willingly join in any discussion.
It will also willingly make available for
this purpose the full story of the conduct
of its own inquiries preceding the dis-
missal of Orr. In proof of its good
faith, action has already been taken to
initiate a discussion of the problem by
the Committee of Australian Vice-
Chancellors.”
The Staff Associations should bind the
Tasmanian Vice-Chancellor to these
promises made three years ago. It
should press the university for any
apologies it considers necessary for wrong
procedures and for guarantees for the
future. Its failure to do so, its over-
riding concern for Mr Orr himself, make
one wonder if its Federal officers are not
mainly concerned with making it impos-
sible for universities to dismiss anybody.


WHAT STUDENTS THINK
A University Survey
IT is usually a Liberal voter. It reads
one or more morning newspapers,
but little else. It hasn’t read any good
novels lately. It probably thinks that
in ten years’ time the world will be much
the same as it is now. It believes that
Governments should encourage birth con-
trol. It would like a salary of £55 a
week if it is a man. but will settle for
£35 if it is a woman. It thinks the smallest
wage a family of four can live on is £22
per week. It usually doesn’t know what
“containment” and “unilateralist” mean,
but it usually does know what “common
market” means. It hasn’t heard of Clem Christesen; it
tends not to know who A. D. Hope and Xavier Herbert are;
but it usually knows who Professor John Anderson is—
except that it connects him with “free love” rather than with
philosophy.
What is it?
It is a profile of 300 Sydney University students as
shown by their answers to a questionnaire prepared by “The
Bulletin.”
A survey of ten questions was designed and 300 Arts.
Science and Economics students were interviewed on it. A
further 600 questionnaires were distributed at the uni-
versity’s main gates and students were asked to fill them in
and return them to the S.R.C. office. It was intended to
make a comparison between the views of the cross-section
of students interviewed and those sufficiently interested to
return the questionnaire. This part of the plan came
unstuck. Only 29 of the 600 were returned. But the answers
in the interviews seemed worth recording.
Here are the questions asked:
1. Social
(a) Do you belong to any student societies? If so. which?
(b) What do you think is the smallest weekly wage a
family of two parents and four children can live on?
(Remember, this includes all expenses, including
rent.)
(c) What salary would you like to earn when you are
married?
2. Political
(a) If a Federal election were held today which party
would you vote for? Liberal. Labor. D.L.P.. C.P.,
Communist?
(b) Do you think that in ten years’ time the world will
be a better place, or a worse place, or much the
same?
3. Cultural
(a) What newspapers and magazines do you read
regularly?
(b) What is the best novel you have read lately ?
(c) What do the following expressions mean to you:
(a) containment, (b) unilateralist, (c) common
market, (d) the new wave?
(d) What do the following names mean to you: (a)
A. D. Hope, (b) Xavier Herbert, (c) Clem Christesen,
(d) John Anderson?
4. Moral
Do you think the Governments of the world should
support and explain birth control?
SOCIAL
From the answers, students did not appear to be great
“belongers.” One-third of them belonged to nothing and
another fifth belonged only to the kind of academic associa-
tion that might be presumed to help them in their careers.
It was a bit hard to categorise these “apathetic”
students from other answers they gave except to note that
the highest Liberal vote came from students who did not
belong to any clubs or societies. “Apathetic” students
seemed to vote Liberal! On the other hand, only a quarter
of A.L.P. voters did not belong to some society.
Members of the religious societies split more evenly.
Half of them voted Labor and two-fifths Liberal. On a
faculty split-down the most society-minded group were
Arts students (67 per cent., with 34 per cent, in cultural
societies). Science and economics tied with 58 per cent,
each (but the highest proportion of these were in “useful”
societies).
Science and Arts men thought they would like to earn
£55 a week when they got married. Economics men put
their earning rate at £B5. but this was partly because one
of them gave a ridiculous answer. Even so. the economists
put themselves on a higher scale than the
others. Women were more modest. On the
average women put themselves down for
£35 per week. The Liberal men were the
most economically ambitious, pushing their
salary demands up to £63. with the A.L.P.
men satisfied at £42. The exception was in
the religious societies, where the A.L.P.
salary demands were higher than the
Liberals.
When it came to how the other half
lived, the overall suggested minimum wage
for a family of four was £22 per week, with
the A.L.P. voters dissenting. Their


average minimum was £2O. Even that figure was brought
up by the generosity of A.L.P. women supporters. Left
to themselves, the A.L.P. men put the figure at £l9. The
most generous group were those who said they would vote
informal. Not embarrassed with a Government that had
to carry out their policy, they put the minimum wage up
to £29 per week.
CULTURAL
In general, the students seemed to read the morning
papers and little else. But those who read a lot sometimes
chose conflicting kinds of magazines: the same science
students who read “Reader's Digest” and “Time” took Com-
munist publications regularly. A student who read the
English “Observer.” “Encounter.” “The Australian
Quarterly.” “Journal of Soviet Affairs.” “Nation” and ‘ New
Statesman" believed that intellectual interests meant salary
down-grading. He named £2O-£3O weekly as the salary he
would like to earn when married. Another confined his read-
ing to “The Mudgee Mail.” “The Missionary Review” and
“The Sydney Morning Herald” (comics and letters section).
“The Bulletin” had a number of student supporters, but so
did “Mad” magazine. It was one of the “Mad” enthusiasts
who scrawled “All newspapers are rubbish.” This was an
atypical reaction. Most students read
newspapers: the criticism of them is that
they read little else.
When asked the best novels they had
recently read many of the students went
blank, some gave facetious answers and
few could go beyond “Lolita” and “Lady
Chatterley's Lover.” Those who had
actually read a novel lately usually named
an old U-novel such as “Dr Zhivago”
or else one from their English course,
especially “Tristram Shandy.” With female
students “Gone With the Wind” seemed to
be continuing its marathon run. while at least some students
were impressed by the following: “Power Without Glory.”
“Saturday Night and Sunday Morning.” “Kangaroo.”
“Crime and Punishment” (twice). “The Ugly American.”
“Catcher in the Rye.” “Biggies Flies West.” “Exodus” (four
times). “The Egyptian.” “Ice Cold in Alex.” “Hawaii”
(thrice). “The Lord of the Flies” (twice), “The Old Man
and the Sea.” “Peyton Place.” “Brave New World” (twice).
“1984.” “City of Libertines.” “The Robe” (named by a
member of the S.C.M.), “One” (twice). “Voss” (twice —by
readers of the overseas magazines “Realites.” “The London
Magazine”), and “Little Lord Fauntleroy.” J. K. Galbraith
will have to write with the dullness which has become the
economist's prerogative if he is not to confuse students.
One named “The Affluent Society” as the best novel he
had read lately.
Students live in a happy haze about people and expres-
sions which could be considered the common property of
reasonably well-educated people. The “new wave” was
recognised by some (especially Arts students) as the films of
a group of young French film-makers, but others thought it
referred to: Communism, threats to peace, something that
left the U.S. five years ago, a new hair style. Toni hair perm,
rude French films with or without Brigitte Bardot —that
description was given by a student who described A. D.
Hope as a funny man.
The science student who believed the “new wave”
referred to “the resurrection of romanticism in Soviet poets”
also believed that containment meant “repression of sexual
urges amongst males” —the only politics today are sexual.
A member of the Biological Society avoided that misunder-
standing. but he associated the word with “rules and
conditions set out in an agreement"’; a Liberal-C.P. man
thought it meant “keep the Commies where they belong,”
and, although he marked himself down as a regular “Time”
reader, he added that it was Eisenhower’s job to keep the
Commies where they belong; a D.L.P. man took it to mean
“keeping the Russians in Russia.” One defined contain-
ment as “Imperialism trying to ward off the inevitable.”
Ihe Common Market, probably because of consider-
able recent newspaper discussion, was the most generally
recognised of the expressions. Rut even here there were
strangely angled answers. A Country party Football Club
member said baldly; “A fight with England.” while a
Liberal party Judo and Volley Ball Clubs fellow said:
“Sound idea which has given the British Commonwealth
an inferiority complex.” Another Liberal, who regards John
Anderson as “a profound thinker.” had reached this con-
clusion about the Common Market: “Better living for the
poor people — not Australia.” The medical student D.L.P.
supporter who found A. D. Hope funny called the market
“British economic interests at Australia’s expense.”
The same student thought unilateralist meant “keeping the
Russians out of Berlin or Cuba” (what about the Cubans?).
Those who did not know it was a political term plumped
for “one-sided person.”
The students had little idea who “Meanjin” magazine’s
Clem Christesen might be. Most of them left a blank. One
guessed an explorer, another a Swedish boxer. Another
Arts student (who belonged to the Literary Society, the
“Honi Soit” staff and was a reader of overseas literary
journals) speculated that he might be a physicist formerly
with the C.5.1.R.0. One thought he was a mountain
climber. The most discouraging of all wrote “nothing,”
then added in brackets (Editor of “Meanjin”).
A. D. Hope had not made much way in many students’
minds compared with his namesake Bob. One called him
an Australian politician and another said much the same
thing: “Original bull artist.” But the third of students who
did know who he was were often enthusiastic: “Best Aus-
tralian poet.” “leader of Australian poetry,” “brilliant poet”
were some of the encomiums.
Xavier Herbert was about as well or as little known as
Hope. A Liberal called him “an aristocrat,” a reader of
“The Saturday Evening Post” described him as a “free
thinker.” a member of the Bushwalkers’
Club called him “an American writer.”
Some of those who knew he was a novelist
put question marks beside the description:
“novelist of doubtful value” and “eccentric
novelist.”
Professor John Anderson was the best
known of the four, but the descriptions
varied from “a champion of university
autonomy” to “leader of the empiricist
faction.” A Communist supporter con-
demned him as “philosophy in isolation,”
but most were conscious of the recent con-
troversy in which Anderson took part.
Some answered simply “Free Love.” while a member of
the Speliological Society and a reader of “Punch” com-
mented “philosopher of sorts.”
John Anderson and the Common Market were equally
well known. They both scored a 77 per cent, correct
answer. By contrast “containment” scored only 14 per
cent., “the new wave” 31 per cent, and “unilateralist” 32
per cent. Only 8 per cent, knew who Clem Christesen was.
Medical students were as aware as Arts students who was
the editor of “Meanjin.” This could be interpreted in their
favor or in the Arts students’ disfavor. In the questions
about Hope. Herbert. Christesen and Anderson women
polled significantly lower than men. but only in the Arts


faculty were they significantly lower than men in political
knowledge. Whereas 100 per cent, of the female economics
students knew what Common Market meant, four per cent,
of the men had no idea. That four per cent, should aban-
don their course immediately.
MORAL
There was a clear division between the Catholic and
non-Catholic students on birth control. All the Catholics
questioned belonged to the Newman Society, and not one
of them replied affirmatively to the question. However, 25
per cent, gave a qualified reply. The figures for the non-
Catholic students: 79 per cent, answered “Yes,” 21 per cent.
“No.”
Few distinguished between the two parts of the ques-
tion, but a well-informed Liberal Club member answered:
“Explain, yes; not necessarily support. Strong possibility
of dishonest statisticians in this matter.” Another Liberal
noted that freedom of choice should be preserved. Some
felt strongly enough about it to underline their “yes.” while
an economics students and potential Liberal-C.P. voter who
believed a unilateralist was one-sided (triangle) wrote “Yes
(overseas).” Another wrote a page essay which stated that
all married people have a right to sexual pleasures, but they
could be denied these if the wife became pregnant, and
hence the medical profession should be allowed to
administer birth-control pills. A medical student to whom
John Anderson meant “Free Love, Libertarians. Hobos,
etc.,” was against birth control because it was “not sport-
ing.”
POLITICAL
If there were an election tomorrow and they all had
votes, the students would split up like this: Liberal
56 per cent.. A.L.P. 24 per cent., Informal 12 per cent.,
D.L.P. 4 per cent., others 4 per cent. On a faculiy break-
down Science came out strongly on the Liberal side with
64 per cent, support and Economics, which was the most
politically informed faculty to judge from the “political-
expressions test,” was the most Labor-minded, with a 33
per cent, vote for Labor, and the least Liberal-minded with
a 50 per cent. vote. The religious societies showed a differ-
ent pattern from the general vote. They gave a 49 per cent.
A.L.P. vote and a 39 per cent. Liberal vote, while those not
attached to any clubs or societies voted 68 per cent. Liberal,
18 per cent. Labor and 11 per cent, informal.
So except for the religious societies, the students were
overwhelmingly Liberal, but it is impossible to tell how
many said so through conviction and how many through
inertia —the sort of thing which made one student write
“Liberal looks the most harmless.”
The break-up of the political vote into male and female
does not reveal much. Women students don’t support the
Communists but are a bit more keen on the A.L.P. than the
male students are.
Answers were given without much elaboration or
attempts at humor. One student wanted to vote for the
Q.L.P.; only one said it would depend on the candidate;
a Communist voter listed “Power Without Glory” as the
best novel he had ever read and an informal voter found
them all “worthless.” He wrote: “None —least of all
Liberal.”
Students divided evenly on the question of whether
the world would be better of worse in ten years’ time, with
24 per cent, for better, 25 per cent, for worse and 45 per
cent, for much the same.
There was a noticeable lack of brio in the answers to
this question: one wrote dramatically “Gone.” another,
ponderously, “a difficult question.” and an economics
student in the University Regiment, with deadly truthful-
ness. “Don’t know.”
FeifFer
MZt W*
RedJßl TiM6
mxm.
WHSM I 10 AS
AM NXMK&m
I WASM'T
HAPPM WPTH
MH aiLOHOOO
so r lerwßorr
If. AMP /T
A LOT HAPPieR.
WH£M I WAS A
VOVI U6 MAM r
A voasauce.
i mm fi&t
ROMAUC6 AT
m IT TuRMV
OUT SACw. r
MiOßore tr-
ue zemrretu
MW ROMAIOCe
9uce- ooue
mez FAmire
we ls,
AfXZR GOGOA
m oties.
r REWRITE
MAKRiA6£
,COVST, AWTW
SACH T/Mf
If WMft
OUT A timfi
WfTgR.
S£M£ QM
f I
IT GWWA)
rmecr.
m ttmevces no
Tf£ MORMIIO6 AR£
RgiOßirrew ro look
mxez. no xwe
AFTORMOON). AT
MI6KT I 60
HOM 6, HAV6 A
PRIM, AMD
emrre M
fc)H OU CMi.
ANMTHIIO6 Wft)
HAPPFO4 To MB
14 AMAWZ£P o<4
fHF KMOULBP6B,
m 6A mu
FROM TH6
PA4T-
RBMeMwzeQ
A 5 r
RBijJROTC IT
4£AR4 A6a
AT mxn I AM
HA prim Hmffl
me met
LOVBM
mem-
a me io
M eoeom-
A MO
eueueor
pßoipeae
f 'OR $OO
wimemr.
A)OOOC>W
It BUT
IM A
COMPUTE
UJOWC
Cf
flCTiGti.


A GUIDE TO CLUB-LAND
"A belligerent Labor man in a club of confirmed Liberals
is likely to be greeted with a shower of blackballs
By M. H. ELLIS
The first club mentioned in Australia is one to which, in
Governor Macquarie’s day, a bank manager was taken,
and “overpersuaded” to make promises he next morning
regretted. The oldest surviving clubs are the Australian
(Sydney), 1838, and the Melbourne (1839). The Union (Sydney),
Australian and Athenreum (Melbourne), the Queensland, South
Australian, Weld in Perth, Tasmanian and Launceston, country
clubs like the Newcastle, which has very nearly the best old-
style club building on the continent, the Riverine at Wagga
form the backbone of the other pristine phalanx of historic
clubs.
A second phalanx grew up with the development of
city civilisation and the growth of intense, bibulous and
comradely devotees of literature, art and “Sweet Adeline”
with red wine at four in the morning.
The specialist clubs, in most cases, developed later —the
universities and schools clubs the huge Tattersalls and Royal
Automobile Clubs of all the cap tals, the Journalists’,
Musicians’, Bankers’, Soft-goodsmen s Clubs, the Commercial
Travellers’ Clubs, haunts of ease, luxury and good wine in
the period when the bagmen were in their glorious hey-day ;
the Masonic and Hibernian Clubs ; the officers’ clubs which
grew’ out of the Volunteer Movement side by side with the
United Services Institutions—clubs like the Naval and Military
in Melbourne, the Imperial Service in Sydney, the United
Services in Brisbane. Sydney even had an Anglican Clergy’s
Club: the Pioneers took over its club-house in Phillip Street.
World War I brought into existence the innumerable
soldiers’ clubs, organised sport gave birth to the large foot-
ballers’ and smaller and more discreet cricketers’ clubs.
Some States are more clubable than others. New South
Wales is the most clubable of all. Its Registered Clubs’
Association has 1200 members. The great bulk of them have
rushed for membership since they began to climb to fatted
opulence on a moving belt of two-shilling pieces processed
into their pockets through “one-armed bandits” —poker
machines.
The poker machine has in fact resulted in the creation
of two distinct classes of club in the mother State —the poor
aristocrats, or non-bandit, clubs, and the rich majority which
live and prosper by grace of the bandit.
'"Those who think of clubs like the Australian Clubs in
A Sydney and Melbourne, the Melbourne, Queensland, South
Australian, Weld, Tasmanian, and New South Wales and their
like as monolithic creations full of millionaires would be
surprised to read in their histories how chancy their lives have
always been. In times of boom and inflation, would-be
members rush on to their lengthening waiting-lists in droves
and howl to high heaven when they are driven off by a hail of
blackballs.
But when war or depression comes, they make their
exits in shoals, like frightened fish escaping from a porpoise,
leaving a devoted rearguard to suffer years of calls and rising
subscriptions. Again and again it has been found necessary
to take round the hat in the most famous of dubs. The Aus-
tralian, m Sydney, was nearly expired in the “hungry forties”
and often has been on the brink of disaster, though the happy
inspiration of the ladies’ annexe has done much to keep its
prosperity level. The Union, in Sydney, nearly died during
World War II and was, in fact, contemplating giving up the
ghost when a lone Horatius appealed to its grit and saved
the day
They cannot expand their memberships beyond a certain
level, because they have neither accommodation nor means of
service. The largest of the top clubs in Sydney, for example—
if you exclude the Royal Sydney Yacht Squadron, which
serves a dual role and is not in the city proper —the Australian,
has about 900 members and a waiting-list which, unless the
candidate is a son of a member or a returned soldier, may
keep an aspirant on tenterhooks for several years.
The other leading top Sydney clubs in the city—Union,
New South Wales, University, Pioneers —have memberships
ranging from about 550 upwards, and cannot expand with
their existing facilities.
The entrance fee to the most expensive ones is in the
range of 75 guineas and the subscription in the order of £SO,
the cheapest down around the 25-30 guinea mark for city
members. This seems to be the ceiling possible both in
entrance and in calls.
Tt is something of a mystery why men join and remain in
clubs. The top clubs are not, as is popularly imagined, lairs
of sybaritic luxury in which haughty aristocrats combine to
grind the faces of the poor and establish rookeries of solemn
snobs. In fact some of them become caves of o'd leather,
with hole-ridden carpets, the shabbier the better, and gloomy
battle pictures hung on walls painted like those of railway
waiting-rooms. Almost universally the more monumental of
these retreats are known to its devotees as the “morgue” or
the “mausoleum” or the “cemetery.”
On an average, only about 11 per cent, of members of all
top clubs in the capitals use them daily, but the members go on
paying and rise in a body to keep out those they do not find
suitable. This is not due to snobbery so much as to a natural
shyness in the heart of man and a desire to get away from
politics and business and argument. After all, a club is a
voluntary association of humans designed, as the most exclusive
and publicity-repelling of all Australian clubs, the Melbourne
Athemeum, quaintly put it in its original charter about 90 years
ago, to “provide service and kindly intercourse between persons
of kindred tastes and disposition, and to establish common
ground on which gentlemen of intelligence and character may
meet together, irrespective of class distinction and personal
wealth.”
Clubmen in general, having built up large assets, immured
themselves behind doors on which there are no names and given
their possessions patina and tradition, claim the right to say
wham they are prepared to ask to join them. And all clubs


fear cliques as a source of trouble. Naturally, they prefer
their own kinds with kindred tastes, standards of
manners and beliefs and shy at the intrusions of other elements,
If, for instance, some candidate and his sponsors insist on
pushing the entry of a well-known and belligerent Labor man
into a club which consists almost entirely of confirmed Liberals,
he is likely to be greeted with a shower of blackballs and told
to go away and find a honie-from-home of his own.
The pilling of a candidate for a club has been called “insult-
ing.” But in clubs with waiting-lists, as most of the leading ones
are, it merely means as a general rule that there is somebody
waiting to be admitted whom the bulk of voters prefer. In
fact a blackball very often is merely a weapon used to raise
one’s son or uncle a notch nearer election. However, in most
clubs these days, whether they admit by committee or member
election, a bad-bet for entry rarely reaches the point of being
voted on.
Election by committee, too, is becoming more the vogue
than before. The wise proposer consults the right authorities
before nominating. He must be able to swear he has known
the venturesome aspirant for a number of years and that the
seconder is equally solid in acquaintanceship. The proposers
make certain that the applicant can name the required number
of referees among the members who will vouch for him. The
membership committee assures itself that he is not the sort
of fellow who will run contrary to club habits or throw bottles
at the stewards, that he is likely to meet his bills when due
to the day and that generally he will fit in with other members.
After this his name goes on the notice-board for a statutory
period so that members may object to him if they wish —
which they very rarely do. After that he comes up for actual
election. Very rarely does anybody likely to be rejected get
to being nominated these days. In most clubs it is rare for
anyone to reach the point of being blackballed. But it is often
noticed that when the ambitious do have difficulty in joining
the elite they are the most ardent in future in keeping other
candidates out.
Life in the average club of these days is scarcely what it
used to be or what it seems to be. Do not take it for granted
that that portly gentleman who receives such deference on the
steps of the Union Club in Sydney is being accorded the honors
due to his rank. No, indeed ; the honor is due to his prowess,
for, take it from me, he is one justly celebrated as who,
having placed a moistened postage stamp face down on a half-
crown, has been able to toss it with so nice a skill as to make
it adhere permanently to the ceiling of the members’ room.
It was in the Melbourne Club in the eighteen-forties that
five doughty members, headed by a wight named Gourlay
(who was on bail on a charge of obstructing the police force
on a racecourse), were playing cards when they heard that the
bushrangers were ravaging the fastnesses of Heidelberg. Drop-
ping their cards and calling for their pistols and nags, they set
forth to rouse the countryside, cornered the gang, shot its leader,
captured the rest, returned, dripping with blood from their
own wounds, to finish their whist in time to attend the trial
and the subsequent hanging. Not a bad performance for the
members of an institution which used to have its own pews in
several churches and of which Lord Salisbury, in his gold-
digging days, was a member, and “Better Not” Wallington, later
Queen Mary's Treasurer, once the secretary.
All clubs have their traditions and their ghosts. The Aus-
tralian in Sydney, the oldest (when the free and freed
population of the continent was 50,000, founded in 1838), is
the only club that can boast that two of its members once
fought a duel —Stuart Donaldson, first Prime Minister of
N.S.W., and Sir Thomas Mitchell, Surveyor-General and
Wellington’s map-maker in the Peninsula. The second oldest
is the Melbourne, which is only two years younger than the
name Melbourne itself. The oldest of the cultural clubs is the
Melbourne Yorick, founded 1868, and its membership lists look
like a roll of literary and legal celebrities —Marcus Clark,
Adam Lindsay Gordon, Hamilton Mackinnon, W. A. Watt,
Sir William Irvine, Sir John Madden, Sir Edmund Barton,
Mr Justice Starke (and his son after him) have all polished its
hard-worked bar rails.
The Melbourne Savage was a haunt of Bert Bailey and
Harold Herbert, but its membership in these days is a mixed
bag. It owns, perhaps, the most famous living club secretary
in the southern oceans, of whom it is told (probably untruth-
fully) that he has only once been disconcerted in a long and
well-controlled existence: on that occasion he greeted a visitor
from an affiliated club with outstretched hand and the opening
gambit, “I am Captain St John Scott-Scott,” and the visitor
(scenting a Livingstonian aroma in the air) responded
promptly, “Indeed, sir! And lam Field-Marshal King King-
Kong! ”
The Johnsonian in Brisbane is the northern associate of
the Melbourne Savage and Yorick. Its founders (1878) were
a literary coterie —William Senior (“Red Spinner”), Brunton
Stephens, Horace Earle, Carl Feilberg, editor of the Brisbane
“Courier,"’ and J. G. Drake, an early Postmaster-General of
the Commonwealth who looked like Buffalo Bill gone religious.
The ghosts of Julius Knight and Paderewski haunt its former
home. Its new one in Adelaide Street is one of the most club-
able of clubs, old-fashioned and gregarious round its long
dining-tables.
Adelaide is almost a club desert in which the South
Australian stands out like a telegraph-pole in Sturt’s Stony
Desert, and Perth boasts only the Weld and the West Australian
in the “traditional class.”
TTobart is well off for clubs. The Tasmanian Club is a fine stone
building in Macquarie Street, formerly occupied by the
Derwent Bank. Its furniture is old and graceful, its rooms are
warm, its exterior is austere. The Hobart Athenaeum is a mate
of the cultural more bohemian clubs of the mainland, but does
not achieve the same atmosphere, though it is a warming place
to be in. The Launceston has the same stately smell anci air
as the Tasmanian and in Launceston, too, the Northern
parallels the Brisbane Club in Brisbane as a businessman’s
club. The latter has a large commercial membership—but
no bedrooms for its country members. The businessmen's
club in Sydney is the New South Wales,
It is a curious fact that the growth of wealth and popula-
tion has not brought about growth in the numbers of old-type
clubs. Indeed, they tend to die of inanition caused by the
advent of the motor-car, parking difficulties, changing living
habits, the intrusion of women into social life to a greater
extent than formerly. There are actually less clubs of the old
type in Sydney than there were before World War I when the
old grazier-supported Warrigal (now the Royal College of
Physicians) flourished in Macquarie Street and the now defunct
Sydney Athenreum resounded to shouts of laughter.
The rush to get into the multiplying “one-armed bandit”
clubs and share happily in their abounding wealth is such, and
the welcome-with-open-arms accorded them so warm and
sketchily defined that the licensing authorities now firmly insist
that any member who does not instanter pay his annual
subscription in advance on the due date to his club is auto-
matically no longer a member. And it enforces this both as to
old-type and “poker-machine” clubs equally.
Some of the “poker-machine” clubs seem to have very
little to offer save the machines themselves, meals, parking
space and a bar. Sample: The club consists of a parking yard,
an ante-room and a dining-room, plus offices and kitchen. It
is called a “businessmen’s recreation club.” Those seeking
“recreation” at luncheon are met at the front door by a steward.
He presents a menu and the member orders lunch. He cannot
go in and sit at a table in the luncheon-room until one is
allotted. A substantial interval elapses before his name and
table number are called. Till then, he is between poker
machines left, and bar right ; or uses both, if he prefers it.
One sore subject in all top clubs is the enemy of clubs—
woman. It is strange that the oldest and most conserva-
tive, the Australian, in Sydney, was the first to break
the taboo against them in the late 1920 s when it estab-
lished a ladies’ annexe.
Generally speaking the whole face of club life is gradually
becoming feminised and suburbanised. The country club of
the type familiar in India, equipped for golf, bowls or tennis
and open to both sexes —like Elanora and the North Shore
golf clubs —is becoming more popular.


AUSTRALIA AND THE WORLD
A MUDDLED
AUSTRALIAN PARTY
By DONALD HORNE
”ln the unions the 'face of the party ‘ will be shown more
freely; more positions are to be filled with party members
instead of their dupes”
ERNES T THORNTON
Has made a two-way bet
To those who have shrewd eyes and a keen ear for Com-
munist ideological discourse some funny things seemed
to begin happening in the Australian Communist Party
press a few months ago. The line was shift ng. At a
time when the more dubious kind of A.L.P. union leaders are
openly joining Communists in unity tickets and the more
dubious kind of Victorian A.L.P. Executive members are
acting as if they were agents of Communist front-organisations,
at a time, in fact, when the united front seems to be in full
swing—the Communists are becoming critical of some of their
allies. They are beginning to attack some of the “Left-w'ing
militants,” the very men who have been doing their work for
them.
Why is this?
It is a result of the series of clashes and changes in world
Communism I have attempted to outline in the first two of
these three articles. It comes partly from the fact that, under
Chinese pressure, and in an attempt to keep his alley good
with the world’s Communist parties, Khrushchev has changed
his line. In last year’s Moscow declaration of 81 Communist
parties “peaceful co-existence” became a more belligerent
affair. It became “a form of the class struggle.” The attempt
to play down the revolutionary role of Communist parties
everywhere failed and some sort of a compromise was reached
in which it was acknowledged that there were both violent
and peaceful ways of achieving Communism.
But there is more to it than that. Although there is still
a struggle going on inside the Australian Communist Party, the
prevailing faction is “going Chinese”; it is looking more and
more to Mao-tse-tung as a prophet of true revolutionary
Marxist-Leninism, less and less to the co-existence “revision-
ism” of Khrushchev.
The Australian party leaders supported the Chinese at the
81 party Moscow conference. They were one of the only
seven or so parties that did so. And they are now going beyond
the compromise declaration and putting into practice some
of the “dogmatism” and “sectarianism” of the Chinese line.
This process is only beginning. Its effects are only now starting
to show in the union movement, in the “peace” movement, and
in the other “mass organisations” that are used as Communist
fronts. It is a switch that is going to give great embarrass-
ment to the party as, bit by bit, the party’s leadership—
including those who disagree with the new line —gradually
introduce into the movement new ideas and party styles with-
out the party’s rank-and-file membership even knowing what
is happening, let alone being consulted about it. The introduc-
tion of a more “Left” line into a smoothly working world of
“unity” will cause stresses in a party membership which has
got used to co-operating with “enemies”; but that problem
will just have to be settled as best it can.
To understand what is now happening one has to go back
to the early nineteen-fifties, shortly after the successes of Mao-
tse-tung. The Australian Communist Party was then still exist-
ing under the remote guidance of “the leader and teacher of
genius of all progressive humanity,” Joseph Stalin, but it was
already, after 1951, in dose touch with Peking as well. The
first effects of the trips of Australian Communists to Peking
was of a slightly liberalising kind in party “styles.” At that
period Mao seemed eager to avoid the internal purges and
frantic heresy-hunting with which the murderous Stalin
terrorised his party. He adopted more permissive methods of
brainwashing than the Stalinists, and in the Australian party
there were those who opposed to the bullying Stalinist line the
let’s-get-together-and-see-where-we-went-wrong-Comrades line
of the Chinese. After the death of the great leader and teacher
in 1953, in inner party circles, thought began to be given to
the Chinese line, that, while anyone who strayed from “the
Socialist camp” must be savaged, there was a possibility of
autonomy within each national party, without dictation from
Moscow (a line that clearly suited China’s interest as the lesser
of the two great partners).
Khrushchev's secret speech in 1956 against the murderous
paranoia of the great leader and teacher, which in denunciation
surpassed even the strictures of anti-Communist writings
against Stalin, had an explosive effect on the intellectuals of
the Australian party, and of some of the rank-and-file in
Victoria (but not in N.S.W., where lower party members just
don’t believe it and probably haven’t read it) and, followed
soon after by Hungary, led to an exodus of intellectuals, with
only the worst hacks remaining in the party. After this, and
as the struggle between China and Russia on “co-existence”
began to mount the sides switched. Those who washed for some
liberalisation of the party's “democratic centralism,” and who
supported the peace offensive, moved over from China to the
Soviet. As the ideological warfare mounted, and the Chinese
obliquely attacked the Russians for their revisionism and
opportunism and the Russians obliquely attacked the Chinese
for their Left-sectarianism and dogmatism, the heads of party
leaders moved quickly from side to side like spectators at a
ping-pong game.
Now that the Chinese had become “Stalinists" the majority
of the party leadership in Australia —who are some of
the dreariest and most dogmatic “Stalinists” in the Com-
munist parties of the Western world —switched to Peking. The
tough Chinese line appealed to them more than Khrushchev's
diplomatic offensive. This became evident in the party press.
Under the guise of attacks on Yugoslavia, party leaders joined
Peking in an oblique attack on Moscow —no doubt to the
befuddlement of their rank-and-file members.
But these ideological disputes have an effect on the party
members who read them. Communists who believed in
Khrushchev’s disarmament diplomacy were demoralised when
they read Chinese attacks on the possibility of it. Thus from
Western Australia, during the Great Debate, the Communist
State Executive wrote a letter to the Central Committee sup-


porting the Soviet line. There were frequent informal meetings
among Western Australian Communists to discuss the issue,
often instigated by, one, Rivo Gardini. There were divisions
in Queensland, and gradually the whole machine became
involved one way or the other.
It would be misleading to speak of the party’s internal
tensions in terms that are too black and white. Groups regroup
on different issues. But the line-up in the party’s leaders seems
to be around the two great rivals for succession to the leader-
ship —Hill and Aarons, the one pro-China, the other pro-
Soviet. Sharkey, Dixon, Laurie, Johnson, Flo Russell, Harry
Hatfield, Vincent Bourke and perhaps Flo Davies are backing
the Chinese line. Hughes, Gibson, Olive and J. J. Brown are
on the Soviet side. Ernie Thornton seems to have taken a
two-way bet: he believes the Russians are right on “peace”
and the Chinese are better on colonial revolutions, where Mao
knows his business. Of those more or less on the sidelines the
most interesting is Herbert B. Chandler, a “behind-the-scenes”
man in the party. The effects on the party’s illegal apparatus
are, of course, unknown. Presumably in this field links are
maintained with both Moscow and Peking.
These divisions within the party are not new. There was,
for instance, the Blake-Henry controversy of the early ’fifties.
Then a struggle for power took place between Sharkey and
J D. Blake, with Jack Henry as Blake’s ally. Blake was State
Secretary in Victoria and the present State Secretary, Hill, his
friend. Sharkey promised Hill Blake’s position if he were to
help him oust Blake. Hill helped. The struggle was all carried
out in the usual ideological terms, with Blake playing the role
of an ultra-Left Zhdanovite. (It is even rumored now that
ideological faction fighting is back with the party that Blake,
now a cleaner at a Sydney racecourse, and Henry, now a wood-
cutter somewhere in the country, may plan a comeback.) In a
recent number of “The Communist Review” Blake wrote a
very strong attack on “Trotskyism” (viz. China and the Aus-
tralian leadership). If there is anything in this it would be an
tralian leadership).
nPHE difference between the present ideological faction fight
-*■ and the earlier varieties is that it may no longer be settled
by arbitrary Moscow intervention. Gone are the days when
agents of the Comintern, or their successors, can intervene and
necessarily get away with it —as happened, for instance, when
Sharkey was first jobbed into position. Exactly what does
happen now, in the period of polycentric Communism, is, in
fact, unpredictable. No local Communist party will be allowed
to become non-Communist, to stray outside “the Socialist
camp”: both Moscow and Peking would agree on that. But
what is going to happen, when the Moscow and Peking lines
clash, and local factions group correspondingly, is unpredict-
able. To the ordinary membership it is not all that relevant.
From what we know of totalitarian parties, there are always
faction fights within them, and this fact has no necessary effect
on their totalitarian nature. The expulsion of McDonald in
Victoria and the difficulties experienced at present by some
others, including members of the Party Control Commission,
show that the apparatus is still in full control. To the ordinary
member it is evidenced in changes in line, to which he must
become accustomed if he is to remain a Communist. There
are unlikely to be appeals to democracy within the party. The
more intelligent Communists, who can understand the under-
tones of their international leaders’ jargon, must stand by,
taking a merely intellectual interest in the Great Debate, wait-
ing to see how their locai masters sort it out.
What one can be much more specific about are the effects
of the change in the party line on the major areas of mass
organisation in Australia —in the “peace” fronts, in general
front organisations, in the trade unions and in the A.L.P.
It is playing havoc in the “peace” fronts. In the period
when Khrushchev’s peace offensive was doing its worst to
the morale of the West the “peace” fronts were showing some
progress. As an attempt to rehabilitate the party after the
collapse caused by Khrushchev’s denunciation of Stalin and
the Hungarian massacres the “peace” fronts were —measured
against the hopes of the party’s leaders—a disaster. Aus-
tralians who were influenced by what they read of Khrushchev
in their newspapers and believed in his disarmament offensive,
summit diplomacy and so on were nevertheless not greatly
interested in what were clearly Communist front activities.
Still, the fronts were there. Soon, now that the “struggle for
peace” has taken on a “Socialist objective” and become “a form
of the class struggle” of “peace against imperialism and the
fight for Socialism,” they will be in ruins. Although the party
is having trouble with the N.S.W. Peace Council, it is moving
in and “showing its face” in other “peace” areas. The Aus-
tralian Peace Council used to be run by some “peace” parsons,
with Ralph Gibson pulling the strings from the background.
Now he is “showing his face,” too. He has emerged into the
open as a writer and speaker for “peace.” (Inside the party he
supports a pro-Soviet line, but he is now imposing the official
Chinese line as a “leading party member inside a mass
organisation.”) The emphasis is less on “negotiations” and
“men of goodwill”; more on “the profits of the armament
manufacturers” and similar “class” items. In Victoria the link
between the Peace Council and the Australia-China Society is
now blatantly obvious. The Peace Council distributes Chinese
literature from the Australia-China Society, and its secretary,
Dr Sandys, addresses “peace” meetings.
The changes are reflected in other front organisations.
The Australia-Soviet Society in Victoria is now directed by
Keith McEwen, whose appointment to the job was in fact
a demotion. He was a full-time party organiser before and
there are dissensions in the society. Even the Union of
Australian Women is going “Left.” Instead of a united front
linking of women’s demands and a demand for “peace” there
is more emphasis on a “class approach,” with more discussion
of Chinese and Soviet development.
TN its attitude to the A.L.P. the party is showing more hostility
to the kind of A.L.P. “militants” who are dominant in
Victoria. It does not yet attack its real allies in the A.L.P., but
it is critical of some A.L.P. dignitaries who openly take pro-
Soviet or pro-Chinese lines. It must be clearly understood
that the love affair between the A.L.P. in Victoria and the
Communist Party is entirely one-sided. One of the most notable
features of the kind of non-party “militants” who most admire
the party is that the party hates and despises them ; it uses
them in its periods of united fronts, but it is jealous of the
support they get from the “masses,” even a little afraid of it,
and their names always head the list of “working-class traitors.”
The party’s interest in “mass organisations” such as the A.L.P.
is to cause a massive split in which they take over control of
a large part of the “working-class movement,” giving them a
“mass organisation” that really has a mass of people in it.
That is how the Communist Parties of France and Italy became
so big—not, as was ridiculously suggested in the correspondence
columns of The Bulletin, because those countries are pre-
dominantly Catholic. This is what the Communists would
like to do with the A.L.P. And that is one reason why some
of the people who run the D.L.P. do not want it to become
too big a third party, attracting too many Labor voters, because
they are afraid that the A.L.P. would then split, leaving its mass
“militant” rump to the Communists. Unless Communists can
graft themselves on to a political party, or the union move-
ment, or something, they remain small splinter groups —as
they are in the United States —with no hope of growth. For
that reason, as well as appealing for unity with social demo-
crats they expose the social democrats for refusing unity, or
for “selling out mass movements to Right-wing opportunists,”
hoping thereby for a swing over to the Communist Party. This
is perhaps the tactic they are now going to use in their present
period of Left-sectarianism. They may wish to distinguish
themselves from their Leftist allies, to expose Labor leaders as
traitors to the workers, creating illusions in the workers’ minds,
etc. Even in Victoria, where the A.L.P. Executive supports
those who lean on them, the Communists try underhand tricks
to diminish whatever influence is left for the A.L.P. To add
further confusion to the picture there is always the party’s
concern for the doctrinal and disciplinary purity of its members.


Future
These years we are living will go into history
as one of the most remarkable periods in human
achievement. The past centuries will be seen as a
long, subdued prelude to the dramatic action of
our times.
And they are times when man needs to
distinguish between material advancement and the
spiritual and moral drive that makes them possible.
In an age when unbelief has become, for many, a
sort of negative creed in itself, it is profoundly
important for the future of the world that men
should be positive believers.
What they believe is equally important,
particularly when they are ready to apply it to
influence others around them.
In instance of that, we have only to look in
upon our own country. We have here the material
means to make Australia great beyond estimation;
and in all sincerity we believe that its promise will
be amply fulfilled. But sincerity, alone, is less than
enough; and faith, however strong, is proved only
when it is translated into results that will match
the quickness of the century.
Our task, in other words, is more than the
development of almost three million square miles
of Earth. That, of course, is the visible end to
which we must work unceasingly. But it cal'.s, as
well, for a sense of spiritual mission.
What will it avail us —though we be heirs to
an age and holders of a continent —if we fail to
invest our opportunity with that inspired strength
which has survived the crumbling of civilisations
and will be above the rise and fall of nations until
the end of time?
The future will bring yet more triumphs of a
material order. But the final victory for
individuals and for all the races of mankind, is in
the spiritual force that must accompany these
tremendous advances.
Our lives may be lived out quietly, our work
may go unpraised. But what Australia is. oi ever
will be, centres on the power each one of us
possesses within himself.
Unity with social democrats in political or union affairs breeds
“reformist corruption” in the party members who do the
collaborating, and this is one of the internal party reasons for
switches away from a unity line. Communist unionists who
collaborate with A.L.P. men on unity-tickets and Communists
who move in close association with the A.L.P. politically are
sometimes suspect by their own party.
r T''His is a confused picture because that is the only way of
fitting the facts. To sort out the muddle one can say this:
at a time of Left-sectarianism, such as the one the Australian
Communist Party is now passing into, it would normally launch
attacks on its Left-wing political all es: (1) to “show its face
to the masses,” (2) to attempt to split the A.L.P., (3) to cleanse
the party cadres. What may stop it from doing this too
strenuously is its fear of a return of the Industrial Groups.
Even ideological fanatics can see that these tactics might isolate
the party, leaving it with no “mass organisations." An effec-
tive return of the Groups could reduce it to a ratbag splinter
party ; it would lose all the gains of the last 25 years. This
is what the Communists call a “paradox.” God knows what
they will do about it, but a likely guess is that they will lurch
into a modified Left-sectarianism, without going too far. This
is all going to be very puzzling to their collaborators.
In the unions themselves the Communists will attempt to
move “Left.” The “face of the party” will be shown more
freely ; more positions will be filled with party members
instead of their dupes; union journals will devote less space
to “peace” and more space to articles exposing “imperialism.”
Here the party leaders will strike trouble with their own union
supporters. Apart from the big men, the ordinary Communist
unionist does not usually know what the party's ideological
disputes are about. Marxist-Lenimst and party paradoxes—
unless put into straightforward terms —leave him guessing. And
since the party's predicament is so sophisticated it is anybody’s
guess what will happen. One can forecast increased
“militancy,” but beyond that, what?
The problems of the Australian Communists in their
present revolt from the 1956 Khrushchev line show how subtly
right Khrushchev was. At the height of his “peace" offensive
the demoralisation of many Australians left them as easy game
for Communist manoeuvres That is why he wanted local parties
to soft-pedal their militancy and stress the achievement of
Socialism by peaceful means, or even to soft-pedal Socialism
and merely propagate “peace.’’ Now this clever policy is in
a mess. As a result of pressures in the world Communist
movement Khrushchev was forced to dismantle the most
effective parts of his “peace” offensive ; as a further result of
these pressures the Australian Communist Party wants to
indulge in a plan of dogmatism and sectarianism which, if
fully carried out, would lose it the control of the “mass
organisations” it has grafted itself on to.
Tt will probably muddle through not because of its own
-* cleverness but because of the stupidity of those non-
Communists whose neurotic hatred of “anti-Communism plays
the Communists' game more effectively than the Communists
themselves can ever play it. The kind of A.L.P. unionist who
prefers the Communists to the Industrial Groups that would
smash them, the kind of anti-American Australian who thinks
the Russians are becoming more democratic and that to deny
this is to be a Red-baiter, the kind of businessman or farmer
who sees China merely in traditional trading terms and dis-
misses warnings as political fanaticism, the kind of intellectual
who considers emphatic anti-Communism to be illiberal, the
ordinary kind of Australian who is dazzled by talk of space
flights and 20-year plans, the ordinary kind of neurotic who
worships the strength of his enemies and is consumed with his
own guilt . . . these are the people who play the game of world
Communism more cleverly than the Australian Communist
Party, clogged up with its ideological claptrap, could ever play
it. And if there are too many of them in too many places
at the wrong time Australia could yet be sucked into the Sino-
Soviet orbit within the lifetime of young and middle-aged
people who could not tell you the difference between Marx
and Lenin.


FORU M
WHO STARTED THE
RABAUL RIOTS?
M R V. H. FRIEDLANDER, whose article on the recent Rabaul
race riots appears below, was formerly an employer of native
labor in Rabaul. D’Arcy Ryan who comments on his article is an
anthropologist with wide experience in New Guinea.
V. H. Friedlander: Nothing Changed
The Administrator of the Territory of
Papua-New Guinea, Sir Donald
Cleland, laid the blame for the recent
Rabaul riots between the Tolai and Sepik
natives squarely on the shoulders of the
local Tolais. But a true appraisal of the
tension in Rabaul demands a character
comparison of the protagonists in the dis-
agreement.
The Tolai, living in a land whose
volcanic soil promotes an abundance and
variety of nature’s foods, is carefree and
unconcerned with the future. The incen-
tive of an empty belly that spurs other
races to competition and hard work is an
unknown quantity to him. His inherent
laziness is the natural result of the lack
of a need for drive. Concomitant with
these characteristics are irresponsibility,
undependability, and a complete lack of
conscience with regard to these failings.
He expects others to understand and
tolerate these traits: when they are not
accepted he is puzzled and disappointed.
A builder, for example, who requires
a team of 15 carpenter boys constantly
on the job needs to engage at least twice
that number to make sure he has his
daily quota present. The men absent
themselves for stretches of a few days
to weeks, returning with the flimsiest of
excuses . . . Tolai grandmothers expire in
vast numbers ... or no excuse at all.
The man who has exhausted all his alibis
on previous absences and resigns himself
to a bawling out before he is re-accepted
on the job goes through a stock routine
of feigned shamefacedness while he
accepts a tongue-lashing.
He hangs his head, scratches his skull,
rubs one foot against the ankle of the
other and says nothing. Then, when
the boss has exhausted his epithets and
tells him to “get back on the job and
see that it doesn’t b well happen
again,” he turns away, smiles broadly
at his fellow-workers who have hugely
enjoyed the pantomime, and immediately
erases the incident from his mind. If,
instead of a verbal bawling out, he is
sacked, it is likely that no one will be
on the job the following day: a concerted
protest against what is considered
uncalled for harshness.
I recall an occasion when our house-
boy, Anton, failed to return to work
after a weekend in his village. We gave
him three days’ grace and engaged
another boy in his place. About a month
later, just as I was leaving for work in
the morning, I heard sounds of a fierce
argument in the boy-house and hurried
over to find out what was happening.
Anton had returned and was demanding
that the new boy vacate his quarters
immediately so that he, Anton, could
again take over where he had left off.
My arrival was the signal for Anton to
appeal for my backing: when he not
only failed to get it but was roundly
told-off instead he was genuinely sur-
prised. His retirement was accompanied
by loud complaints about my unfairness
to a faithful servant.
The Tolai is quick to learn and imitate
and those few who have extended them-
selves to absorb the white man’s know-
ledge and culture have shown rapid
progress. The general outlook, however,
is that they are being exploited and that
the European is anxious for them to
master the technicalities of trades and
other skills mainly so that the European
can reap a financial benefit from their
increased productivity.
The argument that the eventual benefits
to the Tolai race will far outweigh any
short-term advantages to the European
makes little impression on a man whose
simple needs ... a home and food . . .
can be fulfilled for no material cost.
One commendable attribute of the
Tolai is his pride of race. Be a man
murderer, rapist or thief, if he is a Tolai
then, in the eyes of his “one-talks” (those
speaking the same dialect), he is still a
better man than a native from another
area. Even the Papuans, who have
shown more advancement by European
standards than the Tolai, are included in
the list of inferiors. The Sepiks are
among the lowest on the list.
'T'he Sepik laborers were first imported
into New Britain in the early 19205.
Plantation labor was short and the
Government - controlled Expropriation
Board, which managed most of the
Territory’s plantations, sent a schooner
to the Sepik district and recruited about
70 natives.
This first batch of labor was sent to
the Western Islands via Rabaul. The
experiment proved successful and more
shipments followed, the natives being
distributed among plantations in the New
Britain district. Private firms such as
Burns, Philp and the New Guinea Co.
followed the Expro. Board's lead, using
private recruiters to supply their needs.
(Little private recruiting is done nowa-
days, the signing on of indentured labor
being almost entirely supervised by
Government Native Labor officers.)
The Sepiks, though slow, dull and
unsuitable for other than elementary jobs,
filled the need for cheap labor. At six
shillings a month, plus keep, they were
economically profitable in any man’s
language. The ambit of their operations
spread until they were used as sanitary
carters, on the wharves, on roadworks,
as grasscutters and general laborers in
stores or in building works.
Strict supervision was necessary to
keep them working and an occasional
cuff over the head to jolt them out of
their semi-somnolence. The supervision
is still needed, but new laws forbidding
physical violence against natives have
almost entirely eliminated the head
cuffing.
All native tribes are clannish and
suspicious of those from other districts.
The Tolai was no different in his reaction
to the Sepik. He sized up the newcomer
and classified him as of no account and
certainly not acceptable socially. “Bush
kanaka” was his scornful and concise
summing-up of the primitive intruder, an
opinion which has never changed.
The Sepik himself, in his general
habits, lends weight to the Tolai summing-
up. Little removed from his head-
hunting days and almost untouched by
civilisation in his remote neck of the
woods, he is very nearly the one-hundred
per cent, primitive. Until recent times,
when missions have been gradually estab-
lishing themselves in his locality, all
civilising influences have by-passed the
Sepik villager except at infrequent
periods. His immature mind, accustomed
only to dealing with his physical needs,
cannot fathom the involvements of
civilisation. The impelling force behind
his enlisting as an indentured laborer
appears to be a vague idea that it is a
big adventure and that he will gain
prestige thereby. What he finds when he
eventually reaches his place of employ-
ment is discouragingly unattractive.
Indentured laborers are housed in
compounds segregated from other living
areas in the township. They live in long
huts, enjoying the “luxury” of a stretcher
and a small cupboard in which to keep
their few personal belongings. Their diet
is ample but monotonously repetitive (a
standard scale of rations has been laid


down by the Administration) and they
are paid 345. (most recent award) a
month. They work 44 hours a week and
for recreation can go to the native
picture show (2s. entrance fee) or spend
their time at a trade store where un-
scrupulous Chinese storekeepers over-
charge them for everything they buy—
2s. for a cup of tea and a slice of dry
bread, 6d. for a sheet of newspaper,
which is used for rolling twist tobacco
into cigarettes. Some few manage to
save a few shillings monthly out of their
pittance, but the majority of them return
to their villages after a year’s work with
no more than the experience for a
reward.
The absence of female companionship
is not a great hardship for the greater
number of the Sepiks. Women are in
short supply in their own villages and
many of them never achieve a normal
husband-wife relationship. The only
alternative, sodomy, is an age-old custom
that is practised without self-conscious-
ness. It is a common sight to see two
burly Sepiks walking down the road
hand-in-hand, as absorbed in each other
as any two lovers.
A new item of diet is introduced to the
Sepik when he ventures forth into the
outside world—tinned meat. In his
“place" (village) he is wholly vegetarian:
meat is a pleasant innovation. When he
can, he also visits the “freezer” to buy
a modicum of the cheapest meat. The
“freezer” is the meat emporium which
sells meat from the Australian mainland
brought up as refrigerated cargo. Prices
are high, so high that even the average
European cuts down on his consumption
of meat.
Obsessed with this gastronomic delight,
the Sepik is constantly on the lookout
for fresh meat: dogs, cats and even rats
are potential meals for him. The experi-
enced resident knows that when a Sepik
boy approaches a householder asking for
a cat as a pet his salivary glands are
working overtime in anticipation.
The Tolai's dislike of the European for
forcing a foreign culture on him, for
changing his way of life and bossing him
has been kept well in the background
because he needs the European as a
mentor to boost him up the ladder of
progress and for his free handouts in the
way of medical benefits and education.
He needs nothing from the Sepik except a
final view of his disappearing rear and he
is in a position to indicate his feelings.
The alleged insulting remarks and
actions by a Sepik to a Tolai in the
Rabaul market-place which began the
vicious riots was a pretext for the Tolais
to vent their accumulated spleen: if, in
the doing of it, two Tolais were killed
that would furnish further excuse for
future trouble if excuse were needed.
This was the first known collective action
by Tolais against the Sepiks but, unless
drastic measures are taken to solve the
crisis, it will not be the last.
The most obvious solution is to
repatriate the Sepiks. It takes two to
make a quarrel and this action, would
eliminate one of the two. But economi-
cally it would be ruinous to many busi-
nesses, which depend for most of their
labor on the Sepiks. The Administra-
tion, too, would suffer. One immediate
consequence would be a complete lack
of sanitary carters: this is work beneath
the Tolai’s ken.
Besides, dependence on the local Tolai
to supply labor needs would spell chaos.
Quick to take advantage of any situa-
tion in his favor he would demand
double the present wages and many other
privileges designed to embarrass his white
employer.
The contention that the Tolai must
learn to love his neighbor, even if he is
a Sepik, is compounded of ignorance of
the psychological complexity of the
native. Assimilation is a long process
requiring tolerance, understanding, educa-
tion and tact: all of them virtues still
undeveloped in people who, after all,
are tyros in the school of civilisation.
What then? The eventual recom-
mendation, after an inquiry that will
theorise for protracted sessions, will come
from Canberra. Edicts will be issued
and put into effect.
And nothing will be changed.
D'Arcy Ryan: No Incentives
MR Friedlander’s article was interest-
ing because without, apparently,
any great understanding of New Guinea
natives and their culture, he has never-
theless achieved a fairly accurate ap-
praisal of the present situation in Rabaul.
After explaining that the local Total
lack all economic incentives to work hard
and conscientiously for Europeans, he
gives several instances of their “irresponsi-
bility, undependability, and complete lack
of conscience with regard to these tail-
ings.” But what, in the name of heaven,
does he expect them to work for? devo-
tion to duty ? the joy of a task well
done? Moreover, Mr Friedlander seems
to regard these “failings” as peculiar to
New Guinea natives; obviously, he has
never tried to employ Australian labour
in a boom period when most men had a
wide choice of jobs. The sad fact is
that very few people, black or white, work
for the sheer love of it. The great
majority work to achieve a living standard
which they have come to believe neces-
sary or desirable, and a vast advertis-
ing industry is devoted to the creation of
these real or imaginary needs. In short,
most of us work for money : to feed
and clothe ourselves, to buy luxuries
which rapidly become necessities, to keep
up with the Joneses, or, in extreme cases,
to exercise political power. Can we
seriously expect any great enthusiasm
for work from people to whom, as Mr
Friedlander himself says, these incentives
do not apply ?
If the foregoing is true of the Tolai,
how much more true it is of the far less
sophisticated Sepik. Even if economic
needs did drive the Sepik. how many
needs could he satisfy with 34/- a
month ? In his description of the Sepik
men as “slow, dull and unsuitable fox
other than elementary jobs,” Mr Fried-
lander shows himself, like so many Euro-
peans, completely unaware of the
enormous psychological adjustment
required in transferring from one’s own
culture to a completely alien one. Those
who have met the Sepik on his own home
ground have no doubts about his intelli-
gence. In his adjustment to our way of
life, the Sepik is not duller than the
Tolai; he has merely had about 50 years
less practice
Anyone who has ever worked with
native labor realises the hair-tearing
frustrations it can involve ; but an attempt
to understand the native’s background
and problems can often help
considerably.
It is quite true, as Mr Friedlander says,
that New Guinea peoples are “clannish
and suspicious of those from other
districts/’ They had to be, for they relied
on the unity and solidarity of small kin-
groups for their very survival. They
believed, and with good reason, that what
was alien was hostile. The mutual enmity
of Tolai and Sepik is just one example
of a traditional general outlook which
only time and patience can break down.
Much of the same attitude survives with
us : the only difference is that we apply
our ethno-centrism and xenophobia to
wider groups like nations, or races.
A perceptive and less obvious comment,
however, was Mr Friedlander's sugges-
tion that, for the Tolai. the Sepik are in
some measure scapegoats for the Euro-
peans, so that in attacking the Sepik on
some trivial pretext, the Tolai are in fact
expressing much wider and deeper dis-
satisfactions. If this is true, as it well
may be, then it is lime we made some
serious effort to find out what these dis-
satisfactions are, and to resolve them.
I would suggest that one of the first steps
we could take in that direction would be
to avoid the patronising contempt for
natives shown by Mr Friedlander. His
attitude is unfortunately typical of many
Europeans in New Guinea and has done
nothing to increase our popularity there.
But of course, the most important
problem is the economic one, and this is
the source of much of the inter-racial
tension. Mr Friedlander says that
removal of Sepik labor from Rabaul
would spell ruin and chaos. He may be
right; but it is surely a precarious
economy that is based on the expectation
of a permanent supply of labor at 34/-
a month.
The riots in Rabaul are just another
episode underlining New Guinea's
general problem : the natives don’t like
us, they don’t like each other, and they
lack any immediate economic incentive
to work hard and develop their country.
It would be naive to suggest that “Be-
nicer-to-them-and-pay-them-more” would
solve a problem as complex as this one ;
but it might be a good start.


LETTERS
How J ungled is the Waterfront?
Sir,
Thank you for the prominence you
gave my remarks on Mr Reid's “Water-
front Jungle.” Such treatment will do
much to encourage rank and file unionists
to express their viewpoint in your and
other journals. It is interesting to note
that Mr Reid did perceive some warts
on what appeared to be an otherwise
virginal face. Surely if I have cast doubts
on Phillips’s veracity as a witness then I
have cast doubt on the whole case. The
implications could be no broader.
Mr Reid still makes great play on the
role of the checking sheets used in the
Seamen’s Union elections, insisting that
they constitute a breach of democratic
tradition. May I once more seek your
hospitality in explanation?
Seamen’s Union elections are held
every two years. To conduct this ballot
Branch Returning Officers are elected at
all main ports from and by the rank and
file members. By the same method a
Federal Returning Officer who controls
the ballot is also elected at Sydney. The
F.R.O. and the Sydney 8.R.0. immedi-
ately read out the nominations at the
stop-work meeting. Once the nominees’
credentials are checked the ballot papers
are printed. Each ballot paper is marked
twice with the same number. One such
number is printed at the top right-hand
corner of the paper in a small square
which is perforated for easy detachment.
To each member the 8.R.0. hands a
ballot paper and a stamped envelope
pre-addressed to the union’s auditor.
The member’s union book is then
stamped with the date, the name of the
port and the name of the 8.R.0. At the
same time the 8.R.0. writes on the check-
ing sheet the member's name, the numbers
cf his union book and his ballot paper,
and the name of the port. Before post-
ing his ballot paper to the auditor the
member detaches and retains the small
numbered square. Here I must emphasise
that at no time does a union official see
the checking sheets. And even if he did
how on earth could he tell from them how
a member voted?
These checking sheets are deposited
with the auditor. Both checking sheets
and ballot papers remain in the auditor’s
office after counting which is done there
by the auditor and his staff in conjunc-
tion with the union’s returning officers.
So apart from the reason given by a
former F.R.0., Mr Thurlow, and quoted
by Mr Reid that checking sheets are a
medium to prevent any misuse of ballot
papers, it can readily be seen that they
are a means by which the auditor can
check on the number of papers issued at
any and all ports throughout the country.
When this figure is checked with the
number of papers returned he has the
complete picture at his disposal.
There is, however, one final reason —
quite lacking in any sinister meaning—
for the checking sheets. Let us assume
that Mr Reid is a seaman. He has voted,
and retained the numbered square from
his ballot paper. Some time later, and
after a little reading, he thinks, “Ah!
there’s something fishy about these union
elections I want to check on my vote.”
He goes to the auditor and produces his
union book which contains his photo-
graph and the number detached from
his ballot paper. The auditor checks the
number and the information stamped in
his nook with the number and informa-
tion on the checking sheet. If everything
is in order he then produces the required
ballot paper and satisfies Mr Reid’s
curiosity.
Again I reiterate that no union official
except under these circumstances would
see the checking sheets or any ballot
paper other than his own.
If Air Reid so wishes I shall give him
the name of the union's auditor who is
a very well-known chartered accountant.
Perhaps we could go together and see
this, as I remember, very amiable and
helpful man.
FRED WELLS
Gladesville, Sydney.
Mr Reid replies:
Mr Wells’s logical processes are a little
bewildering. He seizes upon my state-
ment that I depicted Phillips as I found
him, warts and all. “Ha,” he says trium-
phantly. “Phillips has warts. That means
he lacks veracity.” It means nothing of
the sort of course. It merely means that
you have to subject anything a person
with warts tells you to a stricter test
than you might apply to the statements
of someone without warts.
That is precisely what I did. I not
only subjected Phillips’s statements to
tests, I detailed what those tests produced.
I quoted corroborating statutory declara-
tions, court documents, official letters, the
official minutes of Government bodies,
and the files of the Seamen s Union
official journal.
Phillips's three main charges: (1) that
the Seamen’s Union despite the demo-
cratic trappings (in which Mr Wells seeks
to clothe it) is undemocratic ; (2) that an
appeal to law by a Seamen’s Union
member against unlawful acts on the part
of the union is to “call copper” and
reprehensible, and (3) that opponents to
the present Communist controllers of the
union are put under the pressure of
intimidation —are confirmed by the
“Seamen’s Journal” itself.
In fairness to Phillips I point Out that
he told me about his warts —including
his police record—quite freely. He told
me of warts of which I do not think I
would have learned, however closely I
investigated his career, unless he had
volunteered to disclose them. It is inter-
esting that the Seamen’s Union, through
Mr Wells, has not been able to produce
one new wart —that Phillips apparently
set out determinedly to tell the truth
about himself, even though some of the
truths were of the type that most of us
would prefer to suppress.
As for Mr Wells’s long explanation of
the voting system in the Seamen’s
Union:
The reference to the voting system in
my articles was brief. Phillips said he
had a thing or two to say to Mr B.
(“Barney”) Smith, N.S.W. secretary, on
how they were run, and I added the com-
ment that on the procedure described
in the “Seamen’s Journal” by Mr Thur-
low, the union’s then returning officer,
that the union was in a position to know
how every member voted.
Mr Wells now says this is not so. That
is his belief and he is entitled to it.
However, I lack his touching faith in the
efficacy of purely mechanical safeguards.
Mechanical safeguards are very good.
But I’ve seen them break down before.
So probably has Mr Wells. They broke
down for example in the Federated Iron-
workers’ Association when Mr Ernie
Thornton was the association’s national
secretary. Mr Thornton claimed that the
ballots were impeccable and the safe-
guards immense. After hearing evidence,
a court found otherwise.
Apart altogether from the fact that the
union has already conceded —-without
argument —in the Commonwealth Indus-
trial Court (May 23, 1961) that a sizeable
section of its rule book is “oppressive
and unjust,” there are other reasons why
I find myself reluctant to accept the
union leadership’s assurances at their face
value.
ITALY AND US
Sir,
You published in The Bulletin dated
the 12th of August, 1961, on page 15,
under the heading “Italy and Us,”
statistics concerning the percentage of
increase in industrial production of cer-
tain countries in the Western bloc
between 1938 and 1960. The article states
that the French percentage was as 95 for
that period.
I wish to inform you that according
to statistics of the organisation of
the European Economic Co-operation
(0.E.C.E.) this percentage had already
reached 190 in 1957.
French industry having since made
important progress, it is probable that
its percentage of increase would have
reached about 220 in 1960.
PAIL FAURE,
First Secretary
Canberra ( A.C.T. ).
Desmond O’Grady replies: —
The figures given related to the increases in
industrial production between 1930 and 1960.
Editor, The Bulletin.


OUTCASTS OF THE A.R.C
Sir,
Rex Rienits can be congratulated no
matter what M. H. Ellis or Brian Wright
can say. I have six kids between the
ages of 20 and nine. “The Outcasts”
intrigues them. The alternative to this
Australiana is two-gun Yankee stuff.
Please, Editor, let nothing but praise
be said of “The Outcasts.” In the years
to come my kids may or may not find
out the historical truth. In the mean-
time they will be better Australians if
critics keep quiet.
ARNOLD WILLIAMS
Darling Downs ( Q .).
HIGH CHURCH SOCIALISM
Sir,
As co-editor of “Dissent” and a
Catholic I should like to contradict a
number of factually incorrect statements
contained in Peter Kelly's review of that
journal (Bulletin, August 19).
Mr Kelly states that “the renewed
interest in political and social questions”
(“Dissent's” words) among young people
“has been confined, mainly, to some
Catholics at Melbourne University.”
(Kelly’s words.) This is not true and the
following evidence is relevant.
Within Melbourne University the
A.L.P. Club's membership has trebled, to
160 this year, in the last three years,
while outside the University the Vic-
torian Fabian Societies’ membership has
jumped from 40 to over 200 in the last
nine months. I know of no reason to
believe that Catholic membership of these
organisations is statistically unbalanced.
Last year's A.L.P. club committee con-
sisted of 22 persons of whom four were
Catholics. This year's committee is 16
strong with three Catholics. This year
the club has had (counting a conference)
at least 18 speakers. To the best of my
knowledge two have been Catholics. As
regards “Dissent,” the following facts are
relevant: (1) Of the three editors I am
the only Catholic. (2) Money raised
to support the journal has come from
numerous people and again Catholics
form no more than a representative
group. (3) Of the eight contributors to
issue 1 only one to my knowledge is a
Catholic, and of the (probably) ten con-
tributors to the 2nd issue three are
Catholics. (4) Distribution within Mel-
bourne University was handled largely by
non-Catholics and down-town and inter-
state is also being handled by non-
Catholics. (5) To date the first issue has
sold approx. 550 in Melbourne University
(as far as I know The Bulletin averages
400, though it is of course a weekly) and
1 know of no reason to suppose Catholics
make up more than their statistical share.
Total sales at present are well over 1000,
and again I know of no evidence to sup-
port Mr Kelly’s assertions. As regards
interstate it is too early to say anything
much, but so far about 300 have been
sent interstate to (I think) in all cases
non-Catholic reps.
I hope I have gone some way to refut-
ing Mr Kelly’s remark. 1 think it is
important that its falsity be clearly
demonstrated because it could easily be
regarded as a slur on non-Catholics and
because one of the most encouraging
things about the renewed interest in poli-
tical and social issues at Melbourne
University is that non-believers, Pro-
testants, Catholics, Jews, etc., are working
together with a similar range of interests
in a fraternal way with a minimum
amount of back-biting and back-stabbing.
In Australia, at present, this appears to
me to be some slight achievement. It
may be that “Dissent” will fail through
lack of support for future issues, but
like “Prospect” when it started we are
hoping for the best.
One final point on “silent writers.”
The first issue contained two new names,
the second will contain about four, and
1 believe, perhaps wrongly, that we have
a great deal more to draw on.
PETER WERTHEIM,
Co-editor “Dissent”
Carlton (Vic.).
THE LOST CONSCIENCE?
Sir,
Twice in a month. A remarkable
number of times for a journalist to refer
to the D.L.P. as anything more than an
anti-A.L.P. party. Your correspondent
“Observer” is to be congratulated for
breaking new ground. It is a consider-
able divergence from the stand taken by
most newspapers in regard to the D.L.P.
They adopt the attitude of master to
servant: the servant being tolerated as
long as he remembers his place. In the
D.L.P.’s case, this means being an anti-
A.L.P. party. But let the D.L.P. try to
move outside this limit, and it is quickly
rebuffed and reminded of what is sup-
posed to be its position.
A recent example of this is the “Sydney
Morning Herald's” editorial on the
D.L.P.’s plan for a Confederation of
Pacific Nations and an Australian Peace
Corps. The “Herald” made a bitter
attack on the policy. An attack which
was couched in very general terms, dis-
cussing no specific points. (This is not
surprising for it did not know the details
of the plan.) Also, by implication, it
added the reminder that the D.L.P. is
supposed to be an anti-A.L.P. party and
nothing else.
Many D.L.P. members are determined
that despite these efforts they are not
going to remain a purely anti-A.L.P.
party. For they believe that the D.L.P.
is the only party with the answers to
the problems which confront us today.
DENIS KLEIN
Concord {N.S.W.).
THE ORR CASE
Sir,
The letter of Professor Taylor (July
29th) and H. J. Solomon (July 22nd) are
splendid examples of veritas tasmaniansis.
Professor Taylor states that the records
of the Staff Association and its Executive
are incomplete and therefore the matter
raised by me cannot be satisfactorily
tested. The records of the Staff Associa-
tion are sufficiently complete to test the
matter. Those of the Executive may not
be complete, but they are unnecessary in
order to test the matter. So the old recipe
is used again: when caught out in
inaccuracy, introduce irrelevancy.
On September 20, 1954, October 13,
1954 and October 20, 1954, the Staff
Association met, discussed arbitration
and wage boards, but not a Royal Com-
mission into the university. Orr’s letter,
demanding a Royal Commission, and
signed by the majority of staff, was sent
to the Premier on October 28, 1954, and
published in the “Mercury.”
At the next meeting of the Staff Associa-
tion on November 24, 1954, a month
later, Mr Roulston moved “That this
meeting is of the opinion that this crisis
can only be resolved by a full and inde-
pendent inquiry,” and after the usual
coming and going, this was expanded
with the significant addition of “into all
aspects of the university as requested in
our letter of October 28, 1954, i.e., Orr's
letter. Professor Taylor did not even
second the motion. That is why Profes-
sor Taylor is wrong when he says that
“Orr did not even propose it and I did.”
I shall not refer to Professor Taylor’s
analysis of his political situation, except
to point out that it was very different
from Orr’s —he was, unfortunately, ill
and no danger to the council or his col-
leagues. Even Mr Solomon would realise
how inept it would be to victimise a man
in that situation. For Mr Solomon uses
the old Tasmanian University formula—
when caught out in wrong-doing accuse
the other fellow of that offence. Profes-
sor Taylor’s statement “nor did we use
him as a witness” clearly implies that
Orr was not a witness, but obviously he
was a witness. He was called by the
Commission, he went into the box and
his evidence was led by the counsel
assisting the Commission and he was
attacked by the counsel representing the
University Council. Mr Solomon has
strange ideas of Commission practice if
he thinks a witness can be “used” by
other witnesses.
It is presumably because 1 tripped up
this false implication that Mr Solomon
finds it necessary to tell the Big Lie. He
states, “However, Professor Wright and
other mainland academics were in the
field seeking to foment dissension be-
tween council and staff long before Pro-
fessor Orr was dismissed.” That is com-
pletely untrue so far as it applies to me. I
was overseas from March, 1955, to
February, 1956, and had no contact with
the University of Tasmania for many
years before that, except to accept an
invitation from the council to make a
report on the practicability of setting up
a medical school there.
R. DOUGLAS WRIGHT
Parkvilte, Victoria.


THUMPING THEIR DULL CLAY
Sir,
In pursuing a current trend of many
journalists that to make a subject of
interest to the public it must have
a “gimmick,” your correspondent
(Bulletin, August 19) under the head-
ing “Design” writes at length on the craft
potter in Australia and the pottery classes
at the National Art School —the gimmick
in this case is the unsuspecting house-
wife who has the determination and
courage to attend a four-year, part-time
course in order to learn new skills and
interests. The inaccurate description of
the course, aims and work of students
and teachers suggests that the writer had
no intention of writing an informative
article on the subject, but has used the
subject merely to express her vague and
tawdry opinions of a subject which she
has but a superficial knowledge.
The Ceramic Section, like other sec-
tions of the National Art School, is
essentially a training centre. Teacher-
trainees, design students, sculpture
students, interior-design and part-time
pottery students attend lectures and
receive practical instruction in Ceramics
in the day course, and of the 150 students
attending classes at night a large percen-
tage are connected with some branch
of education, architecture, interior
design and commercial pottery. The fact
that some of these students are married
women with children does not debar
them from classes. Your correspondent
implies in her writing that married
women are wasting their time in develop-
ing a creative activity. Is this resentment
against people who are doing work
they like? Or is it the 19th-century
attitude that women have no right to
extend their knowledge and interests
beyond the home? Or is it merely an
archaic academic view which places less
emphasis on learning through the senses
and using one’s hands than studying the
“liberal” arts? Would such an attitude
be adopted towards women attending
tutorial classes at the university?
P. F. RUSHFORTH,
Teacher-in-charge of Ceramics
East Sydney Technical College.
SAY TO ME, RONALD!
Sir,
For the benefit of your English-
speaking readers would you please supply
a translation of the Porter story which
appeared in the August 12 issue.
MERVYN J. RICHARDS
Lutwyche ( Queensland ).
AN HONEST, WHOLESOME BOOK
Sir,
I was most interested in your reviewer’s
comments in The Bulletin of August 19
of my novel “Valley of No Escape” and
delighted to learn that she found it
refreshingly “old world.” I consider
that a high compliment indeed.
Perhaps it is this “old worldness” that
leads me to query the inference she has
made when using the word “wholesome”
to point to that, seemingly, accepted fact
that to be considered a “modern” writer
one must be prepared to carry the reader
through every little detail of sex and
sadism consistent with the stories.
In lifting the rape scene from the rest
of the book I believe that Miss Forshaw
has illustrated something which many
writers readily overlook: that the charac-
ters depicted would really speak like that.
City modernists, no, but honest country
people who come close to nature and
truth, yes. Their whole outlook on life
is “wholesome” and I consider that if
1 have achieved this element in my novel
then I have done something worthwhile.
Is it necessary for Australian writers to
ape their American counterparts, or is
it true that most readers are heartily sick
of thickly spread sex and sadism in
almost everything they read? I believe
the latter.
If, therefore, I have written, as Miss
Forshaw suggests, an honest, wholesome
book, then I believe that it will appeal
to honest, wholesome-minded readers, be
they boys or adults. I only hope that
my next two novels, when published next
year, are as wholesome.
JAMES PRESTON
Seaford (Vic.).
THE DEATH OF FREDDIE LEE
Sir,
“Local Resident” (Bulletin, August
26), in taking up the matter of the death
of the aboriginal Freddie Lee, touches on
all the points of view and well-held con-
victions of almost all the non-aboriginal
residents of Quambone and surrounding
districts in the matter of the local abo-
rigines, and what a fearful lot they are.
It is regrettable that none of these points
of view or convictions has anything to
do with the case.
“Local Resident” quotes my article
rightly as stating that the white people
in Quambone “think the blacks are not
worth worrying about . . . they do not
even consider them.” The correspondent
then goes on to corrupt this statement by
saying “it would be difficult, if not
impossible, to ignore the screams . . .”
and ends the paragraph with “how then
are they ignored or not even considered.”
I would never suggest that the abo-
rigines of Quambone are ignored. How
can they be when they represent the only
pool of casual labor open to the operators
of the surrounding grazing properties?
They are not ignored, and they are not
considered. The Aborigines’ Welfare
Board has on record that the estate of a
local grazier gave two plots of land to
provide aboriginal housing in Quambone.
In the last 12 years there has been no
other offer of assistance made by any
local resident to alleviate the aboriginal
problem in Quambone, at least in the
memory of senior officials of the Board.
What “Local Resident” admits and yet
overlooks is that the basis of the abo-
riginal problem in Quambone is liquor.
Since the whites of Quambone have so
much on the ball compared to the blacks,
is it not their responsibility to do some-
thing about the situation?
Every local resident knows the main
problem with the aborigines is drink.
It is no excuse for Freddie’s Lee’s death
either, that he had held an exemption
certificate from the Aborigines’ Welfare
Board since July 17, 1956, permitting
him to consume intoxicating liquor. It
is equally true that of all the drunken
aborigines in Quambone there has not
been any application lodged with the
Aborigines’ Welfare Board in the past
two years for an exemption certificate
by anyone with a Quambone address. It
is also true that the records of the N.S.W.
Police Licensing Branch show that no one
in Quambone has the legal right to sell
liquor to anyone—disbarred aborigines
or not —except in minimum lots of two
gallons a time. How then did Freddie
Lee get the single bottle of liquor that
led to the next single bottle, and the one
after that, that eventually led to his
death?
FRANK MARGAN
Lind field {N.S.W.).
SLAMMING THE DOOR
Sir,
Your editorial and Mr Coleman’s
article have apparently been written on
the basis of correspondence shown to
you by the University of Tasmania. The
impression given is that the University of
Tasmania was prepared to be reasonable
and that the Federal Council was not.
Professor Isles, speaking to Convoca-
tion at Launceston two weeks ago, stated
publicly: “The only way to deal with
the situation is to let time deal with it.
Of course we could publicly say we
will not do this sort of thing again, but
I would strongly advise Council not to
answer mud-slinging with mud-slinging.
If it [the University] has made mistakes,
it has made them, but it can’t alter its
decision now.”
The two attitudes, one expressed via
your columns and the other when the
Vice-Chancellor did not realise the press
was present, are not consistent. This,
from the University of Tasmania, is not
surprising.
R. DOUGLAS WRIGHT
Parkville {Vic.).
Sir,
Peter Coleman's exposition and analy-
sis of the censure imposed upon the
University of Tasmania is significant
journalism. It has lighted for the first
time an important aspect of a subject
which most outsiders thought had been
covered long ago ; and in my view has
more chance than any other discursion
on the subject of bringing about a
reform. It seems to me the author has
here made a contribution to the public
good.
OLAF RUHEN
Tugun ( Queensland ).


OUT and ABOUT
Dedication of the Temple
ON the Sunday-afternoon-drive circuit
for mobile members of Sydney’s
North Shore is the just-finished Baha'i
temple, high on a hill overlooking Mona
Vale. The glistening white (it glistens
because it is surfaced with a special,
and very expensive, white quartz aggre-
gate), £150,000 temple has in the past
few months become a place of pilgrimage
for North Shore types, who normally
have nothing more exotic to study than
the relative values in oranges or eggs at
the roadside stalls.
The domed temple is as surprising in
its setting as if the Taj Mahal or the Sacre
Coeur basilica were suddenly set down in
the Australian bush. Followers of the
Baha'i faith have welcomed the curious
to the temple, and leaflets, explaining the
temple and the faith, are handed out.
The temple, which it is claimed will
last 1000 years, will be dedicated at a
private ceremony on September 16 and a
public ceremony on September 17 by
Madame Ruhiyyih Rabbani, the widow
of the man the Baha'is call “The Guardian
of the Faith.” Madame Rabbani, who is
Canadian-born, will arrive from Israel,
where the faith has its headquarters, on
September 12.
A spokesman for the Baha’is said it
was not certain that there were enough
members of the faith in the Sydney area
to justify regular Sunday services at the
temple. The faith has adherents in all
States, is strongest in South Australia,
but, according to the spokesman, its mem-
bers are so scattered that no accurate
figure of membership is possible.
The temple has already suffered at the
hands of vandals, which, according to the
spokesman, are “very bad in that area,”
and a caretaker will be in residence.
The money for the temple has been
given by Baha’is from “nearly every
“Head in the cloud —as usual!”
SONG OF THE SNEEZE
O, now has come the season when the
pretty pussy-willows
Disseminate their irritants in surrep-
titious billows ;
And scores of gasping gardeners are
driven nearly cranky
From sniffing nasty nostrums and from
clutching at a hanky.
O, wander not in a garden plot
Should hay-fever hit you !
But go inside and there abide,
And settle yourself in situ,
hi situ ! In situ !
O, go inside and there abide
And settle yourself in situ.
A daily dozen handkerchiefs are needed,
plus or minus,
To ease the aching antrum and assuage
the snarling sinus;
To soothe the tender tonsil and prevent
the pharynx itching,
To clear the tube Eustachian, and stop
the nostril twitching.
So wander not in a garden plot
From whence these evils issue;
But go inside and there abide,
And nurse your nose with a tissue,
A tissue ! A tissue !
O, go inside and there abide,
And wipe your eyes with a tissue.
We fain would suffer maladies in martyr-
dom and silence;
But this cacophonous curse recurs with
devastating violence.
Yet, wait in passive patience till it loses
its virility ;
’Tis only then the empurpled nose regains
its staid tranquillity.
But wander not in a garden plot
Where the dust’s as dry as at Petra ;
Nay, go inside and there abide
And nurse your nose, etc.,
Etc., etc.
O, go inside and there abide,
And nurse your nose, etc.
VIC
“HERB."


country in the world,” the spokesman
said. “Every Baha'i wants a chip in the
temnie,” he said. The Baha'i faith, which
is 100 years old and which originated in
Persia, will, once a temple on the slopes
of Mt Carmel :s completed, have a temple
on each continent.
n , ■ , i
The Baha is have no paid clergy, no
dogmas and no seimons. Set vices con-
sist ct readings Irom the Old and New
Testaments, the Koran and the Baha t
writings. Baha i leaders in South Aus-
traha can perform marriage ceremonies,
but in otnei States a civil ceremony is
required as well.
The Baha l faith has some notable
adherents. One is film - star Victor
Damone. a Catholic, who alter his divorce
said he was “sure he would want to get
married again some time and the Church
wouldn t let him. He said he found the
Baha’i faith “a great comfort.”
yuA-.L
Alphabetical Attack
r T'HE new session of the Queensland
Parliament got away to a bright start
with a “no-confidence” motion in the
Nicklin-Morris coalition, moved by
Opposition-leader Jack Duggan. Refer-
ring to the Government’s 1957 “4D”
policy decentralisation, development,
decency and democracy Duggan listed
more than 20 words beginning with D,
including deficit and dishonor, which, he
claimed, described the Government’s
record more aptly.
Maybe it was Ingrid Bergman
npHE recent verdict of a court at Ham-
burg, Germany, may have some bear-
ing on the enjoyment of audiences at the
Genesian Theatre, Sydney, in coming
weeks. The Genesians are to present
what they believe is the first Australian
production of the play, “Anastasia.”
The play deals with the claim of a
young woman to the title of Grand
Duchess Anastasia, youngest daughter of
Tsar Nicholas the Second and is probably
based on the story of Anna Anderson.
When the play was presented on Broad-
way and in London some years ago there
was still a great deal of doubt in people's
minds about the claim. (After the film
version was made the popular opinion
was that Ingrid Bergman was really Anas-
tasia).
However, the Hamburg court, after a
case lasting three and a half years, dis-
missed the claim of Frau Anderson, a
61-years-old recluse, living in the Black
Forest. The shooting of the Imperial
family by the Bolsheviks in 1918 was such
a hasty and secret affair that rumors about
the fate of the Romanoffs inevitably mul-
tiplied. At least a dozen young women
claimed to be Anastasia. The main reason
may have been the report of a large sum
of money deposited by the Tsar with the
Bank of England. The bank has never
confirmed or denied this.
The most persistent claim has been by
Frau Anderson. In 1957 Barbara,
Duchess of Mecklenburg, was granted
inheritance papers. She claimed Frau
Anderson was a Polish peasant, Franziska
Schanzkowski. The court ruled this was
not proved. But the court also ruled Frau
Anderson was not Anastasia. So the
matter rests exactly where it did 3| years
ago.
South Australian
Respectability
Tt is round one to Don Dunstan, the
new Vice-President of the Federal
A.L.P., and member for Norwood in the
S.A. State House. Norwood’s main
thoroughfare, the Parade, occasionally
sees a sprinkling of bodgies. However,
the zealous police patrols recently seem
to have picked up as many respectable
citizens as bodgies. This has annoyed
the citizens, the paternal local sergeant
of police and Don Dunstan. Dunstan
suggested that the patrol-cars slow down.
Immediately a letter appeared in the
Adelaide “Advertiser” calling Dunstan
a “bodgie lover.” The writer claimed
he had been an elector of Norwood for
decades and alleged that it was impossible
for his 16-years-old daughter to step on
to the Parade after sundown.
However, Dunstan searched the elec-
toral roll, the district directory, the post-
office and the police department records.
The respectable citizen did not exist, far
less the 16-years-old daughter. But Dun-
stan's opponents aren't at all happy
about the ricochet.
Supper without Songs
"Publishing six books of poetry in one
day shows a taste for doing things on
a big scale and to celebrate the event
Angus and Robertson, on August 24, gave
a large-scale reception in an artist s studio
adjoining their offices. Four of the poets
—Vincent Buckley, Francis Webb, Ray
Mathew and Frederick Macartney —were
not present but Ronald McCuaig and
Elizabeth Riddell were and a pot-pourri
of poets, A. D. Hope, R. D. Fitzgerald,
Douglas Stewart, Kenneth Slessor, John
Thompson, Vivian Smith and Charles
Higham had turned up to wish them
well.
Some time could be spent imagining the
combinations and incompatibilities pos-
sible between those present when they
included critics Leonie Kramer and
Nancy Keesing, with Hazel de Berg, who
has recorded poets reading their own
work, New Zealand poet Anton Vogt
freelancing in Sydney. Queensland
writers and academics Cecil Hadgraft
and Eunice Hanger and journalist Ross
Campbell. However the evening went
without a hitch and, thank goodness,
witnout speeches. The only depressing
aspect was financial. Nobody could
guess the exact amount the poets would
make from their books but it would
certainly be a “song” which would not
buy many suppers.
That was Society
The lengths to which Prince Henry
is prepared to go in order to secure an
Fmglish Princess is evidenced by the fact
that he undertakes to live with his
mother-in-law. This young man must,
indeed, be good.
—“ Bulletin,” February 14, 1885.
“I say , my good man,” said a stranger
to a little wizened fellow in the street,
“Can you direct me to the public library?”
“I am not a good man,” replied the
person accosted with some heat, “I am
the Mayor.”- — “Bulletin,” January 3, 1885.
The report that has been going the
rounds of the English papers, to the effect
that many of the members of the Aus-
tralian Parliament are retired burglars
and regenerated horse stealers is untrue.
They are neither regenerated nor retired.
—“Bulletin,” March 14, 1885.
Mrs Alary McCarthy of Melbourne,
appears to wield such potent sway over
her liege lord, that we shall soon hope
to find her shortly figuring as a shining
light in the Woman’s Rights movement.
The other day, when Mr McCarthy
sought the seclusion of his home, he
found Mary lying on the floor in a con-
dition that was Very un-booth-like, not
to say beastly. He did not venture to
assert his authority by gently pouring
the water jug upon the prostrate lady,
as husbands usually do in these cases, but
he did muster sufficient courage to speak
to her on the subject “of her libations.”
Annoyed at such unwarrantable inter-
ference with her liberty of action, Mary
“threatened to kill him with a torna-
hawk.” Fortunately, she did not order
her trembling spouse to hand down the
weapon, and place himself within easv
reaching distance, that the vow might
be carried into immediate execution, so
Mr McCarthy was enabled to slink away
and seek the protection of the law, by
having Mary handed over to keep the
peace. What this remarkable woman may
be capable of, when she’s in a perpen-
dicular position remains to be proved
but the strength of mind she exhibits
under circumstances so disadvantageous
as those just quoted, stamps her as a
born leader of her sex.
—“Bulletin,” January 3, 1885.
A cow in fine condition, slaughtered
at Ashburton (N.Z.) lately, yielded a
handsome lot of carpenter’s requisities —-
20 2|in. nails; 17 2in. nails; 18 Gin. nails;
15 tacks; 3 screws; 1 washer; 6 pieces wire
and 5 staples. The animal was apparently
not inconvenienced by the nails that
had worked into the stomach-coating.
- — “Bulletin,” August 3, 1901.
Attached to the prisoner’s dock at
Christchurch’s court is a time-table show-
ing when trains run to Lyttletoun—-
where the gaol is. Cheerful reading for
the accused. — “Bulletin,” July 27, 1901.
Speaking at a show to dairyman’s
daughter, i remarked that Miss
was rather good style. ‘‘Not too bad,”
said the daughter, “but she thinks too
much of herself. Why they only milk
30 cows. We milk 42!” Thus is society
graded in the cow to butter country.
— “Bulletin,” July 20, 1901.


PEKING NOVELTY CO.
“I Want my boy to start at the bottom.”
FOR THE OBSERVER
Mr. Bimbley is
Still There
A casual postscript in a letter from
T* London has just let me know tnat
“Mr Bimbley is still there.” The news is
like hearing the whole sound of life in
that great city again.
Mr Bimbley belongs to the picturesque
fraternity of London’s pavement artists.
His pitch is in front of the Church of St
Stephen’s in Gloucester Road, Kensing-
ton. I used to walk past it every day on
the way to and from my lodgings. So
I came to know Mr Bimbley and his art
very well.
Mr Bimbley boasts that his pictures
are as good as those hanging in the Lon-
don National Art Gallery in Trafalgar
Square. In spite of this exaggeration, he
is really an honest artist. He simply
thinks the only difference between his
pictures and the Art Gallery ones is that
while those in the gallery hang, his do
not. They lie flat instead. They have to
rely on the pavements of Kensington,
and on the dryness of those pavements,
for the process of their creation and the
manner in which they exist. Then they
Pass away.
Mr Bimbley feels this reliance acutely
in his knees —and every time his pictures
are ruined by an unreasonable fall of
“Scotch mist.” The Scotch mist may even
bring up his pastel colors if it is mild
enough and kind enough. So he does not
mind a bit of it. But he curses fearfully
the abundant, continuous fall that can
wash him right out of business.
Is it any wonder, then, that when he
finishes a picture in spite of the mist,
after his long gardening posture above
the pavement —is it any wonder that he
brags? He brags ferociously.
He even brags as, on hands and knees,
he gives to the white hens pecking at corn
near the doorway of the country cottage
he has drawn, the eyes they need for
seeing and the fine sweep of plumage
they need for distinction. But his conceit
is also a form of protest at all the people,
better dressed than he is, and more
uprightly employed, who hurry past with
merely a quick glance or the charitable
toss of a penny.
“Pennies! All pennies ’ere,” says Mr
Bimbley, his head close to the pavement,
working away with his small block of
blue pastel.
The block of pastel is one of many
blocks that rest in a black unfolded rag.
He makes them himself out of his own
special composts of colors, which he pre-
pares and puts into match-boxes to set
and harden. With his blue pastel he
deftly conjures up a summer sky on the
stone and mutters:
“Pennies! Chaps at ’Ammersmith
makes pounds a day.”
Whether or not the chaps at Hammer-
smith do make pounds a day, Mr Bimbley
sticks to Kensington. He came to Ken-
sington to brighten it up with his art be-
cause he was ousted from his favorite
haunt on his beloved Thames Embank-
ment by the Festival of Britain. The
festival took over his part of the Thames
holus-bolus in 1951 with the South Bank
Exhibition. Yet, for all his love of the
Embankment, somehow or other he for-
got to shift back to it again after the
exhibition was over. Perhaps, because he
is a true artist, he could not be bothered;
he did not really care where he worked,
so long as he did work.
He is the true artist, all right. Although
there are pounds at Hammersmith, he
refused to take his chalks there because,
like all artists of advanced technique and
thought, he has a contempt for his weaker
contemporaries. Hammersmith is their
gallery.
On the other hand, although he growls
about the Kensington pennies, he does
want them, badly ; but he also values an
intelligent interest. If you pause for a
few minutes in front of his pictures and
then give only a ha’penny the apprecia-
tion that you show by your pause helps
to soften Mr Bimbley’s grief at your
poverty.
He is a man of discrimination, and has
learned to estimate words and voices, as
a man must who works all day with the
patch of his pants to the public. When
you win his gratitude a shining grin
breaks through his wrinkled sallow face,
a grin that is brilliant in spite of his
tobacco-stained teeth. But you cannot


win his gratitude any more with patronts-
ing remarks than you can with charitable
coins.
To collect the coins he arranges three
worn-out tweed caps at strategic points
on the border of the picture he happens
to be doing at the time. The oily inner
surface of one cap proves it to be the
piece which, at the end of the day. he puts
on his head.
It is about the only thing that can hide
his bald pate successfully—and the rathei
soiled growth of hair behind his ears
which straggles down and threatens ;o
take him by the neck. His shirt collar
was worsted long ago in the tussle to keep
its identity. Above it his face scowls
And the only way you can break that
sallow, fierce face asunder in a beam of
thanks is by a sincere admiration of his
work. For example, he thinks a lot of
the pack of boys who patiently and curi-
ously stand near him, shifting from foot
to foot as they watch.
If you offer him a cigarette you are
definitely regarded as an admirer, and
should you ask, “What kind of flowers
are those you’re drawing?” true, he
might only answer, “Oh, they're just
flowers,” and then sit down on the patch
of his pants with much the same refine-
ment his reply sits on your question.
But he will recognise your interest, and
smile.
Mr Bimbley was born at Westminster
60 years ago. For 43 of those 60 years
he has been on all fours, drawing his
pictures.
He leans on his gloved left hand ; this
in turn rests on a plate of leather. In
this way he does not smudge his picture
as he works on it with his free right hand.
His pictures are large, so that he has to
lean across them ; and his right hand,
though rough, is sensitive, and describes
miraculous curves and straight lines. You
see it make a hawthorn hedge, build a
mill, inhabit a field with sheep grazing
under chestnut-trees. You see it put down
a country road that runs by a Tudor cot-
tage with a thatched roof, a smokestack,
and roses at the window. You see it
make the dog-daisies grow and then
sprout wild, and it puts red poppies
among the corn in the meadow.
To all this Mr Bimbley adds two
bonneted women with their aprons full
of corn, a warm-looking stream with a
wagon crossing it, and a barking fox-
terrier in the foreground. Then into the
cottage roof and the earth goes an extra
suffusion of red, and into the sky a mag-
nificent cloud. When his picture is
finished you have a scene and a landscape
of the first order.
There never has been smoke such as
Mr Bimbley starts from his cottage chim-
neys. It has the same sort of belligerence
its creator has. It is, very likely, sym-
bolic of all small but intensely creative
souls in baggy, brown-tweed suits who
stand up suddenly to find themselves
enthusiastic about their achievement, but
not at all enthusiastic about their public,
and so thumb their waistcoats in aristo-
cratic scorn, as Mr Bimbley seems to do.
He takes five hours to draw this
country scene j have just described. But
foi Pis huge sailing-ship, plunging on a
foaming sea. he needs at least one whole
day of dry weather, and for his specialty,
the Derby, a day and a half, so that he
can g've to each horse and to each
jockey the spirit of the race. These two
ambitious works are displayed mainly in
mjd-summei. when he feels sure of the
clemency of the weather
But his landscapes are ample to show
you the extent and quality of his genius
as you watch him at work in front of St
Stephen’s Church in Gloucester Road.
There he labors ; there he blows at the
powdered chalk collecting on his picture;
there he irritably wafts away the stray
fallen plane-tree leaves that have no busi-
ness on his cottage roof ; and there, above
all, I think, he continually hopes for a
change of heart in Kensington.
DAVID ROWBOTHAM
DESIGN
Picking up
the Pieces
Two authorities on mosaics have seen
some connection between the present
enthusiasm for home-made mosaics and
the state of international affairs. These
authorities, American Louisa Jenkins and
Barbara Mills, have the ingenious theory
that, in a world broken in fragments,
people turn to making an ordered whole
of a multiplicity of small pieces.
Miss Jenkins and Miss Mills are
members of the artists' colony at Big
Sur, California. They put forward their
theory in their book, “The Making of
Mosaics.”
Mosaic work, despite its long history,
really only got going as a hobby both
here and overseas within the past 10 or
15 years. It is only within that period
that professional mosaic work has been
seen here in any quantities.
The forms used locally vary from the
ordinary bathroom tile, broken into seg-
ments and let into cement to face the
counter of an espresso bar, to the hand-
made tiles which have been used to
decorate hotels and some homes.
In between these are the hobby
mosaicists, who spend the long winter
evenings making a coffee-table, a lamp-
base, a coffee-table, and then, perhaps,
another coffee-table.
When building was at its peak last
year three Sydney mosaicists, Roberta
Jones, Antonia Shaw and Margo Lewers,
were busy at work, mainly on projects
for the Chevron Hilton Hotel. Now
Antonia Shaw and Roberta Jones have
gone to Europe. Mrs Lewers recently
completed a mosaic for the University
of Western Australia but is mostly work-
ing at painting again.
Since Roberta Jones went to Europe
her studio has been taken over by her
sister, Frances. In her studio at Wool-
lahra Frances Jones has a series of tiles
which have been designed for a private
house in Sydney. They consist of a series
cf kitchen herbs, sprigs of which have
been pressed into the soft clay, giving a
much more accurate and finer reproduc-
tion of the actual plant than any artist
could achieve.
Roberta and Frances Jones have also
done a bathroom series with shells, sea-
weeds and other sea-things, pressed into
the clay. These are tiny |-inch tiles, but
Roberta did a similar series, large size,
for the Chevron Hilton Hotel.
Mosaic-work is a fairly simple hobby,
although the real devotees make their
own tesserae instead of buying them from
a tiler.
However, glass and ceramic tesserae
are freely available now. The Italian
glass ones, which are |-inch square, cost
from £5 a square yard. Most colors are
within a few pounds of this price, but
there is a big jump to gold, yellow and
orange, which are £l7 per square yard.
Most tilers will let you buy at least the
expensive tiles in small quantities and
will, in fact, make up your purchase into
the quantities of each color you want,
leaving you only to determine your
pattern.
Most of the large shops and decorat-
ing shops sell tables made from the
Italian tesserae. These are priced from
about £3O upwards. At least some of
these are the work of hobby mosaicists.
One Sydney man says he makes two a
week, working in the evenings only.
Sometimes he can finish one in a night.
He has his brass framework made, buys
the tesserae and cement, and claims he
still makes ICO per cent, profit and that
shops make a further 100 per cent, profit.
Mosaic tends to become a rather com-
pulsive hobby. A young Sydney man
who decided to make a tile coffee-table
as therapy for a broken heart, got so
engrossed that the project, which was
supposed to fill in the long winter even-
ings, was finished in three days. He
then had no alternative but to go out
and get his heart broken again so that
he could make another coffee-table.


ABORIGINALITIES
Wings on the
Warpath
'T'he black-and-yellow streak swung in
a dizzy circle. When it hovered for
a flick of a second it showed as a hornet
banded in gold and ebony. It quartered
the ground; it swung round a given
centre ; it could not quite pinpoint the
spot that attracted it. It flew at a height
of a few feet ; when it lowered to ground
level the slip-stream of its wings stirred
dust.
1 saw the object of the hornet’s search
—a spider. It must have been a female,
judging by its size. She was crouched
beside a pebble, her legs coiled about her,
so camouflaged that 1 had to look twice
to distinguish her from the ground about
her. She never moved, even when the
hornet s wing rippled the furry hair on
her legs.
A bantam hen arrived on the scene.
She had four chicks. They did not seem
to see the hornet. They worked the
ground. One of them, a cock bird by
the look of him, saw the crouching spider
and went closer to investigate. He
stretched his head and neck, spread his
legs wide and half-lowered his wings
to a fighting attitude, cheeped, and pecked
at the spider.
The spider uncoiled with a suddenness
that made the chick snap back in surprise ;
she sprang from stone-like immobility into
a grey streak racing along the ground,
harmonising with the dust.
Before the chicken had more than
half-gasped his surprise the hornet had
breasted up—and she was about 15 feet
away at the time. She swung in a grand
loop, she traced a track in the air as
straight as a drawn line towards the
scuttling spider.
More rhan likely, when the spider was
still she was scentless ; maybe her sudden
action released a wave of scent. Perhaps
the minute air-vibrations of small things
in a hurry had carried the story. Perhaps
some mysterious radar system of hornets,
spiders, other slayers and prey, had been
set into operation.
The chicken watched the combat,
cheeping. There was a mixture of wings
and legs on the ground as the hornet
struck, as the impact of her strike sent
hunter and prey skidding along the earth.
I knew that in that tangle of wings and
fangs, of poison sacs and probes, the
hornet had only one spot into which she
could insert her delicate lance ; it had
to be sunk to a depth of a millionth of
an inch —so far and no further —and the
right amount, of venom, correct to a
fractional amount, had to be injected.
One tiny mistake in place, depth, quantity
would nullify the whole effort.
The hornet completed her miracle. The
spider's legs coiled about her like the
tired petals of a fading flower ; she lay
an apparent corpse. The hornet, with
that assurance which seemed to be her
caste-mark, set about removing all traces
of the combat: she cleaned herself,
combed her whiskers, dusted her wings,
ran a curry-comb over her legs. She was
spick and span, spruce and spritely in
no time.
The chicken came closer the better to
view things. The hornet gripped the
spider’s body. She spread her wings to
fly to where she had a nest prepared—
a cell in which to plant the body until the
egg she would insert had hatched and
eaten its way out of the living dead of
the spider’s body. She gripped with her
legs. She fluttered her wings. She stopped.
She took a fresh grip. Her wings shrieked
as they sliced the air in efforts to rise.
The load was too heavy. The hornet
took a flesh grip with her mandibles at
the nape of the spider’s neck. Half-lift-
ing, half-flying, her legs churning as they
fought for a footing, she started to drag
the body to the place she had prepared
for it. She made heavy hauling of it,
and a plough-furrow showed in the dust
as she dragged.
The bantam chicken had never seen
anything half as interesting. It drew
closer ; it crouched on bent knees to get
a better view; its neck was parallel with
the ground and it followed intently.
The hornet released her hold. She shot
into the air, swung a half-circle, rested
for a stutter in her flight—and was on the
budding comb of the young cock.
The chicken bounded high, landed on
his side, scrambled to his feet, called his
agony, rubbed his head along the ground.
The hornet ignored the chicken. It
bounced from the beak of the fowl and
landed back at its position astride the
spider. It buzzed with its wing, scratched
with its feet, commenced its dragging
process as if nothing had happened.
The chicken’s comb was swelling as if
he had a cold in the nose. The hornet
dragged and carried the body of the spider
to a hole in the ground. She'd bitten
off the legs to make a neat bundle to fit
in the cell. She buried the thing—pre-
sumably with her egg inside it —and she
was tamping with her hind legs to make
a firm lid on the tomb. Then she combed
her whiskers, ran her hind legs along her
ribs, brushed one fetlock over the other
and, after a final lick and dab to make
sure things were exactly right, lose in the
air again.
HENRY G. LAMOND
That Was the Country.
Dear Bulletin, —The bark of trees does
grow upwards, that is, its progress is up-
ward. Herewith I forward my initials,
which I carved on a poplar 15 years ago.
I watched them gradually working their
way up the trunk, until, as time became
ripe, they were lost to sight. Imagine
my surprise, however, when I found them
lying at the foot of the tree the other
morning. They had been pushed off
the top, and, very fittingly, just at a
time when Abo.-writers were in a state
of doubt, not to say fury, as to the
habits of tree-bark. Thanking you in
anticipation, I remain yours in expecta-
tion of Paradise, “Billy B.”
— “Bulletin,” July 18, 1912.
I’m satisfied, absolutely, Victoria is no
fit place for a white man. Give me the
tropics every time. Of all the cursed
places for wind, perpetual and everlast-
ing, I present the western coast of Watt’s
domain with the whole bakers’ outfit.
Took lunch out one day, and on open-
ing the packet the wind blew the meat
out of the sandwiches. It’s no uncom-
mon sight in these parts to see ploughing
done by windpower. A mast is rigged
behind the mould-board, and a bowsprit
run out on the head-rake. The cocky
works the main sheet and steers the
outfit from the stern of the handles. In
an extra-heavy blow the craft heels over
and throws a bow-sod breast high, while
the backbone of the continent lets out
his main sail and sits over hard on his
weather handle. An experienced hand
can “’bout ship” at the end of a furrow
like the Shamrock in quest of the America
Cup. Sometimes when there is an old-
man gale on the quarter the land roughs
up nasty, and a dirty kind of mud-wash
sends showers of earth over the decks.
Still, with all its advantages to the cove
on the land, these winds become as weari-
some as Ring O’Malley. In the north we
do get a blow now and then, but it
advertises itself properly, and gets into
the newspapers. In this locality the eter-
nal struggle to keep your clothes on
compels you to glue on your singlet and
run a yale lock through the top eyehole
of your boots.
— “Bulletin/’ October 17, 1912.


“Charles—what Went Wrong with our marriage?“


The Red Page
IRISH IRELAND
By VINCENT BUCKLEY
Kings, Lords, and Commons: Irish
poems translated by Frank O’Con-
nor. Macmillan. 345. 9d.
IncE the lews, the Irish are a people in
J dispersion ; and for a hundred years
we Irish of the dispersion (do I hear my
fellow Irish-Australians quaking with the
stresses of assimilation as 1 use the
phrase?) have been sold a peculiarly
deadening myth about Irish literature.
From the 1880 s we had the Celtic Twilight
(a good joke invented chiefly by Yeats);
in this between-state we saw Irish poetry
as a dim religious light shimmering in a
mist: Cathleen ni Houlihan, in swaying
garments, crooned a gentle lament. But
before this we had been equally misled ;
it was Cathleen ni Houlihan all the same,
but with bare knees and combing her hair
with a pike.
Either way, Ireland was a dim sanctu-
ary, her poetry the flickering lamp, hei
aspirations as soft and sweet as incense.
It took 40 years of unflagging cynicism
from modern Irish writers to redress the
balance. Part of the trouble came from
the early Yeats and his Abbey Theatre ;
part came from the sentimental romanti-
cism of the minor poets who translated
the ancient Irish lyrics and romances, and
who, in their diction and cadences,
followed the most debased 19th-century
models.
Frank O’Connor is very deliberately
not of their school ; on the contrary, he
is one of Ireland’s licensed sceptics. As
the general flatness of his rhythms and
the general superficiality of his images
attest, he is not a good poet ; yet his sensi-
tivity to tone, and his determination to
reveal the practical ethos of the writers
he translates, make the present book a
superb collection.
A collection of what? Not, really, of
great translations, but of attitudes persist-
ing throughout centuries ; of signs point-
ing to deep changes in the Irish psyche ;
of splendid moments of coarseness and
fineness, of lyric intensity and satiric
gusto ; of gestures, moods, plaints, praises,
hymns, songs, small pieces of elaborate
workmanship and fragments of those
grotesque romances which were Ireland’s
substitute for epic.
The most notable feature of all, which
gives an inimitable tone to the “practical
ethos,” is a fierce realism, an exalted
coarseness. From the sixth century to the
18th, there is little of that Jansenist fear
of the body which the modern Irish seem
to identify with Irish spirituality. The
verse declares a sense of bone and sinew
lifting with the power of life.
This sense comes through in a very
early religious lyric:
Two by two my dozen friends—
To tell the number right
Praying with me to move the King
Who gives the sun its light.
In that tough and amusing poem in
which a priest seems to address his psalm-
book as though it were a woman:
We wandered Ireland over then,
Our souls and bodies free of blame,
My foolish face aglow with love,
An idiot without fear of blame.
In the extraordinary plaint of the pagan
heroes against Christianity:
If my son Osgar and God
Wrestled it out on the hill
And I saw Osgar go down
I’d say that your God fought well.
In a fine epitaph on the death of a
king in battle:
“Have you see Hugh,
The Connacht King in the field?”
“All that we saw
Was his shadow under his shield.”
In the declarations of pessimism:
Three things seek my death,
Hard at rny heels they run —
Hang them, sweet Christ, all three,
Devil, maggot and son.
And of resignation:
I loved her more than life
But cannot recall her features.
We see in all these exhibits, and in many
more, an intriguing blend of fiery aspira-
tion with a subtlety of mind which forbids
the writer to delude himself about
possibilities of fulfilment. It is as though
the mind at white-heat was most mock-
ingly aware of its own coming coolness ;
or as though, in reaching out for some
consummation, it reached out too for
some standard, some measure, by which
to prove that consummation vain. It
would be too easy to pin on this tendency
the label of pessimism, or nostalgia, or
self-defensiveness; it is, rather, the
literary equivalent of what often passes
in Irishmen for duplicity: the inability to
rest satisfied with one side of a question.
Perhaps it is a way of feeling the world’s
paradoxes. Hence the bitter core pre-
sented with that mocking lilt which both
takes away the sting for others and
emphasises it for oneself.
It is not surprising, though, that
O’Connor stresses the backward-looking
quality of Irish poetry. We know that
some Irishmen still look back, as their
ancestors did, to a time of glory before
the Norman invasion in the 12th century.
What O'Connor shows is that it was
always thus: Irish poets even in the
eighth century were invoking their heri-
tage rather than their future, were more
conscious of possibilities thwarted than
of possibilities waiting to be realised.
This tendency reaches its peak, of
course, in the poetry of the 17th and 18th
centuries. One of O'Connor’s two prize
exhibits is Egan O’Rahilly, the Kerry poet
of the late 17th century, whose poems are,
it seems, virtually untranslatable. Jf ever
there was an Irishman fixated on the
bitterness of the present as contrasted to
the glory of the past, it is O'Rahilly ; and
O'Connor gives him what scope he can
be given in translation.
The other prize exhibit is the 18th-
century poet, Bryan Merryman. His
famous piece of bawdy, “The Midnight
Court,” is here reproduced in all its length
in a rush of racy couplets. It is not mere
bawdy, but satire too; and not only satire,
either, but a plea, as mocking as it is
eloquent, for the rights of the body. It
is banned, of course, in the Republic
itself ; but not all nations are in a con-
spiracy to deny the existence of the body,
and Australians may perhaps read it with-
out neurosis.
We can see in these poems a complexity
of attitude which one can detect also in
oneself, if one has the courage to look.
And yet the Irish impact on Australia has
not been made in terms of that com-
plexity. Perhaps the reason is that it was
made largely by 19th-century exiles who
saw themselves in 19th-century terms.
And the Irish in the 19th century were
the weepiest, wailiest, most simple-minded
they had ever been.
This is particularly true of their early
contributions to Australian poetry.
O'Dowd was simple-minded to an ex-
treme ; Victor Daley and McKee Wright
were Celtic Twilight men, full of vague
melting sentiment, and Daley’s “other
side,” the satirical tendency, was too
crude to create a balance; in Brennan
there is the Irish aspiration for cosmic
immensities, but without the psycho-
logical realism and self-mockery which
might have made him a fine poet; and
in any case he intermittently inhabited
something that looks suspiciously like the
Twilight.
Where in our poetry do we find any-
thing of the fierce complexity which is
recorded so movingly in O’Connor’s
book? Nowhere, I should say. And yet,
when 1 ask myself why I think it appro-
priate to speak of myself as an Irish-
Australian, I recognise that I am drawn
precisely to that complexity as answering
some need in myself. It gives some lead
to the way in which we may fertilise our
poetry by drawing on our childhood
world, that world in which the heroes
were but in which we also learnt the
need and the habit of a self-distancing
realism. Poetry becomes increasingly the
art in which, with very new poem, one
realises the direction of one’s past, and
the possibilities of one’s future life, and


SATURN OVER THE WATER
J. B. PRIESTLEY
Starting in Cambridge and finishing in the mountains
of Queensland this novel is an entirely fresh
departure for a superb story-teller 22/6
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON : : MELBOURNE : : SYDNEY : : AUCKLAND
does so by a searching response to one’s
present. The Irish poets may help us in
this.
But only if we take something like
O’Connor's reading of Irish poetic history,
and forget all the 19th-century misdirec-
lions. He is valuable not as a poet
in his own right (as some translators
are) but as a re-assessor of that history.
And the notes he provides to the poems
are both so charming and so helpful that
I almost hope they are accurate, too.
Tying the Loose Ends
The Century of Revolution 1603-1714.
Christopher Hill. Nelson. 41s. 6d.
It seems almost to be becoming a token
of respectability among British pub-
lishing houses to produce a multi-volume
history of England, written by specialists
on the successive periods. (And what is
the Scot to say of a volume from an
Edinburgh firm which devotes less than
20 out of 340 pages to the northern king-
dom?) However, Mr Hill (and Messrs
Nelson) come very well out of the con-
test. The Oxford 17th-century volumes
are by no means the best in their series,
the Pelican volume far and away the
worst; Longman’s 17th century is not
yet in print; Methuen’s “England Under
the Stuarts,” by Trevelyan is, of course, a
classic in its way, but, despite the bril-
liance of its writing, is becoming dated ;
so all in all even “another” history of
the period is to be welcomed—if it is a
good one.
Hill’s is very good indeed, and it
admirably fulfils the editor’s aim of pro-
viding “a picture and an appreciation
of its age ...” written by an expert.
The book is in four parts—up to 1640,
the Civil Wars and Interregnum (to
1660), the Restoration (to 1688) and the
Glorious Revolution and its Aftermath
(to 1714). Each section contains a brief
“narrative of events,” followed by a dis-
cussion of the political, economic,
religious and intellectual developments
of the period and a brief conclusion. The
result is excellent, even though “our
arbitrary division between economics,
politics and ideas” continually breaks
down ; for Mr Hill not only avoids the
“compartmentalising” that one might at
first fear but succeeds brilliantly in
tying together all the loose ends of his
story.
Can one give a short answer to the
question why was there a revolution? It
seems as if “country versus court” carries
the day, though Mr Hill is careful to
stress the manifold ramifications of this
conflict, embracing, as it does, almost
every aspect of social life, “religion,
liberty and prosperity,” all interpreted
in the widest possible way, so that
“religion,” for example, embraced foreign
policy, monastic lands, clerics in politi-
cal office, liberty of conscience and free
speech.
In the excellent list of books and articles
for general reading which is included
there is one striking omission: Professor
George Yule’s study of the “Independents
in the English Civil War,” published by
Melbourne University Press in 1958. For
this, considering the range of other works
listed, there can be only one explanation
—Mr Hill has never heard of it! And
since he has heard of, read and digested
so much else, we can surely only blame
again the failure of Australian publish-
ing houses (and the English “so-called”
agents) to put their titles widely on the
English market. Here is an opportunity
for pushing exports for all concerned to
seize. For this is no isolated case. I,
like many others, have found too often
that the only way to buy in London a
book published in Australia is to order it
from here. Today poor quality is no
excuse for this ; nor even price ; and one
cannot help feeling that the leading
bookshops in London, Oxford and Cam-
bridge at least would stock Australian
titles if Australian publishers would seri-
ously try to persuade them to do so.
However, this is perhaps beside the
point. Despite his not having read Yule's
book, Mr Hill has written a most stimu-
lating volume, which has set a very high
standard for the other contributors in
this series ; at the moment it stands out
as easily the best of the various general
histories of 17th-century England which
are now available.
A. G. L. SHAW
Struggle against Sainthood
Lucinie. M-L. Pascal-Dasque. Dent.
18s. 9d.
Debbie Go Home. Alan Paton. Cape.
12s.
For the Good of the Company. Thomas
Hinde. Hutchinson. 16s.
Young Man Willing. Roy Doliner.
Weidenfeld and Nicholson. 16s.
“T ucinie,” presumably the first novel
of M-L. Pascal-Dasque, the wife
of a French farmer in Algeria, is a for-
midable undertaking executed with com-
plete assurance by a writer who has
studied her subject deeply. She probes
with delicacy and precision the mystery
of a profound religious experience.
Young Sister Lucinie arrives at a small
convent in an Algerian town to take her
place among a little band of nuns in
nursing the sick and living a life of hard
manual labor. The novel traces her
spiritual growth through religious doubt
and fear of her calling towards a final
acceptance. Although the main theme is
Lucinie’s struggle against sainthood the
story never departs —except for some
lyrical passages of a pantheistic nature—
from a solid core of physical reality and
it is perhaps this accent upon the actual
and the mundane that makes the book
totally convincing.
The writer conveys in an expository
form Lucinie’s perception of the Divine
(which somehow recalls the mystical
experience suggested in the poems of
Emily Bronte), analysing and dissecting
her subject with boldness and clarity.
The novel is admirable in its control,
thoughtfulness and exact language.
In this collection of short stories Alan
Paton, with quiet incisiveness, continues
to present the plight of the colored man
without sentiment or proselytising. His
plea is implicit. Most of the stories are
set in a reformatory for colored delin-
quents. Paton describes with great under-
standing the often winning and amusing
personalities of the young inmates so
that even their lawbreaking has
poignancy.
Especially moving is the powerful “Life
for a Life,” where the colored shepherd,
Enoch Maarman, is the innocent scape-
goat for the murder of his white boss,
and “The Divided House,” which records
the struggle of a young reformatory
inmate to overcome his evil impulses so
that he may become a priest, is a little
gem.
In “For the Good of the Company”
English writer Thomas Hinde defines
with keen-eyed detail a world of Big
Business. Sensitive Martin Mason acts
as a kind of human seismograph for
registering the tremors that shake (or
break) relationships in the Trunk
Organisation where he is the newest
recruit. When Martin falls in love with
the daughter of Sir David Bowers, a
managing-director of the company, his
groping understanding of the complex
and ruthless world of Big Business is


BOOKHUNTER
Dept. “D,” Box 2671, G.P.0.. Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-prin*
books. Please send your requirements to
Bo'fcV; Scout, Box 2178, G.P.O. Sydney.
given impetus—though the outcome is
humiliating for him. Detachment is the
keynote of the book—a detachment
which longs to surrender to the absurd
emotions of love, excitement, wonder.
The dialogue, often sparkling, unfailingly
illuminates character.
When Thurber asked “Is Sex Neces-
sary?” he was surely pondering the plots
of innumerable modern American novels.
And in Roy Doliner’s “Young Man
Willing” we get down to bedrock —and
I mean bed. In this story of life in the
New York theatrical world, everyone is
willing. There is much changing of
partners (and sexes) so that the theme of
the obsessive and haunting quality of love
which the author seemed to intend is
lost in the clamor of busy boudoirs.
All is technically adroit, sleek and racy
as the latest motor-car. There is heat
without warmth, wit without humor,
energy without zest. The characters are
lively enough—yet never alive in the
Lawrencian sense. Written in hard-
bitten, knockabout prose, this book makes
some occasional shrewd comments on
relationships, but the general effect is of
“mass-production.”
THELMA FORSHAW
Subcutaneous Revelations
Under Soviet Skins. Ronald Hingley.
Hodder and Stoughton. 265.
Return to Russia. Heinz Lathe and
Gunter Meierling. The Galley Press
Ltd. 16s. (Eng.).
Russians as People. Wright Miller.
Phoenix House. 41s. 6d.
'T'he spate of supervised tourism and
delegation-mongering in Russia in
the last five years has yielded the richest
crop of “eye-witness accounts” since the
war. Everyone is busy “discovering” the
Russians —including not a few “Russian
experts” of many years standing.
Mr Hingley’s “Under Soviet Skins” is
about the best of these to date. Hingley
is one of the most versatile of the younger
English students of Russia, with publica-
tions varying from a language text-book
to a study of Chekhov. His new book
is based mainly on a visit sponsored by
the “Sunday Times” last year, intelligently
supplemented by impressions obtained on
earlier visits and by information obtained
from the Soviet pi ess.
Not that he penetrates very deeply
below the Soviet epidermis. But at least
he gets under the outer garments and the
mask, and his magnifying glass reveals
the pores, hairs, blemishes and surface
oils as well as the overall texture and
coloration of the skin. The result is an
admirably observed and factually accu-
rate account of life in the streets, parks,
schools, tenements and dachas of Moscow
and Leningrad, with some interesting
asides on touristmanship.
Mr Hingley’s explorations of Soviet
“newspeak” turn up not a few collector’s
pieces. “When a Soviet official tells you
that something is ‘not typical,’ what he
means is precisely that it is typical. And
if he tells you that something is ‘not in-
teresting,’ you should drop everything and
investigate it.” I also liked his distinc-
tion between Hieratic (Pravda) Russian
and Demotic (informal) Russian, and
his play with the notion of “mirror-image”
accusations, “whereby Soviet spokesmen,
unable to discuss the defects of their
society, find psychological relief by
attributing them to other societies.”
The only thing in this book which got
under my skin a bit was the somewhat
patronising and supercilious tone which
peeps through from time to time —a hint
that Mr Hingley may not have fully re-
covered from the “strong general anti-
pathy in which both Russians and Com-
munists were embraced” which he con-
fesses to having cherished in the past.
Gunter Meierling and Heinze Lathe
are two West German journalists who
made their first trip to Russia as part
of Hitler’s invasion army, Lathe staying
on for five years after the war as a com-
pulsory guest of the Soviet Government
in order to do some hard work in the
Urals. Their return to Russia as tourists
in the spring of 1958 was a sentimental
journey by diesel Mercedes.
Lathe and Meierling were amongst the
first Western car tourists to cover the
approved route Brest-Minsk-Moscow-
Kharkov-Crimea and back again with
the obligatory (and invaluable) Intourist
guide at their side. They must be amongst
the very few to set off in early May, when
the yards-high piles of snow melt and the
season of rasputitsa (“pathlessness”)
makes going very tough even on the high-
way and even with a diesel motor.
No claims are made here of sub-
cutaneous revelations, but the very super-
ficiality of the account and the breathless,
telegraphic style are but the obverse side
of that unpremeditated directness and in-
discriminate honesty which are the strong-
points of a certain tradition of journalism.
I would not recommend this book as a
first introduction to contemporary Russia,
but it is excellent to fill out the picture.
The authors’ national presuppositions do
not distort the image, though some
readers may be puzzled by the “more in
sadness than in anger” tone in which they
report their discovery that the Soviet
authorities do little to honor German
war-dead. There are a few little errors
of fact, and ignorance or carelessness
sometimes produce some ludicrous effects
such as the rechristening of Moscow’s
Manege Square “Menagerie Square ”
Wright Miller’s “Russians as People” is
the most important of these three books,
and should be obligatory reading for all
who dare to make pronouncements on
the Russians or the Soviet Union.
Scarcely even noticing the Soviet skin,
Mr Miller seeks to reveal the very gan-
glions and viscera of the Russian per-
sonality, and we forgive him the im-
pertinence because of his modesty and
sensitivity, his graceful style and abjura-
tion of jargon—and because it very largely
comes off.
This book is the fruit of a lifelong love
affair with Russia, a love matured to the
point where those major and minor effects
of face and figure are fully explored and
accepted as integral to the loved one. It
is a frank study, intensified by the writer's
penetrating perception and understanding
and humanised by tenderness and respect.
Mr Miller would appreciate but at the
same time his work belies the words of
the 19th-century poet Tyuchev:
The proud gaze of alien eyes
Will neither comprehend nor notice
That which flits and glows in secret
In thy humble beauty.
Please do not expect any startling new
“angles” or interpretations. Mr Miller
repeats what has been said before by
several generations of sensitive, obser-
vant foreigners who have got to know
the country and its people. But they are
things which are worth periodically re-
stating and relating to the contemporary
scene. To try and summarise it would
be as hopelessly distorting as reproducing
a portrait in oils on the typewriter. It
covers the natural setting, the urban and
rural scene, the Russian as individual
and the Russian in society, manners,
morals and taste and (the weakest sec-
tion) “Russians and their Government.”
All three books are embellished with
photographs, not always very relevant to
the text.
T. H. RIGBY
Pulpit Tones
Lanterns and Lances. James Thurber.
Hamish Hamilton. 225. 6d.
“T am supposed to be a caricaturist,” a
caricaturist said to Claud Cockburn
at a session of the old League of Nations.
“But here photography suffices.” Thus,
as early as the 1930 s one aspect of the
dilemma that humorists of the past
decade have been in was crystallised.
When the modern world is not out-invent-
ing the humorist in absurdity it is
crippling his muse with bombs, witch
hunts, creeping conformity, organisation
men. So, at any rate, we are told, and
the view persists even though it would
be hard to name another period that could
show a brighter stand of humorists than
Thurber, Perelman, Cockburn, Kingsley
Amis, Peter de Vries and Anthony
Carson, to name but a few of the writers
and none of that new wave of comedians
headed by JVfort Sahl and Peter Sellers.
And now we even find Thurber himself
in his latest collection, making sad noises
at the bedside:
Humor flourishes only as a free


listab’ished 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON &
,O'SULLIVA\t
pty ltd
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. I,td.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Pape/ Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS 5a OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TOPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYI ERS
RULERS, BOOK BINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
‘JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
IF YOU HAVE A
FLAIR
FOR WRITING...
Turn your talent into a spare-time income.
There is a constant demand for well-
wr'tten stories, articles, pars, radio and TV
scripts, etc., and you can learn to write
successfully for Australian and overseas
magazines and papers.
(STOTT’S can train YOU by post.
For details of Stott's excellent correspon-
dence courses in literary subjects, post the
coupon below . . .
E
9
15!) Flinders Lane, Melbourne; 149 Castle-
r**ash St., Sydney; ’290 Adelaide St.. Bris-
bane; 21 Grenfell St., Adelaide; 22 Howard
St.. Perth.
—— CVI AS D MAIL THIS COUPOS ——
TO STOTT'S: Please send me. without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
MV NAME
ADDRESS
AGE (S.B. 1701)
single entity. Humor makes its own
balances and patterns out of the dis-
organisation of life around it, but
disorganisation has been wiped out
by organisation, statistics, surveys,
group action, programme, platform,
imperatives, and the like. These are
good for satire, but they put a strait-
jacket on humor.
With Thurber the difficulties have
beer, private as well as public. Repeated
operations have failed to save his eyesight
and he is now almost blind. Yet, as
several of these pieces show, the difficul-
ties have not altogether defeated him:
in encounters with children and drunks,
meditations on women and animals,
dialogues at parties, he can still trans-
form h's alarms and depressions into
patterns of genuine comedy. But the
difficulties are much on his mind, and
when he is not actually listing them
(in a pulpit tone that comes strangely
from him) he has clearly given ground
to them.
Blindness has made him, as it made
Joyce, hypersensitive to sound, and
he often takes refuge from insomnia and
the decline of mankind in a private
of word play and word wit. He
spends page after page examining the
alphabet and discovering that oniy seven
capital letters are wholly or partially
enclosed ; that many animals lurk in “M”
and “O'*; that “C” and “M” contain
“some of the greatest antipathetical
entities in fact and fiction (cat and
mouse, etc.); that in English there is
often only one letter of difference between
a statement and the negation of it (“A
stitch in time saves none,” etc.); and so
on. English usage, that old obsession
with “New Yorker” men, also takes up
much of his time as he examines such
“double-breasted polysyllables and full-
dress circumlocutions” as “calculated
risk’ and “peaceful coexistence” and
deplores (in those pulpit tones) the dis-
appearance of the disciplines of Latin
from the American school curriculum.
For the rest he shifts to ground
he doesn't often tread —that of literary
criticism. Here, in notes on “My Fair
Lady” and the works of his favorite
Henry James, he is at his most delightful,
reminding us how far beyond most of his
more “serious” contemporaries his intel-
ligence and sensibility can take him.
JOHN ABERNETHY
A World in Itself
The Sickle and the Harvest. Zenaide
Bashkiroff. Neville Spearman.
31s. 9d.
r T~'HE Russian Revolution has not pro-
duced many aristocratic memoirs of
literary merit since to write well more
is needed than an ancient name and a
tragic history. Zenaide Bashkiroff's
father was Gentleman of the Chamber
to the Czar and a descendant of Genghis
Khan ; her mother was a countess closely
related to the Imperial Family ; and her
cousin was that Prince Youssopoff who
killed Rasputin. She, however, unlike so
many of her kind, has been gifted with a
vivid style, a retentive memory and a
faculty for depicting character ; and her
reminiscences of the early years of the
revolution read like a novel. But these
tragic recollections of a society in dissolu-
tion, seen through the eyes of a clever
child, are certainly authentic though
written more than 40 years after the
events they describe.
The publisher's “blurb” is misleading
when it claims that the authoress “was
brought up in the luxury and elegance
of Czarist Russia,” and had known “the
swish of ball-gowns and the sound of
hunting-horns.” She was only seven
when the ruinous strikes which presaged
the Russian defeat and the revolution
disorganised Petersburg and she and her
little sister were sent for safety to their
paternal grandmother in Nijni-Novgorod.
From this time, when she was barely ten,
the story is one of increasing sadness and
disaster.
Never again will any child see a Rus-
sian family estate as “Bebby” saw her
grandmother’s property, “Kourabitika,”
in 1917, six months before the ruthless
hand of the Soviets seized it and tore it
asunder. It was a little world in itself,
revolving round the gracious colonnaded
house, with its yard full of cattle and
fat horses, its great cellars filled with
apples, with cabbages hanging from the
roof, with barrels of pickled mushrooms,
and mounds of potatoes awaiting the
winter when old-fashioned stoves warmed
the rooms and thousands of wood-
pigeons sought shelter in the barns. The
immemorial agricultural seasons went
placidly on, for man and beast alike;
and every spring, on the same day, the
larks returned to sing above the shooting
crops of rye and millet. No one was
turned away empty from that lavish
house where wandering beggars were
called, not beggars, but world-walkers.
Grandmother Bashkiroff, the aristo-
cratic landowner, is drawn with a loving
hand and, at her death, the light goes out
of the book. Dark indeed were the
children’s last two years at “Koura-
bitika,” and precocious was “Bebby's”
knowledge of suffering and sin.
In the end, the deliverer was the old
Irish governess, “Missy.” Prim, conven-
tional, rigid, she was never intimidated,
not even when a Bolshevik soldier lifted
her skirts to search for hidden jewels.
As a British subject, she managed to
organise the girls’ escape from Russia in
1922. And so their father, who had
returned defeated from the army to his
mother’s house, was left alone, without
wife or daughters, amid the ruins of his
family fortunes. His letters form a sad
appendix to the book, telling only of
poverty and decline until 1937 when they
stopped altogether.
CATHERINE MACKERRAS


Shows
A Man In Revolt
THEATRE
Luther. John Osborne. Royal Court,
London.
Lately the fashion in England is the
historical play. A typical com-
promise, that means the display of con-
temporary politics or paranoia, but made
reasonable and accept-
able by the pattern-
ing and inevitability
of past events. Pret-
tied by gorgeous costumes, surprising
set, and speech with a period licence or
panache, these plays—these devils, these
men for all seasons, these Luthers —can
be watched without worry by middle-
class audiences who, suddenly, ignor-
antly, are subsidising a theatre with
pretentions to intellect.
John Osborne, always an observer of
the established, has obliged the times with
his Luther. And his it is, indeed. Despite
dramatic staging, brilliant dressing, a
bravura performance—it is his language,
his self-expression, his personality that
triumphs.
Formally, it is the simplest of
chronicles, scenes from clerical life:
Luther becomes a priest, Luther prepares
for mass, Luther preaches a sermon, the
Pope is annoyed with Luther, and so on
and so on, until Luther is seen in the
domesticity of the first parsonage. Every
scene is interesting and alive with ideas,
every scene makes one anticipate ; there
is never a dull moment. There is, also,
never a moment when the scenes connect,
touch, add up and hold together to reveal
Luther the man, religion the conspiracy,
society the killer, any one thing . .
Perhaps that is the point. Neither Luther
nor audience should be free to exclaim,
like Pound’s Herakles, “What splendor!
It all coheres.”
It is the weakness of the chronicle
form that it can begin anywhere and
end never, just go on and on. It needs
a Shakespeare to give it significance, a
Shaw ; it needs a Brecht to give it argu-
ment, a Sartre . . . The Luther chronicle
has Osborne, and he accepts the form
as it is, selecting only those scenes that
suit him, ignoring the political, economic
and social necessities that may have used
the historical Luther, and not dramatising
Luther’s resistance to them or knowledge
of them. He selects those scenes in
Luther's life that allow of self-expression.
In them, he displays with thrilling
Petticoat-Lane-made-art rhetoric a self
that is not necessarily Luther’s but is
certainly Osborne the Malcontent’s.
His Luther, therefore, is (like Sartre’s
Baudelaire) “not a revolutionary but a
man in revolt.” He is without pro-
gramme, without plan. Like Osborne, he
rails at the abuses of the Establishment,
crying out for himself against the hurt-
ing world. Accidentally—just as Osborne
did—he does express the discontent that
all individuals feel with the constraints
of society. The result is Reformation
and Luther like Osborn; becomes
acceptable, the rebel suddenly and
bewilderingly finds himself the Estab-
lishment. In a perfunctory and techni-
cally inept epilogue, we see Luther
accepting this role—father of child and
church, established.
There is a memorable scene in the play
(significant surely in Osborne’s life) when
Luther, after a long and wondrously
tense silence, speaks out at Worms and
makes his stand. The stage empties,
darkens, the walls of the great hall fade,
and still he stands there. From some-
where, faintly, comes a singing—strange,
staccato, growing in volume. Figures
appear. In the half-light, they march
forward, around, down past Luther to
the very footlights where in full light
they fill the stage with waving banners
and the sound of Ein’ Feste Burg. They
are Germany, Lutherism, the world
Luther has created ; he himself is lost
from sight.
And he resents it. He is, in the play,
concerned with me. Why does God hate
me, hurt me, me ? “Not me, I am not!”
he cries in the church. He rejects respon-
sibility for the revolt, the rising national-
ism, the actions that other men make in
his name and with his words. The
peace he finds in the last scene of the
play is merely the peace of personal
exhaustion ; it is more defeat than
triumph, more age than success.
The play is then unresolved ; a series
of duologues and monologues decorated
with costumed crowds. Osborne’s mind
is capable of ideas, not of argument.
His language is capable of imagery, not
of logic. Why then does his play
matter? Because (as Luther would say)
he matters. The rage he articulates is
common to many of us, though he may
misdirect it. The appeal and import-
ance of his play lies in its promise, its
feeling of greatness going to happen, its
vivid emotionalism, its relentless insist-
ence on the importance of the individual
soul and its right to be. It is the tone of
the play that holds the audience.
And, of course, the production.
Despite a cast that wants always (as
casts do in London) to rely on rep.
theatre cliches, Tony Richardson, the
producer, has made the play work, made
it appear to move forward, made even
the feed-parts look like characters, and
has given the whole a visual excitement
that illuminates the text and gives it
more connection with “life” than it
probably has.
The Luther of Albert Finney is mag-
nificent. The slight northern accent, the
thick choking voice, the surly stance, the
hands that nurse the stomach, the silences
... it is an extraordinary feat of the
imagination and it transforms his appear-
ance. The intensity of his communica-
tion reminds me of Olivier, but it is less
stagey, less distanced from the audience.
In the first great sermon, for instance,
he talks of the Crucifixion, of the nails
in the hand and he raises his hand for
us —the congregation— to see, for him-
self to contemplate. He holds it there,
through a long, still, but suspenseful pause.
He holds it there as though it were not
his hand but some other’s, as though it
were his hand and some other’s in some
miracle of pain. The words about the
nail linger in our minds. Slowly, as
though pulling himself from contempla-
tion, he raises his head to speak again
and lowers the hand. And then, just
as we are ready to forget the thought
of pain and flesh, the hand bangs hard
against the pulpit:
The audience shuddered. For the first
time, probably, we were really aware
that crucifixion hurt and that there might
be people to whom the thought of that
hurt mattered.
RAY MATHEW
Spirited
The Play of Daniel. St Mary’s
Cathedral Crypt. Guild of St Pius
X and Newman Association.
HPhe play was presented with a solemn
-*• unction that was quite touching ; the
youthful performers seemed as naive and
serious as the play itself, and not a ghost
of a smile was raised in the audience
"He's Wavering between a career in
politics or art."


even by the stage lions, with red tongues
and gaping jaws, as they disappeared witn
the “baddies” through a trap-door. Dorn
Rembert Weakland, who recently tran-
scribed the play after centuries of neglect,
remarks that “Modern piety might tend to
moralise, modern paganism to extenuate.
The mediaeval mind merely presents.”
There was certainly plenty of moralising
in the English narrative, written by W. H.
Auden.
The costumes, designed and manufac-
tured with loving care, were beautiful, the
stage groupings highly effective. The
singing of the soloists was charming, if
somewhat lacking in vigor and forth-
rightness, always a temptation to those
reviving a forgotten art. Some of tire
lively tunes, culled from the treasury of
the Troubadours, were skittish, and the
popularised Gregorian chant splendidly
processional: the male choir was mag-
nificent as it shouted “Gaudeamus” at
the solution of the Writing on the Wall.
The mood of the grim army of Darius
the Mede, advancing to the murderous
fulfilment of Daniel's prophecy, was
evoked by the sinister drums and bag-
pipes.
The spirit of the Biblical narrative was
better represented by this somewhat
stilted and stylised play, with its economy
of means and meagre technical equipment
of bells, pipes and percussion, its thin
childish voices helped out by only 16
men, than by all the frenzied noise of
Walton’s modern “Belshazzar’s Feast.”
Of course, the germ of Walton is clearly
discernible in “The Play of Daniel,” and
the germ, too, of all the oratorios, operas
and dramas, however complex, which have
been written in the 750 years that have
passed since the choir school at Beauvais
composed it as part of the liturgy of the
great cathedral there.
CATHERINE MACKERRAS
Topaze is a Pure Gem
FILMS-
The Pure Hell of St Trinians. Sydney
State. Mr Topaze. Sydney Century.
Never on Sunday. Sydney Embassy.
A ll these films are comedies, and will
make you laugh. The first is like the
joke, funny, ha-ha; the second gently
ironic, with a cerebral twist; the third
impetuously romantic.
The trouble with “The Pure
Hell of St Tomans"’ is that it
is altogether too funny, ha-ha.
There is nothing that it does not
mock, and nothing that it will not stoop
to for a snigger or a laugh. Pomposity
always deserves to be pricked; and adults
who deal with children, as teachers,
administrators, policemen and judges, are
often funnier than they know. But 1
cannot concede that they are all, with-
out exception, completely cuckoo. Nor
can 1 concede that vandalism is necess-
arily funny; or a British Court a suitable
scene for throwing rotten tomatoes (and
least of all at a kindly old judge), or for
making an assignment between an im-
probably sexy schoolgirl and the same
judge; or that all women over eighteen
years of age are pathetic, excruciatingly
funny has-beens. In short, too much
old corn is rehashed, to get every kind of
laugh from a roar to a leer. To get
them, a large cast including some of
England's best actors has been assembled;
but I would have been happier if there
had been fewer of them, and less of every-
thing.
“Mr Topaze’’ is also about teachers
and children, but with the children pushed
mercifully into the background. Accord-
ing to an old maxim I have just made up,
it is the function of education to turn
children into human beings. According
to this film, teachers who cannot accomp-
lish this function become barbarians
themselves; and they should then with-
draw, to save their own souls if they can.
or to lose them if they must. Peter Sellers,
who both directs and acts Monsieur
Topaze, has the wit to take these propo-
sitions seriously. As a result he makes
a very funny film, not without the pathos
that is a necessary complement of genuine
comedy. He is ably supported by a
small cast, perfectly juxtaposed, to give
contrasting characterisations that high-
light the serio-comic message. In short,
“Mr Topaze" purports to be a work of art.
Other than Sellers himself, most
remarkably modest, sensitive and ungoon-
like, one cannot help admiring Lee
McKern and Herbert Lorn. McKern,
the great Shakesperian, is a veritable ;on
as the Mr Gradgrind Headmaster; and
Herr Lorn, too, guys himself with dash-
ing aplomb as the plausible, successful
financier-politician-crook, on whom Mr
Topaze eventually models himself. But
in case all this sounds too good to be
true, I confess that 1 thought the women
weak and the final curtain feeble.
“Never on Sunday" has a sunny sophisti-
cated view of an otherwise sordid subject.
Prostitution was never like this, even in
Greece. But vulgar it is not: it has a
joie de vivre that cleanses, and does not
mock. Almost without plot, it plays
continually on the simple theme that a
prostitute may not be devoid of virtue,
and that a virtuous man can be an awful
bloody fool. Whenever this fails, the
tune is dragged from the husky throat of
the star or from the scruff of a mandolin,
like the zither theme from “The Third
Man.” Moreover, it works. The film
is gay, funny and memorable, like the
melody it rides on.
Written, produced and directed by Jules
Dassin, who gives himself too big a part
as the oafishly self-righteous mock-hero,
“Never on Sunday” has made the
angular Miss Melina Mercouri a top
drawcard in films; and she is remarkable
enough to deserve it. What is more
surprising is that she has become a top
drawcard in the tourist business. Since
the release of “Never on Sunday,” the
holiday traffic to Greece has tripled.
ANTON VOGT
Our Best Abstractionists
ART
Nine Sydney Artists. Gallery A. Mel-
bourne.
'T'hese nine belong together because they
are all in some measure non-figura-
tive. They are John Olsen, William
Rose, Stanislaus Rapotec, Leonard Hes-
sing, Clement Meadmore, Eric
Smith, Peter Upward. Hector
Gilliland and Carl Plate. In
short they are Sydney’s best
young painters, and Australia’s best
abstractionists. Together they have made
up an exhibition which will startle any-
one by its intense vigor and conviction.
One of the most interesting aspects of
the exhibition as a whole is that each
of the nine has a firm and settled style
which clearly reflects quite diverse aims.
There is no obvious imitation and cer-
tainly no “school.” Seeing this, it be-
comes hard to swallow the common con-
tention that abstract painting is merely
fashionable. It must be allowed to most
of these paintings that, whatever their
international influences may be, they are
in the main genuinely original and very
skilfully controlled expressions of sound,
vigorous ideas.
Some are worth much more concentra-
tion than others. The world of John
Olsen will richly repay close examination.
He surely is establishing a claim to be
cur best artist in any style. In polish and
breadth of ideas he easily overshadows
his companions, even to the point of
doing them a disservice by showing with
them. He shines above all because he
evokes a demonstrably real experience.
His landscapes are familiar and lovingly
observed, bright with color, activity and
child-like detail. His journeys through
them are amiable and enjoyable. Where
his fellow' painters, indeed most painters,
are quite foreign to any sort of good
humor. Olsen has a strong picaresque
sense of comedy. Technique hardly seems
to worry him It looks natural, and
transparently simple, which is as it should
be. Nonetheless he composes daringly
and seems to rely on bright background
and the intricacies of the content to carry
his work formally. The result is stimulat-
ing and thoroughly original. Curiously
enough his work has a marked Australian
flavor, perhaps because basically it is
landscape, enriched by human activity,
and Olsen is a wry, perceptive observer.
Very little of bis recent work has been
shown in Melbourne so his four in this
e; hibition must be seen, for he is a com-
manding figure.
Rapotec is probably the best of the


others. His is a very severe art, demand-
ing in the limitations it imposes on the
viewer. His colors are sombre and his
forms few. In this he is as demanding
as Meadmore is in his sculpture, which
continues to explore with increasing com-
plexity the interplay of enclosed spaces
and scarred, square metal planes. As
might be expected the dominant qualities
of Rapotec's work are strength and ten-
sion. According to dedicated abstrac-
tionists, paintings are titled simply to
placate the benighted public. In Rapotec’s
case (and in Olsen's, especially the delight-
ful ’"Journey into the You Beaut Coun-
try”) the titles, though perhaps accidental,
are apt. “Tension” and “Disturbance”
are tough conflicts between rapidly
brushed, dark vertical strokes and light,
rough circles. It is both imposing and
forbidding.
As far as the titles go in Hessing’s work,
he would be well advised to scrap them.
‘"Purple Turtle Myth” and “Festivities
agonised by Yellow” are surely not serious
and certainly not funny. They are just
distracting. The paintings on the other
hand are excellent. He is the only one
of the painters to concern himself with
texture to any great extent, and he com-
bines this with a wide range of fine but
brilliant colors to make very active and
agreeable paintings. But from these
three paintings alone it is hard to say
with any sureness what he is getting at
beyond the painting.
Peter Upward is already quite familiar
to Melbourne viewers, and has made a
name for himself in Sydney. He has by
now taken his grand gesture close to its
extreme limit. On an immense board
he sweeps one rushing, heavily textured
stroke in a monotone and leaves it at that.
This is a logical outcome of his work over
“A very lovely recording—but, tell me, who's on cannon ?”
the last tew years, but it would be a pity
to see a painter of such tremendous
energy stop at simply giving expression
to his energy.
Of the others Rose and Plate merit
attention. Rose continues with his
extremely pleasing constructivist patterns,
which are becoming perhaps freer and
more extensive. Within his carefully and
lovingly worked-over style, he never fails
to please. Carl Plate’s “Edge” is one of
the most subtle and brilliantly executed
works in the show, full of depth and quite
clearly and disturbingly edgy.
In all they make a more stimulating
group than any Melbourne could muster.
BILL HANNAN
Where the Blue Bird is Blue
Sydney Society of Artists. Spring
Exhibition. Education Department
Galleries.
'T’he Society of Artists is the one group
in Sydney which limits its member-
ship rather by professional standards
than by manner. And in its Spring
Exhibition at the Education Depart-
ment Galleries in Loftus Street one sees
work based on mature experience and
draftsmanship.
Innovation is present but is not a prime
criterion. Grace Cossington-Smith has
dreamed up no new gimmick for this
show but the light flickers through
between the gentle touches of her brush
as freshly as ever. Her “Christmas Tree
in the Studio” is gay, but I preferred
the firmer shapes and spaces of her “Jug
and Fruit in the Window.” David
Strachan’s “Old Palazzo” has a majestic
sense of ordered space. George Law-
rence, whose experience has been drawn
more from his better-known landscapes,
here applies it to the weighty forms of
his lay-abouts which he has firmly drawn
together on his “Park Bench.”
The richness which is in this exhibition
is not a result of facility. For instance,
in Lloyd Rees’s “The Settlement,” one
sees first of all the solid stony surface
etched and weathered as if by time. It
seems sure and permanent, but as well
as the square solid central building there
is another on the left which faces this
way, one on the right that faces that way,
and then there is another, so that before
long the surface starts to move with these
great forms like elephants dancing off
into a large spiral. The balance between
the solidness and the movement achieves
the sort of breadth which one only gets
from a great painter in his mature years.
Yet in his mature years Rees is still
experimenting. His “Spring in Lane
Cove” with its pastel colors is the sort
of thing that could easily be just pretty
Were it not for its abstract basis and
its surlily drawn forms. It is more like
the slow movement of mother earth than
the impermanent fancies of her children.
John Santry is another who combines
a new approach with considerable drafts-
manship. In his “Woolloomooloo” the
foreground head is solid and still in front
of the areas of fresh color which step
back into a flat pattern behind.
Among the newer generation of
painters one expects variety and fresh-
ness and of the many fine works here
are Guy Warren's “Princess,” a com-
position in greens and yellow with a tense
basic design, and Leonora Howlett's
composition which combines adventurous
color combinations with well-poised
shapes. John Henshaw uses color with
violent courage in his “Incandescence,”
but I preferred the “London Still Life” in
which the use of natural forms has
stiffened the pattern.
Often in a large exhibition the big
pictures dominate and hide the smaller
ones, but here there is little that needs
to shout to attract attention. One is
able to take time and enjoy the many
fine smaller paintings which have qualities
which are lost in the attempt to produce
more ambitious ones.
The gentle genre quality in Tom
Thompson’s anecdotal “Woman with a
Splinter” and the feminine forms and
light texture of Hana Juskouik's “Bush
Flowers” are ideally suited to this scale,
while the simple strength of Harold
Abbots’s spotted “Jug” and Douglas
Dundas’s “San Gemignano” is able to
exist without embellishment. Ronald
Wakelin shows his restrained good sense
of proportion, color and design in his
small “Still Life in Red” as well as in
his larger landscape, and Adrian Feint’s
“Geraniums,” in which the masses of
flowers, jug and background are closely
related, is one of his most satisfying
works.
Leonard Hessing tears madly around
his canvas in search of where the blue
bird turns red, one of the few abstract
expressionist pictures in this show. The
absence of much of this sort of painting
allows other values to be seen in what
must be one of the Society of Artists’
most successful exhibitions in years.
SALMON


SUNNY
MORROW
The devil tempted him in the spinifex
By Vance Palmer
EVEN on the waterfront it was hot and breathless.
People had flowed out of the still town that smelt of
rotting fruit and boiled tar and were meandering
under the palms of the esplanade, but their move-
ments were vague and desultory. It was as if the muggy day,
spent in shops and offices, had sucked all the life out of
them and now that night had come they could not face the
thought of going home to the little tin-roofed houses that
would still be holding the heat of afternoon. The few
young couples lying on the grass had turned away from one
another and along the asphalt paths others strolled without
talking. No one had any spirit left except the group of
Salvation Army people holding a meeting under the spread-
ing Moreton Bay fig.
The little waves that broke on the shingle had a tired
sound and the occasional puffs of wind that rustled the
palms brought no hint of coolness; they seemed merely the
exhaled breath of a lukewarm sea. Far out on the water the
lights of a few boats moved up and down with a lazy motion
that put the mind to sleep.
But the big drum boomed out resonantly, and the little
group under the fig-tree seemed to be totally unaffected by
any influence of the night. I moved over nearer to them.
White, exalted faces under the naptha-lights, an aura of
other-worldliness and devotion, and a sprawl of mischievous
small boys on the outskirts flicking native figs at one
another. In that atmosphere of utter indifference the sacred
flame burned with an unreal glow. An elderly woman in
the familiar bonnet was speaking, and the big kanaka with
rolling eyes fingered his drumsticks impatiently waiting for
the next hymn while the officer with a sandy moustache
punctuated the testimony with mechanical notes of praise
and a couple of girl-converts, not in uniform, looked over
self-consciously to where some young men were lounging
in the shadows.
Suddenly my attention was riveted by a face. Not a
very remarkable face, except for the eyes, which were bluish
against their florid background and filled with a curious
dancing light. It was that of a man about 60, broad-
shouldered and upstanding, with a round head and short,
reddish-grey hair that sprouted as vigorously from his skull
as spikes of bleached spinifex. The hair as much as the eyes
started my memory working. Where had I met this cheerful
old proselyte before? Surely in some little township hun-
dreds of miles west in the mineral belt.
“Sunny Morrow!” came to me in a flash.
And the next moment I was carried back to a ram-
shackle saddler’s shop at Koolinda where a brisk, hearty-
voiced tradesman hummed fragments of bush songs or
bubbled with a spontaneous flow of talk as he worked among
the leather. George J. Morrow was the name his signboard
carried, but no one ever called him anything but Sunny. He
was the life of the town, whether he was organising concerts
for the ambulance or goat-races for the children, and noth-
ing ever seemed to damp his energy and high spirits. Deep-
chested. a bit sun-blotched about the face, he always talked
as if he were a little drunk, but he very rarely bent his elbow,
and it did not need the smell of liquor to put that crazy,
flickering light into his eyes or to set him rambling into one
of his happy, incoherent stories.
They had told me on my last visit to Koolinda that
Sunny Morrow had come a cropper and sold out his busi-
ness. but no one was very clear as to where he had gone.
Some said he had been bitten by the new mania for prospect-
ing. others that he was probably doing his itinerant round
of saddling jobs on the Gulf stations; the question didn't
arouse much interest. The township itself had changed very
rapidly with the big finds of silver-lead and the little ones of
uranium; it was no longer a cattle-country centre; it was a
base for distributing supplies to the minefields. New people
and interests dominated it. and there wasn't much room for
a saddler like Sunny Morrow.
I waited for him till the meeting had broken up. and
after staring at me a few moments with his blue, incandescent
eyes he welcomed me in the old boisterous way.
“Strike me blind and dippy, when did you come? When
I was giving mv testimony, was it? Same old testimony, but
a bit new every evening. Things I remember, things that
come back to me in the night. If Fd known you were one
of the crowd . . .”
I told him that unluckily I had been too late to hear
it. but that I was glad he was still living up to his name of
Sunny. What puzzled me, though, was to find him so far
away from his old haunts. There had been his shop, now
taken over by an ironmonger; there had been his ambition
to turn out a saddle that would be put into a song like the
one made by Uhl.
His face seemed to darken as he led me to a bench under
the fig-tree.
“Oh, that,” he said. “That’s in another life. Way back
so far I can hardly remember it. I’ve been born again . . .
Born again,” he added with a peculiar ring in his voice.


For awhile he didn’t seem anxious to talk. Perhaps the
reminder of old days had knocked him off his perch a little;
perhaps he had let himself go too long that evening to the
empty air. When he was silent his eyes looked blank and it
was if he had retired into some inner cavern.
“Didn’t they tell you I was the man who discovered
Collabri?” he asked at length, looking at me sideways.
They hadn’t. There had been enough talk about Colla-
bri, but the legend going round was that its pioneer had
been a travelling hawker who used to visit the different
isolated shows in the dry country. Yet I remembered that
Sunny had always been a bit crazy about prospecting and
had his shop littered v/ith specimens he had picked up on
one of his professional trips round the Gulf stations.
“That was when the devil tempted me into the wilder-
ness . . . into the dry belt, the spinifex,” he corrected him-
self. “I sold out the business and went off with a couple of
packhorses. There was a queer-looking mountain 1 used to
dream about —I wanted to have another quiz at it. A couple
of years before I’d struck it when I went astray coming
down from the Gulf, but I was too anxious to get back to
country I knew to stop and examine it then. I used to do
all those stations, you know —camp at ’em a month or so
and overhaul the saddlery and harness. It was a good life,
moving round, and when I was tired of sitting on my tail
I'd leave the shop to my offsider. pack up my traps and leave
for the grey Gulf water I used to sing about. You remem-
ber the song:
There by the grey Gulf water
I met a squatter’s daughter,
Her father was a sod of a man,
Her mother was a gin . .
“Can’t recollect the rest of it —don't want to —but the
tune goes round in my head still, and sometimes l make up
new words for it. You know what they say; why should the
devil have all the good tunes? I never had the patience to
learn an instrument, not even the accordion, but I’ve got a
great ear for melody. Yes. I can remember every tune I ever
heard, or anyway the ones I’ve liked.
“But what was 1 telling you? Oh. about the time Old
Nick tempted me up on a high mountain and showed me the
kingdoms of the earth. All the kingdoms of earth and the
glory of them. There was a lot of talk about silver-lead
those days, and I'd been carrying the shape of that mountain
about in my head for a long time. What do they call it
now? Collabri. is it? I call it the Devil's Peak . . . D’you
remember Fatty Sayce?”
He seemed to be getting worked-up and inclined to
dither. I did remember Fatty Sayce; he was the hawker
they'd built the legend around. A dark-skinned, nondescript
sort of fellow with a watermelon paunch and a cast in one
eye who used to carry a load of sly grog under a cover of
green vegetables. There wasn’t a show in the dry country
he didn’t visit.
“Well, it was him found me when I came down from
the mountain.” said Sunny. “Found me and my specimens,
too. The cunning bastard! The sly old dingo! . . . No,
that’s not right. It’s not what I feel —it’s a sinful way of
talking. I’d like to wipe out all the bad thoughts I had about
him when I was living in outer darkness. Fatty was all
right. It was just that he hadn’t the strength to put behind
him the lusts of the world and the flesh. And they drove him
into the ground at the end; yes. I’ll tell you about that.
Maybe I was his downfall. Maybe he looked on me as the
devil who tempted him down the broad path that leadeth to
destruction.”
His eyes were shining queerly in the dim light. With
two fingers he pulled down the jersey at his throat as if it
w?s constricting his breath.
“You’d done a perish?” I suggested.
“Perish?” he repeated. “Yes, that’s the word. The
evil and wayward shall surely perish. Seven days without
food and water I did after the packhorses got away on me.
Couldn’t tear myself away at first to go after them. But I
napped pieces off every outcrop on that mountain and knew
I’d come across good metal. Knew it, did 1 say? I didn’t
know day from night when Fatty picked me up in his cart on
the flat below, or for weeks after. I was mother-naked, for
one thing, except for the uppers of my boots and the bag
of specimens I’d slung round my neck, and my eyes had gone
back on me. But while I was lying at the township pub,
and after at the hospital, only one thing troubled me. It was
the way they talked of sending me to a good, comfortable
home down on the coast. Hell, how the prospect of that
used to make me wake in the night and sit up in a sweat!
To be trucked off to the nuthouse when all I wanted was to
get out and have my specimens assayed! The more I’d argue
with the doctor and nurses and try to prove 1 was right in my
head the more queerly they’d look at me. ‘Don’t you worry,
Sunny,’ they’d say. ‘You’re in good hands. We’ll see you're
well looked after.’ ”
He was silent awhile. He seemed to have been carried
back to a world that was more disheartening than the dry
country.
“It must have been close on a year before I was let
out,” he went on, “and then I found they were all talking
about Collabri. The name went out of the other ear with me
at first: I was set on finding my specimens and getting them
assayed. And when the hope of that faded I planned another
prospecting trip out to Devil’s Peak. The man I bought
horses from dropped something about Collabri. ‘What’s
Collabri?’ I asks. ‘Why. the new silver-lead field that’s just
been opened up,’ he tells me. ‘lt’s been a bonanza for the
gougers who got in at the start. Fatty Sayce made a pot
out of it.’
“I went out to Devil’s Peak and found what I’d begun
to suspect. Gougers crawling all over it, with a swarm of
lorries carting ore to the railhead and a settlement forming
on the flat where Fatty had found me. There wasn’t an inch
of that mountain that wasn’t staked out in leaseholds. The
devil got a good grip on me then: I felt I wanted to set fire to
the spinifex and burn out the whole show. I did make ashes
out of the hessian shed that was post office and store. It was
Fatty I was really after, though. He’d been the first to peg
out leases and had sold them when the quality of the ore
showed and taken up others. He’d bought up trucks and
had men running them for him. He was in all sorts of things
that didn’t call for him bending his back or staying out there
on the field. There was hell in me when I thought of him.
I swore I’d do him in, even if I had to swing for it: I didn't
stop to think, those days, of the fire and brimstone after-
wards.
“Fatty was drinking at the ’Curry, they told me, and
making the money fly. but when I got there he was gone.
Somehow he was always moving on, a jump or two ahead of
me. as if he knew I was after him. 1 started drinking pretty
heavily myself, though I’d never done it before. And I
suppose I talked —let all the world know what was in for
the man who’d done me down. I got as much kick out of
thinking up ways of dealing with Fatty as I would have out
of the murder itself. The devil was never very far from my
shoulder.
“But wherever I followed Fatty Sayce he’d always
gone somewhere else. Down here to Townsville or up to
some new show in New Guinea. And I had to work to get
money. Sometimes when I had a job and was finding
pleasure in working at the old game I’d forget all about
Fatty and become Sunny Morrow again, the man who
always sung when he was cooking his breakfast and was
going to make a saddle as good as Uhl’s. But the devil
didn’t let me keep like that for long—no fear! At nights
he’d come to me and prod me awake. ‘Aha! you’re letting


up on it,’ he’d mock me. ‘All the spunk leaked out of you,
eh?’ And by morning I’d want to move on.
“This was the place Fatty made his centre, and I’d
always come back to it. They told me he was staying at
one of the big hotels and doing things in style, but 1 could
never find out just where. I used to picture meeting him
on this very esplanade and ramming the whole dirty story
of what he’d done to me down his throat, but the devil at
my elbow wouldn’t let it go at that. ‘Turn it into an argu-
ment, would you?’ he’d say. ‘What is there to argue about?
If you start swapping words you’re done. Shoot him and
make an end of it.’ And whatever he told me, those days,
I'd agree to in the end. 1 was living in sin ever since I sold
my soul to him and couldn't get to sleep without a bottle of
whisky on the table beside me.
“I’d bought a revolver and got fun out of playing with
it, loading it in bed at night and kidding to take pot-shots
at stains on the wall. I even took to carrying it to my work
—that is. when I did work. Fatty Sayce had gone on a trip
to Brisbane. I found out, but he’d left most of his traps
behind. A big car in the garage and a stack of flash clothes.
1 hadn't enough money to go to Brisbane, but 1 reckoned
that before long he’d be back, and now I knew the hotel he
was staying at I could settle down to wait. Something told
me I was coming to the end of the hunt at last. I was feeling
good inside, beginning to sing in the old way. And then . . .
Did you notice that captain there tonight with the straight
back and the sandy moustache?”
I had. But I wanted to hear more about Fatty Sayce.
“A great man. that captain.” said Sunny. “Educated;
knows about high life all over the world and what comes to
those who grow fat on the wages of sin. Wrestled hard with
the devil himself, he had, when he was a young fellow.
Fought him till he shook him off and got free. I was lying
on the grass here one afternoon, listening to him tell about
the rip he used to be and the way he found salvation when
a funeral goes past. ‘Who’s picnic’s that?’ I asks the man
next me. ‘Don’t know,’ he says, ‘but a bloke in one of the
big pubs along the Front shot himself yestiddy morning.
Sayce—the man who put Collabri on the map.’ ‘What?’ I
raps out. ‘Yes,’ he says, ‘D.T.’s. I saw him come off the
Brisbane plane three days ago, and he looked v/ell off his
rocker then.’
“And it’s a funny thing, but right away I forgot every-
thing but what the captain with the red moustache was
saying about the happiness of being saved and the joy of
throwing off the devil. I felt . . . but I can’t say just now how
I felt. What’ll you be doing Sunday? I'll be giving my
testimony again then, and I can talk a lot better when I’m
on my feet and there's a crowd around.”
He leapt up springily. swinging his arms a little and
glancing up into the darkness of the spreading fig. The
light from one of the esplanade lamps gleamed on his trans-
figured face and his red jersey. I told him I would be leaving
before Sunday.
“Yes.” he said as if he hadn’t heard me. “I can talk a
lot better on my feet. The spirit moves; words pour out in
a flow. The crowd, like tonight, never wants me to stop
when 1 get going. And there isn't a man who comes along
the Front here Sundays that hasn’t heard of Sunny Morrow
and his last round with the devil.”
“Do you come here often?”


FINANCE CORPORATION OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
( Incorporated, in South A ustralia )
CHAIRMAN'S ADDRESS at the ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
OF SHAREHOLDERS, held on Tuesday, 22nd August, 1961.
The Directors’ Report which accompanied the Balance Sheet and the Consolidated Statements of the
Company and its Subsidiaries for the year ended 30th June, 1961, recorded the sound progress made
during the year.
H. H. Pittman
In my address last year I
stated that in the absence of
any major factor which might
affect the Australian economy,
it was considered that the Com-
pany could look forward to
earnrng satisfactory profits.
Although a major upset in the
Australian economy did occur
in the form of the “Credit
Squeeze”—which reduced the
activity of finance companies
—the year’s results are not only
satisfactory but constitute a
record.
The following figures relate
to yearly Net Profits and
Gross Outstandings and give
an index of growth over the
six years of the Company's
operations.
Year Ending Net Profit Gross
30th June, After Tax. Outstandings.
£ £
1956 .. 54,673 (100) 2,083,581 (100)
1957 .. .. 81.142 (148) 3,878.203 (186)
1958 ,, .. 88,057 (161) 4,745,922 (227)
1959 .. .. 152,472 (278) 7,997,182 (383)
1960 .. 226,805 (414) 14,630,975 (702)
1961 ., 263,251 (481) 16,111,774 (773)
The Consolidated Net Pro-
fit of £263,251 after Taxation
Provision of £253,81 1. repre-
sents an earning rate of 18%
on average capital paid up for
the twelve months. The total
liability of the Company for
interest on borrowed funds for
the year will be deductible for
income tax purposes. The
recommended final dividend
together with the interim divi-
dend paid in March, 1961, will
represent 10% for the year —
a total distribution of £146,633.
The balance of the Consoli-
dated Profit which remains—
£ll6,6lB, increases reserves to
£405,740.
I should like to say that
your Directors this time last
year were of the opinion that
a peak in commerce and in-
dustry was approaching, and
decided that it would be pru-
dent to conserve the Com-
pany’s funds to maintain ade-
quate liquidity—which was
done. Bank Balances and De-
posits placed by the Company
were maintained at a high level
during the vear and amounted
to £2,011,263 at 30th June,
1961. The Company also con-
tinued underwriting arrange-
ments for short term borrow-
ings as a protection against any
sudden reduction in the
amount of short term money
available to it.
Money invested with the
Company on Debentures and
Deposits increased by more
than £1,750,000, and the cur-
rent issue of Registered First
Mortgage Debenture Stock has
met with an excellent response
from the investing public—
particularly in South Australia.
More than £900,000 of medium
term money has been received
since the issue opened 15th
June, 1961.
In October, 1960, a first and
final call of 5/- per share was
made on one million shares
of 10/- each, thereby in-
creasing paid-up capital to
£1,500,000.
Issued capital was further
increased during May, 1961, by
an issue of 1,000,000 ordinary
shares of 10/- each at par, paid
to 2/6 each. These shares
rank for dividend as from Ist
May, 1961, on the amount paid
up thereon. The remaining 7/6
per share is payable by three
instalments of 2/6 each on Ist
November, 1961, Ist May,
1962, and Ist November.
1962.
In accordance with authority
previously given, your Direc-
tors issued 22,750 Employees’
Shares of 10/- each to the
Trustees of the Company's
Staff Superannuation Fund for
the benefit of senior executives.
These shares have been paid up
to 1/- each.
Issued capital at 30th June,
1961, was £2,011,375 and paid-
up capital £1,626,138.
The Company has continued
its policy of diversification and
has conducted its business on
a conservation basis. Gross
outstandings at 30th June.
1961, total £16,111,774 com-
pared with £14,630,975 for the
previous year. This small in-
crease was the result of the
deliberate policy to maintain a
fully liquid position out of
funds otherwise available for
new business. Hire Purchase
and Real Estate contracts of
£9,362,710 include Unearned
Income of £2,252,972, or
24.06% of such outstandings.
Secured Loans and Sundry
Debtors of £6,749,064 do not
include interest charges which
are brought into account as
earned.
Losses from bad debts and
repossessions have been very
minor in the year under review.
Interstate offices of the Com-
pany have again been respons-
ible for a major share of new
business, although the Com-
pany has restricted certain
types of loans—particularly in
New South Wales —because of
the unsuitability to present-
day conditions of the law
relating to money lending.
The Australian Hire Pur-
chase Conference, of which
this Company is pleased to be
a member, has continued to
give factual information to the
public and to Governmental
authorities on the operations
of Member Companies of the
Conference, thereby giving a
clearer understanding of the
industry and the essential part
it plays.
A young country like Aus-
tralia will require vigorous de-
velopment of all kinds for
years to come. There will be
“peaks and valleys,” but these
must be met courageously.
Finance companies are render-
ing and will continue to render
under free enterprise, real
practical service to the com-
munity as a whole. The
operations of such companies
are now established as an
essential part of the Australian
way of life and are a major
force in our economy helping
to provide the means for mass
distribution of consumer pro-
ducts.
New avenues for expansion
are under investigation, includ-
ing leasing for which a sub-
sidiary company, F.C.A. Leas-
ing Limited, was recently
registered.
Our thanks are due to the
General Manager, Mr A. C.
Noble, and the Assistant
General Manager, Mr. K. W.
Adcock, executives and staff
for a splendid co-operative
effort during the year.
H. H. PITTMAN.
Chairman of Directors.


Business, Robbery, Etc.
MR CALWELL'S “SHADOW BUDGET”
Labor's Inflationary Remedies
|>atchy and dull treatment of
long run development prob-
lems in Mr Holt’s Budget
offered the A.L.P. an excellent
opportunity for a convincing
attack on the Federal Govern-
ment’s economic policies.
For once Mr Calwell eagerly
seized the chance. In an emo-
tionally delivered 47-minute
speech to the House of Repre-
sentatives in Canberra last
week he duly assailed the
Treasurer for shortcomings in
the Budget and set out the
Opposition’s proposed reme-
dies. The nation was presented
with an outline of Labor’s sup-
plementary “shadow Budget”—
to be brought down next Feb-
ruary in the unlikely event of
A.L.P.’s victory at the Federal
elections.
In his Budget, Mr Holt had
displayed a high degree of
economic realism in dealing
with immediate short run prob-
lems. This part of his task was
quite creditably discharged. It
was only his treatment of eco-
nomic growth problems that
raised objections and reserva-
tions.
As if by a deliberate contrast,
Mr Calwell’s outline of Labor's
economic policy contains a
worthwhile approach to some
aspects of Australia’s long run
development but a hopelessly
wrong and dangerous assess-
ment of the immediate econo-
mic needs.
Ironically, it seems that if
some parts of Mr Calwell's
long range economic “shadow”
policies could have been pasted
on to Mr Holt's Budget the
result could have been a reason-
ably satisfactory compromise.
The Labor plan for develop-
ment of Northern Australia,
although presented in much too
vague a form, contains several
important examples of positive
and dynamic economic think-
ing.
These include proposals for
building a tropical transconti-
nental railway leading west-
wards from Mt Isa with the aid
of Commonwealth grants, and a
greater volume of Government
investment on capital projects
in general.
Larger grants to States for
housing would also be welcome.
Possibilities of developing a
steel industry near the iron ore
deposits in Western Australia
and Queensland with Common-
wealth assistance merit careful
consideration. And there is no
doubt that the Federal Govern-
ment should take the initiative
in fostering basic capital devel-
opment if insufficient incentives
exist for private enterprise.
On the other hand, every effort
is needed to create such incen-
tives and channel more and
more private investment funds
to serve the needs of basic in-
dustrial growth. Unfortunately,
on this point Mr Calwell is
silent.
There is quite a case for the
Government to help establish
such a project as new steel-
works in Western Australia and
get it going profitably, and then
either sell it outright to private
enterprise or allow a large
degree of participation to
private shareholders. Federal
funds could then be largely
withdrawn and invested in a
new capital project.
This would of course run
against the current Labor philo-
sophy, but there is no reason
why Mr Menzies’s Government
could not start something simi-
lar.
A/fR Calwell’s speech shows
that the A.L.P. has now
produced some economic alter-
native to nationalisation. This
is the old idea that the Govern-
ment set up new Government-
owned industries to compete
with private enterprise where
acutely monopolistic situations
arise. Although it is gratifying
that the A.L.P. has come to
accept this realistic alternative,
it contains nothing new. Gov-
ernment-owned business enter-
prises, such as T.A.A. and
Qantas, have been successfully
operating for years, and there
is no need to bring in Labor
to continue this policy.
On the other hand, Mr
Calwell’s ideas about forming
a Government - owned inter-
national shipping line—at the
very time when the world’s
shipping giants are finding the
going tough—belong to the
realm of fantasy. Formation
of Government insurance com-
panies likewise seems unrealis-
tic. Why duplicate the work
of such firms as the N.S.W.
Government Insurance Office?
An the whole, Mr Calwell's
approach to long run
economic problems seems to
be surprisingly dynamic. His
awareness of the need for
balanced growth is encouraging.
But to achieve all this continu-
ation of the basic changes in
Australia's economic structure
commenced by Mr Holt last
November is essential. And
Mr Calwell either fails to
realise this or deliberately tries
to pull the wool over the elec-
tors’ eyes.
Where Mr Holt held fast
against strong temptations to
hand out dangerous election-
year sops far and wide, Mr Cal-
well openly proposes to bring
back inflation.
A large budgetary deficit is
not necessarily a dangerous
thing in itself, although the
magic £lOO million figure raises
suspicions of some pretty weird
economics. However, the A.L.P.
proposes to use a deficit of this
magnitude specifically to stimu-
late the consumer goods in-
dustries—in particular motor
vehicles and hire purchase.
The result would be a terrific
inflationary pressure, steep
rises in prices and costs, tragic
losses of export markets and
more disastrous disproportions
in the rate of growth of pro-
ducer and consumer goods
sectors. To check the spread-
ing economic chaos Labor
would then no doubt resort to
all sorts of controls and restric-
tions.
Mr Calwell seems to have
lost none of his old predelic-
tion for economics through ad-
ministrative compulsion. On
the contrary he expounded
more ideas for forcing savings
banks to invest a higher pro-
portion of their assets in hous-
ing loans. In economics, ad-
ministrative compulsion should
be the last resort, even if used
in the very best intentions—it
just does not work the way it
is expected to.
On closer examination, Mr
CalwelFs long and short term
economic proposals do not
fit in together. Short-run in-
flationary chaos cannot result
“ I've got to know them at the super market quite Well
so I'm certainly not changing to a common market!”


Another “Wales” Service
oulits
Save time, save travelling,
save money open a
“Wales” cheque account.
Pay your bills the safe way
and have a permanent
record of all your money
matters.
You can have your
name printed on your
cheques. Enquire at any
Branch about this “per-
sonalized cheques” service.
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(incorporated in new south wales with limited liability)
A6IIBC
in balanced economic growth.
The thing it is most likely to
bring about is a lopsided “milk
bar economy.'’
Indiscriminate inflationary
spending could bring about
onlv a very short term and
artificial improvement in the
employment position, which
would soon give way to much
more severe unemployment
than we have at the moment.
Mr Calwell’s promise to wipe
out unemployment by bolster-
ing inflationary industries at
the expense of basic develop-
ment is a dangerous pre-elec-
tion stunt.
Unfortunately, his speech is
full of such gimmicks which
outweigh the merit of his
dynamic long run economic
plans.
Labor's inflationary short
run fiscal remedies are utterly
unrealistic and irresponsible,
and will swiftly kill the patient
if given a chance to work.
Especially if the A.L.P.’s
eager economic doctors have
not been able to diagnose the
illness. Mr Calwell’s extra-
ordinary statement that he had
to “clear away the myth of the
1960 boom which the Govern-
ment has been trying to create
in recent months” indicates
that neither he nor his econo-
mic advisers have been able to
understand what has been hap-
pening—except in terms of
coining election catch-phrases
and slogans.
In one oreath Mr Calwell is
accusing the Government of
unnecessarily breaking the
boom, and then asserting that
there never was a boom to
break!
It is therefore all the more
distressing to hear delighted
applause from people who
should really know better. The
Employers’ Federation has for
years been a fire-eating critic
of inflationary tendencies.
Every increase in the wage
rates, whether justified or not,
was attacked by the Federa-
tion on the grounds that it
would intensify inflationary
pressures. But now some of
Mr Calwell's most inflationary
proposals are being warmly
welcomed.
There is little surprise that
the motor vehicles producers
and distributors are “warmly
welcoming’’ Labor's short term
economic policies—anything is
better than reducing car prices.
And everybody is keen to
abolish the payroll tax.
True enough, there is room
for some selective payroll tax
reductions —but it is unlikely
that these in itself will provide
a magic cure.
Unfortunately, those who
praise Mr Calwell for his
speech concentrate on the disas-
trous short run suggestions and
ignore his long run growth
plans, which are really worth
considering. And neither his
supporters nor his critics seem
to notice the common failing
of both Mr Calwell and Mi
Holt, both of whom shy away
from introducing a degree of
selectivity into their policies
Discriminatory tax measures
are an excellent instrument to
stimulate some industries and
contain others, depending on
economic requirements of the
period. It appears, though,
that both the Government and
the Opposition are too timid to
advocate their use.
EUGENE BAJKOWSKI
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
Oil Drillers Find Coal
A fter several years of inten-
sive oil search in Western
Australia Wapet’s team drill-
ing the Eneabba No. 1 explora-
tory well west of Three
Springs has instead located a
deep belt of high-grade coal
at 6430 feet.
Reports say that the coal
deposits are richer than in the
famous Collie coal belt. The
drill test shows that the coal
seam extends in depth to
6540 feet, with some beds of
claystone in between.
Western Australian Minister
for Mines, Mr Griffith, has
proclaimed a ministerial coal
reserve over a wide area
around Eneabba to prevent
ind'scriminate pegging for coal.
Wapet, the oil-search com-
pany, has no claims to the coal
deposits because its titles cover
oil exploration only.
Coal samples provided by
Wapet are being tested by
Mines Department experts.
Although the Western Aus-
tralian Government has some
hopes that a point could be
located where the seam is close
enough to the earth surface to
enable economic mining opera-
tions, the coal deposits appear
to have little commercial
interest at present because of
their great depth. Only some
highly specialised methods of
commercial exploitation—such
as burning coal at the seam for
gas production—come to mind
immediately.
About the same time that
Wapet’s drilling team struck
the coal beds, a plan for
developing seven million acres
of the Nullarbor Plain as a
gigantic cattle station was
announced in Perth.
A syndicate of 11 Western
Australians, including the
16-year-old son of the chair-
man, is seeking a lease cover-
ing almost seven million acres
from the State Government.
It is hoped that this area
will be able to support one
beast to every 60 acres if
sufficient water supplies can be
found. Proximity of the
property to the Transcontinen-
tal Railway could provide an
easy access to the markets in


YOUR
FAVOURITE
BRANDY
m
Brands
BRANDY
PROTECT YOUR FAMlLY—
enquire about the
FAMILY
INCOME
BENEFIT
provided by the
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
Metropolitan Building,
Hunter and Biigh Sts., Sydney.
COMPLETE
PROTECTION
ELECTRIC LIFTS HYDRAULIC
ELEVATORS PTY. LIMITED,
877 Dowling Street, Waterloo. FF 3931.
Represented in all States. Telegrams: Hydelec.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS for Express Lift Co., Ltd., England.
You CAN Succeed
IN
• Writing for Radio, T.V.,
Films
• Short Story Writing
• Freelance Journalism
• Professional Writing
• Shorthand-Typewriting
Send to ICS for free aptitude
test of your latent abilities.
Self expression brings rich
rewards.
Post the coupon for FREE
Booklet giving course details.
I "1
| Please send free book on “Write |
j for Profit.” !
j NAME j
J (Please print) j
I ADDRESS |
Occupation
INTERNATIONAL
CORRESPONDENCE SCHOOLS
Dept: 90, 140 Elizabeth St.,
Svdnev. Phone 61.6566.
Bulletin
Western Australia and the
eastern States.
The syndicate proposes to
invest £1,000,000 if its plans
are approved by the Govern-
ment.
THE SHAREMARKET
Three Investment Reviews
A mong the new and improved
4"*- services provided by Aus-
tralian share and stock brokers
to their clients investment re-
views take the pride of place.
Most brokers issue various in-
vestment letters and circulars at
regular intervals, or whenever
the time is opportune. These
are the product of long years of
sharemarket experience and,
very often, of careful and pains-
taking research.
More and more leading
brokers become equipped with
carefully selected research de-
partments, staffed by expert
investment analysts and ener-
getic young economics gradu-
ates specialising in detailed
company reviews and economic
surveys. An ever - increasing
number of annual investment
reviews is appearing The
quality of equities analysis is
steadily improving.
Three valuable annual in-
vestment reviews appeared re-
cently. Messrs. Charles A.
Ord and Minnett, of Sydney,
came forward with their “Aus-
tralian Equities,” containing
215 pages of comprehensive
analyses of Australia’s principal
listed companies.
Each company review con-
tains basic information about
the directorate, dividends, price
range, capital and reserves —
stated both at book and market
values —and a five-year sum-
mary of the essential revenue
figures and earning rates and
ratios.
In addition, there is a very
valuable sharemarket history of
the company analysed, setting
out in a concise form the nature
and scope of its activities, par-
ticulars of capital issues and
dividend policy, links with sub-
sidiaries and associate com-
panies (if any) and a summary
of the latest developments.
Finally, there is Ord and
Minnett's “specialite de la
maison” —the stock’s growth
record covering six years.
Growth is measured by earn-
ings per share, dividends per
share and the “market growth”
index figure.
“Market growth” is calcu-
lated by a rather involved
formula, which “measures the
capital gain an investor would
have experienced by purchasing
a particular stock, taking into
account the value of all new
issues received during the
period.” It is defined “as the
growth of £lOO invested in a
stock at the average price for
1953, on the assumption that
the investor accepts all issues
of bonus shares and, in the
event of a cash issue, sells
sufficient of his rights to finance
the balance of his entitlement.”
Calculated on this basis Con-
crete Industries (Australia)
Limited has a “market growth”
index of 474 in 1961, Mount
Isa Mines Limited 868 —a very
high rating—and the B.H.R
471. The rather tight-pursed
Burns, Philp and Company
Limited has a 1961 rating ot
288, and Tooheys Limited only
139.
Unfortunately, this intriguing
“market growth” formula has
an inbuilt inflationary distort-
ing factor, which makes some
shares appear more glamorous
than they really are. Despite
this, the “market growth” index
can be very useful in selecting
a portfolio, particularly when
the investor has in mind growth


L
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in: —
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
stocks on which Ord and Min-
nett are particularly keen. This
is evident from the introduc-
tion to their volume, in which
we read that over the past five
years “there has been a marked
shift in the objectives govern-
ing equity investment in Aus-
tralia . . . investors have come
to seek investments promising
growth of capital and income
over a period rather than im-
mediate income return.”
The “Guide to Share Invest-
ment in Australia,” published
by Messrs. Wm. Noall and
Son, of Melbourne, and
“Selected Ordinary Shares,
1961” put out by Messrs. Pring,
Dean and Co., of Sydney, con-
tain reviews of listed companies
which are valuable to any in-
vestor. Both are smaller in
size than Ord and Minnett’s
but each has its own special
feature.
Wm. Noall and Son provide
a very detailed and carefully
prepared capital history of
selected stocks, and a digest
of essential balance sheet and
profit and loss figures and per-
centages. Pring, Dean and Co.
lay more emphasis on the
balance sheet summary and
offer an interesting and well-
informed concluding comment.
Investment analysis in Aus-
tralia has come a long way in
a short time.
Speculator's Diary
Monday, August 28.
r THE Budget might have been
unexciting but the market
certainly isn’t: CAGA giving
the Huddart Parker board an-
other opportunity to justify its
existence. Woolworths adding
Rockmans to its chain, and
Unilever supposedly bidding
for Gordon Edgell, Robert
Harper. Peters (Vic.) and
almost anyone else you care
to name. The sale of Rock-
mans probably brought joy to
many a creditor of the Stan-
hill group but it did nothing
for my own liquidity crisis—
£l9l in the red at the start
of the fortnight, let alone at
the end!
Fortunately James Hardie
helped me out by obligingly
rising to 85s. at which I sold
for a profit of £29. The sale
brought in a much-needed £420
in cash so that for the first
time in weeks I was able to
square my account with my
broker and still have £229 to
spare. But not for long. For
My portfolio is:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Total I*er rent
Shares Company Cost Share Price
400 An t ill R. £251 12/3 14/-
50 I’ick-Me-Up 207 81/6 £«/-/-
500 Merica 165 6/4 7/6
600 SI o<l; s &
Ho 1(1 iu gs 4ef. 261 8/6 10
600 Hornilirook 854 23/ 20/
200 Harrickville 217 21/3 25/-
400 David Jones
notes 807 10/ 0/11
500 Newcastle Ten
Pin Bowling 125 5/- 5/11
800 McDonald 207 13/6 15/0
200 Southern TV 205 20/- 22/-
400 Amjpoi rights 42 2/- 1/9
400 1 lesser (Q) 174 S/6 8/8
400 Rio Tint© 307 15/ 15/6
300 I’vrox new 87 5/0 6 6
200 Dodge 136 13/4 14/-
400 Motel Corp 61 2/11 3/3
50 A.C.I. 273 107/6 10S/-
100 Mt Isa 341 00/0 75/-
400 Deri'in 206 10/- 11/
400 O’Donnell
Griffin 230 11/8 11/0
200 F.G. O’Brien 100 9/0 9/9
weeks a notice had been lying
around the house from David
Jones “reminding” me that
£lOO was due on my 400 con-
vertible notes. DJ.s have been
a big disappointment since I
bought them in March, but
maybe the price will firm again
after this call is paid.
That left £129 itching to be
spent and the opportunity
came along when O’Donnell
Griffin’s results were pub-
lished. There, lurking down in
the final sentence of the press
report, was the sort of news
that really gladdens my heart
—a tax provision in excess of
the declared profit. 1 couldn’t
get to the phone quickly
enough to order 400, which I
got at 1 Is. Bd.
I was tempted by Frank G.
O’Brien when 1 heard that yet
another new building (the
Commercial Banking Co.’s)
was to be built in Hunter
Street. Frank G. O'Brien is
already supplying the glass for
the A.M.P. building and must
surely get its share of the
dozen other big contracts com-
ing up in the Hunter Street
area alone. So I bought 200
at 9s. 9d.
Finally, just to show that
there’s life in the old Specula-
tor yet, I shorted 100 G. E.
Crane at £5 17s. 6d. I’d been
meaning to do this ever since
I read that Australian Alu-
minium had incurred a loss
in the first six months of this
year. If G. E. Crane has suf-
fered the same fate, the shares
must be decidedly overpriced
at nearly £6, regardless of the
fact that 1 couldn’t sing their
praises high enough earlier in
the year. But as far back as
February directors were blam-
ing Government policy for
lower sales in the December
half-year, even though Gov-
ernment policy had no effect
on most industries until
February. So perhaps there’s
more to the glamorous alu-
minium industry’s problems
than Government policy. Time
may tell, even if the directors
don’t.
All this left me £2lO behind,
but Stocks and Holdings might
come to the rescue this time
now that it has disclosed an
earning rate of nearly 50 per
cent to capital.
SOLD
100 James Hardie at
85/- .. .. £420
100 G. E. Crane at
117/6 .. .. £5BO
BOUGHT
400 O’Donnell Griffin
at 11/8 .. .. £239
200 F. G. O’Brien at
9/9 .. .. £lOO


The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Custom Credit Corporation Ltd
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. f— —Dividend —> serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1957.. 780,907 15 p.c. = 450,000 330,907 761,874
Tax overprovided, £40,737 . . . . 802,611
1958.. 918,551 15 p.c. = 450,000 468,551 1,271,162
Parent and Subsidiaries.*
Reserve for unexpired risks brought
in on consolidation, £2,222,005 .. 3,493,167
Other additions on consolidation (less
goodwill, £45,833), £57,286 .. 3,550,453
Formation expenses, subsid., £550 . . 3,549,903
Less reduction, reserve unexpired risks,
£709,249 2,840,654
Fidelity provision written-back,
£lO,lOO 2,850,754
Added on acquisition of subsid, £1761 2,852,515
1959.. 1,423,526 17} p.c. = 875,000 548,526 3,401,041
Capital profits, £5771 .. .. 3,406,812
Added on acquisition of subsidiary,
£17,566 .. 3,424,378
To insurance reserve, £2570 . . 3,426,948
Less reduction reserve for unexpired
risks, £45,427 .. .. ..3,381,521
Increase general reserve, £65,701.. 3,447,222
To life department, £21,454 .. 3,425,76 S
Less income-tax premiums, £114,272 3,311,496
Less increase intangibles, £92,316 .. 3,219,180
1960.. 394.17-} p.c. = 875,000 848,394 4,067,574
Added on acquisition of subsidiary,
£935 4,068,509
Plus increase reserve for unexpired
risks, £143,189 .. .. .. 4,211,698
To life department, £45,000 .. 4,166,698
Tax underprovided, net, £2209 . . 4.164,489
Less increase intangibles, £77,664.. 4,086,825
1961.. 418.15 p.c. =1,050,000 317,418 4,404,243
* Consolidated reserves include reserve for unex-
pired risks and are shown after deducting intangibles,
£215,813 at 30/6/61.
Tn recent years there has been a slowing
down in the rate of growth of h.-p.
business, and in recent months a sudden
drop. The hire-purchase boom is ended.
The drop comes as a direct conse-
quence of governmental interference on
the economic plane per medium of the
credit squeeze. The slowing down is due
partly to the tapering-off of sales of
television receivers after the boom ' i
1958 and to the fact that retailers are
financing sales increasingly from within
their own organisations ; also the larger
houses (h.-p. houses) have tended towards
a wider range of interests (diversification),
shifting resources from traditional fields
of h.-p. activity. They have quested more
profitable employment of funds ; the pos-
sibility of more lucrative horizons —
trends accelerated, in no small measure,
by heavy stamp duties encumbent upon
the normal type h.-p. transaction ; given
extra impetus, in many instances, by
increasing rates of repossessions and
mounting arrears.
After reaching a peak of £449.7 million
in December, 1960, the public’s outstand-
ing debt to h.-p. cos fell progressively,
month by month, to reach £405.6 million
at the end of last June (down £44.1
million) and provisional figures indicate
a further fall of £8 million in July. The
number of new agreements negotiated in
June, at 59,045 (106,867 new agreements
were negotiated in June, 1960), was the
lowest since statistics (monthly statistics)
were first tabled by the Commonwealth
Statistician in January, 1956. These
agreements effected by the h.-p. cos in
June involved goods to the value of
£22.9 million (£37.9 million in June,
I 960), of which a mere £15.2 million
(£26.1 million) was financed by the various
corporations. Of this figure, motor-
vehicle finance aggregated £10.6 million
(£18.4 million), the number of new agree-
ments in this direction totalling only
21,813 (36,638). This extraordinary re-
versal of earlier effort is especially sig-
nificant in that motor-vehicle financing
constitutes upwards of 70 p.c. of total
h.-p. activity.
The decision to abandon, as from the
end of the fiscal year, the temporary
legislation introduced in November, ICO,
disallowing as taxation deductions
interest charges on capital raisings by
debentures and deposits, can be reckoned
on restoring some degree of confidence
to the h.-p. industry, as also the budgetary
reductions of sales tax (a boost to con-
sumer spending) on a wide variety of
household furniture and furnishings, in-
cluding refrigerators, washing machines,
vacuum cleaners, sewing and knitting
machines, floor coverings, etc. —sales tax
has been reduced, in each of these
instances, from 8| p.c. to 2\ p.c.
But prospects, generally, remain tight.
The sales-tax reduction will help, but as
a stimulus towards greater business it is
necessarily limited since the financing of
all categories of domestic goods (and the
tax concessions apply to a few categories
only) makes up only a mere fragment,
approximately one-fifth, of total h.-p.
endeavor. Moreover, sales of both new
and used cars, plant and machinery, and
household and personal goods, have been
affected, and continue to be affected, by
scarcity of funds and the dearth of cus-
tomer confidence (the credit squeeze and
its aftermath). The home building situa-
tion is far from satisfactory, and h.-p.
cos are facing into very strong competi-
tion, fund-wise, not only internally, as
within the industry, but externally as
well—a stepped-up rivalry from the
higher interest rates presently offered on
Government bonds and trading bank
interest-bearing deposits.
Individual cos, as well, having
branched into real estate finance, housing
loans, personal loans, etc., are now con-
fronted with a growing problem of pro-
viding long-term finance on a short-term
borrowing basis. They have been com-
pelled to raise interest rates on funds
brought in per medium of debentures,
deposits, etc., so as to attract money for
longer periods than in the past. In point
of fact, and generally speaking, costs have
risen to such an extent that cos have been
obliged to raise finance charges on busi-
ness written, and this contrary to the
downward trend evident in recent years.
Such action is hardly calculated to in-
crease h.-p. activity.
In these circumstances, Custom Credit
Corporation Ltd does not surprise when
it reports a substantial drop in consoli-
dated net profit for the 12 months to June
30 last even though the drop is the first
to be registered in seven years of trading.
The co., one of the most dynamic in the
h.-p. industry, was incorporated in
N.S.W. in July, 1953. Since then paid
capital has increased from an initial
£150,000 (public issue) to £7,000,000, all
in ss. ordinary stock units. Issues, every
one at par, have been frequent; a one-
for-one in January, 1954 and a two-for-
one in August, 1954, a one-for-one in
March, 1955, a two-for-three in March,
1958, and finally a two-for-five in June,
1960. The co. operates a diversified h.-p.
business in all States and is closely asso-
ciated with the National Bank of Aus-
tralasia, which holds a 40 p.c. share-
interest in the concern. The bank is
instrumental in granting Custom Credit a
respectability which has not always de-
volved upon the h.-p. industry. Custom
Credit has returned the favor by contri-
buting large and ever-increasing amounts
to the bank’s coffers.
A fundamental change of policy has
been effected throughout the Custom
Credit organisation during the last two
years or so, and where, at one time, more
than 70 p.c. of the group's entire busi-
ness related to motor-vehicle sales, to-
day’s figure might be closer the 25 p.c.
mark. There is an increased emphasis
on housing and personal loans in accord-
ance with general trends throughout the
h.p. industry, and this type of business, a
variant of, but not a function of true
h.-p. activity, would now constitute
something like 70 p.c. of all business
written. Subsidiaries include Customlife
Assurance Ltd (writing all forms of life
assurance), National and General Insur-
ance Co. Ltd (handling fire and marine
insurance with 48 branches in Australia
and three in London), Pivot Investment
Corporation Ltd, Custom Credit Proper-
ties Ltd (builder and real-estate dealers)
and First National Reinsurance of Aus-
tralia Ltd (handling reinsurance “not
previously available except through over-
seas interests”), but apart from assurance
and insurance and, of course, h.-p., the
co’s interests range to a broad field of
credit finance from provision of
mortgage finance of houses to the
financing of world-wide travel and the
migration of sponsored migrants to Aus-
tralia, from the granting of personal
loans with or without security to credit
guarantees on behalf of approved dealers
to enable them to buy shares for resale.
Despite these many and varied forms
of finance Mr lan M. Jacoby (chairman)
had it in a nutshell when he summed up,
July 28, 1961, “the demand for every
variety of our consumer credit facilities
fell away considerably”—that is during
the year to June 30 last. This is readily
understandable, but Mr Jacoby then goes
on to say “we were able to introduce
many savings in overhead, and most of
the benefits will be reflected in the com-
ing financial year.” It is to be hoped


PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
R. H. ALLEN, M. R. L. DOWLING
P. R. LEVY, A. P. REYNOLDS. N. R.
COURSE (Melbourne Resident Partner).
Delfin House, 16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Building:, 150 Queen St.,
Melbourne. 61-5951 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables: “Rosdale,” Sydney.
Melbourne or Wollongong.
JOHN N. ROBERTSON
Member of the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKER.
Temple Court,
422 Collins Street, Melbourne C.l.
Telephones: 67 4804, 67 2465
Telegrams & Cables:
ROBFALK, MELBOURNE
A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. Jj. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Fife Building,
29? Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31 2761
<4 Lines)
that these benefits might prove sub-
stantial, since present profit levels leave
little margin over and above div. payout,
and it is feasible, therefore, , that divs.
could be reduced, if not immediately,
then in the near future.
After sending £89,691 to depreciation,
last term's consolidated pre-tax profit
finished down £504,346, or 17.8 p.c., at
£2,326,536. With tax taking a further
£959,118 (down £148,370), net profit
settled 20.7 p.c. lower than in the previous
term to come home a much reduced
£1,367,418 (down £355,976). Parent net
profit fell £426,699, or 26.8 p.c., to
£1,165,140, after tax, £815,344 (down
£84,656. Group earnings work out equiva-
lent to an earning rate of 19.5 p.c. com-
pared with 34.5 p.c. on a lower average
capital in 1960, 28.4 p.c. in 1959, 33 p.c.
in 1958 and 26.2 p.c. in 1957. The basic
div. rate remained steady at 15 p.c., in-
cluding a final 1\ p.c., but the “buoyancy”
bonus of the two preceding years was
omitted. Reserves benefited £317,418,
plus a small net increase accorded numer-
ous adjustments.
Reserve for unexpired risks was in-
creased £143,189 to £1,610.518 and
£45,000 was transferred to life depart-
ment. Another £2209 was deducted by
way of income tax previously underpro-
vided. Intangibles increased by £77,664
and £935 was added on acquisition of a
subsidiary, leaving total reserves and
undistributed profits at a net £4,404,243.
Funds employed registered little
change. Loan capital, comprising first
mortgage debentures and unsecured
notes, but excluding sundry creditors,
£1,777,571 (down £527,085), advanced a
mere £285,864 to £52,776,568, and at this
figure represented 4.63 times share-
holders' funds, less intangibles (4.74 in
1960). There was a substantial and
healthy shift, however, as between
securities maturing within 12 months
(down £3,169,178 at £14,916,095) and
those maturing at 12 months or over (up
£3,455,842 at £37,860,473):
1959. 1960. 1961.
Paid capital .. £.1,000,000 £7,000,000 £7,000,000
Reserves .. 1,934,118 2,738,394 3,009,538
Life a/c surplus 8,005 107,365 445,509
Tnexpin d risks 1,512,756 1,467,329 1,610,518
Debentures,
notes .. 40,792,244 52,490,704 52,776,568
Due to subsid. •
Unearned income 10,996,491 19,086,168 20,108,026
Sundry creditors 1,292.822 2,304,656 1,777,571
Tax provision. . 801,354 961,821 945,837
Final div. . . 500,000 500,000 525,000
Suspense . . 1,049,086 996,813 959,929
£63,881,876 £87,653,250 £89,158,490
Freeholds . . 140,928 306,274 1,140,518
Leaseholds, fur-
niture . . 314,115 522,244 625,225
Shares in subsids.
Shares other cos. 3,202 3,202 3,202
Loans . . 19,497 41,557 414,548
Intangibles . . 45,833 138,149 215,813
H.-p. .contracts,
etc. . . 61,127,801 84,024,804 83,748,237
Sundry debtors,
tax - prepay-
ments, etc... 470,540 471,726 390,728
t«sh, etc. . . 1,759,960 2,145,294 2,620,227
£63,881,876 £ 87,653,250 £89,158,496
Unearned income on h.-p. and other con-
tracts, carried forward, climbed £557,770
to £17,494,902 ; on insurance charges,
£464,088 to £2,613,124. As a composite,
the two together are equivalent to 24 p.c.
of total outstandings which fell £276,567
to £83,748,237 (22.7 p.c. in 1960, 18 p.c.
in 1959 and 12.5 p.c. in 1958). Unfor-
tunately the co. has failed to differentiate
in its accounts between the various types
of credit granted and the periods in-
volved, so that a true estimate of the
adequacy or otherwise of unearned in-
come provisions is rendered impossible.
The increased levels of these provisions
are indicative, however, of the shift from
relatively short-term h.-p. business to
longer-term loans on real estate, implying
that the actual amount of loans con-
tracted was less than in 1960. The ratio
of outstandings to paid capital was
virtually unmoved, and at 11.96 to 1 com-
pared with 12 to 1 in the previous term.
The financial position, as reflected in
the balance sheet, looks healthy enough,
but could change overnight. Fixed assets,
freeholds and leaseholds, cash, etc., and
mortgage loans and secured advances
were all represented at increased figures,
while sundry debtors (non-h.-p. debtors)
declined. If alert management and
diversification of interests are taken as a
guide, then the future would seem
assured. The past record is impressive.
But a lot depends on general economic
conditions which at present are not
promising. The co. must maintain con-
version of existing debentures and unse-
cured notes or, failing this, attract a new
lending public ; otherwise it could face a
speedy and perhaps intolerable squeeze.
Yet this is unlikely, even though future
growth is scarcely calculated to emulate
past performance.
Sharemarket rating has dropped a long
way in recent months, and where the ss.
stock units were trading as high as 275. 9d.
in 1960, prior to the two-for-five par
issue, they fetch only 14s. 3d. today. The
immediate yield is 5.3 p.c. on the basis
of a 15 p.c. div. rate, but this could well
be reduced at next handout.
Net tangible asset backing at June 30
worked out at Bs. 2d. for each ss. unit
on the consolidated accounts.
John A. Gilbert Holdings Ltd
r y'HE motor-vehicles industry is turned
at bay. A post-war prosperity was
suddenly ended last November when the
Government introduced dampening down
legislation directed especially at the motor
vehicle industry, in the first instance point
blank (an increased sales-tax on motor
vehicles ; since removed), in the second
instance, and far more effectively, through
the confines of a reduced hire-purchase
activity.
New vehicles (excluding motor-cycles)
registered in Australia, during the seven
months to July last, totalled 132,591
against 169,245 registrations in the seven
months to July, ’6O. The number of new
Holdens (motor cars and station waggons)
included in these figures, up until the end
of June, aggregated 44,492 as against
45,134 (in the six months to June, '6O).
The Holden is commanding a much bigger
proportion of the reduced motor-vehicle
market than hitherto and its sales are
virtually steady, but in terms of expected
increases, sales fall a long way short of
boosted capacity
In these circumstances and despite
difficulties, John A. Gilbert Holdings Ltd
has once again turned in a record profit
—for the 12 months to March 31, 1961.
At £189,177 (up £6428 on the previous
term), after tax £137,330 (up £25,428) and
depreciation £43,373 (up £6165), the 1961
showing is the highest yet won by the
co., and represents an earning rate on
ord. capital—after allowing for the pref.
div.—of 36.2 p.c. compared with 35.3 p.c.


m
whatever you choose
to drink...
GILBONNET
Pour 2 parts
Gilbeys Gin
over ice into a
glass. Add one
part Dubonnet.
Stir gently.
Add a twist
of lemon peel.
GILBEYS & TONIC
Pour a nobbier
of Gilbeys
Gin into a long
glass. Add
lots of ice and
a slice of
fresh lemon.
Top up with
tonic water.
Stir gently.
" >1
*
GIN
k *
-j
don’t say gin... say
GILBEY’S
C233G
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY, LTD.
(A member of Commercial Union Australia Group)
ESTABLISHED 187&
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS' AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
F. S. WATSON, Manager
in ’6O, 25.9 p.c. in ’59. 24.6 p.C.
in ’5B and 26 p.c. in ’57:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
—Dividends * Re-
Meh. Profit. Pref. Ord. serves.*
31, 6-8 p.c.
£££ . £
’55..100,345 4000 15 p.c.=39,092 92,893
Share issue expenses, £2171 90,722
Profit sale assets, £9322 .. 100,044
’56..115,991 4000 15 p.c.=56,426 155,609
Share premiums, £11,308 . . 166,917
Share-issue expenses, etc.
£2194 . . .. ..164,723
’57-112,420 4000 15 p.e.=62,556 210,587
Profit sale assets, £440 . . 211,027
’5B-128,264 4000 15 p.c.=75,858 259.433
Profit sale assets, £lO7B . . 260,511
’59-135,213 4000 15 p.c.=75,858 315,866
’60..182,749 4000 15 p.c.=76,257 418,358
Profit sale assets, £5218 . . 423,576
Share premiums, £7988 . . 431,564
’6l-189,177 4000 15 p.c.=76,656 540,085
* Subject to intangibles, £101,851
at 31/3/61.
For the seventh year running,
the div rate on ord. shares was
kept at 15 p.c., accounting for
£76,656 of the profits. Pref.
shareholders —pref. capital is
£50,000 in £1 6 p.c. cumulative
(participating to 8 p.c.) shares —
received £4OOO. Profits remain-
ing, £108,521, plus share pre-
miums, £7988, plus surplus on
sale of fixed assets, £5218, went
to reserves, which subject
to intangibles, £101,851, rose
£121,727 to £540,085.
From its head office in Wil-
liam Street, Sydney, John A.
Gilbert Floldings Ltd adminis-
ters to seven subsidiaries. Each
is concerned with a different
aspect of the motor-vehicles
industry, and although to some
extent their activities are com-
plementary, they are, in the
opinion of directors, sufficiently
dissimilar to ensure that adverse
conditions affecting the one
will not seriously affect ihe
earnings of the group as a
whole. Hence latest effort was
achieved despite increased
competition and lowered
sales. Total turnover declined
£106,396 to £6.377,286.
The roots of the present
organisation extend back 36
years to the formation of Reo
Motors Pty. In 1948 this title
was dropped, and today’s prin-
cipal subsidiary, John A. Gil-
bert Pty, came into being.
Shortly afterwards the co was
appointed one of four distribu-
tors of the Holden in metro-
politan Sydney. The parent co.
came into existence in 1951.
Four years later it opened its
share register to the public and
acquired official listing on
’Change.
Last term saw all subsidi-
aries, bar the newly acquired
Charley and Clayton Pty,
making substantial contribu-
tions to group profit. Charley
and Clayton operated at a net
loss but “expenses are now
geared to the available business
and improved results are pos-
sible.” Charley and Clayton, a
real estate and stock-and-station
agency, was bought out in June,
1960, the issue of 21,300 ss!
stock units, at a premium of
7s. 6d. each, facilitating pur-
chase. This lifted John A. Gil-
bert ord. capital bv £5325 to
£511,044.
John A. Gilbert Pty, to-
gether with its northern suburbs
counterpart, John A. Gilbert
(Northside) Pty had a success-
ful year, the first subsidiary
writing increased profits, the
second slightly reduced profits.
Sales of cars, trucks and omni-
buses declined in both in-
stances but new and used
vehicle sales operations (John
A. Gilbert Pty) showed their
strength by winning an Aus-
tralia - wide General Motors-
Holden’s Sales Contest during
the three months February,
March and April, 1961. Sales
of replacement parts and acces-
sories were increased and addi-
tional used vehicle sales outlets
were opened during the year—
at Granville and Croydon (Syd-
ney suburbs). The new premises
at Rushcutter's Bay (Sydney)
have proved a decided acquisi-
tion and “further projects con-
sidered likely to strengthen the
Company’s merchandising cap-
acity are under review.” The
two offshoots, in addition to
the valuable Holden franchise,
have distributing rights for Bed-
ford omnibuses and diesel
engines.
Bus Lines of Australia Pty,
another member of the group,
was able, too, to lift its profits.
Engaged in omnibus operations
in country areas of N.S.W.. it
vividly illustrates the efficacy of
the directors' diversification
policy. Omnibus revenue fluc-
tuates with economic condi-
tions, tending to fall in periods
of prosperity, tending to rise
when the outlook is more pessi-
mistic. Thus when revenue
from motor-car sales is de-
clining, omnibus profits should
rise. With the sale of the
Nowra - Narooma service
(N.S.W.), sufficient vehicles
were available to satisfy im-
mediate replacement needs.
However “some new omnibuses
will be required.”
The h.-p. offshoot, Credit
and Guarantee Pty, formed to
facilitate the financing ot
terms-sales by the merchandis-
ing cos, wrote increased busi-
ness and, granted “the unique
opportunity of being selective
in the quality of business
accepted,” was able to lift its
profits. Provision for income
yet to mature amounted t 0


has
FINANCE & INVESTMENT
COMPANY LIMITED
SHAREHOLDERS' FUNDS, £891.419.
TANGIBLE ASSETS, £3,184,264.
INTEREST RATES FOR DEPOSITS
(NOW CALLED UNSECURED DEPOSIT NOTES)
Financing world-
famous products
distributed by
The Hastings
Deering Group
of Companies.
FORD
Cars and Trucks
FGRDSON
Tractors
A.E.Ca
Trucks & Buses
CATERPILLAR
Diesel Tractors
in Queensland
HYSTER
Fork Lift Trucks
in Queensland
JOHN DEERE
Agricultural
Machinery
in Queensland
LISTER
Engines
GROUP SALES
IN 1960
£14,757,281
MAIL THIS COUPON
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE &
INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
G.P.O. Box 4333, Sydney.
Please send me, without any obligation on my part, pros-
pectus dated 1/4/61, giving full details of your terms
deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS
B. 2/9
H 082.10
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 181 S
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS: , .
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLAS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS
A. C MAITLAND, Managing Director. O. S. PETTERSEN, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
£128,623 (up £21,487) at March
31, 1961. or 16.98 p.c. of out-
standing contracts. This is
higher than in the previous year
(15.6 p.c.) owing to the in-
creased volume of business and
the acceptance of slightly longer
term contracts, the average un-
expired period being 20.55
months as against 20.2 in 1960.
While investment has been
made in other fields, h.-p. on
motor-vehicles, predominantly
Holden, forms the major per-
centage of advances. Total
amounts owing under h.-p. con-
tracts, bills of sale and real
property mortgages, less income
yet to mature, advanced £71,185
to £757,501.
The other subsidiaries, John
A. Gilbert (Wholesale) Pty and
Industrial Lessors Pty operated
satisfactorily ; the latter con-
tinued the business of leasing
vehicles on a limited scale, and
a reasonable profit resulted.
Framed by a strong balance-
sheet, the financial structure of
the co. (John A. Gilbert Hold-
ings Ltd) makes an attractive
picture. Reserves are mors
than adequate. Profits easily
cover divs with a good margin
for reserves. Fixed assets are
fully financed by capital and
working funds are considerable.
The ratio of current assets to
current liabilities stands at 1.8
to 1:
Consolidated Balasfce-siieet.
1960. 1961.
Pref. capital .. £ ,10,000 £50,000
Old. capital .. 505,719 511,014
Reserves . . 418,358 540,685
Corn-, notes .. 101,144 101,144
Mortgages, etc.. . 115,164 91,216
Overdraft .. —— 174,947
Creditors .. 192,191 286,692
Deposits . . 203,527 21.824
Tax provision .. 157,288 247,697
Final div. .. 40,328 40,328
£1,783,719 £2.064,977
Freeholds, etc. . . 356,247 375,951
Plant . . . . 178,339 183,591
Stock . . . . 258,892 424,540
H.-p. contracts. . 686,316 757,501
Debtors . . . . 187,527 212,854
Cash, etc. . . 14,547 8,689
Goodwill, etc. .. 101,851 101,851
£1,783,719 £2,064,977
The book value of freeholds
and leaseholds, in at cost less
amortisation of leaseholds, has
risen over the year by £19,704
to £375,951. Plant, including
motor omnibuses, at cost less
depreciation, was higher at
£183,591 (up £5252).
Loans on mortgage declined
£23,948 to £91,216 while
deposits slipped £181,703 to
£21,824. There is £101,144 in
ss. 6 p.c. unsecured notes,
issued one-for-five, October,
1959, convertible into ords. at
par, 1964. Working capital was
stronger at £632,096 (up
£78,148). Book debts advanced
£25,327 to £212,854 with bank
overdraft and creditors up
£174,947 and £94,501 respec-
tively. Stocks were high (up
£165,648 at £424,540) but “no
difficulty has been experienced
in financing, and the volume
of all vehicle stocks is currently
founded on a basis of three
weeks’ turnover.”
John A. Gilbert Holdings
Ltd aspires to a position where
50 p.c., at least, of the annual
net profit wifi be earned by the
non-merchandising subsidiaries.
It would perhaps be rather opti-
mistic to expect another rise
in profits this current term and
indeed “our new vehicle deli-
veries for the first quarter of
the current financial year are
ahead of the same period last
year, but profit will be lower.”
The total available motor-
vehicle market is substantially
down, competition is keener
and costs are risen. As credit
becomes easier a little more
buoyancy can be expected, but
there is nothing indicate
a quick return to the 1960
boom conditions.
Last week the ss. ords were
sold on the Sydney 'Change for
11s. Buyers picking the shares
up at this price would obtain
a yield of 6.8 p.c. assuming a
continuance of the 15 p.c. div.
The convertible notes, at Bs.,
return 3.7 p.c. The prefs are
not listed.
Net tangible assets-cover for
the ss. ords is 9s. 3d and for
the £1 prefs, £l9 19s. 9d.
Swans Ltd
the “practical
A cessation of new building
constructions” in the second
half of its financial year to
May 31 last, net profit of Swans
Ltd declined by £27,726, or
20.3 p.c., to £109,124.
The Federal Government's
fiscal policy has seriously
limited availability of finance
to the building industry and
“only projects that were com-
menced at the latter part of the
year 1960, were being com-
pleted, and not all these, as
some were abandoned and are
still in a half-finished condi-
tion.” Moreover the Swans
business is conducted mainly
on a credit basis and the co.
has encountered extreme diffi-
culty in financing builders, and
their sub-contractors, their in-
creased liabilities in a money-
tight economy. There are signs
of more confidence now but
any improvement must be
gradual, and “it may be some
time before a return to previous
conditions can be expected.”
Swans Ltd was registered in
Sydney in 1900, as Robert C.
Swan and Co. Ltd, to acquire


LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
Established 1808 in Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen
many Battles, including
the Battle of Waterloo,
and has emerged from
them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT
MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
N.S.W. Branch:
Kimlersley House,
Bligli O’Connell Sts., Sydney
an old-established merchandis-
ing business handling handware
and builders’ supplies. There are
branches established in the Syd-
ney suburbs of Hurstville,
Chatswood and Parramatta and
in the bustling industrial city of
Wollongong on the N.S.W.
South Coast. The co. has ex-
panded rapidly over the past
few years, the Wollongong out-
let and a bulk store at Mascot
(Sydney) being opened in the
1955 term and the Chatswood
branch a year or so later,
although the modern show-
room and warehouse at Chats-
wood wasn’t completed until
early 1958.
Shareholders have put up
most of the funds required by
these developments, and paid
capital, raised to £326,812 by
a one-for-two bonus in 1951,
has since increased to £805,002,
as at May 31. Share issues in-
clude a one-for-two at par in
1954, a two-for-nine at a
premium of 10s. in 1955, a five-
for-18 at par in 1958 and a
one-for-seven at a premium of
ss. during last term —books
closed February 17, 1961. A
final call of ss. a share (on the
one-for-seven issue) was due
and payable June 1, so that
paid capital should presently
aggregate £830,055 ; £25,000 in
20s. 6 p.c. cum. prefs, £805,055
in 20s. ord. stock units.
A large proportion of these
additional funds has gone into
fixed assets, with little immedi-
ate benefit to revenue, so that
earnings have advanced at a
considerably slower rate than
paid capital, the earning-rate
on average ord. capital falling
from 23.5 p.c. in 1954 to 20.2
p.c., 16.8 p.c. and 14 p.c. over
the three years to 1957, before
recovering in 1958 to a shade
over 16 p.c. The latest earning
rate works out at 15.1 p.c. on
average capital as against 19.2
p.c. and 14.6 p.c. back to 1959.
Turnover for the year to May
31 last is not revealed in the
accounts. It is clear, however,
that the reduction of profit was
incurred in the last half of the
financial year. Last term’s
showing was ascertained after
tax, £68,000 (down £17,000),
and depreciation, £10,418
(down £417). Working ex-
penses, interest, bad debts and
directors’ fees totalled £109.124
(down £27,726):
t —Dividends— N Re-
May, Profit. Pref. Ord. serves.
£ p.c. p.c. £
1953 . . 68,328 6 124 201,600
1954 . . 72,442 6 124 234,815
1955 . . 80,125 6 124 266,298
Share-premiums, £49,839 316,137
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. 306,137
1956 . . 82,797 6 10 339,072
1957 .. 79,010 6 10 361,368
1958 . . 90,620 6 10 394,001
Long service leave, etc.
£25,000 .. .. 369,001
Profit sale shares, £1975 370,976
1959 .. 103,347 6 10 403,294
1960 . . 136,850 6 124 450,539
Share-premiums, £25,053" 475,592
1961 .. 109,124 6 10 512,105
A reduced div. (from 12 (
p.c. to 10 p.c.) took £71,111
(down £16,994). Pref. divs
took £l5OO. Reserves bene-
fited £36,513, plus share pre-
miums £25,053, rising £61,556
to £512,105, unencumbered by
intangibles.
The £75,160 of new capital
gathered in during the year,
plus £22,284 uncalled capital
received in advance, enabled
hefty reduction of sundry
creditors (down £109,974 at
£250,464). Theoretical work-
ing capital appeared adequate
(up £155,403 at £936,083) with
the bulk of funds centred
around stocks, £712,259 (down
£1823) and sundry debtors,
£507,144 (down £41,962). Cash
and investments jumped
£50,864 to £82,555:
Paid capital—- 1960. 1961.
Pret. .. £25,000 £25,000
Ord 704,842 780,002
Reserves .. 450,539 512,105
Calls in advance 22,284
Creditors .. 360,438 250,464
Tax provision . . 105,148 83,793
Final div. .. 53,613 36,618
Provision for 1.-s.
leave, etc. .. 48,897 48,532
£1,748,477 £1,758,798
Freeholds, plant,
etc. .. .. 448,598 451,840
Stocks .. .. 719,082 717,259
Debtors . . . . 549,106 507,144
Cash and invest-
ments . . 31,691 82,555
£1,748,477 £1,758,798
Swans plans extension of its
Wollongong premises and new
land has been purchased at the
rear of the existing building.
The book-value of freeholds (in
at independent valuation and
cost), plant, fixtures, fittings,
etc. (cost, less depreciation)
advanced £3242 to £451,840.
The co's potential had not
escaped the share-market. In-
vestors bid up to 535. for the
20s. ords in 1960. But present
prospects must remain uncer-
tain pending recovery of the
building industry. At the last
sale in Sydney the 20s. ords
fetched 38s. bd. a unit for an
immediate yield of 5.2 p.c. on
the basis of the 10 p.c. div. rate.
Swans can expect further reduc-
tion of profits during the cur-
rent term.
Net tangible asset-backing at
balance date was 335. 2d. for
each £ of ord. capital ;
£52 13s. Bd. for the 20s. prefs.
COMPANY NOTES
Woolworths Ltd
'T'he Woolworths chain is
suddenly stepped up to
aggregate more than 550 stores
throughout Australia and New
Zealand. Woolworths has con-
cluded arrangements with
Rockmans Ltd whereby the
giant retailer acquires the stock,
fittings, fixtures and plant of a
number of Rockmans subsidi-
aries together with some of the
freehold properties owned by
these subsidiaries plus an option
to acquire the balance (of these
freeholds) if so desired.
The deal is instrumental in
providing Woolworths another
70 stores in various city, subur-
ban and country centres in
N.S.W., Queensland, Victoria,
S.A., Canberra and Tasmania.
The net cost of the acquisi-
tion will be up to approximately
£5 million, the final figures
subject to inventory valuation.
It will be satisfied by tne issue
of Woolworths ss. ords. at “a
substantial premium” and the
takeover of all existing mort-
gages where practicable. The
shares will rank pari passu
with existing ord. capital except
that they will not participate in
the October, 1961 dividend.
Mr Kelly, managing director
of Woolworths, has it that the
stores acquired, “which have
been trading at the rate of
nearly £lO million per annum,
will provide additional profit-
able outlets within the co.’s
developmental plans which in-
clude the sale of a wider range
of variety merchandise.'’ While
some of the stores will be con-
verted to traditional Wool-
worths’s policy of expansion
those remaining will continue,
and be expanded, in their
present type of trading.
The takeover should result in
relative economies in buying,
distribution and administra-
tion ; it accords with Wool-
worths’ policy of expansion
and diversification. Moreover
it could mean increased earning
rates on ord. capital, the share
premium factor tending this
way. The mortgage content of
the deal is tantamount to pro-
vision of cheap finance.
Rockmans Ltd is a wholly-
owned subsidiary of Factors
Ltd of Melbourne, a member
co. of the Stanhill-Korman
group. The Woolworths shares
will provide a much-needed
liquidity either as collateral or
alternatively by outright sale.
CAGA & Huddart Parker
/Commercial and General
Assurance Acceptance
Ltd’s (CAGA) bid for the
£2,375,000 share capital of
Huddart Parker Industries Ltd.
Melbourne-based shipping, coal
and investment company, could
be the final chapter of a period
of intra-company feuds and
outside takeover bids.
Only last May, Mr J. R.
Parker, acting on behalf of a
group of shareholders who
seemed to disagree with the
trading and dividend policy of
Huddart Parker’s board, made
a determined attack on the
company’s managing director
and two other directors. Mr
J. R. Parker distributed a
circular to Huddart Parker
shareholders stating that the
company’s position had dete-
riorated since 1955, and claim-
ing that the three members
“formed the nucleus of the
five-man board” which had
followed a “policy of selling
outside investments and putting
the money into the trading
activities, despite deteriorating
returns.”
Despite the board’s efforts,
Huddart’s shipping operations
remained rather unprofitable


RESIDENTIAL CONFERENCE
THE FUTURE OF
ABORIGINAL GROUPS
at Grafton Diocesan Centre,
SEPTEMBER 22 - 24, 1961.
For details inquire from the
Director of Adult Education,
University of New England,
Armidale, N.S.W.
Professional Engagements
SCOTCH COLLEGE,
MITCHAM,
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
MASTER required to teach Grade
VI or VII. Duties to commence in
February, 1962. Resident accom-
modation available for single man.
Applications in writing to
Headmaster, Junior School.
Divorce Notice
A Divorce Petition lias been filed
against GEORGE MENUS’ YOUNG late
of 21* Crescent Avenue, Romford, Essex,
who may apply to the Divorce Registry,
Somerset House, London, W.C.2. Eng-
land for a copy of the Petition. If
within 80 days he has not communi-
cated with the Registry, the Court may
hear the case in his absence.—B. LONG
Registrar.
Divorce Notice*
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW-
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO ERNIE HAVAS late of 108 Ewart
Street Dulwich Hill in the State of
New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE
that MICHAEL MOZES has filed a
petition for divorce No. 3804 of 1960
on the ground of desertion for three
years and upwards and on the ground
that his wife has committed adultery
with you and is . asking for the exer-
cise of the Court’s discretion under
Section 19 (2) (a) of the Matrimonial
Causes Act 1899-1960 If you wish to
defend you may, enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Divorce Office
Mint Building Macquarie Street Sydney
bv the 28th day of September 1961 and
obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from R. S. WOO DG ATE, Solici-
tor, 27 Watt Street, Newcastle, or
from his city agents, PIGOTT, STIN-
SON k COMPANY, 33-39 Hunter Street,
Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
To ERIC ARTHUR DILLON formerly
of Sawtell in the State of New South
Wales but whose present whereabouts
are unknown I'AKE NOTICE that vow
wife EVELYN LEURA DILLON has
com mi need an action against yon for
dissolution of marriage No. 14.13 of
1961 on the grounds of your desertion
without just cause for two year’s and
upwards. It you wish to defend this
action you may tile an answer in tin
Registry of the Supreme Court ot New
South Wales Matrimonial Causes Juris-
diction, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney by 12th October 1961.
You may obtain a copy of the Petition
tiled herein from Messrs GILL OX LADE
k BROAD SOLICITORS, of lie Castle-
reagh Street. Sydney the Town Agents
for Messrs John H. Yeldham & Spain.
Solicitors of 137 Pacific Highway, North
Sydney.— C. A. H. HARMS Registrar.
Missing Friends
IN' THE SUPREME COURT OF
VICTORIA
To: DOUGLAS CHARLES CRICHTON
of address unknown. TAKE NOTICE
that your wife XORAH CRICHTON
has instituted , divorce proceeding’s
against you in the Supreme Court
of Victoria for a dissolution of her
marriage to you on the grounds of
desertion and failure to pay maintenance
and FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that
unless you file an Answer herein in
the Office of. the Registrar Supreme
Court, Melbourne on or before the 9th
day of October 1901 the case may
proceed in your absence.—PAUL C.
NUN AN & BLOOM, 422 Little Collins
Street Melbourne, Solicitors for the
Petitioner.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
VICTORIA.
1961, No. 1092.
TO FLORENCE MAY LINDREA of
address unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that
your husband THOMAS MERVIN
LINDREA has instituted proceedings
against you in the Supreme Court of
Victoria for a dissolution of his
marriage to you on the ground of
desertion and separation AND
FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that unless
you file an answer herein in the Office
of the Registrar Supreme Court Mel-
bourne on or before the Ninth day of
October 1961 the ease may proceed in
vour absence. H. S. W. LAWSON
HUGHES k CO., of 307 Little Collins
Street, Melbourne, Solicitors for the
Petitioner.
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to
G. A. USHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
over the past few years—not an
unusual occurrence for Aus-
tralian domestic shipping lines.
On the other hand the com-
pany’s collieries could be oper-
ated profitably under a vigor-
ous and dynamic management.
Share investments in listed
companies, last disclosed at a
book value of £688,000 —well
below the market price—seem
to be the most attractive assets
for a buyer like Commercial
and General Assurance Accept-
ance. Here there may be room
for substantial and tax-free
capital gains.
CAGA is offering one ss.
CAGA ord. plus 10s. cash for
each 10s. Huddart Parker ord.
Alternatively, Huddart Parker's
shareholders are offered 19s
cash for each 10s. Huddart
Parker ord. This includes 9s.
for the CAGA share not taken
up
Preference shareholders are
given the choice of one ss.
CAGA ord. plus 15s. cash for
each Huddart Parker £1 pref.
or 245. cash for each £1 pref.—
including 9s. cash for CAGA
oids not taken up.
All in all, the takeover offer
is worth about £4.5 million on
current market values.
The offer seems reasonably
realistic, although not neces-
sarily over-generous. Huddart
Parker's directors point out
that on book figures alone the
net aggregate assets of Huddart
Parker shares have a value of
about £5.5 million. At this
stage the Huddart Parker board
has requested supplementary
information from CAGA. On
the other hand it seems likely
that some shareholders may
tend to accept the offer.
At the last sale in Sydney the
10s. Huddart Parker ords. were
quoted at 17s. 6d. a unit.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 658
Across
I—Sickness1 —Sickness for two women with a boy in my Asian about
500. (6)
4 —Telephone communication to work in steamer shell-
fish. (8)
9—Very funny illustration of a horseshoe in favor of a
foreign river pronoun (10)
10—Cork kitchenware is back. (4)
12— He and 1 have commonscnse. but
it’s atrocious (7)
13 — Girl who is reborn? (5)
14— Barrel backing hard Iruit. (3)
15— Isador gives a start to decorous
behavior. (4, 7)
17—Boss corpse 1 mutilated lor
noses. (11)
20—Creek bath for a German. (3)
22—Scene of wilch trials and irregu-
lar meals. (5)
24 — A leg of mutton, perhaps, otters
a strong defensive position. (7)
25 From a very old king of
Mercia. (4)
26 — Dances are remote and Lee’s
disorderly. (10)
27 A sail supporter locates mother
in the forest. (8)
28 — King George has a redback item
of roadmaking equipment. (6)
Down
1 — Sickly sentimental girl and
boy. (7)
2 Clean-shaven molar joining the
quarter for the Jewish move-
ment. (9)
3 Stablehands to retract par-
lors. (7, 5)
5 Australian composer makes 150
do a musket-dropper. (7)
6 Nothing with a figure of
grain. (5)
7 Part of a shoe in steamer night-
caps? (7)
8 — Private on leave to behold a paid
male companion. (6)
11 -No sitter is alter a thousand
bucks, being one who plays to
the gallery. (12)
16 — Metal debt, (anagram) (9)
17 — Grampus loses weight and
Hoffman is unmanned, so
scram! (4. 3)
18 — Vehicle to see some donkey
corpse. (7)
19— Craft face of the musket-
dropper. (6)
21—A factor in calculating when
Diana has the facepiece ol a
suit of armor. (7)
23 —He’s in lor good rifle is
smashed. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 657


9/M <
MS
* '
*>-V
A new kindness to fruit
Australia grows billions of rich, red apples
each year but not all reach the market
in an unblemished condition. Bruising has
long been the bogey of the orchardist and
retailer alike. But damage in transit is now
greatly reduced since the introduction of
telescopic, corrugated fibreboard containers
for fresh fruit. Fruit containers made
from A.P.M. products proved ideal.
m
in an orchard-fresh condition.
This is another typical example of how
products of the seven Australian-owned
A.P.M. mills are used by primary and
secondary industry for your benefit.
They’re strong, light,
resilient, print per-
fectly and bring
your fruit to market
Over Ninety Years of New Ideas... in Paper
A
M
*
AUSTRALIAN PAPER
MANUFACTURERS LTD
South Gate, South Melbourne.
Mills at Melbourne, Fairfield, Maryvale, Broadford in Vic.; Botany in N.S.W.; Petrie in Q’LD; Bayswater in W.A.
Illustrated material on APM activities is available for school projects. Write to “Projects”, APM, G.P.O. Box 1643, Melbourne.
