

The Bulletin
Does the Australian Farmer Work Too Hard 1 —page 33
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
February 1, 1961
Price 1/-
THE FIRST
f JPf
YEARS
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.


STORY WRITING
FREELANCE JOURNALISM
WRITING FOR RADIO
VERSE WRITING
If you desire to take up writing seriously, we
recommend that you study all branches of
Literary work—the Short Story, the Article,
the Written Sketch, the Paragraph, Radio Plays,
Radio Talks, Scripts of all kinds, Verse, etc.
Stott's Courses are thorough and complete. Write
for special Literary Prospectus, giving details of
all combined and single Courses.
Stolts Correspondence College
Si" 9 Flinders Fane, Melbourne; 149 Castle-
reash St.; Sydney; 2!>o Adelaide St., Bris-
bane; 21 Grenfell St., Adelaide; 254 Murray
St., Perth.
CUT Ayn MAIL THIS COUPON • «
To STOTT’S: Please send me, without any
obligation. your Prospectus, and full par-
ticuiars of your Literary Courses.
MV NAME ..
ADDUESS
AGE.... (S.B. 301)
The Red Page
German View of Australian Literature
Ceschichte dear Australischen Literaitar
(History of Australian Literature),
Dr Joachim Schulz. Max Hueber
Verlag (Munich).
It is a sign of the growing maturity
in Australian writing—and of the
increasing overseas awareness of this
country —that a study of this kind
should be published in Germany. Dr
Schulz is apparently an established
scholar of “cultural ethnography” and
spent five years in Australia assembling
material for this book and other studies
of Australian life.
In the best tradition of German
scholarship, he has assembled a very
methodical volume in which an attempt
has been made to say something about
every prose writer of any note who
ever wrote in this country; to this end,
170 pages are devoted to the novel.
There follows a rather briefer, but r .ore
convincing, survey of Australian verse
which occupies some 45 pages, and
finally there are short chapters on
modern short stories and on plays.
Although close study shows that
there are very few authors indeed who.
in the author’s opinion, have attained
world standard, his study of the Aus-
tralian novel is far from superficial.
In nine exhaustive chapters he deals
successively with: Beginnings; the
’Nineties; 20th ceniuiy literary
premises; the bush, blood and soil; the
city and social problems; psychological
novels; historic and political novels;
the immigrants; war novels. Through-
out the work an attempt is made to
mention only “serious” literature and
to ignore mere entertainment; child-
ren’s books, travel books and the like
have also been excluded, and the author
has tried to give sufficient historical
background to make each period easily
comprehensible.
If. as I believe, the book fails to give
any real picture of Australian prose
writing during the last century, there
are several reasons for this which are
not entirely the author’s fault. One
lies in the fact that you cannot tell
much about a man’s writing by giving
a synopsis of one or more of his books
and by describing some of his more
important fictional characters. Another
is caused by the compiler’s earnest de-
termination not to leave anyone out,
and thus wasting many pages cn very
minor and long-forgotten authors,
unknown to all but lecturers —even in
Australia.
Finally, as Dr Schulz could not, of
course, read every volume mentioned
he has been forced to rely rather
heavily on the opinions of others.
His list of critics and writers who have
“helped” him is most impressive, but
it is obvious that in many instances he
quotes critical opinions of others who.
by the mere coloration of these
opinions, often become dearly identi-
fiable.
Dr Schulzs preoccupation is with
“ideas” and psychology. He believes
that novelists are primarily interested
in ideas and “messages” and that they
merely write their books to get these
across to a wider audience. He attri-
butes this method to practically every
writer —from the earnest apostles of
Katharine Susannah Prichard’s ilk to
light-hearted lyricists such as Eve
Langley, and including Miles Franklin
who. during a discussion some years
ago. declared “you just have a story”
and that such ideas as you happened
to hold forced their way into it.
Taking this earnest attitude, he com-
pletely dismisses the humor of Steele
Rudd and maintains that European
readers could only regard his books
as serious social history. Significantly,
in his quotations, he translates “selec-
tion” as “settlement” and “nothing but
goannas” as “lizards.” Scant attention
is paid to the literary qualities of any
of the works discussed until, coming
to the present day. he delves more
deeply when discussing Kylie Tennant.
Patrick White and a few others. Patrick
White he regards as the only Aus-
traliam writer (apart from Brennan)
whose literary merit would be inter-
nationally acceptable.
The chapters dealing with poetry are
far more satisfying. Moving in a world
more to Lis personal liking. Dr -Schulz
appears to have read very widely, and
gives some mature and penetrating
judgments of many of our writers. He
is less insistent on the need for social
or philosophical messages, and suc-
ceeds, 1 believe, in giving a generally
fair idea of the writing of such men
and women as Kenneth Slessor, Doug-
las, Stewart. Judith Wright. James
McAuley. Rosemary Dobson and Rex
Ingamells, A final chapter in this
section of the book is devoted to the
poets who. he believes, have not yet
given of their best and of whom much
may yet be expected.
While a few' at least of the novels
discussed have been translated into
German and are available to potential
readers of this history, poetry must
needs be accepted as presented by the
author, and it is fortunate that his judg-
ments are sound and unlikely to create
any serious misunderstandings among
those who might, eventually, have
opportunity to read some of the
authors discussed in the original.
The final chapters are not the
author’s own. There is a very brief
enumeration of 20th-century short-
story writers and their preferred sub-
jects by Ken Levis, which, at best, may
kindle some interest in collections such
as ‘'Coast to Coast” among Engitsh-
reading Europeans. Leslie Rees, in a
survey of ! i pages, gives the economic
background of Australian theatre and
deals briefly with a few of the better-
known plays. This chapter, though
probably well intended, is hardly
sufficient to whet anyone’s appetite for
a hitherto unheard-of dramatic litera-
ture.
By and large, this is a thorough work,
and it is pleasant to see the interest
in our writers and the expressed confi-
dence in the future of Australian
literature.
Paul Frolich
On the Beat
The Australian Police Forces. G. M.
O'Brien. Oxford University Press.
375. 6d.
It is not a history of the police forces,
though a new one would be interesting,
those that exist being devoted merely
to sections of the forces of the various
States at particular periods. But even
a concise dissection of the work of the
police against some historical back-
ground is welcome. The author is a
serving publicist in the Victorian
Police Force, who sees his picture from
inside.
The Australian police system dates
back to the very beginnings of our
(Continued on page 27)


mt
am
i
m.
cm
!l:J
,J
V
INTERNATIONAL
HOC-OP
real
eads a
life
Before you buy a utility vehicle, test drive the “workabout-runabout”
international Pick-Up. Arrange it with your nearest IH branch or dealer.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
FMT 400/ JO. 22./FP/H92


The Bulletin
FEBRUARY 1, 1961
Vol. 82
No. 4225
INDEX
COVER STORY
Orr’s First Five Years 13
CURRENT AFFAIRS
Plain English
Nct-so-mobile Donna; No
Future in Public Service ;
Happy Unanimity 8
Political Points 11
DEPARTMENTS
Aboriginalities 54
Personal 16
Service and Information 59
Society 6
FEATURES
Look Back at Anger 12
Harney and the Outbackery
Showdown 32
Ready for the Slaughter 47
FICTION
Mr Bezantizoff, by Margaret
Trist 44
The Ladies’ Parlor Clique 50
FINANCE
Business, Robbery, etc.
Mytton’s, Ltd. 39
N.Z. New Year 42
Wild Cat Pages 56
LETTERS 51
MAN ON THE LAND
Does the Australian Farmer
Work Too Hard? 33
Wool Promotion Fails 34
OVERSEAS
Kennedy and the Summit Fuss 19
Can Kassem Cope? 20
Overseas Pointers 21
REVIEWS
The Red Page
German View of Australian
Literature 2
Verse 28
Shows 23
SPORT
“Grand Prix” Fever 36
John Schofield 38
WOMEN
That Second Car ; Giveaways ;
Spuds 30
NEXT WEEK
How to Lose Friends and
Influence People
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OIF ICE: 252 George Street,
Sydney; Box 2521; Phone: BU 5971.
The Need for
an Upper House
WHAT happens to the Labor party in N.S.W. matters to all Australia.
The comparative respectability and strength of the Heffron Govern-
ment is all that lends some kind of sense to the tragic ratbaggery of the
A.L.P. in Victoria —and it is the Victorian brand of Labor that now really
runs the A.L.P.
For this reason, whether the people of N.S.W. decide to do away
with their Legislative Council also matters to all Australia.* The referendum
that will be held this year is a straight yes-no affair. N.S.W. will either
have the present Upper House, or none. If it has none, such attempts as the
State Labor Government makes to act like a Government, rather than as an
adjunct of the unions and the Labor Left-wingers, will be weakened, perhaps
disastrously.
At present the better elements in Cabinet and in the “Cabinet Party”
that has a narrow majority in Caucus do resist some of these outside pressures
as long as they can. One of the political factors that have helped them in
this has been that they have been able to tell those who put on the pressure
that they cannot guarantee all the Labor votes in the Council. (Indeed, a
group of Labor Legislative Councillors decided it was better to leave the
Labor party than vote for their own abolition.) If the Council goes
altogether, Cabinet may find it impossible to resist the kind of pressure
that will force it into stupid measures (that, of course, may end in defeating
it at an election). Even conservatively minded Labor supporters should
vote no. An unfettered Legislative Assembly might wreck their Government.
Apart from the suicidal idiocies of the wilder men in the Labor party,
there are other reasons why N.S.W. should vote against abolition—and why,
since a yes vote would strengthen Labor attacks on Upper Houses in other
States, the rest of Australia should worry about it. The main reason is that
there is still plenty of need for a House of review, however it might be elected.
It is sheer humbug to suggest that Governments—which can sometimes
spend years not doing anything—should declare a matter urgent and
suddenly ram it through just because they have at last decided to do
something about it.
JF what is left of Parliamentary government is going to mean anything at
all it means that the mammoth parties must be checked by public
discussion of the measures they are proposing. One of the most effective
ways of doing this is simply to delay legislation long enough for people
to be able to talk about it. If one can also devise some kind of House of
review that contains men whose opinions on a measure can add something
to the discussion, all to the good. But even if an Upper House is filled
with nitwits, the delays and doubts it can cause mean that checks are being
enforced on the governing party.
There is no doubt that the present Legislative Council in N.S.W. is no
good. Its peculiar method of election was run up in the 1930 s to ensure
that the Labor party would not control the Legislative Council unless it
stayed in office for many years. It has stayed in office for many years and the
biters have been bit. But there are at least a dozen ways of electing Upper
Houses that can provide a reasonably workable House of review. It is up to
the opponents of abolition to suggest some. And it is up to everybody who
wants orderly government to vote no. Even a bad Upper House is better
than none.


ULYSSES J. S. KENNEDY TAKES OVER
"From now on it gets more difficult. Over to you, and good luck!”


Society
Fix on Milk
Tn their relentless struggle against the
boredom and restrictions of life in
Government hostels, Canberra public
servants have developed a strange vice—
secret swigging of milk.
The cost of supplying milk to those
who enjoy a glass with meals is far too
high for Commonwealth Hostels a
Government - owned public company
which controls 13 of the 15 hostels in
the national capital. Only on milk taken
with cereals or tea, or included in the
preparation of a meal, can residents in-
dulge their weakness. Those who cannot
do without the stuff can arrange for
special deliveries ; but milk for common
drinking purposes is not included in the
permanent tariff (from £6 Bs. to £8 Bs.,
depending on the class of hostel) or the
casual tariff (£lO to £l3 155.), unless the
boarder: (a) is pregnant (most unlikely
for permanents); ( b ) is a child; (c)
suffers from ulcers ; or (d) can induce
supplies by submitting an excellent if
unusual reason.
One young woman sought to beat
prohibition by ordering corn-flakes she
did not want. Making sure there were
no snoopers about, she pushed the corn-
flakes aside, seized the small jug of milk
supplied with cereals and gulped its
contents.
Next morning she again called for
corn-flakes. But the milk squad had been
alert. The flakes arrived already swim-
ming in milk. The young woman laced
them with Worcestershire and tomato
sauce before retreating.
A man tried to buck the system by
enlisting the support of his table-mates
—fortunately tea-drinkers to a man. Each
morning they all ordered corn-flakes. The
hungry ones attacked corn-flakes with
milk ; the non-starters organised a quick
whip-round, and seconds later the milk-
addict drained a brimming glass.
Bui a spy-ring, weeding out the waitress
who was apparently in on the plot (she
was paid-off in smiles), clamped down
on this practice.
Now, rather than take a fix under the
scornful eyes of water- and tea-drinkers,
the confirmed milk addicts retire to the
privacy of their rooms to crack a bottle.
* ❖ *
A Pound
and its Keeper
TAhe keeper of the Sydney car-pound
near Martin Place—where cars
towed away by the council for illegal
parking are kept until bailed out by their
owners —was leaning on the gate, wait-
ing for the towaway truck to bring in
the next haul, when a motorist pulled
hurriedly into a towaway zone across the
street and ran into a building. The
pound-keeper shook his head reprovingly
and walked over to the car. Finding the
door open and the ignition-key in place
he decided to do his duty. The owner ran
out just in time to see his car being
driven into the lock-up under its own
power. Then he found that he hadn’t
the required fiver, the banks were about
to close and not a taxi in sight. The
pound-keeper was sorry, but he couldn’t
take cheques. The towaway truck, how-
ever, arrived in time and obligingly ran
the motorist across town to his bank
and back.
+*+ +*«• ♦*+
Each Way
'TPhe editors of “Reality”, published by
the Australian Trade Union Press
Pty., Ltd., give some sound, though per-
haps confusing, advice to union officials.
Its first basic principle for producing
Labor union journals is: “Any publica-
tion is better than no publication.” Its
fourth basic principle reads: “A publica-
tion without control will fail and is better
not started.”
* *:♦ *
Who’s Interested
in Wool ?
HPhe Peppin Merino stud at Wanganella,
breeding-lines from which are to be
found throughout Australia, will celebrate
its centenary this year, and someone has
suggested that the P.M.G. might issue a
commemorative stamp for the occasion.
Postmaster-General Davidson, however,
has made it clear that the number of
special issues in a year has to be limited,
and that any issues must be associated
only with occasions of outstanding
national significance or of special his-
torical significance or interest to a wide
section of the Australian community.
PARIS IN THE SPRING
[AN ECHO SONG]
Ricci says, “Bosoms will sleep in the
day.’’
Cardin says, “Waistlines are flying away.”
echo : Eh ?
These are spring fashions, relayed by our
couriers —
What can’t you believe of those Paris
couturiers ?
echo: Your ears.
So many will ask, it is useless to number
us :
What will make bosoms in daytime more
slumberous ?
echo : Slum bras.
And could you predict of these people of
taste
What they’ll make after the flyaway
waist ?
echo: ’Aste.
From such sleeping mountains, how can
one retrieve them ?
Without any middles, how can one be-
lieve them ?
echo : Leave them.
SWILLIAM.


Hot Pig
The Victorian Department of Agricul-
ture has issued this hot-weather
advice to farmers: “A very effective way
of cooling pigs is to wet them with cold
water.”
+jt
Yo Hahlo ?
Despite the increasing enrolments for
language classes at the W.E.A. and
other night schools, most of the Austra-
lians making a trip to Europe this year
will depend for understanding on
“foreigners” who speak English. It is still
possible to meet the traveller who was
shocked to find that a Frenchman or a
German “didn’t speak a word of English,”
but the light-hearted tourist who will at
least attempt a few words in a foreign
language is more the rule. Not all are
quite so hopeless as the pair heard re-
counting their exploits in Spain:
“We were staying in this pension in
Malaga,” one of them said. “Every
morning Wally’d wake up and say, ‘How
do you say “good morning” in Spanish?’
and I’d say, ‘Boiners dears’ and Wal’d
wander out and the old duck who ran
the place’d rattle away fifty to the dozen
in Spanish and when she’d finished Wal’d
say: ‘Hombre Kostelanetz’.”
Wally shrugged his shoulders defen-
sively: “Sometimes I’d say ‘Xavier
Cugat’.”
❖ ❖ *£<
The Unshakeable
"poR devotion to routine it would be
hard to beat the porter in the Lost
Property Office of Sydney's Wynyard
Station who opened a steel trunk and
found it packed with human remains:
“I entered the trunk in the records as
lost property and called the railway
officers and police.”
❖ ❖ ♦>
Mama and the English
T etter from a New Australian friend:
Thanks for letter about my quit the
job for retirement on Friday. They had
a party at the workshop for Mama and
me. I made a speech, but Mama’s not
so good at the english.
The boss gave us two garden chairs.
He said now we could sit down like
Darby and Joan. When we got home
Mama put them under the willow tree.
On Monday I didn’t have to go to
work any more so I just went into the
back yard. After a while Mama came
out and says “Carlo, stop walking around
in circles ; you’re driving me crazy.”
Then we went over and sat down under
the willow tree. “This is good” Mama
says, “now we can be just like Darby
and Munro.” Like I say, Mama's not
so good at the english.
Your,
Carlo.
That was
The barouche retains its pride of place
as a show vehicle. When Kitchener drove
along Collins Street, Melbourne, last week,
the effect of the tall man in the open
carriage (apart from the importance of
his uniform) excited profound disrespect
for the appearance of George Reid fol-
lowing on in a motor-car. The car looked
a mean, unceremonious thing, and
George, raising his silk hat to every iron-
ical cheer by the roadside, was more un-
consciously ridiculous than he had ever
been before in his public career. One
can’t associate an elevated position with
a man who travels close to the ground in
a graceless vehicle moved by an invisible
agency — “Bulletin”, January 20, 1910.
Police raids are a droll pastime. The
cop knows pretty well where the liquor,
gambling or opium laws are being con-
stantly trodden underfoot, but only on
one day or night in three months or so
does he rise to the occasion. The govern-
ing idea is: “Give the blokes time to make
as much as will pay fines.” When “the
blokes” are supposed to be solvent the
city is struck with a sensational man-
oeuvre after Napolean’s best style.
The breaches of law could, in most
cases, have been prevented. But who
wants to prevent them? J. Knight, the
player, could prevent the limelight man
turning the radiance on him, but why
should he? Then the policeman is in most
cases the informant and, as such, draws
half the fine. He doesn’t actually draw
the money, but it goes to the police re-
ward fund, which is now incorporated
with the police superannuation fund.
Where the informant is a civilian, some-
thing is paid to him, and the balance
goes to the fund. Whether the civilian
informer ever divides with the policeman
isn’t known. Therefore when the citizen is
aroused from his dreams, at the hour
when ghosts are abroad, by the sound of
doors being broken down, the crash of
falling glass, or the wrath of “Micko” as
he leaps from the window of the “two-up”
joint—when all the night is filled with
clamor and execration —the citizen shall
not be dismayed. It is merely John Dunn
in one of his quarterly fits of activity.
— “Bulletin”, February 10, 1910.
Last week’s run of centuries in Mel-
bourne—six days out of seven the ther-
mometer left the nineties behind, and
even the darkness lowered it sut little _
peisuaded the m citize „ , ha , thc
1 , . , , °
combination of the average architect
and t ie dl,to bmlder P roduee s a result
deserves an indeterminate sentence.
? n those stifling nights the two-storey
terraces or Carlton, East Melbourne and
. , ,
otber suburbs became mere brick-kilns
and even the Queen Anne cottage proved
lts f a P arched fraud Its scarcity of ver-
a"dah ensured the walls being sunbaked
a 1 da >'’ and whe " a v mild ze P b y r tn PP, ed
alo ”S about tmdmght the Anne angles
and gables cut off all chance of a cool
breeze * wee P in g tb ™ugh the premises,
The ideal house for Australia is of the
bungalow class a few large, high looms
with wide windows, and a verandah
nearly the width of the street running
right round. I here a tired toiler might
sleep in peace, if he had a mosquito net
spiead ovei him. But Melbourne hasn t
y e(: dropped the ornamental Queen Anne
f QI tbe . sensdj j e bungalow, so it trans-
feried itself in large numbers to the
beach, where a lot of it stayed till the
early-morning trams came by.
—“Bulletin’’, March 3, 1910.
Sydney Zoo keeps on staying in the
same old place in spite of expert dam-
natory opinion. The animals don’t seem
to be more gloomy than they used to be,
because they reached the gloom limit long
ago. The smells, perhaps, are a little older,
but they’re still the same old potent kind
that knocked one down as a boy (or girl) .
The kangaioo, which is naturally a clean-
ly animal, has given up trying to find
clean spots to lie on. The bears and other
overcoated beasts gloom dismally in their
cramped, sun-warmed boxes, groan for
marble slabs, and tread in their water
tins as regularly as heretofore, because
it’s much less trouble to tread in them
than to avoid them. With the exception of
the monkeys, which, being the fools of
the forest, are cheerful at all times, the
only truly optimistic inmates of the Zoo
nowadays are the rat, the sparrow and
the flea. — “Bulletin”, March 3, 1910.
SOCIETY STILL OPEN
R OERS are reminded that the
Society pages are still open to con-
tributors of short, bright paragraphs about
city life in Australia. Pen-names have
been dropped, but rates of payment have
been lifted. All MSS. should bear the
contributor’s name and address.
Contributions will now be paid for on
publication; no claim need be lodged.
Outstanding claims for contributions
over the past year should be made as soon
as possible.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Not-so-mobile Donna
TThe problem of the balance of the sexes
in immigration is as old as Australia
itself, and has cropped up again in a
campaign by the Italian press in Aus-
tralia —strongly supported by Dean
Babbage, of Melbourne, and others —to
bring in a large number of Italian girls
to meet the marriage needs of Australian
Italians who cannot find partners.
The Italian publicists certainly could
not always have found colorable ground
for saying—as they do now, somewhat
unjustly—that the “immigration policy
of the (Australian) Government has
created this unnatural situation because it
is based on considerations of need and
convenience rather than on principles of
humanity and Christian charity.”
The “heads of a plan” for the settle-
ment of Botany Bay, sent to the Treasury
by Lord Sydney on August 18, 1786,
provided for conveying from Tahiti, New
Caledonia and other islands a number
of women, because “without a sufficient
proportion of that sex it is well known
that it would be impossible to preserve the
settlement from irregularities and gross
disorders.” That the plan was not effected
was probably due only to the shortage of
shipping and rations.
All through the early history of Aus-
tralia colonists were just as much subject
as the modern Italian migrant to “loneli-
ness.” Even when the settlement was 20
years old there was only one woman to
two men of all classes in N.S.W. The
disparity of the sexes became more
marked during the great convict importa-
tions of the 1820 s, the first years of free
immigration and the gold era. For a
generation settlers went to the “female
factory” for wives.
Even today the blight of “loneliness”
seems to have been exorcised only in
metropolitan districts, in which at the
last census there were 25 females to
every 24 males. Over the whole of the
rural areas taken together there were 103
males to every 85 females. In outback
Queensland the ratio of males to females
was four-to-three in the central west,
nearly two-to-one in the far west and in
the great north-west.
The gist of Dean Babbage’s case is
that there are approximately 300,000
Italians in this country and that less
than 100,000 of these are women ; the
disproportion is “enormous”—though it
is no more so than among the popula-
tions of vast outback expanses of Aus-
tralia.
The Dean says that “at least 150,000
marriages should take place amongst
Italians in the next three years.” During
that period he thinks it vital that 100,000
Italian women should arrive in the coun-
try and that a “simple sense of humanity
demands that the Government take a
serious view of the matter and do all in
its power to make it possible for these
single men to marry their own country-
women if they should wish.”
It may be simple humanity and
commonsense, but it is not so simple in
practice.
Though la donna may be mobile in
Italian opera, she is not so mobile in
immigration, being inclined to hang back
from export; and there are huge prob-
lems involved in bringing out 100,000
untutored Italian girls and keeping them
in storage against the day when country-
men make their choice of marriage-part-
ners among them. If every Italian were
ready to take a girl on arrival it would be
easy. But Italians (like Australians)
want, not a girl, but the girl.
For a time there certainly would be an
oversupply of Italian beauty, and many
girls would go unclaimed or marry Aus-
tralians.
The very problem of making the girls
accessible in the right places and of
selecting types suitable for marriage to
the types of Italian men who have begun
to acquire different standards to those
of their homeland is not so easy as it
seems, whatever “Christian charity” may
dictate in theory.
There should be plenty of Italian
women ready, if willing, to immigrate.
The masculinity rate of Italy is 95 men
to 100 women, and the Government
should do its best both to give young
Italians the chance to marry girls of
their own nationality—provided they
don't form Italian enclaves and political
pressure-centres —and to integrate them
into the general population by marriage
to Australian girls.
No Future in
Public Service?
Tf arbitration fails, most unions go on
strike ; but the 20,000-strong Admin-
istrative and Clerical Officers’ Association
has devised a new method of industrial
action. It is telling people not to join
the public service. The Commonwealth
advertises for recruits ; the union adver-
tises against recruiting.
The union’s advertisements state:
“Think twice before choosing the Com-
monwealth Public Service as a career”
and “Salary rates in the Commonwealth
Public Service are depressed through the
Federal Government's policy of poor
wages.” They go on to compare the rates
of pay in the Commonwealth Public
Service, the State Public Service, and the
Commonwealth Bank.
The association, comprising all per-
manent public servants up to a salary
range of £5500, points out that the Com-
monwealth Public Service pays a com-
mencing salary to youths with the
Leaving Certificate of £451, and a mini-
mum at 21 of £860; whereas the State
Public Service pays £523 and £962 respec-
tively.
The advertisements have been designed
to frustrate the efforts of the Common-
wealth Public Service in enticing school-
leavers into its ranks, and it will cer-
tainly have some effect. The nark
campaign stems from the dissatisfaction
of the association when the Common-
wealth Public Service Board refused to
grant its members the 28 per cent, rise
given to the Metal Trades, State Services,
and semi - governmental workers. The
Public Service Board not only refused
the margin, but will not conciliate with
the association. Officers of the associa-
tion point out that the standard within
the Service will deteriorate with qualified
young people going into the State Ser-
vices or the Commonwealth Bank, and
the Commonwealth Public Service will
receive the left-overs.
As part of the campaign the Council
of Salaried and Professional Associations,
the white-collar A.C.T.U., held a public
rally in Sydney’s Wynyard Park to draw
attention to their plight. The tactics are
to raise the lower-income brackets ; then
they will be able to ask for a comparable
rise for the higher-income group ; and
then for the lower-income group, and
then for the higher-income group....
Brisbane’s Best
Comedy
TJlaying to empty houses in Brisbane
for more than a week has been one
of the city’s best comedies for many a
year—the hearings of a Committee to
Investigate Parliamentary Salaries. One
by one the “reluctant dragons” of George
Street have been coming forward to tell
the committee that they didn’t expect (or
want) to make anything out of their
Parliamentary salaries —£2501 10s. for
backbenchers and £3701 10s. for Minis-
ters —but that things really were rather
grim. According to evidence submitted,
most of the backbenchers are left with
£35 net a fortnight, after allowing for
taxation and superannuation.
The inquiry has been given a judicial
appearance by the appointment of Sir
William Webb (ex-Queenslander) as com-
mittee chairman, assisted by outsider Mr
G. F. Sorrell (Tasmanian S.M. and Pub-
lic Service Board Chairman), and Mr N
Jamieson (Brisbane chartered accountant).
Last Parliamentary pay-rise in Queens-
land was in 1953, arbitrarily decided on
by Labor Caucus and Cabinet, which
then tied Parliamentary pay levels to the
salaries of under-secretaries. The then
Opposition parties (Country and Liberal)
opposed the move bitterly, promising
repeal if and when elected. They got
elected in the Queensland Labor split
in 1957, and repealed the Act linking
Parliamentary salaries with those of


under-secretaries, although hanging on to
the existing level.
Since then under-secretaries’ salaries
have increased to £4060, and there has
been a hullabaloo about it from the
Government benches, despite the fact
that the Act was repealed for the express
purpose of stopping a Parliamentary
pay-increase cycle. “Honest Frank” Nick-
lin’s coalition Government made no men-
tion of a possible Parliamentary pay-
increase during last year’s election for
a second term of office, or during the
recently concluded session of Parliament.
The A.L.P. Parliamentary party de-
cided to boycott the hearings in protest,
but will now give evidence because it
has been assured that evidence would
relate only to “the nature and responsi-
bility of their work —not for the purpose
of determining salaries and allowances.”
Q.L.P. leaders are testifying, with docu-
ments used to bolster the 1953 pay-in-
creases when they controlled Cabinet.
The happy unanimity of all parties on
the subject was perhaps best exemplified
when the Speaker (Mr Nicholson)
solemnly assured the committee that he
did not know of one member of Par-
liament who did not do his duty
conscientiously and efficiently.
Upper House
Problem
T Victoria’s Upper House, which seems
* destined to outlive the politicians
advocating its abolition, is the centre
of a tangled election problem. For
some years now elections for the two
State legislatures—Assembly and Coun-
cil —have been held several weeks apart.
At the last general election in 1958, the
Assembly poll was held on May 31 and
the Council poll on June 21.
This year there is a stronger demand
to stage the elections on the same day.
The campaigners advance the cry mainly
on the basis of cost and convenience:
all the taxpayers’ money that goes out in
hiring halls and paying electoral clerks
for a separate Council election would be
saved.
But there is a problem. The boun-
daries for the seats of the two Chambers
-—they are called “electorates” for the
Assembly and “provinces” for the Coun-
cil—are widely and wildly different. One
province may sprawl over several elec-
torates, without the boundary lines coin-
ciding.
The electors in one section of the inner
suburb of Carlton, for example, will
have no trouble with the Assembly poll
—they are all in Melbourne electorate.
Confusion starts when they come to vote
for the Council, because the boundary
lines of three provinces—Melbourne,
Melbourne North and Doutta Galla —
encroach on this small area.
The Government, however, is anxious
to find a solution to the problem because
it sees political advantages in holding
the two elections on the one day, and
not merely in saving State revenue. In
1958 the Government scored an easy win
in the Legislative Assembly and seemed
to have good chances of snatching a
majority in the Council poll three weeks
later. But the interval between elections
enabled the Labor party and Country
party to combine in a plea to electors to
“put a brake” on the Bolte Government.
Thus the parties in Opposition were
given an issue which they would not
otherwise have had.
The ruse worked, and Henry Bolte was
deprived of control of both Chambers.
The Government finished up with 17
seats in the Council; the A.L.P., 9 ; the
Country party, 8. After providing a
president, the Government was left in a
minority of one on the floor of the
House whenever the Labor and Country
parties cared to combine —and they have
not been shy about occasional flirtations.
A Non-citizen Speaks
“T have not applied for citizenship
-*• and I do not intend to.” A man
who was born in Australia, worked all
his life in the country and served in
the A.I.F. made this blunt statement
at the final lecture of the 1961 Perth
Summer School.
The speaker was George Harwood,
an educated and articulate man who
differed from his audience in only one
respect: he is a classified native under
the laws relating to aborigines in Wes-
tern Australia. This does not prevent
him from applying for citizenship, but
even if he became a citizen his native
status would continue under the Wes-
tern Australian law. This, he told his
audience, was a form of discrimina-
tion which he resented and did not
understand.
The question of citizenship was only
one aspect of Mr Harwood’s main
thesis, which was the overall prob-
lem of what he called “a poverty-
stricken minority group living on the
fringe of a prosperous community.”
There was no longer a need, he
said, to protect this group from
exploitation by the white community.
Its tribal loyalties and relationships
were largely dissipated, and thous-
ands of mixed-bloods now depended
entirely on white society for their
livelihood. In Western Australia hun-
dreds could be assimilated into the
while community now, and thousands
more were capable of assimilation if
given sufficient incentive.
“They want the chance to go to
school, to live in a decent house and
to become members of the com-
munity. It is a social hunger in
them,” he said.
Although he conceded that the wel-
fare policy now practised by succes-
sive Governments in Western Aus-
tralia was working in the interests of
natives, the policy of assimilation still
had to be adopted officially. That it
had not been adopted so far might not
be the fault of Governments, which
had a moral right to look to the com-
munity for a sign of acceptance. The
ultimate barriers to assimilation were
social rather than political.
The lack of a planned system to
orientate natives towards white society
was the biggest drawback to their
acceptance by the community.
“Of course you don’t want them in
your home,” Mr Harwood told his
obviously uncomfortable audience.
“You feel they must be respectable
and socially trained before they can
meet you on equal terms. Yet what
right have you to adopt this attitude
when the natives have received no
training to fit them for white society?”
He concluded by pointing out that
foreign Governments might easily
judge Australia by her treatment of
the aborigines—a thought that caused
a rustle of unrest among the audience.
Mr Harwood was the first man of
admitted aboriginal descent to speak
at the summer school. In choosing
him the Adult Education Board obvi-
ously had in mind his informed views
and his close association with the
official policy of the Native Welfare
Department. Only once did he de-
part from his script to detail some
of the acts of racial discrimination
which had been practised against him
in the wheatbelt towns of W.A. Only
then did his audience begin to under-
stand the basic reasons why this
moderate man declined to become a
citizen of his own country.
A. & R.’S Now
HThe most interesting thing in the Angus
and Robertson set-up these days is
simply that they are going ahead with
publishing. It is almost as if the year
of storms had never been: the more so
since some of the staff who supported
the W. V. Bums regime are still happily
to be seen around the premises, while
some who disappeared then have come
back —notably Bill Davis as art-director.
G. A. Ferguson has been appointed to
act as managing - director; Dr Colin
Roderick is seconding him in the pub-
lishing department and acting, as before,
as technical and educational editor;
Beatrice Davis continues as editor of
fiction and general literature.
The London office has moved into
larger premises with a view to expanding
it activities.
One event that could be of consider-
able importance is that Mr Ferguson,
with two other directors, Norman
Routley and Aubrey Cousins, is at pre-
sent investigating the whole organisation
of the business, including the subsidiaries
taken over by Mr Burns; but precisely
what that means won’t be known until
they present their report.
From a profit-making viewpoint the
most important event in the publishing


No Deal from
the D.L.P.
T ast weekend’s Federal D.L.P. Confer-
ence in Canberra unanimously en-
dorsed its leader's (Senator Cole’s) “no-
deal” statement. He said : “Three forces
still prevent the co-operation of all Labor
elements despite the overriding need for
a strong Opposition to the Menzies
Government. They are the Communist
party, which has no intention of yielding
the influence over A.L.P. policy which
it obtained as a result of the Labor split;
the careerists who took the jobs of the
expelled anti-Communists and who
regard alliance with the Communists a
necessity if those positions are to be
retained ; and the sectarian forces who
have never been genuinely Labor in sym-
pathy but who continue to use Labor as
a weapon with which to perpetuate
religious division in Australia.
“When my colleague Senator Mc-
Manus and I made our conditional offer
to the A.L.P. of co-operation against the
panic economic measures of the Menzies
Government these elements asserted
themselves on the Federal Executive of
the A.L.P. to reject the offer in character-
istically insulting terms. Consequently
we have not asked our Federal Executive
to examine the claims of the A.L.P. in
this regard, nor do we propose to ask
this conference to do so.”
The D.L.P.’s endorsement of Senator
Cole’s speech only recognises that no
change can occur in D.L.P. and A.L.P.
relationships as long as Joe Chamberlain
and his Victorian Executive followers
remain in control of the A.L.P. The
Senator's speech is a paraphrase of the
behind-the-scenes “offer” made to Senator
Kennelly last year. This offer was de-
signed to draw attention to the power
structure which exists among Australian
political parties: the A.L.P. cannot
govern without the support of the D.L.P.,
and Mr Menzies depends on D.L.P.
preferences to remain in office. In the
Calare by-election last year Mr Menzies
was humiliatingly reminded that the
D.L.P. is not loath to exploit dissensions
between the Liberals and the Country
party—a fact which gives greater strength
to the peculiar third-party role of the
D.L.P. Senator Cole and Senator Mc-
Manus, although not in a position to
put too much pressure on Mr Menzies,
will probably demand some concessions
from him for its continued support—
particularly as the Prime Minister may
have to face a hostile Senate next year.
An increase in Southern European
“bride” migrants, greater child-endow-
ment payments and propaganda for
private-school grants would head the list.
The strength of the D.L.P. does not
lie only in its number of Parliamentary
representatives but in its power-for-sale
position. How long it will be able to
retain its unique role in Australian poli-
tics nobody knows. But at the moment
it defines the differences between the two
Labor parties and prevents the Federal
and State Liberal Governments from be-
coming too lazy. Some D.L.P. officials
and the majority of its rank-and-file
seem to think that the D.L.P. will be-
come a “legitimate” third pary in Aus-
tralian political life. The origins of the
D.L.P. and the fact that Mr Santamaria’s
National (Catholic) Civic Council gives
it its real strength are not factors which
will entice Australian electors to vote for
it, and this alone should make for a
commonsense approach by the D.L.P.
programme is probably the establish-
ment of the paperback series to be called
Pacific Books. A big list of these is
contemplated, to sell at about ss. 6d. The
first six titles, due in June, are T. A. G.
Hungerford’s “Sowers of the Wind,’
Frank Clune's “Ben Hall,” Steele Rudd’s
“On Our Selection," Katharine Prichard's
“Coonardoo,” Frank O'Grady’s “No
Boundary Fence” and A. B. Paterson's
“The Man from Snowy River.” The
firm seems to be playing pretty safe with
this lot, and with the next six, due two
months later, among which there will
be titles by Idriess, Lennie Lower
(“Here's Luck,” of course), Arthur Up-
held and (“Blue Hills”) Gwen Meredith.
Then there is an immense list of more
substantial books in hardbacks: literary
and critical works to include Brennan’s
prose and the first volume of H. M.
Green's history of Australian literature ;
two historical works, Watkin Tench’s
well-known journal under the title of
“Sydney’s First Years” and (in associa-
tion with the Mitchell Library) the first
publication of Sir Joseph Bank's “En-
deavour” journal, which Dr Roderick
says is the best account of the discovery
of Australia ; a historical and literary
surprise promised in A. H. Chisholm’s
“The Secret of Alexander Harris” ; poems
by Elizabeth Riddell and Ronald Mc-
Cuaig ; novels by Xavier Herbert (the
long-awaited “Soldiers’ Women”), Helen
Heney and others ; books about the
Antarctic by John Bechervaise, about the
West Indies cricket tour by A. G. Moyes,
about the killer-whales of Eden by Tom
Meade and about Australia’s first police-
woman by Vince Kelly.
With schoolbooks, textbooks, a new
series of “Outdoor Guides,” a new edi-
tion of C. P. Mountford’s “Brown Men
and Red Sand,” etc., the policy for the
future is: “To expand and deepen pub-
lishing in all fields.”
Time of the Black Day
HThe bushfires which struck at almost
exactly the same time last week
in four States were a reminder that
in the nine weeks between the end of
December and the end of February, a
national calamity from bushfires is
always a possibility.
Western Australia was worst hit.
In the heart of the jarrah-forest
country south of Perth a giant bush-
fire, driven before a shrieking hurri-
cane, leapt in the night upon the mill-
town of Dwellingup. In the hours of
terror which followed for the 450
inhabitants all but a few buildings
were gutted. Daylight revealed black
devastation everywhere, but miracu-
lously no lives were lost. In the mean-
time the fire had roared on to burn
out the nearby small towns of Nanga
Brook and Holyoake. There, as at
Dwellingup, the disaster was marked
by heroic efforts to save life and
property.
Apart from the loss of over a
hundred dwellings, including a hos-
pital, the economic blow to the big
State was severe in the devastation of
500,000 acres of rich forests, making
it the worst disaster of any sort in
the State’s history.
Tinder-dry bush in Tasmania’s
north and north-west and in the Lakes
country, exploding into flame in heat-
wave temperatures, sent out-of-hand
bushfires ripping through thousands
of acres of forest and bush, laying
waste homes and leaving red-eyed
firefighters exhausted. Here bull-
dozers played a big part in the race
to hurl the fire back on to itself as it
hit the firebreaks. The estimated cost
for a none-too-rich State was £lOOO
a day, and this has been continuous
for almost two months —but measured
against its efficacy in saving life and
property from the rushing flames, it is
cheap.
In the Adelaide hills a sea of flame
bearing down on the Mt Barker Road
was turned by hundreds of Emergency
Fire Service men, and in Victoria a
bushfire raced through valuable graz-
ing country around Broadmeadows
to bring death to stock and damage
to rural industry, but fortunately, as
with the other three States, no loss
of life.
With temperatures soaring in several
States, the bushfire danger will re-
main. The Black Day is always a
strong possibility, as happened at
Leura (N.S.W.) three years ago when
a monster lire, without warning and
gaining momentum from a high wind,
burst out of the nearby valley to bring
swift death and destruction.


POLITICAL POINTS
POPULATION CHANGES
Adelaide will outstrip Brisbane this
year as Australia’s third city if last year’s
growth rate is maintained. Population
figures to June 30, 1960, with increases
shown in brackets are: Adelaide, 577,000
(15,000); Brisbane, 578,000 (11,000);
Melbourne, 1,831,000 (53,000); Sydney,
2,098,000 (44,000); Perth, 395,000
(6000); Hobart, 111,000 (2000); Can-
berra, 50,000 (6000).
• •
PROFIT FOR RAILWAYS
A record profit of £1,500,000 this
financial year was forecast for Common-
wealth Railways by its Commissioner,
Mr K. A. Smith. Fares and rates had
not changed since 1951 despite steep
basic-wage and margins rises, and the
anticipated profit will be due to increased
business. State transport authorities are
casting envious eyes at the unusual sight
of a profitable railway service.
• •
A PERIOD OF HYSTERIA
Australia will be deluged with Fascist
and anti-Fascist propaganda this year
due to two unconnected events. The
general secretary of the Council to com-
bat Fascism and anti-Semitism, Mr
Ernest Platz, will visit Israel to report
on the Eichmann trial. The council is
a Communist-front organisation, and no
doubt when its secretary returns he will
inform us of all the “secret Nazis” in
Australia and Western Germany. The
tactics of this particular front organisa-
tion are to divert attention from Com-
munist atrocities ; attain respectability in
the Jewish community in Australia ; and
attack the West German Government,
which is friendly to Ben Gurion, by
“exposing” the Nazis within its ranks.
Mr Platz, as one would expect, is a
prominent and respected member of the
Victorian A.L.P. who joined the A.L.P.
after the split.
The second event is the proposed visit
to Australia of George Lincoln Rockwell,
the leader of the American Nazi party.
Mr Rockwell has been invited by Mr
Arthur Smith of Darlinghurst (N.S.W.),
founder of the Australian Nationalist
Workers’ party. This one-year-old
organisation claims to have a member-
ship of 750 and is an anti-Semitic, anti-
Communist society which advocates “a
world federation of white races to com-
bat expansion by the colored masses of
Asia and Africa.”
• •
takeover bid
Melbourne-based Carlton and United
Breweries Ltd. has made a takeover offer
°f £Bm. to Queensland Brewery, Ltd.
Carlton and United is Australia’s biggest
brewery group: it controls all the major
breweries in Victoria, owns the North
Australian Brewery at Cairns, and
operates a Darwin brewery. The offer
is the biggest takeover bid for a company
in Queensland commercial history.
Previous biggest was the successful
£4.7m. offer by the Myer Emporium,
Ltd., of Melbourne, for Allan and Stark,
Ltd., last year.
• •
BASIC WAGE APPLICATION
The A.C.T.U. has lodged an application
for a basic wage increase to the Com-
monwealth Arbitration Commission. The
present basic - wage figures are: Mel-
bourne, £l3 15s. (£3 4s. increase sought);
Svdney, £l4 3s. (£1 165.); Brisbane,
£l2 18s. (£2 55.); Adelaide, £l3 11s.
(£2 75.); Perth, £l3 16s. (£2 11s.);
Hobart, £l4 2s. (£3). No change in the
Federal basic wage has been made since
the 15s. rise in June, 1959.
• •
A.L.P. SENATE CANDIDATES
The A.L.P. in Queensland has selected
its three Senate candidates for this year’s
election: Dr Poulter, Senior Lecturer in
Education at the Queensland University ;
Mr Arnell, president of the Waterside
Workers’ Federation Brisbane Branch,
and one of a team of A.L.P. men who
ousted Communists from controlling
positions in the W.W.F., and Senator
Benn, who was elected to the Senate in
1949.
• •
VICTORIAN VICTORIAN
Victoria’s Chief Secretary, Mr Rylah,
is on the warpath again. His answer to
the vice-racket in Melbourne is to in-
crease penalties. His cry is: “But one of
the problems is that the courts have not
been using the full penalties provided by
the law.”
• •
BLACKMAIL
The Chinese Government in Peking has
asked the Australian Wheat Board to
stop making public statements about the
amount of Australian wheat (300,000
tons) being sold to China. The Wheat
Board has agreed because it fears it
will lose a customer. China has given
the widest possible publicity to her recent
trade-and-aid agreements to Cuba and
Guinea. Last September Peking gave
10,000 tons of rice to Guinea and agreed
to export 100,000 tons of rice to Cuba,
probably in exchange for sugar. China
needs rice and sugar and this could have
been bought with the “aid” given by
Peking to Guinea (£9m.), to Nepal
(£7.5m.) and to Mongolia (£lBm.). In
1958, China cancelled all trade with
Japan because Japan would not give way
to political pressure. To become a willing
pawn in a conspiracy of silence, to help
China to “save face” and to perpetuate
the myth of its Communist paradise is
a strange role for the Wheat Board to fill.
Of course we want to sell our wheat, but
this particular decision is not just a matter
of trade: our foreign policy should not
be decided by a group such as the Wheat
Board.
• •
A HOSTILE SENATE
The decision by the Queensland Labor
party to approach the A.L.P. and the
D.L.P. with a formula on which it is pre-
pared to co-operate with either party is a
political manoeuvre designed to prepare
the way for affiliation with the D.L.P.
The terms offered to both parties are:
effective action against A.L.P. members
who co-operate with Communists on
unity-tickets ; official and active partici-
pation by the A.L.P. in the fight against
Communism in the trade-unions; en-
forcement of the rule against A.L.P.
members participating in “bogus” peace
conferences and other Communist front-
organisations ; no outside direction of
representatives in Parliament; adoption
of foreign policies which recognise the
threat Communist China poses to all
South-east Asian countries and Austra-
lia ; support for clean trade-union ballot
legislation ; and declaration by the A.L.P.
that its policy does not envisage complete
socialism. Apart from the “outside
direction” clause which will call for some
fast talking by Mr Santamaria and his
National Civic Council men the D.L.P.
will have no difficulty in accepting the
terms. Another move which will hasten
affiliation is the news that the ex-Premier
of Queensland, Mr Vince Gair, is a
likely Senate candidate for the Queens-
land Labor Party, Mr Gair stands a
good chance of being elected: Mr Con
Byrne, a former Labor Senator, polled
100,804 votes, 14,000 short of the neces-
sary quota, when he stood as Q.L.P.
candidate in the 1958 Senate election.
With the Q.L.P. affiliating with the
D.L.P., and the increase in D.L.P. votes
evident throughout Australia plus Mr
Gair’s popularity in his home State, and
more Liberal Senators facing the electors,
the Menzies Government will probably
have a hostile Senate if it is returned
this year.
• •
TRUE DEMOCRACY
Mr Theo Kelly, managing-director of
Woolworths, after an eye-opening visit to
the United States, makes the startling
statement that shopping-hours should be
adapted to suit the customers’ con-
venience ; that this could be organised
within the framework of the 40-hour
week and that shops should be open
according to locality.


LOOK BACK AT ANGER
This comment by Hop on Australian-
British relations is the second in a series
of reprints of old BULLETIN cartoons.
LOOK BEFORE YOU LEAP
—From The Bulletin, April 20, 1895.


Orr’s First Five Years
By ANDREW DORSET
Few cases in Australia have involved
such dedication and sacrifice of
time, energy and money by indi-
viduals on both sides as the case
of Sydney Sparkes Orr, the Hobart Pro-
fessor of Philosophy, who was dismissed
in 1956 for allegedly seducing one of his
students. It has lasted five years and
may last for many years yet. Some of
those most deeply involved on either side
even expect to die before the justice of
their position is generally recognised:
If the Orr case sometimes reads like a
satirical novel and sometimes like a six-
penny thriller, it also has in it the ele-
ments of tragedy.
Three recent developments have
brought into the clearest possible relief
the fervent but irreconcilable commit-
ments that have sustained the Orr case
over the past five years and saved it
from finally degenerating as it often
seemed likely to do —into a sad and end-
less spectacle of smearing and counter-
smearing, paranoia and intrigue. The first
development is the excommunication in
December of the University of Tasmania
from the community of Australian uni-
versities by the Federal Council of Aus-
tralian University Staff Associations —
the ultimate commitment by Australian
academics to the principle of academic
freedom involved in the case. The second
is the announcement late last year that
Jacaianda Publications is about to pub-
lish the book on the case by Harry Eddy
—a painstaking manifesto by one of
Orr's most uncompromising supporters,
who is convinced that the case involves
far more than academic fieedom and
threatens every principle of our demo-
cratic way of life. The third development
is the announcement a fortnight ago that
Mr. James McAuley, one of the country’s
leading poets and critics, has accepted
a Readership in Poetry at the University
of Tasmania perhaps the University’s
most dramatic success so far in its
attempt to show that despite excommuni-
cation, ridicule and contempt, it is deter-
mined to survive and prosper.
These developments are useful re-
minders of the basic issues in a case that
has not been always a matter for reasoned
discussion. It has aroused bitter passions
that have sometimes expressed themselves
m insults and slanders which the victims
will never forgive. Some members of
the anti-Orr party, for example, have
not hesitated to describe some of Orr’s
supporters as anything from “hooligans"
to “madmen.” A detached keeper of a
smear score-card, however, would prob-
ably award top marks to the Orr party
—though they would insist that their
“smears” are accurate descriptions, that
the conspiracy against them is so sinister
and complicated that what seems like a
disgraceful smear is in fact simple truth.
Orr himself for example handed out
Changed Many People’s Lives
leaflets in Hobart entitled “Challenge to
Suzanne Kemp" deliberately accusing
Miss Suzanne Kemp of perjury—and
challenging her to sue him. Professor
R. D. Wright once dismissed the opinion
of the Chief Justice of Tasmania by
describing him as “a bachelor in his
middle fifties who lives with his mother.”
Some Orr-ites (often their own worst
enemies) have not stopped at slandering
the Vice-Chancellor of the University of
Tasmania, or even some of the members
of the High Court. The same people have
been quick to explain any anti-Orr state-
ment by attributing cowardice or
careerism to the person making it. As
they see the wicked conspiracy deepening
some ol them have even turned on their
own pro-Orr colleagues and denounced
them for secretly or unwittingly helping
their enemies. It sometimes seems that
no pro-Orr man fully trusts any other
pro-Orr man. and that some of Orr’s
supporters have even lost confidence in
Orr himself (though not in his cause).
Since the attempt to shoot Orr a year
ago, the charges against individuals of
employing murderers or attempting to
murder have increased.
But it is only fair to remember these
“smears” are not uttered lightly nor made
by men with a past career of muck-
raking. They believe them to be either
true or relevant. The anti-Orr camp may
be more restrained, but they have to
date been the successful party. They have
no reason to try to arouse public anger
against a group whom they can treat
as a minor nuisance.
In any case the mutual smearing is
simply another example of the sort of
desperation that often degrades important
social and political causes celebres, and
far more is involved in the case than
personalities.
CWdney Sparkes Orr arrived in Aus-
tralia in April, 1946, to take up a
position as lecturer in Philosophy in the
University of Melbourne. His wife
was delayed in Britain for a few months
because of shipping difficulties at that
time. Soon after he arrived he attended
a Student Christian Movement Con-
ference near Melbourne where he met a
teacher known as Miss A., who was
about 25 years old. They feh in love
and began an affair which was to last
five years. Orr himself wrote later, “I
couldn t leave Sadie [his wife] without
tearing my heart out. Yet how could
I abandon A. who had become so much
part of my life?” When Mrs Orr reached
Melbourne in August, 1946, the solution
adopted was a menage a trois in the
Orrs’ house. During the five years this
arrangement lasted, Orr had a son by
his wife and later in March, 1951, a
daughter by Miss A., who then left the
Orrs and did not return.
Orr applied for the Chair in Philosophy
in Hobart later that same year. Although
he had never been regarded as an out-
standing philosopher, he was an enthu-
siastic teacher and an active churchman.
He was appointed to the Chair in April,
1952.
Soon after he arrived in Tasmania he
became involved in the agitation inside
the University for a public inquiry into
University affairs. He drafted the open
letter to the Premier signed by four
professors and over 50 lecturers which
was published in the “Hobart Mercury”
and which brought about a Royal Com-
mission on the University. Inevitably
this agitation was directed primarily at
the Vice-Chancellor who largely ran the
University. When the Royal Commission
endorsed the agitators’ views the Vice-
Chancellor felt very bitter about his
successful critics, especially Orr whom
he disliked personally. He began col-
lecting allegations against Orr over
charges of prejudice or favoritism in
marking examinations, and mistreatment
of staff.
Despite his unpopularity, however,
Orr’s position was still secure. Then
suddenly in February, 1956, the position
changed completely. On the night of
February 26 one of Orr’s students,
Suzanne Kemp, a timber heiress, told
her father that Orr had seduced her.
Mr Kemp rushed round the corner to
Orr’s place “to tell him,” he said, “just
what sort of low-down bastard he was,”
and to “chastise,” that is, punch him—
in the literal sense, the first blow in the
Orr case.
The next day he laid his complaint
before the Vice-Chancellor who called a


special meeting of the University Coun-
cil for March 2. Before the meeting
Orr, on legal advice, offered his resigna-
tion “without prejudice.” But. after
Kemp had addressed the Council meet-
ing, it decided not to accept the resigna-
tion and to appoint a committee to
investigate Kemp’s charges. The com-
mittee met on March 9 and March 12.
It heard Miss Kemp’s account of having
sexual intercourse with Orr on a beach,
a statement from her father, and a state-
ment from Orr. On March 12 Orr re-
fused to answer questions or make a
detailed statement and his solicitor ex-
plained to the committee that Orr had
taken this stand on his legal advice:
since Orr was suing Kemp for defama-
tion and assault, these actions would be
prejudiced if evidence were prematurely
disclosed. The committee then reported to
Council and on March 16, 1956, Orr was
summarily dismissed.
These are the bare facts of what hap-
pened. But it was not until November,
1956, when the Tasmanian Supreme
Court heard Orr’s action suing the
University for £IO,OOO for wrongful dis-
missal that the case began to take its
peculiar shape. Mr Justice Green dis-
missed Orr’s action and found that the
University had established good grounds
for sacking Orr summarily. He held that
a professor is the servant of the Univer-
sity and like any servant can be dismissed
summarily. He accepted the evidence
that Orr had seduced Miss Kemp for
seven reasons: (1) She said so. (2) Why
should she invent such a story? (3) Her
diary confirmed it. (4) Orr had given
her earrings as a present. (5) There was
stiil in existence a love-letter she had
written him. (6) Orr’s offer to resign
suggested a guilty fear of a public inquiry.
(7) Orr admitted driving her one night to
a lonely beach.
It was the answer to these seven points
by Orr and his supporters that raised
the case to the sensational level. To take
each point in turn they alleged: (1) and
(2) She w'as a liar. (3) Her diary was
faked in crucial parts. (4) Orr had never
given her earrings ; the witness had been
suborned. (5) The letter was the hysterical
product of a teenage crush. (6) Orr
offered to resign because he feared his
enemies were about to publicise “the
Melbourne story” against him. (7) He
drove her home from the University one
night to discuss problems with her, taking
a roundabout way because of the number
of the problems. The car got stuck in a
ditch. There was no sexual intercourse.
Orr appealed to the High Court (with
financial backing from University staffs
on the mainland and in Britain) but in
May, 1957, the High Court dismissed his
appeal. He then retreated to his Hobart
house to collect the documents and pre-
pare the statements that were to be the
basis of his fight for a reversal of the
decisions against him. In June, 1957,
his life story appeared in “Pix” (“Pro-
fessor Orr Tells! Women in his life.
The strangest love story in years.”) and
his house became one of the tourist
attractions of Hobart —to the profit of
taxi - drivers. One by one prominent
churchmen, lawyers and academics began
visiting him to hear more details of his
terrible charges against the University.
The campaign had taken shape.
There were from the start two Orr
cases. The first—and least far-reaching
—was about the issue of academic fiee-
dom. Many academics were alarmed by
Mr Justice Green’s doctrine that pro-
fessors were servants of university
councils. In fact (they claimed) they were
the masters of the councils ; although
universities could not exist without pro-
fessors, they have often prospered with-
out councils. No council has the right
to dismiss summarily a professor, no
matter what his offence ; if he has to
be got rid of, it should be by means
more akin to the dissolution of partner-
ship than the sacking of a manservant.
Further, the University council’s com-
mittee which inquired into Mr Kemp’s
charges against Orr treated the traditions
of academic life and the principles of
natural justice with contempt. The com-
mittee was composed of men known to
dislike, or be prejudiced against, Orr;
Kemp's written charges which were
passed on to Orr before the Committee
met lacked sufficient detail for a con-
vincing rebuttal to be made ; the com-
mittee refused to let Orr have legal repre-
sentation yet required him to cross-
examine witnesses and make an imme-
diate statement. All this taken along
with the Vice - Chancellor’s admission
that he was gunning for Orr suggested
that the council had treated a professor
in an outrageous way, that the Univer-
sity was unfit to belong to the com-
munity of scholars.
This particular campaign finally took
the form of demanding a new inquiry
into the University’s manner of dismiss-
ing Orr not necessarily to whitewash
Orr but solely in the interests of the good
name of Australian universities. The first
expression of disquiet over the Univer-
sity’s methods was made by Mr H. A.
Wootten in an article in “Quadrant” in
April, 1957, which, oddly enough,
aroused little interest at the time. But
over a year later when the academics
had been aroused by the dramatic charges
by churchmen about miscarriage of
justice in the courts, they began to
demand action. In August, 1958, the
mainland Staff Association called for an
inquiry ; in October even the Tasmanian
Staff Association demanded one. The
academic philosophers went furthest and
placed, in effect, a black ban on the
Chair of Philosophy until the University
agreed to a new inquiry.
1958 saw pro- and anti-university
speakers touring the mainland for sup-
port. The late Professor Murray Todd
went as far as any pro-university man
would go when he conceded that the
University had conducted matters badly,
but that “the wrong procedure reached
the right conclusion.” That was by this
time nowhere near far enough for the
Federal Council of the Staff Associations
which late in 1958 sent representatives
to Hobart to report on the situation and
in August, 1959, set up a sub-committee
which examined the case in the greatest
detail.
TV/Teanwhile the University of Tasmania
became an almost impossible place
in which to work. There were several
resignations, including almost all the
Law School ; and most men leaving told
the same story. One academic lawyer
said he resigned because the University
was one in name only, completely lack-
ing spirit, ethos and atmosphere of a
university and hopelessly divided into
two bitter camps. Another said the Vice-
Chancellor publicly described his aca-
demic critics on the mainland as “a pack
of hooligans” and remarked to one
lawyer who had criticised him: “We
could, of course, do with a lecturer less in
the Faculty of Law, Mr Calvert.” Over-
seas lecturers would not apply for jobs
there, though he scoured the world for
applicants.
Last December, nearly five years after
the event, the Federal Council finally
stated that in its manner of sacking Orr
the University of Tasmania had violated
natural justice, had not supported its
charges with adequate evidence and had
conducted its Court case in a manner
“totally unworthy of a university.’
Accordingly it “censured” the university,
“this censure (being) imposed for the
sole purpose of informing our members,
the profession at large, and the public,
that the University of Tasmania has failed
to observe academic due process and
generally accepted standards of ‘natural
justice’ in the foregoing respects.”


rpHESE charges are serious enough, but
they pale into insignificance when
compared with those made by Orr and
his closest associates. In their view the
university's conduct is only a small part
of a vast conspiracy involving the whole
Tasmanian “ruling class” —a conspiracy
that has introduced brainwashing into
Australia and does not hesitate at murder.
The issue is so great that Orr cannot
speak of himself in the first person ; he
is a pawn in such a vast and important
game that he refers to himself as “Orr”
(saying, for example, not “I maintain”
but “Orr maintains”). They believe that
success in their campaign to expose the
conspiracy may well involve a complete
revolution in Tasmanian social life, the
overthrow of its ruling class and the
reversal of ancient island traditions —-
the Orr case being only the worst example
in a series of successful conspiracies
against justice going back to the early
convict days. Such a campaign (they
believe) may not be successful in our life-
time ; it may go on for generations, and,
of course, may never be successful. But
every principle of justice, liberty and
human dignity compels them to go on
fighting if totalitarian dictatorship,
brainwashing and assassination are not
to become normal parts of Australian
life.
The final version of this interpreta-
tion developed gradually. After Orr
produced his 52-page “Critical Examina-
tion of the Evidence, Procedure and
Judgment” in 1957 a number of people
came to visit him and left both moved
by his story and determined to do some-
thing about it. The first significant public
initiative was taken by the churches. At
that stage they expressed themselves
modestly: the Kirk Session of the Scots
Church in Hobart and Archbishop
Young, the Roman Catholic Archbishop
of Tasmania, expressed doubt whether
justice had been done in the courts. A
Citizens' Committee for Justice was
formed in Hobart, and on the mainland
Orr won the support of Professor R. D.
“Pansy” (short for “chimpanzee”) Wright
of Melbourne —a brother of Senator
Wright. Professor Wright has supported
Orr financially. Other prominent pro-
Orr recruits in Sydney include Professor
Wright’s friend, Dr Alf Conlon, Profes-
sor A. K. Stout, Professor John Ander-
son and Mr Harry Eddy. When the Tas-
manian authorities dug in and simply
ignored their criticisms and doubts, Orr,
Wright and Eddy came to the conclusion
that there was more than a miscarriage
of justice: there was a wicked conspiracy
conducted by ruthless men who would
stop at nothing.
Orr supporters did not have it
all their own way. Among those who
visited him, talked to him all night
and were deeply impressed were Mr H.
A. Wootten and Mr James McAuley.
When they left Mr Wootten, believing
that a very grave miscarriage of justice
had taken place, began formally checking
Orr’s statements against the records as
Preparation for a public statement. But
he found, he said, that the records
did not confirm Orr’s story. On the con-
trary the evidence actually supported the
limited I hLsHf m e th C ° U n \ a H % &t fir , St
criticismo A f Quadrant article
ciitic smg defects in the university s
andhng of the case, but when the Orr
campaign grew in bitterness and charges
against the courts and its allies became
xa° ie i e^ t,e ]J ie an d serious, he joined with
M . r , John Q.C ai ? d Published an
article in Free Spirit which became the
principa manifesto of the anti-Orr case.
It supported the court's finding in almost
eV p' y , d^ taik
But the Orr movement soon recovered
trom this blow, and in October Orr was
san mg on a stieet cornei in Hobart
handing out a leaflet which implored
liss Kemp to sue him for defamation so
that the could be brought back into
the courts. I have always been sorry,”
he said, “for Miss Kemp and her part
in this affair, although I cannot under-
stand how she could bring herself to do
such a dreadful thing to me and my
family. But my primary obligations are
to my wife and children, who must con-
tinue to suffer grievously until my name
is cleared and the truth of this matter
made manifest to the world.
AJdss Kemp, however, took no action,
and the campaign almost seemed to
be fizzling out when in November. 1959,
Bishop Cranswick, the Anglican Bishop
of Tasmania, joined the other churches in
demanding a reopening of the case. He
said he had been deceived by Orr’s
enem es and his name had been used im-
pi opei ly to support the anti-Orr case.
His announcement meant that nearly all
the Tasmanian church leaders are now
agreed that there has been a miscarriage
of justice.
Then early in 1960 came the most
dramatic incident of all. Someone fired
at Orr in his home. Orr was found
unconscious and dripping with blood. To
On and his followers it was obvious that
his enemies had hired a professional
killer to remove the source of all their
troubles. To Orr’s enemies the whole
thing was either a fake and Publicity stunt
or the action of some unknown danger-
ous madman with a grudge against Orr.
A man was charged but found not guilty
and no other charge has yet been laid Y
Attention has now moved to Eddy's
book on the case which is about to be
published, and which is expected to
endorse the extremist view that Orr’s
enemies have been guilty of a criminal
thwarting of justice. Years of work have
B on e into the book; every word of
evidence and of relevant documents have
been scrutinised. The book must either
cause the case to reopen dramatically
or to collapse completely.
This first five years of the case have
changed several people’s lives. Many men
have left Tasmania, others have left the
country. Many men on both sides have
been savagely smeared—and at least two
families, the Orrs and the Kemps, can
never live the lives they originally
planned. Orr himself has changed careers
completely. From being a professional
philosopher he has turned into a profes-
sional agitator dedicated perhaps for the
rest of his life to social revolution in Tas-
mania. When he is not away helping
Eddy with the book or lecturing to
church groups, trade unionists or
academics—and he is a good lecturer,
always presenting his case in its simplest
outline of the little man persecuted by
powerful and vicious big men—he works
all day at home on the case. He rises at
eight, is in his study by nine and rarely
leaves the house except to go to church
twice on Sundays and to sing in the
choir.
When he was shot at a year ago and
the blood was dripping off him his son
cried: “Let’s go to England, Daddy.”
But if he ever considered this he changes
his mind when he looks out his window
at the houses of his opponents, many of
whom live close by, and in the next
avenue—the Kemps. For him and his
supporters these first five years may be
only the beginning.
“ Balsam, Friar ?”


PERSONAL
“H.K.P.” Retires
A fter over 50 years with The Bulletin
—he joined the staff in August, 1910
-—Henry Kenneth Prior, chairman and
managing-director, retired on January 20
at the age of 67.
He began as assistant on the “Wild
Cat Column,” then being conducted by
his father, S. H. Prior, who was to be-
come editor in 1915 following the retire-,
ment of James Edmond.
When Ken Prior (he has always been
known by his second name) joined The
Bulletin William Macleod was still
managing-director, Edmond was editor,
“Hop” (Livingston Hopkins) was still
chief cartoonist, and David Low was
yet to appear on the scene. Norman
Lindsay had made his debut about nine
years earlier. Henry Lawson was a
familiar figure around the office.
World War I broke out, and Ken
joined up in 1915 at the age of 22. At
24 he was major in a howitzer battery in
Flanders. The members of his battery
were to become his life-long friends, and
he saw to it that several of them were
in some way to have a professional con-
nection with The Bulletin after their
discharge. A solicitor, an estate-agent
and a sharebroker come readily to mind.
Returning to Australia in September,
1919, on the Friedrichsruhe the cap-
tured German Hamburg-America liner
in which W. M. Hughes at the same time
came back from the Peace Conference-
in Fremantle “H.K.P.” found awaiting
him a diverted cable from William Mac-
leod offering him the managership of The
Bulletin following the death of Norman
Macleod in the influenza epidemic.
As manager, Ken Prior, with cheerful
pertinacity, in 1924 insisted on founding
the Woman’s Mirror against the inclina-
tions of managing-director William
Macleod. The Mirror was to be largely
a reader-written paper, and it would
help to keep the presses employed during
the days of the week when The Bulletin
was not being printed.
With A. F. (Bert) Toy as editor, and
“Mat” Harris as comp, and chief con-
tributor, H.K.P. in November, 1924,
launched the first issue of his Mirror
at a minimum of cost. It was an immedi-
ate success, and inside 12 months was
showing a profit. Within a few years it
required special presses of its own to
cope with circulation, and its contributors
numbered thousands from all parts of
Australia and overseas.
For 13 years Ken Prior was manager
of The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
and his father during the same time was
editor or managing-editor.
Between father and son there was an
uncommonly close bond, each with a
high regard for the other. It was a great
blow to Ken when his father died on
June 6, 1933.
From then on, until his retirement this
year, H.K.P. was chairman and
managing-director of the company. The
son of an editor, he followed The
Bulletin tradition of leaving responsi-
bility for opinion and policy in the hands
of the editor. But he himself was a keen
reader of proofs, and errors of fact were
quickly spotted by him.
T_Tis wit and personality, and his ability
to detect a short-cut out of trouble in
a crisis, were characteristics that his
colleagues will remember.
Ken Prior was known to all members
of the staff and to most contributors who
came into the office to collect their pay
on Fridays. But it is probably true to
say that he had a special interest in
artists and the staff of the machine-room
(that is, the department running the big
rotary presses).
H.K.P.’s interest in printing-presses at
times revealed another side of his
character tenacity in dealing with
mechanical problems.
During the wave of war-time and post-
war strikes it became essential in N.S.VV.
to install emergency power-plants, Bun-
nerong being so frequently “on the
blink” through shortage of coal or
through strike action at the main N.S.W.
power-house.
With an unfriendly Government at
Canberra, and priorities being still en-
forced in the matter of plant-purchase,
the best The Bulletin could get per-
mission to buy was a diesel motor that
KEN PRIOR
Half a century with “The Bulletin”
had originally been part of the (apparently
original) equipment at Broken Hill. (Ken
Prior, incidentally, was born at Broken
Hill in 1893.) It had “blow-lamp” start,
and was a vintage product among diesel
motors. When advice on its peculiarities
was sought its makers could not be
traced.
It was a huge lump of machinery, of
250 horsepower, and was set on a 50-ton
block of concrete directly above the Tank
Stream.
It was first called into use during an
electricity “blackout” to print The
Bulletin Chi istmas-number in 1945, but
doggedly refused to run for more than
a few minutes at a time. Its bearings ran
hot. It discharged unburnt dieseline into
its flue and into the building. Subsequent
“hot” discharges exploded the “wet”
charges in the flue, causing frightful
detonations and much smoke. A haze
restricted visibility on every floor. Fire-
engines made so many calls at The
Bulletin building that it became the
office practice to ring-up the brigade
whenever the diesel was being started and
to request that no notice be taken of
reports of a fire at The Bulletin.
The Bulletin plates went on the
presses, optimistically, at about 5 p.m. on
Monday evening. At midnight the
editor, after having been to a show,
called in at the back entrance to see
how things were going. The building
was full of smoke and acrid fumes. Ken
Prior gave the thumbs-down signal. At
first he appeared to have been weeping.
His voice was a croak. But it was all
the effect of the biting dieseline fumes
and smoke.
HThat Christmas issue of The Bulletin
was a few hours late. But it did come
out, almost as much by man-power as by
electric-power.
On such occasions Ken Prior was
always among the last to go home.
Around midnight (after a day that started
at 9 a.m.) a member of his family would
arrive with instructions to bring him
home.
A particularly testing time for H.K.P.
was during and after World War If
It was his task to try to maintain enough
manpower to keep publication going
when authoritarian controls were being
exercised in a somewhat partisan manner
by Canberra. But every member of the
staff who was called-up or volunteered
for service had his pay made-up to him
by The Bulletin. And members in the
services, wherever they might be, were
contacted so as to be included in the
staff superannuation fund set-up in 1945.
His three sons were in the services,
posted to the islands north of Australia.
It was a sad day when, in August, 1945.
a few days before the Japanese surrender,
his wife, Mollie (Mary) Prior, died sud-
denly before her sons could return home.
Two sons remain with The Bulletin.
After the war the pooling of news-
print stocks ceased, and it became a wild
scramble to buy newsprint at any price.
Even continuance of publication became
a week-to-week problem. But H.K.P'
saw the job through, though, for many
months, The Bulletin cover had to be
overprinted in red in order to maintain
its traditional cerise appearance. Like


pink icing under war-time Labor Gov-
ernment, cerise newsprint was hard to
come by.
Outside his home and his office, Ken
Prior is shy and retiring. He has belonged
to several golf-clubs and a bowling-club,
but he was never really a “club-man.”
His office was his club as well as his
place of work, and everyone on the
staff (and many a contributor and reader)
was a member of his club. Through
the office his personality and hospitality
pervaded, as it has always done through
his home.
• •
Some of the People
Some macabre jokester last week sent
30 telegrams to delivery clerks on
Sydney’s wharves saying: “Advise all
members tomorrow’s meeting cancelled
following sudden death of Federal
Secretary Riordan.” Within minutes of
the telegrams arriving, 31-year-old Joe
Riordan was answering calls of sym-
pathy which jammed his switchboard
for two hours. The only regret he has
is that nobody sent him any flowers; but
his union members were so angry at the
“joke” on their popular secretary that
they passed a motion to deal harshly
with the offender if he is caught.
It would be interesting to know how
Sir Frank Macfarlane Burnet, director
of the Walter and Eliza Institute, is
going to add his latest award of “Aus-
tralian of the Year” to his already im-
pressive list of titles. No doubt this
spritely 62-year-old from Traralgon
(Vic.) will find a way. If he were a
stickler for protocol, every time he
wrote a letter he would have to add:
0.M., Kt„ F.R.S., F.R.C.P., M.D.
(Melb.); Ph.D. (Lond.), D.Sc. (hon.
Cantab.).
The new lecturer in history at the
Tasmanian University, Indonesian-speak-
ing Mr L. F. Green (31), is transferring
from the University of Adelaide’s
History Department, where he studied
14th-century chronicles of the Italian
cities of Florence and Lucca.
The 1961 Gertrude Kumm citizenship
award for the outstanding migrant of
1961 went to Dr C. A. Wouters, of
Cremorne (N.S.W.), a translator with
the C.5.1.R.0. Dr Wouters speaks 10
languages, holds doctorates of philo-
sophy and literature, and has been pro-
minent in migrant-assimilation organi-
sations.
Having resigned as Professor of Com-
mercial Law at Melbourne University,
39-year-old Professor Francis Patrick
Donovan is to take the post of Com-
mercial Counsellor at the Australian
Embassy in Rome. There, among other
things, he will be able to indulge in his
favorite recreation of “good wine and
food.”
Just appointed Australian High Com-
missioner in Canada, 44-year-old diplo-
mat David Osborne Hay. has had an
impeccable departmental career. A
graduate of Melbourne and Oxford Uni-
versities, Mr Hay joined the Department
of External Affairs in 1939. After serving
with the A.I.F. he was delegate to
the U.N. General Assembly in 1949-50;
Official Secretary in Ottawa 1950-52;
Australian Ambassador at Bangkok since
1955; and Seato Council representative
from 1955 to 1957.
• •
Into the Silence:—
In London, at 55, Sydney-born Stanley
Clarkson, leading bass singer with Sadler’s
Wells Ope a Company. Clarkson worked in
Sydn:y as a linotype-operator until 1939,
studying singing in his spare time. Then, at
33, he started out to build a professional
singing career. He left Sydney for England
in 1947, and sang oratorio at Leeds Festival,
Wells Cathedral and York Minster. He joined
Sadler’s Wells in 1948 and soon won leading
roles ; he was specially acclaimed by British
critics for his performance, in 1949, as Jacopo
in Verdi’s “Simone Bocanegra.” Apart from
his Sadler’s Wells’ commitments, Clarkson
sang for the Royal Choral Society and the
Halle Concert Society, and in 1956 made a
tour of Australia for the Elizabethan Theatre
Trust and the A.B.C.
In Sydney, at 77, Sir Hugh Poate, distinguished
Australian surgeon and world authority on
thyroid diseases. Sir Hugh graduated from the
University of Sydney in 1906 and was the first
Australian to become a Fellow of the Royal
College of Surgeons. He was also a past
president of the N.S.W. Medical Board and of
the Royal Australasian College of Surgeons. He
landed at Gallipoli in World War I as a
member of the Army Medical Corps, and in
World War II served as a Group Captain in
the medical section of the R.A.A.F. He was
Chancellor of the Priory in Australia, the
supreme governing order for the St. John Ambu-
lance Brigade and the St John Ambulance
Association. In 1955 he received the highest
distinction of the St John order, the insignia
of Bailiff Grand Cross of the Order of St John
of Jerusalem.
In Sydney, at 69, William John Ferguson,
Labor M-L.A. for Waverley for the past eight
years, secretary of the Waverley branch of
the A.L.P. for 22 years and an alderman of
Waverley Municipal Council for 12 years.
Before he became a member for Waverley he
was political assistant to the late Clarrie
Martin when he was Attorney-General.
In Sydney, at 73, Dr. John Ross, a Scot who
practised at Chatswood from 1928 until last
year. He was a kindly, generous and wise
medico who never lost his appreciation of
porridge and whisky, far as he had ventured
from his native Aberdeenshire. He came to
Australia from Glenkjndie before World War 1,
enlisted in the R.A.M.C., was a p.-0.-w., and
King George V pinned on his M.C., awarded
for staying behind with the wounded after
certain Peninsular troops ran out on him. John
Ross was a vigorous rather than skilful golfer
at Roseville and Killara on A.I.F. Cup days.
At Scone (N.S.W.), at 82, Macartney Abbott,
member of the N.S.W. Legislative Assembly
for Upper Hunter during World War I.
The Australian Novelists
3. D’ARCY NILAND
D’Arcy Niland,
at 42, has become
so identified as
the male half of
the most prolific
husband-and-wife
writing team in
Australia, and
their 19 years’
peregrinations to-
gether through
the backblocks
and the slums
have become so
well known that
it comes as some-
thing of a sur-
prise to find that
Niland had lived
a remarkably full
life before he married Ruth Park in
1942.
He grew up in Glen Innes (N.S.W.),
and at 14 left school to join his father,
a wool-classer, in the woolsheds. At
the same time he began writing stories
and poems for magazines and child-
ren’s papers. “I had many ambitions
when I was a boy,” says Niland, “but
the only really powerful one was to
write—to write anything.”
He thought he had cracked the
newspaper game when he got a job
as a copy-boy on the Sydney “Sun”
(he only just missed Peter Finch, who
had the same job around that time).
“But at 17 they turfed me out,” he
said.
Then he began to roam. He picked
grapes, unloaded ships, dug potatoes,
mined opals, sheared sheep, made
bread, shod horses. And he began to
pour out a stream
of short-stories.
Niland may never
be a great novel-
ist, but he can get
down the raw and
noisy bustle of
life at the work-
ing level as no
other Australian
writer can. “It's
all copy,” says
Niland. “Every
time I sit on a
bus or ferry I salt
away what I see
and hear.”
In 1953 he got
a break —a £6OO
Comm onwealth
Literary Fund award to write a novel.
“The Shiralee” was the highly lucra-
tive result. “Call Me When the Cross
Turns Over” was considered by some
critics to be an attempt to repeat the
“Shiralee” theme with the heroine
grown up—but it has been sold to a
British film company.
Niland admits an apprehension
about novels. “You get trapped,” he
says. “You write one and before
they've finished reading the MS.
they're asking how the next one’s
coming.”
Niland’s energies now are going
into a 100,000-word biography of Les
Darcy, perhaps the most tragic figure
in the history of the Australian ring.
Darcy’s story obviously touches
something in Niland, and may give
him the chance to show that his com-
passion for people is not, as some
critics say, just sentimentality.




OVERSEAS
Kennedy and the Summit Fuss
By “OBSERVER”
For those who see either hope or dis-
aster in President Kennedy’s opening
foreign - policy gambits —in which he
seems to be extending one open hand
and one back hand to Russia—it is worth
recalling what the present summit diplo-
macy fuss is all about.
It began on November 27, 1958, when
Mr Khrushchev made a threat. It was
on that day that he sent his “ultimatum”
note on West Berlin. Clearly he wanted
to (a) test the unity of the Western
Alliance and (b) finesse a cold-war trick
without either risking a war, or making
any concession of his own. His harshly
imposed six-month time limit led to the
Geneva Foreign Ministers’ conference in
1959. This conference in its turn led
to nothing in the way of policy because
it became clear that Russia was simply
concerned with grabbing Berlin, without
offering anything in return.
It did lead, however, to a certain
weakening of nerve in the West, particu-
larly in Britain. “The Times” decided
the Americans were provocative, Mr
Macmillan again played his election-
winning role as a peace-lover, commen-
tators said that Berlin was of no strategic
importance and the general feeling grew
that diplomacy consisted in the meetings
of great men and that its object was the
easing of tension. Over this period great
men scudded over the world, bumping
into each other for random periods of
a day or two.
Of those great meetings the most extra-
ordinary was Mr Khrushchev’s attempted
conquest of the United States. Haying
played the comic bully for a strictly
limited season, he tried to rush President
Eisenhower when he got him away from
his advisers at Camp David. By sheer
personal effrontery he hoped to push the
President into some kind of appeasing
commitment. Heaven only knows what
did happen at Camp David, but the state-
ments issued after the two great men
“HALLS OF IVY ”
had conferred seemed to indicate that
Khrushchev at least thought he might
get away with it.
Either the President was merely being
polite to a guest, and the politeness was
misinterpreted as weakness, or the Presi-
dent was weak and was then straightened
out by his advisers because soon after
Camp David Western diplomats made it
clear to Khrushchev that they were not
going to give him West Berlin.
After that, his conduct becomes clear
only if one assumes that he had decided
that the Paris summit conference had
to be jettisoned, and that he had to get
out of it with some propaganda advan-
tage. Taking this line, the U 2 incident
was a gift from the skies. He put on
a pavement performance about it and
went home, leaving some Western com-
mentators saying that it was all the
Americans’ fault, that by brash, provoca-
tive actions they had wrecked the sum-
mit, prospects of relieving tension, peace,
etc.
Khrushchev then lashed out at Eisen-
hower, saying what he really thought
of him, that he was a silly old man who
played too much golf, that he was a
danger to peace and a kindergarten
teacher rather than a president. In a
perceptive article in “The Twentieth
Century” it has been pointed out: “The
defects of Eisenhower's personality which
Khrushchev now so cruelly holds up to
ridicule were then the very qualities on
which he relied for success. When he
now says that Eisenhower ought to be
running a kindergarten ... it means that
the American President was too kind-
hearted to say no to an importunate
guest; when we are reminded of his
unfortunate inattention to the details of
public affairs, it means that in isolation
from his professional advisers he was too
ignorant of what it was all about to keep
clear of the traps laid for him in the
talks at Camp David.”
With this background to the hopes or
fears of revived summit diplomacy it
is worth remembering:
1. The whole summit gambit was
based mainly on the question of whether
we should give Khrushchev West Berlin,
not whether tension should be eased.
2. At no stage has Khrushchev
seriously offered any concession to the
West, which should make it impossible
for the West to make any concession to
him.
3. As a sideline Khrushchev uses sum-
mit diplomacy propaganda as a means
of weakening the resolve of the West to
give him nothing, with a dash of the old
Stalin game of trying to divide allies.
4. He also uses it as means of sway-
ing neutralist opinion in his direction.
5. If he praises President Kennedy it
means that he thinks he can get the
better of him.
6. If he attacks President Kennedy it
means that he has not got the better of
him.


Iraq
Can Kassem Cope?
Future relations with Russia and the
United Arab Republic are the two
most pressing questions about Iraq and
the answers lie in the outcome of the
struggle between Kassem and two power-
ful political currents which both reject
him.
One of these currents, the Communist,
is in full retreat, but experience has
shown how adept it is at capitalising on
the difficulties of others and it may get
its chance if the other current, that
of the nationalists, seriously embarrasses
Kassem. The Communist party succeeded
with this tactic immediately after Kas-
sem’s revolt against Nuri Said and the
Hashimite dynasty in July, 1958. Then
it seemed certain that Baghdad would
turn to Cairo, but within a few months
the leaders of the Iraq Pan-Arab move-
ment were in prisons or in danger of
going there while the Communists occu-
pied positions of power.
But they overreached themselves. Their
barbaric conduct in Mosul and Kirkuk,
where they dragged the bodies of mur-
dered nationalists through the streets,
caused a revulsion of feeling against
them: Kassem and the authorities no
longer protected them, they were pushed
out of professional organisations and
unions and they were exposed to the
vendetta of relatives of their murdered
opponents. The Communist party per-
mitted by Kassem is only a phantom
party ; the real Communists, in contact
with Moscow, have taken their organisa-
tion underground and unless they come
to a deal with Kassem they seem to have
no prospect of gaining power.
While the Communists have lost
strength the non-Communist forces
have recovered from the losses they
suffered shortly after the revolution. Talk
of “right” and “left” is liable to confuse
as even the reactionaries now call them-
selves socialists but the parties can be
divided into five main groups: religious
parties which demand a return to the law
of the Koran ; nationalists of various
shades who advocate closer co-operation
with Abdel Nasser ; the legal democratic
parties of the left centre, that is, the two
parts of the old National Democratic
party ; the Kurd party, and finally the
Communists.
The two Islamic parties are on the
extreme right-wing. The one which calls
itself the “Iraqi Muslim Party” has been
given an official permit .and was thereby
made legal, whereas the other, “Tahrir”
(Liberation) was refused a permit. At the
present time all the leaders of the Iraqi
Muslim party are locked up. A recent
party memorandum to Kassem stated
that although Baghdad was full of papers
which were destroying the faith and
glorifying Communism the Government
saw nothing wrong in this ; in its view
the danger lay in the publication of an
Islamic newspaper. It further complained
that freedom of opinion only applied to
the open and secret Communist party,
adding “Islam does not permit the sup-
port of Communism.”
The political and constitutional order
the Muslims demand is based on free
elections and could be described as a
presidential democracy. But it would
have a religious basis and refer-
ence for even in their social ideas
the Muslim party invokes the authority
of the Koran. As regards foreign policy
the memorandum specifies an anti-
imperialist, pro-neutral attitude but more
importantly asserts that Iraq is part of
the Arab world which can only be united
on the basis of Islam which would then
form the nucleus of an Islamic nation
embracing all Muslims throughout the
world. The Pan-Islamism which Abdel
Nasser is again taking up for propagan-
dist purposes—probably in order mainly
Cat in Tarantel Press, West Berlin.
“1961 HARVEST!”
to win over the Muslims in native Africa
—here appears in closest association with
Pan-Arabism, and it is by no means yet
completely dead. In accordance with its
radical approach the Muslim party
declares: “The Palestine problem can
only be solved by force.”
There is no possibility that the Arab
world will recognise the Koran as its sole
guiding principle but the demands of the
sole legal party with a religious basis
throw an interesting light on the outlook
of the conservative forces in the Arab
world. Their leaders are meditating in
prison on the problems of rebelling
against an autocratic leader. Part of the
ancient teaching provides a drastic
method for cases of deviation from the
rules of Islam . . . tyrannicide.
The Baath party is the strongest of the
many nationalist groups which are loosely
united by their opposition to Kassem
and their desire for a rapprochement
with Nasser. Nasser destroyed the Baath
party in Syria where it originated and
it faces difficulties in Lebanon but the
only condition they apply to unification
with the U.A.R. is that their party must
not be subsequently suppressed. The
party, which has many ex-Communist
members, has adopted the Communist
cell organisation pattern. It is considered
the most effective non-Communist group
and a dangerous opponent of the Gov-
ernment. The nationalist groups main-
tain good relations with the two licensed
Centre parties, the National Democrat
and National Progressive parties,
The National Progressive party, which
has considerable support in the country-
side, is the only political organisation
which does not attack Kassem. It advo-
cates rapproachement with the U.A.R. but
unlike the “Nationalists” the leaders of
the party are aware that there would be
opposition among the masses to union
with Egypt. The National Democratic
party wants an Arab Federal State and,
in many respects, its policy resembles
that of the National Democrat party
but one of its leaders, Chadirchi, is an
acute critic of Kassem. He claims the
agrarian reform has failed so the revolu-
tion was merely a coup d’etat. He also
demands the end of martial law and
special courts, an electoral law and free
elections, a constitutional assembly and
a constitution, the introduction of par-
liamentary democracy and the fixing of
ministerial responsibility, the safeguard-
ing of democratic freedoms and respect
for the law, the freedom of political and
trade union activity, the abolition of com-
mercial stagnation and the general
decline of the economy.
The National Democrats reject a
revival of the National Front with the
Communists which lasted for a brief
while in the winter of 1958-59, but which
the extreme Left were never able to
develop into a cage for the non-Cominu-
nists as in the European satellite States.
The National Democrats also criticise
the suppression of the “Nationalists” by
Kassem. It is believed that the “Leader”
(Za’im) intends next spring to create a
fa?ade for his authoritarian regime by
the proclamation of a presidial consti-
tution and by only too well organised
elections. A leader of the National
Democrats has this comment to make:
“Kassem is now fighting for his life.”


Overseas Pointers
EUROPE
PORTUGAL
General Humberto Delgado, defeated
candidate in the 1958 Portuguese elec-
tions, told the world what he thought
of Prime Minister Salazar’s regime by
ordering the seizure of the 20,000 - ton
liner Santa Maria in the Caribbean. It is
hard to know whether the flamboyant
Delgado, 54, is the man to lead a success-
ful movement against Salazar, 72. He
managed to poll a quarter of the votes
in the 1958 election, woke the country
from political torpor, was sacked as
Director of Civil Aviation and fled to
Brazil in a panic. It was suggested that
Copacabana beach was the only place
Delgado would be seen from that time,
but his latest spectacular move has
cheered the exiled Portuguese opposition
scattered through many countries. They
accuse Salazar, among other things, of
an unjust colonial policy and a desire to
start a colonial war. Henrique Galvao
who seized the Santa Maria and who
regards Delgado as President of Portugal
was an Army officer and colonial admin-
istrator who first clashed with the Gov-
ernment for describing conditions in its
African colony Angola as “slavery, semi-
starvation, squalor and corruption.” The
sardonic Lisbon reaction to this charge
was that Salazar does not treat the
colonial peoples badly or, rather, that
their conditions are as good as those
prevailing in Portugal.
SPAIN
At the same time as it reported Mr
Kennedy’s inauguration the Spanish
press gave prominence to Mr Eisen-
hower’s latest message to General Franco
thanking him for his “co-operation in
defence of the cause of world peace.
He also mentioned the Caudillo’s invita-
tion to holiday in Spain and said he
would not abandon his great desire —
repeatedly expressed during his “trium-
phal visit” to Spain —to remain there
long enough to get to know the people
well. If he did this he would understand
that much post-war admiration of
America has turned to distrust because
of the wholehearted American support
for Franco.
U.S.S.R.
Moscow radio announced the conviction
of Mrs Olga Ivinskaya, the friend and
collaborator of the late Boris Pasternak,
and of her daughter Irina. The charge
was that of pocketing Western royalties
from Pasternak’s novel “D oct o r
Zhivago,” even during the author’s life-
time. The broadcast of the details of
the accusation, which were not disclosed
on the Moscow radio home service,
concluded with a quote from “Hamlet”
—“Frailty, thy name is woman” —and
the comment: “These lines help us to
§et a fuller picture of the limits of
honesty of certain people.” But the limits
°f honesty of certain people can better
be judged if extracts from Pasternak’s
letters to friends are recalled: in one he
spoke of “The disguised dependence in
which the secret police constantly holds
us, me and the whole family of 0.,
her son, her daughter, and herself, as a
kind of hostage.” Again, talking of
threats of being outlawed, he wrote:
“The direction which this menacing wind
takes is always such as to strike first
at my friend O. . ..” He considered the
West was her only protection, and two
years ago wrote: “If, Goa forbid, they
should arrest Olga . . . all the bells should
be made to ring as would be done in
my own case, for an attack on her is
in fact a blow at me.”
YUGOSLAVIA
Mr Milov an Djilas, former Vice-
President of Yugoslavia, left prison on
probation on January 20. In a statement
addressed to Cabinet he had raised the
question of his leaving prison, w'here he
had been sentenced to serve nine years
from October, 1957. He was imprisoned
for expressing heretical views in press
articles w'hich marked his move from a
narrowly Marxist to a more Western-
type Socialist position. He has written
a number of historical books about Mon-
tenegro during the last four years and
hopes the authorities will release these
for publication abroad. He said after his
release, as he did before nis imprison-
ment, that he thought he could work
inside the existing Yugoslav Communist
party, provided he could criticise it.
Possibly that is the reason his release is
conditional and explains why he intends
to devote himself to writing.
WEST GERMANY
Following the extension of West Ger-
many’s aid to Pakistan, Dr von Merkatz,
Minister for Refugees, left on January 22
for a tour of South-east Asia. Dr von
Merkatz is substituting for the sick
Foreign Minister, Dr von Bretano, and
will visit Indonesia, Burma, Siam,
Malaya, Ceylon and Singapore. The Hast
German consulate recently opened in
Djakarta threatens both economic and
commercial competition to West German
interests and it is expected that Dr von
Merkatz will attach great importance to
his conferences with Indonesian Ministers.
MIDDLE EAST
TURKEY
Party political activity has been made
legal again since January 13. It remains
tobe seen if the army is discreet enough
to revive democratic political life.
General Gursel, in accordance with the
promise made shortly after the coup
last May, has allowed a rival party to
the dominant Republic People’s party
and this rival should draw many of the
votes formerly cast for Mr Menderes’s
Democrat party.
ISRAEL
Mr Ben Gurion has apologised to the
Israeli Cabinet for his criticism of its
clearing Mr Lavon, ex-Defence Minister,
of a 1954 security blunder charge.
Although the Prime Minister gave an
assurance that he Would interfere no
further in the matter he did not retract
his charges against Mr Lavon. Mr Lavon
claims Mr Ben Gurion has made his
return to Cabinet conditional on the
Mapai party ousting him from the
secretary-generalship of the Israel Labor
Federation.
AMERICA
U.S.A.
Mr Adlai Stevenson, United States
Ambassador to the United Nations, said
that he would not propose negotiations
with Peking, but added that China's
admission to the United Nations may
be impossible to prevent. Addressing the
U.S. Senate foreign-relations committee
he stated that it was optimistic to believe
that admission would end China’s isola-
tion or make Peking less militaristic lor
“we may be dealing with an implacable
situation,” but warned that no arms-
control system could be effective unless
China was in it.
AFRICA
KENYA
A three-day general strike and what
are planned to be peaceful demonstra-
tions will be held during the first three
days of February. Mr Tom Mboya,
secretary-general of the Kenya African
National Union party, has called the
strike as part of its campaign for the
release of Jomo Kenyatta. Kenyatta.
alleged Mau Mau leader, is imprisoned
in the isolated, barren Northern Frontier
Province. Although no one has seen him
for seven years he has become a legend
for the Kikuyus and a threat for the
white settlers. No one knows whether
he would emerge from detention as a
statesman or as an embittered man who
would favor extremists. Mr Mboya said
workers would stay home for three days,
stage demonstrations outside Govern-
ment House and provincial headquarters,
boycott public transport and abstain
from food and drink. He claims that
only if K.A.N.U. is successful in this
month’s polling will Kenyatta become
Chief Minister. The rival Kenya Africa
Democratic Union, calling Mr Mboya s
move an electioneering stunt, said the
party “would oppose the call for the


strike, partly because it had not been
consulted,” but then political parties do
not consult with opponents on election
stunts.
ASIA
CEYLON
On the day, January 18, that the Catholic
Bishops appealed to Catholic parents
to vacate the Grade 3 assisted - school
buildings which they had occupied
since the beginning of December, the
Government tabled a bill in Parliament
giving it even more extensive powers.
Trouble originated when the director of
education was made manager of the
Grade 3 schools under a new education
Act, but the new Bill gives the director
even greater powers which cannot be
questioned in the law courts. The visit
of the Primate of India, Cardinal Gracias,
did much to bring about a settlement,
and Catholic parents responded imme-
diately to their bishops’ appeal to leave
the schools. It remains to be seen whether
Catholics have been given assurances
which protect them from the apparently
absolute and arbitrary powers since
granted to the director of education.
INDONESIA
Chief Minister Dr Djuanda, welcoming
Ferhat Abbas on his arrival in Djakarta
on January 19, said the Algerian and
Indonesian peoples were fighting for the
same ideal—“full independence and free-
dom from imperialism and colonialism.”
As Prime Minister of the “Algerian
Provisional Government” Ferhat Abbas
sought further support for the Algerian
independence movement. He addressed
Parliament and lectured students in
Djakarta, Jogjakarta and Bandung. Dr
Djuanda did not explain whom the Indo-
nesians were fighting.
CHINA
Chinese Communist officials have been
told that they must learn from old
peasants. For the second time in recent
weeks the official journal “Red Flag”
has said it is “unavoidable that there are
some shortcomings and errors in our
work.” It said that hundreds of thousands
have suffered famine because some cadres
were not making policy understood by
the peasantry and others did not under-
stand the policy themselves. It did not
say that there might be something wrong
with the policy.
• •
The Chinese press has provided vivid
pen - pictures of some of the Kennedy
Administration for its readers: Vice-
President Johnson is a “political agent
of the southern oil magnates and big
landlords,” Secretary of State, Dean
Rusk, is a “yesman” who played “a
significant role in unleashing the United
States war of aggression in Korea and
the forcible United States occupation
of China’s territory of Taiwan (Formosa),
and Mr Kennedy “actively supported
Senator McCarthy.”
1956 and All That
By KIERAN GREGORY
'T'he Russians are coming right up-to-
date with their rewriting of history.
The major 1960 rewrite effort was a
fourth version of the origins and nature
of the Second World War, but this year
they have moved to 1956 and the Suez
crisis which, according to the party’s
theoretical magazine, “Kommunist,”
would have become a major conflict but
for Soviet intervention. The January 18
issue of the magazine carries Mr Khrush-
chev’s comment that United Nations
condemnation had no effect on the
aggressors who went on with their “dirty
business” until “the Soviet Union and
the socialist camp as a whole rose in
defence of Egypt. The stern warning
which the Soviet Government gave Eden
and Guy Mollet stopped the war. The
local war, the adventure against Egypt,
failed ignominiously.”
Apparently Mr Khrushchev was re-
ferring to Marshal Bulganin’s rocket
threat, but far more important considera-
tions lay behind the cease-fire announce-
ment. The threat to the Western Alliance
inherent in American opposition to the
operation, the differences of opinion
among Commonwealth countries, the
public demonstrations in England all
had their effect as did the economic panic.
As Sir Anthony Eden said in his
memoirs: “A run on the pound at a
speed which threatened disaster to our
whole economic position had developed
in the world’s financial market.”
■O ewrites are customary but never hap-
hazard ; they are always a good
pointer to Soviet policy provided the re-
write it down quickly enough to keep up
with policy. Last year’s rewrite of the
years 1939-41 was a prime example of
this. Rather than continue Khrushchev’s
1956 criticism of Stalin it threw the blame
for the Second World War wholly on
wicked American ruling circles. In 1956
Khrushchev acknowledged that Stalin,
apparently lulled by the agreement with
Hitler dating since August, 1939, had
discounted the idea of a German attack
right up till the day it was launched. In
the 1960 change of tactics, however, the
Soviet policy had always been right:
“Only the Soviet Union consistently
carried out a policy of strengthening
peace, collective resistance to Fascist
aggression and aid to its victims.”
The reversion to a Stalinist approach
was most noticeable in the tracing of
guilt back to the 1924 Dawes plan, to
the abrogation of German reparations
and investment in Germany. “The
responsibility borne by the U.S.A. in the
preparation of Hitler’s war against the
Soviet Union has been proved to the
hilt and is beyond doubt” was one claim,
“Encouraging the Hitlerites to attack
Poland, the U.S. leading circles forced
Britain to abstain from any further quest
for agreement with Germany without
the knowledge of or against the interests
of the U.S.A.” was another.
The falsifiers placed themselves in a
difficult position with this rewrite: if
they made Hitler too monstrous how
could they justify Russia’s pro-German
attitudes of the 1939-40 period and how
could they condemn the war waged by
France and England? But if Hitier was
not to be condemned how could they
frighten people with reports of American
help for Adenauer? Moreover, the events
were recent enough for many people to
remember the 1939 speeches of Foreign
Minister Molotov, who loaded all the
blame for the Second World War on
the English and French, rather than the
American, imperialists. Such problems
can only be resolved by omissions, false
emphases and, eventually, by shouting
down and denouncing anyone who asks
pertinent questions.
Many would dismiss such comment as
being at the same level as that of the
anti - Semites who say Hitler’s “final
solution” plan was a Jewish plot. It is
far more significant than that, however,
because such rewrites reflect changes in
Soviet policy. In 1960 it indicated, even
more importantly than the obvious com-
pulsion to justify the 1939-41 policy, that
Soviet appeals to the Camp David spirit
were so much eye-wash for they were
falsifying history to show that although
the Soviet had always wanted peace
America was a warmonger. The Suez
falsification also has its lesson. Again
Russia poses as a champion of peace
and possibly to the Arab countries it
looks to be one. She can adopt the pose
because she intervened in the Suez affair
just when a cease-fire was about to be
announced. The betting is samovars to
salted peanuts that, given similar circum-
stances, Russia will try the same trick in
Algeria.
CUBAN NEW YEAR CARD:
“IF YOU LAUNCH AN INVASION,
YOU’LL STAY HERE, RASCAL!
FATHERLAND OR DEATH!”


Shows
Archibald Prize
Exhibition
ART
One of the pleasures of the Archibald
Prize exhibition is always that of walk-
ing round the N.S.W. Gallery nodding
to old acquaintances immortalised (more
or less) on the walls. It is a
pleasure which may have very
little to do with art, since a
portrait must have Some-
thing More than mere likeness ; never-
theless often enough it saves the day.
Thus this year there is William Dargie,
not being quite as effective with himself
in a self-portrait as he usually is with
his sitters ; and Mary Gilmore yet again,
in a pleasing but unsubstantial portrait
by Louis Kahan, who does the admirable
pen-drawings for “Meanjin.” There is
Reg Campbell’s extraordinarily lifelike
rendering of Eric Baume ; W. E. Pidgeon
having slightly too jaunty a shot at
William Dobell in Dobell’s own manner ;
Bernard Hesling lolling pleasantly about
in a study by N. S. Hedstrom ; Terry
Clune done by Reinis Zusters, who has a
colorful piece in the Wynne ; and Judah
Waten looking much larger and more
oblong than life —but that is exactly how
Mr Waten looks —in the portrait by Noel
Counihan.
The prize went to Judy Cassab’s sketch
of the painter Stanislaus Rapotec, one of
those unfinished jobs which retain the
impetus of a first lay-in but evade the
real problem of enriching the human
face with flesh and skin. Either William
Salmon’s “Frank Zeppel” or, particularly,
Scott Pendlebury’s “Dr Kel Semmens”—
a fine example of ease and quiet good
taste, where lifelikeness has also a strong
aesthetic appeal—would have been a
better choice.
Wynne Prize
Scott Pendlebury was deservedly placed
first-equal in the Wynne Prize, with an
unassuming little landscape of farm
cottages, captivating in color and growing
in warmth and solidity as you look at it.
He shared the prize with John Perceval —
“Dairy Farm, Victoria.” Perceval, like
Miss Cassab, has painted better before ;
but this heavily-loaded canvas in Dufy
greens with a depth of countryside mani-
festing itself beneath the elaborately
decorated surface was a fair enough
choice in the company.
Too many of the abstracts, like Thomas
Gleghorn’s, are simply too abstract to
qualify for this prize. They need a com-
petition of their own, as also do the
watercolors ; which, however admirable
111 their own field (there are a couple of
good Ronald Steuarts), never seem to
be in the running for the prize.
The semi-abstracts, where a recognis-
able landscape can still be detected, are
a different matter and Edward Hall, Shay
Docking and James Cant must have come
up for consideration here. In more
straightforward landscape there are
attractive paintings by Phyl Waterhouse,
Lance Solomon, James R. Jackson and
Marjory Penglase.
D.S.
Sulman Prize
The Sir John Sulman Prize, which may
be awarded for the best subject painting,
genre painting or design for a mural,
was this year given by Mr Desiderius
Orban to Leonard French’s oil, “The
Burial,” as a subject painting, though
this big flattened S-design winding from
side to side of the canvas might be called
a subject only subjectively.
Roy Fluke had an impression of air
and lights in his excavation picture,
“Cahill Expressway,” and of rigid lines
in “Maitland Collieries”; Wallace Thorn-
ton saw his conventional “Sculpture
Student and Model” through a haze of
abstract design (an exquisite com-
promise) ; Sali Herman translated two
“Aboriginal Burial Grounds” into his
lovely language of color; James Davis
showed us the Douanier Rousseau at the
court of King Solomon ; Maxwell Feuer-
ring had a naughty “Danae” showered
with abstract figurations, and a “Moloch”
in a mullock of greys. Whatever the
Sulman may be for, it must have been
there, from impressionism (Frederick
Bates) to complete abstractionism (Gleg-
horn), none of it very impressive.
R. McC.
Perth Art
Adelaide crammed its first Festival
into two exciting weeks, but the long-
established Festival of Perth prefers to
amble along for seven ; in Perth more
people take part in more activities, and
numerous summer visitors from t’other
side or up country can be sure of attend-
ing some special entertainment in an
unusual setting.
More than 900 paintings hung on wire-
netting frames (the watercolors tented
against the sun) turned the Supreme
Court Gardens into a picture-fair;
electric music pealing from the empty
music shell adds to the carnival spirit.
Here were most of W.A.’s artists, from
the best known to hopeful amateurs.
Some hung united in groups or societies,
some were lone wolves, some were up
from country centres. Open all day and
lighted every evening for a week, this
non-competitive show attracted many
usually indifferent to painting.
Ivor Hunt’s watercolor portrait of a
West Indian guitarist and Alan Baker’s
“Birdwatcher,” alertly poised on a garden
seat, were both memorable. Guy Grey
Smith had two notable patterns, “Bottle
Brush” and “Towards the Ashburton.”
F. C. Korwill gave several vigorous inter-
pretations of port life ; the pastel delicacy
of John Lunghi’s fishing boys remained
undefeated by the harsh outdoor light.
Ernest Philpot (who currently has a
one-man show in London). Robert
Juniper, Baynard Werner, Cyril Lander,
E. Blair Barber, between them covered
a wide range from abstracts to portraits.
William Boissevain's “Camille” showed a
crisp, clean piece of traditional figure-
painting, but Garry Smith used more
modern technique with glowing effect in
several flower paintings, notably a green
and citron “Vase with Flowers.” And
in a tiny watercolor Cedric Baxter’s yacht
triumphantly sailed a choppy sea. Vari-
ous small sculptures, dotted about on
pedestals, attracted both eyes and hands.
F. D.
Pottery and Paintings
A deeply felt, even tribally powerful
impulse motivates the one-man exhibi-
tion of paintings, sculpture, ceramic art,
ceramic vases, wood-carvings, ceramic
wall plaques and drawings by Gerard
Havekes at David Jones, Sydney.
Bluntly, broadly stated Maya-like steles
of carved sandstone; Hellenic busts,
elongated in fire-cracked earth-red clay ;
fired and glazed elongated phallic vases ;
rich mosaics of baked and glazed clav-
cubes of Summerian, Egyptian and
medieval designs and influences comprise
the plastic sections. But the paintings are
the most important contribution. Con-
temporary influences are evident: the
“stained-glass” forms, colors and pro-
portions of Rouault, the heroic, bound-
ing outlines of Picasso, the abstract
shapes and tones of Kmit —but Havekes
has moulded them into his own expres-
sion.
Two early paintings emphasise the ad-
vance Havekes has made. He is a primi-
tive, but with a compelling contemporary
significance. If, in this exhibition, there
is a sense of doom, there is also a primi-
tive, religious sense and belief in
humanity,
Roland Robinson
Mount Gambier Art Prizes
In a painting competition which is
part of the South-East Festival of Arts
a prize of £250 has been offered by the
Radiata Pine Association for the best
oil painting, and of £75, by O. G. Roberts
and Co., for the best watercolor. Judges
will be Mr Paul Beadle, Professor of
Fine Arts at Auckland University ; Mr
Len Annois, president of the National
Gallery Society of Melbourne, and Mr
Wallace Thornton, art critic of the
“Sydney Morning Herald.” Entries close
on February 24; entry forms are avail-
able from the secretary, South-east Festi-
val of Arts, Mount Gambier, S.A.


THEATRE
“I Capture the Castle”
Patrons of Melbourne Little Theatre
found themselves having no real need
for a theatre with the production of this
romantic comedy by Dodie Smith ; in-
nocuous, cliche-raddled stuff like this can
be indulged in, at a tenth of the expense
and nothing like the trouble involved in
getting to an out-of-city theatre like the
Little, by a quick read-through of any
of the more treacly-sentimental women's
magazines.
The play, a stage adaptation of Miss
Smith's best-selling novel of a few years
back, is a reminder that such adaptations,
unless reconceived in strictly theatrical
terms, almost inevitably disappoint. A
rather straight-laced young girl lives in
an ancient tumbledown castle with her
brother, her writer-father, her diary, and
her dreams of a future husband.
Daddy is the play’s other main charac-
ter, “a misunderstood man of genius”—
though his behavior and speech on stage
hardly bear this out. He has been respon-
sible for one literary masterpiece, but has
unaccountably given up writing. Wiil
Daddy again get pen back to paper?
Will it be because of the extraordinary
and often humorous lengths his children
go to get him to do just that? And will
the Plain Jane daughter get her man?
Despite about 15 scenes, one or two
passably comic lines, and a hitchless pro-
duction job by George Fairfax, many of
the audience had few doubts about the
answers ; the end came as something of
a relief. One gained the impression that
there were also a few in the cast who
felt the same way. Notable exceptions,
i.e., those who stuck earnestly and
imaginatively to their tasks, were Colleen
Burnett, as the heroine, Robin Hardiman,
as the shy young fellow from next door,
ana Christine Calcutt.
A. S. Jorgensen.
Cats and Cathedrals
After seven years abroad, Australian
actor Brian Barnes returned to give three
performances for the Festival of Perth.
For his first recital he chose T. S. Eliot’s
“Old Possum’s Book of Practical Cats”
and an abridged version of “Murder in
the Cathedral.” The setting was the
beautiful quadrangle of St George’s
College. Mr Barnes appeared in a dinner-
suit, black tie and white handkerchief ;
the dais arranged for him before the
stairs leading up to the chapel proved too
low, and an orange spotlight melted his
face into the background of red brick.
He was agile in tone and gesture, had
notable command of a good voice and
at commendable speed presented us to a
vast variety of cats and owners.
For me the interval was not sufficient
to change the mood from cats to
cathedrals. And although the great
stained glass window of the chapel was
illuminated from within and the outside
lighting altered with subtle effect so that
the stairs and approach supplied a stage,
Mr Barnes stuck to his dinner-suit (a
cassock would have met the situation
better, or even a black cravat and tucked-
down handkerchief). All his undoubted
skill could not conjure up for me a
vision of Thomas Becket preaching his
last sermon ; that impeccable triangle of
white linen destroyed the sign of the
Cross.
More than 20 years ago I witnessed
a presentation of the whole play in the
same setting, produced by Paul Hasluck
and Keith George, with college warden
Reynolds as Becket, one of Perth’s
memorable productions. The contrast
was too great. Mr Barnes has the voice
but not the presence for the archbishop.
With the lesser characters he showed a
wide range of understanding and inter-
pretation.
H. D-B.
<<r . -17 rp „ . rr
Cost ran lutte to lour
The Arts Council is sending “Cosi
Fan Tutte” (Mozart) on tour for 18
weeks in N. S. Wales and Queensland,
beginning February 27 at Goulburn. The
Intimate Opera, directed by the tenor
Ereach Riley, with Georg Tintner as
musical director, will have three mem-
bers of the Elizabethan Trust’s “Rigo-
letto” company which toured last year,
John Germain, Patricia Woolridge and
Gino Zancanaro ; also the brilliant young
coloratura, the 1960 “Sun” Aria winner
Roslyn Dunbar and her husband Barry
Strong, with Alma Martin, Arnaud
Bonnet, Cynthia Johnson, Flora Grant,
Dawn Cusack and Robert Colman ; and
the accompanist Dorothy Hobart as
associate musical director. “Cosi Fan
Tutte” had great success when the
council sent it touring in 1955.
During 1960 208,000 people attended
the Arts Council’s touring shows. “A
View from the Bridge,” with an Inde-
pendent Theatre company, went as far as
Mount Isa and Kathleen. “Pirates at the
Barn,” the children’s play by the Aus-
tralian Eleanor Witcombe, toured 14
weeks with an Independent Theatre cast;
the “Young Elizabethan Players,” from
the Trust, 24 weeks with Shakespeare for
the schools; the Trust’s “Rigoletto”
company 11 weeks; and J.C.W.’s “Odd
Man In,” the French farce, 12 weeks,
The Arts Council President, Miss
Dorothy Helmrich, told the annual meet-
ing that with a gross turnover of £BO,OOO
and a Government grant of £ll,OOO the
loss on these tours and a variety of con-
certs, art exhibitions and amateur
Elizabethans’ 1961 Repertoire
The Elizabethan Trust’s 1961 reper-
toire will give the theatrical advance-
guard “A Taste of Honey” (February
24-March 25) when it asked for Brecht.
But there will be plenty to discuss
heatedly in this work by a 19-year-old
Manchester millgirl who, left alone with
a play by Terence Rattigan, produced a
play about a schoolgirl who, left alone
with a negro in a slum flat, produced a
baby.
Shelagh Delaney’s is the first of Mr
Hutchison’s three plays of “conflict be-
tween two generations,” the conflict being
between the freeloving schoolgirl and her
“semi-prostitute” mother. In the second
play, “The Glass Menagerie” by Ten-
nessee Williams (March 28-April 22),
the conflict is between the daydreaming
crippled girl, her working mother and
her impatient brother: a friend of the
brother’s wakes the girl up with his
flattering ways; then the whole thing
collapses when the friend mentions
casually that he has been engaged to be
married all the time.
The social realism of both these plays
is the realism of going to a hospital to
visit a friend who has been trodden on
by an elephant in a back street of Wagga.
The third play, by the Sydney play-
wright Alan Seymour, tortures the proba-
bilities less, but, according to reports of
its Adelaide Theatre Group premiere in
July of 1960, is quite as torturing.
It concerns the significance of Anzac
Day to a father who was a soldier in
the Second World War and who is trying
to push his boy into the position in
society he would have liked to occupy
himself; this conflict is resolved by the
boy giving up his North Shore fiancee
and feeling much better. Dropped by the
Adelaide Festival authorities because of
. . . conflict, it has been programmed by
the thoughtful Mr Hutchison for the
day after this year’s Anzac Day. There
will be conflict both within and without;
critics will wear tin hats.
with “The Merchant of Venice” (May
23) the audience (of Intermediate school-
children) instead of the play will be
afforded an opportunity of getting a bad
name for itself ; and then, at dates not
prescribed, will follow “four plays deal-
ing with heroism, martyrdom and the
struggle of the individual mind and
conscience against tyranny and authority.”
The first of these, “Only the Strong
are Lonely,” by Fritz Hochwaelder, is
a grim essay in the metaphysics of
government, by which the Jesuits were
expelled from Paraguay because their
conquering of the country with religion
and the arts of peace had brought
Spanish arms into contempt. The second,
“A Man for All Seasons,” by the Man-
Chester playwright Robert Bolt, is the
story of Sir Thomas More’s battle for
his opinions and his head with Henry
VIII. A third may be Shaw's “St. Joan.”
All in all, it may be just as well that
other managements are tending towards
light entertainment. The Trust is cer-
tainly sticking to its task of elevating
public taste.
One thing stands out about all these
plays, that only brilliant presentation wilt
put them over. From the detailed com*
plexity of “The Glass Menagerie’s” stage,
with its two-tier set and transparent
curtains, to the bare wordage of “A
Taste of Honey,” they will all be tests
for the Artistic Director, Robin Lovejoy,
and his designers, and for the Trust
actors, Ron Haddrick, Brigid Lenihan,
Lewis Fiander, Patricia Conolly, Queenie
Ashton, Walter Sullivan and Robyn
Nevin.
RONALD McCUAIG.


theatricals, was £297. This result was
achieved, said Miss Helmrich, by severely
straining the energy and finances of N. S.
Wales and Queensland country branch
committees, while one disaster of flood,
fire or cancellation of tour could wreck
the whole of the council’s annual pro-
gramme unless there were more Govern-
ment backing.
Touring Ballets
Two ballet groups will tour N. S. Wales
and Queensland country centres for the
Arts Council ; the Lisner Ballet from
Brisbane, established by Charles Lisner,
which has its own ballet school and
small Brisbane theatre, and a group led
by the Borovansky star, Paul Grinwis,
with Estella Nova and Jeffrey Kovel,
from the Borovansky company and the
London Festival Ballet. Both groups
will appear on the same bill, contributing
separately to the programme. The 18-
weeks’ tour will cover centres from
Albury in southern New South Wales, to
Cairns and Mount Isa in far northern
and western Queensland. Special matinee
performances wilt be given for school
students. The tour begins at Warwick,
Queensland, on February 28.
MUSIC
15th Australian Jazz Convention,
Melbourne: December 26-31, 1960
The first Australia-wide meeting of
jazzmen was convened in Melbourne in
1946 to encourage musicians to mix
socially, exchange ideas, and play to-
gether, and to widen appreciation and
understanding of the music with public
concerts.
Like most previous conventions, this
of 1960 was unsuccessful. The 60 bands
registered could make only one appear-
ance to the public, and very few spots
could be left for pick-up groups. This,
plus the rigidity and businesslike efficiency
of the organisation, brought out normal
concerts rather than convention spirit.
Bands rehearsed, their best tunes and
presented them in their spot on the pro-
gramme. This gave most of the music a
studied, unadventurous quality, and
despite the extremely high level of com-
petence a large proportion of the pro-
gramme was dead. Lack of musical
fraternisation was the main fault with
this convention ; no amount of socialising
can make up for it. It is only when
musicians get together in an enthusiastic
spirit and try out new ideas that jazz can
be truly creative.
The highlights were the few groups with
real freshness of approach. The bands
of young musicians from Perth and
Brisbane, mostly men attending their first
convention, were the one group to really
fraternise, resulting in the Brisbane River-
side band, dominated by the exciting
trumpet of Brisbane’s King Fisher and
the very pure clarinet of Perth’s Brett
Lockyer. Humor was provided by Dick
Hughes and his Convertible Liabilities
(from Sydney) featuring Hughes’ inimit-
able vocals, and the Portsea Trio, featur-
ing Melbourne veterans George Tack,
Willie (“The Lion”) Mclntyre and Bill
Miller, who sprinkled their relaxed play-
ing with very original gags and patter.
Other outstanding groups were the
Melbourne Choir, following the style of
the early negro church choirs ; Jimmy
Smart’s Classic Ragtime Quartet, playing
authentic scores from New Orleans ; and
the Gumnut Stompers, who showed that
jazz can be hot without being unduly
loud. Perhaps the most interesting of these
was the choir. Singing arrangements by
Mookie Herman in traditional solo and
chorus harmony, the choir was alive from
start to finish, with impressive solos from
Paul Marks, Graham Bennett, Kate
Dunbar and Kathy Price. Another im-
pressive group, though one that brought
displeasure to the very mouldie fygges,
was the Alan Lee Quartet. Their play-
ing in the modern post-bop idiom was
cohesive, full of light and shade and un-
deniably superb jazz. Their success with
the crowd set many people thinking
about the advisability of lifting the
taboo from such groups at conventions.
The Melbourne New Orleans Band
didn’t come anywhere near its best.
Adelaide’s St Vincent’s band appeared
to have grown very smug since its success
at Cootamundra. Their playing lacked
the fire of previous years ; it was polished,
professional and at times seemed almost
disinterested. They have produced some
of the very best jazz at the last two con-
ventions and it would be a shame to see
them completely lose their joy in the
music.
Paul Marks, tied to an artistically
frustrating job in a seaside resort, was
unable to appear in his solo spot and
his singing with the Choir and the
M.N.0.J.8. did not reveal anything like
all his best qualities; Kate Dunbar, suffer-
ing from a throat infection, failed to
achieve the heights she did last year;
making her first appearance at a conven-
tion, young Melbourne blues singer Elvie
Simmons impressed many with her
negroid intonation and her emotional
approach ; she has yet to grow out of her
naturally copyist stage. Brian Hanley’s
Chicagoans played so loudly as to lose all
sense of music and to send several of the
audience (me included) fleeing from the
already oppressively hot hall.
It is to be hoped that the organisers
of the next convention, in Adelaide, will
leave more than six spots for pick-up
groups and encourage jam sessions rather
than straight rehearsals in the smaller
halls not open to the public.
Adrian Rawlins.
The Kingston Trio
These American college boys, who are
heading Sinatra, Nat King Cole and
Peggy Lee at their recording studios, will
be devoting February 16 to their beauti-
fully controlled mayhem at Brisbane
Festival Hall and February 17 and 18 at
Sydney Stadium.
NEW RECORDS
Beethoven’s Piano Concerto No. 5:
Wilhelm Backhaus and the Vienna Phil-
harmonic Orchestra under Hans Schmidt-
Isserstedt (Decca LXT5553). Backhaus
invests the first movement with a
dynamism and musicianship which put
this performance of the “Emperor” very
close to Schnabel’s. His slow section is
pure poetry in sound, and in his argu-
ment with the orchestra in the conclud-
ing rondo he balances with exactitude
its bursting energy and its underlying
seriousness.
The White Heather Club Party:
Taken from one of the 8.8. C. w'eekly
shows televised in Scotland (H.M.V.
OCLPI37B). Scottish singers in solos,
duets and choruses in a round of 30
songs, nearly all arrangements of tradi-
tional Caledonian airs, almost all of them
cheerful and brisk, from “Balloo
Baleerie” to “The Buchan Ploo’man,”
from “Cock o’ the North” to “The 6.20
Two-step.” And very well sung, too,
none better than by the sisters Anne and
Laura Brand, whose soprano and con-
tralto blend beautifully.
Flamenco Fenomeno: Pepe Romero,
guitarist (Vogue LAC A 15006). Pepe, a
15-year-old Spaniard who learned his
instrument from his celebrated father,
Celedonio Romero, plays ten traditional
Andalusian pieces, most of them at a
leisurely gait and all of them salted with
voluptuous Iberian rhythms. Flamenco
is a modern adaptation of folk-song,
and the flamenco guitarist must put his
own variations to the original melody ;
like jazz, it is a performer’s art. Romero’s
own variations are musicianly enough,
but fuller enjoyment would have come
with a voice to back up the instrument
in these serenades.
Brahms’s Symphony No. 4 in E Minor:
Otto Klemperer and the Philharmonia
Orchestra (Columbia Stereo 5AX02350).
On his only tour of Australia Klemperer
made some of the most memorable
music we have heard in 30 years ; and
in the playing of the gigantic symphony
which someone has dubbed “Brahms’s
‘King Lear,’ ” he tops the dramatic first
three movements with a wonderfully
played 30-section chaconne in which the
Bach-like logic is made clear, the emo-
tions are not allowed to undulate unduly,
and all the variations mesh with beautiful
smoothness.
TV Action Jazz: Mundell Lowe and
his Band (R.C.A. Cam.s4). TV-addicts
who customarily sit glued before such
private-eyes as Peter Gunn, the pair of
Sunset Strippers, Peter Lawford’s “Thin
Man,” and barrister-cum-’tec. Perry
Mason, will revel in the way Lowe and
his boys jazz-up the theme-tunes from
the foregoing sessions, plus those of “M
Squad,” “Mike Hammer” and “The
Naked City.” Lowe rings the changes
with free improvisational stuff woven
around the chief themes.


OVER 90 YEARS OF NEW IDEAS. . IN PAPER
Melbourne’s first paper mill was opened in 1868. From that beginning grew
APM, Australian Paper Manufacturers Ltd., who today supply a big proportion
of our country’s paper and paperboard needs. APM’s progress reflects the
spirit of Australian initiative and also shows how an all-Australian enterprise
Is helping build our national self-sufficiency and security in a vital industry,
'W:
>■ ' ;ii
Sm&v' tt&w&ctic
wWw"-:'
>7- I
m
■
iilliiiiilii
S* ;s &
<■ m
®S & ** . x
■
1
MNUNPIA
Spraying fertilizer on to an APM
pine tree plantation at Longford,
Victoria. Aerial spraying of fer-
tilizers a most efficient method
is only a small part of the
work of APM crews who care
for the 20,000,000 trees already
planted by the Company. Tree
Farm crews work continually
planting, tending and protecting
from fire the Company's forests.
fgep
mi
«8G
■Jri- : .1 -.v :~^3L : '..-...-ifs. /'..
OVER 90 YEARS
OF NEW IDEAS
IN PAPER
Ap-M
Australian Paper Manufacturers Ltd
South Gate, South Melbourne.
Mills at Melbourne, Fairfield, Maryvale, Broadford in VIC.; Botany in N.S.W.; Petrie in Q’LD; Bayswater in W. A.
Illustrated material on APM activities is available for school projects. Write to “Projects”, APM, G.P.O. Box 1643, Melbourne .


history; indeed, the first warrant
appointment issued by Governor
Phillip on the day on which he landed
officially in Sydney Cove was to his
coarse and faithful old fidus Achates,
Henry Brewer, whom he appointed
Provost Marshal and custodian of law
and order.
As the author points out, though the
Australian police system naturally
evolved from the British, starting off
with watches and constables, adding
mounted men under military command
in the uniforms copied from dragoon
regiments, it has evolved into some-
thing very different from the English
constabulary system by reason of the
differences in conditions prevailing in
a continental country, centralised in
Government and with sparse and wide-
spread population, from those in Eng-
land, a closely knit series of communi-
ties each with a greater degree of
regional self-government than apper-
tains in Australia.
Thus, whereas police authority in
the United Kingdom is centred in small
units controlled from the county Chief
Constables’ offices, but with a linkage
of the central organisation of Scotland
Yard, here the tendency is all the way
to centralised control in State capitals.
And Australian police form and
method, policy and techniques are
strongly influenced, as the author points
out again, by the nature of the laws,
the manner of their application and
the attitude of those whom the laws
restrain and guide to those laws and
to the police.
Police operations are rendered more
difficult by swift social changes that call
for swift developments of the laws to
run with them, and of police methods
and specialists to administer them. But
in democracies there is always difficulty
in moving swiftly to render law up to
date, and democracies also tend to-
wards lax observance of laws which it
is unpopular to enforce.
Mr O’Brien’s statements of historical
fact as they affect the earlier periods
of Australian history are both sketchy
and often astray. He refers, for
instance, to Surgeon Harris, one of the
earlier controllers of the Sydney police
as a “naval officer,” whereas he was a
military surgeon serving as “naval
officer” to the colony, i.e., Customs
officer. He gives the population of
Sydney in 1828 as 35,508, whereas it
was nearer to 11,000. And there is
other evidence that his excursions into
early history gave him only imperfect
glimpses at some of the facts.
When he comes to modern times he
is on surer ground, though he would
have done better if he had refrained
from judgments on contemporaries and
near-contemporaries, which are always
difficult to make fairly, especially when
they touch controversial figures like
W. J. McKay, formerly Commissioner
of Police in N. S. Wales, whom he
describes as “the only Commissioner in
the British Empire who had been a
member of a police union (and who),
became known affectionately as ‘Square
Deal Bill.’ ”
Most men in the N. S. Wales service,
however, are likely to approve his
tribute to W. H. Childs, who became
Commissioner in 1930 and whose
regime was marked by a complete
overhaul of N. S. Wales divisional
organisation and thorough modernisa-
tion of methods. Childs, still living and
hearty today at 90, though he has been
out of office for a quarter of a century,
took steps before the end of his term
to erect the police wireless-transmitter
and fit patrol-cars with receivers, a
move which made the N. S. Wales force
the “most mobile in the world” at that
time.
The book, dealing as it does, by
exposition and instance, with the
modern work of the police over fields
ranging from homicide to traffic
control, child delinquency, public rela-
tions and cliff rescue, is a handy addi-
tion to contemporary reference-books
and should stand on the desk of every
writer of whodunits, providing as it
does a well-condensed conspectus of
the day-to-day routine, methods and
facilities of the modern Australian
police in all States and the A.C.T.
M. H. Ellis
Standard Poets
Percy Bysshe Shelley: Selected Poems.
Tennyson: Selected Poems. Robert
Burns: Selected Poems. Heine-
mann. Each 9s. 6d.
It seems curious that Edmund
Blunden. who is an expert on Shelley
and wrote the best critical biography
of him which this reviewer has read,
should nave been chosen to edit Tenny-
son in this admirable series, while
Shelley has been handed to Dr John
Holloway, who, whatever his academic
qualifications, is not very happy with
his subject.
Blunden had a clear and original
line on Shelley: that he was a farmer’s
son, a much more solid character than
is usually thought and, in the midst of
his aerial speculations, a much more
solid nature-poet than one would ever
suspect. Dr Holloway is interesting in
his strictures on Eliot’s early strictures,
but for the most part he is chiefly
concerned to point out that some of
Shelley’s language has dated and should
now be read “in period” if we are to
savor its original freshness. Since this
applies to every poet who wrote out of
our own times, it is hardly worthwhile
applying it particularly to Shelley; and,
moreover, Shelley’s language has not
always dated as much as Dr Holloway
thinks. Surely the word “splendour”
has not lost so much of its glitter that
Thou young Dawn,
Turn all thy dew to splendour
must now be said to seem “a typical
piece of strained Shelleyan vagueness.”
Of the three poets here, Shelley is the
most difficult from whom to make a
satisfactory selection: for the reason
that he rarely wrote a wholly satisfac-
tory poem, except in a few short lyrics
and such well-known anthology pieces
as “The Skylark,” “The West Wind,”
“The Cloud” and others. His faults are
everywhere and his excellences are
everywhere, and the only thing to do is
to read him entire and hope for the
best. Dr Holloway has not included
an extract from “The Revolt of Islam,”
yet no connoisseur of Shelley would
wish to be deprived of, say, the snake
(which isn’t a snake) in Canto 1:
Then first two glittering lights were
seen to glide
In circles on the amethystine floor,
Small serpent eyes trailing from side
to side,
Like meteors on a river’s grassy
shore . . .
However, granted the impossibility
of the task, this selection is attractive
enough. The best piece of “Prometheus
Unbound” is in; some luminous stanzas
from “The Witch of Atlas,” some of
the translations and a liberal display of
the shorter poems.
So far as Tennyson is concerned, the
one essential inclusion is “Ulysses”:
which Edmund Blunden, besides
reminding us that it was one of the
poems which Tennyson wrote to
restore his courage after the death of
Hallam, duly includes. With “The
Lotos Eaters,” “Morte d’Arthur,” “The
Lady of Shallott,” “The Splendour
Falls,” but—astonishingly for Edmund
Blunden —nothing from “The Brook.”
If Shelley is the hardest of these
three to put into a selection, Burns is
the easiest. The editor can hardly go


wrong when he has hundreds of short
lyrics and short satires, nearly all
characteristic, to choose from; and if
G. S. Fraser will seem to many to have
erred by omitting “To a Mouse we
can’t have everything —and we have
“To a Louse.” “Holy Willie's Prayer,
“Corn Rigs Are Bonnie.” the richly
sustained “Jolly Beggars” and the
indispensable “Tam o’Shanter.”
The books are all very pleasant to
handle; compact in format, durable in
binding and readable in print and
paper.
Douglas Stewart
A Bestseller
The Venus of Konpara. John Masters.
Michael Joseph; Moore's Bookshop.
20s.
There are many kinds of bestsellers.
The Bible is one, although at present
in most of the Western world it is being
outsold by the works (on Child Care
and Management) of Dr Benjamin
Spock.
“Dr Zhivago,” a magnificent novel
by any standards, reached bestselling
rank at about the same time as
“Peyton Place,” a rubbishing, con-
trived, ill-written shocker. There are
books that become bestsellers by sheer
merit and books that, while one reads
them, shout “film rights,” “club selec-
tion,” “newspaper serial” from every
planned and stereotyped paragraph.
This is not to deny that from the
lists of books written deliberately to
be bestsellers a few works of genuine,
lasting merit have emerged; or to
denigrate any writer who. seeing him-
self primarily as an entertainer, plans
to entertain: that point of view was
held by Defoe and Dickens among
countless others, and 1 can never
understand why today we think there
is something disreputable about it.
John Masters has written several
bestsellers, “Bhowani Junction” among
them, and it is not due to literary
snobbery that “The Venus of Kon-
para” is the first of his books I have
read, but because I haven’t recently
found time to read the paperback copy
of “Bhowani Junction” I bought a few
months ago. I wish now that I had
read it. for 1 feel that “The Venus of
Konpara” is constructed upon a tried
and true formula which in its case has
failed to come off, but by a very narrow
margin.
The story is set in a fairly remote
Indian State in 1890. When it opens
Mohan, the hereditary ruler or Suvala
of Konpara. has recently returned from
his training at Sandhurst. Mohan,
before his position can be finally rati-
fied. will have to overcome or convince
the supporters of his wicked uncle who
plots to usurp him, but sees no great
difficulty ahead because he is strongly
supported by the British Resident,
Kendrick, who is Mohan’s ideal of
courageous manhood and his best
friend. That Kendrick’s young wife.
Barbara, a talented artist, is making
obvious sexual advances to the putative
ruler is likely to be a complication
rather than a focal point in the novel.
Kendrick supports Mohan because
when the youth finally wins acceptance
he, Kendrick, plans to resign from his
British Government post and become
Mohan's Prime Minister and “Great
Administrator.” He has never been
quite successful in the British service
or lived up to the reputation of his
famous and notorious father —unpalat-
able facts which puzzle him. but not
us. for we are early informed that his
failure to quite succeed in anything is
linked with his sexual impotence.
Barbara Kendrick is a virgin.
Then, from a troupe of travelling
dancers, comes the beautiful, casteless
Rukmini, not without strong hints of
predestination and memories of other
At the Sea’s Edge
Sea at this town’s neat threshold spills its
gloss
of cold, of distance. Urban colors toss
in thousand-faceted water. Gulls out race
the wavering wind. A crowd comes to
this place
daily, gathers to watch a tame seal fed.
They smite to see its grave, grey-whiskered
head
cruise by the fish-punt, its dense body dive
with ecstasy of balance through its live
element for scraps. A car stops. One
by one
three people step into the lavish sun.
The crowd stirs, looks, and looks away to
find
darkness upon the water: one is blind.
And worse than blind; as in a hideous
mask
degraded eyelids squint. Young children
ask
“What? . . .” and are hushed, as the blind
woman stands
between a man and woman, with her
hands
held gently ; neither proud nor humble
turns
her ruined face to the oblique wind and
learns
what the blind learn from wind. Beyond
her night
green beards of seaweed drip, light, light,
light, light,
where water sucks and shudders round
half-rotten
staves of the wharf, and murmurs long
forgotten
furies of wave on rock. Of light no trace
of recollection marks her ravaged face,
only the sea-wind speaks to her. The
crowd
melts, test ill-luck should touch them.
A torn cloud
of gulls descends, disputing scraps. The
sea
is marked by the wind's tread, that may
not be
told or foreseen, but wanders where it
will,
speaking its comfort to the spirit still
in darkness. “Look,” the man says, “he
begs ! He shakes
his whiskers like a dog.” Green water
flakes
in silver from the seal. The woman cries
“Look, now he’s diving, look, he’s got
his eyes
right on that scrap of fish. He never
misses !
He goes like a torpedo !” Water hisses
and churns in the seal’s wake. As the
three stand
silent, the blind one smiles. From hand
to hand
a live hope flows. The wind walks on the
sea,
printing the water’s face with charity.
TASMANIA.
WALTER LEHMANN.
A nzac Gardens
[SOUTHPORT]
Where it is always Friday, and afternoon,
Between the mown grass and the oleanders
Somehow untropical, northern, faded,
tame.
The farmers come on their respectable
occasions
And after the visit to the bank and the
store
(A beer with the manager, a length of
print for the wife)
Sit on the Garden seats
With their great red hands on their knees.
And recall the name
(Or the father’s or brother’s name)
Of the soldier, the wind-washed faceless
boy
Back to the waves, the statue wearing
away
Beside the decorous shore,
Accoutrements archaic, a useless gun:
Killed in action in World War One.
But there is a wildness, for at the chill
rim
Morose upon a ripple rests the bleak bird,
The pelican in her malignant grey.
Her stony exe outstares them as she rocks
To ancient rhythms, and the farmers fall
Uneasily to quiet, and rise and go
To the neoned town again.
So she reclaims, an hour before the sunset
Her drenched and battered realm the wav
it was
Before invaders left their odious mark:
Her own wild acres, the great leaping
dunes.
The pelican continent of sand and foam.
N.S.W.
ELIZABETH RIDDELL.


BOOKHUNTER
I)ept. “D” Box 2071, 0.1’.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fietion,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only it successful.
BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.0., Sydney.
existences. She becomes Mohan’s
mistress, but she “knows” she is fated
to be also his queen. How can this
be? He a Brahmin and she an ostens-
ible whore? The population murmur,
pro and con. This population is com-
posed of jungle “savages,” the Gonds,
whose race were the original inhabi-
tants of India ; the casteless descend-
ants of the Dravidians who conquered
the Gonds. and the people of caste, the
Aryans who at last overran the others.
Various archaeological discoveries
are made both at the site of a dam that
is being built and on the site of a
cricket-pitch which Mohan is having
constructed. The wonderfully sculp-
tured leg of a woman, a goddess, is
found, and an ancient Buddha, not to
mention hoards of gold bars. Foster,
the dam-contractor; Smith, a mystical
archaeologist; Kendrick, Mohan. Ruk-
mini, Barbara, all from different but
intersecting motives, sponsor the un-
earthing of the rest of the Venus statue,
and. later, the finding of a cave known
to be linked inextricably with Mohan’s
fate both ancestral and future.
It is all thoroughly exciting, full of
plot, man-eating tigers, history and
archaeology (there is no reason to doubt
John Masters's assurance that in these
areas his story accords with scientific
belief), sex. forest-fires and so on. On
the whole the writing is good and some-
times, especially in description, excel-
lent. But. as I have said, it just fails.
For all its pretensions the book is no
more than a thriller. It fails in what
one might call the “Rider Haggard”
class because it attempts to plumb
depths Haggard and his followers
would never have attempted, and it
fails in what might be termed the
“E. M. Forster” class because, apart
from this being a rather stretched com-
parison. Masters has no subtlety at all
about characterisation: he knows too
much about what makes people tick
to disregard hidden complexes, but
not enough to allow his people to tick
by themselves without manipulation.
For all this it is an interesting book
whose setting and theory may well be
remembered by its readers long after
its characters are completely for-
gotten.
Nancy Keesing
The American Mind
The Good Years. Walter Lord. Illus-
trated. Longmans. 31s.
In an entertaining and witty style
Walter Lord recalls some of the main
historical events in the United States
during the “good years.” from the
beginning of the century to the First
World War.
Selection of the highlights, and their
treatment, is distinctly American. Thus
one may disagree with the author’s
view, put forward neatly in the chapter
about the siege of Peking’s Legation
Quarter by the Boxers in 1900. that the
Americans have been merely “fumb-
ling” imperialists, because of their good
nature and devoutly democratic up-
bringing. However. Lord’s story of the
siege still makes good reading, with
some fascinating background infor-
mation and creditable attention to his-
torical facts.
All the other chapters are on purely
American subjects. “Big Stick. Big
Business” and “Trial of a Union Man”
are easily the best, and have an
authentic turn-of-the-century flavor.
In “Big Stick. Big Business” Lord,
obviously a devoted fan of Teddy
(“speak softly and carry a big stick”)
Roosevelt, describes with undisguised
approval the dynamic, honest and
efficient, if sometimes mixed-up, Presi-
dent’s successful trust-busting legal
war with the railroad magnates.
“Trial of a Union Man” deals at
length with the once-famous case of
unionist Bill Haywood (a thorn-in-the-
flesh to coalmine proprietors), charged
with having masterminded the politi-
cal murder of Idaho’s ex-Governor
Steunenberg.
Haywood, with two other leading
officials of the Western Federation of
Miners, was tried in a period of indus-
trial unrest, when American workers
were successfully grabbing for a bigger
slice of the nation’s prosperity. With
few exceptions both sides fought by
means fair or foul —violent strikes,
lock-outs, court injunctions, train and
factory wrecking, beatings by company
guards and bomb-throwings were the
weapons used from coast to coast. The
Federal and State administrative
machinery and the courts tended to
support the established order.
Even more important was “the
lingering belief, shared all over the
country, that somehow unions were
wrong”:—
To many people they seemed to
deny the very premise of America:
that there was no working-class, that
anyone could reach the top. For
more than a century men had
struggled to build the country,
cheered on by this hope. To join a
union—the acknowledged defender
of a working-class— meant giving-up
on this best dream of them all.
Steunenberg was an old foe of
organised labor and an effective strike-
smasher during his term of office as
Governor. On the other hand he was
a popular figure in his quiet town of
Boise, a friendly leading citizen. One
winter night Steunenberg set off a bomb
by opening his gate and died a short
while later.
Police soon arrested their chief sus-
pect, an ex-criminal (and ex-union
boss) Harry Orchard. Pinkerton’s pri-
vate agency’s top detective was hired by
the State and given the job of “crack-
ing” Orchard. In due course he
obtained a confession in which Orchard
owned-up to planting the bomb, and
said he was acting under orders from
Haywood and his two union associates.
Without bothering much about legal
niceties, the three men were hauled
across the State frontier from Colorado
and put on trial in Boise. Proceedings
were banner-lined throughout the
United States and trumpeted abroad.
A lot of irrelevancies and even more
mutual abuse often obscured the course
of justice. Colorado's State Adjutant,
Sherman Bell, put his feelings in a nut-
shell: ‘"Habeas corpus be damned;
we’ll give ’em post-mortems!” Harry
Orchard turned State’s witness and be-
came the prosecution’s only real
chance. He was colorfully described
by the defence as a “perjured monster,”
a “miserable wretch” and an “unspeak-
able scoundrel.”
The Big Press called for the
accused’s blood and the radical Left-
wing sheets did their best to convince
unionists that Haywood and his con-
freres were as good as hanged, and were
busy fomenting protest strikes and
demonstrations.
In the end all three were acquitted,
and this took the wind out of the sails
in both camps. Lord’s ability to con-
vey the atmosphere of the trial makes
this the most powerful part of the
book.
The San Francisco earthquake,
Woodrow Wilson’s election, suffra-
gettes, Peary’s dash to the Pole, the
1907 bank panic, crazy balls of the
nouveau-riches, the U.S. fleet’s first
cruise round the world, the first “air-
machine” —all these crowded the
American papers and interested Ameri-
can minds.
When some foreign archduke was
shot dead no one was interested. Even
when the First World War started in
earnest the Washington “Post” edi-
torialised: “As for the superficial con-
tentions at issue a police-court judge
could adjust them in a week.”
But by 1917 America was at war,
emerging as a creditor nation with a
mighty war-machine. The shift of
economic and political power across the
Atlantic began, slowed down from time
to time by waves of isolationism.
American mentality had not always
kept pace, and today many things are
still viewed in the “land of the free”
from the perspective of “the good
years.”
This insight into the workings of
the average American mind makes
Lord’s book valuable and interesting.
E.B.


Women
THAT SECOND CAR...GIVEAWAYS...SPUDS
For the Other Garage
There have always been plenty of little
cars on Australian roads, but changed
social conditions in the past few years
have made them even more popular.
The sprawl of the suburbs (which makes
“only one mile from the station” quite
a selling point) has contributed to this.
Shopping habits have altered. The super-
market, with accommodation for car-
parking, has taken over from the home-
delivery stores.
Today, when housewives often have to
travel more than a mile to get their
supplies, a second car in the home begins
to look less like a luxury ana more like
a necessity.
Big cars often seem formidable, but
most women are quite confident about
jumping into a little one and dashing off
on some errand. They will readily under-
take to visit friends in distant suburbs,
join associations, form discussion-groups
and take lessons in Italian or dressmaking
—if they have a little car to go in.
This identification of the little car with
the modern trend of social life is world-
wide. Even in America the hold which
small cars are getting on the market is
beginning to cause a reassessment of
values.
The evolution of car design in America,
reflected on the market here, has been
quite a spectacle. For many years, start-
ing with the restyling of the Model T
Ford in 1927, the development went along
at a fairly steady, confident pace. The
streamlining of the ’thirties introduced
“The Oval Look” and outmoded the
squares. Then started the trend to longer
and longer cars, bigger and bigger motors,
louder and brighter trim. Once tailfins
appeared they flourished with such vigor
that eventually they seemed likely to take
over the car completely.
The customers liked this kind of car.
It made them feel important. The
designers could see no wrong in it, would
hear no criticism. When, for instance,
there were murmurs that the long, low
car w-as hard to get into, the designers
replied: “Would you sacrifice such a
good silhouette just because you get your
hat knocked off three or four times a
day?”
But in the ’fifties there came a subtle
infiltration, followed by an invasion, of
a new race of small cars from Europe.
At first these were regarded with amused
tolerance as “rather funny little fellows” ;
but when in 1957 it was found that they
had collected nearly 12 per cent, of the
mark et the American manufacturers
began to realise that this was no joke.
I heir answ'er has been to design some
medium-sized cars with less elaborate
styling (such as the Falcon) but they still
stick to their finned and winged mam-
moths which parking difficulties and road
congestion are gradually making obsolete.
Problems of parking and crowded roads
have also contributed to the increased
popularity of the little car in Australia.
But economy is also an important factor.
Not only does the little car cost less, but
everything about it costs less—tyres,
registration, petrol. Thirty-five miles to
the gallon seems to be the minimum,
and the Messerschmitt (which is classed
as a car, though it looks more like a
motor-bike with a top on it) claims to
do 90.
But in addition to these reasonable
reasons, there is something about little
cars which makes their owners regard
them as “pets,” and sometimes the more
ugly they are the more beloved they
become.
Women choose their little cars much
as they choose their clothes —first on
appearance, next on fit (“Is it comfort-
able? Do I feel happy in it? Is it easy
to handle?”) and lastly on the quality of
the mechanical work in it.
Men generally put this last requirement
first, mainly because they know more
about it. The majority of women are
simply confused by mechanic-talk.
But there is a fairly simple means of
estimating the performance of a car and
one that is quite easy to understand.
Everyone knows that different cars have
different horsepower ratings, and although
one horsepower does not literally mean
that you have the equivalent of one horse
pulling your car, for the purpose of com-
parison you may assume that it does.
The more horses you have pulling your
car the more easily it will travel Eighty
horses can do more work than 40, especi-
ally when they are all of equal strength.
It is obvious then that the heavier your
car is, the more horses you will need to
pull it. So the relation between the
horsepower and the weight of the car
should give you a pretty good idea of
just how vigorous it will be. If the ratio
is low, and each horse, as it were, is pull-
ing a low weight, the car must be more
responsive than one in which the ratio
is high and its “horse” is pulling 20 to
301 b more.
To get this figure you find out what
brake-horsepower (b.h.p.) the car has. To
the weight of the car add the weight of
a couple of adults (say, 3001 b) because
obviously the passengers are going to
affect the weight of the work the horses
have to do.
If you divide the weight of the car, plus
3001 b, by the brake-horsepower, you will
find just how much each horse has to
pull. In the little cars on the Australian
market the figure varies from 391 b to
as much as 831 b.
There is a fairly good choice of little
cars under £lOOO on the Australian
market. (Until the recent steep increase in
sales-tax there was an even bigger choice ;
this tax has sent over the £ 1000 mark the
Volkswagen, the Simca. the Hillman, the
Triumph Herald and the Austin Lancer'
In the first group under £lOOO there
are five to choose from: the Dauphine
(which just makes it at £999), the Morris
Minor, 4-door (£979) and 2-door (£929'
the Austin A4O (£925) and the Skoda
Octavia (£899, Special and £969 De
Luxe).
The French Dauphine is the most
elegant of the little cars. Its owners stress
that, as well as feeling that it has prestige,
they also feel “safe” in it. It gives 40
miles to the gallon, and each horsepower
pulls 551 b. One of its features is the
safety-lock on the back doors, which
means peace of mind to the woman driv-
ing with children in the back seat.
Next in price, the Morris Minor is the
most popular. A classic shape, it has
shown no tendency to develop fins or to
change in any way so far as looks are
concerned, since it was first introduced.
It is English and has proved itself ; it gives
37 m.p.g., and each of its horses pulls
601 b.
Also English, the Austin A4O is a
different sort of a car, especially styled
by top Italian designer Farina. It looks
bigger than the other little cars —more
like a station-wagon. It seems a sound
buy for anyone wanting a reliable car,
with good space for children and luggage,
and a feeling of fine though utilitarian
design about it. It does 35 m.p.g. and us
horses pull 571 b each
The Skoda Octavia, from Czecho-
slovakia, is a completely new model
designed to erase the memory of its
rough, post-war predecessor. It is sturdy
looking, with a host of extras. Its gear-
change on the steering-wheel may steer
some women-buyers its way if they find
the floor-change on other little cars
awkward. It has a camping body, a large
(illuminated) boot and a free tool-kit to
make a husband’s eyes pop out. Its draw-
back is its workaday appearance. But
some people like a Plain-Jane look and
this car might have the virtues that go
with that look.
The second group, the really little
cars, includes the Fiat 600 (£849) and the
Fiat 500 (£699), the N.S.U. Prinz (£813),
the Renault 750 (£750) and the Goggo-
mobit (three models: £735, £650 and
£598).
Of these, the N.S.U. Prinz gives the
best showing on the horsepower test, one
horse being required to pull only 391 b.
It gives 45 m.p.g. ; its appearance is pert.
It is very new on the market, however,
and some people may hesitate about it
on that score ; supplies and service in the
future have to be considered. But, as it
is made by a firm of German manufac-
turers of famous motor-bikes, it should
be a success.
The Italian Fiat on the other hand has
been established for over 60 years and
has a g’ood reputation. The shape of both
models is individual. People either love
it or dislike it. It has wide-opening doors


and a sunshine-roof which does much
to overcome that feeling of being shut-
in which is a fault of most tiny cars.
Mileage is 45 m.p.g. (Fiat 600) and 55
m .p.g. (Fiat 500). The rating on the
horsepower test is 63 for the 600 and 83
for the 500.
The Renault 750 is the older, though
smaller (and decidedly plainer), brother
of the Dauphine. Its mileage is 50 m.p.g.,
its horsepower ratio 76.
The Goggomobil—so named by its
German inventor because he called his
Grandpa “Goggo”—is anything but a
grandpa’s car, though its tough, fibreglass
body seems indestructible. Very tiny,
scooting along at 60 miles an hour on
one gallon of petrol, it has been a favorite
of the youthful (either in years or out-
look) since it came on the market. Its
horsepower ratio is 66.
Last, in a class by itself, is the Messer-
schmitt, which has only three wheels and
at £514 costs little more than a good
motor-bike. You can fit a passenger or
some luggage in it, but scarcely both.
Messerschmitt-owners say that if you
want to make friends, buy one of these.
Everyone smiles at you, policemen wave
you on and parking is no problem because
if you cannot park in the space available
willing hands will always lift your Messer-
schmitt in. More than any other of the
tiny cars, it becomes a household pet.
Its mileage is at least 80 m.p.g. .
☆ ☆ ☆
Got it for Nothing
It is misleading to say, as is said
practically every day of the week, “People
don’t want to work these days. They
just want something for nothing.” People
have never really wanted to work, and
they have always been overjoyed at any-
thing they got for nothing.
It is a primitive, ancient feeiing that
free gifts were signs of special favor
from the gods which accounts for the
really disproportionate pleasure that
people today get from something for
which they did not have to pay.
The advertisers know this, and they
know that you can create a great deal of
goodwill by giving away very little.
Recently a firm sent a man around the
suburbs offering a packet of bath-salts
in pink plastic to any housewife who had
in her house a certain brand of sandwich -
spread. Most of the women who “won”
the bath-salts had no idea how to use
them. But they were delighted to get
them and for a week or so told all their
friends and neighbors of the wonderful
thing that had happened to them.
New washing-machines, which may
cost £lOO or more, often arrive with
a free packet of washing-powder, worth
about Is. lid. Notice how many new
owners comment more on the powder
than on the machine. “And look,” they
cry delightedly. “We got this for
nothing.”
Allied to this is the popular feeling
that “finders is keepers” where treasure
is concerned. There is scarcely a man-
in-the-street, or woman either, who does
not believe that if you find money in
your old bomb of a car, or hidden in your
attic, then it should be yours. It was
obviously meant for you, they argue, or
you would not have found it. Anything
found outside your home, of course, is
different. There is no magic about that.
Some poor old lady may have lost it. and
naturally you must give it up.
While most people know that they must
work to get the necessities of life and aie
perfectly willing to pay for their bar of
soap, they are amazingly grateful for
anything extra they might get with it:
a few ciothes-pegs, a dish-cloth or even
a potscraper. Such humble things can
give us a glow, make us feel that we are
among the darlings of fortune and that
we will surely win the lottery soon.
Children will eat their breakfast foods
in double-quick time if they are colled-
ing something the package contains.
They will pay Is. 6d. for a plastic con-
tainer of ice-cream (plus a spoon) when
they could have got the same ice-cream
for 9d. and when they did not want the
container. Adults will pay up to £5 ss.
for concert- or theatre-tickets, then take
it as a personal compliment when they
get a programme for nothing.
Of course, there are limits. People will
not accept anything free if they think
there is a catch in it. A man once stood
on London Bridge and tried to give away
£1 notes without success. Ladies who
offer little bits of biscuit, fruit-mince,
cheese, etc., in food halls are not always
rushed (except at the Royal Agricultural
Show, where small boys keep the queue
moving). Free make-up may involve you
in expensive purchase of cosmetics ; the
free demonstration dancing lesson may
mean a mortgaged pay-envelope.
People are cagey about these because
they can see plainly the reason for the
free gift. It did not come out of the blue,
out of the magic mist, down like pennies
from heaven, which is the best way for
something for nothing to come.
VNii/Jo
jpittlS
„ , , ~
Those u believe only in 100 per
cent, hand-made, home-made meals will
certainly be shocked at the idea of
packaged mashed potatoes. Even the
™ ore tolerant will hardly welcome the
idea. It creates such a squashy image,
Of course, the packaged potatoes
which have already come to Brisbane
and will probably gather on grocers’
shelves throughout Australia soon are
not squashy at all, but in the form of
fine white flakes, rather like soap-flakes,
They are cooked in the factory at
Lowood (Q.) just as they are cooked in
h ome peeled and boiled in salted
water, then steamed to remove excess
water. They are then rolled into a sheet
ne , taffeta, broken up into flakes,
an packaged. The customer has to add
milk and/or butter, then heat them tor
about a minute.
At 2s. 3d. for a serving for four, they
are rather expensive. But they do save
time ; there is always that to salve the
conscience as the packages mount up in
cupboard.
Also in the news (on the mainland of
Australia at any rate) are yellow-fleshed
potatoes, which made a brief appearance
in the shops recently. These are called
the Hobart Pinkeye and have been grown
in Tasmania for 40 years or more. Con-
noisseurs say that their flavor is vastly
superior to that of white potatoes, and
many Europeans do not want to eat any
other sort, saying that white-fleshed
potatoes are fed only to the pigs on the
Continent,
There is a movement to bring more
Pinkeyes to the mainland, but a yellow
potato doesn’t seem quite a clean potato,
somehow, and it will have to work hard
to get a following.
"No, they're not all mine , I'm baby-sitting!"


Harney and the Outbackery Showdown
By MAX HARRIS
Since the English discovered
some kind of cowboy-and-
Indian exoticism in outback
Australia a powerful export
market has developed for
travel books, novels, articles,
films, and TV productions on
the subject. There is a boom-
ing London art market for out-
backery paintings. Even the
austere “Sunday Times’*
joined in the fun, commission-
ing the famous zoologist Jock
Marshall and painter Russell
Drysdale to do a series of
Territorian stories.
All manner of writers, film-
makers and journalists have
rushed to the new diggings.
But already there are signs that
the field is just about paid out.
Although English publishers
will snap up almost anything
offered them, the Australian
market is becoming fastidious.
Acidulous criticisms of second-
class outback writing are com-
ing as much from the circulat-
ing-library reader as from the
literary critic. The mess of
potboiling, bad writing, and
histrionics is making the out-
backery theme suspect.
But the amateurs are always
with us. It is the professionals
both in fiction and reportage,
who will have to begin to work
in depth-writers like Xavier
Herbert, Olaf Ruhen, Tom
Ronan, Douglas Lockwood,
Roland Robinson, Henry
Lamond, Mary Elwyn Pat-
chett and the never-ending Bill
Wan nan
Initially the fiercest critical
light will probably fall on Bill
Harney, the all-round King of
Outbackery. Three elements
have conjoined to make
Harney the centrepiece in the
outback literary tableau: the
careful guidance, editing and
sponsorship he has received
from his U.K. publishers,
Robert Hale ; his unique gifts
as a radio speaker; and the
huge bush-telegraph following
that has resulted from his job
as the biggest tourist attraction
at Ayers Rock,
In addition to the citizenry
Harney has been ‘discovered’
by the litterateurs, notably
Stephen Murray-Smith and the
“Overland” group in Mel-
bourne ; and in Sydney John
Thompson, of the A.8.C., has
been heading close to Prix
d’ltalia standards organising
Harney s outstanding radio
talents.
Possibly unknown to him-
self, Bill Harney will come
under critical scrutiny in the
next few weeks as he sets out
° n his annual walkabout
through the vast metropolitan
hunting-grounds of the literary
tribes—from Adelaide to Mel-
bourne, Sydney Brisbane, then
back to the Alice,
He has another good year
behind him: a top-selling book
of the usual aboriginal lore,
Bill Harney
Cookbook, a study of Ayers
Ro f k mythology in Oceana,
an a record of yarn-
s P ,nn,n S ln , conjunction with
an Mai shall. In the next
few months a paperback edi-
jlon °/ 1S
be published by Rigby Ltd.,
ar a new 90,000-word book
will appear in London.
new book is an account
of Harney’s brief and tragic
married life. He was married
to a part-aboriginal girl who
died young of tuberculosis.
The child of the marriage also
died young. The theme sug-
"Yes, it DOES look like mumps.”
gests a more serious and less
facile Harney than usual, but
nonetheless the publishers in-
sisted that the magic sales-word
“aborigines” appear in the
title.
In Australia, however, people
are asking how 7 authentic a
“character” is Bill Harney. Is
he a professional bushwhacker
these days, a Tex Morton of
the literary rodeos? In the
Territory he has as many deni-
grators as admirers, people who
hold Bill to be no longer a
genuine “bushie” but a profes-
sional entertainer, a fashion
model for the Box Brownies
which besiege Ayers Rock dur-
ing the season.
TTarney’s flamboyance, garru-
lousness and success as a
bush “character” have offended
some of those Territorians who
believe in an image of the
bushman as tall, reticent,
cliqueish and mockingly con-
temptuous of the urban in-
vader. This kind of comment
is rather to be expected:
Harney has always been some-
thing of a “rogue” Territorian,
ignoring the taboos and con-
formisms of the propertied
white population.
The second attack has more
substance—that Harney poses
as a first-hand anthropologist,
an expert observer of aborigi-
nal life, lore, and customs, but
that in fact most of his writ-
ings display an element of in-
vention, facile opinions, and
loose generalisations.
This case only has substance
if you are of the mind that
chalk and cheese are different,
but cheese is no good anyway.
Harney is a fabulist in the
strict sense of that much-
abused word ; his approach to
the aboriginal is one of intui-
tive sympathy, not of system-
atic investigation. His sole
interest is in what kind of
blokes blaekfellows are. If
anthropologists have no time
for Harney, he certainly returns
the compliment. He has only
been known to criticise two
groups of people: anthropolo-
gists and Territory officialdom.
The third criticism, an urban
one, comes from those people
who are suspicious of the cur-
rent outbackery cult. And it
is certainly true that Bill’s
annual trek is something of a
procession of TV appear-
ances, press interviews and
literary lionisings. In conse-
quence there is a suspicion that
he is nowadays capitalising on
his outback years and imposing
a self-conscious bushwhackery
on his gullible urban admirers.
TPhe inevitable cliche—that
he has not been spoiled
by public success —is not even
applicable to Harney. He is
not in the category of the
Sidney Nolans or Albert
Tuckers, where graceful sur-
face personality conceals dedi-
cated ambitiousness. The kin-
ship, if anything, is with such
a person as Arthur Boyd. Bill
Harney, too, is a genuine and
incorruptible innocent.
Harney loves the sound of
his own voice ; he never
wearies of his own stories, no
matter how often he has told
them. He has a simple and un-
complicated affection for
people, from the high-powered
intellectual to the doting
females who bedevil his life at
the Rock. He just loves any
listener.
As for the glamor of his
contemporary public success,
he can take it or leave it alone.
It doesn't really impinge. If
a public appearance helps his
books, his publishers or his
mates, he'll be in it. But he
retains a shrewd sense of per-
sonal dignity. Before he left
the Alice recently Lloyd
O'Neill, his Australian pub-
lisher, wired asking if he'd
cook a flying-fox on TV. Bill's
tactful response to this depres-
sing suggestion was that his
programme was too uncertain
for him to oblige.
Since he asks nothing of the
world except a listening ear,
Harney is a singularly unmali-
cious personality. In his con-
versation no one is ever
“rubbished.'’ This is atypical
of the outbackery boys.
Setting out on his 1961 walk-
about, Bill Harney is beginning
to show his age: more leathery
than ever, something of the
nuggety toughness gone. But
he is still devoid of vanity, of
malice, still bemused by the
success of his self-taught
scribblings.
If, as with Marmite, too
much outbackery spoils the
flavor, then it is not the old
“Billarney” who is laying it
on thick. The golden days
are ending for the journalists
and potboiling writers. This
event is not likely to worry
Bill Harney too much. Only if
he developed laryngitis would
Bill Harney's world collapse
around him.


THE
MAN
ON THE
LAND
Does the Australian Farmer Work Too Hard?
By K. E. C. GRAVES
'T'he average Australian
farmer seems to have little
energy left over from his work-
ing day for sport, or time for
things of the mind. Reduced
to the essential, this is because
he does not employ enough
labor on his property.
It is estimated, however, that
to pay the wages of one man
employed today, 1000 sheep
must be run. But a farmer
may not have the land to run
extra stock to finance extra
labor or. more likely, he may
need the returns from any in-
crease in his flock to put back
into his land. So he often
does the extra work himself
rather than put on an extra
hand.
1 once heard a foreigner
say: “You Australians are the
owners of the land and also
its laborers.” He went on to
explain that on many a small
estate in Europe (by our stan-
dards) sufficient men are em-
ployed under an overseer to
enable the owner merely to
walk or ride round the
property and view the work
being done. In England, A. G.
Street, the agricultural writer,
•instanced his father's farm as
employing, before the war, 26
men on its 600 acres —and this
was not then considered an
excessive number.
In Tasmania 1 know of
several estates that originally
employed five or six families
■but are now employing none.
The sons do the work. I know
also of sheep properties of
several thousand acres em-
ploying only two men. One of
6000 acres produces 200 bales
of wool with only two men
and the owner working it. And
there's a dairyfarm run by only
one man, the owner, who
sometimes works 16 hours a
day.
Looking at old estate-
journals one realises how dif-
ferent conditions were long
a §o. 1 have inspected a journal
of an estate dated 1835. Such
entries as “George Smith, to
serve for one year at 6s. a
Wee k,” and “John Brown, for
one year at £l7 per annum,”
are typical examples. Of course
rations were provided and
clothing items were cheap.
Boots were charged to them
at 6s. 6d., shirts from 3s. 6d.
to 55., tweed at 2s. a yard.
Meat, sugar, flour, tea. soap,
and candles and other neces-
sities were supplied by the
employer. Few luxuries were
then manufactured and none
were expected by the farm-
workers of those days. No
wonder they contracted to
shear sheep at £1 a hundred
and as low as 14s. a hundred
in a bad season.
TCrom an old stock-book kept
by a well-known Tasmanian
estate in 1877, 1 find that milk-
ing cows were worth £7,
bullocks £8 10s., calves Bs. 1 Id.,
ewes from ss. to 10s., and
lambs 7s. Wages were then
•about 10s. a week plus rations.
With usually a yardman, a
blacksmith, and even a car-
penter, perhaps, on the home-
stead, also dairymen, plough-
men, and shepherds, there
was ample labor to run the
place without the owner being
overworked.
The basic wage today is 28
times higher than then, but
the prices for stock and pro-
duce have not risen to a corre-
sponding degree. If they had,
ewes would be as high as £l4
and milking cows £196. In the
last 20 years wages have been
trebled, but the prices of farm
products and stock have not.
If accurate records had been
kept showing the gradual
falling-off of the number of
hands employed on a property
in relation to the rise in wages,
the figures would be revealing,
especially if production figures
were included. These would
not show a corresponding
falling-off with that of the
labor employed.
Throughout the long, hot
days, many owners and their
sons are working until dark,
averaging perhaps 12 hours a
day when darkness does not
come until late. On some dairy-
farms the hours are even
longer. If the butter subsidy
is removed, as threatened, the
dairyfarmer will be working
even harder, since the subsidy
was granted mainly to give him
enough to pay the high award-
rates for dairy workers.
Should white men, especially
in parts of Australia where the
summer heat is excessive, work
so long at manual labor during
the day?
Dr Alexis Carre! wrote: “It
is possible that lessened activity
of the nervous system and of
the intelligence may eventually
result from too strong a light.”
He applied this theory to the
white races, quoting the Scan-
dinavians as being the most
highly civilised races because
they live in countries where
heat and light are not strong.
He also compared the
superiority of the northern
French with those of the south.
He wrote: “It seems that
the adaptation of white men
to heat and light takes place
at the expense of nervous and
mental development.”
But in Australia where wages
are high, and where, in most
areas, there is no available
native labor—even in those
parts where it is available it
is no longer cheap—the prob-
lem of labor on the land seems
insoluble, except by increased
mechanisation.
Yet a machine has to be
worked or attended, and re-
paired, and it cannot care for
livestock.
In addition to his out-of-
door work, a farmer, when he
knocks off, has to cope with
hours of bookwork and corre-
spondence. He has little time
or energy left for reading and
intellectual hobbies.
I know of only four land-
owners who are anticipating
the time when they are too
old for active work, or for
field sports or games. One
writes, two paint, and one
collects objects d'art. Even
they had to overcome a certain
intolerance, even derision, from
their families because of their
hobbies, which are regarded
as a waste of time.
TTas it come to a state when
application to anything not
actually earning money is re-
garded as unnecessary in this
work-a-day world? Except for
the professionals, the arts are
as dead as the accomplished
Victorians and Edwardians.
Must a farmer, because he can-
not afford to employ enough
labor, overwork and do
nothing but work until he
dies?
I wonder how many farmers,
if they could be convinced that
excessive work and no play
shortened their span of life,
would leave the land?


Kstab'ished 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON
. o'sulu\x\- ■'/
c \ PTYLTD Cfjr'
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TOPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
start the dau right!
*5
m
Oi
UD* 140
p^O
e >106"
l
VIM?
I stt^
r6M”
I C
Start the weekend well with
Weekend
★
1/- from your newsagent
Wool Promotion Fails in Wool Districts
Should the day ever come
when wool is out-pro-
moted by synthetics to a degree
where our most precious com-
modity is virtually unsaleable,
one would expect that the last
stronghold of woollen goods
would be in the very districts
that produce it —bought by the
very persons who grow it.
But so unsuccessful are the
Wool Bureau’s efforts to pro-
mote woollen goods that even
now, with the promotion of
synthetics still in its infancy,
there is evidence that synthetics
are outselling wool in wool-
growing districts. This situa-
tion is as ludicrous as a seal-
skin bureau being unable to
sell sealskin to Eskimos.
The Australian Wool Bureau
reports that over the past few
months wool consumption in
Australia increased by one
pound per head, also that the
Bureau’s sales campaign gained
ground in Asian markets, pos-
sibly even in Red China.
Yet, although Mr R. C.
Webb, Victorian State Presi-
dent of the Graziers’ Associa-
tion, quoted these facts at a
recent Horsham (Vic.) branch
meeting of the Association, the
Bureau’s promotion of wool
was severely criticised.
One critic, Mr Bruce Lang-
lands, saw this important ques-
tion from two viewpoints. He
has for years been a member
of the Graziers’ association,
and he is a managing director
of J. Langlands and Sons, one
of Western Victoria’s biggest
clothing retailers. In spite of
the ten million pounds boost
to local consumption, Mr
Langlands maintained that
much of the Wool Bureau’s
promotion, such as mannequin
parades “showing graziers’
wives what to wear,” was mis-
guided “so much money
down the drain.”
He claimed to have found
in his own family business
proof that, as a representative
of a leading Australian manu-
facturer of synthetics had told
him, Horsham, the centre of
an important wool-growing dis-
trict, is still the best place to
sell synthetics. In fact he
found his own sales staff, appa-
rently won over by skilful pro-
motion, actually pushing syn-
thetics at the expense of wool.
Another critic was grazier
Edgar Zerbst, a former branch
president, who deplored the
present state of the wool indus-
try, in which manufacturers,
wholesalers and retailers made
money out of wool, but the
men who grew it and those
who bought woollen garments
were, like their sheep,
“fleeced.”
He instanced his inability to
buy a wool shirt in Horsham,
around which so much wool is
produced, and his difficulty in
getting one even in Geelong,
one of Australia’s biggest wool
centres.
On the motion of Messrs
Langlands and Zerbst, the
meeting unanimously resolved
that: “The Horsham branch
of the Graziers’ Association
Following the article by
B.C. Jeffries (B. 181lf’6l)
stressing the urgent need
for business-like planning
and more-dynamic promo-
tion of wool—if wool is to
meet the challenge of syn-
thetics —comes this timely
warning from the heart
of a wool-growing district.
press for an intensive cam-
paign in wool promotion
among retailers and staff.”
Another who believes the
wool industry threatened by
the greatly increased sales of
synthetics fostered by lavish
world-wide advertising—Du-
pont Industries are credited
with spending 87 million
pounds on advertising—is Sir
William McDonald, Speaker of
the Victorian Legislative
Assembly.
At a dinner in Hamilton
(Vic.), Sir William stressed the
responsibility of the press to
see that “people think straight
about wool,” with particular
attention to the need for con-
tinued expansion of markets
for wool products. Sir William
felt it was of major national
importance that both wool-
growers and consumers should
be made to realise the need for
such a consumers’ market.
Another Horsham retailer,
Mr R. W. Shepherd, main-
tained that Messrs Langlands
and Zerbst, like the Wool
Bureau they criticised, were
misguided in their approach to
promotion. This, he con-
sidered, should not be ad-
dressed to retailers and their
sales staff, but to the public
which, for the promotion to
achieve best results, must be
convinced that wool, even
though it might be higher
priced, was always the best
buy.
Retailers, said Mr Shepherd,
keep in business by stocking
what their customers want.
They would willingly meet any
greater demand for woollen
fabrics and pass that demand
back through the wholesalers
to the manufacturers. Con-
sumer demand, for instance,
induced him, like other re-
tailers, to carry big stocks of
woollen blankets and all-wool
knitting yarns, though the mar-
gin of profit on these lines was
very small indeed.
Mr Shepherd was confident
wool could hold its present
lion’s share of the clothing
market if properly directed
advertising advocated its
superior wearing qualities, if
prices were comparable to com-
peting fabrics like cotton, now
a more serious rival than syn-
thetics, and if new uses were
found for wool.
If consumer demand were to
be stimulated in this way, Mr
Shepherd might have added,
much wider wool research
would be necessary. Such re-
search would involve consider-
able expenditure but, as Sir
William McDonald told the
press at Hamilton, wool pro-
ducers must be prepared to
pay for this essential research
and for far wider, but more
practically planned, promotion
of all wool products.
WIMRA
A Plan for Territory Agriculture
By TOM RONAN
A mong the books which are
not required reading for
agricultural scientists and
economists is Steele Rudd’s
“On Our Selection.” This is
a pity because underneath the
froth of slapstick comedy it
gives as true a picture of
pioneer farming as anything
ever written in Australia.
Standards and methods of
scratching a living out of a
few acres of dirt are not so
primitive in the present day
Territory as they were in
southern Queensland in Dad
Rudd’s age; however, to a
product of a local or overseas
university or agricultural col-
lege, whose knowledge of com-
mercial farming is restricted to
picked properties in picked
areas, they must seem rela-
tively worse.
Neither his education nor his
experience has taught him that
practically all present day Aus-
tralian farming areas were—
even 50 years back —as under-
capitalised, as unproductive,
and as lacking in amenities and
in apparent room for improve-
ment as the holdings along the
Katherine and the Daly are
today. The expert is, perhaps
unconsciously, prejudiced
against what I have heard one
of them describe as “a hope-
less peasant economy” an£ *


111
With a Tilley Pressure-
Kerosene Domestic Iron
you can press anything,
any time, anywhere.
On your travels or at
home, indoors or out,
4 hours of easy-going,
heat-controlled
ironing on only 1/3
pint of kerosene.
No wires, no flex,
no trouble at all. The Tilley
Portable Iron is a first-class
engineering product
and 100/ British Made.
WM&ILMW
REGD.
TRUST T I LLEY
for lighting and heating
(including, of course, pressing and pleating)
Obtainable from all good hardware stores throughout Australia. In case of difficulty
write for name of your nearest stockist to: —
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
2092 Mount Alexander Road, Essendon, Victoria.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company of
Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlement of claims
Directors :
ALFRED S. WHITE, Esq., Chairman; E. G. CONEN, Esq., T. K. MAGNEY,
Esq., A. G. PARKER, Esq., DOUGLAS WAOLEY, Esq.
H. H. MOULTON, Esq., Managing Director. B. J. LANE, Esq,, Manager.
’Phone: BU 7401. (Branches in all States ) 16/20 Bridge Street, Sydney.
ELECTRIC
HYDRAULIC
LIFTS
ELEVATORS PTY. LIMITED,
877 Dowling Street, Waterloo. FF 3931.
Represented in all States. Telegrams:
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS for Express Lift Co., Ltd.,
Hydelec.
England.
The Guide for the Investor
THE WILD CAT MONTHLY
Price 2/- per single copy . . . 22/6 a year, post free
Subscription Department: Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney
inclines to support the more
grandiose schemes.
The official ideal settler is a
man with plenty of know-how
an d about £20,000 to invest.
He is going to be hard to find.
With those assets he can
settle in much richer and
economically sounder places
than the Territory. Given
assured markets however, the
Territory has scope for the
battler with three or four-
thousand in cash or credit who
is prepared to live tough and
work hard for a few years. In
other words, the modern
equivalent of Dad Rudd.
The farms in the Territory
are small as such things go
elsewhere. On the Katherine
levee there is not much scope
for enlargement. But there is
—given a guaranteed price—
a living to be made off any
holding which can show 150
acres of arable land —provided
that before the price scheme is
initiated a strict pegging of
land values is instituted to pre-
vent someone buying in at an
inflated cost on the strength
of a guaranteed market —as
has been done in the southern
dairying industry and then
finding that his capitalisation
prevents him from making a
lair return on his investment.
If the Government would
give Is. 6d. per lb. to any
farmer for his first 1000 bags
of f.a.q. peanuts, and £3O per
ton for the same amount of
grain sorghum, the set up
would probably be for the
methodical farmer: 50 acres
under peanuts at say 10 bags,
or 6001 b. to the acre —£2500 ;
.50 acres of sorghum cutting
15cwt. to the acre —another
£1100; an acre or two under
irrigated vegetables for Dar-
win market would pull in a few
hundred more and the balance
of the holding could either lie
fallow one year in three or
be put under hay—for which
there is still a limited local
demand.
No farmer can handle more
land or bigger crops single-
handed, and as he cannot com-
pete with the Government and
the mining companies for un-
skilled or semi-skilled white
labor and as cheap aboriginal
labor is as much a thing of
the past as the red shirts and
the blade shears, his activities
are limited by his personal
capacity for work.
finance 100 farmers under
A this scheme would cost
Administration £450,000 per
year. With careful selling tech-
nique two-thirds of this at least
should be recouped. For a
direct subsidy of £150,000 100
permanent productive Terri-
torians—6o per cent, of them
newcomers to the farms if not
to the country—would be able
to function.
An Administration which in
1958-59 spent just under four
million pounds on “Capital
Works and Services,” mainly
Government Offices and
homes and fittings for
those who work in Govern-
ment Offices, even a dead loss
of £150,000 should not be com-
pletely unbearable. The nation
would get more for its money
keeping that hundred battlers
functioning than it is likely
to recover from what has
already been spent to spoon
feed the Rice Project. And it
should not be an expensive
scheme to implement.
There are men in N.T.
Administration and other gov-
ernment services already who
have the competence and the
local experience to organise
such a show and who would
jump at the chance to get their
teeth into something construc-
tive and permanent.
Erosion-Self-help
in Queensland
r ~FHE Gurgeena Plateau, a
A small, isolated tableland
between Gayndah and Mun-
dubbera, lies 1500 ft. above sea-
level and is extremely fertile.
About 10 years ago dairying
was largely displaced there by
cash-cropping, with maize and
peanuts as main crops; and the
change to intensive cultivation
caused soil erosion.
In a body, 13 farmers of the
district decided to prevent
erosion before it took a real
hold. They called a meeting in
March, 1959, invited repre-
sentatives of the Mundubbera
Shire Council and of the State
Agricultural Department’s soil
conservation service to attend,
and formed a soil conservation
group. The problem was dis-
cussed and soil conservation
officers undertook to prepare a
plan. At a second meeting five
months later the plan was con-
sidered and amended, then each
farmer agreed to pay for the
work which benefited him
directly, the Shire Council
promised to build inverts across
its roads where necessary, and
the group prepared to go ahead.
By the end of November,
1960, the farmers had built the
complete network of waterways
—nine miles of waterways on
13 farms—and finished 60 per
cent, of the necessary contour
banking, covering 1044 acres on
11 of the farms.


SPORT
Grand Prix Fewer Hits Australia
"Cor about twenty minutes last
Sunday for the first time
in this country, some 65,000
people at Warwick Farm race-
course, near Sydney, had a
whiff of the sound and smell
of authentic Grand Prix motor
racing—a sport that serves up
with 20th century technology
the primitive thrills of chariot-
racing.
During that twenty minutes
the crowd watched a group of
international drivers, headed by
the best two at the game today,
Stirling Moss and Jack Brab-
ham, in the very latest types
of cars, struggling to pass each
other round the twisting track
at speeds up to 150 m.p.h.
Then heat, mechanical weak-
ness, and the principles of
natural selection came into
play, and Stirling Moss drew
away relentlessly to win, with
only four other cars finishing,
a long way back.
But the crowd had seen
enough to realise what it is that
has made road racing almost
an obsession, among both par-
ticipants and spectators, in
countries as far removed —tem-
peramentally as well as physic-
ally —as Holland and the
Argentine.
In Europe, the home of the
sport, as many as a quarter of
a million people gather at the
large circuits, such as the Nur-
burg Ring in Germany, and
the Sarthe circuit, near Le
Mans, where the 24 Hour Race
is run.
At Le Mans the race is for
“production cars”—that is, cars
which are in actual production
for sale, and not specially built
racing cars. But this does not
mean that the race is not fierce;
many drivers consider the
Grand Prix d’Endurance,
which lasts non-stop from 4
p.m. on Saturday until 4 p.m.
on Sunday, one of the greatest
tests of man and vehicle in the
racing calendar.
The average speed over the
entire 24-hour period is now
well over 100 m.p.h., and
drivers—two to each car —are
forced by the rules to take
four-hour spells. (Ten years
ago a Frenchman, Levegh, led
the race single-handed for 23
hours before his failing powers
of concentration led to a mis-
judgment.)
In Europe, a Grand Prix is
usually held each year in
Britain, France, Germany,
Italy, Belgium, Holland, and
Switzerland. The way the
drivers fare in these, together
with others held in the Ameri-
cas, decides who shall become
world champion. For the last
two years it has been Jack
Brabham.
These titanic clashes of
mechanised charioteers reached
their Homeric peak (or per-
haps it would be more appro-
priate to call them Wagnerian)
just before the last war, when
the motor industries of Ger-
many and Italy were engaged
in a symbolic struggle for
supremacy and prestige. Then,
Auto-Union and Mercedes kept
building bigger and bigger cars
for Lang and Rosemeyer and
to challenge the miraculous
Alfa-Romeos, driven by Nuvo-
lari and Caracciola. Engines
grew, under lax racing specifi-
cations, based on weight alone,
until the Germans had power
outputs of nearly 600 brake
horsepower, and had to build
the Avus track near Berlin to
accommodate them.
This track consisted of two
parallel concrete roads joined
at the ends by steeply banked
loops. The Italians took up the
challenge with their rather old-
fashioned cars, and in one of
the most terrifying (and still
one of the fastest) races on
record, beat the Germans at
Avus at a race speed well in
excess of 150 m.p.h.
The war ended that era of
racing altogether. The austerity
years of the post-war recovery
forced those interested in road-
racing—and there were still
many in every European coun-
try —to use ingenuity in place
of power. For one thing, there
were no longer unlimited
official resources that could be
called upon in a good propa-
ganda cause.
The most significant develop-
ment in post-war road-racing
was the emergence of the small
car (and the small car-builder).
This meant that many more
people than ever before could
enjoy racing as participants,
while technical advances have
raised performancees to the
point where only one lap record
set by the pre-war juggernauts
remains unbroken, by cars with
engines less than one-quarter
the size.
T>ut the first period of post-
" war racing was similar, in
many ways, to the pre-war
struggle between factories. The
fight for supremacy, under the
new restrictions on engine
capacity, was carried out by
factory teams of Alfa-Romeos,
Maseratis, and Ferraris from
Italy; Talbots and Gordinis
from France; E.R.As. and
B.R.Ms. from Britain, and
Mercedes from Germany.
As speeds crept higher the
race organisers kept lowering
the size of the engines, until
the present situation was
reached, where the fastest rac-
ing cars have engines of no
more than 2\ litres capacity
(less than the average family
saloon), and yet are capable of
sustained speeds in the 180-
m.p.h. range, with blazing
acceleration and unbelievable
road-holding.
There is today very little
difference in performance be-
tween cars like the Cooper, the
Lotus, the Maserati and
B.R.M. Many of them use
engines bought from the same
manufacturer and tuned to
individual specifications. Th e
cars themselves are generally
made by small but dedicated
car-building firms, not huge
combines with bottomless
purses. And yet motor racing
has become even more popular
in the countries where it is tra-
ditional, and is making new
fans in countries like Aus-
tralia.
The chief reason for this is
a completely new generation of
racing drivers, personified by
Stirling Moss and Jack Brab-
ham. Although professionals,
in the sense that they make
their living out of driving, they
are very different from the
hardened “pilots” engaged by
Auto-Union and Alfa-Romeo
before the war to race for
money.
These young men who per-
formed at Warwick Farm last
Sunday race for other reasons.
Too young to have been in the
war, they (and the people who
go to watch them) seem to
want to make up for the
excitements they missed.
Bertrand Russell has another
explanation, which he put for-
ward in a series of lectures on
the 8.8. C. some years ago.
Russell was talking about
“Social Cohesion and Human
Nature,” and had probably
never been near enough to a
motor race to hear a tyre
squeal. He argued, however,
that the elimination of all
danger from life does not make
for human happiness.
Modern man, said Russell,
subconsciously seeks a substi-
tute for blood revenge as prac-
tised in primitive times, and
suffers deeply from the lack of
danger, adventure and contest
that is compatible with modern
existence. Such repressions,
said Russell, are not easily dis-
pelled unless the individual can
enjoy an element of danger
and an innocent outlet for bis
competitive instinct —even if d
entails only watching some


CARRY THE
BURDEN
Established 1808 in Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen
many Battles, including
the Battle of Waterloo,
and has emerged from
them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT
MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
(England)
N.S.W. Branch:
Kindersley House,
Bligh O’Connell Sts., Sydney
Chief Office for Australia:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Se.,
Headmaster.
Start the weekend
well with
Weekend
★
1/- from
your newsagent
other person risking his life ia
gladiatorial combat.
Stirling Moss entered motor
racing in 1948, at a time when
it was just starting again in
Europe after the war. The first
of the modern 500 c.c. cars
(the most famous being the
Cooper, built by a father-and-
son team in a small garage
near London) were coming out
then. All these cars were so
alike in performance, hand-
ling and reliability (or as it
was then, unreliability), that
Moss was forced to develop
unusual driving skills to beat
his rivals.
As a result, Moss is ack-
nowledged as having few
equals in judgment, skill in
handling a car and physical
fitness. (At Warwick Farm
Moss was comparatively fresh
at the end of the H-hour
ordeal in shade temperatures
just on the hundred, which
many drivers, including Jack
Brabham, just could not take.)
At 31, Moss is undoubtedly
the most versatile driver alive
today. He has driven, and still
drives, all kinds of cars in all
kinds of races, from Grands
Prix to cross-country trials in
the mud. He has won practi-
cally every race there is, at
different times, but has yet to
win enough of the key races in
the same year to become world
champion.
Moss’s cornering techniques
are so highly developed—he
seems to sense almost by in-
stinct the point at which his
car’s adhesion with the road is
about to disappear irrevocably
—that most drivers today
would concede that he is a
second faster per lap, on any
track, than any other driver,
including Brabham.
Moss does not claim that
himself. He says that the real
difference between the top
group of drivers and the rest
is a matter of mental and
physical stamina.
“There is practically no dif-
ference between the best cars
or drivers,” says Moss. “To
win you have to be able, how-
ever, to go on lapping, in any
conditions of heat, rain or
other discomfort, as fast as you
began, and to go on doing it for
three hours without an instant’s
relaxation of concentration.”
Jack Brabham is older than
Moss, and of a different type.
Moss is small, mercurial, im-
patient. Brabham is calm, re-
laxed and has been racing only
a few years. But he is a re-
markably good driver, and by
confining his efforts to the
major events has had a spec-
tacular run. He has also had
good luck.
Moss, of course, has had a
mixed bag of luck—bad, in
having a number of serious
crashes through mechanical
failures in his car, and good,
in that he was not killed, as
were many of his contempor-
aries, like Peter Collins, Lance
Macklin and Mike Hawthorn.
Moss has had wheels come off
at 170 m.p.h., brakes fail at
similar speeds, and even had his
steering go dead halfway round
the fastest bend on the Monza
track near Milan.
TJe has also, of course, made a
lot of money out of the
sport. A professional road-rac-
ing driver today can race all
year round, with summers in
Europe and the U.S., and off-
seasons in the southern hemi-
sphere. He is paid first by the
owner of the car he drives, who
might be an individual enthusi-
ast like Robb Walker, whose
Lotus Moss drove at Warwick
Farm, or a racing company,
like Cooper.
Then, and perhaps more
rewardingly, a driver is paid
appearance money by the
organisers of race meetings.
The Australian Automobile
Racing Company must have
paid a lot to get Moss and
Brabham, Dan Gurney, the
American, and three British
drivers of top class to come to
Warwick Farm. But the takings
at such a meeting could run to
£lOO,OOO.
Finally, a leading driver is
paid large retainers and win-
ning bonuses by interested
manufacturers of the pro-
ducts he uses —fuel, oil, tyres,
spark-plugs, etc.
An intriguing feature of this
coming season’s racing in
Europe and the U.S. will be
the renewal of the rivalry be-
tween Moss and Brabham (who
are, incidentally, good friends,
as are most men in this danger-
ous fraternity). Given freedom
from mechanical troubles,
which are hardly surprising
considering the stresses in-
volved in anything up to 20 or
30 full-throttle gear-changes,
accelerations, and fierce brak-
ings per lap in a 300-mile,
three-hour Grand Prix, these
two should stage one of the
closest personal duels since the
great days of Lang and Nuvo-
lari, and of Fangio and Ascari.
'tu • f . u . .
)" tereSt *°™ ■»
“' h " g , ?
mean that very soon, tf no this
C T ds here , wll > see
T* e f uq -scale spectacle of a
ra ” d r Pnx counting towards
tde d . Championship—the
of cars ’ with their
squad f of mecha mcs and per-
Pf tuall y worried team manager;
. e strate § ems of team practis-
in®’. g°od times must be
icgisteied to obtain favored
positions on the starting grid,
but without disclosing poten-
tialities to the rivals; the
frantic and marvellously or-
ganised work in the pits during
a 300-mile race, when a car can
have four tyres changed, the
driver refreshed, and a large
tankful of fuel replenished, all
within 30 seconds,
The £ rst prerequisite, how-
ev is a suitab|e track . War .
wick Farm is entertain i ngj but
too short and
narrow a circuit
for serious Grand Prix racing.
Th same |ies other
cuits used f n F Australia-with,
according to Moss, one notable
exception: Albert Park, in the
centre o( Melbourne . He con .
sidered this one o( the half .
dozen best , racks he has raced
and regretted its short life
Here, as in some other
spheres of Australian life, it
seems to be a question of a
change of attitude on the part
of authority, to permit the use
of suitable public roads, closed
a few times a year, for road
racing.
If Monaco can permit the
centre of the town and its main
boulevards to be used for its
exciting annual Grand Prix,
why can’t Melbourne? A whiff
of methanol and the howl of
exhausts might be just what the
Moomba Festival needs.


Chance to Attract New Owners and Capital
By JOHN SCHOFIELD
Racing should very seriously consider a scheme evolved
by a group of racing men for attracting new owners
into the sport.
The proposition is so close to common practice that
only simple changes in the rules of racing are needed to
incorporate it.
The suggestion is that companies should be allowed
to race horses ; in other words, that the A.J.C. should
make it possible for a man or a group of men to make
racing part of their business ventures so that accounts,
whether on the credit or debit side, may be entered in a
company’s books.
Many companies now own racehorses in the legal
sense, but lease them to individuals who become the
owners under racing rules.
The late Mr F. W. Hughes had a wide range of
interests controlled by F. W. Hughes Pty, Ltd. Among
them was Kooba Stud, which at one time owned more
mares and stallions than any thoroughbred stud in the
world. Mr Hughes raced many horses, all of them leased
from the company. Other studmasters in Australia adopt
the same practice, either leasing horses to themselves or
leasing them to other people.
At present racing rules prevent more than six people
combining to own and race a horse. All the owners are
regarded as accepting equal responsibility for observing the
rules.
A group so formed “races for pleasure” in the eyes
of the Taxation Department. It could not, under present
rules, form a company acceptable to taxation laws and
write-off capital losses and racing expenses against stake
winnings.
Sponsors of the new idea say that new owners and
increased capital would be brought into the sport if the
rules were changed to include companies.
There is a grand opportunity for racing to capitalise
on an imminent surge in prosperity. Victoria will have
its off-course totalisator betting in operation next month.
Clubs are confident of gaining increased revenue from
this, which will mean increased prize-money.
Sponsored races have become established. The A.J.C.
autumn carnival at Easter carries sponsorship for two
£lO,OOO races, announced in this column earlier —the
Daily Telegraph Doncaster Handicap and the Sunday
Telegraph Invitation Stakes. Tapping revenue from the vast
illegal betting turnover in N.S.W. is bound to come, and
with it further increased stakes for Sydney’s racing.
Thus there are sound prospects of a racing venture
paying its way through stake-money without any betting
considerations at all. Such a proposition might appeal
to many who would not be interested in a venture which
depended on betting for any chance of success.
TVTylon shoes and tips got away to a mixed start at
Randwick on Saturday. Several trainers tried them,
and two winners, Hurry Do and Constella, won wearing
them.
However, two of the plates worn by Constella spread
badly, and her trainer, M. McCarten, refused to use the
nylons on any more of his horses.
Nylons are only a fraction of the weight of aluminium
shoes, and trainers welcomed them. But it now looks as
though there will be more experimenting before they are
generally accepted.
IX/'hen a bay colt was born at Northwood Park Stud at
Seymour (Vic.) just over six years ago he was
regarded with great interest. His sire was Hellespont (imp.)
and his dam Ena, a game racing mare in her day.
It was pounds to pence on a horse of that breeding
becoming a winner—and it proved so, but not until last
week at Canterbury Park, where the horse, Grecian Bay,
won a maiden handicap.
Grecian Bay won the judge’s decision by a half-head
in a photo finish. Then he had to win the decision of the
stipendiary stewards. A protest was lodged by the rider
of the second horse, Silver River, and it was some time
before the stewards dismissed it.
jockey Brian Smith has started attending
race meetings again, but he is still not fully recovered
from the fall at Geelong in October, 1959, which left him
unconscious in hospital for two months and in bed for
four months.
Smith was one of the best riders of jumpers racing
has seen. Horses went well for him and seldom made
mistakes in jumping.
In 1956 Smith won three jumping races at Flemington
—the Grand National steeple on Redfield and others on
Tweedum and Hay Harvest. Adam Lindsay Gordon was
the only other man to have done that.
'\7ictoria is preparing for off-course totalisator betting
* in March, and the V.R.C. is seeing to it that the new
vogue gets away to a good start.
The V.R.C. controls the allocation of racing days
to the various clubs and associations, and has let it be
known that the pick of the days will go to the clubs which
provide the best appointments.
It has been suggested to all clubs that they make
starting uniform by installing starting gates. The V.R.C.
will arrange for more stipendiary stewards to control the
racing.
Off-course totalisator betting is a costly experiment,
but the racing clubs believe that, without doubt, it will pay
dividends.
If the revenue comes up to anything like expectations
stakes in Melbourne will outbid those of other States and
should entice the pick of the horses.
, T'he English horse Decoy came here with the reputation
of a multi-star rocket but raced like a damp squib.
Owner Malcolm Rich and followers of T. J. Smith’s stables
must have lost very heavily over several runs when Decoy,
on track work, was expected to win easily.
Decoy is now in Johnny Page’s stables, together with
the promising Star Kingdom two-year-old First Flight.
Probability is that Decoy will be trained as a stayer,
and no further attempt will be made to win short races
with him. Decoy, therefore, may be a different proposition
next time he is ready for racing.
Page is one of the younger trainers. He is a grandson
of the late Bert Bellingham, who began training in the
Newcastle district and came to Sydney, where he was
acknowledged one of the most capable and astute men
of the profession. Page “helped out” at the stables from
the time when he could struggle round the yard with a
feed-tin. For certain grandfather passed on all his know-
ledge to his grandson.


Business, Robbery, Etc.
Mytton's, Ltd.
Offering at 17s. 3d., the ss.
shares in Mytton’s, Ltd.,
of Melbourne, give an immedi-
ate yield of only 3.4 p.c. But
it is a business the progress of
which has been solid rather
than ostentatious, and it has a
keen following among percep-
tive investors. Earnmgs-yield
to market-price is 7.3 p.c.
The takeover of Rodd (Aus-
tralia), Ltd., has now been com-
pleted. This concern makes
patterned cutlery, jewellery,
silverware, etc.
Mytton's is entrenched in
the stainless-steel and E.P.N.S.
business. It manufactures cut-
lery —Grosvenor, Astor, Aii-
brite and (under licence from
the U.S.) Community—stain-
less-steel sinks, laundry-troughs,
hand - basins, vats, pressure-
vessels, fermenters, sterilisers,
piping, bulk milk-tanks, beer
and other barrels and casks,
and pressings of stainless-steel
baths, basins and shower-trays.
The baths, etc., are marketed
through Metters.
Altogether, it is a big busi-
ness. Its foundations were laid
by R. H. Mytton and E. G.
Redmond in 1921. A public
co. was formed in August.
1936, with a paid capital of
£90,000. It moved to £133,700
by June 30, 1940, to £150,000
in 1945, £175,000 in 1950,
£400.000 in 1954, £525,000 in
1955, £625 000 in 1957, and
£750,000 in 1958. Of the total,
£25,000 is in 64 p.c. prefs. and
£725,000 in ss. ords.
Of the £725,000 of ord. capi-
tal, £350,000 is represented by
bonus shares. There was a
bonus-issue of one - for - four
(£100,000) as recently as 1956,
and a further issue in the same
ratio (but calling for £125,000)
in 1957.
During World War II
Mytton's developed its own
rolling-mill, as a major enter-
prise. But its main business
remains the cutlery and s.-s.
products beforementioned.
In the initial six months of
the first (1936-37) trading-year
a lO p.c. div. was paid. This
rate was continued until 1948,
when it was raised to 12 p.c.
Notwithstanding the subse-
quent bonus-issues, the div.
has kept steady at that level
since, and at present is well
covered.
Apart from considerable ex-
pansion on the cutlery side,
recently Mytton’s has had big
orders from Tooheys, the Syd-
ney brewers, for s.-s. tanks,
vats and fermenters at their
new Auburn factory, and Fire-
stone beer-barrels.
Profit - earning has been
visibly expanding over the last
four years. It would also
appear, from taxation pro-
visions, that what the co. shows
as profit in the annual accounts
is less than the figure assessed
by the Taxation Department.
In 1958-59 tax provision of
£122,000 was shown against
disclosed profit of £159,608.
For 1959-60 tax provision was
£130,000, against profit shown
at £142,396 after providing
£lO,OOO special depreciation
and £34,500 cost of transfer of
a mill.
In the following table these
tw o non-recurring items are in-
cluded in the profit and then
charged separately to re-
serves :
Re- Re-
Jne., Profit. Pref. Ord. serves, serves.*
6Jp.c. 12p.c.
£ £ £ £ £
’56..125,090 1625 60,000 63,465 390,109
Assets revalued, £221,250. . 611,359
Res. capitalised, £lOO,OOO 511,359
’57..128,398 1625 72,000 54,773 566,132
Res. capitalised, £120,000.. 446,132
Profit sale of assets, £608.. 446,740
Tax overprovided, £12,754.. 459,494
’58..148,087 1625 79,500 66,962 526,456
Assets revalued, £39,067 .. 565,523
’59..159,608 1625 87,000 70,983 636,506
’607.186,896 1625 87,000 98,271 734,777
Special provisions, £44,500. . 690,277
* Subject to intangibles, £25,747.
The tax provision of £130,000,
at Bs. in the £, would be applic-
able to a profit, after tax, of
£195,000, so the figure shown
in the table appears to be still
on the conservative side in the
eyes of the tax-computers.
Last year’s bigger earnings
were the result of higher turn-
over recorded in the face of re-
location of some of the plant
as well as intense competition
in certain lines and the higher
wages which became general
throughout the Commonwealth
during the year.
As shown in the foregoing
table, net earnings were equal
to 25.5 p.c. on ord. capital,
compared with 21.7 p.c. in the
preceding year. The 12 p.c.
dividend was covered more
than twice over last term.
During the current term there
is likely to be increased com-
petition from imports, but the
co.’s relocated and modernised
equipment should be a distinct
aid to production and costs-
reduction. It also has strong
lines of distribution through
Gollin’s in N.S.W., S.A. and
Queensland, E. S. Lazarus
(W.A.), and William Crosby
(Tas.). Mytton’s, in its par-
ticular lines, would appear to
be the strongest co. of its type
in the Commonwealth, especi-
ally since the takeover of
Redd’s, though in baths and
sinks it is now up against John
Mcllwraith Industries.
Some big changes have been
going on in factory premises
and plant, both at the old
address at York Street, South
Melbourne, and the new lease-
hold set-up at Fishermen’s
Bend, where the non-ferrous
mill and foundry are to operate.
The Fishermen’s Bend property
is Crown leasehold acquired
in 1948, and to June 30 last
expenditure on it had been
£228,461. Another £160,000 is
being spent during the current
term.
To finance this capital-outlay
the co. has ample funds in
hand. These included £322,000
of note-money at June 30 last,
as well as £4OOO in listed shares
and £26,008 in unlisted securi-
ties :
1959. 1960.
Pref. capital .. £2.5,000 £25,000
Ord. capital . . 725,000 725,000
Reserves .. 636,506 690,277
Creditors . . 317,706 522,785
Tax provision.. 124,073 143,538
Final div. . . 44,313 44,313
£1,872,598 £2,150,913
Freeholds . . 349,759 359,505
Leaseholds . . 157,756 189,294
Plant . . 403,892 395,231
Notes and shares 401,008 352,008
Stock and work-
in-progress . . 231,392 426,777
Debtors . . 290,577 393,817
Cash, etc. . . 12,467 8,534
Goodwill .. 25,747 25,747
£1,872,598 £2,150,913
The growth in stocks, debtors
and creditors last year are all
in keeping with the increased
turnover. The net value of
plant dropped during the year,
notwithstanding the general
growth of the undertaking.
Ordinary depreciation written-
off was £85,656 (mostly in
respect of plant), and there
was, in addition, an allocation
of £lO,OOO for “special depre-
ciation/’
Net tangible backing for
Mytton’s ss. units amounts to
9s. 7d. on book-values. There
has been some revaluation of
plant and other assets to
finance recent bonus-issues, but,
notwithstanding this, working
assets appear to be in the books
at a conservative valuation, and
for a number of years past the
business, though expanding at
a considerable pace, has been
self-financing. That is usually
a sign of a good one.
Oil Search in N.G.
T*/Tthdrawal of British
Petroleum and Vacuum Oil
from partnership with Oil
Search, Ltd., in Papuan oil-
prospecting occurs in a different
atmosphere from that which
followed the proposed aban-
donment of the search in
October, 1958.
The two overseas cos. had
then been considering whether
they should withdraw from
Papua and hand-over a 41} p.c.
interest to a new Australian co.,
to be called Papuan Oil Search,
Ltd. An oil-strike at Puri in
November changed their minds,
but they still allowed Oil
Search, Ltd., to increase its
equity from 10 p.c. to 15 p.c.
To finance this, Oil Search
made a four-for-five issue


*
Vv„ ~
if
m i
■0
'■<■>■:
A happier choice for every occasion
WINE
Fine wine adds pleasure to living . . . and you 11
find no happier choice than Angove's Wine of mature
perfection. Angove’s FINO DRY SHERRY, superbly
dry and appetising, is an excellent introduction to the
distinctive range of Angove’s TABLE WINES . . . each
the result of care and skill in wine making, combined
with the rich soil and sunshine of South Australia’s
glorious Murray Valley.
You will enjoy An gore's Wine
APERITIF, TABLE AND DESSERT WINE OF HIGHEST
QUALITY: SHERRY, VERMOUTH, BURGUNDY, CLARET.
HOCK, RIESLING, SAUTERNES, PORT, MUSCAT
and ST. AGNES BRANDY of course I
ANGOVE’S LTD., RENMARK, S.A.
WINE MAKERS & DISTILLERS
mm ST. AGNES BRANDY
which lifted its paid capital to
£6.3 million in over 25-million
ss. shares.
A former senior geologist
for Australasian Petroleum, the
jointly controlled drilling sub-
sidiary, said at the time: “I
persist in claiming that Puri is
an oilfield, and that it is bigger
than anyone yet realises.”
Elowever, after an oil-flow in
excess of 1000 barrels a day
for two days (following acidis-
ing) in the Puri well between
7472 ft and 7510 ft, water came
into the hole. Puri 1 ceased
drilling in cretaceous shale at
10,100 ft without having found
any formations sufficiently
porous or permeable to be
considered as reservoir-beds.
Deviated holes were put down
at some distance from the
original hole but only small
flows of gas. oil and water were
encountered.
The Bwata well, located 15
miles to the north-west of Puri,
gave only small gas-shows and
water-shows.
Before the Puri well was
abandoned, there was sufficient
interest in the hole to keep
excitement going and for the
big Oil Search issue to be fully
subscribed.
At present its ss. shares are
down to 2s. 3d. in the market.
Put the company has over
£1 million in hand, and though
this is not much in terms of
drilling costs, it does give it the
chance to go ahead with
prospecting in some form or
other.
A new agreement with the
old partners, B.P. and Vacuum
Oil, will give Oil Search major
control of Australasian Petro-
leum Co. Pty., Ltd., and “will
enable it to furnish the tech-
nical services previously coming
from British Petroleum.”
Z-z-z-z !
Directors of Queensland
Brewery, Ltd., are recom-
mending the takeover offer
made by Carlton and United
Breweries, Ltd., of Melbourne.
The terms of the offer are one
fully-paid Z share of £1 in
C.U.B. for every four ss. ord.
shares in Queensland Brewery,
and one fully-paid Z share for
each eight 51 p.c. Q.B. ss. prefs.
The offer, though acceptable
to the directors, has created
quite a bit of buzz among
shareholders. The Z shares
carry no voting rights and do
not share in surplus assets,
though they rank equally with
the ords. for dividends.
The Z shares are not listed
on ’Change, though there have
been unofficial dealings in Mel-
bourne at 565.
This would make the offer
for Queensland ss. ords. worth
about 145., against recent
quotations of 10s.
The Z shares give Queens-
land shareholders colonial
status against the sovereign
rights of Melbourne's Carlton,
Melbourne Co - op., Foster,
Castlemaine and Shamrock
shareholders.
Carlton and United, through
its North Australian Brewery
at Cairns and through tradi-
tional connections going back
to earlier days of Foster's
Lager and Victoria Bitter,
already dominates the N.Q.
beer trade, and with the take-
over of Q.B. it will become a
bigger force than Castlemaine
Perkins, Ltd., up till now the
largest brewer in Queensland.
On current dividend rates,
the income of Q.B. shareholders
would be lifted 50 p.c. by the
takeover, but there is still the
restriction on participation in
surplus assets in the event of
a winding-up. This restriction
did not prevent participation by
Z-shareholders in a bonus-issue
made from assets-revaluation in
1957-58.
Towards the end of 1959, in
London, the progressive Weston
empire, n o w titled British
Associated Foods, Ltd., decided
that its B-class shareholders
should be given equal voting-
rights with the A-class ords.,
and without quibble the opera-
tion was carried out.
Carlton and United would
be wise to have a look at its
whole capital set-up and en-
deavor to eliminate its pre-
historic holding-cos. despite
their pockets of non-combine
assets. It is a long time since
1893, and also from 1907,
when C.U.B. was formed to
strengthen the position of
several Melbourne breweries.
O.D.E.
ZAil Drilling and Explora-
contractor for the drilling at
Tara in Queensland and Po>t
Campbell in Victoria, appears
to be enjoying the best financial
year in its history.
Its two biggest (of three)
drilling rigs have been profit-
ably employed on these pro-
jects, and the general situation
indicates that much more work
is in sight.
A maiden interim dividend
of 3d. per 4s. 9d. stock-unit is
to be paid for the half-year to
December 31.
The market has overlooked
the effect on O.D.E. of a pos-
sible commercial gas discovery
at Cabawin No. 1 in Queens-
land. Naturally, there has
been great interest in Austra-
lian Oil and Gas, which has a
20 p.c. net-profits agreement
with the operator, Union Oil
Development Corporation. But
O.D.E. would undoubtedly be
called upon to carry out a pro-
gramme of development-drill-
ing which would require at
least one more big drilling-rig.
Finance is readily available
from cash and investments for
such a rig, and return on capital
employed would be much
greater with a second big rig
operating in Queensland.
Even if no commercial
discovery results at Cabawin
No. I, the showing was of
such great significance that
additional drilling must be
scheduled which can only
benefit O.D.E.
In Port Campbell, Frome is
now starting its third well with
O.D.E. as contractor. Despite
the fact that the second well
was dry, Frome apparently
feels that it is only a question
of time before something
commercial is found. Although
the Port Campbell area
momentarily appears in ore
speculative for an oil-discovery,
its chances are probably as
good as those at Cabawin.
With O.D.E. solidly operating
an efficient business which will
benefit greatly from oil-dis-
covery and which will maintain
high earnings merely from con-
tinuing oil-search, it appears
that the shares are a specula-
tion with better than average
possibilities.
Sulphates, Ltd.
A lthough it is engaged in a
key industry and turnover
appears to be increasing each
year, Sulphates, Ltd., of Mel-
bourne, has not made, profit-
wise, the progress one would
have expected during the past
five nationally expansive years.
One reason has been the
rising level of costs generally.
Another has been the dis-
advantage when selling (°
distant inter-State markets —in


assaagaasaagg
<&
NOTICE
B'' ' JL '
°
m
PER ANNUM
SYIARS
Z
2
PER ANNUM
10 YEARS
PER ANNUM
Registered Office:
321-5 Chapel Rd., Banks-
town. UY4035.
ANY BRANCH OF AUS-
TRALIA & NEW ZEALAND
BANK LTD.
ANY MEMBER OF A
RECOGNISED STOCK EX-
CHANGE.
REGISTERED FIRST
DEBENTURE STOCK
• SHORT TERM
12 mths. notice 8% P.A.
6 mths. notice 7% P.A.
3 mths. notice 5i% P.A,
Investments in short term are for
an indefinite period.
Repayment is obtained by giving
the notice selected on the applic-
ation form.
• LONG TERM
10 to 20 yrs 8% P.A.
sto9 y rs Bi% P.A.
4 y rs 8% P.A.
ASSETS EXCEED £20,000,000
INTEREST PAID QUARTERLY
Trustees for
Debenture Stockholders
THE M.L.C. NOMINEES PTY. LTD.
The Applications will be accepted
only on printed form attached to
the Prospectus.
WHERE TO INVEST
Invest at any H. G. Palmer show-
room in N.S.W., Victoria, Queens-
land, South Australia and A.C.T.
• UNDERWRITING BROKERS
N.S.W.: Bernard Curran & Co., 27
Hunter Street, Sydney.
VIC.: Vinton Smith, Dougall & Co.,
401 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q'LAND: Ernest H. Corser, Hender-
son & Hale, 334 Queen Street,
Brisbane.
S. AUST.: Woodhead, Needham &
Tolhurst, 35 Grenfell Street,
Adelaide.
TAS.: H. W. Bayley & Co., A.M.P.
Chambers, Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
W. AUST.: Geo. H. Newton, Fuller
& Co., 105 St. George's Terrace,
Perth.
POST THIS COUPON TODAY!
To: H. G. Palmer (Consolidated) Ltd.,
321-5 Chapel Rd., Bankstown, N.S.W.
Please send copy of Prospectus to:
Name
Address bi/2
relation to bulk and selling-
prices, freight-rates are high
an d local competition is at a
distinct advantage.
After reaching a peak in the
1956- term, there was a set-
back in Sulphates’ profits in
1957- and there has been
only partial recovery since.
The basic operations of the
group are represented by the
mining of chemical - grade
bauxite in the Morwell-Mirboo
areas of Gippsland (Vic.) and
the manufacture of sulphates
and alums, as well as the con-
struction of water-purification
plants, sewage - treatment
equipment and swimming-
pools.
Various filtration and purifi-
cation products are also
turned - out. The group’s
patented processes for the pro-
duction of filter-alum, paper-
making alum and all grades of
aluminium-sulphate have been
kept busy as water-purification
plants are installed both pub-
licly and privately, the Aus-
tralian paper-making industry
expands and general industrial
activity spreads.
Manufacture is carried out,
under licence, of Rex Chain
Belt equipment in Australia, as
well as products of the Pacific
Flush Tank Co. of Chicago.
The group can supply a com-
plete range of sewage-treat-
ment and effluent-treatment
equipment.
After allowing £2330 less
for depreciation (£22,279),
£3676 more for taxation
(£30,800) and £5040 (against
£BOS the previous year) for
long-service leave, net profit
shown for 1959-60 was £4OO
lower at £45.057:
Consolidated Figures.
To Re- Re-.
Jnc-.,Profit. Prcf. Ord. serves, serves.*
54 p.c. 9 p.c.
£ £ £ £ £
’58..40,527 5500 21,038 13,989 207,062
'59..45,457 5500 26,286 13,671 220,733
’60..45,057 5500 31,534 8,023 228,756
‘Subject to intangibles (£54,765 at
30/6/’GO).
Because of the increased ord.
capital, the rate of earnings to
average ord. capital employed
fell to 11.3 p.c., compared with
13.7 p.c. the previous year.
The ord. div. remained at 9
p.c. for the fifth successive
year.
Ord. capital moved from
£233,750 to £350,375 during
1958- following the exercise
of options of conversion over
£116,875 of 6 p.c. unsecured
notes in 1953.
The last substantial upward
move in fixed assets was in
the 1956-57 term. Since then
depreciation written-off has
kept the investment in land,
buildings and plant at an
almost even figure. But in-
creased turnover has lately
called for more working-
capital :
Consolidated Figures.
D , 1959. 19(30.
Pref. capital . . £IOO,OOO £IOO,OOO
Ord. capital .. 350,375 350,375
Reserves . . . . 220,733 228,756
Outside interests .. 2 2
Term liabilities .. 127,823 94,000
Other liabilities .. 127,536 174,353
£926,469 £947,456
Freeholds, plant pat-
terns, etc. . . 527,400 529,080
Stock, work-in-pro-
gress • .. 161,721 199,994
Debtors .. . . 75,932 79,934
Deposits on contracts 15,572 20,886
Cash, bonds, etc. . . 82,867 62,827
Intangibles . . 62,977 54,765
£926,409 £947,486
A mortgage loan of £IOO,OOO
raised during 1957 and 1958
seems to have been responsible
for the accumulation of
£60,000 of Government bonds
and short - term deposits,
unlikely to be earning their
keep. However, in present
economic circumstances this
available liquidity must be a
comfort in the boardroom.
Reserves of £228,756 are
partly offset by £54,765 of
intangibles, more than half of
which is represented by ore-
development and investigations
and research expenditure.
But freeholds in 1959 were
in the books at £149,000 less
than a recent valuation.
The Sulphates group had its
beginnings in 1918, when it
started to supply aluminium-
sulphate to the forebears of
Australian Paper Manufac-
turers, Ltd. In 1922 Sulphates
Pty., Ltd., was incorporated, a
chemical-works was set-up
alongside the Mt Lyell acid-
works at Yarraville, bauxite
leases were acquired in Vic-
toria, and others later in
N.S.W. and Queensland. In
1931 a controlling-interest in
Alunite (Aus.) Pty. was bought,
and with it control of alunite
deposits at Alum Mountain in
N.S.W.
Filtration and Water Soften-
ing Pty., the chemical-engineer-
ing subsidiary, since its for-
mation in 1926 has carried out
major water-filtration projects.
Demand for its products and
services continue to grow with
the present popularity of pri-
vate swimming - pools and
growth in the paper-making
industry.
The expansion which took
place in the Sulphates group
four or five years ago has not
yet paid increased dividends to
shareholders. But it is an
interesting industrial enter-
prise, seemingly well conducted
technically. The market
for the group’s products con-
tinues to expand with the
setting-up of new factories
requiring filtration equipment
of all kinds.
The £1 ords. at 255. yield
7.1 p.c.


This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of: —
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in: —
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY, LTD.
(A member of Commercial Union Australia Group)
ESTABLISHED m 2.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agent 3 in all Principal Country Towns.
F. S. tVA 7 SOA', Mnnurjrr.
New Zealand New Year
A ccording to the president
of the Federation of Labor,
Mr F. P. Walsh, New Zealand
is in the most serious balance-
of-payments crisis since 1939.
N.Z. shopkeepers had experi-
enced a bumper Christmas, he
said, but theirs would be a short
honeymoon with prosperity. It
was based on inflationary
spending induced by Reserve
Bank credit and record bank-
overdraft.
[Net overseas assets of the
New Zealand banking system
stood at £60.3 million on Janu-
ary 4, 1961, against £84.4
million a year before and £56
million two years before.
In the week to January 4
assets fell by £5.7 million. In
the corresponding week last
year they fell by £4.5 million.]
“The situation so far as our
dairy-produce exports are con-
cerned is most critical,” said
Mr Walsh, himself a big dairy-
farmer.
“U nd e r the dairy - price
system, farmers get a guaran-
teed return of 3155. a cwt for
butter, but at present it is sell-
ing overseas for 280 s. On the
most recent market reports
there is every indication that
there will be a further serious
fall in butter prices.
“The prices for wool to date
this season are down by 10 per
cent. Every penny-a-pound
fall represents £2,500,000 drop
in our overseas income.”
Holyoake More Cheerful
The Prime Minister, Mr
Holyoake, takes a calmer view
of the situation.
“In seeking to remedy econo-
mic ills the Government desires
to avoid, at all costs, the
crash-programme tactics of the
Labor Government in 1958,”
he said, in answer to Mr Walsh.
Mr Walsh should realise that,
under the Labor Government
he supported, demand became
excessive in relation to goods
available. The chief cause of
this was the Government spend-
ing more than it received from
taxation and borrowing, and
financing the deficit by Reserve
Bank credit, which, of course,
was deliberate inflation and
particularly damaging to the
wage-earners.
As a result, the Government
faced a deficit in the Public
Accounts of some £25 million,
while an expansion of over £2O
million had occurred in trading-
bank advances to private firms
and individuals. All this had
given a mirage effect of increas-
ing national income when, in
fact, only moderate increases
had been made in real output
of goods and services.
The Government, however,
was well aware of all these and
other factors and would deal
with them in a way to minimise
as far as possible the disrup-
tive effects in the economy.
Mr Holyoake had earlier
stated that the Government
would raise an internal loan in
the near future ; would review
Government expenditure to
keep it down to an efficient and
reasonable minimum; and
would keep a close watch on
bank advances.
Two Great Needs
N.Z. has two great needs -
manpower and development-
capital. This view was ex-
pressed by Mr Holyoake in his
New Year message.
“Our natural population-
increase is substantial, impos-
ing an almost embarrassing
load on our education and
other services,” he said.
“But it still does not provide
enough human brains and
hands to realise our full devel-
opment potential. The Gov-
ernment is accordingly investi-
gating the availability of suit-
able immigrants, bearing in
mind the importance of settling
and assimilating them without
disturbing the economy.
“The need for development
capital is also under close
attention, with due regard to
the best use of our domestic
resources, as well as the avail-
ability of investment funds
from overseas.
“Our approach to economic
problems will be based on the
belief that a faster rate of
economic growth can be
achieved by maintaining stable
conditions, giving greater scope
to the initiative and enterprise
of private firms an:l individuals
to produce an increasingly
diversified range of goods and
services.
“This may well involve
greater effort, more emphasis
on market forces and competi-
tion to secure the best alloca-
tion of our productive re-
sources, and a willingness and
ability to adapt to change.”
N.Z. Oil-refinery
N.Z.'s new oil-refinery has
been registered in Wellington
as The New Zealand Refining
Company, Ltd. Authorised
share-capital will be £6 million
in ordinary shares of £1 each.
Later on a prospectus will be
issued inviting N.Z. investors to
participate
Preliminary work connected
with refinery affairs hitherto
has been organised by a com-
mittee representing Atlantic,
8.P., Caltex, Europa, Shell and
Standard-Vacuum Oil.
Detailed specifications f° r


in
\
f Wr
Australia’s successful entry into these stirring
years requires that we should know precisely what
we have to work upon. And more than geography
is entailed in the answer to that question.
Any bright pupil in the schools should be able
to outline the physical characteristics of this
country, and point to the location of its great
producing industries.
But who is to say what Australia’s true
potential is, when it is still in the process of being
revealed? Instances of that are to be seen when
formerly forsaken regions are found to be rich in
world wanted minerals, or when science brings
fresh fertility to soil and crop.
Now, all this underlines the need for a
thoroughly detailed survey of Australia’s presently
known resources, as the basis for a long-range
programme of national development.
It may be claimed, with justice, that this is
being attempted. It is, to a degree. Many agencies,
State and Federal, are engaged on valuable surveys
directed to Australia’s advancement.
In background to these high intentions are the
workings of divided power for executing great
projects which, by consent, are necessary to the
nation’s future. Local interest tends to prevail
over a sense of national priority. The result is
that the country as a whole still lacks a
continuing, co-ordinated plan for exploiting its
unmeasured wealth.
Well, more than resources—more, indeed,
than a patriotically disposed and large-minded
programme of development—is required now to
prove Australia’s worth.
Our initiative, our efficiency, the spirit we
show in using totally the country of which we are
stewards —these also are necessary to raise Australia
to the role for which it is cast in Pacific and world
affairs. And to these we can add the all-important
quality of “bigness.”
History has placed on our map a series of
State buffer fences. But in the atlas of life, faith is
one thing that brooks no boundary.
In generous unity, as well as in national plan,
we must work as one people.
tenders to construct the new
£2O-million refinery, to be built
a t Marsden Point, Whangarei,
are now being prepared by
specialist engineers in The
Hague.
It is expected that work on
the plant will have begun by
the end of the year.
N.Z.F.P.
New Zealand Forest Pro-
ducts, Ltd., proposes to increase
nominal capital to £ls million
by the creation of 4,000,000
ordinary £1 shares.
Present paid capital is
£7,235,000 £5,204,231 ordin-
ary and £2.031,631 preference.
The directors explain that
the increase is to enable the co.
to acquire a controlling-interest
in Whakatane Board Mills,
Ltd., in accordance with the
offer recently made of two
Forest Products’ shares for
each Whakatane share.
Forest Products directors
summarise the reasons why
they made the offer for Whaka-
tane as follows:
Whakatane produces pulp, card-
board and also sawn timber and the
products which it manufactures are
complementary to the various pro-
ducts manufactured by Forest Pro-
ducts.
The Whakatane company is an
established going concern with 21
years' experience in board manufac-
ture.
The combined outputs of each
company can be produced on the
most efficient and economical basis
and in the best interests of the re-
spective customers.
Redundant expenditure on build-
ings. plant and equipment will be
avoided.
The utilisation of the forests
owned by each company will be
able to be undertaken to the best
overall advantage.
The merger of the interests of the
two companies will immeasurably
strengthen the operations of each
company.
An examination of Whaka-
tane's accounts and affairs
shows that fixed assets are con-
siderably written-down, and the
cost of replacing them today
would be much greater than the
original cost to the Whakatane
company. The profits earned
by Whakatane will more than
service the dividends which
Forest Products will require to
pay on ordinary shares allotted
to shareholders in the Whaka-
tane company.
TV Gees Slowly
N.Z. television - manufac-
turers and importers have hun-
dreds of picture-tubes sitting
on their shelves waiting to be
made up into sets, but if the
present low retail demand con-
tinues it may be months before
stocks are used up.
Last year the Government
allowed 16,000 tubes to come
mto the country, and the figure
for this year is 20,000. How-
ever, fewer than 4000 sets have
been sold in Auckland so far,
and many manufacturers
believe the full quota of tubes
will not be brought in
Equitable Building
fN its eighty-sixth year, the
Equitable Permanent Build-
ing Society, of Park Street,
Sydney, continues to render a
much-needed financial service
to home-builders and at the
same time earns a satisfactory
return for its shareholders.
In 1959-60 applications for
loans both for purchase and
erection of homes were numer-
ous, and the board “exercised
every care in the selection of
the securities” from those sub-
mitted.
Interest received rose by
£4507 to £58,589. Interest paid
went up by £1835 to £21,990.
Total revenue was £4443 higher
at £61,784, while total outgo
was £3326 up at £43,271.
Profit for the year was
£18,513 (after tax £10,505),
against £17,397 (tax £9945).
The latest result represented
19.7 p.c. on capital of £93,900,
and a 14 p.c. div. was paid,
as in the preceding year.
Reserves at £244,021 are
more than 2\ times paid capi-
tal. Net tangible backing
amounts to £36 for each fully-
paid £lO share, of which there
are 9390. At £26 on Sydney
’Change, yielding 5.3 p.c., they
are an attractive investment of
their type.
At June 30 last advances to
borrowers totalled £670,076,
Consols, etc., £47,490, and the
Park Street property figured at
£90,161.
Money held on deposit was
a well-secured £444,196, with
other liabilities at £18,510, and
provisions at £7IOO.
The Equitable hasn’t over-
stretched itself during the past
few booming years. It had
£516,087 out on mortgage in
that other boom-year, 1953 ;
the growth to £670,076 at June
30 last was nearly half-financed
by additions to reserves.
Deposits were £318,711 in
1951.
The financial stringency 'of
1951-52 had only a minor in-
fluence on profit-earning, and
did not affect the div.-payment.
The Equitable is managed
for a total cost of a little over
£IO,OOO a year in salaries and
office expenses.
Including the crisis of 1893
and the depression of 1931, the
Equitable has passed through
all the financial setbacks of the
past 86 years with scarcely a
quiver. By its constitution it
has been limited in its borrow-
ings (since 1949) to half-a-
million ; in August this year it
obtained shareholders’ consent
to borrow up to a million.


MR BEZANTIZOFF
By MARGARET TRIST
There were no New Aus-
tralians at that time ;
only foreigners. The
foreignness added at-
traction to the individual or
turned him into a scoundrel
according to how one looked
at it personally.
Ruby Buckland found any
hint of foreignness alarming,
so that when Tansy came into
her bedroom early one morn-
ing and said she was about to
leave for work —she had found
a job as secretary to a Mr
Bezantizoff —her Aunt Ruby’s
stomach turned over and re-
mained in that position all the
weeks during which Tansy
clung to this unholy liaison.
She feared the worst from the
start.
But at the first moment she
feared the worst she was only
half awake, and could only
collect herself sufficiently to
ask, “Who is Mr Bezantizoff?”
By the time she had said this
Tansy was gone. Aunt Ruby
was left to recollect that Tansy
was supposed to be employed
as her companion. Also, why
hadn’t the girl mentioned the
matter before? In her rose-
pink bedroom at that early hour
of the day—it was ten past eight
—it all appeared sinister. So
sinister that Aunt Ruby began
to wonder if perhaps she hadn’t
dreamt it; and rolled over and
went to sleep again, her fears
at rest for the moment.
But it was all simple and had
come about in a simple manner.
Tansy, wandering idly in
Upper George Street the previ-
ous afternoon, had seen a piece
of beautiful white paper pasted
to a shop window'. The paper
was so white and the window
so grimy that the contrast had
attracted her. She investigated
further to find written upon
the paper: “Wanted Secretary.
Apply Room 1. First Floor.
Australian Trading Company.
(Signed) Mr Bezantizoff.”
TAuring the course of the day
Tansy had applied for a
position as dressmaker in a
room in St James Building,
joined a queue seeking employ-
ment at a printing works,
offered her services as an oyster
opener at a cafe, put her name
down at an emporium to be
taken on when chance offered,
and enrolled herself for a free
course in the art of painting
scarves, which one did, when
proficient, at home in one’s
spare time. It wasn't that she
was actually looking for a job.
but she liked being in things,
and one met so many people.
Besides these winds of chance
blew one to parts of the city
one wouldn’t have found other-
wise.
She entered the shop which
was hung thickly from the roof
with oilskins, working pants,
overalls, elastic-sided boots, but
had no counter and seemingly
no assistant. There was a man
in a room at the rear who was
peering through a glass at
something out of sight, but
who didn’t raise his head, or
make any attempt to notice her.
To the right of this room
narrow, uncarpeted stairs rose
upward. She went up these,
feeling her way in the near-
darkness, the only sounds her
footfalls, and a cistern leaking
on the landing where the stairs
turned to continue upward
again. The passageway on the
first floor was likewise gloomy,
unpenetrated by sunlight, or
lit by artificial light.
T>ut despite the perpetual twi-
light Room 1 was easy to
find. The door had been
newly painted a bright orange ;
one could both smell and see
it. One was sprawled across
it in thick black lettering. As
the paint was too wet to knock
upon she turned the handle and
went in, saying, quite foolishly,
“It’s me.”
Black furniture with orange
trimmings, a black and orange
carpet on the floor, orange
walls, with upon them a num-
ber of large prints of a type
of painting she had not seen
before, which stirred her
pleasureably, apart from one
centred amongst the prints on
the main wall, of a man with
his head bandaged.
Orange was the color she
liked least, and she was
about to leave this surprising
room, and have it merely as an
odd memory in a corner of her
mind, when curtains she hadn’t
noticed at the far end of the
room parted, and a man
appeared.
“You have come, yes,” he
said.
“Well I haven’t really,” mur-
mured Tansy.
He came towards her, look-
ing her over gravely. He was
of medium height, round in
shape, but not singular in
appearance, apart from the fact
that he was wearing a hat.
Tansy was unused to men who
wore hats indoors. And the
hat was different. She was to
come to know it in time from
Mr Bezantizoff himself as an
“oomburg”—not only this hat,
but the many other hats like it
that he owned, for he was a
particular man and changed
hats when his head grew
sweaty. For the rest Mr Bezan-
tizoff had a pink and grey
appearance with a flash of gold
here and there, in his teeth, on
his fingers, his wrist, and secur-
ing his tie.
He now searched his person
methodically, and brought from
an inside pocket of his coat a
wallet from which he extracted
a pound note. He tucked the
wallet away again, searched
himself again and found some-
where in the vicinity of his hip
a purse. From this he took a
two-shilling piece and a six-
pence. Folding the coins in
the pound note he came close
to Tansy, took her hand and
placed the money in it. closing
her fingers over it with a hard
clasp of his own hand.
“That is for one week from
today,” he said, “at the end of
which time we will see if we
suit each other. Yes? Now,
my nice little girl, please go.
I do not mix business with
pleasure.” He made a gesture
towards the curtains, leant to-
wards her and hissed. “Your
youth and beauty would in-
flame her jealousy.”
“Oh,” said Tansy, “Mr
Bezantizoff, I think —.”
“Go, go,” said Mr Bezanti-
zoff, pushing her out the door,
which he closed behind her.
Tansy, clutching the twenty-
two-and-sixpence in her clasped
hand, made for the stairs, but
before she was half way down
the door above opened again
and he called after her, “You
will report for duty at nine-
thirty. We make it nine-thirty
so as not to be vulgar and
businesslike as is now the
custom. This is a position of
standing and grace. Your
deportment and speech leave
much to be desired but you
have what it takes and I am
grateful enough. I cannot have
everything to begin.”
lyTucH as Tansy enjoyed
applying for jobs and
arguing with the employer to
convince him that she had the
very merits the job required,
it had not been her habit to
return to the scene of a
triumph.
She was well equipped ver-
bally to prove she could be-
come a shirt finisher, ring up
sales on the cash register in
a butcher’s shop, operate a
switchboard, mend clothes and
sew on buttons in a dry-clean-
ing establishment—the field of
her activities had been limit-
less —but she had never fe' l
like putting her ideas into prac-
tice.
But then, no one had gl ven
her a week’s wages in advance.
So next morning at nine-
thirty, while Aunt Ruby slept


the sleep of a conscientious
guardian, Tansy returned to
the black and orange print-
decorated surroundings of Mr
Bezantizoff ; in fact they met
on the stairs and bustled in
together, whereat Mr Bezan-
tizoff searched himself all over,
brought his wallet from an
inside coat pocket, extracted
a pound note, pul the wallet
away again, searched again,
brought a purse from a pocket
in the vicinity of his hip, from
which he took a two-shillings
and a sixpence. He seized
Tansy’s hand, trying to put
the money in it and saying,
“That is for one week from
today at the end of which time
we will see if we suit each
other. Yes.”
“No, no, Mr Bezantizoff—.”
“What! You will not accept
my money!”
“I did. You gave it to me
yesterday! ”
“Yesterday! You came to
me yesterday! Oh, my child,
what purity, what honesty!
Every day a girl comes and
every day I give her her
advance and every next day
she does not come back. And
now, you, you have come back.
lam a proud man to know l
chose such as you. It is the
intuitive, you see. Without it
a businessman is nothing.”
Mr Bezantizoff, Tansy
noticed, was very clean, and
beautifully scented. She liked
cleanness and scent. His dark
grey eyes looked at one appeal-
ingly, as if he wanted one to
like him. Tansy decided she
liked him, and smiled at him
warmly.
TAropping his voice to a
whisper, he said, “We must
be honest here. It is imperative.
There is much of value.”
Tansy gave a swift glance
around the room, looked back
at Mr Bezantizoff, interroga-
tively.
He took off his hat and
tapped his head. “Ideas. The
ideas in my head. I am an
inventor.”
“Oh,” said Tansy.
“You have not heard of in-
ventors, perhaps?” Mr Bezan-
tizoff placed his hat on a wall-
hook and took another hat
from the next hook.
‘‘Yes I have. Edison and—.”
“Who?” asked Mr Bezanti-
zoff, blowing the dust off the
hat he had selected, and
placing it upon his head.
“The man who made the
gramophone.” Tansy, hearing
mwardly a voice saying, “This
ls an Edison Bell record,” was
wafted temporarily to other
s Pheres and places, and knew
a §ain an old delight.
“Inexcusable,” said Mr
bezantizoff. “Deplorable. It
should not have been done.
Music is a thing one makes
for oneself .”
“But if one can't, Mr Bezan-
tizoff,” Tansy interrupted, “a
gramophone has its use. I re-
member when I was a child in
the country--
"You are too young to re-
member things,” said Mr
Bezantizoff.
“But I do,” said Tansy. “Is
it music you invent?”
“No, no,” said Mr Bezanti-
zoff impatiently. “I am a prac-
tical man. The music it has
all been invented long ago.
Listen.” He blew out his
cheeks and emitted a blast of
sound. “There. It is there. It
has been made. It remains.
Who would wish to invent
music after that! They would
be only silly. Little tinny
sounds." He put an imaginary
whistle to his lips and blew
again. A series of squeaks
issued.
Tansy, divining that “Ah,
Sweet Mystery of Life,” which
she favored at the moment,
was not the right thing to bring
into this conversation, said
nothing.
“No, my child, to live in the
modern age is to fit oneself to
with it. Music is not needed
so one must make what is
needed. And people are poor
in these times because of de-
pression, so it is small things
people want. Of use.”
IJe looked at her fixedly.
“What do you do when the
cork adheres firmly in the wine
bottle and a glass of wine is
needful? Here is the bottle
and here is the glass. A certain
portion of the wine in the
bottle needs to be in the glass.
But there is something stop-
ping it ; a cork which has been
compressed into the top. What
can be done?”
Tansy had not been in just
that situation but she had
imagination. “A corkscrew,”
she suggested.
“The corkscrew is the ugliest
of implements. And dangerous.
It is to eliminate the corkscrew
that I wish to do. I have in
mind a small and beautiful 1
silver article silver is the
metal for the ordinary person,
gold intimidates them —which
works by suction. This tiny
object, so small you could fill
a tooth with it if necessary,
will be placed upon the cork,
which will compress still fur-
ther, at which air will flow in
and presto! the cork will rise
of its own volition. You see?”
Tansy didn’t. She didn’t feel
it was necessary to see any-
way, but nevertheless looked
puzzled.
“Come, sit down,” said Mr
Bezantizoff kindly, “and I will
show you in detail the work-
ings of my brain.” To facili-
tate that, he changed his hat
again, drew a chair to the
table, drew another one close
to it for Tansy, and they both
sat down.
A pleasant breeze blew the
grit of the city through the
window, the trams rattled
along George Street, and the
rumble of trains came from
Central. To think she had been
dreaming her life away at
Unwisdom Bay, or wandering
about the city streets, when one
could enjoy oneself as much
at work. And get paid for it!
Mr Bezantizoff opened a
large satchel and poured
papers from it onto the table.
There were rings about the size
of a sixpence drawn upon
them, with underneath each
ring a beautifully printed ex-
planation. While the rings all
looked alike to Tansy, they
were all different, and Mr
Bezantizoff took trouble to ex-
plain each one to her. But she
had never had a head for this
sort of thing, and knew that
her effort of comprehension
was not equal to Mr Bezanti-
zoff’s exposition.
Gradually Mr Bezantizoff
lapsed into silence. Then he
began to draw more rings. He
became more and more
absorbed. This was genius, no
doubt. Tansy took a piece of
paper and made some little
drawings for herself. By eleven
o’clock she was hungry. By
twelve she was very hungry.
"I think I’ll go to lunch now,
Mr Bezantizoff,” she said.
Mr Bezantizoff didn't answer.
At twelve-thirty, she said, “I
daresay I have a lunch hour,
Mr Bezantizoff.”
Again he didn’t answer.
had a lunch hour.
She knew that. She had
heard people speak of doing
this or that at lunch time.
“If you don’t mind, Mr
Bezantizoff, I am going to
lunch now.”
She rose and put on her
beret. Leaving Mr Bezantizoff
absorbed in his life’s work,
she went out.
Not quite out. On the land-
ing outside Room f appetising
odors descended upon her
from the regions above. Ever
a believer in her nose, she
followed it three flights up-
stairs. There they gave way
to a large attic, the roof of
which was almost all skylight,
letting in sunlight through the
clear glass, which also gave a
view of the sky above, the
blue dotted with little white
clouds chasing each other
friskily.
After so much orange and
black it was a captivating
sight. Hie floor was of boards
scrubbed white, with seagrass
mats upon it. At a dozen or
so tables groups of Chinese sat
eating, talking quietly, laugh-
ing softly. Real Chinese.
She had only known one
Chinese before, a man who
had a market garden on the
creek bank, and took his
vegetables through the town
in two large baskets swinging
from a pole across his
shoulders, and who had, each
Christmas, given her mother a
colored jar with a dragon on
it, with ginger in syrup inside.
There had been other Chinese
in that town, but they were
what her mother called
“watered down.”
The soft chatter and laughter
stopped and heads turned in
her direction. Tansy gave an
all - including smile, and sat
down at the nearest table
which had an empty chair at
it. She looked about her for
the menu, but there didn’t
appear to be one.
An elderly Chinese woman
leaned towards Tansy and
peered into her face. This
woman had lines at the corners
of her eyes and little brown
marks across her broad nose
and flat cheekbones. She
grinned, the lines at the corners
of her eyes wrinkling together,
her lower lip dropping, and
her mouth stretching out across
her face. She drew back and
touched a young Chinese be-
side her on the knee.
This youth was plump, his
trousers tightly stretched across
his hams ; on his shiny round
face shone what appeared to
be a perpetual smile ; his black
hair, parted in the middle,
hung forward in two thick
locks against his cheekbones.
He got up and went into a
curtained alcove at the side of
the room, from where he re-
turned with a clean bowl and
a glass.
There was a single bottle in
the middle of the table, and
he picked this up and poured
a little into Tansy’s glass. The
others at the table pushed
bowls of food towards her, and
when she did not immediately
touch it, began to heap it onto
her plate. They were all laugh-
ing now, and the old woman
said “Eat. Eat.”
Co began for Tansy one of
the pleasantest parts of her
pleasant sojourn with Mr
Bezantizoff.
She had come upon, not a
cafe, but a room where these
Chinese people cooked their
own midday meal after a
morning at the nearby markets.
While they were friendly
they were not communicative.
They included her, smiled at


her, and went on talking softly.
They spoke sometimes in
English, but if they went on
for long the elderly woman
would say something sharply
in Chinese, and the conversa-
tion continued in Chinese.
Tansy listened, and ate, if
not greedily, a little too
eagerly, which pleased them,
and sipped at the tasteless wine
which nevertheless ran all over
her inside in the pleasantest
fashion. The boy, w’hose name
was Villie, watched Tansy, and
the elderly woman watched
Villie. Now and again she
pushed his head playfully or
tapped him on the knee.
Tansy had the pleased feel-
ing that Villie found her en-
chanting. She began to feel
like an enchantress and liked
the sensation.
If Aunt Ruby’s chief com-
plaint about Tansy was that
she was not loquacious this
was not so on the evening
when Tansy returned from her
first day’s employment. Aunt
Ruby had been waiting to say
stinging things such as that
Tansy’s duty lay at home;
what right had she to go to
work without consulting Aunt
Ruby first, or why go to a
foreigner who could be mixed
up in the white slave traffic,
or dope, or one of those
things?
But Aunt Ruby forgot all
this before the blast of Tansy’s
reminiscences. And she grew
so confused that she even for-
got to be alarmed. Naturally
she had to quibble a bit.
“I beg your pardon,” she
said, when she could get a
word in. “If Bezantizoff is a
Chinese name I’m a Dutch-
man.”
“I didn’t say Mr Bezantizoff
was a Chinese, Aunt Ruby,
the others were Chinese. Mr
Bezantizoff is . . . is . . . And
Bezantizoff isn’t his real name.
It's been Anglicised.”
“I only hope, my girl, that
you come to your senses before
any real harm comes to you.
For all I know, of course ——
“1 think I like working, Aunt
Ruby. You meet so many
people. It gives you a stake
in life.”
“What sort of working can
you do?” asked Aunt Ruby.
The sarcasm was lost on
Tansy. “We draw things,” she
said. “When the telephone is
put on I’m going to answer
that. And then when Mr
Bezantizoff’s plans have come
to fruition, we’ll go into pro-
duction, and I’ll package it
“What?”
“The bottle-opener. Aunt
Ruby 1 think I'll go to bed
now. Working—it makes you
tired. I’m sleepy, sleepy.”
Tansy yawned widely, of which
she was extremely capable, her
face not seeming to grow at
the rate of her mouth, and
stretched her arms in the air.
So there it was. During the
weeks of the Bezantizoff epi-
sode Tansy was of no use to
Aunt Ruby. Either by day or
by night.
\l7hat Tansy liked about Mr
* ’ Bezantizoff was that one
“I wish you wouldn't interrupt me in the middle of
sensitive and delicate creation."
could talk to him. Or rather,
if one’s opinion differed one
was allowed to say so. And no
hard feelings.
She had always felt that this
position must exist somewhere
in the world. Her life had been
beset with phrases such as,
“When you’re as old as I am,
you'll know different,” or
“You’re too young to know
what I’m talking about.” But
Mr Bezantizoff listened
gravely, and conceded her
originality, if tempered with
ignorance.
“But then,” he allowed, “it
is impossible for a fourteen-
year-old girl to know every-
thing, and you learn —fast.”
“But Mr Bezantizoff, I’m
eighteen.”
“Eighteen? But that cannot
be so. Where is the the
flesh?”
“The women in our family
are small-boned,” said Tansy.
“Love affairs then you
have your love affairs?”
“Oh yes,” said Tansy, “hun-
dreds of them,” and imagined
her love affairs stretched on a
string like bright beads she
could count.
“Good girl,” commended
Mr Bezantizoff. “It is that,
then, that brings the bloom to
your cheek, the sparkle to your
eye. It is the best medicine.
1, too, have mine, but at the
moment it is business, business,
business all the time. Work
first, play afterwards. That is
so.”
This was a hint—Mr Bezan-
tizoff always hinted, having
the theory that no human
being had the right to order
another human being about,
even if paying twenty-two-and-
sixpence a week for them —-
for Tansy to go and play on
the typewriter, which was
being hired by the week, and
needed to be used so that it
wasn’t lying there idle, wasting
money.
Tansy had mastered the
middle row and could rattle
about on it while looking out
the window. A flash, a slash, a
dash, a gash, a lash, a hash.
Or, if she grew tired of that:
A glad lad had a sad fad,
varied by a sad lad had a glad
fad, or: a fag, a jag, a lag, a
hag, a sag, a dag.
Mr Bezantizoff liked to hear
the typewriter going as fast as
possible.
Tansy also found Mr Bezan-
tizoff educational. He was not
strong on reading, the only
book he had read in English
being “The Mill on the Floss,”
on which he based all his
knowledge of English literature
—which she did not find re-
warding, though he was ready
enough to talk about it.
He broadened her musical
knowledge enough for her to
reach the conclusion that she
had as yet not heard any. And
when it came to painting,
something she had not seen
either, apparently, he was in
a class of his own.
The gentleman with his head
bandaged dead-centre among
the prints was a Mr Van
Gogh ; “He cut off his ear to
paint himself like that,” Mr
Bezantizoff explained. “All for
art was what he lived by. But
they are passe now. Outmoded.
They are not the thing of the
moment. There have been
many others since who are not
noticed because they are
genius. Even now there is
someone not being taken
notice of because he is the real
thing. But me, I am a man of
past affections. 1 cling to the
old.”
“Me too,” said Tansy.
“But you are not old
enough,” objected Mr Bezan-
tizoff.
r T”HERE came a day when Mr
Bezantizoff appeared
downhearted. As the day went
on he grew more so.
Several times there were
knocks on the door, at which
Mr Bezantizoff disappeared
into the passageway to hold
conversations in whispers with
the callers. Only hisses reached
Tansy's attentive ears. Each
time Mr Bezantizoff returned
flushed and flustered.
In the afternoon he said, “It
is of no use, no use at all. Go
to the shop and get me a bottle
of port wine. My ideas are
not flowing. I am starved. My
brain is not nourished.”
Mr Bezantizoff’s brain,
nourished, gave forth in song,
instead of drawings. He sang
rather nicely, Tansy con-
sidered. Quite unmusical things
that she happened to know.
For awhile he was happy;
then he grew sad.
“Someday,” he said, “y oU
will remember, remember this
room, the man, the girl-—and
where will the man be then.
Drowned in a bottle!”
He picked up the bottle and
flung it against the wall, where
it shattered. The dregs of port
made bloodlike spatters against
the orange.
Mr Bezantizoff looked at d
soberly. “No one has ever


thought,” he said, “of making
a bottle which doesn’t break
when flung. The. work that
could be saved, the wastage
stopped . . .”
That was on the Friday. On
Monday morning Tansy came
to work to find the orange
door not only locked but with
a board nailed across it.
This, she thought, was
funny. So she sat upon the
top step, to await Mr Bezan-
tizoff and an explanation. She
sat there for quite awhile,
listening to familiar sounds—
the cistern leaking, footsteps
from the pavement, trams
clattering along the roadway,
trains rumbling into Central —
and smelling familiar smells,
as odors wafted down from
upstairs. But in time she tired
of this, rose and went down-
stairs.
“W HERE ’ S Bezantizoff?”
* * echoed the man behind
the shop in reply to her query.
He thought for awhile. “If
he’s not in the looney bin he
ought to be.” He went on peer-
ing through the piece of glass
held in his eye at nothing that
Tansy could see.
“There’s a piece of board
nailed across the door,” said
Tansy, to prompt him.
“Could have put it there to
keep himself out,” said the
man. He paused for some time,
peering, then went on: “Don’t
know nothing about him. Keep
meself to meself down here.
People always coming and
going. Not a talker, me. Too
tiring. But if there’s a bit of
board across the door, you can
take it from me, someone’s
told him to get out. Bit of
board across the door! That’s
that!”
“Oh,” said Tansy.
She went upstairs again and
lingered. Later she climbed to
the attic room above and
allowed her friends to console
her with a large bowl of rice,
a dish with fish, a dish with
chicken, a dish with pork.
Waiting and anxiety make one
hungry.
She ate slowly, allowing Mr
Bezantizoff time. But when
she went back downstairs, the
orange door was still locked,
the board still firmly nailed
against it. And now there was
a notice: “Room to let. In-
quiries Room 15. Second
Floor.”
She turned and went down
the last flight of stairs and
through the shop, not looking
hack at the man in the back
room.
In George Street she idled
along with the other unem-
ployed.
Upper Houses
Ready for the Slaughter
By M. H. ELLIS
The N. S. Wales Cabinet
has fixed on April 29 as
the date on which the
referendum on the abo-
lition of the Legislative Council
will be held. The rolls will
close on March 23, in a very
peculiar atmosphere, since by
that time, with the smell of
death on the Upper House,
Parliament will be involved in
the election of 15 members
who will go into the Council on
April 22.
There is no escape from the
election of these members. The
proportional voting in Parlia-
ment to elect them will take
place on April 16. They will
take their seats with an osten-
sible contract to hold them
with all allowances and perks
for 12 years; but actually,
when they are elected, they
may be under sentence of par-
liamentary death within a fort-
night.
Then their tenures will only
be as long as it takes the
Government to put through
accessory legislation and gain
the assent of the United King-
dom Parliament which still has
the power to destroy the Aboli-
tion Bill by advising the Queen
to refuse assent.
This will take some time and
if the Council turned fractious
it could do a lot of damage in
the interval if it wanted to.
For instance, if the impish in-
clination assailed it to reject
any accessory legislation
necessary to be passed before
the legislature can be stream-
lined to act as a one-house
Parliament, it could have a
whale of a time. And its
members can have some good
clean fun and provide others
with some good clean fun —
even before they sit.
Presumably all the Labor
candidates at the April election
will be pledged to abolition —
which is in the Labor Plat-
form ; but the fact that it was
in the platform did not prevent
several democrats from defect-
ing when the abolition legisla-
tion threatened to rob them of
their cl'ub, allowance, passes
and “privilege” season tickets
to sporting fixtures and what-
not.
The spectacle of a number of
gentlemen going up for election
to hold a seat for 12 years and
at the same time campaigning
to rob themselves of the seat
a fortnight after the election
is a subject for Homeric
laughter.
Some of them, in fact, if
they are good Labor men must
be seen involved in the two
campaigns at the one and the
same time —a campaign to get
themselves selected, and a cam-
paign to blot themselves out as
legislators.
The conflict between the two
aims in the one sterling Labor
breast should be something to
witness from the inside. But
fortunately for the candidates
they are able to fight one
campaign inside the privacy of
Parliament House.
Legislative Councils have
always been the bugbears of
Governments in modern times,
especially when they insist on
being what they are intended
to be —brakes on popular
houses. They have become
equally unpopular with politi-
cal juntas of the Labor Party
because they are brakes on
juntas that have Labor Govern-
ments by the tail and there-
fore, in the argot of juntas, on
“democracy.”
They are always in a weak
position, unless they are con-
stituted in such a way that
they can perform the function
of a brake efficiently, which
they cannot in any legislature
in which they are created either
specifically on the advice of
ministries or dominantly by
parties which are long enough
in power to establish a com-
pliant majority for themselves
and a road-block majority for
any party which is dastardly
enough to defeat them and
want to govern on different
principles.
The theory of the Legisla-
tive Council, of course, is that
it is the watchdog of the
Crown, which actually enacts
legislation with the advice and
consent of both Houses and
which is itself the ultimate
watchdog of democracy and
can refuse assent to legislation
in extreme cases and even —-
in the States at least —dismiss
ministries acting illegally, as
happened to J. T. Lang in the
days of Governor Sir Phillip
Game.
HThe Father of all Legislative
Councils, of course, was
the House of Lords which also
is the father of Parliaments in
the British Commonwealth. It
started as a one-house parlia-
ment in 1322 by King Edward
II and the Commons did not
come into existence till a
couple of decades later; but
the Commons was a subsidiary
house until the passing of the
Reform Act of 1832, and the
Lords retained the powers of
refusal to let legislation passed
in the Lower House go through
till the end of the reign of
Edward VII, when it went too
far with Lloyd George’s budget,
with the result that the Crown
agreed to pack it to carry out
the will 1 of the Commons.
Its powers are now reduced
to the point that it cannot
reject or amend money bills
and cannot veto any other bill
for more than one session.
At the same time it continues
to pack an enormous wallop.
It has a main body which is
hereditary which gives it per-
manency unimparable by any
ephemeral Government in
power down below. It includes
22 dukes, 132 earls, over 100
viscounts 564 barons and
(since the recent reforms) six
baronesses, the 16 peers elected
from Scotland and the one
from Northern Ireland, two
archbishops and 24 bishops.
It is worse paid than the N. S.
Wales , Legislative Council,
incidentally—£3 3s. a sitting.
With a total membership of
908, it would take some pack-
ing. It has tremendous his-
toric prestige. And it has a
tremendous influence because
of the vast accumulation of
ability, experience in all phases
of modern life, apart from
being presided over by the
highest judge in the land and
embodying in its membership
the final court of appeal in the
Realm of England and the
whole senior bench of the
Established Church.
The practice in later years
of appointing to it former
Prime Ministers and Ministers,
leading trade - unionists,
scientists, professors of
the universities, industrialists
and viceroys, and leading
civil servants, with even an
author or two to make weight,
has given it a representative
diversity and an authority
which a mere elected house
produced either by electors as
a whole or a legislature, as in


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept., NEW SUB. / RENEWAL
The Bulletin Newspaper, (Please cross out one)
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please find enclosed my cheque I money-order f0r.......
months’ subscription to The Bulletin.
RECIPIENT:
ADDRESS:
DONOR:..
ADDRESS:
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 125.; \ year—£l 6s. Post
free. British C’wealth: £3 3s. 6d. Foreign: £3 16s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight—Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British C’wealth: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to “The Bulletin” or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
N. S. Wales, cannot possibly
attain to.
Now that it can get into
little real mischief and has be-
come really a brake on the
Lower House and not a road-
block, Governments have come
to see its usefulness as a non-
partisan House and have even
gone the length of stretching
a point to see that it remains
non-partisan, as when Mr
Macmillan recently recom-
mended the Queen to appoint
among five new life members
four who had been chosen by
the leader of the Opposition,
Mr Gaitskefl.
It has become a useful
sounding board for Govern-
ments in which debates on con-
tentious subjects can be held
and issues thrashed Out before
they are reduced to legislative
form. It provides a useful
testing ground on which legis-
lation passed in the Lower
House gets a final examination
under the klieg lights of some
most acute and experienced
minds before it goes to the
Crown for assent.
And the old, and not so old,
nobles are not backward in
criticism and amendment and
even in rejecting—for the time
being, if the Commons do not
agree with them —a Bill in
extreme cases. They did that,
and secured amendment, with
the Bill for the abolition of
the death penalty. In the ulti-
mate the Government was
happy to compromise.
Moreover, the Macmillan
Government has been quick to
see that, even if it is impos-
sible to return to the days of
not-so-long-ago when a Prime
Minister could sit in the Lords,
the most richly caparisoned
chamber in the world is an
ideal setting for consideration
of Foreign Affairs away from
the Party rancors of the Lower
House and the gibes of the
Silvermans and Zilliacuses.
The House of Lords seems
to have reached a position in
which only slow and gradual
change in the nature of its
composition is possible ;
change through evolution, but
not destruction so long as the
British Constitution exists.
the germ of self-
* * government came to N.
S. Wales it was natural that it
should have been seeded from
British precedent. The Legisla-
tive Council, when it was origi-
nally founded in a Colony with
a population (including Van
Diemen's Land) of about
46,000 was very similar to the
House of Lords in 1322 but
in a much smaller way.
In purpose as with the origi-
nal Lords, it was a body to
advise the “head of State." It
was designed to consist of not
more than seven persons, all
appointed, including a majority
of senior civil servants, and its
legislative powers were limi-
ted by the Governor’s over-
riding authority, by its lack
of authority to deal with
finance and by its subjection to
the opinion of the Chief Jus-
tice as to whether bills were
repugnant to the laws of Eng-
land.
Its first members were
Colonel Stewart (Military
Commandant and Lieutenant-
Governor), Francis Forbes,
(Chief justice), The Venerable
T. H. Scott (Archdeacon),
Alexander MacLeay (Colonial
Secretary), and three private
members John Macarthur,
Robert Campbell and Charles
Throsby.
It is a curious sidelight that
one of these three private mem-
bers, the first to be entitled to
call themselves “Honorable”
and write “M.C.” after their
names, was the first Australian
legislator in history to commit
suicide and another the first to
be declared a lunatic.
The membership of the
Council was expanded to “not
more than 15 and not less than
10” by the Act of 1828. The
system was extended separately
to Van Diemen's Land. The
Governor, as before, presided
in person and had a vote and
the powers of the Council 1
increased, but it took 12 years
of conflict before the Council
was expanded into a body in
which two-thirds of the mem-
bers were elected by free-
holders and tenants with estates
of clear value of £2OO, and
householders with dwellings of
clear annual value of £2O.
The membership was 36.
The leading civil servants
were in fact the Council's
ministry of 12. And it was
subject to the old financial
limitations inconsistent with
responsible Government, but
was in the end the body which
was empowered to vote a con-
stitution providing for respon-
sible Government for the
Colony. Its rolls between 1843
and 1856 bristle with historic
names —Bigge, Bland, Blign,
Bowman. Ben Boyd, Robert
Campbell. Daniel Cooper,
Dangar, Darvall, Stuart
Donaldson (afterwards first
Prime Minister), Phillip Parker
King, the explorer, Richard
Jones, John Dunmore Lang,
Robert Lowe, William Lawson,
George Leslie, James and Wil-
liam Macarthur, Alexander,
George and William Macleay,
James Martin, Donald Macin-
tyre. Terence Aubrey Murray,
Sir Charles Nicholson, Sir
Maurice O'Connell, Henry
Parkes, Henry Stuart Russell,
Saul Samuel, Roger Therry,
Deas Thomson, William
Charles Wentworth and
Richard Windeyer.
With the coming of the Con-
stitution, however, came also
knotty problems of constituting
an Upper House.
Wentworth was much jeered
at for his conception of a
“bunyip” peerage, which would
tie to the Colony residents who
now earned their fortunes in
Australia and then rushed to
England to seek aristocracy
and preferment in the coun-
ties. But he was only draw-
ing on precedent in Canada, as
he drew on the Pitt's Canada
Act of 1791 for his precedents
in the general form of Govern-
ment. Jt is little known that
Canada has its own peerage
even today—very attenuated,
it will be found stacked coyly
away in the back of Burke's
Peerage and Baronetage.
The object of Wentworth's
Bill, as proposed by the Select
Committee over which he pre-
sided when it set out to draft
the new constitution, was to
interpose a “safe, revising, deli-
berative and conservative ele-
ment between the lower house
and Her Majesty's representa-
tive.” The committee set itself
against “the experiment of an
upper house based on a
general elective franchise” and
thought that a house based on
the hereditary principle, a
“close imitation of the elected
portion of the House of Lords
which is supplied from the
Scottish and Irish Peerage”
would “be a great improve-
ment upon any form of Legis-
lative Council hitherto tried or
recommended in any British
colony.” The Council was to
be safeguarded in its con-
stitution by the need for a two-
thirds majority in both houses
to secure amendment.
However, Wentworth did
not become “Duke of Vau-
cluse” nor James Macarthur
“Earl of Camden" as it was
suggested that they might. The
Constitution adopted provided
for a nominee Council, its
members at first appointed for
five years and subsequently for
life, but there was no limita-
tion on the number of mem-
bers, a fact which placed it
at the mercy of irate Govern-
ments which could persuade
Governors to “swamp.’’
• Strangely enough, when the
Constitution Bill went before
the House of Commons it
found a fierce opponent of the
method of electing an upper
house in that curious albino,
Robert Lowe, who had aban-
doned the N. S. Wales Counci
for the Commons and who de-
clared that the measure had
been framed by the landed
interests of N. S. Wales as an
“iniquitous oligarchical device
and “conspiracy” to enable
them to take control of the
legislature.
nr he introduction of manhood
suffrage in Assembly e * e |\
tions within five years broug


the Legislative Council to the
point of ruin, through the pres-
sures that ensued for an elected
upper house.
Already when Wentworth
came back to the Colony in
1861 the Cowper Ministry was
demanding the swamping of
the Council with life appointees
to provide stable Government
in a turmoil which had seen
six ministries come and go,
in four years. The Council
defeated an attempt to make
it elective, defeated Cowper’s
lands legislation with con-
tumely and defeated his
attempts to swamp the Coun-
cil with his own men.
New South Wales and
Queensland remained the only
Colonies in which the life-
nominee system continued.
It failed because it had not
underneath it the monolithic
foundation of tradition, the
established privilege and asso-
ciation with Crown agencies
and the highest Courts and
church and the basic relation-
ship to the land which under-
pinned the House of Lords.
Also because both Councils,
having been filled at one help-
ing with magnates of the age
of discretion, the whole mem-
bership was apt to grow old
and increasingly conservative
together—and, of course, out
of touch with the times.
The Queensland Council was
destroyed in 1922. Even J. T.
Lang did not succeed in des-
troying the N. S. Wales one,
despite desperate efforts, but
he drove it to the point at
w hich “reform” was unavoid-
able and this was achieved by
the compromise legislation of
B -.S. B. Stevens (1933-34)
which provided for the elec-
tion of members by the two
bouses acting jointly (retiring
timbers not voting) under
Proportional representation,
and for the retirement of 15
members every 12 years.
In Victoria the property-
franchise Council was replaced
in 1950 by one elected on
adult franchise. The rest of the
States have a hotchpotch of
election methods. Victoria and
South Australia have adopted
schemes whereby Councils may
be dissolved like the Senate to
resolve deadlocks.
But nothing that has been
done has ever persuaded a
Government that an upper
house, no maLer how elected,
which thwarts it is any good.
In modern days of highly
organised political machines
Councils have become a
menace also to organisational
domination which makes them
highly unpopular with un-
elected juntas which claim to
be the “voice of the demo-
cracy”—that is of the domi-
nant side in power.
\T7hen it has public opinion on
’ its side, as it very often has
as in the fight of the McGirr
Government to stifle press pub-
licity on the eve of elections
and in a dozen other matters,
the N.S.W. Legislative Coun-
cil can be highly useful and
serve a thoroughly democratic
purpose in hoisting a danger
signal or preventing a Govern-
ment and the lower house
which it controls from getting
megalomania.
It can also be a flea that is
very good for the Government
in keeping it up to the mark
and the times by holding inde-
pendent debates which force it
to legislate.
But the great trouble is, not
only in legislative councils but
in the Senate, that upper
houses have become completely
subordinated to the Party sys-
tem.
According to whether the
current Government or the
rival ones that went before
have ascendancy, they are rub-
ber stamps for the most part
or obstructionists fielding hard
and closely for the Opposition
bowlers in the lower houses.
The only way in which they
can be made tolerable to
Governments is to give them
specialist functions similar to
those in the American Con-
gress, in which it has taken a
long time to develop a work-
ing formula on which the two
Houses can live together.
Canada, incidentally, has
had as much upper house
trouble as other British coun-
tries but has settled down in
the end to life appointments on
the provincial system. Candi-
dates must have a property
qualification and be 30 years
of age. They are summoned
under the Great Seal.
The experience of Queens-
land, which abolished its
stately council —most like the
House of Lords of any in
the Commonwealth —in 1922,
is that a one house Govern-
ment is shabbier and less res-
ponsible and desirable than a
two house Government. The
Labor Government of Queens-
land lived to rue the day of
abolition.
But until it has tasted the
fruits of abolition and the
diminution of status involved
in reduction to the one-house
parliament and the lack of a
backstop when the bowling
from outside becomes “body-
line” no Government can be
persuaded, unless it has a ser-
vile party majority “up above,”
otherwise than that the only
good Legislative Council is a
dead one. Hence the electors
on April 29 next will have no
alternative to retention or des-
truction of the Council in N. S.
Wales. The Heffron Govern-
ment and particularly its Left
Wing are firm about that.
There will be no chance to vote
for mere reform.
Strangely enough Soviet
Russia, which is vaunted as the
model for democrats, has two
houses with equal legislative
rights—the Soviet of the Union
and the Soviet of Nationalities,
one elected on an ovc rail vote
and one on a vote of electors of
the national republics—much
the same basis as our Senate.
Yet in Australia, the Senate
elected on exactly the same
basis, ostensibly, is held up as
an excrescence —a sinister bar
to the free exercise of the
democratic will erected by class
and privilege.
Both Labor and Commu-
nism—officially, at any rate —
are all out for abolition of
upper houses, though there
may be some earnest toilers
in the Red House in Macquarie
Street whose hands are likely
to become paralysed when they
come to vote.
Whether the voters will fol-
low their open advice remains
to be seen. It needs to be re-
membered that once the Coun-
cil is slaughtered it cannot
return from the next world.
And the aftermaths may mean
complete subjection to the
secret juntas of the A.L.P.
The possibilities under one-
house rule are not reassuring.
For instance, if the N. S. Wales
Government were to carry out
the plan which it is said to
be nursing at the breast to
abolish regional considerations
and reconstruct State electo-
rates on a one-vote-one-value
basis, the electors can look for-
ward to a New South Wales
governed for ever by the Labor
M.L.As. of suburban Sydney
and Newcastle and coalfield
industrial areas, with all chance
of representation of the coun-
try by a proper quota of mem-
bers out of the question.


The Ladies’ Parlor Clique
By THELMA FORSHAW
She is 74 years old, Norah,
my favorite aunt. Four
days a week she goes out
cleaning and washing for
the wives of doctors and execu-
tives. Like most women of
her occupation, she basks in
the material glory of her em-
ployers. Its lustre lies upon
her boastful conversation and
in the sudden snobbish pursing
of her mouth. At those
moments when she describes
the cocktail bar and the doc-
tor’s seven crisp white shirts
a week, she is closely related
to quality and don t you forget
it! She does not work for the
moderately well-off. A woman
wants some glamor in her life.
She lives in a bed-sitter on
the North Shore and moves
often, owing to the fiendish
plots of people known as
Those Mongrels who recur
oddly wherever she goes, only
changing names and faces.
Those Mongrels obstruct her
use of the bathroom, leave
their empties outside her door
and egg their children on to
persecute her. As she tells of
them, monsters take shape of
the most virulent ilk, beings
like Hitler who have it in for
the aged, the very dregs of
humankind. Many an Irish
curse lies upon them. “They
will die in want!” she spits,
as we drink our beers in the
Ladies’ Parlor. She sits neat
and straight, fierily grimacing,
resembling nothing so much
as a totem pole.
She has a married daughter
who throws her out of her
little flat regularly for “bring-
ing drink into the home.” This
daughter is her bit of private
life, and often displaces Those
Mongrels as chief recipient of
her fury, tears and curses.
But the hub of her social
life is the Ladies’ Parlor. It
is here she repairs when she
finishes work shortly after
lunch each day. Here she
meets what she calls her
Cronies. And here she returns
after having tea in her bed-
sitter or at an over-the-way
cafe or hamburger.
This is where you will find
Ellen with the goitrous eyes
and black Japanese fringe,
whose little girl sits waiting
for her in a nearby bus-shelter,
sometimes for hours. There is
Kitty with the lesbian haircut
who is a wardsmaid in a big
hospital. And Big Eva, 15
stone and quite toothless.
There is Nell, who sings
beautifully after a few middies,
and aristocratic old Miss
Marks who sheds a thin ray of
culture over the gathering. But
best of all I like sullen, woolly-
headed Beryl who, when asked
what work she does, replies
“Domestic Duties” as though
to a magistrate. The Clique
sits round a plain wooden
table scattered with middies
and schooners. On a long
bench against the far wall sit
the Outsiders or Casuals —
silent, with shopping - bags
fallen limp beside them, hav-
ing a quiet beer or brandy.
Melancholy middle-aged
women staring into space.
Those at the big table domi-
nate the bare linoleumed
room. Sometimes, one or other
of the Clique, withdrawing
aftei a tiff, will stalk in and
sit on the Outsiders’ bench,
sulking with dignity.
My old aunt buys her
boisterous welcome in the
Ladies’ Parlor with lavish
rounds of drinks and her
readiness to lend ten bob or a
quid. She has a series of
hangers-on or toadies who
flatter her and listen to her
outbursts of rage against Those
Mongrels and who quietly,
almost unobtrusively, accept
round after round of free
drinks.
Quite often my aunt takes
to the Bench after a row with
one of the Clique and hisses in
the ear of her current Toady: i
“Bloody scum! I wouldn’t!
lower myself to sit with ’em.*
What’ll you have, love?”
The Toady nods sympa-
thetically. “Brandy, love, with
a beer chaser.”
She only orders brandy
when my aunt is paying.
But after a particularly
severe rift in her relations with
the Clique, my aunt boycotts
this particular Ladies’ Parlor
and refers to it as the Pig Pen i
or the Hen Coop. She then |
shuttles two bus-stops away to
her alternative hotel. Here she j
sits alone and haughty in the
Lounge, eschewing all com-
pany. Until, usually, a crony
will spot her one day, wave
to her, join her and eventually
lure her below to her old
stamping-ground, the Parlor.
Here she will settle down again
in company she rejected three
months earlier for some
offence, spread her things
about her, her omnipresent
carry-all with the two take-
home bottles poking out, her
newspaper folded back to the
racing-page, all ready to set-up
house again.
It is exactly the same—a
Clique gathered round one
table with Outsiders to the
wall.
They are all there nearly
every afternoon, a few as early
as eleven in the morning.
Excepting my aunt (she is 74),
each has her man —husband,
lover, keeper, gigolo, and
sometimes interesting
“doubles.” Some are roving
freelances. But “Them and
their men!” my aunt splutters,
“look at that bloody Big Eva
—she’s living with a man
fifteen years younger than her
—and not a tooth in her head.
I’ve kept myself all my life-
No man keeps ME!”
She is moving again shortly.
Those Mongrels have driven
her out with laundry-tubs fiH e “
with babies’ nappies. She Win
find another bed-sitter "handy
to the pub.”
She will fight and drink and
be exploited in the next Ladies
Parlor until driven to another
by some real or fancied slight-
But her greatest boast is: “I
never been barred from a pud
in my life.”


LETTERS
For and Against the Changes
Sir,
Like other regular contribu-
tors to Society and The Other
Fellow’s mind, I feel some
personal disappointment at the
changes in the paper. Natural
human frailty, surely! And
only fair, particularly in view
of past encouragement received,
to continue a reader's support
of The Bulletin. One does not
cold-shoulder a good friend
simply because he moves from
a n old suburb to try his luck
in a new one.
Good luck to The Bulletin!
I still enjoy its variety and
well-informed opinion.
Pat Grayson
Epping ( N.S.W. ).
Sir,
Your issue of January 18
reaches an all-time low. With
one or two exceptions, it is a
staff-written job—pure journal-
ism. With TV and the radio
swamped with second-hand
Yankee rubbish, and the Cradle
of Australian Literature hack-
written, there would appear to
be a poor, lean time ahead for
the freelance writer.
• My first impulse was to
cancel my subscription, but 1
find myself fascinated by the
horror of what you have done
to The Bully ; so I must wait,
just to see how low the poor
old paper can sink.
Hoping the end comes quick
and clean.
Gordon V. Keenan
Warragul (Vic.).
Sir,
A subscriber to The
Bulletin for 50 years or there-
abouts, 1 read with interest
your leader on “The Changes
in The Bulletin.” I myself like
the changes. It was inevitable
that changes would have to be
made in this changing world.
G. G. Given
Brisbane.
Sir,
I’ve been a regular reader of
The Bulletin for about 50
years, and as one grows older,
one finds oneself losing interest
m various activities, and over
the last few years that also in-
cluded your journal.
However, your last three
editions make me ask what the
kell has happened in your office.
; Tour new style, your instructive
a nd most enjoyable articles give
me an added interest in the
autumn of my life, and 1 am
sure that applies to many others
as well.
C. Wolfe
Box Hill South (Vic.).
Sir,
Don’t abolish Society, cut
out the pars., and publish short
feature articles of general in-
terest instead. Considering that
some of our well-known writers
of today first began with
humble pars, and short articles,
it seems a pity to deprive our
present young and inexperi-
enced writers of this oppor-
tunity when the field is so
limited.
I’d also like to see more scope
and encouragement offered to
the few humorists we happen
to have.
(Mrs) Sheila Tassell
Mapleton ( Q .).
Sir,
The demise of Society and
Aboriginalities—that fraternity
of anecdote-lovers —should be
marked by a national day of
mourning. The boring (and
bored) unsigned substitutes, far
too verbose and insincere, can
be got in any number of popu-
lar magazines—plus a pair of
“bosoms” on the front cover.
And why the ban on pen-
names? Be consistent, please!
Ralph Berman
Armidale (N.S.W.).
Sir,
As a reader for 50 years of
the Bushmen’s Bible, and a
former bushman and contribu-
tor, my most appropriate word
is “bravo!” This is what Aus-
tralia needed. The Bulletin,
in its sere and yellow leaf, has
had its brains brushed, a shot
in the arm, a stomach-wash,
some eyedrops, and has been
injected with the faculty of
presenting fact and fancy in a
clear, entertaining, informative
way never before achieved in
its history.
Thanks from one who would
have felt like weeping if it had
gone under in its old age.
A. E. Yarr\
Tamworth (N.S.W.).
Sir,
The only improvement is the
addition of an index. On the
other side of the ledger the
short, humorous pars, in the
Society and Aboriginalities
columns supplied by “Aboliars”
were signed and full of meat.
And my wife complains that
the Melbourne and Sydney
Women’s Letters have been
dropped.
I preferred Uncabled Addi-
tions as it was, with those short
various viewpoints to finish up.
On the Personal page there is
too much space devoted to one
individual. There are lots of
other sports besides cricket.
And you can have racing.
I have been a subscriber
since 1905 and am now buying
two copies a week, but ....
L. M. Murton
South Kinangop (Kenya).
Sir,
There is nothing wrong with
the changes in your paper. I
have always admired your
courage and outspokenness at
all times.
Without wishing to “paint
the lily” 1 regard The Bulletin
as the best paper in Australia
and on more than one occasion
1 have said to my various
friends that 1 would sooner go
without my breakfast than miss
The Bulletin . I have been
buying it for over 50 years.
I have often thought it a pity
you did not have a much wider
circulation, and I sincerely
hope the changes will bring this
about, particularly amongst the
masses rather than people
who already agree with your
views.
E. A. Brownell
Toorak (Vic.).
Sir,
Once a Bulletin reader, one
always likes it. All the same,
I feel that there have been
improvements and vice-versa.
First, the index: good on
you, Bully. At last 1 know
where to find things. I dreaded
that the Red Page might go,
but it has not, with Nancy
Keesing and other favorites in.
I miss Personalities in detail
terribly. I wish the various
States could be included more
intimately.
' Congrats, for ever for keep-
ing verse in. Without it, The
“Want a model?"


Sir,
The paragraphist, the factual
short-story writer and the versi-
fier of the past, who portrayed
incidents within their experi-
ence and made The Bulletin
a pleasurable writer - reader’s
paper, now give way to modern
journalists with creative minds
—experts in what is doubtfully
termed research into the doings
and learning of others. So we
get a paper with articles too
long for the man in the street.
A. Morrison
Paddington (Q ).
Sir,
Why this feverish urge for
change? The Bulletin was a
great old paper as it was —
couldn’t be better. Now, lam
all at sea.
I feel thankful at least that
the old darkie grilling his
goanna has not been changed!
Please leave him.
Muriel Crook
Hanwood (N.S.W.).
Sir,
I like the new set-up and do
not miss the old Society pages.
They could be patchy at times.
May Miller
Kaliista {Vic.).
Sir,
I suppose the new - style
Bulletin has come to stay?
And so the reading public will
just have to put up with it —
if we continue to buy it. For
myself, I have decided to give
it a go for the time being ; but
to be frank I just do not care
for it very much.
However, having read it for
over half a century I would, I
think, miss it even though it’s
not what it was.
Plain English has slipped
badly, likewise Personal para-
graphs, the Society notes and
Aboriginalities. And I notice
that you no longer publish the
Lennox Walker long - range
weather forecast.
It seems as if you are cater-
ing to the long-haired specimens
one now sees in cities, with
fancy clothes. And there are
apparently no more verses at
the head of pages. Still I’ll
carry on for the present. I live
in hopes.
K. DE WINTON
Sydney.
[Lennox Walker’s forecasts are
still being published, but once
a month only.—Ed.]
Sir,
At 70, I, like an old dog,
dislike changes. The recent
ones in The Bulletin may—or
may not —be an improvement.
They have probably made the
paper more “modern” (what-
ever than may mean).
But it is no longer The
Bulletin as we have known it
and loved it so long. The charm
and the spirit of the paper have
slipped away. It is now some-
thing new and strange. Would
you resent me saying: “Just
another modern weekly”?
John Angell
Margaret River (W.A.).
Sir,
In my opinion the brightest
literary parts of The Bulletin
were the Society, Aboriginali-
ties and Other Fellow’s Mind
pages.
A. L. Montin considers that
the last-named section was “too
much in the control of a
clique.” This is a mistake
which so many uninitiated
people make with regard to
success in journalism. It is
attributed to “favoritism” and
“influence.” Such notions are as
ridiculous as they are untrue.
An editor takes what he wants,
and what suits his purposes.
The reason why the same
names appeared frequently in
those columns was that they
belonged to writers of the same
kind of mind, who made a
study of that section and shared
its policy and views.
Hattie F. Hopkins
Mosman (N.S.W.).
Sir,
I always get my Bulletin,
for I love good reading. I
enjoy it above all papers
because it’s Australian, bring-
ing the outside world into our
own country.
May the changes in The
Bulletin bring not only success
and progress but good reading
to all. Thanks for a friendly
paper that helps to bring com-
fort to one’s mind and inspires
one's hopes with thoughtful,
understandable reading.
Sam Reid
Fullarton (S.T.).
Bully would never be The
Bully.
The other day 1 was talking
to a retired railway engine-
driver. He said the one paper
he’ll never give up is The
Bully. He seemed to think it
was a sane voice in a confused
world. He was born and bred
in the bush, never even got to
scholarship stage so far as I
know, yet he is a “natural” in-
tellectual, and his devotion to
The Bully touched me.
I never cared greatly for
Aboriginalities since bushmen,
some from Central Australia,
insisted it was written by “bank
johnnies and schoolteachers,”
and I felt they were right. But
really 1 don’t think there is
much wrong with The Bully
“then and now”—except that I
wish there were more of it!
E. M. ENGLAND
Ipswich (Q.).
LETTER FROM THE
EDITOR
Readers may be interested in
our reactions to their letters
about the changes in The
Bulletin.
First, there is the point of
overwhelming importance that
some changes were necessary
otherwise the paper would
eventually have gone out of
existence. The changes we have
made may be right or wrong—
partly right, partly wrong,
probably—but changes there
had to be. To those who
oppose any change we can only
say, with all the friendliness in
the world : if you had had your
way you would have killed The
Bulletin. However, most
readers have not objected to
the idea of any change as such,
but only to some particular
types of change we have made.
1. Format. There has been
little complaint about the
changes in technical presenta-
tion. They are designed simply
to present the paper more
attractively and make it easier
to read. When the page size
was cut down several years ago
an attempt was made to pre-
serve continuity in presentation
to keep faith with readers. But
the smaller size does require a
change in presentation. That
is what we have done.
2. Headings. The re all y
traditional headings have been
maintained, except that Sundry
Shows, Sporting Notions,
Women’s Letters and Personal
Items have been changed to the
less embellished Shows, Sport,
Women and Personal. Those
two modern headings The
Other Fellows’ Mind and Un-
cabled Additions have been re-
placed by the more simple
Letters and Overseas headings
because the former seemed
rather cumbersome, and be-
cause they were not traditional
headings anyway. But the
great Bulletin headings—Plain
English, Political Points,
Society, Aboriginalities, The
Red Page and so on are main-
tained.
3. Aboriginalities. We are
most anxious to strengthen
Aboriginalities, and we still
want it to consist primarily of
short pars, although there will
be a longer opening item. But
we are not getting enough con-
tributions. Anyone in the
country who has an eye for the
unusual had better send in a
contribution. We do not want
to forget the past —but a picture
of the country as it is now is
what is really needed.
4. Society. Contributions are
still accepted for Society,
although pen-names will n°
longer be used. We are revert-
ing to the original Bulletin
concept of Society—that it
should consist of pungent
observations of urban Ilk
Here we are not breaking witn
tradition but returning to it.
5. Political Points used to be


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO ROBERT CLEVELAND WEATHER-
BY late of Carrington Hotel, cnr. Rail-
way and Terminus Streets, Petersham
and JOHANNA OSTROWSKL—TAKE
NOTICE that UNA AGNES WEATHER-
BY has filed a Petition No. 3396 of
1960 for Divorce from ROBERT CLEVE-
LAND WEATHERBY on the grounds
of his adultery with JOHANNA
OSTROWSK i If you Robert Cleve-
land Weatherby wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court Mint Building
Macquarie Street Sydney by the 28th
day of February 1961 You Johanna
Ostrowski may apply to the said Court
to be allowed to defend A copy of the
Petition may be obtained without
charge from MESSRS. A. J. McLACH-
LAN HOARE MANN & CO., Solicitors,
6 Wynyard Street, Sydney.— C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM HAROLD THOMPSON
late of Laurel HiII.—TAKE NOTICE
that ALICE THOMPSON has filed a Peti-
tion No. 3466 of 1960 for Divorce on
the grounds of desertion for 3 years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance at the Divorce
Office, Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney by the 3rd day of April 1961
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from F. W. REILLY, Soli-
citor, of 19 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO ROY LINDSAY COGGINS late of
Ramsgate.—TAKE NOTICE that
DAPHNE KATHLEEN COGGINS has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 52
of 19.61 on the ground of desertion for
three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court Mint
Building Macquarie Street Sydney by the
14th day of April 1961 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge
from MESSRS. ADRIAN TWIGG &
CO., Solicitors, of No. 160 Gastlereagb
Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW-
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO CHARLES BIGG, late of 2 Roberts
Street, Artarmon. —TAKE NOTICE
that FAYE PATRICIA BIGG has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 3724 of
1960 on the ground of desertion without
Just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry, Supreme Court Mint Build-
ing Macquarie Street Sydney by the 31st
March, 1961 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from JOHN W.
BINNEY, Solicitor, of 79 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO GARNET HAROLD RAYMOND
JENNINGS late of Sydney.—TAKE
NOTICE that TREYGWEN MAVIS
JENNINGS has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3057 of 1960 on the grounds
of desertion for' three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse and
is asking for the exercise of the Court’s
discretion under S. 19 (2) (a) of the
Matrimonial Causes Act 1899-1960 If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry Mint
Building Macquarie Street Sydney by
the Third day of April 1961 and obtain
a copv of the Petition without charge
from CHARLES GRIFFITHS, Solicitor,
107-109 Elizabeth Street, Sydney, New
South Wales.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO FREDERICK JOHN HARRIS late
of Tuggerawong. —TAKE NOTICE that
NELLIE HARRIS has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 3441 of 1960 on the
grounds of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Mint Building Macquarie Street Syd-
ney by the 10th day of April 1961, and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from CHARLES GRIFFITHS,
Solicitor, 107-109 Elizabeth Street, Syd-
ney, New South Wales. —C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO LAUREL PATRICIA GILDER-
SLEEVE late of Merrvlands Housing
Settlement Merrylands.—TAKE NOTICE
that RONALD GILDERSLEEVE has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2242
of 1960 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for 3 years
and upwards If you wish you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street Sydney by the 31st March
1961 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from It. G. B. TEMPLE-
MAN, Solicitor, 180 Church Street,
Parramatta. —C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED
Established, 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), SIR EDWARD R. KNOX (Vice-Chairman),
R. J. VICARS, A. MURRAY JONES, HUGH DIXSON,
D. A. T. DICKINS, K. B. MYERS, A. E. STEPHEN
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of Every Description
J. O. LEWIS, General Manager.
a Russian, salad of both domes-
tic and foreign pars. We have
no w divided these into the
domestic (Political Points, page
11) and the foreign (Overseas
Pointers, page 21).
6. Plain English has actually
[expanded by a page. It will
(expand further when suit-
able correspondents have been
found. It is now intended to
be more a picture of life in
Australia, and less a criticism
of it.
7. Personal. While we shall
have the longer opening profile
or interview we shall restore
some of the short pars. soon.
8. The Red Page has already
been expanded and may be ex-
panded further.
9. The Wild Cat Column
will, we hope, be expanded
later in the year. At the same
time we hope to give added
interest to Business, Robbery
by including articles on the
problems of business adminis-
tration as well as the present
economic and financial articles.
10. Women. These pages
were changed from Sydney and
Melbourne social notes to make
them of wider interest.
In general, there are plans
for improvement in both
quality and quantity that will,
we hope, soon make The
Bulletin the best shilling’s
worth available to intelligent
Australians.
Several other criticisms
demand comment:
1. Economy. There seems
to be an idea that we are try-
ing to save money on contribu-
tions. Everyone likes to save
money, and we do not wish to
be extravagant, but in fact we
are now spending more money
on contributions than before,
although some of it is going to
new contributors. The fact
that an item is not signed with
a pen-name does not mean that
it is not contributed. We are
not paying for letters, certainly
—but that is because we want
to turn the Letters page into a
forum of comment.
2. Weakening in literary
bond. It is true that a number
of Australian writers once cut
their teeth by contributing pars,
to The Bulletin. But that was
>n the age of pars. We are now
offering better opportunities for
writers to cut their teeth by con-
tributing to the various sections,
°r to the general feature pages,
than the pars, policy would do.
There is no future in pars.
We like to think that the
following is symptomatic of
w hat now may be happening
among readers:
On December 16 we received
°ur first letter of complaint. It
said tersely: “Much more
meddling with The Bulletin
and I defect.” On January 21
we received another letter from
the same reader. This one
said: “Defect? I retract. It’s
pretty good. Pity about Abo-
liars, Sporting Notions and
Society . . . The Bully should
cost Is. 6d.”
If we can all play as a team
on The Bulletin—staff, con-
tributors, old readers, new
readers, we shall turn it again
into a mighty magazine.
MANAGING EDITOR
The Bulletin.
HANDS OFF STUART!
Sir,
Why is it necessary for a
certain type of present-day
critic to delame the memory of
John McDouall Stuart? He
has of late been repeatedly
describe d —as in “Never-
never was Nearly-nearly” (B.
11/1 / ’6l) by Max Harris —as
uncouth, drunken and profane.
None of these charges, so easy
to make or repeat, can be
proved historically correct.
Stuart was well educated and a
gentleman and sacrificed his
health and finally his life to
his work.
There are other explorers,
equally famous, who could be
similarly debunked. Mr Harris
and like-minded “critics” have
ample opportunity here, though
what they will have achieved
when their work is completed
would be very hard to say.
Bad history unfortunately
has a tendency to override
good, a piece of silly gossip
being often easier to find and
more likely to catch the interest
of the casual reader than the
truth. But would it not be
preferable to take a little more
trouble and present the history
of the founders of our nation
accurately?
M. S. WEBSTER
Mont Albert {Vic.).
WHAT INDONESIANS
THINK OF US
Sir,
Owing, apparently, to res-
tricted space, my article on
“What Indonesians Think of
Us” (B. 25/1 /'6l) was cur-
tailed to the extent of omitting
two matters which I considered
significant.
I feel it should be appreciated
that the favorable opinion of
Australians held by many In-
donesians stemmed in the first
place from the early recogni-
tion by the Chifley Govern-
ment of the new Indonesian
Republic, and in the second
from the sponsorship by the
Menzies Government of Indo-
nesian membership of U.N.
This favorable view has been
affected, obviously, by our sub-
sequent support of the Dutch
in West New Guinea, but there
is a reservoir of goodwill which
is important to future relations
between Australia and Indo-
nesia.
CHARLES MEEKING
Queenscliff ( N.S.W. ).
NO OPPOSITION FROM
MESSEL
sir,
In the article entitled ‘‘The
, hite Oliphant. (B-25/1/61)
1 was amazed to read the state-
n,e„t: “The increasingly
we >B ht y opposition is centred
, ’MTool of Physics
f 1 Sydl^! y University, and £ ro '
*? arry Messel ...
1S s incorrect and
can ° nothing but harm to the
cordia ] relationship which has
iv‘ sted between Sir Mark
Oliphant and mysetf, as well as
our sc °°* s ’ or P ast dve
y ears -.
I wUh *t to be known that
our schools are actively co-
operat.ng in the scientific field,
a » d time and time again we
have unhesitatingly asked for
Mr Mark s help and advice.
H. MESSEL
SchoolofPhys.ee
Umvers.ty of Sydney.


ABORIGINALITIES
The Cake
“TTow d’you make a cake,
son?” Nuggett wanted to
know.
It was Saturday afternoon in
the cane-camp, and the rest
of the gang, including the cook,
had cleared out for town to
gamble and drink.
They called us two the cave-
men because we seldom left
the camp, let our beards grow
and shaved our heads. We
were saving for a trip overseas.
Nuggett, being practically a
total abstainer, suffered from
a sweet tooth, and I was young
enough for cake to be a must.
After a midday dinner of
seven pounds of steak and
chops and a dozen fried eggs,
we had looked in the safe for
dessert and found none.
“Bloody cooks,” growled
Nuggett. “Clearing out with-
out leaving any sweets.” He
hated cooks.
I said I knew how to make
a cake all right if we had the
ingredients.
“What do we want, son?”
asked Nuggett.
“Sugar, flour, butter, eggs
and fruit,” I told him.
Nuggett checked up in the
kitchen. “Well, they’re all
here,” he said, showing his
gold tooth with delight. “We
can’t miss. What are we wait-
ing for?”
“The ingredients were all
there, all right. A kerosene-
tin of eggs, a box of butter,
pounds and pounds of raisins,
currants, sultanas and candied
peel, a bag of sugar and a bag
of flour.
Nuggett rinsed his horny
hands under the tap. “What’s
the drill, son?” he asked.
I said: “You beat up the
eggs and the sugar while I
rub the butter into the flour
for a start. Then I’ll show you
what else.”
So away we went, each with
a big tin dish.
After about ten minutes
Nuggett said: “How many
eggs d’you reckon, son?”
“How many have you got
so far?”
“About a dozen and a half.”
“What?”
“About eighteen, son.”
“Well, leave it at that. Mix
’em well with the sugar, then
we’ll start getting everything
together.”
After another period of
whisking, grunting and rub-
bing we found another larger
dish and flopped the two mix-
tures into it, adding huge quan-
tities of mixed fruit and lemon-
peel. It still seemed a bit dry,
so we wopped-in a quart of
milk. Then we both dug into
it with our hands and finished
by beating the mixture with a
big iron spoon, taking it in
“Are you bothered much by snakes in this area ?”
turns as each arm grew tired.
Next we greased the biggest
baking-dish we could find,
emptied the mixture into it and
smoothed it off.
“She looks good, son,” re-
marked Nuggett, trying to
clean the sticky mess off his
hands.
The fire was still going in
the stove, so we popped the
cake in the oven and put on
more wood.
“How long d’you reckon,
son?” asked Nuggett licking
his lips.
Impatient bloke, Nuggett. I
told him about an hour at least
for a cake that size, and settled
down to roll a smoke.
dyruGGETT took a stroll along
the headland and came
back as the sun was going
down. “Did you look at her,
son?”
“Not yet. Plenty of time,”
I said. “It’s a big cake you
know.”
Nevertheless we opened the
oven carefully and peeped
inside. The cake was exactly
the same as when we had put
it in. Nuggett looked at me.
The first doubt had entered his
mind.
I told him it needed a hotter
oven; so he went out and
picked some choice fuel from
the woodheap and stoked up.
Then he went out again and
started in with the axe. He was
good on the woodheap, being
a Tasmanian, and he chopped
away until dark. “Bloody
cooks—never leave any wood
chopped!”
We stoked the fire until the
top of the stove was glowing
red, and about nine-o’clock
we opened the oven again. The
cake was as black as coal.
“She’s done, son,” shouted
Nuggett and whipped it out
onto the table.
“But you have to try ’em,”
I said, pulling a straw out of
a whisk broom; “to see if
they’re cooked inside.”
I stabbed with the straw. It
came out wet. “No good,” I
said, “she’s raw inside.”
Nuggett gave me another
look, a hard one. The second
doubt.
We carefully turned the cake
over and put it back in the
red-hot oven. I lay on the
bunk and read a book while
Nuggett prowled up and down
the verandah like a caged lion,
a hungry one, every now and
again feeding the fire.
At half-past ten we pulled
the cake out again and tried it
with the straw. It was as wet
as ever and going black again
Nugget said not a word, but
took a hurricane lamp out on
the woodheap and started in
again with the axe. I greased
a sheet of newspaper, laid it
over the cake and wrestled it
back into the oven.
We stoked until midnight,
changing the greased paper as
it burnt up. By this time
Nuggett’s patience had run out.
“If she’s not cooked now,
son, she never will be,” he
declared and pulled the cake
from the oven for the last
time.
up-ended the black mass
onto a wooden slab just
as the first wave of gamblers
and drinkers arrived home in
a car.
“Anything to eat?” they
shouted, stomping onto the
verandah.
“Cocoa and cake,” I said,
starting to cut the cake while
Nuggett made the cocoa.
The fruit had all settled to
the bottom of the cake so 1
said, “High for plain, low for
fruit.”
I never saw men enjoy a
cake like they did. They
munched into it, piping-hot,
swilled it down with cocoa
and went to bed.
And what a night! Every
man with his own nightmare.
Mine was about shovelling
cake-mixture on a concrete-
board and using it for the
foundations of a block of flats
at Bondi. I think Nuggett was
on the woodheap again,
judging by the thumping on
the corrugated iron beside his
bunk. The ganger was having
a terrible go-in with the cocky
over the cutting price for the
next paddock; and the
gamblers were winning and
losing and placing their bets
on the dice and the pennies.
In the morning the first
thing that hit our gaze was
the remains of the cake in the
food-safe. It shone like the
sun, as yellow as a canary and
hard as concrete. The cook
came home that night and
wanted to know what it was
and who did it. He reckoned
it must have cost a fiver to
make. He said he’d make a
trifle of it; hacked off pieces
with a caneknife and soaked
them in milk for days. But
the cake remained just as hard.
We shifted camp then, but
before we went the ganger
nailed a slice to the verandah
post with a 6in. nail. When
we returned six weeks later it
was still there, intact.
LES SUCH


A Strange One
You mightn’t find his like up
that way now, but back
before the isolation which
gave the place its unique out-
post feeling had vanished, “a
strange one” lived for years
on a beach some 25 miles from
Darwin.
j. T. Beckett and I met him
when we were beating up to
Cape Don in our lugger and
called in. A patriarchal Eng-
lishman, he wore a pandanus
bat he had woven, a flour-bag
for pants, was as black as a
native and spoke beautiful
English. He was as thin as a
lath, but in excellent nick.
They had told me in Darwin
he didn’t speak to anyone
except the natives, who looked
upon him as a medicine-man.
He was in their view “a
strange one’ ; and to be “a
strange one” to the aborigines
is to be one more spirit than
man, and, therefore, of the
elect. 1 hat he conversed with
the spirits was proved to the
natives by his reciting Shake-
speare and the Psalms as he
walked along the beach or
through the mangroves.
Four times a year he would
walk the 25 miles to Darwin
and 25 miles back, to get a
letter from the post-office and
to buy some flour, tea and salt.
He bought nothing else ; living
on fish, turtle, turtle-eggs, the
young shoots of cabbage-palm,
"Daddy, who made me ?”
and sweet-potatoes, which he
grew in a little plot near his
paperbark hut.
It is so long ago that I can-
not recall what was said when
we met him, but I do know
he impressed me with his learn-
ing, diction and bearing. How-
ever, one drover 1 met in Dar-
win said he’d had quite a long
conversation with him.
“We talked for a long
while,” said the drover. “There
was one thing puzzled me
about him. He was either a
notable liar or he was insane.
The things he said he’d done
would add up to two lifetimes,
and 1 reckoned he was a man
in his late sixties, maybe. At
last I got up enough courage
to ask him. He told me not to
give him the orthodox pap to
cover up what is not a rude
question at all. He said it ‘was
only considered rude by fools
who live together in tribes.’
“‘I am ninety-five years
old,’ ” he said, “ ‘I came here
on my sixty-fourth birthday.’ ”
He’s dead now, of course.
Or is he?
ERIC BEDFORD
That Was the Country
Consider the bullock-pun-
cher’s couch, and the variety
of it. Formerly it was slung
under the waggon. Nowadays
it depends from the rear of
the vehicle. The bullocky
euchres the weather by erect-
ing a miniature tent over
his bedroom. Said bunk, in
its simplest form, consists of
two poles with chaff-bags or
cornsaeks attached thereto,
and hung onto the waggon
with any old thing. In its
highest stage of development
it is a spring mattress stret-
cher with the legs ampu-
tated, and swung by ropes
from an ingenious frame. As
a sleep ccmpeller this takes
some licking, Between these
extremes come the sheet of
bark hammock, the net ham-
mock and the canvas ham-
mock.
A resting-place much en-
vied by the teamsters on the
Wagga-Tumbarumba (New
South Wales) track is an un-
tanned hide hammock, hairy
side inward. The owner of
this has refused live pounds
for it, on sentimental grounds
—the bullock it used to con-
tain was a well-loved curse-
repository. The bunk furni-
ture is generally scanty, and
consists mainly of a yellow
dog with an evil and bilious
disposition, which animal lies
under the bunk and collects
samples of visitors who stop
to inquire how the sleeping
apartment is constructed.
“Bulletin”, February 24, 1910.
In a section of the cow-
trodden Northern Rivers
(N.SAV.) district, the hot-
bed of child slavery and
sweated labor, the cockies are
wearing a worried expres-
sion.
One farmer on the Tweed
has been experimenting with
the eight-hour-system at a
fair wage, as well as trying
the entire abolition of child
labor. The sweaters saw an
ill-omen in the move, and
foretold disaster and failure.
So far, however, disaster has
not appeared in the vicinity
of the experiment, and fail-
ure hasn’t even sent a tele-
gram concerning its where-
abouts. According to the ex-
perimenter (one McKeevers,
of Cudgera), who ought to
know, his eight-hour men do
the same amount of work as
his neighbor’s weary slaves
manage to slummock through
in 12 or 14 hours, and they
do it more satisfactorily. But
if that sort of thing spreads
there will be nothing to do
with the small child-slaves
but let them have seven or
eight hours sleep, go to school
in a fit state to learn some-
thing, and grow into normal
men and women. It’s against
all reason —Cow reason, that
is.
■Bulletin”, March 3, 1910.
The alleged uninhabitable
North of Bananaland has
several women-farmers who
are a living denial of the lie
that only blacks, tans or yel-
lows can successfully settle
the country. There is, for
instance, a Canadian woman
who belts the scrub and soil
into submission on the Ath-
erton tableland. She owns
100 acres. After her house
was built she dug a well 69
feet deep, planted an orch-
ard, put 17 acres under corn,
and since 1896 has done
every bit of manual work on
the farm. Strawberries, beans,
honey, pork, poultry and
wild turkey are all factors
in her success. “Bulletin”,
February 17, 1910.
The Bush Papaw...
4VTo one knows the full beauty
of a papaw unless he has
taken a ripe fruit from the tree.
It has all its sweetness and
flavor ; it is matured naturally ;
it is perfect.
1 wouldn't go so far as to
say a bush-grown papaw tastes
better than one from a culti-
vated tree, but my fancy leads
me to favor the bush bloke.
It hasn’t been pampered and
forced ; it has ripened
gradually, its full sweetness
secreted, its delicate odor and
flavor enriched by nature. I
claim, and I've proved, that a
ripe papaw is so delicate that
a man can’t carry one in his
bare hands without bruising its
flesh. And this marvellous
fruit is subjected to rude pack-
ing in cases, handling in loads,
and other indignities!
The papaw seems strangely
close. to animal life in many
ways. A seed carried by a
flying-fox germinates on the
edge of a scrub. If it is within
striking distance of sunlight the
plant will seem to get down
on its hands and knees and
crawl along until it reaches the
sun before shooting upwards.
If planted in the middle of a
scrub it takes the shortest road
to the sun —straight up. If
it's a male plant it wastes its
substance on the air. But if
it’s a female, and no males
are near enough to fertilise
her, she'll bear fruit. It will
be small, comparatively taste-
less, and will be either packed
tight with seeds or have none
at all. The peculiar part: an
unfertilised female papaw, if
it does have seeds, will grow
only male trees.
. . . and the Ideal Mango
A fter a man has gorged on
mangoes, when he reckons
it’s not worth starting on one
unless he eats a dozen or so,
he develops things called
“mango sores’’ —usually on the
lips. They're mighty painful,
but they’re worth suffering for
the fun of getting them.
If you want a mango in all
its perfection, stand under a
mango-tree before sunrise some
windless morning in mid-
summer when the air is cool
and soft and the trees are fresh.
If you’re lucky you’ll hear a
faint “tick.” That’s the signal
to spring to action. The art is
to catch the falling mango
before it hits the ground, for
then it is perfectly ripe ; it
hasn't been forced or ripened
off the tree ; it is in full
maturity ; it is not bruised by
hitting the ground. A ripe
mango is lit food for the gods
at any time ; taken this way it
is perfect.
H.G.L.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Associated Pulp and Paper
Mills, Ltd.
The lifting of import-restrictions in
creased the inflow of overseas paper
and intensified competition on the Aus-
tralian market. Group sales rose appreci-
ably, but lower profit-margins in the
second half of last term dampened earn-
ing-rates. All plants operated at maxi-
mum capacity.
Overseas, the pulp-and-paper industry
was again characterised by keen com-
petition, although the fall in prices
apparent in the preceding term was
arrested. Demand for pulp fumed, but
there was no substantial rise in prices,
because a large increase in productive
capacity in Europe and North America
added materially to the supplies available.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1936, Asso-
ciated Pulp and Paper Mills, Ltd., was
the first commercial undertaking to suc-
cessfully produce high-grade printing-
and writing-paper entirely from euca-
lyptus woodpulp. Today, at mills at
Burnie (Tas.), Ipswich (Q.), Sydney
(N.S.W.), Melbourne and Ballarat (Vie.),
the co. manufactures a variety of fine-
coated and laminated-papers, blotting-
paper, special wrappings, wallboard and
sawn timber. The manufacture of high-
grade hardboard from wood-fibre is a
natural sideline to the making of pulp
and paper from native hardwoods.
Last term A.P.P.M. again lifted
output of paper by 5546 tons to 71,081
tons, setting a new production-record:
f— Production N
Woodpulp. Paper. Burnie- Sawn Sales
board. Timber. Paper.*
Year to Air-dry Mil. Mil.
J’no 30. Tons. Tons. Sq. Ft. Super-ft. Tons.
1956 .. 34,980 53,855 45 2
1957 . . 32,644 51,374 45 2.4
1958 .. 32,990 51,752 51 3.7 52,582
1959 .. 35,176 65,535 91 4.9 63,673
1960 .. 41,461 71,081 106 4.8 71,473
* Sales figures unavailable in 1956 and 1957.
Sales of paper were slightly ahead of
production, rising by 7800 tons to 71,473
tons. The value of paper turnover in-
creased by £1.6 million (13.2 p.c.) to
£13.7 million.
Production of woodpulp and Burnie-
board increased, but output of sawn
timber was slightly lower. Timber and
log sales rose from £BOO,OOO to £1.5
million, an increase of 87 p.c.
Group sales for the year ended June
30, 1960, were up by £3 million to £17.9
million.
Consolidated gross profit advanced by
£115,068 to £2,973,853 (including £19,823
income from investments), after providing
a hefty £1,015,775 for depreciation and
obsolescence (up £102,901).
After charging all operating and
administrative expenses and directors’
fees, etc., and setting aside £923,500 for
taxation (up £423,470), consolidated net
profit edged-down by £45,854 to
£1,471,436 to show an earning-rate of
17.1 p.c. on the slightly higher average
capital:
Consolidated Figures.
To Re- Re-
April, rrofit. <- Dividends N serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1956.. 1.043.468 9 p.c. - 637,006 406,462 1,331,981
Plus reduction intangibles, £297 .. 1,332,278
Loss sale assets, £22,250 .. .. 1,310,028
To staff fund, £9485 . . . . 1,300,543
~ forest roads w/back, £57,281.. 1,357,824
„ forest roads amortisation provi-
sions w/back, £34,250 . . 1,392,080
~ provision for amortisation of
mining assets, £15,000 . . . . 1,377,080
Adjustment shares in subsids., £7731 1,369,349
Unexplained addition, £3490 . . 1,372,839
1957.. 931,225 9 p.c. = 637,006 294,219 1,667,05 S
Plus reduction intangibles, £992 . . 1,668,050
Loss sale asstts, £7922 .. .. 1,660,128
Sundry provisions w/back, £18,238 1,678,366
To provision for amortisation of min-
ing assets, £lO,OOO 1,668,366
Adjustment shares in subsids., £l2B 1,668,494
Unexplained reduction, £144 . . 1,668,350
1958.. 9 p.c. = 669,959 368,927 2,037,277
Plus reduction intangibles, £2067 . . 2,039,344
Loss sale assets, £11,281 .. .. 2,028,063
To provision for amortisation of min-
ing assets, £6OOO . . . . 2,022,063
Adjustment shares in subsids., £4 . . 2,022,059
1959.. 1.517.290 11 p.c. = 939,665 577,625 2,599,684
Plus reduction intangibles, £131,312 2,730,996
Share-premiums, £120,447 .. .. 2,851,443
Loss sale assets, £15,448 .. .. 2,835,995
Patents £19,550, preliminary expenses
£71,550 and commissions £30,462
written-off . . . . . . . . 2,714,433
Goodwill w/off, £4980 .. .. 2,709,453
Adjustment shares in subsids. £99,934 2,609,519
Adjustment minority interest, £94 . . 2,609,425
1960. .1,471,436 11 p.c. = 948,498 522,938 3,132,363
* After deducting intangibles (now £358,038) from
reserves, and excluding depreciation reserve, etc.
( £7,363,181).
This compares with 17.8 p.c. in the
preceding term, 14 p.c. in 1958, 13.1 p.c.
in 1957 and 14.7 p.c. in 1956. Higher
tax-charges were due to the increased co.-
rate and disallowance of certain deprecia-
tion write-offs.
The div.-rate was steady at 11 p.c.,
absorbing £948,498. Reserves received
£522,938 and also benefited by £131,312
reduction in intangibles, and £120,447
share-premiums, but were reduced by
£15,448 loss on sale of assets, by write-
offs of patents (£19,550), preliminary ex-
penses (£71,550), commissions (£30,462)
and goodwill (£4980), and by adjustments
of the book-value of shares in subsidiaries
(£99,934) and minority interest (£94).
Total consolidated reserves and un-
distributed profits were disclosed at
£3,132,363, after deducting £358,038 in-
tangibles and excluding depreciation
reserve, etc. This gives a net tangible
asset-backing of 275. 3d. for each 20s.
ord. unit.
Last term A.P.P.M. bought-out Cum-
ming Brothers Pty., an old-established
timber-miller operating on the north-west
coast of Tasmania. The consideration
was the issue of 80,298 f.-p. 20s. ords. at
a total premium of £120,447. This lifted
the one-class paid capital to £8,622,702.
Expansion of productive capacity con-
tinues. The No. 10 paper-machine pro-
ject is well under way. A second con-
tinuous digester has been ordered for
the pulp-mill.
A new suitable site was acquired at
Wesley Vale, Devonport (Tas.). Prelimin-
ary planning is under way to develop a
large new pulp- and paper-mill project
in the area with the co-operation of
Tasmanian Government. The first step
of this long - range project will be to
establish a particle-board plant.
Capital-expenditure over the next few
years is forecast at £7 million, including
£4 million earmarked for the No. 10
paper-machine at Burnie. Last term’s
capital outlays amounted to £2.5 million
Book-value of fixed assets (shown at
cost) increased by £2.577,032 to
£20,719,082. In order to provide some
of the groups huge fresh capital-require-
ments the co. made an issue of
£2,205,675 7 p.c. conv. notes (one-for-
four at par) maturing June 30, 1964,
after the balance-date. The first 10s. per
note has been received. In addition, a
private placement of £1,500,000 long-
term non-conv. was made, also after the
close of accounts.
Lower values and higher turnover
reduced current raw and semi-raw stocks
by £418,272 to £2,734,883. Finished
stocks were £45,785 higher at £1,249,100.
Book-debts increased:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1958. 1959. 1960.
Paid capital .. £8,163,714 £8,542,404 £8,622,702
Reserves . . 2,037,277 2,599,084 3,132,363
Outside interests 5,587 4,607 4,096
Debentures,
notes . . 2,846,482 2,807,082 2,767,532
Deposits . . 300,820 601,565
Depreciation . . 5,341,361 6,291,232 7,363,181
Overdraft .. 2,596,283 2,418,832 2,518,902
Creditors . . 640,876 972,929 1,297,815
Tax provision. . 630,688 949,789 1,056,022
Final divs. . . 3 7 2,199 5 5 5,2 5 6 560,476
£22,634,467 £25,442,635 £27,924,654
Freehold land,
etc.* . . 1,104,6 10 1,199,441 1,442,394
Buildings and
plant* . . 15,736,794 16,942,609 19,276,688
Stocks, etc. . . 2,987,16 1 3,153,155 2,734,883
Finished stocks 724,932 1,203,315 1,249,100
Debtors . . 2,003,567 2,764,614 3,171,393
Shares in other
cos. . . 2,500 17,429
Cash, etc. .. 77,4 03 1 77,00 1 32,767
£22,634,467 £25,442,635 £27,924,654
* At cost.
Deposits, bank overdraft and creditors
were much higher. Theoretical working-
capital was £947,096 lower at £1,153,363.
Due to the changing pattern of imports
the co. has altered its distribution system
to use traders who are prepared to sell
Burnie-papers in priority to imported
lines. Last October orders were in hand
for six months’ output of printing- and
writing-papers.
A.P.P.M.’s reserves of the required
types of timber seem adequate. The co.
owns over a quarter-of-a-million acres of
forests in north-west Tasmania and south-
east Queensland. Associated Forest Hold-
ings Pty., a wholly-owned subsidiary, is
concerned with this aspect of the groups
activities, and has initiated some sound
forest-management practices.
The printing industry is booming, and
demand for A.P.P.M.’s products remains
high. The main problems are rising costs,
severe overseas competition and price-
fluctuations.
At the last sale in Sydney the 20s. ords.
were quoted at 445. a unit. The im-
mediate yield is 5 p.c. on the basis oi
the present 11 p.c. div.-rate. The 10s.
paid conv. notes last changed hands at
28s. each. The final 10s. call on conv.
notes will be made next October.


PRING, DEAN & CO.
H. H. Dean, Y. J. Berner, W. E. Hunt,
J. A. Hudson.
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
20-22 O’Connell St., Sydney. 33 Bligli
St., Sydney.
Telephone: BW 4011 (3 lines).
Telegrams Address:
Bring Stock Exchange, Sydney.
Cables Address: Limvar, Sydney.
Telegraphic and Cable Address:
“Hatmax” Sydney.
Hattersley & Maxwei!
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone: BW 1771—8 W 8088.
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
R. H. ALLEN, M. R. R. DOWRING,
P. R. REVY, A. P. REYNORDS, N. R.
COURSE (Melbourne Resident Partner).
Delfin House, 16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
23-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Building, 150 Queen St.,
Melbourne. 67-5957 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables: “Rosdale,” Sydney.
Melbourne, or Wollongong.
A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. E. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Eloor,
The National Mutual Eife Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31 2761 P.O. Box
(4 Eines) No. 1887 W
Bradford Cotton Mills, Ltd.
i substantial increase in aggregate
A turnover was largely offset by con-
tinuously rising operating expenses, par-
ticularly labor-costs. “Recent additions
to the basic wage, and the increase in
margins, had the effect of immediately
increasing the wages paid by Bradford
Cotton Mills, Ltd., by approximately
£150,000 p.a.” The full impact of jumps
in basic labor-costs is yet to be felt by
the industry, as secondary effects come
into play. But the co., reporting on the
half - year since the close of accounts,
announces increased turnover and profit.
First established in 1927, and a public
co. since 1935, Bradford Cotton Mills,
Ltd., is a leading manufacturer of cotton-
goods. The group’s 13 mills in N.S.W.,
seven in Victoria and two in Queensland
are engaged in the spinning of raw cotton
and its conversion into cloth.
The group also engages in doubling,
dyeing, weather- and rot-proofing, flame-
proofing and sanforising. There are ex-
tensive interests in the rayon-spinning in-
dustry.
The textile industry is characterised by
vulnerability to competition from lower-
cost imports, shifts in the pattern of
demand and changing consumer-tastes.
Despite this Bradford Cotton has not
once failed to pay a dividend of 10 p.c.
or more on its ord. capital since listing.
For the past seven years the ord. div.-
rate has been steady at 12| p.c.—a credit-
able record.
Last term the sales were substantially
higher. Consolidated net profit before
tax for the year ended June 30, 1960, was
up £136,850 at £1,003,981, after charging
all expenses and fees, and providing
£537,721 for depreciation (up £107,903).
After setting aside £446,262 for tax
and contingencies (up £116,872), con-
solidated net profit after tax was £19,978
fatter at £557,719:
Bradford Cotton and Subsidiaries.*
, Dividends To Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. Reserves, serves.f
£ £ £ £
1956.. 230 6 p.c. 12tp,c. 371,193 99,037 2,151,318
Prom, long-service leave, £63,000 2,088,318
To staff fund, £5OOO 2,083,318
Unexplained net addition, £11,246 .. 2,094,564
■Capital surplus, £227,691 .. .. 2,322,255
Investments written-off, £37,500 . . 2,284.755
1957-.570,45 1 6 p.c. 12ip.e. 397,545' 172,906 2,457,661
Capital surplus, £472,904 . . . . 2,930,565
Unexplained addition, £9040 . . 2,939,605
Special reserves trans. to depn. provn.,
£123,000 . . 2,816,605
To staff fund, £5OOO 2,811,605
To long-service provn., £17,064 .. 2,794,541
Tax underpvovided, etc., £17,101 .. 2,777,440
1958.. 883 6 p.c. 12|p.c. 428,070 154,813 2.932,253
Plant written-off, £50,933 .. ..2,881,320
To long-service provision, £10,877 . . 2,870.,443
1959.. 53 7,74 1 6 p.c. 124p.c. 435,081 102,660 2,973,103
To staff fund, £7OO 2,972,403
To long-service provn., £17,679 .. 2,954,724
Plant scrapped written-off £38,114 . . 2,916,610
Surplus on acquisition of subsidiary,
£17,688 .'. 2,934,298
4900.. 7,7 1 9 6 p.c. 12-Jp.c. 438,009 119,710 3,054,008
Excluding outside interests. f After deducting
Mangiblos, now written-off, and excluding deprecia-
tion and amortisation reserve ( £4,716,096).
After paying pref. shareholders this was
e quivalent to an earning-rate of 16 p.c.
°n the slightly higher average ord. capital,
compared with 15.5 p.c. in the previous
errn - 17.2 p.c. in 1958, 18.7 p.c. in 1957
an d 16.1 p.c. in 1956.
Reserves received £119,710, and also
benefited by £17,688 surplus on acquisi-
tion of a subsidiary, but were reduced
by £7OO transferred to staff fund, £17,679
provided for long-service leave and
£38,114 scrapped plant written-off. They
stand at £3,054,008.
During the year paid capital was in-
creased by the issue of 27,870 20s. em-
ployees’ shares. Later, the scrip was
split into ss. units. After the close of
accounts Bradford Cotton made an issue
of £859,766 ss. ords. at Is. 3d. premium,
on a one-for-four basis. This lifted paid
capital to £4,451,932 in ss, ords. (includ-
ing £153,104 6 p.c. cum. prefs.), and
provided the co. with £1,074,707 of
finance.
In addition, last November the co.
issued £1,250,000 p.c. registered un-
secured notes maturing February 28,
1971, with the co.’s option to redeem
at a premium in 1969 or 1970, on giving
six months’ prior notice.
The proceeds of the share- and note-
issues will be used to make “substantial
improvements” to existing plants in
N.S.W'. and Victoria, and to erect a new
spinning-mill at Kotara (N.S.W.) for the
production of fine cotton-yarn “of a type
not yet manufactured in Australia.”
Severe overseas and domestic competi-
tion, and a high cost-structure, compel
Australian textile-manufacturers to main-
tain their plant at the peak of technical
efficiency, with an ability to expand out-
put at short notice to respond to increases
in demand. The rate of obsolescence and
depreciation is high. Efficient operation
involves considerable capital expenditure
at frequent intervals.
Brad f o r d’s management is keenly
conscious of the need to maintain a high
level of production efficiency. Last term’s
capital-outlays from accumulated sur-
pluses totalled £1,049,000, compared with
£665,000 in the previous financial year.
The modern spinning-mill at Kotara
should improve the group’s overall com-
petitive position.
Book-values of fixed assets reflected
heavy capital investments in plant and
machinery. Long-term borrowings at
balance-date (excluding the new
£1,250.000 note-issue) amounted to
£1,950,000. In addition £348,333 is still
owing on purchase of freeholds:- —
Parent and Subsidiaries.
1958. 1959. 1960.
Paid capital .. £3,532,093 £3,564,296 £3,592,166
Reserves . . 2,932,253 2,973,102 3,054,008
Outside interests 27,516
Notes . . . . 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000
Depreciation re-
serve . . 3,944,053 4,244,766 4,716,096
Mortgage loan 1,000,000 975,000 950,000
Overdraft . . 1,081,087 1,503,012 1,764,897
Deferred
creditors . . 411,667 380,000 348,333
Creditors .. 1,657,373 1,576,570 1,958,623
Staff fund . . 1.36,020 151,951 174,901
Tax reserve*. . 460,197 341,126 459,753
Final div. . . 216,640 217,793 219,534
£16,398,899 £16,927,616 £18,238,311
Freeholds . . 2,750,774 2,822,240 2,968,895
Leaseholds . . 13,404 14,422
Investments .. 112,023 12,024 12,024
Plant . . .. 7,179,294 7,604,096 8,400,457
Stock . . . . 4,462,777 4,378,255 3,974,486
Debtors . . 1,894,031 2,097,597 2,868,027
£16,398,899 £10,927,616 £18,238,311
* Includes unspecified contingencies.
Theoretical working-capital decreased by
£397,645 to £2,439,706. Liquidity remains
satisfactory. Current stocks showed a
substantial decline due to the. larger
volume of sales. Book-debts were much
higher.
Net tangible asset-backing, after the
share-split and the new issue, was £32 3s.


sd. for each ss. 6 p.c. cum. first pref.,
£2O 1 Is. sd. for each ss. 6 p.c. cum. second
pref. and Bs. lOd. for every ss. ord. unit,
on the basis of consolidated figures.
The new scale of duties, recommended
by the Tariff Board after the 1960 inquiry
into rayon and other man-made fibres,
“will be of considerable help to the in-
dustry.” Japanese manufacturers are
said to have undertaken to exercise more
restraint in exporting rival goods to Aus-
tralia.
Nevertheless, the potential threat will
exist as long as the Australian textile in-
dustry remains a high-cost producer by
world standards. Rising labor-costs are
a very serious problem, and one that is
largely outside the manufacturers' ability
to control.
Current outlook is favorable. Sales
and profits for the first four months of
the current year are said to be higher
than in the previous term. Orders in
hand for deliveries ahead are ‘ satisfac-
tory in every respect.” The group's major
production - units, including the rayon
plant, are working three full shifts.
The co. has an enviable div.-record
and an able management. Over the past
four years there has been a tendency
to steadier profits. With all the reserva-
tions in mind, Bradford’s ords. are an
interesting proposition at the latest Syd-
ney quote of 9s. 6d. for each ss. unit. The
immediate yield is an attractive 6.3 p.c.
on the basis of the steady 12| p.c. div.-
rate.
The ss. first and second prefs. last
changed hands at par.
Gordon Edgell and Sons, Ltd.
A part from its well-established ami
extensive range of canned vegetables,
soups and hot packs, Gordon Edgell and
Sons, Ltd., is now marketing a complete
range of quick-frozen foods in both
retail and catering packs, together with a
wide and highly regarded range of canned
baby-foods.
The co. has just concluded another
year (to June 30 last) of vigorous expan-
sion, the foundations of which are traced
back, at least for the most part, to activity
initiated in 1958 and 1959. In early 1959,
Edgell reached agreement with the Gerber
Products Co., of Fremont, Michigan,
U.S.A., to produce and market Edgell;
Gerber Baby Foods in Australia —a fac-
tory has been erected at Bathurst (N.S.W.)
for this purpose. Shortly afterwards (in
March, 1959) the co. annexed Bird's Eye
Foods (Aust.) Pty., which until the take-
over was a part of the vast Unilever
empire—Bird’s Eye Foods is a specialist
in the distribution of quick-frozen foods
to the retail trade.
Then, following entry into the new and
rapidly expanding frozen-food market,
Edgell took-over in quick succession the
Crystal Ice and Cold Storage Co. of
Rozeile (N.S.W.), and Quick Frozen Food
Distributors Pty., a co. engaged in the
distribution of frozen foods to the cater-
ing trade. During last term the co. took-
over Hygrade Food Products Pty., a
distributor in Newcastle (N.S.W.) of
frozen foods.
And in addition to these, its various
and rapidly accumulating processing
activities, Edgell grows much of its own
primary produce. The co.’s three can-
neries, two in N.S.W. (at Bathurst and
Cowra) and one in Tasmania (at Devon-
port) are situated in good agricultural
areas so as to allow economic handling
of the unprocessed raw materials.
Benefits, profit-wise, are strikingly
apparent. Consolidated accounts are now
presented for the first time. Competition
remained keen throughout the term with
profit-margins lower than in the preced-
ing year, but turnover, higher than ever
before, lifted profits to £137,948 (up
£28,141), reversing the downward trend
evident in 1957 and 1958:
Parent Only.
Pref. To Re- Re
June Profit. 6| p.c. Ord. serves, serves-*
30, £ £ £ £ £
1955.. 89,130 3900 8 p.c. = 41,878 43,352 418,503.
Capital profit, £361 .. .. .. 418,864
Share premiums, £l5OO .. .. 420,364
4956. .154,040 3900 10 p.c. = 65,295 84,850 505,214
Capital profit, £2839 . .. .. 508,053
Share premiums, £2500 .. .. 510,553
1957. .159,865 3900 10 p.c. = 66,300 89,665 600,218
Tax overprovi'Jed, £11,348 .. .. 611.566
Capital loss, £2941 608,625
1958. .121,993 3990 10 pc. = 82,226 35,867 644,492
Capital profit, £14,320 .. .. 655,812
Share premiums, £50,250 . . . . 706,062
1959. .109,897 3900 10 p.c. = 88,982 16,925 722,987
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Share premiums, £120,553 .. .. 843,540
Capital profit, £6150 . . . . . . 849,900
Surplus on consolidation, £854 .. 850,544
1960. .137,948 3900 10 p.c. = 97,980 36,068 886,612
* Subject to intangibles, £12,991 at June 30, 1960.
Competition was most marked in general-
food lines, with sales of frozen- and baby-
foods rising sharply. Ascertained after
setting aside £117,179 (up £57,329 and
appropriate to a profit of £175,000) for
tax, and £123,740 (up £37,149; a reflec-
tion of heavy investment in fixed assets)
for depreciation, earnings work out at
13.7 p.c. on average ord. capital, after
allowing pref. entitlements —there are
60,000 £1 6y p.c. cum. pref. shares —and
compare with 11.9 p.c. (again on average
ord. capital), 14.4 p.c. (average ord.
capital), 23.5 p.c. and 22.9 p.c., the cor-
responding figures back to 1955.
Divs. were held at 10 p.c. Reserves,
helped by share-premiums, £120,553 and
capital-gains, £6150, but subject to in-
tangibles, £12,991 at balance-date, rose,
altogether, £163,625 to £886,612. The
share-premium increment resulted from
the acquisition of Hygrade Food Products
Pty. (consideration involved the issue of
2000 ords. at a premium of 20s. per
share) plus the issue to note- and stock-
holders alike of 246,150 ords. one-for-five
at a premium of 10s., November, 1959.
Edgell’s growth, over recent years, lias
developed a thirst for liquid funds. Share-
holders subscribed a one-for-three par
issue in 1955 ; a one-for-four par
issue in 1957 ; and in 1958 a convertible-
note issue (two 20s. notes for every five
ords. at par). It seems a fairly safe pre-
diction that, so long as present rates of
expansion continue, shareholders will be
called on to provide further capital in the
not too distant future, but earning-rates
will need to improve if a safe margin over
the 10 p.c. div. is to be earned. Should
Edgell’s, however, decide to rest awhile
and consolidate the present position, and
provided, too, that capacity is fully
utilised, profits in relation to capital are
likely to flourish more quickly.
Balance-sheet figures are testimony t
the co.’s growing stature:
f —Parent Only—. C^*° I I
Paid capital— 1958. 1959. IQ , E “'
Pref £60,000 £60,000
Ord 828,750 895,750 1 ’?
Reserves .. .. 614,492 722,987 s B6^”
Notes . . . . 333,139 33, ' nM
Mortgage . . .. 283,500 267,000 oin’wn
Overdraft .. 779,873 798,549 707’ai -
Creditors, etc. .. 130,684 564,360 290'4a
Due to subsids. .. 66,600 ~
Tax provision .. 65,000 59,390 m c
Final div. . . 43,387 46,737 55’^f
£2,835,686 £3,814,512 £3,842 lvj
Freeholds, plant.. 1,111,0 0 5 1,441,0 64 1,551,716
Shares in subsids. 77,600 ’ _L
Stocks .. .. 1,48 6,0 7 7 1,8 8 0,9 08 1,704 511;
Debtors .. .. 237,396 413,004 570'0;i
Cash, etc. . . 1,208 1,876 2)139
Intangibles . . 12V31
£2,835,686 £3,814,512 £3,842^21
The frozen-food industry has made
great strides in Australia in recent years
particularly in the production of quick-
frozen vegetables (currently the most
valuable section of the industry in Aus-
tralia) :
Australian Production —Quick-frozen Vkhetaiur
Other
Peas. Vegetables. Total.
Year. lOOOlbs. lOOOlbs. lOOOlbs.
1957/58 .. 10,131 3,715 13,846
1958/59 . . 10,188 3,198 13,386
1959/60 .. 17,489 5,966 23,455
The industry is relatively new to Aus-
tralia, and, as was the case in America,
green peas is established as the most
popular selling line. However, in the
U.S.A., demand has now swung to pre-
pared foods and dinners, and some ex-
pect the same trend to develop in Aus-
tralia.
Edgell's chairman, Mr M. G. Edgell
referring to activity last term, says “during!
the current year much of this new con-
struction will begin to show results'
Further, “sales for the first quarter of the
current financial year are the highest yet
and the seasons so far have been kind tt
us.” And “the use of frozen-vegetable!
in particular is increasing rapidly, but
with little, if any, effect on canned!
vegetables.” 1
The 20s. ords. look interesting at*
present prices. Fetching 355. 6d., they
return an immediate yield of 5.6 p.c,
granted a continued 10 p.c. div. The 20s.
notes (6V p.c, registered unsecured notes,
convertible to ords. at par, 30/6/’64)
last sold at 295. 6d. to leturn 4.4 p.c. The
prefs. at 225. yield 5.7 p.c. Visible net
tangible cover is 355. Id for the stock-
units, £34 9s. 6d. for the prefs.
Associated Australian Oilfields, N.L,
A ssociated Australian Oilfields,
N.L., has announced that Pick-an-
jinnie No. 2 well has been drilled to
4200 ft. “This well was located down-
structure, in an attempt to establish the
water-level of the Pickanjinme structure.
A drill-stem test at 4060 ft. to 420011
interval showed water and gas. The well
is drilling ahead.
Pickanjinnie No. 2 is the first well being
drilled for Associated Australian Oil-
fields, N.L. (in conjunction with Asso-
ciated Freney Oil Fields, N.L., and the
Papuan Apinaipi Petroleum Co., Ltd)
in the 1961 oil-exploration
Seismic surveys of new structures i Ol
the second 1961 well south-east of
jinnie were not completed in time 1°
a well to be drilled there prior to Pi^ 2ll
jinnie No. 2. |


SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Information Sought
What kind of containers are
commended to take food on a
camping holiday ?
For non-acid foods use tins with
push-in lids. For dry groceries and
dried fruits use very strong plastic
or polythene bags, these to be
packed again in cartons. If acid
foods are carried glass is the only-
safe container. Liquids should be
carried in glass or plastic jars with
tight lids.
* * * *
Can money in the bank and
maturing Government loans, in the
name of a deceased person, be
used to pay death duties, or have
the executors to put up the money
themselves, leaving the estate intact ?
In the absence of any direction
jn a will to use a specific fund
for payment of death duties, the
executor may use any assets in the
estate for that purpose. An execu-
tor need never, and seldom does,
pay the death duties out of his
own pocket.
* » * *
A method of polishing celluloid ?
It is almost impossible for die
amateur to polish this material.
You would probably find it simplest
to dip the strips of celluloid in
clear brushing lacquer or paint it
on. 1 his stands reasonable wear
but not very much heat.
* * * *
When was “Advance Australia
Fair" proposed as Australia's
national anthem ? What other songs
hare been suggested as suitable
anthems ?
"Advance Australia Fair," which
was written about 1878 by a Scot,
Peter Dodds McCormick, was first
performed in Sydney on St Andrew s
Day of the same year. It was then
described as “a patriotic song." On
April 11, U 933, J. T. Lang, then
N.S.W. Leader of the Opposition,
rebuked people at a meeting at
Lidcombe, N.S.W., for not remov-
ing their hats when the song was
being played. Lang claimed that
it was a national anthem, but there
was. of course, nothing to support
such a claim.
During World War FI, A. A.
Calwell, then Minister for Informa-
tion, tried to raise the song to
national status by having it played
to introduce the A.B.C. news broad-
casts, and requested cinema pro-
prietors to play the song in their
theatres “to assist in the develop-
ment of a national Australian
spirit. " In reply to criticism of
the song Prime Minister Curtin
stated that the Government did not
recognise it as a national anthem,
but that Calwell was entitled to
boost it if he thought it would
help to build morale.
One of the earliest attempts to
find an Australian anthem, either
to stand on its own or merely to be
a subsidiary to “God Save the
Queen," was John Dunmore Lang's
“Australian Anthem" and “Aus-
tralian Hymn" which appeared in
1836 in his “Aurora Australis.”
The first anthem produced com-
plete with music was “Advance
Australia," composed by Stephen
Hale Marsh with words by Jonn
Rae, town clerk of Sydney, and
published in 1846. A few years
alter this appeared the Sydney
council of the Australasian League
held a competition for a national
anthem- but the judges' choice did
not survive for long.
Various attempts were made to
write a suitable song in the next
twenty years, the most notable being
Carl Linger's “The Song of Aus-
tralia," but none of these, or of
the vast number of patriotic songs
written in the 1890’s, achieved much
success.
The Bulletin conducted a com-
petition in 1908 to find a national
anthem, but the only lasting con-
tribution was C. J. Dennis’ “Real
Australian Austra—laise,” which
w<as undoubtedly Australian, and
received a special prize as the only
worthwhile battle-song. Another
competition brought “Fling Out the
Flag," by A. tl. Adams. In 1915
a Sydney music-publisher brought
“The Song of Australia' 7 to light
again. This song seems to have
enjoyed new success, for in 1929
the Prime Minister, S. M. Bruce,
was asked a question in the House
seeking its recognition as Australia's
national anthem. The reply was
that “God Save the Queen" re-
mained the official anthem.
Competitions for a national song
were held by the Australian Broad-
casting Commission in 1943 and
1945. In the first competition
none of the entries merited a prize
but in the latter a first prize of
£7O was won by Marie Pitt for a
lyric, “Ave Australia." In a com-
petition held in conjunction with
the Jubilee celebrations in 1951
the winning entry was “This Land
of Mine," written by John Wheeler
and set to music by Henry Krtps,
but no official sanction was given
for the use of the work.
There are still many who would
like to have an Australian national
anthem, but the Prime Minister,
Mr Menzies, has made it clear that
his Government recognises only
“God Save the Queen" as official.
Wants
Words of the poem beginning:
I pray the prayer that the Easterns
do:
May the peace of Allah abide with
you.
Where ever you go and where ever
you stay
May the bountiful palms of Allah
sway.
and ending:
So I touch my heart as the Easterns
do,
May the peace of Allah abide
with you.
—4o
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered jor publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
T.P.: Your pen not as mighty as
the editor's sword.... K.S.: Neces-
sary amendments too hard to make
....AID.: "Afternoon on the Hill”
more raucous than usual... .S.W.:
Seldom worse.... HJ.: The "Ode
to the West Indies" was u catas-
trolypso... .“Ian": Barely a smile
in that 0ne.... A.J.F.: Quite un-
intelligible. In ten lines of tortuous
grammar, not one verb... .N.C.:
Series of unrelated incidents....
W.‘W.: “Because 1 think some eflort
should be made to restore the pun
to popular favour . . Good,
new puns perhaps, but not those
chestnuts....PT.’F.: Some of your
rebel yell:
Eighty five per cent, of students
failing their examinations
Fail because they were not working,
says the great chief, Harry
Messel,
Fail because of their own slackness,
not the fault of Harry Messel,
Fail because they were not working,
working nightime on vacation,
Working oft the debt they owe him,
for a higher education,
Working in the early morning,
working late instead of sleep-
ing.
Working all the time, not eating:
working at, instead, their
weeping,
Working out their poor excuses,
practising their lamentations.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 628
Across
I—Part of a snip seaman and the initial of Anita who
wrote “Gentlemen Prefer Blondes" and other outcries.
(11)
s—Visit uncle and uncle's brother. (3)
7—Colin has spoilt another chap. (8)
9 A nasty little child. (4)
11— Run into this vessel. (3)
12— Speakeasy inquiry as to a pos-
sible past visit made by her. (7)
13— -A lot of water didn’t kill this
meat. (3)
15—A direction to hand one with an.
unorthodox lead. (8)
17—Soft follower of the loco otter
to supply. (6)
]9—Take for granted as turning us
and one of us. (6)
20 —Wrongly instruct there's a haze
for every one. (8)
22 — Contradiction of no Victorian
town. (3)
23 Traction in the cold got made
badly. (3-4)
25—Also. (3)
27 New York in beef. (4)
28 — Mob joined by Mo with morti-
fication. (8)
29 The old man’s step. (3)
30 — One might sw'allow such predica-
ments of dopes. (4, 7)
Down
1— Aces without difficulty when the
scores are level. (7, 4)
2 Herbs ring in beers. (5)
3 One crippled as groves. (8)
4 Set grants, (anagram) (9)
5 Defiled conflict? (7, 6)
6 Sleep upset kitchenware. (3)
B—Cortez and Pizzarro study a
tennis authority and a Diana.
(13)
10 — Bewitch with some male kiss. (3)
14—Do 1 walk on one steamer, lady?
(ID
16 —Spirit for one who survived a lot
of water mentioned with pro*
hibition publicity. (9)
18—Sidelight 1 sampled curiously.
(4-4)
2! —A departure reference to the
past. (3)
24 —-Conjuring a private soldier into
1100. (sj>
26—The law is firm with a little
piano. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 627


mm
808 (BP PICK-A-BOX) DYER SAYS
• • •
“when 1
you pick BP
you pick
. the best!”.
TRACTOR FUELS and
ENERGOL LUBRICANTS
used and proved all over the world
• BP PETROLS containing BENZOL • BP DIESOLEUM
• BP POWER KEROSINE • BP ENERGOL TRACTOR OIL UNIVERSAL
• A full range of BP ENERGOL oils ® BP ENERGREASE
AVAILABLE FROM YOUR LOCAL BP AGENT
