

The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
hj
Price 1/•
Overseas
Congo after Lumumba —»
Will it wreck the U.N, ?
Land
“Nino Culotta” presents a case
for the Little Fisherman
Art
The hands and mind of
Lyndon Dad swell
Reviews
The Namatjira tragedy .
Men of Mount Isa .
IVhy We Haven’t Got an Army
By “Ek Dum”


The Red Page
The Namatjira Tragedy
Nomads in No Man's Land. T. G. H.
Strehlow.
The life of Albert Namatjira, from
a writer’s point of view, is a perfect
work of art. Somerset Maugham would
have done the story very well indeed,
and some day Australia’s first serious
film may do it. It is a marvellous
theme, complete with all those ironic
implications which dismay the re-
formers and idealists and give even
the most satisfied some uneasiness, a
feeling that artists not infrequently
inspire.
Mozart, you remember, was buried
in a storm in a pauper’s grave, and
when, belatedly. The Best People
sought to put up a monument no one
knew where to put it. Albert Namat-
jira was hawked about as an example
of what-White-Australia-has-done-for-
the-aboriginal. Our Establishment had
actually let him paint and make money
by it. He was pushed forward to meet
the Queen and Those Who Count.
Then later he behaved as many white
artists behave, throwing his money to
undeserving friends, getting drunk
regularly and splendidly. But being
an aboriginal it did not end there. He
was sentenced to jail for supplying
another aboriginal, who had not
Albert's opportunities, with liquor.
Something broke in him with that jail
sentence and he died.
Mr T. G. H. Strehlow. of Adelaide
University, has taken Namatjira’s life
as the point of departure for a serious
study of our relations with the abori-
ginal people. He was brought up at
Hermannsberg Mission with Albert
Namatjira and knows the Aranda
tribesmen intimately. In this published
lecture his main argument is that you
cannot separate an individual from his
group. He quotes the man who said of
Namatjira: “He is the only native I
know who is proud to be one.” Out
of that native pride Namatjira was
lifted, separated, cut off. White society
treated him as an individual. He was
urged to repudiate his “degraded
hangers-on.” He was a man in whom,
white people felt. “European artistic
achievement had obliterated the old
stains of Aranda culture.”
But Albert Namatjira was an initiate,
one of the leaders of the Hermannsberg
community. “What kind of a status
could his father-in-law Wapiti, the
Kukatja ceremonial chief of the
Merini. have hoped to enjoy in the
artistic homes of white Australian city
folk?” Mr Strehlow asks. Yet Namat-
jira knew that in the only society that
meant anything to him he ranked far
below Wapiti.
“Albert Namatjira’s personal
tragedy.” Mr Strehlow writes, “was. 1
feel, an inevitable result of our failure
to realise that no man can stand suc-
cessfully on his very own as an indi-
vidual divorced from the group to
which he belongs.” This applies to
white as well as black, to us as much
as to Namatjira. Anthropologists have
found that in other cases besides that
of Namatjira, drinking is not confined
to the worst elements of aboriginal
society. The brave and bitter drink as
a gesture of defiance. They are out to
show the whites what their piddling
regulations are worth. If they are
thrown into jail they have something
of an added cachet. Why should they
wish to conform to the ideas of people
who despise them anyway?
Albert Namatjira was too intelligent
not to be aware of the patronage im-
plied by the praise of a blackfellow
painting as well as a white man. It
was like Dr Johnson's remark about
the dog that walked on its hind legs.
The feat was not surprising in itself
but it was surprising that a dog did it.
The same kind of deadly insult lay
hidden in much of the praise of Namat-
jira’s painting.
Namatjira was made an honorary
white man. and one of the interesting
points Mr Strehlow brings forward is
that in the Centre blacks have observed
the white men coming in to “do their
cheques.” They do not stop drinking
until they have lapsed into unconscious-
ness or run out of money “shouting for
the mob.” If there is any “civilised
drinking” the natives are in no position
to observe it. White men in the Centre
are easily forgiven as they stagger back
to work, but nobody can tolerate “a
drunken nigger.”
Namatjira, Australia's “best-known
and most gifted aboriginal son” was a
faithful tribesman whose tribal duties
decreed his drunkenness, his sharing
of his race's fate, just as surely as he
Would have shared what he brought in
from the hunt. He brought back as a
trophy of his foray the right to drink
“like a white man.” He shared it with
others. If he had not done so he would
have been despised as a mean fellow.
He wanted to buy a house, and he
would have shared that by tribal law
with every uncle and second-cousin. He
lived in a camp in the sand-dunes, and
there are few white artists who, under
such conditions, would not only paint
but set up a school.
Mr Strehlow points out that it is
mainly in white societies and their
colonial possessions that alcohol is
given such social importance, in the
Islamic world people manage to enjoy
themselves without it. In India it was
forbidden- -not with very good results
- —as soon as the white administrators
left. “It is quite possible.” Mr Streh-
low adds, “that some of the future
aboriginal leaders will be just as hostile
to the liquor issue as the native leaders
in New Guinea who demanded a com-
plete ban on alcohol.” For both white
and black residents, please remember.
Mr Strehlow traces the breakdown of
the authority of the tribal elders and
attributes this to the mission workers
and reserve officials eager to build their
own authority. “No matter how
talented the white administrators may
be they will always be regarded in
some way as foreigners and intruders.”
His advice is to rebuild the authority
of the tribal elders. For instance:—
All sacred caves should be de-
clared inviolable places irrespective
of where they happen to be. No
white person should be permitted to
take any wh'te visitor to such sites:
this should be the privilege of the
ceremonial chiefs only.
On the economic side Mr Strehlow
favors, as so many of us do. the
encouragement of native co-operatives
in which group ownership, not indi-
vidual ownership, would be the rule.
“Group ownership would be more in
line with the traditional aboriginal way
of social behavior.”
Mr Strehlow includes in this admir-
able lecture, which we should be grate-
ful to see in print, the resolution" of
the International Labor Conference,
which bear, in a marked way, on our
present indecent treatment of abo-
rigines. One resolution calls for
“measures enabling the said popula-
tions to benefit on an equal footing
from the rights and opportunities
which national laws or regulations grant
to the other elements of the popula-
tion.” Another significant pledge is
that “Children belonging to the popu-
lations concerned shall be taught to
read and write in their mother tongue,
or, where that is not practicable, in the
language most commonly used by the
group to which they belong.” Very
different from teaching the Aranda or
the Warragal in English and then
calling them stupid and inferior in
intelligence.
Anyone who reads “Nomads fn No
Man’s Land” will realise that it is no
impassioned plea but a serious and
judicious attempt to explain why
aborigines must be helped as a group
to develop their own leadership in their
own way instead of having to suffer
well-meaning efforts to explode them
apart into so many individual frag*
ments of “good” and “bad” blacks.
Kylie Tennant
{Red Page continued on page 26)


Every type of modern roof
looks better, costs less in . . .
Q±Le
gf
STEEL SHEET ROOFING
1
ai
V-,;:
wm
mm
alii
m
m
Bs* M
WBURs
MSB 4
>':?,/ ; : \ ■y !; y;
<>'>> - ' £ VfcS&sl!
% JL * >4?
.V : •' >S J
•"• • • --- - . «M
■%!
**
y *L*|*|»! 1 1 * m *X- *
Sto;f! U H i!"’* i
im
First step to a truly modern home: specify a functional, attractive
‘low pitched’ roof.
Second step: ask your architect to recommend the Lysaght Steel
Sheet that will blend perfectly into his modern roof plan.
Ideal for today’s young home-makers, Lysaght Steel Sheet has a
wealth of practical virtues. It is fireproof, stormproof, shatterproof.
It is easy to handle and goes up faster. Little maintenance needed
yet it lasts a lifetime.
Just published . . . fascinating new guide to the newest trends in
home design. Send for your copy today! Fill in and post coupon below.
WSAC**
ro *t*o***
John Lysaght (Australia) Pty. Limited,
Port Line Building, 50 Young St., Sydney.
Please send me, without cost or obligation, the new Lysaght
Portfolio of Low Cost Home Plans.
NAME :
ADDRESS
STATE
3 TYPES
TO CHOOSE
FROM
Corrugated: Lysaght Red Orb
Sheet, made especially rigid
for roofing purposes, has almost
endless applications in the
building industry. Available in
all wanted widths and lengths;
also pre-painted in aluminium
where speedy finishing is a
factor.
Flat: Essential for forming
guttering, downpipes, etc.;
also widely used for special
roofing purposes and effects.
*Klip-Lok! New smartly ribbed,
heavily galvanized Steel Sheet
with self-locking shoulders for
flat and near flat roofing, a,id
wall cladding. In cost-saving
unbroken lengths to SO ft.
♦Patent No. 222046
Gl 2CC


The Bulletin
MARCH 8, 1961
Vol. 82
No. 4230
INDEX
COVER STORY
Why We Haven’t Got an
Army D
CURRENT AFFAIRS
Plain English
Troubles in the Territory;
Whither Chastity! ;
Labor’s Atomic Week. 8
Political Points 11
DEPARTMENTS
Aboriginalities 32
Personal 16
Service and Information 59
Society 6
FEATURES
Lyndon Dadswell: Hands and
Mind 45
Look Back at Anger 12
How “Capricornia” was made 51
Across the Alps by Elephant 52
FICTION
Siege and Seal, by Olaf Ruhen 47
FINANCE
Business, Robbery, etc.
More Conquests For Coal 40
Decimal Coinage 41
Wild Cat Pages 56
LETTERS 53
MAN ON THE LAND
The Little Fisherman 34
Kangaroos—Pest or Asset 35
OVERSEAS
U.N. and the Congo Crisis 19
The Congo Without Lumumba 20
Overseas Pointers 21
REVIEWS
The Red Page
The Namatjira Tragedy 2
Verse 28
Shows 23
SPORT
Father’s Gone Go-karting! 37
Speedsters Call the Tune 38
John Schofield 39
WOMEN
Carpets; Well-suited ; Memor-
ies ; Shirts 30
NEXT WEEK
Special Pre-Show Issue
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street,
Sydney; Box 2521; Phone: BU 5971.
Just the People
We Need
LITTLE imagination and an average ration of energy on the part of the
Immigration Department and the State Lands Departments could bring
a profitable import of migrants and capital to this country if we cared to
cash in on the troubles of the settlers in Rhodesia and Kenya. All statesman-
like woofle aside, it is pretty clear that experiments in multi-racial societies
in those two countries are just not going to work in a way that is going to
leave many Europeans there happy about their lot. We can wring our hands
about this if we like. But there is also something we can do about it.
In Rhodesia the mining companies, mainstay of the Federation’s
economy, apparently fear the worst. There are already rumors that within
the next six months they will be paying back to their staff all their pension
and bonus credits, about ,/To million sterling. This is only one example of
many of people who, with money in their pockets, may be ready to quit.
Altogether there are 230,000 Europeans in North and South Rhodesia, and if
we had any brains we would go for the lot. We wouldn’t get them, of course,
but we might get a very fair proportion of people who are mostly of the
colonising type, with many special skills and a familiarity with difficulties.
These are just the kind of people we need for our underpopulated North.
Without even particularly trying we could probably pick up 20,000 or so this
year just by taking some advertisements and sending some ships.
Kenya has not yet come back into the news, but it will as the brief era of
European domination in East Africa draws very fitfully to its close. God
knows what will happen to the Europeans there then, as they look out for
themselves along with two kinds of Indians and three kinds of Africans, all
battling among themselves and with each other. The kind of combination of
charity and self-interest that has impelled us to import tens of thousands of
displaced persons from Europe could again come into operation. The typical
Kenya settler is not the kind of man who wants to go back to England;
from his point of view Australia is as good a place as any to go to; we should
make a takeover bid for the lot of them.
There is nothing fanciful in all this. A country that can import a million
migrants as quickly as Australia has can easily handle a population lift of a
couple of hundred thousand. We know exactly what to do. We have the
whole apparatus of a big immigration system in good running order. We
just have to move it to Africa.
But what do we do then? No answer —except that we just absorb them
into our economy. That would be better than nothing—if any of them still
want to come on those terms. But a lot of these Europeans in Africa are not
the kind of people who want to come here to open delicatessen shops, or join
the fishing industry, or work for wages in a steelworks, or do the thousand
and one useful things that European migrants have come here to do. They
are men whose imaginations have been touched—in however a mundane
way —by the old Imperial dream, and by the desire to enjoy the excitements
and freedoms of building a new life in a hard land. In our North we have
as hard a land as you could get; we can offer all the new life anyone could
want. But our imagination and our nerve and our sheer organising skin
have become enervated. We have the North—but we still don’t know what
to do with it.




Society
Moomba Rides
The Wires Again
Melbourne’s Moomba tram - wire
decorations are extraordinarily im-
proved this year. In Elizabeth Street the
improvement is sensational: there are no
decorations at all. In Collins and Bourke
Streets you can just glimpse them. Dare
we hope that the horrible little things
which hang awry from the drooping tram-
wires have at last worn out ?
No. In Swanston Street they are as
terrible as ever : the same old boome-
rang frames with the grinning ball-faced
Moomba man joined now by rows of
other clowns’ heads with mouths smiling,
smirking or pursed for saying “Ooo”
you know ; funny faces. Then there is
that curious old red butterfly ; or is it
another funny face with a black tongue
poking out ?
It is hard to believe that the city fathers
of almost two-million people could set
out to make their main street in 1961 look
like an outback town celebrating Federa-
tion. The idea of Moomba is to break
down Melbourne’s reputation as a stiff,
strait-laced old fogey ; trouble is, these
things look precisely the kind of levity
one would expect from a stiff, strait-laced
old fogey.
No Connection
A rchitects and builders provide for
light, power, water and sewer con-
nections in home units and flats, but
although five out of ten occupiers are
bound to apply for a telephone, provision
for it is seldom if ever made. Time and
again several slabs of nice new concrete
surround must be cut to enable lead-in
conduits for telephone cables to be laid,
while P.M.G. technicians are left with
an even bigger headache over the inside
wiring. Some say it is because plans and
estimates are State-supervised and tele-
phones are only a Commonwealth show
with which the State has, very truly,
no connection.
Party Line
Tl/fELBOURNE gates are being crashed aj
Sydney’s were a few years ago. Per-
sonable young men in their early twenties
with a jalopy, a disarming approach, and
well-cut suits over thick hides cruise
around well-to-do suburbs until lights,
numbers and noise attract them. They
then drop-off a front-man ; if he doesn’t
return within a set time they know he
has got in and arranged for them to
follow.
The front-man doesn’t make a frontal
assault. He calls at a house removed
from the scene of revelry ; he just can-
not believe, he says, that the party house
is not the house of the elderly couple
he is seeking, who never give parties.
Don’t be silly, the householders say;
that is the house of the Kajorkadrops,
where young Judy is turning it on. He
apologises. He must be in the wrong
street.
In with the next group of Judy’s guests
goes the front-man. Judy is usually too
busy to welcome him. A quick recon-
naissance, and he is swapping names and
cigarettes over beers with the advanced
drinkers. He drifts over for a yarn with
Judy, who cannot fail to remember meet-
ing him at the Ritzoria or some other
place he has never been ; she is delighted
that he has been able to come.
One by one his mates crash in quietly;
the front-man makes casual introductions
when they seem necessary ; as often as
not the blow-ins are thanked afterwards
for their contribution to the party’s
success. Trouble and police arrive only
if the gate-crashers leave hogging the
grog to fool with the females. There is
a twin hazard, a battered operator told
police ; some girls resent advances, but
the real atom bombs are those who resent
their absence.
That was Society
A healthy sign in Sydney is the grow-
ing influence of trades-unionism. The
latest association is of “news-vendors,
street-musicians, shoe blacks, lace and stud
sellers, fruit-hawkers, fish-sellers, flower-
sellers and general street-workers.” It is to
be governed by a Tribunal (no less) , with
two “Tribunes” from each calling —sug-
gesting the days of the Roman Republic.
A quaint rule is that providing for the
election of officers; whilst all the others
are to be members of the Union, the
treasurer is to be “a member of the
Sydney Labor Council.”
— “Bulletin", January 3, 1903.
If there is not in Sydney a by-law
sufficient to put down the new advertising
idea of flying from parks and harbor re-
sorts kites bearing tradesmen’s devices,
such an enactment should be passed at
once. Sydney’s beauty is already defiled
to the point of desecration with advertise-
ments; if the sky is to be also given up
to the blazoning of various wares there
will be no refuge for the eye.
— “Bulletin", January 24, 1903.
A single issue of 141 N.S.W. newspapers
contained, according to the Royal Com-
mission on the birth-rate, 445 advertise-
ments about how to prevent this country’s
essential infant.
— “Bulletin", March 17, 1904.
A sadder evening than that which I
spent in company with Rider Haggard at
the Sydney Institute of Jounalists, I never
expect to endure this side of perdition.
He rose to reply to an absolutely funereal
oration from Heney, of the “Herald”,
with a look on his countenance as though
all was lost. Then came the bitter, hot,
blinding tears —bottles of them. The
modern writer was like a butterfly; here
today, gone tomorrow. A few sad words
followed on the iniquity of the woman
writer. He deplored the doings of such
females:
“I would undertake, tomorrow —and
any man of any experience of the world,
and sufficient gift of the pen could under-
take —to write a book that would sell by
the hundred thousand, and yet avoid the
law. Not for a million pounds would I
do it.” (Applause.)
At the finish of what had been intended
for a festive gathering, most of us felt as
though a near relative had just fallen
dead, leaving us unremembered in the
will .—“Bulletin”, May 1, 1913.
It looks as if the opium-smuggling busi-
ness will presently be wiped out, in the
way that might have been expected, by
local production. Already it is said certain
Gippsland Chinese gardeners are making
preparations to grow heavy crops of pop-
pies, and the manufacture of the drug
therefrom is not a difficult process. Pos-
sibly the grower thinks it easier to cir-
cumvent the State authorities than the
Customs, and there he isn’t far out. Vic-
toria’s reform measures are easily dodged,
owing to insufficient and ill-paid police,
and aged J.Ps. of weak intellect.
— “Bulletin", April 2, 1908.
SMALLER BRICKS
“A smaller brick, 9in. by 2fin. instead of
9in. by 3in., will b: used in building a factory
and office at Kevesby, N.S.W.”
Bricks that used to be
Fat as nine by three
Are becoming thin,
Two and five-eighth in.
Every little brick
Cultivates its chic
In the hope of stopping
Socially dropping.
So thin the brick may get
The time may not be yet,
But it will come, when all
Can see through a brick wall.
And such a brick will rather
Tend to travel farther
Than house-agents have thrown
Their record-breaking stone —-
Until, of course, it’s laid
To hold up some facade :
When it is settled there, it
Will be a brick and bear it.
SWILLIAM


A La Carte
an eating house near Figtree Bridge
A at Hunter’s Hill, Sydney, doesn’t
want to scare off dinkum Aussies.
“English and Continental Cuisine,”
says the big sign outside.
“Fish and Chips,” says the little sign
suspended underneath the bigger one.
Hallowed Grounds
When Roy Grounds’s firm was chosen
in December, 1959, to design £4
million worth of cultural centre and
spire to cover 1\ acres of Melbourne,
Mr Grounds promised a quiet and re-
strained design, “the reverse of the
Sydney Opera House.”
This was rather surprising from an
architect whose zig-zag house of stone
and glass at Vermont, round house at
Frankston, triangular house at Studley
Park and glass-and-courtyard residence
at Toorak had had Melburnians and
visitors staring for years. But he kept
his promise. If the quiet and ’•estraint
of the design’s reception is the test, Mel-
bourne cultural centre is as cultured as
a funeral parlor. The bellows of critics
for and against Sydney’s opera house
went around the world. If you had
thrown a otone ir Sydney (and many
would have liked to) it would have hit
the signatory of a letter to the press, for
or against.
But although the Herald and Weekly
Times Ltd had given £50,000 towards
the project, Melbourne letter columns
were as an open door upon which knock-
ers knocked not. The only indication
of limited enthusiasm appeared in the
“Herald” under the somewhat misleading
heading, “Architects and Artists Say :
Centre is Terrific Idea and Artistic.”
The vice-president of the Royal Vic-
torian Institute of Architects, painter
Charles Bush and the president of the
Town and Country Planning Association
a ll had nice things to say about Mr
Grounds’s plan. But the other four —the
Cord Mayor, himself a leading architect,
Lady Casey, an enthusiastic and discrimi-
nating patron of the arts, Sir Daryl
Lindsay, ex-director of the National
Gallery, and E. F. Borrie, former Board
°f Works Town Planner —had only one
thing to say to the press : “No Com-
ment.’’
Without comment, also, the £3 million
Art Gallery and Cultural Centre became
overnight the £4 million Art Gallery
a nd Cultural Centre. When it was only
L 3 million Mr Grounds’s fees were esti-
mated at £lBO,OOO —i.e., at six per cent.,
the Royal Victorian Institute of Archi-
tects’ scale. At £4 million the fees will
presumably be £240,000. It will be a five-
year job, and Mr Grounds estimates it
costs £lOOO a week to run the firm: the
£lBO,OOO would have yielded only £750 a
week. The £240,000' presumably will keep
the firm out of the red.
Premier Bolte, speaking at the opening
of the £ 1-million public appeal for the
new centre, described it as unique, colos-
sal and magnificent in the history of
Melbourne. Standing modestly in the
background was Mr Roy Grounds. He
could hardly be expected to disagree with
the Premier, but for no one at all to
venture a criticism, wrong or right—has
Melbourne succeeded in changing human
nature?
Collector: Queer Type
r T'HE large black sedan nosed cautiously
down the narrow lane behind a
couple of pubs and a residential block,
hesitated by a group of garbage tins,
went on slowly, then stopped. Out
stepped a well-dressed man. He opened
the boot, pulled out a garbage tin and
carried it to the garbage tins outside the
door of a hotel. Discarding any papers
or bottles in the hotel tins, he scooped
their contents into his own tin, which
he replaced in the boot. Down the lane
with another tin, he gave the rest of
the garbage tins the same treatment. Two
tins of assorted scraps from good-quality
eating places —what does he keep: goats,
pigs, dogs, or a dim-sim joint?
Business Notes
Letter received by a customer of a
Sydney shop (not David Jones’):
We thank you for your cheque for
£5 16s. 4d., but, unfortunately, the date is
incorrect and requires alteration, also the
cheque is made payable to David Jones’.
We would be obliged if you would alter the
date and initial and return the cheque at
your earliest convenience.
Drivers , In and Out
The proprietor of a Brisbane drive-in
overlooked by a small section of
highway called “Scotsman’s Hill” smiled
secretly when the car of one of the hill’s
patrons was sideswiped by a truck, its
driver momentarily distracted by Marilyn
Monroe. “I didn’t want to go to the
pictures tonight,” the victim complained
to the police, “but the wife would come.
I only came here because it’s free —and
somebody bashes my car in. It would
have been cheaper to have gone inside.”
As well as Scotsmen outside, pro-
prietors find curious types inside, like the
owners of the opulent car who stage a
picnic from an elaborate hamper in the
boot rather than patronise the theatre
restaurant.
But the star exhibit was not a type ;
he was out on his own —in a veteran car
that would turn only to the left. By
continually turning it left the attendant
manoeuvred it into position on the ramp,
causing a considerable stir among the
other patrons, and managed to get rid
of it in the same way after the show,
wondering how it would get home, and
hoping it would never come back.
♦♦♦ *** <♦
Hercules Street in the Sydney suburb
of Chatswood announces that it can
carry Light Traffic Only.
❖ ♦>
Sydney Royal and Palace Theatres,
both running plays about women
who are no better than they should be,
are said to be replacing call-boys with
call-girls backstage.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Trouble In the Territory
'T'rouble is brewing again in the
Northern Territory, Australia’s largest
and most unruly “colony.”
The centre of a gathering storm which
could blow aside the present Legislative
Council structure and lead again to calls
for State rights and full Federal Parlia-
mentary representation is a sad-faced,
skinny aboriginal, Albert Marrego—one-
time football and basketball champion,
now a town drifter like so many of his
race. For two weeks Marrego has been
locked up in Darwin’s tin-shanty Fannie
Bay jail. He is doing six months for
supplying liquor to a ward—a term which,
if Canberra had ratified the Bill passed
by the Northern Territory Legislative
Council six months ago, he would never
have been called upon to serve.
Now the chips are down. From Terri-
tories Minister Hasluck and his loyal aide,
Director of Welfare Harry Giese, down
to the lowliest man in the street, liquor
is recognised as the one big barrier to
assimilation of the aboriginal into the
European community.
T ~ , . , . ,
Init e old days the penalty for supply-
ing liquor to aborigines was a small fine
or at worst a few weeks jail Liquor
flowedl in native camps from Darwin to
Alice Springs, bringing with the drunken
orgies a wave of disease, fights, spearings,
rape. Alarmed, the NT. Legislative
Council passed unanimously a law setting
six months’ jail as the minimum penalty
for supplying liquor to aborigines—right
of appeal to the Supreme Court provided
for first offenders only
• • ~ . ' . ,
This is the most embarrassing law ever
passed in the north. The member for
Stuart, Bill Petrick, who helped vote it
in years ago, says today “My greatest
regret is that I ever had anything to do
with it.” Even more outspoken are other
private members like Darwin’s Dick Ward
and the Elsey fire-eater Harold (“Tiger”)
Brennan, who three years ago led elected
representatives in a walkout from the
Legislative Council which forced through
far-reaching Constitutional reforms.
Professional “grog rings” still peddle
their liquor to natives who would rather
die than “put them in” to the police.
Roaring booze and sex parties still
racket through the night at Darwin’s
Bagot aboriginal compound and in the
bush around every town in the Territory.
But instead of the worst suppliers the
law has jailed men like Albert Namatjira,
who gave drink to a tribal relative ; a
Katherine halfcaste who handed his de
facto wife (not a citizen) a beer ; two
young airmen who, when asked by a
thirsty aboriginal for a drink of water,
shared a cold bottle of beer with him
instead; aboriginal film-star Robert Tuda-
wali, who hadn’t the strength of charac-
ter —or the selfishness —to refuse to share
with friends some drink he was enjoying
himself ; a Darwin white man who, when
asked for grog by a police tracker, gave
it to him, saying, “We’re all Australians.
Why shouldn’t you have a drink too?”
(The court gave him six months to ponder
over that point). The list goes on and
on, coming finally to the insignificant and
not particularly likeable figure of Albert
Marrego.
Under the present supply law the native
citizen faces an intolerable burden. He
is allowed to drink, but not to share it
with friends or relatives. In part recog-
nition of this the Legislative Council last
September forced through a Bill dropping
“six months minimum” and returning to
the magistrate’s discretionary power on
penalty in supply cases. This was a test
bill in several ways. The old Legislative
Council, in which a Government block
vote of seven public servants invariably
outvoted six elected members, died when
Messrs. Ward and Brennan led the walk-
out of elected members and began what
has been called a bloodless revolt call-
ing for the rights of other Australian
citizens to be extended to the Territory.
The Government temporised, then
offered its own brand of Constitutional
reform in which three nominated non-
official members held the balance of
power between eight elected and six
Government members.
Last September Mr Ward put in a bill
to amend the supplying law. Three non-
official nominated members sided with all
but one of the elected men, outnumber-
ing the Government and for the first time
pushing through a measure directly
opposed to Government policy. The bill
will not become law till the Governor-
General gives assent.
Months dragged by. Several white and
colored men, including Marrego, were
jailed. Marrego’s crime was not great:
he gave a fellow aboriginal a drink.
But for the six-months-minimum pro-
vision he would have got off with a fine.
He couldn’t even appeal against the jail
sentence—though a first offender —be-
cause the Territory has been without a
permanent Supreme Court judge since
Mr Justice Kriewaldt died last July, and
in any case Marrego has no money.
Many Territorians put the blame for
the long delay in assent to the law on
Mr Hasluck, who is on record as saying
that the six-months penalty law will never
be repealed while he is in office.
Unimpeachable sources now state that
the Governor-General’s assent will not be
given, and that the first Bill passed by the
Legislative Council against basic Depart-
ment of Territories policy will never
become law. If this is so the Federal
Government is in for trouble with its
unruly Territorian subjects. Mr Ward
wired Mr Hasluck last Friday, calling on
him to "come out on the flat and declare
himself” on the Supply Bill. Mr Flasluck
sat pat.
Refusal of assent to the Bill is expected
to be officially announced this week. If
the Government goes ahead and throws
out the Legislative Council decision, wide-
spread resignations could again throw the
Council, and the Territory, into turmoil.
And Albert Marrego will have to serve
out the rest of his six-months term for
giving a drink of beer to a friend.
Whither
Chastity?
Tt was a fair question to ask what age
children Dr Doris Odium had in
mind when she said in Sydney, on
March 2, that parents would soon have
to guide their children in the best use of
oral contraceptives. But there was no
question that the honorary consulting
physician for psychological medicine at
the Free Hospital, London, was referring
to a development which would affect most
people, and that much sooner than ex-
pected.
For a long time there have been reports
of the effect of oral contraceptives on
field-mice and Puerto Rican women, as
well as photographs of Bombay posters
reading “Many a Progeny Many an
Agony,” but until now the question has
seemed less than urgent in a country
which spends millions of pounds on
migrants in an effort to boost its popula-
tion. However, a Sydney University
research team, headed by Professor C. W.
Emmens of the Department of Veterinary
Physiology, believes that it has developed
the cheapest and most effective oral
contraceptives in the world, and in addi-
tion a cheap pill, imported from America,
should be on sale in Australia later this
year.
Contraceptive pills have been sold here
for some years already, and most
chemists supply them only on a doctor’s
prescription. But a cheap pill, whether
imported or made here, is a different
matter altogether: for some it means
fewer abortions and fewer unwanted
children ; for others it means an oppor-
tunity for immorality on an ancient
Roman scale.
The 8.M.A., speaking through its
general secretary, Dr J. Hunter, said it
had no policy on the issue of contracep-
tives to unmarried people and left the
decision to the individual doctor. But
churchmen spoke in all their various
voices.
The Anglican Church’s official spokes-
man in Sydney, Major-General C.
Osborne, said oral contraceptives would
do more good than harm, as they would


reduce the likelihood of illegitimate
children.
The president of the Methodist Con-
ference, the Rev. A. J. Keeling, contra-
dicted Major-General Osborne and the
scientists’ claims, asserting that chastity
wa s the only way to prevent illegitimacy,
ge had a word for Dr Odium’s sugges-
tion that parents educate their children
ja the use of contraceptives—“nonsense.”
The Rev. W. B. Coughlan, chairman
of the Marriage Guidance Council, said
oral contraception was only a new aspect
of an existing problem. Most parents
were having difficulties with their
children’s sex education, but if this could
be imparted in an atmosphere of trust
the problem of adolescents using oral
contraceptives to extend pre-marital rela-
tionships would solve itself.
An official spokesman for the Catholic
Church, Dr W. Murray, seemed to have
the same idea in mind when he said it
would be an admission of failure if
parents had to instruct their children in
the use of contraceptives. Advocacy of
training in the use of contraceptives sug-
gested that parents teach their children
how to violate the moral law, said Dr
Murray, and this would be to the detri-
ment of their immortal souls while pre-
serving a certain physical integrity and
respectability.
The director of the Father and Son
Welfare Movement, Mr J. Robson, said
the availability of the pill would force
parents, educators and clergymen to “re-
think” their attitude to chastity as they
would have to present a positive case
which did not rely on the negative fears
of conception, disease and detection.
Indications are they will have to re-
think fast.
Big Borrow
Lour men, a director, a solicitor and
two salesmen associated with the
North American Vending Machine Co.
Pty Ltd have been charged in Victoria
with conspiracy to defraud. The company
operated also in Sydney, Adelaide, Bris-
bane and Perth through investors who
purchased their machines.
The charges against them are fraud,
and conspiring with one another to de-
fraud those who entered into agreements
to buy the machines by promising that
Vend Rite Pty Ltd, an associate company,
Would pay to hire them.
Details of the operations of the com-
pany have been obscure because all the
books were seized by the Crown Law
Department on August 29 last, and, at
•be instigation of the State Government,
Mr J. M. Young, a Melbourne barrister,
b e gan an investigation.
It is reported that at the time the
Victorian Government acted the Mel-
bourne business was operating at a profit
ar| d the Perth business was advancing
satisfactorily. The Sydney, Brisbane and
Adelaide offices were closed. The Ade-
laide office was believed to be losing
about £lO,OOO a year.
The affairs of the company were first
revealed in December when a meeting
was addressed by Allan J. Irwin, a public
accountant and liquidator of the Vic-
torian Supreme Court, who said his firm
had been called in to assist in a state
of affairs brought about by bad manage-
ment and by the impounding of the
company’s books by the Government.
He said he was now secretary to the
vending company.
About 150 investors turned up for the
meeting and they heard that the company
had a £300,000 deficiency, apart from
loans totalling £293,500 to directors and
subsidiary companies. Figures put be-
fore the meeting gave the public invest-
ment in the company as £950,000 and
assets at £601,000, This included the
figure of £293,500 which, Mr Irwin said,
would be regarded for the present as an
asset.
Some of the interesting facts which
were disclosed was that the original
director sold his interest to four others
who successively sold to their colleagues
until only one remained and he appointed
a co-director ; the wages bill had been
reduced from £4OOO a week to £3OO a
week and it was almost certain the
investors’ interest, 20 per cent., had been
paid from their own capital. (The corn-
pany had guaranteed 20 per cent, to
investors.)
The operations of International Vend-
ing Machines Pty Ltd are being investi-
gated in N.S.W., and South Australia
is now operating stricter control of
vending promotion schemes. It must
be recorded in fairness to the Victorian
Government that frequent warnings of
the risks involved in investing in vending
machines have been given, chiefly by
the Attorney-General, Arthur Rylah.
The Hazardous Bight
HPhe disappearance of two fishing craft,
■*- with 10 people aboard, in South
Australian coastal waters early last week
showed how swiftly men can still step
from the securities of urban life into
elemental danger. Port Lincoln, to which
the 45ft. tuna ketch Lincoln Star failed
to return, is a popular holiday resort.
But beyond Cape Catastrophe its fishing
fleet enters some of the most hazardous
seas in the world.
The next day three men left Port
Adelaide for a day's fishing on well-
known snapper grounds only eight miles
away, and searchers by air and sea have
found no trace of their 14ft. cabin-
cruiser. No one believed that a light
bondwood boat could have survived the
recent squalls and steep seas in St
Vincent’s Gulf, if its engine failed.
However, the Lincoln Star, owned by
53-year-old Eric Tapley, was a modern
seaworthy ketch built only a few months
before at Eden. On board were Tapley’s
sons, Robert, 14, making his first trip, and
Harry, 20, who was awarded the Royal
Humane Society’s bronze medal for sav-
ing his father’s life during a wreck in
1959.
The affair points up the haphazard
methods by which fishermen make a
precarious living along the Bight which,
as anyone knows who has crossed it even
in big modern liners, can produce tre-
mendous seas without much warning.
The fishing fleets based on Port Lincoln,
Streaky Bay, Ceduna and Thevenard
have few navigational aids and make
contact only once a day with shore-based
radio-stations. They sail largely by guess
and God. The charts they use —if they
use them —are based on those made by
Matthew Flinders during the first circum-
navigation of Australia more than 150
years ago.
It is a fine tribute to this great navi-
gator’s seamanship. But his own dramatic
experiences suggest the need for more
effective safety measures than now avail-
able for small craft, even if they have the
advantages of diesel power. The whole
coastline is sprinkled with the significant
names he wrote into his charts —Cape
Catastrophe, Avoid Bay, Anxious Bay
and others.
Weather bulletins and gale warnings
are radioed several times daily both from
the Fishermen’s Co-operative at Port
Lincoln and the Bush Church Aid
Society’s Flying Medical Service in
Ceduna, but vessels in distress must rely
on their own efforts or on some voluntary
search party. This lack of safety
measures last week drew strong criticism
from Port Lincoln’s mayor, Mr P. L.
Puckridge.
“The area is so vast,” Mr Puckridge
said, “that it is beyond the capacity of
the other tuna vessels to cover it. It
is obvious that a successful search could
only be made by aircraft.”
By the end of a fruitless week of
search various authorities were urging the
S.A. Government to set-up a proper
organisation for air-sea searches of this
kind and Sir Thomas Playford called
Cabinet together to discuss what could be
done.
Police Commissioner J. G. McKinna
complicated matters by suggesting that
fishermen were sometimes reluctant to
pinpoint their positions by radio, for fear
of giving away information that would
bring rival boats into some lucrative
fishing-ground they had located. This
bolstered an earlier theory that Eric
Tapley’s last reported position off Rocky
Island, reasonably close to Port Lincoln,
may not have been accurate.
At all events, if the flares seen two
days later near Nuyts Archipelago came
from the Lincoln Star, it must have
drifted or been driven by strong s.-e.
winds a good 250 miles within that time.
The mystery of this lost ketch under-
lines the grim character of the stormy
Bight first seen in 1627 by the Dutch
navigator Pieter Nuyts, who found the
steep, barren cliffs of its coastline so
unattractive he turned the Guide Zeepard
for home again without going ashore.


Labor’s Atomic Week
According to Mr Albert McNolty,
president of the Victorian branch of
the Labor party, the reason the party
held its annual “Atomic Week” from
February 27 to March 5 was to com-
memorate the dropping of the A-bomb
on Hiroshima. If any of Mr McNolty’s
audience on the Yarra bank last Sunday
knew that the Hiroshima bombing took
place in August they were too polite to
say so. Or possibly they were too discreet.
Mr McNolty has a well-known aversion
to intellectual critics.
The rally, final feature of “Atomic
Week,” started with a march from the
Trades Hall, through the city and down
Batman Avenue past the old morgue.
At the Yarra bank the Communist party
had obligingly wound up its own stump
at 3.15 p.m. in order to let the A.L.P.
proceed with its oratory uninterrupted.
Fully 400 took part in the march, includ-
ing those in a couple of score of private
cars. Heading the procession were the
Wonthaggi citizens’ band and a banner
in a stout steel frame needing four men
to carry it.
The banner was headed “Australian
Labor Party —Atomic Week” and de-
picted, in crude outline, two men —one
recognisably white, one dusky shaking
hands against a background of factories,
skyscrapers and palm-trees. Crowds
strolling Melbourne streets to see the
Moomba decorations gazed curiously at
this strange device. Among those helping
to carry it were M.H.Rs. Gordon Bryant
and Dr Jim Cairns.
Motorists in the procession had the
choice of two cardboard sheets with
which to decorate their cars, one with
the slogan “Peace or Perish,” the other
“Disarm or Die.” Other ideas for solving
mankind's nuclear impasse were ex-
pressed in slogans carried by the
marchers: “H-Tests in Antarctica—No
No No” and “No More Hiroshimas.”
Despite the poor roll-up for the march,
the executive had cracked the whip to
some effect among the politicians depen-
dent on it for continued pre-selection.
Marching (or riding) were M.H.Rs.
Mclvor, Pollard, Crean and Haylen, who
was flown in from Sydney. Senators
Hendrickson and Sandford, State Opposi-
tion - leader Stoneham, M.L.As. Crick,
Divers, Turnbull, Doube, Sulton and
Floyd, plus Messrs Merrifield, Elliot,
Todd and O’Connell from the State
Upper House.
At the Yarra bank Mr McNolty intro-
duced the speakers. Rev. John Wester-
man (director of the Methodist Social
Service Department) confessed that he
was not a member of the A.L.P. because
he "liked to speak his mind to all parties.”
If the women of the world would outlaw
war, there would be no war, Mr Wester-
man said. As an afterthought he added
that the same effect would result if the
Churches or the trade - unionists of the
world decided to outlaw war. Mr George
Crawford, member of the Victorian
A.L.P. Executive, spoke at some length
of the sixth world congress against A-
and H-bombs which he had attended
in Tokyo and which he considered indi-
cated “an objective change” in the situa-
tion in Japan.
But the speaker who stole the show had
not been scheduled on the publicity
dodger at all. He was Mr Sam Gold-
bloom, introduced by Mr McNolty as
“a member of the A.L.P.” Mr Gold-
bloom not only spoke with his usual
force and vigor to denounce what he
called “16 years of atomic blackmail”
since Hiroshima but proved to be the
only one of the speakers with any infor-
mation to impart. In fact, he turned up
a minor news-scoop. He waved a letter
from Dr Linus Pauling, the American
Nobel Prize-winner who came to Aus-
tralia in 1959 for the last “Peace Con-
gress,” of which Mr Goldbloom was
secretary. Dr Pauling has launched a
petition to the United Nations, asking it
to stop the spread of nuclear weapons
to nations not already possessing them.
More than 700 scientists, 39 of them
Nobel Prize-winners, have so far signed
Dr Pauling’s petition. Australian signa-
tories include Sir Macfarlane Burnet,
Professor Marcus Oliphant, Dr Bart Bok,
Sir John Eccles, Professor Frank Fenner
and novelist Patrick White.
After Mr Goldbloom had conducted
the collection (£65 11s. 3d.) Mr Stout
took the rostrum. He had rather little
to say about peace, but a lot to say
about “people who don’t think clearly
enough to look after their own interests.”
These people didn’t attend union meet-
ings and Labor-party rallies. They
bought houses, and for 30 years they were
too busy paying them off to take any
interest in anything. Some of them also
bought Morris Minors and then devoted
themselves to trying to get Rolls-Royces.
It was a panorama of the affluent society
as seen from the musty corridors of the
Melbourne Trades Hall —vantage-point
1900.
For the rest, “Atomic Week” consisted
of four films —screenings at which Dr
Cairns, Senator-elect Sam Cohen and
others spoke.
At a “guest evening” in the Trades
Hall, the speakers were Deputy Opposi-
tion-leader Gough Whitlam and Profes-
sor MacMahon Ball. Apart from Mr
Goldbloom, Peace Council luminaries
were noticeably absent from the activi-
ties. It may be that the Victorian A.L.P.
found its fingers burnt after the 1959
Peace Congress venture and decided to
go it alone this time. In fact, the week’s
activities had the flavor of shabby
amateurism and poverty of thought which
is a distinctive feature of the Victorian
A.L.P.
The North-west Waits
Tf the U.S. Government decides to put
a giant radio station, possibly with
an atomic reactor, on the North-west
coast of Western Australia as part of
a network to serve atomic submarines
carrying polaris missiles, the problem
of local hostility to potential military
targets will certainly not worry the public-
relations men. The handful of uncut
Australian diamonds who have chosen to
spend their lives in this tough environ-
ment are unlikely to take much notice
of an institution that does not help
towards solving their own problems.
They have seen the oil-drillers come and
go, and they have watched Talgarpo turn
into a deserted antheap; they are not
going to get excited about an atomic
reactor until they see it for themselves.
Though U.S. Navy survey teams have
examined a number of sites from Porth
Hedland to Darwin, the ex-missile town
of Talgarno is odds-on favorite. This
Weapons Research Establishment Centre
has so far cost the British and Australian
Governments more than £1,000,000.
When the Blue Streak missile was thrown
away, the town’s construction was
abandoned overnight after 43 domestic
buildings had been completed. Less than
a dozen men live there now. Neither the
administrative buildings nor the complex
technical equipment that was to have
been placed further inland to track the
Blue Streak across Australia was started.
Even in its present stage Talgarno is
an object lesson to North-westers of the
power of defence expenditure compared
with the development expenditure they
are always seeking. Talgarno lies on the
fringe of the Pardoo Sands between
Broome and Port Hedland, on the 80-mile
beach. This 400-mile stretch of sand-
hills used to be impassable during the
wet. Talgarno was no sooner on the
drawing boards than an all-weather road
from Broome was pushed out to the
town site. Inside the high wire fence
a brand-new town arose that was the
most luxurious in the North-west, even
in its unfinished state. All its buildings
were air-conditioned, gaily painted and
specifically designed for tropical condi-
tions. The quarters for married couples
are far better equipped than the State
Government’s new housing project at
Kununurra on the Ord River, and each
house contains four separate air-condi-
tioning plants.
If the Americans decide to set up their
radio station at Talgarno it will probably
mean that Broome will become the deep-
water port for the Kimberleys. So far
the choice has been split between Broome
and Derby farther north, but the massive
expenditure and supply problems in-
volved in the radio station would certainly
tip the scales in Broome’s favor.
The station could improve Australia’s
overall defence position on the western
seaboard, which has been sadly neglected
to date. The possibility of installing an
atomic reactor in the outback also raises
interesting possibilities for sea-water con-
version and other technical developments
which could materially help the North-
west.
If the station becomes a reality there
is unlikely to be any “Go Home Yank
signs on the bitumen highway that would
undoubtedly serve the new installation’


POLITICAL POINTS
By MUGGA
Rank - and - file Liberals panic too
easily ; they often do a better job of
criticising their leaders than the Labor
party. Two decades ago Mr Menzies was
even more criticised by his followers—
sometimes for their own selfish ends—
than by Labor, and the criticism con-
tinued well past his return to leadership.
Now Liberals worried by the Govern-
ment’s economic measures are well ahead
of the Labor party in their attacks. A
good example came from the recent meet-
ing of the N.S.W. State Council of the
Liberal party. This gathering, not open
to the press but attended by a hundred
or more Liberals from all over the State,
had a venomous undertone to it when
Senator Spooner began addressing it.
Spooner cooled things down. But the
Liberals should realise that the Govern-
ment can’t run the country as a private
racket for the benefit of a few Liberal
supporters.
• •
An even more extraordinary feature of
Liberals at times is their disinclina-
tion to come out against Communists. An
example of this occurred in the partial
power strike in Victoria. Ail authorities,
including not only the State Electricity
Commission but even the Premier were
silent on the part played by the Com-
munists, who were not mentioned, even
under the usual euphemisms of militants
and Left-wingers ; but nevertheless they
produced the 16 per cent, cut in power
which affected transport and plants and
farms in the Melbourne, Ballarat and
Horsham districts, and beyond.
The method was the usual double-
dealing. The stoppages were called by
area committees, against the instructions
of the Trades Hall disputes committee
and the union chief executives. It
seemed that the men were impulsive and
wrong-headed. Actually they had been
misinformed by Left-wing officials who
addressed them, or who underinformed
them. “The shop committees play a most
important role in the preparation and
mobilisation of the workers for strike
action,” says Sharkey in “The Trade
Unions; Communist Theory and Prac-
tice of Trade Unionism,” and the Com-
munists know how to use them as the
tail wags the dog. In this case it was
quite out of the question to attempt to
coerce the Trades Hall disputes commit-
tee into authorising a stoppage. The
committee had taken over the negotia-
tions only in the last three weeks, and
it would be almost a miracle to move a
semi-government undertaking such as the
State Electricity Commission in three
We eks. The Left-wingers therefore con-
dived to feed shop-committee meetings
toe right material to inflame them.
All this is understood in Lygon Street,
cut what is not understood is the placa-
tory tone of the Premier. Victorian
Laborites are resigned to Communist-
lnspired strikes in key industries on the
eVe of an election. It is undeniable that
toe Communist hand in these disputes is
'aluable to the Liberals. With an elec-
tion due in about two months, Mr Bolte
has refused to draw attention to it.
• •
npt-iERE was a bit more veiled strategy in
Henry Bolte's announcement that the
Liberal Government would contest every
seat at the May State elections.
Described as a declaration of war on the
Country party, it may seem bad tactics.
Liberal declarations of hostility towards
the Country party in Victoria in the past
have resulted in drawing together the
remnants of the Country-party supporters
and some countrymen who don’t wholly
approve of it but like to see it in exist-
ence. Bolte is now a smooth operator,
and a countryman. He knows this. His
overall design may be to frighten the
Country party into an electoral pact.
• •
■vcr Arthur Calwell, in a “Meet the
-L**- Press” interview in Brisbane last
Sunday, stumbled across one of the
reasons why Labor stays in Opposition.
He promised to investigate whether one of
the A.L.P.’s Senate candidates in Queens-
land, Mr Alfred Arneil, had appeared
on a unity ticket. “This has never been
reported to me —but I will have a look
at it. I have never denied the existence
of these tickets. But I have left it up
to those who have charged us to prove
that this went on.” For Mr CalwelTs
information, Mr Arneil, who was re-
elected president of the Brisbane Water-
side Workers’ Federation last July, was
originally an Industrial Grouper, but in
1958 he headed a team of “Unity and
Progressive” candidates who were stand-
ing for various positions in the W.W.F.
On this particular unity ticket appeared
the photos of eight A.L.P. men and three
Communists. In “Branch News,” pub-
lished by Mr Arneil and Mr Phil Healy
(A.L.P.), before the election Mr Healy
said the unity ticket was not a breach
of A.L.P. policy. If Mr Calwell is really
interested in stopping A.L.P. and Com-
munist party collaboration there are
plenty of people around who will furnish
him with evidence. A.L.P. unity men
have been getting away with this particu-
lar breach of A.L.P. rules for years by
denying after the election that they gave
permission for their names to appear on
tickets. This manoeuvre was the brain-
child of Mr Chamberlain. Mr Calwell
will have to learn how to control his
Federal Secretary if he seriously intends
to stop unity tickets.
• •
T abor men are continuing to display
' their indifference to winning elections.
When Federal Secretary Chamberlain was
reported on March 1 as saying Formosa
should be handed back to the Chinese not
one Labor voice was raised in protest.
Six days later Mr Chamberlain said he
had been misreported.
"Lord Homer!"


LOOK BACK AT ANGER: Dyson on the Boer War
USEFUL PRACTICE—"BLOODING THE PUPS"
FATMAN (the patriot of Property and Privilege ): “Co, noble boy, and fight for
freedom! Learn how, for who knows? you may some day be called upon
to fight for ME!”


Why We Haven’t Got an Army
By "EK DUM"
All eyes in the world of aggression
and defence are on the Kennedy
Administration in Washington,
which is said to be planning “a
new strategy.” But in announced details
of its plans there is no new strategy in
Washington ; only some changes in the
internal tactical relationships of the
various forces and in the tempo of
development.
What happens in Washington is of
vital interest to Australia, because from
Washington the defence policy of the
West is dominated. Th, United States
has a monopoly of the heavy weaponry
of global war in the West and is able to
dictate how our future defensive war, if
any, shall be fought, and what it shall
be fought with.
The mind of Washington is centred on
materiel rather than on men, and this has
a profound influence on Australian
Defence Department thinking: the rule
is that when Washington turns over we
must turn over.
In respect of global war there seems
to be no way of avoiding the engaging
Washington theory that it is tremendous
fire-power that wins wars on battlefields,
and thermo-nuclear bombs that decide
whether or not there will be war. They
are the instruments of the “short war”
which is to prove the saving of millions
of lives if anybody dares to start a global
war against the West.
The current policy of the Australian
Defence Department was established in
1957, taking into account “trends in the
international situation, the assessment of
possible threats to our security based on
the best available intelligence” and “plans
developed in conjunction with our
Commonwealth partners and our allies in
Anzus and Seato to meet various con-
tingencies that could arise.” After two
years’ experience, Mr Townley and the
Cabinet in 1959 saw “no reason to vary
the broad strategic principles” on which
this policy was built, and they were
embodied in a new Three-year Plan.
These principles centred around the
concept of “deterrence” and “limited
Wars” and were stated thus by the
Minister on November 26, 1959:
Global or full-scale war remains not
impossible, but unlikely, as a deliberate
act of policy. However, limited wars
could break out in various unstable areas.
The primary aim of our defence effort
should therefore be the continual improve-
ment of our ability to react promptly and
effectively with our allies to meet limited
war situations , . . and to fulfil a worth-
while role in tlie cold war, e.g., the
stationing- of forces in the Commonwealth
Strategic Reserve in Malaya.
There is no alternative to this view for
the Government if it is to remain part
of the Western defence structure. Primary
Australian defence is conceivable only on
one principle, that “the most effective
Way of ensuring our safety is through
association with allies in the collective
defence arrangements which have been
developed in our area of strategic
interest.” These arrangements, the
Minister points out, give us “the benefit
of defence in depth from possible aggres-
sion’^—which means aggression against
not only ourselves but weak neighbors
on our doormat of the north, where Aus-
tralia has a vital interest, apart from its
own domestic defence.
Our association with other nations,
including the one that owns the Seventh
Fleet and the Ryuku, Japanese and
Philippine and Marshall Islands and
Guam bases flanking the axis of approach
to Australia from the north, is certainly
a powerful advantage. In it lies our
hope of keeping war off Australian soil
and inflicting defeat on an enemy which
menaces us from outside the Common-
wealth.
In the light of global strategy and the
experience of World War 11, the United
States, if engaged in war, would have to
THE FIRST
OF THREE ARTICLES
defend us whether we wanted it or not,
since to have this continent in the hands
of enemies, partly or whole, might mean
disaster to the U.S. and allies in a war
fought in the Pacific and Indian Oceans,
especially a thermo-nuclear war. All we
can do in any war outside Australia is
to put something into the hat.
As I shall show in later articles, what
we will put into the hat in terms of a
Navy, Air Force and missile planning
may be satisfactory—but our Army has
all but disappeared.
What are the reasons for this? The
first reason is to be found in Washington,
which has espoused the doctrine that
thermo-nuclear weapons, not men, will
decide whether or not there will be a
war, and that these weapons will ensure
that any war must be a “short war.” The
more basic reason is to be found in the
world-wide social climate which has
made people shun and fear the idea of
infantry.
“Cohort war” is the latest term in the
argot of global defence. It implies
that anybody who so much as jabs a
thermo-nuclear finger against the nose of
Uncle Sam or any of his brood of asso-
ciated nations will get short shrift. He
will meet an instantly applied thermo-
nuclear force greater than his own,
unleashed in a way—it is hoped —that
will deprive him of the need for all
weapons except a white flag, and all
means of traction except a pair of raw
knees to crawl on —if he has anybody
left to use either knees or flag.
What happens if the Kremlin, instead
of jabbing, turns the whole of its huge
Air Force and nuclear weaponry, plus
biological weapons and chemical “con-
ditioner” gases on civilisation at the
same instant in a vast Pearl Harbor type
of assault, nobody seems to have con-
sidered any more maturely than the
French considered in 1940 what would
happen if the Germans went round the
impregnable Maginot Line.
The likelihood of a surprise “preven-
tive” attack by the West is nil. Initiative
is always with the aggressor.
The devoted military theorist when
handling his theories and devices is apt
to become much like a bemused hen (or
motorist) with beak held down to a
yellow line. He defends the isolated
theory he produces to the last gasp by a
process of mesmeric repetition of faith
in his one idea, even to the point of
defeat. There were French strategists
still defending the conception of Maginot
Line defence, even after disastrous events
had turned them into nimble tacticians
of precipitate retreat. There were allied
tacticians singing the beauties of the
German blitzkrieg, late in World War 11,
after their own people had rendered it a
memory through the development of
shaped ammunition and anti - tank
weapons in general.
The “deterrent” school of defence
experts, including our own, agree on one
other axiom—that the old P. 8.1., which
has been the main ingredient of wars, has
been superseded as a determinant, except
in “limited wars,” and when atomically
armed.
At the same time a somewhat pain-
ful experience in two world wars has
produced in civilised peoples an allergy


to the thought of service in the infantry,
more especially in this era of automatic
fire-power and mortars. Any expedient
that assures that the enemy can be hit
for six without the sons of men being
sent to be mudlarks and mortar targets
is naturally met with the glad hand.
Assurances that war has become push-
button are apt to breed a feeling of
complacency in human breasts when it is
allied to the inferences that (a), it is vir-
tually impossible because it is so terrible
that nobody in his senses in a Govern-
ment would risk it ; (b), if any madman
did risk it he would strike first at his
enemy’s stock and sources of nuclear
weapons ; and (c), if that enemy hap-
pened to be the United States he would
be crippled within the next hour or so by
the insuperable retaliation of U.S. missiles.
The natural corollary is that man in his
military guise is only good to use for
gun-fodder in small quantities profes-
sionally employed in “limited wars”-
the only kind of combat the “short-war
deterrent” theorists think possible. This
is highly comforting to large numbers of
electors who are always happy to look
at the brighter side of the future. And
any matter calculated to comfort masses
of electors soon acquires an optimistic
stress in the mouths of politicians, for
reasons that even a child can elucidate.
The most dangerous fact about the
theory of “deterrents” and the “short
war” is that it is apt to produce in the
minds of youngsters, and their mothers,
a delusion that they have no concern
with their own and national security ;
that all is being well looked after for
them. Blessings on the nice, kind,
thermo-nuclear wizards who are taking
care of it all for them with their little
push-buttons!
This theory, unfortunately, is not being
propagated in Russia, which is maintain-
ing a three-line type of full-scale military
organisation, equally effective for every
kind of aggression on a global scale ; or
in China, which is on the way to doing
the same, but of which the greatest
strength is that it has too large an area
to be saturated by thermo-nuclear attack,
no thermo-nuclear objectives worth
attacking except Big Brother, and so
much gun-fodder that it could overrun
Asia before its hordes could all be killed
off. This sort of advantage was demon-
strated fully on the Russian front in
1941-44.
Thus the propagation of the deterrent
theory works only one way, and the West
seems to be on the receiving end of it,
whoever may ultimately do the receiving
in actual thermo-nuclear war. The
Kremlin must choke with laughter every
time it hears anybody in Washington
remark that Russia or China can’t fight
thermo-nuclear retaliation without having
its country burnt to ashes,
Moscow knows that every time that
remark is made it is a blow for Corn-
munism and the victory of the world
revolution in the cold war. This because
it is all too conscious that in the Western
"Well, at least I've got a roof over my heads!"
world, and especially in isolated countries
like Australia, wide-open to any sort of
propaganda, the level of defence depends
on whether the governed can be per-
suaded to participate in and pay for it,
And whether the public will pay depends
on the degree of complacency or alarm
with which the taxpayers view the inter-
national situation.
The report of the U.S. Army Board
which inquired into the causes of the
Pearl Harbor disaster stated that what
happened in Hawaii when the Japanese
struck could only be understood when
“the background of public opinion and
the state of the public mind are likewise
understood,” and when it was realised
that “successful war is waged through a
state of mind and a state of public readi-
ness for war.”
In the U.S. at the end of 1941 —as in
Australia and much of the English-
speaking world today—there was “a dis-
tinct lack of the war mind.” The deter-
rent school, even before the atomic era,
had done its job in persuading the
average American that Uncle Sam was
so powerful that nobody could or would
tackle him. The isolationists, the
pacifists, the Communists and the Nazis
had worked hard to help produce a
Maginot Line complacency.
There was none of this in Japan. As
in Moscow, complacency was a product
turned out exclusively for export to the
elected foe. The works of erstwhile
United States Ambassador to Japan,
Joseph Grew, should be made compul-
sory reading for those who believe, and
the optimists who preach, that deterrents
are absolute bar accidents. Grew warned
the United States Government as early
as the beginning of the 1930’s that Japan’s
military machine was being “built for
war, feels prepared for war and wants
war.”
Nobody in a democratic country
desires an Army like that. Yet it is diffi-
cult to produce the first two conditions
in a military force without also produc-
ing the last-—without having the military
machine keyed up to a point at which it
is bursting to hear what its guns sound
like when they go off against an actual
enemy.
of the greatest handicaps peaceful
democratic nations have to overcome
when they find themselves threatened by
totalitarian nations of the mentality of
the Japan of 1941 and the Red Russia
and China of 1961 is their own sincerity.
The problem of the Government is to
prevent a genuine burning desire for
peace among the public and the emana-
tions of self-interest from killing public
opinion in favor of effective security
measures. Without public opinion regi-
mented behind the defence plan, as it
was in Australia immediately before
World War I, there can be no regular and
effective Government and civilian-defence
effort.
Democratic countries are all at a dis-
advantage beside Communist countries.
In the latter, public opinion is dictated
by Governments. The impetus of defence
action is maintained by an incessant
barrage of alarmism and concentrated
hatred. This is combined with a com-
pulsory wringing-out of manpower and


womanpower to the last drop of military
potential, on the plea that there is
urgent peril and that the Western Powers
are preparing to thrust their “hogs’
snouts” —elegant, peace-loving phrase—
into the People’s Only Fatherland, where
ji must be duly mutilated.
In the U.S.S.R., there being no
theoretical subordination of old-
fashioned human gun-fodder to the
thermo-nuclear weaponry, manpower is
conscripted down to the last available
paraplegic, the last ounce of human
blood and muscle, for war or a purpose
ancillary to it.
The first reaction of public opinion in
the United States to the blast at Pearl
Harbor seems, on a close study of the
press, to have been violent indignation
because the dastardly Nipponese had
failed to realise that the U.S. was too
strong to attack, and bewilderment that
the enemy, not themselves, had proved
to be right in their complacency. An
admiral was heard telling the Army
Board that because of reluctant public
morale which kept the fleet strength low,
a fight by the part of the U.S. Navy
which was blown up sitting in the docks
in Pearl Harbor might have resulted in
greater losses of men and ships than
actually occurred. The Fleet Intelligence
Officer testified: “I think the American
Forces would have taken the licking of
their lives . . . because the American
people were not psychologically prepared
for war . . . and the American Navy [is]
part of the American people.”
The same might be written of Aus-
tralia today—not only of the population
in general but of a large section of the
voluntary forces. The “short war”
theory hangs over everything, along with
the theory that man is futile before the
weapon.
Australia has followed the rest of the
English-speaking world into the “short
war” strategy. For reasons which have
been stated earlier in this article the Gov-
ernment has had little alternative ; but it
seems to be overdoing it seriously in its
internal defence policy.
Unfortunately, from a security point
of view, the plan on which it now works
suits the anti-war propagandist and the
concealed seditionist and saboteur of
defence. It provides a fine basis from
which to build up specious abuse of the
Government for its failure to provide
adequate forces on an independent
national basis, irrespective of its relation-
ships with the rest of the Western global
bloc and cause unrest.
A seditionist can just as cunningly and
effectively go all out to regiment public
O pmion on the side of complacency,
fighting for the principle that to add to
defence would interfere with the liberty
and enjoyment of the individual, increase
taxation, breed a war-mongering attitude
°f mind, as he can yell about his lack
°f confidence in defence to injure the
Government with another section.
He can go along with the peace-loving
Russian and Chinese delegations. At the
same time he can run with the mother
a °xious about her son, her son anxious
about his football and milk-bar sport or
about the continuance of his studies. He
ca « pander to the employer anxious
about the bottlenecks likely to be created
in his plant or office through national
training call-ups.
Little by little and bit by bit, the great
structure of Australian national defence,
mainly citizen defence, has been chipped
away, though not the cost of defence.
Every time there has been a cut in
citizen defence the money saved, and
more, has gone into a new species of, or
new accretion on, regular forces of one
kind and another, amid a barrage of
propaganda to the effect that they may
be little forces, but oh, how tough and
terrorising and mobile for use in limited
wars!
nrnE great upsurges of feeling which
1 made military training a universally
popular game in the beginnings of the
century and the joint competitive spirit
of private patrons, the local effort that
set units vicing with each other in smart-
ness and efficiency, emulative cadet
corps and rifle dubs galore and general
pride in the forces are dead. Only public
opinion can revive them in Australia,
and they cannot be revived while there
prevails among the public the present
pre-Pearl Harbor complacency, born of
confidence that nobody will risk push-
button war, and that if anybody does,
the battle will be fought with metal, not
men.
The chances are of course that, as in
London, when the first bombs fell on
the first historic buildings and the first
homes, complacency would give way to
the normal transports of purposeful fury
that afflict outraged human beings who
see their lives dislocated suddenly by a
malign outsider.
In such case the country would
instantly become full of ant-furious
simple people of both sexes imbued with
a common destructive purpose to com-
mit violence on the invader with anything
to hand —waddies, broken bottles, boxes
of matches to start bushfires, home-made
petrol bombs. And a lot of them, once
scornful of the childish exercises of
national training camps, would be long-
ing for a rifle, a clip of cartridges and the
training to use them.
Australia could do with a national
defence league to put the whole defence
position in a more reasonable perspec-
tive and to counter the poison of Com-
hunists and crack-heads, having regard
to the fact that security, from a military
point of view, literally begins at home —
in every home.
Whoever forms such a body would
immediately be assailed by a barrage of
hate from the Communists, trick resolu-
tions and slopwork meetings by the
watersiders, seamen and others and loud
abusive shouts of “jingo” and “war-
monger.”
But there is no need to be either jingo-
istic or war-mongering about it. Nobody
could apply either epithet to the Swiss,
who have succeeded in keeping them-
selves out of two world wars and will
stay out of all war for the duration of
the universe if they can. Yet they have
compulsory military service among their
population—half that of Australia—from
20 years to 60. They have their own
special rifle served out to every citizen
when he gets his vote. There is no regular
Army in the sense that there is one in
Australia ; it is a citizen organisation
closely controlled by the Federal and
cantonal Governments, and it has nine
fully trained divisions and three moun-
tain brigades.
Australia has a three-battalion “regu-
lar” brigade group, “raised to full tropi-
cal establishment” with a logistical
support element of 3000 men and an addi-
tional battalion group to be maintained
in Malaya. The proud C.M.F. with its
historic battalions has been whittled down
to an order of battle of six infantry
brigade groups, “with appropriate combat
and logistic support.” And it is only
partly real.
The Navy and Air Force are not much
better in their present condition, though
because of their nature and roles they are
more normal in conception and, seeing
that they are in evolutionary stages,
cannot be judged for effectiveness as
easily as the Army.
As has been said, however, the nerve
on which to press to produce defence
activity is not in the forces or the poli-
ticians ; it is the motor nerve of public
opinion. “Successful war is waged
through a state of mind and a state of
public readiness for war.”
Till public opinion reacts, Australia
will remain defensively much like Tom
Ugly’s parrot.


PERSONAL
Man on the Edge
of the Universe
Come time next year flocks of sheep
grazing near Captain’s Flat on the
southern tablelands of N.S.W. may find
themselves browsing alongside ten acres
of chicken - wire, arranged in a giant
cross, that will be receiving radio signals
from as near the outer limits of our
universe as mankind's inquiring mind is
ever likely to reach —signals that have
come across unimaginable billions of
miles of space, and which started on their
way, at the speed of light, long before
the earth itself ever existed.
This extraordinary juxtaposition of
past and present will be the result of one
of those rare and intuitive flashes of
imagination that have helped science
enlarge the boundaries of knowledge —-
in this case the conception of the Mills
Cross radio-telescope.
In Dr Bernard Yarnton Mills, a shy
man of 40, with a background so remark-
ably unexceptional that he can’t even
remember which primary school he went
to, Australia has the distinction of pro-
ducing the outstanding figure in the
newest and. in some ways, the most
exciting of all the sciences.
Radio-astronomy is less than 20 years
old ; but in that time, through its reading
of radio emissions from space, it has
told us more about our place in the
universe, and the extent of the universe
itself, than all the optical telescopes since
Galileo.
Visible light, the most obvious mani-
festation of energy, has many limitations
for astronomical use. In its travels
through space it is bent, scattered, inter-
fered with by other sources of light, and-
ean be completely blocked by as simple
a circumstance as a layer of water vapor.
- —otherwise clouds.
Radio emissions, however, are far less
affected, and as they are given off by
a great many bodies and areas in space,
they can, in some ways, be far more
informative than light waves. In par-
ticular, they can be received from bodies
too tar away to be seen by any optical
means.
‘'With our new radio-telescope,” says
Dr Mills, "we will be able to explore
probably as near to the possible limits
of the universe as we ever will.”
This bold claim is based on the present
conception of the universe as expanding
in all directions. The universe should,
however, be imagined not as an expand-
ing soap-bubble, but as a mass of objects
all heading outwards and firing bullets
backwards toward us in the centre. These
bullets are the quanta, or units of energy
in the form of light, radio waves, or
cosmic rays, given off by receding suns
and galaxies.
DR BERNARD MILLS
Beyond this point ...what?
It has been discovered, by analysis
of the quanta reaching us, that the
farther away the receding galaxies are,
the faster they are travelling away from
us. With Mills's new telescope, he will
be able to pick up receding bodies so
far away that they will be approaching
the speed of light. As the quanta they
emit travel at the speed of light (186,000
miles per second) it is clear that at some
distant point the receding galaxies will
be moving away from us so fast that
the quanta they emit will never reach us.
Looked at in this light, Dr Mills’s
claim makes sense.- His new telescope
will be sensitive enough to pick up the
emissions from bodies moving at speeds
almost up to the velocity at which no
more energy from them can be received.
Beyond this point we can expect no
further communication. This, then, repre-
sents the effective limit of our knowledge
of our universe.
It is necessary to grasp this in order
to understand just how high Australian
radio-astronomy stands in the estimation
of international science. For it was here,
just after the war, that Dr Mills and
others in the C.5.1.R.0. laid the founda-
tions of radio-astronomy.
TAR Mills grew up in Sydney and
studied engineering at Sydney Uni-
versity. Like all other war-time graduates
in engineering and physics, he was drafted
to work on the development of radar.
After the war this field more or less
petered out, and he joined Dr Pawsey
in the radio-physics division of the
C.5.1.R.0., which was investigating a war-
time discovery made with radar: that
the sun emitted radio signals.
With comparatively crude radar dishes
set up on the cliffs near Sydney, Pawsey
had received two signals from the same
source on the sun —one direct, the other
reflected from the sea. The interference
of these two signals gave a method of
locating and measuring the source. The
bringing together of signals collected at
slightly different angles gives radio-
astronomy the equivalent of the focusing
provided by the lenses in optical tele-
scopes.
The first and most obvious collecting
device for such signals was conceived
along optical lines—a concave dish, like
a lens. This is the form of the Jodrell
Bank radio-telescope, 250 ft in diameter,
and the new 210 ft dish to be built by the
C.5.1.R.0. near Parkes (N.S.W.).
It was Mills's inspiration that enabled
him to see that the function of the dish
could be performed by two single lines
of receiving aerials, crossed at right
angles. As linear aerials were much
cheaper and easier to build and align
than dishes (in which tolerances have to
be kept to fractions of an inch, despite
high winds and heat expansion, etc.), the
arms of the Mills Cross, as it became
known, could be much longer and hence
give a sensitivity and definition that only
an impossibly large dish could give.
TAishes are, however, more versatile,
_ and the dish v. cross challenge keeps
radio-astronomy as exciting as the man-
into-space race. Jodrell Bank can track
the Russian rocket to Venus —but the
Russians themselves have built a giant
Mills Cross. The C.5.1.R.0. dish at
Parkes will be steerable, and will cover
a greater area of sky than the Mills
Cross near Captain's Fiat —but Professor
Ryle at Cambridge, using Mills’s tech-
nique, has recently detected distant bodies
travelling away at half the speed of light.
The United States Navy is spending
130 million dollars in an attempt to build
a dish 1000 ft in diameter —but Mills
hopes to “see," with his relatively simple
and cheap (£300,000) device, based on
chicken-wire, as far as man will ever see.
He is amused by the American
approach, which he calls brute force and
finance. “I've always liked to try and
find the cunning ways of doing things,"
he says modestly. And because of that
Mills turned down lucrative overseas
offers when the C.5.1.R.0. decided to go
for a dish (rather leaving him up in the
air). Instead, he accepted a lower-paid
job with Professor Messel’s School of
Physics.
Mills considers himself fortunate to be
working in the Southern Hemisphere,
from which, as all astronomers agree, the
most interesting parts of the universe are
visible.
“Jf civilisation and astronomy had
sprung up in the Southern, instead of
the Northern Hemisphere,” says Mills,
“we would have known long ago where
we stood in the universe. The Milky
Way, the galaxy in which our solar
system rotates, is not easily seen from
the north. In Sydney, it is right overhead.
You can hardly miss it.”


An Editor Packs His Bags
Wth in the line of Bulletin editors
) that stems from Archibald through
fraill, Edmond, Prior and Webb, David
(dams put his last issue to bed last
neek and began packing his bags for
jtrip to the United States, Britain and
Europe. Adams came to The Bulletin
in 1927 as assistant on the “Wild Cat”
section ; he was picked for the job from
i batch of applicants by Colonel A. C.
Moyes, then and for a long time after-
wards financial editor.
While cutting his teeth on balance-
sheets and financial journalism Adams
found time to take a diploma in
accountancy. S. H. Prior, that fine judge
of men and writers, early detected ability
above the average in Adams and spoke
of him as a possible future editor. Prior
died in 1933 and was succeeded in the
editorial chair by J. E. Webb. A year
later —at the age of 26 Adams was
appointed a director. He then revived
and expanded the “Business, Robbery,
Etc.” column, and from that time until
last week, except for outside contribu-
tions, wrote it almost entirely.
The mid-1930’s produced a rare crop
of financial go-getters, and Adams
developed an uncanny nose for the snide
company promoter ; exposures of shaky
companies and shady promoters were
almost a weekly feature of “Biz.-Rob.”
Some of the exposed gentry went to jail ;
others avoided it by going abroad ;
others again retired hurt and emerged
later to try their luck again—and find it
was still out. There were even some
politicians who found it necessary to
quit politics because of Bulletin discus-
sion of their financial activities.
During the war “Business, Robbery,
etc.” became largely a commentary on
war-time finance under Labor Govern-
ment, discussing its effect, both then and
in the future, on the national economy.
It has continued to be an outspoken
column devoted to national economic
affairs and a guide to the investor.
Under John Webb’s editorship Adams
atvarious times handled “Aboriginalities”
and other parts of the paper, occasionally
relieving the financial editor and editing
the Wild Cat Monthly. When Webb
hepped down in 1948, Adams was
appointed editor —at 39, ffie youngest
editor since Archibald.
One of Adams’s first decisions as
editor was to support R. G. Menzies as
leader of the Federal Liberal-Country
Party group. The Bulletin had been
Plugging Archie Cameron as Prime
Minister material, but from 1948 on-
wards, while it retained a high regard
for Archie as a man, it advocated Menzies
is national leader.
In his editorial policy Adams always
[| uphasised the economic factor in
Nestic and international politics—and
!v en in the Cold War His strongest point
"and his abiding love —has always been
jjuancial journalism, in which field he
has long been recognised as one of the
io undest men in Australia. He was
Poaching “productivity” when most of
"fe country’s economic “experts” still
Ned to be blithely assuming that
®oms last for ever. In his writings he
managed to reduce the complexities of
present-day economics into simple
language, and he always insisted on the
preservation of individual equities and
incentives within the sweeping overall
planning of the planners.
As a share-market adviser he always
counselled investors to look behind the
glamor for the substance, and he was
one of the first to sound the warning that
share prices generally had gone too high,
No investor who took Adams’s advice
12 months ago burnt his fingers when
Stock Exchange prices took a tumble
towards the end of the year,
Holding strong views on the White
Australia policy, Adams maintained that
th e term was offend very few
Asians or Africans and that the greatest
danger to maintenance of the policy came
f ro m the ditherings of politicians and
busybodying “intellectuals” inside Aus-
tralia
As a director of The Bulletin Newspaper
Company, he took a keen interest in its
financial affairs and in the mechanical
production of its publications. In 1947
h e was sen t on a wor ßi tour to study
the possibilities of four-color rotary
offset as a means of printing The
Bulletin and The Woman’s Mirror.
DAVID ADAMS
Always approachable, never remote
He advised strongly against it, and when
new presses were installed some years
later the letterpress method was retained.
David Adams was born at Bringelly
(N.S.W.) in the Camden - Cobbity
cowpastures area whose history goes back
to Macquarie and beyond. His family
had farmed there since way back, and
he still holds land there which has pro-
vided him with weekend relaxation and
exercise. His strong affection for the
district has come out in his Bulletin
articles on its history, and it was possibly
his feeling for the past that enabled him
to sense the merit of the Rachel Henning
Letters when they were shown to him
in manuscript form. Realising the
historic interest of the letters, he edited
them and put in a tremendous amount
of research which enabled him to
annotate them.
When the letters were serialised in The
Bulletin, with exquisite pen-drawings
by Norman Lindsay, Adams had the
satisfaction of seeing the misgivings of
some of his colleagues who had doubted
the reader-interest of the letters, com-
pletely allayed. As the letters appeared
week by week the extraordinarily force-
ful character of Rachel, which had
fascinated Adams as he ploughed through
the letters in manuscript, gradually
emerged, and with it a vivid picture of
segments of Australian pioneering life
a century ago, seen through the eyes of
a cultured Englishwoman who, in spite
of herself, became an Australian pioneer
and a spirited advocate of her adopted
country. In book form the Henning
Letters achieved best-seller status in their
class, running through several printings
and selling more than 20,000 copies.
Adams took over the editorship of The
Bulletin at a difficult period, and his
difficulties did not decrease with the years.
But whatever his problems, and no matter
how great the pressure, Dave always
managed to remain—outwardly at least
—calm and unruffled, even on press day.
His colleagues will remember him as a
friendly, tolerant and conscientious
editor ; always approachable, never re-
mote ; meticulous on points of style, his
one detectable vice an addiction to
hyphens.
• •
Into the Silence: —
In Sydney, at 72, Ernest Robert Williams,
businessman and philanthropist. He was a
founder of Woolworths Ltd, and a former
principal of Cowell’s White House Pty Ltd.
In 1951 he gave his house at Wahroonga to
the State Government as a home for polio
convalescents. He also raced several good
racehorses, notably Hydrogen, winner of over
£50,000 in stakes.
In Sydney, at 87, Harold Daniell, former
general-manager of Perdriau Rubber Co., and
a director of Dunlop Rubber after the com-
panies merged in 1929. He was also a pioneer
of the N.S.W. branch of the Royal Life
Saving Society.
In Sydney, at 77, Henry Priestley, Emeritus
Professor and member of Sydney University
Senate. After joining the staff of Sydney
University in 1918 as lecturer and chief demon-
strator in physiology, he was Professor of
Physiology from 1921 to 1938 and the first
Professor of Bio-chemistry. From 1945 to
1948 he was Dean of the Faculty of Science.
In Sydney, at 61, Frederick Joseph Richard-
son Gibson, since 1956 a member of the Aus-
tralian Stevedoring Industry Authority. Gibson
came to Australia in 1922 and worked in
Canberra as an industrial officer. In 1937 he
joined the Employers’ Federation of N.S.W.,
and was general secretary from 1939 to 1956.
He was also national secretary of the Australian
Council of Employers’ Federations from 1953
to 1956.
In Sydney, at 65, John Hamilton, World
War I hero. In 1915, when he was 19 years
old, he won a V.C. at Lone Pine. He was
later promoted lieutenant, and also served, as
a captain, in War II in New Guinea and the
Solomon Islands.
In Sydney, Roberta Galagher, chairman of
the Women’s Group of the N.S.W. division
of the Liberal party. A member of the
division’s executive and a former member of
the Liberal State Policy Committee, she con-
tested the King seat at the 1950, 1953 and
1956 State elections.


Newcastle and the Jones Boys
By PETER KELLY
The idea among Labor-party men
that there is a party policy on
everything, from international
affairs to town drains, is causing
serious conflict in the steelworks city of
Newcastle. Allegations and counter-
allegations by Labor-party aldermen of
“character assassination,” “sectarianism,”
“branch-stacking” and “political terror”
are disrupting the administration of the
City Council.
Since 1937, when a Greater Newcastle
Council was established, the city’s popu-
lation of 178,144 (1954 census) has been
locally governed by seven wards, each
returning three aldermen. The present
trouble-seeds were sown in 1956 when
Alderman Charles Jones, who is now
M.H.R. for Newcastle, became the first
Labor-party Lord Mayor in the city’s
history. In the election the Labor fac-
tion in the council recorded 10 votes for
Alderman Jones and the non-Labor
group 10 for Alderman D. G.
McDougali. To solve the deadlock (one
alderman was absent) the names were put
into a hat and Alderman Jones was
lucky.
A year later, the council had another
“drawn-from-a-hat” election and this
time Alderman McDougali won the
prize from Mr Jones.
Mr Jones, who flirted with the
Groupers until 1955, when their power
began to decline, is now the most ardent
Left-wing “Down-with-the-8.H.P.! ” man
to be found.
He was one of the first of the long line
of trade-union leaders and A.L.P. Parlia-
mentarians who have visited Russia or
China. He made his pilgrimage to Russia
in 1956 with Mr A. R. Buckley, Com-
munist Federal secretary of the Boiler-
makers’ Society.
The whole town has been talking about
the Jones boys since the recent B.H.P.
demarcation dispute which threw most of
Newcastle out of work. It was the
M.H.R.’s brother, Alderman S. B. Jones,
who started off the useless fight between
some unions and the B.H.P.
Tn the last four years at least five A.L.P.
members have resigned from the
council, all alleging “factionalism and
favoritism.”
Alderman Bates, of Central Ward,
resigned his 12-year membership of the
party in September, 1957, saying that his
conscience would no longer allow him
to carry out A.L.P. policy on the council.
Lord Mayor Jones expressed wonder
about this and said that the Labor-party
caucus was “reasonably happy.”
In February, 1959, Alderman Edden,
of Mid-west Ward, resigned from the
party after a membership of 18 years
and refused to state his reasons publicly.
In September of the same year Aider-
man K. Ball and H. Alder, Labor
“appointees” to the council, both
resigned. Each had given more than 20
years’ service to the Labor party. They
resigned because they had been beaten in
pre-selection ballots. Alderman Ball
attacked the Returning Officer (Alderman
S. B. Jones) for not including 10 votes
from Shortland A.L.P. branch, and
Alderman Alder said certain members of
his branch, who were ineligible to vote,
had voted.
A reshuffle of affiliations occurred at
the 1959 elections, when Labor gained
another seat on the council, bringing its
"I sometimes Wonder whether this creative Work is Worth the effort ."
representation to eight. Alderman Bates
and Edden were re-elected, backed by
the Citizens’ Group, and Alderman Ball
on a Ratepayers’ and Citizens’ Group
ticket.
The fifth resignation came last August
when Alderman Sheedy, an A.L.P. mem-
ber for 21 years, resigned. He was the
first alderman to come right out and say
that he could not abide with the party
pledge which directed him to support the
candidature of Mr Jones, M.H.R. Mr
Jones hit back and said: “I am surprised
that my name has been mentioned as
the reason for Alderman Sheedy’s action,
since I have had no political association
with Alderman Sheedy all this year.”
HPhe “Newcastle Morning Herald” of
February 18 ran a long article under
the heading of “Inquiry Wanted on
A.L.P. Affairs” which detailed, chrono-
logically, the moves and counter-moves
of the A.L.P. caucus in the council.
Mr Cecil L. Robinson, of Maitland, a
member of the A.L.P. State Executive,
was reported in the same paper of
February 20 as having said in a letter
to State A.L.P. secretary Colborne: “The
article sets out serious allegations which
have apparently been made by party
members to the press, many of which
have been subject-matters of previous
inquiries by the State Executive, where
party members have had every oppor-
tunity of placing any matter before the
committee of inquiry. There now appears
to be in evidence certain fresh allegations
by some party members who have
become dissatisfied for certain personal
reasons, and are openly ventilating these
matters in the press. In view of the
serious nature and damaging effect of the
article, I suggest that the State Executive
immediately arrange a sitting of an execu-
tive committee in Newcastle . .”
Mr Colborne told The Bulletin that
he knew of no inquiry which would or
would not be held into A.L.P. Newcastle
affairs. When he was asked whether the
executive had received or discussed Mr
Robinson’s letter he declined to comment.
He suggested that Mr Robinson may have
changed his mind since about the desira-
bility of an inquiry.
Whether the A.L.P. decides to act or
not Newcastle ratepayers are becoming
increasingly dissatisfied with their faction-
ridden council. Rumors are floating
around the city that the Jones boys’
power has reached its peak and is waning.
Whatever happens it is clear that the
fight within the A.L.P. in Newcastle is
not primarily a battle between Left and
Right ideologies. Rather it is a dispute
of personal and petty power which will
further electorally weaken the A.L.P. 111
one of its remaining strongholds. It has
also led to a serious decline in A.L.P-
membership: Mayfield branch, which
had a membership of roughly 200 two
years ago now has 30 members, and other
branches are suffering a comparable
decline. If everything else fails to move
the A.L.P. to action this might.


OVERSEAS
U.N. and the Congo Crisis
By DAVID WATT
The Congo is a crisis of African
nationalism and Afro-Asian states-
manship but it is, above all, a crisis of
the United Nations which will either
emerge in a new and more powerful
form or in an even more maimed and
halting state than it is already.
The resolution in the Security Council
sponsored by the U.A.R., Liberia and
Ceylon and passed on February 20 prob-
ably gives the United Nations its last
chance. It also gives it its best chance
so far. For by giving the U.N. Army
in the Congo the power to use force to
prevent civil war it steps over a vital
boundary. The U.N. has now, in effect,
admitted that it can, in certain circum-
stances, interfere in a country’s internal
affairs.
This resolution has immense signifi-
cance for the Congo for it has been the
scrupulous attention of the U.N. com-
mand in the Congo to its instructions not
to interfere that has encouraged other
Powers to do so. The Belgian Govern-
ment supported the Tshombe Govern-
ment in the Katanga province, the West-
ern Powers supported (with dwindling
confidence) President Kasavubu and Mr
Ileo, the Russian and U.A.R. Govern-
ments have supported Mr Lumumba. It
is doubtful whether any of them would
have done so with such energy if the
U.N. had been allowed to take stronger
measures from the start. As it was, each
side in the Congo was able to accuse the
United Nations of allowing the other
to continue its activities unchecked. It
is preposterous to blame the United
Nations for allowing the atrocious murder
of Mr Lumumba and his companions as it
is to blame them (as Mr Tshombe does)
for allowing Lumumbist forces to pene-
trate into Katanga Province —neither,
given the then existing powers of the U.N.,
could have been prevented by force.
The stakes in the Congo get higher and
higher as more and more nations, new
and old, throw their reputations onto the
table. Russia and the United States,
Ghana and Guinea, the United Arab
lndia and many others have
now taken up attitudes which it will be
difficult, if not impossible, for them to
change without serious loss of face. If
•he game is allowed to proceed, the usual
outcome of gambling games will almost
‘oevitably occur —the players with the
smallest capital will gradually drop out
until the two giants are left facing each
other across a table littered with bad
debts and ruined reputations.
The Congo crisis, therefore, is the test
whether the smaller nations of the
Ea rth have it in their power, in the last
re sort, to impose restrictions on the pre-
fensions and quarrels of their larger
oeighbors.
If the meddling of the great Powers
has been averted by the Afro-Asian
resolution, so has the opposite danger
represented by the Soviet resolution —
that is to say, the complete withdrawal
. V-. N - f° rces - Mr Hammarskjold’s
activities last summer over the Congo
were too independent altogether for the
Russians and Mr Khrushchev’s violent
attack at the General Assembly meeting
in October was the result. The Russian
demand for a ruling triumvirate for the
organisation is expressly designed to pre-
vent the Secretary-General s initiative
ever happening again.
It is significant that Mr Hammarsk-
jold’s reply was to appeal to the instincts
of self-preservation of the smaller
Powers. This reply was sufficiently effec-
tive to cause the Russians to drop the
triumvirate notion hastily. It is possible
that they may also drop their boycott of
Mr Hammarskjold if the reaction of the
Afro-Asian Powers makes it clear that
they will support him until, at least, his
term of office expires in 1963. At any
rate it is certain that the Russian failure
to veto the latest Security Council resolu-
tion is a famous victory for the Afro-
Asian bloc.
It is useless to deny that there are also
dangers from the other side. It is
obviously going to be very difficult to
persuade the Katanga regime to take part
in the summit conference of Congolese
political leaders suggested by the U.N.
conciliation commission or to acquiesce
in a Federal solution to the constitutional
problem of the Congo. It will be almost
impossible to disarm the Katangan
Army, particularly if Mr Tshombe is
encouraged to be defiant by the Western
Powers. The new American Administra-
tion has seen the danger signals and has
accordingly insisted on the removal of
all Belgian military agents, but there
“WE MUST JOIN TO AVENGE OUR DEAR FRIEND, LUMUMBA."


may be those in the Belgian and even the
British Government who believe that a
Katangan military strike against the
Gizenga Government in Stanleyville
should be condoned while it can still be
effective.
The latest developments have great
significance, quite apart from the Congo
crisis itself. It has been argued that Mr
Khrushchev is allowing his chances for
mischief-making in the Congo to pass by,
just as he may now accept a Laotian
settlement, because he genuinely wants
a measure of disarmament and a limited
agreement with the United States. These
are motives which it would be very nalvt
to overlook and yet it is the United
Nations which has forced a decision,
provided the forum, applied the pressure
of adverse propaganda, and given the
great Powers a face-saving excuse for
agreeing to what they were in two minds
about. Whether they will actually allow
it to be done is another matter, but to a
large extent this will depend on the con-
tinued pressure of the small nations
within the United Nations and their real
will to prevent the Congo becoming a
cockpit for every great national interest
under the sun.
The Congo Without Lumumba
By FRANCOIS BONDY
"Datrice Lumumba, like Modibo Keita
of Mali and Sekou Toure of Guinea,
looked like a king, had an imposing
figure and was obviously the offspring
pf a warrior tribe —in his case the
fiatetela, which, in his grandfather’s time,
Had led the last bloody revolt against the
Belgians in the Congo. He could be
radiantly charming, was a man with a
thirst for knowledge, open to fresh ideas,
and eloquent—that is how he struck me
when I met him in Stanleyville in July,
1900, in the capital of his movement.
He could be arrogant, fickle and com-
pletely unreliable—that was the impres-
sion he made on the Englishman Tom
ilopkinson. His two speeches on the
day when, in the presence of King
Baudouin, the Congo became indepen-
dent —a wild, abusive speech in the morn-
ing and the friendly, conciliatory one in
the evening—revealed both incalculability
and insincerity.
The masses in the Eastern (Orientale)
province worshipped him and in the last
weeks of Belgian rule he was able to
create order in centres of disturbance
like Banania, more quickly than the
Belgian troops, simply by his sudden
appearance on the scene. The Belgians
in “Stan” spoke of him as though he
were the devil himself, except for a few
who sided with him and his movement
ahd who occupy important positions in
the Eastern province even today.
With this Eastern province, the
province of Kivu, where Lumumba’s
friend and former Minister of Informa-
tion Kashamura rules, with the province
Luluaba, which has been cut out of
Katanga, and a part of the province
of Leopoldville, the Lumumbists hold
a third to a half —it is impossible to be
more precise than that—of the whole of
the Congo, whilst the leader of the
Balubas, Kalonji, who had parted from
Lumumba even before independence, has
proclaimed himself head of South Kasai,
and it was there that seven Lumumba
supporters have just been executed. He
too is violently opposed to the indepen-
dent Katanga of Moise Tshombe.
One thing is common to all these
fluctuating domains: the fact that white
advisers and experts are more urgently
needed and sought after than ever before,
and, in particular, military and police
specialists. On the one side, Communists
are being used, on the other, various
kinds of Fascists, above all Belgian
Rexists and French Ultras, but on both
sides the part being played by adventurers,
speculators and casual “king-makers”
should not be underestimated.
Without the Katanga in the back-
ground Leopoldville is no business centre,
but a hydrocephalus. Therefore, the
secessionist Tshombe, who observers at
first thought had precious little chance
of success, is now the strong man who
is building a strictly authoritarian, work-
ing State, with Belgian military cadres
who are by no means keeping tactfully
in the background, and with an African
population which appreciates full well its
relatively high standard of living, com-
pared with the surrounding provinces.
Thus Mba had blasted the rich Gabon
out of French Equatorial Africa and
Houphouet Boigny the rich Ivory Coast
from the French West African adminis-
trative body. This separatism of the rich
makes things much more difficult for the
poor provinces; but in principle a
Katanga nationalism is just as valuable
as a Congo nationalism.
Even the tribes do not form natural
administrative areas, because inter-
lacing and overlapping is so frequent,
partly in the form of the feudal domina-
tion of one tribe over the other, as in
Ruanda and Urundi, and partly because
a newly arrived tribe is more agile intel-
lectually and rises socially more rapidly
in the towns.
Since the difficulties on every level are
more or less the same, the establishment
of a Congo Nationalist party was, for
all its artificiality, by no means the worst
possible solution and the community
created by the Belgian administration
in fact made a unit of the Congo, as
compared with the adjacent African
territories. If Lumumba’s M.N.C.
(Mouvement National Congolais), which
put its money on this solution, has failed
for the time being, that does not prove
that its conception was not, relatively
speaking, the best in the prevailing cir-
cumstances.
This Congo Nationalism could have
developed in the course of gradually
overcoming the resistance of the
colonialists. It failed owing to their
capitulation. It was almost comical to
observe in July how Lumumba sum-
moned the “world’s press” every day to
disclose the latest Belgian plot, against
which the M.N.C. would, he declared,
nevertheless succeed in obtaining its
independence, of which there was in
fact no longer any question at all. Every-
thing came so quickly that this growing
party, which obviously had wind in its
sails, was inundated by profiteers and
job-hunters, before it had any at least
partly trained cadres. What was possible
in other similar underdeveloped coun-
tries such as Ghana, which was
Lumumba’s model, namely a single party
—Amsterdam “Algemeen Handelsblad.
“BUT WELL SOON HAVE A WONDERFUL A-BOMB!"


sustaining the State, was not feasible in
the Congo.
Lumumba himself did not come any-
whe r e near possessing Nkrumah’s
horizon and even on the day of Indepen-
dence he did not realise the difference
between the United States and the United
Nations, and he seriously believed that
all the Swedish U.N. soldiers were tools
of the Belgians because the late Queen
Astrid came from Sweden. All the same,
it must not be forgotten that the most
educated and gifted of the young Congo-
lese students, Thomas Kanza, has given
his support to the M.N.C. regime in the
Eastern province, where he is acting as
Foreign Minister, and that the attraction
of this party, which is the only one that
looks beyond tribal ties, has been very
great for the rising intellectual elite. It
remains so, for Lumumbism has not died
with Lumumba.
After the withdrawal of the “active
neutrals,” Egypt, Morocco, Ghana, Indo-
nesia, there are only 14,000 U.N. soldiers
left —a doubtful factor among the many
others, and incapable of acting as an arbi-
trator or a promoter of peace. Another
element of order has failed: Mobutu, who
has created a regime of sergeants and
students, which seems partly like a carica-
ture and partly like a poor imitation of
other progressive military dictatorships in
underdeveloped countries and whose
military campaigns have met with
miserable failure.
The pattern of the “real,” as opposed
to the “legal,” Congo with its Parlia-
mentary senate and party system, appears
most clearly in a proclamation of Ileo,
the Prime Minister installed by Kasavubu,
who was the author of the first Nationalist
manifesto in the Congo, and a fairly
important figure. On January 4he began
a proclamation to his fellow countrymen
as follows:
“I appeal to you Bangala, Ngwaka,
Mouza, Mongo, Nkundo, of the Equator,
to you Bakongo of the plain, Mayin-
dombe, Basakata of the Lake, Bayanzi,
Bambala, Bampende of the Kailu,
Basuku of the Kwango, I appeal to you
Atetela, Basinge, Lulua of the Kasai,
Baluba of the south Kasai, to you
Tshokwe, Baluba of Katanga, I appeal
to you Bashi, Warega, Wabebe, Bahunde,
Banyanga of northern Kivu and southern
Kivu, Bango-Bango, Wakeusu, Warumba
of the Maniema, I appeal to you Lokele
Topoke, Libinza of Stan, Azande of the
Uele, Bahuku of Ituri.”
Even the few elements of order which
emerge from the chaos: Congo
Nationalism, the military regime, U.N.
tutelage, the tribal parties of the Bakongo
or Lunda, with their local roots, will
merely become parts of disorder, because
no single factor will be wholly successful.
Boor Lumumba! Perhaps the Congo and
the world really did need a Congolese
nationalism, with a State party and a
“charismatic” leader. Perhaps the former
Post Office employee was right when he
said: “I am the Congo.” It is true that
the remaining political leaders in the
Congo are also “kings,” but only a chess-
hoard, and the question is who is moving
them?
Overseas Pointers
MIDDLE EAST
TURKEY
As the trial of the Menderes regime on
the island of Yassiada enters the fifth of
its expected seven-months run it seems
certain to end disappointingly for the
present Gursel regime. The Government
was proud that the trial was to be held
under the normal penal code, based on
the 1880 Italian law, rather than under
emergency regulations. But although the
prosecution has made a strong case, too
many of the charges have more or less
collapsed. For example, no substantial
evidence has been evinced to show that
Mr Menderes deliberately engineered the
anti-Greek riots of September, 1955. The
charge against Mr Menderes's doctor of
having killed an illegitimate child of the
former Prime Minister could not be
sustained either. To make matters still
more awkward for the regime, Lutfi
Kirdar, 72, Menderes’s Minister for
Health, dropped dead while testifying
and he has become a martyr for the large
numbers who support the deposed Gov-
ernment. Yet the trial was staged to
convince these people that the coup
d’etat was necessary. It may now be
advisable to end the trials quickly and
the prosecution seems prepared to ignore
the penal code in order to get death
sentences, for political reasons, against
Mr Menderes and ex-President Bayar.
U.A.R.
The U.A.R. 's decision to sponsor the
United Nations operation in the Congo
is a reversal of President Nasser’s attitude
at the Casablanca Arab League Con-
ference two months ago when he forced
the withdrawal of the African and Asian
Congo contingents. His present stand is
more in line with the views of Ghana’s
President Nkrumah and indicates that
anyone trying to influence uncommitted
African and Asian countries must still
work through, and not against, the
United Nations.
THE AMERICAS
U.S.A.
The U.S. Assistant Secretary of State for
African Affairs, Mr G. Mennen Williams,
who arrived in Kenya for a four-week
African tour, infuriated many by advocat-
ing “Africa for the Africans.” He showed
clearly that he was more interested in
African than European leaders and
worked hard at handshaking, even with
schoolchildren. He got immediate results:
150 members of the British Parliament
supported a request that Mr Macmillan
protest about Mr Williams’s interference
in Africa. In Tanganyika Mr Williams
heard complaints that he had snubbed
European Ministers of the Kenya Gov-
ernment in Nairobi. His comment:
“Complete balderdash.”
BRAZIL
Clearly bidding for increased United
States aid, President Quadros made Brazil
the second Latin American country, after
Cuba, to disagree with the U.S. China
policy. He stated that Brazil will vote
in favor of debating the admission of
Red China at the next U.N. General
Assembly.
EUROPE
MALTA
The Catholic Archbishop of Malta,
Monsignor Gonzi, said in his Lenten
pastoral that through their familiarity
with Communists and affiliations with the
Afro-Asian Peoples’ Solidarity Organisa-
tion the leaders of the Malta Labor party
had allowed Communism to enter Malta.
In a circular he warned that anyone
criticising or commenting adversely in any
way on his pastoral would be committing
a mortal sin, absolution for which was
reserved to the Archbishop himself. Mr
Mintoff, the Labor party leader, said it
.was “sensational nonsense” to call the
A.-A.P.S.O. Communist - dominated and
claimed that to prevent Labor success at
the next elections “British stooges are
exploiting religion in Malta.”
HUNGARY
Ninety per cent, of all arable land has
been brought within the “Socialist sector
of agriculture.” This announcement
brings to an end the final drive for com-
plete collectivisation launched last
October. The unco-operative 10 per cent,
may now be dealt with one by one. The
last stage of the drive brought about
serious agricultural problems: the party
attributes the shortage of basic foods
throughout the winter to these “unavoid-
able difficulties.”
U.S.S.R.
Mr Ilya Ehrenburg, in an autobio-
graphical fragment in “New World,” the
organ of the Soviet Writers’ Union, has
broken the long Soviet silence on the
merits of Pasternak as a novelist. He says
Pasternak did not intend “to damage his
country” by writing “Dr Zhivago” as
the novelist did not suspect that “a bad
political sensation would be made of his
book.” “Dr Zhivago” grieved Ehrenburg,
but he is convinced Pasternak wrote
sincerely. Still, too much of the book was
devoted to things the author did not see
or hear.
ITALY
The downfall of the Sicilian regional ad-
ministration following the resignation of
two neo-Fascist members increases the
possibility of Christian Democrat-Socialist
co-operation as this seems the only way
to ensure a stable regional government.
Although the Church constantly warns
against the dangers of alliance with
Leftist groups which are not completely
detached from the Communists. Christian
Democrat-Socialist alliances have been


formed recently in the important muni-
cipalities of Milan, Genoa and Florence
and further co-operation could result if
next week’s Socialist party national con-
gress in Milan results in a victory for
those desiring complete autonomy from
the Communists.
AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA
Bishop Ambrose Reeves's book, “Shoot-
ing at Sharpeville,” is one of 86 publica-
tions which the Government has now
banned as objectionable.
KENYA
Peaceful elections in which 75 to 90
per cent, of the people voted in most
constituencies was a triumph for Mr Tom
Mboya, general secretary of the Kenya
African National Union, who had such
a large majority in Nairobi East that his
four opponents lost their deposits.
Although he received 31,407 of the 39,458
votes, Mr Mboya still does not seem to
have the national appeal necessary to
hold the country together. The only man
with this appeal is the problematic Jomo
Kenyatta.
CONGO
Three Czech., one Polish and one
Russian journalists were forced to leave
Stanleyville in a hurry because a minor
official of Mr Gizenga’s regime com-
plained that their countries did not send
any help. He added “we do not want any
white faces at all.”
ASIA
BURMA
The Kuomintang forces’ activities near
the Burmese border are upsetting U.S.-
Burmese relations. U. Nu, the Burmese
Prime Minister, said the forces received
arms from Formosa while Formosa lived
on U.S. bounty. Brigadier Aung Gyi, the
Vice-Chief of Staff, hinted that the
Kuomintang air bases might be at any
Seato base near Burma.
PAKISTAN
Over 1000 students gathered outside the
Indian High Commission Chancery in
Karachi and burnt an effigy of Mr Nehru
following newspaper reports of the
slaughter of 1,200,000 Moslems in com-
munal disturbances in Jabalpur and other
towns of Madhya Pradesh in India.
CHINA
Although the crops have failed the
Communists hope that a hundred flowers
will bloom again . . . The official Com-
munist review “Red Flag” has suggested
a return to free discussion because recently
not even experts who stand high in Mao
Tse-Tung’s hierarchy have been willing
to comment on affairs. Editorials have re-
solved themselves into quotations from
Mr Mao Tse-Tung’s writings. The “Red
Flag” denounced dogmatism saying that
“for a Marxist, scientific truth has
nothing to do with dogma.”
Kenya
A Change of Management
By CLIVE BARRY
At the beginning of last year delegates
from Kenya in Lancaster House,
London, designed a constitution to give
Africans a majority of seats in the Legis-
lative Council. At the same time, politi-
cally-emergent Africans experimented in
frequenting Nairobi hotels which had
been used exclusively by Europeans.
Some Europeans grumbled ferociously
into their beer-froth but nobody was
thrown out. Mr Thomas Joseph Mboya
and members of the African National
Union became habitues of the New
Stanley grill-room. Dr J. G. Kiano and
his American wife danced on the New
Stanley dance-floor. And lesser lights
from the African political game with-
stood the glittering European-type
environment for as long as they could
sign a chit.
Along Jervanjee Street where two
African political parties had their cam-
paign headquarters, grubby African
shops displayed signs in English:
management reserves the right of admit-
tance. In Kenya, which contains only
sixty-thousand Europeans, the six-million
Africans were beginning to feel their
own weight of numbers.
Most people over 21 went to the polls
in the middle of February to elect a
Legislative Council which was to contain
37 African seats out of the 65. The elec-
tions were orderly and pleasant to
observe. European politicians contesting
their 10 reserved seats expressed a willing-
ness to work along with the African
members in the Legislative Council —a
willingness which would have been more
gracious had it been less inevitable.
The headquarters of the two rival
African parties were not unlike cam-
paign headquarters for political parties in
Australia. In Jervanjee Street, Nairobi,
they were crowded with propaganda
organisers, political candidates, secre-
taries of affiliated societies, voluntary
helpers, voters with favors to ask, and
henchmen with careers to think of. But
unlike Australian politicians, the African
politicians somewhat new to the demo-
cracy racket experimented with ferocious
speeches which had won them a follow-
ing among their own tribesmen but which
had little or no bearing on the future
prosperity of Kenya. The truth was that
African politicians, having been conceded
most of their demands, were running out
of windmills to tilt at. Having won
their following by being aggressively
critical of the old Government they so
far had failed to reveal broader abilities
of statesmanship.
While Kenya had dire need for
improvements in education, social ser-
vices and drought control, the main issue
propounded by African politicians was
the release of Jomo Kenyatta, the old
Kikuyu Mau Mau leader. Despite the
massacre of so many Africans blamed
upon Kenyatta’s leadership, the old
leader was revered throughout Kenya in
much the same way that Ned Kelly was
revered throughout Australia.
“If Jomo Kenyatta is not released
within the first week of March,” stated
the unopposed African member for
Kajiado, “I shall walk out of Legislative
Council.”
Rather imperiously then, as an after-
thought, he asked for the European Dis-
trict Commissioner of Kakemega on the
telephone and henchmen jumped to put
the call through for him.
“Many African members will follow
my example,” he said, “and the new
Government will fail completely.”
Mr David Lemomo, secretary of the
Masai United Front, now outlined his
plans for taking an army into the Congo
to punish Messrs Tshombe, Kasavubu
and Mobutu. This seemed to be a
response to the abortive efforts of the
Californian David Wynn to raise an army
in defence of Messrs Tshombe, Kasavubu
and Mobutu.
“I have two-thousand men waiting and
ready to go,” he said quietly and firmly.
“We shall get arms as soon as we can
get beyond the border of Kenya,” he
added vaguely, “and our first objective
will be Belgian blood.”
This kind of fiery talk seemed to make
no impression at all on the political
henchmen thronging the political head-
quarters of the African Democratic
Union. But because blood-letting was
unfortunately an honorable occupation
among the courageous Masai people, the
speech could have been politically
expedient if heard by less-sophisticated
listeners.
“This will be a lesson to Tshombe,”
put in Mr John Keen, an African poli-
tician, “and also to politicians in Kenya
who accept imperialistic advice and
money.”
“Is it not true,” said a lounging hench-
man, “that you yourself were the guest
of an imperialist today in an imperialist
hotel?”
“The main problem,” said Mr John
Keen, “is to release Jomo Kenyatta from
detention at Lodwa. I have been refused
permission to visit him by the secretariat,
but imperialists must realise that not
much longer can they frustrate the will
of the African people and impede the
course of . . .”
“District Commissioner of Kakemega
is on the telephone,” said an assistant.
While the member for Kajiado took
the telephone, Mr David Lemomo ex-
plained in rugged detail how he would
have closed the recruiting office of Mr
David Wynn in Nairobi if Mr Wynn had
dared to open it in support of Tshombe
of Katanga. At this point the member
for Kajiado dropped the telephone and
complained that the District Commis-
sioner must have simply walked away
from his end of the telephone.


Shows
MUSIC
Anna Russell
Some things are impervious to the
satirist’s weapons; among these surely
are our songs, from the simplest folic
melody to the magnificent complexity
of Schubert lieder. Those
who would send-up such
creations do so at con-
siderable risk unfortun-
ately, not only to themselves.
The visiting American comedian Anna
Russell does not exactly aim her pains-
takingly pointed and polished enter-
tainer’s arrows at the works themselves,
but at their executants. At least that
would appear to be her intention. This
often led to remarkably funny results at
her opening Melbourne Town Hall recital.
There is certainly farce in a beefily up-
holstered singer straining her voice for
effects that are beyond her range and
talents ; this she exploits time and again,
often with delicious cunning.
But there can be other results. Take
her treatment of Schubert’s “Erl King.”
For this Miss Russell swallowed deeply,
deared her throat, and threw back her
head, gathering herself together in a
fantastic manner while her accompanist,
launched into the introductory bars of
the song. Before the singer had opened
her mouth, however, our conditioned
responses had been working. Familiar
with Schubert lieder and loving it deeply
we found ourselves yearning to hear it
again . . . But as soon as Miss Russell
took charge of the song Schubert swiftly
packed his bags and left the scene.
That wasn’t the end of the frustration.
Miss Russell, when she wants too, has a
fine voice. So, instead of the expected
laugh, what many in the audience experi-
enced was the urge to jump up and cry:
For God’s sake stop mucking about and
get on with the song.
This may be an over-solemn reaction
to a comedian’s attempts to amuse us.
But what one feels is that she succeeds
in nothing so well as aligning herself
squarely with suburban philistinism at
its worst. Many people still feel uneasy
when confronted with, say, Wagnerian
opera, but few would dare to openly
profess to the prejudices implied and
stated about such work during the
course of this “recital” for fear of being
thought non-U. Miss Russell is their
liberator.
Some might point out that only good
can come of lampooning the pretensions
and inadequacies of inferior executants.
But today second-rate artists are an
ordeal few of us have to put up with.
The advance of recording techniques
has driven the quack singer out of the
parlor. Because of this Miss Russell's
angle is fast losing its point.
Margaret Sutherland Concert
The great failing of Australian music
has been its inability to stir us pro-
foundly, to impart to us new and memor-
able experiences. Margaret Sutherland,
whose recital of chamber works at Mel-
bourne Assembly Hall was unique in that
it is so very rare for an Australian com-
poser to take the floor alone in this way,
mostly shares this failing.
Her music has freshness, intelligence,
technical inventiveness. But too fre-
quently it lacks the dynamism of a life
truly its own. There are moments,
especially in the delightful Trio for oboe
and two violins and the Six Bagatelles for
violin and viola, which bear witness to
a composer with something of real
importance to say and possessing the
equipment to say it effectively.
Miss Sutherland, who collaborated
with piano throughout the six-work pro-
gramme (the piano writing contributed to
some of the evening’s most rewarding
listening) was assisted by Jiri Tancibudek
(oboe), Sybil Copeland (violin), John
Glickman (violin and viola) and Henry
Wenig (’cello).
A. S. Jorgensen
Mina Foley
During Festival Week in Wellington,
Mina Foley, New Zealand’s coloratura
soprano, made one of her infrequent
appearances. In her several classical-
popular arias she had a purity, strength
and range that would attract interest in
any part of the world. She can climb
to B above top B and hold it with ease.
In ascending and descending she is as
effortless as a bird. If there is little
passion there is inspired beauty.
In appearance she is a miniature Toti
dal Monte, under whom she studied in
Italy. Toti is all woman ; Mina a slip
of a girl. So remote is she from the some-
times overwhelming personality of great
singers, that this difference is in itself
charming.
Mina Foley has suffered from ill-health
but is now resuming her career ; if she
visits Australia she should receive a warm
welcome, and if she is in the company
of Henry Rudolph’s girl choir with whom
she was associated in the Wellington
concert, she should have a worthy back-
ground.
Pat Lawlor
THEATRE
“South”
In this play set in South Carolina
on the eve of the American civil war,
John Tasker followed his last year’s
exotic “Oedipus Rex” and fantastic
“Love’s Labor’s Lost” with a naturalistic
drawing-room decor, at Turner Hall,
Ultimo, Sydney.
The little more that one has come to
expect from Mr Tasker turned up in
the play itself, written originally in
French by Julian Green the novelist, born
in France of American parents. Begin-
ning with a frou-frou of crinolines rust-
ling in the early breeze of war, and
beautifully worn by Rosaleen Smyth,
Brenda Senders and Carolle Boyce, it
went on to two acts dominated by the
perplexities of a Polish emigre officer ;
he was in love with the plantation owner’s
little son and didn’t know how to explain
this to the boy or his friends and relatives.
What piquancy there was in this indi-
vidual quandary being set against the
background of the slave-trade and four
years of furious fighting was dissipated
by the Pole’s interminable harping on it.
Homosexuals might get by easier if they
didn't talk so much ; and it was sad
to see Stefan Gryff, who as the messenger
in “Oedipus Rex” showed such exhila-
rating mastery of the set speech, reduced
to boring reiteration as the love-lorn
Pole, nobly renouncing the little boy,
coldly and calculatingiy trying to marry
the boy's sister in order to be near him,
wearily trying to explain to a dense
young Southern gentleman of 1861 (John
Bell), before even the Wilde case, what
it was all about. Still, he made suitable
amends, insulting the young Southerner
in order to have himself stabbed in a
duel; and Rosaleen Smyth, as the girl
from the North who had loved and
understood him from the first, wailed
over his body as the curtain fell.
The cast managed their accents credit-
ably, and their movements kept the stage
picture easily and gracefully alive.
Stanislav Polonsky did not look like a
plantation owner, but had the beautiful
manners ; James Hirschfeld made an im-
pressive old blind colored soothsayer ;
Carolle Boyce a lively, naive young
Southern miss in love, Brenda Senders
a lushly vapid older Southern lady ;
Rosaleen Smyth conveyed the brittle
tensity of a young woman deprived of
her natural prey, John Bell was a forth-
right young actor being a forthright
young Southerner, and the whirring, as
of a wind-machine, that followed Mr
Tasker from “Love’s Labor’s Lost’’ at
the University of New South Wales to
Turner Hall ended early in Act 1, never,
one hopes, to return.
‘Champagne, Chandeliers and Chintz”
The Dashing Delinquents brought their
show from the North Shore to the Ballet
Theatre, near Railway Square, Sydney,
this year; 29 acts, all, except for being
in the Phillip Street revue style, original.
All such shows begin with a parade of
the company as high-class ballroom
types; this one ended confessionally:
they were not so much “Champagne,
Chandeliers and Chintz” types as “Hurri-


cane Lamps, Hessian and Beer” types.
They elected Bea Miles queen of Sydney
society.
The 27 acts in between resembled
Phillip Street acts, also, in being good
and not so good. The A.B.C.'s language
tutors were the subject of the neatest skit
(by Andrew Huntley) in which Mary
(Jill Bender) and Paul (Robert Southern)
were discovered betraying husband John
(Ray Biehler), the whole exciting scene
being worked out in the A.B.C.’s care-
fully spaced wordage. Christine Clay-
ton's engaging smile lighted up her
Western duet with Mr Huntley, and she
was quite the little actress in a murder
routine. Maggie Mewkill strewed the
show with the winking marybuds of her
pert sophistication. The three girls made
a wicked group of employees for Robert
Southern's brothel madam. Mr Huntley
and Mr Biehler had a good song for
surfers.
But the Shakespeare pastiche didn’t
work. The two tragic interludes for Jill
Bender dragged, as such things always
do. The “Fugue for Dissatisfied People”
in which they walked up and down sing-
ing in canon was better in conception
than effect. The fault of young writers
and players, of dispersal rather than con-
centration of effect, was never better
illustrated than in Robert Southern's
“Hindu Deity,” with two girls behind
him, worried to know what to do with
six arms and hands —his Brahman bikini
was so funny in itself that people couldn’t
listen for laughing.
Mr Southern makes up by being the
show’s best comedian for being the only
actor who hasn’t contributed words or
music ; Andrew Huntley has written the
sketches, and the words of some of the
songs, while Ray Biehler and lan Evans,
the pianist-accompanist, have done most
of the songs, both words and music. The
show goes on on Fridays and Saturdays
until April 8, except Good Friday.
Ronald McCuaig
Peter Hall
The biggest recent theatrical event in
England was undoubtedly the reopening,
on the other side of Waterloo Bridge,
of the Aldwych Theatre a week before
Christmas. This is a venture of immense
possibilities. It does not mean that the
Stratford-on-Avon Company has found
a London playhouse in which to off-load
its productions.
Peter Hall, at 32 the youngest-ever of
Stratford’s directors, is a shrewd man-
of-affairs as well as a dedicated theatre-
lover. Broadly, his project has two aims:
to create a repertory company of the
highest distinction (comparable, say, to
the Academie Franqaise) and to perfect a
new style of acting.
Stratford just about pays its way with-
out a State subsidy in an eight-month
season entirely devoted to Shakspeare.
This, considers Mr Hall, is excellent for
actors up to a point, but too much
Shakspeare tempts them into bad ways
(“sonneteering” and empty rhetoric).
Moreover, the financial pull of television
and films makes the formation of a per-
manent company difficult, if not im-
possible.
He has therefore devised a scheme to
get the best of both non-commercial and
commercial worlds. He hopes to have
some 30 top - class artists on a three-
year contract, which will allow them
to spend about one - third of their time
in outside engagements. They will form
the nucleus of the 100 or so actors needed
to mount the productions in the two
theatres. He believes that the Aldwych
will require new plays as well as non-
Shakspearean classics and the occasional
transfer from Stratford.
His intention is not to compete with
the commercial theatre but to offer some-
thing different —to break away, for in-
stance, from the vogue of naturalism and
slice-of-life drama. He obviously has in
mind the “new style of acting.’’ This
probably means a revolutionary discard-
ing of traditional methods and techniques
and the hope than another Romantic Age
will follow.
The essence of the experiment, which
should not be overlooked, is artistic
endeavor. No one has the idea of making
a fortune out of it. Salaries are meagre
by West End standards. Renovation of
the bomb-damaged Aldwych has cost
£75,000 and will necessitate a safety-first
programme at Stratford next season. Mr
Hall's backing is slender but firm. He
has a £5OOO grant from the Gulbenkian
Foundation and a 25 per cent, booking
guaranteed by the ticket-agencies over
the three years and, not least, the services
of our finest actors and actresses, con-
tractually or as guests.
Herbert Holman
TV
“Consider Your Verdict”
“Whiplash”
Fearful of appearing always as Ned
the Knocker, 1 was delighted to be
delighted by the first instalment of this
commercial show from Crawford Pro-
ductions. Melbourne ; original in con-
ception, professional in technique and
authentically indigenous.
One expected a cheap courtroom
drama like “Boyd Q.C.”; but the Aus-
tralian effort left its dreary 8.8. C. rival
for dead, and accentuated the juvenility
of America’s Perry Mason series. The
approach is that of early Kazan films,
semi-documentary, concentrating as much
on details, processes and minutiae as on
the central situation. No artiness—the
camera work is totally unimaginative;
the quality is in the verisimilitude of the
scripting and the inspired use of “natural”
actors.
It is hard to believe that the first three
witnesses in the opening show were pro-
fessionals. The Australian accents, inflec-
tions and hesitancies were beyond even
an accomplished Method player; you
felt that the producer had gone out and
found an actual night-club bouncer,
restaurant-desk girl and migrant taxi-
driver : if this was the acting of Mel-
bourne pros, it was of a level we have
never seen before. The judge, on the
other hand, was clearly a pro., laboriously
overplaying and tortuously timing.
My guess is that they worked with
only a basic skeleton script, allowing the
final version to build around the natural
phraseology of the types they had roped
Representationalism at Auction
'T'here has been a lot of propaganda
against the “Impressionist” school
of Australian painting in recent years
by people who think you can’t have
a new movement without wiping out
the one before it; but collectors and
connoisseurs don’t seem to have taken
much notice.
But even buyers who knew that
prices keep steadily going up must
have been surprised at the sale of
the late F. J. Wallis’s fine collection
at his home in the Sydney suburb of
Strathfield. J. J. Hilder’s “The Two
Barrows” brought 530 gns: a stag-
gering sum for a small watercolor.
In Hilder’s lifetime you could have
bought it for 20 gns and even only
ten years ago the price would have
been about £. 100.
Penleigh Boyd’s “Blue Mountains”
went for 360gns ; a small Tom Roberts
(7|in. x 4|in.) for 115gns, and his
larger “Dandenong Ranges” for
430gns.
Standing out in the broiling Feb-
ruary sunlight, where the paintings
were undergoing the most exacting
test of their quality, a dozen people
bid against each other for Gruner’s
“Through the Sliprails” (B|in. x llin.)
—4oogns. The same painter’s “Moody
Weather,’’ one of those early land-
scapes like beaten silver (13|ins. by
10ins.), got to 255gns. Five Blamire
Young watercolors, the best collection
of that artist’s work you could see in
any one place, sold at prices varying
from lOOgns to 150gns. Streeton,
Heysen, Minns, Will Ashton and
Norman Lindsay were others who
more than maintained their values.
One pleasant interlude at the sale
was provided by a tall woman with
a blue sunshade who bid against all
comers for a pastel of a girl by that
almost forgotten artist Florence Rod-
way. The word went round that she
had been Florence Rodway’s model.
Prices were too high for the N.S.W.
Gallery, which acquired only one
small wash-drawing by the English
topographical artist Grimm, and for
the Tasmanian Gallery which failed to
secure the pictures it wanted. But
if the national galleries don’t rake
up the money now (as they could)
to buy these paintings while prices
are in the hundreds, they’ll be paying
in thousands before very long.—D.S.


jn: this theory is borne out by the
numerous verbal slips, stumblings, and
an overall air of cunning ad-libbing.
Without self - consciousness, a rural
theme, or a strained exercise of social
theory they captured a finely detailed and
authentic image of Australian types,
word-usage and habits of thought,
realising faithfully what Culotta fabri-
cated.
When “Whiplash” went on TV in Eng-
land the “Sunday Times” reviewer was
repelled by its combination of amateur-
ism and sadism. A singularly innocuous
episode was Australia’s first fruit of the
giant sowings in French’s Forest last year.
It seems that a well-bred junior version
of Charles Bickford, name of Christopher
Cobb, owner of a frail cart, earned a
comfortable living and the respect of the
Bathurst citizenry in 1840. A suspicious
character hired him to take two coffins
to Wagga Wagga ; he was hijacked by
bearded ruffians and taken blindfold to
a two-story station homestead fit for
Macarlhur on well-made roads, but
completely unknown to the outside world,
run by Neva Carr-Glyn and a mob of
escaped felons who, if captured, would be
hanged.
Neva had a daughter, and Cobb was
to marry her or die, so that Toria (short
for Victoria) could go to England and
forget her convict origins. Neva was
having heart-attacks like hiccups ; Cobb
was deeply moved, and married the girl
wh : le an escaped con. held a pocket-knife
against his earhole. But the marriage
wasn’t genuine ; the bride was returned
to her “own people,” although Neva
having died made this a toss-up.
Incorrigible snobs will enjoy spotting
the anachronisms. Everyone will have
noticed the 1914 Digger hat; the
language-conscious were delighted with
"sun-up” for dawn and “preacher” for
minister; farmers were amazed at the
comprehensive fencing in 1840 ; Christo-
pher Cobb never existed ; Cobb himself
never operated from Bathurst, nor did
the Company, until 1861, a time, also,
when it was doubtful whether recaptured
felons were automatically hanged ; and
it was nice to think that Neva Carr-Glyn
discovered swags of gold so long before
Hargraves . . .
This game is highbrow guff when
directed at gimmick Westerns devised for
suburban consumption in the Black
Counties, Little Rock and Pymble, but
how otherwise is the reviewer to keep
awake?
Max Harris
“Jazz People”
This special edition of Gerald Lyons’s
Weekly feature “People” (Channel 2, Mel-
bourne) emphasised the difference be-
tween pure jazz and commercial. Where
“All That Jazz,” reviewed last week,
Presented basic jazz rhythm plus some
“jazzy” tone colors in an easy-to-listen-to
single faceted sound, this show revealed
the multiplicity of rhythms, tone colors
and harmonics which results when
creative musicians improvise on a basic
chord structure and melodic theme.
Pianist Graham Coyle, blues singer
Elvie Simmons and trumpeter lan Orr,
and the quartets led by Alan Lee and
Bob Gebert ran the gamut of jazz from
Jelly Roll Morton to Thelonius Monk.
The most interesting music was that of
17-year-old pianist-composer Bob Gebert.
His group of prominent soloists has been
playing together for only two months and
has in that time come up with no fewer
than 40 original compositions. They use
many harmonic devices of the European
tradition in a highly emotional jazz form,
though their playing in the poetry and
jazz segment showed sensitive use of
their musical feelings. Their slightly
immature brilliance was beautifully offset
by the polished interpretations of Lee’s
group, and both these groups can be
said to be of world standing.
The camera work on the blues group,
spotlighted against blackness, was breath-
taking ; the Lee quartet, in greys and
blacks against a light cyclorama, and the
members of Gebert’s band, shown in
mottled greys and whites against heavy
drapes lit by flashing arcs, all came up
well in one of the best thought-out light-
ing plots Channel 2 has used (the brain-
child of producer Eric McCleery). There
were also good close-ups of Gebert,
Coyle, Elvie Simmons and lan Orr (the
most atmospheric shot of the night),
drummer Roger Sellers, bassist Dick
Barnes and the poetry readers.
Adrian Rawlins
FILMS
“The Big Fisherman” (Liberty)
“Lunch on the Grass” (Lido)
“Flaming Star” (Regent)
Of these three color films showing in
Sydney, “Fisherman” is disappointing in
that we don't see Salome dancing, except
in shadow 7 ; “Grass” in that producer
Renoir doesn't present a painter Renoir
nude of Catherine Rouvel ; and “Star” in
that Elvis sings only twice. Howard Keel
looks like the big fisherman, Simon called
Peter; Elvis makes a creditable half-
caste Red Indian ; but Catherine Rouvel
has less the face of a Renoir model than
of a square-cut Aztec god.
Peter gives himself up to religion;
Catherine offers herself up to artificial
insemination ; Elvis sacrifices himself to
art —a half-caste, unwanted by either
whites or Indians, he rides wounded out
of the picture towards his mother’s
(Dolores del Rio) people to die. Only
that way could he convince himself that
he wasn’t just another rock-and-roll
singer.
Renoir has the painter’s lovely touch
with landscape, and in some of the group
scenes of picnickers recalls the confec-
tionery coloration of the painter's famous
boathouse luncheon. That was developed
from Veronese ; but the only Old Master
touches that got into “The Big Fisher-
man ’ happened by chance when a crowd-
scene came into artistic focus. Otherwise
it was like the illustrations to a door-to-
door instalment Bible. The Elvis
Western had a blizzard as phony as the
wind, piped-up by an old French goat-
herd, which threw Renoir’s insemination
scientist (Paul Meurisse) into the arms
of Catherine Rouvel ; but the Elvis film
told its story best, and its nature-study,
of sky behind mountains and Western
pastures, was quite as good as Renoir’s.
R.McC.
ART
Sydney Art
Eric Smith's £5OO prizewinning pic-
ture in the Sydney Journalists’ Club
competition is being shown, along with
the other entries, at the Terry Clune
Galleries. Only 26 entries were received
for the competition and Mr Smith's
scintillating if rather woolly illustration
to “Voss” was easily the best of them.
Several stronger illustrations were in his
recent exhibition at David Jones’. At the
Macquarie Galleries last week’s exhibi-
tion of drawings by Justin O’Brien is
replaced by Ivan Englund’s pottery.
David Jones’ Gallery has the Contem-
porary Society opening today (Wednes-
day).
Retail Sculpture
Sydney sculptor Lyndon Dadswell has
been commissioned to make a sculpture
for the frontage of the £2,900,000 store
which David Jones Ltd. is building on
the site of its Adelaide store, Chas. Birks
& Co. Ltd. The chairman of directors.
Mr David L. Jones, said Mr Dadswell
had submitted several models for the
sculpture, which would be 24ft high,
hammered from sheets of copper and
possibly silver, and would weigh about
one ton. The design was entitled “Pro-
gress,’’ but details would be kept secret
until the sculpture was unveiled at the
opening of the new store late in 1962.
Graphic Art Exhibition
An exhibition of mid - Twentieth
Century Graphic Art has been compiled
from the New South Wales Gallery’s
large collection of prints and drawings.
Picasso, Arp, Ernst, Nesch, Manessier and
other European artists are represented by
lithographs, linocuts, woodcuts, seri-
graphs, etchings, engravings and draw-
ings.
All are large and colorful, and reveal
a very different approach to graphic art
from that of the pre-war period, when
black and white, especially etching, was
usual. Since World War II lithography
has been the most popular medium but
recently many other forms of color print-
ing have been employed as well. The
exhibition will continue until March 12.


Men of Mt Isa
Mines in the Spinifex. Geoffrey
Blainey. Angus and Robertson.
275. 6d.
This history of Mt Isa is a better
book than “Peaks of Lyell,” possibly
because Mt Isa is a gift from the
Gods to a writer of institutional history,
having everything for working up
among its properties except lions and
rattlesnakes, of which there is an un-
fortunate dearth in the Australian bush.
It has under its foundations a modi-
cum of Gulf history of which the really
juicy bits have yet to be written. It
has the ancient prospector and the
atmosphere of the Cloncurry-Camoo-
weal-Kalkadoon country in the reason-
ably-earlies, though unfortunately only
the smell of the Kalkadoons remained
when Mt Isa was floated in 1923.
Otherwise, some of the members of
that black, finger-talking savage tribe
might have delayed progress by killing
off a few of the old prospectors and,
perhaps, eating Randolph Bedford,
who would have made a wonderful
morsel for a cannibal feast.
The history of the district was a
curious one. Ernest Henry, a veteran
of the Crimean War who immigrated
in 1957 and whose name used to be
known far and wide in the north, found
the Great Australia copper deposit on
May 20, 1867, and from then onwards
there was a continual flow of hopeful
prospectors into the district, which cul-
minated in the great copper boom of
the 1907-1920 period when the names
of Orr, W. H. Corbould, W. S. Robin-
son, Kennedy, John Moffat and Cuth-
bert among men and Hampden, Mt
Elliott, Duchess, Trekelano, Wee Mac-
Gregor and Mount Oxide among
mines were household words in the
world of copper.
The astonishing thing is that the
whole countryside had been pored over
by expert mining men, geologists of
note and by old “death adders” of a
thousand prospects in flood country
and desert for sixty years before the
nature of Mt Isa was realised and its
possibilities tested.
It has been the case again and again
that prospectors, and after them, large
development companies, have searched
madly for one metal, spent and earned
millions, and sometimes realised too
late that huge further wealth lay at
hand in giant deposits of other metals.
This happened at Mt Morgan which
began as a fabulous find of gold. The
owners threw away thousands of tons
of other products before increasing
financial depression made them look
round a bit, when they discovered that
they had an almost illimitable lode of
copper pyrites in the most accessible
and treatable form, not to mention
millions of tons of potential fertiliser
which may one day revolutionise the
pastoral condition of the Central
Queensland coastal districts.
Similarly, though Mt Isa was in the
centre of a prospecting area, 10 miles
from the main route between Cloncurry
and Camooweal and the Territory
border-gate, seekers after mineral, if
they saw any of the ore, just muttered,
“Oh, looks a bit like silver lead” and
went on with the search for the copper
bonanza of all time. And again, the
silver lead men did not prophesy that
Mt Isa would become a copper mine.
People camped regularly at White’s
Soak within walking distance of the
amazing hill.
Ernie White was supposed to have
climbed it and noticed the black veins
in it. Others certainly had ridden close
by—White, Kennedy and James Elliott,
who found and gave his name to the
mine at Mt Elliott and had no reward
from its tremendous earnings save a
little fame. He was “a hermit and
fossicker .... a little old man with
a past masked in tragedy .... sen-
tenced to death for murdering and
robbing a Chinese .... who had been
in jail for years before the real murderer
confessed on his deathbed.”
He made the discovery of Mt Elliott
in 1899, sold it to Morphett of Mt
Constantine for a song, got nothing
out of it (neither did Morphett) and
died in poverty in Cloncurry Hospital
in 1907, the year his mine was floated
in London.
According to Randolph Bedford (a
romantic fellow) he died waiting for
a friend who never came but to whom
he proposed to reveal the whereabouts
of another remarkable lode: Mt Isa.
Nothing really happened there until
James Campbell Miles, a rolling stone
who had been at Broken Hill, rode
into the camp of four bushworkers from
Barkly Downs who were digging cop-
per and mica a couple of miles from
the black mountain that could have
made them millionaires, with a hand-
ful of what he had recognised as silver
lead ore.
The area went through the usual
routine after Jim Tregenza, the Gov-
ernment assayer in Cloncurry, nearly
fell through his moleskins when he
discovered that specimens sent in to
him assayed up to 78.3 per cent, lead
and up to 70 ounces of silver.
There were the usual romances—
e.g. part of a lease sold first for a
dry bullock hide and then six months
later for £10,000; and finally, or not
so finally, the appearance of W. H.
Corbould, one of the greatest of Aus-
tralian mining men, who bought out
four of the discovery-leases men for
£5OOO and two others, including the
real discoverer, Miles, for £2O shares
in a basic £50,000 company.
These newly rich had the usual post-
prosperity careers. After a momentous
journey in the Cloncurry-Townsville
mail (it was momentous enough any-
way in those days), the four with the
£5OOO quaffed from an icechest full
of beer in the carriage and enjoyed
three flooded days of blissful riot at
Richmond. They then went their
ways.
One went by dray across the Barkly
to Halls’ Creek. One died without a
penny in Wyndham Hospital. One
bought a taxi to serve the 120 miles
route from Longreach to Winton and
then retired to Townsville to be a
happy lorry driver with a great pride
and interest in the mine which had
made millionaires and in which he
had no shares.
Miles was a real discoverer in every
sense. Mr Blainey rightly says that
he probably was the only prospector
in Australian history who sought and
found evidence of the geological age
of his find, thus confounding the
geologists, who had pronounced it as
Silurian, by securing the proof that
it belonged to the same geological age
as Broken Hill —Cambrian.
He had a better reward than most
prospectors, though a modest one.
He had 15,000 shares in the public
company eventually formed, and his
life was in strong contrast to that of
his partner Simpson, who sold at once,
engaged in riotous living and finally,
after a 1000 mile taxi drive from
Duchess to Brisbane, was knocked
down in the street by a car and killed.
Miles sold most of his shares, many
at low prices, and in 1927 resumed
the journey on which he had been
bound when he had enroute discovered
Mt Isa; to the Murranji track on the
other side of Newcastle Waters, P re '
sumably on his way to some fabled
reef in the region of Tanami.
The “wet” beat him and he turned
back and has ever since been happily


specking for gold in the fastnesses of
Gippsland.
Invited to visit the mine in 1957,
he refused to fly, travelled in a small
station wagon presented to him by the
company, tried to camp on the creek,
and, being discouraged, insisted on be-
ing accommodated in the workers’ bar-
racks where he lived “like the Duke of
Wellington,” according to his version,
and enjoyed himself as much as a tee-
totaller can in Mt Isa.
There was the usual period of wild-
cat speculating by people who bought
outstanding leases on option with little
or no money.
Randolph Bedford was one of them.
He was alleged to have given his
“Bulletin” friends 350 shares in his
company.
He succeeded in getting his share-
holders out in the sale to Corbould's
company after two years, with a 100
per cent, profit on their money in terms
of fully paid shares, and in November,
1925. the Mt Isa Company had control
of the field.
It was a long, hard, exciting fight
before Mt Isa paid its first dividend
in 1947. The interval provides an
exciting story of the struggle for over-
seas capital and for control.
Both in the mine and town it was
a story that largely belonged to Julius
Khrushnitt. He came into the picture
in 1930, the year after ‘The railway
come” and after the American Mining
and Smelting Company, whose mining
department manager in the South-west
States of the U.S. he had been for
15 years from the age of 30 onwards,
acquired substantive control.
He arrived to take control of the
mine to find its assets mostly pi' ; of
bills (common enough in the depres-
sion) and everybody embarrassed by
having bottomed on an underground
resource least to be expected in the
forsaken wilderness of the Leichhardt
-water, which was overwhelming the
workings.
The history of Mt Isa as a mine
parallels that of a lot of other fabulous
mines. As a social experiment in
interior colonisation its history is some-
thing else. There has never been any-
thing like it before in Australia —a
model town, without want and with all
metropolitan amenities, plus the lead
bonus. Olympic standard baths and
unlimited beer, set down in a wilderness
which, left to itself, could scarcely
keep a carpet snake alive.
And with an old time typical western
Queensland town (which provides most
of the beer and all the bookies) set
town beside it for comparison. Now,
•n the fabulous nuclear age. Mary
Kathleen operates not far away. Both
are surrounded by pieces of terrain
fhat even Aaron would shun if he
w ere looking for somewhere to strike
<t rock.
However, somebody once struck
*ood if not rock, with good effect,
"'hen Khrushnitt retired in 1953 —he
is still a director of Mt Isa and of Mt
Morgan.
It took eight policemen to direct
the traffic to his farewell barbecue and
“25 hogsheads of beer were consumed
by 2000 people.”
The modern Mt Isa is the gift of
Khrushnitt’s American knowhow to
Australian interior development.
Somebody should write a book about
him if the facts of his early adventures
and later struggle could be dredged
out of him. Indeed there are many
books to be written about Mt Isa and
its inhabitants, past and present, from
the days when the enterprising Kalka-
doons hunted goannas there, which is
only a lifetime ago, until the present
when the Qantas planes as a normal
chore take holiday-makers southward
from it to see the West Indians or the
surf girls of the Gold Coast.
There is a lot of the material of
history, of fiction and of Australian
prosperity to be seen looking down
from the highest smoke-stack in Aus-
tralia on Mt Isa’s town of 12,000
people which boasts that it has more
cars per capita than any other town
in Australia.
M. H. Ellis
Roy Campbell’s
Country
Discovering ffoe Camargtie. Monica
Krippner. Hutchinson. 31s.
Except for Van Gogh and a few off-
the-beaten-track travellers and roman-
tics like Roy Campbell, who wrote
much of his poetry at the village of
Saintes Maries de la Mer. the Camar-
gue has generally been ignored by the
tourist. Rut in recent years it has
experienced something of a revival, an
interest renewed partly at least by the
success of that little film “Crin Blanc”
about a wild white stallion and a
fisher boy. A certain prosperity has
descended on this backwater of France,
and the tourist is finding that the tradi-
tional way of life still being pursued
offers all the color and romanticism
absent in the more sophisticated north.
The Camargue. 140,000 acres in all.
about the size of the average station
in Queensland, lies between the two
arms of the Rhone River. Here for
centuries the people have led a pre-
carious medieval existence cut off from
more fruitful contacts with the rest of
France. It is a strange isolated area,
of flat lonely marshes, famous for its
breeds of white horses and black cattle
and also for its red flamingoes, since
it is one of the finest wild-life sanctu-
aries in Europe.
In this place Monica Krippner
elected to stay, poking round Arles
and Nimes. sampling the local foods,
recording the customs, observing both
people and landscape. In one respect
she is the professional traveller. She
moves about because she is attracted
and because travel yields up material
of use to the average tourist. She has
already written some agreeable, busi-
nesslike guide-books to Yugoslavia,
Greece, Austria and Norway. This
is not meant as a criticism. It merely
means that her approach has a
thoroughness and a polish lacking in
more amateurish attempts.
In any event, nothing seems to have
escaped her attention. Frederic
Mistral the poet, the history of Prov-
ence, local festivals, farm manage-
ment —it is all here, presented not in
the usual dully factual diary-type narra-
tive but in lively intelligent prose. On
a host of topics she has some interest-
ing things to say. Noting the differ-
ences in temperament between the men
of the mountains and the plain, some-
thing that attracted the historian
Thucydides long ago. she writes: -
Mountaineers are taciturn, but
often intense and passionate under-
neath, and when articulate can be
very poetical, but. when inarticulate
they are a closed people because
they are imprisoned by their land-
scape, and all the time they are pre-
occupied by a struggle which arises
out of their need to conquer their
mountains, and they remain remote
from their fellows because their


mountains isolate them. But the
plains are relaxing ; it requires little
physical effort to walk in a straight
line towards the receding horizons.
This sort of comment, even if it is
not profound, is still worth making,
for a travel book is as much about
the self as the outside world and should
sharpen awareness.
And what of the future? Can the
old ways be preserved? Monica
Krippner has no special affection for
the people, although she finds their
values attractive. Somewhere she notes:
“If the Irish and Macedonians are re-
nowed for their charm, chivalry,
anarchism and extreme rivalries, the
Camargais could march beside them
and be in excellent company.” She is,
however, concerned at the way increas-
ing rice production, migrant labor,
tourism and the drift to the towns is
undermining the traditional structure.
She disagrees with those pessimists who
predict destruction within ten years,
but her own optimism is based on faith,
not economics. Perhaps one should
read about the Camargue while it is
still there.
Douglas Terry
Britain and the Arabs
Divide and Lose (The Arab Revolt
1955-1958). Michael lonides. Geof-
frey Bles. 265.
Michael lonides can claim over 30
years of close association with Middle
Eastern affairs. In 1937 he became for
two years Director of Development in
Trans-Jordan, having already spent
nearly 11 years as an irrigation engi-
neer in Iraq. From 1955 to 1958 he was
one of the two British members of the
Development Board of Iraq, the agency
set up by the Iraqi Government to
channel the country’s substantial oil
revenues into irrigation, housing and
industrial projects. The War years
(and up to 1948) had seen him serving,
mainly in Beirut and Cairo, with the
British Forces in the Middle East. He
can therefore claim a very impressive
degree of first-hand knowledge of the
events with which he deals.
This is no book of personal reminis-
cences cast against a backdrop of
sporadically-noted and half-understood
political and social change. It is a
remarkably penetrating and sustained
analysis of the whole course of the
Arab Revolt, the series of coups,
collapses and contorted struggles
which in a few years changed the
Middle East from a network of
“friendly” conservative British satra-
pies into a ferment of neutralist revo-
lutionary regimes of a strongly nationa-
listic character. The climax to these
events came on July 14, 1958, little
more than 18 months after Sir Anthony
Eden’s Suez folly of October-Novem-
ber, 1956. The revolutionary military
group in Baghdad overthrew the Hashe-
mite dynasty in Iraq, killing the king
and Nuri Sa’id. the long-standing pro-
British rock of the Arab political scene.
On all of this lonides casts a clear
and cold eye. The book is ruthlessly
logical and dispassionate though every
now and again one is aware of the
man's despair at incredible folly
(mostly British), anger at duplicity
(mostly Zionist) and sympathy with
hopeless predicament (mostly Nuri
Sa’id’s). The author is clearly pro-
Arab though not in the sentimental
style of devotees of the “Lawrence
of Arabia” legend. He considers that
the Arabs were treated cavalierly and
indeed unjustly by successive British
governments, though more through
ignorance and weakness than through
malice. “Divide and Lose” is con-
cerned to show how this was so and
why. it being so, events in the Arab
In the Park
She sits in the park. Her clothes are out
of date.
Two children whine and bicker, tug her
skirt.
A third draws aimless patterns in the
dirt.
Someone she loved once passes by—too
late
To feign indifference to that casual nod :
“How nice,’’ etcetera. “Time holds great
surprises.’’
From his neat head unquestionably rises
A small balloon. . . .“but for the grace of
God.”
They stand a while in flickering light,
rehearsing
The children s names and birthdays. “It’s
so sweet
To hear them chatter, watch them grow
and thrive,”
She says to his departing smile. Then,
nursing
The youngest child, sits staring at her
feet.
To the wind she says “They have eaten
me alive.”
TASMANIA.
WALTER LEHMANN.
Child of Our Time
The world is yours, and you must take
Your making, breaking, shaping way:
That instant when the cord was cut
Ended my brief imperial sway.
Mine only was the being shaped
In darkness and in solitude
Moving upon the tides of dream,
Unknown yet known beatitude.
All that is done. Now every step
You take is further still from me
Along your destined path to death,
Light, darkness or eternity.
Child of an age beyond my dreams,
My comprehension, watch, or care,
Where do you go who may set foot
Upon some distant, radiant star?
All women who since time began
Have trembled for an eager child
Feared dangers fixed and bounded by
The narrow circuit of the world.
I see the wounded moon, 1 fear
The travelling star, the mushroom cloud,
Beneath the perilous universe
For you, for you, my head is bowed.
N.S.W.
ROSEMARY DOBSON.
Cocktails After the
Ceremony
Cana or Kirribilli ? Upon the convulsed
giant bridge
Two trains strain, brood; the reticent
evening weather
Holds ns unshod, rehearses our dance
together :
He grooms your unbroken outline for
this famed night,
Cordons the swelling or shrinking ridge
That is but your land’s-end breast:
He knows dark, light
At rest.
So Celia / Julia, shall we harry down the
real,
Revenant of the past, or of what shall be ?
Well, the stocky organ-pipes skirled
jollity,
The priest smiled palely; like some wide-
eyed leveret
The photographer bobbing. I enshrine,
heal
These maimed minutes as they blunder
Ant wise towards sunset
Under thunder.
Then what shall be ? They sing of love
and death
All tumbling anti-clockwise into the
mesh.
Of forced marches of the militant bone
through flesh,
Of dusty collapsed grey weeks and webs,
of all debris :
But deft lowered eyelids, mounting
susurrus of a breath,
Squadrons of fairest skin
Will leave such reality
To considered sin.
And I, like a Gainsborough sitter, in trim
half-hose,
Am left to wander, nourished as I
please
Among nipples of rare fruit upon elegant
foggy trees,
On a hill that the shod foot crushes as a
feather,
Through conceits of Zephyros, fronds of
rose.
And bleating from place to place
Young stars rub the ancient forlorn
wether
That is space.
n.s.w.
FRANCIS WEBBQ.


BOOKHUNTER
Dept. “D” Box G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us Hud it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.0., Sydney,
world symbolised by the rise of Nasser
and the fall of Nuri Sa’id followed
an inevitable course. He is concerned
not to moralise but to analyse; the
cutting edge of his prose is a nicely-
pointed irony rather than the hortatory
hindsight which weighs down so many
works of this kind (retired generals’
memoirs for example). This irony is
at its most devastating when he shows
how absurd the “Eisenhower Doctrine”
appeared to the Arab world.
The two principal issues on which
the Arab Revolt turned are seen to
be both matters of British responsi-
bility. There was firstly the humilia-
tion of one-sided treaty arrangements
forced (in effect) on supposedly inde-
pendent Arab States. This inevitably
gave rise to unpopular and ultra-con-
servative governments since any re-
form-minded government would want
the treaties annulled and hence would
be deposed by the British under the very
terms of the treaties themselves. The
British forces used for this would be
none other than those stationed on
Arab soil under the treaty provisions
supposedly for protection of the Arab
lands from “external” threat! Such
governments really stimulated the
growth of the nationalist anti-British
opposition to the point of revolution.
The second main issue was the
gradual and only half-conscious British
acquiescence in increasingly ambitious
Zionist aims for Palestine in spite of
the safeguarding provisions (guarantee-
ing Arab rights in Palestine) of the
Balfour Declaration, the White Paper
of 1930, and the findings of the Royal
Commission on Palestine (1936-38).
Feeling themselves powerless to in-
fluence British opinion, the Arabs
gradually abandoned all trust in that
quarter. This put “pro-British” poli-
ticians like Nuri Sa’id even more hope-
lessly out on a limb. They were now
doubly condemned. Not only were
they slavish to the British but they were
utterly ineffectual in persuading their
foreign masters to preserve basic Arab
interests. They had to go!
There is no doubt that much of the
analysis will prove highly contentious.
However, lonides writes well; his facts
are well marshalled and documented
and he always argues lucidly, some-
times to the point of brilliance. He
brings several interesting new perspec-
tives to a long-standing problem.
W. J. Ginnane
Kenya Novel
The Winds of Change. David Creaton.
Allen and Unwin. 20s.
The Kipsigis are a tribe of peasant
farmers and cattle owners tucked away
in a corner of Kenya. Aloof, self-
contained, the people have maintained
a precarious existence for generations.
Vet the traditional ways are not entirely
immune from contact with the white
man’s world and gradually the people
are called upon to meet this challenge
to their primitive culture. There is
no common response to the threat. For
some agriculture, settlement and money
mean disaster, for others they mean a
better standard of living. David Crea-
ton’s novel describes how simple folk
make the adjustment.
The author has worked for some
years among the Kipsigis and his
account is a closely-observed record
of a tribe in distress. As an anthro-
pological study, if that is the right
word for it, it is excellent. As a
product of the imagination, of the
mind working on material, it is not
entirely satisfactory. There is too
much description, too much explana-
tion —all very valuable if you are a
social scientist but a handicap if you
expect character development and a
convincing plot to go with it.
D.T.
Two Women Writers
Selected Letters of Winifred Holtby
and Vera Brittain. Ed. Vera Brittain
and Geoffrey Handley-Taylor. A.
Brown and Sons, Ltd. Limited
edition of 500 copies. English price.
£3 3s.
As Vera Brittain explains in her
introduction, this book contains the
only considerable amount of hitherto
unpublished work by Winifred Holtby,
who died in 1935. It was arranged to
commemorate the twenty-fifth anni-
versary of Miss Holtby’s death. Miss
Brittain had not intended to publish
this correspondence during her own
lifetime “owing to the forthright and
sometimes intolerant judgments passed
on persons still living and others
recently dead by two eager and
ambitious literary apprentices before
time and experience had exercised their
usual mitigating effect.”
One cannot tell how much editing
Miss Brittain has performed, but as
they stand these letters are scarcely
likely to give offence to anyone, and
necessary tact might well be responsible
for some of the effect of insipidity in
the volume. However, the real fault
is that the letters have been published
too soon: not for these considerations,
but because the bulk of them were
written between 1925 and 1935 and
historically one is not quite far enough
away from them to get a suitable per-
spective of the life they describe.
With some exceptions their real
interest is not so much literary as social.
They are not remarkable for their ideas
or observations, in fact, both ladies are
frequently tantalisingly scrappy in
descriptions of people and events, but
one must remember that they were
busily engaged in weekly journalism,
and there is little point in saying, in
a letter, what your fellow-correspond-
ent will soon read in print. At present,
then, the long sections of domestic
trivia make somewhat archly boring
reading.
Winifred Holtby never married the
man she loved lifelong. Vera Brittain
travelled considerably with her hus-
band, and her friend looked after her
children. So:—
December 2nd, 1932. W.H. to V.B.
I was so glad to get your letter,
but terribly sorry that you feel so
mouldy. Do keep warm and don’t
go for long walks if it tires you. ...
[The children] are going to the
Davie’s party this afternoon.
Shirley's new party dress is' ador-
able —green, edged with scallops in
white rabbit wool, sleeveless, with a
little coat and white shoes with
green pompoms . . .
They both had demanding families,
and along with their preoccupation
with each other’s health is a more
understandable background of concern
for the health of parents and relatives.
They resented many of the domestic
calls that were made upon them, while
never shirking these responsibilities,
and Vera Brittain is frequently analytic
on the question of whether “emanci-
pated” women are really emancipated.
In her introduction she discusses this
point: “Today a different parental
relationship obtains for the young
women who were small children at the
time of Winifred’s death. Most of
them are qualified to hold positions
which they are expected to fill with as
little interference from their relatives
as their brothers.” 1 think this is true,
but many young married women might
well envy the young middleclass house-
wives of the ’thirties their compara-
tively cheap domestic helpers, and feel
that their own situation is less rosy
than Miss Brittain supposes:—-
Of course I shall have far more
time to myself when John goes back
to school ; at present there are so
many little periods when Nurse is
bathing Shirley, or cleaning the night
nursery, or washing, when John
roams disconsolately about the
house . . .
Still, Nurse is there —no telephoning
baby-sitters, refusing short-notice invit-
ations, putting all outside work aside
the moment a child falls sick . . .
These are the sort of points that this
book raises that will be of lasting
social-historical interest and perhaps
the optimum time for reading it will
be about thirty years hence.
Nancy Keesing


Women
CARPETS...WELL-SUITED...MEMORIES...SHIRTS
Something Afoot
“V’Soske is the Balenciaga of carpets,”
the enthusiastic, aesthetic young man
declared. He was perfectly right, at least
in that after a visit to Balenciaga’s salon
you would want to go right home and
throw out all the clothes in your ward-
robe, so, after seeing the V'Soske carpets,
at present being exhibited in Australia,
you would want to put all your carpets
in the incinerator.
The carpets have been brought to Aus-
tralia by Mrs Thaddeus V’Soske, a vice-
president of the manufacturing firm
founded 30 years ago in the United States
by her husband and his four brothers.
Copies of all the carpets displayed will
be on sale or will be specially woven to
any size on order.
The V’Soske carpets are certainly more
beautiful than any carpets seen in quan-
tity in Australia before. Most of them
have been designed by noted artists and
many of them are meant as wall hangings
rather than for the floor. The carpets
for wall hanging have a third-dimensional
quality which modern artists try, often
ineffectually, to achieve by lavishly
applied paint.
The V’Soske organisation does not use
a great deal of Australian wool. Most
Australian wools are too fine for carpet-
making. However, the grades of Aus-
tralian wool which are suitable are used
in greater quantities than wools coming
from other sources. Some of the V’Soske
wools come from Asia Minor and
Afghanistan. Some used to come from
Tibet, and, Mrs V’Soske said, the experts
in her firm now felt they could detect
some Tibetan strains in wool imported
from England.
Mrs V’Soske does not see anything
unusual in the idea of carpets being used
as wall hangings. Although they rather
smack of the Arab’s tent in the desert,
she says they are perfectly suitable for
a modern home and are much used in
the United States. They would have no
effect on the temperature of a room,
she said. “In these days of stereo and
Hi-fi thick carpets both on the floors
and walls are a great help in achieving
perfection of sound reproduction,” she
said.
For most of the V'Soske rugs Mrs
V’Soske envisages a decorative scheme
which is a mixture of traditional and
modern. However, few of the carpet pat-
terns should be subjected to competition
from patterned curtains or upholstery.
The most expensive carpet in the col-
lection Mrs V’Soske has brought to
Australia is called “Flying Carpet.” It
is an abstract design by Stuart Davis
which was first made in 1942 for the
New York Museum of Modern Art, and
which has since been copied for other
museums. It is 10ft by 12ft and is priced
at £1953 10s. Another carpet is “Bride s
Bouquet,” designed by Michael Taylor.
It is a lOft-square carpet of white with
raised white flowers, yellow centres and
green leaves. It is £1264.
Many of the smaller carpets are around
the £2OO-to-£3OO mark, and hearth rugs
are about £4O. One beautiful series was
inspired by a flight over the Caribbean.
“Caribbean Reef,” “Estuary,” “.Sea
Walk” are all in brilliant greens and blues.
The V’Soske organisation now has fac-
tories in Grand Rapids, Michigan, in
Puerto Rico and Eire. Most of the
V’Soske processes were perfected by the
five brothers. One of the most interesting
jobs they have done was to make carpets
for a series of miniature rooms in
Chicago. After much thought, the
brothers hit on the idea of using a
hypodermic needle for the job, and it
worked perfectly.
Mrs V’Soske said that her firm had
always said that it would make any
carpet to any size. This claim was almost
defeated, however, by a New York man
who ordered a carpet to cover the wnole
floor of the Park Avenue building ne
owned. Mrs V'Soske said he was warned
that the carpet would be made without
seams and that it might be impossible to
get it into the building.
The man felt he had provided for
this by having the roof taken off the
lift. But although the rolled carpet could
be wedged into the lift it could not be
taken out at the required floor because
it extended so far above the lift roof
that it hit the ceiling of the building
before the lift reached the floor.
“Finally,” said Mrs V’Soske, “the car-
pet was lifted into the building from
the street, after two windows had been
knocked into one so that it would fit.
The operation took place at 10 o’clock
on Saturday morning, disrupting the
entire traffic of Park Avenue and nearly
sending the police frantic.”
*r ☆ ☆
The Man in the
Olive-green Suit
This year the man in the grey flannel
suit is likely to be the man in the olive-
green suit. More specifically, he’ll be the
man in the olive-green, lightweight,
narrow-corded wool suit with three-
button fastening, long, slim lapels,
medium - length jacket with slanted
pockets and moderately slim, cuffless
trousers.
That is the silhouette for men. Those
whose slanted pockets are meagrely
filled can take it that it will remain in
fashion for two or three years.
Grey is somewhat out of fashion. Its
successor is black-earth which looks like
a very dark grey, but which is actually a
brown-black. There’s a theory among
those who know that fashions in women’s
clothes follow men’s. Men latched onto
charcoal-grey first, and it may be that
women will soon be borrowing olive-
green from the boys. There are also
some tans, blues and deep creams.
Whatever colors men will wear this
year and next have long since been de-
cided. Ready-to-wear tailoring firms are
now working on their range for summer,
1962.
Men’s fashion experts say that, far-
fetched as it may sound, heart disease or
the fear of heart disease has been one
of the determining factors in men’s
fashions in recent years. The slim look,
they say in the trade, is a young man’s
look. Young men want it because they
want to get ahead in the world and they
think one of the best ways to do this is
to be well-dressed.
Older men want it because they want
to look younger and slimmer. They want
to look younger and slimmer because it’s
easier to get and keep top jobs if you
look young and slim. Nobody will give
a job to someone who looks a likely
candidate for a coronary, and that to
the average person means a fatty. This
attitude, say the menswear specialists, is
highly-developed in the United States,
but it’s present here, too.
The man in the olive-green suit will,
according to local tailoring experts, be
able to go off on an overseas business
trip and not appear conspicuous in any
city. This they call the cosmopolitan
look, and it is claimed, perhaps with
justification, that the Australian man now
has the edge on most other nationalities.
He cannot be spotted as an Australian
either in New York,. London or Rome,
whereas an Italian looks Italian any-
where, the slightly-corseted look of
London tailoring immediately marks an
Englishman oft in Madison Avenue, and
the relaxed style of American dressing
makes the American stand out like a
dollar sign all over Europe.
Men’s suits are not only growing
younger and slimmer. They are growing
lighter. A firm which has introduced
mass-produced ready-to-wear London-
style tailoring here reported that the only
strong resistance to fashion change they
met in Australia was in the weight ot
suits.
Australian men, they say, have
accepted all the changes of style which
have come in the past few years, but
until recently they clung to heavy woollen
fabrics woven for the English climate.
However, an eight-ounce wool is now
being used quite extensively and a six-
ounce terylene-and-wool mixture is out
of the experimental stage and being used
in production.
To demonstrate the comfort of the
six-ounce weight, the firm asks the
sceptics to tip out the contents of their


pockets. Invariably, the mess which the
nien are carrying round in their pockets
weighs more than a jacket of the six-
ounce fabric.
The Australian man now accepts light-
weight suits. In fact, the summerweights
which the firm introduced as an experi-
ment four or five years ago are now being
sold as winterweights and Australian men
will buy summerweights as light as they
can get them. It seems now that we shall
never have foisted on us the city spectacle,
with which we are periodically threatened,
of masses of men in shorts.
The man who buys a new suit this
season will get it off the hook. Ten years
ago he went to a made-to-measure tailor.
The master tailor who a few years ago
had his own small shop, perhaps on the
top floor of an arcade, now is working in
a mass-production factory.
The customer, instead of choosing
from, at the most, say, 40 bolts of fabric,
can take his choice of the entire factory’s
stock One firm which markets ready-
to-wear here has a range of 300 sizes.
These sizes are based on the Australian
man's figure, not the Englishman’s or the
Italian’s.
Sharpest rise in sales in menswear in
the past 12 months is in dress clothes.
Lighter-weight fabrics have made the
dinner jacket more comfortable for the
Australian climate.
But tailors don’t think that white tie
and tails will ever come back —at least,
not before the double-breasted, broad-
shouldered, navy-blue suit, which a few
years ago was the Australian man’s uni-
form, does.
* * ☆
Nostalgia Corner
Lr was trouble with the tomato - sauce
bottle which brought the memories back
and led to this day’s thought: that the
niceties of the olden days (that is, any-
thing over 20 years ago) which we con-
sider scoff-worthy, were very useful
indeed.
Tomato-sauce bottles never look well
on a dinner-table. They are blatant in
color and always get an accumulation of
goo around the neck which is quite
inimical to the atmosphere of gracious
living.
One can, of course, transfer some of
the tomato-sauce to one’s Finnish crystal-
stoppered jug. But washing it up after-
wards is the catch. Or a cute-looking,
red plastic “tomato” may be used. The
trouble with these is that they tend to
get forgotten in the cupboard and when
they are brought out after many days
they emit, not tomato sauce, but a mix-
ture of smoke and vinegar. This is not
good for gracious living either.
But in the olden days there were covers
especially designed for sauce-bottles in
every well-regulated family. They but-
toned round the neck (which was edged
with buttonholing) and they were deco-
rated with calceolarias. The sauce-bottle
in this seemly coat then took its place
without shame beside the flowers, the
silver and the cut-glass salad-bowl.
Who today remembers the scone-
doyley? It was an elegant thing indeed.
Though ironed flat, when you gathered
the top layer up to a centre it opened
like a flower and there appeared separate,
snowy, starched compartments for each
individual scone.
Today we tumble the scones into a
wicker basket and they don’t look too
well at all. (They don’t taste so well
either, but maybe that has nothing to
do with the lack of a doyley.)
Another treasure from the home-
embroiderer’s hand was the tea-cosy.
Today they are neglected and, useful as
. hey are there is many a bride who goes
• 1 tpa'pn« onie iT* S H mUC HS
a single tea-cosy in her glory-box.
... . , . , .
th's nostalgra, however, is danger-
defending Lit, ° n !i A s ones -
defending egg-cosies, embroidered covers
for books, embroidered book-marks, face-
shaped bags for odd bits of string, peg-
bags, soiled - clothes bags, powder - puff
covers and shaving towels which say
“Whiskers Begone!"
For these things are on sale in Sydney
(and doubtless in every other capital in
this Commonwealth). It would not be
wise to stait. a vogue. We don t really
want embroidered covers for our type-
writers, our tape-recorders, our TV sets,
which is where such a vogue would lead.
But coats for tomato-sauce bottles, and
scone-doyleys? Ah, yes!
T) + r
A SSV ♦
rjij , _
J[ oClClx S B(XCK
The sbo P s are calbn 8 it The Shirt That
Grew. You might call it the sales
line that grew. The Shirt That Grew is
a long, shapeless garment reaching to the
knees. Three years ago it was introduced
with a fine flurry as the sack.
T L a 0 , , ,
- T he Sack Caused one of the great f st
tashlon controversies ot all time, so this
time the sho P s are P la Y in S it differently,
They are calling it The Shirt That Grew,
hot tbe y murmur that it’s really a muu-
muu or a cheong-sam.
For the reC ord, the m uu-muu is an
ankle-length-repeat, ankle-length-gar-
ment, copies of which many misguided
A * f v • ■
Australian businessmen on trips overseas
buy in Honolulu for , heir wives . Sydney
girls have been photographed in alleged
e c ° c -,
muu-muus for the front page ot the after-
noon P a P ers ’ but no atternoon P a P er
anywhere is going to run a photograph
of a B irl in an ankle-length, shapeless
garment. What the girls are wearing may
be attractive, but it’s not a muu-muu.
Again for the record, the cheong-sam
is a knee-length, gently fitting tunic with
thigh-high slits at each side of the skirt,
The Shirt That Grew is not a muu-
muu. It’s not a cheong-sam. Look at it
any way you like—and the back view is
not the best view—it’s a sack.
"It's no Wonder the youth of today can think of nothing but sex."


ABORIGINALITIES
Disconnect for Non-payment
The foreman handed Joe Mrs Mason’s
D.N.P. (order to disconnect for non-
payment) and said pointedly: “I want
you to do this one, Joe. She's a regular,
and every time I send one of the young
blokes up there he comes home with a
silly grin on his face and some half-baked
excuse about her not being home. Give
it the works, Joe. And don’t forget to
collect the re-connection fee.”
“She ll be apples,” Joe said.
“Don’t listen to any excuses,” the fore-
man warned him again. “The bods in
the front office are getting a bit niggly
about the way she gets out of that 15-bob
every time.”
It was 15 miles to Mason’s farm. A
winding dirt road followed the river ;
out of the good land, through the mar-
ginal farms, into the billy-goat stuff.
“A man’d want the V.C. for even thinkin’
of livin' in these parts,” Joe thought as
he opened the tenth cocky’s gate and
cursed the way the barbed-wire strands
tangled up when he laid them on the
ground.
The Mason house was a dilapidated
weatherboard, iron-roofed shack on
white-ant eaten blocks. A bare dusty
yard ; a few scrawny fowls ; the inevit-
able dogs shouting their welcome ; a
horrible-looking dairy beyond the house ;
a herd of cows on the flat by the creek
that lookea as if a good feed would have
keeled them over.
Joe was conscious of a growing depres-
sion as he walked towards the house.
What the hell made men want to take
on places like this?
Three dirty small children stared at
him suspiciously from the verandah. He
cleared his throat and asked the biggest
one where his dad was. After a minute's
thought the kid bolted inside hollering
for mum. Joe wondered uneasily if
mum would arrive with a gun. He eyed
the distance to his truck on the edge
of the dusty road and wondered whether
what the bods in the office said about
handing the consumer the letter and keep-
ing your mouth shut was applicable here,
What did you do if people couldn’t read?
A woman appeared with the three kids
close behind. Joe's heart went down into
his boots. Mrs Mason was hardly 30.
Ten years ago she must have been really
pretty ; she would still be pretty if she
had some decent clothes. Joe’s eyes swept
round the farm, or what could be seen
of it between the encroaching hills. If
they got 20 gallons of milk a day to
send in to the factory they'd be flat out.
He had a moment of sheer anger. There
should be a law against allowing people
on farms like this. He cleared his throat
and asked if Mr Mason was home,
Mrs Mason sat down on the top step
and two big tears rolled slowly down
her cheeks. “No,” she said, and there
was a wealth of humiliation in the soft-
ness of her voice. “He’s up in the bush
cutting sleepers for a man.”
Joe swallowed. He felt that if he didn’t
justify himself quickly he’d be sunk,
“Look,” he said, surprised at the
gravelly rasp that seemed to edge his
voice. “I’m from the electricity depart-
ment....” His voice trailed away. Where
did you get the courage to mention non-
payment of account to a woman with
tears in her eyes and who, if the truth
was known, saw nothing but debts staring
her in the face from one day’s end to
another?
“Look,” he began again. “I’m sorry
about this. But 1’ve....” His voice faded
again.
“I know,” she said dismally. “You’ve
"Timbre!"
got a job to do. It’s not your fault—
you have your job to do. Cut it off.”
More tears rolled down her cheeks.
Joe looked at the three kids staring
numbly up at him and felt as low as a
heel. He said desperately: “If I CU (
the power off, what will you do for light
tonight?”
She looked up at him through tears.
“Walk across to the neighbor and borrow
a lantern.”
Joe looked round. There was nothing
but the hills in sight. “Where does your
neighbor live?” he asked harshly.
“Up the road.”
“How far up the blasted road?”
“About two miles.”
About two miles. And there was the
milking to do ; the children to be fed
and put to bed. Hell!
“Well, how much money have you
got?” he asked.
Her face brightened. She stood up.
“I don't know. I’ll have a look.” She
went into the house. When she came
back she had a pound note and a handful
of silver. It came to £1 19s. 3d. There
was still £6 11s. owing on the bill.
“It’s against orders,” Joe said ruefully.
“I can’t even give you a receipt until it's
all paid.”
“Oh, that's all right,” Mrs Mason said
cheerfully. “That’s the way the other
gentlemen do it, too. I send them in the
rest.”
Driving back to town Joe worked it
all out. He could rake up the £6 11s.,
plus the 15-bob, and hold the council
receipt until Mrs Mason sent in the rest.
But it was damned certain that next time
the Masons came up for D.N.P. little
Joe wouldn’t be doing the job.
J. C. Shelley
RACE FOR LIFE
The arena was the circular top of a
sawn ironbark post which stood
about a foot clear of the flood-water.
The post was only 6in. in diameter, and
the concentration of attention on this
small area added to the horror.
Hundreds of little grey spiders no more
than a tenth of an inch long had found
safety from the flood on top of the post.
They were excited and ran about con-
tinually. There were 2in.-long patches of
dense, white web, like egg bags or cocoons
—the webbed bodies of two big sugar-
ants.
Round and about the webbed ants and
spiders ran six crack-back beetles —those
black beetles about half an inch long that
give fun to children, for if turned on
their backs on a hard surface they throw
their heads back with audible snaps and
jump as high as a foot in the air, usually
coming down on their feet.
The beetles were running in panic. One
moved slower than the others. It had a
few wisps of web hanging to its back.
Three little spiders ran alongside it and
leaped right over it. It jerked as though
caught by something, then ran faster
than before. Three new strands of web
floated from each side.
The spiders now began to jump onto
the backs of the beetles. All movement
quickened. The spiders ran in frenzy and
the beetles blundered among them. They


rolled on their backs to dislodge their
riders; they spun round and round;
they snapped into the air and came down
running. As they hit the post the spiders
leaped at them and crowded onto each
one.
The beetles ran. How they ran. They
rolled and jumped repeatedly, sometimes
springing 6in. in the air with four or five
spiders clinging to their legs. There was
no sound save the clicking of the jumping
beetles. It was like watching a host of
mute and savage demons riding on
bouncing chariots.
'The spiders grew more clever. They
•*- began to spin webs in front of the
running beetles to tangle their legs. The
beetles worked their heads up and down
in their effort, like horses trying to catch
their wind. The spiders jumped on their
heads, fastened webs there, and as the
beetles threw back their heads the spiders
jumped down to their backs and fastened
the other ends there. Again and again
the beetles broke the webs, but they
grew slower. The first beetle to be
webbed now had its head roped to its
back. It ran still with its head tied rigidly
upright. Finally it tangled in a network
of web spun on top of the post. It
stopped. Dozens and dozens of the
spiders leaped on it. In several seconds
it was fixed as firmly and as immovably
to the post as the two sugar-ants. Another
of the beetles now had its head fastened
back. Most of the spiders ran towards it.
I left. In another few minutes the
"Wake up, Strawb'! You re on a level crossing .”
spiders would have the top of the post
to themselves. That can have been their
only object. Neither beetles nor ants
could have been used as food, for the
spiders could not have reached them
through the mass of enveloping web.
I checked the level of the flood. In
less than an hour the floodwaters would
rise over ail.
Eric C. Rolls.
EYES
A tribute to aboriginal eyesight.
We were up north with an interest
in collecting reptiles, especially the big
frilled-lizard which, we understood, was
seen pretty thickly on the roads. Trawl-
ing slowly down from Katherine we were
stopped by the King River in flood, and
a young aboriginal stockman wanting a
lift into town. He threw the “knot'’ into
the back and climbed in with us, and
we naturally began to ask questions about
the local snakes and lizards.
With the afternoon getting on we were
doing over 50 m.p.h. when the boy said:
"There’s a cheeky one on the tree.”
Smiling sceptically at my mate I pressed
on for that tea-time at Kirby’s, but when
the boy said, “There’s another,” we
decided to call his bluff. I reversed to a
big old stump of grey bark beside the
road, and said “Right.” He walked over
to the tree and grabbed a 3ft specimen
which we couldn’t even see standing
beside it. Thoroughly deflated, we went
back half a mile to get the first one.
It was about 10ft up the trunk of a
sapling and looked like a part of it. This,
of course, made our collecting problem
much easier: we would know where to
look in future. We looked at all speeds,
from nil to flat-out, between there and
Tennant Creek and up to Mullapunyah,
but didn’t take another trick. Yet, if that
small half-mile was a true indication, we
must have passed dozens in such a variety
of country.
Ophidia
That Was the Country
Thf farce of the ordinary trial of the
wild and semi-wild blackfellow. One was
charged lately at Wyndham (Westralia)
with murder. He beamed, and proudly
declared he w'as guilty. Up there an ord-
inary magistrate may, with a jury, take a
murder case, or a dozen of them; and the
magistrate in this case decided to go into
the matter. After that had been done the
jury promptly returned a verdict of not
guilty. When the result was explained to
the prisoner it was a very disgusted black
brother indeed who got out of the dock.
He seemed to have an idea that if he was
found guilty he would get a bouquet or
a bottle of rum. — -“Bulletin”, May 9, 1903.
Havf. any Bufletin readers remarked
about the wonderful durability of the in-
testines of the native bear? Used some
once as a substitute for wire to bind up
a split rail. Ten years after the white-ants
had eaten the rail, but the native bear’s
intestines hadn’t even rusted, neither had
they lost all their fragrance. Catgut
should be easily ousted from the market
by native-bear gut. (The Bulletin would
like to know, seeing that the bear entrails
were tied round a rail, and the ants ate
the rail, wdiether the bear entrails simply
remained tied round the air, or they fell
to the ground, or their fragrance was still
strong enough to support them, or what?)
— “Bulletin”, May 5, 1904.
At Mount Morgan they don’t breast
the bar. The average man “runs the cut-
ter.” One shilling and a billy are pre-
sented to the barmaid with the order for
“a ‘bob’s’ worth of beer, and may the
Lord strengthen yer arm when yer get
hold o’ that pump.” Usually there are
seven or eight at the same game and the
same pub, all with billies, and a stranger
is cordially invited to “dip bis beak” as
he faces them on the footpath. They
generally sit on the footpath in a row.
— “Bulletin”, May 12, 1904.
Tonight, sitting on my verandah, I
behold the Riverina horizon in every
direction, red with the blaze of stubble
fires. The long-looked-for Ist of March
has passed and the cocky can now use his
favorite toy without pretending that it
was the swaggie. It is wonderful how the
cocky is moved to destroy by fire. Com-
monsense, one would think, would tell
him, when clearing new ground, to make
fence-posts out of all suitable timber and
cord wood of the rest when within decent
distance of the railway; but Burn and
Destroy is his creed. The glow tonight
means a burnt-offering of not less than
10,000 tons of good fodder destroyed to
make indifferent fertiliser.
— “Bulletin”, March 24, 1910.
BOY IN THE DAWN
/ sat
in the saddle of the dawn
and rode
over cobwebbed stars,
past rabbits going to bed,
through the Major Mitchell sky
and into the wide-awake
of the bell on the cow
as the mists fled.
JAMES HACKSTON.


THE
MAN
ON THE
LAND
The Little Fisherman
By JOHN O’GRADY
(“Nino Culotta”)
Tt is the privilege of primary
producers to winge.
Seasonal moans of the growers
and catchers of food have been
bouncing out of consumers’
ears since man first learned
that he had to eat to live.
Storm and tempest, drought
and fire, bugs anti blights and
raiding rodents have always
been with us, and the ex-
asperated producer kicks the
dirt and belts his kids and com-
plains loudly. And tries again.
His heart is as big as his body
is strong. Like the ever-
wandering prospector, he hopes
for the “big strike' I—the 1 —the perfect
season and the bumper crop
Sometimes he gets them. Then
the bottom drops out of the
market, and his financial return
--for a lot more work —is no
better than it was in the bad
times. A frustrating life ; its
only compensation a measure
of personal independence.
The primary producer is his
own master, provided he can
keep Government interference
leg-roped. He is suitably grate-
ful to Government Depart-
ments when they can show him
a way to outwit his natural
enemies. He needs scientists.
He needs a marketing organisa-
"Cut out the language!"
tion to take care of his export-
able surpluses, if any. But he
needs restrictive regulations like
he needs a boil on the back of
his neck.
Fm willing to bet that there
is not, in all this continent, one
primary producer who likes to
be told that he is not permitted
to do something. And when
he knows that if he does that
certain illegal something he is
not harming his neighbor, but
rather helping him, he can see
no sense in the regulation, and
feels like reaching for a pick
handle.
Are there many such non-
sensical regulations? Indeed
there are. And is there any
producer who conscientiously
obeys them all? Knowing the
independent, to-hell-with-you
character of the breed, l doubt
it.
This hostile article was pro-
voked by the case of the Little
Fisherman. And by Little
Fisherman I mean the indi-
vidual, on-his-own fisherman
who operates on the coastal
rivers, bays, lakes and estuaries,
killing fish for his daily bread.
And often short of that bread.
He has his £l-a-year tidal
licence in his pocket. He has
his time-payment motor trans-
port, held together with faith,
hope and fencing wire. He has
his battered but still-afloat
licensed boat, with its licence
numbers —“not less than three
inches"—painted on the bows,
generally with tar. He has his
meshing net —legal minimum
mesh three and one-eighth
inches his splintered hard-
wood paddles, a few old oyster
sacks, a couple of ancient
wicker baskets, and a few-
banana boxes. And that is all
he has. Except his treasured
independence—the right to fish
where and when he likes,
“closed waters” known to him.
Oh yes, he knows all about
“closed waters,” and how they
came into being. He has some
choice words to say about
them. And he has learned to
endure the abuse of weekend
line fishermen, who blame him
for their inability to catch fish,
His main catch is mullet
and he mutters to himself
in the darkness of the night
wondering how anybody
could expect to catch mullet
with a line and hook. He
tolerates “silver-tails," those
unlicensed amateurs with a few
strips of illegal net whom he
sometimes finds sitting on his
best “dig." But he leaves them
to be caught by fisheries in-
spectors. If they can get away
with it, good luck to them. He
wouldn't dream of “dobbin’
’em in."
TThis Little Fisherman fishes
at night. Nights can be
cold. They can also be wet.
And windy. Water can be full
of “blubber" —big brown jelly-
fish that are a major headache
to him. It can also be full of
sticks and other rubbish. There
are snags on the bottom, and
kellicks lost from weekend
boats. And crabs. Play hell
with a meshing net. crabs do.
After a night's fishing his net
needs a lot of repairs.
So he comes in at daylight,
sleepless, tired, with his catch
kicking amidships, and his
damaged net astern. But be-
fore he can repair it he must
dispose of his fish. They have
to be washed and boxed and
loaded onto his old truck and
taken to the market. And left
there to be sold at auction, for
a percentage fee. When he
returns home he is very tired
indeed. But there is still that
net to be repaired. And the
boat to be cleaned out. Late
in the afternoon he will sleep
for a few hours, before going
out again.
Now, all his life he has
known these things, and he is
a fisherman of his own free
will. But he wishes he didn t
have that long drag to the
market. He wishes he could
dispose of his catch locally.
Is it legal to do so? Yes,
he can apply to the Fisheries
Department for a “iocal con-
sent." This, if granted, en-
titles him to sell his fish within
a three-mile radius of his head-
quarters. But there are restric-
tions. He can only sell a maxi-
mum of 101 b of fish to any
one customer. This means he
must hawk them from door to
door. And housewives won t
buy fish that have not been
scaled and gutted. Many want
them filleted.
So if he wants to sell under
local consent, he must first
clean his catch and fillet a large
proportion, and dispose of the


Ruth in the
g
m
When the late Henry Ford was looking back
upon the industrial empire he had built, he put
on record some wise observations.
“I rarely found adversity the result of any
outside influence,” he said. “It has usually been
due to some defect within our own organisation.
And when we located and repaired that defect,
our business became good again.”
In other words, an enterprise —a nation —is
only as good as it has it within itself to be. There
is a moral in that for Australians as we look at
ourselves right now.
The future of this country will be decided
not only on good seasons, the expansion of exports,
the balancing of the economy. These are vitally
important in the material sense, and their effects
will certainly be setting our standards of prosperity
and progress.
But the real factor in the problems facing
Australia at this moment is the human factor. And
we can accept the definition of that term as meaning
more than the acquiring of knowledge and skills,
however earnestly they may be applied.
It means leadership; not simply at a
Government plane, or at the head of large industry,
but right through the workshops and offices; across
the farms, and into the homes.
Every man and woman, whatever their
environment, has a responsibility to exert effective
leadership. Indeed, looking at it from an opposite
angle, it is fair to say that any difficulties in the
way of Australia’s swift advancement will be only
as tall and as telling as the individual failures to
exercise a spirit of personal leadership at every
level of the national life.
We either elect to lead, or we pass up the
opportunity—hoping that the fellow next to us
will do what we ourselves did not have the courage
and faith to attempt. In either case, history will
be the judge.
None of us should be deceived into thinking
that the shouldering of the Australian task is the
other man’s job. It is personally and particularly
our own.
//A
Q(2^t
y
offal and the heads and bones,
(hen go from house to house
selling. And he still has to
mend his net and clean out his
boat. When does he sleep?
Understandably, he says a few
words that put the idea in its
proper place, and takes his fish
to the market.
He thinks the ideal solution
would be for him to sell
his fish to local fishshops and
let them dispose of them, at a
maximum of 101 b per customer
-if this should be considered
necessary. Fishshop proprietors
can sleep all night. But the
law never sleeps. It says he
must not sell his catch to fish-
shops. And the Littie Fisher-
man wonders why. If it is per-
missible for him to sell his fish
direct to local consumers, why
is it an offence to sell direct to
a local distributor? So he says
some words about this law, and
gets another idea.
Supposing he could raise
finance and open a fishshop of
Iris own? His wife could run
it. with one or two offsiders,
and he could fish all night and
sleep all day. Might make a
few quid, too. And his friends
and neighbors would know that
they were getting fish that was
really fresh. Would there be
anything wrong with that?
Well, the law says there is
nothing to stop him from open-
ing a fishshop. But he mustn’t
sell his own fish in it. If he
wants his own fish he must take
them to the market, wait until
they come up for auction, bid
higher than anybody else, pay
for them, then take them back
to his shop. He knows no
words strong enough to apply
to this idea.
There are exceptions, though.
If he lost a kidney or some
other useful portion of his
body during the war and
receives a Repat. pension for
it, he can apply for permission
to run his own shop and sell
fish to it. This would be just
the kind of life for a semi-
invalid. Nice and easy.
So the Little Fisherman
battles on, earning a precarious
living as well as he can, com-
plaining no more and no less
than any other primary pro-
ducer although working
harder than most and sleeping
less—fiercely jealous of his in-
dependence, but recognising the
right of wind and weather and
water to compete with him and
frustrate him. They have
always done so, and no doubt
always will. He has words for
them. But for the marketing
system, and the regulations
that accompany it, he has no
words. In his opinion, there
aren't any.
Kangaroos—Pest or Asset?
U/hat should be done about
our kangaroos?
Graziers on the big stations
of the outback, battling to save
surface-water, grass and top-
feed for their sheep, say: “Kill
’em.” Protectors of Australia’s
unique fauna protest that a
free hand to slaughter would
lead to the extermination of an
interesting and relatively harm-
less animal.
But there’s another angle to
the kangaroo problem. The
roo is good meat, its hide
makes good leather, and its
fur could provide warmth and
adornment in winter-wear for
our womenkind. Beyond a
limited appreciation of the tail
for soup, there is no demand
for kangaroo-meat in Austra-
lia. The haunch of a fairly
young animal is as edible as
Unison, which it resembles,
and—besides making soup—the
fail, when treated like oxtail,
Is a most appetising dish.
Australian consumption of
roo-meat in any form is
negligible. In fact, there is a
Prejudice against it. This is
Uot so overseas. In the last few
years a very promising export-
,r ade has been initiated. A
'Vest Australian firm did good
business with the United States,
mostly with tinned soup, but
also finding a market for meat,
Even better than the American
market, though, were sales in
Germany.
“Initiated” is the word to be
emphasised. A combination of
Government conservatism and
trading stupidity or dishonesty
has killed what promised to
be a substantial and lucrative
market on the Continent. Ex-
porters have failed to get
kangaroo-meat inspected and
certified wholesome before
shipment. Why ? Rabbits are
inspected and certified for ex-
port, but ’roos aren't. The
official explanation is: “The
disease-status of rabbits has
been thoroughly investigated
and is well known. On the
other hand, there is lack of
authoritative information on
disease in kangaroos.”
There is no official embargo
on export of the meat. Much
poor grade kangaroo-meat, fit
only for pet-food, has been
shipped for human consump-
tion. Worse still, diseased car-
casses have been exported,
It’s a sad story. Estimated
on early trade figures there
was a potential market of


jgh
THE
ROYAL EASTER
SHOW
24th Mareh-4th April, 1961
Don’t miss the greatest spectacle
of 'the year. At the 1961 Royal
Easter Show you will see our
finest stock on parade, cattle
judging, wood chopping, primary
and secondary industry
exhibits and a feature-packed
programme of special ring
events, including trotting.
Come to the 1961 Royal Easter
Show at the Showground, Sydney.
10 DAYS-8 NIGHTS
j
gh
/V
kjhj
SHAVE—FASTER, CLOSER
Anywhere . . Anytime
WITH A
LORD RIAM
BATTERY POWERED
SHAVER
lea. Wherever you may be and at any time . . .
BOMB, OFFICE, TRAVELLING, HOLIDAYS . . . touch
the swifceh t'«*r the fastest, smoothest shave ever. Only
two 1.5 volt standard batteries give months of easy
shaving. MADE IX SWITZERLAND. Guaranteed.
Complete same day service. Adjustments only , . . free
. . at any time.
Send for your LORD RIAM shaver NOW
PRICE ONLY
92/6
Complete with
Batteries.
?OST FREE
CUT O U T P O S T
N O VV
QUALITY APPLIANCES,
413 Hardy’s Chambers,
I)e Mestre Place, Sydney.
Please post at once LORD RIAM
shavers. Chegne/postal notes/money
order enclosed for £ : :
NAME
ADDRESS
Please print name and address in block letters.
Money refunded If returned in 7 days.
m
m
m
12,000 tons a year in Germany
alone. Now there is none.
Late last year West Berlin
health authorities advised that
Australian kangaroo-meat
should not be eaten, because
between 8 per cent, and 10 per
cent, was infested with maggots.
A newspaper carried a banner-
headline : “Berliners —Do not
Eat Kangaroo Meat!” A
veterinary inspection found
that five out of ten samples
contained a parasite which was
spread by blood-sucking in-
sects.
So there goes an opportunity
to turn a pest into a national
asset. German importers re-
fused to take up the papers on
approximately 1000 tons and
wanted all outstanding con-
tracts cancelled. It was esti-
mated in September last that
this would leave about 1000
tons in store in Australia. The
average price of exported 'roo-
meat is—or was —between £l5O
and £2OO a ton, so it will be
seen that the loss of this market
is heavy, and potentially this
loss will increase.
Even if Commonwealth
authorities now agree to inspec-
tion and certification before
shipment, it will be long before
the confidence of importers is
restored —if it ever is.
"The Perfect
Pasture"
TAr L. C. Snook, Animal
Nutrition Officer with the
Western Australian Depart-
ment of Agriculture, defines a
perfect pasture as one which
“will allow profitable land-
use while supporting all the
stock as grazing animals all the
year.” With such a pasture, he
says, the need for management
will be reduced to a minimum
and costs of conserving, storing
and feeding - out harvested
material will be eliminated.
From the point of view of an
animal-nutrition worker, the
pasture must satisfy 10 con-
ditions,
1. It must be acceptable and
accessible to the grazing animal,
which —for maximum produc-
tion —must enjoy eating and be
able to obtain that enjoyment
with the minimum effort.
2. It must have a high den-
sity to the unit-area, so that the
animal can readily satisfy its
needs with large mouthfuls of
food in a restricted area.
3. Its water-content should
not exceed 85 per cent.
4. It should be readily
digestible and palatable, and
free from physical characteris-
tics which might prevent
reasonably rapid passage
through the gut.
5. It must supply adequate
food all the year.
6. Its edible material should
never contain less than 6 per
cent, crude protein.
7. It must be free from toxic
principals.
8. It must contain adequate
essential minerals in favorable
balance.
9. It must be capable of
withstanding climate, pests and
the menace of overgrazing.
10. It must meet the specific
requirements of the grazing
animals by which it is to be
used.
Myall
Fuel from Dung
A South African reader—
Mr L. J. Fry, of P.O. Box
Eikenhof, Transvaal —writes to
report that, by decomposing
animal dung anaerobically, he
has succeeded in producing
large quantities of methane gas,
without detracting from the
fertilising value of the dung
itself. He has designed and
built a plant which has been
producing gas for over two
years, and this has saved him,
he reckons, £2OOO in diesel-fuel
running a converted diesel-
engine 24 hours a day, year in
and year out. He adds that in
the Anwhei province of China
it is said that 1.7 million cubic
metres of gas are produced
daily by this method — equiva-
lent to 450 tons of gasoline.


Father’s Gone Go-karting!
By S. W. KEOUGH
Many an Australian lawn has
grown long this summer,
partly because father has not
been home much at weekends
and partly because the motor
has been filched out of the
lawn mower, and no Sherlock
Holmes is needed to divine
some subtle connection be-
tween the two —for father, like
as not, has gone go-karting!
But mother's not around to
clip the kikuyu and the paspa-
!um back with the hand-shears,
either. Bet she's gone go-kart-
ing, too!
Probably because of the
somewhat juvenile name it has
been given, there seems to be
some vague assumption by non-
go-karteers that the vehicle in
this latest of motor sports is
a sort of souped-up billy-cart.
Nothing could be further from
the fact.
The go-kart is really a potent
miniature racing- machine
powered by a two-stroke
engine, and it is raced in four
classes: A. 100 cc ; B, 100-
130 cc; C. 130-160 cc ; D, 160-
200 cc.
How powerful they are may
be gauged by the fact that those
in class D can. in a three-to-
one gearing, hit 60 m.p.h. in
the straight. In the U.S. a top
speed of 110 m.p.h. has been
recorded.
Devotees of the sport, how-
ever, play down the aspect of
speed. Races are won, they
clajm, not by the driver who
depends upon his straight speed,
but by the one who has the
greater judgment and skill in
the negotiation of bends.
This is substantiated by the
shape of the tracks. They look
if they may have been
designed by someone with the
D.Ts. Some have the outline
of a splayed foot which has
only the big toe left ; others of
5 kidney that has had a few
dents put in it. All are replete
"ith bends: wide ones, tight
ones, even U-shaped and S-
shaped ones, all cunningly
Placed so as to put maximum
pressure on driver and vehicle.
The chief thrills come in
power-sliding and “drift-
ing” around the corners and in
faring out of them while still
Mf-way into them so as to hit
fhe straight stretch at full
throttle. Engines have to be
'"ell tuned-up for this. Here
speeds would be from 20 to 40
Tp.h.
The go-kart has a ground-
clearance of between only two
to three inches, and this close-
ness to the track lends to the
driver an illusion of speed
much greater than he is actually
achieving. Those who race
them, therefore, can get all the
excitement associated with big-
car racing, plus the thrills of
gliding and sliding around
tight bends while jammed-in in
a Pitt Street peak-hour-like
mass which could enable the
driver to reach out either hand
and touch his opponents.
Sometimes it happens that
one of them is so squeezed in
by flanking competitors he is
literally raised and carried
along for a while. As a con-
sequence several drivers may
finish up in a heap just off
the track.
In a field of a dozen this is
not uncommon, yet serious
accidents are unknown. At
worst a few bruises or a frac-
tured wrist may result. Devo-
tees claim, indeed, that there
has never been a fatal accident
in go-kart racing anywhere in
the world.
The sport is conducted on
the same lines and with the
same rules as big-car racing-*
each club has its flag-marshals,
stewards, and so on, and pits
to run the karts into for check-
ing.
The larger tracks mix a
multiplicity of bends with
comparatively long straights ;
the small tracks shorten their
straights. But always the accent
is on the bends, and there are
rarely fewer than five sharp
ones to flit around. Laps may
range from eight to 20. Tracks
in Australia have a maximum
circumference of 700yds, a
minimum of 320.
The accent given the greatest
stress by those who race in it
is that the sport is an ideal
family one. it is not un-
common in some clubs for
Dad, Mum and the older mem-
bers of the family to compete,
using the family go-kart in sep-
arate events. And the sport is
hitting high popularity. There
are already some 200 clubs
operating throughout Australia,
and about 80 in New Zealand.
The few tracks that are run
by commercial promoters are
of bitumen. The rest, operated
by private clubs, are made of
dirt, graded and sprayed with
sump-oil and rolled-out to a
hard, fast finish. This can be
put down for as low as £l5O.
Nearly every big town now has
its own club, and track, and
some go in for the latter in a
big way. The track at Branxton,
near Newcastle (N.S.W.), for
instance, cost £2OOO.
/'Vther States look on the
incidence of juvenile
racing of go-karts with a more
indulgent eye than N.S.W.,
where racing in company is
forbidden for those under 17
years, though they can run
about in them solo. One Syd-
ney 12-year-old has put up
faster lap-times than his father,
who is a club champion. The


Estab'ished 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
-JACKSON &
,O'SCCUVAA
PTYLTO C
ft
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating:
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, .New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS. BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
QUEENSLAND
INSURANCE
Co. Ltd.
Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE &
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies
throughout the World.
“HAVE YOU EVER C\ TRIED THIS ?
a feature of
Woman's Mirror
YOUR COPY TODAY
youngster’s lighter weight was
the deciding factor.
In go-karts the ratio of power
to weight is much greater than
in the big speed cars, and this
is an important factor in the
sport’s record of safety. When
a 1501 b car spins off the track
with a 1801 b man aboard it, it
simply can’t hurtle along very
far before stopping. And this
slow - down is expedited by
having a stretch of about 15ft
of loose earth between the
racing-track proper and the
safety-fence. They just roll to
a stop and sort themselves out.
The tendency for these small
cars is to spin around harm-
lessly instead of turning over
when forced off.
A factor other than safety
which has induced families to
go in for this sport is its com-
parative cheapness. The
chassis would cost around £B5,
the engine £3O: total, £ll5.
You’d pay as much for a top-
grade 14in. landroller-type
lawnmower..
It was, in fact, a lawnmower-
engine which powered the first
go-karts made in Australia,
when the sport was first intro-
duced into Victoria about 18
months ago. Then Villiers
began to produce special
engines for the sport.
'T'oday in Australia between
A 50 and 60 manufacturers
are busy turning out these
Lilliputian racers, which have
a minimum wheelbase of 40in.
and a maximum one of 50in.
Maximum revs, vary from
8000 to 14,000, producing the
terrific thrust needed to send
them screaming out of the
corners..
The highest powered class
includes the mechanical blue-
bloods, and a few enthusiasts
use imported American models
which have twin McCulloch
motors and cost from £350 to
£4OO. Their owners pay up to
£2O for “hot” extras. A tune-
up for a top-class motor-cycle
engine such as the 197 cc Vil-
liers would set back its owner
up to £BO.
Whilst it lacks the flashing
speed of the big sport, go-kart
racing, because of its concen-
trated thrills, is attracting regu-
lar weekend spectators who
are charged a modest admission
fee, set so as barely to cover
the cost of running the meet-
ing and providing trophies.
One feature of the sport is
that only a small percentage of
competitors are under 25 years
of age. Most are in the 25-50
group, with not a few racing
well into their sixties.
Associations in the
major States control the
sport, and the N.S.W. Associa-
tion conducts metropolitan
championships. The sport also
has its own periodicals, and in-
terest in the sport is mounting
so rapidly that one monthly
paper, “Australian Go-Kart-
ing,” already has a circulation
of 8000. A Go-Kart Federation
of Australia is in process of
being formed.
The atmosphere at a go-kart
meeting is not one of death-
or-glory, win-at-any-cost; nor
do its devotees wear the grim,
tight-lipped look of the pro-
fessionals who hurl their
Bugattis around the big tracks.
Like the Hollywood actors
depicted fighting for their lives
in sword-and-cloak potboilers,
they use a happy grin when m
combat. In short, they look as
if they are thoroughly enjoy-
ing themselves and their sport.
And they are.
Speedsters Call the Tune
By FRANK HYDE
IDGhatever side issues might
be argued two ways as to
the selected team of cricketers
for this year's Australian tour
of England, most fans will
concede that we are sending
away a team with the weakest
fast battery for many a day.
Realising this, Australians
have every reason to be resent-
ful of the way in which the
Australian Board of Controi
appears to have fallen in with
the English plan to pillory Aus-
tralian speedsters Meckiff and
Rorke. After the last visit by
England to Australia, Meckiff
and Rorke were a combination
which, in the normal course of
events, would have spearheaded
a fast battery to England and.
no doubt, would have done
much to demoralise again the
batsmen they demoralised here
in 1958-59. But, sad to say,
our cricket administrators
appeared to believe English
judgments that the deliveries
from Meckiff and Rorke were
not fair, and the resulting
changes of style they have
attempted have wrecked them
as a fast battery and leave the
touring team w ; ell below par
in this department.
Often in the past it has been
obvious that the country pos-
sessing the best pair of fast
bowlers is the country enjoy-
ing the topdog place in the
cricket world.
/Cricket fans generally are un-
happy when the bowler
establishes complete mastery
over the batsmen, except per-
haps when it is a colorful
speedster who is striking terror
into the hearts of batsmen with
sheer pace. Such a one on the
recent West Indies tour was
Wesley Hall who, although not
such a howling success as far
as averages go, certainly cowed
some of the star batsmen into
a state where they readily fell
victim to other bowlers. This
magnetism of a colorful speed-
ster can be one of the major
factors in setting a touring
team on the right path as draw-
cards —and a team which is
drawing well is a happy team.
Whilst slow bowlers and
medium pacers have had their
measure of success, the really
devastating performances have
most often been put up by the
fast battery.
The first pair in my memory
to dominate a series were the
Australians MacDonald and
Gregory in the early 1920’5.
Both were colorful personali-
ties and, at their top, ensured
that Australia would hold its
own against all comers. Then
there were the colorful West
Indians Constantine and Mar-
tindale.
Tn the 1932-33 era, England's
thunderbolts Larwood and
Voce had tiptop speed support
from Bowes and Allen. These
men not only rocked Australian
batting to its foundations, but
with their speed and field plac-
ing, electrified the game to the
extent of causing unmistakable
international tension.
The tide turned. After the
war Australia brought out
Lindwall and Miller. The
careers of these two coincided
with Australia's domination of
the world of cricket, and it con-
tinued to hold this exalted posi-
tion whilst ever the opposition
could not produce a pair as
good—or as fast. With their
decline went Australia’s supre-
macy.
As Lindwall and Miller were
declining England had devel-
oped in Tyson and Statham a
pair who were young, strong
and fast. They both reached
their peak together on tour and
the debacle of the Australian


jilting stars is now sorry
[story.
they were past their prime
l when they came again and
je pendulum had again swung
tustralia’s way. Meckiff and
lorke were only “beginners,”
mt had the pace and stamina
j carry Australia’s hopes for
jme time. With them operat-
ing, the Ashes were regained
and our position as world
cricket champions was firmly
recovered. But now, through
the pressure of the relentless
campaign originated in Eng-
land, these two are now only
shells of their former selves.
Even so, Australia may have
many a reason to regret their
absence from the touring side.
Dream of One-man Cricket
By LINDSEY BROWNE
;i ll my life, more by force
* of c.rcumstances than by
msociability, I have hankered
ifter some way of playing
ticket by myself—and, at long
lit, a gl mmering of hope in
his quest of mine is given by
i Civil Aviation Department
artographer named lan Wol-
iker who is just now patent-
ly a very ingenious sporting
ivention in Sydney.
This one-man cricket dream
[mine —and it still can’t come
toe for a while —began when
was in short pants and could
mly get a backyard game with
ny five sisters if I was pre-
ared to concede them six for
Anything they hit and to be
out” if I missed anything,
las it any wonder that I
ised to prefer to lie on my
Sack on my bed and throw
i tennis ball up to the ceil-
ig, every catch a run, every
niss a wicket?
It wasn’t cricket! Anyway
iOu look at it! If only Mr
folliker had been around in
lose days! Every afternoon,
Aen my sisters were having
le sulks or the standoffish-
aess, I used to try the Brad-
nan trick of throwing a golf-
all against a wall and trying to
it it with a stump on the
abound —four if I hit it into
le roses, six if I cut it into
le beans, two if I popped it
nto the gully-trap (no pun
faded!). Oh, Mr Wolliker,
ow you were needed then !
need Mr Wolliker’s ingenui-
ties even more now when,
145, and determined not to
ive up cricket till I’m 70, I
innot get anybody to play
ith me on the little concrete
ticket strip at the front of my
nine. The neighborhood boys
id my bowling too boring
1 be bothered with, so my
»ulder gets stiffer and slug-
ger unless I do some solo
lumping at a stump, with a
ire mattress for wicket-
; J eper. And the kids don't
inch care to bowl to me
her; they don’t seem to have
«same daily need of keeping
faselves limber . . . and so
•King practice becomes a set
: elegant posturings in front
the bedroom mirror.
Mr Wolliker, after 12 months
of trial and error, has just in-
vented a baseball pitching
machine which, with deadly
accuracy up to velocities of
60 to 65 miles an hour, can
pitch a half-dozen balls a
minute to a batter —a wonder-
ful help to senior and junior
players alike, but specially to
the youngsters who not only
get every delivery in the space
where it is hittable, but can
also be confident that the de-
livery won’t hit them. Powered
by electricity, the machine is
likely to give top competition
place this season to Sydney’s
Lane Cove Club, which is the
first Australian club to buy
Mr Wolliker’s invention.
Tt won’t be the last, because
A the club readily acknow-
ledges that this invention is
both cheaper and more con-
veniently usable than any-
thing that can be imported
from U.S.A. or Japan. It’s
so good, in fact, that Mr Wol-
liker is confident of being able
to market it in U.S.A. at prices
which will deeply undercut
the devices that help their play
over there. Popular? It cer-
tainly is! It sometimes seems
to Mr Wolliker that half the
kids of Manly drop in to
have a bat against the pitching
machine in a wire-caged area
of his own back yard.
I want one of these machines
to bowl to me. Mr Wolliker is
closely studying the possibili-
ties of so placing the ball in
the machine that it will “pitch”
an inswinger or an outswinger.
Speed, direction and length
are all controllable, but, in its
present form, the machine can't
deliver spinners. Perhaps
that’ll come later. And first in
the queue to buy any new
batting machine will be me.
Is it too much to foresee an
electronic bat-wielder whose
movements are controlled by
photo-electric cells across the
wicketkeeping area to deter-
mine direction, and photo-
electric cells up both flanks of
the pitch to determine both
length and speed? I hope so ;
I always want to be too young
for golf or bowls.
Owner-breeders
Strike it Rich
By JOHN SCHOFIELD
Tt is remarkable that the best horses sired by the top stallion
A Star Kingdom (imp.) should have been bred by their
owners. The brothers Todman and Noholme were bred
and raced by Stanley Wootton and the brothers Skyline and
Sky High were bred and raced by A.J.C. committeeman, Brian
Crowley.
Todman, now at the stud, probably is regarded as the
best of the quartet, but he was a sprinter and nothing more.
Skyline and Sky High each won a Derby, and on Saturday
Sky High confirmed his versatility by winning the Futurity
Stakes (7f.) at Caulfield, carrying 9.7 and creating a weight carry-
ing record for a three-year-old.
A month ago Sky High, racing for the first time after
the spring, impressively won the Lightning Stakes at Fleming-
ton, run at weight-for-age down the straight five furlongs.
He beat Tudor Hill and My Peak, and any suggestion that
he may have “fluked” the win must have been dispelled by
his cavalier treatment of a top-class field in the Futurity Stakes.
Mr Crowley does not rate Sky High better than Skyline
was as a three-year-old. He is of the opinion that Sky High
has a stronger constitution, and this sticks to the colt.
But George Moore, with riding experience in U.S., France,
and England, declared after the Futurity Stakes that Sky High
was of world class.
Tndian summer’s runaway win in the Merson Cooper Stakes
A at Caulfield on Saturday strongly suggests that Sydney’s
two-year-olds this year are much better than those in other
States.
It looked that way in the early spring, but in Melbouma
things were different especially when Native Statesman beat
Young Brolga in the Maribyrnong Plate.
The Merson Cooper Stakes on Saturday was a very
select field of five well-tested colts and two fillies. There were
Native Statesman, Beau Gazza and Heir Apparent from Ade-
laide—Beau Gazza with two wins and two seconds from four
starts, Heir Apparent winner of his previous three starts.
War Warning, from Melbourne, is a non winner, but Nulla
Belle, a Victorian filly, has won four races, and the other
runner, Blue Era, had won his previous three starts.
Indian Summer had two wins and four seconds in her six
starts. No Match, Emblem (twice) and Tipperary Star all
beat her, and they would not be considered “good things” to
beat Young Brolga.
But Indian Summer made her opponents in the Merson
Cooper Stakes look very cheap, indeed. She came round the
field on the turn and simply ran away from them in the finish.
"D elegation of Gili to third place in the Hawksburn Handi-
cap at Caulfield on Saturday has not affected his position
as favorite for the Newmarket Handicap to be run at Flemington
next Saturday.
Gili was beaten by the South Australian, Bomba, and
the smart Melbourne mare, Impulsive. Bomba, a six-year-
old by Empyrean (imp.), is the holder of the Australian record
for five furlongs.
- Gili is a four-year-old bred by his trainer, Ted McMenamin,
by Markapura (imp.) from Syncopation. Gili has been care-
fully handled in his racing and on Saturday was attempting
his fourth successive win.
Whatever chance he had was ruined when his rider, G.
Moore, who was riding for his fourth success of the day,
failed to get the horse across to the rails from No. 9 stall,
thus forcing Gili to be wide all the way.
In the circumstances the run was excellent, and strongly
suggests that Gili will add another Newmarket Handicap to
the long list of Sydney successes.


Business, Robbery, Etc.
More Conquests For Coal
HThe immense value of coal
in the total structure of
the Australian economy is so
proved and provable from the
figures in the Joint Coal
Board’s latest 160-page report
that no Australian (perhaps not
even those whose job it is to
force up the sales of fuel oil)
can feel anything but satisfac-
tion with the huge five-year
expansion predicted for the
coal industry.
There is not a sector of the
national economy into which
coal does not pour great
wealth, wealth which enriches
everybody and helps to guaran-
tee the standards at which we
wish to live, and the news that
coat’s services and gifts to us
all are to be increased is a
welcome indication that there
can be a more resounding
prosperity in this decade than
the irksome discomforts of the
present credit-squeeze might
suggest.
The increase in coal usage
—likely to increase from the
present 16,500,000 tons to
21,000,000 tons in 1964-65 in
respect of N.S.W. black coal
—is expected to come with
expansion of the steel and
cement industries and elec-
tricity generation, with
increased exports (mainly to
Japan), and with the new coal-
using processes which techno-
logical research will doubtless
discover. Indeed, if the Board
is enabled to carry its convic-
tions into fact, some of the
increase could come from
coal’s recovering some of the
market it has lost to fuel oil,
its most vigorous competitor.
'T'he Board’s observations on
all these matters, as they
bear both on the industry itself
and on the nation’s economy
as a whole, are shrewdly and
lucidly argued in the annual
report which confidently
asserts: “Now that the indus-
try is well mechanised, it faces
an era of sustained mechanical
and technical development
which will be characterised by
larger and increasingly efficient
mechanical units and even, in
due course, new techniques of
production, such as remote-
controlled operation of pro-
duction units.”
It is this continuing progress
in mechanisation which has
enabled coal output to be lifted
to 5.26 tons per manshift in
1959-60 as against 4.73 tons
per manshift in 1958-59 —or
3.43 tons per manshift in
1953- A record capital out-
lay of £8,000,000 on mechan-
isation in 1959-60 has contri-
buted to a position where only
13,095 men were needed to
produce 15,800,000 tons of coal
as against the 19,000 men
needed to produce only
13,500,000 tons of coal in
1954-
A T a time of pressing need to
increase all exports,
though both our internal cost
structure and intense inter-
national competition make any
increase difficult, the continu-
ing development of an export
“ Don't you contact me, I'll contact you!”
market for Australian coal is
Significant and exciting. The
Board reports, moreover, that
the growth of the export
market has been an important
factor in preserving stability in
the N.S.W. industry in terms
of price, profit and employ-
ment. But it warns that it is
prudent to be ready for pos-
sible market disturbance and
to recognise that “undue
dependence on the export
market could result in poten-
tial instability.”
The present high rate of
exports through Newcastle,
mainly to Japan—the total
export figure is now at the rate
of about 1,000,000 tons a year
—is thought by the Board to
reflect only a temporary short-
age of domestic coal in Japan
for steel-making, gas-making
and general purposes. Never-
theless, there are indications
that the Japanese steel indus-
try will be seeking up to three-
million tons of Australian
coking coal annually by the
mid-’sixties. Subject to im-
provement of our port facili-
ties, the Board expects by 1965
to be able to supply 1,750,000
tons of this amount from the
Bulli seam and hopes to
supplement this by 750,000
tons annually of the softer
coals of the northern N.S.W.
fields.
But the Board insists that a
successful outcome for the
development of the coal-export
business is possible only if
there is adequate port develop-
ment at Port Kembla, Balmain
and Newcastle. How vital such
port improvements can be is
indicated by the meaning of
the coal export business in
terms of employment. Exports
have provided 860 man-years
of employment to Australians
in 1959-60 (an earlier figure,
1956-57, was 550 man-years).
By 1965 as many as 1500
miners could be dependent for
their employment on the export
business alone.
/”VN research into ways of
increasing the uses of coal
and its attractiveness to con-
sumers, the Board urges
increased allocation of funds
to the instrumentalities capable
of conducting it. Much has
been done in the past in the
way of buying the results of
research from abroad, especi-
ally U.S.A., but the industry
would not be playing its full
part if it depended too greatly
on overseas research, when
there are exclusive Australian
peculiarities to be intensively
explored. While emphasising
that research does not guaran-
tee high profits and high wages,
the Board insists that it can
well provide an ever-increasing
variety of opportunities for
exploiting markets with the
coal we have available.
Competition from fuel oil is
examined carefully and criti-
cally by the Board. Although
the consumption of coal
increased in 1959-60, it did not
maintain its share of the total
market for coal and competi-
tive fuels. By-products from
the oil refineries established by
the international oil industry
in Australia have been the
strongest competitors. The
Board points out that the
ability of the petroleum indus-
try to cut prices and intensify
competition with coal has been
immensely strengthened by
recent falls in the landed cost
of crude oil in Australia, while
“the prices charged by the
Australian refineries for petrol
and other lighter fractions have
not been reduced ; therefore the
ability of the oil industry to
cut prices of fuel oil and still
make very large profits has
greatly increased.”
nPHE Board admits that, if
fuel oil is sold cheaply, the
particular consumer receives
an immediate benefit, but it
also assumes that the low price
of fuel oil is adequately offset
by the charge made to con-
sumers of other petroleum
products.
“It is a net loss to the
country when fuel oil, a pro-
duct made from imported
crude oil, is sold at unreason-
ably low levels, thus causing
impediments to the proper
operat'on and development of
the coal industry, which is of
such critical importance in
Australia... .Total cost of oil
in terms of annual charges on
our international monetary
reserves would probably be not
less than £150,000,000. Much
of th s is, of course, expendi-
ture that is an essential feature
of our economic life, but it
could be usefully reduced if
the oil refineries were per-
suaded to operate so as to
produce a greater percentage
of motor spirit and a lower
percentage of furnace oil from
the crude oil which they
import.”
Share Transfers
Long, dragging delays in the
transfer of shares, which
have proved embarrassing,
frustrating and costly to all
parties concerned in them
(investors, brokers and com-
panies), are likely to be sub-
stantially reduced soon if P
liminary investigations by the
Australian Stock Exchanges
bear fruit.
The Share Transfer Commit-
tee of the Sydney Stock


Another “Wales” Service
Cheque Accounts for Young People
~ •' M
W-* t
f f
4-" w> *s
A
: S W3m
/ * / f |li«
; • .4# / M ? •# |
t .Si? i& . /; / Sslfffl
‘ • / i i.MwM
Mt •dt /MB
m
i
MU Mi '' ’ v * J
When young people start earning a regular income,
they should “take a leaf” from those with experi-
ence, by opening their own “Wales” cheque
accounts. It will help them to keep an accurate
record of income and expenditure, provide a safe
place to keep their money and give them the
ams
mm
m
the know-how in handling their own
affairs. Also, there’s a certain
prestige in having a cheque account
You can bank on the “Wales’*.
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
(incorporated in new south wales
WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
FIRST BANK
IN AUSTRALIA
A6027C
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charier A.D. 1720)
Assets exceed £173,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
Kindersley House, Bligh/O’Connell Streets, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton, Manager for Australia.
Exchange, in a preliminary
report, gives an interesting lead
la this grievously vexatious
matter and it is this com-
mittee’s view, after investiga-
lion of English and American
practice, that the present
nethod of getting a transferee’s
signature on the share-transfer
document before the shares
can be entered in the relevant
company’s share register is
outmoded and should be
abolished.
The committee, which has
devised a new type of transfer
form to cover transactions on
this suggested new basis, is
satisfied that under the new
isystem the “protections” given
Iky the transferee’s signature
funder the old system can be
Satisfactorily preserved. Even
such a company as the Broken
Sill Pty Co. Ltd is said to be
frilling to alter its Articles in
brder to give the company
jpower to dispense with the
transferee’s signature.
“Our outmoded transfer
System is no doubt one of the
greatest deterrents to overseas
investment in Australia,” the
committee says. And it’s right.
Decimal Coinage
respite the enormous cost
that would be entailed in
converting Australia’s money
ystem to decimal coinage,
Modification of all accounting
machines being the biggest
ingle expense, there is still
arm support for it in quarters
tom which resistance might
lave been expected.
Probably the biggest single
Stoup of users of accounting
machines in the country are the
%iks, and the bill that a
fange-over would present to
fern could be quite staggering
-and yet it is from a banker
«t the latest acquiescence in
decimal coinage system
omes.
The Australian head office of
le English, Scottish and Aus-
trian Bank Limited, in order
»be in the know when and
a change-over is made in
Australia, recently sent its
I fief accountant, Mr H. N.
ord, to South Africa to
famine the change made there
i mid-February.
“The calm manner with
[hich the public and business
kid of South Africa accepted
F change-over to decimal
ninage showed Australian
fservers that the operation
&ti be carried out success-
Mr Lord reported.
“The whole operation was
i example of detailed planning
id organisation on the part
•management and close atten-
tion fo detail by those in the
operative field.”
As an observer, Mr Lord
took a particular interest in the
way the banks changed their
internal records to decimals
and how the new currency was
accepted by Mr and Mrs South
Africa.
He said that the banks
changed their records over the
weekend and on reopening on
February 14 dealt exclusively
in the new currency. Some
business houses will keep their
records in L.S.D. until cash
registers can be converted, and
many shops displayed price
tickets in both currencies.
“There were a few grum-
blings,” said Mr Lord. “Some
train fares went up slightly
and the travellers were quick
to notice the charge, but gener-
ally speaking prices remained
the same.”
“Postage stamps, formerly
3d. became 2\ cents (3d.). A
loaf of bread, old price lid.,
sold at 9 cents (equivalent to
10.8 d.). Milk formerly a
pint became 5j cents (6.6 d.) and
the price of newspapers was
unchanged at 2j cents (3d.).”
As a footnote, it is worth
repeating that a powerful
political factor, which is not
paralleled in Australia, con-
tributed to South Africa’s deci-
sion to change to decimal
coinage. Antagonism to Britain,
and all things British (including
even Britain’s ways of count-
ing its pennies) was as much
a reason for South Africa's
decision as the universal reason
of mathematical convenience.
Stocks and Holdings
Stocks and Holdings Ltd,
a Sydney-based holding co.
with diversified real-estate
interests, has been quick to
claim “a record half-yearly
profit” despite the credit-
squeeze. Net group earnings
for six months to the end of
last December were stated at
£44,423 (“after due provision
for depreciation and tax liabili-
ties”), compared with £76,231
in the full year ended June 30,
1960. A 10 p.c. interim div.,
“being at the rate of 20 p.c.
p.a.,” will be paid on April 14.
Stocks and Holdings is a
typical growing real-estate
business with a venturesome
management, and is directly
affected by current unfavorable
market situation. The interest-
ing point is when last half-
year’s profit was really earned.
Directors claim that “despite
the present economic condi-
tions, the demand for homes
has not slackened. Sub-
divisional land sales are pro-
ceeding satisfactorily, although


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
•
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£A363,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years to
be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
Send for illustrated Bulletin
to the sole manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents )or
Itapiri Magnetting Machines,
tieorge Ellison Switch Gear,
ct„. Makers of Classifiers.
Waler filters, Steam Valves,
THE “WILD CAT’'
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies .. .. .. 2/-
.Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
purchasers of land generally
are more selective and are
restricted to genuine home
builders.”
The co., operating through
a complicated network of sub-
sidiaries, concentrates on hous-
ing estates and subdivisions in
Sydney outer western suburbs.
There is an interest in a motel
being built at Tamworth
(N.S.W.). The Imperial Arcade
project in Sydney “has not as
yet contributed to the profits of
the organisation,” but has tied-
up considerable funds.
It is said that sales contracts
in hand “indicate that the
second half-yearly results
will be at least commensurate
or better than the first half-
year’s.”
This remains to be seen.
Meanwhile, the sharemarket
has not been visibly impressed,
and the ss. ords. can still be
bought at 12s. a share, com-
pared with the 1960 high of
21s. a unit. The ss. deferred
ords., not yet entitled to divs.,
last fetched Bs. a unit.
Net tangible asset back-
ing at June 30 last was a
slim ss. for each ss. unit
(based on consolidated figures)
due to the high proportion of
intangibles in the reserves.
Recently paid capital was
raised to £224,000 by the issue
of 88,000 ss. deferred ords.
(now totalling £144,000) in
acquisition of minority
interests.
Stocks and Realty, variously
described as an “associate” or
a “sister” co., is slow in getting
started. The scrip can be ob-
tained well below par at Is. sd.
for a 2s. 6d.-paid ord., and at
present seems the cheapest
entry into the group.
Custom Credit Corp.
Credit Corporation
Ltd is issuing another
£1,500,000 short- and long-term
first-mortgage debenture stock.
Interest rates range from 3i
p.c. for three months’ notice
to Bp.c. for 10 years and over.
The issue is subject to the
terms of a trust deed between
Custom Credit and Perpetual
Trustee Co. Ltd, acting as
trustee for debenture-holders.
Prospectus says that pro-
ceeds of the issue will “provide
additional funds to finance the
continued expansion of
Custom Credit’s business,” and
will be used to redeem matur-
ing debentures and notes.
At June 30, 1960, deben-
tures and notes in the consoli-
dated balance-sheet totalled
£52,490,704. Paid capital is
£7,000,000 in ss. ords.
The current debenture issue
will mean a heavier charge
against this year’s earnings,
because of the recently intro-
duced non-deductibility of
interest on borrowings taxwise.
Margarine
ATargarine-manufacture has
generally been a money-
spinner in Australia. Long in
the public eye has been Mar-
rickville Margarine (or Mar-
rickville Holdings Ltd), a
glamor stock of recent years.
In Queensland, Provincial
Traders (Holdings) Ltd has
done well out of margarine-
manufacture. And the mar-
garine element has been a
notable factor in the recent
prosperity of flourmillers Allied
Mills Ltd and Gillespie Bros
(Holdings) Ltd.
There are basically three
types of margarine. These are
(a) industrial margarine, also
known as bulk margarine, sold
to the trade in lumps of 141 b
or more, and which by law
must contain more than 75 p.c.
animal fat; ( b ) cooking mar-
garine, sold through the retail
trade in packs of lib or less
and which must contain 90 p.c!
animal fat; and (c) table mar-
garine, which by law is anv-
thing ° ther than cooking or
industrial margarine.
Only table margarine is
subject to a quota as a measure
of protection for the butter
industry. Government quotas
restrict the production of table
margarine to about 16,000 tons
a year.
Industrial and “cooking”
margarine are sold mostly to
biscuit - manufacturers, bakers,
pastrycooks and confectioners!
Combined output totals about
25,000 tons a year,
The greater part of Austra-
lian output of table margarine
is under the control of Vege-
table Oils Pty and Mowbray
Pty, subsidiaries of Allied Mills
Ltd and Gillespie Bros (Hold-
ings) Ltd. Their well-known
brand is “Daffodil,” and they
market a cooking-margarine
under the brand of “Tulip.”
N.Z. and Inflation
TPhe sharemarket and the
commercial community
generally took the Prime
Minister’s “state of the nation”
message calmly.
As expected, there is to be no
drastic action, rather a long-
term policy of reconstruction
designed to overcome the
present “very serious inflation-
ary situation.”
“There are two basic alterna-
tives open to the Government,”
said Mr Holyoake. “One is to
adopt crash tactics and en-
deavor to restore a balance
within 12 months. This course
could entail drastic measures
such as increased rates of taxa-
tion, drastic cuts in import
licences and drastic reductions
in overdraft accommodation
“Foreign doctors no can Work longa Sydney —-
im no bilong B.M.A."


Be part of
Australia’s
Expansion
with.
Reid
Murray
ACCEPTANCE LIMITED
■iMi.
Top to bottom: g
QLD.: Torbreck |
home units, Bris. I
VIC.: Hicks
Atkinson Ltd., Melb. $
W.A.: John Allans, 8
“Champions of §
W.A. Made". g
N.S.W.: Cowell’s 3
White House Pty. 8
Ltd., Sydney.
S.A.: David Murrays
Stores Ltd. s
R
f.
I
is
Shown here are just a few of the opera-
ting companies of the Reid Murray group.
All told these include: 202 Retail Stores,
7 Wholesale Warehouses, Real Estate
Companies in 5 States, and the Finance
Co. for the group Reid Murray Accept-
ance Ltd. An investment in Reid Murray
Acceptance Ltd. is an investment in one
of Australia's best backed Companies.
Applications accepted only on forms attached
to the Prospectus. Available from:
REID MURRAY ACCEPTANCE LTD.
403 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 67-1924
Any branch of the
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Any member of a
RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE IN AUST.
Or Joint Underwriting Brokers
TOLHURST, HENLEY, MUNCKTON & CO.
401 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melb.
CUTTEN & HARVEY
97 King William Street, Adelaide
Members of Stock Exchange of Adelaide Ltd.
P.A. for 8 and 10 years
REG. FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
h%
P.A.—5 YEARS
71%
7%
5%
4i%
P.A. —2 YEARS
P.A.—l YEAR
P.A.—6 MONTHS
SHINOW £—*V*d
4%
P.A.—AT CALL
PAID-UP CAPITAL
£6,000,000
GUARANTEED BY REID MURRAY HOLDINGS LTD.
for the commercial community,
fith the consequent loss of
confidence which would follow,
this programme would inevit-
ably result in dislocation in
business, increased bankrupt-
cies, business closing down and
some unemployment.
“The Government has
decided that it will follow a
longer-term policy of recon-
struction. The aim will be to
restore a proper balance over a
much longer period. It may
well take more than three years
jo achieve our full objective.
“That objective is to cure the
economic ills which the Gov-
ernment has inherited in such a
way that the measures taken
will not seriously impede the
Government’s policies for ex-
panding industries and services
so increasing production and
raising the standards of living
for all.
“It looks as if we are trying
to live beyond our income by
£25 or £3O million, perhaps a
little more. This is a lot of
money and represents a lot of
goods, but in fact an increase
of about 24- per cent, in pro-
duction would restore the
balance,” Mr Holyoake said.
Humming up the inflationary
situation which faced the
Government when it came into
office, Mr Holyoake said:
“A deficit of £27 million has
been incurred in the overseas
balance of payments in 1960
and overseas funds have fallen
by a further £l4 million since
the beginning of 1961 as a
result of commitments made
last year.
“Government expenditure has
been running at a rate well
above the level of receipts for
the present financial year.
When we took office there was
ail estimated deficit of £25
million, following a deficit of
£lB million last year.
“These deficits in Govern-
ment expenditure have been
financed by running down cash
reserves and drawing on Re-
serve Bank credit. During the
last three years our Govern-
ment reserves have been re-
duced by £39.5 million. During
i 960 alone Government
borrowing from the Reserve
Sank increased by over £25
million.
“As a result of the economic
and monetary policies which
have been in operation there
has been an unduly large in-
crease in trading bank credit.
During 1960 overdrafts ad-
vanced by commercial banks
increased by over £25 5 million.
“Prices and costs of living
are rising, as an inevitable result
of these conditions. During
|the last three years the con-


w
<22* ¥
THIS BANK PAYS
4;%
PER
ANNUM
ON INTEREST
BEARING DEPOSITS
FOR 12 MONTHS
AND
o
PER
ANNUM
ON DEPOSITS LODGED
FOR 3 TO 9 MONTHS
Enquire at any of the bank's
Commonwealth-wide branches and agencies
CB
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
sumers’ price index has risen
by more than 9 per cent.
“An acute shortage of labor
is developing which will fur-
ther force up prices and costs
and jeopardise future develop-
ment if remedial action is not
taken. Last year alone notified
vacancies rose by more than 60
per cent, from 5400 to 8800.”
The Government’s proposals
for dealing with the situa-
tion were outlined as follows:
1, Halt unwarranted increases
in Government spending; 2,
Carry out a review of the
Public Service structure; 3,
Abstain from undue reliance
on the Reserve Bank , 4, Begin
a steady building up of cash
balances m the Public Account,
5, Provide incentives for m-
creases in production and en-
courage industrial develop-
menl; 6, Keep a steady hand
on advances of the commercial
banks ; 7, Establish a Monetary
Economic Council; 8, Pro-
mote a more vigorous policy
°f developing New Zealand s
trade with other countries,
“Until the overseas funds
position has improved and the
situation was clearer, the Gov-
ernment will not proceed with
its long-term policy of relaxing
import control,” Mr Holyoakd
said. “We propose to borrow
overseas to help meet capital
expenditure and this will enable
us to maintain imports at
normal level till overseas re-
serves have been built up again
and a favorable balance is
restored in overseas payments.”
The Prime Minister’s mes-
sage was generally well
received, but it did attract some
criticism on the grounds that
it did not go far enough. It
might be a mistake, however,
to underestimate the cumula-
tive effects of the proposed dis-
inflationary measures.
Mr Holyoake said that ad-
ministrative decisions would be
announced from time to time.
Some decisions would have to
await announcement in the
Budget, and some would require
legislation which would be
introduced in this year's session
of Parliament.
It is yet to be seen exactly
what comes under the heading
of “halt unwarranted in-
creases in Government spend-
ing.”
Mr Holyoake did say that
the Government would have
to review the housing pro-
gramme. The present pro-
gramme has resulted in rapidly
increasing costs of house build-
ing and of building sections.
More than half the houses built
each year are now financed er
built by the Government.
The Minister of Housing, Mr
Rae, a day or two later was
more definite. “T h e State
rental house and flats building
programme will almost cer-
tainly be cut in the coming
financial year,” he said.
The effects of a substantial
cut in State spending on hous-
ing would quite soon make
themselves felt throughout the
economy.
'T'he deficit in the public
accounts for the whole of
the current financial y ear
appears likely to be less than
expected, the Minister of
Finance, Mr Lake, has an-
nounced.
The Treasury earlier esti-
mated that the overall cash
deficit in the accounts to
March 31 would be about £25
million.
Releasing accounts for nine
months to December 31, Mr
Lake said it appeared that the
deficit for the whole financial
year would be reduced to
“reasonable proportions.”
Customs revenue would ex-
ceed the estimate. Income tax
receipts were expected to be
more than the Budget estimate.
Receipts from small savings
were considerably above esti-
mates. Public works spending
is running below budgeted ex-
penditure.
A £2,000,000 plant to manu-
facture four to five - seater
saloon cars specially designed
for New Zealand requirements
is planned by a Czech com-
pany.
The N.Z. Government has
been approached. Negotiations
are continuing for the establish-
ment of a factory which would
turn out about 10 per cent, of
the cars at present imported.


Lyndon Dadswell: Hands and Mind
By ROLAND McKIE
rTTTHEN Frank Moraes, the
\V / distinguished Indian
VV editor - writer, visited
Sydney some years
igo he asked to meet Lyndon
Dadswell, Australia’s best-
inown sculptor, and to see
iome of his work. Later,
itriting about Australia and
Australians, Moraes said:
Artists, like some writers,
often think from the wrist
jown, but Dadswell works with
iis hands and his mind.”
That was true then, but it
las been particularly true since
1957, when Dadswell was
almost fired to the United
States by the combined thrust
if Fulbright - Smith - Mundt -
Carnegie aid. and spent nearly
i year, based on the University
if Indiana, looking at Ameri-
:an art and art education.
For 10 months, at universi-
ties, art schools and design
academies as wide apart in
tradition, method and aim as
the conservative Art Students
League in New York and the
progressive Yale School of
Design in Connecticut, he
Sstened, observed, argued.
Ihen he came back, after a run
through England and the Con-
tinent, a profoundly changed
man, a different kind of sculp-
tor, an artist with a philosophy
ind an aim.
What this American experi-
ence taught him —not for the
first time, since he had been
tinkering with new ideas in art
'ince the middle 19505, but now
Wh violent clarity—was how
tv his own country trailed the
fotfld’s mainstreams of new
thought, and how major
Ranges in art education, part
ft revolutionary changes in
td u c a t i o n everywhere, had
hardly dented the archaic
Methods of art teaching as
‘Pplied in Australia for
fecades.
“As senior lecturer in sculp-
ture at Sydney's National Art
ichool,” he says, “I realised
fiat I had been merely teaching
tit for 20 years when my real
ob should have been education
firough my own field.
“1 realised that art as it has
] e en taught at art schools
firoughout Australia has been
Irnost totally devoid of any
Wlosophy, or any need for it ;
'at all art teachers have been
°ing has been to train people
'skills, and tram them well;
'at methods used at our art
schools and by art teachers are
dated when you look at the
best in other countries; and
that most of the works in our
art galleries represent technical
skill no higher than a good
plumber’s and without a glim-
mer of the need for thought.”
TAadswell, who argues that
the artist of the future
won’t be an artist unless he
thinks not from the wrist down
but from the neck up, con-
siders all art forms mighty
retorts for reasoning, and that
research into the structure of
light which produces color, or
study of materials and their
uses, are more important to the
artist and to society than a
technician’s ability to paint a
dozen pretty pictures or model
a horse by merely copying some
other artist’s solutions and
methods. He feels that present
art teaching, based as it is on
the past, is dead ; that art must
become, like science, a natural
and significant part of the new
education.
“The measuring stick, once
only the past, will be that
everything produced sculp-
ture, painting, design, pottery,
everything—will be a personal
solution governed only by one
thing: whether it achieves the
aim of its author.
“By that I mean that if the
revised form of art education
I’m advocating is successful
you will produce not only
better art but better-educated
people whose reasoning ability
and general thought and know-
ledge are far superior to that
of today —simply, better people
than we are ; an improvement
which could profoundly influ-
ence society, government and
even the international relations
of man.
“1 believe that what 1 found
in the United States —and what
1 found is not American-
inspired but is discoverable in
other countries like England
and West Germany —is a new
approach to art education ex-
pressed through form, sound,
color, heat, cold, movement:
all the inseparable elements of
life.
“We need to free students of
some of their preconceptions,
even their ideas of what art is
and how it is taught before they
even enter an art school, to
help them to experiment, ex-
plore and question what they
are doing in relation to the
world around them.
“We need to encourage them
not to rely blindly, as they do
today, on what they are told
Thinking from the neck up
by teachers or on what they
read or see —to realise that
what Michelangelo or some
other great artist or pundit said
is not necessarily true for our
world and us today.
“The art school must become
a university-standard institution
where a student learns how to
learn and how to apply what
he learns to life. He may,
through this education, become
a fine artist. But even if he
does not, or never practises as
an artist, he should be a much
better-educated person capable
of independent thought and of
making decisions and solving
all sorts of problems.
“All this may sound ideal-
istic, but idealism is not yet a
dirty word Art schools must
cease to be skill factories md
become, as I have said, what
universities used to be —places
of ideals where learned,
devoted, enthusiastic people
interested in education in its
widest and finest sense gathered
to question the world they
lived in and to exchange ideas.”
TCor a sensitive, almost gentle
person Dadswell models
the air with strong slim fingers
as he talks passionately of his
ideas —talks probably in much
the same crusading way as
his parson -great - grandfather
Nathaniel Pidgeon, who, 130-
odd years ago, beat non-
conformist Christianity into
reluctant heads in the streets
of infant Sydney.
At 52, Lyndon Dadswell is
thin, grey, energetic, critical, an
experimenter who was never
sure where he was heading until
the last few years, and isn’t
absolutely sure yet. He is a
Sydneysider and essentially a
city man with no feeling for
country scenes and country
tranquillity except a restless
aimlessness until he can get
back to the grumble of traffic
and the stink of burnt petrol.
Although he went to school
at Shore he does not regard
that as an experience which
educated him in any way or
even remotely prepared him for
life. He began with only one
advantage, a natural ability to
handle clay, which won him his
first commission at 2 1 to design
and sculpture the inner frieze
of 12 panels on Melbourne’s
Shrine of Remembrance and
started him on the- wallaby
which led to t'.c coveted


Wynne Prize for sculpture, the
Royal Academy in London,
and a lifetime of sculpture and
teaching.
He had been a teacher for
only two years at East Sydney
Technical College Art School
when he joined the A.I.F. in
1940 and went overseas with
the 6th Division. He began as
a corporal, became a sergeant,
and was later demoted to
private. Dadswell, who never
conformed, fought in Greece
and Syria, where he was blown
up by a mortar bomb and
seriously wounded. He still
has two pieces of that French
bomb in his brain, and half-
sight, though you would never
suspect this. He has mastered
his disability so well that he
can even play above-average
tennis.
After months in hospital he
was appointed an Australian
War Artist in the Middle East
—his fine war sculptures have
unfortunately never been
exhibited—and in 1942 he
returned for discharge totally
medically unfit, loathing the
futility and ugliness of war
and loving what he once called
the “cold, worn-out, broken
but never - beaten men” he
served and fought with.
“When 1 started teaching and
working again in 3 943 1 was
still a beginner. I was an
expert modeller without any
idea what sculpture was all
about. It seems elementary
now, but it took me years to
learn that to be a good sculp-
tor or painter you have to
think first.”
While he was making this
discovery—and it took him
about a dozen years —he was
experimenting with new
materials and techniques, help-
ing show the way in today's
Australia for the use of sculp-
ture on buildings, becoming
represented in practically every
gallery in Australia, winning
major competitions, and also
becoming, with a fair amount
of regularity, the centre of
controversy.
Tn 1946 he won the King
* George V Memorial Com-
petition with his 30ft carved
Monolith to foe erected in Syd-
ney's Botanic Gardens behind
the Con servatori urn. ft was
not only his first major design
and his first controversy; It
also stimulated public interest
in sculpture, which had pre-
viously reclined among Austra-
lia's untouchables.. People who
would wilt at the thought of
criticising a novel or the design
of a pot or the engineering of
a bridge suddenly became
overnight experts on sculpture,
a subject most of them knew
nothing whatever about.
They called the Monolith the
aeroplane wing, the carved
banana and many other polite
and not-so-polite names, and
created not only a resistance
movement bu t a deliberate
delaying action as well, based
“Fred's a staunch do-it-yourself man!”
on legal quibble, from Cabinet
downwards a delay which
banned the Monolith and lasted
six years before Dadswell and
his colleague in the competi-
tion, architect Henry Epstein,
were asked to design instead
the King George V and VI
Memorial Gates and Fountain
in Sandringham Gardens, Hyde
Park, which the Queen opened
in 1954.
While the Monolith was
proving, not for the last time,
that competitions are futile if
the decision of a judging panel
can be ignored or sidestepped
by politicians or aldermen or
others who dislike a winning
entry Dad-swell was busy pro-
ducing, among other works, a
sculptured panel and decora-
tive map for the Maritime
Services Board building in Syd-
ney, four groups of figures in
color for Hobart's Common-
wealth Bank, beautiful bronze
doors for Moree Council
Chambers, and his aluminium
figures and bas-relief on the
George and Market Street
(Sydney) branch of the Com-
monwealth Rank, and was
working on his winning entry,
which was to spark months of
public .argument, for New-
castle's Cultural Centre.
When the judges announced
this award in .1955, the two
bronze figures representing
Australia's youth emerging
from the wasteland of war,
they called the design, “a mag-
nificent piece of contemporary
sculpture’’ ; but this did not
save the figures from being
labelled “monstrosities,” 01
icpea ted moves being made in
the Newcastle Council and Cul-
tural Committee to force Dads-
well to modify his design. An
alder manic d r ess- ma nufacture r
even tried to put him right
about the shape of the female
figure a piece of choice
gobbledegook which helped
Dadswell a lot to win the battle
against blatant pressure tactics.
After his return in 1958 from
the United States, where he was
studying when the Cultural
Centre was opened, Dadswell
completed an abstract sculp-
ture in copper and enamel for
the Commonwealth Bank,
Perth, and. he is now working
on three major commissions—
-11 decorative metal and glass
screens for the new library at
the National University, Can-
berra, a fountain for Univer-
sity House courtyard, and a
glass mural for the Union’s
new theatre at Sydney Univer-
sity.
T>erhaps the most interesting
* thing about the Dadswell
of today is that he has become,
under the stimulus of his
American experience, and like
a member of the Hindu Pan-
theon, a sculptor with many
arms. While he continues to
produce works of art like his
enchanting copper and enamel
abstract in Perth, which seems
to grow against its sunlit wall
as naturally as a bush, his eye
and mind turn inward more
and more to the meaning and
significance of the art he pro-
duces and the art he teaches.
As he says: “The impetus
necessary to produce sculpture
is now being transferred to the
much more important and
equally creative art of art edu-
cation—the designing of a new
way which will help others
learn and think,
“The problem of producing
a curriculum for the revised
art education, which is already
beginning in other countries,
fascinates me just as much as
producing a new piece of
sculpture, for if that curricu-
lum alone achieves its aim it is
in itself, 1 believe, an act of
creation. It is art.
“So far as 1 know, a full
curriculum has not yet been
written at any of the American,
English or -German schools
which are interested in revised
art -education. Even though 1
have attempted to produce a
draft curriculum I am not yet
sure whether a good one for
Australia is necessarily a good
one for Scandinavia or Brazil
or anywhere else. Each coun-
try may produce its own,
peculiar to its place, climate
and time.
“But I do feel that the
revised art -education should
include study of language,
theatre, mathematics, science,
technology and other subjects,
and that art training should
include exercises in the hand-
ling of . tools, materials and
ideas, experimental periods,
research into art problems,
liaison between teachers so that
all direction is co-ordinated,
maximum discussion among
students and a minimum of
talk about aesthetic judgments
by teachers..
“Naturally, skills will be
taught, for learning skills under
the new system is inseparable
from the system itself, which is
a blend of skills and ideas to
complete a whole.
“The aim of this new curri-
culum, under which students
and teachers would stop look-
ing at both the clock and the
past, is to free students from
the tyranny of having t°
acquire mere skills which often
don’t even have the advantage
of leading to a job, and to give
them the chance they have
never had at our art schools to
explore, experiment, expand
and think as educated indivi-
duals and as potential artists.


SIEGE AND SEAL
By OLAF RUHEN
rE Rauparaha the war-
lord, the great Maori
general, the Storm-
Cloud, the Avenger,
took up the fight against the
Kaitahu as a man, when the
harvest is gathered, might look
lo his weapons—polish the
mere, fondle the taiaha,
sharpen the spear. The
weapons were bright, the pro-
visions were basketed, the
young men were purified for
the battle.
The air quivered with the
shouting, the tendons leapt in
the flesh, even the spirits of
the canoes strained and thrust
to burst their bonds of timber.
The young men were puri-
fied for the battle. They were
ledicated to the club and the
taiaha and the establishment
at the strong; and they could
lot look at the women. For
them was only the battle, the
Wood heating the eyes, the
vigil, and the swift summons
of Death.
Te Kaka, the young Te
Kaka, played his part in the
declarations and the speeches.
He was a hero born and dedi-
cated, and could not do less
than proclaim the hero.
“Intolerant as the breakers
of the surf is the spirit of Te
Rauparaha,” he shouted.
When he returns the lands of
the Kaitahu will be as the
barren sands of the beach;
heaped here on the wreck of a
»an, and there on the riven
limbers of his house. Te
Rauparaha marches, and his
enemies turn in their sleep,
feeling the tremor of the
earth.”
The men were with him,
ind shouted their approval.
Rut his thoughts went beyond
he circle of the faces, beyond
he firelight and the dancing,
[heyond the glaring of the eye-
alls of men possessed by the
Fong spirits of war, to the
'•Her fires where the women
faited. To the lean athletic
s ?ure of his woman Ririkara,
he “wild girl,” as they called
• er - But here he halted his
houghts, for a warrior dedi-
ded could not think of
'omen.
[|e squatted in the sand,
| and listened to the
leeches, and his fingers
t rac ed the patterns decorating
his mere. It was carved from
a heavy slab of the greenstone
jade they called Tangiwai,
“the tears of parting,” because
it was so translucent that the
hard knife edges seemed to
contain, at every angle, a
drop of water. But it was a
trick of the light; the mere
had split sixty skulls and taken
no harm. It balanced beauti-
fully in his hand, the wide
and ovate blade springing
clear from a handle that fitted
the fist. So cunningly was the
handle carved that it carried
four faces, one on each side,
and from every face protruded
the one tongue, and the
tongue of the mere was the
bright and shining blade.
Yet the lives that had spilled
over the edge of the blade
were almost equalled in
number by the skulls that had
been crushed by the clubbed
butt; and other lives again had
ridden to Te Reinga, to the
land of the spirits, upon its
broad point, for it had been
wielded by five generations of
chiefs notably skilled in war.
It was a man’s weapon. The
thong clung to his wrist like
the tenacious fingers of a
child.
If he could not think of
Ririkara his woman, he could
think of his child; a toddler,
but already interested in the
stick game that would quicken
his eye and steel his reactions;
old enough to ignore pain or
the fierce whipping of the
winter wind; straight in the
back and sure of foot, and
less than four years old. How
could he think of the boy
without thinking of Ririkara?
The fleeting softness of her
arms was forbidden his mind;
but he could think of the
future; the long gay hunting
forays they would share to-
gether yet; the days of sun-
shine with a fishing canoe in
the surf.
Shut his eyes and he could
see her, sitting in the clearing
among the white and purple
flowers of the tete-a-weka,
holding the grass-blade to her
lips and calling the wild fowl
to her side. And he could
remember the swift ripple of
her shoulders as she captured
the birds, one by one, hiding
them so skilfully that their
companions were unafraid.
And her laughing eyes, brown
as the sea-kelp; and the
tumbling glory of her hair.
And he could see her too,
as they swam in the green
underwater world by the cliffs,
gliding like seals in the green
light, with Ririkara’s slim body
twisting effortlessly as she
caught the silly crayfish by
their probing feelers. The
mind of Te Kaka took him to
the threshold of other mo-
ments with the light-stepping,
lightly laughing Ririkara; but
he resolutely held these at a
distance and thought of her
only as his friend and com-
panion, and not as wife.
But with such thinking
came the sense of guilt; for
now the campaign was all. A
man might not think of the
moon and the stars, unless it
were for the purposes of that
navigation which would bring
him to the enemy; he might
not tell a tale that had no
bearing on the trials to come;
there was one end, and one
only.
Co he felt a true joy and
relief when the chiefs fell
upon the waiting slave and
held him; and the tohunga
thrust the stone knife at his
neck, and his blood sanctified
the canoe-prow to the journey.
Then the canoes ran out
into the leaping surf; and the
night took hold, and the fires
on the beach receded and
became mere landmarks; and
the mat sails bellied to the
breeze and the children of the
forest—the canoes, the masts,
the mat sails, the paddles and
the twine—flung their chal-
lenge to the children of Tan-
garoa the sea; and made the
waters do their bidding.
Taw h i r i-Matea the wind
showed himself to be with the
expedition; and they sailed
swiftly for the country of the
Kaitahu, whose villages
straddled the trade-routes of
the quarried green-stone, and
who were ancient enemies
besides.
When the daylight came the
forces of 1 e Rauparaha were
passing swiftly down the coast,
but the noon brought a calm;
and they paddled without help
from the sails until the night
fell. There were nine great
double canoes; four hundred
warriors; and the merit of
many undefeated generations
hallowed the weapons at the
feet of the paddlers.
Now one man sang; now
another; and they sang of their
weapons and their victories.
Defeats they had none; for a
defeated man was dead or a
slave; and a slave was worse
than dead. No slave could
cook his fern-root at the fire
that had warmed the food of
these warriors; no slave could
draw water from the same
place in the stream. These
were proud men, carrying a
proud tradition.
Night fell again before they
reached the village by Amuri
Bluff, on the long straight
coast of that great ; sland they
called Maui’s Canoe; and Te
Rauparaha changed his battle
plan. His strong mellifluous
voice carried his instructions
over the waves in a chant and
rhythm that posterity would


repeat for generations, over
the evening fires of peace.
The new strategy called for
an open attack after the break
of day; and those who had
fought before at Amuri cast
their minds back, remember-
ing the thrice-fortified village,
with its three strong palisades
and its broad ditches to trap
and make harmless the rolling
bundles of burning bushes
which were a man’s best
weapon against a defended
stockade. Entrenched or no,
the Kaitahu were worthy
enemies.
Tn the morning the forces of
Tangaroa the sea seemed
ranged with the Kaitahu
against the men of the Te
Rauparaha, who had envisaged
that the defenders would be
armed and ready by the time
the canoes struck the beach;
that they would attempt a
defence upon the sands, and
that there the cream of the
fighting men would be demo-
lished. For Te Rauparaha did
not overlook the pride of his
enemies.
But the storm rose before
the dawn, and the great rol-
lers, breaking far out to the
horizons, concealed the
canoes; and the Kaitahu had
time only to issue the warnings
and to withdraw to the forti-
fications. The mood and
temper of Te Rauparaha did
not lead him to linger in the
canoes beyond the surf. And
when the raiders raced across
the beach to mount the hill
the village was withdrawn into
itself, and held under a full
defence, and there was no
alternative to the siege.
Te Kaka, in charge of the
sixth canoe, was happy with
his assignment. He was
stationed on the high shoulder
of the hill. Behind him lay the
swamp where, on the last raid,
levied not from the sea but
from the land behind the
village, he and a hundred
warriors had lain day-long
concealed beneath the swamp
waters; breathing through
hollow reeds; waiting for the
evening’s hour of indecision,
the first lighting of the fires, to
rush the village. Now he held
the swamp at his rear, and
faced the fortifications.
Here, if a diversionary
attack were planned by the
men of outlying Kaitahu
villages, would come the
thickest of the fighting. Here
was the greatest need for vigi-
lance. He set his sentries, and
he set men to gathering up the
dry brush so it could be used
to bring fire against the
palisades of the village.
On all sides except one the
land fell away from the vil-
lage, and on the fourth side,
where a gentle slope led up to
the heights above, three deep
and wide ditches, each as wide
as would take the length of
two men to span it, protected
the village from the rolling
fire.
Each fence of the stockade
was the height of three tall
men. The timbers were open,
with a great space between
them, so that weapons could
be used from one side of the
fence against the other. Indeed
a man, naked for fighting,
could perhaps have squeezed
between some of the timbers;
but before he completed his
entrance, his skull would have
been split by the defenders.
“Autumn bargains I picked up!"
There was a spring inside
the village; for water ran away
from it and there was no sign
that it ran in; so that the
defenders could not have been
driven forth by thirst. And
their food-houses would be
crammed with preserved birds
and dried fish, and berries and
fern-roots and sweet potatoes.
Beneath the lower ends of
the stockade timbers were
entrances, and these remained
open even while the great
gates were shut. But from the
outside a man could negotiate
the small entrances only by
crawling on his belly, his skull
vulnerable. So they were en-
trances only for the defenders.
The attackers were held from
them by the certain knowledge
of useless death.
Te Rauparaha, the great
chief, came to see the ground.
When he looked at the bundles
of dry reeds and brush that
Te Kaka had had prepared
he nodded.
“The dry reeds burn,” he
said. “But burning in a ditch
they burn nothing but them-
selves. If you fill the ditch
with dry reeds and then roll
the burning bundles down the
hill, they may burn the pali-
sades. But they will also burn
the dry reeds in the ditch, and
then the work will remain to
be done over again. Therefore
cut green reeds also, and
make bundles of them to fill
the ditches. Or otherwise
whatever is in the ditches will
be fired either by our own
burning bundles or by the
torches of the Kaitahu.”
Thereupon Te Kaka set
more men to cutting the green
reeds in the swamp. His men
were spread over a distance,
some in the swamp and some
among the trees and some
holding the position. He set
still others to bring the trunks
of small trees and build fences
within the ditches, to contain
the bundles of green reeds and
make a road across the
ditches.
A man came from the fort,
alone and strong in his
courage; he leapt on the three
men working in the ditch and
killed the first before they
knew he was there; the second
man who held a timber he
killed with a swift upthrust of
the taiaha’s point in the neck
below the point of the chin;
he fought with the third a
little while and because of his
great strength and skill he left
him dead also. And so he
withdrew to the village.
On that moment a great cry
and shouting came from bis
tribesmen.
“So will you die,” they cried
to the men of Te Rauparaha,
“So will your blood run down
the watercourse.”
In return a shouting came
from the attackers, and one
man after another came from
his hiding-place and danced
his threats and shouted them
to the enemy; to shake the
enemy and convince his
friends.
Te Kaka set six men in the
ditch; and above the ditch,
on his own side, two more;
and he brought up the sentries
from the swamp because his
men were thinned.
Now came the warrior
again from the village, and
three men with him. The
warrior and one other leapt
the ditch and set upon the two
sentries, and Te Kaka’s other
men ran up. The other two
from the village had leapt into
the ditch where the six of Te
Kaka’s men were stationed;
but of these two one was dead
before his feet hit the soil,
and the other was no fighter.
The men in the ditch suffered
only two little wounds, and
one of those by accident.
The warrior leader killed
his man and swiftly jumped
the ditch and came to the
fortifications again. But the
man with him did not listen
to him when he shouted
“Withdraw”; he listened only
to the voice of courage, and
courage is a blind sage. And
he fought on with the press
of Te Kaka’s men.
Now from the swamp came
15 men of the Kaitahu wlw
had hidden themselves and
waited for a diversion such as
this. They came wet with the
swamp w ater, and stinking of
mud, and ran into the fight.
They ran swiftly through Te
Kaka's men that were still in
concealment; and through the
men at their tasks; and
through the press of those that
had left their tasks; and of
all these they took some by
surprise, and they killed. They
killed 12 men between them,
and ran on over the ditches to
the fortification, leaving two
of their number dead. And
with them they took also the
mere of one Ripiro, a w'arrior
who was wounded only
lightly; Ripiro felt the strength
go from him with his weapon,
and Te Kaka marked him for
a weakness in his total
strength.
The blood of Te Kaka rose
in his veins, and he shouted
at the Kaitahu, and he showed
them bis weapons and bn


itrength; and he swore to kill
od to kill; for he was angry
|jt the defenders had killed
i third of his men. But he
j a d lost no bodies, and for
lat he was thankful. His men
till stayed with their tribe,
lit they were dead.
The siege went on for many
ays. It seemed lost before it
ad well begun. On one day
ad another; on every day,
ad sometimes often in the
ay, a warrior of the Kaitahu
ould come and fight; and in
lie night they came. Some-
imes they would kill, and
aietimes be killed.
But between the Kaitahu
ad their defences, and Te
lauparaha and his numbers
here was still an equality; as
lough they were two teams
(boys pushing against each
ither; sometimes gaining a
ilile this way and sometimes
lat; but coming at no great
(vantage in the end.
Time, that is often against
is besieged, ran out against
k besieger; for the rations of
ic travelling war party were
lort, and not to be compared
iith the quantity of the food
lored in the village; and there
as little time to hunt, and
ie gardens of the Kaitahu
lad long before been har-
med, and stood no longer
ir plunder.
Jnd so Te Rauparaha
, began to make his prepara-
ions to withdraw. He made
pan in secret; but men
csieged have little to do but
se their eyes; and the
iaitahu saw the great canoes
tagged, one by one, into the
oncealment of the sandhills
f the beach.
The young men were ex-
tant. They laughed and said,
The mighty Te Rauparaha is
(aten. With a few fences and
few ditches we have beaten
in, and yet not put him to
if test of war.”
But the old men said, “Wait,
or Te Rauparaha is as cun-
ing as the cuttlefish. And
fe the cuttlefish he does not
dicate the way he is going,
ait, and when the sails of
(Rauparaha are beyond the
>t'izon then you can say he
on his way.”
On the following day Te
auparaha withdrew his
joops from the siege and
ought them on the beach,
purely, one by one, they
*0 the canoes down to the
pk the water left at the
Pght of the tide, as though
e y would sail when the
fning came.
But the wind was springing
up from the south, and the
surf was mighty, and the sea
disturbed.
“He will not sail,” said the
old men. “He will not sail.”
“He is afraid,” said the
young men. “The great Te
Rauparaha is afraid of Tan-
garoa the sea.”
But an old man shook his
head.
“The brave man who fights
with the weapons he has from
Tane-Mahuta of the forest is
not afraid of Tangaroa,” he
said. “And no man who is
with the sea is afraid of Tane-
Mahuta. And never will these
two combine to fight against
man, who is therefore safe.”
But Tangaroa the sea, on
this day near the Amuri Bluff,
was in alliance with Tawhiri-
Matea the wind; and the storm
increased. From the village
Kaitahu watched Te Raupa-
raha and his lieutenants in
their cloaks, themselves
watching the sea and the wind.
The Kaitahu saw Te Raupa-
raha give orders to make
camp; and they saw the chiefs
return the sentries to positions
overlooking the village, to
contain the besieged and thus
to protect themselves through
the night.
In the morning the storm
raged. The wind lashed the
beach, and the falling tide
brought huge mounds of sea-
weed ripped from the rocks to
line the beach. Ashore the dead
branches fell from the kahamai
trees like the water from a
cormorant’s feathers. The wild
night closed down, but the
hearts of the Kaitahu were
high.
The heart of Te Kaka was
high, though he had taken the
weight of the losses, and he
knew of losses to come. For
Te Kaka could see the success
of the siege, and he rejoiced.
In the evening of the follow-
ing day Te Rauparaha looked
at the weather and the sea, and
he said, “The time has come.”
The orders passed from one
man to the other; but there was
no sorrowing, nor any rejoic-
ing, for the Kaitahu had long
ears in the night. The guard
was doubled, and the Kaitahu
were held tightly in the village.
'T'here was a darkness on
the moon and the storm
had hidden the stars, but with-
in the village of the Kaitahu
there was a watch and a seek-
ing; a restlessness and a ques-
tioning; and more than the
sentinels watched the lifting of
“Slip in there for a while and relax.”
the night in the grey dawn.
Over the white beach the light
lifted, first here, then there,
like the drying of patches on a
wet rock. And the eyes
watched and checked, looking
a little above, a little below,
and a little to either side as
a man must who wishes to see
in the dark. And before there
was more than the promise of
light, the young men were
saying: “They are gone. They
have sailed away. They have
given up the fight.”
But the old men answered,
“Wait a little. It may be they
are still in some place we can-
not see.”
When the light was a little
stronger and the whiteness of
the surf began to settle on the
breaking waves they could see
there were no canoes on the
beach, and the young men
cried: “It is true. We are alone.
After these many days the
enemy is gone.”
But the old men were queru-
lous and they said: “The small
pigs squeal and run; but the
old sow uses her nose. She
walks. She is calm. She keeps
her children at her feet. There-
fore be calm, and wait for the
light; and not merely the light
of day, but the light of know-
ledge.”
Then the day rose, and this
side of the horizon, only a little
way along their sea-road, the
canoes of Te Rauparaha
showed their sterns to the vil-
lage.
Now the young men shouted
indeed, and the women re-
joiced, and the children
laughed and played, and would
have climbed on the high walls
of the stockade; but the old
men and the chiefs drove them
back.
“Let us open the gates and
go, for Te Rauparaha lips the
horizon,” shouted the young
men,
“When the light is sufficient
we will count the men in the
canoes,” said the old men.
Tamati, the fat man, grunt-
ed. He sat square on th®
ground, polishing the whale-
bone of his weapons. “I would
like some fresh fish,” he com-
plained. “The fish have been
too long in store.”
When the light became
strong, they counted the men
in the canoes.
The vessels were far in the
distance, but they could see
the heads of the men, and the
flash of the paddles in the
nearly horizontal sunlight.
They could see the shoulders
of the men sway to the dip of
the paddles. They counted the
heads, and the numbers were
one with the numbers of the
men who had attacked. But
the faces of the enemy they
could not see.
The face of Te Rauparaha
was not to be seen at the prow
of the leading canoe. Nor was
the face of Te Kaka amongst
those who followed. And some


of the paddlers had strange
faces, and weak muscles.
TT|OR this was the strategy of
-®- Te Rauparaha. This was
his gage to victory. Between
every two men on the canoe
sat a simulated man, a bundle
of green reeds tied at the neck
and the head and the waist,
with simulated arms lashed to
a free paddle. The reed men
were lashed to the paddlers of
flesh and blood, to the man
before and the man behind;
and they swayed to the play of
the paddles. Their paddle
blades were short and brushed
the water; but against the light
of the sun rising in the east
they looked like men paddling.
The men whose places they
took hid in the swamp behind
the village. They hid there as
they had hidden on the raid
before. They lay on their backs
in the water, and they breathed
through hollow reeds, as a man
breathes through a reed when
he hunts the ducks that settle
in the shallows of the swamp.
And there were others in posi-
tions where their eyes com-
manded the gates of the vil-
lage; and these would run and
disturb the waters, when the
time came, so that the attack
would be co-ordinated.
In the village of the Kaitahu
these things were unsuspected;
but still the old men counselled
caution.
“The canoes of Te Rau-
paraha are carrying hungry
men. They will not return,”
said the impatient young men.
“Waiting is a little thing to
be doing,” said the wiser men.
“There is no harm in having to
wait. A day. Two days. What
do we lose?”
“We lose the taste of a fresh
fish,” grunted Tamati, the fat
man; and some of the older
men and the priest looked at
him, for thus he showed him-
self a weakness in the defence,
though he could fight and knew
little fear.
So they sat. And so they
waited. And perhaps the strat-
egy of Te Rauparaha would
have gone for nothing except
that, at a later hour, when the
sun was higher and shining
bright on the water under the
cliff, there was a movement on
the surface of the sea, and the
men jumped to the palisades.
A seal was swimming there
in the ocean swell, his head at
the surface, his movements
unhurried. He drifted in the
swell, his head turning on his
neck in the short, quick, calcu-
lated movements of his kind,
as though he were looking for
a playmate, or a fish to play
catch with. Now and then he
withdrew his head under the
swell, but always came up
nearby, and looked about him.
Tamati licked his lips, and the
young men ran to their hunt-
ing spears that had been neg-
lected these many days.
“Fresh meat!” they shouted.
“A seal! A gift from Tan-
garoa!”
Now even the old men could
not withstand this immediate
reward of freedom. They
looked, and their mouths
watered, and suddenly they
were hungry for the dark red
steaks, the bounteous blubber,
the jelly of the eyes and the
plentiful fresh fish that filled
no doubt, that capacious stom-
ach. They looked at the seal
and were convinced. The
movements were the move-
ments of a seal; the head was
the head of a seal. They could
not see the shape beneath the
water for the sun was in their
eyes. But as they looked the
seal rolled on its back, and
lifted a flipper lazily, and the
flipper was the fore-flipper of
a seal.
They opened the gates of the
stockade, and they followed
the young men to the water.
"VTow came the swift rush
' from the swamp; the stink-
ing black and muddy men, but
truly armed, who took the gate,
and speared the women, and
the few men still in the shelter
of the palisades. Now the
strength of the Kaitahu stood
transfixed on the slope below
the village; open and vulner-
able, hardly armed. Now was
their safety turned to swift dis-
aster. And as the fires took
hold of the thatch of the huts,
the canoes of Te Rauparaha
turned back from the horizon.
There was but one weak
answer, and the young men
had given it. They made their
gesture and they fled. And
some of them, weaponless,
found the shelter of the forest,
and some fought back on the
slope to Glory. Of those who
fled, some were hunted down,
and some lived.
Te Rauparaha, striding from
the defeated village to meet his
returning canoes, stopped
briefly near the foot of the
cliff where the seal had played
in the breakers beneath the
village. Now the head of the
seal bobbed loosely on the
waves. The shapeless skin was
pinned to the sand w ith a score
of hunting spears. And pinned
beneath it, reddening the dim-
inishing surf, was the body of
the young Te Kaka.
When the story of the cam-
paign came to the village of Te
Rauparaha, Ririkara sang to
her child. “He was the hero,”
she sang of Te Kaka; “his was
the victory. With what a
chosen grace he mocked the
seal! How well he wore its
cloak of fur! How great was
his art; how strong was his
spirit; how complete was his
victory!”
Wide-eyed the boy laughed,
clapped his hands and squared
his little shoulders. But when
he was asleep Ririkara was
lonely. She was proud and no
one could tell, but she was
lonely.


How “Capricornia” Was Made
By XAVIER HERBERT
P 1 raising P. R. Stephen-
sen’s skill as an editor
in a recent issue of
“Observer” Olaf Ruhen
trote that “Stephensen’s assist-
mce to Xavier Herbert in the
induction of ‘Capricornia’ was
jeticulous and detailed, and
fended over a matter of
nonths.”
The fact is that “Capri-
;ornia” was edited by no one
tut myself, and I will prove
this by outlining the history of
its publication.
I wrote the first draft of the
took in London. I could have
tad it published then and there
ly Jonathon Cape (Gilchrist
Thompson was the managing
publisher at the time) had I
agreed to the cutting out of
that was considered to be
lensively Australian in it and
;ould 1 have stood any more
if that awful climate. Instead
icame home.
It is a curious fact that
ilthough “Inky” Stephensen
was going full steam as a pub-
lisher in London throughout
my stay there, I did not hear
if him till I got back to
Sydney. That goes to show
low true is the saying that one
half of the world doesn’t know
low the other half lives. I
was on the bottom of the
lottom half of the world of
London. “Inky” and I must
lave left the dreadful place
about the same time, too,
ilthough he got home well
ahead of me. He had the
advantage of the fare ; I had
to start out by walking.
When I first heard of “Inky”
lewas running the Endeavour
Press for The Bulletin. From
‘hat 1 heard, it seemed that
the Millenium had come for
Australian letters. I called on
Inky” at The Bulletin and
hid him about “Capricornia.”
He was obviously un-
dressed. Perhaps it was
hcause I had the seat out of
iy pants. “Inky” was always
‘smart dresser. He affected
fats and a bowler at that
hne. He told me to submit
»y Ms.
So dubious was I about the
"pression I had made that I
ay e the script to Colin Wills
f have him say a word for
F- Colin claimed to be in
fe with P.R.S. Having done
K I retired to the wilds of
hrrabeen to await my fate.
I rarely had the fare to
'yn. I was making a bare
dg writing short-stories for
K Campbell, of “The Aus-
tralian Journal,” and Eric
Baume, of “The Sunday Sun,”
and somehow saving a bit to
bring Sadie from Europe.
Months later I heard that
“Inky” had left Endeavour
Press to set up on his own. I
went after my script. No one
knew anything about it. Some-
one said Norman Lindsay had
it. I tracked Norman down
P. R. Stephensen will com-
ment on this article in the
next “Bulletin.”
and by sheer force of my des-
peration got him to see me.
He didn’t like me on sight, and
1 didn’t care so much for him.
They tell me I have the doubt-
ful honor of being the only
person ever to talk him down.
I left him exhausted. Any-
way, what I learned from him
enabled me to trace the MS.
to a rubbish dump and
retrieve it.
Then I called on “Inky”
again, at Stephensen’s National
Book Publishing Company,
Bond Street, Sydney. This
time he showed some interest.
However, he said he didn’t
have time to read my script.
I forget how it happened, but
he agreed to let me tell him
the story, to which end he
invited me to come to his flat
at Balmoral one Saturday
afternoon. The trouble was he
didn’t warn me that his wife,
Winifred, guarded him like a
dragon in his leisure. Again I
had to assert myself with that
strength of despair that has
several times saved me from
obliteration.
T have often heard “Inky”
boast of the stamina he
showed in hearing me tell the
story of “Capricornia” from
beginning to end. He never
seemed to think that any credit
was due to me. The job
wasn’t made easier by the fact
that he was somewhat deaf.
Winifred made several
attempts to get rid of me
throughout that famous Satur-
day, but at last admitted
defeat, made us a pot of coffee
and retired. “Inky” flaked out
as the paper-boys came round
next morning. Still the tale
was but half told, but “Inky”
was interested. He wanted to
know who done it, and ordered
me to come back after he’d
had a sleep.
I went for a bit of a sleep
myself to a house in Cremorne.
Back I went again on Sunday
evening, fought my way past
the dragon, reminded “Inky”
who I was, and settled down
for another Arabian night.
I finished the story in the
red dawn of Monday. “Inky”
said that if I wrote it as I had
told it, it would be a master-
piece, would prove an Austra-
lian classic. Although I didn’t
believe him, it was nice to hear.
He said: “Go home and write
it now.” I mentioned the
matter of keeping alive while
1 wrote. He said: “Don’t
worry about money. I’ll give
you £lO a week for life.” Ten
pounds was a lot of money in
those days. He gave me a
tenner on the spot. He hardly
kept up the weekly payments ;
but even one a month was
better than I had been getting
for my stories.
Poor as I was, I had a nice
place at Narrabeen, up on the
side of the hill, with the love-
liest of views. It even had a
Roman bath and a billiards-
table. It belonged to an old
fellow who had built it to retire
into, but abandoned it on the
death of his wife. I happened
to meet him while hunting for
a place within my very limited
means.
At the time I was dreaming
of setting up house with Sadie,
whom I had met overseas, who,
indeed, had maintained me in
a garret while I wrote that first
draft of “Capricornia.” I was
very much in love and very
lonely, and spared none of my
talent in telling that old chap
about how 1 had gone into the
House of Israel and got away
with one of its fairest daugh-
ters ; how, when I should have
my beloved by my side again,
I would take the world by
storm. Not only did he let me
have the house for next to
nothing, he assisted in the
importing of the bride.
T had asked “Inky” to visit
me at Narrabeen. I doubt
if ever he would have done so,
but for the chance one Sunday
of hiring a horse from a riding-
school in French’s Forest and
riding over that way, perhaps
at the whim of the horse.
He was delighted with my
home. To begin with, he had
passions for both views and
billiards, which he could
indulge together there. He was
also delighted with my lovely
Jewess, with whom he became
fast friends. He loved Sadie’s
Jewish cooking, took pleasure
in observing the eating rules
and the Shabbos ritual, even
kissed the mezuzah on our
door. Dear “Inky”. . . how
we loved him, our patron, our
publisher, our friend!
He took to visiting us week-
ends, to lie about, pampered
by Sadie, while he read what
I had rewritten of the novel
during the week. He began
by being uppity about my
presentation, decrying my
vulgar preference for such
words as that and till, refuting
the support I would have
claimed from W. H. Fowler
with: “You don't want to take
much notice of Fowler, boy,
he’s a Pommy, you know.”
I would have liked to remind
him that Shakespeare was a
Pommy, too, but was intimi-
dated by his being a Rhodes
Scholar and an Oxonian, which
is to say, a creature almost
fabulous to a bush-boy like
me. But then 1 discovered that
he wasn't too strong on that
loveliest of philological pheno-
mena, the fused participle. I
knew I had him. Now j flung
Fowler at him. He gave in,
saying that he wouldn’t argue
with one whose textbook on
his subject was as well-thumbed
as my “Modern English
Usage.” Subsequently he said
that such shortcomings as there
were in my work mattered
nothing in the overall quality
of it. Eventually he came to
call me maestro.
“Inky” made suggestions
here and there. 1 could
enumerate them on my fingers.
But he never put pencil to my
manuscript. He couldn’t have
even if he’d wanted to, any-
way, because I began the
revision in the middle.
Because we were in a hurry
to get it published and the first
draft began awkwardly, I
reckoned I’d work faster if I
left the first part till last. The
book began to be set up in
type as I wrote it from Chapter
XVI to Chapter XXXVI, then
from Chapter I to XV. I did
this on my own initiative. In


fact, “Inky” wanted me to
retain material in the first part
that I declared better out of
it and which I did chop out.
The only advice he gave me
that made any material altera-
tion to the book was in the
matter of elaborating the
cattle - mustering scene in
Chapter XX, which I had
intended to deal with skimpily
because 1 felt it had been over-
done in our literature. He
took no hand in the elabora-
tion, only showed delight in the
result.
PR. Stephensen never
edited me. He never
wanted to do so once he recog-
nised my talent. He published
me. But that was not how he
made me. The tremendous
thing he did was to show my
talent to me myself and to
teach me to bend the knee to
no one in respect of it. For
that I am eternally grateful.
Nor should I alone be grateful
to “Inky” Stephenson, but
every Australian writer with
pride in his work, because it
was in him our pride origin-
ated. Australian writers were
just sneaks till “Inky” stood
up and yelled for them.
“Inky” did not even prepare
“Capricornia” for printing.
That was done by Arthur W.
Dibley.
Arthur Dibley, now Pro-
grammes Director with the
A.8.C., was then, fresh out of
Sydney University, “Inky’s”
editor in the National Book
Publishing venture. I remem-
ber how “Inky” warned me
that Arthur might be inclined
to lake liberties with my
script. Thus it was that I met
Arthur for the first time with
the light of battle in my eye.
I flung my challenge of the
fused participle at him. He
met it bravely, with consum-
mate skill. We have been dear
friends ever since. Arthur
interfered in one matter only.
He rightly objected to my care-
less placing of adverbs like
only. But he left the correct-
ing to me.
That wasn't the end of pre-
paring “Capricornia” for pub-
lication, however. Just as it
was about to come out, the
National Book Publishing
Company, too ambitious a
venture to live against the
fierce opposition of those
times, folded up.
The great heap of type, two
tons of it, into which “Capri-
cornia'’ had been transmuted,
had to be melted down to meet
the demands of the brokers.
My heart was melted down
along with it. I rolled a swag
and walked out of that stinking
jungle of tycoons and twicers,
heading back to the clean
wilderness, back to Darwin. It
was a mighty long walk. But
I needed to do it to walk the
disappointment out of me. It
was one of the best things I
ever did. Thus did I gain com-
plete independence of the
chisellers who live on artists.
“Inky” never let me down.
He stayed on in the jungle and
worked till at length he had
means to have another crack
at publishing “Capricornia.”
This eventually he did through
W. J. Miles, publisher of that
redoubtable magazine of the
late ’thirties and early ’forties,
“The Publicist.”
I have to confess to submis-
sion to editorial tyranny in
respect of “The Publicist”
edition; but it wasn’t P.R.S.
who was the tyrant. Mr Miles
himself objected to one word
in the script, honest, as applied
to a gumtree to distinguish it
from such parasitic trees of the
northern bush as banyans. Mr
Miles declared that the only
things on earth that could be
justly charged with dishonesty
were human beings. I was pre-
pared to fight it out. But
“Inky” said to me on the
quiet: “Let him have it. He
only wants to show he’s boss.”
'IX/'ell, there it is. I also had
“Seven Emus” published
as I wrote it, and the same goes
for practically everything I
have written since P.R.S.
taught me pride.
That does not mean I
object to being edited. My
experimentation with style in
the case of “Soldiers’ Women”
made editing necessary. When
“Soldiers’ Women” appears it
will be seen to be dedicated
“To my beloved Patroness and
Editress, Beatrice Davis.”
Beatrice did not want that: but
1 insisted.
Everything that is edited
should bear the editor’s name
along with the author’s, since
it is, more or less, collabora-
tion. Any author who does
not want to make the acknow-
ledgement is a cheat. Likewise,
an author who does not strive
to become independent of
editorship is a hack.
Would any graphic artist
worthy of the name resign
himself to perpetual alteration
or retouching of his work for
exhibition? Of course not.
Yet in effect this is what
almost every author does in
order to be published.
Across the Alps by Elephant
By BERNARD HESLING
eading recently about a
Herr Professor following
Hannibal’s route through the
Alps reminded me of my own
attempts to get an elephant
through the Alps. Actually it
was never envisaged that I
should ride, or even lead, the
elephant (her name was Daisy).
No! The late Richard Tauber
was to lead her with a song—
my part was merely to prepare
the route.
The attempt was made dur-
ing the hot summer of 1933
and we eventually penetrated
the Alpine barrier for a dis-
tance of some 60 feet. In spite
of the record temperature there
was little danger of the snow
melting and engulfing us, for
we took the precaution of
covering the Alps with salt
instead of snow, for it was, as
you will have guessed, a film-
studio landscape. The picture,
“I Pagliacci.” The place, the
old Elstree Studios of British
International Pictures.
Opera-lovers will remember
that “I Pagliacci” deals with a
troupe of strolling players. On
the stage such players can’t
stroll far, but celluloid know-
ing no restrictions, Cannio,
Beppo, Silvio, Nedda, the Big
Top, some caravans and an
elephant are able to stroll
plenty. One night our strolling
players are parked in St Mark’s
Square, Venice, another night
they’re performing at a monas-
tery where St Bernard dogs can
be filmed. From thence it’s
over the Alps with songs,
yodels, sunsets and mountain
scenery.
The cast of “I Pagliacci”
makes no mention of Daisy,
but as a circus elephant battling
through the snow and led by
Richard Tauber singing his
head off, would obviously
knock Hollywood cold, we
rigged-up a few Alps in Studio
7B and tried to coax Daisy
over them.
Now the one animal I’ve
never had any luck with is an
elephant. Lions, tigers, even
the Metro-Goldwyn trade-
mark (senile and minus teeth
when I knew him) is quite
tractable—but an elephant,
even after a psychiatric brain-
wash, remains moody and tin-
reliable, and the only place
he'll go in a film studio with-
out being bribed with buns is
under the black velvet cloth
with the camera-man.
Daisy was a big girl and as
sensitive about her weight as
a jockey. Mind you, elephants
have to be careful. They won t
trust their weight on a gang-
plank, or walk a path with
a hollow - sounding culvert
beneath it. Our Alps were
pretty solid though, and the
road through them was hard-
wood covered with turf plus
six inches of salt. Daisy
sensed this road was a phoney
First she scooped up a trunkful
°li • S , a ,’h Sodium
chloride! and blew it at the
clapper-boy. Next, sensing a
difference in the snow on the
road and the snow on the steep
bank, she tore a strip of cotton-
woo off the latter and sneezed
it all over us.
“Now shust concentrate on
za road, Dacy!” said Herr
Tauber, at which she lifted her
big drainpipe of a foot, and
like a nymph testing the bath-
water took careful soundings,
“She's one very cute
elephant,” observed director
Gruner, watching her antics,
This, though, was before she
threw the camera at him and
returned to her dressing-room
* n apaddy. , , , ,
u°!Tu hundreds ®
f andba « s had been P acked
benea,h lhe mou " tam road '
Dals 5’ was P e ' suaded to veil-
*u,re. amon B st our 30-foot
Alpine peaks. Fall,ng sno»
worr ' ed her » bl< - tor « e
akcs (Lux. they re
flu r’ er '- ,
M' . bl * avalanche we i
d 'T' ed m Switzerland. A w
dld ln 'he studio was bury
e in 70 tons of salt and
then film them as they clawed
their way out through a
blizzard of soapflakes whirling
down in a noise like the
“commercials” for Buckley’s
Canadiol Mixture,
“What’s zat bloody elephant
doing?” bellows our director,
“Cut! Cut! Cut!....”
It was quite fantastic. I
mentioned that elephants are
unco _ o p er ative and this was a
pr j me example. Here were
ho caravan s, all
nice)y ljp to their necks in salt
— an d there was Daisy stand-
; Qn of u Had it bee n
sn of COUrsC) instead 0 f salt,
her earthquake struggles would
have sunk her deeper b ut salt
js compact stu ff. One minute
she was buried up t o her
shoulders—next, a gig ant ‘ c
heave and she rose above us
like a great balloon, or some-
one walking on water


LETTERS
Mr Renshaw for Brewarrina
1 have read with concern
i article contributed to your
[per of February 15, 1961, by
I. Wells in the section Abori-
jalities.
Having had the privilege of
presenting Brewarrina in the
istlereagh electorate since
117,1 unequivocally condemn
[{statements of the writer of
e article as malicious un-
iiths, and in so doing speak
jt only for the people of
lewarrina but for myself.
During the time I have
presented the district there
is never been any complaint
ime of the treatment of
oorigines by the local police,
lo have all been favorably
iown to me. Nor has the
induct of any businessman
i the district been under
iispicion in connection with
le sale of liquor to aborigines.
On this latter question M.
ells may be an individual
ho is not aware that the State
iovernment proposes to legis-
ts to allow aborigines access
i liquor, giving them an
pality to which they are
ititled.
If M. Wells wants to engage
e in any contest of his
pinion and information
Sainst mine, he is derelict in
sduty as a citizen if he, on
ading this reply, does not go
to the Commissioner of Police
with a statement of facts.
J. B. RENSHAW
Deputy Premier of N.S.W.
Sydney.
HERBERT AND THE
“POMMIES”
Sir,
As a visiting Pommy may I
be excused for asking who is
Xavier Herbert (“Bang Goes
My 0.8. E.,” 22/2/’61)?
Among the things which
have contributed so largely to
the pleasure and interest of
my stay here to date have
been the apparent absence of
anti-British feeling and the con-
fident, non-woolly outlook of
Australians on world affairs in
general and their own in par-
ticular.
Mr Herbert —it is not clear
whether he is, in fact, Austra-
lian, Irish, or what “went
seeking his origins in bog and
fog,” and his article smells as
if some of both were still
clinging to him. Is it really
conceivable that a conclave of
“eminent Pommies” would
plan to hamstring Australia
(whatever that means), by
choosing the title “British
Commonwealth of Nations”?
Mr Herbert reveals himself
as somewhat of a crank, per-
haps a bit soured because few
people (e.g., the then editor of
“The Times”) seem to pay
much attention to his views.
But then, what are these? All
that emerges from his article
are the sneers that the British
are “superior,” and the Aussies
(abroad anyway) unpleasant.
I say, Herbert, old boy,
hardly cricket, what?
A. V. CHADWICK
Cairns {Qld.).
Sir,
Devoid of its drollery, Mr
Xavier Herbert’s interpretation
of “Commonwealth,” to a
Pommy reads somewhat
bizarrely. Surely the junction
of “Common” with “wealth”
was not intended to connote
common politics, economics
and social customs, as he states.
It means just what it says—•
wealth common to all members,
always provided they observe
the mutually-agreed principles
of I m p e r i a 1 preference and
priority of inter-Common-
wealth trade. From this co-
operation would spring com-
mon weal.
Could it, perhaps, not be
Australia who wrongly chose
her own title? We have the
United States of America, on
whose framework ours is
modelled, the Union of South
Africa and two or more
Federations within the Com-
monwealth. Since we have a
Federal Government located in
the Canberra sanctum altissimo,
should we not more fittingly
have selected as nomenclature
either the United States of
Australia, or the Federation of
Australia? One or the other
would have been more logical
and better descriptive, surely.
Did I hear Mr Herbert’s
affronted gasp: “What, two
U.S.A.’s? Impossible!”
One may be forgiven for
suggesting that the alternative
of working his passage back to
Australia by sea would have
been more practicable than
“Now, just you listen to me !”
cycling some 10,000 miles,
though possibly less glamorous
or adventurous. All in all, I
accord him a measure of
appreciation for his drollery,
but one reacts to the final line
with, perhaps, a feeling of
multum in parvo. It could, of
course, be that a mere Pommy
is prejudiced, just as Mr
Herbert exhibits an anti-
Pommy bias.
J. LOMAS
Bargara ( Qld .).
SWEET AND SOUR
Sir,
Oldtimers who took in th«
White Australia Policy with
their mother’s milk will be
charmed that our young can
now take it in with their choco-
lates. In a world in which the
policy, though touchingly
quaint as a concept, is an em-
barrassment of our national
image and a gratuitous insult
to neighbors, the firm of
Mastercraft has brilliantly con-
trived a halfpenny sweet, cut
out of white chocolate in the
shape of Australia, and sold as
“White Australias.”
Asian and African visitors,
though celebrated for their
sweet teeth, might find this a
sour one to swallow. On the
other hand it might be a satis-
faction. If you can’t beat it
—eat it!
HUGH ATKINSON
Sydney.
“HATS ON” FOR
BRADMAN
Sir,
Reading Lindsey Browne’s
eulogy of Bradman (B.
22/2/’6l) one might gather
that he was cordially disliked
by fellow-players. This was
not so: he was not loved by
them, but was respected.
As a batsman Bradman stood
alone ; he was in the same class
in cricket as Walter Lindrum
was in billiards. It is unlikely
that his record will ever be
equalled. What is often over-
looked is that he made his runs
faster than most of the recog-
nised hitters. No other bats-
man in Test cricket hit up on
the same day a century before
lunch, another between lunch
and tea and yet another be-
tween tea and stumps. It is
pretty safe to say this feat will
never be equalled.
But if Lindsey Browne’s idol
had not feet of clay he had,
say, a toe or two of that
material. As a selector Sir


start the day right!
'-S
EHO- fc “
The
NORTHERN LIFE
Assurance Company of Australia Limited
( Incorporated, in Canberra, Australia)
All Classes of Ordinary Life Assurance,
Superannuation and Annuity Policies Issued
HEAD OFFICE: 15 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone BL 5601 K. J. Hedley, General Manager
Donald is pretty wide open to
criticism. Mr Browne is no
more than faintly hopeful that
Kline will get wickets in Eng-
land. Probably he will account
for a number of the rabbits
with which the counties
abound ; but I shall be sur-
prised if he has success in the
Tests —if he gets into them.
Looking back at Bradman as
selector there was the choice
of Mervyn Waite for the 1938
side for England ; the prefer-
ence of Ward over Clarrie
Grimmett, and the selection of
Hamence when he was well
over the hill. These three were
fellow South Australians. Then
there was the dropping of Vic
Richardson when still a fine
player.
Hats off to Sir Donald Brad-
man as batsman, fielder and
captain. Keep them on when
he is mentioned as a dominat-
ing selector.
G. L. BURGOYNE
McMahon s Point ( N.S.W. ).
“THE STORMS OF
SUMMER”
Sir,
I write in protest against
Nancy Keesing's review of
John Iggulden’s “The Storms
of Summer.” The description
of the novel as “a peculiar
hotchpotch” could well be
applied to Nancy Keesing's
own review.
In this the writer begins by
asserting the novel to be “an
extremely poor novel overall”
and ends by describing it as
“an indifferent book.” Are
these evaluations synonymous?
Or did Nancy Keesing re-
consider her estimate in the
course of an apparently hasty
review?
Miss Keesing gives a skimpy
version of the plot with no
reference to the very topical
problem raised —the problem
of ultimate loyalty of the
mediator. The reviewer com-
pletely ignores the very fine
passages of description—Des-
borough’s entry at the dance-
hall for one—the sensitive
delineation of personal rela-
tionships and behavior; the
changing shades of affection
between Charles and Tanie ;
and the impulse that forces
Charles to seek out the mother
of the lad he murdered.
Instead of any pros such as
these, Miss Keesing gives a
detailed outline of one of the
weaker passages in the book.
Even this is clinched with the
bewildering assertion that
Frankie the fisherman could
have told Charles the university
student “more about the nature
of the university than he under-
stood himself” a common
topic of conversation in a
household of 16 - hour - a - day
fishermen, no doubt.
The novel is by no means
free from fault, but I believe
its merits outweigh the faults
quite decidedly. John Iggulden
rushes his hurdles, thereby
robbing his work of tension
and conviction at critical
moments —an obvious example
is Charles’s adoption of the role
of mediator.
Relevancy is another point
on which the novelist might
be challenged. The chapters
devoted to the visit of
Charles’s university friends are
a case in point.
Conceding these faults,
Iggulden’s descriptive passages,
his talent as a storyteller and
his fusion of a problem of
existence with his story mark
him as considerably more than
a writer of “an extremely poor
novel.”
Francis Kavanagh
Geelong (Vic.).
SIR JOHN ECCLES
PROTESTS
Sir,
I have been instructed by
the council of the Academy to
refer to the article on Profes-
sor Oliphant (B. 25/1/’6l). It
is stated that in 1954 Professor
Messel’s name was withdrawn
from the list of candidates for
election to the Australian
Academy of Science.
This is completely false.
The rules for election to the
Academy are contained in the
by-laws which were laid down
at its foundation and have been
observed meticulously in the
case of every candidate who
has been proposed for election.
They are printed in fuli in each
Academy year book.
JOHN ECCLES
Australian Academy of
Science,
Canberra.
THAT SUBJUNCTIVE
Sir,
Your Red Page review,
“Memoirs of William Hickey,”
was a nice piece of work, but
how about using the subjunc-
tive for a change? “He wished
that he was a man” is mon-
strous.
PATRICK ARTHUR HILL
Hobart.
[Not monstrous but correct. See
“Fowler.” —Ed.]
COMMONWEALTH
DEFENCE
Sir,
“Britain Turns East” (B.
l/3/’6l) needs a postscript to
deal with a top-level problem
of Commonwealth relations.
The U.K. Defence White
Paper not only forecasts an
increase in British Naval
strength in the Far East but
also a reduction in her land
forces there and unified com-
mands for the Near East,
Middle East and Far East.
What The Bulletin article
describes as “the arrangements
for placing the new co-
ordination in defence on this
side of the world on a matured
working basis, and for integrat-
ing Australia into them” pre-
sumably covers the term “uni-
fied command” and in terms of
human beings the vexed
question of choice of a
Supreme Commander.
Usually the nation providing
most of the forces in the
theatre of operations provides
the Supreme Commander.
Hence Lord Mountbatten as
“Supremo” in S.E. Asia during
the last war. But political con-
siderations sometimes dictate 1
otherwise. Although Britain, j!
Australia and New Zealand 1
have equal parts to play in an 1
overall plan of the Western
Alliance to resist Communist I
aggression, the facts of geo-1
graphy make Australia’s indi- f
vidual stake a vital one.
Even if Australia and New
Zealand increase their contri-
butions of land forces to the
Commonwealth Far East
Strategic Reserve, and even if
H.M.A.S. Sydney is commis-
sioned as a commando carrier,
it will be some time before their
combined total of land, sea and
air forces exceed those of
Britain actually in the area of
operations.
Australia’s claim is strength-
ened by the size of the rein-
forcements in Australia, pro-
vided the command structure
of Australia —both political and
military—is conditioned to en-
sure their prompt arrival.
But whether Australia or
Britain provides the Supreme
Commander, neither Govern-
ment is likely to surrender
supreme control of its forces
to the other. Although the
fighting services are condition-
ing and streamlining their
command structure to meet the
peculiarities of the “cold war,”
demanding quick reactions and
prompt decisions, it is in the
political control of such forces
that the risk of indecision lies.
This is a calculated risk made
in the interests of retaining ali
the trappings of democratic
government, but is it justified
if it is dictated mainly by
national pride, or even in-
sularity, having regard to what
is ultimately at stake?
CRASTER C. M. USHER
Hornsby (7V.5.1E.).
CHILDREN AND THEIR
SCHOOLS
Sir,
I was glad to see the article
“Children Bear the Brunt” (B.
22/2/’6l). The bureaucracy
of the Victorian Education
Department has been going on
for some years and is now
spreading, worse luck, to Tas-
mania.
A grandson wanted to go to
the same Victorian high-school
as his sister. No, he couldnt.
Result —he can’t matriculate
from his school and has to go
for his last year to the school
he wanted first. To be up-
rooted in the last year is
senseless.
Another grandson, also Vic-
torian, was not allowed to


Divorce Notice
[N THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO LEONARD BRUCE BETHKE late
of Dover Heights.—TAKE NOTICE
that NORMA JOAN BETHKE has filed
a petition for divorce Number 620 of
1961 on the ground of desertion If
you wish to defend you may file an
answer at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney by the 22nd day of May 1961
and obtain a copy of the petition and
notice of petition without charge from
Messrs. ADRIAN TWIGG & CO., Solici-
tors, of Number 160 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OT
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Number 473 of 1960.
Matrimonial Causes.
TO WILLIAM ALAN KELLY formerly
of Mosman Park Western Australia.—
TAKE NOTICE that your wife KATHB
KELLY has commenced proceeding*
against you in the Supreme Court of
Western Australia for Dissolution of
Marriage on the ground of desertion for
a continuous period of three years or
more IF you desire to defend such
proceedings you must file a Statement
of Defence in the Central Office of the
Supreme Court at Perth within FORTY
clear days from the date of this pub-
lication. In default of your so doing
the ease may proceed and the Court
will pronounce Judgment and maka
orders against you in your absence.
DATED this 27th day of February 1961.
—G. J. BOYLSON, Registrar.
FRED CURRAN & FERRIER, Forest
Place, Perth, Western Australia, Solici-
tors for the Plaintiff.
Matrimonial Causes Act, 1959.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
TO RAYMOND EUGENE THOMAS
BAPTISTE formerly of 6 West Avenue,
Darlinghurst.—TAKE NOTICE that
VALERIE MAY BAPTISTE has filed a
Petition for divorce No. 568 of 1961
on the ground of separation for 5 yean
If you wish to defend you may enter an
answer in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Mint Building Mac-
quarie Street Sydney by the seventeenth
day of April 1961 and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from
HUNT & HUNT, Solicitors, 15 Bligh
Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO HAROLD ARTHUR WILLIAMS late
of Paddington.—TAKE NOTICE that
JUDITH ANNE WILLIAMS has filed
a petition for divorce Number 506 of
1961 on the ground of desertion for
three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court Mint
Building Macquarie Street Sydney by
the 22nd day of May 1961 and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge
from Messrs. ADRIAN TWIGG & CO.,
Solicitors, of Number 160, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept., NEW SUB. / RENEWAL
The Bulletin Newspaper, (Pj ease cross out one)
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please find enclosed my cheque / money-order for
months’ subscription to The Bulletin.
RECIPIENT:
ADDRESS:
DONOR:..
ADDRESS:
Rates (A/asia): 1 year— £2 125.; \ year—£l 6s. Post
free. British C’wealth: £3 3s. 6d. Foreign: £3 16s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight— Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British C’wealth: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and appty whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to '‘The Bulletin ’ or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
attend the same school as his
ider brother. Immediate result
jjis summer (his first term) is
, cross, parboiled little boy
judging a 20-minute walk
joine from school —whereas
|js brother arrives cool and
fleeted by bus in eight
ninutes from his school. It is
ibviously better in most cases
iot to split families up, but
[is certainly cruel to tear a
hild from a school where he
s happy and has his friends.
Departments should start re-
oning before the schools get
jo crowded. Present pupils
,nd their families should be
liven a choice. Are our Edu-
ation Departments inhuman
ir merely stupid? I thought
ley boasted of their modern
jsychological approach to
mpils. Have they forgotten
hat they couldn’t function at
ill if it were not for the tax-
layers who are the parents?
J. M. EDWARDS
her stone ( Tas .).
THE FARMER’S LOT
iir,
“Does the Australian Farmer
rcrk too hard?” (B. l/2/’6l).
[would suggest he is miscast
[or the role if that is so.
A farmer works to the
pattern of the seasons, the
leather or climate, not by the
tlock. Usually he lives on the
job so he has every oppor-
tunity to work long hours.
But he is a free man, and, if
a good manager, no present-
ly farmer needs to work like
ji slave, as in the days of his
jrandfather when milking was
lone by hand and ploughing
ky horses.
Admittedly, some men start
heir working lives overloaded
ky debt. This applies equally
in any calling. If the heir likes
he life that goes with his in-
stance he accepts the burden
Mil it becomes too much for
kim or until he overcomes it.
Granted an average start,
•here is no reason why a
Modern farmer should find
kirnself any more overworked
(id underprivileged than a man
1 any other job, business or
rofession..
j K. E. C. Graves’s concern
femed to be that the Austra-
»n farmer works so hard he
•as no time or energy for
Creation or to acquire so-
failed cultural hobbies and in-
vests for his retirement.
In any wide circle of farming
/lends throughout the Com-
fionwealth, I have always
pund farmers among district
wicket, football, tennis and
bowls players. The more am-
bitious enjoy motor and/or
horse racing—as owners and
onlookers. The more con-
tented have the usual cross-
section of hobbies common to
any community. Some make
music, some dabble with the
visual arts, some read, some
write.
A. S. THOMAS
Devonport ( Tas .).
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered jor publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
J.H.C.: “The Bull” is at least
graphic.... W.G.: Bring in
....C.L.: Rude.., .D. 8.: Falls flat.
. ...8.8.W.: Some good lines in
the last stanza of “The Broken
Stillness” M.F.: Involved ideas
not clearly expressed... .M.J.S.:
“The Old Jetty” had some feeling.
B.R.: No likee “Shinto Song.”
. ...A.P.C.: Two lines from “A
Protest”:
A mother is often a wife who’s
had children;
It’s not always the case, but it’s
rife.
. ...T.A.W.: Nothing new to say
there E.C.H.: A dainty little
thing if you hadn’t rhymed "gauze”
and “straws”... .F.A.: Be content
with the original... .8.M.: Pleasant
enough, but has little to say....
G. : “Bindoo Blacks” is quite a
good ballad, but we couldn’t cope
with it at that length... .G.J.L.:
Dark was the night:
PARTY’S OVER
I wormed my way over the sea
With acorns floating there beside
me
To win a fly of chastity’s mirth
Frought with fools and farce
—As I held up my pink little glass.
J.W.B.: Passed on to cross-
word expert... .C.8.N.: More like
an instalment of a serial than a
short story.... A.W.: Missile a
success. Will return... .K.L.: Try
it on an advertising agency....
H. : Not quite. Would like to
see some others... .S.E.: “Trees”
lopped... .T.F.L.: “He fixed her
with an icy stare . . .” Antiques
fixed elsewhere... .P.M.: Can’t fit
all of it in, but suggest a little
cutting would do no harm
W.P.: “Lady Loverley’s Chatter”
has already been published....
C.N.: Draw the curtains on “the
shades of night"... .L.L.: Two
inspiring lines:—
He clasped her to his heaving
breast—
Then kissed her, as you might have
guessed
....Snowy: It would be a pity to
dam y0u....C.L.: Agree with you
about the kookaburra... .H.W.G.:
Let’s see some more... .G.M.P.:,
A thought:
If. in school you cannot cope
Give the would-be bodgie dope
. ...E.G.: Sing:
THE MOP
Daily task how often
Such menial work must be
To stand limp wet and worn
Like a beast of burden in a storm
In a corner gulping a little sun
That monotony has won
Envying the flight
Of birds and flies
They have all the skies
While I in this corner
Surmise if the sunlight has killed
Bacteria to my being willed
Planets whirl in heavens
And fallen sparrows are recognised.
Then perhaps my sighs
Perhaps the mop the sop is heard
On equal footing with small bird!
I slice ham
1 slice ham.
Not lamb, not spam,
But spicy pink ham.
“Not fat! Just lean!”
The customers scream.
My job ain’t glam
I just slice ham.
I have a machine
All chrome and agleaffl,
And a whirling blade,
And a weighing-machin*.
No flies, no dust,
No maggots, no rust,
No time to yap,
No time to nap,
No need to cram
For any exam.
My job ain’t glam
I just slice ham.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Bank of Adelaide
The “baby” of the Australian trading
banks family, the Bank of Adelaide,
was incorporated by a special Act of
Parliament in December, 1865. Activity
is concentrated mainly in South Aus-
tralia. The Bank is closely connected
with the growth of primary and second-
ary industries in the State. A 40 p.c. inter-
est is held in Finance Corporation of Aus-
tralia Ltd, the Adelaide-based hire-
purchase financier with interstate affilia-
tion, which pays an annual 10 p.c. div.-
cheque.
Last year a severe drought occurred in
South Australia. Coupled with the steady
growth of the State’s economy, this led
to a strong demand for overdraft accom-
modation. The Bank’s credit resources
were subjected to “an intensive utilisa-
tion.” Advances expanded from £19.2
million to almost £24 million.
“It has been the paramount considera-
tion of the Bank to provide to the utmost
for the reasonable requirements of its
rural customers arising from the drought.
... At the same time, the lifting of import
restrictions has added to the seemingly
insatiable financial demands of an ex-
panding economy. In common with the
whole banking system we have ex-
perienced a severe strain on our liquidity,
and it appears inevitable that the Bank
will have to further continue a restricted
lending policy.”
On top of this came the Government’s
boom-pricking measures and the Reserve
Bank’s credit slashing aimed at achieving
the “rock-bottom” level of bank advances
by the end of this month.
Canberra’s light-money policy, supple-
mented by the touch-and-go increase in
sales tax on motor vehicles, and the
Reserve Bank’s pressure on advances
have succeeded in producing a strong,
if temporary, deflationary impact. So
much so, that it was thought wise to cut
the sales tax on cars back to 30 p.c.
The trouble is that this shock-treatment,
undoubtedly effective and spectacular,
does not offer any real solution of the
pressing long-run problems of constant
cost rises, foreign trade deficit and
adverse movements in the terms of trade.
Ruling out devaluation, it is hard to see
how the situation can be remedied with-
out recourse to some degree of selective
import control.
The small rise in last term’s net profit
was “not commensurate with the increase
in advances.” This was due “not only
to a steep rise in operating costs, but also
to Central Bank policy which limits
Bank’s profits.”
Disclosed net earnings for the year
ended September 30, 1960, edged-up by
£3744 to £212,212 after making an
unstated tax provision:
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1949.. 101,675 8 p.c. =lOO,OOO 1,675 1,313,944
lhso .. 104,678 8 „ ~100,000 4,678 1,318,622
1951.. 108,008 8 „ ~100,000 8,008 1,326,630
1952 .. 110,344 8 „ ~100,000 10,344 1,336,974
1953 . . 124,974 9 „ ~112,500 12,474 1,349,447
Written-off premises, etc., £30,000 .. 1,319,447
Share premiums, £187,500 .. •• 1,506,947
1954 . . 163,859 10 p.c. =137,500 26,359 1,533,308
From contingency reserve, £250,000 1,783,306
1955 .. 219,044 10 'p.c. =175,000 44,044 1,827,350
1956.. 214,895 10 „ ~175,000 39,895 1,867,245
1957 . . 212,698 10 ~ ~175,000 37,698 1,904,943
1958.. 211,806 10 „ ~175,000 36,806 1,941,749
1959.. 208,468 10 „ ~175,000 33,468 1,975,217
1960 . . 212,212 10 „ ~175,000 37,212 2,012,429
This was equivalent to an earning-rate
of 12.1 p.c. on the unchanged one-class
paid capital, compared with 11.9 p.c. in
the previous term, 12.1 p.c. in 1958 and
12.2 p.c. in 1957.
The steady 10 p.c. div.-rate absorbed
£175,000. Reserves benefited by £37,212
and were disclosed at £2,012,429.
The balance-sheet at September 30,
1960, indicates the strain to which the
Bank’s resources were subjected.
Advances, loans and bills discounted
(after deducting provisions) rose by
£4,709,680 to £23,974,084, representing
67.5 p.c. of deposits (50.3 p.c. a year ago).
Liquid assets dwindled from £22,258,341
to £17,526,300 or 49.3 p.c. of deposits,
compared with 58.2 p.c. in 1959:
1958 1959. 1960.
Paid capital .. £1,750,000 £1,750,000 £1,750,000
Reserves . . 1,850,000 1,850,000 1,850,000
P. & I. balance 91,749 125,217 162,429
Final divs. . . 87,500 87,500 87,500
Deposits, bills
payable, pro-
visions for
contingencies 36,435,611 38,269,598 35,515,291
Notes in circu-
lation . . 6,489 6,489 6,489
Owing to other
banks . . 1,164,342 1,806,463 4,813,140
£41,385,691 £43,895,267 £44,184,849
Cash .. .. 2,980,085 2,107,110 1,620,111
Money at short
call . . . . 2,306,250 1,785,000 862,500
Treasury bills 1,500,000
Government
bonds . . 4,373,165 5,982,675 4,112,762
Statutory deposit
with Common-
wealth Bank 5,468,000 5,068,000 5,407,000
Owing by other
banks . . 2,029,344 2,979,231 1,983,329
Bills receivable 3,167,149 4,336,325 3,540,598
Liquid assets £21,823,993 £22,258,341 £17,526,300
bills discounted 17,510,517 19,264,404 23,974,084
Premises and
fittings .. 1,287,139 1,410,978 1,607,705
Other assets .. 764,042 961,544 1,076,760
£41,385,691 £43,895,267 £44,184,849
Advances as p.e.
of deposits.. 48.0 50.3 67.5
Liquid assets as
p.c. of deposits 59.9 58.2 49.3
Statutory deposits with the Reserve Bank
were slightly higher. Cash and money at
call decreased. Deposits were £2,754,307
lower at £38,269,598. Borrowings from
other banks rose sharply to ease the
strain on the Bank’s own credit facilities.
This summer has been the driest and
longest in South Australia for many
years. But the pastoral outlook in all
the settled areas remains promising,
although the far north of the State is
very dry. Stock is in good condition.
Industrial employment continues at a
high level. Fruit and vegetable canneries
are busy. Retail turnover is satisfactory.
The Government’s fiscal policy makes
forecasts about the credit situation
hazardous at this stage. There have been
vague indications of easier lending in
June. There was also a pretty direct
warning that things may get worse before
they get better.
The trading banks also face a deeper
problem, which is the rapid growth of
various extra-banking credit institutions
operating on public borrowings raised
at high interest rates. The usefulness
of h.-p. and finance cos. (in which the
banks themselves have substantial hold-
ings) in meeting specialised needs is not
disputed. But it is undesirable that tradi-
tional bank-lending on overdraft at a
uniform rate should be pushed off further
from the economic scene. Another point
is that active competition for public funds
pushes up interest rates and aggravates
inflationary trends.
The recent rise in bank interest rates,
and the newly decreed non-deductibility
of interest on borrowings taxwise (unfor-
tunately, not selective), improves the
trading banks’ competitive position a bit.
At the last sale in Sydney the scrip
looked attractive at 395. 9d. for each
20s. ord. unit. The immediate yield from
this safe and sound stock is 5 p.c. on
the basis of the steady 10 p.c. div.-rate.
Net tangible asset-backing works out
at 435. for each 20s. ord. unit.
Olympic Consolidated Industries Ltd
/Competitive jostling in the motor-tyre
industry grows more marked as the
newly established B. F. Goodrich Aus-
tralia Pty (formed by the International
B. F. Goodrich Co. of U.S.A. and Ampol
Petroleum, of Australia) gets under way,
and as Hardie Rubber Co. Ltd, asserting
new-found strength (Hardie Rubber was
taken-over by H. C. Sleigh Ltd, in Decem-
ber, 1959), bids for a bigger slice of the
market.
Tyre sales have increased steadily in
Australia in recent years, but at a rate
considerably below that necessary to
enable full utilisation of installed plant
capacity. Even before Goodrich’s arrival
the Australian motor - tyre industry
operated at less than 90 p.c. maximum
capacity. The situation is aggravated now
by cessation of import controls (February,
1959), increased competition, and rivalry
on Asian and African markets, especially
Japanese rivalry. Tyres previously shipped
abroad must now be sold in Australia.
Olympic Consolidated Industries Ltd,
as one of the five major tyre-manufac-
turers in Australia, has found diversifica-
tion a stabilising factor, even though the
group produces over one-quarter of all
tyres sold in Australia.
The Olympic team comprises:
Olympic Tyre and Rubber Co. Pty—manu-
facturer and marketer of all types of tyres,
tyre-retreading materials and plant and batteries
for automotive and other purposes; factories
at Footscray (Vic.) and Geebung (Q.).
Olympic Cables Pty—manufacturer of many
hundreds of types of cable for commercial,
industrial and domestic purposes; factories at
Tottenham (Vic.) and Geebung (Q.).
Olympic General Products Pty— manufacturer
and marketer of rubber and plastic products,
including floor-tiles, transmission- and conveyor-
belting, plastic tubing and footwear-soling
material; factory at Footscray (Vic.).
JJeaurepaire Tyre Service Pty—operates a
nation-wide chain of more than 75 service-
stations and retreading factories in Victoria-
N.S.W., Queensland, S.A-, W.A- and the A CT
Explastics Industries Pty—marketer 01


Davis, Rothwell & Co.
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange )
193 Summer St., 48 Fitzmauriee St.,
Orange 4054. Wagga 2436.
117 Pitt St., Sydney. PL 1855 (3 lines)
Telegraphic and Cable Address:
“BETEP,” Sydney.
A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Fife Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 313761
(4 Lines)
P.O. Box
No. 1887 W
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
R. H. ALLEN, M. R. L, DOWLING,
P. R. LEVY, A. P. REYNOLDS, N. R.
COURSE (Melbourne Resident Partner).
Delfln House, 16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
25-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Building, 150 Queen St.,
Melbourne. 67-5957 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables: “Rosdale,” Sydney.
Melbourne, or Wollongong.
Telegraphic and Cable Address:
“Hatmax” Sydney.
Hattersley & Maxwell
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone: B\V 1771—BVV 8088.
khjkhj
thermal insulation materials, Onazote and
Isolite, produced in the Olympic General
products factory.
Last year Olympic continued vigorous
txploration and development of markets,
,t the same time modernising and ex-
panding existing plant and machinery.
Activities were extended to include addi-
tional products, amongst others “an
extensive range of batteries for auto-
motive, tractor, home lighting and other
purposes”; acquisition of various busi-
nesses including A. C. Saxton and Sons
pty, N.S.W., and Watson Bros. Pty, W.A.,
now set up as Explastics Industries Pty
distributors (consideration involving
issue of 122,100 ss. ords. at a substantial
premium); and agreement with Dunlop
Rubber Australia Ltd and Ralph McKay
Ltd, to manufacture truck-type wheels
-manufacture to commence shortly—
under the auspices of Wheel and Rims
Australia Pty, the three contributing cos.
each holding a one-third share-interest in
the venture.
Latest results tend to reflect the adverse
conditions prevailing throughout most of
last term —the higher cost of raw
materials (the price of raw rubber in-
creased upwards of 24 p.c.), the build-up
in labor costs, and the intense degree of
competition (both at wholesale and retail
levels) encountered. Decreased profit
margins were offset to a large extent,
[however, by increased turnover, all sub-
sidiaries (including Olympic Tyre and
Rubber Co. Pty) contributing improved
sales. Unfortunately figures are not re-
vealed. Retail-outlets (Beaurepaire Tyre
Service Pty) were widened, reflecting a
growing disposition towards tied-retailer
outlets in the tyre game. On the other
hand “some export business, mainly in
tyres, has been cultivated and oppor-
tunities overseas are continually being
explored, but Australia’s basic costs do
not enable us at present to compete with
complete success against overseas manu-
facturers.”
As a result group net profit, com-
pounding of these various factors, though
somewhat lower, was still creditable. At
£1,134,938 (down £73,958 or 6.1 p.c.) it
was reckoned after setting aside £805,065
(op £12,998) for taxation, £726,403 (up
©,823) for depreciation and £275,358
( U P £140,358) for interest debit on regis-
tered unsecured notes:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
, Dividends To Re- Re-
Juiie, Profit. Pref. , Ord. •, serves. serves.*
6 p.c.
£ £ p.c. £ £ £
'L1,140,736 83,232 9 = 579.018 478,486 578,761
Tax overprovided, £6136 .. .. 584,897
Profit sale assets, £14,901 .. .. 599,798
{ Added intangibles, £1,5,411 .. ... 584,387
'7.1,035,281 97,385 9 = 579,018 358,878 943,265
Tax overprovided, £7922 .. .. 951,187
I Loss sale assets, £7433 .. .. 943,754
I Ex provision for possible fluctuations
in stock values, £900,000 .. .. 1,843,754
| Less added intangibles, £40,531 • • 1,803,223
'B-1,1G2,413 99,208 9 = 579,018 484,187 2,287,410
Tax overprovided, £7587 .. .. 2,294,997
Profit sale assets, £12,406 .. ..2,307,403
Share premiums, £21,000 . . . . 2,328,403
Less added intangibles, £51,334 .. 2,277,069
'LI, 208,896 99,208 9 = 582,798 526,890 2,803,959
Tax overprovided, £1603 . . 2,805,562
Profit sale assets, £1653 . ..2,807,215
Share premiums, £29,213 . . . . 2,836,428
Revaluation freeholds, £1,749,353 ..4,585,781
Intangibles, w/off, £1,643,340 ..2,942,441
Reduction intangibles, £1,643,340 ..4,585,781
Unexplained reduction, £66,626 . . 4,519,155
’LI, 134,938 99,208 9 = 588,071 447,659 4,966,814
Reserves, plus provision for contingencies inelud-
lng long-service leave.
lowing for the 6 p.c. prefs., earnings
present 15.9 p.c. on paid capital as
against 17.1, 16.5, 14.6, 16.4 and 21 p.c.
back to 1955. The ord. div., steady at
9 p.c., took £588,071. Reserves, benefiting
undistributed profits, £447,659 (39.4 p.c.
of total profits), surpluses, etc. (see profit
table), rose £519,515 to £4,696,780. In-
tangibles, £1,643,340 at June 30, 1959,
were eliminated by set-off against re-
valuation reserve —freehold land and
buildings were revalued, a conservative
estimate adding £1,749,353 to book value.
High levels of capital-expenditure were
maintained during the term —investment
in fixed assets over the past four years,
including latest revaluation, aggregating
more than £8 million. The latest balance-
sheet shows freeholds up £2,449,444 at
£5,943,840 (at cost or revaluation, 1960);
plant up £487,821 at £3,425,920 (at cost
less depreciation). And replacement value
of fixed assets can still be assumed to be
much greater than that shown in the
books.
A larger turnover, plus expansion,
boosted creditors (up £738,210 at
£2,978,940) while stock and debtors, for
the same reason, rose £530,038
(£8,390,932) and £348,989 (£4,117,793)
respectively. Bank overdraft, however,
was reduced (down £447,920 at £718,698),
and deposits, too (down £584,822 at
£563,494). In July, 1959, Olympic issued
£2,000,000 7p.c. registered unsecured
notes. Theoretical working capital, at
close of the accounts, was much increased
(up £1,178,024 at £6,836,042), conclusive
measure of the group’s strength and
financial fibre:
Consolidate® Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1958. 1959. 1960.
.. £1,653,467 £1,653,467 £1,653,467
or d- • • 6,433,529 6,475,529 6,506,054
Reserves* .. 3,609,382 4,177,265 4,696,780
Prov. contingen-
cies, including
long - service
le ave .. 270,034 270,034 270,034
Minority
interest .. 19,225
Registered notes 1,500,000 1,500,000 3,423,400
Mortgage . . 36,057 73,763 84,680
Overdraft .. 423,221 1,166,618 718,698
Creditorsf .. 1,867,140 2,240,730 2,978,940
Deposits .. 315,175 1,148,316 563,494
Tax prov. . . 820,708 818,079 809,198
Final div. . . 330,846 332,736 337,841
£17,278,784 £19,856,537 £22,042,586
Freeholds .. 2,709,090 3,504,396 5,953,840
Leaseholds .. 69,960 74,283 83,684
Plant, etc. .. 2,469,052 2,938,099 3,425,920
Investments .. 11,111 61,888 64,895
Debtors .. 3,332,992 3,768,804 4,117,793
Stock .. .. 7,089,186 7,860,894 8,390,932
Cash . . .. 5,387 4,833 5,522
Intangibles .. 1,592,006 1,643,340
£17,278,784 £19,856,537 £22,042,586
* The 1958 figure includes £750,000 from provision
contingencies, etc., and £900,000 previously de-
ducted from stock-provision for possible fluctua-
tion in stock values.
f Includes deposits until and including 1957.
Mr lan F. Beaurepaire, chairman of
Olympic, summing up in his annual
report, says, “I am confident that we can
agree that the future of the Olympic
group of companies appears bright. The
magnitude of our operations, which has
doubled and redoubled in the past decade,
continues to increase.” Be that as it may,
some restraint is necessary in assessing
performance and individual prospects in
the Australian rubber industry. And
Olympic is presently effecting a one-for-
ten par issue of 2,635,588 ss. ords. —
books closed Feb. 2, 1961 ; applications
are payable in full March 10, 1961. Short
of a super-powered sales programme,
increased capitalisation may mean in-
creased idle capacity at least in the short-
to-medium term, apart, of course, from


product diversification. The co. is under
contract to the P.M.G. Department to
supply, per medium of Olympic Cables
Pty, almost all of the £3-miflion coaxial
cable required for the planned telecom-
munication link between Sydney and
Melbourne.
Apart from 1,500,000 6 p.c. prefs.
issued at par in 1955-56, and with the
exception of 168,000 ss. ords. granted
vendors of an acquired business in
January, 1959, and last term’s premium
issue, again consideration regarding
acquisition of businesses, there have been,
until now, no other share-issues since
the co.'s formation in 1953, when
Olympic Consolidated Industries, as a
newly formed holding co., exchanged
scrip with shareholders ot the then
20-year-old Olympic Tyre and Rubber
Co. on a two-for-one basis.
The present issue presents investors an
opportune time to subscribe the Olympic
register. But immediate benefits should
not be expected. With competition
gathering force, price-wise and service-
wise, it is difficult to forecast any better-
ing of last term's performance in the
current year.
Meantime the ss. ords., ex rights, sell-
ing around 7s. 7d. return an immediate
yield of 5.9 p.c. Rights are attractive at
2s. 2d. Net tangible asset backing is
satisfactory—the ords. at balance-date,
Bs. 7d. ; the 20s. prefs., £7 15s. 6d. The
prefs. were last traded at 18s. to return
a guaranteed 6.7 p.c.
Eric Anderson (Consolidated) Ltd
The Sydney-based electrical and TV
retailer, and hire-purchase financier
has announced an issue of 1,006,858 ss.
ords., two-for-thirteen at par, payable in
full on application by April 4, 1961.
Books closed on March 3. Holders of
ordinary and deferred shares par-
ticipated. The issue will raise paid capital
to £1,850,564 in 5,927,785 ss. ords.,
946,472 deferred ss. ords. and 528,000
7 p.c. cum. pref. ss. ords.
Eric Anderson (Consolidated) Ltd was
incorporated in N.S.W. in March, 1959,
to merge the electrical - retailer busi-
ness of Eric Anderson Radio-Television
Pty with Mutual Credits Ltd (a Sydney
finance-co.). The group operates 37 stores
and branches in Sydney and suburbs,
Wollongong (N.S.W.), Canberra, Bris-
bane, Ipswich and Toowoomba (both Q.).
Two more stores are to be opened at
Newcastle and Sutherland in N.S.W.
during the current term.
The consumer-goods sector traded
under boom conditions most of the last
financial year. Eric Anderson stepped-up
its turnover and engaged in considerable
business expansion. “This involved the
co. in substantial development costs and
establishment expenses, all of which have
been written-off against the year’s
profits.”
TV sales no longer ride the
crest of the earlier boom-waves, but the
co. is running a profitable TV repair and
maintenance service with the aid of
specially equipped radio-controlled ser-
vice vans. H.-p. outstandings rose from
£3,049,673 at June 30, 1959, to £4,248,943
at the last balance-date. The subsidiary
Mutual Credits Ltd increased its business
in Queensland. Costs continued to rise.
Consolidated net profit for the year
ended June 30, 1960, was £12,122 lower
at £192,497, after providing £24,733 for
depreciation (up £9826) and setting-aside
£192,497 for taxation (up £71,015):
Eric Anderson (Consolidated) Ltd, and
Suusidiauies.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. , ——Dividends- s serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
Share-premiums, £4275 . . • • 4,275
Pre-acquisition reserves, £533,857 .. 538,132
Less pre-acquisition divs., £65,041 . . 473,091
1959.. 204,619* 3Jfp.e; = 33,392 171,227 644,318
Less excess cost over par, shares sub-
sidiaries, £487,984 .. .. .. 156,334
Share-premiums, £77,402 .. .. 233,736
Increase capital reserve, £25,450 .. 259,186
Pre-acquisition reserves, £26,061 . . . 285,24/
Unexplained additions, £24,000 . . 309,247
, Dividends x
Pret. Ord.
7 p.c.
£ £ £ £ £
1960. .192,497 781 12-1 p.c. = 148,999 42,717 351,964
Less increased excess cost over par,
shares' 'subsidiaries, £142,618 _ .. 209,346
* Includes pre-acquisition profits. t Tor quarter
m cd 30.-0/’59.
The figure for previous term’s profit in-
cluded certain pre-acquisition earnings
of subsidiaries.
After paying out £7Bl pref. divs., this
represented an earning-rate of 16 p.c. on
the higher average ord. capital (excluding
deferred shares), compared with 18.4 p.c.
in the previous term (calculated on an
annual basis).
Ore. shareholders collected a 124 p.c.
dividend cheque absorbing £148,999.
Reserves received £42,717, and also
benefited by £77,402 share-premiums,
£25,450 increase in capital reserve,
£26,061 pre-acquisition reserves and
£24,000 unexplained additions. Reserves
were decreased by £142,618 rise in excess
of cost over par value of shares in
subsidiaries, and were disclosed at
£209,346 subject to £53,633 intangibles.
Last year the co. issued 946,472 ss.
deferred shares, one-for-five at par ;
£75,160 of ss. ords., at a premium, in
acquisition of property and 528,000 ss.
7 p.c. “preferred ords.” The latest two-
for-thirteen ord. issue raised paid capital
to £1,850.564.
Liquidity improved. Theoretical work
ing-capital rose by £1,348,259 to
£4,117,153, a very useful thing in the
money-tight conditions that followed the
credit restrictions introduced last
November.
Book-debts and stock increased. H.-p.
outstandings were higher. Bank overdraft
and creditors decreased: —-
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1959. 1960.
Paid capital .. . . £1,110,710 £ 1,598,85-0
Reserves .. . . .. 156,334 209,346
Unearned b.-p. income . . 713,390 904,885
Notes . . . . . . 796,400 796,400
Debentures .. . . 1,186,100
Loans 4 52,166 397,46!
Overdraft . . .. 217,338 4.81,431
Creditors, etc. .. .. 381,246 593,816
Tax provision .. .. 121,333 119,021
Final divs. .. . . 34,492 39,226
£3,983,409 £6,326,536
Freeholds . . .. 224,981 ) 687,531
Leaseholds . . . . 95,450 j
Furniture, vehicles, etc. . 120,857 234,088
Shares other cos. .. 630 637
Debtors, deposits, etc. .. 56,692 257,735
H.-p. outstandings .. 3,049,673 4,248,913
Stock 416,523 842,775
Cash 415 1,194
Intangibles. .. .. 18,188 53,633
£3,983,409 £6,326,536
Book - value of fixed assets was higher.
Unearned h.-p. income at £904,885 (up
£191,495) represented 21.3 p.c. of h.-p.
debtors and mortgage loans (not dif-
ferentiated in the consolidated balance-
sheet). The ratio of h.-p. outstandings
to paid capital was 2.65 to 1.
The ratio of loan capital (debentures,
loans and notes) to shareholders’ funds
at June 30, 1960, was 1.31 to 1.
The durable consumer-goods industry,
as well as h.-p. and finance cos., has
acutely felt the effect of Canberra’s credit-
squeeze measures. The Reserve Bank’s
policy is to achieve a radical reduction
in bank advances by the end of this
month. After that some relaxation is
expected or, rather, earnestly hoped for
by the affected sectors of the economy.
Mr Holt, tne Federal Treasurer, recently
opined that credit situation may ease
next June.
Thus far Fric Anderson has done well
as a public co. Future performance
depends to a considerable extent on the
general economic climate.
At the last sale in Sydney tlse ss. ords.
fetched ss. lid. The immediate yield is
10.6 p.c. on the basis of the current 12)
p.c. div.-raie. Deferred ords. were last
traded at ss. 6d. for a ss. unit.
Net tangible asset-backing works out
at ss. 6d. for each ss. ord. unit (including
the deferred ords.) on the basis of con-
solidated recounts.
P. and O.
/Consolidated net profit of the British-
owned Peninsular and Oriental Steam
Navigation Co. for the year ended
September 30, 1960, was £5tg2.234,430
higher at £5tg5,177,912, after providing
£stg 12.3 million (up £stgo.7 million) for
depreciation and paying £stgl.2 million
tax. This represents a rise of 76 p.c.
However, the fully-owned subsidiary
Orient Steam Navigation Co. Ltd ended
up with a lower net profit (down
£stg 197,558 at £stg 166,827).
Directors attribute the rise in group
earnings mainly to the larger tonnage
of tankers in operation at the end of the
financial year. The decrease in U.K.. co.
tax rate helped.
Last December the co. formed a fully-
o-wned Australian subsidiary, P. and 0.
Company of Australia Ptv, to oversee
the general interests and results in
the Australian sphere of the group as a
whole. The second principal function
of the Australian board is to “advise on
and to progress any lines of development
and investment in Australia itself, which
may seem appropriate.”
Timor Oil Ltd
T'VIRECTORS report that all equipment
necessary for the completion of
Matai No. 1 well has now arrived on
the field. The hole has been reamed to
1044 ft., and a 54in. casing has been
cemented at this depth.
The co. says that the well continues to
flow oil and gas in the annulus. Gun-
perforating and logging equipment is on
the site. Logging and further cementing
was scheduled for completion by Febru-
ary 20.
Adverse weather conditions make it
impossible to move the Brewster rig “for
some time.” In view of this “the oppor-
tunity has been taken by Tradewinds
drill-crew to drill a test hole using a light
rig some 1000 ft. from Matai No. 1 to
obtain stratigraphic correlation.”


SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Information Sought
Is it legal for a small group of
people, living in an isolated area,
jo form their own co-operative
society, limited to themselves, in
order to buy groceries, etc. ? If
so, how is registration applied for ?
ft is quite legal for a small group
of people living in an isolated area
to form a co-operative society pro-
vided that they have more than
seven members. But the matter is
not limited simply to an applica-
tion for registration. There are
certain qualifications they must
have, and the registration of a
society gives them certain rights and
certain liabilities.
Although the law remains con-
stant the application of it to any
one set of facts is frequently
different to its application to a set
of facts superficially similar. The
practise of the law does not lend
itself readily to the modern idea of
"do it yourself,” and this is one
case in which a solicitor should be
consulted so that any special facts
concerning the application can be
given proper consideration.
• * # #
What crtcKet lours follow the
Australian visit to England this
sear ?
Tours of England following the
Australian one this year will be
made by Pakistan in 1962, West
Indies in 1963 and Australia again
in 1964. In 1961-62 the M.C.C.
lours India, Pakistan and Ceylon;
in 1962-63 they tour Australia; and
in 1964-65 they tour South Africa.
South Africa will tour Australia in
1963-64.
• • « *
The words finalise, finalisation,
kalising and finalised apparently
k not appear in any English
liaionary. Do these words break
some fundamental rule of English ?
These words seem to be examples
lof back-formation. We have a
»ord final, either a noun or an
adjective, and we have finality,
another noun. From these finalise,
etc., come into use because it is
assumed that there must be a related
verb.
Or it may be that such words
have been formed from the verb
finish, and represent an example of
the common habit of forming new,
longer words by the addition of
extra, or incorrect, suffixes. An
example of this “word growth” is
the formation of experimentalise
from experiment.
Experimentalise is an ugly word
and finalise not much less so. It
may therefore be avoided on the
ground of poor taste. The only
justification for finalise is that, in
common usage, it has assumed the
shade of meaning, “bring to com-
pletion,” as of a contract, but it
is hardly a necessary word.
* • • •
How are ocean currents
measured ?
They can be measured by a meter
from an anchored ship or, where
great accuracy is needed, by follow-
ing the acoustic signals transmitted
from a float, which is constructed
of a density greater than that of
the water at the surface and less
than that of the water at the
bottom, so that it floats at a pre-
determined depth.
• • • *
When were the Krupp iron-and-
steel works founded ?
Alfred Krupp, born at Essen in
1812, took-over a small iron forge
from his father in 1848. He first
produced axles and tyres for rail-
ways, but in 1857 adopted the
(team-hammer and the Bessemer
process of manufacturing steel, and
turned his attention to making
armaments. He developed the
construction of cast-steel blocks of
great weights, and was also a
pioneer in producing armor-plate
lor warships. As his business grew
he was able to acquire large mines
and collieries, and by 1913 had
estabhsned works at Essen, Kiel,
Annen and Gruson which employed
a total work-force of about 70,000.
* * * *
What are the various Republics
that constitute the U.S.S.R., and
what are their areas ?
The Republics, with their areas
in square-miles, are: The Russian
Socialist Federal Soviet Republic,
6,593,391; Ukraine, 232,046; Beio-
russia, 80,154; Uzbekistan, 158,069;
Kazakhstan, 1,064,092; Georgia.
26,911; Azerbaidjan, 33,346;
Lithuania 26,173; Moldavia,
; Latvia, 24,695 ; Kirghizia,
76,642; Tadjikistan, 54,019;
11,306; Turkmenistan,
188,417; Estonia, 17,413. Fifteen
Republics in all, with a total area
of 8,599,776 square-miles.
What are me reievam taws of
cricket governing the decisions
given in the Solomon '“cap incident”
and the “Grout incident” in the Test
series ?
Law 38 states: The striker is out
“Hit wicket”—if in playing at the
ball he hit down his wicket with
his bat or any part of his person.
Notes to the law state: 1. The
striker is "out” under this law' if:
(i) In making a second stroke to
keep the ball out of his wicket he
hits it down, (ii) While playing at
the ball, but not otherwise, hts
wicket is broken by his cap or hat
falling, or by part of his bat. 2. A
batsman is not out for breaking the
wicket with his bat or person while
in the act of running.
With reference to the Grout inci-
dent, a note to Law 47 states:
Nothing in this law prevents an
umpire before giving a decision
from consulting the other umpire on
a point of fact which the latter may
have been in a better position to
observe. An umpire should not
appeal to the other umpire in cases
on which he could give a decision,
merely because he is unwilling to
give that decision. If after consul-
tation he is still in any doubt, the
principle laid down in Law 46
applies and the decision will be in
favor of the batsman.
What are double acrostics?
A double acrostic is really a
crossword without its framework,
? nc * only two clues “down.”
The problem is to find a series of
words, to which more or less far-
fetched clues are given of which
,hc “‘1 to two spelllwo
other words. These two latter
words are the “uprights,” and the
others are the “lights.” Here is a
short example of a double acrostic,
with its solution:
Uprights
You may “pick me up” (not a good
thing to do),
And the harder I’m driven, the
better for you.
Lights
L My street after Milton’s more
recently named.
2. That I’m last of my line has
been often proclaimed.
3. On the bottle the cockney sees
what mayn’t be true.
4. This episode, Eve dear, spelt
trouble for you.
Solution
Gr u B
OmegA
LabeL
c a , I L
!he first and last letters in this
exam Ple spell “golf ball,” which
ans were the c,uc given in the
upngms-
"
Wants
Copies of “Travels in the Congo,”
“Return from the U.S.S R ”
“Afterthoughts of the USSR”
by Andre Gide • 52 ”
Copies of “Kiss on the Lips,”
’Potch and Color,” “N’Goorla,”
“Black Opal” and “The Wild Oats
of Han ”-53
Copy of “Moonlight Acre,” by
Robert D. Fitzgerald, a book of
poems published by Melbourne
University Press in 1938 54
“Answers to Correspondents”
appears on Page 55.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 633
Across
I— Melbourne suburb makes a French novelist telephone
Noah’s son. (11)
B—The United Nations never change cow. (7)
Id— A sense of humor needed to put up with this stroke. (7)
ll German city makes them hide out. (5)
13 — What to do if he dies in the
meantime. (7)
14 — One changed in a considerable
time. (3)
15 — Heaven. (7)
16 — A considerable time to vex an
Argosy girl and boy. (7)
17 — Go was n’t permitted in
fuel. (4, 3)
18 — Resembling some tree approval
about a half-century by Eisen-
hower. (3-4)
20— It may bind a road sailor. (3)
21 — Composer chaps turned to it the
wrong way. (7)
22 -A drawback in an industrial
agreement. (5)
23 — What old-time searcher does spot
Keith dropping one. (7)
24 — He doesn't look nearly pleasant
enough for South Carolina and
lower confusion. (7)
25 Dim secret I’d misdirected is
certainly that. (11)
Down
1 — Nevil and you sleep. (4-3)
2 The amazed speculation of Doris
and eight others of her kin?
(4, 4,6)
3 Even too upset to be born. (3)
4 The Spanish sing for the centre
of this capital city (11)
5 Powerful love developed a
Robeson Uem 16 4 1. 4)
6 Unaccompanied Scotsman is one
with many wives. (7)
7 Chamber music—the chamber
being in a home-unit. (7, 2,1, 4)
9—Stagnation unlikely with this
sport-master in hiding. (7, 6)
12 —Stitched border is some little
chaps' hall-lines of verse. (11)
17 —No more minutes are allowed the
enemy nightcap. (5, 2)
19 —Lasted finish with you blush-
ing. (7)
24 —Many a Pole ends up with this
footwear. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 632


IflCM'®”
Cl& R
Yf M£ R
YI&SU
WALKER PROCESS
CIARIEIOW THICKENERS
■
wmm
9: :
mi
m
mmSm
:i
'
m
gfif
,$ • • • • •
■ •'•••«..
•- ' .. ;
' •"• ::
m
M.
mm
JBm
m
<■,,,.. .
«
i"— ■
i
m
m.
m
sm
i
m
"I
...j
I*
Ar'mco's compact and efficient clarification plant, with
chemical mixing at left followed by flocculation and finally
clarification. Equipped by Walker Process with Rapid-
Mix unit, four vertical F. S. flocculation units and two
CLAR.IF.dQW Thickeners.
ARMCO SAVES WATER
RECLAIMS OVER 10 MGD!
By reclaiming over 10 MGD of waste water
Armco's Clarification Plant at Middeltown,
Ohio assures an adequate supply of cooling
and process water for its steel mill operations.
Walker Process CLARIFLOW Thickeners
installed in two tanks 80'-0" dia. by 15'
s.w.d. handle 6000 gpm each, and are
designed to operate at twice this rate under
overload conditions. In addition to water
conservation, the CLARIFLOW units permit
reclamation of approximately 20-40 tons
per day of iron rich scale.
Engineering and manufacturing knowledge,
plus experience gained on a variety of
industrial waste treatment problems is
offered to help solve your next project.
Write for literature.
MARS
Manufactured under Licence by
Machine Teel Ml
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY
3?
i
Co. Pty. Ltd.
ENSLAND, AUSTRALIA
Interstate
Agents:
N.S.W.: Alfred SnashaU Pty. Ltch v 500 Kent Street, Sydney
Vic-: Thomson & Carroll Pty. Ltd., 792 Eliza' Street, Melbourne
S.A.: Mining Supplies (S.A.), 622 South dead, Edwardstowis
