

The Bulletin
and The Observer
*
Price 1 /
INSIDE DARWIN
! Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
Appeasement
in New Guinea
Russell Braddon
Expatriate
The Common
Market and Us


>*
m
m
* - *
*
**T?: : S
t :
:»
jgjMPBI
To
P*""*"***.
*, \
• •&
■
TWENTY-NINE THOUSAND
LITTLE TRAINS
In every year, 29,000 passenger and mixed trains move across
branch lines of the rural scene carrying mails, freight and people
in a never-ending contribution to the State's prosperity and progress.
Along these branch line tracks capillaries of steel that feed into
the arterial mainlines the State draws the substance of which its
greatness is made . . . the bounty of its pastures, the minerals of
its earth, the fruits of its orchards, the output of its factories . . .
On the durable structure of the spreading network of the New
South Wales Government Railways grew this State to greatness,
and on such will it continue to grow.
NEW SOUTH WALES GOVERNMENT
RAI LWAYS
OF2
%
r
MJ
Q
CO
Co
loun
ll«
J^j


The
Bulletin
Vol. 82
JUNE 17, 1961
No. 4244
ANSWERS TO
CONTRIBUTORS
L.N.: Why say “de11”?....
J.P.M.: What are “t-clopping
steps”? .... D.D.: There’s a touch
of atmosphere in “Sic Transit,” but
why do you call a face a “visage”?
....OS.: We will not merely
permit you to submit herewith your
satirical poem “Voice of the Siren
from Space”; we will print a little
of it:
.... 8.R.: That’s a very thin
orange.... E.G.: ‘'How does one
get off the Answers column and on
to the poetry page? By excellent
poetry? By being an established
poet? Please tick.” How could
you hear us if we did? . . . .1.M.8.:
The bus-conductress poem reads
quite hauntingly as a dream-poem ;
but then it turns out disappoint-
ingly to be real. .. . J.J.: Too facile.
. ...W.J.D.: Fair for your age.
.. . . 8.H.: Just for the rhyme:
She rules the house, this feline queen
Whose figure needs a girdle,
By emerald eyes and snowy paw—-
It’s really too absurdle.
BEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street.
Sydney; Box 2521; Phone: 27 59 7 1
All the world has gone crazy from
joy . . . has gone mad . . .
There was praise, admiration —in
the words they have said —
Everywhere on the globe —all
around —
Of the young U.S. spaceman—his
courage and pluck—
All were happy that the mighty—-
“a little bid of luck" —
Could so safely to put him aground.
But in wail of those wonderful —
numerous tales
There was crawling and growing dis-
gust of females
That was coming so close to
ignition.
—What?—a man! —man again?—
and to man outer-space? ! . . .
—Then what comes to the women? —-
contempt and disgrace?—
At the lack of the wo: Id’s recog-
nition? !
—Yes, —where would he be, —say, —-
if he hadn’t got his start
From a woman, who takes this
responsible part—
As to bring into the world this
“Arriver”!
WHY?
For the Rejected
I T is pleasant to be able to announce a change in The Bulletin that does
not represent the launching of a new policy but the mere tidying-up
of old practices. In the early days of The Bulletin the paper was largely
written by readers —at least in the sense that it was made up of paragraphs
sent in from correspondents all over the country and then rewritten in
the office in accordance with the paper’s hard-bitten, humorous and pithy
style. The “Answers to Correspondents” section was introduced to deal
with correspondents whose work was not, for one reason or another,
considered usable. In time the old practice of dependence on reader-
correspondents fell away principally because of changes in the life of
the country which reduced the number of people who were willing to
send in paragraphs and increased the number who demanded longer
articles of a kind which the writers of short paragraphs did not have the
time or often the competence to write.
Contributed paragraphs have always been and always will be essential
to The Bulletin, especially in sections like “Aboriginalities” and “Society”,
but for years now the “Answers to Correspondents” section has been con-
cerned with commenting on unaccepted poems and short stories. It soon
developed its own following, and one of the most popular poets —the well-
remembered “Bellerive” —appeared regularly in it. (He was perhaps the
most widely published rejected poet in the history of poetry.)
But the main point is that we have decided to adapt ourselves to
reality and rename the section “Answers to Contributors” which it really
is. The “Red Page” will always be the “Red Page” even if we go on to
green paper! But there seems no reason for not being strictly accurate in
the case of the “Answers”. We have placed it on page three because of
its popularity.
No Columns for Shakespeare
W E are glad to see that the new “Letters” section, which replaced “The
Other Fellow’s Mind”, is thriving. Good “Letters” pages are at least
one sign of a paper’s vitality. The only trouble is getting letter-writers to
confine themselves to a reasonable length. Letters vary in length from:
“Sir, I have just read your leading article on myxomatosis. Please cancel
my subscription and remit balance by return of post” to those which would
require a special supplement of The Bulletin to publish them. Some
writers, of course, are only at home in a letter; the letter form is to them
what the novel, or poetry, or painting, or even the telegram form is to
others. It seems unkind to confine them to a few words. Others are such
dedicated practitioners of the art that they not only send in one a week,
but half a dozen with a covering note inviting the Editor to take his
pick. It is true that some writers occasionally have points to make which
simply cannot be condensed, but for the average letter surely three para-
graphs is a reasonable maximum. There can be very few points that cannot
be made in that length if the writer really tries. To the doubting, we can
only quote what The Bulletin told its readers on March 2, 1885: “In
writing to The Bulletin remember it is only a little paper and not one
to maunder in. We wouldn’t allow three-and-a-half columns to William
Shakespeare!”


This Australia
PILOTS
The Middle-class
Militants
REG. ANSETT
“Be loyal”
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
The only union which rivals the Water-
side Workers’ Federation or the
Seamen’s Union for willingness to strike
is the middle-class, status-conscious Aus-
tralian Federation of Air Pilots, by far
the most militant and successful of all the
middle-class unions. And the most
aggressive group of its 1100 members is
the 296-strong overseas branch, made up
exclusively of Qantas pilots who are
better paid and more technically quali-
fied than internal pilots. These pilots
are all Sydney residents and live mainly
on the North Shore in clusters at Pymble,
Lindfield and Newport. “They are pilots
first —and then human beings ; not the
other way around,” is how one admiring
official described them.
The latest incident, brewing for several
months, occurred last week when Qantas
pilots began discussing the desirability
or otherwise of strike action. While they
were doing this the pilots from the
internal airlines, T.A.A. and Ansett-
A.N.A., announced their intention of
holding a “work-to-regulations” strike.
In the internal dispute the Federation
was demanding three things: two con-
secutive days off each week ; no increase
in wages—but a readjustment of pilots’
gradings ; and a reduction from 90 hours
to 80 hours a fortnight, including time
spent on reserve. The 90-hour fortnight
pilots are required to be on duty does
not include what could be described as
“stand-by” time—periods when the pilot
has to be near a phone in case his com-
pany needs him.
Failing to get these things by negotia-
tion, the Federation broke off discussion
and threatened to (1) use instrument
approaches on all landings ; (2) ignore
company phone calls at home and refuse
late-roster alterations ; (3) demand first-
class passenger seats between airports
when “going to work.” Pilots prefer to
land visually when weather conditions
are favorable. The airline companies
also prefer the visual landing, as an
instrument-guided let-down can take up
to 20 minutes longer. If pilots opted in
all conditions for an instrument landing
services would be severely disrupted. As
Mr Reg Ansett said in a 184-word
telegram to each of his 360 pilots: “I
need your loyalty, so for heaven’s sake
instruct your delegates to re-open
negotiations.”
The dispute which has affected the
Qantas “prima donnas,” as they are called
by other pilots, is much more complex.
For some months the Federation has
been negotiating with Qantas over a
“Contract of Employment” covering con-
ditions, appointment, leave, retrench-
ment and “technological unemployment.”
While negotiations were continuing,
Qantas dismissed seven men, immedi-
ately grounding the discussion. To keep
pace with overseas airlines, Qantas is,
as rapidly as possible, introducing jets
to replace conventional aircraft. Pilots
say the changeover “is like learning to
fly all over again.”
“On the retrenchment issue, Qantas
insists on its right to retain the best
qualified personnel,” said Mr C. O.
Turner, its general manager and chief
executive officer. The Federation says if
there are to be any retrenchments the
principle of “last on, first off” must be
maintained. But while the Federation
says this, its members act differently.
Qantas, like every other airline com-
pany, employs senior check-captains
highly qualified pilots who are responsible
for the continual supervision and train-
ing of air personnel. These officers, who
are members of the Federation, reported
to the company that six of the seven
who were dismissed could not learn to
fly jets quickly enough. While as com-
pany employees these members are adopt-
ing a “technical competency” principle
in dismissals, as members of the Federa-
tion they have adopted the “last on, first
off” stand. “It all depends upon which
cap they have on as to what attitude
they adopt,” said a Qantas official.
The Federation will agree to the “tech-
nical competency” principle only when
there is a shortage of pilots, but not
when there are too many. They argue
that a pilot is not like a motor mechanic
who can get a job in some other part of
his industry. Although some people
might say an “overseas” pilot could still
fly freighter planes or agricultural
sprayers, these pilots just do not do that
sort of thing.
How soon the next flare-up occurs is
anybody’s guess —but wages are unlikely
to be a sore point. A captain on a Boeing
jet receives £5500 a year and a top second
officer on a three-pilot aircraft £2900.
DAIRYFARMERS
Inertia on the Farm
FROM A N.S.W. CORRESPONDENT
At Casino, on the North Coast of New
South Wales last Tuesday, 200 dairy-
farmers were told, in effect, that the
Federal Government should no longer
subsidise the inertia and lack of enter-
prise of Australian dairyfarmers. The
speaker was Keith O. Campbell, Professor
of Agricultural Economics at the Univer-
sity of Sydney, and the occasion was a
convention organised by the Agricultural
Bureau of N.S.W.
This was the latest development in the
current soul-searching into the Australian
dairyfarming industry which began with
the setting up of a Government inquiry
in July, 1959, and has been continuing
ever since, producing more words on the
industry in the last two years than in the
whole of its history.
The Australian dairy industry has been
lulled into a false position. On the Aus-
tralian market, the Government, for the
fifth year in succession, has given it £13.5
million in subsidies—bringing the total
subsidies over a ten-year period to £l6om.
(Professor R. I. Downing of Melbourne
and Professor P. H. Karmel of Adelaide
estimate that for the three years to 1957-
58 protection of the butter and cheese
sections of the dairy industry cost the
nation £100m.) The industry is protected
by prohibitive tariffs on the entry of over-
seas dairy products ; the amount of mar-
garine sold in Australia is governed by
legislation—mainly to protect the sale of
butter; and political pressure has been
brought to bear on the Government not
to commence implementing the sweeping
changes recommended by the McCarthy
report, tabled in the Federal House on
November 9, 1960.
The Australian people are subsidising
an industry which, in the mild words of
the McCarthy report, “has been un-
necessarily costly.” According to one
estimate quoted by Professor Campbell,
30 per cent, of the total subsidy (of
£13.5m.) is going to 13 per cent, of the
farmers who have the largest incomes and
only 10 per cent, to the 30 per cent, of
farmers who have the smallest incomes,
Despite the subsidy, many farmers are
receiving less than the basic wage,
.7° get itself out of its depressed con-
dition the industry has done two things,
First, on the market side it has relied on
large-scale promotion (though there is a
limit to what the Australian stomach can
consume), and on the production side it
has attempted to raise the productivity
by the application of scientific knowledge
(though the subsidies reduce the farmers’
incentive to do this),
One proposal offered by the report, and
by Professor Campbell, is that there
should be more amalgamation of small


farms. This would result in less poverty-
stricken farmers and “outside the amal-
gamation there is no alternative method
of keeping these farms within the indus-
try.” In its simplest terms this view claims
that the Australian Government, by con-
tinuing its expensive and many-sided
protection of the industry, is pushing
farmers further into inertia.
But the human problem involved in
persuading small farmers to abandon
their uneconomic but “personal” hold-
ings is a big one. Most of these farmers
and their families view with alarm and
distaste the thought that they must leave
their “only occupation” and abandon
themselves to some strange job. Accord-
ing to a Sydney University survey in 1958
farmers like farming because (1) dairying
provided a steady income and security ;
(2) they were self-supporting in milk,
eggs, poultry, and in some cases fruit and
vegetables; (3) outdoor life was “satisfy-
ing” ; (4) family life was more stable —
even though 57 per cent, of the farmers’
sons were working in other occupations ;
(5) no nervous strain existed in farming
which would occur in “outside” occupa-
tions (6) they felt “completely identified'’
with farming.
But the McCarthy Report recom-
mended, amongst other proposals, that
the £13.5m. subsidy be discontinued over
a ten-year period. This would mean that
by 1969-70 the industry would be receiv-
ing only £2m. As one agricultural expert
told The Bulletin this week, the reason
why nothing more has been heard of the
McCarthy Report is because the dairy
industry is one of the strongest political
pressure groups in the country. It has
farmers’ organisation ; a dairy marketing
authority, the Australian Dairy Produce
Board, operated and conducted, under
Government sponsorship. Because of the
Government representation on this board
it is partly implicated in whatever
decisions are made. Apart from these
two avenues farmers’ organisations also
have representatives on the Australian
Dairy Industry Council, where representa-
tives of producer and marketing bodies
join forces.
Referring to the strong political pres-
sure that led to the burial of the
McCarthy Report, Professor Campbell
told startled Casino farmers: “I feel it
is most unfortunate that the Australian
dairy industry . . . should be endeavor-
ing to use this power to oppose the most
constructive proposals which have yet
been put forward in an attempt to put the
industry on its feet.”
LAW
The Orr Book
at Home
S. S. ORR
In plain wrappers
FROM F. G. N. EWINCE IN LAUNCESTON
W. H. C. Eddy’s monumental effort
in his book, “Orr,” to prove a
vicious conspiracy against S. S. Orr,
the dismissed Professor of Philosophy at
the University of Tasmania, has fallen
on most Tasmanian ears as a dry ratthng
of a skeleton in some almost forgotten
University cupboard. The book was
given a special display in one leading
Hobart bookshop and was prominently
shown in other booksellers’ windows in
Launceston and Hobart. But material
sent in a circular to booksellers was not
used in sales promotion. Tasmanians live
closer than other Australians to a court
which might reasonably be aggrieved by
uninhibited partisanship, and are not
encouraged, as one bookshop proprietor
put it, “to risk the lightning for a few
sales, even at 595. 6d. a throw.” One
leading Launceston shop, however, dis-
played it with some publicity material.
Sales in Hobart up to the weekend had
climbed to about 90. In Launceston the
total was about 15. The book had not
reached display shelves in two important
North-west Coast towns. First stocks
cleared “surprisingly well considering the
Price,” but Hobart shops’ repeat orders
Were dragging. Unsold copies remained
°n the shelves of the University book-
shop. Booksellers will not discuss pur-
chasers, but there is more than a
suspicion that some buyers prefer to get
it in plain wrappers.
One Hobart commercial radio station
reviewed “Orr” at length, but no review
has appeared in the “Mercury” or the
“Examiner.” In Launceston, the
“Examiner” announced its publication,
with a few paragraphs about the author
and the case made by him. Six copies in
the State Library, Hobart, and three in
Launceston’s 12,000 - reader Public
Library have been in “lively demand.”
Several leading Orr supporters admit
privately to having read it, but they will
not comment publicly on it. The lawyers
have been frankly interested, principally,
one suspects, to assess the legal implica-
tions, though it seems all those who
might have had grounds for action have
firmly resisted strong temptation to do
so, being convinced that litigation was
precisely what the Orr side sought.
Like several barristers, no doubt the
University lecturers and professors have
been sharing the purchases made, but
they are not likely to admit their secret
studies. The University, despite the ban
of the University Staff Associations, is
well staffed. No one at the University,
no one at all, is going to disturb this
state of affairs.
MIGRANTS
Lost Illusions
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
T AST March when Michele and Emma
-*- y Faella became parents of the Box
Hill (Vic.) quadruplets, many Victorians
thought the Faellas had struck it rich.
The Nunawading Council ordered
colored lights and flags outside the Town
Hall, Mr Faella appeared on television
and it looked as if gifts galore were
pouring in to help the family.
In fact, the family has received some
gifts from commercial firms napkins,
rotary clothes hoist, a motor car and free
food supplies but its fundamental
housing problem still remains. Mr Faella
still works for £l5 a week at the local
gasworks and still lives in a two-bedroom
weatherboard home in Blackburn.
Anybody reading “The Age” of March
22 would have thought that the Faella’s
big housing problem was settled. There
was a four-column picture of a modern,
six-bedroom brick home above a head-
line proclaiming: “Father Accepts Offer
Of New Six-bedroom House.” in the
following story liberal mention was given
to Anderson Constructions Fimited, a
firm reported to be willing to give the
Faellas a home similar to the one in the
picture. “Mr Faella was so overcome,”
said “The Age,” “that he was almost
speechless.... He was amazed at the
generosity of Australians.”
Anderson Constructions were certainly
prepared to give the Faelias a home —
but they wanted the Faellas to sign
a seven-year contract, assigning their
rights to accept gifts to the Anderson
group. It would have prevented the
Faellas from accepting any gifts or help,
including, for example, any financial help
from his own church. It would have
involved getting out of an earlier con-
tract he had signed giving the “Melbourne
Herald” and “Weekly Times” exclusive
pictorial rights to the quads. It is under-
stood that the latter company was pre-
pared to waive this contract, however,
to leave Faella free to take up the Ander-
son offer.
Despite the “Age” report, Mr Faella
never accepted the Anderson proposal.
Perhaps he might have, but for what he
took to be a deadly insult to his pride.
It was proposed that the contract be
signed, not by himself, or even by him-
self and his wife jointly, but solely by
his wife!
Since then the Faellas have lost the
youngest of the quads, Elizabetta, and
the commercial interests who were once
so keen have lost interest. The accom-
modation for the three remaining quads
is a 12ft-by- 12ft bedroom, warmed by
an air-conditioning unit lent by the local
hospital. The Commonwealth Govern-
ment is providing a subsidy of £4 a
week, and the Faellas also receive some
free nursing help.
The Italian bi-weekly “La Fiamma”
has raised £2OO towards getting them a
new home, and a Nunawading Citizens’
Committee is still trying . . .


LITERATURE
In Search of
Dickens
CHARLES DICKENS
Any letters?
FROM GEORGE FARWELL IN ADELAIDE
A flair for detective work seems
almost to be part of the job of imi-
ning the English Department at
Adelaide's otherwise law-abiding Univer-
sity. The previous Jury Professor of
English Language and Literature was
J. I. M. Stewart, better known to the public
as a writer of detective stories under the
pseudonym of Michael Innes. His suc-
cessor, Professor C. J. Horne, has now
been commissioned to do some sleuthing
on his own account.
A six-man committee of Dickens
experts in Britain —including the Warden
of Wadham College, Oxford, Sir Maurice
Bowra, and publisher Rupert Hart-Davis
—are now in the process of compiling
a comprehensive edition of the great
author's letters. They will be published
by the Pilgrim Trust in the U.S. No one
has the least idea how many of these
letters are scattered around the world,
for Dickens was a tireless correspondent.
A rough estimate has put them at not
less than 11,000, and the edition will
probably run to 10 or 11 volumes. The
trust plans to issue the first volume next
year to mark the 75th anniversary of
the novelist’s death.
Professor Horne, who does not regard
himself as a Dickens scholar, has been
brought into the quest through a long-
standing friendship with another member
of the committee, Mr Phillip Collins, who
is now Warden of Vaughan College at
the University of Leicester. Though it
did not seem likely that a great number
of letters would turn up in Australia,
nobody could be quite sure —for Dickens
was deeply interested in this country and
developed close links with it. At one
time, when his domestic relations at home
were not too happy, he thought of migrat-
ing to Australia. He nearly came over on
tour to give a series of his highly popular
readings, and did in fact send over two
of his sons, who bore the impressive
names of Alfred Tennyson Dickens and
Edward Bulwer Lytton Dickens.
Alfred, who arrived in 1865 at the age
of 16, became a stock-and-station agent
in Victoria, married an Australian girl
and sent his two daughters to Cornelia
Ladies’ College, Melbourne. He died in
New York in 1902 while in the course
of a return visit to England. His daugh-
ters later went to London, too. The
youngest son, Edward, who also married
in Australia, went out to the Darling
River for “colonial experience,” later
managed a sheep station, then took up
a property of his own —only to go broke
during a time of drought. He then
joined the New .South Wales Land Board
—which, incidentally, also had a son of
Anthony Trollope on its payroll—and
spent several years in the N.S.W.
Parliament. He died in Moree in
1910 and, though his grave cannot be
identified today, he is commemorated by
a tablet in the cemetery there. Since his
father was very much a family man, it
seems not unlikely that some correspond-
ence with sons and grandchildren will
turn up. Already the Melbourne Public
Library has notified Professor Horne that
it possesses nine Dickens letters, while
Trinity College in the same city has some
among its Ruston Papers.
Ruston, a one-time Clerk of the Vic-
torian Parliament, was the man to whom
Dickens first sent his sons for guidance
and introductions. Another letter has
already been located in the possession of
a s Y dne y m an, while the Adelaide
Dickens Fellowship also has a brief one
Since Dickens published a number of
articles by Australians in the monthly
“Household Words” he edited, we may
well expect to find further buried
treasure. Back in the 1840 s Dickens also
drew heavily on the advice of a Sydney
writer, Samuel Sydney, and quoted him
on Australian conditions of the time in
an unpublished MS. urging a more active
colonisation scheme. The MS. was
bought in London during 1948 by John
Lysaghts, the N.S.W. steel company, for
£l9O and presented to the Mitchell
Library, Sydney.
Professor Horne is elated by the
response his four-weeks-old appeal has
already drawn from people in various
parts of Australia. Perhaps the most
dramatic, as he told a TV audience over
the A.B.C. in Adelaide recently, has
come from the president of Melbourne's
Society for Psychic and Occult Science
Research, who wrote to inform him that
he still keeps in close touch with Dickens
himself.
PRESS
A Great
Cartoonist
TED SCORFIELD
The master
Thirty-seven years ago The Bulletin
asked David Low to select the best
applicant out of a bunch of English
artists who had answered a Bulletin
advertisement for a cartoonist. He
selected Ted Scorfield, an outsize
Northumbrian with a strong Georche
accent who was then 40 years old and
free-lancing in London. He arrived in
Sydney in 1925 and has been with The
Bulletin ever since. This week he draws
his last regular cartoon (on next page)
for The Bulletin and at the age of 77
begins his retirement.
In the tradition of Phil May, “Hop,”
Norman Lindsay and the other great
Bulletin artists he has been a famous
character in The Bulletin office. Now 7
at last it can be told that the mighty
trumpet blast that often came out of
his nose when he blew it was not merely
an innocent foible. Like many Bulletin
artists and journalists he suffered from
interminable visits by friends and
admirers who imagine that newspaper-
men never really have any work to do.
At first he tried putting up a sign near
his door: “If you must come in, don’t
stay long. I have work to do.” When
this failed he decided to turn his nose
to advantage. Two sensational blasts
became the signal for any artist in a
nearby office to rush in and say: “Mr
Scorfield, the Editor wants to see you
urgently.” He always claims he was
astonished that David Low selected him
■—he felt he could not meet Bulletin
standards—but he was especially pleased
because he was attracted to Australia for
two good reasons. The first was Gal-
lipoli: he had enlisted in his home
town, Newcastle-on-Tyne, in August,
1914, joined the Royal Engineers, and
landed soon after the Australians on
Gallipoli Beach. (He was twice men-
tioned in dispatches and awarded the
Russian Order of St George for his
services on the Salonika Front.) In the
second war he became the master of
the Digger theme and the model for all
other artists.
Ihe second w 7 as that from the time
he first began to draw cartoons on his
bench in the Newcastle shipping com-
pany where he worked as a ship
draughtsman, Phil May was his ideal,
It was Phil May who, on returning to
London after his years on The Bulletin,
first began to loosen up the traditional
and formalised British style of cartoon-
ing in the old “Punch” tradition. Scor-
field soon developed his own unique
style, but Phil May was always hu
inspiration.
His political cartoons quickly became
famous and The Bulletin still receives
letters about cartoons he drew 30 ye ai
ago —for example, the one abou


(Jack Lang’s electoral programme, which
showed Mr Lang as a second - hand
clothes dealer telling a customer who
was complaining about the smell of the
clothes: “It’s not them, it’s me who
stinks.”
But even in the midst of the bitterest
campaigns Scorfield has always remained
a humorist and some of the people he
most regularly lampooned are his
warmest admirers. For example, Mr
(now Sir William) McKell was one of
his favorite targets, but each time he
scored a bull’s-eye McKell used to send
his secretary around to The Bulletin
office to buy the original before anyone
else could get it. His own humor came out
most strikingly in his animal drawings
—especially his dogs and ducks. Always
a close observer of animals, he has the
back of almost becoming one of them.
He knows, for example, a mysterious
noise which makes the animals come out
of their shelters at Taronga Park Zoo
in Sydney: once he gave the call to the
hippo, and the old boy quickly waddled
out, his lips still dripping with the water
he had been drinking before he was
summoned.
Characteristically Ted Scorfield insists
•hat David Low is still the greatest
cartoonist in the world and he dislikes
the trend of more recent cartooning and
of American-style joke blocks with their
cr Uel distortion of human features. “If
bu actually saw someone who looked
like that,” he asks, “would you laugh?”
TED SCORFIELD'S FAREWELL
EDUCATION
Hot Potato?
FROM A VICTORIAN CORRESPONDENT
/Candidates at next month’s Victorian
elections will not be able to dodge
fingering the State’s hottest potato —the
question of Government aid to church
schools. A campaign is being organised
by the Victorian Federation of Catholic
Mothers’ Clubs to see that questions are
put to the candidates, and already they
have held meetings in Kyneton, Bendigo,
Wangaratta, Geelong and Melbourne.
Audiences, predominantly Catholic, have
come 50 miles and more to listen.
The Jesuit priest Fr Kevin O’Sullivan,
chief speaker at each meeting, put the
standard Catholic case: Why should
parents who send their children to
denominational schools have to bear the
full cost when they have already paid
taxes to support the State education
systems which they cannot use for
reasons of conscience?
Fie also claimed that since a q rter
of Victoria’s primary school children
attend denominational schools, they are
absolutely essential to the education
system ; without them the State schools
could not cope with the pupils. And at
one meeting he summoned up the picture
of himself and the 1000 children of his
parish schools marching on the State
schools to demand admission, backed by
an army of mothers,
He has also taken a few potshots
at the State education for what he
described as its incompetency to teach
on some fundamental issues. And he
has alleged that Communists and atheists
are busy in State schools,
All this has naturally left a boiling
wa ke of controversy behind it, and the
letters-to-the-editor columns are doing
nicelv. “Fr O'Sullivan is using the
primacy of the parent as a device for
asserting the supremacy of the priest
against the power of democratic govern-
m ß ent; . declared one writer. Another
wrote of “a noisy minority of rationalists
and Prote stant bigots.”
In country towns the reaction has beeL
heightened because, although almost every
Victorian town has its Catholic convent
and primary school and many now have
massive and growing secondary schools
for boys, the Protestant churches main-
tain comparatively few schools in country
areas. So the enthusiastic Protestant sees
the power of Catholic education immedi-
ately before him, ready to suck in his
taxes, while there is no compensating
Protestant system at hand.


DEVELOPMENT
Still Boom Time
For Sir Thomas
SIR THOMAS PLAYFORD
Riding high
FROM AN ADELAIDE CORRESPONDENT
One has to admire the ruthless spirit
of Sir Thomas Playford. When
critics protest he has stayed 22 years in
office through a gerrymander, he laughs
it off —as he did to the London “Times”
correspondent in Adelaide last month.
When his fellow Liberal legislators in
Canberra baulk his plans to dam the
Murray or rebuild the Broken Hill-Port
Pirie railway, he slaps a writ on them
through the High Court. When the rest
of Australia groans under the credit
squeeze, he continues to ride high with
bold new projects ; for him these are
still boom times.
In recent months he has seen American
oil interests complete plans for building
a huge oil refinery on Adelaide’s out-
skirts at Hallett’s Cove ; he has invited
a Canadian company to set up a £ 13-
million pulp paper industry near Mount
Gambier and, when lack of electricity
seemed likely to scotch it, promised to
run out new power lines from the State-
wide grid ; he has ordered more money
to be made available through the State
Bank for home-building when Federal
restrictions had caused a sharp decline.
Now he is talking of developing a new
export trade in iron ore to Japan.
A 12-man team of Japanese experts
currently touring Australia had the red
carpet rolled out when they touched
down in Adelaide early in June. These
tourists wanted to see the scenic wonders
of the Middleback Ranges, those rough
red hills back of Whyalla where the
B.H.P. has been quarrying iron ore for
its N.S.W. steelworks since 1915. By
all means, Sir Thomas said, and
arranged for a visit on their return three
weeks later from W.A., where they are to
be shown further deposits as far afield
as Tallering Peak, near Geraldton, and
Mount Goldsworthy out from Port Hed-
land. At the same time, Playford gave
them the tip that the Middleback ores
were ear-marked for future B.H.P. blast
furnaces in Whyalla. So why not look
at one or two other propositions as well ?
The scenery he had in mind was be-
tween Olary and Radium Hill, where
the closing down of the State uranium
mine has left a severe gap in industrial
prospects. There a collection of low red
hills is estimated to contain some 1|
million tons of iron ore, a good deal of
it low grade, though the ferruginous
content varies from 36.6 per cent to an
attractively high 59.8. The mission’s
leader, Mr. M. Kagawa, of Fuji Iron and
Steel Co. Ltd —one of Japan’s big four
—said at once that his country was in
the market for all the ore it could find.
It now seems likely that anything up
to 5000 tons a week may be shipped,
through Port Pirie, to Japan. The deal
is to be pursued when the Japanese re-
turn to Adelaide towards the end of the
month.
To sell this ore would be like an aged
widower’s last fling, for the deposits have
been unworked since they were drawn
upon for flux by Broken Hill mines in
the 1890 s, before their smelting pro-
cesses were removed to Port Pirie. It
would also strengthen Playford’s hand
immeasurably in his forthcoming High
Court tussle with the Federal Govern-
ment, due in September. How could a
new railway line be further postponed
when it would have to carry —in addition
to huge quantities of silver-lead and zinc
concentrates from the Silver City—at
least 250,000 tons of iron ore for export,
also through Port Pirie? It was a gift
of Providence that these deposits should
lie right across that self-same strategic
railway.
“If ore can be exported at a favorable
price,” Mr Kagawa said, “contracts will
be arranged for its sale, and tenders be
called for from Australian companies
willing to handle mining and delivery.”
One rumor is that a big Australian con-
tractor has already been brought into
the Japanese-S.A. discussions. The firm
is the fantastically expanding Thiess
Bros., who began their first small-scale
earth-moving job in Queensland after
World War II and now have at least a
score of major constructional operations
all over the Commonwealth.
This would suit both Playford and the
Japanese very well, for Thiess Bros, have
already reported signing a contract to
ship 150,000 tons of coking coal from
Queensland to Nippon. Attempts are
also being made to link this contract with
a supply of iron ore from Queensland.
The S.A. Premier, already in holts with
the Queensland Government over Can-
berra’s plans to subsidise “beef roads”
in that State rather than in the direction
of Adelaide, has no intention of being
left out of any iron ore deal. No wonder
the “Courier Mail” some months ago
sent a special writer to find out the secret
of Playford’s unflagging and militant
successes.
Intoxicated now with the bright new
promises for industry, Playford has
announced two further large-scale pro-
jects— to be paid for, no doubt, from
the proceeds of these still-unborn babies.
The State Public Works Committee has
been asked to approve the damming of
the Torrens Gorge, which could provide
vitally needed water supplies within a
few miles of the city at a cost of £2£
million, and the setting up of a £300,000
agricultural research centre at Northfield,
where advanced experiments could be
carried out in wheat-growing, pastures,
dairying and horticulture. With his farm-
ing background, Playford believes not
only in grasping the bull by the horns,
but in planting horns on the bull as well.
ELECTORATES
After the Writs
FROM A CORRESPONDENT IN PERTH
'T'he tan is rapidly fading from the face
of West Australian Premier David
Brand as he tries to sweat out a solution
of the electoral boundaries issue on which
his survival depends. After two months
in the winter sunshine of the North-west,
he cannot postpone his decision much
longer, for the State Full Court has stated
in unmistakable terms that his Liberal-
Country Party Government has a clear
moral duty to adjust the boundaries of
Legislative Assembly seats. A total of 11
metropolitan seats are now over their
population quota and three country seats
have fallen under it.
If he does issue a proclamation in time
to have the electorates reshuffled for the
State elections in early 1962 his Govern-
ment could go out of office on the metro-
politan vote. If he does not move he
would give Labor a moral lead in the
campaign which might unseat him any-
way.
Clinging grimly to a one-seat majority
in the Legislative Assembly, the Govern-
ment has been loath to reintroduce
its own electoral bill which lapsed last
year because Speaker John Hearmann in
the Assembly refused to exercise his cast-
ing vote to give the bill its required
absolute majority.
The Labor party has sprung into an
offensive position with a successful writ
issued by five of its members most
affected by the boundaries issue. This
writ called on the Government to set up
a three-man commission under the terms
of the existing Electoral Districts Act to
proceed with redistribution of bound-
aries.
In this issue the Labor party may have
a cleaner record than the Government,
but only by a small margin. Opposition
leader Mr Bert Hawke kicked off the
dispute only two weeks after his party
was defeated by the L.-C.P. in 1959.
While he was acting as a caretaker
premier he issued a proclamation to
review boundaries under the terms of the
existing Act. A review was plainly over-
due, but Hawke just as plainly waited
until he was defeated to do something
he might have done during his six years
in power.
Mr Brand’s Government promptly re-
voked his proclamation and won public


mpathy, but lost it almost straight away
introducing a bill of its own which
jS as clearly designed to keep Labor
jof office indefinitely as Mr Hawke’s
( ve was to get it back into office as
ijckly as .possible.
Labor obviously decided to move
ider the existing Act because that would
ean an increase in metropolitan seats
a decrease in country seats, and favor
I chances at the next poll. The Govern-
nt’s counter-bill would have increased
Assembly seats to 51 and given the
ra seat to the country, thus favoring
coalition Country party. The Govern-
nt bill lapsed when it lost its absolute
jjjority through the defection of Ml
V.vley independent, S. Oldfield, to the
ibor party, but Cabinet still refused to
ue a proclamation under the existing
Labor then clapped on the pressure to
Irce this measure back into circulation,
refused to agree to the traditional pair-
\ arrangements in both Houses and
pt Cabinet Ministers from visiting
iportant projects in country districts. It
»issued its writ against Cabinet.
iThese moves have been successful and
trßrand is now faced with a heads-you-
bi, tails-I-lose proposition. To make it
Irse the Country party leader, Mr
thur Watts was the architect of the Act
ich has proved so embarrassing to him.
itts is a shrewd bargainer, but the
estion is has he in this case bargained
th the Government and his own
nuritv party into the arms of the
bor opposition?
“I see you submitting a play to the Adelaide Festival committee.
It will be rejected.”
POLITICAL POINTS
Father Knows
Best
CLIVE STONEHAM
An Extra
By MUGGA
A N outside observer might have been
forgiven for confusing the gabfest
held at the Melbourne Trades Hall at
the Queen’s Birthday weekend as a
rehearsal for a television spectacular —
instead of the perplexing reality: the
State Conference of the A.L.P., Victorian
brand.
The huge cast of 350 —mostly extras
—included Arthur Calwell, Clive Stone-
ham (Leader in the Legislative Assembly '
and the two latest additions to the
Legislative Council —Jolly Jack Tripo-
vich, formerly State Secretary, but now
regarded as a supernumerary at the con-
ference, and TV personality Douglas
Elliot, beloved of many children as the
former Uncle Doug of the S.S.B’s and
Socialist hero of dry-cleaning, lawn-
mower and electrical goods commercials.
Father figure of the conference was
Peace Prize Winner Alberty McNolty,
retiring from the presidency because of
a heart condition. Perhaps in deference
to his condition, and also because a State
election will be held on July 15, con-
troversy was kept to a minimum.
A resolution about the non-existent
Unity Tickets was agreed to unanimously
—even critics of the mythical tickets are
now apparently non-existent.
Only one ticket for the Central Execu-
tive elections was circulated. Several
minor changes were made in the Central
Executive ticket—rather unsportingly, be-
cause it made my earlier forecast (The
Bulletin, May 17, 1961) only about 75
per cent, correct. Pat Kelly and J. J.
Ginifer, previously destined for the axe,
were reprieved because the A.W.U. (of
which they are both members) threatened
to run a rival ticket unless it had some
representation.
Senator Pat Kennedy, who was dropped,
as I predicted, had a minor revenge when
his motion requiring vacancies on the
executive to be filled by the runners-up
in the conference balloting was narrowly
passed (151-141).
An impulsive delegate who asked about
the state of the A.L.P's membership was
told that this had not been worked out,
but insiders say (working on the basis
of the variations in branch financial con-
tributions) that about 6000 members have
dropped out since last year.
Two organs of the party have been
abandoned —Don McSween’s “Tocsin,”
a fortnightly news sheet, and “II Pro-
gresso,” an Italian journal. The latter
reflects the almost total collapse of work
among the New Australians.
At the instigation of Arthur Calwell a
resolution criticising the White Australia
Policy was referred to a committee. The
background to this one was curious. The
motion was originally put forward by
Sam Goldbloom, the chief Communist
party apologist in the Victorian A.L.P.
The White Australia Policy is one issue
where the Communist party and the
militant trade unions have conflicting
aims, and it became apparent that if this
motion was persisted with there could be
a sudden end to the post-1955 mateship
of the A.L.P. and the Communist party
in Victoria. Goldbloom and his Peace
Council allies did a rapid double-think
and have agreed that the incoming
executive can handle (i.e., shelve) the hot
potato. The people left holding the bag
on White Australia are young idealists,
mainly from the university, who regarded
the support of the Communist party
fringe as a political kiss of death.
One young delegate from a unity-
ticket union, attending his first confer-
ence, was heard to say excitedly over his
shandy in the bar of the Lygon: “It was
a real Labor Conference. There was real
unity. .. .everyone was agreeing. .. .there
were no disagreements... .it was won-
derful.”


SCIENCE
The Ghost of the
Man Who was
Right
GRIFFITH TAYLOR
“Sing small”
FROM A BRISBANE CORRESPONDENT
The recent 35th A.N.Z.A.A.S. con-
ference, described by its convenors
as the biggest and best ever, could have
taken place on an inaccessible island
rather than in Brisbane for all most Aus-
tralians heard of it. Despite the adoption
by the Australian and New Zealand
Association for the Advancement of
Science of a report advocating the use
of “Press, radio, television and films as
media for taking science to the public”
there was an almost total breakdown
of public relations. Not that the report
committee (Sir Sam Wadham, Emeritus
Professor G. S. Browne and Mr Newman
H. Rosenthal, all of Melbourne Univer-
sity) was greatly concerned to keep the
public informed ; rather they wanted
public interest so there would be greater
financial support for research and educa-
tion. Perhaps they should have asked
Professor Messel to handle their P.R.
for, as it was, there was less provision
for the working press, television or radio
reporter at this conference of 2800 than
is normal at a Jaycee district sub-branch
meeting.
Yet there were many subjects worth
reporting. “Economists are often
charlatans” is usually a layman’s grouch,
but E. A. Russell, Reader in Economics
at Adelaide University, had the courage
to say it at the conference. Russell com-
plained that Australia’s economy would
run blind until the Commonwealth
Statistician could provide figures to show
the effects of award transmissions on
earnings, from quarter to quarter, the
proportions of earnings attributed to
overtime, and the distribution of earn-
ings throughout industries. An upshot
of this admission that Australian econo-
mists lack the tools to do their job
properly was a decision to write the
Commonwealth Statistician suggesting
that he meet university and private-
enterprise economists on “m utu a 1
explanation occasions.”
Sir Samuel Wadham warned that the
present economic climate in agriculture
is similar to that of 1928-29, and then
the Ghost of the Man Who Was Right
bobbed up in the quite substantial shape
of 80-year-old Professor Griffith Taylor,
now living in retirement in Sydney. More
than 30 years ago he shocked Australia
with a prediction that our population
would not exceed 30 million this century.
The Professor left Australia shortly after-
wards (1928) to become Professor 0 f
Geography at Chicago University and
later Toronto before returning to Aus-
tralia, mainly for climatic reasons. (“I’ ve
studied climate for 50 years and Aus-
tralia has the pick of them.”) What are
the professor’s forecasts for our future
population? “We just have to learn to
sing small,” he told a geography section
symposium.
SPORT
Mrs Basketball
Speaks
FROM A PERTH CORRESPONDENT
“iy/T ODESTY > s our aim,” Mrs Maude
Matthews said severely in Perth
the other day and the cry was echoed as
far away as Tasmania. Some champions
of immodesty were found—but Mrs
Matthews has the game by the throat.
When Mrs Basketball decides that
Western Australian girl basketballers
shall wear regulation-length uniforms,
they do so or run foul of the Western
Australian Women’s Basketball Associa-
tion.
In the past ten years Mrs Matthews
has made the sport a major feminine
preoccupation and she was largely
responsible for the association's spacious
Matthews Basketball Centre at Floreat
Park. All the association’s 308 teams
play on its 60 courts and this centralisa-
tion enables secretary Matthews to check
that their skirts are “no less than seven
inches from the ground.”
Mrs Matthews is not such a dictator
as she may sound. “In practice, we
allow an inch or so of latitude and we
don’t insist that offenders buy a new
uniform straight away.” But the trouble
with basketball girls, complained a Tas-
manian coach, is that you give them an
inch and they change their style ; those
with “brazenly short skirts” are almost
always the ones who sport frilly under-
wear. Despite the rigors of the climate,
some Tasmanian girls ignore the regula-
tions which prescribe a box-pleated
uniform, Bin. above the knees when
kneeling, with no splits in the sides and
matching or navy-blue pants. But now
they are going to be blitzed as the 1000-
odd girls under Mrs Matthews’s surveil-
lance have been.
Protests have been made against this
“puritanism” and one rebel suggested the
Perth girls should form a new associa-
tion. But where would the girls be
without Mrs Maude Matthews and the
Matthews Basketball Centre? One Perth
columnist, however, pointed out that the
regulation only laid down how long
skirts could be, not how short they could
be. Everyone held their breath as Mrs
Matthews was closely questioned on this.
She admitted the rule could be inter-
preted two ways. “But make no mis-
take,” she warned. “Our girls know
which way we interpret it.”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Back to Berlin
Now that Mr Khrushchev has proposed
a conference “without any delay” to
“solve” the Berlin and German problems
ive are back where we came in. Let us
pray that we do not make such fools of
ourselves as we did last time.
When the summit diplomacy fuss was
at its height it was sometimes forgotten
that it had all begun over Berlin. On
November 27, 1958, Mr Khrushchev sent
his “ultimatum” note on West Berlin. It
is clear now that he was trying us on.
He was seeing how firm the Western
Alliance was, and whether our nerve was
strong enough not to let West Berlin fall
into his lap.
His Hitler-like demand for a settlement
within a six-month time limit led to the
1959 Geneva Foreign Ministers’ Confer-
ence (which got nowhere) and to a loss of
nerve in the United Kingdom (which led
to Mr Macmillan’s “peace missions,” and
a lot of flapping in parts of the British
press). The thing then got out of hand
as world statesmen took planes to visit
each other, ending in Mr Khrushchev’s
attempt at Camp David to push President
Eisenhower into concessions.
When it became clear to him that,
despite a temporary wavering, the West
was not going to give him Berlin be
plucked the U 2 out of the skies, jettisoned
the Paris Conference and went home to
wait and see who was going to win the
American elections.
Put down baldly like that, it does not
seem so bad. But at the time all over the
Western world there was panic and doubt.
Far too many of us began to dream of
“peace” as something that could be
bought at other people’s expense ; far too
many of us began to dream of the
tensions of the Cold War as being in some
miraculous way “settled.” Learned com-
mentators got out their maps, discovered
that West Berlin was militarily indefen-
sible and raised their eyebrows hopefully.
Why worry about it? It was no use to
us. Why not give in?
On this question we must never give
in. West Berlin is of immense strategic
importance to the West because it is the
soul of the world ; it is the hope for those
who live under tyranny in occupied
Eastern Europe ; it is the faith of those
who believe in the survival of the West.
For us to throw it to Khrushchev would
set in train the kind of demoralisation,
double - crossing and concession - mania
*hat marked the years before World War
JE We would give up this and that
strategically valueless” point; demands
Would increase ; we would finally make a
stand ; the bluffer would call our bluff ;
we might stand firm —and most of us, East
and West alike, would (accidentally) be
blown to bits.
The hearts of men who had heads to
think with and eyes to see first lifted when
the West defied Stalin with the Berlin air-
lift. It was there that we stood our
ground and it is there that we may have
to stand it again and again. There is
only one acceptable end to the German
question: a free plebiscite in which the
Germans can settle their own destiny. If
that does not happen we must accept
partition in fact, but never by treaty. If
Khrushchev pushes the issue we must meet
him with boldness and determination.
For the moment he thinks he is winning,
that if he does not win in Germany this
time he will win the next time because
fundamentally our morale will never sur-
vive his continued attacks. If we can
demonstrate that he is wrong, this may
not be without its effects in Russia. The
holding down of Eastern Europe is a cor-
rupting, enervating drain on Russian
morale itself. There is reason to believe
that there are Russians who also believe
in real peace, who wouid even yield East
Germany for some other relaxation of
tension. It is our job to sit it out until
the Russians get tired first.
Labor Cuts
its Threat
HPhe N.S.W. and Victoria A.L.P. Con-
ferences have put on their usual
show, and as a result of this it is now
almost certain that Labor will lose the
next election. Mr Calwell, who has
always put his money on a depression,
seems to think we have one ; he does
not explain why this would make D.L.P.
supporters vote for him. Even if there
were a depression (and there isn’t) it
would be swinging Liberal voters who
might switch to Labor. The D.L.P. sup-
porters will not vote for Labor not
because they necessarily think Mr
Menzies is running the country well but
because they think Mr Calwell would
run it disastrously; they are satisfied
that the Labor party has been tainted
by its collaboration with trade-union
Communists and by the influence of
fellow-travellers and under-cover Com-
munists in some of its counsels.
The Victorian Conference provides no
puzzles. Manned by delegates from
Communist-dominated unions, powerless,
bewildered branch delegates, and dele-
gates whose hatred of the D.L.P. forces
them into a unity alliance with Com-
munists, it simply rubber-stamped the
kind of A.L.P. policies that, if main-
tained, will keep the A.L.P. out of office
in Victoria for ever.
In N.S.W. an overwhelmingly “Right
wing” conference cut its throat as usual.
Nineteen names on the Right-wing ticket
for the State Executive were also on the
Left-wing ticket. In the name of unity
the Right-wingers gave themselves an
executive that, when you allow for
people who do not turn up at meetings
or become cynical or demoralised, be-
comes Left-wing on important issues.
The Right wing does this because it is
afraid that the Communist - dominated
unions will drop out of the A.L.P. if
they don’t (which is nonsense ; they will
stay in the A.L.P. to influence it) ; be-
cause it is too afraid to be ruthless ; and
because it still suffers morally from the
collaboration tactics of survival that
rotted away its belief in itself after the
smashing of the Industrial Group. The
possibility of N.S.W. moving on Victoria
before the election is still nil. But if
Labor loses the election they may be
forced to.
Irate
Internationalists
/"Ane statement made at the Victorian
A.L.P. Conference deserves special
mention. Mr S. Goldbloom claimed that
it might not be long before Australian
embassies throughout the world were
picketed by irate internationalists because
of the “White Australia policy.” Mr
Goldbloom’s predictions may be a good
guide to the state of Communist thinking.
For Australians this possible Com-
munist offensive could mean two things.
Firstly, it is a warning that we should be
doing more to make our immigration
policy properly understood in the world.
We have nothing to be ashamed of ; our
policy is not apartheid. It is a restrictive
immigration programme adopted to
defend an established way of life. We
should be taking steps to make sure that
people understand this.
Secondly, it would be ridiculous if, like
some Americans in the past, we allowed
ourselves to be demoralised because some
rioting mobs indicated that they did not
love us —particularly when those rioting
mobs, Mr Goldbloom’s “irate inter-
nationalists” are hipped up by gangsters
and apostles of slavery.
By OBSERVER


Inside Darwin Now
"The old fire and violence have gone and a growing minority
of amiable nitwits is taking over."
PAUL HASSOCK
They depend too much on “Father Hasluck”
By K. G. WILLEY
BEFORE the war Darwin was more an Asian than an
Australian city. Pearl-buyers hunched at tables in
dingy bars haggling with Jap and Filipino divers over
stolen gems. Crocodile- and buffalo-hunters rode in
with their loads of stinking hides. Trepang luggers sent
waterfront idlers scurrying downwind as they brought their
vile-smelling and aphrodisiac cargoes in from the mangrove-
fringed shores of Arnhem Land. Down in Chinatown the
heavy scent of opium smoke hung in the air. In mysterious
wood and iron shacks men of a dozen nationalities gambled
at pi-que. mah-jongg. che-far and serang. Thousands of
pounds might change hands in whispered deals with
smugglers of drugs, silks, prohibited cage-birds. Chinese
pork butchers chopped up their meat in the streets.
Darwin, in those days, was a miniature Macao.
Ironically enough, it was the Japanese who ended all that.
On February 19. 1942, the bombs rained down, destroy-
ing Chinatown, forcing a mass civilian evacuation and
paving the way for a new Darwin. More than anything else,
it was the Japanese who turned Australia’s eyes on develop-
ment of its forgotten North. There are few of us now who
do not echo the slogans: “Populate or perish” . . . “Only
ten years remain” . . . “If we don’t do the job now someone
else will later” . . . But in the Northern Territory more is
needed than slogans and blind grants of money which, as
often as not. merely go to swell the ranks of the Common-
wealth Public Service. For this is the land of boom and
bust, of broken dreams.
Central Australia has its rich cattle and mining indus-
tries. The “Top End.” of which Darwin is the capital, has
only memories of long-gone gold rushes, less than 20
impoverished farmers around Katherine, a couple of ageing
fossickers at Pine Creek, the Rum Jungle uranium mine,
half-a-dozen market gardeners in the Darwin suburb of
Berrimah. Australia’s worst and most underdeveloped cattle
stations —and the ever-multiplying Commonwealth Public
Service.
Darwin is a strange place. In Legislative Councillor
Dick Ward and former Mayor Bill Richardson it has had
selfless champions. Many of its population have the
respected Australian quality of “guts” to a very marked
degree. Yet this also is the town which leads Australia in
such “mosts” as drunkenness, road accidents, illegitimate
births and insanity. Darwin is different from any other
Australian city. And for this —at least partly—can be
blamed The Climate and The Great Comparison.
First, The Climate. Darwin has two seasons, “The
Wet” and “The Dry.” approximating to spring-summer
and autumn-winter. The Dry is good-oh. The nights are
cool. The bleezes blow. But it is little more than an annual
breathing space, preparing us for the next “Wet.” It comes
as suddenly and inevitably as night follows day. The
Arafura Sea, nudging into Darwin Harbor, turns grey. The
first sea wasps are seen and the Department of Health bans
swimming from the beaches. Next the great exodus of
public servants begins, heading south on long leave. Poli-
ticians cease arriving on “fact-finding” tours. The humidity
melts you, the mosquitoes swarm, the sun beats down.
Round about October comes the Suicide Season. This
is the time when, every year, at least half-a-dozen decide
to end it all with gun. rope or dynamite. One lost soul
laboriously climbed 50ft. to the top of Darwin’s water
tower then jumped off while interested drinkers at the
nearby Hotel Darwin were laying the bets. The Suicide
Season lasts right through the first storms till early
December. From then until January, Darwinites tradi-
tionally devote themselves to beer and fights, and after
that the monsoon has come and the worst is over.
The climate smiles during The Dry and scowls in The
Wet. But The Great Comparison is always with us. Books
and newspapers bill Darwin as The Last Frontier, refuge
of the individualist. Yet 70 per cent, of the population are
public servants and their families, and others who depend
directly on the Government for their livelihood. Most of
the remaining 30 per cent, work in shops and stores which,
however much they hate to admit it, would disappear if
the public service pulled out.
Pearling has collapsed. Trepanging. too. Buffalo hides
are not worth exporting. Croc skins are only just now
experiencing a mild revival. The Asian cattle trade is in
temporary —maybe permanent —eclipse. Commercially.
Darwin is a parasite. The remains of old Darwin are still
here: The Saribs, the Fongs, the Angeles, the Ah Kitts. Ah
Matts. Lew Fatts, the Sariagos . . . Chin Gong brooding in
his store . . . Giant salvage expert Carl Atkinson, whose tin
shanty lair of Doctor’s Gully has produced a flow of tall
stories that would have delighted Mark Twain . . . Barra-
mundi fisherman George Haritos . . . Policeman Sandy
McNab, who was nearly killed during the depression when
a mob of unemployed stormed the Government offices and
ran the Red Flag to the masthead . . .
But over all now, like the buffalo’s wet-season coating
of fat, lies the protective—and stultifying—blanket of the
public service.
A BOUT four years ago Darwin had reached the summit of
its post-war boom. Many past methods of “running the
Territory” had failed. Now the Government had imposed
Rule by Public Servant, placing over all a highly-paid
Rubber Stamp in the person of permanent public servant
J. C. Archer as Administrator. The slogan “Father knows
best” grew up. And Father Hasluck and his Territories
Department advisers down there in Canberra certainly did
know best —as far as their own chicks were concerned.
The war-time wreckage was gone. In its place were
hundreds of £6OOO “tropical type” houses, carefully designed


dwellings, built on stilts and placed to catch the evening
breeze. In these dwelt the public servants, paying an aver-
age rent of less than £2 a week, their salaries bolstered by a
fat district allowance to make up for the “rigors” of Darwin
life. Superannuation funds took care of their future; they
and their families had their return fares paid south every
two years, on long leave. Their work was not onerous, they
had little authority to exert. If they felt their careers needed
a kick along they were free to practise Parkinson’s Law of
self-multiplication within their own departments.
In a seedy fringe around this Lotus Land dwelt the
old Darwinites and the employees of private enterprise. A
slum encirclement consisting of hundreds of old Army huts
at Nightcliff and Stuart Park and the galvanised-iron hell
that was—and is—Winnellie.
The Great Comparison with public service conditions
has white-anted private enterprise, which must meet them
if it wants to attract stable staff. Businesses crash here with
sickening regularity. Commercial enterprise staggers along
on a universal credit system. Repossessions of cars and
other hire-purchase goods are an Australian record. Darwin
is a bankers’ nightmare.
Over the years the huts at Nightcliff and most of those
at Stuart Park have been pulled down. Their occupants
have built their own homes, left the Territory, moved into
the little adobe-brick dwellings the Housing Commission is
renting at £4 15s. a week. Or else they have gone to
Winnellie.
Winnellie is a collection of rusted iron shanties five
miles from Darwin Post Office. There lives the final indict-
ment of The Great Comparison. Scores of underprivileged
families, white and colored, who either cannot or do not
want to achieve anything better.
Children grow up fast at Winnellie. Liquor parties
racket all night long. If you are game to risk diseases
running the full gamut from syphillis to leprosy, a bottle of
wine or two bottles of beer will buy you a colored woman
for the night. Sometimes groups of native lepers from
nearby East Arm Leprosarium break out and join the fun.
Ihe Great Comparison is one reason for Darwin's
drifting population. Another is the absence of freehold
land. The Government's motive in maintaining the 99-year
lease system is the creditable one of preventing speculation
and ensuring that blocks, once subdivided, are built on. But
a system by which freehold was granted once the owner
had fulfilled the improvement conditions of his lease would
be just as great a safeguard.
The leasehold system has not stopped land speculation.
Leased land is just as easily sold for a profit as owned land,
and such transactions have made fortunes for a few in
Darwin. What the leasehold system has done is to deter
from building many young couples who come here from
interstate with the universal Australian dream of a home
of their own.
A “perpetual” or 99-year lease is not ownership. The
occupier pays to the Government rent which can be raised
or reduced as the years go by. In the British world, to own
your own land is an ambition rooted deep in us all. Per-
petual leases may be “just as good”—though it is doubtful
if any other part of Australia would swap freehold for them
y-but. right or wrong, the impossibility of “owning a home”
in Darwin is one of the big factors which lead people—
after two, three or ten years here—to “give it away” and
go south.
Leasehold and The Great Comparison have contributed
to a dangerously temporary air in Darwin. This uncertainty
is reflected not only in the makeshift premises of the lead-
ing stores but in the headquarters of the Commonwealth
Department of Works, the Supreme and Police Courts,
Mines. Lands, Welfare and other Government branches.
Which still occupy converted Sidney Williams huts, often
dating back to the war. Only recently did the Government
indicate it was in Darwin to stay by pushing through plans
to spend millions on a new powerhouse, courthouse, high
school and administration buildings. And even here The
Great Comparison was evident, for while the new adminis-
tration offices for public servants will be air-conditioned,
there were “insufficient funds” to do likewise for the new
high school, where the children of Darwin will receive their
education.
The “submerged third” of Darwin residents—the
permanent Territorians —do not like direct rule from Can-
berra. They do not like to see their Federal member denied
a vote in Parliament. They do not like being second-class
citizens of a public-service town. But neither are they dis-
posed to do much about it. With two breweries to support
and a race club and 20 or 30 unofficial gambling dens to
keep going, and fewer than 12,000 people to do it with, their
time is limited. When a public meeting more than four
years ago was called to decide on reintroduction of Local
Government, only 70 attended. When the elected members
of the Legislative Council resigned two years ago to press
for a vote in Federal Parliament and a greater measure of
self-government, speakers barely half-filled the Town Hall.
The leaders here come from a few. The public, by and large,
is just not with it.
One of the few was the first post-war mayor. Bill
Richardson, who took over the Government-inspired
reappearance of the Darwin City Council. It was
impoverished then, as it is impoverished now. But he
tackled the job with gusto and hit on the golden formula
of “bouncing” public servants to get what he wanted.
Without Bill Richardson Darwin would have no Olympic
swimming pool today. It was not his fault that that is his
only monument.
f OCAL government in Darwin raises The Great Compari-
son again. Private leaseholders, who rent their land
from the Government, must also pay council rates, plus a
loan rate, plus a special rate to pay off the swimming pool.
The public service majority of the population pay no
council or swimming-pool rates and their rent remains at
the same 10 per cent, of salary it was before local govern-
ment was introduced.
If a poll were taken today on whether or not the
Darwin City Council should stay in business, it would
disappear under a landslide “No” vote. But Richardson
and the men who came after him regard it as a test of
whether Territorians are worthy of a greater say in their
own affairs. Richardson, in his efforts to make the council
workable in a community where two-thirds of the house-
holders pay no individual rates, began a guerrilla war with
Administration which his successors have carried on ever
since.
Second Mayor John Lyons is a lawyer, a former Rugby
Union champion and one of Darwin’s oldest and most
respected citizens. But his term was more entertaining
than constructive, highlighted by a member’s use of four-
letter words at one historic meeting; and by the great
garbage strike, during which councillors manned the rubbish
ADMINISTRATOR ROGER NOTT and MRS NOTT WITH
MR and MRS DON SANDERS
A breath of fresh air


carts until a marathon indosHal dispute with their day-
labor employees was settled.
The present mayor. Harry Cooper, has been in for two
years. His two terms have been terms of disillusionment.
Councillors have debated the pros and cons of whether
beer and whisky should be served at civic receptions and
the type of robes the mayor should wear. Meanwhile, with
no money available, town roads have deteriorated to the
stage of being almost impassable during The Wet. The
council has failed to break through a local-government
ordinance which has been found to invalidate the council’s
own by-laws, and which an outside expert on local govern-
ment has recommended should be scrapped altogether.
The council’s calls for a new ordinance have, so far,
gone unheeded. While given responsibility for maintaining
roads, they are given no say over town-planning. This
has reached the Wonderland stage where, in a town of less
than 12,000 people, a new resident has. to go seven miles
out to Nightcliff or Rapid Creek to buy a building block,
while many square miles of vacant land around the city are
held by the armed services and the Native Welfare Branch.
Deputy Mayor Ted D'Ambrosio recently moved for the
mass resignation of councillors and break-up until the
Government was prepared to concede a saner deal. This
motion was defeated, but it undoubtedly will be raised again.
Maybe local government was introduced too early. Is
there a future for it anyway in a city rigidly controlled from
Canberra, where less than a third of the population pay
rates? But local government is here and. for the sake of
the future, it must be made to work. The trouble is. no
one yet has quite worked out how.
As the Territory’s “capital.” Darwin also is the seat
of the Legislative Council, a stormy body with the ability
to make loud and intelligent noises. The Legislative
Council, basically, faces the same problems as the City
Council. In the member for Port Darwin (Mr Ward), the
member for Elsey (Mr Harold “Tiger” Brennan) and others,
it has men of calibre high enough to hold their own in any
legislature anywhere. These men battle for increased self-
government, trial by jury, a vote in Federal Parliament and
other rights which Australians elsewhere accept as a matter
of course. They face a bloc vote of public-service members.
But they have their successes. Only a few years ago Mr
Brennan managed to have removed from the statute books
a provision under which residents could be deported out of
the Territory for non-payment of income-tax. But the
average Darwinite seems to regard the Legislative Council
proceedings less as a guardian of his freedom than as a
show turned on for his own amusement. “The best free
show in town,” a well-known timber contractor told me
happily after a particularly fiery session.
The image of “Father” Hasluck in Canberra —“Oom
Paul,” as Tiger Brennan has christened him—goes deep;
perhaps even deeper than Brennan and Ward, who are head
and shoulders politically over their contemporaries here,
realise. Those who go against “Father” and The System
are often ridiculed in Darwin as “ratbags.” When consti-
tutional reform for the Legislative Council was pushed
through a couple of years ago it was not due to the man
in the street, who could not even fill the Darwin Town Hall
for a meeting on the subject, but to Ward, Brennan,
Purkiss, Hargrave, Petrick and Carroll —the elected mem-
bers who ignored the apathy around them and fought a
battle through to the end. In Darwin, spirit like this is by no
means universal.
X>EER, in Darwin, is not so much a beverage as a way of
life. Girls are greatly in the minority. Many men,
particularly in the lower-income bracket, can hope for no
more in the way of female companionship than a crowded
hour with some colored girl, bought with a bottle of wine,
and followed by a spell in jail if the woman is a fullblood
and they are caught. This has led, in much of Darwin, to
an essentially male community, whose life is centred around
the bottle.
BABE DAMASO
A melting pot
DICK WARD
Against a bloc vote
Darwin has two breweries to minister to its needs, and
supports both nobly. The influence of beer is everywhere.
Enshrined in the bar of the Workers’ Club still is a bottle
of Buffalo Bitter, first and worst Darwin brew, which disap-
peared years ago but is still remembered with reverence
and horror. It has five thriving hotels and several licensed
clubs which operate on more or less a “pub” basis. Ten-
o’clock closing is the rule, but strong political moves are
afoot to have this extended an hour and to bring in two
Sunday “sessions.” For many in Darwin social life is a
series of “grog” parties. If you go visiting you never go
“unarmed.”
Maybe it is the liquor and maybe it is just something
in the air, but Darwin also is a refuge for ear-bashers,
ex-champions of this and that, and just plain “nuts.” 1
have met here no less than ten men who could “break
evens for the hundred yards” when they were younger.
“Corse 1 can’t do it now.” they'll say, and they’ll slap their
expanding waistlines and have another beer. Ex-fighters.
ex-Rugby players, ex-cricketers, ex-this and ex-that—
Darwin has the lot.
As a place of entertainment in Darwin the Police Court
ranks not far behind the picture theatre and the Legislative
Council. The “stars” are such characters as Theodore Bun.
who lives “on air and what grows”; Mr D . who left
England because “my father reckoned one village idiot was
enough.” Peeping Toms pop up faster than mushrooms.
A magistrate freed one. caught in the grounds of a women’s
hostel late at night, when the culprit claimed he was hunting
“a rare type of butterfly which is seen only at night.”
Another was caught cutting a hole in a girl’s mosquito
net with a razor blade.
Darwin is still, as it has always been, a melting pot of
races. Big Chinese. Greek and Italian elements dwell side
by side with the rest of the community. They have their
own sporting teams and control a large share of local
commerce. One Greek businessman, Michael Paspalis. by
his energy and industry, rose from a butcher boy to become
Darwin’s only millionaire. There is virtually no racial
prejudice and no color bar. Mixed-blood people, including
part-aborigines, have the same rights as a white man or a
Chinese. Intermarriage is frequent and totally accepted.
The old Half-caste Progressive Association, with Mr Babe
Damaso as secretary, faded out several years ago after it
had won citizen’s rights for its members.
With fullbloods the position is different. Their home.
Bagot Compound, set in a tiny reserve of a few square
miles of bush, is within the Darwin city limits. Their life
in Bagot is primitive, spiced with frequent orgies on for-
bidden “grog” and occasional, sometimes fatal, spear and
waddy duels. Some of them, like Holder Adams and the
mighty footballer Jack White, have won citizenship and
live amicably now in white suburbs. But for most Bagot
aborigines, their time has not yet come. Few work regu-
larly. Most just draw their rations and do an occasional


MRS PETROV’S GUARD and a DARWIN POLICEMAN
The big day
day’s gardening for “plonk money.” Their advance towards
assimilation is real, but slow.
At present, though a picturesque part of Darwin, the
fullblood is a spectator, watching what is going on around
him with a happy grin, and yelling “Motee car. motee car”
at the motorists who drive along Bagot Road to Nightcliff
on their way home of an evening. When the mass of
Darwin’s fullblood natives achieve —and earn —citizenship
there will be no Jim Crowism in this most tolerant of all
Australian communities.
Every Saturday afternoon Darwin goes through the
motions of holding a race meeting. That struggling body,
the Darwin Turf Club, rakes up one or two horses and one
or two races and it’s on. As a meeting it is not so hot. But
as a means of providing Darwin with legalised betting, the
club is a great success. Licensed bookies thrive, laying the
odds on races throughout Australia. Formation of the
Darwin Turf Club was the answer to the great betting
ramps and official corruptions of the past.
Of course it hasn't stopped s.-p. betting. Under the
surface this thrives as much as ever. So does pak-a-poo.
pi-que. serang and even ordinary old poker. Gambling is
endemic.
The Territorian is the world’s most docile subject.
You can browbeat him. push him around, turn him out
of house and home. He'll take it with a shrug. But interfere
with his beer and his bets and you've got a fight on your
hands.
VUHERE is Darwin going? The past is past. The future
is hidden. In this part of the world the present, unfor-
tunately. is a vacuum.
A Japanese salvage company has cleared the war-time
wrecks from Darwin Harbor. Government confidence in
the future is shown by the giant building projects it plans
over the next few years. But all this growth is parasitic.
Can Darwin survive for ever as an enormous parasite,
financed by the people of Australia, controlled from Can-
berra and inhabited by Commonwealth Public Servants and
a few ragged hangers-on from another era?
Darwin’s problems are obvious. And. basically, they
are economic, not political. Its 12.000 inhabitants have a
magnificent international airport, a few imposing hotels and
banks, some very temporary-looking wood and iron depart-
ment stores and row on row of houses and huts. There are
no factories, no signs of industry at work. Apart from a
few market gardens there are no farms nearer than Humpty
Doo, 60-odd miles away, where the giant Territory Rice
scheme has dwindled to four 500-acre share-farms.
During the dry season buffaloes and kangaroos some-
times penetrate the outer suburbs, trample the golf course,
root up gardens. When a wallaby hopped into the Supreme
Court a couple of weeks ago the judge inquired solemnly
whether It was a witness, then ordered its removal. If left
to its own resources, Darwin would starve in a week. Food
and supplies come in by air, by truck up the Stuart High-
way, by sea from the eastern States. Backloading in these
same ships, trucks and planes is confined to a small, though
valuable export trade in barramundi, a few hides and some
minerals. Even the cattle trade to Asia has been strangled,
because Indonesia now is producing better-quality cattle
cheaper.
The Darwin Show, like all good shows, reflects its
community. The Government departments have lavish and
impressive exhibits. The agriculture section, though high in
quality, is low in quantity. Livestock, generally, is confined
to a few skinny cattle and horses, some goats and a few
hens.
The land round Darwin itself is not fertile. The town’s
only economic future must be through its magnificent
harbor as the port of the Northern Territory. But the trade
today is inward, not outward. The sending of Governors-
General Sir William Slim and Lord Dunrossil to open the
Darwin Show did not create an agriculture. The declaration
of Darwin, on paper, as a city could not make a city of a
town where only the constant numerical increase in the
public service conceals the alarming drift of private popula-
tion away from the area.
Different people see Darwin in different ways. To
the armed services it is still a garrison town. But its future
does not lie in “garrisons” or dreams of some hypothetical
British naval base to replace Singapore. It lies in trade and
commerce, as the port of the North.
The member for the Northern Territory (Mr Nelson)
told Federal Parliament recently that not one worthwhile
Government developmental project was currently going on
in the North. Many Territory leaders believe the answer
is in scrapping government by public service and setting up
a commission, similar to the Snowy Mountains Authority, to
build the roads, railways and other projects which are
prerequisites for any large-scale development.
There are no magic wands for Australia to wave in the
North. Development will be difficult, it will cost a lot of
money, it will impose a burden on the rest of Australia.
How much of the type of dedication needed is evident in
Darwin itself?
The public image of the Territorian is a hairy, wide-
hatted sort of individual who likes his beer and can fight
like a threshing machine. The image is wrong. The men
of Darwin still like their beer. They drink more than twice
as much of it as other Australians. But the old fire and
violence have gone. Dependence on “Father,” freedom
from responsibility for running their own affairs and a
transient society have bred a growing minority who could
best be described as amiable nitwits, “full of sound and
fury and signifying nothing.”
Darwin has leaders in men like Legislative Councillor
Dick Ward. North Australian Workers’ Union secretary
Paddy Carroll. Mayor Harry Cooper. What it needs now
is a new spirit, a bit more of the guts on which Territorians
once prided themselves.
Maybe the new Administrator, former N.S.W. Minister
for Agriculture Roger Nott. will make the difference.
Already he has let in a breath of air with his “coats-off”
decree at public functions, and has shown confidence in
the North by placing his son in employment on a Govern-
ment farm at Katherine.
There is much to be done around Darwin—tuna and
barramundi fishing to be developed, a cattle industry to
modernise, rice, peanuts and other farm production to be
pushed along. There are huge, known mineral deposits
lying idle.
The next ten years will tell the story of whether Darwin
is to be in fact, as well as in name, a frontier to the North
and the gateway to Australia—or whether it will remain,
as it is now. a ratbag fringe, flung far out by a now-receding
wave of development: a dream which may one day turn
into a nightmare.


1
s>
mmm
Tm JfcitßP Jslaw>
f&isseJl
3mddor\,
Why I am (Not) Expatriate—III
The Balance
of Opposites
’’The English and Australian mentalities could not
be more different/’
By RUSSELL BRADDON
/Constantly, as an Australian living in London, I am asked:
“Why don't you go home?”; and every time the question
is posed, my reaction to it is different. Thus, when English-
men ask the question, which is usually after a long and
incredibly arctic English summer, it is difficult to think of any
reason why I shouldn't. Equally, however, when Australians
ask the question, usually in tones of intense venom, as if
one were guilty of treason by living anywhere except on
Bondi beach, it is difficult to think of any reason why I should.
Obviously one's true feelings lie somewhere between these two
opposed and utterly thoughtless reactions: but what exactly
they are is extremely difficult to define.
There is, however, one misconception about the quite
large colony of Australians who live in England, and that
is that, although they are dubbed “expatriates” by a vaguely
suspicious Australian press, they don’t feel like expatriates.
On the contrary, all of them thaj I know (and they include
Paul Brickhill, Jon Cleary, Peter Finch, Joan Hammond. Hugh
Hastings, Kitty Bluett, Dick Bentley, Joan Sutherland, Bill Kerr
and Margaretta Elkins) all of them feel profoundly Australian;
and yet, at the same time, all of them feel curiously at home
over here.
So the question now becomes not “why are you an
expatriate?” but “how the hell can you feel at home anywhere
but Australia?”; and since each of us would have to answer
this question differently, 1 suppose I must now speak purely
for myself.
Certainly it’s nothing physical about England that makes
me feel at home. Like any other Australian l need only to
look at my belly, and see that the tide-mark of sun tan has
vanished, to decide instantly that I am ill. Over here, that
tide-mark not only is almost continuously non-existent but
one is assailed also by recurring bouts of flu, of plague-like
RUSSELL BRADDON
as seen by Ronald Searle in Changi Prison
Camp
virulence, that provide constant and indisputable evidence of
mortal illness. But worse is to come.
Not only is there rarely any sun for years on end in
England, there is not even any surf when there is sun —an
act of God of unthinkable harshness to any Australian. Not
only are there practically no tennis courts in England, there
aren't even any Englishmen who can play tennis where courts
do exist. Not only, in short, are Englishmen not outdoor
types, as we are, but they would die of exposure if they were.
No —most emphatically it is not the physical climate that
makes me feel at home over here.
The financial climate then? —you will ask cynically. To
which—when cigarettes cost more than gold and income tax
is so ruinous that you’d happily cut your throat to escape it,
if only death duties weren’t even more ruinous—l retort:
“Hardly! ”
A nd now that I admit that it is neither the physical nor the
financial climate of Biitain that appeals, doubtless you
will become very cynical indeed.
“I suppose,” you will sneer, “it’s the mental climate of
England that makes you feel at home? All that class nonsense,
where half the population go to Eton and carry furled
umbrellas while the other half live on fish and chips and
keep coal in the bath?” To which, again, I must reply:
“Hardly”—but not because of the furled umbrellas or of
the coal in the bath. I don't feel mentally English because
mentally I am incorrigibly Australian: and the two mentalities
could not be more different.
Yet it is precisely here, 1 feel, that lies the clue to the
contentedness of so many Australian residents in Britain —here
in this difference of mentality.
The Australian is at his best in attack, the Englishman
in defence ; the Australian always knows what he wants and
expects to get it, the Englishman is seldom sure of what he
wants and knows anyway that he won’t be allowed to get it;
the Australian is forthright to the point of rudeness, the
Englishman polite to the point of evasiveness ; the Australian's
accent helpfully conceals his social background, the English-
man reveals his background entirely and often disastrously;
the Australian regards Authority as his upstart servant, the
Englishman accepts it as his undisputed master.
On the other hand, the English are not racially arrogant,
we Australians are ; the English do not fear public displays
of emotion, we Australians do ; the English positively revel
in criticism of themselves, we Australians tolerate it only so
long as it is not adverse.
The catalogue could go on for ever. In short, our minds,
British and Australian —like our climates —are complementary;
which enables many of us over here to live and think and
work as we always have done, without any concessions at
all to local conditions, and yet to fit into the local pattern
as if we had always been here, born and bred to it and
stimulated by it.
Again, though, it is only fair to point out that such a
process of fitting in involves two parties—the fitters-in and


the surrounding bodies —and that, in the case of England,
the surrounding bodies are extraordinarily amiable. Not with
them is there any closed shop ; indeed it almost seems that
they admire the Australian more than their own man. Not
with them is there any need to conform ; indeed they admire
the eccentric far more than the conformist in their midst.
Still less with them is there any of that deadly spirit of
chauvinism which kills off so much creative writing and hates
what little survives ; England, generously and open-mindedly,
accepts all literary styles, from that of Patrick White to that
of Leon Uris ; and flocks to see plays by men with tastes
and subjects as diverse as Ray Lawler, Harold Pinter and
Jean Anouilh.
doubt this last virtue is no real virtue at all in a country
so close to the centre of everything that affects the world
today. Doubtless the nation which was the hub of World
War 11, and which has since been visited personally by every
statesman, actor and artist of world stature, could not have
remained chauvinistic even if it had tried to: but certainly
it is a joy to all who would write for a living that it did not
so remain and appears never even to have wanted to do so.
Which, maybe, is my last and best reason for living and
working over here: I, a typically chauvinistic Australian,
am irresistibly attracted by the non-chauvinism of Britain.
It’s good for my pen ; it’s good for my mind ; it may even,
one day, prove good for my soul. But, however much good
it may do me, my mind and soul, though resident in London,
S.W. 1, will always be domiciled in Australia.
As Joan Sutherland said to me in Milan, just before she
slayed them with impeccable art in that ivory and gold
citadel of grand opera which is called La Scala: “You know,
singing in Australia used to be fun. Now it’s just damn hard
work! Always this terrible feeling of responsibility. Not just
to the people here, who’ve paid for their seats, but to all
the people back home as well. Hard work, that’s what it is.”
No mere expatriate would feel any such sense of responsibility.
As in the case of murder, a man cannot be convicted as
guilty of being an expatriate merely because of one lamentable
act; intent must also be proved. In the case of murder, intent
to kill ; in the case of expatriates, intent to desert. So far
I have been guilty of neither. But, and it is only fair that I
warn you, towards the next Australian who calls me an
expatriate, I might well justifiably become guilty of both.
LOOK BACK AT ANGER: The First 100 Years
From THE BULLETIN, January 21, 1888.
THE SAME OLD TUNE


COMMON MARKET
SURVEY
AUSTRALIA AND THE WORLD
Australia is
1. the Prize
Britain is ill-placed to resist the attacks on the trade links
with the Commonwealth.
By NEIL McINNES
BRITAIN’S MacMILLAN
A tear for the Commonwealth
IT would be natural if some alarm had been spread in
Australia by reports from London that Britain was on the
point of joining the Common Market. Not that the details
of European trade groupings seem to have aroused much
interest in a country that runs a substantial trade surplus
with the Continent, mainly because of wool which cannot
be bought elsewhere however Europeans re-group themselves.
But British policy since 1957 has aimed at convincing outsiders
that the Common Market was the work of the devil, so that
they were protecting their own interests by supporting British
efforts to ruin it. Moreover, right from the first discussions
in 1947 of a European customs union, Britain explained that
she could not herself join it without damaging the trade of
the Commonwealth. If now Britain not only ceases to oppose
the Common Market but seeks to join it, those who believed
earlier British pronouncements would be entitled to wonder
whether their business with all West Europe is not going to
suffer. They will scarcely be impressed by assurances from
London that Britain will manage to enter the Common Market
without hurting them —because, obviously, a nation takes such
a momentous decision only when its own interests dictate,
and when a government is in that mood assurances about
safeguarding the interests of others are readily given but
quickly forgotten.
To put it more bluntly, Britain could be forced to the
humiliating demarche of applying only by the direst necessity
for admission to an enterprise she has always condemned,
and if the need is as great as all that no one can rest on her
assurances that she will see to it that there are no victims.
Naturally, to carry the discussion further one would have
to stop talking about “British interests” as though they were
monolithic and look for the particular groups in the U.K.
that were more concerned about trade with the Continent
than trade with the Commonwealth. The point would then
be to follow their contest (reflected in the present division
within the British Cabinet and Tory party) and watch for
the moment when the former had their way over the latter.
At that moment, if it arrives, Australia could not be content
with the rearguard oratory of a defeated Empire party, but
would have to look out for her own affairs in a field where
she has so far taken little interest.
An aspect of the matter that must awaken Australian
curiosity is the extraordinarily enthusiastic support the U.S.A.
is giving to the proposal to get Britain inside the Common
Market. If this were really to be damaging to overseas
countries, the U.S.A. has much more to lose than Australia;
if she is ready, in fact positively anxious, to bear that loss,
it must be in view of another commercial prize. And that
prize could be, precisely, Australia —more generally, the dis-
mantling of the Commonwealth trade network in favor o£
easier American penetration of markets now dominated by
Britain. Alongside the devious policies- of the Continental
capitals and the vacillating attitude of London, Washington’s
policy on the reorganisation of Western trade has always
been direct and clear. The U.S.A. supported the Common
Market as a means to a Franco-German reconciliation (urgent
for an effective anti-Communist alliance) although it meant
loss of American trade ; at that time the dollar was as good
as gold, and Washington permitted itself many worse
extravagances for political ends. The reconciliation having
succeeded beyond all expectation and the dollar having mean-
time been seriously weakened, Washington decisively opposed
the British plan for a wider West European customs union,
because it would secure no further political unity while
causing much graver economic damage to American exporters.
Yet today, while American payments problems are as
grave as ever, the U.S.A. is urging Britain to adhere to the
Common Market. The intervening change in the Administra-
tion can have nothing to do with the case because the same
man is still in charge of U.S. policy—Mr Douglas Dill° n >


L e only Cabinet member to pass (with a promotion) from
L e Eisenhower to the Kennedy era. The apparent reversal
j s the development of a consistent doctrine. After vetoing
ihe European free-trade zone, which would have allowed
gritaiii to gain the advantages of Common Market member-
ship while retaining her Commonwealth connections, Washing-
j on would endorse British entry into the Common Market
on ly if those latter connections were sundered, to the benefit
of American trade. The loss in the European field would be
a $ great for U.S. traders in one case as the other, but if
every vestige of imperial preference goes for good America
could recoup those losses elsewhere—to start with, in Australia
which is the U.K.'s best Commonwealth market.
The negotiations for Britain’s association with the Com-
mon Market must, because of their immense complexity,
take many months ; meantime one may discount sensational
and inspired reports (Mr Macmillan has had to deny half
a dozen in recent weeks) that London has already taken the
heroic decision. The approach works will be laborious but
an Ariadne's thread to follow their course is the combined
American and Continental determination to force Britain
to end all imperial preference, i.e., to ruin the commercial
basis of the Commonwealth. Britain now believes that she
cannot prosper outside the Common Market; the members
of the latter believe that they cannot afford to admit so
redoubtable a candidate if she retains her privileges in
Commonwealth trade ; and the Americans believe that loss
of those privileges would benefit them. Of these three beliefs :
only the first is certainly true. Continentals vastly exaggerate
the benefits to British trade of imperial preferences, or rather
of what remains of them. The Americans, for their part, have
been proven wrong before today (e.g in India) about how
easily they would “move in'’ where they got the British out.
The determination of both is none the less keen for being
based on error.
In the face of this attack, Britain finds herself in an
extremely weak bargaining position. The slowest - growing
economy in Europe and the most protectionist, she has lost
her position of arbiter and leader, and has become the
suppliant at the gate, begging admission to an association
she vainly sought to upset and which—events have shown —
can manage very well without her. Worse, in a unique act
of diplomatic folly, she has tied about her own neck the
millstone of the Free Trade Area which she must now disband
in order to get into the six-nation trade bloc. She will have
enough trouble protecting her subsidised farming interests
(strongly represented in the Tory party) from the free competi-
tion of the Italian and French peasantry without being able
to extract from the Continentals extra privileges for her
Commonwealth trade. I must leave to others —or perhaps to
coming events —to decide how important for the survival of
the Commonwealth are the privileged trade links between
Britain and the former colonies. Maybe they are at least as
important as the various notions about racial equality that
caused the last serious Commonwealth crisis. Certainly, they
are today under an attack that Britain is ill-placed to resist.
MAN ON THE LAND
“What Will Happen
2. To Us?”
What will happen to us if Britain joins the European
Common Market? This question haunts the wool-
growers, the cattle-breeders, tire wheatgroweiw, the
dairyfarmers, the meat, fruit and vegetable canners
ana a host of others throughout Australia and New Zealand.
Both Australia and New Zealand depend on agricultural
products for most of their export earnings. Over 80 per cent,
of Australia’s export income is earned by primary producers,
mainly wooigrowefs. The proportion is even higher in New
Zealand, whose foreign trade depends on the sale of dairy
produce and beef on the U.K. market.
If Britain does join the Common Market, the immediate
effects will depend on the conditions of entry. Some pious
hopes have been expressed that the six Common Market
nations will be so pleased to have the United Kingdom in
that they will agree to ample concessions, which would in
effect preserve the bulk of the imperial preferences for a
long transitional period, and allow a broad system of exemp-
tions for Commonwealth trading partners until the necessary
adjustments can be made. By that time, it is argued, Europe
may become so prosperous that the whole of Australian and
New Zealand agricultural exports may be easily absorbed
anyway.
This is more like wishful thinking. France and West
Germany have so far been reluctant about offering any special
concessions to the British Government, and all negotiations
SIR DOUGLAS COPELAND
A long-term advantage
cn this subject—some of them conducted at the highest level
—have proved fruitless, in all probability Britain will have
to join as a full member, with the bare minimum of concessions
which would allow her to honor some immediate treaty com-
mitments with her present trading partners. No doubt every
effort will be made by the British Government to fulfil the
meat agreements secured by Australia and New Zealand, but
even this may meet with grave difficulties. And imperial
preferences will probably have to be almost totally abandoned
or very drastically revised.
Let's look at the darker side of the picture, taking Aus-
tralia first:
WOOL
It is unlikely that wool would be affected by the dis-
mantling of imperial preferences. In fact, wool experts
could benefit from expansion of demand and duty-free or
low-tariff entry into the original Common Market countries —
particularly in the long run. The £76 million (on 1959-60
figures) earned on the U.K. market look safe enough against
the Common Market background if wool prices hold.
DAIRY PRODUCTS
The £l2B million or so of foodstuffs absorbed by the
U.K. market last year, particularly dairy products, are in a
more difficult position.
If preferential treatment is abandoned, our butter exports
—to the tune of £21,749.135 —wiil be severely hurt or even


Fuitfi fat Hie
Fwitwe
It is good to see that in the scheme for building
a new network of North Australian roads, the
Northern Territory is being taken duly into
the planning.
Queensland’s richness in the production of
beef cattle and minerals proclaims itself, and
anything done to raise the wealth-winning potential
of that State is thoroughly justified.
But any road system aimed at confirming our
national prosperity through northern development
would be incomplete without taking into account
the more-than-half-a-million square miles of
Territory which reaches right to Australia’s heart
and is held in Federal possession.
In the drive for exports on which we have
entered, the Northern Territory must be made to
flourish—in cattle, minerals and agriculture.
Those of us with practical knowledge of the
Territory know what this means. While average
rainfall in much of its region is low, the grass
springs high after a wet season, and with water
stored and pastures good the North and Centre
can be made to live.
The Northern Territory is two-and-a-half times
the size of France; but its worth is to be rated less
in area than in terms of productive wealth. It now
carries more than a million cattle. Scientific advice
to the Department of Territories is that within the
next ten years the turnoff can be increased by
fifty per cent.
This entails the building of roads, the digging
of dams, the making of catchments, the sowing
of pastures.
And lest those who live in the towns and cities
consider these works as something remote from
their own livelihood, let us remind ourselves of
this: Earnings from beef and minerals and every
other type of rural export are helping to pay for the
capital equipment and raw materials needed in
imports for Australian factories.
Every new mile of interior roads —however
far from our home and employment—means more
prosperity for all to share in Australia’s
expanding future.
MR McEWEN
Boost our exports
MR LAN POTTER
A little bit concerned
almost totally wiped out. Holland and France are majori
butter-producers, so are North Italy and parts of West Ger ’
many. All these are Common Market countries. Moreover,
Denmark —another large butter-producer —has indicated that
it will join the Common Market if the United Kingdom does.
The Scandinavian countries can compete successfully with
Australia and New Zealand once protection for our agricul-
tural exports is removed or even lowered.
In 1959-60 Australia sold to the United Kingdom
£3,633,638 worth of cheese, £2,023,279 of eggs and egg products.
£1,862,539 of dried and powdered milk and cream and
£224,076 of preserved or concentrated milk. There is little
hope for these items if imperial preferences are abandoned,
Transport costs alone could price them out of the unprotected
U.K. market. And Holland is certain to make a determined
bid for this slice, followed by Denmark if that country joins.
MEAT
Meat exports to the U.K. will also run into trouble. Last
year beef and veal earned £25,531,838 and lamb and mutton
£4,992,730. Other meat exports, including rabbits, hares, pork,
poultry, etc., sold for £14,754,387. Here the position is more
difficult to forecast. If the existing agreements can be fully
honored, some 50 to 70 per cent, of beef and mutton and lamb
exports may be maintained. If only partially so, or not at all,
Australia will be lucky to keep 15 to 40 per cent, of the
current trade. Of course, these are only estimates.
WHEAT
The United Kingdom is a substantial importer of Aus-
tralian wheat £13,919.159 worth was sold in 1959-60, pins
£2,205,134 of barley and £1,113,651 of sorghum. There seems
to be a difficult future for these products, although some
wheat could be sold sporadically to the East European
countries. Poland has just made a substantial purchase of
Canadian wheat, but is paying only 10 p.c. in cash, and the
balance over three years. And it is cheaper to ship wheat
from Canada and the U.S. to Europe than from Australia.
SUGAR
Cane sugar is in a better position despite the numerous
agreements on quotas and limitations. Last year £ 15,586,344
of cane sugar was exported to Britain, and this commodity|
could actually benefit by a wider market, particularly because
of the present political situation in Cuba. If Cuba intends
to rely heavily on Soviet and East European industrial aid
it will have to sell most of its sugarcane crop at cut prices
behind the Iron Curtain. This could result in brisk demand fm
Australian sugar. . .
The total value of Australia’s exports to the Unite
Kingdom in 1959 - 60 was £247,321,451 compared with the
total for the whole of the world of £937,681,519. This means
that the United Kingdom provided about 26 p.c. of the tota
market for Australian exports.
Of this, £75,946,886 was earned by wool, £70,194,532 w


LYSAGMTS
pßoor
100% Australian-
made from Aus-
tralian Material
LYSAGHT’S esiabus " ed
WIRE NETTING ® FENCING WIRE • BARBED WIRE
WIRE NAILS
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK for Our MARKER
in every Roll of Netting
,J" 3 V -f I
rap .jlu •',•■■• ftt
j*.-,. .-.* : iJByilJ
ZINC OXIDE
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
YSAGHT BROS. & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Reg’d Office and Works, Blackwall Pt. Road,
Five Dock
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
DENMARK: Dairy farmers are on strike for a govern-
ment subsidy to meet competition
WOOL AUCTIONS: If Europe bought 10% less the industry would be ruined
foodstuffs of animal origin (excluding live animals) and
£57,844,097 by foodstuffs of vegetable origin, non - alcoholic
beverages and “substances used in making.” The balance
came from sales of metals, metal manufactures and machinery
(£15,769,843), leather and leather manufactures (£3,098,194)
rocks, minerals, ores and concentrates (£3,654,783), oils, fats
and waxes (£1,076,542), etc. Gold, silver and bronze specie
brought in £10,711,640.
NEW ZEALAND
New Zealand is in a more precarious position. Dairy
produce and beef, plus a smaller proportion of mutton and
lamb, are the main exports. The United Kingdom is the
traditional market, and many New Zealand rural industries
were developed to cater to English tastes. The United Kingdom
is New Zealand’s key trading partner. Cane sugar, a free-
market commodity, is not produced at all. Wheat and other
food crops are in much the same position as in Australia.
The immediate outlook depends on the terms on which Britain
will accede to the Common Market. Nothing definite is known,
but the terms are not expected to make things easy for New
Zealand or Australia.
If New Zealand’s trade balance and balance of payments
are seriously disturbed by British participation in the Common
Market, Australia will also be hurt. Our total exports to New
Zealand in 1959-60 amounted to a very substantial £54,342,852,
of which slightly less than half —£22,311,421 —was earned by
metals, metal manufactures and machinery.
If New Zealand is forced to cut down imports, Australia's
secondary export industries could suffer severely.
A ll these are mainly short-run considerations. True enough,
the long-term prospects are more favorable. Demand for
Australian wool and sugar will probably rise substantially
in the Common Market countries and other primary products
- —particularly wheat, beef and mutton —may find theii way
to the European inner markets. It is hoped that rising
prosperity will easily allow absorption of Australian and New
Zealand primary produce.
But, as John Maynard Keynes once said, in the long run
we are all dead. Balance-of-payments problems are immediate.
If Britain joins the Common Market tomorrow without
adequate safeguards, we shall feel the pinch right away.
What is to be done? Trade must be stepped up with
other countries, industrial exports stimulated and costs held
down. Australia, in the words of official spokesmen, is looking
forward to the expansion of the Asian markets. New Zealand
is trying to gain additional entry for her products into the
United States.
It is to our immediate economic advantage to help raise
national income levels in the friendly and neutral Asian
countries, so as to provide new and growing markets for our
primary and secondary exports. Trade with our current Asian
business partners must be increased. Japan's ten-year plan
gives rise to many hopes in this direction. But if trade with
Japan is to be stimulated, Australia must be prepared to bring
in more Japanese goods, which will hurt some domestic manu-
factures, particularly textiles.
Every effort must be made to lower agricultural production
costs. The level of investment into our primary industries
must be substantially raised.


FOR UM
Appeasement in
New Guinea
A New Propaganda Offensive
By PETER HASTINGS
"L !KE Cyprus in its time and Kashmir, West New Guinea is
one of those intractable problems that remove politics from
the sphere of reason and make sensible solutions apparently un-
attainable. Whichever way the problem is looked at, a choice
of evils is all that appears. Admission of the Indonesian claim
to what is now Dutch New Guinea is beginning to loo\ the least
of these evils.” -— “The Economist,” May 6, 1961.
“No doubt the real argument for federation of New Guinea
is political: it would seem to be a possible solution of the difficult
problem arising from Indonesia s claim to West New Guinea,
for it would presumably satisfy both the demands of Melanesian
nationalists and anti-colonial critics in the United Nations.
“Such a political argument is misconceived, however, because
the Indonesian claim is not racial but legal, and a Melanesian
federation which included what the Indonesians regard as legally
part of their country would at once embroil Australia in the
dispute. A federation, which could be established only with Dutch
and Australian consent, would very probably be regarded in Indo-
nesia as a colonialist conspiracy against them. .. .” “The New
Guinea Question” by F. J. West in “Foreign Affairs,” April, 1961.
A lthough written by different people
_ for different (and very influential)
journals in different countries, the two
statements quoted above bear the same
message. Both advocate that Dutch
New Guinea should be ceded to Indo-
nesia. The writer in “The Economist 55
advocates this course because, as he
argues in his article, the accelerated
Dutch plan for self determination is
“hopelessly unrelated to realities,” that
the Melanesians—apart from a tiny elite
—will be quite incapable of making any
but a nominal choice in the next 50
years ; that union (or “federation”) of
the two sides can only bring Australia
into dispute with a powerful neighbor.
Indonesia ; that union can only create a
financial problem that Australia might be
unable to assume (and other countries
unwilling to help her assume) and that a
handover of Dutch New Guinea to
Indonesia can only ensure Indonesian
goodwill for Australia and Holland. In-
xed, the article ends by forecasting that
if cession takes place there could come a
distant day when the Queen of The
Netherlands will be able visit Indo-
nesia just as the Queen of England can
now visit India and Pakistan. It is all
very simple and soothing.
Mr West—a senior research fellow in
Pacific History at the A.N.U.—pushes
much the same barrow on a longer
journey to end up in approximately the
same position. In a well-documented
article he examines the future political
possibilities for New Guinea by first
having a look at the formidable difficul-
ties in the way of political development.
He cites most of the well-known prob-
lems of New Guinea: poor economy,
backward Melanesians, small native
leadership, lack of investment capital,
illiteracy, multiplicity of languages and
difficult social organisation. He omits
only lack of communications to complete
the picture.
Having established the difficulties, Mr
West proceeds to examine three political
solutions for New Guinea—incorporation
of East New Guinea as an Australian
State, federation of West and East New
Guinea plus the Solomons (as advocated
by John Kerr) and creation of an inde-
pendent East New Guinea (comprising
Papua-New Guinea) within the British
Commonwealth with special treaty rela-
tions with Australia. He dismisses the
notion of Australian Statehood as most
of us have done some time ago. He
dismisses the suggestion of union or
PETER HASTINGS
federation for several reasons, the para-
mount one being that it would involve
us in dispute with Indonesia, and plumps
for the third alternative of Common-
wealth status and special treaty relations
with Australia. West New Guinea is left
to Indonesia.
The dominant note in both articles—
although one suspects that Mr West
would vigorously reject the suggest on-
is that of appeasement. Indonesia is the
stronger on the spot and therefore should
get West New Guinea and the hell with
Dutch, Australian or even New Guinean
interests. Indonesia wants something,
therefore Indonesia must have it.
The case for self-determination, for the
moral, social and political education of
the maximum possible number of New
Guineans to the point where they can at
least begin to conduct their own affairs,
is dismissed as “unrelated to reality.”
Viewed rationally, the assumption of
power in three-quarters of the new
African States by so-called African
elites is “unrelated to reality”—if reality
means an efficient Government and a
viable economy. In these terms it is just
as unreal to advocate the cession of
1,700,000 unconsulted New Guineans to
a nation splitting at the seams and
which could not establish a proper
administrative service in New Guinea.
One of “The Economist” arguments
for dismissing future West New Guinea
independence is that the infant State
would be handicapped from the start
“by Indonesian ill-will, and its politically-
conscious minority rent by divided loyal-
ties : to the Dutch-sponsored ‘national-
ists’ on the one hand and to Indonesian-
trained exiles on the other.” All the
evidence, at present, points to the
majority of politically conscious Papuans
and Indo-Papuans in West New Guinea
as being uncompromisingly pro-Dutch.
Why wouldn’t they be? It is the Dutch
who offer future independence and who
offer the skills and the money with which
to achieve it. Pro-Indonesian Papuans are
as yet in a decided minority. The
elite to whom I have spoken unhesi-
tatingly say that if Indonesia obtains
West New Guinea they will be faced with
imprisonment or death.
One can go on indefinitely rebutting
the arguments put forward by “The
Economist” and persuasively insinuated
by Mr West. But to do so is to evade


■oming to the point which is that the
Jsential flavor of both arguments is
Ippeasement. I believe this to be so for
important reasons. One of them is
!e all-pervasive image of Asia which is
lat of a single, monolithic, powerful
State. An unspoken assumption of both
arguments, I suspect, is that Indonesia
somehow represents an Asian attitude—
J s olid, united and implacable ; that Indo-
|nesia’s claims to West New Guinea have
t|, e undivided support of all Asian coun-
tries which makes them irresistible. Is
this really so? It is quite true that in
I he United Nations, and in the foreign
loifices of Asian capitals, there has been
(an almost mechanically official support
jof Indonesia in the New Guinea dispute.
Igut some Asian countries are growing
jtired of it. Asian capitals are making,
'perhaps for the first time, sensible
■inquiries about Dutch and Australian
(policies in New Guinea. Apart from
■China, what Asian country could pos-
Jsibly welcome a violent military attack on
jNew Guinea by Indonesia? What Asian
'country would welcome the eastern exten-
sion into a primitive, susceptible area of
I the politically uncertain Indonesian
(Republic? Malaya would not, for one.
(Singapore for another. India for
[another. If anything, Indonesia has lost
(the diplomatic advantage.
| The other reason for the appeasement
line on West New Guinea is the image
of the Dutch. It is a confused image,
partly created by themselves as luckless,
repressive, unsuccessful colonisers,
largely created by Leftist propaganda.
The image has stuck sufficiently
for large sections of Australia to
find fault with whatever the Dutch
ao. Ten years ago the Dutch were going
too slowly and obviously were in New
Guinea to exploit its undoubted wealth.
Now that oil has ceased to flow the
Dutch are going too fast so that they can
jet out and leave behind a third-class
Ghana to spite Indonesia. In distorted
(allegations of this sort there are always
bare elements of truth, but what is
conveniently ignored by the appeasers
is the real value and quality of what
the Dutch are doing and propose to do.
Whether any of us like it or not, the
Dutch are creating with reckless speed
and admirable efficiency the apparatus
jof a future self-governing State.
I But to the appeasers this is not enough.
'Both Mr West and “The Economist”
leave one with the impression that it is
all right for Australia to share (for how
long? Neither have anything to say
about this) half a primitive, politically
jsusceptible island with a nation that
•.cannot administer itself, but that it is
jail wrong to share it with a nation that
at least knows, whatever its motives,
bow to go about creating an orderly,
20th-century State. And there is an
unsuspected irony in both the appease-
ment line, which one detects in Mr West,
and the British let’s-not-get-embroiled-
in-Asia line of “The Economist.” Neither
may be necessary. While “The Econo-
mist” and Mr West are busy giving Dutch
New Guinea away it has occurred to
Neither that Indonesia might—if faced
a little longer with resolution—be pre-
pared to give it away too.
LETTERS
Refreshing the Short Story
Sir,
Let’s hope your “plans which we hope
will refresh the writing of short stories
in Australia” include higher rates. You
will not “refresh” the art of writing
short stories by encouraging amateurs
but by helping to create professionals,
even as few as three or four, who will
point the way for others.
It is becoming almost possible for a
talented writer to make a modest living
in Australia by working in two or three
related fields—stage, television and some
forms of journalism. But in none of these
is there a premium for talent. Flat rates
apply, whether the writer has a “name”
or not, whether his effort is professional
or has to be worked over by others.
If The Bulletin wants to do some-
thing realistic towards the writing of
better short stories I suggest that it pub-
lish only fiction of merit, and pay the
author at least £5O a story, whatever the
length, so that it will be possible for
three or four writers to emerge, because
they can be sure of a reasonable return
for good work with the possibility of
making a name which will lead to further
returns.
“Fiction of merit” should, I suggest,
be chosen by a panel of three to five
readers, including some outside The
Bulletin, with merit being accepted if
one or two of the panel likes or like the
particular story.
FRANK ROBERTS
Brisbane.
Sir,
In Ray Mathew’s story “A Kind of
Marriage” (Bulletin, May 31) the
narrator is writing a novel, which pro-
vides his raison d’etre in his cosy
Bohemian existence. What is it about?
My guess is that it is about a novelist
who is writing a short story about a
novelist who is living an un-middle-class
sort of life because he is writing a novel
about a short story about a writer.
D. R. BURNS
Glen Iris (Vic.).
Sir,
Some of your short stories published
are utter rubbish. The one in the May
31 issue is pure piffle —neither a story
nor anything else, unless a slight essay
in jumping from bed to bed.
T. P. BROWN
Brisbane.
Sir,
The point about short stories is that
you are entirely in error. There never
has been a short story of any kind in
this country. Nor a novel. Nor a play.
In my 30-odd years of reading—a use-
less pastime, I now realise—fiction from
all over the world I have never ceased
to be dumbfounded at the crude, low
standard of Australian fiction.
R. A. McCARTHY
Salisbury ( Q’ld ).
Sir,
Is it necessary to “dramatise” the
fact that some of the short stories you
have been publishing are no good? If
the answer is yes, would it not have
greater effect, instead of omitting some-
thing that probably would not be missed
anyway, to publish a story, then analyse,
criticise and review it in the light of what
is desired?
G. C. VAUDREY
Willunga (S./I.).
Sir,
We readers of The Bulletin do not
want third-rate stories centering on a
maudlin “love” interest, but there are so
many aspiring writers around today it
would be fatal to close the door and so
choke off the few who might take Law-
son’s (or Chekhov’s) place just to be rid
of the many mediocre ones. It is up to
The Bulletin as a magazine of literary
merit to encourage the unknowns who,
quite rightly today, look upon The
Bulletin as one of their very few hopes
of getting their message across.
MRS BARBARA HAY
Yass ( N.S.W. ).
Sir,
If masterpieces in the metier of the
short story do now come to The
Bulletin it will not be because of your
condemnation of recent work but,
miraculously, in spite of it. “Preparing
plans” and “seriously” setting up
standards will, I think, be disappointing
in results. It all sounds much like care-
fully made recipes.
Can you have a recipe for stories?
Perhaps you can. I don’t know. One
thing that plans and recipes cannot pro-
vide—spontaneity. What one might call
the compulsive quality of a story: the
story just had to be written. No high
standards or fine prose will compensate
for lack of this quality.
Don’t worry creative writers about
standards of excellence and plans for
writing stories. There is, I am convinced,
plenty of talent in our community. But
a stern and calculating eye—in advance
—won’t encourage it.
BRIAN JAMES
Sydney.
SELLING WHEAT TO CHINA
Sir,
Sir John Teasdale's opposition to sell-
ing wheat on credit to Communist China
(Bulletin, May 31) is a step in the right
direction, but displays a disturbing lack
of insight of the basic issue.
There is overwhelming evidence from


many countries that to the Communists
trade is simpiy another weapon in their
offensive for world take-over.
A trained Communist, Gerry Mc-
Manus, warned in 1959:
The campaign for trade with the Communist
countries is, of course, part of a world-wide
drive for the recognition of Red China. For
the Communists trade is an ideological weapon.
If you deliver even 10 per cent, of your
national trade to the Communist world you
give them the perfect chance to create a crisis
in your country any time they wish to pull
the economic rug from under you.
Sir John disclaims any but “commercial
grounds” for his opposition to the credit
deal, yet the Wheat Board surely has a
responsibility to this country which goes
far beyond their industry.
JOHN FARQUHARSON
Canberra.
REVOLT OF THE YOUNG
PUBLISHERS
Sir,
Your article “Revolt of the Young
Publishers” is thoroughly misleading, and
I must point out that there is no question
of revolt in the minds of Messrs Ure
Smith, O’Neil or myself.
We are part of a sub-committee
appointed (with the utmost goodwill) by
the Australian Publishers’ Association to
investigate means of stimulating the sales
of Australian books and to report our
findings to that association.
I have never felt at any stage that the
association is “dominated” by older men
—in fact. I have always felt grateful that
the leadership has been in the hands of
such competent men as George Ferguson
and, more recently, Frank Eyre.
BRIAN CLOUSTON
Managing Director,
Jacaranda Press Pty Limited
Brisbane.
Sir,
Your article, “Revolt of the Young
Publishers’' is misleading and misinformed
and I take great exception to having my
name associated with it. I most certainly
am not a party to any “revolt against the
policies or lack of policies of the older
men who dominate the Publishers’ Asso-
ciation.”
SAM URE SMITH
Sydney.
Sir,
The undertones implied by the word
“revolt” are misleading.
Mr Clouston, Mr Ure Smith and
myself met in Sydney, with the full know-
ledge and support of the Australian Book
Publishers’ Association. The inference
that the “Young Publishers” were meet-
ing in conspiracy is not correct.
LLOYD O'NEIL
Chairman,
Australian Book Week Committee
(Victorian Branch)
Melbourne.
The writer of “Revolt of The Young Pub-
lishers” comments: I am sorry that Messrs
Ure Smith, O'Neil and Clouston feel their
actions have been misreported. It is a matter
of the interpretation of the word “revolt.” It
the word implies “back-stabbing,” seizure of
power, etc., then they are right to object; but
it also means—and was intended to mean—
simply an attempt to change and improve past
policies.
COMMUNISM IN UNIVERSITIES
Sir,
At its just-concluded annual confer-
ence, the Australian Student Labor
Federation was disturbed by the impres-
sion which your recent series of articles
on Communists in Melbourne University
would appear to convey —i.e., that the
exercise of totalitarian techniques within
the universities may be equated wholly
with one particular grouping, the Com-
munist party of Australia.
We feel, on the other hand, that an
equally obvious danger to academic in-
tegrity is presented by the intervention,
in universities’ affairs, of such other
disciplined totalitarian organisations as
the National Civic Council and the Moral
Rearmament movement. Therefore, in
connection with the activities of all
organisations such as the N.C.C., MR.A.
and the C.P. of A., the Australian Student
Labor Federation urges the following
points:
(1) A.S.L.F. calls for members of the
universities to be on guard against the
activities of such organisations.
(2) We consider that the dangers in-
volved in officially banning members of
such organisations from the universities
outweigh the advantages, and thus oppose
any official ban upon them.
(3) We refuse to admit the legitimacy
of the use of Security Police in participat-
ing in decisions about academic appoint-
ments, except in areas involved with
national defence.
(4) We defend the right of the in-
tellectual journals—e.g. The Bulletin,
“Nation” —to discuss these issues.
(5) We consider that the recent
Bulletin discussion has in fact been
excessively sensational, and point out that
exaggerations of the strength of such
organisations as the C.P. of A., M.R.A.,
and the N.C.C., can do great harm to
the universities.
MICHAEL HUDSON
National Secretary,
Australian Student Labor
Federation.
University of Sydney.
It should be pointed out that we have been
concerned so far with university appointments,
not student activities. Given this, we certainly
agree that totalitarian techniques should be
opposed from whatever quarter they come.
We are not aware that the N.C.C. has made
any attempt to infiltrate university staffs; nor,
for that matter, that it is “totalitarian.” Of
course, you may be using the word “totali-
tarian” differently.—Editor, The Bulletin.
BOHEMIA—A RALLY
Sir,
Congratulations on the perspicacity
shown in your account of the “Bohemian
Rally” held in aid of Harry Hooton. The
account was, however, marred by one
or two obvious accuracies. For instance,
it is quite correct that the meeting was
held in the Macquarie Auditorium and
that the proceeds are to help publish
Hooton’s book.
We must lose no opportunity to belittle
and degrade these insolent bohemians if
we are to extinguish the unhealthy en-
thusiasm they have acquired for poetry
and folk-music.
Brian Jenkins
Sefton ( N.S.W. ).
Sir,
(1) Approximately 200, and not 400
attended this performance, and while
there was no one present resembling
“bum,” it is possible that your reporter
regards himself as such, since I believe
he took advantage of a free ticket for
this “benefit.”
(2) The reproduction of HootonV
tapes was very poor, but not “inaudible.” |
(3) The producer’s injunction to
restrain applause was not “optimistic’’
—the applause was regular and, at times
sustained.
(4) As the printed programme afmms,
poems from the following writers were]
read: Wyndham Lewis, Oscar Wilde,(
e. e. cummings, Ian Macdougal, Lex;
Banning, James McGuire, Robert Cum-
mings, Bruce Beaver, John Rybak, Barry
Elliot, Jane Illiffe, Richard Appleton, |
Geoffrey Mill, Richard Preston, Louise!
MacNeice, Harry Hooton, Henry ReedJ
William Carlos Williams and Leslie
Woolf Hedley.
The fact that two of these writers I
read one or two of their own poems
among nearly 40 other poems by writers
not on stage will hardly support the'
statement by your reporter that the I
readers recited a selection of each other's!
poetry. j
G. SUTCLIFFE
Rose Bay ( N.S.W. ).
A LIBELLOUS REVIEW?
Sir,
Mr A. W. Sheppard (B. 10/6/61) con-1
cedes that the Committee of Imperial)
Defence “did a good job in preparing
the Empire for World War I,” but still
maintains that it became “antiquated"
and “failed signally to do so for World
War II.” He also asserts that “Singa-
pore was out of date by the time it was
completed as a base.” Here is some ofj
the evidence against his assertions.
Success before 1914 was mainly due
to the British Government implementing
the recommendations of the C.1.D., but
what of the political decisions between
wars, for which the C.I.D. cannot be
held responsible?
The 1922 Washington Treaty limiting!
naval armaments killed Lord Jellicoe’s
proposal for a Far East Fleet of eight
capital ships.
The infamous “no war for ten years”
rule needed the Abyssinian crisis of 1935
to lay bare the resultant deficiencies and
set the impossible task of making good j
in two or three years a backlog of nearly
ten years of C.I.D. recommendations.
The Anglo-German Treaty of 1935
confirmed Germany’s naval rearmament
and compromised the defence of Singa-
pore which rested on the successful pas-
sage thence of the British main fleet. The
fixed defences and garrison, including
R.A.F. units, were merely intended as
a deterrent to capture by frontal attack.
“The period before relief” was estimated
as 42 days to cover the time required
for the fleet to arrive. (Singapore


67 days after the first Japanese landing
j n Malaya.)
Singapore was never out of date. The
key to its retention was sea-power. The
loss of sea-power in the Pacific by
Britain and the U.S.A. in 1941-42 sealed
its fate in the same way as Japan's sub-
sequent defeat was caused by a resurgence
fof American sea-power.
If the people of an Empire or Com-
monwealth, dependent on sea links, fail
to provide adequately all the elements
which contribute to sea-power, the blame
rests with us all, but particularly with
the politicians who make the decisions
and not with the Service Chiefs or mem-
bers of the now defunct C.I.D. whose
advice was ignored or compromised.
CRASTER C. M. USHER
Hornsby (N.S.W.).
MOTEL HOLDINGS LIMITED
Sir,
In an article on Motel Holdings Ltd
(May 31, 1961) erroneous information
regarding our company was given. In
this article it is stated that “the Motel
Holdings Limited float was not under
written by a member of the Stock Ex-
change, the development programme out-
lined in the company’s prospectus was
rather loosely followed.”
Firstly, there was no public float by
Mote! Holdings Limited, nor was a
prospectus published. Secondly, Motel
Holdings Limited was formed to take
over Realty Development Limited and
Guinea Motels Limited, and was not open
for public subscription. Consequently
the statements contained in your article
I are both incorrect.
The progress of the call itself is the best
test of whether the snareholders are dis-
satisfied. At the date of writing, the call
is closed, and yet only 30 shareholders
have failed to meet this commitment.
The results of the call compare very
favorably with the calls made in recent
months by at least one listed company
and shows the confidence that the majority
of shareholders have in the future of our
company.
In cases of financial hardship it is
(he present intention of the directors to
give to persons so affected every possible
consideration consisten* with the rights of
fully paid shareholders. Indeed, at a
meeting of directors on May 20, 1961, it
was resolved that no action be taken to
recover outstanding calls against share-
holders actually forfeiting their shares,
and I was instructed to write to share-
holders who were embarrassed by the
call and report each individual case to
(he board. Payment by instalments in
some cases is envisaged.
As the company is now trading at
Malletts Inn and the Manly and Dubbo
Motels are nearing completion, it is
anticipated that no further delay will be
ex perienced in having the company listed
°n the Stock Exchange. You are well
aware that the Stock Exchange Committee
ls not required to give its reasons for the
Present refusal and the directors regret
that this is so. It is also regrettable that
a ready market for shareholders is not
available, but it can hardly be suggested
that this experience is a novel one, nor
can it be said that of itself a refusal on
the first application is a reflection upon
the substance and prospects of the com-
pany or the capacity of the directors.
P. E. Davies-Roe
Managing Director,
Motel Holdings Limited
Sydney.
All this seems to be most misleading. The
existing Motel Holdings Limited, recently
refused listing by the Sydney Stock Exchange,
came into being as Guinea Motels Ltd. The
original Guinea Motels float in September,
1960, was not, in fact, underwritten by a
member of the Stock Exchange, and at that
time Mr Davies-Roe told The Bulletin that
this course of action was followed to avoid
underwriting expenses. The float was open to
public subscription, which was solicited through
advertisements in the press. The prospectus
stated that Guinea Motels intended to operate
motels in N.S.W. country areas with emphasis
on low capitalisation costs and competitive
charges.
After acquiring Realty Development Ltd by
an exchange of shares last November, Guinea
Motels had its name changed to Motel Hold-
ings, set up to amalgamate the two companies.
The substance of the company remained the
same. Shareholders in Guinea Motels became
shareholders in Motel Holdings, but their call
liability was doubled by means of the “bonus
issue.” To imply that Motel Holdings is an
entirely new firm and claim that there was no
public float or prospectus involved at any stage
is ridiculous. Motel Holdings first came into
being as Guinea Motels.
The original Guinea Motels prospectus was
only loosely followed. No direct mention ever
appeared in the prospectus of the company’s
intention to buy an old city hotel such as
Mallett’s Inn. The idea in buying Mallett's
Inn was to get some quick revenue, and this
much is admitted by Mr Davies-Roe in one
of his earlier statements.
It is a fact that shareholders were unable
to realise their holdings on the sharemarket,
and this could account for the success of the
call claimed by Mr Davies-Roe. Another fact
is that certain shareholders did express dissatis-
faction with the company’s policy and did
protest against the call.
There are other facts. In an undated circu-
lar released early this year, Mr Davies-Roe
advised shareholders that the “motel at Manly,
to be known as Dorchester-Manly, is nearing
completion and is expected to open approxi-
mately the first week in April.” But in his
letter to The Bulletin, dated June 2, 1961,
the same Mr Davies-Roe says that the Manly
and Dubbo motels are only now “nearing
completion.”
He also says that “it is anticipated that no
further delay will be experienced in having the
company listed on the Stock Exchange.” How-
ever, m another document, also signed by Mr
Davies-Roe and dated May 30, 1961, it is
stated that the company is offering concession
terms to shareholders who did not meet the
call “in view of the present tightness of money,
and also that our application for listing was
unsuccessful and furthermore that a period of
at least six months must elapse before re-
application for Stock Exchange listing can be
made.”—Finance Editor, The Bulletin.
THE ORR CASE
Sir,
As chairman of the University Staff
Association during the period 1954-55,
I probably know more about this busi-
ness than any of Orr’s mainland cham-
pions. I do know that many false state-
ments have been made, though possibly
sincerely believed by those chamnions.
An oft-repeated accusation is that the
University Council made use of the
charges against Orr to get revenge on
the instigator of the Royal Commission
of 1955. This is manifestly false. Orr
in no way instigated this, nor did w* use
him as a witness. I, as chairman, recom-
mended the demand for a commission
to the executive of the Staff Association,
and it accepted this and recommended
it to the association. Orr then wrote his
letter. I asked him not to send it to the
press, pointing out that Royal Commis-
sions are hard to get and that our tactics
and what kind of public statements should
be made must be carefully considered
by the association. He refused to take
my advice and at its meeting the Staff
Association not only expressed dis-
approval of the letter but ruled that no
further statement should be published
without my approval.
The council was fully aware that I
was the prime mover and the chief cause
of it being censured by the Royal Com-
mission. In addition to being chief wit-
ness against it (in the box foi nearly a
day and a half), I had earlier to appear
before a Cabinet sub-committee and state
our charges against the administration in
the presence of the Chancellor, the Vice-
Chancellor and the man who is now
Chancellor.
So, obviously, if anyone must be
regarded as the “villain,” I was the
villain And the council very soon had
an excellent opportunity to vent its spite.
Almost immediately after the Commis-
sion had sent its report I, following my


doctor’s advice, informed the Vice-
Chancellor that I must resign my pro-
fessorship because of deteriorating
health. The council went out of its way
to show me every possible kindness and
told me in writing that if my health
should improve at any time after my
sick-leave expired, it would, if I wished,
reappoint me. When my sick-leave ended,
it elected me Emeritus Professor. Yet,
for nearly five years this same council
has been vilified as spiteful, vengeful,
etc., by men who had no personal know-
ledge of it.
Neither the Vice-Chancellor nor the
council made charges against Orr ; they
merely instituted an inquiry into charges
made by other people, and they did so
at the request of three professors, two
of whom were (with myself) the most
outstanding opponents of the council
during the sitting of the Royal Com-
mission ; each was in the witness-box for
several hours. My statements can be
checked in the records of the Staff Asso-
ciation, and in the minutes of University
Council meetings. And any man who
repeats the above-mentioned accusations
against the administration without con-
sulting those records is obviously un-
fitted to hold any academic post.
A. B. Taylor
University of Tasmania.
Sir,
- I have read your article entitled “The
Orr Case” and found it very interesting.
I congratulate you for advocating proper
procedure in university inquiries. Most
of your statements on this are unexcep-
tionable, but there is one aspect of the
matter where I feel you have not appre-
ciated a most important point. It is this
—the fundamental provisions for proper
procedure are interlocked so that they
function satisfactorily only as a whole.
If one or more is omitted the others can
be used to the disadvantage of the
accused.
In your article you fail to perceive that
an inquiry with only one good feature
can be more vicious than no inquiry
at all.
I can appreciate your solicitude for this
open confrontation, and that this should
occur in all university inquiries. You no
doubt will provide the authorities of the
University of Melbourne with the names
of those who provided you with the
information upon which you based your
other article. Or will you rely upon the
privilege of the press not to divulge the
source of information?
But it is when you deal with funda-
mental aspects of justice that I find your
views quite unacceptable. A fundamental
proposition here is that in terms of
human justice every man must be held
to be innocent unless proved guilty by
the evidence. It has never been required
that one should “know for certain what
happened” by looking “into the souls of
witnesses” to detect lies. This should be
done by examining the evidence properly.
In this case, if Orr was not proved guilty
to a high level of probability (the severity
of the consequences required this), then
he was not guilty. You appear to suggest
the notion that because he did not prove
to the 100 per cent, level that he was
innocent, the finding should stand. Justice
cannot function this way —it is guilt
which must be proved, and guilt was not
proved against Orr.
You have not completely escaped the
current technique, which appears to be
to avoid discussing the evidence by
setting up an impossible requirement —
namely, proof of innocence—and then
leaving the smear that there was an
accusation and “no one will ever know
for certain,” etc. But everybody can
know by simply looking at the evidence
that the allegations were not proved and,
where possible, were actually disproved.
The cogent parts of the evidence upon
which guilt is to be found are the state-
ments of the witnesses and the material
evidence. Surely, if none of these prove
that Orr had sexual relations with Miss
Kemp, and that on the one occasion
alleged by her where a time and place
was fixed, he was 400 miles away, the
proof of guilt is absent.
If, further, the evidence she gave of
time and place for these allegations of
non-sexual misconduct Kingston, the
letter of February 21, that all his
examples in lectures were of a sexual
nature —were rebutted by a number of
disinterested witnesses, and corroborated
by none, then again there is no proof of
guilt whatever
If four letters in her own hand, to
people other than Orr, state or unmis-
takably imply that there was no sexual
relationship, they surely add to the
doubt. How could a look on a face be
accepted as basis of belief of truthfulness
in the face of such refutation?
Is it not a matter of public concern
(and not merely “of immense personal
importance to Orr . . .”) if a finding
which wrecks a man’s life can be based
upon such a fallacy? The principle that
all justice derives from, and depends
upon, justice to the individual, requires
that if there is no legal way of reversing
an erroneous finding another way must
be found, as Messrs Kerr and Wootten
have agreed. But there is a legal way—
the University of Tasmania can apply
to vacate the judgment, but it refuses
to do so.
I believe you do not go far enough
when you indicate that the University
of Tasmania, having behaved in a way
which it is bad for a university to behave,
should not act like this again. It has it
in its hands by consent to allow a re-
appraisal and, if appropriate, restitution
to Professor Orr. So great is the public
doubt that unless such appraisal occurs
this doubt must undermine the con-
fidence in our institutions. It is not the
criticism of institutions which undermines
them, but obstinate and unscrupulous
actions to maintain a position which is
not manifestly justified.
I admire your sleight-of-hand in deal-
ing with this public doubt on Mr Justice
Green’s finding. Quoting Mr Fitzpatrick,
you put Wright, Stout and Eddy on
Orr’s side and yourself advance Mr
Justice Green, Kerr and Wootten as
against, and facetiously state that makes
the score love-all. Even if it had been
fairly put, that would not be the score—
it would be deuce!
But you do not include in your score
the three members of the F.C.U.S.A.A.
Committee who concluded that the find-
ing was erroneous. Nor do you mention
the Archbishop of Hobart and his coun-
sel, or the Scots Kirk Session, or the
Bishop of Tasmania, or the Rev. Mr
Holly and the Rev. Mr Mailing, all of
whom have stated that they are con-
vinced by the evidence there was a mis-
carriage of justice.
You seek to lampoon Mr Eddy’s case
for conspiracy. But how do you dispose
of the statement of the Bishop of Tas-
mania published on November 5, 1959?
That was all the evidence one needs that
there was a conspiracy, and it has never
been refuted. But your example to refute
Eddy is not good enough.
And now we come to your invitation,
which I am here accepting, to engage in
public controversy. This might be a good
thing as a general rule if the press played
fair. Last Sunday the Tasmanian “Truth”
got an account of a closed meeting of
the Melbourne University Law Students’
Society and misreported a Q.C. in banner
headlines in Tasmania to Professor Orr’s
detriment. The “Sydney Morning
Herald” closed, without notice, the
exchange of views of members of the
public with Mr Maude about his review
of Mr Eddy’s book, leaving many letters
unpublished. You quote the Ward and
Gluckman cases, but their accusers never
came forward, nor did we ever know
what was Professor Gluckman’s dis-
ability. In that the press is sometimes
unprincipled in what it does and prints,
it would be folly to accept your sugges-
tion if more direct internal procedures
are effective. Much better have properly
conducted inquiries, with a friend for the
accused to be a witness to what goes on
—otherwise it is in secret. If the inquiry
is properly conducted your puzzles are
easily answered. A member of the
university who does not respond to such
an inquiry is acting against the interests
of the university to an extent which
deserves dismissal. If the matter is one
in which the witnesses and/or the
accused are not protected by the limited
privilege of the inquiry, then there should
be suspension until the matter is resolved
in the courts.
Professor Orr did exactly the right
thing in these inquiries, as I pointed out
in The Observer, August 23, 1958. He
co-operated, and asked questions, until
the committee ordered him to do some-
thing improper—to get from his lawyer’s
clerks, without his lawyer’s knowledge,
another person’s document and produce
it to the members of the inquiry. He
then knew that the inquiry, defective in
other respects, was behaving so unethic-
ally that he could not expect a fair
hearing or finding. This, coupled with
the knowledge that his courses for 1956
had already been publicly cancelled, led
him to believe that the matter could not
be dealt with there. The argument was
that these procedures, irregular in almost
every respect, if they proceeded to a
finding and dismissal, would prejudice
his action in a court. They did, as Mr
Eddy has so manifestly demonstrated.
R. Douglas Wright
University of Melbourne.


OUT and ANOUT
SOCIETY
Canberra Gets a Move On
'T'en-thousand chicken wishbones are
going overboard into the Red Sea
this week as the huge new liner Canberra
races down the coast of Arabia on its
headlong maiden voyage from England
to Australia.
This new Canberra of 45,270 tons, the
fifth-largest passenger liner in the world,
is the second instalment of the P. & 0.-
Orient plan to rip down the sailing time
for the England-Australia voyage from
four weeks to three —and the huge
vessel’s 40-ton propellers have it right
up with the schedule which will bring it
to its Sydney terminus on June 28, 26
days out from Southhampton.
The wishbones that are going over-
board to tantalise the Red Sea sharks in
their 27-knot pursuit of the Canberra are
the leavings of the 2200 banqueting pas-
sengers who, on leaving Southampton,
had 38,0001 b. of poultry, 140,000 eggs,
142,0001 b. of meat, 78,0001 b. of fish and
110,0001 b. of flour between them and the
threat of starvation. The threat of thirst
was kept at a distance by 4800 gallons of
draught beer, 73,000 bottles of beer,
30,000 bottles of spirits, and 13,000
bottles of wine.
The Canberra —like the 42,000-ton
Oriana which came to Australia for the
first time last year —-is the answer given
by the P. & 0.-Orient Lines to the press-
ing demand for more tonnage arising out
of the extension of their services to the
Pacific and the Far East.
Money for Jam
A wander through the exhibition of
British travel books, at present on
show at the Public Library of N.S.W.,
shows clearly that few English writers
have turned down the chance to put a
bit of jam on their bread-and-butter by
writing a straight account of their travels
while they were afield seeking back-
ground for a novel. Or, perhaps, they
did go to write a travel book, and inspira-
tion for the novel came on the spot. At
any rate, the exhibition reads like the
index to a history of English literature
with most notable authors from Defoe
to Lawrence Durrell there.
The exhibition is only a selection from
a much wider range of books available.
Australian authors, but not Australian
Publishers, are represented, so the Austra-
lian section is scant. It does include Dr
Thomas Wood’s “Cobbers,” written after
a visit here in 1932, the depth of the
depression, and rather remarkably, re-
issued as recently as 1956.
Perhaps it would be unwise if
“Cobbers,” written when young men
spent the day on Bondi because they
were out of work, and not because they
were on the night-shift, got into the
hands of intending migrants. However,
not everything has changed. “No one
in Sydney is old,” Wood wrote in the
thirties. “He’s young, he’s wonderful or
he’s dead.” That’s Sydney, 1961.
I Thought My Caves Were
White
■Experts are claiming that the winter
fogs in Sydney should really be
nailed as smog. Further evidence of
what man can do to sully the atmosphere
is given by the closing of the largest of
the Jenolan Caves, in the Blue Moun-
tains, west of Sydney, for steam-cleaning.
A geologist and an analytical chemist
from the N.S.W. Department of Mines
reported that animal and vegetable fibres
from the clothing of people passing
through the caves, plus clay which
visitors’ shoes introduced, plus some soot
from the boiler-stacks at the nearby
Caves House, had dimmed the lustre of
the cave’s interior.
The N.S.W. Tourist Bureau is now
cement-sealing the floors of the cave.
The bureau is having some difficulty in
finding suitable plant to steam-clean the
cave. There is only limited oxygen in
the cave and the trouble is to find a fuel
which will not eat too drastically into
that oxygen.
It is the first time one of the caves has
been steam-cleaned, but the bureau hopes
it will be open again for the Six-Hour
holiday in October.
Terms of Trade
'T'he latest quirk of the small shop-
keeper seems to be to annex a whole
area in the high-handed way in which
Lloyds some time ago took over London.
Now we have Rene Henri of Martin
Place, William of Northbridge, and so on.
Another move is to try to stand alone
by prefixing “My.” Around Sydney there
are My Garden, My Toys, My Hair-
dresser and My Gourmette (whatever
that might be).
Further Echo of a Beil
Oydney journalist Robert Langdon
seems to have pretty well established
that the bell, allegedly found in a wreck
off the North Queensland coast, and
which Lord Mountbatten wanted, if
possible, to buy, not only wasn't found
in a wreck, but isn’t even a ship’s bell.
It is a church bell.
Five months ago Alan Darcy, a Darwin
businessman, and Donald Smith, a Sydney
photographer, reported that while cruising
along the Great Barrier Reef they
recovered from a wreck a bell bearing
the inscription “The gift of Lady Herbert,
daughter of Sir John Knatchbull, of
“ Gentlemen! I bring you good news!"


"I never buy anything unless it's recommended by ‘Good Housekeeping.'"
Mearchim Hatch in Kent in the Kingdom
of England, November 30, 1711.”
In April, Brisbane’s “Sunday Truth”
revealed that this story was a hoax and
that the bell they claimed to have
recovered had been at the Lockhart
River Mission, North Queensland, for
many years, and had been merely shown
to the two men when they called at the
mission for repairs to their boat.
Robert Langdon got in touch with
Bishop Davies, now living in Sydney,
who was Eishop of Carpentaria from
1922 to 1949. Bishop Davies recalled
that the bell was brought to the mission
in the early thirties by a Mr Rowan, who
brought it back from leave in Europe.
Bishop Davies said he believed the bell
came from Ireland (Sir George Herbert,
husband of the bell’s donor, was an
Irishman) and was most probably a
church bell.
Science as She is Writ
Two fascinating items in the pro-
A gramme of the recent science congress
in Brisbane: a paper on the Antarctic
Continent by Mr P. G. Law, Director,
Antractic Division, Dept, of Eternal
Affairs,” and another by A. J. Marshall
and B. Lofts on “The assumption of
migratory activity in castrated migrants.”
The latter, it was a relief to find, refers
to bird migration.
The Expert
“Old Bill’s a bit of a gardener, I
believe.”
“Bit! Man, he’s an expert. His
gerberas are so good, you’d swear they
were artificial.”
Sydney in Slow Motion
Oydney’s moving footway, running, or,
rather, moving sedately from the
Domain parking station to Hyde Park,
could have been the No. 1 holiday attrac-
tion for the Queen’s Birthday holiday on
Monday, but the parking station and the
footway were closed. Flundreds of people
who parked their cars in “No Standing”
areas and walked a couple of hundred
yards to try out the footway, were dis-
appointed.
Just before the official opening by
Lord Mayor Jensen workmen from the
city council went over the drab brown
grass, which covers the Domain in winter,
turning it into an improbable green.
However, they were not able to do a
similar camouflage job with the green-
tiled walls of the underground passage
between Hyde Park and St. Mary’s
Cathedral, which is the terminus of the
footway. These tiles have for some time
had a very gap-toothed appearance.
Green must be a popular shade for
Sydney bathrooms. Anyone handy with
a chisel could set himself up with a
handsome set of tiles in next to no time
and, apparently, does.
The Quaker Oats Quiz
CJydney television audiences have been
watching a commercial for Quaker
Oats, an American product recently put
on the market here.
The shopper in this ad. gives her
grocer one coin and receives one coin
as change. From that, although nothing
is said about price, the housewife might
suppose that the price is less than 25., the
largest coin in currency in Australia. But
the retail price of Quaker Oats is generally
2s. 6|d., so buying a packet here is a
mathematical impossibility, with only
two coins involved in the transaction.
Possibly the TV commercial was made
in the United States, where the price of
Quaker Oats would certainly be less than
a dollar.
Perils of Commuting
Perils of commuting on Sydney’s North
-*■ Shore line. A homing citizen found
himself sitting next to a woman with a
fearful cold. So thinking that was not
safe he moved across the carriage and
sat next to a man who promptly began
eating potato chips out of a paper bag
and talking to himself in a loud indignant
voice about a jockey named Mulley.
Thinking that was not safe the commutor
tried to change carriages at Lindfield and
was caught and embraced on the platform
by a very dilapidated drunk who said:
“You goin’ by this train? Sho am I,
brother!”
T hat was Society
The habitues of Melbourne’s Anglican
Cathedral are discussing the recent erec-
tion of a mixed bathing font in that
sacred edifice. The new bath, intended
for total immersion of adults, is a
memorial to the late Bishop Goe, and as
a Cathedral fitting is said to be unique.
Baptismal fonts in general are shallow-
basins, suitable only for washing or
sprinkling the head of the baptisee. The
Goe memorial is expected to be in great
demand during the hot months. Grown -
ups who were baptised in infancy but
have forgotten w-hat it felt like, are
booking a total immersion-cum-confir-
mation, and sw'eet things in bathing
gow'ns for ladies are looked forward to.
—“Bulletin,” September 12, 1912.
The stern parent who bellow's so
impressively on the stage rarely appears
in real life; and when he does he isn’t
a bit impressive. During the hearing
of a case at Prahran (Vic.) last week,
a father of the stern old-fashioned type
(by some evil chance being sued for
maintenance by his wife) told of the
heroic efforts he had made to make his
son behave like a gentleman. “He had
flogged him black and blue, and on several
occasions knocked him down and kicked
him, but all to no purpose.” One here
pictures the splendid old aristocrat
throwing down his cudgel in despair, and
retiring to his study to take off his boots
and die slowly of heartbreak with his
bruised feet in a bucket of hot water.
— ‘‘Bulletin,” September 20, 1912.
By the Oldest Inhabitant: —
Snow fell in Sydney on Thursday last.
Previous records show that on June 28,
1836, there was a heavy fall in Sydney.
It lasted half an hour, and the oldest
local Methuselah couldn’t remember
another. May it never happen again.
— “Bulletin,” September 5, 1912.
Dorothy Dix, of the large, black velvet
eyes, is off to try her luck in Uncle
Spin’s dominions. For a young woman
who isn’t old enough to have a vote,
Dorothy’s luck has had a silver lining.
At the precocious age of 17 she was
leading lady with Lew'is Waller. Since
then a slim, willow-wand figure and a
handsome face have helped to push the
youngster into well-paid billets. A ray
of intelligence is a minor asset when
compared with The Importance of Being
Beautiful. — “Bulletin,” December 19, 1912.


SOME OE THE PEOPLE
ANGUS MAUDE, until recently editor
of the “Sydney Morning Herald,”
said on TV that Australians abroad were
the world’s best “knockers” of their own
country, though at home they were very
proud of it. The notion that Australians
were individualists was a myth, he
added. “Australians are far too patient
in putting up with incompetence, in-
efficiency and bad government in various
forms, national and local,” Maude said.
Frederick Taylor, an English migrant
living at Clare (S.A.), has spent nine
months and £lOOO building a single-
engined aircraft. Last week he was told
he would be prosecuted if he tried to
fly it. The Department of Civil Aviation,
which has withheld approval of the plane
because detailed drawings were not sub-
mitted, must be stricter than its English
counterpart. In England, Taylor had five
planes of the same design approved,
some of which, costing only £lO, were
powered by motor-cycle engines.
At Orange (N.S.W.), where the Air
Force Association Assembly carried a
motion deploring the lack of civil-defence
preparations in Sydney, P. Alexander,
chairman of the association’s civil-defence
subcommittee, said that thousands in
Sydney, after an atomic attack, would
be isolated without organised means of
rescue. “They would have no first-aid,
no way of measuring atomic fallout, no
traffic officers, no rescue or fire teams,”
he said. “The city would be completely
paralysed.”
Ex-wartime pilot Joe Palmer, who
owns three aircraft, made news last
month when he “saved time coming to
town” by parachuting into Pittwater,
near Sydney. Palmer last week spent
some time picking mushrooms after his
plane had crash-landed near Newcastle
before walking into the city.
Named as members of the board of
inquiry to hear charges of improper
conduct against Dr. P. L. Bazeley, sus-
pended from his post as Director of the
Commonwealth Serum Laboratories,
were: Mr Justice Eggleston, judge of
the Commonwealth Industrial Court and
of the A.C.T. Supreme Court (chairman);
Sir Patrick McGovern, until recently
Commonwealth Taxation Commissioner;
and F. P. O’Grady, deputy director-
general of the Postmaster-General’s De-
partment.
Thefts of money and beer glasses and
the passing of dishonored cheques at the
Victorian Police Association club are
reported in the latest issue of the “Police
Journal.” “It’s no good denying it,” said
the association’s president, Senior Cons-
table Williamson. “We suffer from stolen
glasses and the hair-oil machine was
broken into, but similar things happen in
other clubs.” Association secretary,
Chief-Inspector McConville, said the
management was “driven silly” by the
number of minor complaints. “Some
complaints made to the manager are
very bad, and others are complaints
about the size of the frankfurts, or the
amount of batter on the fish,” McCon-
ville said.
Appointed to collect material present-
ing the Westralian scene for the News
and Information Bureau was Tom Hung-
erford, journalist, best known for his
prize-winning novel “The Ridge and the
River.”
“Anyone asking for an Australian
wine in London today was looked upon
as a person of discernment,” the wine
advisory officer of the Victorian Wine
and Brandy Producers’ Association, Mr
F. McKeever, said. Mr McKeever said
there was still “too much hocus pocus”
surrounding wine drinking in Australia.
Too many young Australians who might
develop a palate for wine were discour-
aged because they were afraid of making
themselves appear ridiculous.
W. H. Petrick, M.L.C., who owns a
cattle station near Alice Springs, told
the Northern Territory Legislative
Council that many station-owners in the
district, which is now in its fourth year
of drought, were faced with the prospect
of giving their cattle away and carrying
their swags off their properties.
Colonel B. Lumsden, sword bearer to
the Lord Mayor of London, Sir Bernard
Waley-Cohen, arrived in Sydney to begin
preparations for Sir Bernard’s Australian
tour in July, the first-ever official visit
by a Lord Mayor of London.
Dr Nicolai Malko, musical director
of the Sydney Symphony Orchestra, ar-
rived in Melbourne with a high-chair
among his luggage. Dr Malko, who is
conducting the Victorian Symphony
Orchestra for a series of concerts, uses
the chair to ease the strain of conducting
two-hour concerts. Dr Malko, who is
73, recently had an operation. He
borrowed the chair from a member of
the Sydney Symphony Orchestra.
Into the Silence:—
In Melbourne, at 91, Jeannie (Mrs Aeneas)
Gunn, author of “The Little Black Princess”
and “We of the Never Never.”
In Sydney, at 60, Clarence Guiney, medical
officer of the Sydney County Council.
In Melbourne, at 61, Kevin O’Day, a leading
eye-surgeon who pioneered the corneal-graft
eye operation in Australia.
In Sydney, at 74, Arthur Joseph Deakin,
Queensland industrialist who was chairman of
the engineering and shipbuilding firm, Evans,
Deakin and Company.
In Melbourne, at 83, Father Patrick Moloney,
known as “The Apostle to the Black” for his
mission work.
FOR THE CONSUMER
No Business like
Snow Business
A holiday in the snow can cost you as
much or as little as you are prepared
to pay. Or almost as little. Although no
pretence can be made that skiing is the
cheapest of sports, it no longer deserves
to be considered only by the wealthy or
foolhardy.
The dilemma about skiing is that if
your clothes are very new and chic, it
automatically brands you as a beginner.
Everyone will keep a sardonic eye out to
see what sort of a fool you are going to
make of yourself. The difficulty is how-
to acquire the carefully aged clothes
which mark you out as a veteran and
save you from too much scrutiny. You
certainly can’t come by them in the shops.
The really good thing about a skiing
holiday is that you can pretty well judge
beforehand how much it will cost you.
If you go on a cruise, or to an expensive
resort, it largely depends on the sort of
people you meet how much you spend.
You might get roped in for some pretty
unaccustomed gambling. Also, if the
people are dull, there is more time to
kill and nothing costs more than killing
time. Practically the only places to do
it are in a bar or a night-club
But on a skiing holiday, if you really
get out on the slopes at all, there is little
time to kill. By the end of the day you
are so exhausted the most you will
manage is a few drinks or a couple of
hours dancing before you flake out. The
inexperienced and the very athletic can


i-'tab 1
Contractors to Government A! unicipal.
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON & 7
OSUCUVAA v
rif PTY LTD CSV
se*A®? gr
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street. Sydney.
IS YEARS OE SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAM HUHUC
’ HAVE YOU EVER <3 TRIED THIS ?’’
a feature of
Womans Mirror
. GET YOUR COPY TODAY
collapse on a bed as soon as the evening
meal is over.
The first problem is where to go. This
depends mainly on whether you are a
snow-bunny (you like to pretend to ski
but really enjoy the after-ski fun), an
energetic expert or just a holidaymaker
after a good two weeks’ enjoyment.
In the old days, 10 years ago, only the
best people went skiing and there was only
one correct place for them to go. That
was The Chalet, Kosciusko. Beginners
and the uninitiated could go to the
Kiandra Chalet or the Hotel Kosciusko
and paddle about the slushy slopes or
throw snowballs, but the experts, who
never throw snowballs, and the social
snow-bunnies went to The Chalet.
Getting into the place was often as
exhausting as the holiday itself with an
11-mile ski or walk up into the mountains
from the snowline, often in the worst
weather Snowmobiles were for stores,
luggage and the maimed, in that order.
Tough, tireless types went out to the
several primitive huts on the main range
Alpine Hut, or White’s River, where they
pigged it, sleeping in their clothes with
egg stains on their sweaters and stubble
on their chins. The impecunious students
went to Bett’s Camp where they settled
for corn fritters and overcrowding and
sometimes a night at The Chalet two miles
away.
In Victoria it was Mt. Hotham, expen-
sive and difficult to get into along a hair-
raising razor's edge where even the rich
sometimes became lost and fell off the
narrow ridge. Donna Buang was all right
for a weekend but it must be Hotham
to be in the social skiing swim.
Today with the opening up of the
snowfields by the Snowy Mountains
Hydro-Electric Scheme and the great in-
flux of foreign migrants, good roads make
for easy access and skiing has become
everyone’s sport. It is still important to
know where to go, as once there it is
difficult to change your mind.
For the experts, as well as the many
good huts out on the main range there
is Thredbo Alpine Village, accessible by
car right to the snowline and with accom-
modation ranging from crowded ski-huts
(perhaps 14 guineas a week) to smart,
expensive chalets (round about 25
guineas). Life is exciting, social and snow-
bunnies abound.
The “Palm Beach” of the snowfields is
the Back Perisher, accessible from Smig-
gin Holes where several swish hotels are
well booked for the skiing season. Socially
the smartest thing to do is to stay in a
hut in this area. Groups of people, or
several families with a number of child-
ren, club together and build a stone and
timber holiday hut, although hut is
hardly the word for these £12 : 000 to
£15,000 luxury homes. Stay in one of
these and you can't go wrong socially
or ski-wise.
What do you have to take with you,
and what does it cost? There is great
variety in the prices of equipment ; that
is boots, skis and alpenstocks. If you are
just planning a first fortnight in the snow
and don't feel sure you’ll ever want to
go again, you can hire them for £5 a
week. If you decide to buy the minimum
is between £35 and £4O and the maxi-
mum is around £llO.
Trousers of proofed wool and terylene
cost about £7 15s. for women and
£8 10s. for men, but far more popular
these days are pants of stretch nylon
which come at around 12 guineas. The
stretch nylon pants, although consider-
ably more expensive, are favored by both
experts and beginners. They can be worn
much tighter than the terylene and wool
mixture.
In Europe last season trousers were
worn as tight as possible. The fashion is
now for colored trousers in place of the
traditional black. Again, in Europe last
season the last word was trousers and
jacket of exactly the same color.
After you've bought your trousers you
really need only some woven cotton
sweaters. Those planned for skiing are
called skivvies, but if you have some-
thing with a crew-neck and short sleeves
it will certainly serve. Over your skivvies
you wear a ski jacket of quilted nylon,
but for beginners a windjacket of almost
any type is suitable.
At night most skiers wear komagers,
Norwegian moccasins made of sealskin.
These cost about £5 10s., but you can
make do with ordinary sports shoes.
Those are your basic requirements, and
there’s no necessity to add much to them.
Apres-ski wear, which is such an import-
ant and expensive feature of European
winter resorts, is something which most
Australians, so far, live without.
In the evenings most skiers, both men
and women, still wear ski pants. Men
may change into a pair of corduroy pants
and some women are beginning to treat
themselves to one or two of the pretty,
elaborate felt or hand-woven woollen
skirts from Switzerland, Austria or Italy.
You'll need a sweater, but a wool or
cashmere one will do. For Heaven’s sake
don't get carried away by the pretty pic-
tures in the fashion magazines and buy
half a dozen of those heavy knitted ones,
stiff with snowflakes, reindeer and other
Father Christmasy patterns. You won't
really need them, although one heavy
sweater is useful under your ski jacket
on a cold day.
Practically all ski equipment is
imported, and many of the smarter snow
clothes are, too. All the European coun-
tries with snowfie’ds export ski equip-
ment and clothes, but the French, per-
haps, have the edge in styling.
However, some Australian firms are
now making sweaters and other wool
knits which, according to Paul Reader,
of Sydney, who is perhaps the largest
stockist of skiwear, are every bit as good
as anything which comes from overseas.
These are Melbourne firms such as
Merinda, De Angely and Sovrano. How-
ever, their high quality goods are every
bit as expensive as imported counter-
parts.
After this you have only to worry about
the cost of ski tows and lessons. Ski
tows cost about 6s. a time, and what your
total expenditure will be depends exactly
on what sort of a skier you are. Be-
ginner’s lessons are only about 10s. a
time, but if you really plan to shine on
the slopes and want expert tuition, or it
the instructor is very handsome and you
want a lot of his company, you can pay
much more.


FOR THE OBSERVER
A First Night
Every Day
DOUND about this time of the year the
JA display managers of the various
Sydney shops ring each other up and
ask: "What are you doing this time?”
Then follows serious discussion on
Cinderella, Puss in Boots or Jack and
the Beanstalk, because —if anyone can
bear to think about it —now is the time
that the shops begin making plans for
their Christmas displays.
Although shops do exchange informa-
tion on what pantomime they will have
in their toy departments, the rest of their
Christmas plans are kept secret. Anxious
hours are spent in conference, thinking
of something new and original, or, at
least, something slightly different from
last year’s display.
Big decisions will shortly be made in
each shop on whether it will be a good
old-fashioned red-and-green Christmas,
whether it is safe to follow last year’s
fashion and have a blue-and-silver
Christmas, or whether to break new
ground and have, perhaps, a lollipop-
pink and mesa-tan Christmas.
It is always “June in January” and
vice versa for the display staffs of big
city shops. The spring displays which
will be on show at the end of next month
were on the drawing-board in February.
In another sense, every day is a first
night for the shops, because almost daily
a new shop-window or interior display
is seen for the first time.
There are fashions in shop display as
well as in everything else, and shops are
constantly revising their ideas on display
to meet the demands of modern mer-
chandising.
Until about ten years ago Australian
women got most of their Knowledge of
new fashion from shop-windows. In
those days (remember, those were simple
times for simple people!) it was quite
common for people to make an evening's
outing out of coming to town window'-
shopping.
If you were one of the fortunate, you
were accompanied by your dressmaker,
and the structural details of your new
season’s wardrobe were worked out right
there and then. Otherwise, you came
with your husband or boy-friend. Hus-
bands never worried about window-
shopping at night. After all, the shops
were closed, and reason might prevail
before they were open again.
Nowadays most women turn to
magazines for their fashion, and if you
see people window-shopping at night
they always seem to be looking at
windows filled with electrical appliances.
However, shop-windows still play a
powerful part in attracting passers-by to
enter the shop, although there is a ten-
dency for more time and money to be
spent on display inside the shop and not
in the shop-windows.
Most shops have spring at the begin-
ning of August, Father’s Day in Septem-
ber, beachwear in November, then, of
course. Christmas. It is back to school
in January, Valentine’s Day in February,
then Easter, Mother’s Day and Wool
Week. As well there are two annual
sales.
Mark Foys, in Sydney, is perhaps
a slightly old - fashioned shop in
its ideas of display, but despite that,
or, more, because of that, it is one of
the prettiest shops in the world. The
exterior of the main building was
modelled after the Bon Marche in Paris,
and the interior ground floor with its
gallery is similar to, but much larger
than, Marshall Field’s men’s shop in
Chicago.
The ground floor has a wide centre
aisle, which is somewhat wasteful of
space, and completely ignores the famous
dictum of Sidney Myer, which he put
into practice in his emporium: “Put the
tables so that people will fall over them
when they are walking through the shop
Then they'll have to stop and buy.”
The centre aisle at Mark Foys is
GUIDE TO THE CLERGY
{Continued)
By DAVID SWAIN
ANGLO-CATHOLIC
ROMAN CATHOLIC
MORNING SERVICE


decorated with immense bowls of real
flowers. The real flowers, incidentally,
were introduced after the Second World
War, as a gesture to returned servicemen,
who had taken up flower farms because
they were not in good enough health
to return to their previous, indoor jobs.
It now takes Mark Foys’ display staff
of 26 one hour twice a week to arrange
the flowers in the store.
Mr F. Lawson, the display manager
of Mark Foys, who has been there since
1918, said that fashions in shop display
were largely governed by what is avail-
able. He said he had been in New York
for the annual trade fair at which new
decorative materials were on sale. A
few months later every shop in the
United States would be making use of
these, and within time, nearly every shop
in Australia would have their own
adaptations of this decorative style.
Mark Foys do not work within a
budget for each display. “The display
department is the spoilt-boy section of
the shop,” Mr Lawson admitted happily.
“Of course, if money were unlimited, we
could do wonderful things, but we
manage to get what we want, within
reason.
“You can get through a lot of money
in a hurry in display. Do you know that
a wig now costs about £l5 and we have
about 200 figures wearing wigs in the
shop. The wrong sort of hat can com-
pletely ruin a wig. If you put a deep
cloche on a beehive hairdo —bang goes
15 quid!”
Most of Mark Foys’ display staff
begin their apprenticeship making cos-
tumes for the fairy-story figures used in
their Christmas toy display. “The figures
are half size, and we use all the best
materials,” Mr Lawson said. “The boys
cut into velvet at £2 10s. a yard, and
we’ve used guipure lace at £8 or more
a yard.”
Mr Lawson said that at Mark Foys
everything was made on the premises.
“We don’t always use wigs on figures,”
he said. “We sometimes make our own
hair with nylon, rope, even shavings.
We’ve made rather a specialty of drift-
wood, which we sometimes get by the
lorryload. We are not above filling in
what nature missed with plaster or paper
to get the shape we want.”
Most shops re-use display materials in
different forms. The sheep’s heads, used
by one shop for Wool Week this
year, had been kept from a display
designed several years ago.
Big shops also often send their dis-
plays to branches interstate or in
country centres. Expensive displays are
also often for sale. The Father Christmas
who last year was taking a bath, sur-
rounded in reindeer, in Mark Foys’ main
window, will this year be taking his bath
in a shop-window in Brisbane.
SPOR T
Floodlit Finish
for Marathon
Next year’s Commonwealth Games
marathon race in Perth is likely to
be one of the most spectacular athletic
events ever conducted in Australia. If
the W.A. and Australian Olympic mara-
thon representative, lan Sinfield, has his
way it could be the most spectacular foot-
race this country has ever seen.
This red-haired, English-born runner,
who loped from obscurity to a berth in
the last Olympic team almost overnight,
has suggested to the organisers of the
Perth Games that the closing stages of
the 26-mile event should be floodlit with
the finishing-line inside the new £500,000
stadium, six miles from Perth.
No decision has yet been made. But
some officials are known to be keenly
interested in his proposals, particularly
as his motives run deeper than mere
spectacle. From his own experience over
this “killing” marathon journey Sinfield,
lean, hard and practical, knows that this
near-torturing event must not be staged
in the blazing heat of the sun. Of Mel-
bourne’s 46 Olympic marathon men, 14
failed to finish the course.
Instead of starting the race at 2 p.m.,
as originally planned, Sinfield is urging
for a 4.30 start, which would result in
an after-dark finish. Obviously his main
thought is to protect the runners against
Perth’s late-November sun, which could
strike agony into the head and shoulders
of any runner, especially those from the
cooler climates of many Commonwealth
countries.
But to “sell” his idea to the organisers,
Sinfield must convince them that a flood-
lit finish would be both practical and
attractive from a spectators’ viewpoint.
Unhesitatingly he points to the Rome
Olympics. And anyone lucky enough to
see the end of the Rome marathon —as
I was —will agree that the floodlit finish
was an unforgettable sight.
With Hadrian’s Arch a blaze of light
and the Coliseum framed in the back-
ground, the runners fought out the closing
stages, plodding along a spectator-
crammed avenue in a setting which had
all the drama of a Hollywood spectacular.
Although history hasn’t had long
enough to endow Perth with a compar-
able setting, rhe location of Perth’s main
stadium has a charm and splendor all
of its own. Nestled at the foot of Rea-
bold Hill, the 50,000-seat stadium, quite
breath-taking in its conception and con-
struction, appears to be carved out of
the bush.
It is from here on November 26, 1962,
that the runners will strike out after their
traditional lap of the stadium —out along
a course, the fixing of which was in itself
a marathon job.
The journey of 26 miles 385 yards will
take the colorful field puff-puffing
through one of Australia’s most attractive
residential suburbs, past luxury homes,
up hill, down dale, into the market-
garden areas where the vegetable-growers
may pause for a moment from chores
to watch the field plod past. Officials
believe most marathon runners will be
pleased with the course for it is a rela-
tively flat one, varying between 50ft. and
150 ft. above sea level.
Current State marathon title-holder is
Laurie Elliott, brother of world mile-
champion Herb Elliott. Before he left
Perth recently, having accepted a scholar-
ship to Houston University (Texas),
Laurie Elliott, who is also W.A. cham-
pion over other distances besides the
mile, criticised the Games marathon
course on which he won the 1960 event
last September.
While admitting he didn’t know much
about overseas marathon-running condi-
tions, Elliott said the road had too many
pot-holes and sloped too sharply from
the crown in many parts so that a runner
had to lean in to maintain balance.
However, the organisers insist that any
such faults will be “ironed out’’ between
now and November, 1962. Indeed the
road has already been widened and
levelled in many parts in recent months.
Feeding stations will be set up at the
following mile posts: 10, 13, 16, 19, 22,
25. Too much importance cannot be
attached to these stations, says Olympian
Sinfield, who finished 42nd in a field of
78 in the Rome marathon.
“Food and drink at these stations must
be clearly marked for the convenience
of each athlete and not tossed in a heap
on a single table. Otherwise there will
be the utmost confusion,” he says, recall-
ing the Rome “scramble.”
“Wide roads are another essential so
that race control-vehicles can patrol the
course without interfering with the
runners. “Remember what happened
when we reached the narrow Appian
Way? Official cars could not follow the
runners. They went down side streets
and became lost.”
Then there are the mile posts to be
considered. Every mile must be clearly
marked so that a runner will never be in
any doubt how far he has gone and how
far he has to go. All of which probably
adds up to make the marathon the most
complicated athletic event of the entire
Games from an organising viewpoint.
But this race is being planned by a
band of men who have had considerable
running experience, including race-
manager Dick Horsley, himself a former
marathon contestant and still a competi-
tive walker despite his 40 years and
more. My tip is that, when other events
are forgotten, Perth’s Commonwealth
Games marathon will remain a vivid
memory.
SYD DONOVAN


T " '
p wmmmmm
... i-
I:'!'' ' X
f.s
U
/i
; %m xm
- , :■'
m l m
: ■
m
■i
110 many
things that
make life
happier
come through
S 8c L steel pipes
Through steel pipes of every conceivable
size, flow the oil and raw materials that keep the
continent’s industrial wheels turning; the life
preserving water; gas, steam and the electric
current that provides power, lighting and com-
munications.
Steel pipe is so easy to form and join and has
the inherent strength and stability to take tough
assignments for long periods. Costwise, steel pipe
stands alone for low initial cost and low installa-
tion cost.
Before finalising your next project, talk “steel
piping” with Stewarts & Lloyds; the leading
Australian producers of welded and seamless steel
pipes.
STEWARTS and LLOYDS (Distributors) PTY. LIMITED
BRANCHES: All Capital Cities, also Townsville, Rockhampton, Newcastle, Wollongong,
Geelong, Fremantle, Darwin and Alice Springs AGENCIES: Cairns, Mackay, Kalgoorlie.
55G.1.61


AB O RIG IN ALITIES
Last of the
S wagmen
TTS7E passed the old man for the first
’ ’ time at 9.30 on a Sunday morning,
15 miles west of Morgan. He was wheel-
ing an old, heavily-laden bicycle away
from the railway siding at Mount Mary,
where, he told us later, he had spent the
night. As he was travelling in the oppo-
site direction, away from the Murray
River, we did not stop. My first impres-
sion had been that this was some trick
of the mirage: the belt of mallee scrub
and bleak sand-drift from which he
emerged seemed also to have little rela-
tion to the Australia of 1961. I had
assumed that the swagman had vanished
long ago, like the skippers of those few
remaining paddle-steamers rotting along
the Murray banks.
Late the same afternoon, returning to
Adelaide, we caught up with him again.
In those seven hours he had covered four
miles. Not bad going, perhaps, for a
man so aged and frail.
He used his machine only for support.
Its pedal mechanism was beyond repair.
Even had he still had the strength to
mount it, he could not have done so for
the mass of gear piled and strapped on
saddle, mudguards and handlebars. In
addition to bluey and campsheet, it
carried a huge camp-oven, billycan, fry-
ing pan and several neat bundles wrapped
in waterproof sheeting. My wife
observed that his folded towel was scrupu-
lously clean.
He seemed grateful when we stopped
to talk. As when walking, he leaned
against his bicycle for support. It was
doubtful whether he could have travelled
at all without it, for they were constantly
inclined towards each other like two sides
of a triangle.
I had half expected him to scorn con-
versation with the occupants of a motor
car. Instead the floodgates opened. It
was as if he were starved for contact with
other humans, even though we were
allowed a small part in his half-hour
monologue. Everything that had long
been simmering in his lonely mind seemed
suddenly to be brought to the boil. But
it was a view of life quite alien to our
own ; his values were remote from ours,
fashioned from at least 50 years of living
outside the world we knew. Perhaps the
very rigors of transporting himself from
one waterhole or railway siding to an-
other had diverted his mind to the level
of pure contemplation. On the other
hand, none of our ever-present problems
burdened him; wages or social status,
income-tax, cost of living, housing or
superannuation.
He stood aloof even from the Welfare
State. He lived by occasional handouts,
he said. How could anyone have refused
this ancient and undemanding man of
82, tottering along the roads with his
weighted bike and only a threadbare
jacket and strides in the sharp Mallee
winds? No, he said, he had never
troubled to apply for the old-age pension.
It was his way of ignoring bureaucracy's
refusal to recognise the needs of anyone
who would not renounce the freedom of
the road for a permanent address and the
expenses this entailed.
His one concern was to know how far
off was the next siding. We told him at
least two miles, and it was as if a cloud
had crossed the sun. Where was he going
then? Futile question. He had been
travelling the Mallee and the Murray for
50 years, had outlived three depressions
and worked neither for bosses nor for
himself in all that time. Only the philo-
sophers try to pinpoint the beginning or
end of a circle.
“In the last resort there’s only one boss
a man ever works for,” he said reprovingly
to the matron of our party. “That’s a
wife and kids.”
He did not so much talk to us as free-
associate. With his pallid eyes, stubble
of beard and sun-blackened skin he spoke
like an ancient prophet of things we
barely understood. For him present
realities were issues that had faded a
generation or more ago ; the late Henry
Boote’s trade-union sermons in “The
Worker,” Jack Lang and the Premier's
Plan that accompanied the mass un-
employment of the 19305, the great
depression that sent thousands of men
onto the swagman’s track. Only one
contemporary issue appeared to have
touched him at all. Quoting from an old
copy of “Hansard” he happened to have
in his swag, he approved a Federal
senator’s support for literary censorship
—Lawrence? Nabokov? Brendan Behan?
—and said he had picked up another book
somewhere along the track and that he
would have banned that, too.
There was a nice touch of irony in this
homily to a writer on literary ethics. 1
wonder was he aware of the influence
similar swags once had on the school of
Bulletin writers in the ’nineties? But
again, such matters are of academic in-
terest now, and hardly concern those still
travelling his outside track. A more
intriguing question, I felt, was how, with
his failing eyes, he managed to read at all
in his solitary camps by night.
When we left him he leant once more
against his weighted bicycle and set him-
self slowly into motion. Weekend drivers


racing home to the city lights forced his
fragile figure out to the dusty fringe of
the bitumen.
George Farwell
Bush Television
■p very night of the week, in a bush camp
on the Putty Road about ten miles
from Windsor (N.S.W.), a group of
timber-cutters sit around a small square
box and watch a lighted picture on a
screen. For here, miles from the nearest
electrical service mains, television has
been made to yield perfect reception.
The camp was established by Lithgow
contractor Frank Waddell, whose team
supplies pit timber and logs for sawmills
on the Blue Mountains. Waddell has
been cutting timber since he was dis-
charged from the A.I.F. at the end of the
1939-45 war with a pension resulting from
an explosive bullet he got through the
hip near Lae in 1943. Doctors told Wad-
dell he would never walk again, and he
spent three years in hospital before he
proved them wrong. He has since
adapted his golf swing to such good
effect that he now plays off a four handi
cap and recently won the Lithgow club
championship for the second time. The
telecasts of championship golf pro-
grammes. in fact, were one reason why
he wanted television in his bush camp.
After some experimenting, Waddell
and a golfing mate, Arthur Boot, who
owns an electrical-goods store in Lithgow,
found a way of supplying an ordinary
television receiver with the necessary 240
volts. They boosted the power from a
12-volt battery by means of a vibrator-
inverter. The battery, which has enough
power for three nights’ viewing before it
“Weep, and you’ll Weep alone.”
begins to give a dim picture, is charged
by a small petrol-driven generator.
As the normal 240-volt alternating
current supplied by the grid system has
to be changed into direct current to
power television and radio receivers, the
direct current from the inverter merely
shorts out the conversion process within
the set.
The timbercutters claim that the
picture they receive is flawless on all three
channels. The only drawback for hard-
working men is that viewing keeps them
up late.
The Putty Road camp has other
luxuries undreamed of by earlier genera-
tions of bushmen. Waddell bought two
surplus trams from State transport
authorities and converted them into com-
fortable all - weather living quarters.
There is hot water for showers and the
entire camp area is well lit by the 240-
volt system.
N.A.K..
The Cool Kangaroos
At the launching pad some miles from
Woomera tow'nship, where every
now and then a Blue Streak heads off
into the north-western sky, or a Black
Knight with a great “whoosh” goes sky-
wards for points west, showers have been
built for the use of workers on the pad.
At dusk, when all personnel have left
for town, kangaroos come out of the
scrub and make for the shower sheds.
They have quickly discovered that a
hind leg placed on the pressure pad on
the floor brings water in large quantities.
Now they queue up nightly and jostle
each other for a drink and a cool-off.
That Was the Country
Bill Jones, professional ox-conductor,
was so politically obsessed that he had
named all his team after leading members
of Parliament. The near side bullocks
represented the Government, and the
off-siders were the Opposition. When
there was a change in the House he
changed the sides of his team, and con-
sequently had a lot of trouble with it
for a week or two. The new Premier
and the new Ministers took a lot of break-
ing into office. Sometimes he took a dis-
like to a politician because a bullock
bearing his name was intractable or a
loafer. In this case the unfortunate
brute would get more than his share of
whip and abuse, and the driver “would
see him pole-axed before he’d ever get
a vote out of him again.” When the
member he represented was defeated, the
driver would wave his hat joyfully, and
10 to one the ex-M.P. would be fattened
up and killed.
—“Bulletin,” October 3, 1912.
A company is about to be formed in
the Albury (N.S.W.) district to extract
radium from snakes. At a preliminary
meeting held at Murphy’s Flat Hotel the
matter was fully discussed, and it was de-
cided to begin operations as soon as the
necessary number of shares have been
subscribed.
The method of recovering the radium
is very simple. The snakes are first caught.
They are then placed in a large brick
cellar about 20ft deep, and fed on barley
for about four weeks. At the end of that
time they undergo a process of distilla-
tion, in an appliance that has been used
in the mountains of Scotland for cen-
turies. The product is of a beautiful
color, from a light straw to a dark amber.
It can be taken either alone or with
water; and under its influence a man
becomes a different character altogether.
He walks on air, and has great ambitions.
Sample bottles sent to various parts have
produced the most remarkable results;
under their influence various places have
claimed to be the Federal capital, and
their drains have been transformed into
mighty and majestic rivers.
Shares in the Murphy’s Flat Radium
from Snakes Extraction Co may be had
on application to Murphy. The share list
is filling fast. The reporter of the How-
long “Howler” lately visited the field and
made full inquiries, and is satisfied that
the industry has a great future. He has
applied for half-a-share.
— “Bulletin”, November 12, 1908.
EARLY MORNING IN THE BAY
The water, like a sheet of glass,
mirrors swans that pass
religiously
like priests to mass ;
tranquillity
holds everything
save
each little ripple-wave
still travelling;
set in the east
the sun begins the feast
while round the bay,
each like a silver ray,
the barracouta play
at leapfrog on the sea.
JAMES HACKSTON


m
BY APPOINTMENT TO HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD,
If you enjoy a smooth
well rounded Scotch..
ut
richest
OC/Nlo'™
« miltin' '
1
srDNtr i»» s
Mill »** *
Al>[lMOt 'S®’
MfLBOI/ffWf 1881
OUNCE 5
FLUID
PINT
NET
look for tlie square bottle
and ask for it by name
BORN 1820 —STILL GOING STRONG
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
Head Office: 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
’Phone: BW 1011, BW 1012, BW 4991
DIRECTORS:
STRUAN ROBERTSON (Chairman), S. E. A. STIRLING,
JAMES H. STEPHENSON, R. G. GALE, RAYMOND S. GOWARD, C.B.E.
A. C. MAITLAND O. S. PETTERSEN
(Managing Director) (Manager)
Branches and Agencies in all States.
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION MERITS YOUR SUPPORT.
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write
to the Manager, who will quote you a price for the
original.
Feiffer.
M AkMlMl KttWb
of m " j cu wm
TO IK,T £H 10
mvxim CM'
6 UOU) IK)
ACWVEMtiI
AiMPPS TH6
Al? 6 |» TH£
of putiimM.
1 fweexMM
akjp floret*.
m com* tf/ot caotwjtiov in
THE f\tiO of PVBUSHm out Au)A/?D
6Cfc> TO FPIfOR, R.L.K.. OF THE
tttfOTIH MER6EO FIRM OF PRfNTIOE,
OOUttHtttU, RANDOM A“PSCHU6TM
FOR ODtIVAIUP AUE6IMCE
U)ITKOUT I/ARIATICU TO THE OTATEMOJF
' f'O Ffl/E TO OD IT
MV All 10% TO 00 IT. froT '
MU WT 60(06 TO 90 IT.
ifs nor the <mt? of Boots
00 R K 0056 KOOtdS HOtO TO HAUPLf'
hr 'aft? ‘c^ p 'cLflPs
our superior performance meo w
! the pieu? or &x:s to
mcwa ruM., of tw u&m
co»su,itoTeo firm of Barton robioon,
Thomson up y foe rue cour»>-
uauw creative im of rve olp
fhmre .' i thio*t mr wve bor
here CMiv u verw CKcmvb. mv
H)OT m If OM MORE TRW &ASEP
Oo THE AFT ROACH [Vf OUTuMO
Z AMP SEE IF WOUCAU COME OP U)MI
6ouemM
CW CL aril k> fiftP cut
01/R fIUAj, AIOABP fofi CWRK&OVf, MIUU&
ACTiOW IK) Trig MW Of INDUSTRY 1?
Trie UTftH
AMAi6AMATec? Flf?M OP £OK-£v£RYTHIN6
ft* HtR UW&PIM& 6PR Of) -' J
CTOIT CAI?e If THEM fIBC ME
IV£ o££f) AJ?6U!f)6 Foe A
U6U) APPO3ACH FOR Y£AR*?.
got ARE k)6 6C/RE TNAT
TUfc 6 THE RIGHT
' [ihP cM-cW cMP
/ , , , \ V , I * '
1 uiOOLV UK£ T<? OPUauPe TUI*:
Meenus a)itH a mmto
WECItoM foR OUR PRfcPeaos |
8M OUR FOUMM& /
flftW A6O-AMP Mu),
fH auw a^c^ive
OF TH£ eMOTkOO MO6T CUftO
TP Atl OUR -
A*f Al-
' TfcEAT Ae A HOimfVL
euiß«r (
AU9 J?A££ MOt 61BAU TO fC7£AV
Dgu)
foe <p nm wev im
MI6WT 6£aJ WORK'
(tup foe A P/ViU6 WHAf
bXXJLfcI kit OO?' t


The Red Page
Native Soil
From That Day to This: Myrtle Rose
White. Rigby. 225. 6d.
A ustralia has no “primitive” painter
(using the word primitive in its
paradoxically sophisticated and honor-
able sense) to range beside Grandma
Moses, but I do not think it is too con-
trived a parallel to say that, in the field
of literature, at least we can boast Myrtle
Rose White.
In this, her fourth book, Mrs White,
who now is 73 years of age, and lives
in Adelaide between visits to the two of
her children who live “outback,” con-
tinues the discursive chronicle of her life
and of her family’s adventures in the
arid, desert-border country north of
Broken Hill. If her writing here is looser
than before, it may be that her previous
books have had more severe editing.
Mrs White, I am sure, writes exactly as
she talks —but as anyone who has read
the transcript of really pithy, unrehearsed
talk knows, small defects which are un-
noticed in conversation become very
apparent and obtrusive, and therefore
irritating, in print.
Just as it would be criminal to insist
that Grandma Moses should conform to
academic rules of perspective or composi-
tion, so would it be vandalism to destroy
the sound of Mrs White’s own voice ; and
one does not object to reading “Just as
I was up to my eyes in salads for tea,”
because one knows exactly what it feels
like to be up to one’s eyes in salad. But
one deplores “I knew that much of his
pitiful lamentations were the result of
hunger .. ” or “He found that the
work was waiting on some intricate [spare]
part . . . [some time later] word came
that supplies had to be waited on from
America .. ” There are elementary
spelling mistakes and so forth. Her pub-
lishers ought to have served hei better
than that—it is an unfairness equal to
showing pictures in an ill-lit gallery, and
is the greater pity because the printing
and design of the book are very good
indeed.
In time “From That Day to This”
ranges from Mrs White's early experi-
ences inland to fairly recent events. Like
Grandma Moses’s paintings, its canvas is
crowded with characters: with travellers
and station workers ; children and ani-
mals; with a tractor christened “Katie
Cletrack” that proved to be an un-
reliable bitch of absolutely devilish stub-
bornness. The background is of minutely
described topography of homesteads, and
of the vegetation, both permanent and
ephemeral, of the region. Like a thread
through it all runs the history of the
Flying Doctor service and of the radio
network which has so tremendously
altered life in those parts, so that while
life “outback” is still undeniably perilous
at times the peril is subject to some
control and is no longer endured bv
frightened people in utter isolation. Mrs
White describes the appalling floods that
desolated the Darling country a few years
ago and points out graphically how addi-
tionally disastrous, especially in terms of
human uncertainty and/or sheer starva-
tion, this period would have been had it
not been for radio communication, air-
borne supplies and air searches for men
trapped by floodwater.
Given that the book is so rich in
incident, so filled with salty characters (as
her other books are too), I have puzzled
to discover precisely what quality it is
in them that so compels and fascinates
generations of Australian readers. One
can become bored with the reminiscences
of latter-day pioneers, and yet, in her
pages, still find fresh interest and amuse-
ment. Part of the secret rests in her
utter sincerity ; her love of all that she
describes. She reminds me of one other
Australian writer—not of Mrs Aeneas
Gunn, though there are affinities, but of
Sarah Musgrave who, having been the
first white child born in the Young
district of N.S.W., lived to be 107 and
wrote (very baldly and badly) a marvel-
lous little book that deserves reprinting,
called “The Wayback.”
Myrtle Rose White and Sarah Mus-
grave are both complete livers and doers
constructed entirely of their native soil.
One wrote far too little, the other, thank
goodness, writes everything. When a
writer is an outcrop of his own back-
ground, even if the background is limited
and his expression “primitive,” he must
convey its atmosphere in a fashion that
nobody else can imitate or excel. Mrs
White half-believes in ghosts—l half-
believe in reincarnation ; and leave it at
that except to say that if literary snobs
choose to overlook her writings the loss
will be theirs. For the rest of us she
mines an inexhaustible lode of glorious
anecdote.
NANCY KEESING
The Dolphin of Opononi
A Book of Dolphins. Anthony Alpers.
Heinemann. 18s. 9d.
/"\pononi is so small a place, dozing by
the blue waters of the Hokianga
Harbor in New Zealand’s warm north-
land, that I don’t remember there being
anything there at all except the old
weatherboard pub. Mr Alpers says that
has recently been burnt down, and he
makes no mention of its being rebuilt,
so now perhaps there is really nothing.
No; there is a jetty; from which,
as Mr Alpers rightly records, you can
see enormous (and quite uncatchable)
kingfish swimming between the piles and
small boys can pull in an occasional
small snapper. And for the rest, nothing
but the long narrow harbor, lying more
like a river than a piece of the sea
between the near hills and the further
sandhills.
Opononi is not, says Mr Alpers, a
Maori name “its origin is obscure.”
But this, surely, is absurd. It looks like
Maori ; it sounds like Maori ; it quite
closely resembles other Maori place-
names such as Opunake or Opua or
Opotiki ; and it is in the Maori north-
land, only a few miles across
the island from Russell, formerly
Kororareka, where Hone Heke started
the first of the Maori wars. True, the
word as such doesn’t exist in Williams’s
“New Zealand Dictionary”; but Williams
gives “ope” meaning a troop of soldiers
or warriors, and “ngongi” as an unusual
term for “water,” “ngongo” for “waste
away” and “noni” for “crooked” or
“bent”; so surely a Maori derivation
could be found for it.
Which is all by the way ; but so, in
a sense, is most of Mr Alpers’s book.
Opononi is where, a few years ago, in
1955, New Zealand’s famous tame wild
dolphin made its appearance and allowed
boatmen to tickle its stomach with an
oar or a mop, played games with a
rubber beach-oall, nuzzled the legs of
bathers and, watched by hundreds of
tourists who poured into the tiny settle-
ment and drank the pub dry, let the
children ride on its back. Like the
dolphins of classic legend, of whom Mr
Alpers has much to say, it made a par-
ticular friend of one child—a girl named
Jill Baker and here, as Mr Alpers
quotes it, is Jill’s own story:
1 think why the dolphin became so
friendly with me was because I was always
gentle with her and never rushed at her
as so many bathers did. No matter how
many went in the water playing with her,
as soon as I went in for a swim she would
leave all the others and go off side-by-
side with me. I remember on one occasion
I went for a swim much further up the
beach than where she was playing, and I
was only in the water a short while when
she bobbed up just in front of my face
and gave me such a fright. On several other
occasions when I was standing in the water
with my legs apart she would go between
them and pick me up and carry me a short
distance before dropping me again. At
first she didn’t like the feel of my hands
and would dart away, but after a while
when she realised I would not harm her
she would come up to me to be rubbed
and patted. She would quite often let me
put little children on her back for a
moment or two.
The dolphin was first seen by Opononi
boatmen early in 1955. The first to make
friends with her seems to have been “a
hard-working Maori farmer, ’ Piwai Toi,
who found that she would come to the
sound of his outboard motor and liked
to be caressed with an oar. Some of her
most celebrated exploits were her games
of tossing beer-bottles and beach-balls,
and the time when, some schoolchildren
having gathered in a ring in the water,
she swam round inside the circle and
played with a ball as if she fully under-
stood what game was on.
The New Zealand Government tried
to protect her by Order in Council just
as an earlier government had protected


Pelorus Jack ; but about the time the
order was gazetted, in March, 1956, she
was found dead, jammed in a crevice
between some rocks at the outlet of a
pool where she had been feeding. Mr
Toi thought that, a female hankering for
young (that was why she had played with
children), she had committed suicide. Mr
Alpers thinks that the local practice of
geligniting fish may have had something
to do with it.
Mr Alpers’s problem, having this much
fascinating material to relate but neces-
sarily little more, has been how to make
a book of it; and so he has made “A
Book of Dolphins.” He has the dolphin
legends of antiquity—Arion, who was
given a ride home by a dolphin when
pirates threw him overboard (even this
now hardly seems impossible); the boy
at Hippo (a Roman settlement in Africa)
who, according to Pliny the Younger,
made friends with a dolphin in an
estuary; the boy in Oppian’s fishing-
poem who similarly made friends, “And
the dolphin, like an arrow, when it heard
the call of the boy, would speed swiftly
and come close to the beloved boat,
fawning with its tail and proudly lifting
up its head fain to touch the boy.”
He has some rare and remarkable
facts from the Marine Studios aquarium
in Florida where dolphins have been bred
in captivity and dance their watery court-
ship, and cleverly produce their young
tail-first, so that they won’t be drowned
while being born, and steer themselves
by radar, and play their enchanting
and mischievous games by offering food
to groupers and then snatching it away
again or plucking feathers from pelicans
to toss in the air when they haven’t got
a rubber ball.
He has one astounding story from the
Florida coast in 1943 when a woman
who was in danger of drowning was
indubitably pushed ashore by a dolphin
—Mr Alpers thinks this may have been
play rather than deliberate life-saving ;
but who knows? He has the not less
astonishing story of the calling of the
“porpoises” (probably dolphins, Mr
Alpers thinks) which you may read about
in Sir Arthur Grimble’s delightful book
about the Gilberts, “A Pattern of
Islands” —the natives used to call them
out of the sea and then, alas, eat them
—and he has the story of New Zealand’s
other famous dolphin (of a different
family from the Opononi one), Pelorus
Jack, which used to meet the ships in
Cook Strait.
One could criticise all this. It is essen-
tially journalistic. It has not the appeal
of direct, original observation such as
you get in Gerald Durrell’s books or in
Gavin Maxwell’s superb account of his
otters. It is beaten out a bit thin and
it gets a long way from Opononi. But,
given the circumstances, that Mr Alpers
was neither living at Opononi nor yet a
keeper of dolphins, it was a good way
to make a book and everyone will be
grateful for a work at once so charming
and so enlightening. The best way to
read it, since the Opononi story comes at
the end, is back-to-front; and that would
probably have been the best way to write
it.
DOUGLAS STEWART
From Brisbane to Kensington
Once Bitten, Twice Bitten. Peter Porter.
Scorpion Press. 255.
“X>° RN Brisbane, Australia, in 1929 —
parents of mixed English and
Scottish background. Birth followed
immediately by the Great Slump. Edu-
cated at local public school, where the
education consisted of an absurd emula-
tion of outmoded English public-school
practice.” This is a blurb that tells so
much that it ought to be the work of the
author ; it does catch something of the
tone and the themes of Mr Porter’s verse.
There is the constant thought of his
“Forefathers’ View of Failure”:
It would seem a failure to them to have
Knowledge a Scottish textbook never gave
Or to fear regular love on an iron bedstead
With children lying awake a wall away.
Their sophistication was only to be dead . . .
Constant remembrance of childhood
when the “crafty baby” has to sweat
“under the weight of love and blankets,”
When
... I was a sullen child
Scolding my indulgent parents’ love.
Remembered school:
A Rugby field was the Republic’s mould
Which that soft thing the self so rightly
feared.
The gravel rash, the sweaty jersey kept
Faith with the Silver Age, the Men of Old.
And —always, all ways—remembered
self: —
Peter—a name I share with many others—
Every day someone says it —no brothers
To share my surname with, no sisters
Either; few young boys were kissed as
Rarely as I was. Peter was afraid of
girls.
Peter is now an irritant for pearls.
Of all things I’d like to be, a Casanova,
Randy, vulgar would be best. A lover
Training the South Ken. girls in his two-
seater
Egged on by Hickey, Tanfield, sexy in a
sweater,
Raping the honest, loveless, childhood
Peter.
The last line is it all: childhood was
honest. “Murder, the child’s friend”
could save him from the time of decep-
tion which is adulthood, which is now. It
is a world of death, and images from
death and the sickroom —the body’s
betrayal—fill this book. There is the
“stately mushroom,” “cancer,” scab and
pack-sore. What can a human do who
“cannot cry as freely as they did who
died in the Age of Faith?” He can, like
Mr Porter, exult bitterly in his long
dying, can count with savage almost-
amusement the symptoms, or he can try
to do like the Joneses and
. . . give up thinking, work hard, buy a car,
Get married, keep a garden, bring up kids—
Answers to all the problems that there are,
Except the love that kills, the death that
lives.
London reviewers have praised Mr
Porter’s satires; they mean apparently
those poems where he does not say /
and is prepared to look at others without
the self-protective sentiment he clings to
in his personal poems. But those satires
fail ; it is too easy, too fashionable, to
denounce the Chelsea Elizabethans with
“the bodies are the same.” Mr Porter
has no clear position from which to
judge others. London, again, thinks him
influenced by current English writing,
but his tone is more conversational and
his rhythms more hit-and-miss than that.
Despite his schooling, Mr Porter writes
like an Australian —not only because of
his expatriate intolerance of London
highlights but because he has the Aus-
tralian faith in fair-dinkumness as more
important than fine artifice. It is not then
without love of a kind that he can finish
his poem on Phar Lap with:
It is an Australian innocence to love
The naturally excessive and be proud
Of a thoroughbred bay gelding who ran
fast.
Fast-running gelding or not, Mr
Porter does bring otf some poems (“The
Lament for a Proprietor”) completely,
with enduring art, and he does manage
to present himself as a
Private mythology perhaps,
Private abounds in verities.
He has, too, a gift for phrase. But the
crude quality of much of his verse, the
unmemorable nature of his stanzas looks,
unfortunately, not like impatience and
fecundity but tortuous contrivance, a
futile effort towards honesty futile
because it denies revelation to us, no
matter what it achieves for Mr Porter s
self.
RAY MATHEW
Bullets and Democracy
Modern Jordan. Judge Gerald Sparrow.
Allen and Unwin. 41s. 6d.
“As we entered the Mosque there were
many soldiers but my grandfather
sent them away thinking they should not
come near a place of prayer. I was a
few steps behind him as we went in.
Suddenly from the right someone ran
and tired a shot at my grandfather who
fell. The bullet ripped a medal from
my chest . . .” With Abdullah dead, son
Talal was next in line but he was already
a patient in a mental clinic in Switzer-
land and within a year had to be deposed
to make way for his own son, 17-year-
old Hussein, who took over, with all
the omens against him, in 1953 —the
same day, oddly enough, that cousin
Feisal became King of Iraq.
Unlike Feisal, who bled to death after
Kassem’s Bagdad coup on Bastille Day,
1958, Hussein (of the same Hashemite
family and dimly related to the prophet
himself) has falsified all predictions and
stayed very much alive. Much of the
stability of the country, according to
Judge Gerald Sparrow, is due to this
simple fact of survival. Certainly with,
half a million restless Palestinian refugees
in local camps, with faction and intrigue
operating behind a democratic facade,
with hostile neighbors stirring up trouble


on the borders, Hussein has had no easy
task.
Judge Sparrow’s account is mainly
straightforward narrative, unadorned by
sophistry, literary grace or humor. The
text is' grimly informative, not inter-
ptetive. The author is inclined to put
forward a statement of forms as a
description of reality and even when he
has doubts about this sort of procedure
his affection for the people leads him
,0 the optimistic viek that whatever
Hussein does is for the best: “The estab-
lishment of a true democracy is the wish
both of the Jordan people and their
king.”
..,■, , „ » .
ow 11 m s y , “ e . lhat the Constitution
guarantees all the rights in the book, but
he ,‘ act p™! m , ,! hat ri S ht , s exls j on *
to the extent that they-operate and quite
cl “ rly Jordan hey depend on the
w k hml of benevolent despotism. Censor-
? hl P' ex,le t ™P™onment, ««« the
lan 8 ua * e of Jordan government.
DOUGLAS TERRY
A Great Work of Charity
Europe of the Heart. The Autobiography
of Lather Dominique Pire as told to
Hughes Ve'nenne. Hutchinson. 31s. 6d.
Father Dominique Pire, the Belgian
Dominican monk, was awarded the
Nobel Peace Prize of 1958 for his devoted
work in re-establishing those Displaced
Persons who had no “market value” and
could offer nothing as a commercial
proposition in post-war refugee emigra-
tion schemes. Because of age, illness,
physical and mental infirmities, lack of
training, ffiese people were not eligible
for emigration or resettlement and em-
ployment but were left in a state of
demorali ed dependence and disorienta-
tion in refugee camps throughout Europe.
They were the “hard core” for whom it
was felt very little, if anything, could
be done.
This book is neither a conventional
biography nor an autobiography It
consists of a series of interviews Hughes
Vehenne recorded with Lather Pire after
the Nobel Prize award and it builds up in
effect to an autobiographical sketch of a
rare and remarkable man. The interview
technique has certain limitations and on
one occasion descends to the level of mere
chatter when Vehenne takes nearly six
pages to list some of the odd and amusing
mistakes of address in communications
received after the Nobel award But it
has one great advantage: authenticity.
Father P re emerges as he would emerge
in conversation. No neat and convenient
pattern is imposed on him. And if the
book is occasionally untidy, it is movingly
alive.
The first section covers (all too briefly)
Father Fire’s childhood, his introduction
to the Dominicans at La Sarte. his first
journey to Rome to continue his theo
logical studies ; his work in the Resistance
during the Second World War, his ten
years’ teaching, his seven years as Cure
of La Sarte ; and the rest of the book is
concerned with his work among the D.Ps.
Father Pire first heard of the “hard
core” of D.Ps. in January, 1949, and
decided to visit various refugee camps to
see for himself what could be done. He
was appalled at what he found, the sick
and maimed, the mentally deficient, sick
widows with young children, uprooted
intellectuals, the “dregs” left over by an
automatic filtering machine. He began
to enlist sponsors for individual refugees
to establish a sense of personal contact
between people ; then he started to have
homes built for the old and lonely and
finally came his idea to found a number
of European villages (there are now six),
to counteract the depersonalising and de-
humanising conditions, the disouentation
and despair that characterised life in the
camps.
A substantial part of this book is con-
cerned with the case histories of people
who were helped to find new lives for
themselves by Lather Pire and his assist-
ants —and it faces realistically all the
problems and sharp edges involved. It
does not gloss over the cases of duplicity
and dishonesty, the frauds and the fakes,
nor does it dwell on them unduly The
successes are there ; and Lather Pire is
still engaged in his difficult task.
Two statements will serve to indicate
Lather Pile’s remarkable qualities of
mind. He says: “I have fought to ensure
that individual liberty of conscience
should be respected, and that no one
should have a monopoly of charitable
works;” and elsewhere: “Let us learn
again and again to see everyone, even
though utterly different from us in his
ideas his social position, his outlook, or
his beliefs, as a brother human being.
Let us learn again and again to put our
fellow man at his true worth —which is
infinite.” Here is a mind weli worth
coming into contact with.
V.S.
The Seven Wonders
Wonders of Antiquity. Leonard Cottrell.
Longmans. 31s.
An page 58 of his book, ‘"Wonders of
Antiquity,” Leonard Cottrell tells
how the archaelogist Wood, while exca-
vating the Temple of Diana of the
Tphesians in 1865, was stabbed within an
inch of his heart by a Turkish assassin
who had mistaken him for the British
consul. Cottrell comments that archaeo-
logy in those days was as much an
adventurous pursuit as a science.
Part of the joy of most of the additional
(and still partially extant) seven wonders
of the world that he writes about is that
they have not altogether been fenced off
and made safe for tourists. Speaking
personally, my wife and I were looking
at the Dome of the Rock in Jerusalem
from the Mount of Olives when King
Abdulla of Jordan was murdered ;■ at the
Crusader castle of Krak des Chevaliers
we were set upon by a bunch of toughs
who demanded money for “guarding” the
car and then stoned us when I refused
to pay up ; not far from the temple of
Apollo at Delphi a gigantic sheep dog
attempted to demolish us. In other words,
some living excitement still remains in
these places beside the bare bones of the
ruins.
Mr Cottrell has made a very fine selec-
tion of bones. He begins with the only
survivor of the ancient seven wonders,
the Great Pyramid, then describes the
other six from contemporary accounts,
and finally gives a list of seven of his
own choice. These are: the Palace of
Minos in Crete, the Theban Necropolis,
the Valley of the Kings (Egypt), Palmyra
in Syria, the Dome of the Rock, Krak
des Chevaliers, and the Shrine of Apollo
at Delphi. His chapters on these are a
skilfully blended mixture of description
of their architecture and the life that went
on inside it, together with his own per-
sonal reactions.
The facts are still amazing enough by
themselves: the maximum error in the
right angles of the Great Pyramid is one
twelfth of a degree ; the Minoans had
flushing lavatories (in fact the size and
complexity of the drains may have given
rise to the myth of the Labyrinth) ; the
great sloping wall of Krak is 80ft. thick
at the base. But Mr Cottrell is no vulgar
purveyor of statistics. He has felt the
magic, and gets some of it across.
GEOFFREY DUTTON
The Key to a Park
Gramercy Park. Gladvs Brooks. Dent.
295. 9d.
T\7ithin the iron fence of Gramercy
’ * Park is an oasis, a quiet and lovely
retreat intrinsic with the greatest, the
busiest and the most efficient city of
man’s conception, yet a retreat that even
today clings obstinately to the past. New
Yorkers all have heard of Gramercy
Park, comparatively few of them know
it, or frequent it. it is (if my memory
serves me right, for I have no way of
checking it) the last of those public
parks to which only the residents of
adjacent mansions held a key, so that
their owners’ hours of relaxation could
be spent in chosen company and so that
their children’s associates were the
children of friends and neighbors. The
park has its associations with history;
many great men, from Alexander Hamil-
ton on, have lived in its vicinity and
walked of habit in its environs.
Near the beginning of this century
Gladys Brooks, as Gladys Rice, was one
of the favored fortunates who used the
park, carrying the key to its great lock
on a silver chain hung about her neck ;
and the Gramercy Park of her book
title is not a park but a state of being.
Her book sings sweetly from a tender
nostalgia, it is graceful and sensitively
written, and evokes a mood in which the
beauties of that period come to mind
delicately etched and altogether charming.
Her life was the life of a rich American
girl of good family, with education spread
over institutions in several countries, with
a social entree to several overlapping
circles, and a complete confidence in her
personal right to the better things in life.
Within the limits of its appeal her book
is a delight, as one would rather expect
from the second wife of her second


husband, Van Wyck Brooks, whose life-
work amounts to a philosophical history
of American literature. It is something
more than “the biographical sketch,” the
“frank and honest story of youth,” that
the dust-cover blurb claims for it. It is
an accurate echo of one aspect of a
departed period.
OLAF RUHEN
Montherlant
Without Violence
The Bachelors. Henry de Montherlant.
Weidenfeld and Nicolson. 18s. 9d.
'T'his fairly early novel. (1934) is hardly
typical of de Montherlant. It has
none of the violence, sensationalism or
heroics that have come to be associated
with his name. It carries no suggestion
of Hemingway; rather, its astringent
insights suggest Angus Wilson as the
author’s nearest relative in English.
The subject promises little, but reveals
much. Two elderly deadbeat aristocrats,
uncle and nephew, are eking out the thin
remains of an inheritance in an old house
in the Paris of 1927. Eor 20 years they
have scarcely ever gone anywhere or
done anything except torment each other
with trivialities. Butt-ends of a disposses-
sed class, they cling fast to their bachelor
habits, their worn and stinking clothes,
their dark and fetid rooms.
With a matter-of-fact precision and
economy de Montherlant soon has these
soiled specimens fixed on pins of ob-
servation. The uncle is so preoccupied
with himself that “everything precise was
obscure’’ to him ; he is a failure who
relishes the failures of others ; a coward
whose sole sustaining force is viciousness.
The nephew is an amiable enough weak-
ling whose abilities have so far atrophied
through lack of use that “whenever he
felt he was being watched, or whenever
he felt he had to act quickly, his brain
clouded over and he lost the use of his
faculties’’; one who has lived so long on
self-deception that he perceives life only
dimly through a screen of anxieties and
superstitions.
Even as the characters emerge, disaster
enters their life like a fever. The nephew,
who is the real heir to the house, is fast
going broke through legal mismanage-
ment of his affairs ; the bachelors will
soon be homeless, their treasured rituals
shattered. They turn desperately to the
uncle’s brother, a phoney aristocrat-
turned-bourgeois whose fortune is still,
in spite of his stupidity, intact. Their
anxious strategems as they bid for his
favor, and his equally anxious evasions,
produce a scarifying comedy. Ironies
multiply until the uncle plays his winning
card: though still a virgin in his sixties,
he has once had a liaison with a Jewess
and is able to threaten that he will go and
live with her unless he is looked after.
So the nephew is pushed out, almost
literally, to die of neglect.
No one suffers more than a pang of
remorse over this. Consciences are
quickly salved ; life goes on. But in his
solitary death in the country, the nephew,
alone of the three, comes face to face, if
A Wind
The wind that lifts your curly hair
turns round and round
and travels where
it feels the loss of teasing you
so back it comes to tease anew.
Its fingers rive your curly strands,
twist round and round
with supple hands,
just like your mother used to do.
The wind, it makes a child of you.
The wind, it makes a child of you,
turns round and round
and pretties you
till happy with its boisterous art
it runs off whistling, light at heart.
NOEL MACAINSH
Sleep
When one you love lies sleeping
The spell you long to break
Is past such sensual keeping ;
She must not wake.
Her separate existence
Is hers alone in sleep,
Bar dreams with their insistence
All beds are deep.
She sighs. A slight smile alters
Her lips towards a kiss,
And separateness falters
With warmth dreams rniss.
Softly ; let her sleep sound ;
The day is in your keeping,
Though night and cold surround
Where she lies sleeping.
GEOFFREY DUTTON
D awn at Sect
A flat and endless gentian grave.
No man walks upon it. Not even He.
No man lives within it unless he die
In its slow sinewed rocking of mor-
tality.
Our luxury is summoned up . . . dis-
porting
Of virgins, old men cloth-capped and
trying.
Each unwitting goes through the most
secret rite of man . . .
The bunch of flowers in a jamjar,
crying,
A witness of prayer as the priestly
steward
Dedicates his temple to the sun. Port-
holes
Open to the grey uneasy lovers on the
bed
Who are making their passage over
the dead.
MAX HARRIS
Shellharbour Trio
I. Frances
Frances the child, at nearly eight,
Conceives the world as owing her
A dog, a cat, a swinging gate,
An apple stuck with cloves, a bird
Displayed on grass, a picture book to
hold,
A ribbon for her long brown hair
And riddles asked, and stories told.
In later years she will require
A ring, a rose, a kiss, a hand
To place the log upon the fire,
To reach at twilight for her wrist,
Someone to tell her news of castles
rockets, gold,
And why the world is ringed with
spears,
And riddles asked, and stories told.
Frances the child, whose eyes ignore
The ocean for the crinkled pool,
The trickled sand, the apple core,
Do not watch the risen moon
On your pillow dappled, green and
cold.
Sleep with memories of birds,
And riddles asked, and stories told.
IL. Mr Dove
Frankly, said Mr Dove, I like to see
The shank of April. I might recall
now
(Sit on this log. I always fish from
here.)
When April made no difference to the
year.
It drifted like the sand against my
fence.
I told the time by bells. Sometimes 1
fished
A pale girl from the waves
And kept her for a little company.
1 found pearls here, 1 found red petals
and blue stones.
I found a poor man once.
He lay in his old coat among the weed
With shells upon his eyes
And fingernails like shells.
1 found a boat without its oars
And then the oars and then the poor
man dead,
Said Mr Dove, or so he might have
said.
ILL Mr and Mrs Beam
The trotting hooves that roused the
swallow roused Mrs Beam
Who turned on her side to avoid the
insistent warning
But sunlight brushed the window
along with the birds
And below on the rocks the waves
pounded a warning
Of another bright witless implacable
round,
Sunrise finished, sunset and moonrise
to come
Over the slow moving sea
Staining and turning and losing and
finding
Its handfuls of sand.
Mr Beam had escaped, slipping away
before light
Painted his pillow. Wearing dark
jowls he went
(Into PK, to worship the fire and the
smoke
Black white, orange white, yellow
white
Soaring and streaming) —Mr Beam
moved
In his own ordered and separate way
While Mrs Beam lay in her bed and
regretted the day
And the day after that, and the night.
ELIZABETH RIDDELL


BOOKHUNTER
Dept. “D” Bnx 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.0., Sydney.
only for an instant, with the reality he
has spent a lifetime escaping.
By this time de Montherlant has lifted
his characters out of their obscure social
pocket and turned their squalid history
into a comment on life itself ; a com-
ment that rises near to poetry with the
nephew’s vision of life and death, induced
by the sight of wild geese flying at
night. His suffering, the uncle’s little
victory, the wealthy relative's wounding
hypocrisy, attain by their very meaning-
lessness a kind of tragi-comic splendor.
JOHN ABERNETHY
Gang Warfare
The Gas-light Murders. James Edward
Holroyd. Allen and Unwin. 345. 9d.
TCifty years ago, a group of supposed
•* Russian anarchists were surprised in
burgling a jeweller’s shop in Hounds-
ditch. Shooting their way out, the gang
killed three policemen and wounded two
others. One of their own members,
mortally wounded, was assisted from the
scene by members of the gang to a house
a mile away in Grove Street. There the
dead man was found later by the police
after a doctor had notified the coroner.
The ensuing “battle,” which took place
nearly three weeks later in Sidney Street,
resulted in a house of ten rooms being
burnt out, two unknown and unidentified
bodies found in the ruins, Police Sergeant
Leeson shot through the lungs and foot,
Sergeant Chick of the Scots Guards hit by
a ricochetting bullet, two constables and
three civilians slightly wounded, a stray
cat and a sheep-dog killed and a 74-year-
old ex-policeman dead from heart-failuie
due to the excitement of reading descrip-
tions of the battle in the evening paper.
The two men trapped in the house were
armed with automatic Mauser pistols, the
police with ineffectual fowling-pieces.
Winston Churchill, then Home Secretary,
gave the authority which sent a detach-
ment of Scots Guards to the aid of the
police In fur-collared overcoat, top-hat,
and equipped with cigar, the Home Secre
tary drove down to the scene and assumed
command. His first idea was that metal
shields should be improvised to enable
the police to approach the building ; then
that a cannon should be brought up to
blow in the front of the house.
Finally a fire broke out in the house.
Fire engines were summoned and the
gutted building was quenched. This
chapter of the affair was summed up
truthfully in the laconic wording of the
Fire Brigade’s report: “Called at 1.30
p.m. ; place, 100 Sidney Street, Mile End
East name of occupier, unknown ; busi-
ness, private ; supposed cause of fire, un-
known ; damage, a house of ten rooms
and contents burnt cut and roof off and
a man, name and age unknown, burnt
to death. Later a report was received at
headquarters of the finding of a second
body.”
As an aftermath, eight foreign suspects
were arrested and tried at the Old Bailey.
Ali were eventually discharged. How-
ever two days before the Sidney Street
battle, Leon Beron, a middle - aged
Russian jew, had been found murdered
on Clapham Common, with a rough “S ,!
cut in both of his cheeks. Steinie Mor-
rison, a Russian Jewish ex-convict,
described as a “striking personality, tall,
handsome and well-spoken, with distinc-
tive dress,” was arrested and tried at the
Old Bailey. Richard Muir, the chief
prosecuting counsel, had sent Crippen to
the gallows a few months before.
Morrison was sentenced foi the murder,
but reprieved to spend the remainder of
his life in jail. Assured and self-contained
during the trial, Morrison became morose
and subject to fits of savage depression
during his life-sentence which ended with
his death in jail after a period of ten
years.
James Edward Holroyd, who is respon-
sible for the reconstruction of these
events, brings logical evidence to bear in
order to show that Morrison was not
guilty of the murder. His thorough,
patient yet dramatic re-presentation of
these events, together with the lucid con-
clusion he reaches, will absorb readers
interested in crime and detection, especi-
ally as this book is concerned with actual
events of the past.
ROLAND ROBINSON
Writing Down
for the Workers
The Tracks We Travel. Edited by Jack
Beasley. Australasian Book Society.
21s
'T'his book is a collection of short stories
A that includes a number oi award
winners in the Mary Gilmore Award
May Day Competitions together with
others not entered for those contests. To
judge from the biographical details of
contributors appended, the majority of
the authors are middle class while the
majority of their characters are working
class, a fact which probably explains the
absence of joy and the presence of
worthiness so rather stodgily apparent.
There are factory accidents and coal-
mining trouble ; a brace of Brave Children
Winning Through (among these being
some of the best written tales in the book).
Trials and disasters plague farmers and
there are a few pathetic but extremely
stupid underdogs who largely invite their
own minor tragedies and who, conse-
quently, would be equally pathetic in any
social system one can envisage.
There is, however, one really glorious
story, “Conciliation,” by Lloyd Davies,
a name new to me. It is far from perfect,
being for one thing a little too short for
its content, but it is funny—really and
truly funny. Humor lies in the yarn
itself, in the dialogue, in the main charac-
ters and even, which is less easy to
achieve, in an intentionally comical man
called “Sailor.” The comedy is the more
true because the action and development
(which are most subtly ironic) spring
from a potentially un-funny event. The
tale is, paradoxically, therefore far more
amusing than Gavin Casey’s “The Irish
Oafs from Ugly Gully” which sets out to
be funny lock, stock and barrel.
J. S. Manifold’s “Fraser on Discipline”
is another comic yarn that was spoiled
for me because I could not believe it,
but readers with a good healthy scorn for
effete middle-class organisations might
disagree with this judgment. “The
Coconuts of Shangri-La” by Archer
Crawford is set refreshingly upon a
South Sea island and is diverting enough,
whilst Nancy Cato’s “The Enemy” is set
in a bus touring Provence and is a most
delicately handled and imaginative sketch
which could have been appalling in the
hands of a less skilful writer.
Quite outside the range of everything
else in the book are Roland Robinson’s
two fables collected from aboriginal
friends of his, and most charmingly
written.
The rest of the collection is completely
undistinguished.
N. KING
Revietved Briefly
The Memoirs of Mavis. Helen Darrell.
Vista Books. 15s. 6d. Three chapters of
this book first appeared in “Punch.”
“Mavis” is a teenager of the juke-box
and jive generation, and her adventures
are told in her own peculiar idiom.
& ☆ ☆
Evvie. Vera Caspary. W. H, Allen.
225. 6d. “Evvie” is a mixture not a
happy one —of straight novel and who-
dunit. In its whodunit aspect, the least
irritating way of reading it would be
backwards. This would be the only way
to avoid feeling “had” when it is re-
vealed who did do it. Surely the rules
are that if you had been sharp enough
you could have guessed? But Vera
Caspary, after sending the reader scurry-
ing off in all sorts of directions on false
scents, finally presents us with a murderer
who is about as predictable as an
accidental brick falling on an unsuspect-
ing head. The setting is Chicago in 1928
during the era, as we are told, of The
Girl. Louise, who tells the story is a
successful career girl in advertising. She
is in love with her boss. Evvie, with
whom she shares a studio, is the product
of not one but several broken homes.
Evvie is very beautiful and very artistic.
She also has a private income. But she
has her problems, which are mostly
connected with sex. The Girls are very
modern: “Our confidences would have
startled Freud, sent Havelock Ellis into
a panic.” In case this quotation should
mislead anyone into reading the book for
the wrong reasons, it had better be said
straight away that, although there is
some, fairly mild, sensationalism in the
novel, it is unlikely to throw any more
light on the deeps of the human per-
sonality than the average work of popu-
lar fiction.


Shows
Saints or Sex Fiends?
Although there is sex violation of girls
of 15, 14 and 13 in three of the
most significant films of the current
Sydney Film Festival, productions from
Mexico and India offer gripping redemp-
tive evidence about man’s capacity for
selfless saintliness. And anyone adjudi-
cating the whole festival as a sort of
debate on these opposed themes might
concede that the case for saintliness wins
narrowly.
For, while it is a comparatively easy
matter for film-makers to be arresting
where the shock values of sex are the key
to dramatic tensions, there are huge
challenges to anybody who wants to
make films about people who are very,
very good—and these challenges are
quite brilliantly met by Indian director
Shantaram in his “Two Eyes—Twelve
Hands” and by Mexican director Luis
Bunuel in his “Nazarin.”
Shantaram is an optimist in his tale
of an Indian “saint” who transforms six
bloodthirsty murderers into worthy citi-
zens, and Bunuel, as always, is a pessi-
mist as he narrates the story of a priest
who aimed to live a life of Christ-like
giving among Mexico’s squalid poor —
but the tough, earthy spirit informing
the approaches of both directors is quite
enthralling, and its power is magnified
by contrast with such a film as France’s
“Love Is Enough,” where the story of
Bernadette of Lourdes is told in a spirit
of pretty picture-bookery.
For me, in a festival which offered
dozens of films for pleasant passing
acquaintance and none for lifelong
cherishing, “Two Eyes —Twelve Hands”
was the most richly rewarding experi-
ence of all. For one thing, director
Shantaram is able to include some
wonderfully hearty fun in his theme of
faith and lovingness without thereby
corrupting it. For another, he tells his
story among people and in environments
which are refreshingly novel to Western
eyes and yet avoid all travellogue-style
exploitation (with the attendant super-
ficialities) of the postcard pageant of
India.
The six bloodcurdling murderers,
placed in the care of a visionary officer
who progressively influences them by the
trust he has in them, are set to work on
a rocky farm, each being given as a
working tool an implement just like the
one with which he has previously com-
mitted murder. One gets an iron bar.
Another gets a pick. Another gets an
axe. And all swing them furiously as if
driven by guilt to purge guilt.
Through their story of achievements
and crises, including a sudden foul plot
to murder the boss and some bashings in
a market-place, an itinerant toy-seller
sings a happy little inspirational song as
she saws away on a whining “violin”
and takes her rhythm from the drums
beaten automatically by a lawnmower-
like contraption she drags behind her.
The wiry, nasal no-nonsense friendliness
and shrewishness of this girl toy-seller,
who can waggle her hips without jeopar-
dising the balance of the basket on her
head, is communicated quite entranc-
ingly by an Indian actress who may be
essentially an amateur and yet is flawless
in her compelling naturalness. It is a
character that is as utterly valid in folk
comedy as in folk tragedy, and it lives
in both climates here.
The deliberate naivete in “Two Eyes—
Twelve Hands” no doubt obscured its
power and charm from many of the 2000
film sophisticates (I counted 27 different
beards) who attended the 50-odd screen-
ings of the festival’s first weekend, and,
in much the same way, the drivingly
direct no-tricks manner of Bunuel’s tale-
telling “Nazarin” might have obscured
that film’s power from audiences keen on
tricks and shocks and avant-gardolatry.
“Nazarin,” moving from the squalor of
a Mexican tenement out into the arid plain
of donkeys and hunger and disease, is a
document to support the old theory that
if Christ were to return to the earth he
would again be crucified. The priest of
this narrative, giving all he has to whores
and thieves and the plague-ridden, is
increasingly persecuted as his good deeds
and his band of disciples increase.
Bunuel softens none of the harshness of
this experience as he sets it forth in
camera images as real as blood on flinty
earth. And his central character, as
acted by Francisco Rabal, is quite the
most arresting film “saint” since Fresnay’s
“Monsieur Vincent.” How well it is
understood here that it is one of the ele-
ments of saintliness not to consider
oneself saintly!
T\irector Bunuel was virtually the star
of the whole festival, for, besides
“Nazarin,” he was represented by his
“Criminal Life of Archibaldo de la
Cruz” and by his “The Young One.” The
first is a diverting comedy about a hand-
some gentleman who is troubled by the
fact that whenever he thinks of killing
the various women in his life somebody
else providentially intervenes to kill them
for him. If there’s a message in this dark
fun, it is that it’s not wholesome even
to wish anybody dead —for firm, sen-
sible reverence for human life is at the
basis of all Bunuel's thinking, as “The
Young One” confirms.
Here an innocent negro, on the run
from a lynch mob, runs into the murky
enmity of a white American who is ready
enough to persecute the negro on mere
suspicion of rape while he himself is
trying to sneak a little sex-life from the
13-year-old girl left in his care. Let he
who is free from sin hurl the first stone,
Bunuel seems to say—and the quality of
the message helps to minimise the un-
pleasantness in the aroma of the story.
Sex violation of under-age girls may be
valid material for drama, but there is
something distasteful about script-writers’
exploitation of the mere shockingness
of it.
It crops up in two other festival films
—the Swedish “Virgin Spring,” in which
the brilliance of director Ingmar Berg-
man’s craftsmanship never falters, and in
the Argentina-made “House of the
Angel.” Bergman’s art has lately been
the subject of much wrangling among
film connoisseurs. “Merely a master of
tricks and effects” is one estimate of him.
but I can see no reason for anything but
admiration of his art in this “Virgin
Spring,” which re-tells a medieval
Swedish legend about the rape and
murder of a girl by goatherds and of
the vengeance taken by her father.
Filmed in black and white, it is at almost
every point a match for the artistry of
Japan’s “Gate of Hell.” The resem-
blance goes further than mere methods
of pictorial craftsmanship, too. It
matches “Gate of Hell” in the simple
animal ache and ferocity of the human
cries it captures in the soundtrack—the
gibbering agony-ecstasy of a man being
slaughtered with a butcher’s knife, the
benumbed wail of utter stupor from a
girl violated. These things are quite
horrifying in their semblance of truth.
Argentina’s “House of the Angel.”
made by the expatriate Swedish direc-
tor Leopoldo Torre Nilsson, nowhere
achieves this same horror impact. It
tells the story of a girl who is be : ng
stupidly over-sheltered from the world
of the flesh by a puritanical mother and
of a handsome young politician who,
about to fight a duel which might end
his life, cannot escape the compulsion to
live life to the limit on the eve of the
duel. Nilsson relates the whole tale in
film images of suffocating claustrophobic
moodiness so that the “guilt’ness” of the
secret thoughts of his central characters
projects itself into all the air they
breathe but Nilsson’s devices are often
extraordinarily mannered and studied.
Valid enough for their purposes, they
become irritating—so irritating, indeed,
that one wonders whether this is the
Swedish director v/ho deserves to be
called “merely a master of tricks and
effects.”
Atmospheric effects are quite master-
fully used to win an audience into the
mood for the two Russian love stories
of this festival —Joseph Heilitz's version
of Chekhov’s “The Lady with the Little
Dog,” a grave lyric which has the un-
canny contemplativeness of chamber
music, and Ivan Pyriev’s version ot
Dostoievsky’s “White Nights,” where all
the shining-eyed excitement and devasta-
tion of young love are projected in a
world of loneliness.
Yet in all this earnestness —the offer-
ings of most film festivals are, for the
most part, deadly earnest one aches
for a damned good laugh. And. oddly
enough, the best laugh of the festival
arrives in the lyrically eloquent story of
a village doctor’s life in Hollands
“Village by the River. ” Here a poacher
on the run from the police hides himselt
under the seat in a tavern privy, anu
gives himself up when a policeman is
about to sit himself down. There are
other fates worse than death!
LINDSEY BROWNE


"Under Your White Parasols"
“The Blacks.” Jean Genet. Produced
at the Royal Court, London, by
Roger Blin.
London reviewers, so gifted that after
one viewing of Sartre’s new play
they could write their differing accounts
of what the play said and thus help make
THEATRE
it a success, have con-
fessed themselves baffled,
fascinated, confused by
the Genet play that was
running in Paris side by side with
Sartre’s masterpiece Les Sequestres
d'Altona (published here as “Loser Wins,”
produced as “Altona.”)
Genet’s “clown show” Les Negres is
playing to half-empty houses but it is
a revelation to those who have seen it,
a shift of vision so shocking that they
grasp at opportunities to reject it. There
are plenty of such opportunities.
A group of negroes, dressed in dated
elegance, dance a minuet around a
coffin —to amuse us, the audience, and
to amuse another audience, a group of
masked blacks who represent white
government. The dance ends. The
dancers begin now to re-enact the mur-
der of a white woman. The masked
audience is interested, aghast, tittering,
muttering, anticipating. The blacks them-
selves egg on the killer, implore him to
negrify himself, sing, shout, dance. The
re-enactment becomes for all of us
sinister, funny, jazzy, sexy. But “this
isn’t a revival meeting, it’s ceremony”
and, the murder done, the masked
audience —the whites —have to judge and
be judged. They are condemned and
executed —in play. Meanwhile, off-stage,
a real execution has taken place ; a black
traitor has been shot.
The play is prettily produced (Blin
produced it in Paris) but poorly acted.
It is weakened by a tension-killing inter-
val added to support the bar-trade. It
seems too long, but it does work because
of its startling phrases, its spurts of
rhetoric, its sudden ritual solemnity, its
series of images.
The aged Christian black is turned
before our eyes into a pink-cheeked,
long-haired, half-witted white woman.
The blacks surround her and impersonate
her family, friends, life. Their perfor-
mances have the grotesque reality, the
sudden truth you see in children's games
of mothers and fathers, doctors and
patients ; they are a revaluation of white
life. The play makes us realise that —
in life —the blacks play to us and for us.
At its end, when the dance begins again,
we realise that—on stage —we have still
seen nothing but playing to and for us ;
even these blacks, the actors, have not
been willing to share themselves with us ;
they have given us merely a glimpse of
ourselves and everyone.
Genet’s constant theme is the hate that
moves in love, the lover’s demand for
exploitation, the changing roles in love
relationships, the desire for hate.
Given the color black as a starting
point (“But what exactly is a black?
What’s his color?”), Genet tries to catch
Us all, to trick us into thinking about
human beings, their disguises, their lusts.
There is no smooth talk about race-
relations, no appeal to sentimental feel-
ing for the oppressed, no reasoned
argument, no sop to the “New States-
man.”
This particular play is astounding
technically with its apparently haphazard
leap from image to image (as though
“The Waste Land"’ were acted), its sud-
den minstrel-show joking and equally
sudden pretentiousness, its teasing and
flattering attitude to the audience and its
determined appeal to our sexual possi-
bilities, the way it distances the action
from us.
The New Yorker sitting beside me
complained that his wife and he like to
have someone in a play that they wanted
to identify with. This is exactly the point.
The more sloppily one throws oneself
into a “Raisin in the Sun,” “All God's
Chillun” or “Porgy,” the less it means ;
it becomes an individual wallowing in
pleasurable emotions, cheap as tears.
This play—about color, difference, love,
sex, self—is either you the watcher (and
everyone) or no one at all; it is an
extraordinary attempt to return drama
to the symbolic action of the Greek
drama (to which it refers), of the Church
(which it parodies), of the life which
mannered people live . . . “We are what
they want us to be.”
Despite the Lord Chamberlain’s
gallant efforts, the text still shocked some
of the audience into gasps and laughter.
Two moments stood out—the intolerable
tension in the audience before the rape
and murder as the killer-boy wonders
if he will be able to stop at acting his
role, and the silence that greeted the
negress’s invocation scene: “To my
rescue, Negroes, all of you! Gentlemen
of Timbuctoo, come in, under your
white parasols . . . Tribes covered with
gold and mud, rise up from my body,
emerge! Tribes of the Rain and Wind,
forward! Princes of the Upper Empires,
of the bare feet and wooden stirrups . . .
Negroes of the docks, of the factories,
of the dives, Negroes of Ford Plant,
Negroes of London Transport and
General Motors . . . You, too, who dig
up corpses to suck the brains from
skulls, enter unashamedly. You, tangled
brother - sister, walking melancholy
incest, come in. Barbarians . . . Walk
gently on your white feet. White? No,
black . . . Red, green, blue, white, red,
green, yellow . , . The colors exhaust
me . . . Are you there . . . Sulking
Africa . , .”
The translation is admirable, but it
lacks the sound of the original and fails
in passages like the one where Felicity
foresees the day when everything good
and tender will be black—from milk to
chandeliers. It works best with shocking
images: “If I were sure that Village had
bumped off the woman in order to
heighten the fact that he’s a scarred,
smelly, thick-lipped, snub-nosed negro
. . . a drooling, sweating, belching, spit-
ting, coughing . . .” These were the
passages that offended the sentimentalists
of the Left.
Despite the ravings of Paris reviewers,
however, the play is not going to achieve
fame because of its use of language but
because it is a play ; it is the words and
the visual image that work.
RAY MATHEW
The Great Trek Outback
Tr really is the most astonishing thing
that while Australian life increasingly
becomes more urban, sophisticated and
civilised, the country is full of painters
plodding diligently into the
outback to paint heat, dust,
droughts, carcasses and desola-
tion as if we were back in the
ballad period of the nineties.
ART
One simple reason for all this is simply
that the outback still exists ; is fascinat-
ing and is worth painting. Another very
weighty reason for the trek could be
that nobody actually has to plod these
days. Artists don't even have to endure
the famous Ghan, a train which can be
uncomfortable enough as it chugs its way
to Marree. They can fly ; or they can
"It's the uniformity of the bourgeois that makes them so depressing... "


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£A363,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
start the day right!
•.•as
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2/-
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
take their own station-wagons and travel
on bitumen all the way from the Alice
to Darwin.
Another reason is, of course, fashion ;
and allied with that is the lure of over-
seas fame and overseas rewards. Nolan,
Drysdale, Tucker —these are the artists
who have been capturing the English
critics and the English market. In London
as in New York they love to think of
Australians as strong, silent, sunburnt
bushmen trudging through immense
distances. And they do not know that
we have already had a pretty fair report
on the outback, years ago, from Tom
Roberts, Minns, Heysen and, in his
unforgettable portraits of the Aruntas,
Arthur Murch.
But there are other reasons for the
fashion. One of them could be that life
outback is so rapidly becoming more
civilised that some tribal impulse is
moving the artists to record what is left
of the old tradition before it changes
altogether. Another could be that, just
as Patrick White in “Voss” (and Francis
Webb before him in his poem on
Leichhardt) felt an impulse to take a
second look at the mythological heroes
of the outback—a deeper, more search-
ing look than the simple naturalism of
the balladists and story-writers of the
nineties —so the painters, too, are search-
ing more deeply into our origins. That
certainly seems worth doing: provided
it is done sincerely.
A case in point is Miss Sheila
McDonald whose paintings of Central
Australia are showing at the Clune Gal-
leries, Sydney. Miss McDonald brings
her own, essentially decorative viewpoint
to this stark country and sometimes, as
in “Salt Lake” and “Ancient Land,” hits
it off very nicely. Another recent example
was Max Ragless’s more representational
report on the Birdsville Track success-
fully shown in Brisbane: but Mr Rag-
less is no newcomer to this field.
How long is this trend going to
last? How soon is it going to become
a cliche? How many more painters—
witness Thomas Gleghorn’s recent
exhibitions in Adelaide and Brisbane—
are going to follow suit? How often are
we —and, especially, the English critics
—mistaking interesting subject-matter for
true artistic quality? Who, remembering
that we have already had Heysen and
Murch and Drysdale, is going to make
an enduring reputation out of it all?
It is a fascinating trend to watch ; and
it seems worth noting that Nolan, who
really led this particular trek outback,
moved on to a flirtation with Leaa and
is now painting a series on Gallipoli:
Nolan, like Picasso, keeps one step
ahead.
D.S.
Out of the Midlands
“Saturday Night and Sunday Morn-
ing.” State, Sydney.
“Nobody knows me,” says the young
hero of this English film, proudly ; and
we watch, with puzzlement, surprise,
admiration, as he proves it. He fiercely
guards what he feels is best
in him from those who, he
is convinced, would take it
out of him and suffocate it —
from all the forces of authority and con-
formity in his narrow orbit in the indus-
trial Midlands. At the factory he is
defensive, working no harder than he
needs to satisfy his pride. Elsewhere he
attacks, flinging his vitality at moralising
neighbors, stolid parents, the beer-soak-
ing company he keeps on Saturday
nights, the pannikin boss whose wife he
sleeps with when he can.
Irresponsible? Maybe. But he is pre-
pared to pay whatever his defiance, his
“bit of fun while it lasts” might cost.
He is content to get nowhere at work ;
when the married woman falls pregnant
he sticks by her , when her husband’s
soldier friends bash him up in a vacant
lot he bears no grudge. Just so they all
leave that best part of him —the part
where he feels himself to be his own
man —alone. The inevitable nice girl gets
through his prickly defences, of course.
Or does she? At the end he throws a
FILMS
stone at the raw cottages and factory
yards which now deface the hillside he
used to lark about on as a child, then
wanders off with the girl. She doesn’t
know why he threw the stone —rmaybe
she’ll never know ; maybe not even she
can get all the way through.
Karel Reisz has directed the film with
a rare sense both of environment and
of its effect on people. The throbbing
factory, the gritty streets of brick, slate
and palings, the plastic kitchens and
bars, the windy sunlight, the blown
litter—we not only perceive these in
themselves, we sense them in the plod-
ding conformity of the older characters
and in the escapist eagerness of the
young. It is this extra dimension which
sets Reisz’s work way above the some-
what facile handling of industrial harsh-
ness that has marked a number of recent
English films.
Albert Finney, a new actor to films,
plays the young man with astonishing
physical and emotional fidelity —relaxed
and right in every smallest movement of
his coarsely mobile features, every sug-
gestion of youth revelling in its own
power. The rest of the cast —-Rachel
Roberts (another newcomer), Shirley
Ann Field, Norman Rossington and
Bryan Pringle—manage less exacting
parts with equal exactness to type.
J.A.


KUMARI
By MENA ABDULLAH and RAY MATHEW
IT had been a strange week —the trip to town and all. the
nigger word ... So strange a week that even I, young
as I was, could see the whole of my life as strange —a
dark girl in a white man’s country, a Punjabi Moslem
|in a Christian land ... So strange that I, who usually chattered
(and was known as monkey, had fallen into silence.
And it was this week, when I needed her to listen, when
’I felt like talking, when I wanted her to bully and scold in
her almost grown-up way, that Rashida also became strange,
[different, not to be explained.
I She was running from the kitchen where she should have
been helping and leaving Ama, our mother, and me to stalk
he chillies and cut the mangoes by ourselves.
“She is behaving like an Australian girl,” said Ama.
“She is behaving lazy,” I said.
But where was she going? Not to the garden to play, not
to the creek to paddle, not to the paddocks with Father.
Where have you been?” I asked her.
No answer.
“Where have you been?”
“Secrets,” said Rashida, and left me fuming.
But I would know. She was my sister and ought to share.
She was not an Australian girl and she ought to play with me.
At night, in our bedroom, I told her, argued, demanded. I
pleaded, begged, cried. “I don’t want to know,” I assured
her. “You’re only a little black pig, not grown up at all.”
And even though I’d called her black, a word we were
not allowed to use, even though I'd called her pig, which we
thought the nastiest word a Moslem could say, she just smiled
secrets and told me I was too little to be trusted.
And the next day I watched her. Ama was making the
curry powder, and Rashida was supposed to be watching the
coriander seeds and the cummin and the black peppers as
they roasted. I was stalking the chillies, ready for salting.
Suddenly, almost I didn’t see her and Ama’s back was
turned, Rashida was gone. I jumped up and ran after her.
But she was very quick. She was not in the house, not in
the garden. I went into the latticed yard that was Ama’s
Indian place—full of Kashmiri roses and pomegranates and
jasmine and tuberose. Little Brother Lai was there, digging at


the garden in his messy way. “Where’s she gone?” I asked
him. “Where’s Rashida?”
Lai went on digging. “I don’t watch girls.” Already he
had a Moslem man’s contempt. “I’m working.”
“You’re only four!”
I was so angry that I reached up into the willow-tree where
Shah-Jehan, our peacock, was sitting and made as if to pull
his tail. He squawked. And Lai squawked, too, jumping to
his feet and beating at me with his closed fists. 1 was fighting
him off when I saw Rashida.
She was on the other side of the lattice, on the far side
of the vegetable yard. She was carrying a tin, very carefully,
but sometimes water dripped from it. She took it into the
old toolshed. “Look,” I said. “Look, Lai. That’s where her
secret is.”
But he wouldn’t look. He went on hitting me until I
said that it must be something alive. “To play with?” he
said.
“Come on.”
We were off then, the two of us, over the lattice gate (locked
to keep the peacock in) and down to the shed. We
yelled for Rashida, banged on the tin walls and were answered
by a kind of barking. We stayed still then and waited till she
came out.
She was very cross, but very worried. We must make no
noise. No one must know.
“We want to see! We want to see!”
There was one way to quiet us. She took us into the
shed, over to a box where something moved in the half-light.
“A dog,” cried Lai. “A puppy.”
He was shushed into quiet. “You mustn't touch. It’s
sick. You mustn’t make any noise. I've been nursing it for
three days. You mustn’t frighten it.”
“Why don’t you take it to Father?” Father could make
everything well.
Rashida dropped her head. “He mustn’t know.” Lai
and I looked at her. Secrets from Father! “I went for the
mail. I found it near the traps.”
“Then it’s a dingo puppy.” Lai was fascinated. Dingoes
were wild dogs, leapers at sheep. “But it’s very little.”
“We’re not allowed near the traps!” I was the accuser.
“Not even you. You’ll get the strap.”
“I know, I know.”
“You won't get the mail any more.” Rashida was the
eldest, the one allowed to walk the four miles to the front
gate and the mailbox.
“I know.” Rashida was crying now, and Lai, from
sympathy, sniffing.
“It was crying. And its mother was dead in the trap.
And there was blood ... 1 brought it home to wash. And
now it's sick.”
“It looks very sick. And its tail is bandaged.”
“It was swelling.”
“You'll have to take it to Father.” I looked at her.
“You'll be punished,” 1 said.
“Yes,” said Rashida. She wiped her eyes and then picked
up the dog, fondling it.
“With the strap,” I warned.
“Yes. But Father will make it well. I can't do any
more.'’
We followed her, Lai and I, from the shed with the dog
in her arms to the wash-house where the razor-strop hung.
She put it over her shoulder and walked solemnly down the
track to the fence where Father was mending. Solemn Lai
and awe-struck I, we went, too, following without a word.
But when she handed him the strap and stood there in front
of him with the dog in her arms, Lai and I both burst into
tears.
“What’s this? What’s this?”
“The strap,” said Rashida, turning so that he could
take it.
“Undress quickly—my wife's coming!. .."


When A.M.P. was founded
in 1849, cricketers
looked like this
$
y
-o
\
\
y
I nil
W''
<■
VMVW
<i
///
7
A
\\n%
MODERN A.M.P. POLICIES are geared to modern
needs. Business and professional men need substantial
life cover. The A.M.P. “R” Unit Plan can provide it on
a low cost basis with guaranteed insurability. Ask any
A.M.P. man or A.M.P. office about the “R” Unit Plan,
Australia’s LARGEST and oldest
life assurance organisation
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Offices in cities and towns throughout Australia and New Zealand and in the United Kingdom.
A M.P. members enjoy the unquestioned security afforded by funds of £500,000,000
which the Society seeks to invest to the greatest benefit to members.


m
B
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters
Ideal for farms, stations and for
hot-water systems, and household
requirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last a
lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of “Curvi-
linear” Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic
Machines and Ellison Switch Gear.
He stood there, holding it awkwardly, looking at her while
I cried and Lai kept saying, “Don’t beat her, Father. Don’t
beat her.”
“The dingo puppy is sick. You have to make it well,”
said Rashida. “I found it near the traps. You have to
beat me.”
Father burst out laughing, took the dog from Rashida’s
arms and pulled off the bandage from its tail. “It’s a fox,”
he said. “All Cubs have puffed-up tails. She is a vixen. She
will have to have a lady's name.”
“Kumari,” I said, “because that means Princess.”
“Will she get well?” said Rashida.
Father laughed again. “Kumari will get well if you feed
her with raw meat, if you give her water to drink, if you don’t
touch her food and don’t touch her much. She’s not used to
the smell of wild little humans.”
And so she was named, and her new life begun. She wore
a red collar like Yasmin the goat's, but without bells on it.
She was fed on raw meat and kept from the chickens. And
she grew. A handsome fox she was, but ours like a dog—
to live with, to play with. She ran with us, ran to us with her
strange sharp barks and knelt to be patted. But she was
Rashida’s most of all and they played the ball game together
every evening after tea. Sometimes it was so dark that Rashida
could not see, but still she threw the ball and as she stood there
peering in the direction of its sound she would feel a soft
nudging against her hand ; Kumari had brought it back.
At night, at really-dark, at time for bed, Rashida used
to take Kumari into the shed and watch her arrange herself
in the box. Always she seemed happy there, but autumn came,
short days and longer nights. There was a bite in the air ; we
had great log fires. There was a stillness, a waiting about
the nights.
It was then that Kumari began to whimper, to howl, to
scratch at the shed door, to make a great banging noise as
she flung herself at it. There was no playing now by day,
only the whining, the rushing to the net fence and looking
beyond it. She was sick again.
But Father would do nothing to make her well. Ama
said we must wait. There was nothing to be done but watch.
Rashida became sick with watching, too worried for food ;
she and Kumari were going to waste away together.
There was one night 1 remember, can remember even
now, so long with the yelping and whining that in the morning
Ama said that Kumari must go. “Rashida,” she said, “you
must let her go. She is a grown thing now, and she wants
to go away.”
But Rashida would not hear. She said that Kumari was
sick and would one day get better and be like a pet again,
that she whined because she was sick and lonely in the shed
away from Rashida, that she couldn’t want to go away from
the family that was her family.
“It is not her family,” said Ama. “And she is grown
now, what use is a family to her? When you are grown it
will be time to go—from me, from all of us. It will be time
to have a family of your own. It is time for Kumari, now"
“But she loves me, wants me, wants me,” said Rashida
“She is a fox, and she knows that now. She will never
rest in a shed again. She wants the paddocks to run in, a hole
to hide in”
“But she’s safe here with me. She doesn’t have to
hide”
“She is a fox, and she knows it now. When she was
small she did as you wanted, ran round like the dogs, but
she knows now that we are not her kind and this is not her
life. She is different from any animal you know. She does
not belong on a farm.”
“She’s a nigger,” I said.
Rashida began to cry.
“She is a stranger here,” said Ama, “on her own. She
is your responsibility, Rashida. You must decide, as though
you were her mother, to let her go the way she has to. She
is a fox. She will die if she stays here.”
“She’s mine,” said Rashida. “She knows that l love her.”
And calling Kumari, she ran out to the shed.
All day almost she sat there fondling the stranger, whis-
pering, pleading to her, but Kumari went on whimpering and
trembling, refusing to eat or be comforted.
That night was the worst night of all with bark and
whine and the banging on the shed-door. I was almost asleep
when I saw Rashida get out of bed. “Where are you going?”
“I am going to let Kumari go.”
T jumped out of bed and went with her. She lit the lantern
A and went into the yard. I was behind her, but I’m not
sure that she knew, although she kept talking. “I promised
her,” she was saying and she was crying, too. “I promised
her tonight if she still wanted to go . . .”
At the shed, it was I that cried. Rashida merely opened
the door and held out her hand to Kumari. “Come back,” she
was saying. “One day . . .” But Kumari was gone, quicker
than looking, out the door, over the fence and away.
“Stop crying,” said Rashida. “She’s gone now.”
Later, in bed, she said suddenly: “Allah will watch over
her.”
“He is Lord of the high blue morning and the purple
evening, the pink-rimmed sunset and the golden moon . . .” 1
was remembering what Uncle Seyid had taught us. “The Koran
doesn't say anything about foxes.”
“It does, said Rashida. “All things belong to Him. In
all things beautiful Allah smiles.”
I didn t think Kumari beautiful, and 1 could see why you
might call her a nigger, but I said nothing and hoped for
Rashida’s sake that she was right.
The next evening, Rashida took the ball out into the yard
and played with it. She threw it and waited for Kumari
suddenly to appear and bring it back. But always she had
to get it herself, or send me or Lai. The next night she did
the same. And the next . . . But Lai and I were tired of
playing at foxes and soon Rashida herself forgot the game.
/"\ne morning, at breakfast, we heard a squawking of fowls
and Father ran from the table. “That dog!” he was
muttering.
But it was not a dog. We children, running behind him,
had seen the red collar. “Kumari,” we called.
Kumari was dead.
“We have killed her,” said Father. “I should not have
let you keep her.”
“I should not have let her go,” said Rashida.
“She should have gone before. You see how thin she
is . . . She had not learnt how to kill and hunt.”
We could see the bones under her matted fur.
“There are scars.”
“The other foxes did not want her now,” said Father. “She
had not their ways. She smelt of humans. There was no
place for her.”
“She loved us,” said Rashida. “She was coming back
to me.”
“Only to die,” said Father.
We buried her that morning, very solemnly, with the
tennis-ball beside her and tears from Lai and me.
And that morning Father did not go out to work in the
paddocks. He sat on the verandah with Ama and talked to
her about India and watched us at our game.


Business, Robbery, Etc.
THE COMMON MARKET
Realistic Approach Needed
With a bewildering sudden-
ness the European Com-
mon Market—until recently a
remote, vague and almost
theoretical concept for most
Austral’ans —has taken a con-
crete and perhaps frightening
snape.
Mr Macmillan’s opening
address to the Western Euro-
pean Union’s session in
London, the West German
Foreign Minister’s reply and
speeches by several prominent
British Conservative and Labor
Parliamentarians suggest that
the long postponed U.K. acces-
sion to the European Economic
Community is a matter or me
immediate future. The present
indications are that Britain
may have to pay a heavy
initial membership fee.
Despite repeated assurances
by the British Prime Minister,
it is likely that the Common-
wealth preferences scheme will
have to be abandoned or
drastically modified. The
United Kingdom has already
made the first move by an-
nouncing an estimated 20 p.c.
cut on a wide range of indus-
trial tariffs, to match the condi
tional 20 p.c. tariff reduction
on manufactured imports by
the Common Market's six
member nations.
Agriculture has long been a
thorny problem with the
Common Market—both in its
members’ dealings with the
rest of the world and in their
relationships between them-
selves. The conflicting interests
of primary producers were one
of the main obstacles which
had to be overcome before the
Benelux Customs Union
nations and France, West Ger-
many and Italy finally signed
•he Treaty of Rome, which
established the Com m o n
Market in 1957.
Ever since the end of the
[Second World War, European
dad British farmers have been
l a pampered lot, guided to
higher yields by agricultural
scientists, sheltered by high
tnriff walls and supported by
Onerous subsidies and dis-
ar|rninatory marketing regula-
rs. In early post-war Wesiern
Europe, France emerged
[s the nation with the most
highly subsidised, high-cost and
relatively inefficient agricul-
tural sector. For many years
French farmers successfully
defied any Government
attempts at reforms and par-
tial dismantling of the tariff
wall.
British farmers have also
enjoyed artificial domestic
market conditions and were
heavily subsidised by the Gov-
ernment. The United King-
dom's pig industry is a
spectacular example of hot-
house agricultural policy.
TAuring the long and diffi-
cult negotiations, which had
culminated in the Treaty of
Rome, France had succeeded
—largely with West German
aid —in securing far-reaching
concessions for its agricultural
sector during the transition
period. President de Gaulle's
strong economic policies gradu-
ally eliminated most protective
agricultural tariffs, abolished
subsidies and did away with
the high-cost marginal primary
producers. Instead, French
agriculture obtained a guaran-
teed market within the Inner
Six.
Had the United Kingdom
joined the project at an early
stage, it would have been able,
in all probability, to wrangle
out substantial safeguards for
itself and its Commonwealth
partners as part of the bargain.
At this stage of the Common
Market's integration this
appears almost impossible.
And despite Mr Macmillan’s
repeated efforts the Com-
monwealth preferences scheme
may have to be sacrificed if the
U.K. joins the Common
Market.
The United Kingdom is an
industrial nation, and depends
on a huge volume of industrial
exports. A fall in U.K.’s
export earnings would soon
affect British trade relations
with the other Commonwealth
countries. In these circum-
stances it is unrealistic to insist
that Britain should sacrifice
her economic interests “for the
sake of Commonwealth unity.”
If British export earnings are
drastically reduced, then the
other Commonwealth trade
partners notably Australia
and New Zealand —will suffer
through the shrinking of the
U.K. market as a whole.
The basic principle of the
Common Market is a gradual
elimination of tariff barriers
and dismantling of internal
subsidies systems within the
unit. Members also secure
certain guaranteed markets
with their partners and
specialise to an important
degree. In some circumstances,
unilateral and multilateral
trade agreements on specific
terms between a member coun-
try and an outsider are allowed,
after consultation with the
other partners. The West
German-Danish trade agree-
ment signed recently is an
example.
TTow will this affect Aus-
tralia and New Zealand?
In terms of international
trade, both countries are
basically primary produce
exporters. Wool —Australia’s
chief export-income earner —
would not be greatly affected
by the abolition of Common-
wealth preferences. On the
other hand, beef, mutton,
hides and skins, dried fruit,
etc., would suffer in the
short run. In the long run,
greater British prosperity and
rising income levels within the
Common Market could
increase the demand for wool
and absorb at least a part of
other Australian primary pro
duce exports.
New Zealand may be
severely hit because dairy
produce and meat form the
bulk of its export trade. If
preferential treatment on the
U.K. market is abolished,
or substantially modified, a
considerable proportion of
these exports will be displaced.
However, at this stage New
Zealand is protected by treaties
extending up to 1967 for duty-
free and unrestricted access to
the United Kingdom market,
which it has supplied for three-
quarters of a century.
Speaking to the Western
European Union assembly in
London Mr Macmillan has
stressed :
“Above all there is the
Commonwealth—not merely a
point of honor and tradition
and interest to us British
people, but an important,
indeed vital, element of
strength and stability to the
whole free world.
“This association of peoples
of many races is buttressed by
its trade pattern . . . We cannot
just create our own prosperity
and ignore their interests,
which over the years have
become much interwoven with
our own.”
Herr von Brentano, the West
German Foreign Minister, hav-
ing referred to the fact that
“the British Government is
very seriously studying the
question of Britain’s accession
to the European Economic
Community,” said that the
Inner Six “should not under-
rate the difficulties of imple-
menting such an idea,” but
then warned that, although the
Common Market was not an
end in itself, “nothing must
happen which could jeopard-
ise or destroy what has so far
been achieved” by the Inner
Six. This reads almost like a
direct reference to special con-
cessions to the U.K.
The question of the United
Kingdom’s relationship with
the Common Market will not
be solved overnight. There is
not one Commonwealth prob-
lem but a number of different
issues involving various mem-
bers which must be settled.
'T'here are some hopeful
indications. Sixteen newly
independent African countries
—all former French posses-
sions—have in effect secured
the right to accede to the
Common Market on rather
favorable terms. There is no
reason why something similar
could not be worked out for
the Commonwealth countries
if Britain joins the Inner Six.
But the immediate prospects are
grave.
In the meantime Australia
must do its best to develop
other foreign markets for its
primary produce. Japan looks
particularly promising at the
moment.
Some means must also be
found of helping New Zea-
land, which is much more
vulnerable than Australia. If
New Zealand’s export earnings
fall, Australian industrial sales
to that country may be
seriously affected.
E.B.


Name
your Scotch ...
r.
■BY APPOINTMENT,.
*TO HERMAJESTy sc
i OOEEN ~
,% ELIZABETH ILC* i
■ v: ~
„ V
m
/ * y *!v
¥
- j
P *N
SKY
°LD SCOTCH
ortfl ND lerS .
Bo, f N FTn Distillers.
I . lf 0 0„ n ONten ts 1 Pr. 6 FI.
ft *°ER ITU SW 1 * *
THERE'S NONE FINER!
NZL9I2
BY APPOINTMENT
TO HER MAJESTY
QUEEN ELIZABETH II
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS
WM. SANDERSON & SON LTD.
EXPORTS
Will May’s Surplus Last?
Australia’s £14.4 million
visible trade surplus in
May—the first in 14 months —
gives some weight to the
Federal Government’s hopes
for a gradual falling off of
imports without resorting to
import restrictions.
The success is officially
ascribed to the effects of
domestic credit restrictions on
overseas purchases. The in-
fluence of massive stockpiling
of domestic and imported pro-
ducer goods is beginning to be
felt at last. The question is
whether May’s trade surplus is
an isolated occurrence or the
harbinger of a continuous posi-
tive trend in Australia's balance
of trade.
May’s exports total (£93.3
million) was the highest in the
current financial year. On the
other hand, the imports (£78.9
million) were at the. lowest level
since July, 1960. The resulting
£14.4 million surplus is nGi
necessarily representative of the
true extent of the favorabie
trend. The figures are, never-
theless, encouraging, and may
indicate that some of the
classical restrictive economic
measures—of which, unfortun-
ately, there were too few in
the right form —included in last
August’s Budget are slowly
beginning to exert their in-
fluence.
The eleven months’ trade
summary to the end of May,
1961, still leaves Australia with
a whopping £177.5 million ex-
cess of visible imports.
It will be unfortunate if the
Government has to reh>
mainly on credit restrictions to
control imp o r ts. The old
method of achieving a trade
surplus by dampening domestic
demand may unduly restrict
economic growth, and cause in-
sufficient utilisation of natural
and labor resources. As such,
it should be reserved for an
emergency—such as the one we
had recently.
The Government has indi-
cated that it will continue to
keep a tight rein on the credit
system as long as it feels it is
necessary, but that basically it
will aim at stimulating exports
rather than artificially restrict-
ing imports—through tight
money policies or direct con-
trols. This is a positive
approach. Tax incentives for
exporters are a major step in
the right direction.
Unfortunately, our trade
prospects are influenced by
many outside factors. Britain’s
accession to the European
Common Market could bring
another acute balance of pay-
ments crisis, despite the steady
inflow of foreign capital.
REAL ESTATE
N.S.W. Mortgages Rise
'T' h e value of mortgages
secured by real estate in
N.S.W. rose from £18,655,857
in March, 1961, to £23,107,395
in April. The figures for Janu-
ary and February were
£18,381,913 and £16,066,694
respectively.
However, the number of con-
tracts and agreements declined
from 7200 in Marc h —the
highest in first four months of
1961—t0 5935 in April.
The total value of real estate
mortgages is understated,
because some amounts involved
in the agreements were not dis-
closed. The figures include
transactions on new and old
subdivisions, houses and other
real estate property.
TOBACCO
Queensland Board
HThe Queensland Minister for
Agriculture and Forestry
has announced that action will
be taken at an early date to in-
crease grower representation on
the State Tobacco Leaf Market-
ing Board from five to six.
This will be achieved by alter-
ing the boundaries of the
Board’s electoral districts.
The Minister, the Hon. O. O.
Madsen, M.L.A., said that “an
increase in grower representa-
tion had become desirable fol-
lowing rapid expansion of
tobacco growing in South
Queensland coastal areas, par-
ticularly around Bundaberg and
on the near North Coast.”
The move has been generally
welcomed in Queensland.


Your Estate, whether it consists of real
estate, a business, or investment holdings,
may attract much higher Death Duties than
you think—leaving far less than you
imagined for your beneficiaries.
Expert advice on Estate Planning, and the
setting up of a Family Trust, designed to
meet your personal requirements, can
result in appreciable savings through
reduced Tax and Death Duties, and help
conserve your assets, both during your
lifetime and afterwards.
Appointment of the Company as Trustee
of the Family Trust ensures competent
counsel and management of all matters by
specialists—at moderate charges.
Why not examine, without delay, the advan-
tages of such an arrangement—in a
confidential discussion of your financial
affairs?
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria)
333 Collins St, Melbourne, C.l.
20 O’Connell St., Sydney.
398-402 Queen St., Brisbane.
Also at Newcastle, Albury, Toowoomba,
Rockhampton. Townsville and Charleville.
UT3da.B2-N
UNEMPLOYMENT
New Dismissals by G.M.-H.
The dismissal of 686 em-
ployees by General Motors-
Holden’s factories in Victoria,
South Australia and Western
Australia would be particu-
larly alarming had they
occurred outside the motor
vehicles industry. However, it
must be remembered that ex-
cessive buoyancy in the durable
consumer goods sector —of
which the motor vehicles indus-
try is a particularly important
segment —was one of the causes
of last year’s inflationary boom,
which the Government had
decided to terminate. Viewed
from this point, unemployment
in the car industry is almost a
natural, albeit unpleasant,
corollary of the credit squeeze.
Stockpiling in the industry,
to the tune of some 29,000
unsold motor vehicles seems to
be the direct cause of last
Saturday’s dismissals.
G M.-H. remains Australia's
leading motor vehicle pro-
ducer, despite competition from
the new Ford Falcon. If the
company is forced to reduce .ts
staff' further other car manu-
facturers may have to follow
suit and this would be reflected
in the position of motor
vehicles distributors.
Thus far the motor vehicles
industry has been trying to
adjust its output to slacker
demand rather than revise its
prices for new cars, which have
been generally firm in spite of
the reduced turnover Car
manufacturers may discover
that demand could be stimu-
lated by price reductions, even
under the present tight money
conditions. The motor vehicles
industry also faces the problem
of adjusting itself to a market
in which hire purchase sales
are becoming—at least tem-
porarily—a less important
factor.
Dismissals in the motor
vehicles industry cannot be
taken to represent the unem-
ployment trend in the industry
as a whole. Motor manufac-
turers, together with other con-
sumer goods producers and
hire purchase and finance com-
panies, are intended to bear the
brunt of the Government’s
deflationary measures.
The real problem is whether,
at this stage, the basic industries
are able to absorb labor re-
sources released by the con-
sumer goods sector.
SUGAR
U.S. Non-quota Allocation
Commenting on Australia's
success in securing an
American non-quota alloca-
tion of 90,000 short tons of
sugar for 1961, Mr C. F. Ader-
mann, the Commonwealth
Minister for Primary Industry,
said that the American sugar
market was particularly attrac-
tive because exports to America
would not, for the present, be
charged against the Inter-
national Sugar Agreement
quota. Moreover, premium
prices will be paid for Aus-
tralian sugar.
When the United States dis-
cont nued purchases of Cuban
sugar, the Australian Govern-
ment and the sugar industry
“had made strenuous efforts to
keep America mindful of the
sugar which Australia could
supply,” the Minister added.
“Although we were unsuc-
cessful in the American non-
quota allocations announced
in December, 1960, and April,
1961, now, however, we have
obtained a substantial alloca-
tion worth approximately nine-
million dollars in additional
export earnings.”
TIN
World Prices Hold
The price of tin on the
world market has recently
Moved into the £stgB3o-880 a
t°n. Within this price range
the international buffer stock
Manager is authorised to sell
the metal to ease the level of
quotes. Buffer stock opera-
tions have centred in London,
but have not as yet appreci-
ably lowered the price of tin.
The International Monetary
Fund’s Financial News Survey
says that the prices are holding
firm mainly because this year’s
supply is estimated to fall
short of the world demand by
at least 15,000 tons, including
about 10,000 tons held in
buffer stock reserves.
The fall in supply of tin has
been caused by difficulties in
certain producing countries —
one of the largest dredges in
Indonesia broke down some
weeks ago and Bolivia still uses
a considerable proportion of
obsolete equipment. Another
factor is that Malaya’s tin
exports have shown little tend-
ency to rise, following the
abolition of restrictive produc-
tion quotas under the Inter-
national Tin Agreement last
October. There has been no
major dumping of tin by the
Soviet Union.
Australian shareholders in
domestic and Malayan tin min-
ing companies could benefit by
this firming of the world
market, provided production is
sufficient to ensure adequate
sales.


if
"? Os
l "-Hr
n i
m
(m !
5iP
rk*
What has this to do
with the C.B.C. ?
Quite a lot! In the days when this sort of thing was
happening we were establishing branches in the country
to help our sturdy pioneers who were opening up the
land.
We have made many friends since those days and
today we are proud to be serving the 3rd and 4th
generation of some of those pioneer families as well
as many of those who followed them.
The manager of the bank’s branch
in your district will gladly tell you
how you can benefit by its wide range
of services and facilities including
C.B.C. savings bank accounts for the
family.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
m
m
2 !
Wt
jmk
URANIUM
U.S. Prices
r T'HE United States Atomic
Energy Commission has
officially announced that it will
reduce the price for uranium
sold to overseas Governments
as from July 1, 1961. The
amount of the reduction was
not disclosed.
The new price will have no
effect on the Commission’s
existing commitments on prices
payable for plutonium and
uranium 233, which are effec-
tive until the end of the
financial year closing June 30,
1963.
CAPITAL RAISINGS
Issues Down
"Preliminary estimates of net
cash amounts raised by
public companies listed on Aus-
tralian Stock Exchanges de-
clined by £9.7 million to £18.5
million during three months to
March 31, 1961. Net new
capital raised in the December,
1960, quarter was £28.2 million
and in September, 1960, quarter
—£23.5 million.
Total cash raised by listed
companies in the March quar-
ter was £23.3 million, compared
with £36.7 million during the
three months ended December
31, 1960. The number of issues
commenced during the March
quarter decreased from 294 to
161.
COMPANY ACCOUNTS
H. C. Sleigh Wins Award
HThe Australian Institute of
Management has selected
H. C. Sleigh Limited, independ
ent Australian petroleum pro-
ducts importer and distributor,
as the winner of its Annual
Report Award for 1960.
Presenting the Adjudicator’s
decision, Mr E. Stanley Owens
said that the standard of ali
reports, originally selected by
the Australian Stock Ex-
changes, was higher again this
year. “Although the choice
of winning company was un-
animous. only a small margin
separated it from the seven
reports which received ‘special
awards.’ ”
This year the scope of the
award was widened to allow
Government and semi-Govern-
ment trading bodies to com-
pete in a “Special Commenda-
tion’’ section. “It was particu-
larly desirable that Govern-
mental undertakings should re-
port, to interested parties and
the general public, the results
of their year’s activities in a
manner readily understood by
everyone.”
The Institute's panel was
critical of the general failure
to use the inside back and
front covers of reports. The
winning annual report had also
failed to use this space.
Turning to the all important
point of presentation of finan-
cial data, Mr Owens stated that
the panel believes that all com-
pany reports should contain a
highlights page. Some com-
panies were now providing for
a detachable highlights page to
facilitate separate filing.
“It was quite clear from
statistics given as part of the
report by many companies that
large shareholdings are dwind-
ling, and the numbers of small
shareholders are increasing,” he
added.
MALAYA
Big Orders
HThe Australian Trade Mis-
sion, visiting Malaya and
Singapore on board the speci-
ally chartered Straat Banka,
has secured orders for Austra-
lian goods worth about £l]
million.
Products sold include rice,
waxes, beer, stock food,
canned foodstuffs, communica-
tions equipment, industrial
chemicals, packaging machinery
and pharmaceuticals.


BHlii
FINANCE & INVESTMENT
COMPANY LIMITED
SHAREHOLDERS' FUNDS, £891,419.
TANGIBLE ASSETS, £3,184,264.
INTEREST RATES FOR DEPOSITS
(NOW CALLED UNSECURED DEPOSIT NOTES)
3 years . . ... 8!/2% p.a.
AND OVER
APPLICATIONS must be made
on the form enclosed with the
prospectus, which is obtainable
from
Members of the Stock Exchange
ANY BRANCH OF A.N.Z. BANK
The Registered Office of the Com-
pany, William & Crown Sts.,
Sydney. Telephone FA 0322.
Financing world-
famous products
distributed by
The Hastings
Deering Group
of Companies.
FORD
Cars and Trucks
FORDSON
Tractors
A.E.C.
Trucks & Buses
CATERPILLAR
Diesel Tractors
in Queensland
HYSTER
Fork Lift Trucks
JOHN DEERE
Agricultural
Machinery
LISTER
Engines
GROUP SALES
IN 1960
£14,757,281
MAIL THIS COUPON**** o** 0 **
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE &
INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
G.P.O. Box 4333, Sydney.
Please send me, without any obligation on my part, pros
pectus dated 1/4/61, giving full details of your terms
deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A D 172 U)
Assets exceed £173,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
Kindersley House, Bligh/O’Connell Streets, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton, Manager for Australia.
Speculator's Diary
Monday, June 12.
You’ll have to forgive me if
I haven’t bought much this
week but I’m still drifting
I around on a John Lysaght
■ cloud. In fact I got so carried
| away last Monday with the
excitement of getting 60s. for
my 100 Lysaght contributing
shares that I forgot to declare
my week’s profit. And what a
I profit it was—£239! I can’t
| remember having a profit of
.anything like that even in the
| boom days of yester year. Of
course, brokers don’t hand out
royal favors like John Lysaghts
every week, but it’s nice to
know they do come along once
| or twice in a decade!
Now I’m trying to work out
whether John Lysaght shares
-are really worth 755. or 80s.
(fully paid) because, if they
. are, B.H.P. must be a bargain
I at the same price. Admittedly,
.there is the puzzling factor of
'what John Lysaght’s dividend
irate will be. If the English
Iparent company (Guest, Keen
and Nettlefolds) are to get
their customary annual divi-
dend of £A2 million the rate
will have to be 16 p.c., as it
was last year. This seems to
„be expecting too much, particu-
larly if there should be any
drop from last year’s 23.6 p.c.
learning rate. Yet you can
.hardly see Messrs Guest, Keen
|and Nettlefolds taking a cut
in their colonial pay just for
'the sake of letting the Austra-
lian public have a sl : ce of this
rather heady cake. Time alone
will solve this riddle and mean-
while the market seems to be
(smiling, almost drunkenly, on
the prospect.
| Before passing on, somewhat
[reluctantly, from last week’s
profit of £239 I must, in fair-
ness, record that £43 of it came
from my revered Marrick-
villes, even if the Lysaght coup
makes £43 sound like peanuts.
Another matter that re-
gained to be cleaned up from
'last week was the 200 John
leadings I had put on to sell
but which had not been sold
jty last Monday. Possibly
'because of their close prox-
"uity to John Lysaghts on the
“St—only Johnell stands
between them —none were sold
last Monday or Tuesday. On
Wednesday my 200 were sold
"the only 200 sold if one can
% on the turnover figures in
ibe papers. These 200 brought
11s. 6d. before the price
promptly fell back to 10s. 6d.
I’m not Irish and I’m no
longer a beginner, but appar-
ently I’m still lucky. So lucky,
in fact, that I’ve decided to
adopt a conservative account-
ing policy and write the profit
off against the cost of the
remaining 300 I still hold.
My only other move this
week was one of considerable
daring. I sold 100 1.C.1. short
on Friday at 78s. I couldn’t
see at all why the market
should rise Bs. on announce-
ment of the three-for-seven
bonus issue when there was a
warning that the profit this
year would be down and that
the dividend would be reduced
in proportion to the bonus.
After all, the local 1.C.1. is no
B.H.P. as it has plenty of com-
petitors both here and over-
seas. Anyway, that’s what I
think, so let’s hope this £4OO
shorting operation isn’t push-
ing my recent good luck too
far. Perhaps it’s a feeling of
revenge at not having any
1.C.1.—0r any B.H.P. or G. E.
Crane which have also been in
the limelight lately. Maybe I
shouldn’t have jettisoned those
50 G. E. Crane so hastily two
months ago.
The week’s only two tran-
sactions were both on the
selling side. They were:
200 John Darling at
11/6 £ll2
*lOO 1.C.1.A.N.Z. at
78/- £385
* Sold short.
The sale of 200 John Dar-
lings put the currency reserves
up to £3Ol and left the follow-
ing shares:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Total Per rent
Shares Company Cost Share Price
400 Antill R. £251 12/3 13/0
100 Pick-Me-Up 414 81/6 £5/3/-
500 Merica 165 6/4 7/-
500 Stocks &
Holdings def. 212 8/3 9/-
200 Tom Piper 235 22/3 26/-
200 Hornibrook 234 23/ 24/-
200 Parbury
Henty 174 17/- 16 dl
200 Marrickville 217 21/3 25/6
132 Marley Tile 158 24/-
400 David Jones
notes 207 10/- 10/3
200 Concrete Ind.
contribs. ' 96 9/5 10/3
400 N. B. Love
contribs. 94 4/8 5/4
500 Newcastle Ten
Pin Bowling 125 5/-
400 Watkins
Consol. 105 5/- 6/-
300 John Darling 113 7/6 10/6
300 Moran &
Cato 299 19/6 19/6
400 Phillips Oil 100 5/-
400 Ready Mixed 276 13/6 15/3


BIND
YOUR
COPIES
OF
Preserve these valuable records by having your copies bound by the
publishers, from whom covers and binding may be obtained separately
if desired.
Cover only
Cover and binding
Complete Volume (copies, cover and binding)
£1
£2/-/'
£2/15/-
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
252 George Street, Sydney; and at Brisbane, Melbourne, Perth,
Adelaide, Wellington (N.Z.).
The WILDCAT
COUMN
Consolidated Zinc Corporation Ltd
HThe U.K.-registered Consolidated Zinc
Corporation Ltd, base-metal empire-
builder, turned in much reduced profits
last term. The group is the largest single
producer of lead and zinc in Australia.
The Consolidated Zinc Corporation
was formed in 1949 to integrate the U.K.
smelting interests of the Imperial Smelting
Corporation Ltd. and the seemingly in-
exhaustible riches of Zinc Corporation
Ltd of Broken Hill, N.S.W.
The empire so far:
Zinc Corporation Ltd. —Wholly-owned and
mining base metals at the Barrier.
Imperial Smelting Corporation Ltd. —
Wholly-owned and smelting zinc at Avonmouth
(U.K.) and Swansea (U.K.), mining barytes in
Scotland and fluorspar in Durham (U.K.),
manufacturing a wide range of chemicals,
pigments and metallic derivatives and holding
substantial interests in the U.K.-based firms,
Aluminium Sulphate Ltd (50 p.c.), Thames
Alum Ltd (50 p.c.), British Titan Products
Ltd (30 p.c.), Eisons Ltd, Capper Pass and Son
Ltd, Muirshiel Barytes Co. Ltd, Wolverhampton
Diecasting Co. Ltd, and Consolidated Beryllium,
Ltd (50 p.c.).
Frickers Metal and Chemical Co. Ltd. —
Wholly-owned and manufacturing zinc-oxide in
the U.K.
Broken Hill Corporation Ltd.—A wholly-
owned investment co. with various interests
including a 32 p.c. interest in New Broken
Hill Consolidated Ltd, the second-largest mining
operator on the Barrier, its leases adjoining
those of the Zinc Corporation Ltd.
Pure Chemicals Ltd. —Wholly-owned and
producing stabilisers for the polyvinyl-chloride
plastics industry, etc., in the U.K.
Consolidated Zinc Corporation of Canada
Ltd —Wholly-owned and engaged in mineral
search in Canada.
Consolidated Vauze Mines Ltd. —Partially-
owned. Developing high-grade copper-ore
bodies in the Noranda district of Canada; and
Yukon Consolidated Gold Corporation—
partially-owned. Operating gold-dredges in the
Yukon, Canada.
Consolidated Zinc Pty.—Wholly-owned with
interests as follows:
Southern Power Corporation Pty.—Wholly-
owned and supplying power to the Zinc Corp.
and to New Broken Hill.
Enterprise Exploration Co. Pty.—A wholly-
owned prospecting co.
Titanium and Zirconium Industries Pty.—
Wholly-owned and mining beach-sands at Strad-
broke Island, Queensland.
Territory Enterprises Pty.—Wholly-owned
and operating the uranium project at Rum
Jungle, Northern Territory, for the Common-
wealth Government.
Sulphide Corporation Pty.—7s p.c. owned
and producing superphosphate and sulphuric
acid at Cockle Creek, N.S.W. A new zino-
smelter with an annual capacity of 38,000 tons
is nearing completion.
Australian Fluorine Chemicals Pty.—Partially-
owned and producing isceon fluorcarbons at
Rozelle, N.S.W.
Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty.-—5O p.c.
owned. Operates the world’s largest lead-
smelting plant at Port Pirie, S.A., refines lead
and manufactures sulphuric acid. The co.
treats practically the whole of the lead concen-
trates produced on the Barrier.
Heron’s Creek Timber Mills Pty. —60 p.c.
owned. A sawmiller supplying timber for use
in the Barrier mines.
Interstate Oil Ltd.—sl p.c. owned. An oil-
prospecting co. with a one-third interest in
Frome-Broken Hill Co. Pty.
Western N.S.W. Electric Power Pty.—32 p.c.
owned.
Comalco Industries Pty.—so p.c. owned.
Parent holding and management co. for the
group’s aluminium interests in Australia and
New Zealand.
The Comalco Industries group of cos.
(Comalco is an abbreviated form of
Commonwealth Aluminium Corporation
Pty) comprises:
Parent co. (Comalco Industries Pty), in which
Consolidated Zinc and Kaiser Aluminium and
Chemical Corporation are equal shareholders.
Commonwealth Aluminium Corporation Pty.
—The principal operating subsidiary in Aus-
tralia holding the Weipa bauxite lease and
responsible for development of aluminium pro-
duction, harbor works and community facilities
at Weipa; the original co. formed by Consoli-
dated Zinc in Queensland in December, 1956.
Comalco Products Pty.—The aluminium
fabricating subsidiary of the group, with alu-
minium extrusion facilities (estimated cost,
£7 million) at Yennora, near Sydney, and a
sheet-aluminium plant due for completion in
October, 1961 (these facilities, with an extru-
sion press at Maribyrnong, Vic., were purchased
from Austral Bronze Co. Pty in February,
1961).
Comalco Power Ltd. —To construct and
operate the Lake Manapouri hydro-electric
power scheme in New Zealand.
Comalco Aluminium Ltd.—To operate the
aluminium reduction smelter at Bluff, near
Invercargill, New Zealand.
Aluminium Production Corporation Ltd
(APCO).—Two-thirds-owned by Comalco Indus-
tries and one-third-owned by the Tasmanian
Government; operating Australia’s only exist-
ing aluminium smelter, at Bell Bay, Tasmania,
with an expansion output from 12,000 tons to
44,000 tons of aluminium metal per annum on
the way.
Former partner (since 1957) British
Aluminium Co. pulled out from the
Comalco set-up in September, 1960 ; was
replaced by cash customer Kaiser Alu-
minium in February last —“With the
consent of the Australian Government
the Gove bauxite lease and a grant in
respect of New Guinea water rights”
(previously the joint property of Consoli-
dated Zinc and British Aluminium) “were
transferred to the British Aluminium
Company, an appropriate financial adjust-
ment being made with that company to
allow us to resume full ownership of
Comalco.” Kaiser Aluminium paid
£2,848,273 entry fee.
The rejuvenated Comalco complex
towers massive amongst the giant indus-
trial undertakings of the Southern
Hemisphere proving, at last, an articulate
and dynamic exploitation of the vast
Weipa-centred bauxite deposits flanking
west-side Cape York Peninsula. The
programme envisaged involves expendi-
ture, by mid-1966, of about £AI3O mil-
lion on the construction of a 360,000 tons
per annum alumina extraction plant at
t Weipa, an underground hydro-electric
power station with an initial 285,000-
kilowatt capacity at Lake Manapouri, and
a 120,000 tons per annum aluminium
smelter at Bluff, the port of Invercargill.
At Weipa, the dredging of a shipping
access-channel to the port site has been
commenced (under contract with West-
minster Dredging Co. of Sydney ; esti-
mated cost in excess of £1 million) and
the group is “actively investigating the
possibility of later additions to Australia’s
domestic smelting, in Queensland or else-
where on the mainland” —in addition to
projected expansion at Bell Bay.
Comalco has just announced agree-
ment with G. E. Crane Holdings Ltd of
an association of interest in the produc-
tion of semi - fabricated aluminium—
Comalco to acquire a 20 p.c. interest (at
a cost of £1,426,600 to be spread over
the next 2? years) in the Crane group;
G. E. Crane to invest £674,000 (£300,000
in shares at par ; the balance in interest
bearing loans) in Comalco Products Pty.
The G. E. Crane fabricating interests
range copper, brass and aluminium, and
a new Penrith (N.S.W.) plant is planned
to expand the co.’s cold rolling of
aluminium sheet and strip. The Crane
deal follows hard on the successful take-
over of aluminium fabricator, Southern
Aluminium Ltd of Sydney for a cash
consideration involving £900,000.
Financial commitments are immense
(for development of an integrated
aluminium industry in Australia and N.Z.)
and agreement has been effected (Decem-
ber 7, 1960) with The British South Africa
Co. Holdings Ltd whereby British South
Africa and certain of its associates will
subscribe £10,000,000 sterling of 5k pc.
loan stock and, at the same time, take
up options to acquire, after July 1, 1966,
a total of 2,285,714 Consolidated Zinc
20s. ords. at a price of 87s. 6d. stg. a
share. The unsecured loan stock has now
been issued and the first instalment of
12? p.c. paid, January 2, 1961. The
balance is payable in further instalments
up to July 1, 1964. The stock is redeem-
able at par on July 1, 1971, or earlier as
provided in the trust deed.
“Cash-flow” is expected to provide
most of the rest of Consolidated Zinc’s
commitments, but directors think an issue
to shareholders might also be on the
cards, the last such issue going out in
February, 1959, when 1,455,100 £1 ords.
were offered to shareholders at a premium
of 28s. on a one-for-six basis. However,
“rights” issues, if any, “will not impair


JOHN N. ROBERTSON
member of the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne.
STOCK AND SHAKE BROKER.
Temple Court,
422 Collins Street, Melbourne C.l.
Telephones: 67 4804, 67 2465
Telegrams & Cables:
ROBFALK, MELBOURNE
A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building.
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 312761
(4 Lines)
P.O. Bos
No. 1887 \V
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
Ralph W. King & Yuill
33 Bligh St., 20 O’Connell St., Sydney.
2-0131.
8-1 William St., .Melbourne. 67-5089.
340 Queen Street, Brisbane. 31-2191.
Cables: “ RALPH KING,” Sydney, Mel-
bourne and Brisbane.
Branches at Grafton and Armidale.
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
It. H. ALLEN, >l. It. L. DOWLINC.
P. R. LEVY, A. P. REYNOLDS, N. R.
COURSE (Melbourne Resident Partner)
Delfin House, 16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Kuilding, 150 Queen St..
Melbourne. 67-5957 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables: ‘Ttosdale,” Sydney
Melbourne, or Wollongong.
The Australian
Woman's Mirror
the progressive dividend policy which if
j s hoped to follow.”
Aluminium aside —if aluminium is ever
to rival lead-zinc as a source of income
jt will do so only in the long term—
Consolidated Zinc Corp.’s fortunes are
determined, at least to a very large
degree, by the fortunes of lead and zinc
on world markets. Australia is one of
the world’s principal exporters of base
metals, and in recent years production
has been at record levels, relatively high-
grade ores and high technical efficiency
placing the local industry in a strong
competitive position overseas.
Latest results from the group the
slump from the previous year’s peak-
are attributable to decreased earnings in
the U.K. The price of zinc increased
substantially during 1960. The price of
lead rose, too, but to a comparatively
small extent:
Dec. 31 Lead. Zinc.
1956 .. .. £stg.l 16 411 £ stg.97 14 6
1957 .. .. 96 13 4 81 12 4
1958 . . .. 72 1 6 0 6 5 1 8 1
1959 . . .. 70 15 7 82 4 8
1960 . . . . 72 2 11 89 5 11
Zinc Corp. boosted profits. Production
was adjusted to achieve a lower average
lead grade and a higher average zinc
grade. The Corp. treated 725,550 tons
of ore (up 57,890 tons, but still below
optimum mine - working capacity) for
134,483 tons of zinc concentrates (up
22,610 tons), 77,105 tons of lead (down
4825 tons) and 1,821,1910 z. of silver
(down 224,7870 z.) —respective grades
were 10.8 p.c. zinc (9.9 p.c. in 1959),
11.4 p.c. lead (13.2 p.c.) and 2.70 z. silver
(3.30 z). Costs were reduced.
Con. Zinc Pty maintained profits,
benefits coming in fairly evenly from its
numerous offshoots. The Titanium and
Zirconium show produced at slightly
lower levels —world markets for rutile
remain weak. Sulphide Corp. increased
production of sulphuric acid and super-
phosphate and sales of superhosphata
jumped 42 p.c.—and during the year a
25 p.c. interest (in Sulphide Corp.) was
sold, at par, to New Broken Hill, New
Broken H 11 agreeing to supply Sulphide
Corp., for an initial period of 12 years,
with a major part of its lead and zinc
concentrate requirements (for the new
Sulphide Corp. smelting plant at Cockle
Creek). Divs. from Associated Smelters
showed little variation.
Increased divs. came in from New
Broken Hill (declared out of the 1959
profits). Divs. from British Titan Pro-
ducts showed a substantial increase.
Revenue from licensing of the Imperial
Smelting process declined. In the U.K.,
trading profits on zinc smelting at Avon-
rnouth and on sulphuric acid showed
satisfactory improvement, but heavy
expenses at Swansea (transitional costs
involved in reorientation of production
to the newly installed Imperial Smelting
process), reduced profits from pigments
(competition and lowered profit margins),
and loss on write-down of stocks, more
than offset.
All in all, the group “trading balance”
slipped £291,455 to £3,871,327, invest-
ment, income, etc. (up £154,059 at
£1,308,202), less provision for deprecia-
tion £1,462,227 (up £191,870), taking
Profit, before tax and royalties, down
£333,325 at £3,636,434.
After U.K. and Australian tax,
£1,145,582 (down £64,233), and royalty
payments, £163,789 (up £93,623 and
determined on mine earnings and on a
sliding scale), consolidated net profit
finished down £367,607, or 13.8 p.c.
lower, at £2,295,660 (all figures are in
£ stg.):
Consolidated Zinc and Subsidiaries.
(after eliminating outside interests.)
(All amounts in sterling.)
/ Dividends* N
Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. 4J p.c. 224 p.c. serves. serves.f
£ £ £ £
’56..2,044,383 196,167 1,123,521 718,095 11,060,768
Capital profits, £474,057 .. .. 11,534,825
Tax overprovided, £545,834 .. ..12,080,659
Stocks written-down, £177,153 ..11,903,506
18 if p.c.
’57..1,769,986 196,167 941,268 632,551 12,536,057
Tax overprovided, £327,227 ..12,863,284
Capital profits, £236,667 .. ..13,099,951
Stock appreciation, net, £28,100 .. 13,128,051
15 p.c.
’58..1,617,876 196,167 785,754 635,955 13,764,006
Tax overprovided, £28,541 .. ..13,792,547
Share premiums, £1,966,881 ..15,753,428
Capital profits, £32,355 .. .. 15,785,783
Stock appreciation, net, £ 185,014.. 15,970,797
20 p.c.
’59..2,663,267 208,961 1,247,748 1,206,558 17,177,355
Tax overprovided, £92,861 .. ..17,270,216
Capital profits, £236,573 .. ..17,506,789
Stock appreciation, net, £64,345 .. 17,571,134
Loan issue expenses, etc, w/off,
£52,941 17,518,193
Reduction exploration reserve,
£251,430 17,266,763
Adjustments, minority interests,
subsids, £98,066 17,168,697
’6O. .2,29.), 660 208,961 1,247.748 838,951 18,007,648
* Rate is declared rate, but amount is shown less
English income-tax. t Excludes specific provisions,
£2,347,352 at 31/12/60.
This represented a return of 20.5 p.c.
on ord. capital allowing for the prefs.,
against 24.1 p.c., 16.3 p.c., 18.2 p.c. and
21.1 p.c. back to 1956. The div. rate,
dropped from 22\ p.c. to 18 7 p.c. in 1957
and further to 15" p.c. in 1958, was lifted
to its present level, 20 p.c., in 1959. The
relatively large pref. capital (£7,851,340
in 4| p.c. cum. prefs.) helps the
£10,185,696 ord. capital to show a good
earning rate, ord. divs. averaging 17.7
p.c. since formation. Reserves moved
forward a massive £830,293 to
£18,007,648.
Cash, Treasury bills, etc., slipped
£6,353,742 last year to £1,724,144:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1958. 1959. 1960.
£stg. £stg. £stg.
Pref. .. 7,581,340 7,581,340 7,581,340
Ord. . . 8,730,596 10,185,696 10,185,696
Reserves , . 13,764,006 17,177,355 18,067,648
.Specific pro-
visions . . 2,123,266 2,257,623 2,347,352
Outside, interests 320,090 509,073 1,997,585
Debentures . . 1,303,352 1,171,431 1,330,093
Creditors . . 2,315,221 3,232,830 3,948,367
Tax provision,
etc 2,161,023 2,123,840 2,203,654
Divs 883,838 1,352,228 1,352,228
£39,182,732 £45,591,416 £48,953,993
Mine property 4,830,146 4,404,057 4,755,131
Freehold, plant,
etc. . . . . 9,450,419 12,156,822 17,089,622
Shares in
Comalco In-
dustries Pty. 600,000 1,600,000
Trade investments 6,381.336 6,486,948 7,008,326
Stocks . . 8,530,745 9,499,630 11,490,850
Book debts . . 3,820,691 4,055,528 4,925,983
Cash, etc. .. 6,002,809 8,077,856 1,724,144
Intangibles . . 310,496 310,545 353,937
£39,182,732 £45,591,416 £48,953,993
Capital expenditure by the group on
buildings, plant and equipment during
1960 amounted to £5.975,979 —smelting
plant at Cockle Creek and Swansea, plus
sulphuric-acid installations at Cockle
Creek, plus the partial erection of a new
Australian head office in Melbourne.
Capital expenditure commitments at the
end of the year amounted to £3,765,000.
Aluminium interests have not been
consolidated in the group’s accounts —-
“neither profit nor loss was made by the


LAST WEEKS!
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
PER ANNUM FOR
YEARS
6 OR 10 YEARS
RETAILERS
DISCOUNT
LIMITID
6 MONTHS
0
PER
ANNUM
12 MONTHS
7%
PER
ANNUM
SHiNOW VZ
PER
ANNUM
INTEREST PAYABLE QUARTERLY FREE OF EXCHANGE
Applications accepted only on the application form attached
to the Prospectus which may be obtained from: —
• Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange.
• Retailers Discount Limited, 280 Pitt Street, Sydney.
• Bank of New South Wales, all branches in N.S.W.,
Queensland or A.C.T.
BANK 0
k.
Trustee for Debenture Stock Holders:
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES NOMINEES PTY. LTD.
Underwriting Brokers:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL,
20 O'Connell Street, Sydney.
LIONEL A. McFADYEN & CO.,
20 O'Connell Street Sydney.
Members of Sydney Stock Exchange
>TY. LTD.
RETAILERS DISCOUNT LTD., 280 Pitt Street, Sydney. 8M6206.
Please forward me a Prospectus and Application form.
NAME
ADDRESS
companies concerned since
their incorporation.”
Consolidated Zinc Corn
faces next balance date (Dec
31) with every prospect of, a t
least, holding its own. World
consumption of lead and zinc is
showing an increasing tendency
to grow at different rates. Th e
price of zinc, outside the
U.S.A., has continued to be
reasonably remunerative despite
setbacks in automobile produc-
tion in the U.K. and Europe.
“With the strengthening of the
United States economy during
the second half of this year,
producers’ stocks will be
reduced to more normal levels,
and if the present encouraging
growth of zinc consumption
continues in the rest of the free
world, we can look with some
measure of confidence towards
the future.”
The lead situation is, how-
ever, more difficult, and inter-
national voluntary restrictions
still apply. Stocks, both in the
hands of overseas producers
and also in the U.S.A., have in-
creased and now stand at very
high levels. “While I recognise
the problems still facing the
lead industry, I am encouraged
to believe that with any im-
provement in world industrial
conditions over the next few
years the consumption of lead
will do more than hold its
own.” Spot prices on the
L.M.E. are: lead £ stg 64 7s. 6d.
a ton, zinc, £ stg. 81 a ton,
giving a total well below the
combined lead-zinc price of
£175 regarded, by the co., as
reasonable for both producer
and consumer.
The sharemarket puts a value
of just under £A. 50 million on
aggregate ord. equity (approxi-
mately 12 p.c. of share capital
is held in Australia), Consoli-
dated Zinc Corp. 20s. (stg.)
ords. fetching 955. in Sydney
last week. Effective yield on
immediate purchase, and from
a continued 20 p.c. div., is 5.3
p.c. or 3.2 p.c. allowing for
U.K. tax of 7s. 9d. in the £.
Bennett and Wood Ltd
T}rom Mr K. O. Humphreys,
chairman of Bennett and
Wood Ltd: “Much has been
done in the past year to enable
the company to operate more
efficiently and to take advan-
tage of the market demand.
The current financial year will
see the continuation of this
policy, but profits will be
affected to some extent by
interference to trade conse-
quent upon moving the head
office and warehouse. From


RNI.M
Invest in
The Longest Established National Hire
Purchase Company
in which the Bonk of N.S.W.
has a 40% shareholding
REGISTERED-
NOTES
INTEREST RATES
%
PER
ANNUM
Application for Registered Notes can be accepted
only on the printed form included in the pros-
I pectus obtainable from the Bankers to the issue, I
Bank of New South Wales (all Branches),
any A.G.C. Branch, and your Stockbroker.
PAID-UP CAPITAL: £6,875,000
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
Corporation Limited
142 Phillip Street, Sydney • BW 2673
Branches and offices throughout Australia
ASK THE 'WALES' FOR DETAI
The
NORTHERN LIFE
Assurance Company of Australia Limited
(Incorporated in Canberra, Australia)
All Classes of Ordinary Life Assurance,
Superannuation and Annuity Policies Issued
HEAD OFFICE: 15 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone BL 5601 K. J. Hedley, General Manager
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you a price for the original.
1 commencement of 1962
f 0U r company should derive
Continuing benefits from plans
jqw being implemented.”
And not before time,
jjennett and Wood, as a
public co., has been a disap-
pointment. Converted in
October, 1955, it ran up initial
profits of £146,232 (25.9 p.c.
i 0 n paid capital) to return share-
holders a p.c. div. In the
jfollowing year, to February,
* 1957, profits dropped £10,707
to £135,525 (24.1 p.c.). Div.
was dropped to 15 p.c. Twelve
months later profits fell £51,447
ito £84,078 (14.9 p.c.). Div. was
lout to \2\ p.c. A further
J slump in 1959 saw profits at
£58,951 (10.5 p.c. and down
£25,127). Div., this time, fell
to 10 p.c. Profits slipped
£35,742 to £23,209 (4.1 p.c.) in
1960, the tax provision,
(£9320, pointing an even lower
figure, £15,500 odd. In the
jlatest result, calculated after
betting aside £24,050 (up
(£14,730) for tax and £20,053
(up £1927) for depreciation,
(profits work out a much im-
proved, but still slender,
|£37,696 (6.7 p.c. and up
£14,487). Tax provision is
■closely aligned to visible
‘effort:
Re-
Feb., Profit. r Dividend——, serves.
£ £ £
To stock provision, £20,000 1,002,611
'56.. 146,232 17* p.c. = 98,462 1,110,381
To stock provision, £20,000 1,090,381
To staff fund, £20,000 .. 1,070,381
v'57.,135,525 15 p.c. = 84,396 1,121,511
I To long-service leave,
| £52,452 1,069,029
Jax overprovided, £6314.. 1,075,343
I Profit sale assets, £975 . . 1,076,318
,158.. 84,078 12 J p.c. = 70,330 1,090,066
I: '59.. 58,951 10 p.c. = 56,263 1,092,754
Ex stock provision,
£40,000 1,132,754
'BO.. 23,209 10 p.c. = 56,263 1,099,700
'Bl.. 37,696 8 p.c. = 45,011 1,092,385
iDiv. has been reduced from
110 to 8 p.c., the payout, at
(expense of reserves, absorbing
(£45,011. Reserves, still sub-
jstantial, slipped £7315 to
(£1,092,385. Paid capital,
j£562,636, is held in 1,125,272
jlOs. ord. stock-units.
j Controlled from its head
in Pitt Street, Sydney,
kith branches in the N.S.W.
towns of Goulburn, Lismore,
Newcastle, Orange, Tamworth,
Parramatta, Wagga and Wol-
longong and a branch in Bris-
bane (Q.), the co.’s activities
fmbrace the service of all types
jjf motor vehicles, and the
Merchandising of motor parts
4nd accessories, service-station
huipment, cycles and motor-
cycles. Over the years, agencies
jlave been secured for the sale
jtf world-famous B.S.A. and
|unbeam motor-cycles and
Pore recently for the Honda
(notor-cycle. In 1957, the co.
look over distribution of the
f-ambretta motor-scooter in
N.S.W. and Queensland and
in the same year commenced
selling B.S.A. motor-scooters.
The downward plunge in
earnings in recent years is
largely the outcome of de-
creased demand for motor-
cycles. Motor-bikes reached a
peak of popularity in 1951-52.
Since then figures for both new
and total registrations have
fallen heavily. The severity of
the decline has not been eased
by increasing competition in
the spare-parts field. Last term
the co. wrote fairly substantial
business (turnover, around the
£3.3 million mark, was little
changed) effecting reduction of
overheads as well.
Bennett and Wood is now
carrying its own h.-p. paper.
Previous arrangements had
proved unsatisfactory with bad
debt losses assuming significant
proportions. Last term’s effort
was achieved despite these
losses which, together with
“certain costs associated with
the co.’s development,” aggre-
gated in excess of £25,000.
Sales declined over the closing
months of the term (the credit
squeeze), stocks finishing up
£lOO,OOO in excess of normal
requirements. Creditors
jumped £234,859 to £520,102,
suppliers executing forward
orders with unusual prompti-
tude.
The co. anticipates large
savings in handling and distri-
bution costs in the near future.
The ill-placed Pitt and Bathurst
Street property has been sold
for approximately £425,000;
the Wentworth Avenue (ware-
house) premises are up for
auction. Bennett and Wood is
constructing a new head office,
plus warehouse, on property
acquired in Zetland, a near
suburb of Sydney. Relocation
of headquarters and the cen-
tralisation of managerial and
warehousing functions could
inject new life into the
organisation. It will certainly
release considerable funds now
virtually dormant and tied up
in unprofitable assets. The new
premises should be occupied
before the end of August. A
new branch at Parramatta —
set up during last term —is
proving successful. Branches
will be opened shortly in St
Leonards (a Sydney suburb)
and in Canberra.
The book values of freeholds
and leaseholds (in at 1955
valuation plus additions at
cost less depreciation) rose
£227,456 to £910,898, but this
investment will be reduced with
final disposal of the Pitt Street
property. The book value of


You’ll have an interest in
S&JlO
REID MURRAY
enterprises
W.A.: John Allans, "Champions of W.A. Made
1C Hicks Atkinson Ud., Melbou/n-
-¥'
I f f
\r*i>
m
a ran*,
i» r “
H.S.W.: Cowell's White House Pty. Ltd., Sydney
S.A. Oavid Murray Stores Ltd
Housinq Development in 5 States
T * *«* •
i
OLD. Torbreclohome un;fs. Brisbane
|SA Churchill sV"ZMmm I
Home of the Saverys group of <ompaniesj&-^f:<|
111
Office
Reg. First
Mortgage
Debenture
Stock
P.A. FOR
8 AND 10
YEARS
Shown above are just a few of the opera-
ting companies of the Reid Murray group.
All told these include: 197 Retail Stores,
7 Wholesale Warehouses, Real Estate
Companies in 5 States, and the Finance
Co. for the group Reid Murray Accept-
ance Ltd. An investment in Reid Murray
Acceptance Ltd. is an investment in one
of Australia’s best backed Companies.
Applications accepted only on forms attached
to the Prospectus. Available from:
REID MURRAY ACCEPTANCE LTD.
403 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 67-1024
Any branch of the
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Any member of a
RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE IN AUST.
Or Joint Underwriting Brokers
TOLHURST, HENLEY, MUNCKTON & CO.
401 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melb.
CUTTEN & HARVEY
97 King William Street, Adelaide
408 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of Stock Exchange of Adelaide Ltd.
PAID UP CAPITAL £7,000,000
FIXED 10MC TERM STOCK
SHORT TERM NOTICE STOCK
7 m
P.A. on 12 mths. notice
6%
P.A on 6 mths. notice
5 <y»
P.A. on 3 mths. notice
RMA.I3V
GUARANTEED BY REID MURRAY HOLDINGS LTD.
plant fin at cost less deprecb
tion) increased by £24 501
£118,877: ’ “ 10
1960. 10R1
Paid capital .. £562,636 £«,ij
Reserves .. 1,099,700 1,002 3sr |
Long term
liabilities .. 271 n-
Overdraft .. 140,059 Sflo’-n
Creditors, etc. . . 285,243 s'in’ no
Tax provision .. 34,813 34»rj:
Final div. . . 28,132 '
£2,150,583 £2^B9Loj()l
Freeholds, lease-
holds .. .. 683,4 4 2 910 80s 1
Plant . . . . 94,375 118 877 1
Stock .. .. 767,348 1,054 4% I
H.-p. debtors .. 46,523 ]47’oTI
Debtors.. .. 557,452 G58’,838 1
Cash . . . . 1,443 1,4251
£2,150,583 £ 2,891,679]
Working capital ratio, a
healthy 2-to-l, compares with]
3-to-l in 1960, but over half!
of the £1,861,904 of current!
assets is in stock (up £287,0821
at £1,054,430) and the re-«
mainder in book debts—-f
general up £101,386 at
£658,838 ; h.-p. up £100,688 at I
£147,211. Overdraft, bulkingi
£250,704 to £390,763, includes'
bridging finance for building!
construction.
Bennett and Wood agreed to I
carry, on first mortgage for a|
period of five years, £2 50,000 j
of the total consideration 1
receivable for the Pitt andj
Bathurst Street property. To!
cover this, and to provide]
additional funds for the estab-7
lishment of new branches and
working capital, arrangements
have been concluded with The
City Mutual Life Assurance
Society Ltd for mortgage
advances totalling £500,000.-
Long-term finances, £274,050,]
include £175,000 from the]
C.M.L. and £75,000, deposit
received on sale of building. <
At 12s. 6d. the 10s. ords.j
yield an immediate 6.4 p.c.
from a continued 8 p.c. div.
High asset backing, rather ■
than present or projected earn-
ing power, is the source ofj
current sharemarket support.
The 10s. ords. are each sup-
ported by net tangibles of 295.!
sd. The co. must present a
juicy bait to the right take-j
over merchant.
COMPANY NOTES
B.H P. Share Issue
B.H.P. share register was
* last ruled off in December,
1960, a one-for-two bonus
issue swelling equity above the
£96 million mark. Books will
now close again, July 7 next,
for determination of rights to
a one-for-six cash issue, inci-
dentally the largest such issue
in the annals of Australian
commercial history.
The bonus issue, according to
the pre-established pattern and
capitalising upwards of


WANTED TO SELL
Tree Feller, including Motor
and blade with adjustable cut-
ting position.. Shaft driven
£165.
Mr Fletcher, Aychar Pty. Ltd.,
5 Warrigal Road, Moorabbin,
Vic. Phone XF 2391.
Positions Vacant
SYDNEY GRAMMAR SCHOOL
1. In September, or earlier if the appli-
cant is willing to do resident duties,
a master to teach Greek and Latin
up to 4tli and -3th Year level.
Salary Seale and pensions scheme
will be communicated to applicants
who should write to the Headmaster,
Sidney Grammar School, College
Street, Sydney, stating their quali-
fications. age. experience etc.
2. An Assistant Resident Master for
the Sydney Grammar School House to
take resident duties is required
forthwith. Full-time employment is
not offered unless the applicant is
also a candidate for the post of
teaching Classics. Applications for
this post should be made .to the
Housemaster, Sydney Grammar School
House, 43 St. Mark’s Road, Rand wick.
Adult Education, Workers’ Educa-
tional Association of N.S.W. requires
Secretary for Sydney Region. Salary
to commence at £1750, range to
£2450. Applications close 24th June.
Full details from General .Secretary
W.E.A., 52 Margaret Street, Sydney.
B.\ 2222.
million, facilitated ready reduc-
tion of div. rates —from 8f p.c.
in 1959/60 to 6| p.c. The pay-
out on new capital raisings is
thus reduced.
Directors emphasise that it is
to be “clearly understood by
shareholders that although this
issue will be at par, it must not
be assumed that future issues
will be on the same terms.”
This, together with projected
build up of capacity (increased
steel output), indicates further
issues, probably in the near
future, but with premium load-
ings.
In the meantime, the present
issue requires something like
£16,100,000 payable 10s.
August 28, the balance Decem-
ber 11. 1961 —a sizeable lump
with the credit squeeze taxing
liquidity. Rights trading could
present investors an opportune
time to subscribe the B.H.P.
register remembering, t o o,
that institutional portfolios
must keep in mind the 30-20
ratio.
The B.H.P. 20s. ords. traded
around 78s. 6d. last Friday to
give an ex-rights market value
approximating 70s. 2d. On this
basis, rights would fetch a
theoretical 50s. 2d. At 70s. 2d.,
yield on the current 6| p.c.
works out a slender 1.78 p.c.
Conquip Limited
TTie Sydney-based manufac-
-* turer and distributor of
earthmoving equipment will
close its issue of 200,000 ss.
ords., one-for-three at par, on
June 23, 1961. The company
paid its maiden interim divi-
dend (4 p.c. for the six months
to December 30, 1960) on May
26, 1961. The last full year’s
dividend amounted to 8 p.c.
In 1959 the co. paid a 7 p.c.
annual dividend, preceded by
six 6 p.c. annual divs.
Australian Portland Cement
Expansion
A dditional plant costing
more than £5 million is
being installed at the Geelong
(Vic.) works of Australian
Portland Cement Pty to lift
output by 300.000 tons to
800.000 tons a year—pro-
nouncement by the Kandos
Cement Co. Ltd directorate in
Sydney last month. The new
plant- is planned to begin
operations in 1963.
Australian Portland Cement
is the jointly-owned operating
co. for Kandos (of Sydney)
and Australian Cement Co.
Ltd of Melbourne. Expansion
at the Geelong works was
foreshadowed at the annual
general meeting of Kandos last
August. The project is in
addition to an expansion pro-
gramme at the co.’s Kandos
works, N.S.W., which is near-
ing completion at a cost of
about £2 million.
All this activity ensues des-
pite the projected setting up
of an opposition cement-
making plant at Geelong by
the U.K.-based Blue Circle
people. Increased rivalry has
failed to intimidate the power-
ful A.P.C. group.
As to finance: capital invest-
ment costs have been met in
the past, for the most part,
from within the framework of
earning capacity and such are
the present reserves of the
group (ploughed back profits,
etc.) that a continuance of this
policy can be expected. How-
ever, directors (of Kandos)
comment “it will later be
necessary to make arrange-
ments for more finance” and
“this will be done with due
regard for the interests of
shareholders.” The Kandos co.
and Australian Cement, too,
boosted funds with one-for-
five par issues in May, 1960.
Kandos shares are presently
fetching around 695. 6d. (Aus-
tralian Cement around 705.),
sharemarket confidence reviv-
ing in recent months. The
Blue Circle interests will have
an initial capacity of only
200.000 tons p.a. The 20s. ords.
touched 80s. (82s. 6d.) in 1960
prior the Blue Circle pro-
nouncement, afterwards slump-
ing as low as 50s. (465. 9d.).
In February last, both cos.
(Kandos and Australian
Cement) lifted their interim
div. from 10 to 124 p.c. p.a.
OIL AND MINING
Timor Oil Ltd
TAirectors say that, follow-
ing a visit to Sydney of
Tradewinds’ directors, plans
were completed to recommence
drilling in the Suai area of
Portuguese Timor in June. It
is intended to test the shallow
horizon at Matai and Debos, as
indicated by the results from
Matai No 1 well.
Work on gravimetric surveys
to define more accurately anti-
clinal structures in the Betano
area is progressing satisfac-
torily.
Combarngo Well
Associated Australian
Oilfields, N.L., report
that the Combarngo No. 1
well has reached a depth of
5863 ft and is drilling ahead.
Lithology is tuff and siltstone.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 647
Across
I—The royal cricket strip is behaving devilishly. (12)
9 Churchill’s first hot hope ruined Milne's work. (6-3-4)
10— Ancient Russian city wave by 1000. (4)
11 — Girl who plays the trumpet is a help in paying out or
taking in rope. (8)
14 — Bone is backing a foreign
alternative. (5)
15— It slows down the chief trumpeter
or flautist, etc. (8)
17 —Paragraph cutter, in a manner ot
speaking. (8)
19 —Bella arranged this tag. (5)
22 Smart air to be expected of this
Indian city. (8)
23 What makes a. banner slacken
in energy. (4)
26 The wrong felt gory as the body-
line. (4, 3,6)
27 — A possible place to put down
disrobement at the turn of the
stairs. (7, 5)
Down
1— —Winnie's double! How con-
temptuous! (4-4)
2 The shortened skin blemishes
of frustrates. (7)
3 Henry holds a lump of cord,
twine or yarn. (4)
4 Nothing over sixpence—that's
ancient. (4)
5 Birds announcing that Grimalkin
deserts Morpheus. (10)
6 Rene confused O'Reilly, poet
and no-hoper. (4-2-4)
7 He participates in the besi bid-
ding. (6)
8 — Realm ordei to murder
mother? (6)
12—Delivery to a famous apple-
splitter and a Nedda’s num-
ber. (10)
13—Gasbagged feature behaved like
the happy pooch’s tail. (10)
16—A unit of the battle fleet paving
joint (8)
18 —Cop. (6)
20 — Who clubs a useless direction to
any rooster. (7)
21 — One famous lighting service upset
another weaving material. (6)
24 — An influential Asian finds 3-down
out of form. (4)
25 Pci forms for bucks, almost. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 646


ss§
. ..-■'.;. •
ifXt*
mm
.
0W
vA
. ..
m
£■•
'M
*
■-'•.■
ri
■
m§M
7 : -
H
1"? - ■;■? ■;•
m
VSsm,
:
K
DIF I SAIH
SPARJERS
AN ORIGINAL WALKER PROCESS DEVELOPMENT
Diffusoir SPARJERS, designed and developed by Walker
Process, represent years of research and experimenta-
tion in conjunction with a continuing study of oxygena-
tion processes. As the number of new and tube re-
placement installations increase, more and more Engi-
neers and Plant Superintendents recognize that
SPARJERS successfully combine controlled air bubble
release with increased tank turbulence and circulation
velocities to achieve an oxygenation efficiency actually
superior to other types of diffusion devices.
In developing the SPARJER, Walker Process Engineers
thoroughly investigated all factors pertaining to the
complex processes involving aeration and oxygenalion.
As a result Diffusair SPARJERS provide maximum oxy-
Odesso, Texas where six main aeration tanks, two holding tanks and
two grease removal tanks are SPARjER equipped. Walker Process also
furnished CIRCULAR COLLECTORS. FLOTATION UNIT. DIGESTER MIXER,
HEATX SLUDGE HEAT EXCHANGER AND SKIMMERS ot Odessa.
Parkhill, Smith & Cooper, Lubbock, Texas • Consulting Engineers
Mr. M. Breneman Plant Superintendent
gen absorption and include such features as CLOG-
PROOF SELF CLEANING ORIFICES ... NO AIR FIL-
TERS REQUIRED . . . POSITIVELY NO BACK PRESSURE
BUILD-UP . . . ECONOMICAL OPERATION.
Full-sized plant tests conducted at SPARJER installa-
tions in recent years have demonstrated their superior
design. In many cases SPARJERS are installed on
existing headers which formerly supported diffusion
tubes
The complete SPARJER story is covered in Walker
Process Bulletin Number 22590. Here the theory and
development is discussed in detail along with actual
plant experience and data. Write for your copy today.
HER PROCESS
WALKER PROCESS EQUIPMENT INC.
FACTORY • ENGINEERING OFFICES • LABORATORIES
AURORA, ILLINOIS
MARS
Manufactured under Licence by
Ltd.
BRIDGE
STREET, VALLEY
QUEENSLAND, AUSTRALIA
Interstate
Agents:
NSW.: ALFRED SNASHALL PTY. LTD., 500 Kent Street, Sydney
Vic.: THOMSON & CARROLL PTY. LTD., 792 Elisabeth Street, Melbourne
S.A.: MINING SUPPLIES (S.A.). 622 South Road, Edwardstowr.
