

The Bulletin
Registered in Australia for trans-
mission by post as a newspaper.
October 21, 1961
\<
CANBERRA’S LOBBYISTS


Here's the name
that makes the
difference in
/.
/
you SAVE
because you get
more when you
buy GOODYEAR
fvcry tyre that carries the
name Goodyear makes available
to you the experience and skill
of the world's biggest rubber
company. Look at this
Imperial Nylon, for
instance; this is the safest,
strongest tyre you can buy.
The tough, long-wearing
tread gives positive
traction at all times.
The body is built with
Goodyear's exclusive 3.T
Nylon for greatest resist-
ance to bruise damage,
tyre heat and flex
fatigue. The wider
margin of safety this
tyre gives at high-
speed makes it safest
under any conditions,
See it at your Goodyear
Dealer, Garage or
Service Station,
GOOD#
ny
(jcit
L279A


TEARING OFF A STRIP
By Lovell Jones
THE MOTOR INDUSTRY
CERTAINLY IS
SCREAMING AT THE
LIBERAL PARTY .
WWAT5 TO PROTEST ABOUT ?
BEFORE ROBERT G-. LOWERED THE '
boom, They all made a billion. 1
A REAL JUMPIN' UP AND DOWN
BILLION// SO WHY THE ,
SCREAMING- ? >/
HE WOULDINIT
LET THEM MAKE
A SECOND
BILUOW.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; Phone: 27 5971.
Vol. 82
No. 4262
How to be Stubborn
THIS week’s French opposition to “premature” discussion on
Germany is a useful reminder that there are other ways to con-
duct diplomacy than by permanent public activity. It is possible,
if one believes one’s opponent is not exercising goodwill, to do no-
thing at all publicly until he gives evidence of good intention. Out-
ward stubborness is attacked as a diplomatic technique, but it has
advantages that outward flexibility lacks.
This is particularly true when democratic countries are threat-
ened by bullies. Threats are made by an opponent and ultimatums
delivered, then there is a long silence in which the democracies
begin putting up plans, debating issues and engaging in formal dis-
cussions. The opponent may enter the ring now and again just to
keep everybody thinking out loud. He may issue more threats; he
may turn to slight blandishments; he may even take his boots off in
public. Whatever he does, he still leaves us guessing. Why not ignore
him ? He caused the crisis. Why not simply adopt what President
de Gaulle describes as “a firm and upright attitude” and let the man
who caused the crisis do the talking?
In the so-called Berlin crisis Mr Khrushchev made a number of
threats, issued an ultimatum and is now waiting to see what con-
cession we come up with. The kind of concessions that are being
discussed affect East Germany rather than Berlin, a perfect example
of what happens when people feel the need to put up plans. They
cannot suggest retreat on the front on which they have been directly
attacked but sheer ingenuity and lack of nerve produce proposals
for concessions elsewhere. In Germany the position of the West
should be that it is not satisfied with the status quo, but it will not
accept any unfavorable amendment to it; instead some sections of
American and British opinion are now canvassing amendments to
the status quo that would worsen our position.
Even putting up imaginative “plans” that would call Mr
Khrushchev’s bluff can be dangerous. He may reject the plans but by
that time an interest in the plan itself may have been generated that
makes people continue to support it; bits and pieces of it may sur-
vive; confidence in the central issue may be eroded; and out of a
bold, honest plan comes a “reasonable” concession.
What would have gone wrong if, from the start, the West had
simply stated—in one voice—that it was not interested in altering the
status quo, except along certain specified lines, and that if Mr
Khrushchev attempted to alter it he would do so at his own risk,
and that this was the West’s final statement until the Russians
showed that they would seriously negotiate on a reasonable basis ?
Firmness of this kind would not risk war; it would guarantee
that Mr Khrushchev would not go too near the brink; it is flexibility
that risks war because it might make Mr Khrushchev underestimate
his opponents. At the worst it would merely result in the mainten-
ance of the status quo and that would mean that for once we had
lost nothing.


This Australia
MINES
Revival in Cobar
FROM DESMOND O’GRADY IN COBAR
The chartered Fokker Friendship which
brought a group of journalists to
Cobar last week on Broken Hill South
Pty Ltd’s invitation also carried the news
that a takeover bid had been made for
the company. Company employees had
noticed posters carrying “£l7 Million
Takeover Bid” on their way to the plane
and had then found they referred to their
firm. An hour and a half and 450 miles
later they were the first to give the news
to the mine representatives who met the
plane. The conjunction of events could
not have been more dramatic: a com-
pany was announcing its intention to
reopen the Cobar copper mines and at the
same time “undisclosed principals” had
made a bid for the company.
Before the weekend was over the
excitement had died down —the takeover
offer was withdrawn as suddenly as it
was made. In the meantime some people
made money, stockbrokers, investors and
financial journalists muttered angrily
about leakages and “false leads,” and
there were demands that in future the
Stock Exchanges should temporarily take
the shares of companies for which
anonymous takeover bids were made off
the trading list until the position was
clarified. All that was finally learned was
that the offer was made by two overseas
Chinese, who acted through a Victorian
private company with a registered capi-
tal of £250,000. of which £2 has been
paid up. They were acting for “Hong
Kong and Philippines interests” —a
designation sufficiently vague and wide
to mean almost anything.
The mines are ranged along the 11-
mile-long lode which runs through Cobar
and which provided the town’s liveli-
hood from 1870 until the last mine closed
in 1952. In 1957 Broken Hill South
acquired a lease to investigate the field’s
potential. They handed the job over to
lean, dark Bas Lewis, 32, their chief
geologist. Bas Lewis is an Adelaide
University graduate who, after a brief
spell with the South Australian Govern-
ment service, joined the Western Mining
Corporation and carried out exploratory
work for them for ten years. In 1956
he switched to Broken Hill South Bty
Ltd., he went over all the information
about the previous operations in the
Cobar field and concluded that it should
be reinvestigated.
Since 1957 the company has spent £1
million in test drilling, and it is satisfied
with the result: at C.S.A. they struck
copper 560 ft below the surface, and it
continued down to a depth of 3100 ft —
2500 ft of copper. So far they have
revealed 18,000,000 tons of ore, and they
consider that sufficient to start a £5-
million-a-year industry.
/"ffiBAR is looking forward to the boom.
Set out in the flat, dusty redsoil
plains where you develop a permanent
squint against the sun and constantly
carry a colony of overblown flies on your
back, some imagine Cobar as our version
of Tombstone, Arizona. Ex-mining
towns usually look exhausted, and Cobar
has declined from being an 18 to a four
hotel town, but it has not stagnated since
mining stopped there in 1952. Under an
energetic shire council which houses itself
in a modern building, Cobar has regarded
itself as the centre of a prosperous pas-
toral district rather than as the skeleton
of a mining community. It has a new
brick police station and court house, a
new Rural Bank building and a swimming
pool which should be finished this
summer. The redevelopment of the
copper fields should double its popula-
tion to 5000 within, say, six years, and
Cobar’s confidence knows no bounds —
they talk of a bigger hospital, a new
shopping centre, of rivalling Broken
Hill . . .
The additional workers attached to the
mine will probably number 400, but many
more will be engaged on allied activities.
A six mile all-weather road and railway
line will have to be built from the town-
ship to C.S.A., a milling plant erected,
water brought from either the Darling, 82
miles away at Louth or 98 miles away
at Bourke, or the Macquarie River, 100
miles away to the east. Metallurgical
laboratories, survey and administrative
offices will be constructed in Cobar,
while at Port Kembla, where 80,000 tons
of copper concentrate will be railed
yearly, an additional 300 men will be
employed at the copper refinery.
However, there will be no immediate
spectacular increase in employment on
the mines. For the next two years there
will be work for only specialist labor,
for it will take that time to get the shafts
down and the underground development
under way. Even if the results of the
drilling at C.S.A. and Chesney are con-
firmed, it will still be a few years before
the production reaches its expected level
of 50,000 tons monthly of low to medium
grade ore.
SPORT
Betting by Teleprinter
FROM A MEBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
An one of the opening two years-old
races of the season in Melbourne,
the Maribyrnong Trial Stakes, the
Sydney filly Pomme Girl (it isn’t slang ;
one of her ancestors was Crabapple)
shortened to four to one on in the last
minutes of betting, and won like it by
four lengths.
The reason for this was the placing
of £lO,OOO on her sent to Flemington
by Arthur Browning, the Sydney book-
maker, through the kindly (plus com-
mission) offices of the A.J.C. and the
V.R.C. The V.R.C. agrees that the
racing clubs’ course teleprinter was used,
but some V.R.C. officials now seem
anxious to deny it.
The news of this great bet annoyed the
Victorian Racehorse Trainers’ Associa-
tion, a body that in recent years has
shown at least some of the sensitivity of
trades hall councils, and the Association
announced its intention to take up the
matter with the V.R.C. It was then dis-
closed that Browning had backed two
other Flemington winners by the same
means, £3OOO on Proud Miss (9/4 on)
and Indian Summer (7/4 on).
The trainers’ anger seemed to be much
hotter than the reasons they gave—that
the transfer of money from course to
course by teleprinter is not in the best
interests of racing, and that it was not
fair to punters who pay at the gates to
bet legally when large sums can be bet
by interstate bookmakers over a tele-
printer.
The real reason for the outburst is
not obscured by these hypocritical
claims, and it is that Victorian trainers
want to be able to back, or have backed,
horses in interstate rings without fear


of the money flooding back to the course
where the horse is running and spoiling
the price.
The teleprinter service was introduced
by the clubs to protect both punters and
bookmakers, the punters by announce-
ments of the betting fluctuations at the
interstate courses and the bookmakers
by giving them the opportunity to lay-off
unbalanced books. It is illegal to send
bets such as Browning's by telegram but
legal over the racecourse teleprinters be-
cause these communications are between
licensed courses.
The teleprinter betting has been
operating for about three years, but it
is not the only means of communication
between the courses. A Melbourne
sportsman recalls recently asking Arthur
Browning to put £SOO on a runner in
Melbourne and to ensure that the money
did not get back to the Melbourne race-
course.
Browning waited until three minutes
before the race, put on £IOO with each
of five bookmakers operating on the
Melbourne races and then told the
punter it he had done so five minutes
before the race the money would have
reached the Melbourne racecourse. How
else other than by a telephone line kept
open at both ends?
THE MALAYS
The Fortnight in Hiding
FROM KEITH WILLEY IN DARWIN
Tt was an impressive display of town
•*- unity. At a mass meeting on the
Darwin Oval hundreds of citizens wel-
comed Daru Bin Saris and Zainal Bin
Hashim, the two Malays who are
battling to avoid deportation to Singa-
pore following collapse of the Northern
Territory pearling industry, in which
they were indentured workers for many
years.
While they spent the preceding fort-
night in hiding with sympathisers, the
Darwin Anti-Deportation Committee —
a representative group of 14 citizens—
briefed a leading Melbourne criminal
lawyer, Mr Frank Galbally, to test in
the courts the men’s right to stay. Pend-
ing hearing of the case, Minister for
Immigration Downer has allowed the
Malays to go free under bonds of £250
each. Within hours of this decision men
were found to put up the money and
Daru and Zainal came out in the open.
Cheering crowds packed the Darwin
Oval on Friday night to hear the story
of the men’s fight to remain in Darwin.
The Member for the Northern Territory
(Mr Jock Nelson), who flew from Can-
berra especially to address the meeting,
described the indentured labor system in
pearling and “one other industry” as
“rotten,” and congratulated the people
of Darwin on their united stand against
the Federal Government over the depor-
tations. As Mr Nelson blasted the inden-
tured labor system as “cruel and oppres-
sive” sections of the crowd began to
chant: “Down with slave labor.” The
Mayor (Mr N. H. Cooper) reaffirmed
his “deep concern on the humanitarian
aspect of the case. “Unless the Malays
were allowed to stay in Australia inter-
national relationships w'ould be affected,
he warned. Rev. N. C. Pearce of the
United Church, Brother Aidan of the
Church of England, and the Salvation
Army’s “flying padre,” Major Vic Peder-
son, pledged their support.
Meanwhile Mr Galbally has advised
Daru, Zainal and a third Malay, Jaffa
Madunne—also facing deportation soon
—to apply for registration as Australian
citizens under one of the immigration
laws. The Darwin Anti-Deportation
Committee spokesman said: “Even if
we lose the court hearing for Zainal and
Daru we will make the same efforts on
behalf of Madunne and any other unfor-
tunate man in the same circumstances. ’
In a special interview on Saturday
Daru and Zainal told newsmen of their
two weeks “underground.” In the
greatest manhunt Darwin has seen, police
searched more than 100 homes. Sup-
porters confused the hunt by whisking
the Malays from house to house. Never-
theless the searchers at times came very
close. Police twice called at houses where
the Malays were staying. The first time
the two men ran for a bedroom, where a
policeman, who opened the door as they
crouched behind it, did not notice them.
“If he'd looked at the mirror he’d have
seen us,’’ said Zainal. Another time they
were talking to friends in a front garden
when a police car stopped in front of the
house. The Malays clashed to the back-
yard, hurdled a fence and hid behind
trees 100 yards away. Again the raiding
party failed to see them.
With the heat on, supporters then
transferred the Malays to a secret loca-
tion “over 100 miles from Darwin,”
where they lived in the bush. While
hiding the men occupied themselves by
reading, playing cards, fishing and shoot-
ing. Daru told of catching fish in a
creek and they shot a few birds and flying
foxes. While the search was at its peak
Legislative Councillor Fred Drysdale
condemned the intensity of the hunt.
“You'd think the police were after two
murderers,” he said. “These men aren’t
criminals.”
With the heat now off pending a court
hearing, the Malays went before micro-
phones on Friday for a radio interview.
Daru commented: “We were never
afraid all the time we were in hiding.
We trusted all our friends.” Zainal said:
“I will be glad when all this is over.
I want very much to stay in Darwin. It
is a good place.”
LAW
Divorce Under
a " Blanket"
FROM A HOBART CORRESPONDENT
A/fR Justice Crisp made Tasmanian
-*-*'*- —and possibly Australian—legal
history when he ordered a “blanket”
restriction on publication of proceedings
in a divorce case in Hobart Supreme
Court. Counsel appearing in the case
applied for the order under the Com-
monwealth’s Matrimonial Causes Act,
1959.
Section 123 of the Act restricts pub-
lication of divorce court proceedings to
basic details, broadly on the pattern
which operated in Victoria before the
Commonwealth Act superseded State
divorce laws. Newspapers may publish
only the names, addresses and occupa-
tions of the parties ; a concise statement
of the nature and grounds of the pro-
ceedings ; the charges, defences and
counter-charges ; submissions on points
of law ; the judgment of the court, and
observations by the judge. A sub-section
empowers the court to ban publication,
wholly or in part, of information about
any particular proceedings before it.
The effect of the law is generally to
restrict reports of divorce proceedings to
a paragraph giving the names of the
parties and of the co-respondent, if any ;
the grounds of the case ; names of the
barristers and solicitors appearing, and
the decision.
The superseding of the State’s Matri-
monial Causes Act by the Common-
wealth law in February of this year has
not materially altered the divorce court
reports of the Tasmanian dailies, which
traditionally have regarded divorce as a
private affair. Some years ago, the
Attorney-General, Mr R. F. Fagan, was
stirred by sentiments akin to those which
Lord Morrison recently expressed in the
House of Lords when he protested
against withdrawal of the Right of
Privacy Bill. Most journalists, he said,
were “decent chaps,” but there did exist
“an abominable minority that does
inquire into the private life of people
in acute distress.” He felt that main-
land newspapers of a more sensational
outlook than the Tasmanian dailies were
getting an eager readership by filling
the vacuum in divorce court reporting,
and he proposed that papers distributed
in the State should be compelled to re-
strict reports to bare details. The Aus-
tralian Journalists’ Association and the
Tasmanian newspaper proprietors pro-
tested, and the proposal lapsed when the
Tasmanians assured Mr Fagan that they
would continue to confine reports to the
customary paragraph, while preserving
freedom of action to do otherwise if
they considered that public interest justi-
fied it. “Public interest” had still not
been invoked when the advent of the
Commonwealth law settled the issue.


UNIONS
The Gippsland Circus
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
J. V. STOUT
White-wash
T ast July Mr J. V. Stout, secretary of
the Melbourne Trades Hall Council,
promised to hold an inquiry into the
troubled affairs of the Central Gippsland
Trades and Labor Council, one of the
more important of Victoria’s provincial
union organisations. Mr Stout only did
so following repeated complaints by the
Ironworkers’ Association, the Clerks’
Union and other unions in the areas
which submitted detailed accounts of
alleged malpractices in the conduct of
the Gippsland T.L.C.
Prior to April, 1960, the Gippsland
body had a Right-wing anti-Communist
leadership, out of step with the thinking
of the Melbourne T.H.C. executive. Fol-
lowing a visit to the area by Mr Albert
McNolty and Mr Stout, a classic unity-
ticket was formed, resulting in control
of the Council passing to a team of Left-
wing A.L.P. members, Communists and
anti-Catholics.
Under the new regime, the Gippsland
T.L.C. rapidly became a circus. Its
meetings were often chaotic and on one
occasion its president, Mr H. Hodgkin,
suspended 28 delegates and called for the
police to remove them. The unity-ticket
group retained control at the 1961 elec-
tions, but largely at the expense of
destroying the Council.
Its main tactic, which it has used with
striking success, has been to expel all its
opponents from the Council. “Enfilade,”
the organ of the Gippsland industrial
groups, claims that in a space of four
months every known anti-Communist
has been expelled, and that as a result
some two-thirds of Gippsland’s trade
unionists are no longer represented on it.
In a more positive approach, the
Gippsland officials have accepted larger
delegations from those of the unions in
the area who can be relied on to support
their stay in office. It was this alleged
stacking of the Council with delegates
representing fictitious union memberships
which formed the basis of complaints
laid by the Clerks’ Union with the Mel-
bourne T.H.C. which Mr Stout promised
to investigate.
The clerks asked for a check on the
numerical strength of affiliated unions in
relation to their representation on the
Council. It claimed that the Plumbers’
Union claimed delegates for 110 mem-
bers, whereas there were no more than
70 in the area, and that the boilermakers
claimed 309 at a time when their own
sub-branch elections showed only 210 on
the books. It also charged that the
Building Workers’ Industrial Union, hav-
ing between 80 or 90 members, received
representation on the basis of 198.
The Clerks’ Union also asked for an
inquiry into allegations that Gippsland
T.L.C. minutes had been falsified and
into the chairman’s practice of suspend-
ing delegates in a politically discrimina-
tory way. A motion which it placed on
the business sheet of the Melbourne
Trades Hall Council asked for the inquiry
to be conducted by two representatives
of the Gippsland T.L.C. executive, two
from the tinions whose delegates had
been suspended, with a chairman supplied
by the Melbourne T.H.C. This seemed
more than fair, since it would have given
Mr Stout and his Gippsland friends three
out of the five places on the committee
of inquiry. It also indicates that the
clerks were confident that they could
sustain their charges. Their suggestion
was not adopted, so the clerks had to
content themselves with submitting two
foolscap pages of data in support of their
charges.
The inquiry, such as it was, was con-
ducted by members of the executive of
the Melbourne T.H.C. and nobody was
surprised when it reported that it “has
been unable to find any evidence in
support of the allegations made that
malpractices had been indulged in by the
officers or executive of the Central
Gippsland Council.” It went on to say
that “in the conduct of some Council
meetings some confusion and misunder-
standing had been due to the inexperience
of the officers in charge of the business.”
It was a nice coat of white-wash, but
it will do nothing to restore the Gipps-
land T.L.C. to working order. It is a
minority body, in no position to organise
effective action on industrial issues, even
if its unity-ticket executive could get
interested in these matters instead of the
political windbaggery which occupies,
them. Unemployment, dust hazards and
industrial conditions generally are all
crying for attention. On top of this, it
has been announced that Yallourn
(population 4500) will have to be removed
from its present site by 1995 so that
brown coal deposits underlying it can be
mined. The Gippsland T.L.C. may be
safe for Stout, but it is not in a position
to be of much use to the unionists in the
area.
ON THE LAND
Onion Smut
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
A report that a Colac farmer had
planted half an acre with new
Zealand onion bulbs for seed production
moved Victorian Agriculture Depart-
ment officials into swift and drastic
action recently. Acting purely on sus-
picion that the crop might be infected
with onion smut, they called on the
grower, dug up his crop, burned the
onions in an incinerator and forbade
him to plant the soil with onions again
for 15 years,. The grower, who had in-
formed the Department tat e was
growing New Zealand bulbs co-operated
fully in the destruction of his crop and
was commended by the officials tor his
public-spirited action.
Onion smut is the most destructive
disease known to the industry and one
from which Australia is happily free —
the only known case was in South Aus-
tralia about 12 years ago. The threat it
poses to the Victorian onion industry
derives from the action of the Federal
Government in allowing a quantity of
New Zealand onions into Australia
earlier this year when local supplies
were short. It was made clear at the
time that the onions were to be used
for culinary purposes only, but never-
theless some found their way into the
hands of Victorian growers. As a result,
Agriculture officials in July raided
several western district farms and con-
fiscated ten bags of the N.Z. onions
which growers had bought for seed,
Under quarantine regulations, growers
harboring the onions can be fined up to
penalty is being imposed
W J vol ’ nt arily notify the
_ t , ~ t J J
Department that they have planted the
N.Z. variety. Spores of the disease can
survive in the ground for ten to 15 years,
There are methods of treating soil but
it j s an expensive process and is not
guaranteed to be effective. The Colac
farmer whose land has been quarantined
will be able to use it for growing other
crops since the disease is peculiar to
onions.


"AS FAR AS I CAN MAKE OUT IT'S SOME SORT OF TAKEOVER BID."


THE N.T. COUNCIL
The Canberra Brush-off
FROM A DARWIN CORRESPONDENT
PAUL HASLUCK
Too few
Territorians were disappointed but
not surprised at the outcome of the
constitutional reform talks in Canberra
last week. Returning delegates have
accused the Minister for Territories, Mr
Hasluck, and the Attorney-General, Sir
Garfield Barwick, of “hiding behind
Cabinet, on most issues.”
Four Territory Legislative Councillors
had flown south in a bid to solve the
impasse over the Lottery and Gaming
and Licensing Bills. These would legalise
S.P. betting in isolated N.T. centres and
give magistrates discretionary powers
when fixing the penalty for supplying
liquor to aborigines (present minimum
is six months jail for a first offender and
12 months for a second offence). The
Legislative Council has passed these
bills twice. Federal Cabinet has twice
disallowed them. At the last Council
meeting in Darwin non-Government
members reacted angrily to “Canberra
dictatorship.” They decided to disband
and not to meet again until Mr Hasluck
had heard their grievances.
A special meeting appointed to the
delegation the members for Elsev, Mr
“Tiger” Brennan ; Alice Springs, Mr
Neal Hargrave ; Barkly, Mr Len Pur-
kiss ; and a nominated non-official mem-
ber, Mr Bill Mathieson. Illness pre-
vented Mr Dick Ward, Member for Port
Darwin, and the North’s ablest politician,
from going down as leader.
By the time they left the delegates
had decided to go far beyond the issue
of the “boomerang” bills and press for:
a fully elected Legislative Council ;
full voting rights for the Northern
Territory member in Parliament; a seat
in the Senate, and more control by the
Council over its funds and domestic
affairs.
By phone to Darwin, Mr Brennan
described the Government representa-
tives’ attitude during the marathon 12-
hour discussion as “completely unsatis-
factory” and “the usual treatment.”
The Ministers did not agree with any
of the points raised. They turned definite
thumbs down on the most important
issues—a fully-elected Legislative Coun-
cil and full voting rights for the Federal
Member in the House of Representatives.
“We got the brush-off.”
The mood of most Territorians reflects
the delegates’ disappointment. Possibly
the most controversial point of all is
the continued denial of full representa-
tion in Parliament. Mr Hasluck’s claim
is that the Territory has “too few electors
to warrant this.” (Preliminary figures
from the recent census indicate a popula-
tion of about 25,000 whites and 17,000
aborigines.) Nevertheless tempers here
will not become inflamed until Cabinet
announces its final decision on the dele-
gates’ proposals. Some civic and political
leaders still hope for concessions.
If the Government does —as most fear
—reject the Council’s pleas out of hand,
more trouble is certain. “The Northern
Territory News,” in an editorial last
week, called for “stronger action.” Some
Tennant Creek miners have threatened
to “follow the example of Broken Hill”
in a “no bets no work” campaign to
force acceptance of the Lottery and
Gaming Bill. Unless Cabinet makes at
least some token gesture of conciliation
the Legislative Council’s next meeting,
on November 6, could end in a shambles.
The possibility is always there of a
mass walkout of elected members, as
happened two years ago over a similar
issue. At least one of the three nomi-
nated non-official members would go
with them. Another gloomy episode
seems about to unfold in the long serial
story of rancour and friction between
Canberra and its Territory subjects.
POLITICAL POINTS
Back to Ratbaggery
From MUGGA
Last week I reported a major explosion
in Victorian political circles in con-
nection with Mr Sam Cohen’s candida-
ture for the Senate. The explosion was
followed by another one again involving
the Jewish community, the exclusion of
Mr Brenner from Australia. Mr John
Jesse, Liberal member for Latrobe sup-
ported the Government decision on
Brenner in the Federal Parliament and
attacked Sam Cohen, quoting mainly
Jewish authorities about the Stern gang
and the Jewish Council. He was then
attacked by Mr Clyde Cameron, a client
of Mr Sam Cohen who charged Mr
Jesse with “oozing hatred against the
Jewish people like Hitler. ' Ihe outburst
was probably provoked by Mr Jesse s
observation that Mr Cohen induced
the Deputy Leader of the Opposi-
tion, Mr Whitlam, to take up the Bren-
ner case and that he was in the House
talking to Messrs Cairns and Cameron
before they made their speeches alleging
Government anti-Semitism.
In cooking up this entirely spurious
case of anti-semitism, the Left-wing of
the A.L.P. has sunk to among the lowest
depths of ratbaggery. To make this quite
clear I have decided to release another
part of my interview with the official
spokesman of the Victorian Jewish
Board of Deputies, Mr I. Leibler, Chair-
man of the Public Relations Committee
of that Board.
Mugga: Mr Leibler, has it come to
your notice that Mr Jim Cairns, M.P.,
has stated in the Federal Parliament that
the exclusion of Mr Brenner from Aus-
tralia was motivated by anti-Semitism?
Mr Leibler: I do not wish to go into
the possible merits or demerits of the
administrative decision concerning Mr
Brenner, yet the Jewish community can-
not accept Mr Cairns’s allegation. The
present Federal Government and all its
agencies have repeatedly given indica-
tions of their cordial and friendly
attitude to the Jewish community in
Victoria and elsewhere. This applies to
many spheres of Jewish interest and
in particular to the friendly co-opera-
tion of Mr Downer and his permanent
staff in all matters relating to Jewish
immigration. The same applied to our
relations with the last A.L.P. Govern-
ment and the then Minister for Immigra-
tion, Mr Calwell.
Mugga: Did you not say to me pre-
viously that the Jewish Council, of which
Mr Cohen is President, has been
expelled from the Victorian Jewish Board
G f Deputies and that it is regarded by
the Board as a Communist-dominated
body?
Leibler: I did.
Mugga: Mr Leibler has it come to
your notice that Mr Jesse, the member
f or Latrobe, has said, literally, the same
thing in Parliament?
Leibler: Yes, so I understand from
Hansard.
Mugga: Mr Leibler, are you an anti-
Semite?
Leibler: No.
Mugga: Mr Leibler, do you accept
the suggestion made by Mr -Clyde
Cameron, M.P., that Mr Jesse’s speech
j n Douse proved that he “was oozing
hatred against the Jewish people like
Hit]er in his hey day’’?
Lcifolcrt Certainly not
Mugga: Is it the opinion of the Board
Q f Deputies that the exclusion of Mr
Brenner shows a spirit akin to that of
the Gestapo and Hitler?
...
Leibler: The suggestion is insane.
Mugga: Has Mr John Jesse commu-
nicated with the Victorian Jewish Board


“But, honey, I couldn't get NEAR the Van Goghs — Would this James Gleeson do?“
of Deputies in the matter of insults
against him?
Leibler: He has.
Mugga: It has recently been alleged
by a correspondent of the “Sydney
Morning Herald” that the executive of
the Council of Australian Jewry, whose
president is Mr Sidney Einfeld, A.L.P.
candidate in N.S.W., whose senior vice-
president is Mr M. Ashkanasy, Q.C.,
veteran A.L.P. politician from Victoria,
is a conservative body and that this was
the reason why they are opposed to Mr
Cohen’s Jewish Council.
Leibler: This suggestion is quite ab-
surd. The Executive Council of Austra-
lian Jewry is the roof-body of all Aus-
tralian Jewry and, since it includes all
shades of political opinion, it naturally
includes also Left-wing socialist bodies.
It does not include Communists who are
a peripheral minority in the Jewish
community and are regarded as rene-
gades by Jews of all political persuasions.
Mugga: It has been alleged by the
same correspondent that the expulsion of
the Jewish Council from the Jewish
Board in 1952 was connected with the fact
that at that time the A.L.P. in Victoria
was under the strong influence of the
Santamaria Movement. Would you care
to comment?
Leibler: The expulsion of the Jewish
Council was in no way influenced by the
internal constellation of the A.L.P. or any
other political party. They were expelled
because their actions were (and still are)
harmful to the interests of the Jewish
community.
THE LAND
A Cattleman's Dream
FROM J. McCONACHY IN TOWNSVILLE
'T'he rain forests of North Queensland
A are heavy jungle country of soft-
wood trees with a soil rich and deep with
centuries of leaf humus. Most of this
coastal belt has been used for sugar-
growing and timber. However, saturated
world markets make it impossible to
grow more sugar, and, it is claimed, it
will be years before much more millable
timber is available in economic quantities.
Now the cattlemen want to move in.
They are being strenuously opposed by
Forestry officials.
Mr J. Murray, M.H.R. for Herbert,
who has an interest in a cattle place near
Ingham, led a deputation to the Prime
Minister when Mr Menzies was last in
Townsville. Mr Murray used as the
basis for his claims the results of some
fattening of stock in the Innisfail district.
The Deputy Mayor of Townsville, Mr
G. Roberts, has claimed that the rain
forests could produce an extra 90,000
fat cattle a year. At present the two
Townsville meatworks kill only about
110,000 head a year.
A committee, including representatives
of Lands, Agriculture and Forestry, in-
vestigated the rain-forests proposal. The
committee "eported that 43,000 acres
were available between Tully and Cairns
and a further 10,000 acres between Dain-
tree and Cooktown, if access roads were
built. It was estimated the land would
carry one beast to two acres, that it would
cost £20,000 to prepare 1000 acres and
£15,000 to stock 1000 acres. The com-
mittee felt the areas available could carry
19,000 head.
Cattlemen say these figures are pre-
posterously small. Some of them say the
area could carry 60,000 head, and that
165,000 acres are available.
No matter what claims are made, the
first problem is stocking. Can the places
that breed store cattle only in the Gulf,
Peninsula and further give the supply?
About half the store-breeding lessees in
the Gulf have fattening places near the
meatworks. The Peninsula is very light
in production. The beef roads being
built from Normanton to Julia Creek and
due to be built from Georgetown to Mt
Surprise should also shrink the numbers
that would offer as cattle to fatten.
But the rain-forest proposal, if it
comes to anything, is a cattleman’s dream
—one beast per acre, compared to the
Gulfs one beast to about 64 acres, and
the Peninsula average of one beast to
128 acres. There would be no black
plague malnutrition in the rain forest,
compared to an average annual loss in
the Gulf of about 14 per cent. Even if
the store cattle supply were light, the rain
forest could breed it own stock for sale
as long as the blocks were decent living
areas.


HEALTH
The Nature Curers
FROM JOHN GRAHAM IN PERTH
R. HUTCHINSON
“With caution"
Six months after it finished taking
evidence the Western Australian
Royal Commission on natural therapy
has cautiously produced its report. Its
major recommendations to encourage the
activities of chiropractors and dietitians
and to prohibit the treatment of
naturopaths where they exceed the ambit
of chiropractics and dietetics is a blow
to commissioner member H. J. Tonkin,
whose bill to legalise the activities of
natural therapists led to its formation.
During the hearings Mr Tonkin, who
is deputy leader of the Labor Opposi-
tion, showed himself a consistent critic
of the medical profession. He constantly
invited doctors to examine cases where
a patient was allegedly cured by a
naturopath where doctors had failed. He
invited Public Health Commissioner Dr
Guy Henzell to read a book called "The
Science and Practice of Iridology” and
got more than he asked for. Dr Henzell
called the book unscientific nonsense and
told Mr Tonkin it was highly dangerous
to claim that diseases could be cured by
looking into a patient's eyes. The Com-
mission did at several stages examine
the naturopaths’ healing claims against
medical records. In one case it was
found that a two-year-old girt suffering
from leukemia had died after naturopath
Miss Grace Murray had told the Com-
mission she had been brought back to
good health by natural healing. In
several cases doctors testified that
patients had died of cancer which might
have been arrested if they had undergone
surgery instead of going to the naturo-
paths.
Despite this evidence, the medical pro-
fession did not condemn the naturopaths
outright before the commission. The
evidence of B.M.A. State president Dr
j. Keale earned a rebuke from commis-
sion chairman H. N. Guthrie, who said
the medical profession should come
down on one side or the other. Unde-
terred; Dr Keale summed up his
evidence by saying that the B.M.A.
regarded the activities of naturopaths
with concern, but not enough to put
them out of business unless it had
sufficient evidence that their activities
were doing harm.
Under the circumstances, the Commis-
sion’s cautious approach is understand-
able. It recommends the introduction
of legislation to define the activities of
chiropractors and to set up two registra-
tion boards, one for chiropractors and
the other for dietitians. It foreshadowed
the possibility that the Dietitians' Board
would register only dietitians with the
necessary qualifications to obtain
appointments at major public hospitals.
"Well, that's the way the cookie crumbles."
It found that some naturopaths were
a potential danger to public health except
to the extent where they might be com-
petent practitioners of dietetics and
chiropractic.
As for osteopaths it preferred to make
no finding at all. There was impressive
evidence relating to the recognition given
to osteopaths, at least in the United
States, but it did not have before it a
single witness who had obtained
osteopathic training in the U.S. and
could not evaluate the situation properly.
There appeared to be some colleges
attempting some form of training in
Victoria, at least in osteopathy, but it was
not prepared to say that the Victorian
facilities were adequate or satisfactory.
What the Minister for Health, Mr R.
Hutchinson will finally do about the
report remains to be seen. But it is
evident that he will have to treat it with
some caution
GRAND PRIX
The Champion's
Verdict
FROM MAX HARRIS IN ADELAIDE
/"Vn the Labor Day holiday <3,000
Adelaidians choked the roaC; to
Mallala to see the 1551 Australian Grand
Prix won yet once again by Lex David-
son. Jt was a great moment for Adelaide
to have the national Grand Prix on its
new racing track, which has been built
up from the abandoned R.A.A.F. aero-
drome.
Jt was a quaint race. Davidson won
the event in one of the lower-powered
cars in the race. The red-hot favorite,
Bibs Stilwell, had been hampere; with
a wrongly fitted tyre, and found it diffi-
cult to hold the road. Another car, under
a 60 second penalty for a starting breach,
was up among the leaders, and confused
the issue.
But jubilation at Davidson’s win
turned to despair when he gave his views
on the track later that night on TV.
Mallala, he claims, is totally unsuitable
for the Grand Prix type of racing ; it
is too twisty and restrictive for the
higher-powered cars, the measure of this
defect being an average winning speed
in the 70 m.p.h. bracket. The track pro-
vides no real test for either cars or
drivers. The cars can only put a fraction
of their power to use: and drivers spend
a great deal of their time “messing
around" in bottom gear. Davidson
pointed out what will come to laymen
as something of a faint surprise, that
real driving occurs in the fast straighter
sections rather than in the cornerings.
As a personality Davidson is quite
unlike the popular conception of the
racing champion . . . the oil-spattered
wild ones, the Brandos of the Aston-
Martins. Dome-browed, balding, with
an impressively ordered intelligence, the
1961 winner gave a verdict which sounds
as if it might be final.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Investment in What ?
Last week’s anonymous £l7-million
takeover bid for Broken Hill South
caused Australians to think about foreign
investment in this country more seriously
than they have ever done before. This
kind of thing is likely to become more
frequent in the future. Even the biggest
Australian listed companies, the 8.H.P.,
the C.S.R. and A.C.I. are not so large
by international standards that they
could not be taken over. Provided there
is enough economic and political incen-
tive almost any Australian public com-
pany might receive a tempting offer from
the U.S.A., the U.K., West Europe,
Japan or the kind of Hong Kong, Singa-
pore and Philippines interests that quietly
shelter behind almost anonymous fronts
but have vast funds at their disposal all
over the world.
It must be stated plainly that there
is usually nothing sinister behind these
publicity-shy Asian business houses.
Anonymity is often essential because of
the extensive commercial intelligence net-
works of alert competitors or for local
political and personal reasons. There
seems to be a subconscious dislike and
fear of Asian capital in some minds
merely because it is thought to be Asian.
But the basic economics of all overseas
capital inflow are much the same.
There is not necessarily anything
wrong with a foreign company taking
over, say, Broken Hill South. In case
of war or national emergency an Aus-
tralian government can simply seize it.
A foreign investor always lives in the
fear of nationalisation. The productive
assets remain in Australia. The main
real dangers are these: tha* money re-
ceived by shareholders for selling their
scrip in a capital-goods industry will be
squandered on speculative investments
with a lower economic value for the
country; that not enough profits will
be ploughed back into the business while
too much will be transferred abroad;
that products exported will be used to
build up the economic potential of Aus-
tralian competitors ; that profits earned
in Australia will be used to bolster the
foreign group’s weaknesses elsewhere;
that exports may be paid for by book
entries, instead of foreign exchange. The
same reservations apply to any capital
investment from overseas, not merely to
successful foreign takeover bids.
Most of these problems can be over-
come by legislation and specific agree-
ments. The question of repatriation of
profits is the most ticklish, as seen from
the experience with General Motors-
Holden’s. If too high a proportion of
profits earned by a foreign-owned con-
cern is repatriated the only benefit to
the Australian economy lies in additional
employment opportunities, training of
workers and the spending power of the
wages paid.
'T'he more general but equally impor-
tant aspects are whether foreign
capital is setting up new and useful
industries or intends to cash in on the
speculative fringe, whether its influx into
a particular sector will promote or dis-
tort the line of development intended
by the Government’s economic policy,
whether it will aggravate or relieve sec-
tional labor and inflationary difficulties.
Finally there are some purely political
matters to be considered.
It is perhaps impossible to generalise.
Each question must be considered on
its merits. But it must be considered
and not become speculators’ bait or
political football. But so far as one can
generalise it may be agreed that any
foreign investment which will expand
our basic industries or help fill in gaps
in the range of production—and thus
save foreign exchange —and which will
not involve excessive capital or dividend
repatriation is useful. Foreign money
which fans speculation or distorts the
economy is plainly dangerous.
Afro-Asian Blackmail
T ast week’s extraordinary censure of
South Africa’s Foreign Minister for
speaking his mind is very close to a
problem that will now continually face
Australia: should the desire to be on-side
with Asian countries mean that Australia
should always sacrifice principle for ex-
pediency?
What Mr Louw said was that spokes-
men for some African states were laying
charges against South Africa as a smoke-
screen for their own appalling conditions
of poverty and illiteracy. There is no
doubt that in the two countries he men-
tioned—Liberia and Abyssinia—there are
appalling conditions of poverty and illiter-
acy ; it may very well be that these states
are laying down smokescreens against Mr
Louw; perhaps Mr Louw was laying
down a bit of a smokescreen himself
against them. But none, of this matters.
Either anything goes in United Nations
debates or we may as well close down the
United Nations. If certain types of state-
ments are taken to be self evidently
“offensive, fictitious and erroneous” (the
words of the censure) this means that
there are issues that are closed to debate
and this is an attitude that could extend
to anything.
Mr Plimsoll, Australia’s representative,
may have trod on some toes when he
opposed the censure motion but the
principles he stated had to be stated: that
the motion set a precedent that a state-
ment could be deleted merely because
other members opposed it and that when
this started there was no knowing where
it would all end. What is extraordinary
is that Australia, along with 19 other
countries, including Britain and the
United States, abstained from voting
against the motion when it was put and
that it was carried by 67 votes to one.
Tt may be that it was considered that
principle could be dropped this once
and that private discussion would con-
vince the Afro-Asian members that the
implications of their precedent were in
the worst interests of the United Nations,
that if that body was to work at all,
members of it had to accommodate
themselves to allowing their enemies the
same procedural rights as they enjoyed
themselves. Otherwise the abstention was
a submission to a kind of Afro-Asian
blackmail that may be going to turn the
United Nations into an unworkable pro-
paganda agency. If the procedural forms
of the United Nations are to be destroyed
it is hard to see what point there is in
its existence.
It is true, as Mr Plimsoll said, that
Australia opposes racial discrimination
and believes that all countries should
strive as rapidly as possible to eliminate
it. Australia also opposes the totalitarian
colonisation of Eastern Europe. But it
does not for that reason urge the ex-
clusion of Soviet Russia from the United
Nations.
A Staple Diet
HThf. forthcoming Boilermakers’
Society’s Federal election is provid-
ing a bizarre example of exactly what
sort of a state union elections have got
themselves into. It also shows to what
lengths some A.L.P. members will go to
flaunt the party’s rule on unity tickets.
What some A.L.P. members and Com-
munists have done in the Federal Boiler-
makers’ elections is to have their names
printed on separate pieces of paper and
staple them all together. This is in any-
one's language an extremely crude legal
gimmick. But Mr Calwell may not have
the courage to notice this ten weeks
before the Federal election. His past
behavior indicates that he won’t; but
whether he notices it or not this staple
diet offered to the electors is not an
acceptable one. Will the A.L.P. ever
learn or does its Federal leader really
want another defeat like the last Vic-
torian State elections? Fie might at least
take a leaf out of his deputy leader’s
book and indicate —as Mr Whitlam has
—that he thinks A.L.P. boilermakers
should vote for the genuine A.L.P.
candidates in the election.


CANBERRA'S LOBBYISTS
The sinister "fixer" chasing a fast pound is the
exception . Most lobbyists are reputable, open and
part-time.
By ALAN REID
POLITICAL lobbyists are one of the most varied of the
human sub-species. They can be villains out to
corrupt, or altruists out to instruct. They can be
chasing a fast fistful of banknotes for themselves and
the interests they represent and not too particular about
their modus operandi so long as it is lucrative. They can
be seeking to protect or further legitimate interests and as
respectable and proper as churchwardens. Or they can be
eager, unpaid advocates for obscure reforms that poli-
ticians are too lazy or indifferent to introduce, except under
pressure. They include Dr Jekyll at his staidest and Mr
Hyde at his criminal worst. About the only thing they share
in common as a sub-species is the fact that they are lobbyists
—persons who set out to talk or intimidate the law-makers
into doing something that they want done.
In Australia the industry has not developed so spec-
tacularly. though there are professional practitioners operat-
ing both in Canberra and the State capitals. The bulk of
these lobbyists are highly reputable, pursuing legitimate
and desirable ends openly and ethically. Some are less
reputable and will pull any stunt they consider likely to
thicken their own or their clients’ bank roll.
But in the main Australian lobbyists are still mostly
part-time, the officials of organisations seeking to advance
or protect the legitimate interests of the associations they
represent, or, if fringe characters existing in the borderland
between respectability and shadiness, the “fixer" type of
lobbyist who will take on a particular job—for a stiff fee
-—and exploit their connections with strategically placed
politicians or occasionally a public servant in a position to
influence a decision one way or another.
Occasionally this fringe type of “fixer” strikes a real
bonanza —a politician in a key position to see that Govern-
ment patronage goes in the “right” direction, with a greed
for money that outstrips his politician’s sense for safety, or
a weakness for women or liquor that can be exploited.
These bonanzas, however, are usually shortlived. The “big
boys” of Australian politics —the Prime Ministers, the
Premiers and the party leaders —are mostly realists. Apart
altogether from their personal code of public morality —
and most of them have a pretty high code —they are
interested in the retention of power for themselves and their
parties. They know how the scandal of financial malprac-
tices can discredit and lead ultimately to the overthrow of
an administration.
They have their own personal information services. The
top public servants who have the security of their own well-
paid jobs to protect do not like their Ministers giving favor-
able decisions to importuning friends or acquaintances in a
bar when half or fully drunk —as has happened before today
both Federally and in the State field. That practice can
lead to a Royal Commission and the wrecking of a Public
Servant’s career, even though he is only accidentally
involved through his office. Usually when you are hearing
reports about some hair-raising undertaking given by a
drink-fuddled politician in a bar or a night club that will
put a large sum of money into someone's unauthorised
pocket, the “big boys” have already heard, and arrange-
ments are under way to either deal with the offending poli-
tician or. if it is impossible to get the formal proof -which
is often the case—to remove him from his key position.
The pattern is fairly standard. The politician fades
into obscurity so gradually that his departure from the
centre of the political stage to the wings scarcely evokes a
comment, and then a few' years later he is liable to disappear
completely and just as quietly from the wings and drop out
of politics.
While the lobbyist of the “fixer” type with an expansive
expense account, few scruples and access to a venal or
weak politician may have his brief hour of glory and rather
shady achievement, he is usually a temporary phenomenon.
He rarely has any political backing or strength. The
lobbyist who really matters and who can pull strings and
get things done is the lobbyist who is in a position where
he can influence or control votes.
Though there have been important exceptions —such
as the Victorian lobbyists who had the backing of the Wren
political machine for 20 years to secure gaming legislation
designed to preserve and extend their grip on the State’s
gambling operations —the type of lobbyist who can control
or influence votes in Australia, fortunately, is usually a
highly respectable character. He mostly represents an
organisation that is as highly respectable as he is. and he
does his lobbying officially and without concealment.
These are the lobbyists that the Government listen to.
Actually in this case it is the lobby rather than the lobbyists
the Government listens to. For they do not have single
spokesmen. They have several. But Governments listen
to all of them. They have to listen. If they do not they
will no longer be Governments. They will be sitting on the
Opposition benches.
These lobbies, or power groups, include the wheat-
farmers’ organisations, the dairyfarmers’ associations, the
trade union movement and to a lesser extent the wool-
growers’ representatives.
tpHE wheatfarmers and dairyfarmers are very strategically
■*- placed in the Australian political set-up. They can
make or break a Federal Government, and in some cases
State Governments also. They are concentrated in geo-
graphical areas that make their votes politically effective
despite the relative smallness of their numbers in the Aus-
tralian population. It is no accident that the McCarthy
report on the dairying industry is quietly accumulating
dust in a Government pigeonhold. While economically it
might be sound to start withdrawing the subsidies now being


paid on a substantial scale to the Australian dairying
industry- —as the report recommends —the Government that
implemented fully that report might not be the Govern-
ment for very long.
Because of these political factors, the lobbyists for
the dairying industry—who are mostly the officials of the
dairying organisations in the various States—are listened to
with flattering attention. Australia’s political history
has shown repeatedly that if they are pushed too far or do
not get at least part of what they want from Governments
they are prepared to exercise that power and to swing the
votes they influence against the Government of the day in
favor of the Opposition party or parties.
The lobbyists for the wheatgrowers—who again are
the officials of the various wheatgrowers and small farmers’
organisations in the respective States, though an indirect
lobby feeds up to exert its influence upon the Government
through the Wheat Board, mainly through its chairman Sir
john Teasdale—are in a similar position of power. A
truism of Australian politics is that the party which holds
the wheat seats holds the Treasury benches, and it is a
yardstick of Labor’s political decline over recent years that
it does not hold a single wheat seat.
'T'HE lobbyists for the trade union movement occupy a
A peculiar position. When Labor is in power Federally,
or in States which Labor rules, they are very influential
people indeed. They have connections with the party
machines and their support or opposition is crucial to
Parliamentarians in pre-selection ballots. Ministerial doors
open readily for them. They have a finger in many pies.
They can arrange for So-and-so to get a Government job,
or a friend’s beef about not getting the drive-in film licence
to which he thought he was entitled listened to and on
occasions heeded. They can —and have on occasions—-
caused a road to be paved and guttered neatly while
surrounding roads wait months for the same treatment, or
arrange for you to be informed when a certain type of
contract is being let so that you have a chance of
taking it out.
Even when a non-Labor Government is in
power they are treated with considerable respects,
because they represent votes. Theoretically they
can influence more votes than the dairying and
wheat industries combined. But they have weak-
nesses. The trade union influenced vote is not
as strategically placed as the dairying and wheat-
growers’ vote. It is not concentrated in key
electorates that can make or unmake a Government.
Nor is it mobile. It is pledged to Labor. And
despite the bold front that the trade union lobbyists
always maintain, it is not a particularly solid vote.
Many unionists vote as readily for non-Labor
political parties as for Labor. The election results
of the past decade have demonstrated this. Mr Menzies
could not have remained Prime Minister for the last 11
years if trade unionists voted solidly against him.
{AN paper, with a non-Labor Government in power, those
who do the lobbying for the woolgrowers and the manu-
facturers should be able to influence Government decisions,
policies and actions more effectively than any other group.
But such is not the case.
Again you come back to the basic that the more effec-
tive lobbyists are those who can control or influence votes.
The woolgrowers represent votes, but like that section of
the trade union movement vote that is under any form of
control, it is a committed vote. It has to go to non-Labor.
It has nowhere else to go. Labor has demonstrated
repeatedly that it has extremely little sympathy with the
woolgrower, except the very small woolgrower, and even
this restricted sympathy does not help Labor’s cause among
woolgrowers, as even the very small woolgrower hopes to
be a bigger woolgrower some day.
Sir William Gunn, who has been a big shot in the
Graziers’ Federation and wool circles for years, and various
officers of the Graziers’ Association function as the lobbyists
for the woolgrowers. They do not do badly. But this is
because Governments. Labor as well as non-Labor, realise
how vital the wool industry is to Australia rather than
because of the lobbyists’ effectiveness or force. My impres-
sion—confirmed by officials —is that the approaches made
to the Government on behalf of the woolgrowers tend to
be rather unsure, confused, hesitating and uninformed.
A true measure of the strength—or weakness —of this
lobby was given in 1950 when during the period of high
wool prices the Government provided heavy tax imposts.
The angry woolgrowers tried to mount a campaign against
these measures. The Government went over the top of this
opposition with the force and indifference of a tank.
The manufacturers are in an even weaker position as
lobbyists. The Menzies Government has kicked sections of
industry —and some of it very “big business” sections—
round quite drastically. I doubt if any other section of the
community has had such rough handling over recent years.
Nevertheless, the manufacturers are probably the most
active lobby in Canberra. They maintain a secretariat in
the shape of the Associated Chamber of Manufactures with
a highly experienced officer in charge in the person of its
Federal Director Mr Robert Anderson.
Until recent years the approach of the manufacturers
—and their Canberra lobbyists dutifully carrying out their
instructions —tended to be quite crude. Unlike their more
sophisticated rivals, the Associated Chambers of Com-
merce —which also maintains a secretariat in Canberra under
the guidance of a former public servant Mr Roy Rowe—
they pushed specific interests rather than broad viewpoints.
They wanted such-and-such a firm —a client —to get a
special treatment because of special circumstances, and the
fact that such treatment breached policy and might
conceivably give such-and-such a firm an advantage
over its competitors who possibly were not clients
was just too bad. They would fight bad cases as
enthusiastically as they would ones that could be
justified.
The big shows —C.S.R., B.H.P. and the like—-
were and are shrewder. They do their own lobby-
ing. There is no one person in these organisations
deputised to do the lobbying exclusively. But
scarcely a week passes without some very senior
representative, more often on the managerial than
the director level, getting in touch with the
appropriate Government department—Trade more
often than not these days, as Trade is a department
whose activities cover most industrial and business
sectors —outlining developmental and expansion plans,
mentioning difficulties that the company is experiencing,
and waiting politely for the response that may some weeks
later give the Government’s reaction and views and
suggesting methods by which the Government may
perhaps be able to help solve their difficulties. They
never threaten or pressurise like the smaller concerns
sometimes do. They know that they are huge
employers and that their products are essential for
further employment and that they cannot be ignored. And
if they are ignored they know that they can always go
higher, right to the top if necessary, for just as they have
to have regard for the Governmental viewpoint, the Gov-
ernment has to have regard for their viewpoint because of
the volume of employment they represent.
Not all the big shows, however, conduct their lobbying
with such restraint, responsibility and lack of pressure.


General-Motors Holden’s have not done much lobbying in
recent years, though they did plenty in their years of estab-
lishment when the Chifley Labor Government was in power.
They have had their representatives, of whom the most
übiquitous is Mr (“Trader”) Horne, who pops in and out
of Ministers’ rooms like a friendly rabbit. But officials tell
me that they have not seen a General-Motors Holden’s repre-
sentative other than as a member of a motor industry group
for years.
Yet some Ministers suspect that General-Motors
Holden’s are trying to introduce into Australia the American
“grass roots” lobbying system to force concessions for the
motor industry hard hit by the Menzies Government’s
November economic measures. Under this system a posi-
tion is created in which the legislator is “softened up” under
a deluge of seemingly spontaneous protests from electors
against either certain Government action or its
inaction in a certain direction. He becomes ready
to abandon the action already taken or to urge the
administration into action if that is what is being
demanded.
These Ministers consider the way General-
Motors dealt with its production problems by
prompt sackings and later the extensive “standing
down” of employees had all the earmarks of this
recognised American technique and was designed to
stampede the Government into making the con-
cessions that the motor industry has been seeking
in the belief that they will stimulate the flagging
car market.
Though less obtrusive than the generality of
manufacturers, the commercial lobbyists seem to
have been hitherto the more effective. Their approach has
been more sophisticated in that they have sought to promote
viewpoints rather than specific interests. Why it should be I
do not know, but the representatives of commerce seem to
have a wider contact with Ministers and Parliamentarians
than the manufacturers. They meet them in clubs and across
convivial dining tables as well as in their offices. And in
such surroundings a Minister or Parliamentarian is prepared
to listen to you argue the broad issue of why it is in Aus-
tralia's national interest to wipe out import restrictions.
But if you earbash him on how iniquitous and unjust it
was for Billy Jones to be refused a licence to import such-
and-such a quantity of ladies’ lingerie and poor old Billy
has spent his life importing ladies’ lingerie he is liable to
say, “Look, old man, 1 really must run —I have an appoint-
ment I must keep.”
Rowe and the Associated Chambers of Commerce in
doing the detailed commercial lobbying in Canberra seem
to have adopted a similarly sophisticated approach. Rightly
or wrongly, they have acquired the reputation in the depart-
ments that they do not handle a bad case if they know it to
be bad.
'J'HERE are several lobbies not concerned with bread-
and-butter question. The various churches are also
lobbies and have their own lobbyists. On some
issues such as divorce legislation or gambling
their influence can be considerable, for on these
issues they also control votes. But fortunately from
the politicians’ viewpoints, the churches are as often in
opposition as alliance and so tend to cancel each other out.
Probably the most enduring church lobbies—and the most
bitterly opposed—are those supporting Government aid
for denominational schools and those opposing aid for
denominational schools. Here the lobbies range over the
widest political area. In some cases the heads of churches
wait upon the top Parliamentarians or seize the opportunity
when the top Parliamentarians wait upon them looking for
a favor—to press home their viewpoints. Rank-and-file
clergymen follow up with rank-and-file Parliamentarians.
It is pull Peter, pull Peter, with neither of the lobbies
having yet the clear-cut victory for which both are striving.
In the main, the Catholic Church is in favor of
State aid for church schools, but more tolerant on liquor
and gambling issues, while the non-conformist churches
and their spokesmen are almost equally implacably opposed
to denominational aid, gambling and anything to liberalise
liquor laws. The Church of England’s attitude is not as
uniform as the two other groups, and you are likely to find
C. of E. supporters on both sides of the fence on all these
issues. Some clergymen—both Catholic and non-
conformist—develop into “fixers” who like doing odd jobs
both for politicians and those who want jobs done with
politicians. These jobs are usually innocent ones like
arranging permits for lotteries, but they often extend beyond
purely church interests.
When ex-servicemen’s interests are at stake the
Returned Soldiers’ League and other ex-service-
men’s organisations are a lobby and their officers
lobbyists. It is they who see Ministers and Parlia-
mentarians and put the case for their members,
individually and collectively. The Howard Reform
League is a lobby and its officers lobbyists.
Apart from confidence-man species of lobbyists
who trades upon the gullibility and ignorance of his
clients, there is the more sinister but fortunately
much more rare type—the genuine “fixer.” He has
real contacts. He knows politicians who are pre-
pared to listen to reason, the official who owes him
a favor and who can influence decisions, and how
to go about getting favors that he should not get and
decisions that should never be made. He seldom
comes under public attention, and when he does it is usually
at the receiving end of a Royal Commission. He sometimes
dies well-to-do, but occasionally he will have served a gaol
term. On occasions he exercises a localised political power.
He controls a district political machine and he says who will
or will not go into Parliament to represent that district.
When this happens he usually lobbies exclusively on his
own behalf and to further his own interests.
But it is the States rather than the Commonwealth
that are the Australian “fixer’s” happiest hunting ground.
The States handle the bread and butter matters of every-
day living and are the arena in which the “fixer” can make
the fastest and easiest pound. The States handle liquor
and gambling, and where there is liquor and gambling there
is always loose money lying round for the “smart” operator
to snap up. They issue the licences that can give a man fat
returns without an investment that is beyond the capacity
of the individual to handle. They allot the contracts that
are too small to interest the huge corporations but represent
a nice profit to the individual operator. They dole out
mining concessions and the right to exploit gravel deposits.
It is within their borders that a decision to build a new
suburban electric train line, or to release areas from a green
belt, or to change the classification of a district from resi-
dential to industrial can overnight turn hitherto cheap land
into very valuable property.
The lobbying that goes on to secure the advantage
which will result in the return of a fast pound is lobbying
in its lowest form. But though important because of its
corrupting influence upon legislative processes and legisla-
tors, its importance can be overrated. It is only part of the
overall lobbying picture. As Karl Schriftgiesser says in
“The Lobbyists” —an account of Washington lobbyists and
lobbies which suggests that compared with the U.S. the Aus-
tralian problem as far as the “get-rich-quick” lobbyist is
concerned is very minor indeed —lobbying at its highest
level is a positive good. It keeps Governments in touch
with the needs of sections of the community that might
otherwise go unheeded.


Tamner's Sever
Deadly Australians
ft Mte


THE GREAT CONVENT MYSTERY
The first in a series from the notebook of a Coroner's pathologist
By J. V. DUHIG
At the time I was Coroner’s pathologist available to the
Police Department for consultation about unnatural
deaths and medico-legal problems generally. The
Inspector in charge of the extra-Metropolitan Police
asked me to see him one day. When I sat down on my side
of his desk, his steady deep-blue eyes held me as he pointed
to a file on the desk and said, “I want you to read this.” It
struck me queerly as if somebody in a maniacal moment had
decided to transcribe Gibbon’s “Decline and Fall” and Tolstoi’s
“War and Peace” all together on foolscap, the file being easily
six inches thick and weighing, I surmised, about 81b.
It related to some strange events in a provincial convent,
a hostel for delinquent women. It was a nasty business by
any standard and the Inspector wanted it solved.
1 was given a desk and a comfortable chair and I started
on the file done in the repulsive patois policier. The major
facts were that a nun had died after a curious illness, another
nun just failed to die in the same way, and a third suffering
from a mild attack of the identically same illness recovered.
The outstanding feature was the sudden onset with burning
abdominal pain and periodic exacerbations and emissions.
When the first victim was moved to a metropolitan hospital
run by the same religious order she was put under the care of
a prominent surgeon and the file did not show that a physician
was ever consulted, which I think the case demanded. When
the lady died the surgeon gave a certificate of acute gastro-
enteritis, good enough in a general sense, but incomplete as
to cause. I skipped a lot of investigational police detail, of
only minor interest, to the second case with precisely the same
history. She was sent to hospital a little late in the illness, but
survived. The third was evacuated so early that she had only
a mild attack.
There were two aspects that for me stood out like the
ears of an elephant: all the nuns attacked were at the time
occupying the post of Assistant Reverend Mother, and the
exacerbations of the trouble were rigidly periodic like a
malaria-fever chart.
After about an hour’s reading, I told the Inspector that
the first nun had been murdered and that a similar fate was
awaiting the other two had they not been evacuated to hos-
pital in time and that, furthermore, the murderer had used
arsenic. The Inspector was not exactly surprised, but he was
also not exactly pleased. He said, “Are you sure?” “Perfectly,”
I replied, “and, without being unduly or unfairly critical of
a respected colleague, I cannot imagine how he missed it ; this
is a classic case of arsenical poisoning.” “But how on earth
did they get it?” he said. “That,” 1 said, “is what we are
going to find out. I’ll let you know later.” “This may mean
an exhumation,” he pointed out with a touch of distress in his
voice, “and if you are wrong it will mean a lot of odium to
me.” I said, “I take absolutely full responsibility.”
'T'hinking it over, I took the affair a step further. I rang the
Inspector at his home that night to tell him that if he got
for me a certain duty roster I could put my finger on the
culprit. In the meantime, investigations showed that the duties
of Assistant Reverend Mother did not necessarily involve doses
of arsenic with or without meals and a search of the convent
grounds revealed a large can of arsenical weed-killer left there
by a gardener who had left a long time before.
To avoid an exhumation, if possible, we asked the two
ladies who had recovered to save their nail and hair clippings
for a month or so as arsenic is excreted partly through these
structures. It was all so long ago that this proved negative. So
the Coroner gave us an exhumation order and all concerned
attended a rendezvous one bitterly cold night in July at the
cemetery, seven or so miles from town. Brisbane’s climate in
July would be perfect but for the westerly winds which that
night whined and howled over the tombstones and bent the
trees and wrecked the tempers of all. We met about 8 p.m.
in this bleak spot a long way off the road and well concealed
from the public. As there was no moon that night we had
to work by the light of hurricane lanterns.
Those present were the Coroner, the Reverend Matron of
the hospital in which the exhumee died, a companion nun, two
detectives, three undertaker’s men, two gravediggers and myself.
The grave was opened soon after eight and the wind and the
cold were so terrible that all but the diggers stamped around
to keep warm. The only sounds were the thud of crow-
bars and shovels and the muttered curses, if such were allowed
in such a holy place, of men about the cold and its misery.
When the diggers got down to the coffin and the thud of their
boots on the lid reverberated to the sky I said to the Coroner,
“We shan’t be long now.” But how little did I know!
The diggers’ work, I warn all prospective exhumators, was
so precise that the side walls of the excavation were less than
an inch from the sides, head and foot of the coffin, so that no
lever and no rope could possibly be passed beside, or around
or under it. The only thing to do was to enlarge the hole out-
wards all round by excavating at an obtuse angle to the sides.
Meanwhile the wind had increased in velocity to about 60 knots
and we pulled up our coat collars and dug our hands deeper in
our pockets and heroically set our chins to see it out. The
new operation took well over an hour.
I>y the time we got the coffin out on its way to the City Morgue
it was well after 11 p.m. After the Matron, a wonder-
ful woman, completely composed, calm and dignified, identified
the body and the documents enclosed with every dead nun, I
went to work. Like every Coroner’s pathologist, I had had
my full share of drowned bodies and of people found dead
by the roadside under a tree in high summer and 1 learned
quite quickly to live easily enough with the odor. But this body
which had been a year or so in the ground was something
entirely new. Ordinarily I just sent my clothes to the laundry
after a job, but this time I had to burn them ; this smell was an
entirely new species ; insidiously intrusive, all-pervading and of
indescribable quality; it was not only unpleasant, it was
insistently and eternally so.
I took all the material the analyst would need and just had
then to await results. At least my own reputation with the
Government and the police was at stake, though I must say
without any false pride or complacency 1 did not fear them.
In about a week the Government Analyst rang me to ask if
I would care to see some arsenic crystals under his microscope ;
nothing would delight me more. There they were and the
Great Convent Mystery was solved.
Suspicion naturally rested on one of the young women
working in the kitchen handing out the meals through the
servery to the nuns’ dining-room. But a person working in
the kitchen could not possibly be sure that a certain cup would
infallibly reach each of the successive Assistant Reverend
Mothers. Just why the lady in this particular post was made
the victim we never knew. So we had to look inside the
dining-room and, after a glance at the duty roster, suspicion,
nay, certainty, rested on one nun ; she personally put the weed-
killer in the cup she personally served to her victim. The
symptoms in the victims regressed when she was off roster
duty and recurred when she came on again ; the things
coincided perfectly and suspicion was thus made certainty.
There never was an inquest or a trial: it was privately
intimated to those concerned that the culprit was too insane
to plead and thus, quite legally, no proceedings were started.
But at least the mystery was solved, though the public and the
press were never told.


"THIS IS IVINSKAYA"
SAYS Mr SURKOV
"The chief spokesman of the Soviet literary world
confuses the issue"
By EDWARD CRANKSHAW
"To be rehabilitated?”
According to Mr Alexei Surkov, lately secretary of
the Union of Soviet Writers, Madame Olga Ivinskaya,
the dearest friend of Boris Pasternak, the model for
Larissa Guishar, the heroine of “Dr Zhivago,” is not
only an “ordinary adventuress” but also a whore
This remarkable allegation is made in a long letter to
Mr David Carver, general secretary of the International P.E.N.
Madame Ivinskaya cannot reply to it because she is in
prison serving an eight-year sentence for currency offences
and alleged embezzlement.
Pasternak's friends were not surprised when she was sent
to prison towards the end of last year, together with ner
nineteen-year-old daughter, W'ho was given three years.
Pasternak had told them to expect it. He feared for her
even while he was alive, believing that the Soviet authorities
might not dare to touch him but w'ould strike at him through
her. In fact nothing happened until soon after his death,
last July.
When at the end of last year the news of her arrest came
through (it was not mentioned in the Soviet press until much
later) nothing was said about it in the West for some weeks
for fear of prejudicing her chances while representations were
being made in private—among them a personal letter to Mr
Khrushchev from the editor of “The Observer,"’ Mr David
Astor. But in due course the story came out and then Mr
David Carver, on behalf of the English P.E.N. and the Society
of Authors, embarked on an unsatisfactory exchange of
telegrams with Mr Surkov in Moscow, first asking him to
plead for clemency, then to supply a transcript of the trial.
Mr Surkov tried to brush the matter aside. But the P.E.N.
refused to be brushed aside ; and the letter now' made puolic
was a belated reply, dated April 3 of this year, to Mr Carver’s
third request, in January, either for a transcript of the
trial or for copies of the reports of it in the Moscow press.
He asked for these because Mr Surkov had insisted that it
was a perfectly ordinary trial open to anybody ; but of course
there were no reports in the press because nobody knew that
it was taking place (if, indeed, it ever took place); the tran-
script has never been produced.
Mr Surkov's letter, which has now been made public
only because there have been public refeiences to it elsewhere,
makes no attempt to answer Mr Carver's questions. Instead
it sets out to villifv Madame Ivinskaya by offering allegations
which are frequently irrelevant and always unsupported -
“Who is Ivinskaya?” Mr Surkov asks, and then answers
himself (his English is his own. or his secretary’s):
Ivinskaya is a loriy-eight-year-old woman, who, since 1946,
was known as the private secretary of Pasternak and the last
mistress of this elderly man who lived until his very last day with
his family. In literary circles, Ivinskaya was known as an
unscrupulous adventuress who advertised her intimacy with
Pasternak. Despite Per advanced age she did not stop to have
many parallel and frequent intimate relations with other men.
When 1 was editor of the “Ogonyok" weekly, a group of staff
workers was involved in a financial fraud. An investigation showed
thai 1 vinskaya (that was the hist time t heard the name) had
repeatedly received fees for articles written by somebody else
thanks to the fact that she was on intimate terms with Mr Osipov,
my deputy-editor, who in this way compensated her for intimate
relations with him. Konstandtin Simonov told me that he had
had to discharge Ivinskaya from her job on the staff of “Novi
Mir" magazine because she was surprised in an office with a man
doing lar from official things. It is very unpleasant to write all
this about a woman, but those Who take her under their protec-
tion must know what sort of a person Ivinskaya is.
interesting thing is that there was no need for Mr
Surkov to burden himself with this unpleasant task. P.E.N
had made no inquiry about Madame Ivinskaya's private life.
It had asked for information about her alleged criminal trial.
About this, although he declared that he had read every
document in the three-volume file of her case, Mr Surkov
provided no information additional to what had already been
publicly stated.
The gist of this was that Madame Ivinskaya had repeatedly
received sums of roubles, royalties due to Pasternak from the
foreign sales of ‘'Dr Zhivago,” which had been brought into
the U.S.S.R. by illegal means under the aegis of an inter-
mediary, Signor D'Angelo ; that she had converted this
money to her own use, and that the whole transaction had
been kept a secret from Pasternak and his family.
Proof of embezzlement, Mr Surkov said, was that “in the
first place, the lion's share of the money was received by her
after Pasternak’s death. Secondly, Pasternak’s wife and his
close friends have assured me that Pasternak could not have
taken this money because, till the last day of his life, he lived
on his legitimate Soviet earnings.” These, Mr Surkov assures
us, amounted to at least 496,000 roubles in the last two and
a half years of his life. “I must note,” he added, surprisingly,
“that such an income is earned by only a few of the most
popular of our writers whose works are frequently published.”
P.E.N was not interested in Mr Surkov’s assertions.
All it was interested in was clemency for Madame Ivinskaya
and the true story of the trial. Mr Carver said so once more
in a letter dated April 26:
Whatevei may have been the character or behavior of
Madame Ivinskaya, during the years preceding Pasternak’s death,
there seems to be little doubt that she was for upwards of
fourteen years the most important single person in the poet's life,
and. in any case, alleged or even proven immoralities on the part
of an accused person, should not have any bearing on the court’s
judgment.
Your letter makes no mention of Madame Ivinskaya’s
daughter, whose sentence has, perhaps, shocked people in the West
almost more profoundly.
I would like to express the hope that nothing you say in your
letter should be taken to affect the promise you gave while in
England that Madame Ivinskaya would be released within a period
of months
The promise referred to had been made verbally to a close
and influential English friend of Pasternak's during the
visit of Mr Surkov to England in March of this year. He


was then accompanied by Mr Adjubei, editor of “Izvestia”
and son-in-law of Mr Khrushchev, who had brought with
him what he called documentary proof of Madame Ivinskaya's
guilt.
The proof consisted of an assortment of articles that
might have been throw-outs from an M. 1.5 dossier. The
only item of any interest whatsoever was a photostat copy
of a short blanket “confession” signed by Madame Ivinskaya.
There was nothing to indicate that this differed in any essential
way from other “confessions” obtained by the Soviet police.
It was when Messrs Adjubei and Surkov discovered, to
their genuine surprise, that it was not taken very seriously,
that Mr Surkov began to spread his stories about Madame
Ivinskaya’s sexual morals.
There were other points in Mr Surkov’s letter. For
example, he said that the authorities were ready to organise
a legal transfer of moneys due to him, and Pasternak’s rejec-
tion of this showed that he did not want to touch the money.
He said that Ivinskaya had deceived Signor Feltrinelli, the
Italian publisher w'ho first gave “Dr Zhivago” to the world,
by making “false assertions” that Pasternak's archives were in
her possession.
He expresses surprise that the “fastidious advocates of
morality and justice have completely overlooked the fact
that this clamour and fuss about the unscrupulous mistress
whom they have elevated to the rank of the prototype of
Lara, humiliates the memory of Pasternak and deeply insults
his wife and children, in whose arms he died, having forbidden
during his last illness to let Ivinskaya to his bedside.” He
said that in Signor Feltrinelli’s letter to Madame Ivinskaya,
written after Pasternak's death, there was an “elaborate
business instruction of how to handle the legacy (sic), how
to ship it over, and, in case Pasternak hadn't signed it, how
to fake his letter of attorney . .
Direct contradiction of Mr Surkov's charges may be
found in Pasternak’s letters to his friends abroad, some of
which I have seen. Madame Ivinskaya did not “advertise”
her intimacy with Pasternak. It was he who “advertised” it,
especially after her first arrest in 1948 for political reasons.
Pasternak in his letters told how she acted, as best she could,
as a shield for him during the various campaigns against him.
She used to deal with the authorities on his behalf, trying
to “exorcise the demons.”
As for Pasternak’s refusal to co-operate with the
authorities in the legal transfer of moneys due to him, he
himself explained in his letters that he feared that such action
might be used against him later on. In his last years he
frequently complained of being in dire financial straits, con-
tradicting directly Mr Surkov’s statement that he was well off ;
and he said he was driven to adopt Signor D’Angelo’s plan
as the only safe way of getting money he so badly needed.
As for Pasternak’s “archives,” in her signed “confession”
she stated that they had been in her possession and that shs
had surrendered them to the police.
It is at this point that we must take up another thread.
In the “Sunday Telegraph” of May 6 Signor D'Angelo had
already revealed that these transfers were made with the
knowledge of the Soviet security organs, who tolerated them
until they decided to use them, Pasternak being dead, to do
away with Madame Ivinskaya and her daughter. At a later
date Signor D’Angelo was shown a copy of Mr Surkov’s letter
of April 3 (by whom, it is not known) which, besides villifving
the “inborn adventuress,” Madame Ivinskaya, slandered him.
In Mr .Surkov’s own inimitable words: “The whole batch
of letters written by Feltrinelli, and his agent, the inter-
national swindler D'Angelo, exposes them, and together with
them Ivinskaya, as dirty cynics, profiteers and evil spirits in
the life of the outstanding and subjectively profoundly honest
poet, Boris Pasternak.”
Signor D’Angelo has now himself written an open letter
to Mr Surkov ; and it was this which made it necessary for
Mr Carver to make the Surkov letter public. He denies
categorically that Madame Ivinskaya acted without Pasternak's
knowledge, and his denial is supported by Pasternak’s own
letters, referred to above:
. . this is utterly false, as was demonstrated last May when
I caused to be published . . . some letters written in Pasternak's
own hand in which the writer, whom you persecuted during his
life and pretend to admire after his death, said that he was in a
precarious economic state and asked that a part of the income from
“Dr Zhivago” should be sent to him directly, that is, in the only
way he considered possible.
It follows clearly from these letters . . . that the whole
responsibility oi Ivinskaya (who neither planned nor carried out
any form of smuggling) is reduced to having received sums of
money already converted into roubles, for the sole purpose of
handing them over intact (as the documents prove) into Paster-
nak’s hands. The disinterested and generous nature of Ivinskaya’s
actions is not lessened by the fact that she was sent a final sum
of money on July 31, 1960, by which time the writer was already
dead. The initiative in this was taken by me without my being
requested because ... I preferred to respect Pasternak’s explicit
wishes rather than appropriate money which did not belong to me.
Signor D’Angelo then goes on to remind Mr Surkov of
his leading role in the persecution of Pasternak, which is
already familiar to readers of the London "Observer.” Mr
Surkov indeed led the pack, using the language of the gutter ; so
that it is strange to hear hint now speaking of the man he
hounded to death as an “outstanding and subjectively pro-
foundly honest man.”
He denies categorically that he or Signor Feltrinelli ever
suggested that the transactions be concealed “from Pasternak’s
family (both in Moscow and in Britain), from Pasternak
himself and from his French representative, Mme de Proyart.”
He ends by defying Mr Surkov to prove the contrary publicly
and again asks for the records of the trial to be produced.
All these denials are confirmed by Pasternak himself in
his own letters.
Cinally Signor D'Angelo points out that the article of the
criminal code under which Madame Ivinskaya and her
daughter were charged lays down a maximum penalty of ten
years, “but concerns only the case of a professional smuggler
who personally carries across the frontier ‘explosives, drugs,
poisons, arms and munitions.’ ”
What is it all about? Why, in Khrushchev’s Russia, does
the chief spokesman of the Soviet literary world, himself
known as a poet, find it necessary not only to support a brazen
injustice but also to confuse the issue by making irrelevant
and totally unsubstantiated allegations in a manner reminiscent
of the late Mr Vyshinsky, about the sexual morals of the
chief victim?
The answer is all too clear. The Russians wish to
rehabilitate Pasternak and to claim him as their own now
that he is safely dead. But they are embarrassed by the
existence of his great novel. The discrediting of the inspira-
tion of that novel is a necessary part of the rehabilitation
process; it can then be written off as an aberration of a
great man under the influence of an evil woman. Pasternak
also loved Madame Ivinskaya’s daughter and cherished her
as his own child.


FORUM
WHAT'S WRONG WITH
PRIMARY PRODUCERS?
JF a government wants to get results out of primary producers it has to
tread gently and with great guile. The whole history of trying to get
farmers to farm things the way governments want them to, shows that,
although it may be emotionally satisfying to shout and bully, it just wont
produce the goods. Businessmen and wage-earners can be moderately
bullied and still remain efficient; there are few examples of primary pro-
ducers —whether they are grandees or peasants —ever doing what they are
told if there is no inducement for them to do so. They may not do it even
if there is. This applies in Australia as it does anywhere in the world. That
is why so many criticisms of Australia’s primary producers, however
rational, are impractical.
There are several reasons why primary
producers are so stubborn. For one
thing, the very nature of their work
breeds a spirit of independence and iso-
lation. The gulf that divides business-
men and Government planners is as
nothing compared to the gulf that divides
primary producers from everyone else.
There are businessmen or Government
officials they can trust —men who come
on to their properties, understand their
problems and give them specialist advice
in their own terms. But remote plans
may have no effect at all on them. And
if a Government attempts to enforce the
plans things may unpredictably go wrong.
They will absorb information about new
processes and adopt them if they feel
like it and have enough money. The
practical method of co-ordinating their
activities is to make it almost impossible
for them not to do what you want —by
selling them ideas in their own terms and
by finding the money for them. If you
get the co-operation of 20 to 30 per cent,
of them, most of the others will slowly
come in.
It may be a very irritating thing for
a planner to stomach, but farming is
ingrained into a man's way of life more
than almost any other way of earning a
living. And if plans affect that way of
life they are a threat to his existence.
Combined with this is a primary pro-
ducer’s very real interest in his land
itself ; it is his land ; he can always make
some kind of a living as long as he has
it; he is not inclined to risk losing it
by raising money on it even to improve
its productivity. He is always gambling,
against the weather, against the health of
his animals and crops, and against prices.
In these gambles he does not want to
risk his land itself. And the atmosphere
This is the fourth of a series of
six articles under the general
heading of “What’s Wrong with
Australia?” The first three were on
Business, Unions and Planning; the
next two will be on National
Development and Education.
of gambling makes it hard for others to
understand him, or him them,
As a fj na j reminder: even the murder-
ous Stalin could not get the resu it s he
wanted from his primary producers. He
deported and killed millions of them and
starved millions more into submission
so would farm the way he
wanted them to. The result was a
decrease in production,
THE WOOL WORRY
rj-i HE whole wool business is in a state
I Qf anxiet>% ye{ of all our primary
industries it is perhaps the only one about
which it is possible to be optimistic in
a practical way. In talking about the
future of wheat, meat and dairy exports
there are so many gloomily unpredict-
able factors that one can merely scratch
together a few generalisations. With
wool, however, one can be specific and
say this: if we can bring down the unit
cost of producing wool and drastically
improve its merchandising, its future—
and Australia's major single source of
export income—is assured. Both these
things are within our power,
Why is there so much pessimism?
The growing use of artificial fibres has
been a nasty shock to our complacency,
but it has been our complacency, rather
than the use of artificial fibres that has
caused the pessimism. We lack sheer
get-up-and-go. We just didn't want any
competition for wool, and now that we
have competition we tend to sulk, or put
up silly schemes. But more important
than this is the fact that for all of his
existence the Australian woolgrower has
gambled on high prices. The period in
history in which he could do that is now
ending, but he will not yet recognise it.
He still hopes for higher prices ; if they
do not turn up he becomes demoralised
and complains about costs.
Our wool industry is marked by great
skill in breeding and considerable know-
ledge of pasture improvement; but it
has not been marked —there are excep-
tions to all this, of course —by enough
of the kind of capital investment that
eventually makes two sheep grow for
the price of one. Our graziers have
traditionally been high spenders and
gamblers; too much of their capital has
been merely dissipated instead of being
reinvested in their properties; for
increased revenue they have merely
gambled on higher prices. But even when
capital is invested in improving their
properties it has all too often been
merely capital from income ; they have
not sufficiently developed the capital-
raising techniques without which business
stagnates. Combined with this timidity
in property improvement there is the fact
that in what was for many an easy-money
industry managerial skills languished.
There have been outside factors that
have encouraged these inefficiencies, the
greatest of which has been ever-increasing
costs over which the producer has no
control. It has an unnerving effect on
a man who has to sell on uncertain
world markets if wages and other costs
rise when his own prices may actually be
falling. All around him is a cosseted
economy which passes on to the con-
sumer rising costs it cannot absorb ; the
wool producer cannot do this. He lives
in a harsher world than the cosy fantasy
hedged in by the Arbitration Commis-
sion and the Tariff Board. The discrepan-
cies between trends in primary producers’
incomes and those of the rest of us make
him feel isolated in an alien community.
In 1959-60, for example, farm incomes
dropped by about 20 per cent, when the
rest of us were having a good year. The
failure of the Australian economy to
avoid the kind of inflation that threatens
its export trade is its grossest fault. But
it does not really fall into the scope of
this article to examine this question ; it
has already been canvassed in the first


three articles in this series ; and there is
nothing the wool producer can do about
it except to attempt to offset its effects
by increasing his unit productivity. This
is what he does not always do.
The policy of closer settlement has not
helped the process of property improve-
ment and capital reinvestment. Each
time a big property is cut up into smaller
properties two things happen: there is
unnecessary capital expenditure that
merely uneconomically duplicates existing
investment on the property ; and the
possibilities of large capital accumulation
for reinvestment diminish. For efficiency’s
sake there are now far too many small
producers in the wool industry ; they are
the ones who feel the pinch between costs
and prices most and can do least about
reducing costs.
It is not merely perversity that makes
wool producers reluctant to borrow
enough money on their proper-
ties so that they can improve
them. If a man is going to go
into large-scale pasture im-
provement it is a continuing
process. If he puts some money
into his pastures one year he
must continue the process;
otherwise he gains nothing and
loses what he has already in-
vested. For this reason he is
reluctant to embark on this
kind of money spending unless
he has enough money by him
to see through a whole pro-
gramme (which is not always
likely). Otherwise bad prices next year
or bad weather the following year may
simply lose him his investment. Even
if he is prepared to risk his money in
this way (and the Government encour-
ages him to do so by making some of
his expenditure on improvements tax-
deductible) he is not likely to risk his
equity in his property by mortgaging it
for a loan when he cannot foresee the
vagaries of markets and weather over a
period of up to five years,
What does one do about this? How
does the State encourage wool
producers to bring their costs down by
increasing productivity by capital invest-
ment and better management? Certainly
not simply by chiding them, as the
Arbitration Commission did in its basic
wage judgment this year. One imme-
diate thing Governments can do is to
drop for once and all the further sub-
division of sheep properties. Further
fragmentation of the industry makes the
possibility of capital improvement grow
less and less. It is idiotic that the only
discernible Government policy on wool
is to cut the industry up.
In a positive sense, as well as exhorta-
tions about increased productivity and
information about how to achieve it, the
Government can do two things. It should
use every political skill in its power to
impress on the industry the fact that its
future lies in the direction of low unit
costs, not high prices ; the idea that some-
how high prices can be artificially main-
tained is a mischievous myth. And it
should work out long-term credit schemes
that will take the peculiar difficulties of
the industry into account and lend wool
producers capital to invest in their pro-
perties to increase productivity. For this
purpose the fragmented holdings might
be encouraged to coagulate as co-
operatives, although one must not use
that particular word. This is the most
important development plan any Aus-
tralian Government can undertake: to
invest in what is already a relatively
efficient industry the capital that will
enable it to become an industry of the
highest efficiency. And if this is not done
we are going to be in permanent trouble.
HOW TO SELL WOOL
Tf any business gets into trouble, the
first thing it blames is its advertising.
In the case of wool, all the recent fuss
about promotion is more a symptom of
anxiety than a cure. It is the
product, not the advertising,
that is at fault. The amount
to be spent is trifling compared
with the amount of the product
to be sold ; whether it is spent
one way or the other will not
really make all that much dif-
ference. Even so, it is indicative
of the attitude of wool pro-
ducers that so many of them
resent being levied to sell wool.
They feel that somehow wool
should sell itself, that the
world owes the Australian
wool - farmer his living ; and
that if somebody has to sell wool
it should be the very textile manufacturer
who is turning to artificial fibres. It
may be this blindness that has caused
wool producers to miss the fact that
perhaps the best way to advertise wool
is through the textile manufacturers by
partly subsidising their advertising.
This disgruntled attitude to textile
manufacturers is one of the permanent
malaises of Australian wool producers.
The world’s textile manufacturers have
to - earn their incomes; they have
machinery that can make clothes out of
either wool or artificial fibres ; they have
markets that want certain kinds of
clothes. If we don’t give them what they
want at the price they can afford, how
can we expect them to take it? In their
approach to the textile market, instead
of merely feeling an emotional resent-
ment against artificial fibres, the wool
industry may have to use artificials as an
ally. They may have to convince manu-
facturers that a certain mixture of wool
and artificial fibres makes the best cloth
instead of merely nagging at them with
the “all-wool” kind of appeal.
With this is linked the scandalous need
for more research in the use of wool in
textiles, with or without the addition of
artificial fibres. Wool producers pay
their small research levy and then forget
about it. The aridity of the attitude to
research in Australia could not be better
illustrated than by the fact that the total
amount spent on research into our major
export industry is only about £3,000,000
per year. These days research can be
planned to produce results ; all you need
is the money. It is the duty of the wool
producers to themselves and of the
Government to our national prosperity
to bring this figure up to whatever is
needed to finance a crash research pro-
gramme—even with all of its wasteful-
ness that would revolutionise the
attitude of textile manufacturers to the
use of wool in textiles. And then launch
a huge promotion campaign directed
towards textile manufacturers telling
them about the new uses of wool. The
artificial fibres were built up because
firms spent tens of millions of pounds
in research. There is no good just sulking
about this. We must do the same.
/"\ne of the things that shows up our
failure to estimate what the market
for wool really is is our lack of interest
in producing woollen materials suitable
for hot climates. The emphasis is still
on warmth for cold climates —which is
one way to sell wool ; but, if the right
textiles are made, another way to sell
it is by making clothes that keep the
wearer cool in hot climates. Wool can
do this more effectively and more
economically than artificial fibres —if
someone would bother to do the research,
the manufacturing and the marketing.
There is not sufficient attempt —when
this is possible—to grow the kind of
wool that the international market wants.
An understaffed and underpaid Wool
Industry Research Bureau tells wool
producers what they should grow ; but
the right kind of wool is not always
grown.
It is at this stage that we shall drop
a brick and say that it may be that the
industry may never face up to the
demands of its market until the present
system of free auctions is abandoned for
some forms of merchandising in which
there is an emphasis on quality and
predictable price, in which wool is
classed and “packaged” in a way that
meets the demands of the mid-twentieth
century. Growers resist this suggestion
almost to a man and there will probably
be a few Bulletin subscriptions can-
celled in protest. But they do this mainly
because they are still gambling on high
auction prices. They are going to be
disappointed. There are not enough new
markets for wool and unless it meets
market demands its price will ultimately
be depressed. As the dream of higher
prices forever fades wool producers may
look with more interest on a system
which would add coherence to the
industry, introduce uniform quality con-
trol to meet the demands of world
markets, co-ordinate research and adver-
tising and provide the kind of stability
that would make capital investment easy,
that would, in fact, encourage manufac-
turers to invest back into the industry.
Under such a scheme —and it could be
adopted without government inter-
ference —the wool growers, finally
attuned to lower unit costs and efficient
merchandising, would not get quite such
high prices for their wool, but they
would sell a great deal more of it. The
alternatives may be a depressed major


■
IpWrtMMPWjM’n
M
it
7m
7H
m
•\
*m
SS-S
>
sss-
y:v
* %
: ■-* : s
EXPOSURE
GREATER PRESSURES
VERSATILITY
w w...
THE MAN ON THE
LAND KNOWS
FROM EXPERIENCE
There is NO satisfactory
substitute for
STEEL PIPE
Steel Pipe is simply a way to carry
things almost without exception
the best way.
Steel Pipe carries gas, chemicals, oil, wires,
cables, voices and WATER.
From almost every point of view: strength, lon~
life, versatility, ability to withstand pressurer
exposure and economy there is not, an
never has been, any satisfactory substitute for
steel pipe.
So, for agricultural needs, in particular, specifv
STEEL PIPE wherever water has to be conveyed.
STRENGTH . . . LONGER LIFE . . . ECONOMY . .
EXPOSURE PROOF . . . GREATER PRESSURES
. . . VERSATILITY
fcl
<y
STEWARTS AND LLOYDS (distributors) PTY. LTD.
SSAI.6O
BRANCHES: All Capital Cities, also Townsville, Rockhampton, Newcastle,
Wollongong, Geelong, Fremantle, Darwin and Alice Springs
AGENCIES: Cairns, Mackay, Kalgoorlie


mmmm
&
m ☆
THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE
CO. LTD.
Blanches tliroughout the
Commonwealth with repre-
sentatives and agents in
country centres.
Transacting
TIRE
MARINE
ACCIDENT
GENERAL INSURANCE
Hunlei and A. Mcwilliams,
O’Connell Sts., Manager
Sydney.
industry and a stagnant economy. If
the wool industry has ever to be propped
up by subsidies to preserve its prejudices
and traditions it would be like expecting
a golden egg to lay a goose.
THE GLOOMY INDUSTRIES
The real terms of trade have been
moving against primary producers
most of this century but this fact has
been obscured to Australians by the two
world wars and their aftermaths. We
have now entered a period in which the
“natural" tendency for our terms of trade
to worsen has no visible check. Even
if there were no other factors —and there
are —our weaker food export industries
are likely to be chronically depressed as
internal costs rise and external prices
fall. Their present high tureaucratisa-
tion may become worse and with exports
controlled nationally the taxpayers' sub-
sidies necessary to bolster them up will
become heavier.
In the meantime markets are dropping
off. The Common Market scare has
merely highlighted what was an inevit-
able development. We produced more
and more food when, as a result of its
wars, the paying world was hungry ; now
we are stuck with too many farms that
will produce products that are not wanted
by anyone who has the money to pay
for them.
At this stage —literally—we might have
to dispose of the least efficient parts of
our dairy industry. Although £160,000,000
of taxpayers’ money has gone into sub-
sidising this industry over the last ten
years many who work in it earn less
than the basic wage. Even if we find
someone to buy our dairy products in
a few years time the export income
earned will not justify the resources
wasted in earning it. It would be possible
to build up an efficient dairy industry
to satisfy our own needs but it would
have to be smaller than the present ailing
monster.
How does one deliberately shrink an
industry so that the marginal producers
are squeezed out and what is left
reorganises itself efficiently? A sudden
removal of all the subsidies and props
would certainly achieve this, but now-
adays one does not act so savagely (nor
would any government face the electoral
disaster that might be involved). The
usual alternative is just to go on sub-
sidising and propping up ; but this can
prove so expensive to both consumers
and taxpayers that it should
seriously be considered if it
might not be better gradually
to buy the worst parts of the
industry out, at the same time
dismantling the props and sub-
sidies gradually when the
patient's health will stand it.
To buy out dairy farms and
then sell the land at a loss might
prove less expensive in the long
run than the present system.
This may seem a fantastic sug-
gestion, but dairy farming in
Australia is a depressed indus-
try ; a similar approach is now
being suggested in the United Kingdom
to depressed industries —buy out, rather
than prop up.
Whatever markets can be found or
maintained for meat overseas will be
hard to satisfy unless we can do some-
thing about its price. In theory, quick
communication, pasture improvement,
water provision and fodder conservation
should bring down the price of meat
and improve its quality. In practice the
sad fact is that every advance in stan-
dards has been outrun by consequent
advances in cost. Meat raising a few
years ago was a primitive industry.
Drovers were low paid adventurers ; out-
station standards were little more than
those of blacks' camps ; land cost next
to nothing ; both breeding and transport
were hit or miss. In the last few years
improvement has been piled on improve-
ment —bores, dams, station improve-
ments, roads, labor amenities ; but any
productivity gained from these has been
dissolved in rising rents, land values,
road and traction costs and wages.
It may be time for us —to borrow a
metaphor from the industry —to take
stock and try to work out what we think
we are doing. Something has gone wrong
with a programme that goes through all
of the motions of increasing productivity,
but forces up prices instead while pro-
duction stagnates. Modernisation is
needed, but we need the kind of
modernisation that pays dividends. What
is needed for the meat industry is a
creative pause, an examination of how 7
waste can be eliminated and the per lb.
cost of meat reduced.
It is in considering wheat that one-
meets the full blast of the cold winds
that* blow from overseas. The terms of
trade are against it and markets that can
actually pay for their wheat are diminish-
ing. This comes from two main causes:
the. U.S. wheat surpluses and the im-
poverishment of the hungry countries.
The U.S. gluts the wheat market by
buying high from its own farmers in
its farm support programme and then
dumping its surplus on to the world mar-
ket. On the other hand there are a lot
of hungry people in the impoverished
countries who want our wheat, or the
U.S.'s, or anyone else's but haven’t got
the money to buy it.
What is the way out of this? Not
the shabby expedient adopted by
the producers’ representatives on the
Wheat Board of selling to Com-
munist China on credit, that is
to say at the taxpayers’ expense.
If this kind of “dealing" con-
tinues it may put our money
into the pockets of the wheat
farmers, but it does not help us
with our reserves and it raises
the terrifying possibility of the
wheat farmers, the most skilful
political pressure group in
Australia, becoming a kind of
Red China lobby. The real
way out is something towards
which at present one can only
grope.
As Neil Mclnnes said in The Bulletin
last week: “The Commonwealth.
E.F.T.A., the Common Market and the
U.S.A. are all food-surplus and will be
more so in ten years , no ingenious com
bination's can alter this ... it would
be more profitable (and Common Mar-
ket authorities say they are ready for
this) to begin discussing plans for a
world food bank, to pool all Western
surpluses to the benent of developing
countries. ’’
This is as much a diplomatic pro-
posal as an economic one. It brings two
great problems together: How do we
dispose of food surpluses? How do we
provide aid to underdeveloped countiies
whose future stability we wish to ensure?
It provides a common answer, out it
does not make the answer a practical
one. Someone has to pay the primary
producers whose surpluses would be dis-
posed of in this way and with- present
high costs that is a greater burden than
Australian taxpayers would bear. It may
be necessary to tax ourselves more than
we do now to bring help to our friends
in the East ; but must we tax ourselves
even higher to subsidise our own
inefficiency?
if this is the kind of solution that will
finally emerge it must cause a revolution
in Australian primary industry because
without one it would not be economically
possible. It would mean nothing less
than the partial dismantling of primary
industries of low productivity and a con-
centration on those in which productivity
is high. It is a bold and courageous idea
and in a Western world that is on the
whole now conducting its economic
affairs boldly and courageously it may
soon be put into some kind of effect.
What will Australians —deprived of bold-
ness and courage by their long look
backwards —do then?


LETTERS
WHAT’S WRONG WITH
PLANNING?
Sir,
The suggestions for a type of planned
capitalism made in last week’s Bulletin
are practical enough in one sense: they
are not mutually contradictory and they
can happen in other countries. But in
other senses they are rather idealistic.
The author of these articles has already
pointed out that a great social chasm
yawns between the various classes of
people he would like to get together to
do some planning. It would require some
political dynamite to fuse these people
together. That is where the articles fall
down. Which existing political party
would provide the dynamite? A
moment’s thought shows that there is
none. The kind of reforms your writer
suggests may not come to anything unless
there is a change in political climate.
H. BUCHANAN
Newcastle (New South Wales).
WHAT’S WRONG WITH THE
UNIONS?
Sir,
While in your earlier article on “What's
Wrong With Business?” (Bulletin,
September 30) you criticised business-
men for not being good businessmen,
viz., not making enough profit. Why
didn't you criticise union leaders on the
same basis, viz., a union leader is not
a good leader if he doesn’t get wage
justice for his unionists. Of course had
you done this, the slickly dressed-up
old-fashioned “radical-capitalist” theories
would have exposed themselves.
JOHN HEMPSON
Pascoe Vale (Victoria).
WHAT’S WRONG WITH
BUSINESS
Sir,
In his letter concerning the article
“What’s Wrong With Business?”
(Bulletin, October 14) Mr Paul
Ormonde, after deprecating the fact that
too much effort and rescources are spent
in salesmanship, naively states—“ Surely
the great problem for our economists
and businessmen to put their mind to
is this: How can we remove by self-
discipline the inherent inefficiencies of
the free economy?”
The answer is that we cannot in a
free economy. Free economy presup-
poses freedom of economic action—and
this includes freedom from “self-
discipline,” which could easily deteriorate
into an anarchaic array of sporadic trade
boycotts and cause more harm than
good. One has to admit, however un-
pleasant this may be, that modern
capitalism cannot be synonymous with
economic anarchy, particularly in a
young growing country like Australia.
Moreover, the private sector cannot
always be expected to generate sufficient
investment capital, nor can it be reason-
ably expected to abandon attempts to
increase profits through salesmanship.
It is the job of the elected national
government to draft out development
plans and then try to channel investment
into the more essential sectors by an
imaginative use of economic incentives.
Some form of planning and guidance
by the Government is necessary. Appeals
to self-discipline and other moralistic
exhortations can at best have a very
limited and passing effect.
RONALD CHANCE
Strathfield ( N.S.W. ).
POSTMAN’S KNOCK IN
QUEENSLAND
Sir,
After your temperate analysis of the
Brenner case (October 7) it came as a
surprise (October 14) to find your Bris-
bane correspondent referring to “back-
room questioning of minor employees by
Security Police.” There is altogether too
much indiscriminate use of the words
“Security Police.” The Australian Secu-
rity Intelligence Organisation is not a
police force. There is a Commonwealth
Police Force that has nothing to do with
the Security Service, there are some State
Police Security Branches and there are
Investigation Officers in various govern-
ment departments.
In this case the P.M.G. revealed that
it was merely Investigation Officers who
did the questioning.
JOHN McLNTOSH
Townsville.
The P.M.G.’s statement was not made until
after The Bulletin went to press. Our Bris-
bane correspondent’s story was prepared on
the basis of Mr Ray Roberts’s statement. Mr
Roberts mistook departmental investigators for
“Security Police.” —Editor, The Bulletin.
“SAY TO ME, RONALD!”
Sir,
Mr M. J. Richards (Bulletin, October
14) has attempted to defend his point of
view. But surely he descries “Say to Me,
Ronald!” in a way that, if not smug, is
arrogantly discourteous to the author of
a short story which is masterly in its
humor alone.
When Mr Richards says “Hal Porter’s
work ...” (lacks) “the ability to convey
any semblance of mood or emotion,” I
cannot but wonder if he even read the
whole of the story in question. “Say to
Me, Ronald!” held unrivalled nuance of
mood and emotion, as well as being
baldly bold in its capacity for amuse-
ment. Mr Porter’s descriptions are so
mordantly, richly right. Who else could
say: “Noise . . . ran about like be-
diamonded cats”? And what about the
description of Perrot when he tasted the
melting moments? Rapier - flicking
indeed, and at its most deadly when
applied to lightness.
Chacun a son gout. It would be a
weary world if we all wished for stereo-
typed reading matter. Admittedly, it may
be pleasant to sit on stumps and admire
the view, but surely the appearance of,
say, a bird-of-paradise, enhances “beauty
in its natural form”? Through repetitive
presentation, it is possible for natural
forms to lose their original pristine
quality.
But why should one reader, when
deprecating writing that he does not
enjoy, cavil at the fact that the literary
editor considers such stories worthy of
publication? Mr Richards should speak
for himself; not on behalf of The
Bulletin’s short-story readers. If Hal
Porter stories appeared every week, Mr
Richards’s squawks might (from his point
of view) be understandable.
It is to be hoped that Mr Richards,
and the section of The Bulletin public
that he may represent, will not groan to
such an extent that the gay gleams of
Porter are withdrawn from those who like
to laugh.
(Mrs) M. BEARE
North Balwyn {Victoria).
HOW TO BE SANE
Sir,
Congratulations on your article “How
to be Sane” in The Bulletin of
September 30.
For the benefit of readers wanting to
know more about the Recovery Move-
ment, could I suggest that they write to
“Recovery,” Post Office Box 61,
Bathurst, or “Therese,” 4 Clarke Street,
Narrabeen.
“JIM”
Honorary Sec.,
Bathurst Recovery Group,
Bathurst (N.S.W.).
AUSTRALIA AND THE SIX
Sir,
Neil Mclnnes (Bulletin October 14)
seems to have been, in Paris for a long
time, with all of his talk of “Dominions”
and so on and I don’t think The
Bulletin does a very great service to
Australia by publishing his purely
European view. What he is glossing over
is that Australia, and even more
New Zealand, have planned their
economics to suit the U.K. market and
the U.K. may be about to break faith
too suddenly to allow for a search for
new markets.
He hasn’t a word to spare for New
Zealand, yet quite clearly if the U.K.
does not keep some kind of a market
for New Zealand products, New Zealand
will face national ruin. The Common
Market is undoubtedly a good idea and
perhaps the U.K. should go into it but
it should go into it on some kind of terms
that at least let the New Zealanders
maintain their own prosperity. Mr
Mclnnes does not seem to have any


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£A363,000,000
•
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years to
be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
Send for illustrated Bulletin
to the sole manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Kapiil Magnetting Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
etc. Makers of Classifiers,
Water Filters, Steam Valves,
etc.
If any “Bulletin” illustration
takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you
a price for the original.
positive proposals to cope with these
problems. He prefers to deny them.
DAVID WILLEY
Eltham (Victoria).
DISPOSING OF NEW GUINEA
Sir,
You suggest (Bulletin, October 7) a
Melanesian Federation for New Guinea.
But what would happen if we actually
had one? In no time at all the Russians
and Chinese would move their embassies
into Port Moresby and start turning it
into another Cuba.
CYRIL HARVEY
Prospect (South Australia).
A SOMEWHAT HOLLOW JOKE
Sir,
Sebastian Haffner’s timely article
(Bulletin October 7) on the possibility
of a “Munich” on East Germany was the
best thing I have read in The Bulletin
this year. (The second best was Alan
Reid s series on the Seamen’s Union.)
However in his analysis of German
recations he may have missed one point
—Adenauer. Adenauer is a “Westerner”
and no matter what humiliations are in-
flicted on West Germany by its panicky
allies he will keep West Germany in the
Western Alliance.
R. OVER
Fremantle (Western Australia).
TANNER’S SEVEN DEADLY
AUSTRALIANS
Sir,
To those of us who wish the “new”
Bulletin to move from success to success
Les Tanner’s cartoon of Pride, in his
“Seven Deadly Australians” (October 14)
augured well. There used to be a very
boastful “Australian” flavor in The
Bulletin. If Tanner's drawings proceed
as well in its next six instalments as in
this first he will in graphic form do even
more service to Australian self-criticism
than the unnamed writer of the series
“What’s Wrong With Australia?”
The latter series is well thought out
and timely, but no words can measure
up to social satire effected in cartoons.
You will do a great service to the destruc-
ion of Australian complacency as well as
to the development of Australian black
and white art if you allow a few more
artists the freedom you are allowing
Tanner.
G. DERRY
Mosman (New South Wales).
GLOOM AT THE TOP
Sir,
I am grateful to Mr R. A. Simpson
for pointing out (Bulletin October 14)
that I did an injustice to Mr Laurie Col-
linson in my review of his play “The
Zelda Trio” (Bulletin September 30)
when I said that Alan Money’s produc-
tion did full justice to the play. This
implied that I had read the play, which
was not the case. What I meant, and
what I should have said, was that the
production seemed to me to be of a
professional standard. It is absurd and
unjust to describe Mr Money as a “stark
amateur.”
In justice to myself let me say that I
do prefer to read a play before I see
it produced, or at least before I write a
review, because I know very well that a
production often contains subtle or even
crude distortions which may alter the
meaning very considerably. Of course
there is aways room for disagreement
about the interpretation of a play, but it
is certainly the job of the critic to speak
out if she, or he, thinks that the produc-
tion distorts the author’s meaning. In
the case of “The Zelda Trio” 1 was not
qualified to do this, as I had not read
the play. As far as I know it has not
been published, and this is always a
difficulty for the critic with new Aus-
tralian plays.
I agree with Mr Simpson that the line
of advance for Australian drama is to
get away from crude naturalism. But
mere concern for non-naturalist tech-
niques is not going to produce a good
play either. As 1 said in my review, I
think the weakness of Mr Collinson’s
play is in its theme.
(Mrs) MADELEINE ARMSTRONG
Eltham (Victoria).
SCARS OF THE HEART
Sir,
In her interesting review of Robert
Jungk's “Children of the Ashes”
(Bulletin, October 14) Kylie Tennant
has made a formal historical slip. She
writes: “Hiroshima, the arsenal of Japan,
had prospered on war, the Sino-Russian
War, the Chinese War, World War II.”
Surely she means the Russo-Japanese
War of 1904, distinguished by this cen-
tury’s first successful “sneak attack” on
the Russian fleet in Port Arthur, a few
hours before the official declaration of
war —a sort of small Pearl Harbor. There
was no Sino-Russian War, although there
were a number of frontier conflicts
between China and Russia. From these,
however, Hiroshima’s arsenals derived no
benefit. But Kylie Tennant could have
mentioned the Boxer Mutiny, in the sup-
pression of which Japan played quite a
prominent role.
E. A. ANDREWS
Lind field (New South Wales).
FISHERS OF MEN
Sir,
I. Verity, a migrant, accuses Austra-
lians (among many other things) of
a blatant, rumbustious boorishness.
(Bulletin, September 30.)
Boorish I may be, but I have always
understood that one of the first require-
ments of good manners was to refrain
from abusing one’s host while accepting
his hospitality.
One is always at liberty, however, after
staying a minimum time, to say “Good-
bye and thank you for having me”—
and go home.
G. ATKINSON
Goondiwindi ( Queensland ).


HOUSES
LAND
Etc.
“But just think of it as a ‘single room ’ letting proposition!”
”Vve lived here thirty years, and I cant complain
“0/ course it has ideal potential
as a development site.”
“ Unfortunately
it's affected.”
“/’ve cut it up into home units.”


OUT and ABOUT
The First Hundred Years
Tf there is one job v\ hich makes the
. erage reporter’s heart sink, it is
the interview with the octogeni.rian,
nonogenarian, or even the occasional
centenarian. So often the subject, duti-
ful’y described by relatives as “very
interested in all that is going on around
them” or “very bright for their age ’
appears as a senile creature, sunk in the
pillows, living in some perhaps pleasant,
but not enviable, second childhood.
So it was fascinating at the 100th
birthday party fc Mrs Henrietta
Greville, M.8.E., at Sydney’s Trocadero,
after 250 women had had their fih of
cakes and tea, to see the guest of honor
grasp the microphone and deliver a
speech with a good deal more fire than
you could get in a day’s listening at
Canberra.
Mrs Greville, who as a pioneer trade
unionist and one of the founders of
the Workers Educational Association,
admitted —in between receiving flowers,
signing autographs and blowing out the
one candle on her cake —that she had
one unrealised ambition. She would have
liked to have gone into parliament.
Looking at her on her 100th birthday,
you can’t help feeling she might still
make it.
Rising Circulation
The last few years have seen some
breathtaking takeo ers and some
sad deaths, or rumors of deaths, in the
British press. How. er, one magazine
which is cock-a-hoop about its stee iiv,
or, perhaps it is not too much to say,
spectacularly rising circulat: i is “En-
counter.”
“Encounter,” published by the Con-
gress for Cultural F eedom, and edited
by Stephen Spender and Melvin .Lasky,
has achieved an increase of 160 per cent,
since the first issue of 10,000 was pub-
lished in 1953. Ho ever, many recent
issues have sold out and “Encounter”
expects to reach 30,000 shortly after its
100th issue in January.
The publishers admit that the first lift
to circulation was Nancy Milford's
article on U and non-U in 1955. How-
ever, the sharpest rise has been in the
past year.
A circulation of 30,000 a month does
not seem spectacular when it is con-
sidered that the “quality” (or “heavy”)
London Sunday papers, the “Sunday
Times” and “Observer,” are now around
800,000. This means that out of more
than one million people, allowing a
substantial percentage of readers of both
papers, who buy the “Sunday Times”
and the “Observer,” less than 30,000
think of getting “Encounter.”
However, “Encounter,” frequently
quoted in the British and international
press, and in television programmes,
enjoys high prestige. Its rise in circula-
tion may well continue at the present
satisfactory rate.
Not for the Natives
Tt could hardly be thought that Mel-
bourne would sit down and let
Sydney stage a trade fair without
retaliating. The first announcement of
Melbourne’s Show of Shows has just
been made. The organisers who claim
that “ever since the historic Exhibition
Building was completed in 1880, Mel-
bourne has been the exhibition centre
of Australia,” say that the Show of
Shows will be held in the fall of 1964,
whenever that might be, and that it
will be “the most brilliantly presented
trade and general exhibition ever seen
down under.”
Perhaps the organisers might do better
if they sent their material out in the
language of the country at which it is
aimed, extending this courtesy also to
Australia,
Paying to Advertise
'T'he signed weekly advertisements of
-*• Mr Roy Knuckey, a laborer at the
Port Pirie smelters, are a refreshing
feature of South Australian journalism
these days. Unable to have his letters
to the editor printed, Mr Knuckey is
determined that the world will know his
views on a variety of subjects.
But listen to the Voice of Port Pirie
himself: “Every day of the week should
be a Sunday in the sense that if a person
cannot serve his fellow-man six days a
week how, in the name of goodness, can
he do it on the seventh? The Greatest
Book on Earth says that six days shalt
thou labor and on the seventh rest.
Whether Sunday should be a day of rest
or not is for man individually to decide,
not any council. Ratepayers should be
the ones to say ‘yes' or ‘no' to Sunday
sport.”
On the vital question of that railway
line, Mr Knuckey is similarly vocal.
“How would Adelaide like to see a
train loaded with trucks going along King
William Street?” he writes. “We are a
city at Port Pirie and proud of this part
of the globe. Let's get going—money
can be found for war! Well, do some-
thing about it, M.P.s of South Australia."
Mr Knuckey is a football fan. He
does not merely talk about it. He adver-
tises it.
“Spencer Gulf Premiership was won
by Port Pirie,” he tells the people who
“Cood Lord — it's my wife!"


apparently do not read the paper in which
he advertises ‘John C onneilv. the cap-
tain, played well. You have a record
to be proud of, John ... 1 think Kadina
will win ; they have the determination
and courage. In Adelaide, 1 pick Nor-
woods to win, as usual. Good luck, boys.
Make it a good, clean, open game.”
M r Knuckey reaches his most lyrical
heights in h's tribute to his father, with
a picture of the old gentleman looKing
benignly out upon the world.
“With my seal of my blood,” he tells
the world, “my thoughts went out to my
late father on the day set aside known
as Fathers’ Day. Yes, he was a man
whose heart overflowed with under-
standing and love. His smile was radiant
wherever he went, without thought of
gain to ‘me’ to which there is no other . . .
Thank God I had a good one and proud
to call him my father. Love? It will
never go. Not as far as I am concerned!”
Keep those ads coming, Roy. Your
public can hardly wait.
Diplomatic Dish
Comebody in Canberra didn't know
their schnitzels. Possibly it was the
first time a “diplomatic incident” has
been provoked by a piece of meat
covered in breadcrumbs.
It began when the local Y.W.C.A.
announced international cooking demon-
strations by the wives of foreign diplo-
mats. I he Y.W.C.A. said Frau H. Ruoff,
wile of the Counsellor to the German
Embassy would cook a Wiener schnitzel.
Madame de Comtes, wife of the
Austrian Charge d' Affaires, wasted no
time in penning a letter to the "Canberra
Times ” 1 he Wiener schnitzel, she wrote,
was an Austrian dish named after the
capital of Austria, Wien A'lenna). It
had absolutely no connection with Ger-
many.
The general secretary of the Y.W.C.A.
said her committee had specifically re-
quested Frau Ruoff to demonstrate the
Wiener schnitzel. Frau Ruoff (who main-
tained a discreet silence all the time) had
pointed out the dish was Austrian,
though immensely popular in Germany.
The committee, somewhat belatedly
it seemed, had realised its mistake, but
felt the schnitzel, and this was possibly
the hardest blow for Madame de Comtes
to take, had reached international status
like the hamburger. The committee con-
fronted with the right chef but the wrong
dish proved true diplomats. Frau Ruoff
demonstrated a pork schnitzel —a Ger-
man favorite —and honor was restored
all round.
That Was Australia
Sydney is wrestling with many problems
just now—reconstruction, street-widening,
railway communication, wharfage, the
housing of the people, and all the side
issues which hang on these matters! And
the other day there projected himself
into the riot a sort of Vandal, ex-Railway
Commissioner Fehon, who proposed to
solve for a while the question of deficient
elbow-room by the simple device of
destroying the city parks—the Botanical
Gardens and the rest—and using the space
as building allotments. It was a crude
inspiration, and the suggestion involved
no great intellectual strain; Attila, a great
many centuries ago, was also good at
destroying parks, and he was only a Hun,
and had never been a Railway Commis-
sioner in his life. But, after all, Fehon
only proposed to do in one act what is
now being done piecemeal and by instal-
ments. The parks of Sydney are going.
Every now and then a corner is taken
here and a scrap is stolen there, for this
purpose or that. It is noteworthy that
Sydney’s street-widening programme be-
gins about Elizabeth and Liverpool
streets, because the park is there —the
handy park of which a bit can always
be stolen —and thus the cost and worry
of extensive resumptions are saved. Yet
park-stealing only postpones the evil day
and doesn’t even postpone it for long.
— “Bulletin, August. 5, 1909
When John Monash was to be knighted
on the field, a guard of honor was formed
which included only the smartest-look-
ing Diggers of the near-by divisions. Staff-
officers perspired in their efforts to
arrange the parade, and when they had
done fussing Billjim was supposed to be
keyed up to a pitch of reverential hysteria.
Suddenly a motor tooted, parade
“shunned.” Royal Salute was sounded,
and, followed by a flock of red tabs,
George V hurried on to the field. All
eyes were glued on the principals while
H.M. drew a sword or riding crop (I
forget which) and touching the kneeling
General said: “Arise, Sir John” or words
to that effect. Just then 1 heard a titter
behind me and turned round in time
to see one Digger in the rear rank kneel-
ing whilst his cobber hit him on the
side of the head with his bayonet, say-
ing “Get up, you .”
— ■“Bulletin,” January 16, 1919.
Feiffer
WH6U
00
you
WlMf
\ib
cowm 7
1 POUT KfJOu)
PR£TTy 5 <9OU
iOHAT
P 0 W
THIMK'
im
0F
0&WN?
Bfleuo-
MAMOF. FORMOSA
MAMgf.l/lfr mam'
mambs. thsmu
FUJI? SOMfcTHIW&
/
APt
HOO
60itib
TO
pisht?
ir moio seen
THg PATRIOTIC
THIOA TO VO.
I HA Mtd'T MADE
HP MM MIMI -
I'M 601M6 TO
Go MOU&
WlfH Oi)R
-rm ham
ACC6GG
ro imzr
MATIOM I
GWrt'r HAM
oßvimw im
' MUST KhW Mr
rmee ooimo-
them au me
vtfceet.
IF THWSAM FI6HT
; iu f \m. m
ice A OF A P£MO-
CSACH IS THAT
Peopu snout,!? iu t
U Forced m>
ACW6 THF
waw rue
■ 60/eßmem
wa m. emw
qo it op miR om.
r POUT CAFF SO
MUCH ABt)ur Mg '
IV£ 51MM6K gpr
I oo HOPS THSM
POM'r BUN*?' VP
7H6 SSA6eAMB
BoiU7itiG>-
IP tne<4
use rue
MUTROK'
Bom
MH
LOOS)' 1
eves)
"Couch
THgr
BUILPISiO.
the mrmo
&DMd? '
WHATS TK
utunzotf
I3OMH ?
it om
KIUG
peopu.
IT 00W
HARM
PPDPEHTUI
MA CHWb.
QOtGUT HARM
MACHINES', EH?
ft}Col)eA6m
/
m
SO?
TH6U MOST
OF 0G MU
gt SAPS'


FOR THE OBSBRVBR
Jazz Packs Out
the Saloon Bar
A comparatively eld jazz musician In
the city of Sydney, billed on b fading
notice outside th® Criterion Hotel as
Merv Acheson, packs out the saloon
bar three nights a week, Thursday,
Friday and Saturday. It’s a wild city
pub near Town Hall underground
station, where Park Street runs into
William Street and then to the Cross,
and where sailors off ships tied up at
Garden Island whoop it up by getting
drunker than anyone else and pick up
bold girls to take to Luna Park first.
On a good night a cab driver can
make as much in this area between six
and 12 o'clock Saturdays, as he can for
the other six days together. Sometimes
a gospeler preaches on one corner of
Pitt and Park Streets, shaking a tarn-
bourine at a crowd of rowdies digging
the bright big city.
Inside the Criterion, drifters off the
street haggle over the price of one and
six a middy, and gravitate towards a
corner where they will be hidden by
dense clouds of smoke, and where they
can drink, listen to the music, light a
cigarette, and shout their heads off like
everyone else.
Merv Acheson’s jazz does not reach
out to the Ivy League clique, who are
either out-and-out modern or traditional;
nor to Leaving Certificate students such
as you find in some jazz coffee lounges ;
but to a mixture of criminals, bodgies,
deadbeats, homosexuals and the like ...
all boozing and knocked out by Merv’s
wailing tenor horn,
He can be seen through rifts in
humanity and atmosphere, on a raised
platform, up out of the swill, with his
piano player behind him on his left, his
drummer, looking like a professor of
violin, to his right. He is a big man,
about 50, with grey hair and a very red
face. He looks a bit like a dead beat
himself, no offence, and at least as rough
as any of his audience. He was sup-
posed to have shot a fellow once with
a revolver; he has very white hands,
When he’s playing, he half shuts his
eyes, and stares like the dead at his
listeners, playing about the most relaxed
horn you can hear. The night I first
heard him he had to throw out a junior
executive who was trying to prove a
point by getting up on stage to sing,
much to the horror of a small man wear-
ing a superb suit, horn-rim glasses, and
a green felt hat, who a moment earlier
had been doing a kind of hula dance
and dapping his hands . . . bumping
into everyone without seeming to care
or notice getting a dead-man stare from
Merv, who was playing “One O Clock
Jump” with a luscious smooth phrasing
that was unbelievable,
I had to stand close to the platform ;
the people in the bar were yelling like a
prize fight. If they didn’t know anything
about jazz, they at least were loving it.
He worked his solo up to a mad pitch,
like Illinois Jaequ§t used to do on those
©ld JATP records, with honks and
squeals ail in. Timid men looked
cautious ; tough men let the rest know
that this wild stuff was right down their
alley. One old man who was wearing
a dirty navy-blue suit with a pin stripe,
a brown shirt that had started out white,
and a pair of plastic shoes you could
see his toes through, was laughing and
wagging his head in time to the music
while he swallowed somebody’s beer.
After Merv, came the piano, after the
piano the drummer ... a tom-tom belt-
ing and battering that would split your
ears, while he took little goldfish gulps
of air through pursed lips.
When it was over, and Merv was back
down on the ground, he started talking
as fast as his solo . . . “I’ve got the best
job in Australia, I play what 1 like all
the time. The only thing is I’ve got to
keep the house full, and if I can get a
certain number of customers, there is a
bonus. What I do is give them two or
three of those Illinois Jacquet things
during an evening, and that keeps them
happy so they don’t bother you for a
few more numbers, when I play the
things / like. The manager doesn’t stick
his bib in at all.
“Of course you get trouble makers.
There was a guy here tonight had to
be thrown out. Sometimes a moron
makes a fuss because he wants to hear
“Golden Wedding” or “In a Persian
Market,” which aren’t in the band’s
repertoire. If there is any chance of a
fight, I have to get the bar manager,
because I get one good smack in the
mouth and my lip’s gone ; or 1 get a
hand hurt, and I still can’t play It’s my
living, and I can’t afford to take chanc;:.”
Later on he played “Body and Soul’'
with that marvellous fat sound a tenor
makes, and his own deep, if dreamy,
feeling. The audience was good about
it, and applauded without much jeering.
A nuggety little jerk in ‘a white sweat-
shirt sang a parody of the head arrange-
ment, and started arguing with someone
who spilled beer on his shoes. At
quarter to ten the band played a dis-
cordant “Saints go Marching In” . . .
all the tom-toms, shrieks and parps that
could be jammed in.
While the crowd was raising the roof
for more, Merv packed up his horn, put
the drummer’s stool up on a ledge over
the piano, and said goodbye. He was
off to the musician's club where he could
get drunk peacefully and quietly.
He was only one step in front of the
crowd which surged out the door. There
were dozens of men boozed as owls.
One sailor knocked another’s cap in the
dirty beer slops on the floor, and said
that he was a little boy not game to
fight a man. But they were both too
drunk to stand up by themselves, so the
fight had to be postponed. The old man
in plastic shoes found half a glass of
beer left on top of the piano, and he
swallowed it down before shoving his
way out into Park Street.
W. H. HUNTER


FOOD
A Sense of Balance
“ and to think We’ve spent HOURS learning how to do it ...”
The thing about food, generally, is that
everybody talks about it, but nobody
does anything about it. We all know
the conversational cook, whose talk about
food is enthralling and whose meals are
shocking. However, Sydney advertising
man Ted Moloney has a reputation as a
fine cook and as a dazzling conver-
sationalist on the subject as well.
Mr Moloney recently spoke to the
American Women's Club in Sydney on
the way in which Frenchwomen know
not only how to cook well but how to
balance their meals.
Most of Mr Moloney’s friends would
be prepared to swear on a stack of crepes
suzettes that he actually can cook as well
as he makes out, Mr Moloney is quite
modest. He says that his mother taught
his sister and him something about cook-
ing “because you might have to cook
for yourselves some time.”
His trial by fire came in the early pre-
war and war-time years when he became
an honorary member of the French
community in Sydney. Out of that he
wrote his cook-book, “Oh, for a French
Wife,” but, of course, now that he can
cook so well he need sigh no more.
“No Frenchwoman decides what to cook
and then goes out and buys the ingre-
dients,” Mr Moloney said. “She first goes
to the market, sees what is offering and
then makes up her mind about the menu.
The whole meal is then planned around
one course.
“This is a sort of architectural con-
struction. A Frenchwoman never
attempts two main courses, at least for
a family meal. There will be one light
course, then perhaps fish, then a main
course. There is always the French
salad, which cleanses the palate, and
prepares one for a final course.
“The Frenchwoman knows how to
give light and shade to the meal. She
knows how to add flavor. She also
knows how to bring out the natural
flavor. Steak will be fried, as quickly
as possible, in butter, and every bit of
fat will first be trimmed off. Chicken
will be fried in butter as quickly as it
can be cooked.”
Mr Moloney believes that the average
home cook can only manage one or two
vegetables at one meal.
“Otherwise,” he said, “you will have
the potatoes burnt, the beans over-
cooked, and mushrooms past their best.”
However, Mr Moloney admitted that
when he first sounded off that theory to
an audience of women, he later had some
of their husbands grizzling about what
had become of the family Sunday dinner,
that the usual four or five vegetables had
been missing last week.
“I wasn’t really referring to family
cooking,” he said, “but to haute cuisine,
or to special dinner-parties when the
hostess is trying, just a little, to impress
her friends.”
Mr Moloney said that vegetables
should be cooked as little as possible and
in as small a quantity of liquid as
possible.
“I just cannot understand the Austra-
lian habit of slicing beans before cook-
ing,” he said. “The more you cut them,
the more flavor escapes into the cooking
liquid.”
Mr Moloney said that a perfect way
to manage extra vegetables with a meal
was to serve one on its own before the
first course.
Mr Moloney said that another Austra-
lian habit with food which provoked
him was cutting fruit up into minute
pieces for fruit-salad.
He advocates large chunks of fruit and
possibly only two types of fruit. “Why
not try oranges and strawberries?” he
said. “Chunks of orange and then straw-
berries on top.”
One of Mr Moloney’s delights is
chilled fruit-salad, served with flaming
peaches, apricots or pineapple. “The
combination of hot and cold fruit is
wonderful,” he said.
Mr Moloney thinks that, in general,
meat-tenderisers are a waste of money.
“They always seem to do something
to the flavor,” he said. “However, it
really is waste of money to buy expen-
sive cuts for casseroles. I strip off the
fat, chop up into cubes and marinade
in red wine, even a cupful of the wine
that is to be used that evening. It won't
hurt the wine to be opened in advance. In
fact, all red wines should be opened at
least an hour ahead of use to enable it
to breathe.”
PATRICIA ROLFE
"The Stove-top
Cookbook"
A/Tala Reynaud in her introduction to
IVI “The Stove-Top Cookbook,” pub-
lished by W. H. Allen, admits that she
wrote the book merely because she hates
turning on the oven She has a small
kitchen and uses the oven for storage.
There might be many cooks with her
in this quirk It is certainly a fact that
in the Australian climate the heat from
an oven can make the kitchen an un-
pleasant place for several hours of the
day. Also, there are so many attractive
heat-proof dishes which function as well
on top of the stove as in the oven that
lighting the oven these days is often a
waste of time and money.
Miss Reynaud’s book could be quite
an acquisition for the owner of an elec-
tric fry-pan. Most cooks on acquiring a
fry-pan expect their days bent over the
hot stove to be numbered, but often find
their repertory of suitable recipes for the
fry-pan is limited.
At any rate, if you have no stronger
reason than your rheumatic twinges for
refusing to bend to an oven, you can
still join the stove-top cooks.
Miss Reynaud’s advice on what you
need to equip a kitchen (especially if you
use your oven for storage) is practical
and concise.


ABORIGINALITIES
Beware of the Woolpresser
Woolpressers are usually burly, power-
ful giants. Some may be not so
gigantic but they are always fit and
powerful. They have to be. Wool-
pressers too, are often, at 10s. a bale,
piecework-happy and temperamental. It’s
the duty of the pot-bellied 10-stone
“guesser” (woolclasser) to control and
direct the wool-room operations of these
impatient brawnymen.
Woolclassers are “keenies” on their
job and want to see that wool they’ve
classed and “loved up” goes from wool-
bin to wool-press unspoilt by floor sweep-
ings or ‘'dingers.” Some woolpressers, in
their reluctance to pick it up, regard that
essential broom as they would a black
snake, and, if not rebuked, fail to sweep
up between bales.
It needs diplomatic corps suavity to
chip these burly blokes. You don’t tear
round, as you might think and say “Swing
on that broom you careless b ...”
You say yarningly: “Tom, woolbuyers
are pretty discriminating these days,
we’ll have to be a bit fussy with our
between bale clean-ups.”
It’s really terrifying to have one of these
giants come across the wool-room at you
yelling: “I’ve had more chips from you
in one day than all the other con men
I’ve been with in 20 years . . . I’m gonna
knock that silly block off.”
You slip your false teeth in your dust-
coat pocket and dodge behind a mob of
wool bales.
So you become wary and cautious.
“Tom, we’ll have to be very careful this
year about any excessive amount of jute
contamination ... the buyers are pretty
perturbed about it.” Tom’s back is
broader than his vocabulary: “Eh, what’s
that classer?” “I mean we’ll have to
watch out for bits of string on the wool
packs and on the floor.”
The correct branding of the bales is
obviously important.
It's the presser’s job to brand the bales.
It’s the classer's job to see it is done
correctly.
Some woolpressers prefer to brand up
at smokos. Some brand up after each
bale. The brand-up-at-smoko boys often
get angry and indignant when you hand
"You promised you'd fill my bower with rare and precious gems—but
what do I get ... a few measly bits of beer-bottle and some blue-metal !”
them a bit and chalk and suggest, as
nicely as you can, “Would you mind,
Tom, writing the brand on each bale as
it comes out of the press. We don't
want any blues in the branding."
Tom snarls: “I enter ’em in the wool
book as I go. I’ve never made a mistake
in 25 years . . . you can stick that chalk."
Knowing Tom’s haphazard methods, you
know he has made plenty of blues in
those 25 years. Again you risk 30 quid's
worth of crushed falsies and insist on
the chalking of the bales.
Woolpressers are paid two ways: by
the bale, now just under 10s. or by the
hundredweight. Thirty bales a day and
he has earned £l5, but it’s not as good
as it sounds. He may be sitting down
the next day when the lambs are in and
little wool coming. Woolpressers natur-
ally prefer to be on by the bale.
There has been a great amount of
fun, drama, indignation in the back-
country this year over bale-weights.
Woolpack prices are up, promotion
costs up, freight up, handling costs up
. . . wool down. So the cocky, to cut
his costs, wants the bales as heavy as
possible. . .. . .
The squatter looks in the wool book,
shudders at seeing the light weights, goes
to the classer and ultimates: “Go and
tell that woolpresser he has to get more
weight in the bales.”
The woolpresser is conscientiously
tramping away in the top box on the
springy light wool with sweat cascading.
You pass the chip on. “The owner says
you've got to get bigger weights, Tom.”
The woolpresser jumps out of the press
and looms over you (but the classer only
being the intermediary this time is not
worried about those falsies) and yelps:
“You go and tell that cocky bastard I
can’t get another ounce of wool in . . .
tell him to come and have a go him-
self.”
“Mr Broadacres, the woolpresser says
the wool is so light this year he regrets
he can’t get another pound in.”
Mr Broadacres doesn’t believe this and
goes to the contractor: “I want you to
put the woolpresser on by the hundred-
weight. We’ll get bigger weights that
way.”
The contractor goes and tells the wool-
presser he is now on by the hundred-
weight. The woolpresser snaps: “I’m
snatching it as soon as I take this one
out of the press. Write it out for me.”
With the nearest woolpresser over 100
miles away and with the possible stoppage
of shearing a little conciliation goes on
in the wool room. During this concilia-
tory corroboree between the squatter,
contractor, presser and classer the squat-
ter boasts: “I bet I can even get more
wool in.”
The scene sometimes ends with the
squatter up in the press tramping and
puffing away like mad as the woolpresser
arms it up to him. A few minutes later
they put the squatter’s bale over the
scales. It is 30 lbs. lighter than any of
the Another woolly crisis
over.
BILL HOWARD


v>y v "~ ** r ~ ~ ' '
k;
w
m
m*
«43
NEW
ROADS
TO
WORLD
markets/..
f/ J
m
•s*
J
TSBOcr
’TWf&SfZr.
J
OF#
S3P
S#
%
*•5
Uj
CO
Q
Mk.
&
rjrsr
<b
h;
*
-0-
At Port Kembla, within sound of the full-throated
chorus of the many industries that bespeak a virile
nation’s progress, a great port of natural and
artificial harbours is developing.
Keeping pace with this massive growth and drawing
on its rich experience in the servicing of ports, the
New South Wales Government Railways is providing
a comprehensive rail service for the State’s newest
gateway to the markets of the world. New tracks,
crossovers, bridges, buildings, signalling systems,
repair shops and marshalling yards are swiftly rising
from the flimsy outlines of myriad engineering
blueprints.
History in the making? Yes, but it is also a repetition
of history. As the Railways helped Sydney and
Newcastle to greatness, so is it helping the emergence
of Port Kembla as one of the most efficient, best
served, and most modern of the world’s ports.
NEW SOUTH WALES GOVERN
ENT


REVIEWS
THEATRE
The Gambling Trust
By PETER SCRIVEN
Possibly the most dramatic thing con-
nected with the Union Theatre
Repertory Company was its closure.
Shortly after it opened with “Ondine”
the Trust was asked to provide finance
to keep the company on its feet. Playing
to practically empty houses for four
weeks, the company, presenting “Ondine”
and “Grand Guignol,” had costs of
about £lOOO weekly and returns of only
half that amount. Why has this theatre
collapsed when a similar venture has
been successful in Melbourne for nine
years? Is it due to the depths of public
taste and the apathy of Sydney theatre
lovers? Or is it a symptom of that
dangerous malady which has killed more
than one theatrical enterprise of recent
years: inferior management?
Normally sane citizens tend to reveal
a mental blind spot when they occupy
a seat on the board of a theatre organ-
isation. Balanced and logical in their own
professions, they would be unlikely to
employ staff without qualifications ; yet,
in the theatre, they either bestow on the
most unlikely people positions of great
responsibility, or attempt to manage
affairs themselves. As an example of
this, there was not one member of the
Working Committee or staff of the Union
(including the Artistic Director) who has
had experience at running a professional
live theatre.
Not far from the new Union Theatre
is the Elizabethan at Newtown. This
now dark theatre bears grim witness to
the fate that hangs over an out-of-town
theatre in Sydney. Yet, during its period
of establishment in 1955, the Elizabethan
was under the management of John
Sumner, straight from founding the
Union Repertory in Melbourne, assisted
by Mary Rawdon, who came from South
Africa with 15 years of experience at
theatre management behind her, plus
Hugh Hunt in the background. Mr Hunt
states in his book, “The Making of an
Australian Theatre,” that, “too often the
theatre enthusiast starts off with a bright
idea and too seldom he takes the trouble
to fulfill the conditions that must be ful-
filled if the ideal is to become a practical
reality” and “more theatres have failed
through amateur managers than through
immature artists.” Warning indeed!
This writer was instrumental in intro-
ducing Dr Teplitzky to Mr Neil
Hutcheson when the former was battling
to get the Repertory scheme through the
Union Council. At that stage Mr Hut-
cheson was hoping it would be possible
for him to import an experienced
assistant who could manage the practi-
cal theatre aspects of Trust activity and
allow him to devote himself to the meet-
ings and political problems that consume
so much of the Executive Director’s time.
Nothing came of this plan and, although
in theory the appointment of Mr
Hutcheson to the board of the Union
Repertory Company in his capacity as
Director of the Trust should have assured
the guidance of an experienced theatre
administrator, Mr Hutcheson has had no
experience in the theatre. Furthermore,
Mr Hutcheson is known to be against the
idea of Repertory, as was seen by his
closure of the Trust Repertory Com-
pany last year, and his lack of support
of the Melbourne company. In the
original discussions Dr Teplitzky was
aware of the pitfalls and was keen for
advice of a professional nature ; it would
seem that this has not been available to
him nor has he sought it elsewhere at
the very time when a strong experienced
hand is needed.
V4Tr Brian Barnes, the Artistic Director,
believes (to quote the programme)
“that the time has come to end the‘kitchen-
sink’ era of the theatre.” This belief
was originally expounded by Mr Hut-
cheson in a press interview on his return
from overseas last year, and, no doubt,
many will approve of this sentiment; but
it would be well to remember that, if
“kitchen-sink” era means the avefage
modern drama, Mr Barnes and the Union
are pioneering against the trend of our
times in commercial theatre and they
must be prepared to wager a great deal
of money in support of their belief.
Whether the necessary funds will be
available from the Trust next year (with
the impending opera season) remains to
be seen. Mr Brian Barnes is young and
enthusiastic and, although inexperienced,
is the kind of person we need
so desperately in the Australian theatre,
and Dr Teplitzky is an example to the
many intellectuals who do not support
the arts, but it would be well for them
to remember, as Hugh Hunt wrote,
“where theatre is struggling for recogni-
tion, the failure of a single theatre
organisation can set back future develop-
ment for many years.”
All theatre is a gamble public taste
being unpredictable ; but the degree of
the risks taken varies with the efficiency
and experience of the management. A
very large gamble has recently been
taken by the Trust in connection with
Alan Seymour’s play, “The One Day of
the Year.” The expense of sending Ron
Haddrick to England and assisting a
number of other actors in their fares ;
of Alan Seymour and Neil Hutcheson
making the trip ; and the risk of placing
the production in the hands of Ray Men-
muir, the A.B.C. television producer,
with professional stage experience limited
to one production with the Trust, for the
sake of a try-out at Stratford East are
very large when one considers that only
about ten per cent, of the new plays at
the Royal reach the West End.
The history of the “Doll” will reveal
a very different and far more solid back-
ground. A complete cast, well worked
in, was flown to London for a provincial
tour with a West End theatre assured.
The original director, John Sumner,
worked on the play with Ray Lawlor
from its first production in Melbourne
up until the West End opening. Mr
Seymour’s play has had four different
casts, the original Adelaide, the Sydney,
the Melbourne, and the Arts Council
tour casts. Mr Lovejoy, the Trust Drama
Director and producer of the first pro-
fessional production in Sydney, left for
America during the critical stage, leav-
ing Mr Sumner, busy in Melbourne with
the Union Repertory, the Russell Street
theatre, and the Trust Melbourne office
and its visiting productions, as the sole
drama producer on the Trust staff. It
is hard to understand the Trust not
employing a producer to follow through
an Australian play. Was not this organ-
isation established to, in part, sponsor
Australian drama?
There are many artists who earn their
living from the Trust and are, under-
standably, unwilling to bite the hand that
feeds them. For a playwright to publicly
criticise the organisation could mean the
end of his career in this country. Drama-
tic as this may sound, the Trust is the
only organisation that produces new, and
perhaps uncommercial, plays; a writer has
no alternative but to accept their condi-
tions. If these conditions are concerned
with artistic standards, this monopoly is
not as dangerous as when they are con-
cerned with the policies of an establish-
ment organisation or the whims of


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A D. 1720 )
Assets exceed £177,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
Kindersley House, Bligh/O’Connell Streets, SYDNEY
F. H. Egerton, Manager for Australia.
individuals. A non-commercial theatre
organisation can be a haven for those
that would not be able to hold a position
in a commercial organisation, since the
main incentive for efficiency, the making
of a profit, does not exist, and a loss is
acceptable in the name of culture.
The politics of the theatre being as
involved as those of any State (and much
less interest taken in them by the public),
it is difficult to reach any unbiased con-
elusions on any particular relationship
between management and artist; but it
would be interesting to hear the official
Trust view on why Mr Lawlor gave his
second play to J. C. Williamson’s and
has not been heard of since, and why
Mr Beynon has vanished from the
theatrical scene. And (by way of an
afterthought) why a puppet company
known as the “Tintookies” is no longer
entertaining the children of Australia?
Any Man Might
The Beast in View. John Hepworth.
Arts Theatre. Melbourne.
Oliver. Lionel Bart. Her Majesty's
Theatre. Melbourne.
“npHE Beast in View'’ was selected by
an advisory committee for produc-
tion at the Adelaide Arts Festival,
together with “The One Day Of The
Year.” Later both plays were rejected
by the organisers on the ground that
they were too controversial.
The play is set in a boarding house
near King's Cross in Sydney. The charac-
ters belong to that fairly small section
of the population which lives an urban
rather than a suburban life. They do not
own a house or a garden or a lawn-
mower and they are not bringing up
children. Elli, the landlady, has been
married twice and each time her marriage
’has broken up. Now she is getting on
for middle age, and she feels that she
is a failure and no longer attractive to
men. When she was young she wrote
poetry and painted. On the wall, staring
intensely down at the audience, is her
seif-portrait. This is a case where realism
in setting has gone too far. The mes-
meric ugliness of this painting dominates
the set and the audience.
Elli’s boarders are: Pren, a journalist,
who is her lover, Hal a law student, and
Honest, an old music-hall comedian, who
have no dramatic function whatsoever,
and the hero, Bodge, also known as Joey
the Slaught, who works in a slaughter
yard. In the first scene Elli throws her-
self into the arms of the young, hand-
some Bodge. Not only is he very
surprised, but he is made late for an
appointment in “El Torro” coffee lounge
with Kathie, who is eighteen. Kathie
has lost her job and she has been asked
to leave by her landlady. So Bodge offers
to put her up at Elli’s, saying that Elli
won’t mind, which turns out to be the
exact opposite of the truth.
Here we have a simple, but dramatic,
situation: two women and one man.
But now Mr Hepworth does a strange
thing, although one is not fully aware
of it until the play is over. Having
presented us with a situation in the first
scene of Act I, he proceeds NOT to
develop it for two very long acts. The
boarders sit around drinking a great
quantity and amazing variety of alcoholic
liquor and talking a great deal. There
seems no reason why they should ever
stop, and as Act II wore on I thought
they never would. Pren gets drunk on
Anzac Day (for a moment the play
seemed to be turning into “The One Day
Of The Year”) and re-lives his ex-
periences in a Japanese prison camp in
Malaya, and Elli comforts him. This
seems to have absolutely no relevance to
the action of the play.
But Mr Hepworth has a remarkable
flair for writing realistic dialogue, and
he has chosen a situation which has very
strong dramatic possibilities. As a result
he does manage to keep the audience
waiting, more or less patiently, to see
what will happen in the end.
In Act 111 plenty happens, includ-
ing the murder of Kathie by Bodge,
but the tastelessness of the action has
to be seen to be believed. The murdered
Kathie lies behind the couch for what
seems an eternity, while other charac-
ters, who have been drinking, lurch about
the stage making jokes, completely un-
aware of what has happened. Having
brought off this excruciating stroke of
dramatic irony, Mr Hepworth proceeds
to repeat the whole thing a few minutes
later, when somebody else comes in.
Although Mr Hepworth is so lavish
with words, he is very reticent about
explanations. He makes some vague
attempts: “I'm all messed up,” Bodge
moans in Act 11. He is sensitive and
cannot stand the terror in the eyes of
the beasts he kills at work. He is not
articulate like Elli and her other boarders
and he thinks they are making fun of
him. But the level of explanation does
not really get past Sweeney's:
I knew a man once did a girl in
Any man might do a girl in
The play is in fact completely incoherent.
I think the trouble is that Mr Hepworth
was so busy trying to reproduce the sur-
face of life, which' he does well, that he
forgot about making an artistic whole.
Once again a dramatist has been mislead
by naturalism.
C'ome musicals are also dramas, for
example “West Side Story,” but
“Oliver” is anti-drama. The main con-
cern of drama is getting on with the
story, the last thing that “Oliver” is
interested in. In fact, it cannot really
be said to have a story. Anyone who
did not know “Oliver Twist” would have
a very vague idea of what was happen-
ing. But, of course, the plot of “Oliver
Twist” is so complicated that it is im-
possible to remember it even when one
has just read the novel. What one re-
members is an atmosphere and isolated
scenes.
And this is just what a musical is
admirably suited to present. The sets,
the costumes and the music can create
the atmosphere which gives a kind of
unity, although it is not a dramatic unity.
The individual scenes could be very
exciting, for “Oliver Twist” contains
some of the most vivid writing in the
whole of Dickens. Although Dickens’s
eyes are misted with sentiment when he
is writing about the middle-class charac-
ters, there is nothing wrong with his
vision when he is looking at the gang of
thieves amongst whom Oliver falls. Not
only the sinister Fagin and the brutal
Sykes, but Mr Bumble, Mrs Corney,
Noah Claypole, Monks and many others
from a whole gallery of rogues. Here is
material for another “Beggars’ Opera.”
But this is not what Lionel Bart had
in mind at all. Sugar and sweet music
have been substituted for gin and curses.
This is Dickens without the dark under-
side. It does correspond to a popular
image of Dickens: the creator of
“characters” like Mr Pickwick ; the author
of “The Christmas Carol” in which even
Scrooge reforms. The programme note
explains: “Oliver,” being a musical,
represents Fagin as more of a likeable
rogue than the sinister character of the
book.” If this is a law of musicals, then
we know what to expect. But we cannot
expect Dickens.
Although it lacks guts and plot,
“Oliver” has plenty of charm for the
eye and ear. Sean Kenny’s revolving
sets are a miracle of geometry. The
ladders and platforms which provide for
so many different levels give endless
variety to the scene. These sets, par-
ticularly the one for the scene in “The


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
Jackson
osuixivan
NL PTYLTB ?f/ J
bfV i
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating'
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Pafiei Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYI'ERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
73 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
If any “Bulletin” illustration
takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you
a price for the original.
Three Cripples” Tavern and for the
London Bridge scene really give a feeling
of Dickens’s London. It is the music
and the characters that are too sugary,
not the sets.
Sheila Bradley is a superb Nancy and
Johnny Lockwood’s Fagin, played as a
comic, miserly Jew, is well done. Andrew
Guild as The Artful Dodger has plenty
of personality, but he is a Dodger who
has been to a public school, not the
precocious scrap of urbanity who is the
star pupil of Fagin’s academy.
MADELEINE ARMSTRONG
Aesop's Fable
The Fox and the Grapes. Guilherme
Figueiredo. Canberra Repertory
Theatre.
|"'anberra Repertory’s latest produc-
tion sounds like a stimulating mix-
ture, and indeed it is. “The Fox and the
Grapes” is a play by a modern Brazilian
writer, Guilherme Figueiredo, with an
ancient Greek setting, and it is centred
on the timeless figure of Aesop, the teller
of fables.
Round him, the author has built his
own fable, using something of the
Morality play’s simplicity of character
and attitude as well as its universal secon-
dary meaning. Aesop, the wise and ugly
slave, is contrasted with Xanthos, the
pompous philosopher, greedy for com-
fort and reputation. Other aspects of
contemporary life are represented by
Xanthos’s wife, Clea, discontented and
sensual until she is truly in love ; the
stupid and insensitive captain of the
military ; the amorous or brutal slaves.
The play proceeds by discussion, with
what little action there is conveyed in
appropriate Greek fashion by narration.
This is inevitably rather static, but
Aesop’s engaging fables pass a subtle
running comment on the characters’ be-
haviour, at once satiric and ironic.
In the last act, Aesop is faced with the
choice of dying a free man, or living as
a man who has foresworn his hard-won
freedom. He makes his choice, and leaves
the stage to die, a pathetic and heroic
little figure.
If the end of the play was somewhat
less than tragic, the fault was more the
author's than the actors. Mendel Weisser
as Aesop was sincere and moving ; more
so h‘ s s P e ech than in his silences, but
somehow establishing the sadness of his
ugliness and the fineness of his spirit.
Wal Eastman, as Xanthos, showed that
a humor character can be highly eftec-
tlve on stage, given imaginative treat-
rnent and an actor ol personality, while
the others, working with less well defined
parts, managed to bring them to life
surprisingly well.
But the play’s intention was uncertain,
Aesop’s fate was a parable of the
eternally free spirit of man, but it was
often overshadowed by the more amusing
comment on human behavior provided
all through the play by his own fables,
Then the combination of flat characters
and action off stage sometimes gave an
impression of thinness—flat characters
go over better in action ; narrated action
is more acceptable if it happens to m-
teresting characters.
However, the production, by Ric
Throssell, was an unusual experience,
and the play with its successful combina-
tion of humor and seriousness was a
good introduction to a writer we should
like to meet again. The decor by Robert
Warren was one of the most effective
Rep. has shown, using a satisfying rela-
tionship of plain areas of color to
patterned frieze. Against this, the group-
ing of color in the costumes was an
unfailing delight.
HOPE HEWITT
ART
Latvian Artists
Blue Brush Group. Eighth Annual
Exhibition. Melbourne.
r X' I HERE has been something of a lull in
A exhibitions in Melbourne over the
past few weeks, and the Eighth Annual
Exhibition by a group of Latvian painters,
who call themselves the Blue Brush, does
little to relieve the dullness. It is not that
they are incompetent or even wanting
in quite reasonable ideas, but so much
of it seems wasted effort, painting for
its own sake.
Of the six exhibitors, two at least merit
some attention. Karlis Mednis’s impres-
sions of Bourke Street, Swanston Street
and Little Collins Street are very attrac-
five, even though they may be somewhat
more dramatic than their subjects. Two
beach scenes, one of sails crowding to-
gether at Brighton and the other of some
tangy, decaying shallows are finely
observed and executed with considerable
sklll-
- Vilka gives evidence of an easy,
subtle style, seen at its best in some sepia
studies of women. 1 here is a certain
quality of distance and melancholy in
her faces which is immediately striking,
Unfortunately, she too can get as far off
the rails as her compatriots when she
dabbles in abstractions. The involved
pasting and daubing of a thing called
“Color Composition is one of the worst
examples among many in the exhibition
of what is probably called “texturology,”
although she has a strong rival in Karlis
Trumpis.
In fact a curious inversion of current


Name
your Scotch ...
°LD SCOTCH WH 1
BY APPOINTMENT
TO HER MAJESTY
QUEEN ELIZABETH II
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS
WM. SANDERSON & SON LTD.
THERE’S NONE FINER!
N2L912
trends seems to operate in this exhibition.
Abstraction, which everyone is supposed
to Lake to because it is easy, has in every
case here proved too difficult for the
painters. All the attempts are meaning-
less, and those that are not dull are posi-
tively ugly. At the other extreme from
this deliberate absence of meaning, those
who try to overload their w ; ork with
significance, like Gunars Jurjans with his
brand of flat-patterned surrealism, are
equally failures. The subject paintings on
the other hand reveal a genuine delicacy
of feeling and allow the painters much
more scope to display their skill.
BILL HANNAN
Dark Green World
Raymond Crooke. Johnstone Gallery.
Brisbane.
At the Johnstone Gallery, Raymond
Crooke is showing 43 oils on masonite,
all, but a few, landscapes done along the
North Queensland tropical coast from
Townsville to Port Douglas and in the
near hinterland around Cairns. Previous
versions of this little world by southern
artists were in terms of their immutable
palette habits as fixed as their finger-
prints and blood groups, thus insensibly
falsified : the gamut of tones up in the
wet tropical north is neither so high-
pitcheo nor so wide as in the Derwent
Valley, Gippsland or Sydney Harbor.
Because Crooke's version in a low-toned
narrow spectrum is so completely authen-
tic he has added something entirely new
to the visual content of Australian art.
His style, based on an evident technical
competence, is bold and confident, his
brushwork is strong but flexible, he
leaves in the eye and the mind an
impression of integrity.
One fault is his tendency to waste
time in his smaller works when he
succumbs to the temptation to paint pretty
viev/s, like a weekend hobby painter,
more suitable for a photographer making
tourist postcards of unsubtle subjects.
But in his large major works he is im-
pressive and surely at home in beautiful
solutions of the problems of sorting the
complicated patterns of the lush tropical
floral; huge serpentine twists and inter-
twining liana shapes amongst broad leaf,
dense shrubs in the low-toned dark green
of the tropics unrelieved except for an
occasional hibiscus. This is the fore-
ground of a sombre landscape whose
background of young lettuce-green cane
lies in the lap of the majestic crags of
the littoral mountains.
This is beautifully balanced, strong work
and the occasional loosely-jointed wooden
nouses and pubs doomed to eventual
decay and the calm, unvexed human
figures lend it all complete verisimilitude ;
it is authentic. The best, because to me
the most typical, works are “Mossman
Homestead/’ “Port Douglas” and “Fresh-
water Landscape,” a splendid picture.
Crooke has given us something new,
lucid and luminous.
J. V. DUHIG


The Development of Local Govern-
ment in N.S.W. F. A. Larcombe.
F. W. Cheshire. 19s. 6d.
The Red Page
Reluctant Cinderellas
By RUTH ATKINS
Complatning about the cost of providing
a safety-fence on a cliff to deter
would-be suicides, an alderman of a
N.S.W. Municipal Council some years ago
announced, with feeling, “and it is not
our people that jump!” Local govern-
ment in this State began with the question
“who should pay for local services?” and
the same question recurs throughout the
history of its development.
Mr Larcombe’s book* in its first two
chapters gives plenty of examples of this
dominant theme in the local government
story 1832-1900. Early governors “pressed
by the Home government to reduce
expenses, devised forms of local govern-
ment to tax colonists” and there was
strong, vocal and often effective opposi-
tion to this “beginning of direct taxation.”
When the newly-established colonial par-
liament in N.S.W. in 1859 had before u
a proposal to spend £24,000 on the streets
of country towns “a majority decided that
street repairs and other improvements
were local and not State obligations.”
Since there were no local authorities to
accept the responsibilities, the N.S.W 7 . par-
liament passed legislation making it pos-
sible for citizens to petition for the forma-
tion of local councils in any area which
fulfilled minimum requirements (in num-
bers of residents, numbers of petitioners
in favor, etc.). A bait of some government
subsidy was dangled before them to
encourage this self-help. However there
was no rush to take advantage of this
opportunity. Some few effective local
councils were set up by the 1880’s, but
many were almost farcically inadequate
in areas, resources and standards of
administration, and the total area in-
corporated was very small.
After 50 years of this half-hearted per-
missive arrangement, the N.S.W. govern-
ment changed to one that was compulsory
and general by the passing of Acts in
1905 and 1906. Thereafter in N.S.W.
local government becomes a duty imposed
by the State government on citizens, a
duty involving the provision of an elected
council (unpaid) to direct and supervise
local administration (according to central
rules) and the raising of local revenue
for this purpose mainly through “rates”
on land values. The place of local gov-
ernment in our political and administra-
tive story cannot, I think, be properly
appreciated until we recognise that a
dominant theme has never been one of
demand for, of even much interest in,
local self-government through local coun-
cils. On the contrary. Two important
continuing threads through our local
government story are these —central gov-
ernment devising of local government as
an administrative arrangement ; local citi-
zen reluctance or suspicion, mainly be-
cause of local taxation. If this is
accepted, there is a real achievement or
advance to be seen in the fairly wide-
spread acceptance of this duty, and in
the occasional examples that go far
beyond this into not only efficient man-
agement of civic services, but real leader-
ship and initiative in a wide variety of
local activities.
Tt is disappointing that the third section
of Mr Larcombe’s book —the section
on Modern Local Government 1906-61
does not pursue these themes, or any
others, in a consistent way. He does not
show, for example, that we can still see
cases in very recent history of the State
Government finding local authorities a
convenient administrative device, and of
citizens resisting incorporation in their
area. Proposals for the extension of the
local government system into the sparsely-
settled western district of N.S.W. (cf. the
inc >rporation of the Shire of Wilcannia
in the 1950’5) met exactly the same objec-
tions as had been made to Governor
Bourke’s proposals in 1832 —the privilege
of local government was not wanted,
because this would increase taxation
(through “rates”), the Central government
should provide and finance the necessary
services. [lncidentally, only a few years
ago, a New Guinea tribe resisted, for the
same reasons, and for some others, of
course, the efforts of Australia’s colonial
administration to create a local council
in their tribal area —and to require local
payments of £2 p.a.]
Under the present system in
N.S.W., of course, the State Govern-
ment could and did require the
acceptance of this local responsibility in
the Western district, and a great deal of
the “reluctance” was successfully over
come in a fairly short time. But this
“concise history” makes no mention of
• uch things ; gives no outline of the pro-
cess between 1905 and 1961 of the deliber-
ate extension of this local council system.
The period since 1905 is the most sig-
nificant because it is in these years that
the existing system of local authorities,
and of State control of them, has devel-
oped. The title of this book suggests we
will have presented to us a picture of
recent as well as early developments but
in fact no such picture emerges. In his
preface Larcombe says “there is more
than one strand to follow and, for the
sake of clarity, each strand is taken
separately.” 1 believe this decision was
regrettable, and that the selection of
“strands” for the later period is inade-
quate and their description not sufficiently
concerned with trends, patterns of grow th.
This third section becomes a scrap-bag
of description and comment on the Syd-
ney Corporation, Metropolitan schemes
and Regionalism ending with an equally
“scrappy” series of comments on the
present situation of Local Government
in N.S.W. The old stories are repeated
of “legitimate local functions” being
“whittled aw'ay,” or “filched,” .so that
local government has declined to a
“Cinderella status” from which it should
be “rescued.”
Now, no one could assert trrat our
locai government story is one of drama-
tic advance in self-government. Mr
Larcombe indicates that “impracticable
schemes, apathetic inhabitants relying too
much on the government, antagonism
to direct taxation, accidental circum-
stances and petty feuds all contributed
to the failure of the early systems
of local government in N.S.W.” The
same factors affected later growth.
1 would add some emphasis on the
fact that attempts at local govern-
ment were bedevilled by the colonial
situation, by the too easy assumption that
what was appropriate in Britain could
readily be made to work in quite different
circumstances in a new colonial settle-
ment. It might be worth mentioning that
a close parallel with our early local gov-
ernment story can be seen in Canada-
settlement conditions and colonial rule
led to similar mistakes and exactly similar
reluctance to accept local financial respon-
sibility. But the Canadian system now
has more independence than has ours.
Some comment on this would be helped
if in this brief history the main lines
of our system’s development were more
clearly drawn.
What are some of the themes that might
have been followed in order to
suggest the significant patterns of growth
in our local government? One is the
form and method of control of local
councils by the State Government especi-
ally in the elaboration of financial and
accounting control. Local authorities in
N.S.W. are now, in spite of the occasional
headlined scandal concerning one or two
out of 230 councils, much more respon-
sibly and honestly administered than were
many local councils of 60-70 years ago.
(Mr Larcombe’s own study, in another
book, of Randwick Council would illus-
trate this.) Some of the improved admini-
stration comes from rules and procedures


which the State Government (through the
Department of Local Government) has
made it a duty for local councils to
observe. It may be regrettable, from the
standpoint of local autonomy, that the
State Government has taken, and has
exercised on about 15 occasions, the
power to dismiss an elected Council and
put the local area under an Administra-
tor (with the power and duty to impose
local rates on land) but this is part of a
developed policy for the enforcement of
standards in the performance of the local
“duties” which our system now requires.
Another “strand” worth attention is
the increased “professionalising” of local
government service, the enforcement of
standards of qualification for office for
clerks, engineers, health officers, etc. An-
other could be the process of enlarging
areas by amalgamations, and by the
development of joint action. County
Councils and metropolitan schemes do
get some mention but there is no story
of policy, methods or likely future devel-
opments in the process of changes in
local areas. [There now is a well estab-
lished (though not necessarily satisfactory)
procedure for “Boundary Enquiries” and
“amalgamations.”]
There is also a story to be told about
the development of some of the welfare
and social functions of local authorities.
Even a brief history should manage to
mention local council activities in the
depression of the ’thirties or the Second
World War.
General structure, central control, in-
ternal organisation, changing functions,
finance, relations with the public—these
are some of the aspects of the N.S.W.
local government story that need some
mention in a history of its development,
no matter how brief that story has to
be. Alongside this story of a general
system, the unique situation and problems
of Sydney’s city government (on which
there are some comments included) would
need to be described.
Mr Larcombe’s knowledge of local
government in this State is extensive.
His work on the 100 years of Randwick’s
municipal history indicates patient re-
search. In this brief volume there is
much that will interest anyone active in
local government or interested in its study.
But, with all due allowance made for
necessary brevity, I cannot accept the
author’s claims (in the preface) that it
gives a “comprehensive account of the
development of local government” or
that it either describes “the origin of
many of the present and pressing prob-
lems” or gives “a clearer idea of how
to solve” them.
Some of the pre-1905 history will be
useful to students, but it omits too much
of importance and has its recent material
too poorly organised for it to be “an
adequate text book.”
Longing and Belonging
Voices at Play. Muriel Spark. Mac-
millan. 20s.
Love and Like. Herbert Gold. Andre
TVnKrh ?n«
Tt may be only because the United States
T is a large country and England a small
one, out American writers never seem to
develop the English facility for swimming
in schools, for forming cliques, claques.
coteries and covens. In America, the
home of togetherness, the writer (prob-
ably because of the togetherness) in most
instances remains a solitary, while in
England, where nobody speaks in trains,
there is a great deal of literary cosiness.
This cosiness can be more effective than
the most inspired promotion.
Few English writers recognise each
other in the street, but they unfailingly
say the right things about each other in
the literary supplements. The Americans
are probably, briefly at least, married to
each other, or at least they take pot shots
at each other at smart resorts, but they
still like to think of themselves as working
and suffering alone.
Muriel Spark has no difficulty in getting
her fellow-writers in England to make
her feel she “belongs.” She won an
“Observer” short story contest in 1951,
so the “Observer” does the right thing
by her. She became a Catholic in 1954,
so Graham Greene can always be relied
on for a few nice words.
Miss Spark’s reputation has been estab-
lished, partly because of these happy cir-
cumstances, in a few years. However,
she has proved a prolific producer, with
a 11 , a X ear °, ver several Y ears - “ v °ices
at Pla y IS on] y a gathering-up of the
crumbs from her rich table. It consists
of a few short stories, some set in colonial
Africa pre-war and some in England post-
war. The voices at play are “ear-pieces,”
which Miss Spark wrote for the 8.8. C.
One, “The Interview,” reads as if it would
be quite wonderful on the air, but the
others don’t seem to justify the publishers’
claim that they are a “new art-form.”
“The Danger Zone” is a brilliant parody
of Dylan Thomas. That is, if it is a
parody of Dylan Thomas.
Herbert Gold may be a two-headed
Chinese circus-midget who has never been
near Cleveland, Ohio, Paris, France, or
New York city. He might, but it is much
more likely that Mr Gold is following
the American pattern of writing so close
to his own life and experience that it’s
one step short of indecent exposure. The
story of his Jewish childhood, “The Heart
of the Artichoke” is quite wonderful,
After that there are some stories about
a young American on a scholarship in
Paris in the early fifties,
Then there are some stories about a
poo r, sad disillusioned, middle-aged
American, aged about 30, trying to re-
capture his lost youth in Cleveland, Ohio,
by chasing girls who are a whole ten
years younger than he is. But these girls
are only using him for experience, and
at the end of the stories he is a poor, sad,
disillusioned, middle-aged American, aged
about 31.
Gold has a large talent, about which
he seems excessively self-conscious. He
provides a “postface” to his stories, ex-
plaining the circumstances under which
each was written, omitting, only his bank
balance at the time, and what the psychia-
trist said.
PATRICIA ROLFE
Sour Victory
A Clean, Well-lighted Place. Kathleen
Nott. Heinemann. 225. 6d.
17" athleen Nott gives her book an
appropriate sub-title: a private view
of Sweden. She has lived in Sweden,
and writes after a prolonged second
visit ; but more than most travel writers
she carries her own world with her.
That world is very English, idiosyncratic
and anti-socialistic. It follows that she
finds the Swedes slightly peculiar, un-
necessarily stereotyped, and over-
administered. The Welfare State simply
isn't her cup of tea.
As if determined to find “something
rotten,” she sniffs around rumors of
neuroticism, vice and violence, and finds
enough evidence to back the hunches she
started off with. Moreover, I believe she
is more often right than wrong. Sweden
has the highest standard of living in the
world ; no slums; full employment;
welfare services stretching from the cradle
to the grave. Sweden also has an aston-
ishingly high incidence of mental disease,
juvenile delinquency, homicide and
suicide.
Swedes are aware of all this. Indeed,
it makes them painfully self-conscious.
One of their defence mechanisms is to
lay the facts before the visitor, as if say-
ing : “Isn’t it interesting that we, who
look so well, are sick?” But this applies
only to acceptable aberrations. Kathleen
Nott, more typically English in her
interests than she knows, was fascinated
by evidence of homosexuality, which is
rife in Sweden ; and in typically English
fashion wanted to discuss it with all and
sundry. Elere the Swedes jibbed, flushed
and angry. She concluded that their
“disconcerted caginess” was due to “a
sense that scientific ‘law’ has let them
down,” rather than to any fear of
scandal. “If you start, however un-
consciously, with the assumption that
what is wrong with people in society is
something which by appropriate methods
can be ‘cured,’ you must have some-
where a concept of health, or of the
norm ... To the social priests of a
welfare society, health ... is something
which not only can, but ought to, be
achieved ... If we treat it as a social
concept we shall find before long that we
are describing a social standard, too, and
then to be healthy—or ‘normal’—may
become after all only another way of
keeping up with the Joneses.”
The morality of conformity bothers
her, rather than “immorality” as such.


Pressures to conform become stronger as
standards of living rise. It is not only
the long winters and the brooding forests
that weigh on the Swedish mind, suffus-
ing it with melancholy. It is also a kind
of sour victory over everything except
human nature, leading to prosperity
without happiness.
Herself an agnostic, Kathleen Nott
finds it necessary to describe Sweden as
essentially pagan. One needs only to see
the masses of statuary in the parks to
realise that this is so. Religious con-
troversy, too, is rife in Sweden ; but it
is largely of a speculative, philosophical
nature. The churches, as in most Pro-
testant countries, are used for Christen-
ings, weddings and funeral services ; but
Christian doctrine is less likely to lead
to salvation than to literature. Swedish
writing, like Swedish film making, is often
soul-searing stuff. What bothers one is
the interminable debates between Good
and Evil, is the notion that neither is
quite as important as violence for its own
sake. It is as if the Swedes must com-
pensate in art (and crime) for the absence
of adventure, in a State that is so well
regulated that it presents none of the
usual problems.
Like Kathleen Nott, I felt oppressed
in a country that has every comfort, and
lacks cosiness. Like her, I felt an erupt-
ing unease: “a simmering violence which
often boiled up and spilled into Mon-
day’s headlines (‘Father . . . Blows-up
Family with Dynamite’).” In her arro-
gant, Anglo-Saxon fashion, she has
revealed some bitter truths. Moreover,
she has recorded them in a prose that
sparkles like good conversation.
ANTON VOGT
Mirror in the Hallway
Half Moon Haven. Martin Russ.
Deutsch. 15s. 6d.
With Night We Banish Sorrow.
Dorothy James Roberts. Jarrolds.
20s.
A Small Success. A 1 Morgan. Hutchin-
son. 20s.
/'Nne of the greatest difficulties an author
has to overcome if he elects to narrate
a novel in the first person is that of giving
a convincing account of his narrator’s
physical appearance. He can (and often
does) make the narrator scrutinise his
face carefully in a mirror. He can
arrange an early discussion between
friends of the central character or between
his family anent “I’s” looks (and often
does). But in a novel to describe a
person once is not enough—think of fic-
tional characters you remember and you
will find they have been pictured many
times during the telling of their story.
Young writers committed to this device
would do well to re-read “David Copper-
field” and take a lesson from a master
of the art of autobiographical fiction.
The problem, of course, occurs nearly
as urgently in straight autobiography,
except that people who get as far as
setting down the story of their lives are
usually liberal with (a) photographs and
(b) “With adolescence came severe acne
and I well remember how my elder sister
looked at my spots and said ...”
However some autobiographers are
more modest and often too much so.
There is that splendid book “A Clean
Breast,” by John Naish, a recent immi-
grant to this country, whose remarkable
episodic chapters are marred only, I
think, by our almost total ignorance of
how the author looked after the age of
about ten when he did describe himself
fully. He grew up in Wales and we know
much of what he did, felt and thought,
but between being a small boy and up
to the time he was photographed cutting
cane in Queensland his physical appear-
ance is a blank.
Two of the novels under review are
narrated in the first person. “Half Moon
Haven” is told by a shiftless, job-changing
youngster who discovers a vocation in
life and considerable certainty of charac-
ter in the unlikely setting of a home for
mentally retarded boys where he works
as an attendant. Martin Russ may some-
where have said what Delaney looks like,
but when a tale is compelling, one reads
fast and if there was such a depiction I
fail to recall it. His other descriptions
are excellent: “He was a colored boy-man
of 20, with a fire hydrant body and a
widow’s peak that nearly reached the
bridge of his nose. His head alone was
a fearsome thing. It was a muscular head
with no neck at all, a trophy head to
be put up over a fireplace ...” This
is not a novel for the squeamish, although
it is written with delicacy and restraint
and nowhere is brutality gloated over or
over-emphasised. Brendan Behan could
learn much from Mr Russ in this matter,
“Half Moon Haven” makes a hearty
impact because of its understatement.
“With Night We Banish Sorrow” is
told by Cato Shelley, the youngest of six
sisters from a Virginian middle-class
home. If you cannot remember what
Cato looks like it doesn’t matter much,
Mother is the central figure here and ]
am sure was intended by the author to
appear a gay, whimsical, eccentric, love-
able woman. Instead she can have my
award for “Most tiresome fictional female
of 1961.” Suburban lending libraries,
however, will probably find this book
circulates frequently.
“A Small Success” is also by an
American —its setting the glittery world of
Broadway theatre—its author a journalist,
novelist and theatrical producer. Not
surprisingly it is a thoroughly profes-
sional, competent, entertaining novel,
crisp and controlled. It is not told by
one of its characters. One has an un-
shakeable conviction that, while it is
probably in no sense autobiographical,
Mr Morgan has known, worked with and
observed the types of people whose lives
briefly, but for the time being com-
pletely, engage its readers. A 1 Morgan,
too, is expert at contriving new twists for
old stock figures. Laurie Kane, the
alcoholic actress who has put herself “off
the sauce” and is trying for a comeback
is, for instance, a most convincing woman,
by no means that menopausal, tipsy
thespian we have all wept over so often
before.
NANCY KEESING
Three Conservatives
Quadrant. Number 20. Spring. ss.
'T'he Spring “Quadrant” contains a
-* number of articles of immediate
interest, including three on politics, and
one —James McAuley on A. D. Hope—
on literature. This last finally remains
the most interesting, for though it is in
some ways disappointing, it is not simply
and flatly disappointing: and the political
articles are.
The most provocative of these, in what
I suppose can safely be called a “con-
servative” journal, is an article entitled
“What is to be done?” (to be the first
of a series) by the left-wing Federal
Secretary of the A.L.P., F. E. Chamber-
lain. In a devilish way, the publication
of this does more for the journal’s con-
servatism than either of the other articles
begins to. Chamberlain’s views are
straight Marxist, and of a crudity and
simplicity that not even his political
activities could make clear: “We will
undoubtedly go from capitalism to some
other ‘ism’ in the same way that we went
from feudalism to capitalism,” he says,
begging every question in the book. This
is not to say of course that he is a secret
Communist. He believes that the in-
evitable changes should be directed
through constitutional channels so far as
is possible ; but his views remain firmly
deterministic, a sort of wonder-land echo
of over-heard Marxist theory with nothing
to offer to the electorate at large, or to
the intellectually curious, except an all-
too-sharp confirmation of A.L.P. bank-
ruptcy.
The second political article is the
memoirs of an ex-Communist, J. Nor-
mington-Rawling, talking about Com-
munist conspiracy in Peace movements
of the ’3os. The weakness of this is the
simple assumption that evidence of Com-
munist conspiracy is evidence of a real
threat. Surely everybody knows that
Communists conspire? I have heard
wonderful stories of Communist infiltra-
tion of suburban church cricket clubs, and
Rave myself had the small privilege of
seeing them manage a branch of the
Fellowship of Australian Writers ft
seems to me that the disproportion in
these fields between conspiratorial effort
and practical gains ought to be reassuring.
Isn’t it typical of Communist activity,


BOOKHUNTER
Dept. “D,” Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
tee only if successful.
BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.O. Sydney.
LEARN TO
WRITE
SUCCESSFULLY!
Earn a spare - time income. Learn
Story Writing, Freelance Journalism,
Radio and TV Scriptwriting, etc., by
excellent correspondence training with
STOTT’S.
Write today for free Prospectus.
Stotts Correspondence College
159 Flinders Fane, Melbourne: 119 Oastle-
reag;h St., Sydney; 290 Adelaide St.,
Brisbane; 21 lirenfell St., Adelaide;
22 Howard St., Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT’S: Please send me. without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
an d of ex-Communist and really avid
anti-Communist attitudes to it, that Nor-
inington - Rawling’s article should be
engrossed in the narrative of conspiracy,
and never once stop to consider the
significance and importance of all that
furore? If anyone really disbelieves in
Communist conspiracy, they should read
this detailed account: but even then, they
can remain unconvinced, for the nature
of the subject precludes anything more
concrete than personal testimony. Where,
therefore, does such an article get us?
The last political article, a letter from
New York by Thomas Molnar, is the
most pointless of the three. Here, the
woolliness of American left-wing liberal-
ism is sneered at, but conservative values
are taken for granted in a way that hardly
seems to offer us anything more precise
or real. Molnar’s main claim is that
Senator Goldwater is the coming thing
in American politics. I confess that this
comes as a surprise to me: but until
more is said, it remains an empty surprise.
It is a relief to turn from these articles
to McAuley’s on the poetry of A. D.
Hope. McAuley must be the first critic
to take seriously the very common
opinion that Hope is an intellectual poet,
and his article is devoted to defining
Hope’s intellectual position. Rather for-
biddingly, he defines it in Manichean
terms: but he makes those terms both
clear and relevant. He does so at the
cost of a rather quick systematisation,
and it is here that one’s doubts begin.
McAuley is right, I think, to disregard
Hope’s equivocations about the meaning
of his poetry, and it must be said that
his account of the meaning of “Imperial
Adam ’ is more pointed and sensible than
the author's, as stated in a letter to
McAuley. But even here, I think, he has
missed the crux of the poem, and he has
done so because he has read the poem
as conforming to a systematic vision. 1
cannot here, of course, back up remarks
like this: but in my opinion. Hope is
only an intellectual poet in a fragment-
ary and shifting way—he is indeed at
times rather crudely anti-intellectual—
and this is the aspect of his work that
most demands rigorous attention.
McAuley’s mistake is to see Hope's
work in the light of an abstracted system,
whereas I think that with Hope a critic
should begin with individual poems, and
from there go on to see how' far Hope’s
work coheres, or fails to cohere, in a
central and meaningful way. Of course,
McAuley’s ten-page article is extremely
compressed, and it may be that my
objections would disappear if he allowed
himself the luxury of a more full-scale
study. In the meantime, he has more
sharply than anyone else delineated the
area of meaning in which Hope’s poetry
moves, however randomly.
The rest of the contents is made up
with material of average interest: a story
by Desmond O’Grady dealing with a dis-
placed central European, which is un-
balanced by uncertain humor at the
beginning but ends up oddly moving and
sme . slight, competent poems from
several hands, and a more ambitious
attempt at political poetry by Vincent
Buckley ; articles on the Color Bar, Errol
Flynn, and Richard Mahoney. Nothing
here is particularly remarkable for its
goodness or badness.
EVAN JONES
Whither the Monarchy?
Hanover to Windsor: British Monarchs
from 1830-1936. Rogert Fulford.
Batsford. 375. 3d.
'T'his, the fifth of Batsford’s series of
dynasties of British Sovereigns, has
perhaps been the hardest to write, for
it approaches uncomfortably close to
present day Royalty; and though it is
full of entertaining trivia concerning the
four monarchs in question—William IV,
Victoria, Edward VII and George V
Mr Fulford does deal most pertinently
with the development of the modern
British Constitutional monarchy and its
problems.
It is true that he does not point out as
clearly as does Lord David Cecil in his
“Melbourne” that William IV's attitude
during the Reform Bill crisis was an
application of the orthodox English con-
stitutional doctrine that the Crown must
support the government, and that the
modern idea of the neutral mediating
monarchy was first preached by the
Prince Consort ; it was opposed by
Melbourne and other old-fashioned Whigs
because they feared that in practice he
would support the Tories.
But Mr Fulford gives us an interesting
account of Prince Albert's own “caution-
ary department, not unlike the Cabinet
Office of a later day,” which, owing to
Albert’s unexpected ability and prudence,
proved “a most valuable adjunct of
government,” and which the violently
partisan Victoria was not able to main-
tain after his death.
Mr Fulford writes sympathetically of
the Constitutional troubles of poor George
V, whose life extended over the period
of greatest British power and prestige,
but whose reign witnessed a significant
decline in the authority of the Crown.
The lamentable quarrel between the
Lords and the Commons, precipitated
by the Lord's rejection of the Budget of
1909, placed George in a position much
like that of William IV in 1832, but
complicated by opposing private secre-
taries Lord Knollys, who held
William’s “orthodox” doctrine that the
King must support the Government, and
Lord Stamfordham (once secretary to
Queen Victoria) who maintained the
Consort's view that the Crown stood
above politics.
George’s signal failure to arbi-
trate between parties on four important
occasions seems to lend color to
Melbourne’s view that the Crown can-
not long remain detached ; and Mr Ful-
ford is surely right when he points out
that George’s decision not to refuse a
dissolution to Lloyd George in 1918, to
Macdonald in 1924, has made it hard
for his successors ever to apply this
sanction, one of the few remaining
Royal Prerogatives. “Whither th
British Monarchy?” is the unspoken quei
tion posed by this frank and tactful bool
Mr Fulford is especially anxious t
defend Edward VII from the famili
criticism that he was a mere pleasure
loving flaneur; but so good a histori:
should have pointed out that the groui
of objection to Edward was not so mm
that he loved rich men and smart wome
but that he drew his intimates too mm
from the ranks of the upstart financie
(few of whom had English names) wi.
formed the new plutocracy which aro:
during the last years of the Queen, whe
he was Prince of Wales. To have sup
pressed this aspect of King Edward.
reign is surely tendentious.
It is a pity that all of the portraits of
Queen Victoria make her look so dis-
agreeable ; we are irresistibly reminded of
Phil May’s devastating Bulletin car-
toons of the Republican 'eighties!
CATHERINE MACKERRAS


COLONEL WILLIAM PATERSON
The "Placid Bonhomme"
Continuing our series on the early Governors,
with Colonel Paterson, pleasant, honest
and rum-soaked, a most unsuitable viceroy.
By M. H. ELLIS
COLONEL PA TERSON:
Coy Naturalist
NO man was ever less suited to govern an infant con-
vict colony than William Paterson, but it was his
fate that he should be twice cast for the role of
Acting-Governor of New South Wales at crucial
periods, once after the departure of Major Grose at the end
of 1794, for about eight months, again during the inter-
regnum while the colony awaited the arrival of a new
Governor after Bligh had been deposed.
He had had a remarkable career before the latter inter-
lude wrote finis to it. He had served in his youth in two
famous regiments, one the 73rd, the second battalion of
the Black Watch which Macquarie afterwards brought to
Australia with him.
A protege of Lady Strathmore, of the family of the
present Queen Mother, he had become briefly famous as an
African explorer, having journeyed into the Hottentot
country with that strange fellow Colonel Gordon. Dutch
Commandant at the Cape of Good Hope, who spoke Gaelic
without ever having lived in Scotland. And it was through
Paterson’s friendship with Gordon, probably, that Australia
acquired its first Merino sheep.
Paterson’s first expedition had been made when he was
22, in 1777, and he made three more in the next two years,
describing them in his book “Journeys in Caffraria,” and
earning transient fame by taking to London the first giraffe
skin ever exhibited in England.
Then he had sailed to India with his regiment, the
98th, had fought against Haidar Ali, had transferred to the
73rd Regiment in 1787, and in June, 1789, two years later,
had found himself a commission in the New South Wales
Corps. He probably did this through the influence of Sir
Joseph Banks and with an eye to discovery and the collec-
tion of the strange flora and fauna offered by the new
colony; for his book on his African journeys was published
in the year he joined the corps, and it was dedicated to
Banks, for whom he had collected both in Africa and
India.
He was held back from sailing with the early detach-
ments of the corps by the flurries with the French in 1790.
but eventually he and his sonsie little Scottish wife, Betsy,
found themselves travelling out in H.M.S. Gorgon, arriving
in Port Jackson on September 22, 1791, along with Lieu-
tenant Governor King and his wife, whom he accompanied
to Norfolk Island. Mrs King and Mrs Paterson were the
first two free white women to land on the island, a perilous
adventure which did nothing to damp the wit and humor
of Betsy Paterson.
Paterson’s correspondence makes it clear that however
boring others may have found Norfolk Island and the
limited enclave of New South Wales embraced within the
county of Cumberland, he did not find it so. 'lt was to his
youthful and eagerly inquiring mind a paradise of strange
novelties, and his acquaintanceship with the members of
the eager band of naturalists who surrounded Banks,
Dryander. the naturalist bibliographer. Aiton. Hunter, the
father of the modern science of anatomy and the scientific
heir of Hunter. Everard Home gave him a chance to share
his new knowledge.
He wasted no time in collecting whatever he thought
might add to British collections.
Indeed, even the ten days he spent round Port Jackson
before sailing for Norfolk Island yielded him something
which found a place among the 33 sheets of botanical speci-
mens which he sent home to Banks in the Pitt in May. 1792
—“with some mosses, etc., to fill it up.” i.e., was a “very
perfect specimen of the waratah.” Of the plants of Norfolk
Island he sent a very detailed scientific description, with
specimens of “every one” that the island harbored.
He was back in Port Jackson in March, 1793. then
38 years old, and his restless eagerness to be out and
exploring is seen in the letter he wrote to Banks two days
after his arrival in which he declared that “the short time I
have been here puts it out of my power sending anything
by the present opportunity.” but that “by the next you may
expect something new, as I purpose a journey to the Blue
Mountains very soon, in which Major Grose promises me
every assistance.”
The spring of that year he went up the Hawkesbury to
see whether he might penetrate the mountains by boat
through river gorges; and about ten miles from Richmond
Hill he discovered a branch of the river which he “traced to


g cascade falling through the chasm mentioned by Gover-
nor Phillip,” the mountains there being “3000 feet high
and in the gap not more than 100 yards from each other.”
His voyage was cut short by an accident to his boat. He
named the river the Grose.
Banks was so impressed with his work on Norfolk
Island that he promised him financial aid to publish a work
on the natural history of the island, but he replied that his
sudden departure from the island put it out of his power to
finish “what 1 first intended, viz., the birds and fishes.”
All his roamings were cut short when Grose departed
in December. 1794. and left him in charge of the colony
and in command of the New South Wales Corps, pending
the arrival of Governor Hunter, who was expected at any
moment. Thus, only a captain in rank, he took the oaths
of office on Christmas Day. 1794. without anxiety. Grose
had left the colony in a “flourishing condition.” The con-
victs were healthy—against the 471 persons who had died
of illness in 1792. the last year of Phillip’s Government, only
59 persons had died in 1794. He settled down making no
changes in the Government, leaving everything in adminis-
tration to the efficient John Macarthur during the nine
months he was in office.
All went well. The year was one in which only 25
persons died. The harvest was good. Hunter, arriving in
September. 1795. was lavish in his praise of what had been
accomplished.
But the new regime brought new problems in trying to
keep the peace between the military under his command
and the new Governor, an irascible naval officer of the old
school with a vast contempt for the Army. By this time
he was nursing a very sore eye which (as with Bass) forced
him to sail for England in September, 1796 —it was remark-
able how severe one’s disabilities became when one yearned
in Botany Bay for Old England and how rapidly soreness
became cured by a sight of English shores.
During the voyage to England with King, his old
friend of Norfolk Island, they called at the Cape of Good
Hope, found that his old exploring colleague Gordon had
died and they secured his Dutch Merinos for the colony.
It was more than two years before he returned to
Australia, arriving in the Walker on November 4. 1799. a
more impressive figure than when he had sailed. He had
gone up to field rank. He had been lionised by his scientific
friends and had been elected as Australia’s first Fellow of
the Royal Society. Three weeks after his arrival he sent
home one of the first two skins of lyrebirds which Europe
was to see. by Captain Henry Waterhouse in H.M.S.
Reliance.
Now he entered on a period of decline, morally and
physically. He was constantly plagued by the quarrels of
the regiment. He was commissioned as Lieutenant
Governor, which involved him in administration at a period
when Hunter was on the way out and King, no better an
administrator nor more politic, on his way in.
He was. however, not deprived of his opportunity to
explore, and in 1801 he left his command in the hands of
John Macarthur while he traced the Hunter River’s course
with Lieutenant Grant, R.N., and saw his own name
placed on the Paterson River.
He returned to find the military community involved
in a wild quarrel with the Governor over a naval lieutenant,
one Marshall, who was alleged to have appropriated some
of the goods of a dead officer of the New South Wales
Corps, the Governor siding with the naval officer against
all reason, and trying to overset the decision of a court of
which Paterson was a member.
During this rousing disturbance Paterson wrote a letter
to Sir Joseph Banks criticising King’s economic measures
and another to General Brownrigg criticising the proceed-
ings of the Governor in the Marshall affair, and particu-
larly of those of that unpleasant remittance man Richard
Atkins, who had been exiled to prevent his prosecution and
who. without legal experience, had been pitchforked into
the position of Acting Judge Advocate through the influence
of his titled relatives at the Court of St James.
Paterson averred that it was astonishing that this
debased character “was ever thought of by Governor King
a proper person to appoint ... as his character for low
debauchery and every degrading vice, as well as a total
want of every gentlemanly principle is universally known
throughout this settlement.”
This, of course, was fact; but when King came some-
how to obtain copies of both these letters. Paterson, who
had been a close personal friend of King, disavowed their
sentiments and blamed Macarthur for having induced him
—Macarthur's commanding officer —to write them! He. in
fact, went over to the enemy to save his own skin with
King and was presently found involved in a violent quarrel
with Macarthur issuing a challenge to the latter which he
hoped, no doubt, on Macarthur’s usual form, he would not
accept. But Macarthur did accept, wounded him through
the shoulder, demanded a court martial and forced King
to send him to England, where he had a complete triumph
over his enemies, returning in the Argo three years later
with great grants of land. Royal Merino sheep and a place
in history.
Not so Paterson. No sooner was his adversary out
of the way than he quarrelled with the blustering King,
complaining of his “repeated insults” to both officers and
men of the New South Wales Corps and of his rude and
arrogant behavior towards himself. King himself wrote of
him that, so long as he acted from his own ideas and
principles. Paterson would do what was right and honor-
able. but that he “had been advised (twice) to oppose me
by those who afterwards betrayed him.” King described
him as “that bonhomme ... of quiet, placid disposition
... a weak, honest man . . . unfortunately like many other
men, made a knave’s tool of.”
Between the quarrelsome and gout-ridden Governor,
whose cure for his disease seemed to be more good liquor,
and his quarrelsome officers, and the wound which he had
earned by being egged-on to fight the best shot in the colony,
his health broke down.
On Foundation Day. 1803, he was to be found writing
that it was the surgeon’s opinion that “not only a change
of air. but also retirement from all business, is necessary for
the re-establishment of my health.” He handed over com-
mand of the regiment to George Johnston, retired to his
farm, too weary even to collect natural history specimens
for the next four months, at the end of which we find him
sending Banks a specimen of the giant lily.
About that time Lord Hobart was writing the Royal
pleasure that Paterson should proceed to Port Dalrymple
in Tasmania “for the purpose of administering the Govern-
ment of that new colony and remaining in that charge until
His Majesty’s pleasure should be made known, unless the
Governor General should sooner devolve upon him.”
Before he sailed for Van Diemen’s Land he was able
to record the discovery of one more Australian identity
with which his name will always be associated.
On March 10, 1804, he wrote to Banks:
I have ... a corporal . . . who I employ to go
shooting in the woods ... It was this man who discovered
the cooler (koala), which I gave the Governor, being the
hist ever seen, here . . . Since that time many have been
brought in and become very domestic. I had a male and a
female for several months. One of them (the male) ate
bread and was passionately fond of tea. I was in great
hopes he would have list'd.
The male. alas, died through an unaccountable accident,
and then the female died. too. and he sent her little body to


his friend Everard Home, keeper of the Hunterian Collec-
tion in the Royal College of Surgeons, the first native bear,
alive or dead, to reach Europe.
He was glad to retire to Port Dalyrymple at the end of
1804, though his period there was marked by quarrels with
David Collins, now Lieutenant Governor at the other end
of the island and drinking as steadily as himself and warding
off the natives who sometimes had to be fired upon. He
has left us his journal of the exploration of the Port and
naming of the Tamar and Launceston as he left us one of
the exploration of the Hunter with detailed descriptions of
the countryside as it appeared on its first settlement. He
founded agriculture and established the first sheep in the
north of Van Diemen’s Land, and he wrote a detailed
description of the first-discovered Tasmanian devil. He
sent home iron ore, specimens of flora and fauna. And
sometimes h'e was half-blind with the pain of his sore eye.
When Bligh arrived to govern New South Wales in
August, 1806, Paterson hastened to Sydney to meet him, but
was soon glad to get back to his “little charge” in Van
Diemen’s Land, and very loth indeed to leave it when the
New South Wales Corps rebelled.
Settlers pledged themselves to support him “at every
hazard that is dear to man, in restoring the Government a:.d
placing us again under the protection of the King and the
laws.” But he stayed in his comfortable retreat, finding
excuse after excuse not to involve himself in the affairs of
the insurrection by assuming in Sydney the rank of
Lieutenant Governor of New South Wales which he still
held and which Johnston had temporarily and illegally
usurped.
Johnston sent the Porpoise to bring him northwards,
but he stayed by the Derwent. Foveaux arrived from Eng-
land, took over command from Johnston as his senior and
sent the Estramina, but all he got for these pains from the
coy naturalist was an intimation that his “constitution had
undergone a trial that has left me debilitated beyond any
attack I have before known,” and that though he was “not
unaware” of the pressing necessity of his being in Sydney, he
felt that by venturing on a passage in the Estramina he
would be “criminally rushing to his destruction.”
A month or two later, however, he changed his mind,
having gone no further in the meantime than to advise
Bligh by letter that he believed the latter would be “meet-
ing the wishes of his superiors if he repairs to England as
instantly as possible.” Then he told him that he was com-
ing north and to leave Government House in Sydney so
that he might occupy it, a proposal to which Bligh reacted
as usual with a burst of abuse and rage.
On New Year’s Day, 1809, Paterson landed warily at
the mouth of Port Jackson and was driven to town by
Lieutenant Lawson in an inconspicuous vehicle, it having
been bruited about that Bligh, from his prison in Govern-
ment House, had hatched a plot to have him seized on
arrival.
He took over his unwanted responsibility from Foveaux
and surprisingly assumed a firm line with Bligh. ousting
him from Government House, but being too trusting in
allowing him to take command of H.M.S. Porpoise on his
word of honor that he “would proceed to England with the
utmost despatch and that he would neither touch at nor
return to any port of this territory until he shall have
received His Majesty’s instructions.”
Bligh promptly broke his word, which he said had
been given merely as “a stratagem,” and tried to induce his
disgusted officers to bombard the Admiral Gambier, due to
sail with Johnston and Macarthur, and the helpless town
of Sydney.
Johnston and Macarthur sailed away after Bligh had
left for the Derwent. Paterson settled down to a year of
steady drinking while Foveaux governed for him.
His year in office was one of the most depressing in
the history of early New South Wales after the era of
Phillip—one marked by flood, increasing scarcity and dis-
sension only palliated by Foveaux’s energy.
Everybody was glad to see the sails of Governor Mac-
quarie’s ships off the Heads on December 28, 1809. Mac-
quarie brought orders that every officer of the New South
Wales Corps, save those who had been at Dalrymple, should
be sent home, Paterson included. The Home Government
had ignored the latter’s suggestion that he be promoted to
be Australia’s first brigadier-general.
He crept feebly aboard the Hindostan and began the
miserable voyage to Europe round the Horn with Bligh on
May 12, 1810. He was never to see the cliffs of Dover. He
died on the voyage and his sonsie and sorely-tried little wife
survived to marry the jovial Francis Grose, whom he had
succeeded as Acting-Governor back in 1794. He was now
a jovial old general, and she must have found him a much
merrier companion than her battered naturalist, even though
in later years the blue elephants of delirium tremens had
succeeded the giraffe and the lyre bird, the wombat and the
koala in poor Paterson’s rum-soaked world.
He was no doubt a pleasant fellow, honest as the day,
for he acquired none of the perquisites which enriched his
fellow-officers; but he was quite unsuited for the role of a
viceroy.
However, he did great service to knowledge of Aus-
tralian natural history and geography, was our first Fellow
of the Royal Society, and his collections of flora and fauna
sent to his distinguished scientific friends during his sojourn
in the Antipodes have an honored place in the Natural
History Museum in London to this day.


You're
so right..
insist on
BLACK
SCOTC
‘BUC
Flemington, November 9
THE BLACK & WHITE SCOTCH WHISKY
PROVINCIAL CUP
1 Mile Handicap event for country
horses. £3,000 stakes, trophy and
attendant prizes sponsored by
Black & White Scotch Whisky.
By Appointment
Scotch Whisky Distiller
w
to Her Majesty the Queen
James Buchanan & Co. L td.
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO. LTD.
GLASGOW, SCOTLAND AND LONDON
N.S. W. Distributors: JOHN CAWSEY & CO. LTD.
Box 61, Lidcombe, N.S.W. 648-0391
4193
Business, Robbery, Etc.
FOREIGN TRADE
Japan's Economic Problem
“ r PHE woollen textile industry here is now more and more
A intent on rectifying its undue dependence on Australia
for the supply of wool,” Mr Masahi Kodama, a Japanese
economic commentator, wrote recently in “The Japan Times.”
The influential “Japan Times,” with a large international
air-mail circulation of its daily and weekly editions, is often
used as an unofficial vehicle to express the opinions and
attitudes of the Japanese Government and important industrial
and business circles. Its veiled hints must therefore be
taken seriously.
To stress the point further, “The Japan Times” said that
a six-member mission of the Japanese wool and spinning
industry, headed by the executive director of the Japanese Wool
Textile Company, will make a three-weeks study tour of South
Africa late in October.
At present Japan imports about 90 per cent, of its raw wool
requirements from Australia and only about 5 per cent, from-
South Africa. For some time there has been strong pressure
from a section of the Japanese textile industry to decrease
the proportion of raw wool imports from Australia, relative
to total Japanese raw wool imports. This attitude mainly stems
from the heavy adverse trade balance with Australia, overall
balance-of-payments difficulties and limitations placed on
Japanese expoits to Australia. South African woolgrowers
have lost no time in trying to increase their own sales and
are keenly supporting the “diversification of sources of supply
of raw materials idea” in Japanese minds. The Japanese mission
to South Africa is con ing as a specially invited guest and
hopes are high in the Union. There can be no doubt that any
substantial increase in South African wool sales to Japan will
hurt Australia’s wool exports at least until new markets can
be opened up.
Japan's views are influenced by two main factors. Firstly,
Japanese manufacturers must restrict their exports to Australia
so as not to hurt our domestic producers. Moreover, Australia
is still invoking Article 35 of the General Agreements on Trade
and Tariffs, which entitles members to refuse to accord the
"most-favored-nation clause” treatment to Japan. This is
bitterly resented by the Japanese Government and exporters,
both for business and emotional reasons. The second reason
lies in the current acute balance-of-trade and balance-ot-pay-
ments difficulties experienced by Japan. Both these factors may
adversely affect the volume of Australian exports.
A few months ago Japan announced an extensive liberalisa-
tion of its imports policy, to be achieved in several stages.
It was hoped that this would coax the hard core of GATT
members sheltering behind Article 35 to abandon trade
discrimination against Japan, and extend it the coveted “most-
favored-nation clause" treatment. Japan has always felt
resentful over being made the real victim of the escape clauses
“safeguards” originally built into the GATT structure to allay
the fears of several founding members, mindful of pre-
war Japanese trade practices. Japan’s post-war international
trade record has been free of either general dumping practices
or of attempts to flood selected markets with cheap exports
to damage domestic manufacturers. It is also true that
Japan has done its best to expand its capital goods exports in
preference to consumer goods. The Japanese apparently feel
that they have been “on probation” for long enough to be
trusted and many now seem convinced that polite argumentation
alone will not avail to much. This has led to a marked
strengthening of supporters of “an eye for an eye” trade policy
within the Japanese Government and industrial circles. In
addition, the Japanese now feel strong enough politically and
economically to demand more favorable treatment for their
exports from countries which enjoy a large trade-balance
surplus with Japan. This attitude can be summed up in:
if you want Japan to buy more from you, you must buy more
from Japan.
No country can be expected to chalk up continuous trade
deficits without making some effort to rectify the position. The
situation is complicated by the fact that some imported raw
materials—such as Australian wool—have an inelastic supply
curve and fairly restricted sources. Moreover, as is the case
with Australia, a more liberal treatment of Japan by some
of its trade partners is made difficult by domestic political
issues. For instance, no democratic government in the world
can be expected to embark on a rapid dismantling of protec-
tion barriers sheltering its textile manufacturers without
running into plenty of opposition from both the producers and
the labor unions. At best such things can be done gradually.
Japan seems to understand all this. In fact it has been
reluctant to force the issue, particularly with Australia. And
it has tried its best to induce its trade partners who rely on
primary products to buy Japanese capital goods, which would


w
3
FINANCE & INVESTMENT
COMPANY LIMITED
SHAREHOLDERS' FUNDS. £891,419.
TANGIBLE ASSETS. £3,184,264.
INTEREST RATES FOR DEPOSITS
(NOW' CALLED UNSECURED DEPOSIT NOTES)
WITH RIGHT OF RECALL
ON 3 0 DAYS’ NOTICE
3 months . . . . 5V2% p.a.
6 months 6% p.a.
9 months . ; . . 6V2% p.a.
1 2 months . ; ; ; 7% p.a.
18 months . ; s . V/l% p.a.
• FIXED DEPOSITS
2
years
8%
p.a.
3 years . . .BV2 o p.a.
AND OVER
APPLICATIONS must be made
on the form enclosed with the
prospectus, which is obtainable
from
Members of the Stock Exchange
ANY BRANCH OF A.N.Z. BANK
The Registered Office of the Com-
pany, William & Crown Sts.,
Sydney. Telephone FA 0322.
Financing world-
famous products
distributed by
The Hastings
Deering Group
of Companies.
FORD
Cars and Trucks
FORDSON
Tractors
A.E.C.
Trucks & Buses
CATERPILLAR
Diesel Tractors
in Queensland
HYSTER
Fork Lift Trucks
in Queensland
JOHN DEERE
Agricultural
Machinery
in Queensland
LISTER
Engines
GROUP SALES
IN 1960
£14,757,281
MAIL THIS COUPON
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE &
INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
G.P.O. Box 4333, Sydney.
Please send me, without any obligation on my part, pros-
pectus dated 114161, giving full details of your terms
deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS
HD82.10
B. 21/10
THE
ORION INSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England )
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT AVIATION
N.S.W. BRANCH: 19 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
TELEPHONES • BU 4387 L. E. THORPE. Manager.
both allow Japan to decrease its trade deficit and cause little
or no discomfort to domestic producers.
Unfortunately, the Japanese capital goods export drive
has been only moderately successful, especially in Australia.
Australia’s present economic situation—with registered
unemployment at 2.6 p.c. of the estimated work force —makes
it difficult to meet Japan’s admittedly reasonable export require-
ments and shed completely the protection afforded by Article
35 of GATT.
But Japan is now experiencing passing but serious economic
difficulties —excessive rate of economic growth, a huge trade
deficit and a fall in inflow of funds on the capital account.
The Japanese Government is faced with the necessity of taking
some immediate action to rectify the situation.
I.M.F.’s “International Financial News Survey” reports
that Japan’s trade receipts and payments in the first half of
1961 showed a deficit of U.S. $521 million, compared with a
deficit of U.S. $74 million in the same period in 1960 —a
deterioration of over 700 per cent. This was caused by a
marked slackening in exports and a large rise in imports. To
this must be added the U.S. $BB million deficit on other current
transactions. The total adverse balance on current account
reached U.S. $609 million —against U.S. $lOO million in the
comparable period of 1960. Japan has long been offsetting
adverse current account balances by large long-term and short-
term capital borrowings but recently has experienced a drop
in the rate of inflow of foreign capital, mainly caused by if
participation in loans to underdeveloped countries.
The Japanese press is full of articles urging export pro-
motion—the country must sell abroad or starve —and of reports
on various Government economic and fiscal measures intended
to solve the present difficulties. It is generally agreed that
Japan's economic growth rate which the Economic Planning
Agency director, Mr Aiichiro Fujiyama, puts at 9.9 per cent,
a year—and which is expected to rise to 13.9 per cent, on
current indicators —must be slowed down. The Japanese
Cabinet has already decided to cut down Government expendi-
ture on several public projects, and this has met with the
industry’s approval.
Official estimates show that if the present rate of growth
remains unchecked Japan's gross national product will reach
16,800,000 million yen by 1963, driving the balance-of-payments
further into the red and causing serious inflationary problems.
The balance-of-payments deficit on current account for 1961 is
now expected to reach U.S. $lOOO million.
Late last month the Japanese Prime Minister, Mr Hayato
Ikeda, has made a special appeal to reduce expansion rates
in his address to the fourteenth general congress of the
Japanese Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Manipulation
of the interest rate by the Central Bank will not suffice ; some
adjustments to rate of growth of Japanese imports, including
wool, must be expected. This means that fears that Japan may
temporarily reduce its wool purchases, or at best keep them
steady, are not unfounded. It must be also remembered that
as a rapidly developing industrial nation, Japan may
encounter serious balance-of-payments difficulties again and
again. Investment capital shortages may recur. The best thing
that Australia can do in the long run is to expand its wool
output but accept lower prices and even sell a portion of its
wool output on a forward contract basis. This may help to
maintain wool incomes through higher turnover.
It is unfortunate that Japan is contemplating discriminatory
measures in retaliation against the use of GATT’s Article 35
provisions. As Mr Sheldon Wesson, a noted American
economic writer, points out in the September 23 issue of “The
Japan Times Weekly,” retaliation threats emanating from the
Japanese Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI)
“point to a trend in thinking which may be dangerous for
Japan.” Retaliation against discrimination can only provoke
further retaliation. Tariff retaliation notoriously goes in circles,
and in the end harms everybody concerned. Fortunately, the
Japanese official opinion is still divided on this point and the
Economic Affairs Bureau of the Japanese Foreign Office has
been pressing Mr Ikeda to scrap MITI’s retaliation plans.
It is to be hoped that this will be done, and that any
explicit or implicit economic threats to Japan’s trade partners


Do you know how
A “FAMILY
TRUST”
would benefit
your dependents?
Your Estate, whether it consists of real
estate, a business, or investment holdings,
may attract much higher Death Duties than
you think —leaving far less than you
imagined for your beneficiaries.
Expert advice on Estate Planning, and the
setting up of a Family Trust, designed to
meet your personal requirements, can
result in appreciable savings through
reduced Tax and Death Duties, and help
conserve your assets, both during your
lifetime and afterwards.
Appointment of the Company as Trustee
of the Family Trust ensures competent
counsel and management of all matters by
specialists—at moderate charges.
Why not examine, without delay, the advan-
tages of such an arrangement—in a
confidential discussion of your financial
affairs?
UNION
‘TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria)
333 Collins St, Melbourne, C.l.
20 O’Connell St., Sydney.
398-402 Queen St., Brisbane.
Also at Newcastle, Albury, Toowoomba,
Rockhampton, Townsville and Charleville.
IJTB5a.'B3-N
w jll be discouraged—these can only build up resentment and
harm Japan.
Japan is Australia’s best customer outside the Common-
wealth and its economic prosperity and stability are of vital
interest to Australia. Some concrete means of helping Japan
overcome its trade difficulties must be urgently considered if
only for the sake of enlightened self-interest. The United
Kingdom’s coming entry into the European Common Market
accentuates the need for closer economic collaboration with
Japan. It is not practicable to immediately extend the most-
favored-nation treatment to Japan, but some ways must be
sought to increase the imports of Japanese capital goods, which
can increase Australia’s economic potential without hurting those
struggling domestic industries which are endangered by imports.
It must be realised, though, that one cannot for ever rely
on protection to support at public expense all the economically
inefficient domestic producers, be they textile manufacturers,
dairyfarmers or milk-bar proprietors. If the Australian industry
is to grow, manufacturers must be allowed to obtain their raw
materials and capital equipment on the cheapest markets. This
cannot happen with excessive protection. Protectionism as a
national philosophy is dangerous for a country, which derives
most of its export income on the free world market. Because
of several compelling reasons Australia cannot abolish all
protection—but the barriers must be as low as possible.
EUGENE BAJKOWSKI
ADELAIDE
Industrial Design
'T'here has been comment recently in Adelaide concerning
the desirability of educating leaders of industry to the
acceptance of industrial designers to further Australian efforts
on the overseas markets —not to mention the effects on the
home consumer when the choice is offered between imported
and home products.
While industry seems loathe to start thinking about the
design of anything from steamrollers to cosmetic cases, the
South Australian Chamber of Manufactures has given the
lead to them by appointing the industrial design section of
the South Australian Institute of Technology to handle the
trade stands, design of layout, and interior decoration, even
going so far as to design advertising posters and letter-
heads—all of which will result in the 1963 Royal Adelaide
Exhibition (not to be confused with the Royal Show) exhibit-
ing the work of student industrial designers and their
instructors.
The Chamber of Manufactures should not be accused
of penny-pinching either. The industrial design section of
S.A.I.T. gained the contract on its worth, collected £3OOO
for the job (still far from finished) and the students gained
experience, which will be invaluable and unobtainable else-
where.
QUEENSLAND
Campaign Checks Disease
Queensland Agriculture Department’s efforts to rid the
State of pleuropneumonia, a cattle disease which costs the
industry about £750,000 a year and sometimes proves a serious
obstacle to cattle exports to Asian countries, got off to a
promising start. In the season just ended no outbreaks were
reported in the 165,000 store cattle travelling throughout
Queensland, even from such distant areas as Boulia and
Normanton. The Queensland Minister for Agriculture and
Forestry, Mr O. O, Madsen, said this “was an indication of
the efficiency of supervised vaccination.”
Of the 165,000 travelling store cattle more than 131,000
were innoculated under the direct supervision of the Agricul-
ture Department's trained officers. The remaining 34,000 were
innoculated by owners and agents, because official supervision
would have caused expensive delays.
During the year specimens from slaughtered cattle were
examined both at the meatworks and in the laboratory.
Although some cases of resolved lesions of pleuropneumonia
were found at the meatworks, only three active cases were
discovered—of which one was traced to a source outside
Queensland. Only one property was quarantined during the
season, although preventive innoculations were made at several
other properties from which suspect cattle originated.
Mr Madsen said that special attention is being given to
eradicating the disease from properties on the fringe of the
suspect area. In addition to examining the lungs of all cattle
slaughtered from these areas, more than 3000 blood samples
were tested with only one indication of pleuropneumonia.
The intensive drive against pleuropneumonia was started
last April and is now being reduced with the end of the cattle


AUSTRALIAN GENERAL INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
Head Office: 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
’Phone: BW 1011, BW 1012, BW 4991
DIRECTORS:
STRUAN ROBERTSON (Chairman), S. E. A. STIRLING,
JAMES H. STEPHENSON, R G. GALE, RAYMOND S. GOWARD, C.B.E.
A. C. MAITLAND O. S. PETTERSEN
(Managing Director) (Manager)
Branches and Agencies in all States.
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION MERITS SUPPORT
Season, but the innoculation campaign will be continued as
required under the supervision of stock inspectors in the various
districts.
N.S.W. COAL INDUSTRY
Efficient and Growing
One of the best things that has ever happened to the coal
industry in New South Wales was the setting up of the
Joint Coal Board in 1947. The J.C.8., as its name indicates,
is a joint venture of the Commonwealth and State Govern-
ments and a good example of a public authority rescuing
private enterprise from virtual bankruptcy and almost certain
extinction.
When the Joint Coal Board was established 14 years ago
the coal industry in New South Wales was pretty inefficient,
burdened with many high-cost, unproductive mines, often badly
managed, plagued by near vicious labor and management
relations and constantly disrupted by violent strikes. Not all
industrial disputes assumed the proportions of a major
national disaster such as the notorious Communist-led stoppage
in 1949. But they were a running sore which was bleeding
the industry to death. Coal supplies were unreliable and prices
high. Strikes held up deliveries for weeks. There were many
instances of cut-throat underselling. Markets were lost, oppor-
tunities for opening new outlets passed up, technological
improvements and research lagging. At that stage it seemed
that the State’s traditional coalmining industry would be easy
prey for the competitive fuels.
When it first began functioning, the Joint Coal Board was
invested with such sweeping powers over the industry that it
could in fact direct each lorry-load of coal to the consumer
designated by it and at the price fixed by it. It must be said
that the Board always got by with the minimum of compulsion
and used its wide powers sparingly. With a fairly limited but
well-trained and specialised staff it organised an efficient
system of direction, co-ordination, information and research.
It helped to settle industrial disputes, improve labor relations
and raise technical efficiency—a very difficult thing in the coal
industry where mechanisation involves displacement and
replacement of labor, often opposed by the militant Miners’
Federation. It convinced the coal producers that neither
Australia nor the world owed them or their employees a
living and that, like any other commodity, coal must meet
the customer’s requirements.
New markets were found in other States and overseas.
The rising volume of coal exports to Japan is a major achieve-
ment of the Joint Coal Board. In addition, an excellent
statistical service was established, in collaboration with the
Commonwealth and N.S.W. statistical offices. The Board
has also been successful in finding w'ork for displaced miners,
sometimes arranging for their transfer from the inefficient high-
cost mines—mainly in the Newcastle-Cessnock district —to the
southern coalfields.
During the past seven years or so the coal industry in
New South Wales has in the main adjusted itself to new
trends in demand and concentrated on producing the types of
coal which are more easily marketable. It is now able to hold
its own against oil to a remarkable degree. Of course, oil
continues to displace coal from some of its traditional outlets
—for instance, the railways—but new centres of demand are
being found. Coal is no longer a dying industry in the State.
“ Confidence , confidence , gentlemen! Look at it
this Way.”
The Joint Coal Board’s fourteenth annual report tabled
last week says that “the coal-mining industry of New South
Wales continues prosperous and grows in efficiency and in
output... .successfully meeting all calls made upon it for the
supply of coal.”
In 1960-61 the total output of raw coal increased by
1,825.000 tons, or 11 per cent., to 18,165,000 tons. Total sales
for the year rose by 1,399,000 tons to 17,983,000 tons. The
average output per manshift in all underground mines in
1960-61 was 5.76 tons, an increase of 12 per cent, over the
preceding year. The average coal price last June was 545. 9d.
a ton.
Exports of New South Wales coal for the Japanese iron
and steel industry “grew rapidly.” Japan imported 1,653,000
tons, compared with 815,000 tons a year ago. Total overseas
sales reached 1,849,000 tons (1,071,000 tons in the previous
year), or about 10 per cent, of total output. By 1965 New
South Wales “should be sending at least 3,000,000 tons a year
to Japan and further growth beyond that total is likely.”
Despite a generally favorable outlook for the coal
industry in N.S.W., 11 mines were forced to close in 1960-61
because of price competition or contraction in the particular
markets supplied. Coal-washing and preparation plants have
been useful in helping coal producers to supply the right
grades and sizes of coal.
At the end of the year 95 mines were operating in the
State, compared with 102 last year. Good progress was made
on the development of four new large mines. The Board
expects that further mines will be established “in appropriate
locations to meet the needs of the steel industry and power
generation.”
Employment decreased by 726 to 12,589. The South
Maitland district bore the brunt of the dismissals. It must
be noted that the closed mines included some old-established
high-cost mines. Despite their closure total production con-
tinued to grow and the rise in stocks—lB2,ooo tons, compared
with a drop of 244,000 tons in 1959-60 —became a serious
problem. The total requirement for raw coal in the current
year is estimated at 18,600,000 tons.
The biggest problem is competition from oil, especially
from the by-products of oil refineries. The J.C.B. “foresees
the possibility of fuel-oil production increasing by over two
million tons a year by 1965,” and feels that the prospect of
increased exports of rival petroleum products “cannot be rated
highly even current export levels may not be maintained
indefinitely. The present outlook, therefore, is for steadily
growing quantities of fuel-oil being forced on to the Australian
market to the detriment of coal.”


JOHN N. ROBERTSON
Member of the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKER.
Temple Court,
423 Collins Street, Melbourne C.l.
Telephones: 67 4804, 67 2465
Telegrams & Cables:
ROBFALK, MELBOURNE
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
R. H. ALLEN, M. R. L. DOWLING
P. R. LEVY, A. P. REYNOLDS. N. R.
COURSE (Melbourne Resident Partner).
Delfln House, 16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Building, 150 Queen St.,
Melbourne. 67-5957 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables: “Bosdale,” Sydney.
Melbourne or Wollongong.
A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. Is. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31 2761 P.O. BOX
(4 Lines) No. 1887 W
HELP
LEGACY
all the year round.
Donations: 169 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney. BM2OOI.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Adelaide Chemical and
Fertilizer Company Ltd
As a general rule, Australian soils are
deficient in the naturally occurring
elements necessary to sustain plant life,
and for this reason the country’s agri-
cultural and pastoral industries rely
heavily on chemical fertilisers to main-
tain soil fertility.
Superphosphate and ammonium sul-
phate are the two major fertilisers pro-
duced in Australia other chemical
fertilisers, such as nitrophosphates,
potash and urea, are imported. Super-
phosphate is made from rock phosphate
imported from islands in the Pacific and
Indian Oceans, and locally produced
sulphuric acid ; ammonium sulphate is
made from ammonia and sulphuric acid,
both of local origin.
Use of chemical fertiliser has increased
spectacularly in Australia in recent
years. Production of superphosphate in
1960-61 aggregated 2,531,000 tons com-
pared with 2,380,000 tons in 1959-60.
Production of ammonium sulphate
totalled 100,000 tons (104,900 tons).
Comparable figures in 1948-49 were
superphosphate, 1,423,000 tons;
ammonium sulphate, 53,200 tons.
Established in 1904, the Adelaide
Chemical and Fertilizer Co. Ltd. is one
of the three producers of superphosphate
in South Australia. The other two are
Cresco Fertilizers Ltd and Wallaroo-
Mount Lyell Fertilizers Ltd. The co.
also manufactures commercial acids and
chemicals. Close connection with the
State’s primary industry makes the co.
subject to the influence of seasonal
changes, and fluctuations in the level of
agricultural incomes.
Last term, in the 12 months to June
30, 1961, the co. delivered 137,000 tons
of fertilisers, a slight increase on the
136,500 tons delivered in the previous
year. The price fixed by the Prices Com-
missioner for 1960-61 was £l2 13s. per
lon, the same as in the previous two
years and with this stability in price and
the promise of a good season, an im-
provement in sales was forecast. Un-
fortunately hopes were not to be realised.
Actual sales fell short of budgeted
figures. The economic measures intro-
duced by the Commonwealth Govern-
ment had some effect on demand. The
lack of good follow-up rains in May
June (1961) in the cereal areas of
AA. took their toll. At June 30 a
substantial number of orders was held
awaiting delivery instructions from
customers (the unexpected reduced
demand) and manufactured stocks at
balance date were appreciably higher
than planned. The year saw an increased
demand for blood and bone and other
organic manures; “home garden” fer-
tilisers were popular.
In the base acids and chemicals field,
sales in most sections were reasonably
well maintained. Sulphuric acid usage
is well recognised as an indicator of
industrial activity and in S.A. the pattern
has been one of steadily increasing
demand, year by year, as the volume
and diversity of secondary industry
rises. Overall the demand for sulphuric
acid indicates a slowing down in expan-
sion of output, rather than a severe
general reduction in industrial activity.
Nevertheless, the acid usage of some of
the larger and more important industries
“centred in this State has been well below
normal levels.”
Last year’s gross profit finally finished
up an improved £244,918 (up £27,194).
Net profit was reckoned at £120,758
(down £4027), after providing £38,960
(up £18,435) for depreciation and setting
aside £74,150 (up £2400) for taxation:
, Dividends ,
4§ p.c. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1951.. 47,673 7,125 12$ p.c. = 27,963 12,585 225,487
Tax underprovided, £SI73 .. .. 217,314
Profit sale assets. £15,440 .. .. 232,754
1952.. 43,997 7,125 12$ p.c. = 27,963 8,909 241,663
Assets revalued, £202,158 . . . . 443,821
Share premiums, £25,000 .. .. 468,821
Reserves capitalised, £74,596 .. .. 394,225
1953.. 64,567 7,125 124 p.c. = 33,685 23,757 417,982
Share premiums, £25,000 .. .. 442,982
1954.. 127.435 7,125 124 p.c. = 48,750 71,560 514,542
Tax underprovided, £7335 .. .. 507,207
1955.-112,772 7,125 121 p.c. = 50,000 55,647 562,851
1956.. 7,125 121 p.c. = 50,000 65,097 627,948
Assets revalued, £277,725 . . . . 905,673
1957.. 441 7.125 121 p.c.^50,000 59,316 964,994
1958.. 109.571 7,125 121 „ ~50,000 52,446 1,017,440
Reserves capitalised, £200,150 .. 817,290
Tax overprovided, £6879 .. .. 824,169
6 p.c.
1959.. 95,204 9,000 8J p.c.=66,G67 19,537 843,706
1960.. 785 9,000 8J p.c.__66,667 49,118 892.824
1961.. 9,000 8J p.c.=66,667 45,091 937,915
After paying £9OOO pref. divs., the
earning rate on the unchanged ord.
capital settled to 14 per cent., compared
with 14.5 per cent, in the previous term
and 10.8 per cent., 25.6 per cent., 27.3
per cent, and 28.8 per cent, back to 1956
(the last three on £400,000 ord. capital,
compared with £BOO,OOO since 1959).
The steady 8 per cent. ord. div.-rate
(absorbing £66,667) was well covered.
Reserves benefited by £45,091, rising to
£937,915 free of intangibles and includ-
ing £286,038 (up £30,883, representing
depreciation set aside in excess of that
allowed by the Tax Commissioner, plus
£B9OO, the difference between the price
received and the book value of a small
block of land which was compulsorily
acquired during the year by the S.A.
Harbors Board) depreciation and plant
replacement reserve. This gives a net
tangible asset backing of £l2 11s. 9d.
for every 20s. 6 per cent. pref. and
435. sd. for each 20s. ord. unit.
The major cost element in the manu-
facture of superphosphate is that of raw
materials. Phosphate rock is supplied
by the British Phosphate Commissioners.
Sulphuric acid is supplied by two


CUSTOM CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
3 MONTHS’
notice
6 MONTHS’
notice
12 MONTHS’
notice
2 YEARS
and now for only
SYEARS
Interest is paid in equal quarterly instalments,
free of exchange.
This is not a Prospectus. Copies of the Pros-
pectus covering these issues have been lodged
with the Registrar of Companies, Sydney.
?A
%
OFFERS TO LONG OR
SHORT TERM INVESTORS
REGISTERED FIRST
MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE
STOCK
CUMULATIVE STOCK 4 TO 20 YEARS, 7 % PER ANNUM
Applications must be made on Forms enclosed in the Prospectus, now available from
ALL MEMBERS OF THE STOCK EXCHANGE
EVERY BRANCH OF THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
All Branches of
CUSTOM CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED
TOO New South Head Road, Edgecliff, Sydney
Secretary-General: Keith Love. Telephone: 32.0111
Branches: Bankstown, Chatswood, Hurstville, Liverpool, Newcastle, Parramatta, Wollongong.
Assets in Australia exceed £BO,OO
CRD 1.86!
associate cos, Sulphuric Acid Ltd and
Nairne Pyrites Ltd, the former manu-
facturing the acid from pyrites mined
by the latter at Nairne in the Adelaide
Hills. Both associates operated satisfac-
torily in last term although at the present
level of acid output there is spare
plant capacity which cannot be utilised
until sales of superphosphate increase.
Sulphuric acid production from pyrites
by Sulphuric Acid Ltd is a high cost
process. It is subsidised by Common-
wealth bounty—a legacy of an endeavour
some ten years ago to encourage manu-
facture of sulphur from local pyrites,
because rising imports of American
elemental sulphur were causing a drain
on dollar resources. During last year the
rate of bounty was amended (by the
Commonwealth Government) in accord-
ance with recommendations made by the
Tariff Board. The Nairne Pyrites Ltd
manufacturing plant was set up in 1951
in a period of high post-war costs and
the new bounty based on the average
needs of producers “is insufficient” and
does not permit of production of super-
phosphate at a cost comparable with
that if the acid were made from im-
ported brimstone. “The rate of Bounty
paid on acid produced from pyrites has
an important bearing on the operation
of the two companies.”
Adelaide Chemicals has essayed the
task of reducing costs by a marked
mechanisation, expansion and re-arrange-
ment of manufacturing and despatch
facilities and in the past four years has
expended something like £500,000 on
fixed assets. Last term saw sharp in-
creases in the book-values of freeholds
and plant, both in at valuation and cost,
and in the case of plant, less depreciation,
the one up £41,742 at £617,846, the
other up £97,333 at £692,968. A new
storage building incorporating an over-
head crane and high capacity facilities
for bagging and handling superphosphate
was completed on schedule. A seven-
acre site adjoining the Port Adelaide
works was purchased:
Paid capital—- 1959. 1960. 1961.
Pref £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
Ord 800,000 800,000 800,000
Reserves .. .. 843,706 892,824 937,915
Creditors .. 138,320 137,808 121,568
Tax provision .. 48,379 72,351 v 4,699
Final divs. .. 37,834 37,834 37,834
£2,018,239 £2,090,817 £2,122,016
Freeholds .. 382,750 576,104 617,846
Plant .. .. 566,012 595,635 692,968
Shares .. .. 150,005 150,005 150,005
Stock .. .. 376,578 270,965 349,856
Debtors .. .. 172,862 230,598 171,298
Cash, bonds .. 370,032 267,510 140,043
£2,018,239 £2,090,817 £2,122,016
Shares in associated cos remained
steady. Stock on hand was substan-
tially higher (up £78,891 at £349,856).
Cash was reduced to £140,043 (down
£127,467) through expenditure on fixed
assets. Theoretical working capital
declined by £93,984 to £427,096 setting
the current ratio at 2.8 to 1 (3.1 to 1
at June 30, 1960; 4.1 to 1 at June 30,
1959).
“Contrary to popularly held beliefs,
phosphorus deficiency and not rainfall
is the main limiting factor in crop and
pasture production in vast areas of this
State and, indeed throughout Australia”
said Adelaide Chemical's chairman, Mr
F. L. Harcus, September last. “Of the
future of fertilisers in general, it is true
to say that vast areas of land have yet
to receive optimum fertiliser application.
More importantly, the company's main
product, superphosphate, is still the most
appropriate fertiliser for the types of
soil found in South Australia.” Thus the
long-term prospects for an increasing
demand for artificial fertilisers, particu-
larly superphosphate, look encouraging.
The growth of population, together with
an expanding world demand for wheat,
wool and other produce ensures a
steadily growing demand. An increasing
disposition towards aerial spraying
should also help. The immediate
seasonal outlook in S.A. looks favorable
and Adelaide Chemical’s sales can be
expected to improve in the current term.
At the last sale in Adelaide the 20s. ords.
fetched 345. 2d. a unit. The immediate
return is 4.9 per cent, on the basis of
the present 8j per cent, dividend rate.
H. L. Brisbane and Wunderlich
Ltd
T'vesigned to restrain boom conditions
which had been developing for some
time in the more highly industrialised
States, the Government’s economic
measures, introduced in last November,
were directed primarily at N.S.W. and
Victoria. Business activity in Western
Australia was reduced, too, but, certainly,


~w» ^
The se
/•
j'
m
in
O
(or 8 and 10 y«' S
P.A.
m
'■ v
.
Wi
REG. FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
An investment in Reid Murray
Acceptance Ltd. is an investment
in one of Australia’s best-backed
Companies. All told, the Reid
Murray group includes: 197 Retail
Stores, 7 Wholesale Warehouses,
Real Estate Companies in 5 States,
and the Finance Company for the
group—Reid M urray Acceptance Ltd.
Applications accepted only on forms at-
tached to the Prospectus. Available from:
REID MURRAY ACCEPTANCE LTD.
403 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 67 1924
Any branch of the
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Any member of a
RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE IN AUST.
Or Joint Underwriting Brokers
TOLHURST, HENLEY, MUNCKTON & CO.
401 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melb.
CUTTEN & HARVEY
97 King William Street, Adelaide
Members of Stock Exch. of Adelaide Ltd.
FIXED LONG TERM STOCK
9%
80q
8%
7ir»
.... 8-10 YEARS
P.A. .
.... 5 YEARS
P.A. .
3 YEARS
P.A. ...
P.A 2 YEARS
SHORT TERM NOTICE STOCK
Wo
6fo
5%
P.A.—on 12 months' notice
P.A.—on 6 months' notice
P.A.—on 3 months' notice
PAID-UP CAPITAL £7,000,000
RMA.22V
GUARANTEED BY REID'MURRAY HOLDINGS LTD.
to nowhere near the same extent as in
the Eastern States.
Here then, in a relatively stable West,
escaping the full frost of the credit
squeeze, the W.A.-registered H.L. Bris-
bane and Wunderlich Ltd prospered. The
co. wrote record sales figures in the 12
months to June 30 last, boosting aggre-
gate turnover, for the group as a whole,
by £314,651 to £2,131,278.
B. and W. is the largest manufacturer
of roofing tiles and the main supplier of
stainless steel products to the Western
Australian market, as well as a glass mer-
chant and shopfitter. As such, its pro-
gress, at least to a large extent, is neces-
sarily tied to rates of activity in the
building industry. Other products turned
out by the B. and W. group include stone-
ware, sewerage pipes, aluminium window
frames, etc., and curtain walling,
crockery, pottery, bricks, glazed archi-
tectural terracotta, facing tiles and
refractories.
The co. was formed originally in 1929
as H. L. Brisbane and Co. Ltd. It
adopted its present title in 1938 when
the big N.S.W.-Wunderlich Ltd acquired
a substantial shareholding in exchange
for interests held in W.A. Today their
are eight factories including the premises
and plant of Lusterite Plastic Products
Pty taken over in last term.' The
Lusterite deal inaugurated B. and W.
entry into the rapidly developing plastic
industry. At the same time B. and W.
moved in on the small business of
Chemical Welding Co. Pty (also engaged
in the plastics industry), amalgamated
the two businesses, and centralised
activity in the Lusterite plant. The two
deals were satisfied by the issue of an
aggregate 5739 shares lifting paid
ordinary capital to £665,043, all in 20s.
units,, as at close of the accounts. In
the previous term B. and W. had taken
over Bouchers Industries Ltd for a pur-
chase consideration involving issue of
70,000 20s. ords.
The scope of B. and W.’s activities,
and the range of products manufactured,
helps the co. cope with fluctuations in
the levels of home and commercial
building in W.A. In last term, as was
envisaged, business opened on a
buoyant note with substantial contracts
on hand and a large number of orders
held in all departments. Economic stric-
tures lowered turnover in the closing
months of the year, “but with the present
programme of industrial expansion
planned for the State this can only be
of a temporary nature.” Even so, and
despite a small drop in the rate of home
building, B. and W. enjoyed a larger
share of the available market for roofing,
and sales of terracotta tiles increased.
The co. has expanded its range of
aluminium products both absolutely and
in measure of variety—the association
with Wunderlich Ltd and the Cupples
Corporation of St Louis, U.S.A., helping
no end. Two important contracts were
completed last term, in the aluminium
field:—the aluminium curtain wall con-
tract for the new Rural and Industries
Bank, Barrack Street, Perth, and the


g?gr
~1»onl/&di.
SHWiur
' Penfolds
I Amontillado Sherry
; Full-bodied, dry
'/jzfcfO.v/Jtfi
SHERRY
Penfolds Pale
Dry Fino Sherry
A classic sherry
ft
<2
n
o
00
000
0000
00000
M.
cfymd.3&ti
SHERRY
Penfolds Special
Flor Sherry
Delicately blended
FOR
PERFECT WINES
Penfolds Club Port
Mellow perfection
i'ftr
m
.fa.n:i:
Penfolds Private
Bin Port
Full aged, tawny
supply of aluminium windows, doors
and aluminium facings for the new Fre-
mantle Harbor Trust Passenger ier-
minal.
At the B. and W. Subiaco-based
factory, there has been a concentration
on the development of new and improved
types of sanitaryware and these are now
in production. This factory also con-
tinues to produce crockery for the Aus-
tralian market, including Government
institutions in all States. There is as yet
no indication that the development of
deep sewerage will be undertaken in
W.A., and until this eventuates, B. and
W. cannot anticipate any marked im-
provement in the sales of earthenware
sewerage pipes,
Glazed architectural terracotta tiles
produced at the Brown Street factory
were used as a facing to the lift tower
on the new Rural and Industries Bank
and on the new T. and G. Building being
erected in St. George's Terrace, Perth,
Latest results confirm overall expan-
sion and general resilience. Gross trading
profit jumped £41,057 to £394,063 and
net profit, arrived at after writing-off
£147,634 (up £23,060) to general ex-
penses, setting aside £51,528 (up £2974))
for depreciation and providing £67,800
(up £l5) for taxation, moved ahead a
solid £16,622, or 15 p.c., to £128,661:
Parent Only.
t Dividends ~ To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. r Ord. serves. serves.
5 p.c.
£ £ £ £ £
1952.. 57,749 4436 10 p.c. =18,964 34,349 219,914
To staff fund, £5150 214,764
1953.. 80,729 4437 12$ p.c. =33,664 42.628 257,392
To staff fund, £5OOO i 252,392
Tax overprovided, £16,567 . . . . 268,959
1954.. 4436 12$ p.c. =41,282 77,865 346,824
Reserves capitalised, £84,049 .. 262,775
To staff fund, £3924 258,851
1955.. 4436 12$ p.c. =53,827 76,741 335,592
To staff fund, £250 335,342
Tax underprovided, £5OBO .. .. 330,262
1956.. 572 4436 121 p.c. =73,664 23,472 353,734
1957.. 4436 12$ „ =73,663 22,061 375,795
Tax overprovided, £4744 .. .. 380,539
6 p.c.
1958.. 5323 12$ p.c. =73,663 26,969 407,508
Plant w/off, £14,765 392,743
To staff fund, £1126 .. .. 391,617
Parent and Subsidiaries.
1959.. 90,464 5324 10 p.c. =58,930 26,210 417,827
To staff fund, £1692 416,135
To long-service leave, £3OOO .. .. 413,135
Added on consolidation, £81,935 . . 495,070
1960.. 5324 10 p.c. =62,430 44,285 539,355
To staff fund, £6461 . . . 532,894
Reduction, difference between par and
book value of shares in subsids.
£13,869 519,025
1961.. 661.5324 10 p.c. =66,504 56,833 575,858
The earning rate on average ord. capital
at 18.5 p.c. compared favorably with
17.1 p.c. in the previous term and 14.4
p.c., 17 p.c., 16.2 p.c. and 16.4 p.c. back
to 1956. The relevant figure in 1955
was 30.3 p.c. The earning rate on share-
holders' funds rose from 8.6 p.c. in 1960
to 9.6 p.c. in 1961 —9.5 p.c. in 1958 and
8.2 p.c. in 1959.
The steady 6 p.c. pref.-div. absorbed
£5324. The ord.-div. at 10 p.c., took
£66,504 (up £4074) —ord. divs., held at
p.c. from 1953 to 1958, were reduced
to 10 p.c. in 1959. Reserves received
£56,833 and alter sundry deductions (see
profit table) totalled £575,858, free of
intangibles.
B. and W.'s balance-sheet, taken all
round, is a well integrated statement,
exhibiting little change from that of the
previous year:—
Parent , Parent and ,
Old i’. Subsidiaries.
Capital— 1959. 1960. 1961.
Pref £88,733 £88,733 £88,733
Ord . . . . 589,304 659,304 665.043
Reserves .. .. 417,827 539,356 575,858
Staff fund .. - 24,800 32,193 36,582
Overdraft . . 103,282 213,320 229,855
Loans . . .. 80.000 2,500 2,500
Creditors .. 84,465 157,043 117,055
Tax provision .. 45,21< 69,642 67,698
Final divs. .. 32,127 35,627 35,914
£1,465,755 £1,797,717 £1,819,238
Freeholds . . 406,101 495,203 513,708
Plant, etc. . . 354,339 389.486 890,153
Stock* .. .. 473,350 609,918 634,867
Debtors . . . . 231,548 302,728 279,927
Cash, etc. . . 417 382 583
£1,465,755 £1,797,717 £1,819,238
* Includes work-in-progress, less progress-payments.
There was an improvement in the co.’s
liquid position, the current ratio rising
from 1.8 to 1 to 1.9 to 1. Theoretical
working capital appeared to be adequate.
Stocks advanced £24,949 to £634,867-
Debtors dropped £22,801 to £279,927.
Bank overdraft was increased by £16,535
to £229,855. Sundry creditors w'ere
reduced by £39,988 to £117,055. Fixed
asset investment was much lighter than
in the previous term when the Boucher


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO JOHN NEIL. -TAKE NOTICE that
BERENICE MARY ROBINSON NEIL lias
tiled a Petition for Divorce No. 2097 of 1901 on
the ground of desertion without just: cause or
excuse for two feat* and upward*. If you
wish to defend you may enter an answer in
the Divorce Registry Mint Building Macepiarie
Street Sydney by the 24th day of November
lin'd and obtain a copv of the Petition without
charge from O K OFF ft L Y SEE, OfLLfS & CO.,
Solicitors, gs Martin Place. Sidney. C. A. 11.
HARMS. Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —ill Divorce.
TO JACK ID ERA BLACK (Known as Jack
Murra Denham) TAKE NOTICE that
KATHLEEN ELLEN BLACK (Known as
Kathleen Ellen Denhano has tiled a Petition
for Divorce No. 122 s of Rail oil the ground
of desertion Without just cause or excuse for
two years and Upwards. ft you wish to defend
you may enter an answer in the Divorce
Registry. Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney within six weeks from the publication
of ihis notice and obtain a copy of tin 1
Petition without charge from HKOFFREY
SEE. blhl.rs & CO., Solicitors, 23 Martin
Place, Sydney. C. A. If. HARMS Registrar.
IN tiff: SUPREME COURT OF VICTORIA.
No. 1121 of 1961.
TO DOCOLAS HFXItY MOON of address unknown.
TAKK NOTH’F that your wile NOKI.A JAC'QI’E-
I.INF MOON has- insf ittited Divorce Proceedings
against you in tin- Supreme Court of Victoria for
dissolution (if her fnatviage to vou on the ground
of desertion AND FURTHER TAKK NOTICE that
unless you file an answer herein in the office of the
Registrar Supreme Court Melbourne on or before
the 2Sfh (lav of November 1861 the ease may pro-
ceed in your absence. KENNETH CHARLES
HAINES of tin firm of MeCINDI.E A HAINES, lot)
Once,i Street, Melbourne, Solicitor for the Petitioner.
IN THE SUPREME COTRT OF NEW SOUTH
WALLS In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM THOMAS DAVIDSON late of 2 Bel-
grave Street Btirwood N.s.W. TAKE NOTICE that
IDA MAROARET DAVIDSON has tiled a Petition
for Divorce No. 2389 of 1961 on the grounds of
<h serf ion and failure to pay maintenance if ton
wish to defend you may enter an answer in the
Divorce Registry Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney by the Bth December 1961 and obtain a
cop\ of the Petition without charge from MESSRS.
A. .1. L. ROFE y N. A. MOFFITT, Solicitors, 79-81
Pitt Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES —In Divorce.
TO JUNE IRENE BROWN late of 72 Street
Braddon, Australian Capital. Territory —TAKE
NOTICE that WILLIAM ALDINGTON BR/UVN has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2V>BB oU lag on R, e
grounds of your adultery with JOHN
HAMILTON and of desertion If y *;>> defend
you may enter an answer in the y lv Gict Registry
Mint Building Macquarie Street S„'. vt !.!J£ y Jy the Bth
December 1901 and obtain a copy % r e Petition
without charge from MESSRS. A. . <•«.'. ROFE &
N. A. MOFFrTT, Solicitors, 79-81 Pitt .reet, Svdnev.
—C. A. 11. HARMS, Registrar.
For Sale
£I2—ENGINES
Brand New 1 h.p., specially designed Simplex
Engines. 55c.cs. Air cooled. Suitable for
charging plants and multiple other uses.
Selling 100 per cent, below cost at £l2 (fully
guaranteed). Also-2 x A ton Electric Hoists as
new. £l7b (cost £d!0). Block and T'ackle, 1
ton capacity also available, £2O. Write
“ENGINES,” C o r. 0., Double Bay, Sydney,
Or phone EB 45i>7.
NEWINGTON COLLEGE
Stanmore (N.S.W.)
APPOINTMENTS FOR 1962
GEOGRAPHY MATHEMATICS
APPLICATIONS are invited from Masters
experienced in teaching Geography or Mathe-
matics at senior level.
Salary in line with latest Department oi
Education Agreement.
FLAT AVAILABLE.
Full particulars obtainable on application to:
THE ACTING HEADMASTER, EM 4662.
deal went through. The book values of
freeholds and plant, in at conservative
reckoning, advanced £18,505 to £513,708
and £667 to £390,153, respectively.
But last term’s efforts aside, what ol
the future? The 20s. ords. at 475. 6d.,
yield 4.2 p.c.—net tangibles, at dose of
accounts, weighed up 375. 4d. Is invest-
ment a worthwhile proposition at present
prices? Can the buyer expect capital
gains in the next year or so? Can he
expect div. increases?
According to chairman Mr Lance Bris-
bane. September 29 last, “Through the
efforts of our Government.... major
basic industries have been attracted to
Western Australia and its large mineral
reserves are being opened up. As a
result, we can look forward to a period
of planned industrial expansion un-
paralled in our history, ensuring the
progressive development of the State for
many years ahead. Your company must
share in this general progress and, with
a growing demand for its large range of
essential building materials assured, can
look to the future with confidence."
Mr Brisbane’s hopes appear to be well
founded and his co.'s rebuttal of the
credit squeeze assures it a ready participa-
tion in Western Australian progress.
B. and W. can he reckoned on improving
profits again during the current term, and
with the good margin, over and above
div. payout, profit-wise, it is not improb-
able that the div.-rate could be raised —
perhaps, even, a resumption of the 124
p.c. rate attained.
From a capital point of view, the ords.
look a good buy at present prices, but
for long-term rather than short-term
holding. Spectacular gains are out, but
div. increases likely.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 663
Across
I—Boatmen1 —Boatmen ban horses. (7)
s—No5 —No handicap allowed this slight wound. (7)
B—Strikes8 —Strikes call one on a varlet. (II)
II Bowling a spinner—and in command! (2. 3)
13 —Teen-agers offering a comfort to the unemployed
perfumes. (II)
15 — The roast is affected by this
electrical heat controller. (8)
16 — Magistrate scattering acid. (4)
18 — Yours Truly bowling against a
home of Celtic Christianity. (4)
19— -Yours Truly is favorite and
Yours Truly leaves a skin
trouble. (8)
23 — You must mention a card game
for fear that work is not a
major station. (7, 4)
24 — Violin maker and I must be
after a floor covering. (5)
26 —High dudgeon scrambled an egg
—rear it! (7, 4)
28 — Brooklyn’s proud of such pub-
licity evaders. (7)
29 — They have some achievement in
music circles, by the way. (7)
Down
1 — Drinking counter managed to pen
a city in Ecuador. (12)
2 Rambustious epitaph behaving
like Leo. (3-7)
3 Shunned little Esmond used his
molars. (8)
4 Comforts the sun with high
honors. (7)
6 Bill with this business circle. (3)
7 No lady is sour. (4)
9 —When I am in 18-across, a Greek
island appears. (5)
10 —One’s ill-written feature. (4)
12 —It’s good round one porno-
graphic journalism in train, (5, 7)
14 —Transport for trekkers with the
expressed joker from a grain
town. (5, 5)
17 —Diana and a church caretaker
who deviates? (8)
20 — A L.ondon vale bears the name
of her when I am written up by
the American prosecutor. (5)
21 — Involves restrictions on disposal
of inherited estates in a silent
muddle. (7)
22 — Criticise the finish of the nit-
wit. (4)
25 —Voracious prima donna comes
up. (4)
27 —Listener. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 662


Businessmen want facts and
want them fast. An accurate
report of things that matter
financially is essential to every
executive. But the facts must be
brief! Read all the essential financial and
business news in THE AUSTRALIAN
FINANCIAL TIMES —clear, concise infor
mation —fast! Out every Monday.
Ilfs Be
%
THE AUSTRALIAN
FINANCIAL
SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
AUSTRALIA: £4/5/-' per year.
Mail coupon to “Circulation Manager,”
Australian Financial Times,
Box 185 C, G.P.0.,
Melbourne, C. 1, Victoria.
NEW ZEALAND: Air Mail Subscription
Rate £7/-/- for year.
Mail coupon to: Box 965, G.P.0.,
Wellington, New Zealand.
