

The Bulletin
V.
*
August 12, 1961
DR GOUGH’S
“GOOD NEWS”
<p
<s*
KF.JQSl_afi_a_BeggE


The most advanced silo yet introduced!
The new
ORB
LYSAGHT
All-purpose SILO
* Patent Pending 55007/59
Years ahead, with
full-size “walk-in”
at no extra cost.
door
¥
¥
m
m
sm
m
wwywwMiuwi
ii
W W? !Ml IWMMIi »tyM
. ?
*
r$
■
i
■- ip: *A ' ' ,
iilii' iii ii *
S3**
:2>SSSp*£®S3
, - J
4f:K
EACH FEATURE PLANNED TO SAVE TIME AND MONEY!
• Full-Size "Walk-In" Door (silos from 1,200 bushels up-
wards) enables the silos to be emptied and cleaned with a
minimum of time, effort and discomfort.
• Easier, Faster, Cheaper Erection.
• Vertically Rigidised Walls and 6-Ply Horizontal
Ribs for added strength.
• Revolutionary New Robust Positive-Action Bagging
Outlet —— complete with bag holder and steel cover.
• Sampling Outlet and Auger Chute in bottom bulk-
head behind door.
• Improved Centre and Side-Filling Hole Assemblies
complete with hinged lids and positive fastenings.
• Wider Turned-Down Eaves on Roof Panels.
• Fully Rodent-Proof Construction.
ALL THESE PLUS THE FOLLOWING OPTIONAL EXTRAS!
Cuts overall costs up to £lOO
• Easy-to-install Heavy-Gauge Steel Floor . . . suitable for
conical or flat bases.
• Steel Earth Ring.
PRICES (F'.O.R. Newcastle) AUGERS
Highly efficient vertical Grain
Augers designed to centre fill
all Lysaght Silos from 1,200
B. to 3,700 B. are available.
Prices; £97. £10», £ll*.
(F.O.R, Newcastle.)
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
Offices in Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Fremantle.


The
Bulletin
AUGUST 12, 1961
Vol. 82
No. 4252
ANSWERS TO
CONTRIBUTORS
M. 8.: We’re afraid we can’t say
“Finders Keepers”... .T.P.: Sorry,
we have no place for a tale about
a Siamese cat with two tails....
H.8.G.: You have a long way to
g0....W.D.: “George’s Place” is
off-limits for u5....J.N.: We
would have to wait for the next
census to run your story “On
Record” so it is being returned.
. ...E.8.: Try something for
a woman’s magazine. .. .S.P.:
Well it rhymes. .. . M. 0.: No feel-
ing can make its presence felt
through that wad of poetic cliches.
K.L.:
On second thoughts I’ll have
another drink.
There’s one thing about booze,
it makes you think.
Well, next time you’re about to
write us a poem would you rush
to the nearest pub and get blotto!
. ...C.A.: You’ve got a pleasant
style, but you have precious little
to 5ay....A.N.: You wrote a
sonnet all right, but do you expect
us to award verbal gymnastics?
... .P.J.8.: You may write verse if
you can discipline yourself: as it
is you are trying to say so much
that you say nothing... .L.M.:
Stop, please! You sent us a poem
only two weeks ago. In the first
week you sent us four corrections
to it, but it could not be salvaged.
Since we rejected it five more cor-
rections have arrived... .P.F. :
“At night I lie awake and weep,
The lonely owl its vigil keeps.”
Try reading “The Magic Moun-
tain”. ...M.M.: “Buy wool for
yourselves, your family, your
friends. You’ll have ample return
for the money you spend.” The
sentiment is fine, even if you do
write from a sheep station, but the
poetry is a little synthetic.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street.
Sydney; Box 2521; Phone: 27 5971.
A question I would ask of you
I here make bold to say
Is very brief. Is this a poem?
Please answer, Yea or Nay.
IN THIS ISSUE
Life Without Migrants
IN the pre-war years we were content in our isolation, but eventually we
awoke to the need for large-scale immigration if our population was to
build to a healthy figure in a short time. Once the immigration flow
started we presumed it would continue of its own volition. However, the
unemployment figures and the Bonegilla camp riots cast doubts on our
ability to absorb migrants and Desmond O’Grady’s article in this issue
points out that European migrants may become increasingly hard to get.
The Italian economic miracle means there is a highly competitive
market in Italy for the skilled worker. Italy estimates that by 1975 its
industry will need ten million semi-skilled workers as against slightly over
four million unskilled workers, so there will be few left for emigration.
Germany is already recruiting in Australia skilled tradesmen. The more
prosperous the giant Common Market bloc becomes the more will our
sources of migrants dry up. We will have to revise our fond picture of all
Europe queued up awaiting ships to this promised land. The migrant
flow will certainly continue for some time but it does not require much
foresight to see that, in proportion, as Europe prospers, the migrants
offering will become less and less desirable.
The Common Market could absorb all our migrants but before it
does let us hope it shocks us into some constructive and imaginative plan-
ning of our own. For a start we should be quite clear about what the
Common Market is and what it means. After all, it was discussed for years
before the Rome Treaty was signed in 1957 but it burst upon us like a
mother’s sudden death only when Britain joined. The economic and,
possibly, political co-operation of a bloc which rivals the United States
and Russia, it implies a complete rethinking of our relationships.
If we are as vigorous as we like to believe, we should rise to the
challenge the Common Market presents. It is first of all an economic
challenge and already, as the Sydney Trade Fair shows, there are ample
opportunities for Australian initiative. Not only do European nations
expect greater contact with us when we drop what remains of Empire
preference, but we are splendidly situated for trade with Asia. The flank-
ing continents of Africa and South America are magnificent prospective
markets. All that is inhibiting trade with South America at the moment
is the shortage of shipping. But that situation is not necessarily static
a Latin American Common Market could change it overnight.
The Common Market is the result of statesmanship—of large scale,
imaginative political thinking. It also hews close to the economic realities
without which ambitious designs become mere rhetoric. Once we recog-
nise what gave rise to the Common Market we realise that a similar
brand of statesmanship is greatly needed here.


This Australia
LAW
The
Simpson Case
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
A. RYLAH
Called for a report
An amazing legal and administrative
muddle which caused an innocent
youth to spend two months in Pentridge
jail has been made the subject of an
official inquiry by the Chief Secretary,
Mr A. Rylah. But for the tenacity of
his mother, the victim —Murray Burn
Simpson, 21 —would have undoubtedly
spent more time there. Saying he was
shocked at what had happened, Judge
Rapke commented: “So Simpson has
served two months’ jail when he should
not have served beyond a few days.”
Simpson, a laborer living at East
Preston, was convicted in Collingwood
Court on May 21 on three counts of
having stolen car wheel parts. The Crown
alleged he had acted in concert with two
other youths by driving them around in
his car while they committed the thefts.
He was sentenced to six months’ jail and
taken to Pentridge. On June 8, his
mother, Mrs Iris Bone, went to Pentridge
and paid in the balance of the £3 required
to lodge her son’s appeal. She was given
a receipt signed by a Mr Pearce. She
rang the Crown Law Department several
times to see when her son’s appeal would
be heard, but each time was told it had
not been listed. On July 25 she again
phoned, this time in a state of anxiety
after seeing a notice that appeals not
entered would be dismissed.
In fact, her son’s appeal had not been
“entered” and had, in a technical sense,
been dismissed. Fortunately for Simp-
son, his mother's representations alerted
Crown law officials to the fact that some-
thing was astray. As a result, the appeal
was reinstated and the case heard by
Judge Rapke on July 28. Before hearing
the appeal, Judge Rapke questioned Mrs
Bone and asked if anybody had come
from Pentridge to explain the failure to
“enter” Simpson’s appeal. Mr John Read
(for the Crown) said that Mr Pearce had
been asked to come to court to explain
why the £3 had not be appropriated to
the appeal but had declined to do so.
The judge then heard the appeal. Simp-
son denied telling the police that he had
known in advance of the planned thefts
and his evidence was supported by one
of the two youths convicted with h : m.
Judge Rapke then quashed the convic-
tion against Simpson. Had the appeal
been “entered” on June 8 (the day on
which Mrs Bone paid the fees) it would
have been dealt with promptly, the judge
added.
Outside the court, Simpson attacked
“slipshod” methods at Pentridge and said
there were probably other prisoners being
wrongly held there through not having
friends to watch their interests as his
mother had watched his.
A Crown Law official explained that
the act of “entering” an appeal followed
on the payment of the appeal fees and
resulted in the case being listed and set
down for hearing. If there was no
“entry,” the appeal was struck off the
register. The appeal could be reinstated
up until the time it was struck off, but
once this was done there could be no
application for reinstatement. Luckily
for Simpson, the application for reinstate-
t was made before the striking out
of his appeal was made in the register.
Otherwise, the law’s inexorable processes
would have kept him in Pentridge for
the full time of his sentence.
jv[ r Rylah called for a report which was
prepared by the Law Department secre-
tary, Mr H. C. Chipman, the Director-
General of Social Welfare, Mr A. R
Whatmore and the Director of Prisons]
Mr E. V. Shade. From Mr Rylah, the file
was passed to Judge Rapke, and Mr
J-° a statement
after he has discussed the affair with the
Juc l^ e ‘ < •, .. „
Meanwhile the wits are saying Pent-
ridge compensates itself for its escapees
by retaining prisoners who should not be
there. There was, for example, the bungle
j n March, 1960, when Sir Charles Low,
Mr Justice O’Bryan and Mr Justice Hud-
son sa t vvaiting for several hours for a
dozen prisoners whose appeals they were
to hea - at 10.30. At about 2.45 p.m. the
Chief Penal Officer, Mr Richard Asche,
appeared and apologised for not deliver-
ing the vanload of appellants. He had
been confused about dates, Asche said,
This did not spare him from being repri-
manded for “laxity and inattention to
duty” by the court.
POLITICS
The Meat in the Sandwich
FROM A HOBART CORRESPONDENT
'T'asmanian politics have rendered the
word “crisis” meaningless: while
Parliament is sitting there is a “crisis”
almost every day. Last week’s crisis
arose over Liberal allegations of un-
seemly behaviour by Speaker Charlie
Aylett.
It was Mr Angus Bethune, whose
shrewdness of purpose and general popu-
larity have given new significance to the
Opposition, who brought the questions
about the Speaker into the open. Mr
Aylett, he said, should resign.
The Caucus met hastily. Whatever
members’ private views may have been,
their attitude was certainly stiffened by
what went on in the party room. Mr
Aylett, like Senator Bill Aylett (now
representing Tasmania from the Gold
Coast), is capable of taking a strongly
independent line when his ideas of what
is good for Charlie Aylett are threatened
by party dicta.
The party decided to support him,
which made a political issue out of it.
Bethune, who had agreed that this would
be deplorable, now had to lead a debate,
aware that the Independent Mr Wedd,
at least, was certain to support the
Government, and that the result would
be irrelevant, anyway, since the Speaker
is an officer of the House and no
majority vote could restore the minority’s
confidence in him.
Mr Bethune said that the principal
complaints against Mr Aylett were that
he had entertained visiting yachtsmen at
an “alcoholic party” at the House, had
worn the Speaker’s robes while serving
beers behind the bar in his Hobart pub,
and had occupied the chair when his con-
dition to do so was questionable. Mr
Aylett (“I am just the meat in the sand-
wich”) claimed that the move was against
the Government. No one, he said, had
come to him and said, “Charlie, you’re
doing the wrong thing.” His electors,
who had been putting him back for 15
years, would be his judges, he said.
“It is said that I slept in the chair. I
plead guilty. Every other member has
fallen asleep in the House.” The ven-
tilation was poor, he said, and he had
to walk occasionally in the fresh air for


a reviver. He denied “a wild story” of
his having conducted a mock Parliament
to entertain the yachtsmen. He had
entertained them in his office. The mace
had been brought in because they were
interested in its symbolic significance.
He had been “one third guilty" of wear-
ing the robes in his hotel, having been
called there on the night of his birthday
from the House. He had removed the
gown but kept his coat and vest on.
Under the Premier’s frank threat of a
dissolution if the vote went against him,
the House divided, 17-13, Independents
Wedd, Hodgman and Jackson voting with
the Government. “Does anyone want an
election?” a Liberal member countered
when asked at the weekend how he felt
about the defeat. “But,” he added, “I'd
face one over the Government’s failures
if Uncle Reece doesn't replace his miss-
ing ministers pretty soon.”
RACING
The Jockey Club
Election
FROM BRENDAN O’HARA IN SYDNEY
MR JUSTICE DOVEY
In the “spill”
IT all came about when Mr Norman E.
Jones, the deputy chairman of British
Tobacco Co. (Aust.) Ltd, decided to
submit his name as a candidate for the
Australian Jockey Club committee in its
first ful-scale election since 1938. By so
doing he has caused a “spill” of all posi-
tions, and the 10 retiring members, led
by the chairman, Sir Alan Potter, and
vice-chairman, Mr Justice Dovey, who
would otherwise have been certain of
unopposed re-election, will now have to
face their 1700 “electors."
Although he has not done “the done
thing," members complain that the ballot
paper, drawn up by the officials, is
“loaded" against Mr Jones. Looking at
the “voting paper," as it is termed, it
does seem unusual. The paper lists “the
retiring members of the committee seek-
ing re-election" alphabetically and then
“other candidate Jones, Norman Ellis,
nominated by E. K. White and N. F.
Vincent." One A.J.C. member, Mr E. S.
Miller, Q.C., said: “It seems to me a
strange way of compiling a voting paper."
Although some members are complain-
ing of the procedure, one of the nomina-
tors, Mr Noel F. Vincent, said, “I don’t
think there was any malice. I think it
was something about which they had
not had a great deal of experience.’’
But the ballot fuss is likely to have
repercussions which even the A.J.C. com-
mittee may not as yet have realised. For
many years some members of the New
South Wales Labor Government have
cast a jaundiced class-conscious eye at
what they regard as a privileged aristo-
cracy. Some members make no secret
of the fact that they will not be happy
until the A.J.C. is stripped of its wide
(but necessary) powers over racing. One
Minister at a meeting of a Labor league
recently said that the Government is
reviewing the powers and functions of the
A.J.C. and Labor’s “rank and file,” so it
is said, is anxious to limit the powers of
the A.J.C. The A.L.P. executive is to
discuss the matter at one of its future
executive meetings.
One reason why the A.J.C. is looked
upon unfavorably by some Labor men
is that they are anxious for the Sydney
Turf Club to take over the powers of the
A.J.C. The S.T.C. would like to see a
“tote-monopoly,'’ which apart from
doing away with bookies, would provide
a great increase in revenue to the Gov-
ernment.
There is no doubt the A.J.C. has wide
powers. It recently “warned off" Syd-
ney’s glamor - punter “Hollywood”
George Edser, cancelled bookmaker Jack
Larg's licence and in an effort to “clean-
up racing" its licensing sub-committee
questioned eight jockeys and six appren-
tices about various off-course activities
and associations.
The committee of the A.J.C. operates
under the Australian Jockey Club Act of
1873 (amended in 1935 and 1958), and it
has powers “to make by-laws and to de-
cide the admission to. or expulsion from,
the racecourse of such persons it con-
siders undesirable, providing such laws
are not ‘repugnant to the laws for the
time being in force in New South
Wales.’ ” And, because everyone who
goes on a racecourse is bound by the
200-odd Australian rules of racing agreed
upon by the A.J.C., the Victorian Racing
Club, and similar bodies in each State,
any person who is “warned off" a race-
course by the A.J.C. is automatically for-
bidden admission to any racecourse in
Australia.
According to one report the Govern-
ment is considering appointing a “watch-
dog” to the A.J.C. committee —presum-
ably to keep an eye on how it uses its
powers and to “watch” its assets of
£1,063,000, a turnover last year of
£900,000 and a profit last year of
£10,900.
RELIGION
No Mass
for Monash
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
'T'he Council of Monash University has
* banned religious services within the
university precincts until such time as a
chapel is built. This curious decision was
made known after Catholic students had
sought permission to have mass celebrated
in a lecture theatre. A fortnight elapsed
before the vice-chancellor, Dr J. A. L.
Matheson, made it clear that the ruling
was not directed against Catholics, but
applied to all religious services. Prior to
the Catholic application, the university's
Anglican chaplain had also been refused
the use of a classroom for religious ser-
vices.
The belated announcement cleared up
any false impressions that Monash coun-
cil was discriminating against Catholics,
but most university people remained
amazed at the reason given by Dr
Matheson for the ban. This consisted of
a claim that if lecture theatres were used
for religious services, disputes might
arise between religious and non-religious
factions.
Dr Matheson found himself under
fire from a Catholic and an atheist at the
Melbourne University. The Catholic
was David McKenna, president of the
students’ club at Newman College, who
pointed out that mass had been celebrated
in the mathematics theatre at Melbourne
University and in various classrooms at
Sydney and Adelaide Universities with-
out provoking the dissension feared by
the Monash authorities.
The atheist critic was David Armstrong,
philosophy lecturer, who had recently
given the inaugural address to the free-
thought society at Monash under the
title, “God is Evil.” “It is one of the great
lessons that a university has to teach," he
said, “that it is possible for different
groups freely to hold different ideals and
freely to pursue different ways of life
without an attempt to restrict the activi-
ties of any one group in the interest of
a spurious harmony."
All that Messrs McKenna and Arm-
strong received for their advocacy of
tolerance and free controversy was this
final squelch from Dr Matheson: “Uni-
versity councils always have a hard task
to take fair and liberal decisions in
controversial matters, but in religious
affairs, which are so often characterised
by the intolerance of the protagonists,
their task is almost impossible.”
It is a situation which invites the
student spirit of revolt to direct itself
to the novel task of organising secret
religious services at the university.
Even the atheists would be sympathetic
and might be persuaded to act as
cockatoos.


POLITICAL POINTS
Down on
the Levy
LAURIE SHORT
Not joking
Some cynical people in the trade-union
movement are suggesting that the
president of the Australian Council of
Trade Unions, Albert Ernest Monk, may
go overseas during September. Nothing
really remarkable in that for he is always
flying out of Australia to attend some
convention or other. But if he did he
would miss the biennial conference of
the A.C.T.U. which will be held on the
4th of September at Paddington Town
Hall. Sydney. He would also get out
of a situation which is certainly worry-
ing him and he has at last realised that
Mr Laurie Short, of the Federated Iron-
workers’ Association and other unionists
are not joking on the levy issue.
Recently when a Right-wing trade-
union official told him that the unions
which so far had failed to pay the levy
(struck to finance the visits of Chinese
“trade-union officials”) were not bluffing,
and that he had better do something
quickly, he blew up. He is in a difficult
position and he knows it.
Although there are quite a few unions
who have so far failed to pay their
affiliation fees (the levy is a first charge
on affiliation fees) at least 16 of them
won't pay and they are bound to pick up
a few smaller unions as time goes on.
For Mr Monk's information and at the
risk of boring my readers here is a list
of those unions and associations: Feder-
ated Ironworkers’, Federated Clerks, Aus-
tralian Society of Engineers, Glass-
workers, Rubberworkers. Marine
Stewards, Artificial Fertilisers, Postal
Telecommunication Technicians. Profes-
sional Radio Employees, Foremen Steve-
dores, and the following Victorian
Unions: Motor Transport, Rope Cord-
age, Manufacturing Grocers, Hospital
Employees, Affiliated Teachers, and
Plasterers.
Of the above unions the only doubtful
one is the Australian Society of Engineers.
This is mainly because there is a personal
struggle for power going on in the A.S.E.
and it is being fought over the levy issue.
But even Mr Holmes, the Federal Secre-
tary, told a member of The Bulletin
staff several weeks ago that, personally
speaking, he was “against reciprocal visits
from unionists who weren’t affiliated to
the International Confederation of Free
Trade Unions.” But at the time of
writing it seems likely that A.S.E. will
be one of the 16 who won't be going
to the Paddington Town Hall in Septem-
ber.
Without them, Mr Monk will be faced
with attending a Congiess which will be
Communist-controlled a situation
neither he nor his officials will relish.
Some weeks back it was thought that he
would pull something out of the bag to
prevent this but he sealed his own fate
in an exchange of correspondence between
himself and Mr P. .]. Lucas of the Feder-
ated Confectioners’ Association of Aus-
tralia.
On behalf of his Association, Mr
Lucas wrote to Mr Monk and told him
he was paying his affiliation fees but had
deducted an amount corresponding to the
levy He told him that “our four State
branches unanimously rejected the very
idea of these visits and therewith the pay-
ment of the levy as a means of advancing
visits which we regard as objectionable.
This decision of conference was made
following a ballot to the same effect.”
Mr Lucas went on to tell Mr Monk that
his association realised that because levies
were first of all deducted from affiliation
fees they could in fact be paying the levy
and still be unfinancial.
Mr Monk, in a long reply, told the
Confectioners, in effect, that they were
unfinancial and unless they paid the levy
they could not attend the Congress. Mr
Monk sent copies of the correspondence
to all affiliated unions early last month.
Around the Sydney Trades Hall over
the lasi week there has been talk of a
compromise on the following basis:
unions which do not want to sponsor
Communist “trade-union” officials will
have their money used to pay for
unionists from non-Communist countries;
those who want “unionists” from Com-
munist countries to come out will have
their money used for that purpose. But
Mr Monk has walked out so far on the
plank that he is not in a position even
to accept this “red” and “white” money
move.
What does it all add up to? If the 16
unions were individually asked if they
desired to form a separate Australian
Federation of Labor they would certainly
say they contemplated no such action.
But together they represent approximately
250,000 of the 1,000,000 trade unionists
in the A.C.T.U. If the A.W.U.'s 180,000
is added the resultant 430,000 certainly
represents a strong organisation. And it
may be that some of the growing white-
collar unions would look more kindly
towards such a Federation which wasn't
manipulated by Communists. Whatever
happens Mr Monk is certainly in a fix
—but who can he blame but himself?
By MUGGA
CLOTHES
“Sloppy Dressing Leads
to Sloppy Thinking”
FROM KEITH WILLEY IN DARWIN
D. G. EINFELD
Some wear shirts
A spruce young fellow named David
G. Einfeld has Darwin men feeling
hot under the collar —or, anyhow, those
men who wear collars. He wants to put
them in suits, with coats and ties and all
that sort of Southern caper. Apparently
the new Administrator Roger Nott’s
“coat's-off” order for official receptions
had clothing-trade chiefs all over Aus-
tralia reaching for their tranquillisers, and
one firm, Anthony Squires Pty Ltd, has
sent the immaculate Mr David Einfeld
north to do battle.
His task was unenviable. Shorts are
the rule in Darwin. Sometimes the men
top them off with a shirt; sometimes not.
Bare feet are not uncommon. To wear
a suit with tie would buy you suspicious
glares down Smith Street—or a fight at
one or two of the hotels.
Mr Einfeld arrived, magnificent in a
dark two-piece suit, gleaming black shoes
and a flowerpot hat. Boosting the light-
weight suit as opposed to shorts or
“Darwin rig” (ceremonial garb of long
pants, long-sleeved shirt and tie which
is worn to all official receptions here), he
told Darwin men they looked “sloppy.”
Sloppy dressing led to sloppy thinking,
he admonished. Absence of the light-
weight suit might even, in the long run,
retard Northern Territory development,
“Remember not so long ago men were
the leaders in the fashion world. In every
other species but the human, the male
beautifies itself, looking proud and
colorful.”
Wincing at the sartorial oddities he
met on his way (one Darwin businessman
doesn't wear socks; another, paddling


about in sandals, was so embarrassed by
Mr Einfeld’s reproachful gaze that he
felt obliged to explain he had left his
shoes at home because he had a sore
toe), Mr Einfeld fronted the villain of
the piece. Administrator Roger Nott.
Pleading the case for the lightweight
suit for official and everyday wear, he
was no doubt not unmindful of Darwin's
hundreds of public servants who go to
work daily in shirts, shorts, shoes and
long socks. Mr Nott said: “Come back
in the wet season and you might change
your mind.”
No doubt Mr Einfeld will sell a lot
of suits —but by his second day in Darwin
he was seen in shirtsleeves.
BOY SCOUTS
No Gambling
FROM MIKE MOONIE IN WANGARATTA
A £lOO donation arrived at Victorian
Boy Scout Association headquarters
a few weeks ago. After discussion by
the executive council, it was returned to
the donor, accompanied by a tactful note
of refusal.
The gift came from the estate of the
late George Adams —in other words,
Tattersalls, Victoria’s State-approved
lottery. Although hard pressed for
money to provide halls and staffs to cope
with lengthening waiting lists of would-
be Scouts, the movement served notice
that it was putting principle before
pennies.
The Scout movement refuses to join
in the gold rush for funds raised by
lotteries, raffles and “competitions,”
accepted by charitable organisations,
sporting clubs and even some churches
as a major means of support. The Scout
law, aiming to encourage in boys the
belief that achievement depends on per-
sonal effort, forbids gambling by any
method and insists that funds used in
Scouting should have been earned by
brawn or brains. This applies to money
given to Scout organisations as well as
funds they raise themselves.
This prohibition is not popular with
many of the parents’ committees who
provide Scouting with its financial back-
bone. Individual members may cheer-
fully peddle raffle tickets for cars,
poultry and dozens of beer to finance
the local football club to the tune of
thousands of pounds, but they face an
uphill battle in raising a miserable few
hundred pounds to pay for timber and
iron for a new Scout hall.
The alternatives to easy money are
voluntary labor, street stalls, sales of
Christmas trees, the cadging of dona-
tions, and “bob-a-job” weeks. Results
come comparatively slowly.
The Victorian general - secretary,
Colonel Eric Black, put the official view:
“We try to teach boys ethics and
a proper code for living. Standards in
the world have gone down considerably,
but there’s no need for us to kick them
down even farther.”
Tanner
T comrades &nd
tbe g reat
"L? carrying <** a rd
%**s& &»*** VOS '
in !>***>**
- lrUBted
<Z0f$0‘
# ele
o&'
“ sp rS?e^ e ’
x O.VV V
„ o*c-
'osfis
mw§
n /or
"The Americans have a better prose style.”


THE N.T. SERIAL
This Weeks
Episode
FROM KEITH WILLEY IN DARWIN
“TIGER” BRENNAN
“Trust our magistrates”
The opening of a New Exciting Episode
in the long serial story of the
Northern Territory’s clamor for political
reforms seems near. An emergency Legis-
lative Council meeting called last
week to discuss Cabinet s iejection for
the second time of mild, twice-passed,
Licensing and Lottery and Gaming
bills —began tamely enough. First a
letter was read from Minister for Terri-
tories Paul Hasluck. informing members
that the Federal Government had no
intention of giving up its power to with-
hold assent from certain types of legis-
lation passed by the Northern Territory
Legislative Council. 4 hen elected
member after elected member got up,
with weary anger, to attack Minister
Hasluck and his Cabinet colleagues in
Canberra. Since this was the second time
the Bills had been disallowed and the
second emergency meeting over them this
year the rhetoric had a familiar ring.
The Member for Alice Springs Mr
Neil Hargrave pointed out again
that neither rejected measure was vital
in itself. The betting bill would give
Tennant Creek miners and a few other
persons in isolated centres “where it is
impossible to hold weekly race meetings
the right to have a bet legally some-
thing every other Australian accepts as
a matter of course. The Licensing Bill
would remove the iniquitous six months
minimum” sentence for supply of liquor
to natives and replace it with discretion-
ary powers for magistrates including
power to impose penalties far more
severe than six months goal for bad
offenders. “All we ask,” said Mr “Tiger”
Brennan, “is the right to trust our magis-
trates to do the right thing. And if we
cannot trust them, they shouldn t be on
the Bench.”
The speakers seemed not incensed,
but weighed down by a mood of quiet
obduracy and frustration unequalled
since the mass walkout of elected
members more than two years ago. On
that occasion the furore was dampened
by cocktail parties and “sensible advice,”
given “man-to-man” at a Canberra con-
ference between Legislative Councillors
and Cabinet members. The upshot of
those talks was the present council, where
eight elected and three nominated non-
official members hold a numerical
balance of power over six public servant
members.
In the session this week this balance
was used to toss out two Government bills
designed to raise money for the Federal
Government ; resubmit and pass—for the
third time—the rejected Licensing and
Lottery and Gaming Bills ; pass Mr Har-
grave's motion that no further meetings
of the Legislative Council be held until
after the Government has agreed to meet
councillors in conference—“preferably
in Darwin” to find a solution to the
“present impasse.”
Mr Hasluck does not hold high
opinions of the political maturity of
Territorians, and in this he may be right.
After the mass walkout by elected
members more than two years ago he
blamed the fuss, at a Darwin press con-
ference, on “the hot weather up here.”
But he and the rest of Cabinet must be
perturbed that the independent, non-
public service element the three
nominated non-oflficial members named
and appointed by the Federal Govern-
ment —have sided so consistently with
the elected members as to be, on major
issues, a virtual non-public service bloc
vote.
Unless Federal Cabinet is prepared to
meet the Legislative Council in confer-
ence the council will not meet again. If
the Government stand at that conference
is intransigent, then the council may well
collapse of itself and give birth to a new
political movement in the north. Mean-
while all legislative machinery in the
Northern Territory will be stymied.
BUSINESS
The Premier Withdrew His Remark
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
An angry clash between the Premier
Mr Bolte and the Deputy Leader
of the Opposition, Mr D. Lovegrove, at
the unlikely hour of 4.20 a.m. last March
had a sequel in the Melbourne City Court
last week. Mr Lovegrove accused the
State Government of having concealed
a scandal; Mr Bolte accused Mr Love-
grove of “gutter tactics” ; and Mr
Speaker made the Premier withdraw his
remark.
„
Mr Lovegrove said that a firm with a
Governmental connection had contra-
vened the law by issuing prospe
and brochures containing photographs of
mythical industrial establishments, includ-
108,I 08 , s J° me , a Horsham fac ory wic
had been partially financed by e
Government. Challenged by roe
to name the firm Mr Lovegrove after
consultation with the Speaker, said it was
Rees Emporiums. The Horsham plant
was Horsham Kyosan an engineering
company which the Government had
once assisted to the tune of £27,000 un er
its decentralisation programme. At the
time, Rees Emporiums was in process of
taking oyer the Horsham plant by a
share-exchange deal.
In the City Court last week, Bernard
Herma Rees, of Bayswater, a director of
K. Rees Emporiums Ltd (paid up capital
£132,950) pleaded not guilty to having
authorised the issue of a prospectus con-
taining untrue statements. The prospec-
tus related to the issue of £300,000-worth
of registered convertible notes bearing
interest at 10 per cent. The preface,
signed by Mr Rees, told of the firm’s
start as a retail men’s-wear enterprise in
1958 at Ringwood before it diversified
into engineering, finance, land develop-
ment and motels.
Mr J. Young (for the Crown) alleged
that two photographs in the prospectus
purporting to be “some aspects of opera-
tion” of Horsham Kyosan were not
photos of the plant at all. He also
claimed that it included artist's sketches
of “Rees Men's-wear Emporiums” which
did not exist and that an asset item,
“improvements £52,000,” in the balance-
sheet of a Rees subsidiary in Western
Australia, Tilsworth Development Pty
Ltd. was untrue.
Mr Rees claimed that he had selected
some photographs at the printer’s and
saw nothing more of them until shown
a rough of the prospectus. It was hard
to see the photos in the rough and he
had left it to the printers to complete
the job. Mr R. Kelly, S.M., convicted
Rees and fined him £lOO with £24 costs.
A stay of 28 days was granted.
However, shortly before the case came
on, K. Rees Emporium Ltd had been
placed in the hands of a receiver-
manager by Testro Brothers Consolidated
Ltd. A spokesman for Testro said this
had been done because of a number of
court judgments brought down against
K. Rees Emporiums in the last few
months. As a secured creditor, testro
Brothers had called up the debenture it
held over Rees in default of money
owing to it. At the moment, Mr Rees
has given no indication of whether he is
going to appeal against his conviction or
penalty.


DRIVERS
The Quick
and the Dead
“Give it everything you've got, Bruno. I hear there's a talent scout from Mammoth Constructions in the audience !”
FROM AN ADELAIDE CORRESPONDENT
SL. THOMAS
PLAYFORD
A rush
Tn South Australia motorists now have
to know how to drive. This is some-
thing new. Until July 1 you had only to
answer correctly a set of questions on
paper to get your driver's licence. You
were then legally entitled to involve
yourself, your passengers or your adver-
saries on the highways in whatever kind
of crashes you could engineer. This kind
of lethal indulgence has had such
disastrous results in the past year or two
that the Playford Government decided to
put the brake on itself.
Though responsible people—especially
the Royal Automobile Association—had
been urging official road tests for years
(S.A. emained the only State where you
did not have to prove you were capable
of handling a car with the engine run-
ning). the Government, it was alleged,
jibbed at the cost involved. Even when
it did decide to move, it announced the
fact six months before tests were due to
start. Consequently, there was a great
rush of applicants for licences to evade
the risks of being failed by police
examiners.
What actually forced the new move
was less the steep rise in smashes and
fatalities, than the decision of insurance
companies to increase third-party insur-
ance rates to meet heavy pay-outs. Con-
cerned about the public reaction, Playford
set up a Third Party Insurance Premiums
Committee, which then recommended an
increase in rates from £6 ss. to £8 12s. 6d.
This did not suit the Premier either, so
he referred the matter back to his com-
mittee, asking its chairman Sir Edgar
Bean to find some solution less embar-
rassing to the Government. Why not,
for instance, offer some incentive to the
driver who kept himself accident free?
“There is not the slightest doubt that
the careful driver is paying the insurance
of the reckless driver,” Sir Thomas said,
with reason. “Third party claims are
paid only where negligence is proved. We
believe it is entirely improper to change
a high rate of premium to a motorist who
has been accident-free for a number of
years and has made no claims on the
insurance company/’
Unfortunately, the insurance men did
not wait for Sir Edgar’s committee to
emerge from many weeks of thoughtful
silence. Instead, according to Mr Bevan
(A.L.P.) in the Legislative Council last
week, some began to refuse to renew
certain people's third party insurance
altogether, even those with records free
of accidents.
“They are attempting to intimidate the
Premiums Committee and State Govern-
ment into granting increased premiums,”
he stated. So far there has been no reply
from Uncle Tom, who must at last be
regretting that he did not make more
funds available to the Police Department
years ago for testing drivers. Now it is
too late to control the vast majority of
licence-holders who can still renew
their permits from year to year without
having to prove they know the difference
between a stop sign and the accelerator.
No doubt, the insurance companies
would like to offer concessions to those
skilful enough to avoid calling out the
mushrooming crash repair experts. But
to do so would cost them a big drop in
revenue. The issue appears to have
reached a deadlock, even though the
more sober motorist feels that considera-
tions of money are being put before
read safety.


NEW GUINEA
The Makings of Excellent Tories
FROM OUR MAN IN CLUBS
Last week we asked our Man in
Clubs to go and report the latest
meeting of the Sydney Left Club
which was debating Colonialism —
White or Brown . . . “being a clash
between Peter Hastings (Consolidated
Press) on the Right and Herbert Feith
(Australian National University) on
the Left over the Indonesian and
Dutch claims for West New Guinea
and Australia’s standpoint.” Our Man
reported:
“Meeting held at Nanking Cafe.
Arrive there to find place rapidly
filling up with beards and sweaters.
Ask Chinese cashier if this is Left
Club. Jerks thumb towards mob, says,
‘That’s them.' Go and sit down. Get
talking to man in polo-necked sweater
with gold-rimmed spectacles. Ardent
Left Clubber who says that between
70 and 100 people turn up. Some-
times more. Idea is to have huge
Chinese meal, listen to speakers and
then tear into them. Explains how
Club membership runs through com-
plete spectrum of the Left from Com-
munist to radical Catholic when
attention diverted by entry of amiable,
squat man with deep black beard who
looks like extra from ‘Ten Com-
mandments.’ Friend says he is genuine
Bulgarian anarcho-syndicalist. The
bearded man sits down and opens
bottle of whisky which he passes to
curvaceous female companion.
“President of Club raps on table to
introduce speakers. Take good look
round in lull that follows. People
mostly young. Few quite middle-
aged. Young ones rather nice-looking
bunch, especially girls. Most of them
drinking beer. Take quick look at
speakers and decide audience more
prepossessing. Mr Hastings like
original model of ‘lean and hungry
solicitor.’ Dr Feith like academic do-
gooder. Quite possibly wrong as both
a fair way off. Burden of their mes-
sages something like this. Hastings:
‘l’m a Conservative. Don't believe in
appeasement. Why should Indonesia
get West New Guinea? Nothing to
be gained from it.’ Feith: ‘We've
got to live with Indonesia. Dutch
can’t keep it. Why not earn Indo-
nesian goodwill and give it to them.’
Honors equal. Nothing settled. Wait
for fireworks. Not many, but com-
ments informed. Best of all comes
from Asian who speaks better English
than either Feith or Hastings. Gets up
and says he wants to take Hastings up
on allegation that Indonesia’s West
New Guinea claims are largely diver-
sionary tactics. Hasting* looks as if
he’s had it. Asian goes on to say he
quite agrees, sugges.s that Dutch
should give West New Guinea to
Indonesia and thus embarrass them.
“Hastings looks relieved. Bulgarian
anarcho-syndicalist asks whether New
Guinea natives have been asked what
they want. All very well, plan their
future. But what about them. Better
to leave them alone. I agree. Much
better. Like Bulgarian, especially girl
with him. Young man in neat pearly
grey waistcoat with imperial says
something about Trusteeship. Young
man in back gets up. Table com-
panion tells me he Trotskyite. Must
have been. Lashes into Hastings.
Acute misery on Hastings’s face.
Words fly around. Proletariat. Loud
arguments. Everybody talking. Presi-
dent cutting people down to time.
Earnest lady suggests Trusteeship.
Nobody listens.
“Young man begging for supple-
mentary. Gets it and says that whites
now in places like New Guinea be-
cause of moral obligations. Hastings
nods vehemently, says that end of all
colonialism is moral hangover and
moral obligations. Somebody asks
whether it isn’t true that what con-
servatives fear is Communist Indo-
nesia and therefore Communist New
Guinea. Cat now out of the bag.
Trotskyite insistent on supplementary.
Gets it but nobody can hear. Presi-
dent bangs table. Young man with
eyes of somnambulist says that he
against colonialism —white or brown.
Gets derisive cheer from his own
table. Debate just about over. Presi-
dent—Dr Fowler —says that next de-
bate will be on Cuba. Loud cheers.
Shake hands with bespectacled table
companion and leave with feeing that
good proportion of members of Left
Club will be excellent Tories ten years
from now.”
Feiffer
1 fgtt WO PACIFISM
AS A omt? POLICE
is
m instant ir i
<SHO>UUD SHOVE WR
6IRE, HERE * CAN W
HODESTM SAT WO',
IMULPtiT HIT £r°!
ME TO PROTECT J _
■»’’ /fiA
THAT'S A im 010
arsoment gyr I'U-
ANSWER IT AWWAT-
NO. I FEET T«EK
APE BETTER MEAW
OF DEFENSE OTHER
THAN I/IOE6MCE.
wo cm wuwe
mi ‘tou&CLfi.
H BRU'W .
HfSf
POLICY THAT
MAK'E H(W
|AAD 7 '
1&
f ADMIT TO A
RISE ll) FEELrUd.
MES- BUT TO Mger
VIOCEIOCE WITH
MORE VIOLENCE
14 WO ANSWER-
/
MET WITH l
BE&Efe cm miwce. a
MINOR PROVOCATION MUSHROOM?
fUTo A WAR- W 6 MUST
KTAgcm CONTROL Otizoue.
FgfW'WSS-
A? yoOCAtitee A CKAlfl
reaction is mmew &
OK- A RgSflWf, A RgrAifA'
TIOU, A COUNTERMOVE, A
RETALIATION- r '^l/i
gVEUfOAUAf A(0 ATMOSPHERE OF
40CH HOSTILITY IS CREATE?
THAT NO CORRECTIVE MEASURES
/■ / , CAD BE
TAKEM.
AVi'P*
MOOK A LOT
OF FtlfJ, ROU
KNOW \ /
THAT / c
‘iOV Aeg 700/
1 HAC7 UO
3. / IOTA ! lets
'JK_ £0 To-
I
HATE
WAR


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Exploitation
of Jim Healy
JIM HEALY
Even captivated Liberals
'"The late Jim Healy was the best single
A P.R. device the Australian Com-
munists ever had. His personal charm,
his disarming smile, his appearance of
solidity and dogged worth went down
well all round. He even captivated
Liberal Cabinet Ministers of the kind who
say: “Well, you must give it to some
of these Communist secretaries—they
know how to improve conditions for
Iheir members.” If you asked them who
they had in mind they would say: “Well,
take Jim Healy ...”
The facts, of course, are that Healy
was a good man for his party, the Com-
munist Party of Australia. He used his
position in the Waterside Workers’
Federation to inhibit progress on the
Australian waterfront. In doing that he
was carrying cut the policy of his party,
which is to act primarily as the agent of
two hostile foreign Powers, to set Aus-
tralian against Australian, and to make
vital industries as unworkable as they
can.
The industrial record of his union was
in fact poor, if you assume that a union's
prime function is to improve wages and
conditions for its members. There is no
evidence that an A.L.P - or a D.L.P.-led
Waterside Workers’ Federation would not
have done as well for the waterside
workers as Healy’s union—and plenty of
evidence that they would have done much
better. To take one telling example: the
tally clerks who W'ork alongside the
wharfies, but belong to the anti-Com-
munist Clerks’ Union, have improved
their position much more than the
wharfies. It is the role of the wharfies to
he used as political pawns by their union
bosses, just as it is the role of the seamen
to be used for “fun and games” by their
Communist secretary.
Tt may seem hard to have said all this of
a dead man, but there is no suggestion
that Healy was not a sincere Communist,
that he did not accept the drivel his party
pumped out and that he was not working
towards definite ends in which he believed.
The point is that those ends were against
the interests of his members and that the
means he used to effect them were scan-
dalously opposed to the principles of a
democratic way of life. Even this need
not be said if it were not for the fact
that the Communists are now trying to
exploit his memory as a great working
class “hero.” They are unable to rustle
up another live Communist with as good
a public image as Healy, so they are
using Healy’s memory as a political
weapon.
TTe is hailed as “Australia's greatest
trade-union leader” a ludicrous
claim —and a £50,000 Party Fund has been
launched to commemorate Jim Healy
(and the Australian Communist Party).
His name is also being used as a weapon
against Mr Gus Alford, the D.L.P. candi-
date for the Waterside Workers' Federa-
tion’s general secretaryship. Alford is
trying to exploit legal technicalities in
forcing a clean ballot on the W.W.F.,
and he is trying to shame the A.L.P. into
putting up a clean candidate in the ballot.
The Communists see this as a ghoulish
use of Healy’s death.
One cannot say too firmly that the
Communists themselves were the ones
who used Healy’s last days to serve their
political advantage. They tried to antici-
pate his death by altering the union's
rules. They failed. They then persuaded
him to remain out of hospital when, for
all we know, earlier hospitalisation may
have extended his life. Perhaps it would
not have done so, but from their own
description of the cause of his death it
might have. In an official statement they
said: “He had entered St Vincent's hos-
pital for investigation and a gall-bladder
operation was found to be necessary.
This was successfully performed, and his
condition afterwards was described as
‘quite satisfactory.’ However, a clot had
apparently formed in his bloodstream and
he passed away peacefully.” Certainly
they kept him out of hospital and put him
up as a fit man contesting an important
union election —then tried to amend the
rules to cover his death. And Healy died.
It is being said of Alford that he is
attempting to exploit technicalities. Yet
this is exactly what the Communists
themselves are doing in the Amalgamated
Engineering Union. They are in danger
of losing their control of this union and
they are fighting their battle against the
anti-Communists by technicality after
technicality.
T>erhaps it would be a good thing for
Australia if there were a few more
“technicalities” governing unions—techni-
calities guaranteeing clean ballots, changes
of union rules and the conduct of union
meetings. There was a period in history
when social order was threatened and
the interests of ordinary people were
endangered by unscrupulous company
promoters. Perhaps a little of that period
is still with us, but the major evils have
been cleaned up. There is a whole body
of laws now regulating the conduct of
companies which ensure, on the whole,
that promoters do not get money under
false pretences, that companies are run
according to law, that certain facts about
them are made public, and that share-
holders have forms of redress. Many
businessmen would like to see company
law further extended, but the conduct of
business no longer lends itself to the
kind of rackets that the Communists still
perpetuate in the Australian union move-
ment.
Suggestions of this kind are attacked
not only by Communist unionists and
their undercover men and dupes but also
by sincerely traditionalist unionists as
interference with the freedom of unions.
Jn the same way suggestions for com-
pany reform were attacked in their day
not only by the sharks but by the clean-
skins as unwarranted interference with
private enterprise. It is certainly an inter-
ference with either a business or a union
to tell it what to do (although, Heaven
knows, governments do that often enough
to businesses) ; but it i; merely an exten-
sion of democratic procedures to insist
that businesses and unions should follow
a few basic rules in the conduct of their
affairs in the interests in the one case
of shareholders and in the other of union
members.
The conduct of union affairs is one of
the critical issues for democracy in Aus-
tralia. Its seriousness is not generally
known because the facts are not generally
known. There could be no better ab-
ject for a Royal Commission than an
inquiry into union procedures. In unions
such as the Waterside Workers’ Federa-
tion and the Seamen’s Union this kind
of inquiry would reveal such hair-raising
methods that there would be a national
outcry for reform ; and most of the out-
cry would come from good unionists.
Perhaps the Royal Commission would
also commemorate the name of Jim
Healy.


THE PRIMATE’S
“GOOD NEWS”
"Archbishop Gough will need all his patience to balance
the pressure groups in the Diocese of Sydney"
By PETER HASTINGS
Dr H. R. GOUGH
Spontaneous
OUT where Edgecliff nudges Darling Point is Bishops-
court, a sizeable, even venerable, stone mansion
where resides the Most Reverend Hugh Rowlands
Gough, D.D.. Lord Archbishop of Sydney. Primate
of Australia and Tasmania. Its formerly extensive lawns
and rolling gardens once swept near to the distant water’s
edge. But that was a long time ago before rising rates and
taxes made it necessary to subdivide and retreat before a
wave of roads, houses and blocks of flats. What little is left
of the once splendid view will soon disappear for ever
beneath a second wave of urban development, this time of
multi-storeyed brick and glass home unit blocks. Sooner or
later it will not be possible for Mrs Gough to joke with
Cardinal Gilroy that she had been able to see him through
a telescope peramubulating around the gardens of Arch-
bishop House in far distant Manly. Bishopscourt is not, as
many think, the traditional home of the Anglican Arch-
bishops of Sydney. Sixty years ago it was still the home
of the Mort family which made great fortunes in wool and
meat. It is a great pseudo-Gothic pile of a place, and
when the Goughs arrived here they had literally to move
from room to room as workmen went through repairing
the rotted, white-anted timbers. Dr Gough in diocesan
letters and in one or two speeches since has used the simile
of white ants with singular fervor. The diocese spent
£30.000 repairing Bishopscourt, and today, structurally
repaired and painted throughout, it is a beautiful and hand-
some home, eminently archiepiscopal in style notwithstand-
ing the tangible signs of an unsparing sense of humor left
by the Mort who built it. Thus over the baronial portico
which protects the front door and hall is the legend in stone
letters: FIDELE A LA MORT. In the library, too. the
hand of Mort lies heavy. It is a long and impressively
proportioned room, pleasantly furnished with divans and
tables on which lie cigarettes, ashtrays (Dr Gough doesn’t
smoke) and copies of “Life” and “The Illustrated London
News.” From bookcases running the length of one wall
gleam the bindings of perhaps 2000 books (Dr Gough’s
possessions) stacked in fetching disorder. They show a wide,
catholic taste. “Angel Pavement” is jammed in among the
lives of saints, texts on Church history and theological
works. Eric Linklater stands beside evangelical works,
and unexpectedly sharing honors with Chesterton is “Le
Rouge et le Noir.” Above the bookcases are the stone
wrought arms of all of Sydney’s archbishops, from
Broughton to Mowll They are painted and their reds and
blues and golds shine in the shifting light from the windows
opposite.
Above the fireplace hang paintings of the men whose
arms line the wall. A pleasant, gracious and entirely differ-
ent sort of room. Just how different one realises on look-
ing up at the panelled ceiling. Contained in each panel is
a scroll superimposed with pseudo-Gothic lettering picked
out in blue and gold. Esco perpetua . . . one makes out
painfully. No. that can't be right. Suddenly the legend
becomes clear and proclaims itself in panel after panel: TO
PERSEVERE IS TO SUCCEED. Put there long ago at
the whim of a merchant prince, it is nevertheless not inappro-
priate to the life and times of an outspoken Archbishop.
As Archbishop of Sydney, assisted by a “Cabinet”
(Standing Committee) representing the guide lines of Synod
and a tight, hard-working staff. Dr Gough presides over and
ultimately directs a surprisingly vast religious organisation
comprising a Cathedral Church. 231 parishes, provisional
parishes and districts and the churches belonging to them,
more than 300 priests and curates and an additional 100
clergy licensed to officiate. While he may not altogether
direct, he is the Archbishop of 928.771 Anglicans. In addi-
tion. he is ultimately responsible for the administration of
numerous schools, hospitals, homes for the aged, the dying
and incurably ill. homes for unmarried mothers and
delinquent children, church organisations and considerable
holdings in church real estate. He is the principal bishop
(metropolitan) of the Province of New South Wales, and
among the bishops of the province is primus inter pares.
He is also Primate of Australia and Tasmania and as such
is primus inter pares among his fellow-archbishops,
although having no direct jurisdiction over any other arch-
diocese or. for that matter, over any diocese in his own
province. Nevertheless, as primus inter pares he is looked
to as leader of the Anglican Church in Australia for advice,
guidance and example.
When Dr Gough came to Sydney more than two years
ago he inherited the largest Anglican diocese in the world
outside Britain. It was sadly run down and gone to seed.
Archbishop Mowll, who commanded great love and respect
from those who knew him. had been, in his day. a scholar
and a forthright missionary bishop. He was a man of
charity and great personal kindliness, jealous of his jurisdic-
tion and timid of action and statement. In his last years he
suffered the great disability of being unable either to delegate
authority or make up his mind. In the somewhat despond-
ent and uncertain atmosphere following his episcopate. Dr
Gough’s arrival was that of a cold, clean wind.
Much needed doing; even more needed mending,
especially the traditional, frequently bitter rift between
Sydney’s more militant evangelicals as represented by the
Anglican Church League, and its domination of Synod, and
those moderating outwards and upwards to other forms of
worhip and less restrictive outlook.


trUGH ROWLANDS GOUGH was a necessary choice
for the tasks that needed doing. The former Archbishop
of Canterbury said not so long ago it was time Sydney had
its own Australian archbishops. This is perhaps easier
said than done. Who can represent the golden mean? The
bridge across conflicting positions and conflicting beliefs?
Hugh Gough is an uncompromising evangelical. He was
brought up as one, has lived as one and was prominent in
English churchmanship as one. But his evangelicanism is
English, which in these days is nearer to the Church centre,
having its own theological position, its own preferred liturgi-
cal and other forms but reaching across to those who
graduate from the centre all the way up to Anglo-
Catholicism. As a bishop in England, he never wore a
mitre, but he does wear a pectoral cross. But these two
contradictions in the eyes of Sydney are not in those of
England, where the new Archbishop of Canterbury is
fervently High Church in practice and theology who has
been succeeded at York by an evangelical bishop who wears
mitre and vestments In Britain there are. perhaps, three
images of the Church. There is Dr Fisher, who plumps down
more or less on the side of High Church but who is to be
counted as a Central Churchman nevertheless, and as the
model of shrewd, able, far-sighted Church administration.
There is Dr Ramsey the theologian, the High Churchman,
“the big. spry, holy man” forever busy with ultimate ques-
tions about faith and belief. And there is Dr Gough, no
theologian in the technical sense, who is the evangelical,
the spreader and bringer of “good news.” the bishop who
eschews much of ancient forms and believes that the
message of Christ must be actively brought to the people.
At 55 he is a tall, personable, extremely handsome man
who must surely be the cause af much fluttering at a church
ladies' tea party, although he is not at ease with women and
prefers the company of men. For a prelate he is close to
being gregarious and would possibly regard the word as
complimentary. He talks readily in rather high pitched
tones and well turned accents and is rather blunt and to the
point. He speaks his mind even when, perhaps, he should
not have made it up
His critics, and many of his friends, rather wish that he
were less blunt and not quite so spontaneous; that he would
realise that the citadels of evil may be taken by patient
mining and that heroic frontal attacks far from winning
everything not infrequently lose all. He likes people and
he likes to understand them in terms of their jobs. An out-
standing war-time service as chaplain in the Western Desert
(wounded, mentioned in dispatches) and later with X Corps
in Italy has perfected a great deal of serviceable insight
into ordinary men which he gained first as curate and priest
in slum and industrial areas in Britain before the war. He
runs his huge diocese with a very small, tight-knit staff (he
would characteristically call it a team) of three Bishops
Coadjutor (Bishops Kerle. Loane and Hudson) and four
Archdeacons. Bishop Hudson (an old friend of the Arch-
bishop’s) is a pleasant-voiced, intelligent Englishman with
an amusing, sometimes ironic turn of phrase who as Director
of Evangelism has little or nothing to do with day to day
diocesan administration. That is left to the competent
hands of two good Sydney evangelicals —Bishops Kerle and
Loane. With two Archdeacons assigned to each, the diocese
running from Wollongong to Palm Beach is divided between
them. Archbishop Gough is content to leave it to them, for
he has no fears about delegating authority, which he does
with firmness and tact; being just as firm and tactful when
demanding answers about the way things are being run. or
when the tedium of Synod (a form of Church Government
mercifully absent from Britain) threatens to outrun its con-
structiveness or at a meeting of churchwardens where he
may tell them they simply “have to pitch in and do a job.”
This delegation of authority is not the act of a lazy man
or a jealous one, but that of an intensely energetic man and
a modest one. It is enough, in the final count, to be
responsible for results. Others must attend to details. With
more time at his disposal than at that of his predecessors,
he has been down coal mines, out to Long Bay Gaol, over
Callan Park and into every church and parish in the arch-
diocese. He tirelessly attends school functions, fetes, civic
receptions. He attends conferences, confers with his staff
and meets as many people as he can. As Primate he has
travelled extensively into the outback, to north Queensland,
to the Territory, to New Guinea and visited churches in
Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands. He knows his fellow-
bishops and archbishops, the priests and curates of his
diocese, the members of his club, politicians and business
leaders. He doesn’t forget a face or a name. He once played
tennis and went shooting. Like most other men of vocation
his job is now his hobby.
Somehow in the midst of all this extraordinary activity
he finds time to write a monthly message in the Sydney
Diocesan “Newsletter.” Often it comprises not much more
than accounts of a trip to Darwin, a service on the Roper
River, a lesson read by an aboriginal or a note on the death
of the Governor-General. In others he takes up youth and
sex, expressing himself strongly and bluntly as disappointed
that church statements about youthful immorality should be
doubted “by people who ought to know better.” In another
one he has taken up South Africa’s departure from the
Commonwealth, urging moderation in criticism as being less
likely to harden South Africans in their extremism. At all
times he never misses an opportunity to urge upon Sydney
evangelicals that times are changing and that ancient feuds
are now out of date, that evangelicals here must not cut
themselves off from the main stream of church life. For he
is a perceptive man and has made valid comparisons of life
in Britain and Australia.
He is well aware of what forces operate in a city like
“... and here's a surprise! 'Onward Christian Soldiers'
has dropped down the charts and 'Come All Ye
Faithful ’ has moved into the top slot!”


Sydney, or in the larger sense, in a country like Australia.
It is significant that he was sufficiently indifferent to the
narrower sections of Sydney evangelicanism on his arrival
here to call on Cardinal Gilroy, and later, with Mrs Gough,
to have tea with the Cardinal, to have the call returned and
to maintain the sort of sensible, mutually pleasant co-
operation that one might expect from two Christian leaders
endeavoring to promote and protect the Christian faith. He
is not a witty man. but he is quick-witted and enjoys a good
joke. It is said that finding himself conferring with Cardinal
Gilroy on the very date that Dr Fisher was received by the
Pope he drew attention to a “very remarkable coincidence.”
He can also, it appears, tell a good joke. It is said that he
retails a story told him by Earl Mountbatten who had asked
the Queen who would succeed Dr Fisher as Archbishop of
Canterbury. “York.” she replied. “Oh, yes.” said Mount-
batten. “I know Dr Ramsey. He supported you at your
coronation.” “He did not,” said the Queen. “Oh. Ma’am,
surely he did.” replied Mountbatten. “He was then Bishop
of Durham. He supported you. 1 remember it.” “He did
not.” replied the Queen. “I supported him. He was shaking
like a leaf.” It is a pleasant and harmless story of the sort,
one suspects, that Dr Gough would tell Dr Ramsey himself
if ever the opportunity arose. A sense of humor is not a
bad asset to have when faced with some of the more humor-
less aspects of the Sydney diocese.
TTUGH GOUGH was born to missionary parents in a tiny
Himalayan hill station in what is now Pakistan in 1906.
Aged two, with two elder sisters, he returned to England
with his mother. His father stayed behind. It was a great
personal sacrifice, and he managed to get to England to see
his wife and children every other year. All in all. his father
labored in India for nearly 30 years. It is not an uncommon
story but indicates the sort of background in which Hugh
Gough was brought up. His parents had little money, the
war made things worse, and there was a struggle to educate
him. He went to Weymouth and later, when his father
became vicar of a church in Oxford, Hugh Gough went to
Trinity College. Cambridge, where he read history and
geography. He was not an outstanding student, but he
enjoyed both his student days and his chosen subjects,
which included such varied courses as anthropology and
surveying, which he says proved unexpectedly useful in later
life.
Apart from occasional and scarcely remarkable periods
of doubt, he never wished to be anything else but an Angli-
can priest of evangelical persuasion. Right throughout his
university days he was busy with evangelical committees
and projects which took up quite a deal of his time. He
became engaged and like legions of other young men pre-
paring for ordination he found himself facing the necessity
of procuring a livelihood. He took the London College of
Theology course, which is normally two years in duration.
By prodigious cramming and at the insistence of a sympa-
thetic bishop, he did it in 12 months. He was ordained in
1928 and appointed curate of St Mary’s. Islington. A de-
cayed. part slum area in inner London it is a link in a
dreary chain of decayed towns and suburbs circling London.
It was to play a big part in his life twice. After a few years
at a church in Bath he went as vicar of St James’s. Carlisle.
In many ways Carlisle was among the happiest experiences
in a busy life. It was an industrial town in the north of
England. His parishioners were working-class people and
he felt close to them. They were apparently good church-
goers, because his Sunday school had more than 1000
children, and he also had two instead of the usual single
Boys' Brigade. In 1937. being more percipient than many,
he joined the Territorials in anticipation of war. In 1939
he returned to London as vicar of a church at Bayswater
while waiting movement orders. They came and he was
away on active service for five years. At war's end he
returned to Bayswater looking forward to a little peace and
quiet and uninterrupted family life. Soon representations
came from Islington. Would he return as vicar? The whole
area was despondent, spiritual life had slipped, there was
war damage ... in short he was needed. He didn't go.
Some months later they approached him again. He felt he
ought to go. His bishop said he should. Finally his wife
said he must. That settled it. He went. It is said that he
was largely responsible for retrieving the morale and
spiritual health of a broken-down area. Meanwhile he was
steadily achieving prominence as a leading evangelical. He
was attending conferences, acting on committees and emerg-
ing as an able and resolute speaker. This and even greater
wastelands than Islington led to his election as Bishop
Suffragan of Barking, which meant that he was Bishop
Coadjutor to the Bishop of Chelmsford, himself a promin-
ent evangelical, who would naturally have thought of Hugh
Gough for preferment.
Under Dr Gough’s control were now more than 50
parishes comprising slums, new town, county town and rural
town. Each had its own problems, each was slipping from
Christianity, he believed, before a grey tide of secularism
and materialism. While Bishop of Barking he sprang into
international prominence with the coming of Billy Graham.
The two became firm friends, and are to this day. although
Archbishop Gough may have more reservations than are
suspected. At all events, it was over theological differences
that the Graham crusade, of which Dr Gough became
chairman, failed to exploit fully its successes in England.
A great number of the most influential English prelates
were little more than lukewarm towards the Graham
crusade. Apart from misgivings as to methods and results,
there was a theological cleavage which, very broadly speak-
ing. concerned the difference between Graham’s conception
of conversion and the belief of most Anglican theologians
that those declaring themselves for Christ at the rallies were
not converted but merely regenerated. Dr Gough uncom-
promisingly supported Graham. For him as for others sup-
porting Graham the proof of the pudding was in the eating.
The people came. However, it was only after Graham had
personally written to Dr Fisher that the Archbishop was
prevailed upon to appear at the tremendous final rally of
more than 100.000 people at Wembley Stadium, where, to
the disappointment of many, he would do no more than
pronounce the benediction.
However, despite examples of differences such as this
one. the main persuasions of the Church of England in
England seek active tolerance and understanding of each
other. It is the spirit of this tolerance and understanding
which Dr Gough brought with him to Sydney and which
was so affronted by the woman who said to him on a visit to
another diocese: “I belong to the Church. But not to your
Church. I am an Anglo-Catholic and you are an evangeli-
cal.” A patience which must be severely strained by divisions
in his own diocese that resolved themselves in England 50
years ago. A tolerance that is shocked to find disagreement
among some of his own clergy towards his reasonable
approach to such things as drinking and Sunday sport. And
he will need all his tolerance and patience to deal with
some of the more extreme evangelical pressure groups which
dominate Synod and control Moore Theological College
where Sydney’s clergy is trained and indoctrinated.
Dr Gough is a fairly thorough-going evangelical, but
he is. as he said in his address to Synod, an Anglican before
he is an evangelical. “If I can do even a little toward draw-
ing the Anglican Church in Australia a little closer together,
the risk you took in electing me as your Archbishop will
have been justified.” Dr Gough is a relatively young man
and can look forward to a long episcopate wherein, maybe,
to persevere is to succeed.- •


ITALY AND US
Italy's industrial miracle could dry-up one of our main migrant sources
By DESMOND O'GRADY
For many people the Italian exhibit at the current Sydney
Trade Fair is the first evidence that Italy is a major
industrial nation. The artisanship revealed in the shoes,
clothes and leatherware of the second Italian pavilion are
only to be expected, but the heavy industrial equipment, the
machine tools, electrical apparatus, the tractors and other
agricultural machinery housed in the first pavilion do not fit
in with the image of Italy as a beautiful, romantic, poor
museum. For instance, the plastic injector moulder press, made
by a firm whose largest presses can turn out 60 refrigerators
or kitchen cabinets to the hour, might be expected from
Detroit, but in fact comes from the outskirts of Milan.
What lies behind this modern industrial image is the
greatest boom in Italy’s history. More than half the increase
in the Italians’ average real income in the past century has
been achieved in the last ten years. The bases of this were
American aid in the immediate post-war period, no debilitating
colonies, a massive tourist trade, remittances from millions of
migrants, the discovery of oil and gas in North Italy and
Sicily, an expanding internal market, and the energy and
initiative of Italian capital, both State and private, and labor.
The statistics which plot Italy’s continuing economic miracle
are eloquent: the percentage increases in industrial production
between 1930 and 1960 of the major Western nations [1938 =
100] are Italy 266, Germany 260, United States 224, Great
Britain 176, France 95. Since 1948 steel output has increased
fourfold, the production of motor vehicles elevenfold, electric
power threefold, bank savings eightfold, reserves of gold and
foreign currency sixfold. Last year, compared with 1959,
saw an 18 per cent, rise in industrial investment, a 10 per cent,
rise in employment, a 6 per cent, rise in consumption.
The Italian economic miracle is soundly based and shows
no signs of disappearing overnight. Rather the already
flourishing economy should become even more vigorous
because of Italy’s participation in the Common Market. The
only noticeable effect in Rome at the moment is an increase
in the price of French wines. Merchants explain they have
put the price up as a caution ; but the effects, in fact, are
profound. Entry to the Common Market is the last stage in
the progress from the autarchy of the Fascist era when Italian
capitalism was protected from European competition. Now
the political frontiers of Europe are meaningless: the only
map that makes sense is that of the European Common Market
(see next page).
The old political divisions with their concurrent fiscal
measures were mere obstacles to the expansion of industries
as is shown by the fact that since the signing of the Rome
Common Market Treaty in 1957 commercial exchanges within
the six Common Market countries have increased by an
unheard of 44 per cent. Italian industry has been forced to
gear itself for competition in a wider and more difficult market
than the internal one. Firms have had to invest a greater
percentage of their profits, to renew equipment and methods.
Pirelli rubber, one of the most conservative concerns, increased
investments by a third ; Fiat set an example by doubling their
capital investment and output and competing successfully with
Volkswagen on the German market. The semi-governmental
bodies, such as Enrico Mattei’s E.N.I. (National Hydro-Carbon
Institute), which has discovered plentiful sources of power in
recent years, are acting with an initiative which rivals that of
private industry. Massive investment schemes are foreseen by
both State and private industry in the next five years.
This is not to say that Italy is without major worries.
Agricultural and industrial workers have combined in strikes.
Agriculture is undergoing a crisis and industrial workers claim
they are not getting sufficient share of the increased national
income. Unemployment and the underdeveloped south are
intertwined problems. But the accelerated development of
north Italy and the European Common Market provide hope
for the solution of these difficulties.
Hundreds of thousands of Italians are working in Ger-
many, which is recruiting workers from Turkey and Australia,
and hundreds of thousands are in constant movement from
the south to the north of the peninsula. Milan and Turin are
magnets for the north Italian peasantry, and the southern
Italians move in on the deserted northern farms as well as into
the industrial cities. Italy's south was dead weight while its
standard of living was static and minimal, but now it provides
an expanding home market. For example, at the moment
synthetic- and artificial-fibre producers export 60 to 70
per cent, of their output, but they believe that by 1970 the
home market will take this so that the export market will have
to take only a more normal 35 per cent, of total production.
Ail this is relevant to Australia. We have assumed that
there is an endless source of migrants in Italy ; at the moment
we cannot absorb them and in the conceivable future they
could be absorbed within Italy and the other Common Market
countries. We should not be surprised if we get very little
thanks in Italy for taking large numbers of Italian migrants.
It seemed rather harsh when the Italian press was critical of
Australia because Italians were out of work here during the
1952 recession. The fact is that Australia has not publicised
the strong human bond between the two countries. Add to this
the fact that we have no cultural representation in Rome and
it is understandable that practically the only news Italians hear
of Australia is bad news.
The stereotypes the two countries have of each other, that
of a poor, beautiful museum and that of undeveloped frontier
“No , I think I liked it the other Way best!”


jFcmlli /// 'ihe
SSSS&S
\
Mg
There is, when you come to think of it,
something very remarkable about the position in
which we Australians find ourselves now.
In a world amazingly new in science and
invention, we are still a race of pioneers; not in
the sense that the first settlers touched into the
unknown and withstood the rigours of their time,
but as leaders of the way in the continuing conquest
of a continent.
That is our role, and that it will go on being,
while the land remains to be filled and its wealth
awaits the winning.
It is well to remember this when passing
problems are likely to be magnified to a point
where they could distort our vision of the future.
A similar future faced the first pioneers of
the bush; with, now, this essential difference: While
so much of the national task is still ahead of us.
we have modern means of fulfilling it that were to
them unreachable.
From here on, then, any survey of the
Australian future must take into proper view these
three related sightings: Our fortunate possession of
a country of wide resources; its still initial growth,
notwithstanding the achievements of the few years
since we came up to nationhood; and the need for
employing every modem aid in its quick expansion.
The very fact that Australia is yet in the
pioneering stage is an advantage—provided we
have the wisdom to apply to its building the skills
and knowledge of the times.
What limit can be set to the ways in which
this can be done, given some of the brave will of
those earlier pioneers? A test of our worth today,
indeed, might be how well they would have used
the things of new creation that are now so readily
near to our hands.
Above all, in the spirit that was theirs, let us
not mistake the growing pains of youth for the
maladies of age when this fresh young country of
ours is only starting to live!
land, and the unrecognised bond of migration may soon give
way to a relationship based on newer economic realities. Italian
business interests are just becoming aware of Australia as a
field for investment. A leading Italian banker recently indicated
a shift of interest from South America to Australia, and many
Italian businessmen expect that the weakening of Australia’s
economic ties with Britain will mean increased dealings between
the two countries.
At the moment Lambretta, Olivetti, Fiat. E.P.T. [Electric
Power Transmission], the shipping lines, L. J. Stock, Alitalia
are some of the major Italian firms operating here. Alitalia, the
latest in the field, is an example of the way Italian industry
has developed in recent years: formed by a merger of two
Italian lines, it was a late starter in international aviation.
Because it bought late it has a most modern jet fleet. It is
The European Common Market’s Brussels headquarters uses
this map: the black wheels represent the most heavily
industrialised zones; the stippled sections highly industrialised
areas; the striped sections are those of medium economic
development; the white, those with under-average output;
the black, those of major economic depression.
a typical example of the development of Italian industry not
only because of its phenomenal recent rise but alsobecause
that rise is likely to continue through the effects of the Common
Market which will act like a second-stage booster. At the
moment Alitalia is competing with T.A.1.-Air France but
European air union, in line with other forms of economic
co-operation, could see them rationalising their air services to
Australia.
There are many ways in which Australia could profit
through increased economic contact with Italy but here is
sufficient to mention the most important. The Italian Chamber
of Deputies recently approved a bill providing for a great
extension of deferred payments for overseas countries. The
effect of this is that Australian businesses can obtain anything
to either start or extend an industry, a construction project,
harbor reclamation, and import from Italy everything from
consulting engineers to project designers, technicians and
machinery. Payment for these goods and services does not
have to be made for five or six years: that is, until the Italian
planning, work and equipment is already earning the money
to make these payments.


Middy’s
Military
Types
“Goodness ! It’s 1300 hrs already .**
“They’re turning the swords into ploughshares,
you know.’’
Sirs,
What’s this nonsense about the pen being mightier than
the sword ?


AUSTRALIA AND THE WORLD
More Upheavals
in Singapore
”N o longer arrogant and triumphant, the P.A.P.
has begun breaking from within”
By EUGENE KAMENKA
LEE KUAN YEW
Cambridge-educated
DAVID MARSHALL
A “has-been” returns
IN May, 1959, Singapore’s avowedly “Left-wing, anti-
colonial” People's Action Party was swept into power on
a popular wave of militant nationalism, anti-colonialism
and jealousy of the economic privileges enjoyed by the
English-educated. It captured 43 out of 51 seats in the Legis-
lative Assembly—the single chamber that governs the semi-
independent State of Singapore in all matters except those
related to foreign affairs and internal security.
Triumphant, P.A.P. feared —and tolerated —no opposition.
The members of the previous coalition government and of the
new opposition parties were ineffectual, corrupt or discredited ;
they had no party organisation and no significant following.
The press, the civil servants and such few independent institu-
tions as Singapore had all virtually capitulated to P.A.P.
authoritarianism and threats.
To Singapore's vast Chinese-speaking population P.A.P.
promised the dignity and first-class citizenship for which many
of them had looked to Communist China and the illegal
Malayan Communist Party. To Singapore’s trade unionists
and their predominantly Indian leaders, P.A.P. promised a
workers’ government inextricably wedded to unionism, indus-
trialisation and social justice. As an earnest of its intentions,
the victorious P.A.P. Government refused to take office until
eight of its party members detained for “subversive activities”
in the unions were released. They were released. Nevertheless,
in English, the Cambridge-educated P.A.P. Prime Minister,
Lee Kuan Yew, and his Finance Minister, Goh Keng Swee
fPh.D., London School of Economics), could argue quite con-
vincingly that they were the only viable alternative to the
Communist party —the only dam that could hold the flood of
Chinese nationalism and discontent and guide it into construc-
tive Malayan channels.
IYTo longer arrogant and triumphant, P.A.P. has begun break-
ing from within. Three months ago, the former P.A.P.
mayor of Singapore and ex-Housing Minister Ong Eng Guan,
expelled from the party in August, 1960, retained his seat in
Parliament by a majority of 4900 votes —scoring two and a
half times the number of votes gained by his official P.A.P.
opponent. On July 15, Singapore's first Chief Minister,
lawyer David Marshall, derided by P.A.P. as a politically
irresponsible “has-been,” defeated his P.A.P. opponent in a
by-election caused by the death of a P.A.P. member. Marshall,
long out of Parliament, won the working-class seat of Anson
against P.A.P.'s Mahmud bin Awang, a loyal Government
supporter and President of the Singapore Trade Union Con-
gress. Observers agree that Marshall could not have won the
seat without the secret support of the Left-wing T.U.C. leaders
who owed their release from jail and their official loyalty to
P.A.P. But Marshall —-unlike the P.A.P. candidate—had stood
on the policy of complete independence for Singapore by
1962 and even chided the T.U.C. leaders for not demanding
enough.
Two crucial by-election defeats and the expulsion of two
more members of the Assembly from P.A.P. had brought the
Government’s strength down to 39 seats. But on a vital vote
of confidence sought by the Government after Marshall took
his seat, P.A.P. could gain only 27 voices after 13 hours of
debate. Even these included one opposition supporter.
Thirteen P.A.P. back-benchers abstained in the hour of crisis
—in the face of a party discipline as ferocious and unyielding
as that associated with Communism. The writing was clearly
on the wall.
The Left-wing trade-union leaders had not yet openly
attacked the Government. They had merely demanded policies
to which the Government was wedded in theory, but on which
it had been more than lukewarm in practice. Ong Eng Guan,
more than a year ago, had called on P.A.P. to revive the
militant anti-colonial campaign which P.A.P. had promised
its electors, but began to play down a few months after taking
office. On May Day this year, six leading Left-wing T.U.C.
leaders proclaimed the theme “How to intensify the struggle
against colonialism.” In a statement, they insisted that
imperialism and colonialism —in Africa, Cuba, etc. —were the
main enemies of freedom, and demanded the abolition of the
Internal Security Council which gives the United Kingdom and
the Federation of Malaya the right to intervene in actions or
situations which are a threat to the internal security of
Singapore.
Prime Minister Lee retaliated sharply. He read to the
Legislative Assembly a British security document claiming that
the most important of the signatories to the statement, T.U.C.
leader and former detainee Lim Chin Siong, was a Communist
“open-front candidate.” Still trying to have it both ways, Lee
also charged that the U.K. High Commissioner in Singapore
had “wined and dined” such Communists as Lim Chin Siong
in order to encourage them to embarrass the P.A.P.
Government.
Where this was leading became obvious last week. The
P.A.P. Government, officially acting on a request from the
loyalist secretary-general of the T.U.C., G. Kandasamy,
announced that the Singapore Trade Union Congress would be
dissolved. The “moderate, democratic” trade unions, accord-
ing to Kandasamy, were tired of the scheming of Left-wing
leaders and proposed to form their own association. Earlier,
however, 42 trade unions had announced their support for the
militant anti-colonial policy of Lim Chin Siong.
Twice in the last few months Prime Minister Lee Kuan
Yew has announced that the defeat of his party candidate in
the current by-election would be a vote of no-confidence in
the Government and that the Government might have to


lysaghtFs?
ROO
100% Australian-
made from Aus-
tralian Material
LYSAGHT’S
ESTABLISHED 1884
WIRE NETTING • FENCING WIRE
• BARBED WIRE
WIRE NAILS
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK for Our MARKER
in every Roll of Netting
•: •
I mm
» '"%%2%k£.
. . . -. _ v - : --..——
. ‘s4s!%?^*’' *4 ‘ y ** <** x ';%■ ■
!_ UU_> ■■»....» «> nw..m>fi»i'iiii»».niin irftim r i..n»,,.*»«■.»«..*i..m.iini«l
Jaiik;
ZIHC OXIDE
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
YSAGHT BROS. & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Reg’d Office and Works, Blackwall I’t. Road.
Five Dock
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
resign if the by-election were lost. Twice, despite the most
intensive campaign on behalf of the Government candidate,
the by-election has been lost. The Government has not
resigned. But a Government which has lost the support of
J 3 of its back-benchers in a fortnight can easily lose the support
of five more —and with it the control of the Assembly —in
another fortnight, a month or two months.
If the present P.A.P. leadership falls, the situation in
Singapore will be very serious indeed. A P.A.P. Government
cannot and will not be replaced by the spokesmen of Singapore
capitalists, moderate English-educated civil servants and clerks
or liberal intellectuals. It can only be replaced by a coalition
of the forces represented by Ong Eng Guan and Lim Chin
Siong —a coalition of near-Communist and crypto-Communist
trade-union leaders, fiercely nationalist and economically dis-
gruntled Chinese high-school students and poor but intensely
chauvinistic Chinese hawkers and artisans.
These forces, of course, are precisely the forces to whom
even the English-educated leaders of P.A.P. appealed in
their successful bid for power two years ago. The image of
P.A.P. as a Left-wing, anti-colonial party was their own
creation. It was Lee who built up and tried to use Ong Eng
Guan, though Lee was no doubt grateful that Lim Chin Siong
was not released from jail until after the P.A.P. leaders had
been elected. Still, Lim, too, was publicly hailed as a brother
once he was free.
“He who rides a tiger cannot dismount.” This, in effect,
is what Lee Kuan Yew, Goh Keng Swee and their hitherto
loyal colleagues Toh Chin Chye, K. M. Byrne, Ong Pan Boon,
Rajaratnam and Yong Nyuk Lin are beginning to find. The
slogans with which they came to power, they knew, were almost
entirely irrelevant to Singapore’s problems. These would not
be solved by kicks at the backs of the departing colonialists or
by loose talk of social justice and social revolution. Singapore
was an entrepot port, with a fantastic population increase
threatening a standard of living already being undermined by
economic nationalism and Singapore’s separation from the
Federation of Malaya. Not anti-colonialism, but merger with
the Federation and economic help in industrialising Singapore
w'ere the magic watch-words with which P.A.P. leaders hoped
to avert disaster.
Anti-colonialism was played down and Ong Eng Guan was
expelled while Finance Minister Goh went off to London and
Washington to seek financial aid for P.A.P.’s £A 125-million
four-year development plan. Demands for independence were
dropped while P.A.P. desperately began a “Malayanisation”
campaign designed to make Singapore's 1,200,000 Chinese
speak Malay and become loyal Malayan citizens —so that the
conservative, pro-Malay Federation Government would con-
sider them worthy acquisitions to a Federation ready to receive
Singapore as a State. Trade-union leaders were urged to
negotiate moderate wage agreements which would aid Singa-
pore's search for foreign investment and foreign markets. In
short, beneath their arrogance, their parochialism and their
inferiority feelings, the moderate P.A.P. leaders were listening
to their Finance Minister and beginning to behave like
moderately rational men.
r To this realistic appraisal, Lim Chin Siong and Ong Eng
J Guan have no realistic counter-policy. Independence now
will aggravate rather than solve Singapore's problems. In many
ways, the rebellion against the P.A.P. leadership is not on behalf
of an alternative plan or a competing sectional interest. The
revolt by Ong Eng Guan and Lim Chin Siong is intensely
personal in the same way as the current militant anti-
colonialism of the Chinese high-school student and hawker is
intensely personal. The policy pursued by the moderate P.A.P.
leaders necessarily puts in the limelight such English-educated
figures as Lee Kuan Yew and Goh Ken Swee, capable of talk-
ing to the West, and necessarily puts at a disadvantage such
intensely Chinese figures as Ong and Lim. As long as this
is so, it seems to the latter, that colonialism cannot have been
defeated.
Ong Eng Guan is certainly not a member of the Com-
munist party ; Lim Chin Siong and some of his supporters may
be secretly. None of them have the ability, the education or
the strength of a Ho Chi Min, let alone of a Mao Tse-tung
or a Chou En Lai. They are small fish trying to grow big in
a little pond. Personally, I do not believe that even Lim Chin
Siong is acting under any instructions or receiving any help
from the Communist Chinese. But he would be intensely
flattered to receive such instructions and ready to carry them
out. If either Ong or Lim were ever to lead a government in
Singapore he would certainly turn to China (or possibly Russia)
for financial, technical and administrative aid. Ong would do
it to spite the West; Lim as an expression of his sincere belief
that the only salvation of the Chinese lies in being Chinese.
In the current political situation and international align-
ment, neither could bring anything but disaster to Singapore.
But just as Ong (the more stupid) and Lim (the more fanatical
and idealistic) cannot think realistically in terms of Singapore’s
situation alone, neither can a large part of the electorate. Just
as they are driven by their hatreds, their longings and their
concern with dignity, so are thousands of their supporters.
At best, the moderate P.A.P. leaders will survive by the skin
of their teeth. At worst, there will be a general election soon
which could easily touch off a renewed series of riots and
disturbances. There is no reason to suppose that Communist
China would intervene to support such riots —but Britain’s
ability to cope with riots and disturbances is not what it used
to be.


FORUM
How Jungled is
the Waterfront?
Fred Wells: “Pathological Hatred”
MONTH ago The Bulletin published the first of Alan Reid's
three articles describing the Australian waterfront ]ungle. After
an unaccustomed silence from the Seamen s Union we have received
a reply by Mr Fred Wells, himself a seaman, who questions certain
incidents outlined in the waterfront articles. On the opposite page
we publish Alan Reid's reply.
articles on “The Waterfront
-*■ Jungle” by Alan Reid appear to be
based on a pathological hatred held by
Mr Reid for Mr Elliott.
I shall deal only with certain events
of which I have personal knowledge,
some of which I myself participated in. I
am the Fred Wells referred to by Mr Reid
in the second article (22/7/61). I was a
seaman on the Australian coast for some
15 years up until a few months ago,
when, because of disabilities due to war
service, I was reluctantly forced to leave
the industry. Numerous times I was
elected delegate for the ships on which
I served ; I was elected to act once as
Federal Returning Officer and once was
Branch Returning Officer in the Seamen’s
Union elections. I have acted in the
capacity of a relieving official some half-
dozen times in Melbourne and Sydney.
For many years I was an active member
of the Communist Party of Australia,
resigning from that party last year.
(1) First, there is the case of William
George Webb and the pathetic manner
in which Phillips was forced to sell him
out. In 1949 Webb contested the posi-
tion of Federal Secretary in the ballot
for which I was the Federal Returning
Officer, and polled extremely well. At
this time the Industrial Groups were a
considerable force in the trade unions
and were making some headway in the
Seamen’s Union. Phillips, who claimed
to be associated with both Webb and the
Groups, let it be known to people who
had the ear of Elliott that he wished to
expose the whole plan of the Groups to
gain control of the Seamen’s Union.
I was one of a number of seamen
whom Elliott asked to tell Phillips that
he was available for discussion at any
time. I met Phillips in George Street,
and told him this. He went to Elliott’s
office and made a statement. I was
present when he came out of the office
and asked him to have a beer with me.
Phillips replied, “I am off the grog as
from now. I cannot afford to get drunk.
I must be alert at all times, as they (the
Groupers) will shoot me for what I have
told Elliott.”
(2) At no time to my knowledge was
Phillips threatened in any way by Com-
munists or their supporters. As to the
statements that the Communists prevented
Phillips from getting a job —either good
or bad —this is utter rot. At this time the
union did not run a roster as it does
now. The “bull” system was in operation,
whereby a shipping agent came to the
pick-up centre and, the call for labor
made, the agent himself chose whom he
wanted from those offering for the job.
And let there be no mistake here —the
men who got the best jobs were those
who bucked the Communist leadership.
This was the period too, when the
campaign against Communist trade-union
officials was at its height, and such
officials were reluctant to suspend
members even in extreme cases for fear
of provocation which might lead to a
court case.
As far as I know, the statement of
Phillips which was published in the
“Seamen’s Journal” and reprinted in your
first article (15/7/61) was only part of
the statement made to Elliott. This was,
I believe, considered too “hot” to print
as it involved certain people in high
places. Dating from this betrayal of his
political friends by the non-political
Phillips, the star of Webb and the Groups
waned quickly in the Seamen’s Union.
Tncidentally both Webb and Thomas
(also referred to in the articles) con-
tinued going to sea without suffering any
harm after they had successfully sued the
union. Subsequently too, Webb on one
occasion was accredited by the Com-
munist officials as a delegate to the Trades
and Labor Council.
(3) When Phillips was on a ship in
Melbourne he ran a raffle, either by
himself or in conjunction with another
person, and the proceeds were pur-
portedly to help the striking Italians.
Complaints were made by people (not
Communists) that Phillips kept the
money. I have no knowledge as to
whether this is true or false, so I assume
him to be innocent. But news —true and
false —travels quickly on the Australian
waterfront and Phillips found himself in
bad odour with both officials and the
rank and file. There was some discus-
sion concerning this matter at a stop-
work meeting.
(4) Then there is the matter of
Phillips’s suspension. The seamen now
have a roster system run by the union.
(Mr Reid gained some knowledge of this
when he made certain unfounded state-
ments re member V. Healy getting jobs
“under the lap.”) The man at the top
of the roster has first choice of the jobs
available. So to be at or near the top
of the roster is to be in a good position,
and anyone who tries to get there by
snide methods is not looked upon with
love by his fellow unemployed.
At this time there were about 80
unemployed firemen in Sydney. Phillips
paid off his ship in Melbourne on com-
pensation. He came to Sydney and put
himself on the roster, then later returned
to Melbourne to collect his compensation
payment. Thus while Phillips was receiv-
ing payment from (and so technically
still employed by) the shipowner, he was
automatically working his way toward
the top of the roster.
When this became known the anger of
the unemployed firemen can be imagined,
and the odour about Phillips became a
little stronger. It was because of this
violation of union rules that Phillips was
suspended. His book was returned to
him after a short period ; again, I under-
stand, because of the fear of provocation.
It was felt that Phillips was deliberately
attempting to create a situation whereby
he could sue the union.
(5) This was how matters stood when
Phillips was arrested for his part in the
demonstration in support of the striking
Italian seamen. Phillips got up at the
pick-up centre and helped persuade the
men to go to Circular Quay to demon-
strate. He helped lead the men from
there to the Quay. And for his part in
the demonstration he was arrested —with
no little publicity via the press and tele-
vision. Much of the bad odour was
dispersed. I was next to Phillips when
he was arrested. I have participated in
many demonstrations (and been arrested
at three of them), and I have never seen
a policeman so severely provoked as was
the one who arrested Phillips. If ever
I set out to be deliberately arrested at
a demonstration I should follow the
pattern set by Phillips that day.
(6) Phillips says: “I have never been
in the good ships. They are kept for
those who don’t buck the comrades.”
“The roster is juggled so Communists
and their supporters get the good jobs.”
“They [the Communists] victimised me
for years.”


In 1959 when I was acting as Vigilant
Officer in Sydney there were approxi-
mately 90 unemployed firemen on the
roster, with Phillips at the bottom. I had
heard that his child was ill and that he
was having a struggle to make ends meet.
A job came up on the “Stephen Brown,”
a collier which trades between Sydney
and Newcastle and spends much time
in Sydney. It is considered a good job
and is much sought after. It was after
pick-up hours and I was entitled to give
the job to any fireman I could contact
so that the ship might sail op time. I
sought out Phillips’s home in Miller’s
Point and offered him the job, which he
accepted. This can be easily verified.
One last point on this episode: I
informed Webster (then acting
Sydney Branch Secretary) of what I pro-
posed to do, and he agreed with my
plan. In further proof of the Communists’
“victimisation” of Phillips, if Mr Reid so
wishes I can furnish him with the names
of several well-known Communists in the
Seamen’s Union, myself included, who
have at various times given Phillips
money when he was hard up.
(7) Perhaps the real measure of
Phillips’s reputation with his fellow sea-
men is his showing in the election when
he opposed B. Smith for the position of
Sydney secretary. It is popularly sup-
posed that Smith would be the easiest
Communist to beat in a ballot. Phillips
polled 216 votes to Smith’s 1966.
While on the subject of Seamen’s
Union ballots, may I say that I and
others who have conducted these ballots
look forward to the day when some
misguided sensation-seeker will come out
openly and say they are crooked. The
ensuing court case would surely provide
some newsworthy reportage, though I
fear none of it would be to the dis-
advantage of any union official or those
who conduct the ballots.
Alan Reid: “No Axe to Grind”
Vifß Wells disarmingly overlooks the
broader implication in the articles
to suggest (1) that the articles have their
basis in what he described as my “patho-
logical hatred” for Mr E. V. Elliott, Com-
munist general secretary of the Seamen’s
Union, and (2) in his seeking to cast
doubts upon Phillips’s veracity as an
informant.
I have no feelings about Mr Elliott as
an individual. I disagree, however, with
his approach as a trade-union secretary.
I do not agree with attitudes that he has
made public in courts and in the columns
of the “Seamen’s Journal” over the years.
I disagree with his attitude —which
reflects the Communist attitude in non-
Communist countries—that the member-
ship exists to serve the union. I believe
that a union member who appeals to
the law is exercising his right as a citizen
and not “calling copper” as the policy
of the union, which Mr Elliott adminis-
ters, would have you believe. Further-
more, I cannot find myself in industrial
sympathy with a man who regards an
issue involving men’s jobs as “fun and
games,” and who is prepared to see a
ship—which is the source of jobs for his
members —pile on the rocks during a
strike on the ground that “no true
unionist would be expected to protect his
employer’s property while on strike.”
I further believe that Mr. Elliott’s poli-
cies as applied to the already languishing
Australian coastal shipping industry have
reduced and will continue to reduce job
opportunities for his members. I admit
frankly that I do not like to see any
contraction in job opportunities for Aus-
tralian workers. I assure Mr Wells that
I have no hatred, pathological or other-
wise, for Mr Elliott. But I disagree with
the type of industrial leadership that he
symbolises.
As for Mr Wells’s statements on
Phillips —I have no axe to grind for
Phillips. I depicted him faithfully in The
Bulletin articles, warts and all.
(1) Mr Wells says that Phillips volun-
teered to act as the instrument to
discredit William George Webb, a non-
Communist and one-time formidable
opponent of Mr Elliott in the Seamen’s
Union. Phillips says he didn’t —that the
role was forced upon him with the threat
that he must sign the declaration he made
against Webb or “Otherwise you can’t get
a ship.”
'T'here is some evidence to justify
■*- Phillips’s version of what took place
rather than Mr Wells’s version. If Mr
Wells cares to re-examine the June, 1952,
issue of the “Seamen’s Journal” he will
find it most ambiguous in its attitude
towards Phillips. On page three in an
article signed “J. Brennan, Assistant
Secretary, Sydney Branch,” Phillips comes
under attack. It is stated that “.... At the
February stopwork meeting Phillips....
proceeded to attempt stand-over tactics
with members speaking in favor
of the motion before the meeting. The
intimidation was so blatant that Barney
Smith had to reprimand Phillips from the
platform, telling him that that type of
action would not be tolerated on the
Australian coast.”
Yet, according to Mr Wells, this was
during the period that Phillips “let it be
known to people who had the ear of
Elliott” that he was ready to act as the
instrument to destroy Webb. Why was
this article published at this time if that
were the case? It was in the same issue
of June, 1952, that Phillips’s piece against
Webb was published. There does seem
evidence that there was a quick change
of attitude by someone and that lines got
crossed, permitting the two conflicting
pictures of Phillips to run in the one issue.
Picture one shows Phillips as a black-
hearted scoundrel from the union view-
point. Picture two shows Phillips as the
Knight in Shining Armor defending the
union against the machinations of Webb
and Co.
(2) Mr Wells says that at no time was
Phillips threatened in any way by Com-
munists or their supporters. What does
Mr Wells consider a warning that a
well-known criminal is looking for you
and a further warning that if you get
a cash verdict from the courts against
the union you won’t live to enjoy it?
Excruciating humor? The “fun” part of
“fun and games”? Or what?
Mr Wells says that both Webb and
another man named Thomas continued
going to sea without suffering any harm
after they had successfully sued the
union. I reported in The Bulletin
articles that Webb had continued at sea.
Mr Wells’s information on Thomas does
not agree with mine. Mine is that he
quit both the sea and N.S.W.
(3) Mr Wells’s handling of the incident
involving the raffle money is interesting.
After setting out as many circumstances
as he can against Phillips he hastens to
add “I assume him to be innocent.” That
speaks for itself. Phillips’s claim that the
man who ran the union with him wrote
to the union telling it that Phillips had
handed the money to him is not chal-
lenged. This man gave Phillips a copy
of the letter he wrote the union.
(4) On the issue of being on the roster
while on compensation, Phillips has stated
that he was entitled to be on the roster,
that he had a doctor’s clearance, and that
he told the union officials so.
(5) Mr Wells’s statement that Phillips
“provoked” the police into arresting him
in the Circular Quay demonstration last
year over the Italian ship Remo is a
refreshingly honest reversal of everything
that the “Seamen’s Journal” has been
saying for years. The “Journal,” not in
a single article, but repeatedly, has
depicted the police as brutal, uncaring
bashers determined to break up the
peaceful, orderly demonstrations of
inoffensive Australian workers.
(6) As for Mr Wells going out of his
way to get a good job on one occasion
for Phillips, I have no doubt that indi-
vidual Communists do individual acts of
kindness. I have found that only the
most dedicated Australian Marxists have
been able to escape completely the
influence of their Australian environ-
ment. Individual acts of this nature do
not change policies. They only make
them a little less intolerable.
(7) Mr Wells, who has conducted
ballots for the Seamen’s Union, really
shows feeling on this subject “I and
others look forward to the day when
some misguided sensation-seeker will
come out openly and sav they are
crooked,” he writes.
I suggest he come down to cuth. On
the procedure described by Mr B. W.
Thurlow, the union’s then returning
officer, in the “Seamen’s Journal” of
January, 1959, it is obvious that the union
is in a position to know how every mem-
ber voted. Does this accord with the
democratic tradition of the inviolate
secrecy of the ballot —the secrecy in
which a man can make up his mind as
to how he will cast his vote free from
pressure or fear of future repercussions?


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
•
Funds Exceed
£A363,000,000
•
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRJSBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
start the day right!
&
im
i-4
OUO»WG
[•BK
If any “Bulletin” illustration
takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you
a price for the original.
LETTERS
The Struggle in South Vietnam
Sir,
Under the title “The Struggle in South
Vietnam” you were good enough to
accord the hospitality of your columns
to an article by Mr Denis Warner, written
during the course, of his tour of South
Vietnam. After reading it and trying to
find a parallel between it and the same
author’s article in the Melbourne
“Herald” of June 28, 1961, entitled
“Blunders Set Back South Vietnam,” I
cannot help wondering what has gone on
in your special correspondent’s mind.
Has Mr Warner been influenced by the
South Vietnamese authorities in a direc-
tion only too easily guessed at? The
question remains unanswered. For if in
the “Herald” of June 28 the author
appeared to attribute all the misfortunes
and sins of South Vietnam to the founda-
tions of its own political regime and
statesmen, in your July 29 edition he
surreptitiously changed his tactics and
pointed to Cambodia, holding it respons-
ible for the disappointment of its unfor-
tunate neighbor. I shall not ask Mr
Warner to explain his volte-face or loss
of memory, for it is so well known that
amnesiacs aping improvised journalists
forget what they are there for and remem-
ber only what has aggravated them.
In this particular case, in order to put
in its rightful place the author’s state of
mind, it appears quite evident that Mr
Warner’s main aim is to discredit Cam-
bodia by calling it unfriendly or even
accusing it of being the sanctuary of the
Viet-Congs, their staging camp, or even
the headquarters of these rebels. On the
contrary, it aggravates Mr Warner to
have to admit that the neutral, peaceful
Cambodia is becoming further united
around its valiant Head of State, Prince
Norodom Sihanouk, while at the very
doors of this haven of peace a republic in
alignment with the Western Powers is
struggling, at grips with the ferments of
revolt which it has sown and cultivated.
Is Cambodia unfriendly? Yes, if
unfriendly is considered an epithet which
could be attributed to a person who wants
everything settled peacefully, who is wil-
ling to take the first steps on the way of
agreement, as Prince Norodom Sihanouk
did on August 3, 1959, by going to
Saigon to meet President Ngo Dinh
Diem. To be unfriendly is also to reply
by military force where everything could
be resolved by justice or respecting the
United Nations Charter as was the case
in the dispute over Preah Vihear temple
occupied “manu militari” by Thailand.
To be unfriendly is perhaps, finally, try-
ing to extinguish the powder from
Laotian magazines when it would have
been better to let everything explode.
If Mr Warner accepts this as the defini-
tion of the adjective unfriendly, I am
ready to agree with him in qualifying
South Vietnam’s behavior “friendly,”
during its well-known operations, “re-
moval of frontier lines,” “claiming the
islands off the Cambodian coast,”
“extortions and the crime of genocide
against the Cambodian population living
in South Vietnam.” There is logic, or
at least there is the logic of your corres-
pondent.
Since we are plunged in backward
logic, let us consider whether Cambodia
really deserves the accusation put for-
ward by Mr Warner, according to which
the Viet-Congs are in Cambodia, com-
fortably setting up their headquarters,
moving their arms through no less com-
fortably. If I were dealing with men of
honor I could say to them on behalf of
the Cambodian Head of State, the Royal
Government of Cambodia, and the Cam-
bodian people : “Believe us, Mr Warner,
we are too proud of our independence to
tolerate the intrusion and even less the
installation of foreign rebels on our
soil. We want to live in peace with all
our neighbors, to see progress and
stability established in South Vietnam,
Laos and other countries which need it.
We have an interest in encouraging and
even contributing towards smoothing out
the ideological problems which so sadly
divide the world.” This is a language
which could be understood even if not
appreciated by people with common-
sense. But for people or groups whose
motto is “falsehood and calumny at the
service of ideological hysteria,” I am con-
vinced of the fruitlessness of my efforts.
I trust, sir, that you will be kind
enough to consider this letter as a restate-
ment of the tendentious statements which
Mr Warner addressed towards my coun-
try. I do not despair to find in you and
your readers all the understanding and
the sincerity which should be present in
your “very” special correspondent's
mind.
POC THIEUN,
Ambassador of Cambodia
Canberra
THE ORR CASE
Sir,
As recommended by Professor Taylor
in his first letter (Bulletin, June 17), the
records of the Staff Association have
been consulted. I have advised Professor
Taylor that every statement of his is
contradicted by the existing records ; thus
in his second letter (Bulletin, July 29)
he “proves” his case from non-existing
documents without informing us whether
it is still his “calm and impartial” view
that people who are unwilling to build
on his memory and imaginary records


We have so much confidence
in this world-famous shaver . ..
7 DAY
FREE TRIAL
SWISS MADE
104*1
BATTERY-OPERATED
SHAVER
m
m
No Plugs, No Cords - You can shave anywhere
Now, without any obligation, you
can find out for yourself the “shave
anywhere” convenience of Lord
Riam and how it shaves cleaner,
faster than others 4- times its price.
This Swiss-made marvel has the
largest effective shaving area of
any shaver . .. operates by replace-
able torch batteries that give over
100 perfect shaves at a cost of less
than 1 d for 3 shaves. Fill in the cou-
pon for your 7-day Free Trial now.
PRICE ONLY
92/6
(complete witti batteries
and post free,)
Full 12 months guarantee
Service centres in all
States,
Cut out - Post now!
Quality Appliances
4-12 Hardy’s Chambers,
De Mestre Place, Sydney.
Please forward irte, without obligation, a
LORO RIAM Shaver for 7-day Free Trial.
NAME ...pc
ADDRESS
LR 625
are “obviously unfitted to hold any
academic position.”
If Professor Taylor’s undoubted 30
years’ war with Council remained fruit-
less (as he admits), it is because neither
Government nor Opposition could take
seriously a professorial body so afraid
of a small push of Wild Western lawyers
that even the pasting-over of the con-
firmed minutes of the Professorial Board
was overlooked until Orr and his (mostly
junior) colleagues found a way to get
a Royal Commission in a matter of weeks.
It is a matter of public record that the
rebels who meant business were vic-
timised, the cost to any one of them out-
weighing the benefits granted to Professor
Taylor.
When the then Vice - Chancellor
emerged discredited before the Royal
Commission and staff, it was senior pro-
fessors who saved him from censure
within the University, extended his tenure
and helped him to “curb rebels.” This
happened five months before the half-
hearted implementation of the commis-
sion’s recommendations, when some
senior professors were collecting evidence
against Orr, well before the windfall of
timber and diaries. Those who joined
the Vice-Chancellor did change sides;
the same applies to those who help the
side of the victimisers with tailor-made
histories to suit Council.
J. B. POLYA
University of Tasmania, Hobart.
COMMUNISM IN UNIVERSITIES
Sir,
I wish to protest against the publica-
tion of a grossly libellous attack on Mr
Churchward by Mr Alan Hughes
(Bulletin, July 29). With characteristic
cunning Hughes pretended that he was
defending him.
Mr Churchward is known to be a
member of the Australian Communist
Party, yet Mr Hughes alleges in his letter
that “Mr Churchward displayed a remark-
ably thorough grasp of his subject, par-
ticularly of the institutional mechanics of
the Soviet system of government and the
party apparatus.”
Does Mr Hughes wish to insinuate that
Mr Churchward really understands the
most formidable engine of mass-murder,
fraud, terror and defamation in history,
and yet consents willingly to be a member
of one of its overseas agencies?
I personally regard this slur on Mr
Churchward’s motives and character as
inexcusable.
FRANK KNOPFELMACHER
University of Melbourne.
HEADMISTRESSES AND
HUMANISTS
Sir,
1 have read with disgust and annoyance
the article entitled “Headmistresses and
Humanists” in your issue of August 5.
The plain fact of the matter is that
Moral standards among the young people
°f today are not as strong or as firm as
they were 20 years ago, and much of the
responsibility for this slackening-off lies
at the feet of our flippant press.
There is an unwholesome emphasis on
sex and mayhem in the daily press and
lurid magazines which abound on the
shelves and counters of our newsagencies,
and I would have been pleased to hope
that a paper as old as The Bulletin
would have had some appreciation of its
obligations and responsibilities in this
regard. Alas! That is not so.
The Misses Medway and Ralston are
two capable and sincere women who
have given many years of their working
lives to the moulding and framing of the
characters of young women. Your satiri-
cal and tongue-in-the-cheek comments
are snide and not in the best interests of
this community. Instead, The Bulletin
should give a lead to and support strongly
any person who has the courage to make
public the present unsavory position and
to point out that many modern parents
are wholly unfitted intellectually or by
temperament to face up to the situation.
J. D. [?]
Mosman ( NJS.W .).
THE WATERFRONT JUNGLE
Sir,
At our monthly stop-work meeting,
held in Hobart on July 28, one of our
members spoke and read articles sub-
mitted to your paper, written by one
Alan Reid, entitled “The Waterfront
Jungle” with sub-titles “Violence and
Thuggery” and “Thugs on the Water-
front”
After reading and discussion of these
articles, we felt that they are some of
the most vicious, slanderous, slurring
articles ever printed. Not only are our


union officials individually condemned ;
they attack our union rules, which are
made by our members to protect our
union and are endorsed by our officials.
These articles about our officials and
union reflect gravely on our own charac-
ters, insinuating that we condone
thuggery, corruption and gunmen —-
which we do not. Our present-day
officials are beyond reproach ; they are
regarded in the highest esteem by the
seamen who attended here; our members
elect them not for the political party they
belong to but because we know they are
capable of handling our union affairs in
the most efficient and honest way.
The insinuations that we are a “shot-
gun” union stood over by gunmen and
the Communist party to kowtow to our
union officials’ wishes is a fantasy out of
another world. Take Hobart, frr
instance. Here we have a stop-work meet-
ing. No union official is present as there
is not one in the port cf Hobart. We
elect a chairman to preside over our
meeting—the chairman does not carry
guns or have henchmen to see that we do
not say anything bad about E. V. Elliott,
nor are there any secret letters from
union officials, nor hidden dispatches
from Moscow.
In reference to the slant on L:e
indemnity payments, we would like your
readers to know that at all times we have
the right to know how much money is in
the unions—?. regular financial statement
is issued in our journal, which has always
printed any indemnity payments made to
our union. It is interesting to note that
at our meeting here someone moved a
motion to send a telegram to our Federal
secretary pledging full support and con-
fidence to him in the court hearing in
Melbourne. No one voted against this
motion, and if someone had there would
have been no slightly built gentleman
who looks like Mr Khrushchev walking
up to the No-voter and saying: “Lafferty
will get you.”
We go to work in our “Waterfront
Garden” with the full knowledge that
our union affairs, despite Reid’s slurrious
article, are being handled by our p-esent-
day officials in a most efficient, honest,
unquestionable manner.
M. P. GODSELL
Trades Hall. Hobart.
Mr Godsell’s letter seems merely an affirma-
tive of laith, without any detail. —Editor, The
Bulletin.
ONE WAY OF RUNNING A
UNION
Sir,
Peter Kelly’s article on the British
E.T.U. and the machinations of Commu-
nist control of trade unions is extremely
interesting, and of great importance to
those who oppose Communism in the
Australian trade-union movement.
But Mr Kelly does more than justice
to the British C.P. when he says that they
were responsible (through the E.T.U.’s
240,000 votes at Labor party conference)
for swinging the Labor party behind
unilateral disarmament.
Let us try and put the matter in its
correct perspective. Firstly, the E.T.U.
was not the only union to vote for uni-
lateralism. The Amalgamated Engi-
neering Union, Transport and General
Workers’ Union and the National Union
of General and Municipal Workers, to
name the three largest unions in the
country, also voted for unilateral disarm-
ament. Secondly, all these unions voted
for this policy for the first time last year.
All had previously opposed unilateralism,
and only changed as a result of rank-and-
file delegate conference resolutions.
Thirdly, this change took place despite
the fierce, organised opposition of the
Communist, party which has always
opposed unilateral disarmament.
Ever since Nuclear Disarmament be-
came a political issue, the, British C.P.
has advocated a policy of multilateral
disarmament. Far from embarrassing Mr
Gaitskell with support for unilateralism,
they have embarrassed him with support
for the policy he himself advocates.
So, Mr Kelly’s statement that “it was
the votes cast at the direction of the
Communist party... .whic’. determined
the result” is, to say the least, a mis-
representation of the true position.
Having been an interested reader of
The Observer, and now The Bulletin,
for the ten months I have been in Aus-
tralia I had begun to hope that with the
amalgamation of the two, Australian
weekly news-reporting would reach even
higher standards. Such misrepresen-
tation — I hate .to say falsification — of
the facts, will not help The Bulletin
achieve this objective.
NORMAN E. ATKINSON
St Kilda {Vic.).
Peter Kelly comments: If I’m guilty of
“misrepresentation” and “falsification" in the
article the independent London “Spectator" is
equally so. In its issue of June 30 it says:
“Their [the E.T.U.’s] influence at the conferences
of the T.U.C. and the Labor party has been
baleful; it is worth remembering that most
of the unilateralist motions would never have
been passed at the Labor conference last year
if it had not been for the 250,000 votes cast
on the orders of the Labor party’s most vicious
and extreme opponents.” And if the Com-
munist party of Great Britain has always
opposed unilateral disarmament why is it that
the Communist-controlled delegates at the
conference supported the unilateralists?
AID FOR CHURCH SCHOOLS
Sir,
I find little argument against the above
in the Forum article by Alison Lyons
(Bulletin, August 5), but a mountain of
religious prejudice directed against, prin-
cipally, the Catholic hierarchy in their
striving for power (?) in this country.
What power the Catholic bishops are
seeking I don’t know. Your correspon-
dent did not tell us. But I do know that
Catholics do not want aid, as such, but
merely just payment for the educational
services their schools render, which if
not so provided would involve the State
Education authorities in greater expendi-
ture than at present and add greatly to
their existing difficulties in the way of
crowded classes and shortages of teachers
and school buildings.
The greatest sufferer under the present
set-up is the Catholic working man send-
ing his children to a Catholic, primary
school, and the Labor party (which pro-
fesses to look after his interests in
common with other workers) would do
well to reconsider its opposition to any
amendment of the States Education Acts
to bring relief to his double burden in
meeting his share of taxes and making a
separate payment for the education of
his children.
And surely the Labor party, of all
parties, believes that the “laborer is
worthy of his hire” and that therefore
the State should pay for the teaching
services it gets from the Catholic system.
And if that party still believes in anti-
sweating it should surely go all out to
see that the Catholic primary-school sys-
tem does not continue to exist on the
sweated labor of the dedicated religious
but on full payment by the States for
the secular results achieved by that
system.
1 have almost come to the conclusion
that all the talking and writing for educa-
tional justice for the Catholie schools
over the past 100 years have been a
waste of time and effort. What might be
better for quicker results would be for
the Catholics to close all their primary
schools and seek enrolment of their
children in the State schools.
CHARLTS STEWART
East Kew {Vic.).
THE WATCHDOG DOESN’T
SPEAK ENGLISH
Sir,
Your correspondent (B. 22/7/61)
appeared to take much delight in highlight-
ing the embarrassing political questions put
to the Russian students during their recent
visit. His rather glib inference that the
non-English-speaking Mr Otari Cher-
kezia was appointed as “political watch-
dog” was not confirmed at an interview
I attended where questions appeared to
be answered by those whose interests
qualified them best to answer. Moreover,
the two English-speaking students were
interviewed separately on A.B.C. news
programmes. One also wonders where
your correspondent gets his up-to-date
information to challenge the truth of the
students' replies on present-day news-
reporting in Russia, or does he treat every
unacceptable answer as an untruth?
It seems to me quite pointless to saddle
foreign visitors, not here specifically for
political conferences, with controversial
political issues especially when no answer
short of one recanting their beliefs is
likely to be acceptable to the questioners.
Questions on details of life in Russia
both inside or outside the university
apparently went unasked or were not
highlighted in reports of other interviews
in spite of the likelihood of obtaining
more objective answers. The students
themselves noted that questions took on
a strong political bias as they travelled
from west to east Australia. It seems
apparent that they left the most factual
information on life in modern Russia in
the west.
M. E. DE NORTON
Ascot Vale {Vic.).


OUT and ABOUT
The Switch to Quality
H. V. Hodson, editor of the London
“Sunday Times,” puts the growth
in recent years of the English “quality”
press down to the “rising aspirations of
the growing middle class.” Hodson is in
Australia for the first time in 23 years.
Hodson said that although there has
been a decline in recent years in total
popular press readership in Britain the
circulation of the “quality” press, the
“Sunday Times” and the “Observer,” has
doubled to 1,750,000 since the war. The
“Sunday Times” has a million of these
readers. The “Sunday Telegraph,”
founded in February this year, already
has a circulation of about 600,000.
Although reluctant to criticise the local
press, Hodson feels that our papers lack
“character,” partly because they are not
unified in presentation. He said he was
referring not only to typography and the
relations between the different sections of
the papers but also to the attitudes
expressed. Much of the “Sunday Times”
success, he said, is attributable to its
enlarging its interests, by such things as
bigger sport and magazine sections,
without cutting down straight news.
A further point he made was the small
degree of competition in news gathering
in our press, which to him seemed
dependent on, and satisfied with, agency
services. This was true not only of over-
seas but also of national news, and was
an aspect of the papers’ impersonality
and lack of competition. In England,
he said, papers were anxious to provide
their own exclusive news and interpreta-
tion of it under a correspondent’s name,
but here news seemed to be regarded as
common property.
Legal Processes
The cases of Murray Simpson, who
A spent two months instead of only a
few days in jail pending an appeal against
his sentence, and of Daniel Gillis, who
had to serve 25 days’ imprisonment for
failure to pay his estreated bail money
at Coburg, Vic., although he was in Long
Bay jail, Sydney, when the case came on,
have focused what is perhaps rather un-
welcome attention on Crown activities in
Victoria.
_ However, official scorn for the ordinary
citizen was illustrated (but not reported)
some weeks ago when a well-known Mel-
bourne septuagenarian, charged with a
driving offence, was kept in jail over the
Weekend because the judge in the case
had begun his summing-up on Friday
afternoon and had not finished it. An-
other person, taken into custody over a
luncheon adjournment, was given nothing
to eat. The officials’ excuse was that the
jail authorities cater only for those already
in custody.
It all adds up to what Churchill feared
—a state of society in which nobody
counts for anything except an official.
Aims —for the Love of Money
'T'he congregation at St Patrick's, Church
Hill, Sydney, may have been startled
to hear the priest telling them not to give
money to people who begged outside the
church. “They are not beggars,’’ he said,
“they are people who make a living out
of the generosity of persons like you.”
To prove his point he told the congrega-
tion that the priests at the church were
always having people come into them
asking for their fares to Bondi, Lismore,
Newcastle, “and some of them even want
to go to Brisbane.” To separate the
genuine ones from the professional
cadgers, the priests opened an account
with the Wynyard station authorities.
People wanting to travel were then given
a form signed by the priests and they
could then present the form at the station
and receive their ticket.
“Out of 150 forms do you know how
many found their way down to the
station?” he asked. “Two. And one of
the two people who received their tickets
was later caught on the station trying to
sell it.”
A Discreet Armistice
'T'he best remembered of the South
Australian adventurers is John
McDouall Stuart. The supremacy of
his legend probably stems from the fact
that numerous descendants of the 1862
expedition across Australia still thrive in
Adelaide and elsewhere. Next year is
the centenary of the great south-to-north
achievement —the 99th anniversary was
last week —and public celebrations in the
old-fashioned style are being mooted in
the Adelaide press. P. H. Auld, a des-
cendant of one of the most courageous
young members of the original show,
has suggested a Grand Dinner of the
descendants, along with distinguished
guests and interested parties ; an exhibi-
tion of expedition relics; and so on.
It is to be hoped that a discreet armis-
tice is arranged when the Aulds, the
Waterhouses, and the McDouall Stuart
descendants foregather next year. Last
year the hypersensitive clan nearly blew
the reputation of the explorer sky high.
At a Junior Chamber of Commerce lun-
cheon at Port Adelaide, Dr Douglas Pike,
now Professor of History at Hobart,
jovially referred to McDouall Stuart’s
mighty love of the bottle. A newspaper
reporter seized on this rather unremark-
able fact, and before you could say
Johnny Walker, Dr Pike was reeling
under a tirade of abuse from the out-
raged clan.
Dr Pike was forced to defend his posi-
tion, and joined by Max Harris, the warts
“No, you can't join in!”


on the McDouall Stuart nose were added
to the glamorised historical picture.
McDouall Stuart turned out to be not
only a solid grogger, but a pistol-toting,
cursing, irascible paranoiac into the bar-
gain. The calm of nearly a century was
disturbed when not only the controversy
in the Adelaide press but Mona Stuart
Webster’s official biography pointed up
Stuart’s fierce vendetta against Water-
house, the government-appointed scientist
on the expedition.
Nonetheless the clan maintained a
solidarity of abuse against the historians,
until Geoffrey Dutton oiled the waters
with the obvious suggestion that courage,
endurance, and imagination are not
admired the less if they are allied to con-
siderable human frailties. The aim of the
social historian is to see the man whole,
warts and all.
In 1962 McDouall Stuart will be
acclaimed in South Australia as the
State’s greatest son, and a paragon of
all the virtues. Far be it from any
historian to disturb such a worthy dream.
But before he left South Australia it is
known that Dr Pike rustled up some
diverting and unpublished Stuart material
from the S.A. archives. It is to be hoped
that the clan do not attempt to haul the
shy historian over the coals again. If
they do, there could be some fine rows at
that centenary dinner.
That was Society
Adelaide “society” is much distressed
over the proposal to sell the local war-
vessel Protector, which has hitherto been
chiefly used as a picnic boat, and has
had to be docked about once a week
for the purpose of extracting the cham-
pagne corks which blocked the machinery.
— “Bulletin,” October 3, 1891.
A Tasmanian individual has got into
a certain amount of trouble for cremat-
ing his dead infant in his back-yard. He
had a conscientious objection to burial,
and there were no local facilities for cre-
mation in the ordinary sense of the term,
so there was really nothing for it save
to combust the body with kerosene and
firewood. As there was no other statute
to meet the case he was fined for unlaw-
fully burning rubbish, and being a com-
mon nuisance.
— “Bulletin,” October 10, 1891.
Gorgeous male millinery —or, should it
be called “third-sex” millinery?—was one
of the cardinal features of the Anglican
General Synod last week. Primate Sau-
marez-Smith was dazzling in pink and
scarlet robes cut bias, with puffed paniers
or rissoles and jambon a la Mayonnaise
rampant, ivith a salad of clerical fixings
and oecumenical feuilles setting forth
his ample physique a la bonbon de fatted-
calf. Bishop Goe, of Melbourne, appeared
in cassock, stole and hood, lighted up with
wrinkles couchant and upper-lip pedun-
cular. The aesthetic Bishop Kennion.
of Adelaide, dittoed the dress items, but
contented himself with a smile supine
with aureolar variations. Bishop Mont-
gomery, of Tasmania, the Antinous of
the Synod, vied in Cambridge tints with
the Primate, with frillings of shot salad
and shell saladin. The Bishops of Goul-
burn and of Perth donned black silk
D.D.’s gowns, with scarlet hoods, knock-
kneed en train, morticed with interdigi-
tations of pickled swansdown a la agape-
mone. A lot of Oxford men wore black
and scarlet, variously decorated with
petits pains au caviare, puffed out fully
with whiff-whaffs of cowslip pleats re-
ticulated with horse-collars jacent. No
bustles were detected. Every Bishop had
his own dressing-case en evidence and
plagiedral, with anti-periodical supports
astraddle. The Bulletin’s man-milliner
has offered to swear an affadavit to the
above allegations, which, however, present
such a palpable impress of truth as to
render the taking of an oath unnecessary.
— “Bulletin,” October 3, 1891.
Lady Hamilton gave one of her dread-
ful “at homes” in honor of the visit
of the auxiliary squadron to Hobart.
These awful entertainments are a superior
class of tea-meeting in evening dress.
There is no recognised dancing, though
one or two waltzes are allowed after what
is facetiously called “supper” —a ghastly
repast of sugared buns and cruelly-weak
negus. A high intellectual tone is sup-
posed to pervade these entertainments;
everybody looks intensely uncomfortable
and nobody knows what on earth to do,
but, then, they are very “toney” and
the proprieties are observed w r ith agonis-
ing severity.
— “Bulletin,” October 31, 1891.
It is a coincidence that every Sydney
Building Society that has failed up to
date has at least one member of Parlia-
ment on its Board.
— “Bulletin,” October 10, 1891.
FOR THE CONSUMER
The Case of the
Hungry Husband
TThe whole episode sounds exactly like
a script for a TV ad. Sydney
executive Mr Fred Bangel arrives home
from work, tired and hungry, then does
a slow burn because dinner is not ready.
He and his family have just moved to
a new house at Clifton Gardens, which
has an electric stove instead of the gas
stove which Mrs Bangel has previously
used. Mr Bangel goes into the kitchen
and finds his wife struggling to cook
with half a dozen different-sized sauce-
pans straddling the coils of the electric
stove.
In the next scene what do we find Mr
Bangel doing? Well, almost any other
husband would just take to buying a pie
on the way home to take the edge off
his hunger, but Mr Bangel designs a
whole new set of saucepans, planned for
electric cooking.
Mr Bangel, who is director of market-
ing for Strong-Lite Aluminium Industries,
first talked to his wife about the sort
of saucepans she felt she would need for
an electric stove. Then he did something
which seems regrettably rare among Aus-
tralian manufacturers. He talked the
problem over with someone whose job
is to use saucepans. This was Una Clark-
son, who is in charge of the cooking-
demonstration section of the Sydney
County Council.
“Saucepans at present on the market
Were planned for fuel-stoves,” Mr Bangel
explained. “The five sizes, from one and
a half to seven points, have remained un-
changed for more than a hundred years,
since, in fact, saucepans were evolved
from the cooking pot.
“Fuel-stoves are now, of course, rare.
Electric stoves are currently selling more
rapidly in Australia than gas stoves, but
no less than 76 per cent, of houses with
electric cooking have stoves with only
one or two hot-points.
“A gas flame can be adjusted to the
size of the saucepan, a fuel stove can
distribute its heat, but an electric hot-
point is not so accommodating. The
heating area is merely the six or eight
inches of the hot-point.
“I found that with my wife’s saucepans
on the electric stove, most of the heat
was being wasted. The contents of each
saucepan were taking at least twice as
long as necessary to cook because a large
part of the saucepan bottom was resting
on the enamel top of the stove and not
on the hob.”
Mr Bangel’s saucepans, the Namco
Electra, consist of a set of four, two to
fit a six-inch coil and two for the eight-
inch coil. The saucepans may, of course,
be bought separately.
The small-base saucepans have a
capacity of two and a half pints and three
and a half pints ; the larger-base ones are
five pints and seven.
The six-inch diameter saucepans have
a streamer-strainer and also a porringer,
so that the saucepan can become a two-
or three-deck utensil. The larger sauce-
pans have a steamer-strainer. Because
the heat is fully contained in the six-
inch area of the smaller saucepan it is
possible to steam, cook and reheat or
to manage almost any combination of
three foods at once ; with the larger
saucepans and strainer, two foods can be
cooked at once.


Mr Bangel claims that the Electra
saucepans can cook a meal on an electric
stove in as little as one-fifth of the time
required by normal saucepans.
Other small points about the Electra
saucepans are a tall knob, to save burnt
fingers, and the same size handle for each
saucepan. (Most older-style saucepans had
varying-sized handles, although, of course,
the size of a hand is always the same.)
The saucepans can be grasped by either
the left or right hand and the grip can
come from either above or below.
As well as the set of four saucepans,
Mr Bangel has put on the market what
he considers is an improved twin sauce-
pan. These are of three and a half-pint
capacity with attached handles. Mr
Bangel is confident they will rapidly re-
place the three-segment saucepans, which
had a detachable handle, and which were
somewhat unsatisfactory and perhaps un-
safe.
The Electra saucepans can more than
compete in price with sets of five sauce-
pans of similar quality. The four Electra
saucepans are priced, in capital cities, at
£8 19s. 6d., while the cheapest set of five
saucepans produced by Mr Bangel’s
organisation is £9 15s. and a similar-
gauge aluminium to the Electra would be
£l4 19s. 6d. The complete Electra set,
four saucepans, two steamer-strainers,
one porringer or double-saucepan top
and the twin saucepans are priced at
£l6 18s. 6d.
The important thing about Mr Bangel’s
saucepans is that they have overcome the
most inhibiting factor in all industrial
design—that the maker knows what tie
article he is going to make looks like
before he begins to make it. He thinks,
“Ah, a saucepan! I know what a sav. o-
pan looks like. Everybody knows what a
saucepan looks like.” So he makes some
saucepans exactly like every other sauce-
pan on the market, except for the brand-
stamp on the bottom.
The Electra saucepans have vanquished
the challenge of design. Now they will
have to attack demand—the attitudes of
million of Mums who buy a set of five
saucepans for Daughter’s “box” because
what was good enough for the older
generation should be good enough for
the new.
The Electra saucepans are the only
ones planned entirely for electric stoves
on the market here. Even the handsome
and expensive Scandinavian and English
stainless-steel saucepans follow the con-
ventional shape and size. While some
of the recently-arrived American cook-
ware makes a feature of such things as
“easy-lifting lids,” and on on, there is no
radical attempt to face the fact that cook-
ing today is vastly different from what
it was 100 years ago.
Mr Bangel’s claim that his saucepans
are unique and that Australian house-
wives are very well served by local cook-
ware seems to be well substantiated. But,
°f course, it took a hungry husband —
a nd not an- . experienced manufac-
turer—to. think out a ne\y approach to
saucepans. ■ * ♦
“What is the plural of ‘My beloved'?”
FOR THE OBSERBER
Sacking Instead
of Shoes
A ll right, said my foreign corres-
pondent friends, go to Australia if
you must, where such a typical English-
man as you will never fit in. Go over-,
land, alone, as long as you’re well-insured.
Even venture through Communist Yugo-
slavia: you’ll meet no worse than un-
necessary delays there. But for God s
sake don’t try to step foot in Bulgaria.
You’ll be lucky to get out if you do.
There was no chance of going through
Bulgaria on my way to Australia. It was
one of those states for which I could
not obtain a visa. At least, not in London
L had reached Belgrade in Yugoslavia
before I noticed that the railway clerk
in Basle, Switzerland, who issued me my
through ticket to Istanbul had routed me
through Bulgaria instead of through
Greece. I took my ticket to the Belgrade
stationmaster to have it put right. Then,
in the. middle of a. conversation made
difficuL-by language barriers, I suddenly
inadequately excused myself and sought
out the Bulgarian Embassy in the Yugo-
slavian capital.
Two hours later, quivering with excite-
ment at the thought of the rich journalistic
rewards for exclusive copy, I was on my
chug-chugging way to Sofia.
The January snow that lay about the
station and the rolling stock of the quaint
old-fashioned terminal gave it a touch of
the Russian novelists, and ragged peasants,
sacking round their feet for shoes, com-
pleted the picture. When the grey-blue
dawn lifted I left the cold platforms and
made my way into the town.
For some yards I was followed by a
poverty-stricken crew of Bulgarians who
were obviously trying to satisfy a child-
like curiousity about me. They dropped
away when their place was taken by two
grim-faced men who shadowed me all
the rest of that day until i left the city.
Modern Sofia, as rebuilt by the Com-
munists, is the Very antithesis of its
ancient railway station. Your route into
the city takes you past old mosques that
witnessed mediaeval Moorish occupancy.
You turn a corner, and you’re among
high streamlined concrete buildings set
in spacious squares.


Pride of place is given to the Peoples’
Store. This is one of the finest depart-
ment stores, architecturally, that I have
seen in travels all over the world. It is
full of goods that the average Bulgarian
will never be able to buy under the
present regime. How could he buy one
of those television sets or washing
machines when a pair of shoes requires
the equivalent of 10 weeks’ pay, a suit
over a year, and so on? Work hard, say
the posters, and one day these things will
be yours. And meanwhile, endure the
sacking round your feet . . .
In its basement tea-shop, still tailed
by my new-found friends, I made the
acquaintance of G. for the price of a
breakfast.
I call him G. and give no further details
about him. And yet as I write, I say
to myself: “Funny, he didn’t seem too
worried about my being obviously tailed
—maybe he was a government agent.”
That’s the sort of suspicion everyone has
of the other fellow in Communist coun-
tries.
G. took me round Sofia with a mixture
of pride and contempt. Opposite the
tiny, close -to - the - street 18th-century
palace of the former kings is the clinic-
ally-lined little edifice that houses the
embalmed body of the leader of the
partisan movement
Along wide, tree-lined modern avenues
we came to the Park of the Heroes, the
far-stretching vistas of which are dedi-
cated to the members of the partisan
forces who died in the resistance. There
are fine pieces of statuary erected to their
memory all over the park.
We went to see the fairy-tale Alexander
Nevsky cathedral, of vast size and cork-
screw minarets. Then we saw the little
Jewish synagogue, one of the oldest sur-
viving in Europe, 11th century. G. grew
sadder and sadder. I was on my way
across the world, a free man. He couldn’t
even get permission to leave the country
whose regime he so hated. Or said he
did . . .
There were his children, attending this
fine modern school we came to. Oh yes,
a fine school, said G., but the children
now, forced to do their weekly stint in
the factories, along with their schooling,
it was too hard.
The Bulgarians come of Slavonic
stock, a race whose emotions resemble
those of characters of the Old Testament.
G., I felt, if I was not careful, would
come to tears. Indeed, his gloomy assess-
ments of his own country’s situation
flowed down his cheeks before I parted
from him in the evening. Whether he
cried, like a sensitive author, over a tale
entirely of his own invention or out of
Slavonic introspection, I do not know.
To a passer-by who offered to help me
with my luggage I gave the equivalent
of 10s. He went wild with disbelief, tears
of gratitude came to his eyes, and he ran
away, probably to share the good news
of the windfall with family or drinking
cronies.
I don’t know which. But I know he
also had sacking instead of shoes.
JULIAN MACKENZIE
ABORIGINA LITIES
The Death of
Freddie Lee
Quambone is one of the hardest, most
depressing towns in some of the
hardest, most depressing country in New
South Wales. There are people who
think the country—the Central Western
Plains and particularly that bit lying
between Coonamble and Walgett —is
beautiful, but there is nobody who thinks
Quambone beautiful. It is made up of
a schoolhouse, a couple of slapped -up
buildings that serve as Catholic and
Protestant churches, the mailman’s home
at the end of the 30-mile daily mail run
from Coonamble, two general stores, the
remains of what must once have been a
fine Colonial pub, a handful of white
people in sad wooden homes, a bush
nurse, and a scatter of tin and bag
humpies where the blacks live like flies
in these scabs on the landscape. It has
a cemetery too, where full-blood Freddie
Lee lies this week.
Nobody in Quambone or on the vast
grazing properties surrounding the town-
ship thought it very important that
Freddie Lee died, though it was a shame
that he went the way he did. Freddie,
who was about 70 as far as anyone can
remember, worked the properties around
Quambone and Coonamble for the last
50 years. He was considered to be the
best stockman the area had ever had.
He could ride a horse all day as though
the horse had been born 70 and more
years before with black Freddie on its
back. He could see things in the spread-
ing miles of flatness that not even the
keenest-eyed “boss” could see. He could
sense the whereabouts of a flock of sheep
in a paddock of 10,000 and more acres
without being able to see them, appa-
rently without taking any heed of old
tracks and new spoors.
While he worked on these properties
he lived usually in a tin shanty or a
barn or an outhouse. Apart from wages
he was given meat to eat and nothing
else. He kept himself clean when he
wanted to by washing under a tap in
the pigyard. He was less “trouble” than
most of the other aborigines, and some-
times he didn’t get drunk as often as they.
The people he worked for can only
remember him having one ambition at
any time. He picked up an old Anthony
Hordern’s catalogue one day and fell
in love with a hat and a pair of brown
shoes. He saved up the 15s. a day he
earned, went off the grog, and eventually
had enough to ask his boss to send down
to Sydney for the hat and the shoes.
On the Saturday after they arrived,
Freddie had a wash in the pigyard, dug
out a new blue shirt he had from some-
where, slipped on the one pair of socks
he owned—with huge spudholes in them
—put his brown shoes on over them,
then a neat blue suit he had packed away
as his “Sunday best,” combed his hair,
put his hat on, collected that week’s pay,
hired a cab for the eight-mile drive into
town.
He had money in his pocket, he felt
good and was showing off. Naturally
the only way to do that in Quambone
is to invite all the other blacks to have
a drink. Legally Quambone is a dry
town. But you can buy beer for 6s. a
bottle. Legally, too, Freddie Lee, and
most of his race in Quambone, are not
allowed to drink. But Freddie got drunk,
spent all his money and then gave away
his new brown shoes and his new snap-
brim hat to the first of his “mates” who
would buy him another. Freddie went
back home the next day in borrowed
shoes, no hat and with a king-sized
hangover.
But things like that are happening to
the blacks around Quambone all the
“Ssh, darling — don't Worry Daddy
... he's been merged !”


THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(lnco> pointed in Victoria under the “Companies Act 1899”) HEAD OFFICE: 333-339 Collins Street, Melbourne.
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
1. The Board of Directors submits to the Stockholders the accompany-
ing Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Account for the year ended 301 h
June, 1961, wj(h Auditors' Report
2 The Net Profit amounts to .. .. .. .. ., £606,735 16 10
to which is added amount brought forward .. .. 322.866 16 0
Making a total of .. .. .. .. .. £929,602 12 10
From this amount the Directors have made the following
appropriations, viz.:—
To Reduction of Bank Premises .. £75,000 0 0
,, Interim Dividend on Preference
Stock at 2% paid February, 1961. in
Australian Currency .. . . . 42,347 0 0
„ Interim Dividend on Ordinary Stock
at 5% paid February. 1901, in
Australian Currency .. .. .. 205.293 8 0
322.010 _8 0
leaving a Balance of .. .. .. .. .. .. £000,902 4 10
which it is proposed to apportion as follows:—
To Final Dividend on Preference Stock at 2% in
Australian Currency .. .. .. .. .. £42,347 0 0
„ Final Dividend on Ordinary Stock at 5% in
Australian Currency .. .. .. .. .. 205.293 8 0
„ carry forward to next year .. .. .. .. 359.321 10 10
£606.962 4 10
3. During the year. Branches have bec-n opened in Victoria at the
Chadstone Shopping Centre. Cliadstone and the Monash University. Clay-
ton. The Agencies at Toukley in New South Wales; Petrie in Queensland
and Doubleview in Western Australia have been converted into Branches
and the Branch at Scarborough in Western Australia has been converted
into an Agency.
4. The Directors desire to record their deep regret at the death during
the year of Mr. F. S. Vine, C.M.G., and their appreciation of Hie services
rendered by their late colleague as a Director of the Bank. At the invita-
tion of the Directors. Mr. T. L. Webb accepted a seat at the Board to fill
the casual vacancy thus created.
5. In accordance with the Articles of Association, two Directors retire
by rotation at this Meeting, viz., Mr. C. F. Meares and Mr. J. C. Guest,
’they are eligible for re-election and have given the necessary notice of
candidature.
6. The Meeting will be required to appoint two Auditors for the ensuing
twelve months.
For Dividend purposes, the Transfer Books, will be closed from 5 p.m.
on 9tli August to 24th August, 1961, inclusive.
By Order of the Board, H. F. CLARKE, General Manager.
Melbourne, 27th July, 1961.
Balance Sheet of THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED as at 30th June, 1961
(Expressed to the nearest £ in Australian Currency)
LIABILITIES
Authorised Capital— £- £
300.000 Preference Shares of £10 each .. 3.000,000
14.000,000 Ordinary Shares of 10/- each .. 7.000,000
10.000,000
Issued and Fully Paid Capital—
211.735 Preference Stock Units of £10 per unit 2.117.350
S,211,736 Ordinary Stock Units of 10 - per unit 4,105,868
Paid-up Capital* .. .. .. .. .. 6,223,218
Reserve Fund, including Share Premium Account.
£1,260,000 (used in flic business of the Bank) 3,610,000
Final Dividends proposed payable, August. 1961 247.641
Balance of Profit and Loss Account .. .. .. 359.321
Total Stockholders' Funds .. .. .. .. .. .. 10,440,180
Balances due to Other Banks .. .. .. .. .. 165,441
Deposits. Bills Payable and all other Liabilities, including
provisions for Contingencies .. .. .. .. .. 232,013,134
Amount due to Subsidiary Company .. .. .. .. 100
242.618,855
Contingent Liabilities on Letters of Credit, Drafts.
Guarantees and Other Engagements .. .. 10,933.117
~ £253,551.972
ASSETS
£
Coin, Bullion, Notes and Cash at Bankers .. .. .. 15.596.674
Money at Short Call Overseas .. .. .. .. .. 4,375,000
Australian Public Securities —
(a) Commonwealth and States —
(i) Treasury Bills (at face value) .. .. .. 3,000.000
(ii) Other Securities (at or under market value) .. 21,537,117
(b) Local and Semi-Governmental Authorities (at or under
market value) .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 485,350
Ollier Public Securities (at or under market value) .. 1,195.207
Other Securities (at or under market value) .. .. .. 1,418,3S1
Loans to Authorised Dealers in the Short-Term Money Market 3,444,000
Statutory Reserve Deposit Account with Reserve Bank of
Australia .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 24,096,000
Cheques, and Bills of Other Banks and Balances with and due
from Other Banks .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 9.355,277
Loans. Advances and Bills Discounted (after deducting pro-
visions for debts considered bad or doubtful) .. .. 129,872,909
Bank Premises, Furniture and Sites (at cost less amounts
written off) . . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 6,394,098
Bills Receivable and Remittances in Transit .. .. .. 21,30S,182
Shares in wholly-owned "Subsidiary Company (at cost). (The
Subsidiary Company has not traded at any time, and-has
made neither Profit nor Loss; its only Asset is a Deposit
of £100 with this Bank) .. .. .. .. .. .. 100
All Other Assets .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 540.560
242,618,855
Contingent Assets including Liabilities of Customers and
Others on Letters of Credit, Drafts, Guarantees, etc., as
per contra .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 10.933,117
£253.551.972
Profit and Loss Account of THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LTD. in respect of the year ended 30th June, 1961
(Expressed ic the nearest £ in Australian Currency')
r £
To Expenses—Head Office. 806 Branches and Agencies (includ-
ing Directors’ Fees, £4.335> .. .. .. .. .. 7.579,574
„ Income. Land and Other Taxes .. .. .. .. 894.250
„ Balance, being Net Profit for the Year carried down .. 606,736
£9,080.560
To Amounts written off Bank Premises .. .. .. .. 75,000
,, Dividends—
Interim paid February, 1961 .. .. .. 247.640
Final, proposed payable August. 1961 .. .. 247.641
.. 495.281
„ Balance carried forward .. .. .. .. .. .. 359.321
£929,602
£
By Discount and Interest earned, net exchange, commis-
sions and other items, after deducting interest paid and
accrued on deposits, rebate on bills current at balance
date and transfers to the credit of Contingencies Accounts
lout of which accounts provisions for all bad and doubtful
debts have been made) .. .. .. .. .. •• 9.080.560
£9.080.560
By Balance brought forward from previous year .. .. 322,866
,, Net Profit for the Year as above .. .. .. ,. 606,736
~£929jj02
By Balance .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £359.321
Wo. HENRY FOLLETT CLARKE, General Manager, and RONALD HERBERT SMITH, Secretary, of THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUS-
TRALIA LIMITED, do solemnly and sincerely declare that the Reserve Fund and accumulated profits are used in the business, and that the
accompanying Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Account of the Bank are, to the best of our knowledge and belief, correct in every particular.
And we make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of an Act of the Parlia-
ment of Victoria rendering persons making a false declaration punishable for wilful and corrupt perjury.
DECLARED at Melbourne, in the State of Victoria, this 27th day of July, One thousand nine hundred and sixty-one.
Before me, H. F. CLARKE.
J. B. FENTON Justice of the Peace. R. H. SMITH.
We. VICTOR YULE KIMPTON and COLIN FORSYTH MEARES, of Melbourne, being Directors of THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUS-
TRALIA LIMITED, declare that in our opinion the foregoing Balance Sheet is drawn up so as to exhibit a true and fair view of the state of
the Company's affairs, and that the Profit and Loss Account exhibits a true and fair view of the results of the business of the Company for the
year ended 30th June, 1061.
, V Y KIMPTON
Dated at Melbourne this 27th day of July, 1961. On behalf of the Board, COLIN F MEARES.
AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE STOCKHOLDERS OF THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
We have examined the foregoing Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Account with the books and records at the Head Office, together with
audited statements received from Messfs. Jackson, Pixley & Co., relating to branches in the United Kingdom and returns certified by Managers
and Accountants as regards all branches in Australia and New Zealand, none of which was visited by us.
In our opinion the Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Account are properly drawn up, in accordance with the provisions of the Companies
Act, 1958. so as to give a true and fair view of the state of the Company’s affairs as at 30th June, 1961, and of the results of the business of the
Companv for the year ended on that date.
We have received every assistance from Officers of the Bank and have obtained all the information and explanations we hare required.
Melbourne, 27th July, 1961. E. FOOKES, G. L. ALLARD, Chartered Accountants.


WORLD FAMOUS
RIFLES AND GUNS.
The “Hornet'’ smallbore rifle for medium game—rabbits,
hares, roos. Easy to handle safety lock even when a
telescopic sight is mounted.
BRNO ZIvM 465 .22/36 Cal.
£4B/-/-
Exported by Omnipol Ltd.
Praha, Czechoslovakia
Is the result of many years’ study of the require-
ments of expert hunters. The right rifle for
shooting pigs, roos., buffaloes, crocodiles, wild
camels, etc.
<>■%
BRNO ZG 47 .270 Cal.
£79/2/6
Sole Australian Distributors
GOLLIN & CO. LTD.
SYDNEY - MELBOURNE - BRISBANE - ADELAIDE - PERTH
Rifles that every Sportsman
will be proud to own
BRNO 2 DE-LUXE ZKM 452
BOLT ACTION REPEATING
£37/10/-
For those who are
most discriminate
Precise shooting • Light to carry (G.o lbs.)
A rifle that embodies all the privileges of tradi-
tion and progress.
Bit NO ZKM 581
AUTOMATIC .'Si
£3B/10/-
An automatic smallbore rifle with easily acces-
sible parts for cleaning. Its accuracy and
reliability make it ideal for shooting quick-
moving small game.
BRNO INFORMATION CENTRE
GOLLIN & CO. LTD., 50 Clarence St., SYDNEY.
Please send me complete details of Model ZKM 452 Q
ZKM 581 Q ZKM 465 Q ZC 47 Q
(Tick in applicable square)
NAME .
ADDRESS
S.n. 12/8.
time. As a result white people think the
blacks are not worth worrying about.
They have thought this way for so long
that they do not worry about them,
they do not even consider them.
That is the situation in Quambone
today. It was the situation recently on
the night that Freddie Lee died. Freddie
had been into town again. He had got
drunk, but being more loyal and more
responsible than many of the aborigines
about, he made his way back to the
property on which he had been working.
His “home” while he was there was a
timber shack that stored some pieces of
equipment, some saddles, grain, a few
odds and ends and a blanket for Freddie.
He went to sleep with a cigarette in his
hand. Not much before midnight the
station owners were awakened by one
of their staflf running screaming up the
drive. The outhouse was on fire, and
there was nothing anybody could do
about getting out the equipment, or the
saddles, or the grain, or Freddie Lee.
All they found of Freddie Lee was
his left leg.
So they buried Freddie Lee. Around
his coffin were a couple of white people
who had known Freddie for a long time
and most of Quambone's eighth-castes,
quarter-castes, half-castes and all the way
up to the other couple of full-bloods, who
probably were closely related to Freddie.
There was one man still wearing
Freddie's coveted brown shoes. His
equally coveted hat was nowhere to be
seen.
What next? Do the blacks like to bury
their own dead, or what happens? Then
someone had a bright idea. Ihe
aborigines like to show emotion at the
death of one of their own. They're a
bit like the Irish in that, so let's give 'em
the opportunity for a wake. Pass the
word around, at 6s. a bottle, it's good
business. It was.
That Was the Country.
Nor long ago a publican, living out the
“other side of Bourke,” won a very big
prize in Tattersall’s, and in his joy he
decided that he would make the whole
township drunk free of charge. This
exactly coincided with the view of the
inhabitants, except the local school-
master, who was a good teetotaller. In
a very short time the whole male popu-
lation was upon its ear. The school-
master gazed sorrowfully on the field of
bottles and, being very dry, wended his
way to the town well to draw himself
a bucket of typhoid bacilli. The winding
apparatus was out of order (they very
rarely use water in those parts) , and
slipping, he fell with it to the bottom.
He shouted in vain, for the whole town
was drunk. Four hours later a re-
covering inhabitant went to get some
water for his swelled head and heard the
cries. They passed down a greenhide
rope, and getting a half-hitch onto him
attached a horse to the other end. The
publican gave the animal a clout, and
the emblem of sobriety was dragged to the
top with unnecessary celerity and towed
some considerable distance. We feel
there is a moral somewhere about this
incident.-— “ Bulletin,” August 20, 1903.
Talking of infernal noises, the recipe
for the limit is: Drink bush-pub rum
for one solid week. Leave the pub
stone-broke, carrying a big thirst and
a big swag. Get lost. Find a clump of
bull oak. Lie down and listen to the
-fan tods bellowing in the darkness. They
sound like 2000 bound maniacs being
tickled to death with straws.
— ‘'Bulletin,” July 14, 1910.


BOOKHUNTER
Dept. “D,” Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print
hooks. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.O. Sydney.
the Red Page
The People Who Made Populism
By HENRY MAYER
Roots of Revolution. Franco Venturi.
Weidenfeld and Nicolson. 635. 3d.
One approaches a book about the
Russian Populist and Socialist move-
ment of the last century with the word
in its title with some caution.
Are we going to have yet another
example of historical pseudo-explanation
by the notion of retrospective taint?
Current historical writings are chock-
ful of this. The basic pattern is simple:
Pick out a person or movement of recent
vintage about which most readers will
feel strongly, know very little, and which
puzzles them. Then dig up another
person or movement in the past. Finally
“connect” the two and pretend that the
past movement explains the present one.
Give your book a title or sub-title such
as “Father of Fascism,” “Harbinger of
Bolshevism,” “Herald of Hitlerism” or
“Roots of Revolution” —and there you
are.
Royalties won’t mount if you go in
for a genetic explanation of the views
of your local fishmonger. The contem-
porary movement or person you are
writing about must be headline material.
But your forerunner(s) can, and pre-
ferably should, be obscure. The fewer
people have ever even heard their name,
the better. After all, when, a decade or
so ago, we had a book which cast, of all
people, Proudhon as the herald of
Fascism, there were sufficient reasonably
well educated people with some know-
ledge of Proudhon to raise their eye-
brows. But it is different when the author
manages to locate someone most of us
have never heard about and appears not
only as the discoverer of such a waif
and stray, but also as the only expert
on him. Thus Hitler’s ideas have been
derived in two recent works as stemming
largely from ar. obscure Viennese burgo-
master and an even more obscure and
“mysterious” Munich Catholic priest.
' Best of all is to write about some
rather vague and badly documented
movement, whose actual content changed
over the centuries. Gnosticism, which at
least one alleged scholar sees as the
“root” of totalitarianism, is a fine
example.
It is rather hard to see why people
should feel that something obscure in
the present is explained when, it is re-
ferred to something more obscure in the
past. But apparently they do. In the
’forties and ’fifties books on forerunners
of Fascism had a great vogue, today
we are in for a cycle of fathers of
Bolshevism. Many works and articles
on nineteenth century Russian revolu-
tionaries are inspired by this desperate
search for a retrospective taint. In the
most schoolmasterly fashion, their
authors sit in moral judgment, awarding
a minus mark for every “contribution”
to Bolshevism, a plus mark for every
“warning.”
All this is a great pity, for while these
people handle a theme in a shoddy and
mistaken way, they do, in fact, open
up once more a permanent theme in all
history that of continuity and dis-
continuity. It can, for instance, be
argued quite seriously that any study of
Bolshevism which starts with Marx
rather than with some of the Decembrists,
and later Populists, is quite beside the
point. From this perspective, one can
begin to investigate the whole very com-
plex question of how far the Russian
Revolution was in any sense “western”
and how far it arose out of, and must
be explained in terms of, specifically
and uniquely Russian conditions.
But questions of this kind cannot be
approached by the standard demonstra-
tions of the existence of forerunners or
influences. These are an unholy mess of
“explanations” and causal links which,
in fact, conflict or at least are not neces-
sarily connected. They tend to mix up
such things as logical entailment, his-
torical connection, and psychological
connection. Partial similarity between
some of the ideas of people centuries
apart, even where the contemporary has
never heard of the forerunner, is taken
as proving “influence.”
“'p oots of Revolution” is not a book
this kind. When it first appeared
in Italy in 1952 it was simply called
“Russian Populism.” Since then, it has
already become a standard work on its
subject. It is a scholar’s book of over
800 pages, packed not only with informa-
tion based on a full survey of scattered
and inaccessible documents, but also full
of insight. It will be a quite indispens-
able work for any serious student of
Russian history.
Professor Venturi’s analysis begins
with Herzen in the 1840 s and ends with
the assassination of Alexander II in
March, Stressing the strongly per-
sonal element in Populism, each of his
chapters deals with one of the leading
figures—Herzen, Bakunin, Chernyshev-
sky, Nechaev, Tkachev or groups such as
the students. It is a tribute to his bril-
liance as a historian that even if one
approaches the work with a bias against
history in terms of personalities, he
largely justifies this approach. For any
other would have given Populism much
more structure and coherence than in
reality it had.
- Whether, indeed, there were any
“essentials” to Populism is another ques-
tion. Venturi names four: distrust of
democracy, belief in a possible autono-
mous development of Socialism in Russia,
faith, in the future possibilities of the
peasant commune, and the need to create
dedicated revolutionaries. Yet, as the
names of particular Populists crowd the
pages, they tend to undermine the actual
meaning of even these four essentials.
Diversity was paramount.
Venturi’s general perspective is to treat
Populism as a section of the European
Socialist movement, though one “very
much conditioned by local circum-
stances.” Yet he himself provides ample
material —a tribute to his scholarship—
for disagreement with this judgment. For
even if there was a process of trans-
plantation, Socialist ideas taken from
Europe could only be taken as relevant
in Russia when their basic meaning was
radically changed. This is certainly true
of the predominantly urban elements in
European Socialism, of all those strands
in it which were a reaction to European
industrialisation. In an overwhelmingly
agrarian society in which there was very
little struggle of conflicting interests,
European Socialism was emptied of all
empirical content. Only its more abstract
formula and its purely ideological ele-
ments could survive in Russia, and even
these were transmuted.
The phase of revolutionary activity
discussed by Venturi ends in 1881. His
book makes ever more necessary a
serious work on the subsequent history
of the Social Revolutionaries and their
precise relation with the first phase of
Populism. The only serious work here,
that by Radkey, is most unsatisfactory
in many ways.
Those who are inclined to see in
Populism as a whole a forerunner of
Bolshevism will have to think again.
In a brilliantly written but rather shallow
introduction Sir Isaiah Berlin tries to
make out a case for this view, but his
arguments are, in fact, not really sup-
ported by the body of the book.
For the outstanding impression is the
quite extraordinary range of people,
with the most variegated and conflicting
ideas, which are brought together under
one convenient label. It is Venturi’s great
merit that his material will force some
re-thinking of alleged connections which
sound seductively attractive.


Crippled by Ideology
There Is No Refuge. Gwen Kelly.
Heinemann. 20s.
npms is a first novel. It tells, as first
novels will, the story of the education
sentimentale of its heroine, who is a baby
when the book opens and about 23 when
it closes. As a rule, novels of this kind
have the air of being closely related to
autobiography—in the way, unfortun-
ately, that Siamese twins are related —
and for that reason they are generally
unsatisfactory. There is something in-
complete in many of them ; they fail to
establish their independence. There is
something small and passionate and shal-
low about them. Their fundamental aim
is not creation or communication, but
self-discovery.
Gwen Kelly’s first novel does not escape
being fairly representative of its type, but
it distinguishes itself from the type in two
ways. One of these is quite adventitious.
The heroine of “There Is No Refuge”
goes to Sydney University during the war,
and as a result lives in sin with a philo-
sophy student for about a year; before
this she had been quite a little Evangeli-
cal. But let not the clerics begin priming
their mitres, for it is not philosophy that
beguiles poor Mandy. She merely decides
ope night that warmth and color and
light are not evil. There is no evidence
in the book that Mandy’s professor gave
her the essay in free love as an assign-
ment.
The second distinguishing feature is
that there is a good deal in the early part
of the book that I think most normal
readers will find quite moving. Perhaps
it is because Gwen Kelly is further re-
moved from her childhood than from her
young adulthood that she is able to render
the details of Mandy’s childhood so well,
but certainly the childhood chapters are
by far the best. Mandy was born in 1922
to the hardworking wife of an unreliable
but lovable husband, Reg, whose fortunes
take a downward turn during the First
World War from which neither he nor
they ever fully recover. And of course
what the father never recovers from the
family never recovers from, either;
Mandy’s childhood is a patchwork of
which many youngish Australians will
recognise the pattern—cricket, drink, the
depression, pets, presents, the depression,
drink, arguments —and dark threads run
through it from beginning to end. Gwen
Kelly will remind her readers of their
own childhoods, and interest them in
Mandy’s.
But then ideology sets in, and ideology
had been the death of many a good novel
and an injury to several great ones. It
does its best to cripple this one. Mandy’s
childhood, though interesting and moving
to read about, was touched in with
an impressionist technique—each year
brought its crises, and these were sketched
in brief scenes ; but one felt that all this
was only introductory, that the close
exposition of substantial matter was to
come. It does not. The procession of
scenes continues ; they fly past like the
March of Time. Mandy goes here, goes
there, sees this, sees that, thinks this,
thinks that: and there’s the rub. Thinks.
She spends a damn sight too much time
thinking about what she ought to believe.
It is, of course, of the utmost importance
that we think about what we are asked to
believe. But novels about people think-
ing are dull. Pierre, in “War and Peace,”
is more concerned with what to believe
than with anything else; but look what
he does! The trouble with Mandy is
that she scarcely does anything. She goes
to a philosophy conference, to parties, to
meetings ; she is said to read and to work
in an office ; she proves that Derek Lanc-
ing is no misnomer. But, when all is said
and done, all she really does during these
few years is to change her mind. It isn’t
enough.
The fact of the matter is that novels
are about warmth and color and light—
and, of course, snow and clear water and
moonless nights, and picnics that are dis-
appointments and dances that become
tedious and sales that are swindles—and
not about freethought, religion, or the
five times tables. It would be a mistake
to underestimate the importance of the
five times table in our lives, but a greater
mistake to write a novel about it.
Gwen Kelly has not done that. She has
written of a childhood that I am glad to
have read about; she has described,
though briefly, people I can almost
remember ; she has reminded me —though
not intentionally, I think —of the terrible
selfishness of late adolescence. I think
Mandy’s real problems began soon after
the book ended, and one day I would like
to read what she did with them.
PETER SHRUBB
A Weird Caper
Greek Tragedy ’4l. Anthony Heckstall-
Smith and Vice-Admiral Baillie-
Grohman. Anthony Blond. 395. 9d.
A/Tr Anthony Blond is credited (or
charged?) with having told a meet-
ing of “Young Publishers” in London
that it was not necessary for a publisher
to have such specialised staff as
an editor, production manager or sales
manager. He was of opinion that you
only had to get a manuscript decently
typed then give it to a printer with the
instructions “Turn this out like a Cape
book.” It is rumored that only the
repres ;it..tive of Jonathan Cape
applauded this view.
The book under review certainly sug-
gests that he did not employ an editor
on it and certainly not a proof-reader.
If the result had been a book retailing
at ss. these faults might have been over-
looked to some extent. I gave up count-
ing the literal mistakes after the first 100
pages and then at that very point I found
two paragraphs of almost the same
words. Obviously what had happened
was that the paragraph had been re-
written, with the hope that it would
become legible, and both the original
and the corrected paragraph had been
printed.
Other things were worse. There is
a good and essential map at the back
of the book. It gives the names of towns
in Greece in their normally accepted
Anglicised form. Unfortunately, this
rarely agrees with some of the strange
names given to the same towns in the
body of the book. Even in the text there
is no consistency. Volos, for example,
is shown sometimes as Valos. Porto
Rafti, from which more than 25 per cent,
of the troops were evacuated, is shown
in the text usually as Port Raphtis. One
would look in vain for such a place in
the map. The very common Greek work
Zito is sometimes given correctly, some-
times as Zeto. It would be too much
to expect that my own name would be
spelt consistently, if inaccurately, in text
and index.
In its foreword, prologue and epilogue,
for all of which I should think Vice-
Admiral Baillie-Grohman was respon-
sible, the whole strategic background to
the Greek campaign and the reasons
why we had to send the only force
available to us, weak and inadequate
though it was, are set out succinctly and
accurately—as indeed one would expect
from such an accomplished and gallant
commander. Nothing else in the book
measures up to these. The book fails to
give any adequate picture of the fighting
or even the evacuation from the Army
or land-based point of view. As the
copyright is held by Anthony Heckstall-
Smith one can exempt Admiral Baillie-
Grohman from responsibility.
I cannot say anything about the
evacuation from the other beaches with
any degree of authority, because I left
Porto Rafti only on three short occasions
during the whole evacuation period,
from the despatch of the first ship until
the last. But I do say specifically that
the description of the evacuation from
Porto Rafti is inaccurate in general and
in detail. One can only wonder, there-
fore, if any of the book is accurate other
than when quoting official reports. When
reports are given in full they are the best-
written parts of the book, other than the
parts credited to the Admiral in previous
paragraphs.
Although it is agreed that this is
primarily a naval report, you would not
know, until you came to the figures of
those engaged, that the Australian and
New Zealanders formed the great bulk
of the fighting troops. The majority of
the British personnel were H.Q. troops
and included more than 5000 Palestinian
and Cypriots out of a total of 24,000.
Although the authors blame Bowyer-
Smith, Captain of H.M.A.S. Perth, for
the failure to evacuate some 7000-8000
men from Kalamata, the real fault was
that Brigadier Parrington had assembled


7000 troops into orderly lines, not with
the intention of fighting the Germans
but to surrender them in toto. These
were almost entirely British personnel
and even though they were not trained
as fighters a resolute commander, such
as the late George Vasey, would have
welded them into a fighting unit and
fought the Germans until the Navy had
time to correct the error into which
Bowyer-Smith had fallen, owing to a
misunderstood signal, and make new
arrangements for the evacuation.
Brigadier Puttick showed at Porto Rafti
that it was not difficult to fend off a
German thrust and have a most orderly
evacuation at the same time.
The snide and inaccurate criticism of
Brigadier Vasey is not worth much
comment. Nobody who knew him would
ever think “Bloody George” callous
except in the misuse of his favorite adjec-
tive. When he proposed that on a par-
ticular occasion, with a particular objec-
tive, priority in evacuation should be
given to fit fighting troops he was un-
doubtedly right and correct. As it turned
out, both fit and unfit were evacuated, so
the matter should not have been worth
any mention at all.
Perhaps one is inclined to have a chip
on the shoulder about these things—but
the only examples of indiscipline quoted
were either Greek or Australian. For
myself, I will never forget that I had to
draw a pistol on an English R.H.A. Major
to make him obey my lawful commands
and was congratulated subsequently by
Brigadier Puttick and Lieut.-Comd. Wil-
mott for so doing.
One did not expect ever to write that
an official history was greatly to be pre-
ferred to that of a competent journalist,
untrammeled by any necessity or custom
of maintaining “the official picture” ; but
in this case if one wants a well-written
and accurate account of the evacuation
from Greece in 1941 it is better to read
the Official Australian War History or
the volume published by H.M.S.O. in
1952 and written by the late Christopher
Buckley.
The good points about this book are
(a) what it attempted to do and did not
do adequately, i.e. it is about a most
important subject that is worthy of a
great book, a book that the late Chester
Wilmot might have written, (b) that it
does show more clearly than did the
official histories the weakness of the
Greek High Command and the extent to
which pro-German feeling in high places
(and only in high places) made the Greek
High Command an uneasy ally as in the
First World War, (c) it shows the import-
ance to the whole campaign of the
destruction of Piraeus as a port through
muddling cowardice and inefficiency and
the criminal manner in which large
quantities of aviation spirit were left to
the enemy as in Singapore and (d) that the
decision to go to the aid of Greece was
justified on strategic grounds as well as
political. What a pity it is such a poor
book.
A. W. SHEPPARD
No Visible Means of Support
Valmouth, Prancing Nigger, The
Eccentricities of Cardinal Pirelli.
Ronald Firbank. Penguin Modern
Classics. ss. 6d.
TLJ'irbank's novels lay about the Roycroft
Bookshop in Rowe Street, Sydney,
in the ’thirties in different bright-colored
covers ; they looked like the Cosmopoli-
tan Set on holiday (Firbank, according
to this present edition, paid for their
first publication): one avoided them be-
cause one had not been introduced.
They were published between 1905
and 1934, but I didn’t read them until
the middle ’fifties when Mrs Ethel
Anderson insisted on lending me a post-
war collection with a Sitwell preface.
It was her modest way of drawing atten-
tion to the influence Firbank had had
on her Indian short stories and especially
on her set of mid-19th-century Austra-
lian stories, “At Parramatta.” But when
I drew attention in “The Red Page” to
the way in which Mrs Anderson had
modulated the perverse style of Firbank,
the Catholic convert, into the most
galumptiously healthy Anglican norm-
ality she was not altogether pleased.
There had been other influences. It was
not quite what should have been said.
Nevertheless the art of Firbank, and
no less that of Ethel Anderson, remind
me of Mozart, which is about as high
as I can go. They have his gaiety, his
good taste, his baroque design and his
rococo decoration. Mozart was a Court
musician ; Ethel Anderson was in all
things Vice-Regal; Firbank had the air
of the English traveller observing the
Empire and the world from Government
Houses and embassies. Mozart was an
18th-century natural; Ethel Anderson
gave an 18th-century flavor to her 19th-
century Sydney; and Firbank turned
ail times and places to 18th-century uses.
In “Valmouth” the painter’s parrot
croaks about Cezanne, a woman men-
tions going with Charles II to see Better-
ton play Shylock, the site of Valmouth
on the Val might sometimes be England
and at other times Italy or a Mediter-
ranean island —or a seacoast of Bohemia.
The constants in Mozart, Ethel Ander-
son and Firbank are an air of fancy-dress
illuminated by Figaro’s backstairs omni-
science and strengthened by the feeling
of continuance at the base of all aristo-
cratic societies. This illusion of fancy-
dressed timelessness is perhaps what led
the critic of the London “Listener” to
remark:
“The voice is unmistakable. Never
rising above a whisper, it has triumphed
over all the loud and important clamor
of its time. Firbank is one of the few
writers of this century who is certain to
survive it.”
Yet there seems hardly anything to
On My Mother’s
Death
Clear light, loved landscape stretch to
meet
simplicities of sky.
Day’s diamond from its matrix torn
winks in your aching eye.
A tongue more simple than your love
puts your last sorrow by.
Smooth with your gentle gestures now
the tissue of this pain,
so breath may soar and falling catch
and stir with hope again
some greening leaf. In air alone
will fire and song remain
alight, alive, original.
Closer than any man
I lay to you, desire and need
fulfilled in a small span,
nourished in darkness towards the day
when breath and light began
to chisel with their biting blows
my separate self, to reach
what slept in a dumb absolute
that bound us each to each,
to stir life with the shock of life.
Creation is a speech.
Your humbled body’s word of praise,
in strength beside your bed
I live to speak your word of life
that cannot be unsaid.
A lamp once kindled by your breath,
I burn: but you are dead.
Clear light, loved landscape stretch
beyond
a child again, unmanned
by tears, bewildered by the text
of light and sky and land.
Some leaves across the window cast
the shadow of a hand.
FRANCIS GEYER
The Cat by Night
The cat whose savage yowling makes
The welcome night mysterious,
As though the loved and silent moon
Should rave like one delirious,
Or the sometimes falling stars should
pipe
Cadenzas shrill and curious,
Is hardly reconciled with puss
Whose silken tread will never muss
The carpet and whose chosen chair
Accommodates her fluent purr.
The dog who weirdly bays the moon
Gives tongue to ancient blood
And though the sound may start the
hair
It’s partly understood ;
But puss by secret night pulls on
A clannish ugly hood
And turns to love a twisted face
That so distorts her daytime grace
One fears her for the feline error
That makes of love a shrieking terror.
ERIC ROLLS


him. To speak of the social or moral
significance of his themes would be much
the same as trying to awake to the hard
cold world the Commedia dell’ Arte
paintings of Lancret or the fancy-dress
paintings of Watteau. In “Valmouth"
an Englishwoman conspires with a
negress pedicurist of profound under-
standing to procure for herself the love
of a handsome gardener.
In “Prancing Nigger” a negro family,
who could as well be a provincial English
family, go to a big seaside town to finish
the daughters’ education ; one of the girls
becomes the mistress of a millionaire
composer of music while the other goes
religious on hearing of the death of the
young lover she left behind her. In
“The Eccentricities of Cardinal Pirelli”
a Spanish cardinal who baptises the
police dog of an influential parishioner
and is harried by other beautiful ladies
who want their dogs baptised evades
Papal justice by dying after an orgiastic
night in a richly decorated church.
It is an art of contradictions. The out-
rageous perversity of the last story is set
off by the delicacy and good nature that
is also the soft bloom over his picture
of the “Prancing Nigger” negroes wait-
ing alone in the ballroom throughout
the night for the daughter who will never
return from the beach and the millionaire.
The vagueness of his scenes that seem
to wander all over the world and time
is opposed by the most precise drawing
of clothes and people. The timelessness
of his stories, their almost fairytale
atmosphere, is evoked from accurate
20th-century vernacular . . .
He has no visible means of support—
and this could be why he may outlast
writers well rooted in our times.
RONALD McCUAIG
Jean Christophe: A Musical Genius
Storm and Stress. Vol. 2 of John
Christopher. Romain Rolland.
Heinemann. 225. 6d.
Romain Rolland’s enormous book,
“Jean Christophe,” first appeared in
France between 1904 and 1912, and it
was mainly because of this work that he
was awarded the Nobel Prize in 1916.
Gilbert Carman’s translation started to
appear in English in 1910, and Heine-
mann’s have now re-issued it, unrevised.
It is a book that has a permanent his-
toric interest and should be kept in print,
though it is hard to understand why the
publishers decided to bring it out in four
large volumes in huge print ; it would
have made a very compact book in one
volume, or two at the most.
Rolland was deeply preoccupied
throughout his life with the unity of
Europe, which he believed could only be
achieved through a deep cultural under-
standing between Germany and France.
In this book this understanding is incar-
nate in Jean Christophe Krafft, a German
musician of genius who reacts against the
self-intoxicated Germany of Brahms,
Wagner and Nietzsche in favor of the
Germany of the Baroque poets, Beet-
hoven and Goethe ; and who will finally
synthesise this spirit and the Latin
genius in his music.
This volume deals with Krafft’s grow-
ing aversion to the small provincial
town in which he lives, and to its values.
His early romantic love-affairs are dealt
with neatly, though the narrative is occa-
sionally strained and the reader left dis-
mayed by an appalling series of coinci-
dences. It is difficult to believe that a
young music critic would consistently fail
to read his own reviews once they were
printed, but Jean Christophe fails to do
so for months and then is disconcerted to
find that the corrupt editor of the local
paper has flagrantly changed the whole
tone and meaning of his critiques. This
comes rather close to the comfortable
image of the artist of the women’s maga-
zines, though no doubt even they have
now caught up. It is indicative of a lack
of realism which increases as the work
continues and which is perhaps inherent
in Rolland’s generous, warm-hearted,
effusive and, finally, extremely vague
humanitarianism.
By far the most successful sections in
this volume are those dealing with lean
Christophe’s youthful bouts of self-pity,
alternating with moments of blind
reaction against all the idols of his child-
hood ; and with the way his pathetic
need to be understood gradually de-
velops into the need to understand which
will finally show him how to act. By
the time we come to the end of this
volume lean Christophe Krafft has
already made his first genuine contact
with French civilisation, so that when
circumstances force him to flee from
Germany he is already partly prepared for
the momentous impact France will have
on him.
Despite a great number of interesting
things that happen to lean Christophe, the
image we have of him remains curiously
abstract, mainly I think because of the
author’s addiction to sententious maxims
and because of the retrospective bio-
graphical tone of the whole work. It
lacks that dramatic immediacy we expect
from really great novels, and it cannot
sustain detailed comparison with Thomas
Mann’s “Dr Faustus.”
VIVIAN SMITH
Enigmatic
Memed, My Hawk. Yashar Kemal.
Collins-Harvill. 225. 6d.
nr'URKiSH history since World War I
A raises expectations of striking literary
developments there. The rapid Western-
isation of an old Moslem country, the
dragging of a whole feudal society into
the 20th century, must have produced
an abundance of the social and personal
situations which, censorship permitting,
nourish the novel. “Memed, My Hawk.”
disappoints such expectations, but com-
pels interest of another kind.
It is a puzzling novel, not at all easy
to accept just as it comes. The author
quickly takes us into the rocky plains
of a remote Anatolian province. There
the villages are ruled by wealthy Aghas
who bind the peasants to poverty and
dependence by their power to exact what-
ever tithe they want from the harvest. In
Edward Roditi’s translation the writing,
at once muscular and sensuous, every-
where reflects the people's reliance on
the earth about them, their sensitivity to
its slightest change of mood:
In spring the thistles are an ancemic,
pale green. A light breeze can bend
them to the earth. By midsummer
the first blue veins appear on the
stems. Then the branches and the
whole stem slowly turn a pale blue.
Later, this blue grows steadily deeper,
till a field, the whole boundless plain,
becomes a sea of the finest blue. If
a wind blows towards sunset, the
blue thistles ripple like the sea and
rustle ; just as the sea turns red at
sunset, so does a field of thistles.
But then the author proceeds to offer,
in all seriousness, the following story:
Young Memed and his widowed mother
are being persecuted by their Agha, who
takes threequarters of their pitiful harvest.
Memed loves Hatche, but the Agha has
promised her to his ugly nephew, so
Memed elopes with her, shoots both Agha
and nephew when they overtake him,
then flees to the mountains to join a band
of brigands. Incensed by his wound,
the Agha frames Hatche and has her
jailed. But Memed, having become a
“good" brigand who robs the rich and
protects the poor, defies all efforts to take
him ; finally he frees Hatche and finishes
the Agha for good. In short, scarcely a
cliche of the medieval romance is over-
looked.
It should be an easy book to walk
away from, but two qualities keep one
reading: except for an occasional lapse
into prose as melodramatic as the story,
the writing remains excellent and the
characters convincing ; and, fascinatingly,
the whole business is acted out with
revolvers, machine-guns, hand-grenades
and typewriters where bows, arrows and
swords seem to be called for. When, one
wonders, is it supposed to be happening '
Ten years ago? Twenty? Fifty? It is
impossible to tell. Is the plot a kind
of literary convention, traditionally
demanded by novel-reading Turks? One
suspects that it is, and that the distinction
of the writing is the only reason why the
author is being talked about as a future
Nobel Prize winner. In any case, the
publishers would have done well to in-
clude a preface to put the book in some
kind of perspective in Turkish literature.
JOHN ABERNETHY


Shows
Hardly Space Age
Leningrad Maly Theatre Ballet. Syd-
ney Elizabethan Theatre.
A Russian space-man was circling its
first night in Sydney and the Russian
exhibit at the Showground had been
mobbed, but Russian ballet shrugged its
moth-eaten sables. Its ability to think
in 20th-century terms seems to have left
it with Diaghilev. “Swan Lake” (1877),
with its hunting prince, was a true dream
of a Russia that still had a court. But
“Seven Beauties” is mentioned as a
modern work. It was written in 1952: a
6th-century chieftain quarrels over a
dancing girl with a neighbor he is enter-
taining. The two chiefs stage a dancing
competition, and a dervish consoles the
loser by bringing seven girls to life from
an embroidered curtain: Indian,
Khorezm, Slav, Byzantine, Magrib,
Chinese, Persian. That is hardly space-
age stuff.
Or take the seven divertissements: a
ballet from another Tschaikowsky piece,
a sabre dance, a doll dance, a folk dance
for men, a pas de deux from “Don
Quixote” (1869), and “The Dance of the
Hours” by Ponchielli, the kind of ballet
that might have enlivened an Edwardian
church fete ; and the same could be true
of the concept of “Valse Triste,” by
Sibelius—real washbasin and ewer enter-
tainment.
Still, there was the pleasure of the thing
well done. The Little Swans danced with
an ecstasy of precision : the ‘‘Hunchback
Horse” excerpt by Natalie lananis and
ballet was quite lovely ; specialties like
Larisse Klimova's Indian Beauty, Nina
Mirimanova’s sabre dance, Maria
Mazun's doll, Tatjana Borovikova and
Adol Khamzin’s duet from “Don
Quixote,” were like Kreisler playing some
little thing he wrote himself ; though the
hard-working men in the folk-dance com-
petition vloudly applauded) were not
nearly so brilliant as the Yugoslav
dancers of a year or so back.
A programme of excerpts tends to con-
centrate attention on technique, but
even in the one act that was given of
‘‘Swan Lake,” Ludmila Safronova lacked
pathos; she was as cold as the most
graceful of swans probably is on a Sydney
winte’- night in the moonlight. Admit-
tedly, one looked away during her dance
of the Queen of the Swans, when she
could have been really pathetic, to see
who was playing the solo (a Miss Gwenda
Colgan), but in “Valse Triste” this same
Safronova conveyed less the harrowed
emotion of a dying woman surveying past
delights than her surprising ability to go
through all those actions so neatly.
In fact, the dancing that most made
you forget technique and enter into the
s Pirit of the thing was by Zimin and
Boyarchikov as the rival chiefs in “Seven
Beauties,” even if the beautiful body of
Maria Mazun weaving in and out of
their affections and being wound and
unwound in a net of lace had something
to do with it. The other thing that made
the heart leap up was the backdrop to
“Swan Lake”—a dark curtain with a few
streaks of light moving on it, and there
you had the moonlit lake. Among
such an army of talented dancers and
musicians playing tiddlywinks, the back-
drop seemed to be the only thing wring-
ing the full effect out of its material.
RONALD McCUAIG
No Clash
Epitaph for George Dillon, by John
Osborne and Anthony Creighton.
Melbourne Little Theatre.
'T'his was written in 1954 but was not
produced professionally until 1958,
two years after the sensational success of
“Look Back in Anger.” It is easy to see
THEATRE
why this was so. The
play has all the marks of
an early work. It is cer-
tainly promising, but just
as surely unsatisfactory.
George Dillon is an actor without a
part and a playwright without a theatre.
He has just been thrown out of his job
as a clerk. Mrs Elliot, who works in the
same office, gives him a home because he
reminds her of her son Raymond who
was killed in the war and who was
“artistic” too. George lives off Mrs
Elliot while he tries to find a job as an
actor, and a producer for his play. He
hates the ugliness and the vulgarity of
the lower-middle-class Elliot household,
but conceals his attitudes from the Elliots.
But Ruth Gray, Mrs Elliot’s younger
sister who has been to “college,” speaks
the same language as George. Like her
sister, Ruth believes in Art, but she is
capable of distinguishing the real thing
from a cheap imitation. She urges
George to flee from lower-middle-class
cosiness to preserve his own integrity.
But in the end he sells out for the sake
of an easy commercial success and the
uncomplicated but vulgar charms of Josie,
young daughter of the household.
The theme of the play is supposed to
be the conflict between two sets of values:
the easy road of lower-middle-class cosi-
ness and the cold, hungry, lonely path
of the true artist, struggling towards
Parnassus. But: the weakness of the play
is that there is never an actual showdown
between the different values —the two sets
of participants never come to grips. In-
deed, it almost seems that they belong
to two different plays running concur-
rently on the same stage. The Elliots


Hsfab'ish°rl 1 86 e
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
•jACKSON &
-OSUtLIVAA
t PTY LTD c
W, %«. kvi£ £
ARK
Jackson& O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE ANi> FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRFSS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUF VCTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS. BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
V OUNSELLORS : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financia
losses can result on private
and business premises tha;
are improperly protected
Consult
Queensland
? nsurance Co. Ltd
80-82 Pitt Street. Sydney
75 YEARS Oh' SERVICE
m ’i in- •) rv 7 it alt \ \ m m
If any “Bulletin” illustration
takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you
a price for the original.
are playing in a domestic comedy of
lower-middle-class life. It is based on
sharp observation and occasionally
threatens to be more than superficial, but
it never is. George Dillon and Ruth
Gray, when they get the stage to them-
selves, play out odd scenes from a post-
Ibsen drama. In the end Ruth departs
and George joins the cast of the other
play.
But it is impossible to take this denoue-
ment seriously. George Dillon simply
won’t fit into that lower-middle-class
domestic comedy. It is like trying to
imagine Hedda Gabler, just before she
pulls the fatal trigger, being whisked off
into the middle of “The Reluctant
Debutante.” We know that, sooner or
later, there will have to be a confrontation
of George Dillon and the Elliots. The
showdown has to wait for “Look Back
in Anger,” but this time it is Jimmy
Porter —angrier, more brilliant and more
dangerous than George Dillon —against
the upper-middle-class. In this fight no
holds are barred and the battle is fought
to a finish.
The production of contemporary
realistic plays that are set in England,
or anywhere outside Australia, presents
great difficulties for Australian producers
and actors. Most of them have had little
opportunity to observe the English lower-
middle-classes. Throughout George Fair-
fax’s production there is some uncertainty
due to this. An English repertory com-
pany would doubtless have even more
difficulty trying to stage “The One Day
of the Year.”
Margaret Reid, as Mrs Elliot, solves
the problem by playing an Australian
lower-middle-class housewife, which she
does very well. But John Magee's Percy
Elliot, the squashed but exasperated
“little man,” is an Englishman, and it is
difficult to imagine him in an Australian
setting. This means that there is a dis-
crepancy between these two performances.
FTowever, some of the inaccuracies in
the production seem to me to be due to
a misreading of the play. Margaret
Browne’s Josie should be more coarse-
grained, more sloppy and self-indulgent.
Miss Browne makes her a little too neat
and much too sweet. Penelope Shelton’s
Ruth Gray needs to be more intelligent,
to have a sharper edge. But Edward
Brayshaw’s George Dillon achieves the
right combination of theatricality and
world-weariness. Indeed, Mr Brayshaw’s
performance provides a strong centre for
the production and is particularly impres-
sive in the last scene, which is the most
difficult of all. John Truscott’s set
manages to include all the horrors of
lower-middle-class taste and yet look
attractive.
MADELEINE ARMSTRONG
The Bible in Paint
the inferior quality of most
of the works shown and the absence
of Byzantine, Primitive Italian and
Medieval periods, it would seem that the
ART
Exhibition of Religious Art
which the National Art Gal-
lery, Sydney, has arranged to
commemorate the 350th anni-
versary of the Authorised Version of the
Bible, does little but affirm that establish-
ment’s poverty. Yet one of the most
important functions of an art museum is
to show trends and attitudes in art
through the ages with whatever examples
it may have. And from these paintings,
which told the people of their day the
stories of the Bible, we can learn much
about their authors and their attitudes.
In the engraving of “The Deposition”
it is clear that Mantegna, however rever-
ent, was more particularly interested in
the technique of foreshortening and in
the dynamics involved in getting a body
down from a cross. The practical and
inventive period in which he lived is con-
trasted with the Venetian richness in
which the little-known Pittoni lived.
There is a lush splendor in his “Christ
Delivering the Keys to St. Peter” which is
more typical of the work of Tiepolo, who
is represented in this group by the un-
characteristic St Roch. The Mary Magda-
len, by an unknown follower of a fol-
lower of Titian, has a beautifully
developed arm and a firmly shaped head,
but it might be a portrait of the artist’s
auntie for all it says about the biblical
character. And in David Tennier’s
“Flight Into Egypt” we see a well-rugged
Flemish couple and their donkey being
ferried across a lake in a Flemish land-
scape. The landscape occupies most of
the picture and most of the artist’s atten-
tion. Drab and stolid, it contrasts with
the “Slaughter of the Innocents,” in
which Bernard Picart, with obvious lust,
has used a religious excuse to show
numerous babies being brutally murdered
and women with their clothes falling off.
But, then, Picart lived in 18th-century
France.
Of those paintings which have more
than a purely literary religious statement
to make, the Rembrandt etching of
“Christ and the Woman of Samaria” is a
work of deep human feeling, and a more
modern work, Stanley Spencer’s “Christ
in Cookham,” in which Christ joins the
locals is, in its hearty way, full of a typi-
cal English reverence. In both of these
there is a heightening of feeling which is,
I think, the main aim of modern religious
painters. For though in the past this
aim was a by-product of telling a story,
today when everyone can read the story
it is only linked to the need to decorate.
The present-day Australian painters
whose work fills the last bay of the exhi-
bition give varying importance to these
aims. Justin O'Brien with glowing colors
gives us a glimpse of what we have
missed by the absence of the Byzantines
and Primitive Italians, and in his draw-
ing of the “Mother and Child” there is
a restrained intensity which is icono-
graphic. The feeling of subject is well


produced in John Coburn’s ‘They Gavs
Him Vinegar Mixed with Gall” by spiky
shapes and the bitter color combinations.
This is in marked contrast to his more
harmonious “Litany.” Leonard French
presents only hints of the symbols of the
Fall in his firmly laid out garden, and
the drama of Lawrence Daws’s “Gol-
gotha” is just histrionics, but generally
this group of painters seem to have made
a marriage of religion and the art of
their day which measures up well to that
of their predecessors.
SALMON
Mrs Semml r’s
Broom
The A.B.C. got hold of a highly-
imaginative and exclusive “special”
in its half-hour interview with Lawrence
Durrell. Almost as interesting as the
TV
show itself was the volume
of letter-writing it inspired in
the A.B.C.’s new general pro-
grammes manager, Clement
Semmler. Not only Fellowship of Aus-
tralian Writers branches but private
citizens as well received personal letters
from Mr Semmler —an intimate and
flattering touch. Behind the geneial
information of the various letters seemed
to lie the implicit statement: “This is the
kind of thing I believe is good tele-
vision. Have a look at it, and judge how
the new broom is sweeping.”
The new broom is doing very well
indeed The Durrell half-hour was an
impeccable model of what a literary pro-
gramme should be. It was technically
both impressive and cunning. It was
video-taped on the Riviera, outdoor
cameras were used, and Durrell talked
from a terrace cafe with a background
of distant sea, jetties, waddling mums
and bikinied blondes. But the visual
mood of the background did not distract.
The close-up work was intelligently
modulated: the cameras studied Durrell
closely without being arty or tricksy.
Durrell, who confessed to having an
element of “ham” in his make-up,
obviously enjoyed being quizzed and
filmed. An interview which is relaxed,
natural and enjoyed by the participants
is rare stuff. Durrell's conversation, like
his Alexandria quartet of novels, was
coruscating, unpredictable and intellectu-
ally high-flown. One suspects there was
not much in the way of a hard core of
thought behind his provocative and
occasionally preposterous generalisa-
tions ; but he never pontificated or talked
out of key with his sunlit, airy back-
ground. Exciting loose talk is infinitely
preferable to pompous good-sense.
Where now for Mr Semmler? Can
We now expect from within Australia a
reasonable amount of Third Programme
material, planned and executed with care
and imagination? For the first time
things look somewhat hopeful.
MAX HARRIS
The Glad, Sad Face of Fun
World by Night. Sydney Esquire.
''There is something for every adult in
Luigi Vanzi's technirama-technicolor
tour of the hot spots of four continents,
even if the fifth is missing. Rhythm and
FILMS
spectacle, pathos and humor,
romance and sordid sexo-
phony . . . The idea was
brilliant, the execution ade-
quate, the photography superb. The items
are as spottily haphazard as a tourist's
night out in the jet age : troopers, jugglers,
dancers, comics and strip-tease artists, in
London, Paris, Copenhagen, Hamburg,
Hongkong, Honolulu, New York, from
the tops of skyscrapers and into the
sewers. For a few shillings one gets a
few hundred pounds worth of easy-chair,
ringside travel, tickets and tips. What
more can one ask?
One can ask for something that even
the real thing cannot give, except occa-
sionally: an edge to the jaded, drifting
appetite ; the smell and the taste that go
with the food and wine ; anticipation,
participation, elation ; keener selection
and sharper scissors in the production and
cutting departments ; less, not more. The
film is too long, too sprawling, too con-
sciously casual, too carefully sexy, too
amorphously all-inclusive to be a work
of art. But the best bits shine like neon
in the night. One should carry the cham-
pagne inside, and drift into the theatre
as one would into a club: not alone, but
with a party. The party will go on,
jazzed up, after the film is over. The
“feelies” are almost with us.
The brilliant bits include the opening,
in the grey-blue dusk of London, with
the crowds flocking home by tube and
bus. The English night-life is also closer
t( 2 *be heart and to the funny-bone than
. *he res * : B°b Williams and his shaggy,
spineless, bleary-eyed, non-performing
the rubber-limbed., sailor acrobats
Blackpool; the sweet-sad Salvation
Army Band, playing outside the hell of
rock n roll hall, in the final dawn,
contrast* ,^ e technical virtuosity is
nearly all Asiatic: a girl in Hongkong
doing the impossible on a bicycle ; a man
standing on one finger; a juggler balanc-
in§ movin g objects than the eye
can follow 1 operatic acrobats. France
contributes lush lovelies, strip-tease, all-
in wres thng. Hawaii boies with an anti-
art» non-native spectacle. But the banali-
ties are almost All-American, and the
saddest sequences are in the U.S.A. Here
brilliant choieogiaphy tuins tioops of
§! r s in *° machine-like automatons, step-
P in § with tattoo-like precision neutrally
out °f ei ) r sex - non-participa-
tor’ mght-slummer.with or without his
camera, the jazz-orgy in Harlem becomes
a ? . obscene substitute for human and
divine love. In Las Vegas, city of
moneyed fun, queues of desperate would-
be-gay gamblers look solitaiy before the
dead, polished knobs of the slot-machines
} would have been conscious of satire if
had been intended ; but the Italian
brains behind the film were no doubt
looking foi the American box-office, their
own safest gamble. Oddly enough, there
was nothing from Italy Nor was there
anything from Spain, Tahiti-or Kings
Ltoss.
ANTON VOGT
“ Look at it like this—justice must not only be done but must
be SEEN to be done !”


Say to Me Ronald!
Perrot discovered that mixing with people of other races increased his sense of uniqueness
By HAL PORTER
Good God! thought Perrot, my nose twitched. The golf-
bag was the biggest he had ever seen. The biggest
in the world? Or perhaps it seemed so because it was
three o’clock on a Sunday afternoon in 1942 and there
was a war on.
In his Adelaide housemaster’s study, more oakishly
panelled than Sir Jasper’s stage library, the golf-bag totemically
stood, its effect moral and admonitory. It had, too, the quality
of a menhir, albeit composed of a circus-red species of leather,
and fleur-de-lis-ed, gusseted, gored and belted with whitest
white. Buckles and nodules of nickel ratified its Maya-like
power and esoteric significance. From its well protruded
uncountable . . . weapons? . . . virile insignia? . . . surely not
golf-clubs? ... of some surely Venusian alloy.
It seemed less to have been lugged upstairs by Wee Soon
Wat than to have, like an Aztec archpriest bent on sacrificial
mayhem, lugged upstairs Wee Soon Wat. Nevertheless, lugee
or lugger, Wee Soon Wat was lotus-immaculate and smooth
as sesame-oil.
“My dear Wee!” said Perrot, who felt that he, all over,
as well as the nose he felt he had felt twitch, had changed
color. Pinker or paler he could not tell.
“Say to me Ronald, sah,” mildly although rebukingly
said Wee Soon Wat, seventeen, Sixth-Form Chinese, dressed to
kill, and odorous of Soir de Paris. - ' ~
“My dear Wee,” said Perrot, affecting firmness, feeling
older and smaller and unwashed, and —oh, God —changing
color again. “I can’t possibly accept this . . . ah . . .” And
he squinted at the bag as though it were the sort of woman
American G.l.’s took out, and he his own Seventh Day
Adventist Aunt Edith. The bag merely got bigger than Elsa
Maxwell. “Wee, I can’t possibly. It is . . . it’s . . . it’s too
much.”
TS7ee Soon Wat’s face, usually as unmarked as if it were
'' simply portable heredity rather than a private growth
capable of illustrating character and emotion, thereupon
revealed some sort of character and emotion. It began, more-
over, to emit high-pitched sound, courtesan-like, an arpeggio
of it. Oriental merriment? It certainly required a fan before
it. It ran its course. It petered out. At peace again, its
executant seemed purged, and became charming enough to
charm a porcupine: “Too much, sah! Whai, mai old man are
a millionaire, sah!” Upon this Wee Soon Wat’s face got
rounder than the moon above the autumn bamboos.
“Is,” schoolmasterishly said Perrot, schoolmaster, Senior
English, Middle School French, divorce, and in love with some-
one he had no right at all to be in love with.
“Sah?” said Wee Soon Wat from above the bamboos,
most delicately inquiring of the low-born.
“Is, Wee. Singular. Is. Is a millionaire, Wee.”
“Oh, sar, s-u-r-r-r-e thing is. Yiss, sah! Singapore
millionaire, as you are knowing to date.”
Wee glimmered with gladness that Perrot understood. His
smile was mother-of-pearl itself. Then, less glimmeringly, for
life was really serious, and he insisted on being permitted to
live on his own kindness to himself, “Pliss, say to me Ronald,
sah.” There was something in some sort of velvet glove some-
how somewhere.
Say? Say! Perrot recognised “speechless” as his adjective
but, “Ah—Ronald —ah— Wee,” he said in a voice nearly
resembling his own. “I am —ah —I am grateful for your kind
thought. But not necessary. Those few extra lessons in English
Were ... I thought you—ah— quite understood that I was
happy to give them. There was no thought of . . Payment?
Reward? Pourboire ? Rake-off? No word fitted the over-
whelming receptacle and its protrusions. “No thought at all,
Wee . . . Ron-ald . . . ab-so-lute-ly none.”
CTitting his eyes like an adolescent Fu Manchu at the golf-
bag, and also in the manner of one who examines another’s
point of view to disregard it, “To date you are thinking, sah,”
said Wee Soon Wat, “she are definitely beauteous?”
“It and is, Wee. I think it is,” said Perrot, governess-like.
Then stopped dead. What the governess was saying was
indubitably not what Perrot wanted said.
“Theah are Scotch within her and Great British cigarettes,”
said Wee Soon Wat stroking the nickel-barnacled white-and-
crimson pockets, his manicured nails and delicate fingers
aquiver on their pregnancies, an inward smile suggesting one
about to feast on human frailty. “To date theah are this
whiskeh and Playah’s Please Cigarettes, sah. Oh, gratitude,
sah! ”
“There is . . began Perrot.
“No!” cried Perrot. “The plural, Wee. There are. Yes,
yes.” He resisted tearing hairs or beating breasts. He forbore
to wail. Using every effort he manipulated the wires of his
nature to simulate forcefulness. “Wee, I can not accept it.
You must take it back to wherever —to whoever —to whom-
ever —to the shop—to the man —to . . .” He ceased, apparently
made mad and dumb. But the Oriental moon rose fuller and
blander above . . . well, the bamboo, the ricefields, the For-
bidden City. “It is impossible, impossible,” suddenly squeaked
and gibbered Perrot, dragonfly bamboozled in bamboo,
peasant yak-like in ricefields, witless leper at the city gates.
“It is utterly impossible, my dear Wee.”
“Say to me Ronald, mai dealt sah,” said Wee Soon Wat in
his angel-white sharkskin coat, one of his Singapore twenty.
It was still only a little after three o'clock, Sunday, 1942, and
a war decidedly on.
"Derrot knew about the war because the School Matron and
the Housekeeper had got crisper and leaner than grissini,
and wore ration-card-snipping scissors on chains in the manner
of 1912 shopgirls. The gymnasium was sandbagged. Lavatory
paper was thinner ; underwear got more raggedy. Charcoal-
burners appeared on cars, and tan shoes on boys. All jam
had become raspberry. In short, eccentricity was the mode: in
becoming more unreal life had become more lifelike.
Of course, vestiges of peace-time past recurred or persisted
as no more eccentric than usual: summer, winter, morning
hymns, examinations. The Headmaster, ever Zeus-like behind
rimless spectacles always blinding with reflected light, remained
correct-weight Olympian without wane or wax. The leather-
aproned school-carpenter and the tuckshop Scotswoman, the
nag that pulled the groundsmen’s roller, the cook flushed and
floury as a cook, all remained, except for time’s imperceivably
stealthy subtractions and additions, the same.
Elsewhere in the school the needs and lures of war also
effected subtractions and additions, but outrageously, quite
without stealth, and in the comic tradition. Maids who had
moused about mutchless, yet with the air of wearing mutches,
were now elsewhere, pert and jimp as soubrettes, in one or
other war-time uniform. They were constantly being replaced
and re-replaced by a rout of mock maids with bigger or
springier busts, fingernails like dowager Manchu empresses’,
more make-up, more crystal necklaces, tinier eyes, hairier legs,
and voices like tawny frogmouths’.


On the same conveyor-belt, stop-gap schoolmasters
incredible as creatures from Dostoievski also moved into and
out of view, the probability of their having habits or hobbies
that could shock trailing them like a reek of burnt stew. The
School got noisier than a zoo. Above all this, that and the
other, searchlights slid about at night finding clouds, no
Japanese war-planes and not even a Zeppelin. However, there
were compensating fascinations.
War had side-channelled a number of foreign schoolboys
into the School. Not only were they foreign in tint, profile
and accent: glamor flickered about them like St Elmo’s Fire
from the fact that they had been considered sacred enough
or expensive enough to be packed up like objets d’art, and
whisked away from danger. They were less, it seemed, to be
educated than put in storage until the war whimpered out.
Most fascinating of the many was a selection of prince-
lings: Batavian, Malayan, Siamese, Balinese —it was impossible
to work out which was which. They gazed with deerlike animal
intensity, as though fevered with sad love, from the bodies of
classes, and had the effect of making masters think what they
were trying to say. These gazers were young, yet seemed as
ancient as highly-finished statuary of a remote era in which
delicacy was the keynote: their wrists, too fine for the coarse
activities of schoolboys, suggested poetry and immorality of a
jaded kind.
Of the exotics Wee was the most eye-catching. More than
his wealth his own nature made him conspicuous, unless it was
that wealth had made him flashier, kinder, more imaginative,
fantastically overflowing with an excess of noblese oblige, and
unsittable-on. Perrot was victim of this florid misconception
of the shape of gratitude. Perrot led usually a nicely edited
life ; his mind usually had all its lights blazing. But Wee Soon
Wat and the golf-bag had caused a dimming and flickering:
a fuse could soon be blown.
Berrot cleared his throat as does a character in a short
story.
“Wee,” he implored brutally, “take the . . . take the bag
away, please.”
For the first time an expression approaching human stirred
the Chinese moon, and yet it was no more than a look of
butterfly distress, faint and unattached.
“Oh, sir!” cried Wee, fervently cracking the finger-joints
of each hand with the other. “You have falsed me! To date
you are telling me she are definitely beauteous. And now,
Take away, pliss! ’ Oh, horror! Oh, badly! What shall poor
Ronald Wee believing?”
There was a quarter-second of tragic gloom. Then, victim
of a thought of more splendor, Wee Soon Wat became
incandescent in worldly and enlightened fashion. After all,
his father was rich enough to buy the school and convert it
into a coolie-ridden College-Tudor godown packed with cloud-
ear fungus and tinned water-chestnuts.
“Ah ha, sail!” he continued. “You are thinking to date
she are definitely beauteous. You have said. But you are think-
ing she are bad form. Horror and alas! How Ai see! The
Awstralian fellohs will be jealousy. Mai sisters have said bad
form. How raight Ai see! Su-r-r-re thing: bad form! Ai must
thinking. Ai think. To date Ai am thinking raptly.”
A Buddha, he put on thought. He cracked anew his
finger-joints. “A golden wrist-watch!” he cried.
“No, Wee — -no. Nothing.”
Perrot might not have spoken.
“A watch not for the wrist? A chain-watch of Swiss-
land. But golden.” .
“No, Wee —no.”
“A desk for wraiting? A desk of fashion.”
“No, Wee.”
“Armchairs with lamps?”
“No.”
“Silken shirts!”
Perrot considered screaming. Perrot did not even sigh.
He gazed at his pupil as into a crystal turbulent with some
lamentable destiny. A year-long hour later he heard himself
Promise to allow himself (in lieu of accepting wireless-sets,
crocodile-skin suitcases, concertinas, an aquarium of goldfish
and a variety of pets) to be entertained by his adamantly
grateful pupil, in a fortnight’s time, at the flat of the Misses
Wee.
At the School Swimming Carnival Perrot had already
glimpsed Wee’s two sisters. They had been revealingly
enclosed in gowns of un-Australian materials and colors.
These shape-gripping garments had slendered them to elegance.
The skirts, ankle-length, but slit to above the knee on each
side, had tempered the old-ivory bandiness of their naked
high-heeled legs. Their coiffures had been licorice moulded
into convolutions no hand or wind would dare or could play-
fully budge. On each black miracle a fragile artificial flower
had quivered like something recording a delicious feminine
undercurrent.
Distinguished and apart as angel-fish, they had each
luminously occupied the luminous and scented area under
their sunshades like enchanted growths. The Indian-ink-black
of their brush-stroke eyebrows and the lacquer-red of their
lipstick had caused mothers and aunts, even Botticellian school-
girls to feel barbaric and pimpled, to pant like dogs and wish
they had pumiced their legs. Sophisticated agelessness var-
nished the Misses Wee.
Their apparent fragility had been exported from Singapore
to employ safety in acquiring a domestic and social extra at
an Edwardianly ladylike finishing school. They lived in a flat
in one of St Peter's kurrajong-lined streets towards which, a
fortnight later, a taxi-cab —no, no, not a taxi-cab, a vice-regal
hire-car without a charcoal-burner —conveyed Perrot and his
host.
It was, in the saner world, 106 in the shade, even at four
in the afternoon. Wee had not a pore, follicle or gesture
betraying consciousness of heat; he was so buffed, so blindingly
coated and crisply trousered that Perrot, praying to sweat
inconspicuously, felt cumbered and furry as an Eskimo. As
the hire-car stopped Wee leapt from it with the grace and
elasticity of Lifar, then, in the manner of one tending a
lunatic invalid, his curved hand an inch from Perrot’s elbow,
almost assisted him from the car. Next he paid off and over-
tipped the driver with a note surely minted that noon.
Perrot, stroking hopefully over his hair which felt like
Struwwelpeter's with a hand that felt like Struwwelpeter’s,
was encouraged with dove-like murmurs and infinite tenderness
through the gate and along the smooth path as over the skulls
and rocks of the Valley of the Shadow of Death.
“I never thought young Royston would get mixed up
in anything like this!”


At the door the brother rang, masculinely, as one express-
ing unequivocally: Sisters, lam without! Women, open!
Soundlessness ensued.
There was no brazen gong, no struck zither, no scuttle,
slither, squeak, murmur or breath. No pin was dropped to be
heard. Silence and time continued.
Then, suddenly, swiftly, silently, the door retreated and
“Good af-ter-noon, Mis-ter Pel-lot,” melodiously and
pentatonically in duet chanted the Misses Wee, gorgeous as
concubines and, in duet, extended lily hands cold as gold-
fish although the hallway was hotter than outside, infernal,
marbled with almost visible blastings of incense, of the Misses
Wee’s disparate scents, of garlic, gas, and some more disturbing
smell like charred mice.
The living-room was small, but the Wees and money had
taken every advantage of the spaces left between the landlord’s
unpleasant furniture. All lights blazed, including four extra
standard-lamps and two large table-lamps, all suckling current
through perilous lianas of flex. Each lamp was of a different
design, boudoir jostling military club; each lamp endlessly
repeated its image in a mound of many-colored witch-balls on
a fumed-oak refectory table. Many vases, containing jammed-
in pounds’-worth of artificial and tinselled flowers, prevented
every flat surface from practical misuse. Fuming incense-
burners abounded.
A cocktail-cabinet so new that a price-ticket string still
hung from a knob displayed its cut-glass vessels and Saturna-
lian burden of bottles in a white-hot dazzle. Competently, as
though he had successively often rehearsed this important move,
Wee approached the shrine, took up station, shot his cuffs, and
the formalities began.
“Would you caring, sah, for whiskeh-sodah, sah?” said
Wee, prepared for no nonsense, and stripping the foil from a
bottle-top with the decision of a head-surgeon. The Misses
Wee flanked him in attitudes of willowy effacement, as though
in a cool iris-garden, but with the air of inwardly abiding a
moment, every wire tuned, to be played like musical
instruments.
“Thank you, Wee,” said Perrot thinly as a beggar, blinded
with blaze, dizzy with heat and odors and the obligations of
ritual.
AA/ 1 ™ the social aplomb of an undertaker and in blood-
curdling quantity Wee poured two whisky-sodas. The
moment the second crystal goblet was abrim the Misses Wee
abandoned the iris-pool and flexuously undulated to their
appointed duties. Beneath their brother’s unwatchingly watch-
ful eye one placed the drink on a silver tray, one indicated
a great hairy armchair and piped sweetly, “Pliss to sit with-in
arm-chair, Mis-ter Pel-lot.”
As Perrot sank sleep-walkerishly into this hot enclosure
she disposed several hotter chenille cushions about and behind
him, packing him in like a T'ang statuette, while the other
sister presented the drink.
Perrot observed that Wee now held his whisky in a position
that could only be pre-salutation. But first: “Sit!” said Wee
Soon Wat with some sternness.
Perrot started as much as he was able. But the order
was not at him Sinuously the handmaidens sat, one on each
arm of another shaggy chair. They were like things dreamed.
Their postures were divine. The stage was set. All eyes slid
Wee-wards. Wee elevated his goblet a gentlemanly fraction.
“Cheer-fio /” he said. “Cheer-fio, mai deah sah ! ”
“Cheers, Wee,” said Perrot meekly, commending his sanity
and sobriety to any gods.
“Say to me Ronald, kaindly, sah, in mai own abode,” said
Wee Soon Wat, tossing off his giant whisky as though he were
a collier. This done, he shot an invisible message to his sisters.
Their eyes became still. They smiled like actresses. They
spoke.
“Hah-oo kaind you have said to Lon-ald,” said the Miss
Wee in gold and red, perhaps the elder. She had more and larger
teeth.
“Lon-ald is glate-ful,” recited the Miss Wee in silver and
green who had the less bowed legs and smaller but brighter
eyes.
“Lon-ald is said and tlag-ic because goffing-bags are bad
form.”
“We have said Lon-ald that golfing-bags are bad form.”
“Lon-ald admires Mis-ter Pel-lot and not admires bad
form.”
“Golfing-bags are bad form,” intoned the Misses Wee
together.
Then, “Bad form,” they again said together as though
delicately saying “Incest.”
Upon that, abruptly, the record ran down.
“Pliss, sah,” took up Wee Soon Wat, moderately sternly,
hand on bottle. “Pliss, sah, to drink. To date theah are plenty
more wheah that are coming from.”
A s under hypnosis Perrot drank to the ruinous dregs with
a sense of Gorki-ing through Lower Depths. The goblet
empty, the Misses Wee unfolded like exquisite serpents. Gold-
and-red, agitating a fan, disarranged the heated air uselessly
through Perrot’s mop while packing the cushions tighter;
Silver-and-green brought on her silver tray Perrot’s refilled
goblet.
The Misses Wee then replaced themselves as before, each
holding this time in fingers curved like chrysanthemum petals
a claret glass enriched to the brim with liqueur. Miss Gold-and-
red held Cherry Heeling, Miss Silver-and-green Creme de
Menthe.
“Cheer -ho, mai deah sah,” said Wee Soon Wat heartily.
“And sisters,” he added with some distaste.
“Cheer-fio, Mis-ter Pel-lot and Lon-ald,” said the Misses
Wee a deux.
“Cheers —cheer-fio !” said Perrot.
Perrot was never sure at which moment, at which drink,
the ship, as it were, left the firm shores of formality, but
certainly some solid safety was sometime wantonly abandoned:
there was a feeling of mural dipping and ducking, of undula-
tions and fireworks, the floor became perverse, noise took on
extra intonations and ran about like bediamonded cats.
It was at this stage, early in the storm, that Wee cried out,
quite loudly and un-Orientally, “Food! Melting moments!
Fastly!”
The Misses Wee, also crying out but in flutelike voices,
“Melt-ing mom-ents, melt-ing mom-ents!” arose like flames,
and disappeared apparently into the banks of tinselled flowers.
“Mai sisters have cooking melting moments,” said Wee.
A>Celting moments? Ah, melting moments! Perrot remem-
bered these delicacies of his boyhood Sunday suppers:
half-spheres of crunchy, pale, sweet biscuit clamped together
with icing. They scarcely went with Scotch, but the notion
of any sort of food now had its interest. He proposed devour-
ing many of these saccharine spheres which the Misses Wee,
chirruping like many birds of paradise behind the lamps or
flowers or cocktail-cabinet, were doubtless arranging—for he
heard plate-like clinkings—on Ming.
Wee poured another drink. Perrot made a pointless gesture
of refusal. Wee, who was turning eau-de-nil, scorned the
gesture. Perrot accepted the drink just as the Misses Wee re-
formed, elated with accomplishment and liqueurs, in the
spinning and coruscating prison. “Melting moments,” they
cried. “We learn to cooking melting moments.”
“I.” gushed Perrot before he could stop himself, before
he saw what they tendered on non-Ming plates, “1 love melting
moments!” Then, sustaining a smile for each Miss Wee and
removing an object from each Miss Wee’s plate—how could
he dare favor one above the other? —Perrot ate each object
in a simulation of relish.
The Misses Wee’s melting moments were flat, greyish
circles gummed together by a pale ooze, and flaccid as Dan
watches. That smell of charred mice! The sugar (or was it
ground glass?) infesting their plasticine-like texture tasted of
garlic—oh, a mere connoisseur's whiff!
The Misses Wee closely watched him eat six. Then, once
again arranged on their armchair holding their gown-matching
liqueurs in the petal fingers that had constructed and conveyed
to him the Satanic sweetmeats, they continued to watch him
as though he were an accident.
Where, meantime, was Wee?


“Where,” said Perrot, “is Wee Soon Wat?” It suddenly
seemed important to know.
The Misses Wee instantly removed their gaze from Perrot
as from obscenity, and began to giggle and to continue giggling.
Their manner suggested that an impenetrable wall of humor
separated ladies from fact. They began to talk with melodious
speed at each other in a language Perrot presumed to be
Chinese. Miss Silver-and-green downed her Creme de Menthe
like an amateur actress playing Anna Christie, and lit a cigarette
in an involved way.
The Misses Wee’s legs were now being carelessly revealed.
As they wildly chattered, vouchsafing nothing, they shot many
hyphenated glances at Perrot. He had the impression of such
•a number of these jet glances dit-dit-dit-dit from each that,
between the two of them and their four assessing eyes, one
solid scrutiny was composed. This and the Chinese hullabaloo
was becoming disconcerting, and he crimsoned. He took vulgar
steps: he removed two of the cushions and dropped them
callously on the floor ; he flicked ash on the science-fiction
melting moments ; he smiled like a fox and spoke again, more
loudly than he intended.
“Where is Wee? Where?”
This schoo'masterliness momentarily terrified the Misses Wee
to silence and paralysis. Their eyes raced about like
crickets but could not resist, finally, all four of them, moving
in one direction towards a door which Perrot now perceived for
the first time.
It was a door terribly closed. It was a bathroom door.
From behind it came the rooster-like sounds of Wee making
efforts to avoid being heard being sick. Having faltered in
their sisterly camouflage of chatter and false joy the Misses
Wee returned their eyes to nowhere and began more vivaci-
ously and noisily their exchange of ... of what?
Perrot, in an embarrassment, lowered his lips to his drink.
Meeting people unlike oneself does not widen one’s vision ;
ii confirms one's notion that one is unique.
He understood now the clamorous delicacy of the sisters,
but could not fully applaud it for he was certain that they
were not discussing the weather or hair-ornaments. No, Perrot
thought, they are discussing me. Perrot. Is my hair too mad?
Have 1 melt ng moments surrounding my mouth like a scream-
ingly funny leprosy? Is my fly undone? He could do nothing
but drink aga n. The bathroom door shot open.
“Bad form! Bad form!” cried Wee Soon Wat, paler than
the heart of a lettuce but immaculate and unchastened. His
sisters stopped as though their throats had been cut. “Bad
form to talking Chainese for mai deah sah. Pliss, sah, to drink.
To date theah are plenty more wheah that are coming from.”
And once more, iike a record one hoped would not be
played again, the formalities began. Wee poured. Miss Silver-
and-green circumspectly took up her tray. Miss Gold-and-red
plugged cushions about her victim.
Their duties done the Misses Wee replaced themselves like
mobile waxworks.
“Cheer-/;o, mai deah sah,” said Wee restraining a shudder
to drink without a shudder.
“Hah-oo kaind you have said to Lon-ald,” intoned a Miss
Wee, her eyes still as bullet-holes through which blew a glacial
wind.
“Lon-ald admires Mis-ter Pel-lot and not admires bad
form,” said the other, without conviction, and smiling by
numbers.
“Lon-ald is sad and tlag-ic because gofffng-bags are bad
form.”
God!
Perrot made an effort. He attempted his most dazzling
A party manners in an attempt to halt the cultured-pearl
remarks.
“Too kind, too kind,” he said like the dying Florence
Nightingale. “You are all very kind. I cannot tell you how
heart-warming to meet and to . . .”
What am I saying? he thought. And what the hell shall
I say next? His audience impassively confronted him.
“Wee, do ask your charming sisters what they were saying
before in Chinese. It really sounded fascinating,” he said.
God is listening to you, you bloody liar, he thought
“Tell! Tell, Mr Perrot!’’ said Wee, whose face was becom-
ing dewy, in the voice of one about to enter a tunnel.
The Misses Wee imperceptibly stiffened. Their faces
stopped at ivory ; one could tell that, although their eyes were
discreetly directed away from each other’s and on some
invisible dot in outer space, they were really staring at each
other in dismay. Their souls blinked ; their spirits blushed ;
their hearts said, “Barbarians!”
Wee, too, stiffened ; the dew on his forehead increased
and shone in gems above his pistachio-green face. He was
visibly wrestling with some inner demon.
“Tell, pliss,” he said in a voice attempting severity but in
the tones of one already somewhere else.
“Not to worry, oh, not to worry, Wee,” said Perrot. But
the Misses Wee had dutifully begun to translate themselves.
“We say,” said Miss Silver-and-green, “that we not under-
standing Mis-ter Pel-lot, pliss.”
“We say,” continued Miss Gold-and-red, “we say are
Mis-ter Pel-lot laike all Aws-tlalian boy? Are Mis-ter Pel-lot?”
They both stared fixedly and callously at Perrot.
“Yiss, yiss,” said Miss Silver-and-green suddenly very
animated, but in a deadly way. “Are Mis-ter Pel-lot laike all
Aws-tlalian boy? Are Mis-ter Pel-lot?”
There seemed nothing to do but try answering.
“Well,” said Perrot, “well, Miss Wee and . . . and Miss
Wee, 1 think I may say I’m typical. That is typical enough.
Well, fairly typical.”
The Misses Wee looked at him as if he were a flower
arrangement they would like to tinker with. They uttered not
a word.
“Tell, tell, tell!” cried Wee, quite strongly. He was less
pallid, the will having successfully wrestled the flesh. “Tell!
You cannot clap with one hand.”
“We say we thinking Aws-tlalian boy . . .” and here
Miss Silver-and-green made an insulting shrug of great beauty
and an exquisite denigratory hand movement.
Miss Gold-and-red imitated these sending-up movements to
perfection
Then both averted their eyes from Perrot in a commenting
way and, in the next instant, began to gi Ye. Their giggles
multiplied. They clutched each other. They writhed divinely
in each other’s slender arms.
“Bad form! To date most bad form!” shouted Wee,
restored to full voice. “Tell and tell! Fastly tell!”
ip ntwined and sinuous as salamanders, the Misses Wee gave
broken and hysterically bubbling speech:
“Aws-tlalian boy . . .”
“Aws-tlalian boy not . . .”
“Not . . .”
“Mis-ter Pel-lot not . .
“Mis-ter Pel-lot . .
“Not ...”
“Not hot stuff! ”
“Singapore boy,” sang the Misses Wee, “oh, Singapore boy
hot stuff, hot stuff!”
They screeched, supporting each other on memory’s
ecstatic behalf.
From whatever plane of banishment he occupied Perrot heard
the voice of his host, as suave as though the party were
just about to begin and there were no shame in the world.
“Would you caring, sah,” said the voice of one expecting no
denial, “for whiskeh-sodah, sah?”
“Oh, no, Wee,” said Perrot, attempting to stir, to rise.
“Oh, please, no.”
But Wee Soon Wat was already pouring.
“Not to worrying to date, sah,” he said. “Theah are plenty
more wheah that are coming from.”
As Miss Silver-and-green unwound herself from her sister
to carry the silver tray, and Miss Gold-and-red prodded the
cushions to embed Perrot more hotly and firmly, “No, Wee, no.
No, Wee, no,” he said.
“Say to me Ronald, mai deah sah,” said Wee Soon Wat,
and went on pouring.


Business, Robbery, Etc.
THE COMMON MARKET
Britain’s First Plunge
“Por the first time in the
world there existed a real
possibility for the franc and the
sterling to combine, and hold
their ground against the pres-
sure of the dollar and the
Deutsche Mark. When Britain
joins the European Common
Market this chance will be lost.
Two years ago an Anglo-
French economic alliance was
still possible. Today, it’s too
late. This is unfortunate,
because a really strong ‘third
force’ cannot materialise
through the Common Market
alone. The consolidation of
the Common Market may hold
some dangers for France—for
instance the steel and coal in-
dustry will all be concentrated
in the Rhineland, in North
Germany. This may all end
with West Germany dominat-
ing the Common Market.”
This view somewhat un-
common, and perhaps refresh-
ing because of its sheer novelty
and d i rect n e s s —was pro-
pounded to The Bulletin
by Count Jocelyn de Noblet
d’Anglure, an energetic French
journalist who flew to Sydney
to cover the Trade Fair, and
write a few stories for “Le
Monde” and other leading
French papers.
Count de Noblet d’Anglure
also represents the Syndicat
National des Editeurs-Exporta-
teurs de Publications Fran-
paises the group concerned
with marketing French publica-
tions abroad. The Syndicat’s
stand in the French Pavilion is
well worth visiting. It is
amazing how artistically and
neatly some highly technical
publications, dealing with such
mundane things as railroad
construction, bridge building
and power stations, can be pro-
duced and exhibited.
pouNT de Noblet d’Anglure
by no means represents the
official French attitude to the
Com m o n Market. Paris's
official view is that the Euro-
pean Economic Community is
pretty well everything a good
West European can hope for.
But there is a considerable and
influential proportion of
Frenchmen, ranging politically
from the extreme right to the
far left, who adhere to the
journalistic Count's school of
thought for a variety of
motives. These circles would
have preferred closer economic
and political ties with the
United Kingdom and the Com-
monwealth rather than com-
plete integration within the
Common Market pool.
C'ome fear the rapidly growing
strength of West Germany.
Primarily this is an economic
fear arising from the belief that
further fusion within the Com-
mon Market will materially
strengthen Bonn against Paris
and Brussels, and soon give
West Germany the upper hand
in the iron and steel industry
and agriculture.
Count de Noblet D’Anglure
went further, saying that
economic power will allow
Bonn to push the other Com-
mon Market countries into aid-
ing the Federal Republic to
realise its extensive political
ambitions. Yet another appre-
hension—an economic one —is
that the highly efficient West
German heavy and medium
industry may be able to
force down certain protective
tariffs at a much faster pace
than some of its Common
Market partners would wish.
There is also some criticism of
President de Gaulle for being
too stiff with the British during
the protracted economic nego-
tiations over the past two years.
For all these people—and
there are many more who think
likewise in Europe—Britain's
recent decision to commence
negotiations about joining the
Inner Six came as an expected
but severe blow —hardly iess
so than to Australia, New
Zealand, Canada and other
Commonwealth countries. To
Finland, the U.K.’s move may
eventually bring severe hard-
ship and make it considerably
more dependent on trade with
the U.S.S.R. As it is w'ell
known, the Soviet Union puts
politics before business;
heavier trade with the Soviets
will probably push the plucky
little Finns further into the Red
orbit.
Australia was well prepared
for Mr Macmillan’s statement.
Mr Sandys’s recent trip to New
Zealand, Australia and Canada,
and the hops by leading U.K.
Cabinet Ministers to other
Commonwealth countries, gave
a fair enough warning to every-
body concerned. Of course,
there was no lack of wishful
thinkers who happily, if
naively, predicted that the un-
animous and negative reaction
by governments representing
the Commonwealth p r i m a r y
producers would really induce
the United Kingdom to aban-
don its thoughts of joining the
Common Market.
The British attitude was well
indicated by Sir John Winni-
frith. permanent secretary to
the U.K. Ministry of Agricul-
ture —the most vulnerable and
vital department in the Com-
mon Market talks—who said in
Sydney that Australia shouid
develop new outlets for its
wheat, meat and dairy produce.
Sir John had clearly implied
that, quite apart from the
Common Market problem, the
British market for these pro-
ducts “was approaching satura-
tion point.”
A n economic realist will find it
to read into Britain’s
repeated promises for consul-
tation any tangible or implied
obligation to drop the whole
Common Market idea because
it would hurt Commonwealth
primary producers. The Com-
monwealth has no right to try
to force the U.K. to jeopardise
its economic interests. The
whole Commonwealth would
weaken if the United King-
dom’s prosperity started to slip.
It is reassuring that the
Prime Minister has decided to
take personal charge of any
Common Market talks in which
Australia may be able to par-
ticipate. There can be no
assurance that Australia will be
able to take part in all the
negotiations or that its repre-
sentations will amount to much.
But our point of view must be
presented imaginatively and
forcefully at every opportunity
and at the highest level. Mr
Menzies has proved himself
equal to the task.
The danger to Australia's
exports marketed in Britain is
well known. Energetic export
drives are required. The recent
successful “Straat Banka” trade
mission to South-east Asia and
the Sydney Trade Fair are
important steps in the right
direction. There is a particu-
lar need for direct contact with
our prospective customers.
Many potential overseas buyers
don't have a clear idea of what
Australia can offer in addition
to the traditional primary pro-
duce. The Trade Fair provides
an excellent opportunity to
establish personal contacts and
exchange essential technical
trade information.
Britain's decision on Com-
mon Market talks is historical.
The whole existing pattern of
international trade is rapidly
changing, and one must be
steady on one's feet during this
difficult period of transition.
JOalance of payments prob-
lems are immediate, and loss
of a substantial portion of our
British market will be stom-
ached only with difficulty. But
in the long run the United
Kingdom's accession to the
Common Market may yet
prove advantageous for every-
body in the free world.
Britain will certainly become
a new and major factor in an
economic bloc of some 300
million people, with a high and
rising standard of living and
great technological efficiency.
Many traditional links with the
Commonwealth will certainly
remain, if in an altered form,
and this will prevent the growth
of economic isolationism in the
European economic system.
There is every reason to hope
that eventually the United
Kingdom will be able to pro-
vide that dynamic and
positive balancing factor to the
European Economic Com-
munity, which some circles
sharing Count de Noblet
d’Anglure’s opinions are so
anxiously looking for.
The United Kingdom s
membership would help stabi-
lise the Common Market’s
internal politics and secure
balanced economic develop-
ment for all its members. From
this Australia, the Common-
wealth and the Western world
can only benefit.


AUSTRALIAN GENERAL INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
Head Office: 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
’Phone: BW 1011, BW 1012, BW 4991
DIRECTORS:
STRUAN ROBERTSON (Chairman), S. E. A. STIRLING,
JAMES H. STEPHENSON, R G. GALE, RAYMOND S. GO WARD, C.B.E.
A. C. MAITLAND O. S. PET'TERSEN
(Managing Director) (Manager)
Branches and Agencies in all States.
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION MERITS YOUR SUPPORT
CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
(Incorporated under the Companies’ Act of New South Wales on Bth March, 1950)
(ASSETS EXCEED £7,500,000)
P.A. 5,6 or 10 Years
9% oi%
P.A. 4 X.ears P.A. 2,3 Years
SHORT TERM RATES
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
Funds may be withdrawn in a personal emergency.
Increased interest rates apply on renewal of investments.
Interest paid quarterly FREE of Exchange through the
BANK OF N.S.W.
Prospectus and Application Forms Obtainable From
Any branch of the BANK OF N.S.W.
The Company's Offices. Ground Floor. Cambridge House,
240 George Street. Sydney ’Phone : BU 5542
Ground Floor, Cambridge House. 411-413 Lonsdale Street,
Melbourne - ’Phone 67-6792
Suite 110. Ist Floor. Da Costa Building.
68 Grenfell Street, Adelaide —' ’Phone 87-025
Suite 53A. stli Floor, T & G Building. 137 Queen Street, Brisbane
—’Phone: 24-509 26-981
Morton House. 5 Union Street, Newcastle West ’Phone: B 4601
Berner Credit Company Pty. Ltd., 147 Bayliss Street, Wagga.
or Any Member of a Recognised Stock Exchange
UNDERWRITING BROKERS:
RALPH w. KING & YUILL (Members of the Sydney Stock
Exchange)
LEONARD G. MAY & SON (Members of the Stock Exchange
of Melbourne)
CORRIE & CO. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
Brokers for the Issue in Newcastle: F. S. Scorer & Co.. T. & G.
Building, Cnr. Hunter & Watt Streets, Newcastle. (Members
of the Newcastle Stock Exchange)
Brokers for the Issue in South Australia: S. C. Ward & Co.,
25 Grenfell Street. Adelaide.
(Members of the Stock Exchange of Adelaide Ltd)
Brokers for the Issue in Western Australia: Donald J. Carmichael
A- Co.. 135 St. George’s Terrace, Perth. (Members of the Stock
Exchange of Perth)
Trustee for Stockholders: Bankers & Traders’ Insurance Company
Limited
Investigating Accountants for the Underwriting Brokers: Smith
Johnson & Co.
Registers: Sydney. Melbourne.. Brisbane, Adelaide, Canberra
Registrars: Bank of N.S.W. Nominees Pty. Ltd
Applications for the debenture stock accepted only on one of
the forms of application attached to a printed copy of the
prospectus.
IMPORT RESTRICTIONS
“Selective” Manufacturers
By Charles Meeking
The president of the Vic-
torian Chamber of Manu-
factures, Mr Gordon More,
has set out his views in reply
to an item published in The
Bulletin on July 15. He feels
that some quotations attri-
buted to him might more
properly have been expressed
as those of his Chamber, and
has forwarded a copy of his
presidential address delivered
on May 25, 1961.
In this, Mr More stated that
when import controls were vir-
tually abandoned in February,
1960, manufacturers were
“quick to place before the
Government our view that the
decision, if maintained, would
■inevitably produce a balance-
of-payments problem.” He did
•not refer to the general belief
in Government and other
circles that some ineffic ent
industries, with excessive costs
and a strong disinclination to
get into competit ve • export
markets, had sheltered for
.years not behind tariffs im-
posed after exhaustive investi-
gations but under the often
anomalous and impenetrable
licensing system.
Before say ng in his address
that “it has now become a
matter of gieat urgency that
the Government should re-
consider its present stand and
introduce a measure of selec-
tive import controls,” Mr
More had tried to forestall
criticism by asserting that the
concern of manufacturers was
noi with their own businesses
but only with the country’s
financial position. “We feel
in existing circumstances,” he
said, “that the import licensing
system should not be regarded
as added tariff or a protective
measure to industry, but should
be utilised as a cushion to the
economy, to lessen the severity
of restraints during periods of
adverse trade balances such as
we are now experiencing.”
Mr More writes that he has
not said the crucial test of
manufacturers’ imports should
be that they are essential and
unobtainable in Australia. But
he adds, reasonably, that “this
view may have been expressed
on behalf of manufacturers,
and could perhaps have been
attributed to me.” The fact
is that the editorial of the
official journal of his Cham-
ber, “Industry Today,” for
July, 1961, in addition to quot-
ing a portion of Mr More’s
address, and expressing the
Cha m b e r's policy, said :
“Manufacturers themselves . . .
are undoubtedly responsible
for a large portion of the
imports which enter Australia
each year. Many of these
imports are necessary ; they
consist of plant, capital equip-
ment and certain raw materials
which are not procurable in
Australia, and to this extent —
and to this extent only—they
are justified.
“However, when these essen-
tial imports have been sub-
tracted from the total, there is
still a substantial residuum of
unnecessary items which manu-
facturers import, either from
a habit left over from the years
gone by when Australian pro-
duction was much more
limited, or because nobody in
the organisation has troubled
to ascertain whether they are
now locally made.”
It will be noted that on this
latter point there was no men-
tion of comparative costs —a
vital matter for manufacturers
or anybody else buying Aus-
tralian or foreign products.
Mr More writes in almost
lyrical terms about the import-
licensing system as it existed
in February, 1960, “at which
time manufacturers throughout
Australia were permitted to
import, without restraint, all
the necessary materials re-


Always
Make
Life
Assurance
your No. 1 investment and protection with
Australian
Metropolitan
Life
Assurance
Let Us Suggest A Plan To Suit You
AUSTRALIAN METROPOLITAN LIFE ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
THE METROPOLITAN BUILDING
HUNTER AND BLIGH STS., SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
E. W. Robinson (Chairman),
Col. R. S. Goward, C.8.E., P. H. Phillips,
Struan Robertson, W. J. Cooksey.
quired for the manufacturing
industry.”
His enthusiasm need not be
shared by the general public
sufficiently perceptive to have
appreciated the damage which
the licensing system was then
doing to the economy. He
says: “The system previously,
not without many faults, had
been so refined that at this
stage [February, 1960] there
were few anomalies, and a
return to this level, we still
suggest, would do much to
alleviate our growing problem
of unemployment in this
country. The Department . . .
has used a very proper sense
of selection in defining the
percentage of goods which
should be allowed entry into
this country, and an examina-
tion of its policy will show that
quotas were established for
most lines and the policy of
increasing our volume of
imports by a money amount
each year had to this stage
worked most successfully.”
It is not necessary to repeat
the arguments which the
Government used in February,
1960, but it is worth recalling
that the Prime Minister told
the Associated Chambers of
Manufacturers quite recently
that 82 per cent of the addi-
tional imports since that
decision had been in respect of
plant and materials for manu-
facturers and for transport.
Consumer goods made up only
17.5 per cent, of the increase,
and the buyers of a fair pro-
portion in this category have
suffered from burnt fingers and
are unlikely to place repeat
orders, even if they have the
necessary funds in hand.
SKI BUSINESS
in the Snow
HThe winter season on Aus-
-*■- tralian snowfields is in full
swing. Abundant falls during
the past couple of weeks have
attracted skiers from New
South Wales and Victoria.
Cursing drivers are fitting
chains on the back wheels
under icy wind blasts in the
Snowy Mountains. People are
crowding into motels, private
lodges, ski hotels. The slopes
at Thredbo, Smiggins Holes,
Perisher. Kiama and Guthega
in New South Wales are dotted
with figures sturdily herring-
boning their way up the top.
taking it easy on the chairlifts
and ordinary tows and coming
down on skis or, not in-
frequently. on their backs for
at least a part of the way.
The S.M.H.E.A. personnel
are once again spending their
own and the Authority’s time,
and using valuable equipment
to rescue the stubborn and the
unlucky, who get stuck or alto-
gether lost in the almost in-
accessible areas.
A Victorian couple got lost
in the snow for several days
and nights but two miles away
from the well-patronised Smig-
gins. Another party of four
men and two girls from Sydney
University's hut at Guthega
gamely climbed over the ridge
to drop in for a drink into Sun-
Deck Hotel in Perisher Valley,
got bushed on the way back,
and marched on skis for eight
hours before making its way
to the lodge. Experienced
enough, the University group
caused no trouble to the busy
rescuers.
The credit squeeze has left
its mark. Last year all the
skiing equipment was hired out
weeks in advance and anxious
customers often got a rough
and ready treatment. Prices
for ski clothing and gear were
fantastic and every bit of
accommodation was used.
This season the equipment is
much easier to get, the ski
shops sigh that demand is
slacker and prices are down
accordingly. Those who do
go feel much happier, but many
still complain about the ‘‘com-
mercialisation of the snow-
fields.”
The most popular resorts,
such as Publishers Holdings’
Sun Deck Hotel at Perisher and
the United Motels' Wilsons
Valley motel are fully booked
by keen skiers who can afford
the tariff, and by the inevitable
social set whose main winter
recreation is indoor sport at
the bar or on the dance floor.
Mr Ernest Laresse, Sun-
Deck's pleasant and efficient
young Austrian manager, told
The Bulletin that all the
available accommodation for
58 guests has been taken up—
at an inclusive weekly tariff
of 25 to 29 guineas.
Even without the credit
squeeze competition should
have dampened down some
prices and profits. The great
snow bonanza of 1957-60
attracted a host of marginal
operators who are now drop-
ping out one by one.
This small but thriving in-
dustry has every chance of
stabilising and growing at a
reasonable pace, adding to Aus-
tralia’s natural tourist attrac-
tions.
TRADE
Interviewing the Russians
By Eugene Bajkowski
This is perhaps our most
important exhibit at the
Sydney Trade Fair,” Mr Y. A.
Cherkovine, the Press and
Public Relations Officer at the
Soviet Pavilion told me, point-
ing to two longish, simple-
looking tubes gleaming dully
in the sunlight. This was the
Soviet new turbodrill, now
used extensively in oil- and gas-
search drilling in the U.S.S.R.
and, according to Mr Cherko-
vine, also manufactured under
licence in the United States.
The neatly-dressed—in a
uniform-like, dark, single-
breasted suit, decorated with a
large rectangular red badge —
Soviet official, with a reserved
but not unfriendly bearing and
an occasional warming smile,
looked alert and scholarly in
his rimless glasses.
He was rapturous about two
things—the turbodrill and his
native Leningrad. After a long
and somewhat tense prelimin-
ary talk in the Soviet Pavilion
office, he showed me a set of
colored postcard pictures of
Leningrad and then took me
outside to see the drill.
The turbodrill has three
tough drills at the bottom end;
its stem is somewhat larger
than the diameter Of the con-
necting pipe, which pumps in
water and clay under pressure
and sinks down under its own
weight. Mr Cherkovine told
me that this turbodrill is much
cheaper to operate than the
conventional rotary type, which
is almost obsolete in
Russia. He said that, after the
turbodrill was extensively
introduced in the U.S.S.R., oil
and gas were found in several
areas which had earlier proved
negative under tests by the
rotary drills. The Soviet trade
agencies hope to sell the turbo-
drill in Australia.
The U.S.S.R. seemed reason-
ably hopeful of increasing
trade, but are not sufficiently
well informed about Australian
export products, apart from
wool and other primary pro-
duce. I was told that the Soviet
Union is now a major importer


Invest with confidence
in a company with a sound growth
record and secure asset backing
. . . ideal for either
long or short term investment.
FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
... in multiples of £lOO, payable in full
upon application . . . unconditionally guaranteed by
Retailers Acceptance Ltd. . . . assets exceed £3,400,000
• . . registers Sydney and Brisbane
per* annum
6-10 years
9%
per annum
4-5 years
per annum
2-3 years
8X
per annum
12 mths. fixed
per annum
9 mths. notice
n
per annum
6 inths. notice
6 %
.per annum
3 mths. notice
interest payable
quarterly
free of exchange
RETAILERS
ACCEPTANCE
(QLD.)
LTD.
280 PITT ST., SYDNEY. PHONE MA2373
509 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE. PHONE 31 1951
Underwriting Brokers:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL . . .
LIONEL A. McFADYEN & CO. . .
LANCE JONES & CO.
20 O'Connell St., Sydney, &
340 Queen St., Brisbane.
20 O’Connell St., Sydney, &■
Musgrave St., Port Moresby.
108 Creek St., Brisbane, &
108 Victoria Street, Mackay.
Banker for the issue:- BANK of NEW SOUTH WALES
Trustee for the Debenture Stockholders:
BANK of NEW SOUTH WALES NOMINEES PTY. LTD.
Prospectus and Applications:
A copy of the Prospectus has been lodged with the Registrar cf
Companies, Brisbane. Applications accepted only on the application
form attached to the Prospectus, which may be obtained from
• any member of a recognised Stock Exchange • Retailers
Acceptance (Qld.) Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane • all branches
Bank of New South Wales in N.S.W., G'ld., and New Guinea
• the offices of the underwriting brokers.
of consumer goods, particu-
larly apparel and footwear,
sports equipment and some
durable consumer goods such
a s motor-bikes and furniture.
“The U.S.S.R. can, of
course, produce and does pro-
duce all these things itself, but
we want to give our consumers
a wider range of choice.” At
present consumer goods are
imported by the U.S.S.R.
from Czechoslovakia, Poland,
West and East Germany, the
U.K., France, Scandinavia,
Austria and many other Euro-
pean and Asian countries.
The Soviet Union seems to
be particularly interested in
buying cables, ships and car
duco. In return, the U.S.S.R.
could supply “almost anything
its trade partners want.”
It is keenest on sell-
ing medium and heavy
industrial and agricultural
machinery. The various types
of tractors, excavators,
machine hammers, etc., seem to
be well made and economic to
use. The TV-sets, refrigera-
tors and the like are all there,
but hardly different from those
produced in this country.
They have no special appeal
and probably are exhibited just
to show the range of U.S.S.R.’s
manufacturing capacity.
Tinned foods, particularly
fish and caviar, mineral water,
Russian sparkling and still
wines and brandy attract a
good deal of attention in the
crowded pavilion. There is
quite a queue of people
anxious to buy some genuine
Russian vodka ; but again this
is hardly a great selling line.
I gathered that the U.S.S.R.
does not expect to be a major
importer of food grains in the
near future. They are quite
willing to sell refined petro-
leum products at competitive,
but not dumping, prices.
The U.S.S.R. could buy a
lot more wool from Australia,
but the hint is that we could
also buy more Russian goods,
although the Soviet Union
“does not insist on having an
active trade balance with Aus-
tralia.”
On the whole, “trade rela-
tions with the U.S.S.R. will
undoubtedly improve when the
political situation improves, as
in the case of the U.K.”
Finally, I submitted three
written questions to Mr V. I.
Gornostaev, Director of the
Soviet Pavilion at the Fair. I
asked him if the U.S.S.R. is
interested in specific trade
agreements with Australia;
what was the commercial
response to Soviet exhibits on
the first day, and whether he
was satisfied with the arrange-
ments made for the trade fair
and felt that results had justi-
fied the expense?
Mr Gornostaev replied that
“the Soviet Union is interested
in extending and strengthening
trade relations with Australia,
and is therefore interested in
any agreements which may
help to achieve an increase in
trade.”
He said that on the first day
of the Fair the Soviet Pavilion
received many inquiries from
Australian firms, and had sold
all its furs and carpets. At
this stage negotiations are in
progress on trade contracts
with local buyers.
In conclusion, Mr Gorno-
staev was emphatic that he was
quite pleased with the way the
Australians had organised the
Fair. He said that he was
“completely satisfied” and that
the Russians have received
“full co-operation from the
Australian side, which shows
that Australia is interested in
expanding trade relations.”


The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Tooth and Co. Ltd
TThe Australian brewing industry, by
the middle of the nineteenth century,
comprised many small brewers scattered
throughout the various colonies. The
present century has witnessed a realign-
ment of these interests and a concentra-
tion of ownership, witkin the embrace
of a few. The transformation, a species
of aggrandisement or rather a Machia-
vellian beneficence, was peculiarly
adapted to the tooth - and - nail,
cephalopod-like tendencies of the now
giant Tooth and Co. L;d. The big brewer
has gone from strength to strength and
is established today as one of the largest
beer-making corporations in the Com-
monwealth.
Set up in 1888 to acquire the business
of the then 53-year-old Kent Brewery,
Tooth now owns more than one-third of
the hoteE in N.S.W. (upwards of 1000
hotels and of these more than 600 free-
holds), including hotels in the thirsty
northern coalfields, where Castlemaine
and \ ood Bros (Newcastle) was taken
over for £250,000 in scrip in 1920, and
the Riverina, where Mahon (Wagga) and
Lincoln (Narrandera) were absorbed for
an unstated amount in cash in 1924. The
co. tightened its grip on the beer trade
by purchase of Resch’s brewery (then
one of the two other big Sydney brewers)
in 1"29 for £1,250,000 in scrip, or there-
abouts. It has never ceased to buy up
hotel properties (which is the form com-
petition takes ; there is no price cutting in
the trade), expanding its output in the
meantime to supply the ever-growing
market.
Tooth, together with Tooheys, has a
virtual monopoly of the beer trade in
N.S.W., and sound brewery scrip has
always ranked high as an equity invest-
ment. Tooth is presently in process of
effecting a one-for-six par issue, share-
holders registered July 5 to participate.
The shares are payable in full on a pli-
cation by September 1 n xt, and it seems
now an opportune time to subscribe to
the big brewer’s register. The 20 . ords.,
ex rights, are fetching around 595. The
rights are current trading down to 38s.
as a~ainst prices nearer the 425. mark
several weeks ago. Immediate yield on
an ex rights basis works out a not
unreasonable 4.6 p.c. ; that is assuming
maintenance of the 134 p.c. dividend,
struck for the first ti .e last term ; and
it is understood that “unless there is an
adverse trend in trade,” that Tooth
intends to maintain this rate on the higher
capital after the issue.
Tooth puts out one of the most con-
servative set of accounts in Australia.
A glance at the figures suggests a fat
inner kitty, from which occasional dis-
gorgements are made. In 1954 the co.
added a £3,091,329 assets-revaluation
surplus, plus another £3,987,390
unexplained accretions, to its disclosed
reserves. In the next year, the assets-
revaluation reserve was capitalised in a
one-for-two bonus issue. In 1958 the co.
wrote back £5,038,219 of “amounts pro-
vided in the past against certain assets.”
Clearly there are ample disclosed and
undisclosed funds available for further
bonus handouts. In fact, bonus scrip
accounts for well over half of Tooth’s
£9,273,986 one-class issued capital. The
one-for-six cash issue, which is calcu-
lated to lift paid capital by approximately
£1,545,664, is the first such cash issue in
almost 26 years, a one-for-ten going out
in 1935. It will be used “....to meet
continuous heavy expenditure which is
a permanent concomitant of this
industry, and also to maintain liquid
resources....”
In the face of a rising consumption of
domestic and imported wines and spirits,
beer remains the national drink. Despite
the heavy excise duty (hiked up from
7s. 2d. to 9s. lOd. a gallon in 1956) the
demand for the draught and the bottled
shows no signs of falling off. Total Aus-
tralian beer production increased by 13
million gallons to 237 million gallons in
1959-60. Consumption is steadily grow-
ing, following the rising trend in popula-
tion and national income. Official
statistics show that output of beer in the
six months to May 31, 1961, was 124
million gallons—an increase of one
million gallons compared with the
previous corresponding period.
Tooth’s profits have been affected by
increased costs of production—“the
prices of the main raw materials, namely,
malt, hops and sugar were all higher and
increased wages of brewery employees
and the clerical staff added to the
increased cost of production.” Even so,
and in spite of these reservations, Tooth
must admit to a good year’s trading.
Output was stepped up and gross profit
from trading, rents and interest for the
year ended March 31, 1961, was £382,346
higher at £6,969,422 after making pro-
vision for property maintenance and
bad and doubtful debts.
Chairman R. J. Vicars makes much
capital of a changed form of presentation
of accounts and “stockholders will notice
that the lay-out of ihe balance sheet and
profit and loss account has been altered,
giving more detail than hitherto.” But
the changes are tantamount to a mere
reshuffling of previously available
figures ; the revised set-up sheds no
further light on the Tooth mystery.
Net profit was finally disclosed at
£1,470,421 (up £102,249, or 7.4 p.c.) after
deducting depreciation £923,468 (down
£142), directors’ fees, an unchanged
£6OOO, and general expenses, including
unstated tax provision, £4,569,533 (ur,
£280,238): *
Net To Re- R e .
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
££ £ £
1953.. 1.013.739 15Jp.c.= 958,312 1
Employees’ fund, £10,000.. j 4,13<,935
Assets revaluation res,, £3,091,3 2 9 7,2 29,261
Unexplained additions, £3,987,390.. 11,216 654
1954.. 076 16 p.c. = 989,225 1 arl .
Employees’ fund. £10,000.. j 10.801 11,^92, 0 05
Reserve capitalised, £3,091,329 .. 8,201,176
1955.-1,180,909 11 1p.c.=1,066,508 ) 1(U s 9A . ..
Employees’ fund, £IO,OOO .. \ 104 ’ 401 B ’ 3o
Mar.,
1956* 619,361 12p.c.= 556.439 1 , 7 Q 9„ „
Employees’ fund, £SOOO .. J ’ 1
1957.. 964 12ip.c.=1,136,064 ) QO Qnn - ...
Employees’ fund, £10,000.. [ 92 ’ 900 S ’ 4sG >
Provisions w/back, etc., £5,038,219 13,494,618
1958.. 278.41112|p.c.=1, 158,248 t lin ... Rnt
Employees’ fund, £IO,OOO \ 110 ’ 163 13 ’ 604 ’ l8 l
1959.. 12Jp.c.=1,182,433 [ 10Q 7qs ,0 ~, ~
Employees’ fund, £IO,OOO J ±d,/34,519
1960.. 1.368.172 13|p.c.=1,228,804 1 100 qrs .0 Rft o QO ,
Employees’ fund, £IO,OOO j X-.y.rfOis a3,fc>03,887
i0e!"!,470,421 13Jp.c.=1,251,988 U OB 433 14 072,320
Employees fund, £IO,OOO j
* Six months only, div. at rate p.a.
This was equivalent to an earning-rate
of 15.9 p.c. on the unchanged ordinary
capital, compared with 14.8 p.c. disclosed
in the previous term, and 14.2 p.c., 13.7
p.c., 13.3 p.c., 13.3 p.c. and 12.7 p.c. back
to 1955.
The div.-rate, raised from 12| p.c. to
13| p.c. in 1960, was further raised a
fraction to 134 p.c., the full distribution
absorbing £1,251,998. Employees fund
received a steady £IO,OOO. Visible
reserves moved forward to aggregate a
massive £14,072,320.
The extension of liquor trading hours
in N.S.W. from 6 p.m. to 10 p.m. in 1955,
and severe competition from licensed
clubs, formed by social organisations,
has prompted Tooth to adopt a compre-
hensive programme of modernising hotel
premises. Extensive structural alterations
have been carried out at the breweries,
new plant has been installed and capital
expenditure on work of this nature is
continuing. Additional property has been
purchased adjoining the Resch’s brewery,
“which has materially increased the
acreage and will give us room to sub-
stantially expand the capacity at that
brewery.” The co. will shortly commence
erection of a large new cellar block
“which will provide for anticipated
increases over a period of many years”
—this on the new property.
New malt mills are now installed and
working at all three breweries (Resch's,
Kent and Waverley) and a new conveying
system is operating in the barley store
at the Carlton Street maltings. Three
modern cask washing machines have been
ordered and are now in course of
delivery. A similar machine was installed
at Waverley during last year and “is
giving every satisfaction.”
Balance-sheet movements are nonethe-
less undramatic and unrevealing:
One often wonders if what malsters tell
Is half as precious as the stuff they hide!
The book-value of breweries and freehold
properties (in at cost or valuation less
provisions), leasehold properties (in a!
cost less depreciation) and plant,
machinery, rolling stock and motor
vehicles (in at cost less depreciation and
provisions), as a composite, advanced by


JOHN N. ROBERTSON
Member of tlie Stock Exchange of
Melbourne.
STOCK AND SHAKE BROKER.
Temple Court,
422 Collins Street, Melbourne C.l.
Telephones: 67 4804, 67 2465
Telegrams & Cables:
ROBFALK, MELBOURNE
A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. Jj. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Fife Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31 2761
(4 Pines)
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
R. H. ALLEN, M. K. L. DOWLING
P. It. LEVY, A. P. REYNOLDS, N. R,
COURSE (Alelbourne Resident Partner).
Delfin House, 16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Building-, 150 Queen St.,
Melbourne. 67-5957 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables: “Rosdale,” Sydney.
Melbourne or Wollongong.
only £73,348, from £23,258,164 to
£23,331,512:
1959. 1960. 1961.
Paid capital .. £9,273,986 £9,273,986 £9,273,986
Reserves . . 13,734,519 13,863,887 14,072,320
Overdraft . . 481,053 276,687 389,930
Creditors . . 6,887,084 7,245,627 7,371,247
Employees fund 180,078 192,348 207,141
piual di\. .. 602,809 625,994 625,994
£31,159,529 £31,478,529 £31,940,618
freeholds and
plant . . 23,236,364 23,258,164 23,331,512
Shares other eos. 17,000 17,000 17,000
Stocks- . . 1,908,151 1,892,339 1,908,392
Debtors . . 5,812,741 6,126,254 6,508,260
Consols, cash, etc. 185,273 184,772 175,454
£31,159,529 £31,478,529 £31,940,618
Each 20s. ord. was backed by 50s. 4d.
of visible net tangible assets.
The Australian thirst is unlikely to
disappear overnight. Shares which have
the ability to weather economic storms
merit particular attention in conditions
such as Australia is presently experi-
encing. There is no doubt that share-
holders have a sound investment in
Tooth's scrip. The more immediate
benefits, however, depend on the cc.’s
policy, which has been conservative in
the past, though some revelation of inner
strength may be forced upon Tooth with
introduction of uniform company legis-
lation and compulsory disclosure of tax
provisions. In every year since the last
bonus issue there has been some increase
in the div.-rate. Now at 13| p.c., it
compares with 16 p.c. just prior to the
last capitalisation of reserves. The div.-
rate averaged 8.5, 9.6, 10.5, 10.4 and 13
p.c. over the first five decades of this
century and the shares look a good buy
on recent trading. Tooth scrip is fitting
paper for all but the very small portfolio.
Brooklands (Holdings) Ltd
TVistributors of motor vehicle parts
and accessories, Brooklands (Hold-
ings) Ltd has shared in the general pros-
perity attaching the motor vehicle
industry in the lush postwar period. A
prosperity which had ended suddenly last
November when the Government intro-
duced dampening down legislation
directed especially at the motor vehicle
industry, in the first instance point blank
(an increased sales-tax on motor
vehicles ; since removed), in the second
instance, and far more effectively, through
the confines of a reduced hire-purchase
activity.
>!ew vehicles (excluding motor-cycles)
registered in Australia, during the six
months to June last, totalled 115,226
against 143,259 registrations in the six
months to June, ’6O.
Brooklands (Holdings) Ltd was formed
in March, 1955, to acquire the total
pquity in Brooklands Accessories Ltd —
itself incorporated in 1923 as a subsidiary
of Allied Motor Industries Ltd —ord.
shareholders in that co. receiving, in
effect, a one-for-two bonus on exchange
°f their shares for scrip in the new co.
Initial capital of the holding co., £519,719,
comprised 1,978,878 ss. ords. and 25,000
7 p.c. cum. 20s. prefs. The public were
not invited to subscribe capital at the
time of quotation. There have been no
issues since.
Operating in Victoria and N.S.W., its
head-office in Melbourne, with 14 ware-
houses and service-depots scattered
throughout the two States —a new branch
was opened last year at Footscray, Vic-
toria, the co. taking over the well-
established Footscray-centred automotive
spare-parts business of A. M. Gardiner
and Co. —the group, per medium of its
five subsidiaries, distributes a wide and
ever-growing range of automotive spare-
parts, plus service and repair equipment,
plus electrical and mechanical equipment.
Subsidiaries include:
Brooklands Accessories Pty,
Brooklands Accessories (N.S.W.) Pty,
Starting Lighting Ignition Pty,
Fuel Injection Pty and
Swan Hill Auto Replacement Co. Pty.
Many useful agencies have been
acquired over the years, including tie-ups
with the English manufacturing firms,
Joseph Lucas Industries and S. Smith and
Sons. A 45 p.c. interest, stemming from
1958, is held in Wipac (Australia) Pty.
Wipac has concluded another successful
year, has paid a dividend and has, more-
over, managed a long-term agreement
with the Globe Union Corporation—
Wico Ignition Division, of Springfield,
Massachusetts, to manufacture and dis-
tribute their products throughout Aus-
tralia. The completion of this agreement
gives Wipac the sole manufacturing and
distributing rights for both the Wipac
Group, of Buckingham, England, and the
Wico Ignition Division of the Globe
Union Corporation of U.S.A. —“orders
already in hand indicate another
successful trading year for Wipac.”
During last term the Victorian sub-
sidiary, Brooklands Accessories Pty, was
appointed by Balm Paints Pty as distri-
butor to the automotive trade throughout
Victoria for Duco - Dulux - Dulon
products ; as sole agents for the
Fromberg system of tubeless-tyre repairs,
manufactured by the Fromberg Corpora-
tion of Los Angeles, California ; and as
sole agents in the automotive and indus-
trial fields for Century liquid petroleum
gas equipment, manufactured by the
Marvel - Schebler Products Co., of
Decatur, Illinois.
The 12 months to April 30 last proved
notable for the difference brought home
in trading conditions in the last six
months of the year as compared with
the first six months. The sudden, and
in many instances “far too drastic,”
restriction of credit facilities throughout
the motor trade, had many traders unable
to meet their commitments and the con-
sequence arising therefrom was that bad
debts were heavier, principally in N.S.W.
In addition, due to intense competition,
gross profit margins of the N.S.W. sub-
sidiary suffered a reduction. A trading
loss ensued.
However the Victorian subsidiaries —
Brooklands Accessories Pty and Start-
ing Lighting Ignition Pty—wrote
increased sales despite the “more difficult
trading conditions in latter months.”
Gross profit margins were maintained
and trading results for both cos. showed
improvement over those of the previous
year.
Meantime managerial attention is
focussed on N.S.W. activity and action
is being taken which, it is hoped, will
result in improvement during the current
term.
Profit from trading for the group as a
whole, for the 12 months ended April 30,
1961, fell £19,173 to £187,805 whilst net
profit came in a much reduced figure at
£87,228 (down £28,324), more than 24 p.c.
lower than in the preceding term. The
final result was ascertained after setting
aside £24,128 (up £2996) for deprecia-
tion, £9339 (up £5631) for loan interest,
an unchanged £2575 for directors’ fees
and £69,700 (up £5000) for taxation. The


Your banker
or stockbroker
knows...
TODAY’S
SAFEST FINANCIAL
INVESTMENT
Reg.
First
Mortgage
Debenture
Stock
P.A. for
8 and 10 years
BEID MURRAY
Acceptance Limited
FIXED LONG TERM STOCK
SHORT TERM NOTICE,.STOCK
6<7b
5%
a°/o
P.A. on 12
mths. notice
P.A. on 6
mths. notice
P.A. on 3
mths. notice
P.A. at call
Applications accepted only on forms attached to the Prospectus, Available from:
REID MURRAY ACCEPTANCE LTD.
403 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 67-1924
Any branch of the
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Any member of a
RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE IN AUST.
Or Joint Underwriting Brokers
TOLHURST, HENLEY, MUNCKTON & CO.
401 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melb.
CUTTEN & HARVEY
97 King William Street, Adelaide
408 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of Stock Exchange of Adelaide Ltd.
PAID UP CAPITAL £7,000,000
RMA. 15 V
GUARANTEED BY REID MURRAY HOLDINGS LTD.
tax provision indicates a
theoretical net profit of
£104,550:
Brooklaxds (Holdings) Ltd, and
Subsidiaries.
f- Dividends —.
Pref. Re-
Apr., Profit. 7 p.c. —Old.—., serves.*
£ £ p.c. £ £ -
’57.. 124,018 1750 15 = 74,2 0 8 4 53,840
Profit sale assets, £367 .. 454,207
Tax overprovided, £5385 .. 459 S ( J->
’5B. .100,8.37 1750 121= 61,840 496,859
Profit sale assets, £1370 .. 498,229
Tax overprovided, £lB9l . . 500,120
Transfer staff fund, £5OOO 495,120
’59.. 100,330 1750 121= 61,840 531,860
Profit sale assets, £l9OB . . 533,76 S
Tax overprovided, £l9l .. 533,959
Transfer staff fund, £6500 527,459
’60..115,552 1750 124= 61,840 579,421
Profit sale assets, £6 5 5 . . 58 0,076
Tax underprovided, £4 0 05.. 576,071
Less increased intangibles,
£5476 570,595
’61.. 87,228 1750 124= 61,8 4 0 5 9 4,233
* After deducting £1.92,514 intangibles
at 30/4/61.
Allowing for the unchanged
pref. divs., the showing on ord.
capital was equal to 17.3 p.c.,
compared with tax-adjusted
rates of 22.2 p.c., 20 p.c., 20.4
p.c., 25.9 p.c. and 24.3 p.c.
back to 1956.
Divs. were kept at a steady
12| p.c. absorbing, in all,
£61,840. The rate was 15 p.c.
in 1956 and 1957. The all-
round strength of the co.,
despite difficult trading con-
ditions, is apparent in the solid
reserves, at £615,609 (up
£20,288), in excess of paid
capital and ascertained after
deducting goodwill and other
intangibles, £192,514. More-
over fixed assets are shown at
outmoded and very much
understated valuations. Free-
holds, in at £358,114, latest
balance-sheet, have not been
revalued since 1951. Plant at
£169,133 (up £18,245) is in at
cost, less depreciation.
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1960. 1961.
Pref £25,000 £25,000
Ord 494,719 494,719
Reserves.. .. 595,321 615,609
Convertible notes 197,888
Mortgage , . 66,25 0 63,750
Overdraft .. 141,408 123,489
Creditors, etc... 253,273 256,667
Staff fund . . 40,000 40,000
Tax provision . . 64,700 97,134
Final divs. . . 37,979 37,979
£1,718,650 £1,952,235
Freeholds .. 357,965 358,111
Leaseholds .. 11,772 1 1,29'a
Plant and fittings 150,888 169,133
Shares other cos. 4,600 1.609
Stocks .. .. 668,159 859,139
Debtors.. .. 507,952 527,034
Cash .. .. 1,414 1,547
Goodwill, etc. . . 15,900 21,376
£1,718,650 £1,952,235
Generally, liquidity remained
fairly stable during the last 12
months. Cash balances and
bank overdraft were little
changed. Theoretical working-
capital eased, lifting £192,286
to £832,451. The situation,
which could have become
serious, was retrieved by the
issue of 781,550 7 p.c. con-
vertible unsecured notes, two
notes for every five ss. ords.,


m
FINANCE & INVESTMENT
COMPANY LIMITED
SHAREHOLDERS' FUNDS. £891.419.
TANGIBLE ASSETS, £3,184,264.
INTEREST RATES FOR DEPOSITS
(NOW CALLED UNSECURED DEPOSIT NOTES)
WITH RIGHT OF RECALL
ON 30 DAYS’ NOTICE
3 months . . . . 5V270 p.a.
6 months . ; . . 6% p.a.
9 months . . . . 6V2?. p.a.
12 months . . . . IJo p.a.
18 months . ; ; . V/2 / 0 p.a.
• FIXED DEPOSITS
2
years
8%
p.a.
3 years 8 V 2% p.a.
AND OVER
APPLICATIONS must be made
on the form enclosed with the
prospectus, which is obtainable
from
Members of the Stock Exchange
ANY BRANCH OF A.N.Z. BANK
The Registered Office of the Com-
pany, William & Crown Sts.,
Sydney. Telephone FA 0322.
Financing world-
famous products
distributed by
The Hastings
Deering Group
of Companies.
FORD
Cars and Trucks
FORDSON
Tractors
A.E.C.
Trucks & Buses
CATERPILLAR
Diesel Tractors
in Queensland
HYSTER
Fork Lift Trucks
JOHN DEERE
Agricultural
Machinery
LISTER
Engines
GROUP SALES
IN 1960
£14,757,281
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720)
Assets exceed £173,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
Kindersley House, Bligh/O’Connell Streets, SYDNEY
F. H. Egerton, Manager for Australia.
November 11, 1960. The notes
mature November 30, 1965.
Stocks jumped a hefty
£190,980 to £859,139, the
increase due to quicker
deliveries from both local and
overseas suppliers. Inventories
have been considerably
reduced in ensuing months.
Mortgage outstandings, under
security to the A.M.P., were
reduced (down £2500 at
£63,750).
As to the future: “Com-
pared with the previous quarter,
sales are showing an upward
trend. The automotive parts
business is dependent upon the
replacement of parts worn out
by travel and, as it is apparent
that the vehicle user is retain-
ing his vehicle longer than
formerly, these ageing vehicles
must be kept in good order to
be roadworthy. Now that
economic restrictions are being
relaxed we look forward with
confidence to more stable con-
ditions in the curreni
financial year.”
Brooklands (Holdings) Ltd
ss. ords. last fetched 9s. on
Melbourne ’Change. They
look a good buy but pending
motor vehicle recovery. Imme-
diate yield works out a not
unattractive 6.9 p.c. Conser-
vative estimate has net
tangibles a sound 11s. The ss.
convertible notes are fetching
around 6s. sd. to return 5.5 p.c.
Oliver-Davey Glass Indus-
tries Ltd
TFampered by severe com-
■“- petition —severe all along
but stepped-up considerably
since last November —Oliver-
Davey Glass Industries Ltd
battled through the closing
phases of its latest financial
year to bring home a still satis-
factory but, at the same time,
much reduced net profit.
Oliver-Davey rules off accounts
March 31, and the building
industry, the co.’s main cus-
tomer, is hard hit by govern-
mental legislation (brought
down in November, 1960), a
general despondency through-
out the trade and inactivity
especially relevant to the
housing sector. Granted any
increase in building activity,
the suppliers of materials to
the building industry should
start to notice some lift in
demand. Meantime the situa-
tion remains gloomy.
The co. was formed in Mel-
bourne in October, 1958, to
acquire the whole of the issued
capital of Oliver-Davey Glass
Co. Pty. Following the issue
of scrip to the public in
December, 1958, paid capital
rose to £260,000 in ss. ords.,
unchanged since then.
Oliver-Davey is engaged in
glazing, bevelling, silvering,
lead-lighting, sand-blasting and
glass-cutting. The subsidiary,
Oliver-Davey Glass Co. Pty,
operates plants at South Mel-
bourne, Port Melbourne and
Geelong (all Vic.). In 1958-59
the Port Melbourne factory
was extensively remodelled and
its productive capacity ex-
panded.
The initial four months as
a public co. (plus eight months
as a private co. immediately
prior to the change in status)
resulted in a consolidated net
profit of £38,750, equivalent to
an earning-rate of 24.9 p.c. on
the average ord. capital.
The next year’s trading was
satisfactory, profit rising to
£43,127, the earning - rate
settling to 16.2 p.c. The co.
benefited from several good con-
tracts including one for glass-
work involved in the 1.C.1.
building in Melbourne.
Consolidated net profit, how-
ever, for the year ended March
31, 1961, dropped £6574 to
£36,553, earning-rate falling,
too, to 14.1 p.c.—earning rate
on shareholders’ funds settled
from 11.3 p.c. to 9.3 p.c. Con-
solidated profit from trading
was reduced £lB7 to £88,059.
Income from investments, in-
terest and rents brought in
another £312.
The net showing was calcu-
lated after charging all
expenses, providing £8457 for
depreciation (up £1112) and
setting aside £27,606 for taxa-
tion (down £41):
Oi.ivkk-Dwk v Glass Industries Ltd
and Subsidiary.
To Re : Re-
Mch., Prft. Dividends, serves, serves.*
£ p.e. £ £ £
Reserves on incorporation . . 87,000
Tax overprovided, £1047 . . 88,047
To- provision doubtful debts,
£7.700 .. .. .. 80,547
’59.-38,750 104= 15,569 23,181 103,728
Tax underprovided, £5ll .. 103,217
Capital profit, £340 - . . 103,557
’60..43,127 10 = 23,000 17.127 120,684
Tax underprovided, £1620.. 119,004
’6l. .36,553 10 = 26,000 10,553 129,6.17
* Subject to £95,750 intangibles at
31/3/61.
t Made up of 69 p.c. paid to vendors of
Oliver-Davey Glass Co. Pty. on capital
of £103,53-0 plus 3J p.c. on capital of
£260,000.
The 10 p.c. div. cheque
absorbed £26,000, leaving
£10,553 to reserves, which,
together with undistributed
profits, but less tax under-
provided (£1620) in the pre-
vious term, added up to
£129,617, subject to £95,750
intangibles.
The co.’s financial position
looks fairly solid with theoreti-


•• '
%
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters
Ideal for farms, stations and for
hot-water systems, and household
requirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last a
lifetime. Large quantities in use
th roughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of “Curvi-
linear” Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic
Machines and Ellison Switch Gear.
The
NORTHERN LIFE
Assurance Company of Australia Limited
(Incorporated, in Canberra, Australia')
All Classes of Ordinary Life Assurance,
Superannuation and Annuity Policies Issued
HEAD OFFICE: 15 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone BL 5601 K. J. Hedley, General Manager
cal working capital (up £1632
at £159,769) virtually steady:—
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1960. 1961.
Paid capital .. £260,000 £260,000
Reserves .. .. 120,684 129,617
Mortgage .. .. 5,000 20,000
Overdraft .. .. 10,051 45,144
Sundry creditors .. 56,001 28,096
Tax provision .. 50,876 27,606
Final dividend .. 13,000 13,000
Staff fund .. ~ 607 2,500
£516,219 £525,963
Land, buildings,
plant, etc. .. 127,784 149,705
Investments .. 4,013 4,393
Stock .. .. 134,501 127,070
Sundry debtors .. 153,990 148,630
Cash, etc. . . . 181 415
Intangibles .. 95,750 95,750
£516,219 £525,963
Stocks, debtors and cash are
little changed. Bank accommo-
dation advanced £35,093 to
£45,144. Creditors were re-
duced £27,905 to £28,096.
The book value of freeholds
(in at cost), leaseholds (in at
cost, less amounts written off)
and plant, machinery, etc. (in
at cost, less depreciation),
finished up £21,921 at £149,705.
The chairman, Mr J. J.
O’Loughlin, commented, July
11, 1961, that the Government’s
steps to help the building
industry were inadequate and
would be too slow in making
up the leeway. In other words,
that Oliver-Davey would be
hampered in its efforts to sell
glass in a very competitive
market.
Thus far Oliver-Davey has
put up a creditable perform-
ance as a public co. And
although prospects must re-
main difficult in the immediate
future, there seems to be scope
for growth, provided the co.
can withstand the brisk com-
petition.
At last sale in Melbourne
the ss. ords. fetched ss. 3d.
each, for an immediate return
of 9.3 p.c. on the basis of the
10 p.c. dividend distribution.
Net tangible aset - cover
works out at ss. Bd. for each
ss. ord. unit.
COMPANY NOTES
Australian Guarantee
Corporation
A USTRALIAN GUARANTEE CoR-
poration Ltd earned a
consolidated net profit of
£1,285,264 after £914,449 (up
£169,095) tax provision in the
year ended June 30, 1961, the
company’s chairman, Col. H.
J. R. Clayton said in a pre-
liminary statement. This repre-
sents an increase of 26 p.c. on
£1,018,207 earned in the previ-
ous year.
The earning rate is reported
to be 20 p.c. on ordinary
capital, after allowing for
preference dividends, and com-
pares with 15.8 p.c. in 1960.
Final ord. dividend is p.c.,
making a steady annual ordin-
ary dividend of 15 p.c.
Col. Clayton said that “the
profit result was particularly
satisfactory in view of the
Federal Government’s financial
restrictions imposed in Novem-
ber. The improved result under
these restricted trading condi-
tions was largely achieved
through group reorganisation
and close attention to internal
economies.”
Hire purchase outstandings
during the year rose by
£2,338,433 to £54,565,325,
“from which the company
deducted £6,926,152 for income
yet to mature.” Other out-
standings amounted to
£11,658,655, compared with
£13,490,394 last year.
The preliminary results
sound gratifying to share-
holders and reflect the group’s
business virility and astute
management.
Incorporated in N.S.W. in
June, 1925, Australian Guaran-
tee Corporation is a leading
national hire purchase financier
and handles motor vehicles
finance and insurance in Aus-
tralia and New Zealand. A
majority interest is held in
Carapark and General Finance
Ltd, the hire purchase offshoot
of Carapark Holdings, the
energetic, profit-spinning cara-
van and motels operator.
At the last sale in Sydney
the ss. ords. fetched 12s. lid.
a unit. This makes the im-
mediate yield 5.8 p.c. p.a. on
the basis of the steady 15 p.c.
dividend distribution.
Australian Chemical
Holdings
A USTRALIAN CHEMICAL HoLD-
ings Ltd has finalised
arrangements with Jacobson
Manufacturing Co. Inc., of
New Jersey, U.S.A., a leading
American nut manufacturer.
“A wide range of cold-formed
nuts and other items” will be
manufactured in Australia by
Frank G. Spurway Pty Ltd, a
wholly owned subsidiary of
Chemical Holdings.
A total of 25,623 10s. ords.
in Australian Chemical Hold-
ings was issued to the Jacob-
son interests in satisfaction of
the agreement. The new shares
will rank equally with the exist-
ing ordinary capital for
dividend purposes.
Humes Ltd
TTumes Ltd has acquired the
whole of the issued capital
of Cowley’s Eureka Ironworks
Pty Ltd, of Ballarat, Vic. The
new subsidiary is a manufac-
turer of steel pipes and general
engineer. Purchase considera-
tion was not disclosed at this
stage.
OIL AND MINING
Bulolo Gold Dredging
T>oth yardage and value per
yard for the quarter ended
May 31, 1961, were higher
than in the previous corres-
ponding period.
Bululo Gold Dredging Ltd
dredged and sluiced 1,433,240
cubic yards during the three
months, compared with
1,377,520 cubic yards a year
ago. Production of fine gold
dropped from 56480 z. to
49370 z. The value of produc-
tion declined from Canadian
$197,680 to Canadian $172,795.
Yardage dredged and sluiced
during the whole financial year
to May 31 last dropped from
5,698,610 to 5,501,005 and out-
put of fine gold from 22.3770 z.
to 18,0510 z. The value of out-
put was Canadian $783,195
(down $151,410).
Output of sawn timber and
venner from South Pacific
Timbers, Lae, New Guinea,
“was maintained during the
quarter, and the year’s output
was a little lower than that of
the preceding year.”
Mr J. C. Tarbuck, the com-
pany’s secretary, says that “in
view of deterioration of trading
conditions following upon
Commonwealth Government
action to slow down the rapidly
expanding Australian economy,
it was deemed desirable to sub-
stantially reduce inventory
valuations of manufactured
and partly manufactured stocks
due to present limited and
highly selective market. These
reductions, allied with reduced
sales and gross profit margins
and changes in the co.’s manu-
facturing processes adversely
affected trading operations in
the closing months of the
financial year.”
In his statement issued in
Vancouver, 8.C., Canada, the
secretary says that estimated
net profit from operations in
New Guinea and Australia for
the year to May 31, 1961, was
Canadian $171,500, after pro-
viding Canadian $52,000 for
taxation and Canadian
$250,000 for depreciation of
fixed assets.
Dividends and interest re-
ceived amounted to Canadian
$340,000, pushing the estimated
net profit for the year to
Canadian $511,500 (down


Divorce Notices
A Divorce Petition has been filed c-iting
.JOHN WATSON NEALE late of 870
Malvern Hoad Armadale Victoria Aus-
tralia who may apply to the Divorce
Rigistr.v Somerset House London WC2
England for a copy of the petition If
within 80 days he has not communi-
cated with the Registry the Court may
hear the case in his absence. —B. LONG,
Registra r.
A Divorce Petition has been tikd
against VIOLET .JEANNE BARNES
late of 8/0 Malvern Road Armadale
Victoria Australia who may apply to
the DivorCe Registry Somerset House
London WC2 England for a copy of
the petition If within 80 days she has
not communicated with the Registry
the. Court may hear the ease in her
absence. —B. LONG Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES- In Divorce.
TO HAROLD EDWARD DOUGLAS
HEATH. TAKE NOTICE that MAVIS
EDNA HEATH has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1 Otifj of 1901 on the ground
or desertion without just cause oi
excuse for three years and upwards if
you wish to defend you may enter an
answer in the Divorce Registry Mint
Building Macquarie Street Sydney with-
in '2 months of the publication of this
notice and obtain a copy of the Peti-
tion without charge from GEOFFREY
SEE. <ll LI. IS & CO., Solicitors, 28
Martin Place, Sydney.—C. A. HARMS,
Rpgistra r.
Public Notice
WOULD ANY PERSON who witnessed
an accident at about 8.45 p.m. on
the 27th March, 1961, when a pedes-
trian was knocked down by a motor
vehicle whilst he was standing on
ibe disused tram tracks adjacent to
Drivers Avenue, Moore Park, and
approximately opposite Sydney Cricket
Ground No. 2, please contact the
undersigned immediately. In par-
ticular, would the motorist who took
the injured man to St Vincent’s
Hospital please contact the undersigned
immediately.—Gibson, Macphillamy &
Phippard, Solicitors, 43 Phillip Street,
Sydney at HU 4684.
Positions Vacant
CRANBROOK SCHOOL,
BELLEVUE HILL,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Vacancies occurring from Ist
Term, 1962.
English Master (1)
To take over English Department
or, if no suitable applicant, to teach
English, including 6th Form.
Science Masters (2)
Any combination to teach. Chemis-
try,. Physics and Geology—Senior
and Junior work.
Accommodation
Two Flats for married Masters in
Eastern Suburbs and Resident Single
Accommodation available.
Write to Headmaster stating full
academic and extra Curricular
qualifications and experience.
HELP
LEGACY
oil th%jyear round.
Donations: 169 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney. BM2OOI.
Positions Vacant
PULTENEY
GRAMMAR SCHOOL
Incorporated 1847.
Applications are invited for the
position of
MASTER OF THE
MIDDLE SCHOOL
from January 1, 1962.
The Middle School consists of
approximately 320 boys from Grade
3 to Grade 7.
Applicants should be:
1. Communicant members of
the Church of England.
2. Graduates of a recognised
University.
Applications are to be accompanied
by not less than three references,
one of which should be from the
Rector of the parish church.
Conditions of appointment may be
obtained from, and applications to
be forwarded to:
The Headmaster, Pulteney Grammar
School, South Terrace, ADELAIDE,
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
THE SCOTS COLLEGE
Bellevue Hill, Sydney
The Council invites applications for
the position of
ASSISTANT TO THE
PRINCIPAL
as Director of School Studies.
Applications close 30th September,
1961. For full particulars, apply
The Principal.
Canadian $310,925). The
145,732 shares held by Bulolo
Gold in Placer Development
nd were last valued at
Canadian $2,987,500.
Bulolo Gold Dredging Ltd is
registered in British Columbia,
Canada, and owns alluvial gold
areas on the Bulolo and Watut
Rivers, in New Guinea. Share
registers are maintained in
Canada and in Montreal and
Sydney.
The Canadian $5 ords. last
fetched 545. on the Sydney
'Change.
Union Oil
Union Oil Development
Corporation reports that
the Union Oil-Kern-A.O.G.
Cabawin East No. 1 well, at
Tara (Queensland) has reached
a depth of 5990 ft. The well
is drilling ahead in sandstone
and siltstone.
Western Mining Corp. Ltd
TI7ESTERN MINING CoRPORA-
’ ’ tion Ltd plans develop-
ment qf an export trade to
Japan from iron ore deposits
at Tallering. 75 miles inland
north-east of the port of
Geraldton. W.A. A formal
agreement is yet to be nego-
tiated with the Western Aus-
tralian Government but the co.
is confident of its successful
conclusion. The co. will com-
mence operations provided
detailed exploration confirms
the existence of satisfactory
grades and tonnages of ore.
The co. has also been granted
an iron ore prospecting reserve
of 50 square miles near
Morawa (in the Geraldton dis-
trict) and another three pros-
pecting reserves, again for iron
ore, of 50 square miles each,
in the North Yilgarn area.
These reserves are believed to
have very large potential as
far as surface reconnaissance
allows of accurate estimation.
“The Bulletin" Crossword No. 655
Across
I—Bassoon boy who is not among the superior school-
boys. (7)
-‘'—Twitch ol a constable regarding Christian Egyptians. (6)
9 This makes everybody say it's an order to plug the
same letters. (10)
10— Explorer is quite a good sporl. (4)
12—Be a stickybeak about one-lhousand and fifty in the
manner of the prissy. (6)
13 —Entertainer of the Tivoli girls.
They're sweet! (8)
16 — Did a spring petal wrongly. (5)
17 — Babe hidden by a clerical
worker. (4)
18 — Count Germany's capital enemy
of the Luftwaffe. (4)
21— Heaven's is sometimes invoked
by the protesting drink sold by
the nip. (4)
22 — Stonework by Jolson gives some
close associate a ring. (4)
23 Annual without a direction to
cancel anything's legality! (5)
25 The girls in 13-across might band
together to make this afflic-
tion. (8)
26 — Jagged accommodation for the
sleepy boozer who doesn’t want
to leave the pub. (6)
28 —Epitaph who overslept? (3)
30 — 9-across when I must replace a
description of the un-
schooled. (10)
31 — Jolson to shingle footwear. (6)
32 — Superfluous order to teams,
what's more! (7)
Down
1 — Europeans to slacken masts for
banners. (9)
2 Spat, the question being: Do 1
vex fuel relatives? (11)
3 Altogether some baby con-
federate. (8)
4 Soar into paddles. (4)
6 Tea rings in addition. (3)
7 Tetchy signature of any charac-
ter in the 30-across category. (5)
8 — Volcano maelstrom Bolivar
exceeds. (9)
11 —Swell sealer. (3)
14 — What comes after winter
accommodation? A dive pre-
supposes it. (11)
15- Belltower to bivouac on a great
river. (9)
19— Replete /with evolution of figleaf
swallowtails. (4, 5)
20— Buddy swears during confer-
ences. (8)
24 Not an order to a drama critic
to pan an English pfay-
wright. (3)
25 — Private Stevenson misses. (5)
27—Bobby in the branch. (4)
29 —A Japanese put up with haber-
dashery. <3)
Solution to Crossword No. 654


Here's the name
that makes the
1
1
jr
/,
1
K
;
H
*
■
i
i
r
You
because you
more when yo
buy GOODYEA
Every tyre that carries the
name Goodyear makes available
to you the experience and skill
of the world's biggest rubber
company. Look at this
Imperial Nylon, for
instance; this is the safest,
strongest tyre you can buy.
The tough, long-wearing
tread gives positive
traction at all times.
The body is built with
Goodyear's exclusive 3.T
Nylon for greatest resist-
ance to bruise damage,
tyre heat and flex
fatigue. The wider
margin of safety this
tyre gives at high-
speed makes it safest
under any conditions.
See it at your Goodyear
Dealer, Garage or
Service Station.
GOOII/^EAR
n iifon
L279A
