

The Bulletin
Registered in Australia for trans-
mission by post as a newspaper.
December 16, 1961
CHRISTMAS ISSUE


So many
things that
make life
happier
come through
S Sc L steel pipes
• ;
m
.V
Hi
—»
mWk ->W:
m
oor,. o »■»nfyfwfd Wcjfe&ftJ
mm
| iiiiiii
at
■
msm
i ■
mH
■
■
- ••••, -•
.x~***~***~~* m sow v
TT
_L H ROUGH steel pipes of every conceivable
size, flow the oil and raw materials that keep the
continent’s industrial wheels turning; the life
preserving water; gas, steam and the electric
current that provides power, lighting and com-
munications.
Steel pipe is so easy to form and join and has
the inherent strength and stability to take tough
assignments for Jong periods. Costwise, steel pipe
stands alone for low initial cost and low installa-
tion cost.
Before finalising your next project, talk “steel
piping” with Stewarts & Lloyds; the leading
Australian producers of welded and seamless steel
pipes.
STEWARTS and LLOYDS (Distributors) PTY. LIMITED
BRANCHES: All Capital Cities, also Townsville, Rockhampton, Newcastle, Wollongong,
Geelong, Fremantle, Darwin and Alice Springs AGENCIES: Cairns, Mackay, Kalgoorlie
SSG.I .61


TEARING OFF A STRIP
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; Phone: 27 5971.
Vol. 82
No. 4270
year ago we started changing The Bulletin.
ost of the changes seem to be acceptable,
IE xcept to those who wished no change at all.
W eadership has been increasing and
2R. ightly or wrongly we feel we are re-established.
et we are still anxious that anyone who has
riticisms should send them to the editor,
owever, perhaps they need not send them
ight now.
n this issue, since it is a Christmas issue,
ome of our regular features have been
QJ ossed out.
ore space has been devoted to light reading
nd jokes,
o you will not know even our election comment
Ojf ill you reach page 34.
nly editors
re given Christmas greetings
jlj ongitudinally on this page but
aterally
ach an
0 every one of you
I s
Q} entatively reminded that
© f course The Bulletin's readers
JK egularly send annual
übscriptions to The Bulletin to their friends as Christmas
presents. The form is on page 25.




Village Boss
By DONALD HORNE
'T'HE village of Bow Brickhill lies
about 45 miles north-west of
London, and three miles south-east of
Bletchley (made infamous in a dozen
novels as the unlovely junction be-
tween the branch railway lines to
Oxford and Cambridge). It had 500
souls and 300 voters when I became
its political boss. (Or was it 300 souls
and 200 voters?) Half the village
tumbles down a hill so steep that it
was used for reliability trials despite
protests from the parish council. The
rest of it straggles off into the great
plain that leads to the north. From the
viewpoint of a political boss without a
car the village could have been better
arranged. Sometimes in the great
days of the party branch that were
subsequent to this narrative I had to
walk up the hill half a dozen times in
a morning to settle all the details
about a bring-and-buy stall. (There
were not many telephones in the
village, although slightly more tele-
phones than bathrooms, a fact that is
utterly without political significance.)
The edge of the plain that leads to
the north was easier walking, but it
involved a lot of walking through
rather dull country featuring lopped
elms and council houses to discuss
matters with party activists who lived
in the extremities of the parish. All
the best walks in Bow Brickhill were
through the woods that ran along a
spur that dominated the village. But
the only voter who lived in the woods
was a gamekeeper who did not vote.
The Duke of Bedford, to whom the
woods belonged, lived in another
parish and believed in Social Credit.
The woods were not useful politically.
I had become a party boss before
I actually joined the party. It was
during the election that Churchill
won. The village Conservative branch
had collapsed for reasons to do with. I
think, the village cricket club and all
the paraphernalia of election propa-
ganda was passed quickly from hand
to hand (like that game the Women's
Institute played in its Christmas
party) without anyone proving willing
to unwrap it. When it reached me 1
unwrapped it. There were cards to
fill in. leaflets of instructions, posters
to put in windows, forms to return to
headquarters and so on. and it seemed
a pity just to leave it all there on the
chest in the hall without doing any-
thing about it.
T WENT up the hill and across the
plain telling people whom I thought
were staunch Conservatives that we
were going to form a committee and
do something about it. It turned out
that some of them were Labor or
Liberal voters, but —and here is my
lesson for political bosses —they at
once became Conservatives. We all
assembled in the drawing-room one
night with pencils and paper arranged
on card-tables, but. as it turned out.
not quite enough ash-trays, so that a
small farmer, who hadn’t had all that
much to do with committees or
drawing - rooms before, ashed his
cigarettes in his trouser-cuffs. I can't
remember what he did with the butts.
Perhaps he swallowed them.
The shock tactic of a colonial Aus-
tralian creating a mass organisation in
an English village carried the day and
we emerged as a committee with me
as chairman. Further successful blun-
ders on my part in asking other non-
Conservatives to put photographs of
the Conservative candidate in their
front windows swelled the prospective
votes, and by the time we began
filling in filing-cards with voters’ names
and comments about them (an inte-
grating group activity that took some
days, village comments being what
they are) Bow Brickhill looked safe
for the Conservative cause. Doubtfuls
were then listed and a series of confi-
dential discussions (soaae. 1 fear.
imaginary) held between committee
members and doubtfuls in The Wheat
Sheaf and other common grounds
cleared up some puzzles and added
confusion to others. By this time blue
cards coruscated in cottage windows
and blue posters adorned telephone
posts and the bedroom windows of
houses. There was not one red poster
or card to be L seen. Although
theoretically we were outgunned in
leadership with the two best-off mem-
bers of the village (a barrister and a
professor) voting Labor, they lacked
the grass-roots ability to consolidate
votes by getting swinging voters to
mix up flour and water for pasting
posters. To all external appearance
the village was completely Tory.
sitting Labor member had
played for Eton and Surrey and
belonged to the_eounty's intellectual
smart-set. When he gave his election
address to Bow Brickhill in the village
school we asked him questions about
pigs that made him hurry on thought-
fully to the next village. None of the
people we had discarded as Labor
voters in our filing system was in his
audience. A Liberal candidate sud-
denly emerged and read extracts from
the previous week’s “Economist.” By
a fluke I had read that day’s
“Economist” and quoted bits of that
back to him. to the relief of the two
previously Liberal-voting members of
our committee. When our man turned
up—he had begun life much more
humbly than the Labor man —we had
a packed schoolroom to cheer him on
his way to Woughton-On-The-Green.
After that there was the question of
bringing in the vote on election day.
Party activists checked lists otuside
the school where the polling booth was
set up and made a terrible mess of a
simple task. For a couple of hours in
the late afternoon we tried to sort it
out, knocking up non-voters who
turned out to have voted. Finally we
just knocked on almost everybody’s
door to get the lists straight, and as
soon as it was dark car-owning activists
illegally drove aged or distant Con-
servatives up to a farm a few yards
from the school. They had to do the
rest of it on foot. So far as we could
work out we had got in the entire
Conservative vote and had driven only
one Labor voter to the polls by mis-
take. Only half the Labor supporters
had voted. When our man won the
election by 50-something votes we gave
ourselves the credit, joined the Con-
servative party and set up an official
branch.
True Confessions
The politic[?]moirs of THE BULLETIN staff
In the New
By LES TANNER
WE were very sensitive to criticism
from the Communist party in the
New Theatre. Once J. B. Miles came
to see us and sat deaf and unsmiling
right in the middle of the front row
with his ear cupped in his hand and a
stare that seemed to know all about
the unsold “Tribunes” in the bottom
drawer and the undistributed leaflets
in the incinerator. We had a song in
the show called “1 Shimmied My
Way Through the Iron Curtain Right
Into Stalin's Arms.” sung by a rather
luscious brunette. We heard later that
this was regarded in High Circles as
bourgeois decadence. Stalin's arms!
Why not Lenin’s tomb?
Revues were always regarded sus-
piciously. particularly by good Socialist
realists. They objected to the form.
Revue is basically attack. If you want
to praise or approve, satire is the
wrong implement. Introduce a hero
and you have something else. Almost
inevitably your hero becomes a prig
or at best an amiable dill. “But if there
is no hero you can’t present a positive
point of view, can't point to the
Future, you will have no Progressive
Realisation of Conflict, and as we all
know Conflict is the basis of theatre,”
said the Socialist realists.
So we got a Progressive revue,
“Folies Bourgeois.” I forget which
election it was. but it didn’t matter,
the pattern was the same and the main
cast of characters was unchanged.
“Defeat Menzies Now.” “Menzies
Must Go.” “For Peace and Progress
Vote Communist.” 1 did the sets,
co-produced and played in it. (It was
that kind of a revue; most other
experienced people in the theatre had
the sense to stay out of it.) I was cast
as Menzies in the first sketch. Menzies
was a favorite role in N.T. He gets
all the laughs, and by a process that
escaped the watchful eyes of the cul-
tural cadres, actually becomes almost
lovable. Everyone goes into gales of
laughter at the sight of him. 1 must
point out that this role was not exactly
made to measure. I am. to put it
mildly, thin, and in those days I
averaged eight stone six pounds, but
with false belly at the ready, thick
grease paint, eyebrows and a false
long upper lip I was Menzies!
Menzies is a sort of Falstaff in New
Theatre revues —the wicked fat man
who enjoys his villainy, who has only
to appear on stage to win roars of
laughter, who inevitably suffers doom
and dismay only to rise phoenix-like
in the next revue. The actor who
plays him always gets the best notices
in “Tribune” and a minor reputation
as a master of make-up. He is helped
in this by cartoonists. The formula
for Menzies is long, oval face, black
eyebrows and a long upper lip. If
you haven’t got the face, then the eye-
brows and lip will do. and if you
haven’t got the lip a little nose putty
glued to the channel from your nose
will work wonders. (Watch it. though
—it drops off if you try to imitate his
voice. A sort of elegant mumble is
best.) The actor originally cast as
Menzies was tall, skinny and quite
unsuited to the role. I. on the con-
trary, being short and skinny, was
much better suited to the role. If
there were laughs about I. as the pro-
ducer. was going to get them.
For some reason the scene was set
at the time of the First Fleet, and
Menzies was a wicked convict over-
seer trying to push around the heroine
(an early North Shore type), and the
hero was a soldier in what looked like
the Rum Corps. 1 can’t remember
why all this went on because the man
who finally resolved the scene was
Governor Phillip, who was apparently
an 18th-century communist.
I was also Senator McCarthy, who,
if you accept the logic of the previous
characters, was made to measure to be
played as Groucho Marx. I went to
great pains with make-up again, copied
his walk carefully and was a great hit.
The audience loved me. even if one
customer commented that it was the
best imitation of Jerry Colonna he had
ever seen.
Still, it was in an earlier revue,
“Pot of Message.” that we really
scored. The coal strike of 1949 was
in full swing. Chifley had called out
the Army to work the mines, the Funds
Act was in operation, and we all felt
the Revolution was around the corner.
We opened in Septmber and we ran
to packed houses. The words of the
finale, the “United Rhumba.” were: “If
you like our pot of message, just
remember, there's a Federal election
in December.” So Chifley and that
lot had better look out. it went on.
“For the platform of the Liberals is
shaking and the rotten Labor plank
is almost breaking. With a U and an
N and an I-T-Y. Unity! Unity! Ay!
Ay! Ay!”
We had a three-ton truck and we
used to take sketches from the revue
out to various places to bring our
message to the People. I went out
with one group to Bradfield Park, a
Sydney Housing Commission hostel.
Like all ex-service camps. Bradfield
was a collection of huts arranged in
rows with a sort of street between
each row. We parked the truck at the
end of one of these, rigged the micro-
phone. nervously produced our funny
hats and launched into a ragged song
about the Arbitration Court. Tempers
are always a little short in housing
camps, and most of the families in this
one were out of work because of the
coal strike, so our denunciation of
attempts to break the strike and settle
things provoked some of the most con-
centrated audience response I’ve seen.
They started by shouting at us. and
some of them were obscene. We kept
our eyes fixed firmly on the roof tops
and sang on. But when they started
throwing things the driver let in the
clutch and we began to retreat with
gathering speed down between the rows
of houses. The more they threw, the
faster we went, and all the while we
kept up the funny patter, clutching at
our toppers and bowlers and trying not
to let our voices break. We just got
away, and. as someone sadly put it,
“had finally learned what Marx meant
by Lumpen-Proletariat.”


Pete Kelly's Blues
By PETER KELLY
A DMITTEDLY I was fairly tight as
I ran up the worn stone steps at
the entrance of the gloomy Melbourne
Trades Hall. It must have been about
8.15 p.m. From memory it was prob-
ably late spring in 1956.
At the top of the steps, halfway
down the hall, I saw a small, conspira-
torial group who looked apprehen-
sively at me as I approached; at least
until I was recognised as a fellow
Labor-party member. One of them
shushed me and pointed at the sign
hanging outside Room 2 which pro-
claimed in bold blue lettering “Aus-
tralian Labor Party—Victorian Cen-
tral Executive.” This was the period
in Victorian politics when the fore-
runners to the Democratic Labor Party
were still safely housed in the Trades
Hall occupying the Labor party’s tradi-
tional office and claiming that they
were the real Labor party. (They later
vacated the offices.) Across the hall
and up a slight corridor was the new
A.L.P. under the secretarial guidance
of Mr Jack Tripovich. These offices
were inferior, and it rankled with every
true-blue Labor man that we had to
occupy a less important (and less con-
venient) set of offices.
Their plan was to “knock-off” the
sign presumably because they
thought it would be a blow struck for
the Cause. I asked them what they
were waiting for. They said we (it was
we by this time) had no hammers
(nobody mentioned sickles), etc. Being
a bit of a show-off and thankful for
the opportunity to prove that at least
I wasn’t one of them I said I’d fix it.
With superb generalmanship, I
posted two cockatoos—one at the
back of the hall and the other at the
front to keep nit. Two of them bunked
me up and after a few unsteady bends
backwards and forwards it came off.
Now what does a vandal do with a
“trophy” like that? All I remember
thinking was that the hallway was no
place to stay. Whatever plans were
suggested, I was sure about one thing
—I was going to keep the trophy. They
asked me how I was going to get it
home. There didn’t seem to be any
problem involved really; all I had to
do, I explained, was catch a train
to Croydon. Apparently this was too
simple. I’d be seen by “the Groupers”
and bashed up.
Being a bit sick of the whole thing
by now, I agreed to be driven to
Hawthorn station (about four miles
outside the city on the way to Croy-
don) and would join the train there.
Going out in the car I made some
remark about the Hungarian revolu-
tion. No. I had it all wrong, there was
only a minor disturbance there, created
by bourgeois counter-revolutionaries,
and all the news reports and newsreels
were faked. It was a relief to get out at
Hawthorn and catch the train.
'X'HE trophy lay under the bed in the
A back-room for a couple of weeks,
and, of course, was eventually stuck
out in the back shed.
How long passed I can’t remember,
but I eventually hit on a plan for the
appropriate disposal of the “trophy.”
Why shouldn’t the “Australian Labor
Party—Victorian Central Executive”
sign be hung on the gates of Dr
Mannix’s Kew palace, Raheen? The
best thing to do was to arrive there one
night, hang it there, run to the nearest
phone-box and ring up the “fair play”
paper, the “Argus,” and get them to
send a photographer out.
Unfortunately I dallied too long.
Some time in January, 1957. the
“Argus’* was bought out of existence.
The trophy? It was used as part of
a dog-kennel, found its way to the
fowl-house, where the fowls didn't lay
eggs on it, was cleaned up. and it was
somewhere down the back in the long
grass when we moved.
The Rising Tide of Peberdyism
By M. H. ELLIS
A/fY own baptism of fire came when
1 I was only ten years old in the
Central Queensland district of Nor-
manby which boasted all of about
750 voters and in which our man
was named Peberdy. His war cry was
“Vote for Peberdy and a White
Queensland,” a slogan which would
have earned him the attention of Mel-
bourne University students in 1961 as
thoroughly as it earned him “the
treatment” from the squatters and their
friends 60 years or so ago.
Those were the days when every
little boy and gal born into Australia
and possessed of a politically minded
parent was either an active little
Liberal or an active little something
else, his spare moments given over
to good works in the interests of the
party, offensive or defensive.
One polling place was a small
village called Wycarbah. The num-
ber of ardent voters was about 40. Due
preparations had been made, though
there was little thought of opposition,
all those round about being timber
workers, or Dads - and - Daves, or
fossickers. However, as due precau-
tion some unidentified good fairy had
laid out a large cheese, lots of bread
and, quite unconcealed, a couple of
large kegs under a tree, on the branches
of which hung three or four quart pots
which conveyed their own invitation.
Nobody seemed to own the casks, but
there was a flattering reference to
Peberdy just far enough behind them
to be technically unconnected with
them.
My electoral task was to help cut
cheese for the.multitude as it arrived
and hand out a screw of sweets for any
child that might appear to be con-
nected with anybody going to the
booth, which was the sehoolhouse.
Neither the beer, the bread and cheese
or the sweets (or me) seemed to have
any connection with the sehoolhouse.
Our outfit was supposed to look like
an unexplainable effort by Divine
Providence to feed all and sundry who
might be hungry or thirsty. We were
far enough away from the voting to
disavow any connection with it. but
we were strategically located so that
nobody approaching the booth could
fail to see us. And who would vote
even for Peberdy - without
strengthening his muscles and water-
ing his resolution with triple X if the
means were offered?
If it be asked what the foe was
doing about all this, let it be said that
he was the victim of his own capitalist
sloth. He had sent up even bigger
barrels of beer than ours by the early
goods train, only to find that we had
been up at two in the morning and
pinched the only shady tree and the
only strategic position. Furthermore,
he insulted the honest and brawny elec-
tors by providing glasses for them to
drink out of—miserable, thimblelike
things that held only a pint. Our
quart pots had a busy time,
Even the arrival of a large squatter,
complete with Lamington hat with
pugaree and gold-headed cane, and
an eye with a habit of settling itself in
stern admonition on the employees of
his station as they went to exercise
their rights, failed to stem the rising
tide of Peberdyism.
However, if I remember rightly it
failed to rise elsewhere.


some cards that missed the mail


SEASON'S
GREETINGS


JAZZ
AMID THE
VICTORIANA
By BILL HUNTER
RAY PRICE has been on the jazz
scene now for 14 years. He
loves jazz. And the musicians
who make up his Port Jackson
Jazz Band share that love. It’s what
Ray was looking for when he was
casting for a group of musicians to
play at Adams’ Hotel in Sydney; and
the result of his selection is the recent
outburst of public acclaim which has
surrounded the band; and a fame
reaching as far as America and Britain.
The quartet has it made. Their regu-
lar place of employment is Adams’
venerable Tattersall’s Hotel: a verit-
able monument to colonial solidarity
that shares the block with an old
variety theatre, and lies opposite the
mighty Queen Victoria Buildings,
whose triad of stone giants looks down
with cosmic wrath on the crowds of
mortals entering the Tavern Inn—
Adams’ basement—to listen to music
the birth of which was also in the
Victorian era.
When the cathedral bells have
finished tolling for evensong and the
Town Hall clock has rung the little
tune indicating the half-hour after
seven, Ray sits down, somewhat
tiredly, at a microphone and takes up
an old banjo that looks as though it
has seen as much as the hotel itself.
The rest of the band assembles on
stage and, after a cigarette, launches
into a number that will get them into
the right mood and give them a chance
to settle down before things are really
swinging. The audience can find a
table and order a beer: the waiters
can adjust the air-conditioning and
check the set of their immaculate black
attire.
The curious rocking sound of the
banjo catches on; the piano takes up
its bouncing four four; and the lead
horns start to jump. Within an hour
there will be standing room only; the
music will be hot; the crowd wild
with enthusiasm. It is a foregone
conclusion.
Although things have never been
so good, times have been hard, and
the band might never have been heard
of had it not been for the limitless
love for jazz of the leader, Ray Price.
In 1944 a septet known as the Port
Jackson Jazz Band came into exist-
ence after a 17-year-old trumpeter,
Ken Flannery, and some other
musicians got together to play at even-
ings and weekends. It appeared at
the first Australian Jazz Convention
in 1946, where it was well received,
and looked like having the usual short
and happy life of most new jazz
groups.
But in 1947 a determined young
guitar-player, who also played the
banjo, joined the band and changed all
that. He was a student of classical
music and an admirer of the Sydney
Symphony Orchestra, then under the
leadership of Eugene Goosens. This
youngster was Ray Price, and in 1948,
when he had become the band leader,
began the first of his “big” ideas.
He applied to the Registrar of the
Sydney Conservatorium of Music,
where he was a promising student of
bassoon, for permission to hold jazz
concerts in that august institution. The
shocked official was violent in his
refusal, but an undaunted Price went
direct to Goosens, who turned out to
be something of an Australian
Leondard Bernstein as far as jazz went.
In March, 1948, the concert was
held; and one of the biggest audiences
that the Con had ever seen lustily
welcomed Ray’s new band to town. A
series of other concerts followed, and
the PJJB was voted the most popular
band in Sydney. It was an over-
whelming victory.
But, sudden as had been its rise, the
band was due for a sudden fall. Ray
determined to take jazz into the whole
country on a tour that was to encom-
pass the principal N.S.W. towns, and
then perhaps farther. It was a grand
tour that almost closed the book once
and for all on the band’s history.
“We struck apathy, bitter cold and
rain,” Ray recalls. He lost £I4OO
as the result of this venture, and when
he returned, broke, to Sydney, took a
job as a builders’ laborer and as a
furnaceman in order to support him-
self. At the Con he resumed study;
this time on double bass, and in 18
months had passed his A.Mus. and
L.Mus. degrees from the London Col-
lege. Jazz faded from hand and
apparently mind.
Again Ray met the Sydney Sym-
phony Orchestra leader, Goosens, who
was so impressed with the young jazz-
man’s progress in classical fields that
he invited him to join the orchestra as
a member of the double-bass section.
Such publicity attended his double role
of symphony orchestra musician and
jazz-band leader that the A.8.C.,
directors of the orchestra’s affairs, gave
Ray an ultimatum to leave that other
music alone and concentrate on the
serious stuff. After the altercations
that followed Ray’s refusal to comply
with the ban, he spent six months out
of work, selling his bass and other
effects to survive. One rainy morning
a passing motorist gave the depressed
musician a lift into town.
The motorist was the late Maurie
Whitten, who had just bought the
dockyard pub, the Macquarie, at
Woolloomooloo, and was looking for
a band to play there as an incentive
to keep his customers seeking happi-
ness. Within a week Ray had begun
a search for talent to fill the ranks of
his Port Jackson Jazz Band. He
started at the Sydney Jazz Club, where,
to his delight, he heard a raucous-
voiced young piano player mouthing


.-x*
mm.
There’s no
mistaking
White Horse
Scotch
(Its welcome in
everyone's stocking)
Available in three handy sizes: 26-oz. bottles,
“halves” and “quarters.”
Rl4O
an old Jelly Roll Morton song, and
knew that this was the right place to
begin recruitment. In 1955 the pianist,
Dick Hughes, joined the new band.
With Ray up to his old trade, things
began to happen again. His talent for
public relations had spread the story
of jazz on the waterfront even as far
abroad as an article that appeared in
“Time” newsmagazine, and gave an
account of society people rubbing
shoulders with wharfies. An A.B.C.
celebrity artist, the conductor Con-
stantine Silvestri, came down to listen,
and the next day dismayed the digni-
taries of the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra by suggesting that a trip to
the Macquarie might put a bit of
sadly lacking fire back into their
music.
As changes took place within the
quartet. Ray was always on the look-
out for new talent. He was impressed
with the clarinet player in a group of
young devotees known as the River-
side Jazz Band . . . and John Mc-
Carthy was recruited.
The latest member of the band was
at this time living in the small south-
west town of Cootamundra, 200 miles
away, playing with the Cootamundra
Jazz Band; a small touring outfit whose
reputation brought it to the 1958 Jazz
Convention. This was John Costello,
a tall, serious-looking man with a
dazzling technique on trombone.
It was Ray who noticed, above the
technique, that hot sound, that pas-
sionate forcefulness that make’s Cos-
tello’s playing respected in many parts
of the world today.
This quartet; Price. Hughes. Mc-
Carthy and Costello is the now stable
Adams’ group. The future looks rosy.
A smoother, more swinging ensemble
is hard to imagine; the band seems
to have clicked in the same way that
the great bands did before the ‘forties.
There is an unbelievable harmony and
mutual stimulation between the lead
clarinet and trombone; an ecstatic bal-
ance between the banjo and the piano.
The group states the melodic line,
Costello rifling behind the clarinet,
Hughes’ piano swaying under the pres-
sure of his left hand. Behind it all is
the rock-solid beat laid down by the
leader, who sits with his eyes closed,
listening with the utmost concentration
and pleasure. Costello takes a solo: a
scintillating flight with flawless execu-
tion ... a solo of great power and
guts. McCarthy’s clarinet follows,
warm and real as your very heart's
blood. Hughes’ piano, rough but cap-
able of quiet tenderness . . . and if
there is a vocal, his gravel voice will
take a chorus or two of some earthy
song (“I’ve got what it takes, it breaks
my heart to give it away”).
Then there is a return to the
ensemble, with the horns driving each
other to a peak of excitement . . .
always with that tucka-tucka-tuck of
the banjo bouncing away and the beat
of the piano bass line. It can’t go on;
you can’t be hearing what you think
you are. This is Sydney, Australia.
The jazzmen are only your own
countrymen. They stop, abruptly.
There is a roar. It is finished. With
perfect precision they have ended it.
1 asked the musicians about this
quality of excitement that they have,
and how it happens. Dick Hughes
spoke for all of them by answering
joyfully, “I’m if I know.” Some
sort of magic, some poetic quality
suddenly occurs and everything and
everybody is clear off the ground. It
is what jazz is; it is the reason for
them playing it. And luckily it defies
dsecription, and has done so since it
began.


LETTERS TO
THE
EDITOR
. . . those who would poison
God’s pure water (Bulletin,
Oct. 17) with foul fluoride . . .
Sir,
It is impossible for a decent person to avoid
having his eyes assailed by the disgusting sight of
near-naked figures flaunting their depravity
(Bulletin, Nov. 31) on our golden beaches . . .
* • • those fiends (Bulletin, Feb. 29) who, in the name
of research, would tear asunder the flesh of these
innocent canine creatures.
Yours, Anti-Vivisectionist
... I don’t dig your correspondent ‘Old Timer
(Bulletin, Oct. 7) when he says 'rock r °M
is for morons! I mean like I think this cads
flipped and is strictly from Squaresville . . .
. . . increase in the socialistic medical benefits.
Is the only reward for years of thrift, diligence,
and enterprise to be the privilege of supporting
a confounded worker/ (Bulletin, Sept. 31)
welfare state?
Signed, Ex-Liberal
Sir,
As an ex-student of the University of Tasmania, once a
supporter but now an opponent of Professor Orr (Observer,
58-59, Bulletin, 60-61), recently converted to the Catholic
faith and now residing in the Northern Territory, I look
forward each week to my copy of The New Bulletin . . .


S \ \
\\v
- 'X V
m
v/m
o
mm
In a “fix" about gifts for diffi-
cult friends? Look for last-
minute gifts at your friendly
family chemist. Why not a new
hypodermic for your favorite
addict? Or some Christmas
“snow”?
Play the gracious host and serve
Charlie’s cut - price Claret.
Bottled in Bondi. Aged in the
bath in attractive koala-bear
or kangaroo - shaped plastic
flagons. As advertised in the
“New Yorker.” ss. 6d. a gallon,
or three Coca Cola bottletops.
<«
4
Every little girl loves a doll;
big boys like them, too. The
cost? Just what you are pre-
pared to pay. Wrap first, in furs
and jewels, and pay later.
m
n
The “Noisome” noiseless elec-
tric guitar. Wired for 50.000
volts. Can be obtained from
any good electrician or music-
shop. Comes complete with
wiring manual and list of the
top 60 pops.


V*/
0
*S(>
o'
17
A
er
V
Sr'
jgf 5
SO*
'-XT'
v/
O'
Ming ware. Traditional pattern. In all colors except red.
t
- -#
Fill your long-felt want as long as you want
with this adjustable filler.
A shoe-string for the smart operator.
£
%
For the indoor gardener—a Himalayan
deodar with abominable snowman nesting
in the upper branches. Will grow to 100 ft.
May need repotting after 25 years or so.
Can be obtained from almost any private
garden in good-class suburb. Just cruise
around after dark, but take a spade with
you; householders rarely provide tools.
i


THE DAILY MIRROR BULLETIN
The Bulletin
After a year of its new ownership , it might be worth reflecting about what
might have happened to “ The Bulletin ' if other firms had taken it over
THE INDEPENDENT PAPER
ALL THE
NEWS THAT
MATTERS
Sydney, Saturday, December 16, 1961.
My Fantastic Life
SOMETIMES THEY LOVE ME,
SOMETIMES THEY HATE ME"
... read Governor Bligh’s own
slory of his Jahulous lije,
starting today.
# Bounty survivor talks: “Bligh
drank salt water, flogged ham.”
P 2, 3.
• Judge Advocate Atkins refuses to
talk about Security questioning of
Bligh. P 4, 5,6, 7, 8.
# Convicts claim Government has
restricted their liberty. PIO, 11.
• On-the-spot report of search for
Blue Mountains. Pl 3.
THE COMMUNIST REVIEW BULLETIN
The
Bulletin
A FTER reading the full text of Mr Khrushchev's denun-
ciation of Governor Bligh. given at the XXIII Party
Congress, it is now clear that serious errors in analysis
have been made by both Right-wing deviationist oppor-
tunists and Left-wing dogmatic sectarians in estimating
the class role of the late Mr John Macarthur.
The body of the lackey of the camp of imperialism,
Bligh. cannot be reburied because, under the police-state
conditions of the present day. it is not in the hands of the
people in the camp of Socialism. But all copies of “Rum
Rebellion” in the possession of party bookshops have been
liquidated by volunteer workers from The Eureka Youth
League (which, following Mr Khrushchev’s denunciation
of the Eureka Stockade, is soon to be renamed The Anzac
Youth League).
Although the sheer Albanian adventurism of the Left
and the Titoist Social chauvinism of the Right were thrown
into the scale of the running dogs of war, Mr Khrushchev's
scientific Marxist-Leninist study of the works of Marx and
Lenin has convinced progressive forces throughout the
world working-class movement that —Now where was I?
Oh. yes —has convinced the work worlding-class movement
that, although Marx and Lenin did not specifically state
that the late Mr John Macarthur was not a believer in
wool industry in one country, they did not specifically not
state it. This paradox that is not a paradox is a paradox.


YOU CAN SAY GOODBYE TO GOVERNOR BLIGH
Anyone who expects Governor Bligh to front
for his trial has another think coming.
It’s pounds to peanuts that John Macarthur
and his flunkeys will do everything to
keep Bligh under lock and key until they can
give him the old heave-ho. It’s hack to
the Old Dart for Bligh and he’ll he lucky
if he gets there.
I know a lot about this case. A triple stan-
dard of morality is operating in this .
country: what goes for Macarthur, who is
engaged in the sheep racket, or for the
rum-swilling officers of the hew South Wales
Corps, does not go for Bligh. The real,
story of this has not yet appeared: it
reminds me of my Calvary a few years ago.
Macarthur was just as culpable as I was,
hut when I said this it made no dif-
ference: the court yawned and the gates
of the Bastille yawned for me. We’re a
weird mob all right.
It is useless looking for the real story, in
the newspaper barons’ rags'. You won’t
TOP SECRET
THINGS I HEAR BULLETIN
the bulletin
COMPILED FOR THE CONFIDENTIAL
INFORMATION OF SUBSCRIBERS
find there that Macarthur gets around in
a fancydress outfit which is a century
out of date. And you won’t find the
true facts on Bligh Because it would Blow
the lid off the whole set-up. Bligh,
it turns out, is a woman, and no Better
than she should Be. Why do you think they
hushed up the details of that long voyage in
the rowhoat after the wreck of the
Bounty? Bligh and 17 men! And where
was Bligh discovered at Government House
♦under♦ the Bed'! I know Because 1 . . .
The Bulletin
FORECAST*
£° nt ' num 9 ,ne * Watch
out for fallout. Temp. 49.
Melbourne, Saturday, December 16, 1961.
Bligh Supporters
Must Face the Realities
HTHE action of Macarthur and his
supporters in displacing Governor
Bligh is understandable, even though
some may say that they were unneces-
sarily precipitate about it. The argu-
ment of force majeure is not convinc-
ing in itself, but Governor Bligh’s
actions had surely cast doubts upon
his right to continue in office.
It should be borne in mind, how-
ever. that if the Government was
ineffective the responsibility is wholly
and solely ours.
For this reason it is imperative that
Governor Bligh and John Macarthur
get together for some hard negotiating.
As the young commentator Walter
Lippmann has pointed out. this is not
to betray Bligh’s cause. We have
always supported Bligh. we still sup-
port Bligh and we will continue to do
so. But if these negotiations are to be
successful Bligh's supporters must stop
talking as if any negotiation with
Macarthur is a betrayal. In fact, it
merely recognises a state of affairs and
a power relationship which it would
be silly to ignore.
Bligh obviously has no viable
future —those who did not witness the
events of January 26 do not realise
this. What we must press for now is
for lengthy and exhausting negotia-
tion which will confirm this. Those
supporters of Governor Bligh who
talk of surrender and betrayal when-
ever negotiations are mentioned should
be thankful for small mercies—•
negotiation is a way of giving up the
battle without admitting it. There is
no other way out of the wood.




THE BOTTOMDF THE WELL
A Short Story
by AMY WITTING
If she told lies without knowing , she thought the /ault might be in her voice: ms a lying sort of voice; though she to id the truth it sank to a guilty whisker
ISABEL CALLAGHAN could honestly swear that once,
when she was quite small, she saw a fireball. Coming
from school she was caught in a thrashing rainstorm,
and when she reached the house she found it locked
and empty, so she was standing in the yard ankle-deep in
water when the sky cracked and this pink ball came streak-
ing past, and then the water she was standing in turned
rosy red. She could swear to that, although fireball became
another word for lie. and the rosy water was dammed up
forever behind a wall of derisive laughter. In the days
before she conquered enthusiasm she would sometimes
come running in crying. “Guess what I saw!” and her
mother would say, “A fireball?” sliding a glance of sophisti-
cated amusement towards any other occupant of the room,
for it was a well-known joke.
1° another mood. Mrs Callaghan would say shortly,
“Ihought you saw,” and sometimes she would hear Isabel
out, and then begin to question her. “Where did this
happen? When? What happened then? Now I thought
you said . .” ending always, “You don’t know, do you?
You don't know whether you’re telling the truth or not ”
with a sigh of resignation.
It was well known that Isabel was a liar. When asked,
“Did you spend your mission money on chocolate. Isabel?”
she would say no, though she had, and Mrs Callaghan
would send a knowing contemptuous glance towards her
elder daughter Margaret, who had brought home the infor-
mation. while Margaret looked back with her mouth droop-
ing and her eyes full of misery, and then turn on Isabel the
same look, a real black-out curtain of sorrow. Isabel did
not expect to be believed, but she felt that a lie was the
only contribution she could make to the respectability of
the occasion. She lived comfortably herself with her
cowardice, her dishonesty and her greed, but others had to
be protected from the shock of them.
Meanwhile, fireballs existed and were seen even by
liars, and Isabel did not begin to worry seriously about
truth and falsehood until the day she forgot her composition
book and Sister Ignatius said she was not surprised. Look-
ing at Isabel and yet looking beyond her, her face pale and
her eyes dull, she said, frowning, “You forget a lot of things,
Isabel Callaghan, Forget your school-money, too, every
second week.”
Isabel hadn’t taken account of the number of times
she forgot her school money, but the accusation did not
surprise her, for at home they had a wild beast of poverty
which broke loose now and then and filled the air with
screaming.
That afternoon she told her mother what Sister
Ignatius had said. Mrs Callaghan stared, and made her say
it again. Then she turned her head away and uttered a dry.
forced whimper, like a small child determined to cry, a
terrible sound that carried conviction in spite of its obvious
affectation. She stopped that almost at once and began to
ask questions. “Where were you? Who else was there?
What was her voice like?”
Until then Isabel had been sincerely pleased with the
effect she was making, but she remembered suddenly the
usual end of such interrogations, and she realised that to
tell the truth was not easy. She concentrated on the task
of recalling the nun's voice to her mind and she tried very
carefully to describe it exactly.
“It was soft and tired and angry. I think everyone
could hear it.”
what’s the use of asking you?” her mother said.
“Half the time you don't know what you're talking
about.” 5
JT was a strange thing that Isabel had heard that said
so often and had taken no real notice of it before; this
time she had made such an earnest effort to reach the
truth, and in vain, that she felt sure all at once that the
incident had not happened at all. She accepted herself as
a hopeless born liar, and she wanted to cry out against
being believed this time. It was too late to withdraw the
story now, and what would happen if her mother and
Sister Ignatius compared notes? How could she ever prove
that it had happened? She kept on racking her brains for
some certainty. When she closed her eyes she could see the
nun. as tall as a tower, leaning forward and staring with
anger, but that didn’t help.
The difficulty was that Isabel had a private world
which closed around her when she went to bed at night;
it was a world full of adventure, plot and counter-plot,
heroism, nobility and loyalty unto death; the climate was
splendid and the people were utterly reliable, and the two
main characters, a gipsy boy and the son of a duke who
had run away from a tall and gloomy castle in order to
join the gipsies, were clearer in Isabel’s mind than any real
people she met. She had never confused them with living
people, but now that the moment of doubt had come she
could take no comfort from being able to see Sister
Ignatius in her mind, for she looked no more real than
Robert and Angelo, who were mere figments of the
imagination.
In bed that night Isabel examined the phrase of “a
born liar.” “A born liar, that Isabel!” “That child is
incapable of telling the truth.” If indeed she told lies
without knowing it, she thought the fault might be in her
voice; it was a lying sort of voice, and even when she
was telling the truth it sank to a guilty whisper or rose
to a shriek of hysterical denial which everyone took as
evidence of guilt. If this was so, she realised that the
incident had never happened at all and the story was born
of her voice and her imagination. But suppose truth was
a handful of sand that trickled through her fingers, suppose
something of the sort had happened and she had had the
truth of it for a moment, but hadn’t been able to carry it
home? That thought brought a tormenting little hope that
she might somehow get it back: could she repeat the exact
words? could she swear the nun had said “every second
week,” or was it perhaps “more than half the time”? And
if she knew all the words, could she put them in the right
order? She could, of course, go on like this for ever and
You forget a lot of things, Isabel Callaghan.
reach no certainty, but at least this useless and fatiguing
work kept her mind off the terrible prospect of going back
to school next day. Her mother would go up, that was
certain, she would meet Sister Ignatius and the unthinkable
truth would be known.
After all, Isabel wasn’t sent to school at all the next
day or the next, and after that she was sent to a convent
in the next suburb. To reach it she had to climb through
a fence and cross the railway tracks, a slight thing com-
pared with the dangers Robert and Angelo faced every
day, but she hated it and slunk across constantly bewaring
of trains. However, the school was a safe place, and after
a while she began to find it satisfactory that all the dangers
of the day should be concentrated in one familiar situation
and overcome at once. After school she had time to walk
the long way round, and every morning she used to scramble
up the bank on the other side of the tracks with a feeling
of relief that courage would not be required again that day.
{ANE Sunday after Mass the parish priest came up to
Mrs Callaghan smiling and took her aside for a private
talk. She walked home silent and blushing with satisfied
pride, and next day she sent Isabel back to the local con-
vent. Isabel was not reluctant to go, for by this time she
had begun to rely on the scanty cover that time provides;
she even looked forward to seeing Sister Ignatius, for she
worried as much as ever about being a born liar, and she
hoped to see some clue to the truth in the nun’s face.
Sister Ignatius didn’t seem to notice her at all. so that
hope came to nothing. She went on worrying about her
inability to know truth from falsehood (from time to time),
until one day she set out with her mother and her sister,
all three dressed in their best for a visit to a relative, and
on the way Margaret said, “I wonder whatever became of
my gold chain bracelet?” She said this rather carelessly,
in a tone of grown-up politeness; obviously the question
had been on her mind for some time and she had not
known how to ask it.
“Why, don’t you remember?” said her mother in a
calm, faraway voice. “Isabel put it on and went out for
a walk and lost it. Wasn’t it a shame?”
Margaret walked on in silence, staring in bewilder-
ment at the ground. Isabel was about to cry out in indigna-
tion, “I didn’t!” but she looked up at her mother and a
memory returned to her that silenced her; her aunt was
saying to her mother, “What’s become of your diamond,
May?” and her mother with a modest, worldly look answer-
ing, “Ssh! My solicitor,” and following the words with a
strange, shamefaced smile. Whoever this solicitor was,
Isabel was sure he had the bracelet, too. She pictured her-
self walking along this street with her arm dangling and
the bracelet, much too big for her, slipping over her wrist
and falling without noise; she saw this and didn’t believe
it for a moment, for this moment was exactly like the
dreams of sleep, in which extraordinary things happen and
no one shows any fear or anger; one can’t confuse those
dreams with reality.
She didn’t protest her innocence, for she wanted to
keep her conviction of the truth to herself. It was a moment
of glorious relief; she knew Sister Ignatius would never
haunt her again, and she knew she had seen a fireball, too.
She could never be mistaken about that.


LETTERS TO READERS
OLD DEAL FOR NEW WORLD
Dear Mr Calwell,
Might we express our surprise that
you saw fit to send in the series of
articles on defence policy for Aus-
tralia.
Quite apart from any criticism of
the presentation, we felt that the
articles were completely incongruous
in their setting in that they seemed to
stop rather abruptly in 1927. We
would like a few more up-to-date
references for the benefit of younger
readers.
YOU’VE NEVER HAD IT
SO GOOD
Dear Mr Menzies,
Your Red Page review of the
Annual Address of the Chairman of
Directors of the Bulletin Newspaper
Company read too much like a Prime
Minister's policy speech.
We are mildly astonished that you
should accuse our chairman of com-
placency.
A REGULAR DISH
Sir,
May 1 say how much we in our little
dingy corners look forward to the
weekly arrival of your tonic letters. My
wife and children also find plenty to
read in them, especially since you have
added to the number of pages.
FIT FOR A KING
Dear Viscount Muggeridge,
Thank you for article urging the
establishment of an Australian
monarchy and your kind offer to be
monarch.
FEATURISM
Dear Robin Boyd,
You argue your case with a good
deal of force and illustrate it with
telling examples from many fields, but,
all the same, we have decided not to
abolish our feature articles.
EXPANDED MEDIA
Dear Mr W. C. Wentworth,
All members of our staff thank you
for the copies of your latest book on
“Our Friends in the Kremlin” 'which
you sent by telegram last week.
A CANCELLATION
Sir,
We have received your letter stating
that you are cancelling your subscrip-
tion to “The Sydney Morning Herald”
because it is now a “Labor Rags.”
A SELL-OUT
Dear Mr Bolte,
All Australia will rejoice this
January when the news is broken that
you have at long last managed to sell
Victoria.
WORLD PROMOTION
Dear Mr Monk,
We were extremely pleased to learn
of your appointment as Director of
World Travel. What we find most
pleasing about your new appointment
is that you will be required to move
permanently to Switzerland. Doubt-
less this will please yourself and your
family, as you will now be able to
spend more of your time in Australia.
A SECRET REVEALED
Dear Sir Thomas Playford,
Why didn’t you mention you were
a member of the Labor party years
ago? As a Christmas present we are
sending you a year’s subscription to
your favorite paper, the Adelaide
“News.”
CONSTANT CRITIC
Dear Mr Sharkey,
We have received your undated
letter with your criticisms of “The
Bulletin” (“Bulletin,” January,
February, March, April, May, June,
July. August, September, October,
November, December, 1961).
We have decided to cancel your
subscription.
DOING GOOD
Dear Mr E. L. Wheelwright,
We will be pleased to sign your
petition protesting against the increas-
ing imperialism of the communist
Powers.
NO TALKIES
Dear Film Fan,
We do not believe that there are
any such things as moving pictures
which can talk.
TOO LONG
Dear Madam.
We have been reading your weekly
letter to us for the least 80 years and
it is far too long for publication.
FIRST THINGS FIRST
Dear Sir,
Re your complaint about over-
payment of your contributions, we
feel that in these times we all must
sacrifice principle for expediency.
ANSWERS TO
EDITORS
G.A.: Get a new cliche cabinet.
Do you think your prose
would be accepted anywhere other than
in editorials?... .A.A.: Long-winded.
. ...5.8.: Work your indignation out
on your family, not on me....D.M.:
I’ll get you on an overacting rap.
....C.C.: Have a look at the world
around you... .L.E.: Take a refresher
course... .W.M.: Falls f1at....J.J.:
I’ve given it to a decoding expert.
S.M.H.: Send it to a public relations
outfit... .E.F.C.: Your pen is as rusty
as a sword... .H.V.: Sing it....P.5.:
Distinct promise, keep abreast of the
latest developments and clarify your
prose and you will find yourself
accepted in the letters column.
....N.McJ.: Bully to you S.T.:
Terrible —ever thought of becoming a
journalist?




DECEMBER 25, 1788
"Every gentleman sincerely wishes to be recalled"
By M. H. ELLIS
They had been in the Antipodes 11 months, the miserable
band of guards and guarded, when the first Australian
Christmas came round in 1788. For long after they
had arrived in the little rock-bound and tree-hung
cove in the southern side of Port Jackson, the ships had been
there to keep them company, a fleet of eleven sail. But in
May they had begun to sail away. Their sailors, coming
ashore to break the monotony of ceaseless labor in the heat
or cold or rain and to feed the morale of men with a little
rum and the girls with shirts and calico in return for favors,
had ceased to be a ribald feature of the camp. The last vessels
to go, the Golden Grove and Fishburn, had sailed away on
November 19. The boats had gone and with them also the
smell of the seemingly endless stores that had been brought
ashore.
Now Sydney Cove was empty, save for the “Indians”
drifting about in their charred log canoes, waving their fizz-
gigs as they crouched over the little fires which they burned
in their boats to keep off the mosquitoes. Even the Sirius
was away, riding round the world among the icebergs of
Antarctica to bring them succour from Cape Town.
It was all very depressing and hopeless. The marines
sweltered in stock and gaiter and tail-coat and bandoleer,
though soon they were to be more uniform in garb with
convicts who were very nearly naked and shoeless. Down
by the head of Sydney Cove, the Union Flag fluttered over
two small guns which did not overawe anybody. Up on the
hillside where Bridge and Phillip Streets cross today they
were building a large brick house for the Governor, one
which presently astonished the Governor’s sable and captive
guest, Arabanoo, the first native Australian to taste the
delights of a civilised life, as he saw somebody in it gazing
out of a second storey window as if he were in a tree.
Civilisation, if such it could be called, had penetrated as
far inland as Brickfield Hill. One mile from the site of
Anthony Horderns' of 1961 to the Cove, men and women
could walk in relative safety, though with little chance to
view the scenery since most of them who went that way were
pushing heavy brick carts or keeping one eye cocked to the
light so as not to miss any fun and drama that might be going
on at the new gallows. There were no really cleared streets or
spaces as yet, save in the Government House Square—later
known as Macquarie Place —and the parade ground behind
the Lieutenant-Governor’s house on Church Hill.
The “streets' wound round the trees like carpet snakes.
The houses in them were bleak huts of wattle and of a daub
which was cracked by the sun or melted by the rain. They
had begun to pile a little rough-hewn stone into walls, using
no mortar. But otherwise, the capital of the Territory of
New South Wales, a spread as large as half of Europe, was
as impermanent as a blacks’ camp in the Northern Territory.
They had no plough ; no animal traction. There were
scarcely any domestic animals, for the cattle had walked off
mysteriously the previous winter. The sheep had a curious
habit of being struck by lightning, but were usually not so.
badly injured by reported levin-stroke that they could not
be eaten by members of a population that had not tasted
fresh meat, outside kangaroo and bow-wow pie made out of
careless dingoes, for eighteen months.
What little live-stock remained was immured behind
guards who were everywhere—Governor’s Guard, Comman-
dant s Guard, wharf guards, store guards, sentinels who
walked in the night and went “Halt!” at the creeper-home
after tattoo; guards who gave each other passwords like
“Faith-Honor" and then crept under the tarpaulin and got
away with Government goods, wherefor they were sometimes
hanged.
Outside the scene covered by the mile-square patch of
rude clearing in which those inhabitants who had no wattle-
and-daub huts pigged it, mainly among the Rocks of Dawes
Point heights, all was rolling, grey bush, impinging on every
landward side, its hues varied only by the startling blue of
the mountain barrier to the west which nobody yet had
attempted seriously to penetrate, and which still was clearly
visible in the clear air from the town heights.
"VS/hen the Sirius sailed on October 2, there had been only six
months’ flour left and it had been eked out only by a
sad reduction of the ration, so there would be no plum
pudding here, even if somebody could find some plums
and such. Major Ross, the Lieutenant-Governor, described
the sentiment that was common to nearly everbody but the
cold, unyielding Governor in a communication to Under-
secretary Nepean at home:
i have nothing to communicate to you that can give you either
pleasure or satisfaction, for, unless I attempted to give you a descrip-
tion of the country, and of the hardships, mortifications, and I had
almost said cruelties, we are obliged to submit to, I have no subject
worth taking up your time with ... I do not scruple to pronounce
that in the whole world there is not a worse country than what we have
seen of this. All that is contiguous to us is so very barren and
forbidding that it may with truth be said here nature is reversed;
and if not so, she is nearly worn out, for almost all the seed we have
put into the ground has rotted, and I have no doubt but will, like the
wood of this vile country when burned or rotten, turn to sand . . .
not one bit of timber have we yet found that is fit for any other purpose
than to make a pot boil.
For a time, indeed, it seemed that this wouldn't matter.
The intelligence from the wild frontier out by Horderns’
on Brickfield Hill exactly a week before Christmas Day was
decidedly ominous and must have suggested to the lean in-
habitants that if any fresh meat were roasted for Yuletide,
it would be they. A panting messenger arrived in town on
the morning of Thursday, December 18, with the news that
out there beyond the future Town Hall and Cathedral sites
the savage hordes were gathering—one must have been able
to smell them in Macquarie Place if a southerly were blowing.
The harbinger was in such a state of terror that he placed
the size of the aggressive native army at 2000. But a second
messenger, a bit slower, whittled the estimate to 400. And
when an officer went out with a detachment prepared for
war, his calm count reduced the invading hosts to fifty timid
sightseers. These, when the convicts working in the brickfields
had pointed their spades and guns at them, had taken to the
scrub like escaping goannas.
Even in such distressing circumstances and surroundings,
however, there were a few citizens who had been looking
forward to, and laying in a little store for, Christmas, some
of whom were not destined to enjoy it much, or at all.
Mr James Davis, a jovial tar of the Supply, a naval tender,
perhaps was not by Christmas Day fit to take nourishment
easily at Noel. Late in November he had been tried for
treating the carpenter of the Supply “disrespectfully” and
when Christmas came he was still taking his issue of 400
lashes on the time-payment system, 50 every Saturday.


{iYs/g HjTSjf
PROOF
100% Australian-
made from Aus-
tralian Material
LYSAGHT’S
ESTABLISHED 1884
WIRE NETTING • FENCING WIRE
WIRE NAILS
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK for Our MARKER
in every Roll of Netting
? ;>sr M
r h
&$&& I &•£ ' f'J ''}' -V;;:: '?s $& 'w?, jT'lpS &3§| :
'v :;
PKpp ’ is:?S# i w* "
.
.■glfV* ••:" -^^?^«^i^_^_j2-!-li
• BARBED WIRE
ZINC OXIDE
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
LYSAGHT BROS. & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Reg’d Office and Works, Blackwall Pt. Road,
Five Dock
SPECIFY " LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
Mr Charles Wilson did not enjoy it either. He was dead,
having been tempted by the high price of rations to starve
himself to death in order to save some to sell. And Mr James
Daley, a “notorious thief and imposter,” was also oblivious
to the progress of the celebrations and what indigestion they
brought with them.
Mr Daley was justly execrated as the first would-be
discoverer of gold in Australia, he having produced as proof
a “composition resembling ore mixed with earth.” He had
started a gold-rush just 53 years before Hargreaves, completely
deceiving the honest sailors of the Golden Grove and Fishburn
who were exceedingly wroth when they discovered that his
gold was the pulverised remains of an old brass buckle. A
Court had sadly decreed that Mr Daley receive the first reward
for a mineral discovery in this continent, to wit, one hundred
lashes and that in future he should go about garbed as a
distinguished citizen in a canvas suit decorated with a large
red “R,” meaning “rogue,” sewn over his navel.
This, alas, does not seem to have curbed Mr Daley’s
exuberance. No doubt, with the festive season in view, he
had formed a habit of loitering round huts while the owners
were at work and was eventually discovered removing from
one of them everything but the kitchen sink —a utensil utterly
unknown at that time in sunny New South Wales.
Asa result, about three weeks before Christmas, he made a
theatrical appearance on the gallows, confessed his sins,
but did not fail to do a good deed before he left his mortal coil
by pointing out in the crowd two ladies who had acted as
his receivers of stolen property; whereupon the law moved in
and completely ruined the celebrations of one of them.
She was shorn of woman’s crown of glory. She was
called out of the serried ranks of the mustered convicts looking
as if she had been in the hands of the French Resistance
movement. She was duly decorated with a canvas dress
labelled in letters even larger than those which had adorned
the departed Mr Daley, “R.5.G.,” for “receiver of stolen
goods.” She was forbidden ever to appear in any other garb
so that she might serve as a living signpost to guide her
companions off the way of the transgressor.
A mordant chronicler has recorded that “this was done
(to her) that shame might operate, at least with the female
part of the prisoners, to the prevention of crimes ; but that
a great number of both sexes had been too long acquainted
with each other in scenes of disgrace, for this kind of punish-
ment to work much reformation among them.”
Thus Sydney Cove drifted on through a close, hot begin-
ning through a fine mid-December towards December 25,
which seems to have been approached through a Christmas
Eve characteristic of the place and time. Two soldiers found
themselves in some strife, not because they spent the night
of Christmas Eve with two lady loves, but because they pre-
sented them with their shirts as love-tokens. And an enter-
prising fellow named Mike Dennison, finding himself likely
to be dinnerless next day, when others feasted, retrieved the
position by stealing a pound of flour from Mrs Hannah
Pugh.
It is to be hoped he enjoyed his Christmas Day better
than his Boxing Day when the Judge Advocate and the
Surveyor-General, no doubt both suffering from hangover and
indigestion, distinguished him amid the after-Christmas drunks
and absentees from work with the highest award of the day-
-200 lashes, of some of which he was cheated.
TX7HEN it came the colony took its Christmas very quietly.
’ * Nought is said in history of bonfires or Christmas-cards
which had not yet come into fashion. The officers, whom the
Governor entertained with some of his store of sweets and
good wine and in a passable imitation of a genteel English
dining-room, had to pay for their pleasures by first listening
to a sermon by the Reverend Mr Johnson, fresh from a
baptism and a wedding and no doubt in powerful voice.
To listen to Mr Johnson was more than the price most
people would have voluntarily paid for plum duff.
His sermons were long and Methody comminations. He
served them without hymns. He was the distributor of good
books, having brought out with him 200 copies of “Exercises
Against Lying,” 50 of Woodward's “Caution to Swearers,”
100 “Dissuasions from Stealing” and 100 “Exhortations to
Chastity.” He saw no future for the human race, outside
Mr William Wilberforce and the members of the Eclectic
Society, that did not smell of burning brimstone. And he
seemed to feel that the sulphuric smell would hang most
strongly and permanently round military and Civil officers of
Botany Bay.
All in all, Sydney’s Christmas Day, 1788, was “observed
with proper ceremony,” rather than celebrated as a festival, a
fact not so strange in pre-Dickensian times ; though there was
more brightness about it all in Norfolk Island, where Lieutenant
Philip Gidley King, the youthful commandant, about to
become the male parent of the island's first-born, the illegiti-
mate Norfolk King, struck a more festive note:
The 25th being Christmas Day, it was observed as a holy day. The
Colors were hoisted at sunrise: 1 performed divine service; the officers
dined with me, and I gave each of the convicts half a pint of rum, and
double allowance of beef, to celebrate the festival: the evening con-
cluded with bonfires, which consisted of large piles of wood that had
been previously collected for the occasion.
This is the first detailed account of an Australasian Christ-
mas festivity ashore. But it was a fat land compared with the
wretched mainland, where the sorry exiles “had long turned
their eyes with impatience towards the sea”; where what even
officers could grow with the help of two men “could barely
supply our tables, His Excellency’s not excepted”; where the
“miserable state of the natives and the scarcity of animals”
were esteemed “convincing proofs of the badness of the coun-
try”; and where “every gentleman here, two or three excepted
. sincerely wishes that the expedition may be recalled.”


WAITING
FOR
PROD
Sy DONALD HORNE
The attached, correspondence has been recovered
from the waste-paper basket of Messrs
Smithson, O’Flaherty, Jones, Jones, Rosen-
cratz &' Co. Pty Ltd, Advertising Agency.
Smithson, O’Flaherty, Jones, Jones,
Rosencratz & Co. Pty Ltd.
ADVERTISING AGENCY.
CONFERENCE REPORT No. 1
CLIENT: Product and Co. Ltd.
PREPENT Client: Mr Chas. Product, Mr A. Co,
Mr A. Manager, Mr B. Man-
ager, Mr C. Manager.
Agency: Mr S. Smithson, Mr O.
O’Flaherty, Mr J. Jones, Mr
J. Jones, Mr R. Rosencratz,
Mr A. Count, Mr M. Edia.
1. PRODUCT
it was explained by Mr Charles Product that it
was about time he had a new product. This pro-
ject was viewed favorably by the meeting.
2. NAME OF PRODUCT
Name of the product was not available to
the agency at present because it had not been
thought of. It is anticipated that a decision will
be made by the next meeting. Mrs Product and
Mrs Co were to be consulted re names.
3. TYPE OF PRODUCT
Type of product has not yet been decided. It is
anticipated that type of product will be deter-
mined after name is chosen, following a new
trend in client’s thinking.
4. PRICE
After discussion between Mr Charles Product
and Mr Co it was decided that the price of the
product would be 1/-. Mr Co recorded the
opinion that 10/6 was a better price. At this
stage Mr Co and Mr C. Manager left the meeting.
5. MEDIA
A media plan in which campaign for the product
would sponsor the favorite TV shows of Mrs
Product and Mrs Co was approved in principle.
After discussion it was decided that certain im-
provements could be made in these shows. The
views of Mrs Product and Mrs Co would be
sought.
6. BUDGET
The budget was not viewed favorably by client.
The media plan is to be re-costed, with a view to
a possible elimination of Mrs Co’s favorite TV
shows.
7. ANNOUNCEMENT TO TRADE
It was decided visual aids would not be necessary
at the function to be held at the Dorchester-
Savoy. Invitations could not be issued to the
trade until the type of product was deter-
mined.
Distribution: CP, AC, AM, BM, CM, SS, 00, JJ, JJ,
RR, AC, ME, XX, YY, ZZ, Media,
Accounts, Television, Production.
Smithson, O’ Flaherty, Jones, Jones,
Rosencratz & Co. Pty Ltd.
ADVERTISING AGENCY.
CONFERENCE REPORT No. 2
CLIENT: Product and Co. Ltd.
PRESENT Client: Mr Chas. Product, Mr A. Co,
Mr A. Manager, Mr B. Man-
ager, Mr C. Manager.
Agency: Mr S. Smithson, Mr O.
O'Flaherty, Mr J. Jones, Mr
J. Jones, Mr R. Rosencratz,
Mr A. Count, Mr M. Edia.
1. NAME
Names suggested included “Baronet,” “Whacker,”
“Uzbekistan,” “Uno,” “Ned Kelly," and “Snow-
don.” These names were rejected as conveying
the wrong images.
“Prodco” was suggested by Mr Chas. Product
and “Coprod” by Mr Co. Mr B. Manager sug-
gested “Codpo” and left the meeting.
After Mr Co and Mr C. Manager left the meet-
ing, it was suggested by Mr S. Smithson, Mr O.
O'Flaherty, Mr J. Jones, Mr J. Jones and Mr
R. Rosencratz, on behalf of agency, that “Prod'’
be adopted as name of product. This suggestion
was viewed favorably by the meeting.
2. TYPE OF PRODUCT
Type of product has not yet been determined.
Agency to conduct survey to determine what
type of product would best suit name “Prod.”
3. BUDGET
The re-costed budget was not favorably viewed
by client. Media plan is again to be re-costed,
leaving in only “Moonshine” which is Mrs Pro-
duct’s most favorite TV show.
4. ANNOUNCEMENT TO TRADE
Only champagne will be served at function to be
held at the Dorchester-Savoy. Invitations could
not be issued to the trade until the nature of the
product was determined.
Distribution: CP, AC, AM, BM, CM, SS, 00, JJ, JJ,
RR, AC, ME, XX, YY, ZZ, Media,
Accounts, Television, Production.
Smithson, O’Flaherty, Jones, Jones,
Rosencratz & Co. Pty Ltd.
ADVERTISING AGENCY.
MEMO: TO ALL DEPARTMENTS
FROM: Mr O. O’Flaherty
What product can
(a) Be priced Is.?
(b) Sponsor “Moonshine” TV serial?
(c) Be called “Prod”?


Smithson, O’Flaherty, Jones, Jones,
Rosencratz & Co. Pty Ltd.
ADVERTISING AGENCY.
CONFERENCE REPORT No. PROD 6
CLIENT: Product and Co. Ltd.
PRESENT Client: Mr Chas. Product, Mr B. Man-
ager, Mr C. Manager, Mr D.
Manager.
Agency: Mr J. Jones, Mr A. Count, Mr
M. Edia.
1. ANNOUNCEMENT TO TRADE
Full arrangements have now been made for the
function to be held at the Dorchester-Savoy.
Decision not to invite trade has been taken to
facilitate preparation of guest list, which cannot
be held up any further while type of product
to be launched is still being discussed.
2. TV MEDIA
Full arrangements have now been made to
sponsor “Moonshine” TV serial.
3. OTHER MEDIA
At suggestion of Mr Chas. Product, extension of
campaign to suburban newspapers in South
Australia, film slides in North Queensland, coun-
try newspapers in north-west New South Wales,
leaflets in Melbourne, fly-posters in Victorian
country districts and aboriginal smoke messages
in Darwin will be considered. Mr Product
recommended to agency a good book he had
been reading lately which contained these ideas.
Mr M. Edia uncertain about facilities for Darwin
campaign.
When costings of above are provided, continua-
tion of sponsoring of TV serial “Moonshine”
will be reconsidered.
4. TYPE OF PRODUCT
Clients’ luncheon appointment prevented final
decision on this matter. Suitable products that
might be launched as “Prod” were discussed.
They included: patent apple corers, novelty ice
creams, three phone calls, a bus to King’s Cross,
The Bulletin and a crocheted milk-jug cover.
Distribution: CP, AC, AM, BM, CM, DM, SS, 00, JJ,
JJ, RR, AC, ME, XX, YY, ZZ, Media,
Accounts, Television, Production.
Smithson, O’Flaherty, Jones, Jones,
Rosencratz & Co. Pty Ltd.
ADVERTISING AGENCY.
CONFERENCE REPORT No. PROD 8
CLIENT: Product and Co. Ltd.
PRESENT Client: Mr E. Manager.
Agency: Mr M. Edia.
1. ANNOUNCEMENT TO TRADE
Above has been cancelled.
2. “MOONSHINE” TV SERIAL
Above has been cancelled.
3. OTHER MEDIA
Agency suggested concentration on country radio
commercials. Client objected on ground of cost.
4. TYPE OF PRODUCT
Prod is definitely to be a toasting fork.
5. PRICE
Will be adjusted accordingly.
Distribution: CP, AC, AM, BM, CM, DM, EM, SS,
00, JJ, JJ, RR, AC, ME, XX, YY
ZZ, Media, Accounts. Tirr’ ; n. Pro-
duction.
Smithson, O’Flaherty, Jones, Jones,
Rosencratz & Co. Pty Ltd.
ADVERTISING AGENCY.
MEMO FROM: Mr S. Smithson, Mr O. O’Flaherty,
Mr J. Jones and Mr J. Jones.
TO: Mr R. Rosencratz.
RE: Product and Co. Ltd. (PROD
account)
Over to you.
PRODUCT & CO. LTD
To
Smithson, O’Flaherty, Jones, Jones,
Rosencratz & Co. Pty Ltd.
ADVERTISING AGENCY.
Dear Sirs,
I am instructed to inform you that due to
the present economic situation it has been con-
sidered inadvisable for this firm to continue with
its present plans for launching the new poker
(brand name, “Prod”).
Yours sincerely,
A. Co
per. F. Manager.
Copy: Mr Chas. Product.


The unRed Page
But Did Not
Conducted by P*T*R H*ST*NGS
Soldiers’ Wives. X*v**r H*rb*rt.
In “Soldiers’ Wives” Mr X*v**r
J. H*rb*rt has made a book. And
made it most horribly. But the undula-
tions of character fascinate where they
do not revolt or merely lead astray and
Mr H*rb*rt’s characters have a subtlety
of delineation, a height of feeling and
perception, which leads to considerable
melancholy if, upon reflection, it can
be said to lead anywhere. There is a
natural wonder about Pudsey which can
never be quite satisfied in the romantic
novelistic sense. And about Rosa. And
Ida. Scenes are created tremendously.
Even if one might query, in the
naturalistic sense, an explosion of words
which tends to destroy that which should,
as an image, emerge spare, defined,
irretrievable. And why such a collection
of moons? Gibbous, witch-ridden, hag-
haunted? Strange and harried moons?
On this, Rosa, tossing on her bed of
thoughtful pain, might well have fell
to wondering aloud. But did not. She
being, as her creator points out, obsessed,
fascinated and altogether arrested by a
state at once so introspective and
gynaecological that the pale huntress of
the sky might, this once at all events,
pass unnoticed. But not by H*rb*rt who
to this particular horror adds the par-
ticulars of his lunatic observations. One
might have thought, of all these women,
that they loved pretty things ; or were
stirred to melancholic nostalgia by the
mere sight of some sunlit scene, some
colored object; a tasteful reticule, the
rind of some exotic fruit, slops of beer
in a left-over glass, ambered, disparate,
strange, like motes of golden dust trans-
fixed in the shaft of light as one some-
times finds unexpectedly piercing the
gloom of a disused, once splendid room.
But whispering, plotting in most fearful
ways, beyond all submission to tradi-
tional authority, it is in themselves only
that they have interest. And nurse this
interest deliciously throughout.
P*TR*CK WH*T*
She's Done Her Lolly
Moss. P*tr*ck Wh*t*.
nTHERE was a preparation going on fit
for the induction of a high priest.
Going on, I mean, for about 100 pages
of P*tr*ck Wh*t*’s novel “Moss” which
is about Moss, he of hairy face and
hairier hands who represents Leichhardt,
the explorer who broke his follower’s
hearts and died himself with wicked,
winking eye in a desert interlarded with
rock. The preparation, for all that it
concerned horses and nails and food and
suchlike, included Moss’s growing attach-
ment to Laura. Laura was a pale ghost-
eyed girl with dolly dots on cheeks and
lolly lips given much to mooning. She
tried, this lolly girl of lovely lips, to
bend him to her will but to no avail.
The project went on: quoth the “Sunday
Truth” headlines, “Moss to Cross Con-
tinent Re-exploration!” And so he went
to leave her desolate in garden and house
to remember that love’s a sacrament. And
he on wobbly legs of prideful steed was
setting forth across vast expanses grey
as chalk followed by a whispering, wilful,
watchful, waiting moon: Hubble bubble
and fiddle faddle, ride a horse and slip
the saddle . . . ride away and ride too
soon, watched in doom by hump-back
moon !
It was goodbye to Commerce Street
and Fashion Square and hail to freedom
of periodic, primitive, pMsillanimously
punitive man-testing in scorching waste
of wilful wdlds! But she of the dolly
spot and somewhat dotty lolly (Oh man’s
a waste and woman’s folly, especially
when she’s done her lolly !) chased him
yet in spirit if not in deed while she
looked disdainfully down upon a
samphire bay from heights of house
founded on crusader fortunes! He of
hairy face and hairy hands now was far
away stumbling among metalled rocks,
struck at by flame of sun, swift and
swifter yet, a canker growth of fire and
salamander’s breath from wrathful
heaven sent. For love’s a sacrament.
And so he stumbled in blinding light
while Laura, modishly dressed in modest
dress of corded mauve-green silkiness
with yellow sash, sat high above the
violet bay reading newspapers and com-
muning with him, Moss, the hairy, the
indestructible of will. When night came
she shivered in ecstasy of fear, as she
might have, for he had out of sheer
stupefaction of mind and muscle passed
into the comatose and would shortly
pass from that into death. Nor was this
unnoticed by fevered dotty-spotted Laura
who now in trance-like state shared his
final agony: Oh grope and groan and
loudly moan ... by winds of time so
wildly blown, it’s on you tonight my
lingering thought is, beloved Moss in
rigor mortis . . .
X*V**R H*RB*RT
Authoritarian Trick
Say To Me Donald. H*l P*rt*r.
fVNE approaches a short story about the
socio-moral relationship of a school-
master and schoolboy with a Christian
name in the title with a good deal of
caution. We have seen this authoritarian
trick before.
Are we going to have yet another
American sociological treatise on crazy
mixed-up relationships by the principle of
retrospective philological taint?
All stories with titles like “Say To Me
Donald,” “Say to Me Bill,” “Say to Me
Barbarossa” are suspect in the first place.
When they deal with a mad schoolmaster
and a madder Oriental they are not only
suspect but dangerous.
The trick is a very simple one (though
in a weekly magazine for the general
reader it is impossible to do more than
hint at its sources). Pick out a school of
which you have never heard. Then
describe it in the most improbable terms
and no one can say it isn't true. People
can only say they have never been to or
heard of a school like that before but
they can’t say that it doesn't exist some-
where.
Next describe a schoolmaster as though
THE BULLETIN, December, December 16, 1961


FOR SPEED
(First issues off the press)
CONVENIENCE
(Right to your moil-box)
CONTINUITY
(No chance of missing out)
HAVE
fa
Bulletin
DELIVERED BY POST
Subscription Form
NEW SI B. RENEW VI.
(Please cross out one)
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper,
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please find enclosed my cheque / money-order for
months’ subscription to The Bulletin.
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES (A/asia): 1 year —£2 125.; \ year—£l 6s.
British C’wealth; £3 3s. 6d. Foreign: £3 16s.
N.Z. CURRENCY (Remit to Box 965, Welling-
ton, N.Z.): A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \
year —19s. 6d. British C’wealth: £2 3s.
Foreign £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether
the subscription is paid direct to The Bulletin or
any newsagent in Australia or N.Z.
Australia's only News Magazine 52 pages of top - flight information.
you were describing a manic-depressive.
The fact that manic-depressives in deep
manic phase are not usually considered
good material for schoolmasters simply
doesn't matter.
Next introduce an Oriental schoolboy
so corrupt that he tries to bribe his
schoolmaster with a set of expensive golf
clubs (in 1942, mind you, when you
couldn’t buy a packet of cigarettes) and
then let him talk in pidgin English. This
is the principle of philological taint
brought to its phoniest ultimate. The boy
may mean what he says. What he says
may be meaningful. But there is no way
of telling. We are at the mercy of Mr
P*rt*r. After all, had the author dealt
with Churchill at Harrow or Eden at
Eton wc might have had some chance, or
Trotsky or Santamaria.
About those there is a wealth of con-
temporary documentation and we can
make rational assessments based on real
information. But it is different and diffi-
cult when the author manages to locate
someone we have never heard of at a
school we have never heard of speaking
a language we have never heard of and
can never hope to understand. Only by
approaching works like these with the
utmost caution can we resist shoddy
devices like these tricked out in such a way
as to appear to the unwary as being seduc-
tively attractive. Mr P*rt*r will have to
do a lot more work on this.
H*NRY M*Y*R
The inimitable H*nry
A Short Story
By H*L P*RT*R
Good God! One might almost have
despied H*nry M*y*r’s eyebrows
rising when he thought to find yet
another pseudo-historical reason for pub-
lishing yet another pseudo-historical
book He treated such books as rarities,
treasured totemically like Chaldean tabs-
men; but found reasons for them rarer,
tricked, decked, delicately glossed with
scholars’ patina Rare as nightingales’
teeth, rarer, spicier, more delighting than
the sudden discove r y of chiselled graffiti
in a Minoan ruin, were H*nry M*y*r’s
delighted eyes in discovery of such
affronts, shining like emeralds when
detecting really delicious enormities,
offences graver than unholiest of regicides
committed sacrificially by Aztec priests
in thin altitudes at noon’s sun on long-
past solstices. Who looms larger in the
Gothic joust? M*y*r or victims? Using
the sensitive scalpel of his Byzantine
intellect, M*y*r had always laid about
like a jousting knight but still the con-
fident, spurious authors came, their
books before them like banners with a
strange device. Could he keep it up
before the world was denuded of
historians and their reputations? It was
a question M*y*r asked himself that
cerulean afternoon as he reached for yet
another book, this one so rare as to
profess: Merlin: Origins of the Indus-
trial Revolution. He permitted himself
a Punchinello smile and ran a Florentine
hand through dark, thinning Palatine
hair. He ran a fingernail like an Ankor
Wat Bodisattva’s through the thick,
Umbrian pages, their very thickness
denoting, he thought with contemptuous
Restoration smile, an exquisitely inverse
proportion between cost of publication
and merit of printed word. With a sigh
like a dragon-fly M*y*r reached for his
pen to impale with Inquisitional precision
the unsuspecting author who. in the
fields of his own ignorance, knelt like a
witless ploughboy in Languedoc at
sound of Angelus.




HOW TO BE
BIG CHEESE
Here is a game everyone can play —if they want to. The idea
is to see how far ahead you can get without being blown up.
This game takes practice. Don’t put yourself against the
experts at first, or you will be badly beaten. Begin in a modest
way. Any number can play but, of course, only one can-
win the gorgonzola.


From a just, completed novel
“The Man Whose Name Was Mud”
HIGH HORSE
THIS Light Horse outfit was a funny show, funny ha
ha. funny peculiar, funny any way you looked at it.
But the horses had most of the fun.
It should never have existed, of course. How-
ever. some brass-hat with memories of World War I cavalry
at the gallop, or perhaps one who had just been too
impressed by the film “Forty Thousand Horsemen” had got
the idea and had worried at it until the authorities had
begun to carry it out. He must have been a man with a
vision of plumed hats and spurs, creaking, shining leather,
dancing hooves. A believer, like Murdoch’s father old
Justin Playfield, that the cavalryman was the gentleman
of the Army, whatever his rank.
There were plenty of kids about who, like Murdoch,
had lived a lot of their indoor lives under mantelpieces on
which stood yellowing but swaggering old pictures of Dad
in his heyday, mounted or afoot but unmistakably one of
the Light Horse, in well-cut riding breeches and leggings
instead of shapeless knickers and puttees, carrying a riding-
crop and looking fierce and military. For these and for
a lot more there were romantic aspects to being in the
Light Horse that were not possessed by any other Army
units. They stepped forward eagerly from the ranks of
Infantry Training Battalions, in embarrassingly large
numbers, whenever there was a call for volunteers for the
Light Horse.
The trouble was that these boys had not come from
the farms and the stations, as most of their fathers had.
They were city youngsters, familiar with cars and motor-
cycles, but to whom a horse wasn’t much more than an
essential in Western movies and a device on which to lose
money. In an old photograph in a family album, or even
seen from the other side of a racecourse, a horse was small.
Close up, in the towering flesh and bone and muscle, he
turned out to be terrifyingly huge, self-willed and generally
awkward to handle.
“The bloody thing don’t answer to the steering!” one
ex-motor-cyclist yelled in despair to his sergeant, as he and
his charge went scuttering past sideways and going fairly
fast in the wrong direction.
“Don’t try to pull his head off,” the sergeant bawled
back. “Use your knees as well as your hands, you fool.”
The sergeant was an old-timer, one who had actually
been in the Light Horse of the original World War. He
came from the far outback, and had lived all his life among
and almost for horses, as had his father as a groom on an
English estate. Horses were completely and instinctively
understandable to the old sergeant, lovable creatures and a
lot more intelligent and sensible than these louts he was
trying to teach to ride and handle them.
“I’ve got to make horsemen out of you hopeless
beggars somehow,” the sergeant used to cry in agony. “If
I don’t they’ll put us on bloody tractors, you’ll see.”
In the natural and inevitable course of events, it was
not long before they were, indeed, “put on bloody tractors,”
or at least into carriers and tanks and jeeps and trucks.
Some brighter brass-hat became aware of the idiotic, out-
of-date business that was going on in this training-camp,
and the unit was very smartly mechanised. Such of the
horses as were suitable were sent on long, uncomfortable
journeys, often to unpleasant deaths as pack-animals for
certain Yank formations which used them in jungles where
wheeled vehicles were no good. Others were sold so
cheaply that the rural area around the training-camp soon
began to look like 1880 again, with people riding around
everywhere on good styles of hacks.
TOUT before this happened the horses had had their day.
They soon realised that they were in the hands of mugs
who were afraid of them. They were much irritated when
people approached and tried to mount them from the wrong
side, and generally mishandled them, doubtfully and
nervously. They did the only thing a horse can do in such
circumstances.
Well and patiently broken-in mounts, which had never,
previously been known to misbehave, took to bucking like
brumbies the minute they felt weight on their backs. They
kicked and bit, and scraped people off against trees and
posts, and slithered and came down on the gravelly hill-
sides, and rolled on their riders and started to live with
their ears flattened back and their teeth showing. They
tramped heavily on people’s feet, and blew chaff and saliva


AND LOW LADY
By GAVIN GASEY
in the faces of the men as they snorted indignantly. They
shed shoes and burst girths and cruppers, and jibbed or
bolted as the fancy moved them, and didn't give a damn
if they broke their own necks or anybody else’s.
Soon the human members of the unit were going
around in slings and bandages, often to visit mates in
hospital, looking like the survivors of a terrible battle, which
indeed they were. Had the Japanese known more about it
they might have decorated most of those horses. The
earnestness with which they tried to murder Australian
soldiers, and their success in putting large numbers of men
out of action, were impressive. It was also to their credit,
from the Jap point of view, that they reduced a number of
old warriors like the sergeant to the verge of nervous break-
down —though the veterans didn’t blame the horses, of
course, only the apes who were supposed to stay on their
backs.
Young Murdoch quickly realised that he was one of
the apes, and wished that he had done something more
sensible than joining the Light Horse. But by then there
wasn't much he could do about it, and it wasn’t all that bad
provided you could avoid getting kicked to death, eaten
alive, trampled, or somehow else murdered by the terrible
animals. And he was not one of those who, when a horse
flattened its ears and showed too much of the whites of
its eyes, paused for a while to discover whether or not the
animal’s annoyance was genuine. He got out of the way
very smartly, or landed a kick or a smack himself right
where it would do most good. This the horses did not like,
but they understood it. They gave him less trouble than
they did most of his mates.
Big Charlie Highgate, for instance, was always in
bother, though he was nearly as large as a horse himself,
and usually full of swagger and good humor, overflowing
with confidence and very sure of himself. Big Charlie was
a fascinating type, a couple of years older than Murdoch,
who spoke grammatically atrocious English, but often did
so in an accent with la-di-da inflections. He was a born
leader, but not in war or military exercises, only in what-
ever canteen, route-march, leave, and in or out of camp
activities were noisy, disreputable, and lots of fun. He was
mostly strong, happy, amiable and admirable, but he had
overbearing tendencies, a natural, unthinking habit of
pushing himself forward that made him occasionally rather
irritating.
TXE was one of those men who are a little larger than
A life, a trifle too good to be true, attracting their fellows
like magnets and then repelling them like magnets turned
wrong way round. Whatever his background was, it seemed
to have been fascinatingly different from Murdoch’s, and
to have included fast cars, reasonably rapid girls and
some other varieties of what is called high living that
Murdoch had not yet experienced.
When Big Charlie first stood face to face with a horse
that was not being firmly held by a jockey, a trainer, a
stable-hand or the milkman, he and the animal looked at
each other and it was obvious that neither cared much for
what he saw.
“Jees! He’s a size, ain’t he?” said Charlie, with the
instinctive dislike of a very large man for creatures bigger
than himself.
Perhaps the horse did not care to be confronted by
a human so close to its own size, but it did not say. It
just looked at him with distaste and, when he withdrew,
Silly Maud did not
have to explain much


took a flying kick at him. An iron-shod hoof whizzed past
Charlie’s ear and he turned a little pale, but here was
something that called for immediate retaliatory action. He
stepped back two paces and kicked ths horse heartily in
the stomach.
“Here, you!” the sergeant bellowed. “Did you kick
that bloody horse?”
“He tried to kick me.” said Charlie, plaintively.
“Serve you right if he boots your bloody brains out.
In these lines a horse can kick you, but you kick no bloody
horse, see?”
. “Yes, sergeant, but ”
“You kick no horse, never, for no bloody reason,
see?” The sergeant was purple with anger. “You kick a
horse round here an’ you’ll be back in the footsloggers
before you know what’s happened to you.”
“All right, then.”
“I sent you there to clean up his hoofs. You get the
currycomb an’ scrape that mud off round his hocks, never
mind about kicking the poor beggar.”
Big Charlie looked doubtful. The hoofs were the
dangerous parts. But, then, proud in his strength, he seized
the horse by the fetlock of the leg that had so recently
lashed up at him. He wrenched the hoof off the ground
so violently and clutched it so hard that the horse teetered
on three legs for a moment, as though about to fall down.
Then it stood, momentarily cowed, and Big Charlie poked
cautiously about with the currycomb. A little thought
soon convinced the horse that, although thus hampered, it
had weapons as yet unused, and could still give this lunatic
human something to think about.
The horse laid back its ears and rolled its eyes discon-
tentedly, but these warnings could not be seen by Charlie,
who was busy at the other end. Then the animal bent its
slender neck and reached around to where the imposing
rump of the man stuck up in the air beside it. It took a
piece of his trousers and a good section of the rump
between its teeth and bit hard. With a fearful scream
Charlie dropped the currycomb and the hoof and shot
out of the horse line.
“The beggar bit me!” Big Charlie screamed in such
utter woe and astonishment that even the sergeant started
to laugh.
“What’d you expect him to do when you shoved your
behind up in his face like that?” asked the sergeant.
“They're supposed to kick, not bite,” said Charlie,
rubbing himself and feeling, as the victim of such horrible
treachery, offended as well as hurt. “Dogs are supposed
to bite.”
Everybody roared with mirth. Murdoch among them,
but the sergeant managed to make his face straight and
severe again.
“I’ll tell you what, Highgate,” the sergeant said. “I
wouldn’t let you kick him when he just did what was
natural to a horse and kicked at you, but now he’s gone
too far. You can punish him.”
“What’ll I do, sergeant?” asked Charlie, his eye
brightening with the hope that he might now be awarded
what in football would be a free kick.
“You can go right up to him and bite him back,” the
sergeant told him solemnly. “You bite him right on the
behind where he bit you.”
There was another roar of laughter at the sergeant’s
wit, and he grinned like a hungry wolf. Big Charlie looked
abashed and a little angry, but in that moment of his
humiliation everybody loved Big Charlie. Young Murdoch
loved him, too, without any doubt or qualification. He
had brightened their day, given them the best laugh they
would be likely to have until the parades were over and
they were able to spread the story in the canteen.
Charlie was a hero, and they loved him all the more
because he, the big, swaggering one, the strong, confident
man, the leader and the one they so often had to follow
and obey, had shown weakness, confusion and inefficiency.
He had come right down to their level, sunk below it,
and though it would not be permanent, of course, it was a
great and happy moment, in which they all looked at
red-faced Big Charlie with mirth, affection and sympathy.
The big fellow saw it, and soon grinned back at them,
sensing somehow that he had managed to be extremely
funny, without in any degree placing himself in the perman-
ent contempt that would have made his life unbearable.
T>UT if Big Charlie wasn’t a success with horses, he did
all right with the girls, and he was a help to young
Murdoch in the city, where Murdoch knew nobody. The
first time they went on leave together Charlie seemed to
have a programme all worked out.
“We’ll booze around a bit and see who we run into,”
he announced. “Then we’ll go to the Plaza Court and
pick up Pretty Maud and Silly Maud. They know we’re
coming.”
“I suppose I’ll get Silly Maud?” said Murdoch.
“Who else, for a silly beggar like you?” asked Charlie
cheerfully.
The idea of Silly Maud didn’t altogether please
Murdoch, but he brightened up a great deal when he saw
the girls. It turned out that Silly Maud was the pretty one
and Pretty Maud was the silly one. With the same
Christian names, and working side by side in the Plaza
saloon bar, they had to be distinguished from each other,
so the drinkers had labelled them. The silly one was
flattered and loved being known as Pretty, and the pretiy
one regarded it all as a joke and didn’t mind or grudge the
other her title.
The Plaza Court was, of course, one of the city’s
three or four flashest and finest pubs, and in it Big Charlie
was a different man. Though he had only a trooper’s
uniform, his English accent took control of his talk, and
he spoke and acted with the affable arrogance that
belonged to officers, squatters, stockbrokers and the like.
The girls gushed, and the waiters and barmen and stewards
grinned and kow-towed, and Murdoch was astonished.
He was astonished also at getting Silly Maud for his
girl, when she was the so much more attractive one.
Perhaps it was a generous gesture of friendship, or maybe
Charlie saw something in Pretty Maud that he didn’t. Then,
again, perhaps Charlie really meant what he was always
saying about all cats being grey in the dark, and faces not
mattering because you could always put a bag over them
heads. You’d never know, with Big Charlie. But the
arrangement suited Murdoch all right, and by the time
they latched onto the girls the boozing had been on all
day and he was in a happy mood, anyway.
“We’d eat here, only it wouldn’t be the thing with the
girls who work here,” said Charlie. “Well take ’em to
the Gourmet Garden.”
For a moment Murdoch was relieved at dodging the
fancy prices, and all the fantastic cutlery and the tips and
things at the Plaza Court, but, of course, the Gourmet
Garden restaurant was worse, if anything. It was a haunt
of the rich, now used mainly by Yanks and a few Aus-
tralian officers who had large private incomes. Theirs were
the only rough, O.R. uniforms in the place, but Charlie
would have been able to get what he wanted, with toothy
smiles from head waiters, if he had been wearing pyjamas
or a lap-lap. He was an astonishing bloke, and Murdoch,
after initial uneasiness, began to enjoy these new places
and new experiences, with more grog on the table in front
of him and Silly Maud cuddling up and giving him soft,


It’s not my shout it’s yours.
And l never miss one of those editorials .
It’s taken a long time to
wind this company up.
I don’t know what he sees in him.
These faces have been familiar to Bulletin readers
for many years. At last we are in a position to reveal
what they have been talking about.
Somebody here isn’t using Amplex.
It’s moments like these you need Menzies.
I got the recipe from Bill Harney.


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A D 1720)
Assets exceed £177,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
Kindersley House, Bligh/O’Connell Streets, SYDNEY
F. H. Egerton, Manager for Australia.
warm looks, and old Charlie shouting jovially for every-
thing, and all the best, in his fruity English accent.
The Yanks all around seemed amazed to see any Aus-
tralians there, other than female ones, and almost hurt
that this couple of mug privates should have cornered off
such choice fillies. But Big Charlie, as well as his size,
had a powerfully arrogant look when he didn’t seem just
unconcerned what any donkey thought. The Yanks drank
competently and extravagantly and tried to keep their eyes
off Silly Maud, which caused young Murdoch great satis-
faction.
“I suppose you girls would be with a couple of these
blokes if Charlie wasn’t on leave?” he said.
“Indeed, we wouldn’t,” said Pretty Maud, quite huffy
about it. “I’ll have you know we don’t have anything to
do with Yanks.”
“Why not, sweetheart?” asked Charlie, grinning.
“There’s nothing wrong with ’em —except that they’re over-
paid, overdressed, oversexed and over here.”
He roared with mirth at this joke which was already
a chestnut, but Silly Maud said quietly. “I’ve got nothing
against Americans. It’s just —well, everybody rushes them
and nobody seems to look after our own poor boys any
more. Pretty and myself, we try to be nice to the Aussies.”
“That’s the stuff!” applauded Big Charlie. “And, by
golly, you ARE nice, both of you.”
“It’s a crying shame.” said Pretty Maud, sounding for
the moment like somebody’s aunt deploring drink, sex
and sin. “The way the so-called girls neglect them our
poor boys on leave haven’t a thing to do except booze.”
“Not a bad pastime, either.” said Charlie. “Best if it’s
a pipe-opener before some good, healthy, horizontal exer-
cises, though.”
The girls ignored this crudity, but seemed in no way
offended by it, and young Murdoch felt happily at home
with them. He warmed particularly towards Silly Maud,
mainly because of her looks and because for the time she
was his, but partly because she had a kind heart that was
not prejudiced against the poor, silly, bloody Yanks, but
was soft towards lonely, displaced Australians like him-
self. She was a girl-and-a-half. and when he fondled her
a little under the table she gave him a trapped, ashamed
look, but didn’t stop him or pull away.
They stayed at the Gourmet Garden until very late,
because the pubs were long shut, but there was plenty
of liquor, at a price, where they were. Big Charlie seemed
to have the price, though, and when Murdoch tried to pay
for anything he wouldn’t hear of it. They drank on and
on, and Murdoch got into a fine, happy state. He loved
the world and everybody in it. but particularly Big Charlie,
his generous mate, and Silly Maud, that wonderful girl
who was nice to her fellow-Australians.
Then, suddenly, half the tables seemed empty, and
the waiters were looking anxious and hopeful and lurking
in groups around the few remaining couples and parties.
Charlie and Pretty Maud just weren’t there any more, and
Murdoch had no clue as to where they had gone. He was
immediately desolate, lonely again and much weighed down
by it.
“They’ve gone,” he said dolefully. “I’ve got nowhere
to go.”
“I’ll look after you. You can come with me. you poor
boy.” said Silly Maud, softly, squeezing his hand.
So he was vastly happy and contented again, drunk
enough to be in no hurry, still young and inexperienced
enough to feel triumphant about it. too. though there
seemed to be no urgency, no hurry about anything. Silly
Maud had to steer and support him out of the restaurant
into the night, to call up a taxi, to organise and be the
more active party in the rest of it.
YXfHEN he was in her room, blinking owlishly in the
light and approving in his mind the neatness and bright-
ness of the place he sobered up a lot. Silly Maud quietly,
and without any sign of shame or any effort to cover up
boldness with girlish confusion, got undressed and came to
him placidly and smilingly. He had the sense to know that
this was going to be different from his past experiences,
and he grew sober and greatly excited.
And it was different, unhurried, warm and mutual,
open-eyed, gentle, something to remember, soothing and
altogether comfortable when its frenzy had subsided. When
he lay at peace he looked at Silly Maud with great grati-
tude and affection, thinking that, after all. he hadn’t known
much, but now he knew.
In the morning she was embarrassed, though she had
shown no sign of it during the long night. She had an urge
to talk, to try to explain herself, to apologise and justify
herself over the tea and toast. She had the heart and the
body for love, but she lacked quite the vocabulary to
talk about it. She started clumsily.
“You must think I’m awful.”
“I think you’re wonderful,” said Murdoch sincerely.
He so obviously meant it that she was touched to
the point of tears, and with them the words flowed more
freely. They were mostly still trite, awkward words, but
occasionally they were explicit, with startling clarity and
force. They were helped by expressions and gestures, and
hesitantly though it was told and inexperienced as he was,
Murdoch understood her story. It was simple enough.
She was just one of the soft ones. If men were made


FINANCE & INVESTMENT
COMPANY LIMITED
SHAREHOLDERS' FUNDS, £893,311.
TANGIBLE ASSETS, £3,075,026.
INTEREST RATES FOR DEPOSITS
(NOW CALLED UNSECURED DEPOSIT NOTES)
WITH RIGHT OF RECALL
ON 30 DAYS’ NOTICE
3 months . . . . . 5V1% p.a.
6 months .... 6% p.a.
9 months . . . . 6V2% p.a.
12 months .... 7% p.a.
18 months . . . . 7V2% p.a.
• FIXED DEPOSITS
prospectus, which is obtainable
from
Members of the Stock Exchange
ANY BRANCH OF A.N.Z, BANK
The Registered Office of the Com-
pany, William & Crown Sts.,
Sydney. Telephone FA 0322.
Financing world-
famous products
distributed by
The Hastings
Deering Group
of Companies.
FORD
Cars and Trucks
FORDSON
Tractors
A.E.C.
Trucks & Buses
CATERPILLAR
Diesel Tractors
in Queensland
HYSTER
Fork Lift Trucks
in Queensland
JOHN DEERE
Agricultural
Machinery
in Queensland
LISTER
Engines
GROUP SALES
YEAR ENDED
30-6-61
£12,857,865
MAIL THIS COUPON
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE &
INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
G.P.O. Box 4333, Sydney.
Please send me, without any obligation on my part, pros-
pectus dated 1/11/61, giving full details of your terms
deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS
H D82.1l
8.16/12
The
NORTHERN LIFE
Assurance Company of Australia Limited
(Incorporated in Canberra, Australia )
All Classes of Ordinary Life Assurance,
Superannuation and Annuity Policies Issued
HEAD OFFICE: 15 O'Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone BL 5601 K. J. Hedley, General Manager
happy so easily, in such a pleasurable way, why not make
them happy ? Not all men at any time, by any means,
but quite often one of them, one of the gentle ones, a lost
or lonely one who would be grateful, one like himself on
leave among strangers and possible prey for women of
a very different calibre. Murdoch had been lucky, and
he knew it.
She had a husband, but he was no good, never had
been much good, and now he was at the war somewhere.
She had a schoolboy son who lived with her mother and
whom she loved with all her heart. She had independence
and quite a good income from the bar. When she did what
she had done with him it was for love, a form of love,
not lasting or possessive, but true and gentle for its dura-
tion, pleasing to her as it was to the other party, a high-
light of life, a compensation at least to a degree for the
hardships and cruelties of the world and the inadequacies
of a no-good husband.
Silly Maud didn’t have to explain much, and soon
they were both gay again, happy out of bed sitting up,
eating and drinking and chatting.
“And Charlie?” Murdoch had to ask. “Did you
ever?”
“Oh, Charlie! Why, a girl would have to know judo
to resist Charlie. He won’t take no for an answer.”
She laughed with delighted amusement, and to his
surprise Murdoch found himself without jealousy, capable
of laughter, too. He said, wryly. “You’ve summed him
up, the cow.”
“There’s more in him than that, though. Poor Charlie
never lets on, but he’s one of the lost ones sometimes—
lost and sad underneath all his wild noise.”
“1 like him. but I can’t make him out. Did you know
him before the war?”
“He was only a boy, then.”
“Well, before he joined up? What did he do for a
living?”
“Do? Charlie didn’t do anything. He was at the
university.”
“Well, I’ll go hopping!” said Murdoch.
“Don’t you know who he is, darling? Don’t you know
who his father is?”
“No.”
“His father’s Dr Highgate—you know, the big doctor
here. Member of Parliament, and he was Minister for
Health until the last election. They’ve got all the money
in the world, and that home with three garages and a
sunroof, down on the water.”
“Well, wouldn’t it?” Murdoch was stunned.
“Poor Charlie’s the black sheep, though how they
make out he’s any blacker than those bitches of Highgate
girls I don’t know. He failed in first-year medicine for
the second time, and the old doctor threw him out. The
old pig stopped holding off his call-up and let him join the
Army. That was what Charlie wanted to do, anyway.”
“That explains a lot of things I didn’t understand,
sweetheart,” Murdoch told her.
It did that, and it made him thoughtful. He was
quiet and thoughtful later, all the way back to camp, while
Charlie roared and laughed and put on his usual show.
Jealously of his mate started to grow in Murdoch, not just
over Silly Maud, over many things. But there was
sympathy, too.
Unlucky with horses, lucky in love, he paraphrased an
old saying of his father’s. Unlucky with horses, lucky in
love, he kept saying over and over in his mind. Unlucky
in many things, in more than he’d ever admit, as he
swaggered and shouted his way along. Unlucky with horses,
lucky in love. What did it matter, anyway?
What they needed to be lucky in now was war.




For election matter in this issue requiring
signature, Donald Horne, of 252 George Street,
Sydney, is responsible.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Who Will Speak for Australia?
A JUDICIOUS mixture of hind-
sight and guessing can provide
a plausible theory as to what
happened in the election.
Our background assumption is as
Mugga put it last week: “The cam-
paign . . . was a classic example of
what the late Mr Chifley had in mind
when he suggested that elections were
often decided three months before the
campaign began by the political
images then prevailing in the minds
of the electors. We know what images
were in the minds of the Victorian
electors at that time, and it is hard to
see how the election campaign would
have changed them. Whatever images
were already in the minds of the rest
of Australia would probably still be
there.”
Things stayed much the same in
Victoria because the well-organised
D.L.P. vote stuck. In Queensland,
and, to a lesser but still significant
extent, in N.S.W., the Menzies image
was found wanting; in Queensland the
anti-Menzies feeling was given added
virulence by being anti-Nicklin as well.
Revulsion against the Government also
operated to some extent in other States.
Presumably it was a mixture of
desire for a change and a belief that
the Government was not running the
country properly.
The desire to have a Government
that is fit to govern is probably the
mainspring of swinging votes. Unem-
ployment and the other improvisations
of the credit squeeze were perhaps
even more significant as assumed
symptoms of an inability to govern
than they were issues in themselves.
For the last 12 years the label of
unfitness to govern has been stuck on
the A.L.P. and has kept it out of
office. It has now also been stuck on
the Liberals.
If this image was dormant three or
four months ago. what effect did the
campaign have on it? The campaign
probably lit it up.
Mr Menzies’s refusal to put up a
new policy was an expression of
remarkable honesty, but it proved to
be bad politics. Hindsight suggests
that, although he need not have made
detailed promises (who now remem-
bers the details in Mr Calwell’s long
list?), it might have affected the elec-
tion results if he had put up some new
general policies. Mr Menzies’s failure
to do so was taken to signify the
Liberals’ complacency and unfitness to
govern.
Along with this lack of positive
signs of get-up-and-go was the strange
timidity in attacking the A.L.P. of
the Liberal and Country parties. It
is our opinion that the A.L.P., in its
present unreformed state is quite unfit
to govern and that this can be evi-
denced in considerable detail. This
detail was almost completely missing
in the campaign, apart from scattered
statements at the end. Mr McEwen
even made a virtue of timidity by
praising himself for not attacking
Labor.
On the one hand, the Liberal and
Country parties failed to give them-
selves the kind of new look a dis-
gruntled electorate demanded, and also
failed to carry the attack into Mr
Calwell’s secret and vulnerable terri-
tory. On the other hand. Mr Calwell,
after building a strong defence peri-
meter. took the offensive and surprised
even himself by keeping it.
The soundness of his defence peri-
meter was that he put up a policy
based on his strongest points. The
weaknesses of his party that came
from its domination by the Victorian
A.L.P. Executive kind of “thinking”
were covered up by dummy defences
that the Liberals did not successfully
knock over. The main parts of his
policy sounded all right to those who
were looking for an excuse to change;
they said what people wanted to hear;
and the Liberal attacks on them may
merely have drawn attention to them.
From this position Mr Calwell
attacked “complacency” and all the
rest of it, exploited the desire for
change and kept the initiative.
So we had an unpopular Govern-
ment party doing nothing to challenge
the reasons for its unpopularity and
an Opposition that had many weak-
nesses itself successfully carrying the
attack into the Government’s territory,
successfully evading attack on its own
weaknesses (mainly because only the
D.L.P. consistently attacked them) and
poking sufficiently statesmanlike faces
to look as if it could govern.
We do not think the swing to the
A.L.P. was a pro-A.L.P. vote. It was
a protest vote. Rightly or wrongly,
many—perhaps most —Australians in
December, 1961, do not seem to con-
sider that either party is much good
at governing.
A NEW INSTABILITY
'THE 1961 election will, like the 1940
A and 1949 elections, prove to be
one of those watershed elections of
which people will say: after that noth-
ing was the same again.
It has introduced an instability into
Australian political life that may take
a long time to disappear, and heaven
only knows what now lies ahead.
The unreformed A.L.P. is inherently
unstable and scarcely capable of
assuming responsibility without split-
ting. Its Federal Executive is still
dominated by forces that favor policies
that suit Soviet and Chinese foreign
policy abroad and Australian com-
munist interests at home. Within some
State Executives and the Federal Par-
liamentary party there are those who,
to counteract these forces, favor a
straightout union with the D.L.P., even
if it means handing Victoria over to
it; but Mr Calwell may throw his
strength against this.
Mr Calwell is now the “strong man”
of the A.L.P.. and will command the
support of those in the A.L.P. who
above all want electoral success. It
is too early to make firm guesses, but
one guess is that he will try some tight-
rope act of his own in Victoria in
which he will hope that minor reforms
and a certain amount of anti-com-
munist display will erode support from
the D.L.P. We do not think this will
be successful. From the tensions that
will accompany his attempts at com-
promise and his ultimate failure will
arise new situations that could be any-
one’s guess.
This touches only lightly on some
of those ghastly problems of the
A.L.P. that were so successfully passed
over during the election campaign. But
in retreat the Liberals might also be-
come a problem party. Anyone who
doubts how panicky, febrile, inane and
beastly the Liberals could be in retreat
should look back over the newspaper
files for 1940 to 1943, when tearing
their party to pieces became the main
preoccupation of the then U.A.P.
Tensions of the kind endemic to any
party may become important now that
the Liberals have struck harder times.
This is all the more likely to happen
because the Liberals have not managed
to replace the “free enterprise”
impetus of 1949 with anything. Dis-
satisfaction within the party and out-
side it comes partly from this disap-
pointment that the ideals of 1949 have
now gone sour. There can be no re-
turn; 1961 is a more difficult time than
1949. But a hollow rebellion based
on the feeling that clocks can be put
back can do great damage to a party,
even if —perhaps because —it is based
on fantasy.
To these tensions and possible ten-
sions in the two major parties are
added the coming tensions of a Senate
in which neither party will have a
majority. At a strange and uncertain
period of world history Australia is
afflicted with a political crisis that
sounds superficially like something out
of the nineteenth century.
THE VOICE OF 1961
JNDEED, this is surely the question.
In all this political turmoil, who
will speak for Australia?
The voice of 1961 —the urgency and
freshness of thinking that now impels
so many countries abroad—was little
heard during the campaign. Labor’s
public voice was the voice of any old
time; its private voice, muted during
the election, is the voice of neutralism.
The Liberals’ voice is the voice of
commitment, but it is a voice without
urgency.
Who could have guessed, from read-
ing the election speeches and com-
ments, that Australia is increasingly
alone in the world? That defences are
crumbling to our north and there is,
as yet, no sign that the crumbling will
stop? That the British connection is
rapidly becoming little more than a
cultural link, yet nothing is replacing
it? That Japan is emerging as the
great trading nation of the future?
That Australia is one of the few
nations of the world that is not con-
sidering any comprehensive plan for
the management of its economy?
We hold a great, underpeopled,
underdeveloped and undefended con-
tinent on the periphery of a collection
of unstable States that adjoin an
aggressive Power intent on domina-
tion, and we do not seem to have
enough imagination to realise it. We
are lost in the dreams of the past, a
backwater. There are many achieve-
ments of which we might well be proud
—if the times did not demand an
accelerated rate of achievement. Per-
haps we had the elections we deserved.
Somewhat on the Left?
'THE Vice-Chancellor of Melbourne
A University, Sir George Paton. has
put himself in a strange situation by
his handout on that university’s Social
Studies Department. In the course of
a short and unconvincing statement, he
says “one member of the department
may be somewhat on the Left.”
The fact is that Mr Geoffrey Sharp,
who is presumably the person referred
to, is a communist. If to Sir George
being a communist is simply being
“somewhat on the Left,” it is difficult
to take seriously any further statement
he makes on political matters.
It is not known whether Sir George’s
statement is his own or a statement
prepared by the committee appointed
by the University Council to inquire
into charges made in “The Bulletin”
about the activities of a communist-
led faction in the Social Studies
Department.
It is hard to imagine that this par-
ticular part of the statement comes
from the findings of the committee. If
it does it displays an innocence or a
carelessness that would make what-
ever else the committee has to say
something one could not accept merely
on the committee’s say-so.
If it does not come from the findings
of the committee the University
Council might well ask why Sir George
cared to make it.
In either case, one wonders if the
committee asked Mr Sharp this very
simple question: “Are you a com-
munist?” And if it did happen to ask
him this question, what his reply was.
We do not wish to take up space
in our special Christmas issue by any
further reference to this matter, but we
shall do so later.


FORUM
FROM FAINT DISGUST
TO A NEW DEAL
By PETER COLEMAN
I T is always a good time to write a boo\ at the end of an era, and 1930 was
a good time to write a boo\ about Australia. The “democratic” fan-
tasies of 1900 were gone. People no longer believed we were building the
closest thing to Utopia the world had ever seen, or that a bit of literature,
federation, protection and arbitration proved it. Prosperity had ta\en a bad
knocks, country people were still living in slums, development was slowing
down, wowserism was strong, patriotism was absent or mean as dirt. But
if the old ideas were dead, there were no new ones yet only a general
feeling of being fed up, of what W. K. Hancoc\ called in a characteristic
phrase a feeling of “faint disgust.”
Tn the middle of all this Hancock wrote
his book, “Australia,” and it has
become a classic.* The ideas in it have
passed on into so many other books that
it is surprising one can read it again now
with so much pleasure and interest. His
basic idea is the now familiar one that
Australians are fundamentally a pretty
childish lot who, protected from the
normal world of power politics, the trade
jungle, intellectual warfare, believe they
can survive in the- 20th century by rely-
ing on their cosy mediocre standards.
Worse still they do not have a minority
that cares about the country enough to
want to do something about it. Han-
cock does not accept the tyranny-of-the-
masses bromide ; “under every form of
society it is always a minority which
holds power”; but this minority in Aus-
tralia simply does not care. The country’s
achievements are illusions, its future
obscure (“it may be short.”)
From this disenchanted position he
ironically surveys a variety of themes
in . Australian history —from the Tem-
perance Societies (“which denounce tem-
perance and preach prohibition”); the
trade unions (their “secretaries have
developed the subtlety of mediaeval
theologians in arguing fine points about
margins for skill. Tt requires some kind
of skill,’ an exasperated judge once
protested, ‘to blow one’s nose’ ”); the
Northern Territory (“Between 1863 and
1910 this remote country was badly
governed from Adelaide ; then the Com-
monwealth took charge of it, and
governed it badly from Melbourne”);
the White Australia Policy based on our
feelings of racial inferiority (“I con-
tend,” declared Deakin, “that the Japa-
nese need to be excluded because of
their high abilities”); the Arbitration
System (“specially designed to persuade
the Australian workman of what is
untrue —that he has no interest in low
costs. if his efficiency helps reduce
prices, he is rewarded by a scaling-down
of wages. This is the anti-climax of
Labor’s struggles, the burlesque con-
clusion of that practical Australian
logic . . .”).
Naturally after 30 years there are
evident Haws in the book. He says in
his new preface that he was completely
wrong in his scepticism about United
States willingness to help us in a war
and by implication he was over-optimistic
about the power and permanence of the
British Empire. Again, he takes the view
now being undermined that it was the
Labor party that created the party system
and saved responsible government in
Australia. (Before its formation, on his
view which everyone until recently
adopted, politics was just the sordid
intrigues of pressure groups and indi-
viduals.) His idea of what the conserva-
tive or radical parties stand for is seen
in the negative description “Parties of
Resistance.” There is no mention of the
religious movements (which today no one
can ignore), no account of the under-
currents of violence, and even in the
account of the Labor party there are
only passing references to the conscrip-
tion campaigns of the 1914-18 War. It is
a mandarin's view of Australia and he
is a bit too ironical to have much
sympathy for what he regards as
“irrational.” One feels one would have
to hesitate before relying on his treat-
ment of, say, the Communist party, the
D.L.P., or the poetry of A. D. Hope.
But it is one of the few books on
Australia worth re-reading and it is good
to see it reprinted.
Tt is also a good back-drop to Jeanne
MacKenzie’s new book “Australian
Paradox,” which is in many ways Han-
cock brought up to date. But whereas
Hancock was dealing with the last
writings of the Old Australia, Jeanne
MacKenzie is dealing with the first
stumbles into the New. She spent 1960
in Australia and came to it with a
fresh eye. For her the obvious symbol
of the country is not a sheep or a kan-
garoo but a bulldozer and earth-moving
equipment. But a “paradox” emerges at
every turning, because it is still Hancock's
Australia, still a mentally old-fashioned
community. “They have been pitch-
forked into a modern industrial com-
munity” with the mental equipment of
19th century provincials. Australia re-
minds her of Ghana or Nigeria. The
basic paradox results from the fact that,
whereas in other countries Victorianism
is buried beneath industrialism, in Aus-
tralia it is the rock on which indus-
trialism is built. Behind the wheel of
the bulldozer or the Holden is an in-
secure mid-Victorian.
Like Hancock she sees Australians as
still pretty immature or “inhibited,” but
her examples are less political. She is
startled by the Victorian inequality of
the sexes —men running parents’ and
citizens’ associations as if of natural
right and women excluded from bars
(how 19th century can you get!), by a
literature that seems afraid to deal with
mature sexual relations, by the over-
disciplined, learning-by-rote schoolwork.
She also ties Robin Boyd’s featurism
into this interpretation: featurism she
sees as a sort of architectural fig-leaf
which the still Victorian Australians use
to escape plain facts. And even the love
of sport comes into it: Australians are
not really physically exuberant, thev
simply find in sport one escape from
their sense of insecurity.
She brings her point out brilliantly in
her description of Australian-English re-
lations. Australians’ touchiness —a form
of childishness —has apparently to be
experienced to be believed. Since
it is testimony one cannot do
better than quote it: “Despite all
this, I seldom felt sufficiently relaxed
with Australians to enjoy a frank and
open conversation. Talk which began as
a serious discussion of a problem would
tend to turn into subjective argument
which revealed that some of the partici-
pants felt threatened by it. There were


Estab’ished 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
■jacksqn &
.O'SEI.UVav
cij pry ltd
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Pafet Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DTE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOK BINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS r: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
•MACKSUL,” BRISBANE
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’* values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IS YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
If any “Bulletin” illustration
takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you
a price for the original.
moments in Australia when I was very
conscious of the fact that 1 was a foreign-
er ; and this made it difficult to reach
beyond a friendly formality I sometimes
felt that I had to work hard to make
an Australian forget that I was
English ...
“The image of the cold, superior and
formal Englishman is deeply engrained
in the Australian national consciousness.
Faced with this built-in prejudice, it is
difficult to achieve a relaxed and mature
relationship. In conversation I felt at
times that I was exploring a minefield;
the discussion would, for the most part,
be friendly and objective, then suddenly,
a subtle change in the atmosphere made
me realise that the conversation had
entered a danger zone, and fearful lest
it blow up, it would be necessary to back
track and turn the talk into another
direction.
“This dual role may be one of the
reasons for the failure of communication
that I have already noticed between like-
minded English and Australians. With
some, it is possible to bridge the gap;
with others it takes longer to create an
atmosphere of mutual confidence; and
there are some who simply close their
ranks and their minds in the face of what
appears to be criticism. Time and again I
felt that for many Australians the field
of Australian manners and mores was
one fenced off and posted with the sign:
Keep Out, and the proof of innocence
lies with the trespasser.’
The book is based not only on obser-
vation but on wide reading of the new
wave of critics (Boyd, Ward, Pringle),
and this reading is in some respects a
weakness. For example, she relies on S.
Baker’s “The Drum” to show the failure
of Australian writers to deal with sexual
themes. One feels that if, for example,
she had read Nancy Keesing’s examina-
tion of the new emerging stereotype in
Australian short-stories in a recent
Bulletin she might have added another
paragraph. Nancy Keesing pointed out
that whereas Australian fiction was sex-
less, it now is filling up with nympho-
maniacs, homosexuals, abortionists, and
the rest. This is not necessarily an
advance, but it is a change. Reliance on
reading is risky, because it dates quickly.
Again, she quotes Max Harris’s
historical explanation of the inhibited
sexual attitudes of Australian men. Mr
Harris always has something interesting
to say, but you’ve got to get up early in
the morning to make something of this
passage: “His sexual pattern he found
to be compounded of shyness verging on
indifference, perhaps redeemed by a
crude delicacy, a sexual decency, honesty
of erotic intention, a lack of showiness
which could have concealed integrity and
simple morality; or which could have
indicated a lazy monogamy of approach
to sexual relations.”
“Shyness verging on indifference”
(that is, tension verging on no tension!),
“honesty of erotic intention” (Austra-
lians of course are quite unique here).
then the whole thing repeated in longer
phrases which say it might be one thing
or it might be its opposite . It is at
least refreshing to read straight after-
wards Jeanne MacKenzie’s summary
what he means is lower-middie-class
prudery
She is very hard on suburbia. This
is one of those things it is hard to defend,
but the idea that suburbanites are com-
placent, empty-minded sexless nongs is
surely a bit exaggerated. It must be since
the suburbs seem jam-packed with people
saying precisely that. (Too much is made
of Barry Humphries’s record “Wild Life
in Suburbia.” For one thing, it is a satire
on suburbia of 30 years ago , for another
the record is now becoming an essential
part of suburban orthodoxy)
The most disappointing chapter is the
political one, headed “The Political
Puzzle.” Australian politics are not all
that puzzling, but Jeanne MacKenzie
seems to find the issues alien: she does
not see more in the Labor party split
than a faction fight, and there is surely
a blind spot somewhere when she says:
“the background of international tension
is lacking” in Australia. Here her
approach again reminds one of Han-
cock: for all their brilliance and irony,
both books tend to exclude from their
vision all the vehicles of social and
political passion in Australian life
(because they don’t like what they stand
for) and then complain there are none.
Like Hancock, too, the only hope she
sees is the emergence of a rationalist
intelligentsia.
But Jeanne MacKenzie’s book is more
than a moral essay. There is some ex-
cellent reporting on a variety of themes
—New Australians, Canberra, North
Queensland, aborigines, anything that
took her fancy. This week especially one
cannot leave it without quoting her
account of a street in Mackay, North
Queensland, where in one corner Mr Gair
was electioneering for the Q.L.P., in
another the Salvation Army was holding
a meeting, and in another the Mackay
pipe band was marching:
Mr Gair: “. . .so I said to the bosses
at Trades Hall .. .”
Salvationist: “Oh, ye of little
faith . .”
Pipe-major: “Halt.”
Mr Gair: “I said that I could not abide
by the decisions of Moscow, and that the
personnel of my Govinmint was a matter
for .... for .... for . .”
Salvationist: “. . . . sinners like our-
selves who shall receive salvation.”
Mr Gair: “. . . for .... as I said to
the bosses at Trades Hall ...”
Drunk, passing through the audience
“I don’t believe a word of it, not one
bloody word.”
Pipers begin to play “The Skye Boat
Song.”
Salvationists begin to play “Hold the
Fort for We Are Coming.”
Mr Gair: “. . . for ... as I said
to the Trades Hall bosses . ..”


"Are you supposed to tip the steward?”


LETTERS
BEDSIDE STORIES
Sir,
1 read Nancy Keesing’s “Bedside
Stories” (Bulletin, November 18), her
impressions of three recent books in-
cluding one of my own, with much
pleasure and some profit. What she so
exactly records as her feelings about my
stories is not w'hat I wanted anyone to
feel ; I have had to ask myself why I
failed to make this particular reader
collaborate with me in the w'ay that I.
wanted. To be forced to this kind of
self-criticism seems to me useful —to
writers.
Her generalised comments can neither
be examined nor answered. If the
attitude irritates, if one cheats Miss
Keesing of her expectations ; weil, that’s
how she feels and that’s that. When she
complains generally that my characters
are “barely perceptible,” there is no
point in arguing with her. I can only
thank her for the sincerity of her com-
ments and suggest that “barely per-
ceptible” may have been the very effect
at which I was aiming. It may have been
a mistaken aim, but it was mine. Miss
Keesing seems to be complaining that I
have not achieved what Maurice Shad-
bolt achieves in his book, “an acceptable
account of some of the dilemmas of his
age.” What she is doing (with more
frankness than is usual in current
“critical” writing) is saying that A
satisfies me, B and C ought to satisfy
me in the same way ; Shadbolt does
what I want, Davies and Mathew had
better hurry and do the same.
It is because she defines her standard
(a singular word) so clearly that Miss
Keesing’s article is useful to me as an
author in a way that most reviews (with
their fuzzy, somewhere-in-the-mind defini-
tions) are not. But the fact is that Mr
Davies probably and myself certainly are
being judged by a standard that does
not apply to our stories and what they
attempt. Critically, the question is are
they good of their kind? It’s only after
that is answered that their value can be
declared. Discussing my story “A
Bohemian Affair” specifically, Miss
Keesing says, “It is all hurried through
so quickly that one has no time to do
more than sense, between the lines,
Sally's obvious misery, or Nicholas’s
steps towards maturity. We must hurry,
hurry, hurry, to Marion's funny con-
cluding words.”
It seems to me critically pointless to
complain that the story is not the display
of misery, growth or anything other than
what it is. What it is seems to me to
be the critic’s first concern. Why does
an author, skilled enough to provoke a
complete reading, insist on “hurry, hurry,
hurry” to the “concluding words”?
Probably because he regards the conclud-
ing words as more than the end of the
story. In this case, they are “funny”
only in relation to the story as a whole,
their irrelevance as applied to Sally and
her relationship with the hero ; they are
all that a Marion can understand of such
an affair. What the story aims to do is
to communicate this difference in values ;
it shows the actions of Sally and Nicholas
and the way they are and must be mis-
interpreted by the world in which they
happen. My conscious aim in this story
was to allow the reader to pass judgment
on a world so “bohemian” that it could
comprehend neither passion nor love,
i had neither the space nor the time to
risk displaying the emotions of the
lovers ; I'd have prejudiced my case had
I allowed the reader the chance to pass
judgment on the quality of their
emotions.
Miss Keesing would probably argue
that, even in relation to my now stated
aim, the story fails since I’ve so little
control of a reader like herself that she
worries about “Sally’s obvious misery”
and etc. In which case I can only bow
my head —over the typewriter—and try
again. She is entitled to her opinion.
RAY MATHEW
London.
MYTHS AND REALITIES
Sir,
Your article on the Asian Common
Market (Bulletin, November 4) effec-
tively and correctly explodes the myth
of a South-east Asian Common Market
so loosely suggested by wishful thinkers
wanting to counter the European
Common Market. However, you go on
and refer to Australia and Japan having
“roughly comparable standards of living.”
This shows a lack of appreciation of the
true situation.
A detailed knowledge of Japan’s subtle
employment practices is necessary to
understand that country's ability to pene-
trate markets of industrialised countries
all over the world. Published figures of
wage rates do suggest that Japan is not
a low-cost producer, but it is important
to recognise that published wages apply
in the main to “permanent” workers, who
comprise only 40 per cent, of the work-
force in the manufacturing sector. The
other 60 per cent, are temporary workers
who are hired either on a monthly or
daily stand-by basis on very much lower
wages. In addition, the practice of
“contracting out” is prevalent and pay-
ment of this sub-contracted work is
based only on low labor costs. Official
Japanese documents show that this is not
only a family affair but many employees
in this category work for pocket-money
and keep only.
This wage and employment structure
explains the lower living standards of a
great proportion of Japanese and the
ability of Japan to outsell any other
trading nation in the world in a wide
range of high-quality products of manu-
facturing industry.
Therefore, it is not realistic to
envisage even a limited Common Market
between Japan and Australia and New
Zealand. There would be substantial
advantages from very much closer trading
relations between Australia and New
Zealand and Australian manufacturing
industry has long advocated this.
Japan and Australia are great trading
partners. Increased trade between both
countries should be encouraged, but we
must recognise the basic differences in
the two economies and maintain effective
machinery to control Japanese exports
which compete with home industries.
R. W. C. AANDERSON.
(Director, Associated Chamber
of Manufactures of Australia)
Canberra (A.C.T.).
THE TAYLOR AFFAIR
Sir,
“The Taylor Affair,” as exposed for
Southern Tasmanian consumption by
Peter Kelly in “Mr Monk’s Doomed Cir-
cular” (Bulletin, October 28) and by a
Launceston Correspondent (Bulletin,
November 18) has been shelved officially
by the A.L.P., if it has done that much.
R C. Taylor is the Colossus in the
1 asmanian A.L.P.'s pro-communist
brigade. He doth bestride the party like
a Colossus, no matter how deep the poli-
tical wing buries its own head in the
sand. The Hobartian politicos are not
anxious to grasp the unity-ticket nettle,
and not game to stand up to R. C. Taylor,
the leader of the Left. They find him as
hard to hold as is mercury. But, as “The
Taylor Affair” indicates, sections of the
A.L.P. rank and file have had enough. It
will be interesting to see (1) what happens
to the West Tamar A.L.P.’s demand for
Mr Taylor’s expulsion ; (2) whether any
more A.L.P branches and members
similarly put in their claim for the better
days to come after the approaching A.L.P
defeat and the finale for Mr Calwell.
“In Hobart, the State Executive was
reported to feel that Mr Taylor had
broken no rules...” Then the A.L.P
should look at Rules 6 (v) and 8 (a) (ii).
STAN S. TREAKE
Cygnet (Tasmania).
WILCANNIA OR BUST
Sir,
Desmond Howard, in criticising my
review of “Thataway the Kings Go”
(Bulletin, December 2), refers to the
“fundamental antagonism of the Austra-
lian critic to the native play.” But is
this true? “The One Day of the Year,”
for instance, was praised by all the Aus-
tralian critics as far as I know, including
myself (Prospect, Vol. 4, No. 3, 1961) In
fact I find Australian plavs especialb
interesting and I imagine other Austra-
lian critics do also.
In any case it does not seem m be


NEW HEBRIDES
INVESTMENT
OPPORTUNITY
SHEF
/
(S&ciefe H&teliere d’Efate)
French hotel, tourist and
investment company in the
Condominium of New Hebrides
invites Australian investors to
participate in its development
programme at Port Vila. Excel-
lent expansion opportunities in
French New Caledonia. Operat-
ing hotel and good possibilities
of obtaining official financial
backing after the initial stage.
Contact SHEF’s Australian
representative, Mr. Russel Blake,
at
18 CORREYS STREET,
NORTH STRATHFIELD
Phone 734-4464
BOOKHUNTER
Dept. “D,” Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find It for yon—fiction,
(ext book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.O. Sydney.
LEARN TO
WRITE
SUCCESSFULLY!
Earn a spare-time income. Learn
Story Writing, Freelance Journalism,
Radio and TV Scriptwriting, etc., by
excellent correspondence training with
STOTTS.
Write today for free Prospectus.
159 Flinders Fane, Melbourne; 119 Castle-
reagrb St., Sydney; 290 Adelaide St.,
Brisbane; 21 Grenfell St., Adelaide;
22 Howard St., Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT'S: Please send me, without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
AGE.......... (582451)
true that the Australian public is hostile
to Australian plays. I think Malcolm
Robertson was quite right in saying in
“Thataway the Kings Go” that Wilcan-
nia is waiting for Australian plays. The
fact that this play was the fifth Austra-
lian play to be produced in Melbourne
in a few months, combined with the
fact that next March the Union Theatre
Repertory Company is to begin a whole
season of Australian plays in Melbourne,
seems to me to bear this out.
Mr Howard also thinks that the critic
should not mention the fact that Aus-
tralian plays are Australian. But most
Australian plays are genre plays, and the
genre is Australian life Patrick White’s
play “The Ham Funeral” appears, from
the reviews, to be in a different category:
it is not a realistic play about Australian
life, and therefore it is not relevant to a
criticism of the play that Mr White is
Australian. But in the case of most Aus-
tralian plays it is relevant that they are by
Australians.
MADELEINE ARMSTRONG
Eltham (Victoria).
THE COMING DISASTER
Sir,
Comments made since the publication
of the article “The Coming Disaster”
(Bulletin, September 16) have prompted
me to point out some of its more mis-
leading aspects.
It is 20 years since I spent some 13
months in Portuguese Timor, part of it
as commander of the Allied Forces
there, and this lapse of time would make
it rash of me to comment closely on
conditions existing there now ; however,
I have had discussions with people who
have visited the colony within the last
few years and, accordingly, I have con-
fidence in the comments I propose
making.
With a colonising history of over 400
years, the Portuguese have succeeded
better than the other European powers
in meeting the so-called color question
which seems to mesmerise those who
consider superficially colonial problems.
Over the centuries, the Portuguese have
adhered to an admirable degree of in-
tegration and 1 understand that the
present Acting Chief Justice in Timor
is an Angolan, ft would be a more
accurate assessment of affairs in Timor
than the ideas put forward by Willey
to say that there is a satisfactory degree
of co-operation between the Portuguese
Administration and the native organisa-
tion of Kings and Chiefs.
Looking at undeniable facts about
Portuguese Timor affairs, they cannot be
in the perilous state Willey indicated.
In 1945, the Japanese had rendered
Portuguese administration almost com-
pletely ineffective yet with no worth-
while armed forces the Portuguese have
re-established their control. Viewing this
objectively, it might be assumed that the
Timorese were not anxious to do away
with Portuguese control. As Willey
states, there is little or no support in
Portuguese Timor for the so-called
“Freedom Movement” which carries out
provocative raids from Indonesian
Timor ; raids which, if they were carried
out in reverse would be world headlines.
As Willey confirms, the Portuguese still
have only a token military force, which
must receive active co-operation from
the half-million and more they control,
otherwise there would not be the peace-
ful conditions which still exist.
The statement that they “live in utter
poverty and deaden their worries by con-
stantly chewing betel nut, which keeps
them in a semi-drugged condition” could
be applied with at least equal truth to
Australians if “drinking beer” was sub-
stituted for “chewing betel nut.” The
betel nut is used widely throughout
the world for its stimulating effects and
I know of a high South-East Asian Gov-
ernment official who uses it, even if
surreptitiously.
One of the most surprising facts to
us Australians in the latter days of our
stay there was the continued respect —
Willey calls it a “humble salute" —
shown to the Portuguese by natives,
when it was quite obvious that the
Portuguese had no power over the native,
and were, in fact, dependent upon him
for their lives. This form of greeting,
which is reciprocated, was used just as
freely between Timorese and Australians
of all ranks as a mark of mutual respect.
The Portuguese remained neutral
during World War II and thus there was
every reason why the administration in
Timor should remain operative, and the
Portuguese were quite entitled to rejoice
when both Australians and Japanese
departed and left them in undisputed
control of their own country.
Whilst the Government remained
officially neutral, many Portuguese
gallantly helped us and some paid with
their lives for this help. As one who
served in Portuguese Timor, I am sure,
whatever may be the eventual rule
there, that the forcible destruction of
Portuguese rule in the near future would
be an unmitigated tragedy for my good
and loyal friends, the Timorese.
BERNARD J. CALLINAN
Melbourne.
A NEW CASE FOR STATE AID
Sir,
Ross Parish, “A New Case for State
Aid” (Bulletin, November 25), isolates
one fault in the present State education
systems, excessive uniformity, but this
does not justify State aid to independent
schools.
In Australia, circumstances forced the
State into accepting increasing responsi-
bility for schools. Gipps recognised this:
“to insist in N.S.W. that each separate
denomination shall have its separate
schools ... is in reality to say that... a
large proportion of the population shall
remain uneducated.” But with the estab-
lishment of a State system to provide


Wk
N.
k-'-X
V
m
The maturing of a great whisky can he
hurried by no man. Here in the famous Bond 7
cellars, quietly ageing in oak, are the
fine whiskies that one day will
go to make the Bond 7 blend.
bond i
WHISKV
Jine liqueur whishj
BOND 7
ONE OF THE FIVE GREAT WHISKIES OF THE WORLD
92878
schools in areas neglected by the indepen-
dent sponsors a second fault was intensi-
fied; the over-supply of schools in some
districts. It was found that the election of
one school immediately led to a cluster,
all subsidised by the State. In 1862 Vic-
toria (1866, N.S.W.) legislated to with-
hold subsidies from schools erected in
certain areas. By the end of the 1860's,
then, conditions had forced the State to
move well past the activities suggested
by Mr Parish.
The problem of an over-supply of
schools in some areas would immediately
recur if the scheme advocated by Mr
Parish were introduced. Take the case of a
town with a population of three thousand
at present supporting a State High' School
of 600 pupils. With the announcement of
Government reimbursements for parents
whose children attend independent
schools, a further two schools are estab-
lished. The town would then support
three High Schools requiring twice the
total staff, having lower numbers in
higher forms (which immediately reduces
the range of subjects taught), and needing
two more of all the specialised buildings:
halls, cafeterias, gymnasiums, cookery,
woodwork and metalwork centres and
staff facilities. In the interests of ration-
alit> the State would be forced to main-
tain one school only, allowing the others
to continue if the parents were prepared
to meet the expenses involved, and we
would have returned to our present, far
from perfect, situation. Contrary to the
impression given by Mr Parish, there are
other reasons that partly justify “the
existing types and the existing scale of
State intervention.”
Mi Parish has great confidence in the
wisdom of the parent in an esoteric field.
The following recent occurrences in
American education where parent com-
mittees have considerable power should
be quoted. A teacher was dismissed for
for encouraging pupils to read Orwell's
“1984.” a maths teacher was dismissed
because the basketball team which he
coached as an extra-curricular activity
was defeated in a number of finals, and a
course in fly-casting was given the equiva-
lent academic status of English, Physics or
History. These examples are, 1 hope,
isolated and extreme, but generally it can
be said that once the schools are open
to direct parent influence they are at
the mercy of every organised pressure
group in the community. The problem
would be heightened where schools sur-
vive on their ability to attract pupils. One
of the strengths of the present State
systems is the degree of insulation pro-
vided for the classroom teacher.
Mr Parish justifies State aid because
this would lead to competition, diversity
and experimentation. Competition would
be intense but it is doubtful if any of
the other advantages would follow. Some
form of matriculation common to all
schools must remain and as yet we have
nothing that will satisfactorily replace the
formal examination. Inevitably, the
efficiency of the schools would be assessed
on their percentage of examination passes.
Teachers would be primarily concerned
with ‘'cramming" their pupils: a situation
that leaves no room for diversity of
method or subject content.
And even if we assume a change in the
present matriculation system there seems
to be little to support Mr Parish's hope
that the independent schools would be-
come centres of educational progress.
They would still be established by groups
interested in “education plus.” In all
probability they would continue to
deserve the comment supplied by Mr
Parish, "Very few appear to have carved
out niches for themselves in terms of
academic excellence, or educational merit
or novelty, alone."
Mr Parish nas, in fact, found no solution
to the current educational problem, but
advocates a return to the Governor
Fitzroy Dual system and its concomitant
defects. Excessive uniformity in the State
system requires a change within the
system, not duplication.
H. N. NELSON
Nurmurkah {Victoria).


REVIEWS
THEATRE
Look Outward, Man
The Buffalo Skinner. Lonny Chap-
man. Ensemble Theatre. North
Sydney.
Follies on Ice. Tivoli Theatre.
A mongst producers now working in
Australian theatre, Mr Hayes Gordon
(director of the Ensemble Theatre) stands
out as the prototype of the psycho-
analytical, dig-deep-man, re-write-the-
damn-play type of American director.
Even in the States the type is now
passing, and the swing is back to an
actor’s theatre. This critic would wish a
return to a playwright’s theatre, in the
Eric Bentley definition, but I am quite
prepared to admit that theatres which
stake their all on quality of acting or
direction rather than intrinsic merit in
the play do have a place.
To justify this place, a “producer’s
play,” for example, must show a sensi-
bility and level of creative thinking on
the producer’s part which replaces lack
of guts in the play itself. Some pro-
ducers can do this, can pour finely-
wrought feelings and soaring imagination
into an inferior script with such taste
and energy that they provide a genuine
theatrical experience.
In “The Buffalo Skinner,” a play
which is no more than a TV story-
board, Mr Gordon fails on the whole to
convince us that his very great resources
as a director are good enough to replace
a good play.
I am sure Mr Gordon has done every-
thing possible for this sketchy shadow
play, and on occasions there is enough
bite in the acting, the sound, the lighting
to carry us into a genuine experience.
These moments are not sufficient, how-
ever, to carry the evening.
“The Buffalo Skinner” tells the tale
of a mid-Western United States young
man, son of a revivalist preacher, who
sets out to reconcile the flesh and the
spirit. His main puzzle seems to be
whether making love is a sin or not —a
theme lightly illustrated by episodes with
one or two women.
The young man himself, played in an
incessant jig and slack-arm shake by
Mr Brian Young, displays so little
interesting conflict and so little charm
that not even for duty’s sake can one
follow him along life’s little way. He
is worried about God, God’s creatures,
love-making and sin—so, who cares?
It may be that there are enough
inarticulate young men and women
around this city to provide a good audi-
ence for the play—and for such the pro-
duction may well have some fascination
and some dim truth. For others, with
all admiration for Mr Gordon’s direc-
torial skills and the beautiful hi-fi sound,
I cannot see the play as worth serious
regard.
The acting showed up some
disturbing tendencies in the players;
there would appear to be too much self-
conscious searching for “justification” of
bizarre elements rather than a rigorous
chase of truth. Many of the young
players seemed to be having a most
intense inner experience, but little or none
of it communicated itself to the audi-
ence. Mr Don Reid’s fervent preacher
stood out as a successful bit of playing,
but several young ladies whose aim
apparently was to show sexual yearning
and lusty capacity came close to the
ludicrous. It will be a pity if Mr
Gordon’s art develops into something
purely private ; he ought perhaps to let
more of the light of real life into the
thinking of his company—observation of
the outside, rather than intense survey
of the inward.
‘“Collies On Ice,” at the Tivoli, shows
signs of being exactly right for the
holiday season. Packed with spectacle
and action, and with one or two superb
acts —Wim de Jong and Dorothy Dee,
who do a fantastic apache act on ice,
and the Trapinos, a local tumbling team
—the tliow is bright with color and
elaborate settings. Lighting is more
enterprising than usual, and holiday
visitors will have a visual delight from
some very pretty chorus dollies.
The show is a little weak in the singing
department, and comic Frank Berry only
has enough material for one good spot
on the programme. Mr Berry relies on
youthful bounce and schoolboy fresh-
ness of appearance (he’s only 24) and so
should prune his blue material, because
it goes right against his basic style. He
should also cut some of his “sick” gags,
which have been around Sydney for
quite a time .
Skating stars Pat Gregory, Bill Christo-
pher and ice-comic Harvey Weber put
real quality into the skating side of the
bill.
KEVON KEMP
Weighty Fairytale
Swanwhite. Strindberg. Sydney
Theatre Club.
HThe Sydney Theatre Club’s first pro-
duction in its new premises at Pad-
dington exhibited signs of haste. The
company struggled against an acoustic-
ally unfamiliar hall, back-stage noises,
and uncertainty of lines, to make a rather
tentative production of Auguste Strind-
berg’s “Swanwhite.”
This play demands a deft touch. It
needs a lightness of feeling, and a
delicate suggestiveness to preserve its
fragility of fancy; one heavy-footed
word or gesture and the image is broken.
It would need a very light-footed com-
pany indeed not to injure this fairytale
of courtly, magical love, and thus it is
not too severe a criticism of this pro-
duction to note that it didn’t quite get
off the ground. Part of the difficulty
appeared to be in the uncertainty of
producer Kevon Kemp’s approach;
whether to play it for its Strindbergian
symbolist value, or for its fairytale
fantastic quality. The set —an extremely
effective one by Michele —and the beauti-
ful groupings suggested the latter, while
the lighting (in intent, imaginative ; in
execution, limited), and the playing, sug-
gested much more strongly the purpose
and import of this company’s earlier
Strindberg production of “The Father.”
As a fairytale it failed because of heavi-
ness and lack of contrast. There was no
clearly defined line between the expo-
nents of evil and the victims of it. The
cloudy Duke, played by James Quin,
did not arbitrate between Good and
Evil in the persons of his daughter,
Swanwhite, and her stepmother, but
fought them out in his mind. As a result
he was unbalanced against the purer
monochrome malice of Jane Gabriel’s
stepmother who achieved some fine
moments of immobile, exultant darkness.
Perhaps the best suggestion of this side
of the play came from Lucy Clifford


3
4
Offers you tlte opportunity to invest safely
and profitably for
5, 10 or 20 years
in Sydney’s Power Expansion
The Sydney County Council, the premier electricity
distributor in New South Wales, serves \\ million people
in Australia’s greatest metropolis. A non-stop expansion
programme is under way, to meet the mounting demands
of today’s 480,000 domestic, industrial and commercial
users, and the needs of future customers.
Ample electricity is essential for Sydney's planned
development. As a Loan investor, you will help to ensure
that power will be available where and when it is
required.
Council’s annual income—now £34,000,000 —guarantees
payment of Loan interest every 6 months and full
repayment of principal at maturity.
INVEST IN SYDNEY’S PLANNED
PROGRESS TODAY
Call at any office of the —
Commonwealth Trading Bank; Australia and New
Zealand Bank Limited ; Bank of New South Wales ;
Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited;
Rural Bank of New South Wales ;
Or contact your Stockbroker, or the S.C.C. (2 0259).
AND CONVERT TO 5|%
Holders of S.C.C. Loan “RR” (£4/2/6%, maturing
15th December, 1961) gain an extra £l/12/6% when
they convert to the new Loan.
AN AUTHORISED TRUSTEE INVESTMENT IN N.S.W.
000
5l % LOAN for 5, 10 or 20 years
Underwritten by Charles A. Ord and Minnett,
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
as the evil maid, although she diem
sustain the intensity of the first act.
So much of Swanwhite is dependent
on the graduations, and pointing of
mood, and although, as Swanwhite,
Sandra Crawford could manage to carry
the wistfulness, her lighter, perter scenes
lacked spontaneity and resulted in blur-
ring the edges of the moods which should
have been in sharper contrast. She had
little help from Ernest Butchard as her
Prince, who had far too little majesty.
He at no time suggested an ability to
use the sword he carried, and as a
champion seemed to offer very little con-
fidence. He needs to find a more authori-
tative presence, and a wider range of
emotional projection.
The producer was unfortunate with
his minor characters. The gardener and
fisherman were too wooden, and the
swan-mothers’ movements were unfelici-
tous. On the small open stage move-
ment becomes a particular problem, and
one that this company has not mastered
yet.
A great deal of the tentativeness
appeared to stem from uncertainty of
lines, a passing problem which when
rectified should leave a performance well
worthy of attention. It still enhances the
reputation of this group which adheres
to a policy of presenting plays which
Sydney audiences would otherwise have
little opportunity of seeing.
JOHN CROYSTON


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Iworporated in England
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£A363,000, 000
•
Offices :
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years to
be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
Send for illustrated Bulletin
to the sole manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD,
78 Parramatta Road,
C amper do wn
Agents for
Rapid Magnetting Machines.
George Ellison Switch Gear,
etc. Makers of Classifiers
Water Filters, Steam Valves,
etc.
If any “Bulletin” illustration
takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you
a price for the original.
Divorce Notices
Matrimonial Causes Act 1959
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
To FRANCIS FREDERICK BRERETON.—TAKE
NOTICE that MILDRED MARY BRERETON has
filed a Petition for divorce No. SBll of 1961 on
the ground of desertion. If you wish to defend you
may enter an Answer in the Divorce Registry, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or before the
26th January, 1962 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from C. P. DIONAM,
Solicitor, 160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.-—C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
Matrimonial Causes Act 1959
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.— In Divorce.
To JOHN COAD BUTTERS —TAKE NOTICE that
AMY LOREEN BUTTERS has filed a Petition for
divorce No. 3374 of 1961 on the grounds of deser-
tion and separation. If you wish to defend you
may enter an Answer in the Divorce Registry.
Mint Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney on or
before the 26th January, 1962 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from C. P. DIGRAM-
Solicitor, 160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—C. A. JL
HARMS, Registrar
ART
Endless Refinement
Sydney Cooper Collection. National
Gallery of New South Wales.
One could hardly wish for a better
presentation of such a distinguished
collection as that of. Sydney Cooper’s at
the National Gallery of New South
Wales. Through his generous assistance
a small room has been redecorated to
house part of the collection. The works
will be changed from time to time now
that blasting operations on the Cahill
expressway have finished and these price-
less objects can be shown without risk
of breakage.
Apart from some lovely T’ang and
Sung porcelain, the group mainly consists
of Han, Wei and T’ang earthenware
figures, ming-ch’i as the Chinese call
them: statuettes intended to honor and
accompany the dead. For a brief period
during the thousand years of these three
dynasties China became the greatest
empire on earth. To some degree these
figures represent endless refinements,
transformations of long-established tradi-
tions as well as many skilful assimila-
tions and absorptions of vital impulses
from outside. These influences reached a
peak during the brilliant efflorescence of
the T’ang (618-906 A.D.) when the arts
flourished and various missions pene-
ted from the West.
Han figures have long been renowned
for a forthright simplicity of form whose
conventions, revealed in the two horses
on exhibition, enhance and channel a
great deal of energy. By way of contrast
the large Wei (386-534 A.D.) horse rears
in a stance of considerable dramatic ten-
sion made effective by a high arched neck
and a small head, as if a new freedom
of composition had been won. There
must have been thousands of them.
Indeed, they turn up in galleries all over
the world: a perpetual wonder of a
nation which could invest mass-
produced forms with equal vitality.
Hardly changed, new variations appear
on the old theme hundreds of years
later; the sense of originality still aston-
ishes us in an age when any new idea
can be exhausted in twelve months
All the figures of dark or white earth
covered with white slip and polychromed
in cream, brown or orange have attained
a venerable ageing. Nothing more poig-
nantly expressive of the fragility of exis-
tence can be found in art than some of
these early Chinese figures. The Han
dancers’ extraordinary sense of arrested
movement, single moments in a series
of gestures, belies the deceptive simplifi-
cations of form. In the graceful T’ang
female hunters arching across their
saddles, the gesture is incredibly alive.
Twelve elegant musicians, subtle varia-
tions of a standing figure, sway slightly
off vertical: they convey with their whole
bodies, as well with their pale sensitive
faces, the uncanny quality of rapt listen-
ing.
Only sculptors of the highest quality
can convey such a range of expressive
feeling. There is more, however, an unde-
fineable tragic quality which endows
these objects with presence. All rests cm
a consummate plastic genius, the fitting
vehicle of those priceless human quali-
ties that speak out of one turbulent
period in history to another.
J. HENSHAW
FILMS
Tiresome Bunkum
Double Bunk. Sydney Lyceum.
T enjoyed the hilarious trailer for this
film so much that I looked forward
to it, but all the best bits were in the
trailer. The rest was as dull and grey as
life on a house-boat on the Thames in
foggy weather.
Three major weaknesses stand out.
Slap-stick is only funny when it is con-
tinuous: it dies without incident piled
on incident. When it resorts to linking
dialogue, the dialogue too must be brisk
and funny; but in this case there was
only one well-timed wise-crack. (As the
“villain” falls through a rotten gang-
plank into the river, the “hero” says
cheerfully: “Drop in again sometime”).
But above all, the humor must have some
direction. When one laughs, one laughs
at something or someone; and the unfor-
tunate thing about so much so-called
English humor is that it often tries to
wring laughs out of things that aren’t
funny. This was the trouble with
“Punch,” which always assumed that the
best butts for wit were the Lower Orders.
“Double Bunk” is quite funny when
people fall in the water, and when boats
capsize, but it becomes cheap and nasty
when it sneers to get its laughs.
ANTON VOGT


Another “Wales” Service
f
Oversea markets, like gold, are
where you find them, but it is
easier to find them with the help
of the “Wales”. There you can
obtain information on new mar-
kets or be put in touch with
businessmen overseas. Exporting
is made easier for you, too, with
assistance in many ways ask for
a copy of the booklet “An
Australian Exporter’s Guide”.
You can bank on the “ Wales'*,
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(incorporated in new south wales with limited liability)
A6133C
Business, Robbery, Etc.
WEST GERMAN BANKING
Specific and Selective Controls
VX/hen, a few months ago, the Canadian Prime Minister
announced certain restrictions on the inflow of capital,
the volume of which seemed to threaten his country’s economy,
there was an immediate outcry from many American business-
men. However, faces turned red quickly when it was proved
that every Canadian regulation was lifted bodily from the
United States Statute Book. Which, of course, only proves
that everything is relative and must be judged in the end by
comparisons.
Limitations and restrictions of the Australian banking
system have been for years the favorite talking subject in
certain circles, mainly on the fringe of politics, with the private
banks themselves far less vociferous. There are quite a few
people who feel that Australia’s comparatively slow growth
and many other real and imagined ills can be traced directly
to our banking system being “in chains.”
As there is no way of assessing these or contrary claims
by figures or statistics, comparisons with conditions in the
fastest-growing (after Japan) and prosperous country in the
Western world might provide an answer.
West Germany, with about five times Australia’s popula-
tion, today has some 3795 banking institutions, apart from the
“Bundesbank,” the German Central Bank. The 338 commercial
banks do 60 per cent, of all the short-term business and the
three “Great Banks” (Deutsche Bank, Dresdner Bank and
Commerzbank) in turn account for half the commercial bank-
ing activities in this field. In other words, three big banks
control 30 per cent, of all short-term credit and lending, the
rest being shared by various bodies in 16 different classiflca-
tions, among them 867 savings banks.
A part from greater specialisation and sophistication, the
German banking system varies most from the Australian
custom in the field of industrial and commercial finance, as
the banks, not the stockbrokers, are launchers and under-
writers for the issue of share capital or industrial bonds.
Other fundamentally different approaches are to be found
in the terms of lending—with long-term credits mainly in the
hands of regional and specialised bodies —and in the mechanics
of securing and backing credits. In West Germany an
overdraft is really an overdraft, short-termed and in response
to some unforeseen event. Credit is obtained and guaranteed
through “Wechsel,” a sort of lOU with very definite time
limits and frightening legal consequences in case of failure to
redeem. Furthermore, German banks rely to a far greater
extent on deposits from the public than banks in Australia.
Savings-bank activities are, for all practical purposes, auto-
matically attached to the main business.
Comparing Australian overdrafts, or, better still, “limits of
overdraft,” with credit business based on “papers” or “notes,”
it has been suggested that the former system, more than any-
thing else, is responsible for a degree of inflexibility and self-
inflicted restraint in movements that is more damaging than
all governmental controls put together.
Speaking of government interference, the German banks
are at present regulated by the Bundesbank on the one hand
and the Central Banking Council on the other. Although this
would appear to Australian eyes a formidable straitjacket
and seems, at least to an outsider, to work well enough, the
German Government decided—and eventually both Houses of
Parliament agreed —that something stronger was needed.
The “Kreditwesengesetz” (KWG), the credit-system law
of 1961, will come into force on January 1, 1962, creating a
supreme controlling body which will shear the power of
member States and their State banks of the last vestige of
supervision they have enjoyed, until now, within their own
boundaries.
According to a statement by the Central Bank, the guiding
principle of the new law is “that in accordance with our
liberal economic order . . . there must be no more State control
than absolutely necessary.” This announcement is somewhat


"I preferred you as a frog.”


Always
Make
Life
Assurance
your No. 1 investment and protection with
Australian
AA etrof, °litan
Assurance
Let Us Suggest A Plan To Suit You
AUSTRALIAN METROPOLITAN LIFE ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
THE METROPOLITAN BUILDING
HUNTER AND BLIGH STS., SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
E. W. Robinson (Chairman),
Col. R. S. Goward, C.8.E., P. H. Phillips,
Struan Robertson, W. J. Cooksey.
hard to reconcile with Articles 5 and 6 of the new law, which
make the “Federal Supervisory Office for Banking” (FSO) an
“independent superior Federal authority” within the province
of the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs.
The interesting point—for Australia, anyhow—is
how can one be “independent within the province of .
especially since this Supreme Bank Office does not come under
the Treasury but under the Ministry for Economic Affairs.
It is true that in West Germany the Finance Minister is
only sixth in rank within the Cabinet, with the Ministry for
Economics right behind the Chancellor in the second place.
But bank control in the hands of anyone except the Treasurer
sounds strange to Australia. It has been suggested that this
new body, and the power which goes with it, in the hands
of Professor Erhard was the price the Chancellor paid to his
rather impatient deputy for creating the new Ministry of
Economic Co-operation, which went to the Free Democratic
Party in a coalition payment.
The West German Government admitted during the
lengthy debate in Parliament that the law was necessary as
“the credit system can perform its function only as a uniform
body”; it will be interesting to see how, in future, practice
will shape the legal theory of the past.
HThe seat of the Federal Supervisory Office will be in West
Berlin and it will be headed by a president, proposed, after
consultation with the Central Bank, by the Government to the
President of the Federal Republic. The functions of the FSO
are described in the Act by a deceptively simple paragraph:
“The Federal Supervisory Office shall counteract abuses in the
credit system which might endanger the safety of the assets
entrusted to credit institutions, hinder the proper control of
banking transactions or entail substantial disadvantages for the
economy as a whole.”
After a few introductory articles the law comes down to
brass tacks, giving the FSO power to regulate the size of
capital and supply of liquid resources to all credit institutions,
to control interest rates and commissions, lay down general
rules of conduct, keep an eye on co-operative societies and
even have a say in advertising.
The Central Bank will remain in charge of the currency,
regulate the circulation of money and the supply of credit to
the economy. The collection and exchange of statistical and
other relevant data will bring the two bodies together in the
same field under a Credit Recording Centre. To judge from
past Australian experiences, such a system would prevent the
rather dismal results of the lack of precise information which
the Australian Government experienced during 1960 and in
the beginning of 1961.
The main object of the Credit Recording Centre will be
the assessment of “large loans,” which include credits reach-
ing within 15 per cent, of the lender’s liable funds or for
one million Deutsche Mark (£110,000). In practice, the
German system again aims at specific and selective controls
and, if necessary, counter measures, compared with the Aus*
tralian use of general restrictions.
Interest rates, which in some cases are varied weekly or
even daily, and a monthly appraisal of credits granted (to what
extent and to whom) will ensure a degree of flexibility in
stimulating or braking those parts of the economy which are
in need of attention. This is unknown in Australia.
Instead of freezing a fixed ratio of deposits as in Aus-
tralia, the West German system uses a “guiding ratio for
credits,” which again allows greater elasticity in dealing with
specific problems. In future the supervision of investment of
bank funds will be a function of the FSO —through establish-
ing “principles” in co-operation with the Central Bank, the
Ministry for Economic Affairs and banking associations. Any
financial institution transgressing these principles will be called
to adjust its liquidity, even to the extent of blocking the pay-
ment of dividends, loans, withdrawals by proprietors and a
ban on investment in land or buildings. In the last instance
the FSO can restrict the powers of directors and managers and
even appoint a controller.
The whole set-up, ingeniously devised, somehow seems
to harbor a strange contradiction. Bundesbank and FSO are
supposed to work closely together and supplement each other,
regardless of the fact that the Bundesbank is outside Parlia-
mentary and Ministerial control, while the FSO is an instru-
ment of the Minister for Economics. It will be interesting to
see how the West Germans will solve this problem in practice.
In the long run it may become a question of personalities
and a duplication of the Canadian experience, where the
Minister of Finance had waged a long battle with the Chairman
of the Central Bank.
THhe new law has broken fresh ground in making special pro-
visions for German branch offices of foreign banks. These
branches are at present of minor significance but —perhaps
with an eye on Britain joining the Common Market —with
the increasing economic and political integration a “fuller
mutual interlocking of banking systems must be expected.”
The principle here is simply that no such branches should be
treated less favorably than parallel German institutions.
A wide field of supervision for the FSO has been created
through a change in techniques of larger borrowings for
industry. In the past such financial needs were nearly always
satisfied by the issue of bonds —a system which is even more
expensive in Germany than in Australia, among other things
because of a special Security Tax. In recent years “borrowers’
notes” have practically replaced bonds, so much so that the
banks find it difficult to place fractional notes firmly in con-
formity with maturity periods. In future such notes will have
to appear with a special declaration in the balance-sheet and
their volume will be supervised, and if necessary controlled,
by FSO.
The last part of the new law deals mainly with questions
affecting the safeguarding of deposits. It is confined to private
banks and has little bearing on Australian conditions while
merchant banks play a comparatively minor role in the Aus-
tralian economy.
On the other hand, in the German predicament there may
be a lesson for Australia. Business and private customers’
deposits in private banks at present amount to about 30
billion Deutsche Mark (£3350 million) with little or no formal-
ised protection. The amount involved and the difference in
business structure have so far obstructed all plans for the
establishment of a mutual-assistance arrangement, such as
Holland has had for many years. The FSO is now charged
with detailed supervision of private banks to prevent failures,
and it will try to work out a system under which the right to


accept savings deposits (or deposits in general) will be subject
to membership of a guarantee association.
It will be interesting to watch the results of the new law,
which —going against the general trend in many other fields —
perpetuates and reinforces control by the Government, or rather
by the Minister for Economic Affairs.
J.G.H.
STOCK EXCHANGE
Armidale Investment School
A nine-day residential course on sharemarket investment will
be conducted at the University of New England in Armi-
dale. N.S.W., by the University's Department of Adult Educa-
tion and the Sydney Stock Exchange. Commencing on
January 26, 1962, the course is designed for accountants,
bankers, solicitors and other professional men who are called
upon to advise on Stock Exchange investments. Some private
investors are also expected to attend.
The course will include lectures and practical projects.
Mr P. H. Davies, of the University’s Faculty of Economics,
and Messrs D. Chapman and R. Campbell, Sydney stock-
brokers, will give the lectures.
The school will concentrate on the more advanced tech-
niques of investment analysis, including some overseas methods
of assessing “growth” stocks. Project groups will spend some
time studying in detail the financial structure and market
performance of selected companies. A theoretical share port-
folio will then be selected by the whole school. Additional
lectures will deal with economic influences on the share-
market.
It is expected that 48 persons will attend the course, which
will be the first of its kind to be conducted by an Australian
university.
ADVERTISING
Wonders -Not Miracles
A/fODERN advertising is simply a “speed-up” process. If a
-*-*•*• product is such that it will sell successfully, advertising
will hasten its wider acceptance. If, on the other hand, the
product is unlikely to succeed on its own merits, advertising
will simply hasten its ultimate failure.
To expect advertising to compensate for a product's weak-
nesses or lack of sales appeal, to expect it to overcome a
serious price disadvantage or to make up for discrepancies in
the distribution system, is completely unrealistic. Yet millions
are being spent each year on publicity for products and
propositions which are ill-equipped to make their own way
against competition.
In the radio and electrical industry today, for example,
the traditional methods of distribution have all but collapsed,
brand loyalty has virtually disappeared and more and more
manufacturers are being forced into making ruinous discount
deals to maintain their share of market.
This obviously cannot continue, but no single manu-
facturer has yet had the courage to face up to the fact that
“You've changed a lot. You used to prefer wives."
new methods of distribution may have to be found if they
are to survive—certainly before they embark on costly advertis-
ing campaigns that can be sabotaged at the retail level by a
competitor’s counter “deal."
The same pattern is becoming evident in certain sections
of the food industry. Here the spectacular growth of the
chains with their massive buying power presents a serious
threat to manufacturers who are finding themselves being press-
ganged into increased bulk discounts, advertising subsidies and
promotional grabs, all of which must lead to reduced profit
margins for the manufacturer and, eventually, complete loss
of financial mobility.
Some manufacturers have, of course, recognised this danger
and have attempted to solve the problem by continuously
introducing new lines—a field the big food retailer is quite
willing to leave to the manufacturer—in order to maintain a
reasonable share of the market. Others have turned to “added
incentives,” another field in which the chains, with their low-
price policies, cannot readily compete. Continuing premiums
to hold customer loyalty over a period are a refinement of
the same idea. Not all are successful, of course, but without
some such positive approach to the problem of controlling
the channels of distribution, completely successful advertising
for any manufacturer is virtually impossible and the business
successes of the future must lie with those able to control the
vital pipelines that connect them with the consumer.
Problems of competitive quality and pricing are, of course,
equally complex, but sufficient evidence has been given to
indicate that, for any manufacturer to advertise successfully
today, he must—starting with the product itself—think the
entire selling problem through to the final point of sale before
calling on the forces of advertising to save the day.
Advertising can work wonders—not miracles.
V. E. THOMPSON
OVERSEAS TRADE
Large November Surplus
Merchandise exports recorded for November, 1961, reached
£101.9 million (£76.8 million last year) and exceeded
imports by £31.9 million, giving Australia its best monthly
trade balance since March, 1957. Figures for five months’
trading —July to November, 1961 —show a trade surplus of
£95.5 million, compared with a deficit of £131.9 million in the
corresponding period of 1960. On a monthly basis, this was
the seventh successive trade surplus since May.
Although there was a rise in the export price of wool,
and some substantial sales of wheat, there is little doubt that
the trade surplus was largely the result of credit restrictions
imposed last November.


x
tmenSr/lidi
SHKKtir
Penfolds
Amontillado Sherry
Full-bodied, dry
00
00
0000
000
00
o
I
m
e fpr. fi/. /foi
SHKRKY
Penfolds Special
Flor Sherry
Delicately blended
mm
tM'.&w/Jui
SHKRHY
Penfolds Pale
Dry Fino Sherry
A classic sherry
FOR
PERFECT WINES
Penfolds Club Port
Mellow perfection
fit
&
n
fir
$4
-M-
-afeafcSr
Penfolds Private
Bin Port
Full aged, tawny
\
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Supertax Industries Ltd
'T'he Federal Government's credit restric-
A tions, and the increased flow of com-
petitive imports, forced sales down by
about 11 p.c. Group profit was adversely
affected and net earnings were 30 p.c.
lower than in the‘previous year. However,
the compa-ny demonstrated its ability to
trade under difficult economic conditions
and maintained the 10 p.c. dividend distri-
bution.
First established in New South Wales
in 1946 and converted to a public com-
pany a year later. Supertex Industries
Ltd —the name was changed to present
style from Pacific Chenille-Craft in 1954 —
produces tufted textiles, bedspreads, dress-
ing gowns, floor rugs and towelling
Manufacturing activities which also in-
clude cotton spinning and yarn dyeing are
centered in Goulburn (N.S.W.), with a
towel and spinning mill at Auburn (a
Sydney suburb). Subsidiaries are Super-
tex Properties Pty Ltd. Supertex Yarns
Pty Ltd and Supertex (Victoria) Pty Ltd.
The new weaving mill of the towel
division has been completed. New equip-
ment has been installed in the chenille,
spinning and yarn dyeing sections. Direc-
tors feet that increased efficiency follow-
ing these plant extensions will be reflected
in better trading results in the current
term.
Pre-tax profit decreased from £275.434
to £194,736. Consolidated net profit for
the year ended June 30, 1961, was £34,606
lower at £80,314, after providing £55,543
for depreciation (up £1681) and setting
aside £57,879 for taxation (down
£48,773):
Parent and Subsidiary'.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. , Dividends , serves. serves.*
£ £ £ .£-
19.11.. 82,650 12.1 p.c. = 50.000 32.650 41,905
1952.. 24,288 Nil 24,288 '06,193
1953.. 55,141 6 p.c, = 36,000 19,141 85,334
July,
1954.. 36,100 5 30,000 6.100 91,434
Profit sale assets, £12,500 .. .. 103,934
1955. . 28,146 Nil 28,146 132,080
June,
1956. . 13,618 Nil 13,618 145,698
1957.. 19.021 3 p.C = 18,000 1,021 146,719
Added intangibles, £4312 .. .. 142,407
1958, . 48,243 6 p.c. - 36,000 12,243 154,650
1959.. 78,587 74 p.c. = 45,000 33,587 188,237
1960. .11-4,920 40 „ ~ 60,000 54.920 243,457
1961.. 80,314 10 „ ~ 60,000 20,344 263,471
* After deducting intangibles, £58,522 at S6/6/6T.
This was equivalent to an earning rate
of 13.4 p.c. on the average capital, com-
pared with 19.2 p.c. in the previous term,
13.1 p.c. in 1959 and 8 p.c. in 1958.
The steady 10 p.c. dividend, absorb-
ing £60,000, was sufficiently covered.
Reserves benefited by £20,314 and rose
to £263,471, after deducting £58,522
intangibles.
Paid capital remained unchanged at
600,000 in ss. ords., each backed by 7s.
2d. of net tangible assets calculated on
the basis of consolidated accounts.
The company’s chairman, Mr N. H.
Routley, said that the towel division is
now again working two shifts a day and
the spinning mill is about to introduce a
third shift. A new two-fold yarn. “Aqua-
sorb,'’has been developed, and more new
machinery is being installed,
No glamor stock, Supertex appears
to have performed creditably enough
under very trying conditions. Competition
is heavy, both from imports and domestic
rivals, and future prospects largely depend
on the general economic situation in
Australia.
The sharemarket’s evaluation is
cautious. At the last sale in Sydney the ss.


PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
K. H. ALLEN, M. R. L. DOWLING,
P. K. LEVY, A. P. REYNOLDS, N. U.
COURSE (Melbourne Resident Partner).
Oelfin House, 16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (30 lines).
Prudential Building:, 150 Queen St.,
Melbourne, 67-5957 (1 lines).
Telegrams and Cables: “Itosdale,” Sydney
Melbourne or Woolongong.
A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. F. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER,
N. \V. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Fife Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Rhone: 31 2761 P.O. BOX
(1 lines) No. 1887 AV
John N. Robertson, Thompson
and Co.
Members of the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS,
Temple Court,
422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Telephones: 67 6154, 67 6155
Telegrams and Cables:
ROBFALK, MELBOURNE
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
RALPH W. KING & YUILL
W. K. Yuill, If. C. Phillips, I. C. Walton,
G. G. King, W. S. Shug'g
(non-member partner).
33 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY, 2-0137
S 4 WILLIAM ST.,
MELBOURNE, 67-5089
310 QUEEN ST.. BRISBANE,
31-2191
Telegrams and Cables: “Kalpliking,”
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Grafton,
Taimvorth and Armidale
Missing Friend
To FRANCIS XAVIER RODGERS formerly of
Hartley Street, Alice Springs Northern Territory,
but now of parts unknown.—TAKE NOTICE that
your wife VERONICA TERENCE RODGERS has
instituted proceedings against you for divorce on
the ground of desertion. Unless, you. file an Answer
in the Prothonotary’s Office of the Supreme .Court
at Melbourne on or before the 31st day of January
1962, the case may proceed in your absence and
you may be ordered to pay costs.—RAYMOND
HUDSON* DUNN of ITS Queen Street, Melbourne,
Solicitor for the Petitioner.
Legal Notice
To DAVID JAMES MACDONALD SAME formerly
practising as a solicitor at (5 Russell Street. Essen-
don, in the State of Victoria. TAKE NOTICE that
the Supreme Court of Victoria will be moved
on Monday the sth February, 1962 at the hour
of 16.30 o’clock in the forenoon or as soon thereafter
as counsel can be heard by counsel on behalf of
the Law Institute of Victoria for an order that
the name of vou, the abovenamed DAVID JAMES
MACDONALD * SAME, be struck off the Roll of
Barristers and Solicitors of the Supreme Court of
Victoria or for such other order as the said Court
thinks fit on the grounds of misconduct by you
upon the report dated the 23rd October 1961 of the
Statutory Committee under the Legal Profession
Practice Act 1958 after enquiry into questions as
to your misconduct. If you desire to defend this
motion you must appear before the Supreme Court
of Victoria on the sth February, 1962 upon the
hearing of the said motion. Notice of the said
motion and all other documents may be inspected
by you at the office of the Prothonotary of the
Supreme Court of Victoria, corner of William and
Lonsdale Streets, Melbourne, during the normal
office hours. —ARTHUR HEAMANSON, 6 McKi 11-op
Street, Melbourne. Solicitor for the Law' Institute
of Victoria.
Information Sought
Would any person ■who can furnish any information
about or might have been concerned in an accident
involving a Holden Station Waggon Registered
No. BAR 861 and a semi-trailer on the Urana-
Lockhart Road at about 10.20 p.m. on 3rd November
1961 please communicate with J. A. A’. Denniston
Solicitor, of 115 Baylis Street, Wagga Wagga as
soon as possible.
Divorce Notice
To MELVAN GREGORY late of 2 Lennox Street,
Newtown. MERLE EILEEN GREGORY has filed
Petition No. 2802 of 1961 against you in the Sup-
reme Court of Slew South Wales Matrimonial Causes
Jurisdiction for Dissolution of Marriage on the
ground of 2 years’ desertion and 5 years’ separation.
It you wish to defend you should file an answer at
the office of this court on or before 26th January
1962. A copy of the. petition may be had from the
undersigned free of charge. K. RUDLOW, Solicitor,
77 King Street, Sydney.-—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
ords. changed hands at par with the
immediate yield at 10 p.c. p.a.
There were no dramatic shifts in the
consolidated balance sheet. Book debts
were lower:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1959. i 960. 1961.
Paid capital .. £600,000 £600,000 £600,000.
Reserves .. . . 246,759 301,679 321,993
Overdraft . . . . 310,080 330,770 334,579
Creditors . . . . 213,127 230,147 209,120
Tax provision . . 56,196 107,285 81,650
Final dividend . . 24,000 33,000 30,000
£1,450,162 £1,608,881 £1,577,342
Freeholds .. 131,533 136,953 187,075
Plant .. .. 298,354 289,104 300,765
Stocks .. .. 606,903 700,147 699,730
Debtors .. .. 351,305 414,630 328,059
Cash .. .. 3,245 3,525 3,191
Intangibles .. 58,522 58,522 58,522
£1,450,162 £1,608,881 £1,577,342
Stocks carried, including supplies in
transit, were slightly lower. Theoretical
working capital decreased from £417,100
to £375,631, but formal liquidity seemed
satisfactory.
A . J. Veall Electrics Ltd
HThe year was a difficult one for the
trading group, although income from
investments was slightly higher. Consoli-
dated net profit was lower. Paid capital
remained unchanged. The company
wrote up its shareholding in associated
companies by £200,000.
Originally established in Melbourne in
1911, A. J. Veall Electrics Ltd operates
through 18 subsidiaries as a wholesaler
and retailer of electrical, radio, refrigera-
tion and television equipment and
appliances and TV sets. In addition
A. J. Veall holds a large investment in
Corartie Pty Ltd, a well-off hire-purchase
and finance firm.
Public status was assumed in 1951 and
market performance since has been
satisfactory.
Last term was alfected by the credit
restrictions. Under the circumstances
A. J. Veall did not fare badly. Con-
solidated net profit for the year ended
June 30, 1961, was £27,338 lower at
£240,901, after setting aside £16,336 for
depreciation (down £2915) and providing
£22,441 for taxation (down £24,417):
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. , Dividends—, serves. serves.*
Pref. Ord.
£ _£ £ £ £
7 p.c. 15 p.c.
1959. .264,988 33,250 150,000 81,738 751,282
Profit sale assets, £1392 .. 752,674
Less tax underprovided, £389 . . 752,285
1960. .268,239 33,250 150,000 84,989 837,274
Profit sale assets, £306 .. .. 837,580
Less tax underprovision, £2749 .. 834,831
Asset revaluation, £200,000 .. 1,034,000
1961. .240,901 33,250 150,000 57,651 892,482
* Subject to intangibles, £349,784 at 30/6/61.
This was equivalent to an earning rate
of 20.8 p.c. on the average ord. capital
(after paying preference dividends),
compared with 23.5 p.c. in the previous
year and 23.2 p.c. in 1959.
The ordinary dividend was steady at
15 p.c. Reserves benefited by £57,651,
the £200,000 assets revaluation and £306
capital profit, but were reduced by £2749
tax underprovision.
Livelier trading conditions following
the end of the credit squeeze may im-
prove current term’s results.
Consolidated balance sheet position
seems satisfactory:
Paid capital— 1959. 1960. 1901.
Pref. .. .. £475,000 £475,000 £475,000
Ord 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000
Reserves .. .. 751,282 837,274 1,092,482
Mortgage .. .. 112,494 106,226 100,199
Notes .. .. 400,000 400,000 445,500
Overdraft .. .. 122,952 192,964 214,601
Deposits .. .. 663,000 747,800 608,400
Creditors, etc. . . 314,045 224,491 193,062
Dne associate c 0... 15,597 50,940
Tax provision . . 36,662 44,109 122,439
Final div. . . 91,625 91,625 91,625
£3,982,657 £4,170,435 £4,243,308
Freehold . . 329,849 342,811 346,465
Plant, etc. .. 114,347 114,895 111,374
Shares . . . . 1,808,345 1,808,345 2,108,440
Stock .. .. 428,803 453.920 362,148
Debtors, etc. .. 343,519 387,669 306,970
Associate co. . . 600,000 700,000 650,000
Cash, etc 8,010 13.011 8,127
Intangibles . . 349,784 349,784 349,784
£3,982,657 £4,170,435 £4,243,308
Bank accommodation was a bit higher.
Stocks were down. Notes increased.
At the last sale in Melbourne the ss.
ords. fetched 10s. 9d. a unit. The imme-
diate return is 7 p.c. p.a. on the basis
of adequately covered steady 15 p.c
dividend rate. The 20s. 7 p.c. prefs. were
last traded at 18s. 6d. each.
Net tangible asset backing works out
at Bs. 9d. for each ss. ord. and £4 13s. 4d.
for each 20s. pref. on consolidated figures.


“ it isn't how I imagined it!"
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 671
Across
I—Schoolboy1—Schoolboy who makes a quarter. (6, 6)
7 —Cupid drops in? (4-5)
10 —Burns silver next to a cop. (5)
11— Improved accommodation still
isn’t enough for 25-across. (6, 8)
13— Tell folk numbers the chassis of
Berne, Zurich etc. (5, 7)
16 —But he is not the avenger of the
pauperised punter. (5-7)
20 —Bloke to telephone some land-
lord which comes with an
enclosure? (8, 6)
23 — Husbands have such changed
views. (5)
24 — It is Edna’s, (anagram) (9)
25 — 23-across of superior parts. (6, 6)
Down
1 — 16-across suggests such a talk-
ing marathon. (10)
2 Trumpet calls. (7)
3 A football’s parent dipilatory. (5)
4 Make them bat before he is
steep. (7)
5 He was gifted in painting a form
of yoga. (4)
6 A seaman crumb to come to
nothing. (5)
8 — Glassy republican tricking after
six. (6)
9 They’re fluid enough to get fifty-
one pounds. (7)
12— Averted so secretly, but does too
much dealing. (10)
14 — French one to beseech another
French one which is not
started. (7)
15—Show-offs set up after winter
footwear. (6)
17— Poetry heartens this work as a
foreman. (7)
18 — Tragedienne to choose some
painter. (7)
19 — Loves to have the solution. (5)
21 — One picture printed within
another. (5)
22 — Hands up! Do a trade. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 670


s»fi^sjs»tf^a».»»S'*P <rth^.Ss^»M»»«|j«j>
;
mm
r:
i *, a
4 * .
■
,-A
ft
*
„ v £
B&kr-
K-
•■, V
lK|f
*
■f * ■■'•'*? ■ •. •
iftilll
■ ■ *rt '
,'f,ip« :
■
“The Mac Nab”, by Raeburn
poRTRAYS Francis Mac Nab, who became 12th Laird of
Mac Nab in 1778, in the uniform of a Lt.-Colonel of
the Breadalbane Fencibles. The clan of Mac Nab fought
under the English Standard at Bannockburn in 1314 and
consequently lost their estates to the Dewars and
McGregors.
This canvas was exhibited at The Royal Academy of
1819 and has been on view at various loan exhibitions,
notably in Rome during 1911.
This picture, from the collection of the late Lord
Dewar, now hangs in Dewar House, Haymarket, London.
BY APPOINTMENT TO HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS
JOHN DEWAR & SONS LTD., PERTH, SCOTLAND .
Is tfie
cfwtcA
\ p„. “ M Ific”
\, Pr '*e Mci>al s M
DISTILLER H J
ptttm
I K..^° n °rr it[ ,
“"''•Hoymarfett.S.Wl.
CONTENTS
Ht|
6 fL
80t tle d
wholly
DISTiUID,
UNDER COMMO 1
matured
NV/£ aI
lth
it never varies
DWIBB
