

The Bulletin
Registered in Australia for trans-
mission by post as a newspaper.
December 23, 1961
ASLEEP IN THE SUN
a O N|}


w/" B 1:1
:: -< - ti*Am& : I h%, l ——
- - lift I |- N -' - - • *****
1
t-
: _J
«*£
r (
ITT.
*s
/.
/■
.:/
K
m
m-^
i
VIEW FROM
THE WINDOW
A bumper-to-buniper tenseness . . . the strain of driving on
congested roads . . . the fear of accident . . . the encum-
brances of a multitude of necessary road restrictions . . . the
anxiety of finding a place to park at journey's end . . . these
factors do not worry the viewer at the window.
He has finished reading his newspaper and settled back
for a few minutes of soliloquy ... to watch the scenery
parading by the window, secure in the knowledge that his
destination will be reached at a known time.
OF
v 5
TT
Q
CO
The right track? You'll find it reaching out into
every corner of the State 6,000 miles of railway
track the same royal road along which a young
Colony progressed to a prosperous State over the
span of a century.
NEW SOUTH WALES GOVERNMENT


Tanner
”I GOT WHAT I VOTED FOR—INFORMAL GOVERNMENT."


This Australia
ELECTIONS
That Queensland Vote
E. EVANS
“The lie direct”
FROM MUGGA
Most political observers had tipped
the loss of a few seats in Queens-
land, but no one had tipped a landslide
of nine seats, including two Ministers.
Campaigning throughout the State had
been quiet, although Mr Menzies had
attracted a hostile audience at his Bris-
bane meeting on the Monday before the
elections. Of the nine losses, most came
from the Liberal party. Country party-
officials, careful not to rub it in, were
not nearly as dismayed as they sounded.
Feeling in Queensland between the C.P.
and the Liberal party has never been par-
ticularly good, and this year has been at
its lowest ebb ever. In the last few weeks
before voting, outspoken State Country
party Mines Minister (Mr Evans)
gave the lie direct to both Supply
Minister (Mr Hulme) and Capri-
cornia Liberal George Pearce over claims
by Mr Hulme that Mr Pearce had been
“solely” responsible for obtaining orders
for the export of Kianga coal to Japan.
“Mr Hulme’s lack of interest in his own
State is well known,” Mr Evans told a
fascinated House. Whether Mr Hulme
and Mr Pearce can thank Mr Evans for
their downfall will remain one of those
political enigmas. His comments could
not have helped them.
Only one State Country party
Minister (Jack Pizzey, Education)
campaigned during the elections.
Premier Frank Nicklin was in the
audience when Mr Menzies spoke in
Brisbane but not on the platform. Angry
Federal Liberals also claimed that State
issues had brought about their downfall.
Transport, land administration, the recent
Liquor and Racing Bills . . . these were
the uncharted rocks on which they
foundered. Or so they said. There could
well be something in their argument,
although to it must be added consistent
Federal neglect of Queensland over the
last 12 years. The “niggardly” Mt Isa
loan, and the £5 million “peanut” scheme
for beef roads apparently was a classic
case of too little too late.
Credit for their success must also go to
the determination with which the A.L.P.
machine exploited its opportunities. The
defeat of Country party Harry Bandidt,
for example, in the Wide Bay seat, which
he held for only three years, was un-
deserved. During his hard-working term,
Bandidt built up many personal contacts
and this may have been relied upon too
much by party organisers. But contacts
made and people helped in three years do
not provide enough support to with-
stand a determined assault by a well-
organised party machine such as Labor
had. Jn Maryborough, and possibly in
other parts of the electorate. Country
party organisation was outmatched and
the workers were outnumbered. Labor
manned the remotest polling places ; the
Country party just left bundles of how-
to-vote tickets hanging around. Bandidt
wrote his own advertising copy ; a
smoothly working system saw to :t that
Labor advertising copy was written for
ali newspapers in the electorate.
Mr Gair’s Queensland Labor party
also appeared Jo be a spent force in Wide
Bay. The party's candidate, E. V.
McDonnell, a Gin Gin canefarmer, polled
1535 votes compared with his 4127 in the
1958 election. Support for J. F. Dunn,
an independent with Social Credit lean-
ings (597 votes), did not have much
impact on the result of the poll. Both
McDonnell and the Queensland Labor
party Senate candidate, Mrs Anne
Clemens Wenck, a Maryborough school-
teacher, made appeals for unity within
the Labor movement, after the election
result was known on Sunday.
There must be food for thought for
Mr Menzies in Queensland's volte face.
State Country party and Liberal officials
also have plenty to chew on in the course
of the next 15 months before they face
up to a third term. On the trend of
voting shown on Saturday, Mr Nicklin
and Mr Morris are on their last term
now . . . and so are half their backbench
Members
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252.1; Phone: 27 5971.
Vol. 82
No. 4271
DANCING
"The Fore-arm Stomach Jolt "
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
'“The ballroom-dancing battle which
raged in the Victorian Supreme
Court last week ended in a cease-fire
after the parties got together at a round-
table conference. Ballroom entrepreneur
Allan Ray (“Bon”) Gibbins sought
damages over an alleged conspiracy by
some of his rivals whom he claimed had
imposed a “malicious ban” on him. The
alleged conspirators were six members of
the Australian Dancing Society—George
Thomas (“Mickey”) Pow'ell and his wife
Mira, Jack Bosley, Norman Chappie,
Don McLaughlin and Alan Close. The
Powells conduct Melbourne’s best-known
school of dancing at the top end of
Bourke Street.
Mr J. W. Mornane (for Gibbins) said
that since the alleged ban was imposed
in September, 1960, attendances at
Gibbins’s dances had fallen off, causing
him financial loss. Gibbins had arranged
to hold the State titles of the Australian
ballroom dancing championships at the
St Kilda Palais on September 19, 1960,
but eight days earlier the A.D.S. held a
meeting at Mickey Powell’s premises and
ruled that couples competing in Gibbins’s
titles would not be allowed to compete
in any A.D.S. events. Mr Mornane said
that one couple dancing at the Palais
championships was told by one of the
defendants to get off the floor. Gibbins,
51, who has been a dancing teacher and
contest organiser for 30 years, claimed
he had lost £l5O through t' e absence of
some of the Palais competitors.
Keith Donald Willshire, boat builder
and professional dancer, told the court
that he had heard of the alleged ban on
couples competing both in the Gibbins
and ihe Powell shows. On August 28
he had danced in a Gibbins contest at
the Melbourne Town Hall and on the
following night went to Festival Hall to
a Powell competition. His number was
not called and when he went on to the
floor Powell gave him a forearm jolt
in the stomach and called for some
“bouncers'' who ejected him. One of the
defendants, Alan Close, claimed that
Willshire was the only dancer ordered
off a floor since the ban was imposed.
Close said he had supported the ban
which was not calculated to harm Gib-
bins but merely to protest to the society,
which consisted mainly of dancing
teachers.
On the fourth day of the hearing, the
parties conferred and Mr Mornane later
told the court that “sweet reasonable-
ness” had prevailed. Mr A. Croxford
(for the defendants) said his clients were


prepared to rescind the ban on Gibbins
in return for undertakings from him that
he would remove the reasons for the ban.
Gibbins then entered the box and gave
a series of undertakings. He promised
not to interfere with the organisation
of the world professional dancing titles
to be held in Melbourne in 1962 by
Powell or the A.D.S., nor would he hold
any dancing contests within four weeks
of the start of the world series.
Powell, on behalf of the other defen-
dants and the A.D.S., then promised not
to apply for permission to hold the
amateur w'orld championships for 1962
and said he would do nothing to prevent
the titles being awarded to Australia,
provided they were not held in Victoria,
He promised to rescind the ban on Gib-
bins. Both Powell and Gibbins promised
not to publish material calculated to
lower the other’s prestige.
EDUCATION
Maths with Tears
FROM A PERTH CORRESPONDENT
A. F. WATTS
No decision
A llegations that some students had
come weeping out of the examina-
tion room after sitting for the Leaving
Certificate mathematics papers in Perth
last week have sparked off a long-standing
controversy about the status of the Leav-
ing Certificate in Western Australia.
The present Leaving Certificate taken
at the end of the fifth year of secondary
schooling has been under fire for some
time now A report by the W.A. branch
of the Australian and New Zealand
Association for the Advancement of
Science has recommended its abolition
and the substitution of a General Certifi-
cate of Education at the fourth year
followed by a university entrance
examination at the end of sixth year.
This would mean potential university
students doing an extra year of schooling.
Some private school headmasters have
backed this report in a general way, and
Minister A. F. Watts’s Education Depart-
ment itself has been examining the possi-
bility of separating the Leaving and
Matriculation exams for three years now
without coming to a decision.
Teachers who criticised the standard
of the mathematics A and B papers
suggested that it was made difficult quite
deliberately to enable the university to
select students bright enough to take a
matriculation. This was a penalty on
the great, majority of students who sat
for the Leaving as a preparation for
getting a job.
One Government teacher said the
papers must have been set by a “smart
aleck” who had no idea of the average
standard of the students. Some girls had
come from the examination room after
the mathematics A paper in such a state
of weeping and distress that mistresses
had spent the lunch hour trying to calm
them in time for the geography paper
in the afternoon.
The condemnation of the papers was
not unanimous. Some teachers, mostly
in private schools, said they were hard,
but would not worry good students. The
emphasis was on understanding prin-
ciples rather than on knowledge of how
to work out a standard set of examples.
Public Examination Board chairman
Dr K. Wheeler denied that the standard
of the Leaving had been raised to make
university entrance harder. If the
mathematics examination was more
exacting than in past years this would
be taken into account in the marking as
had been done in past years. Matricu-
lation standards were set by the university
and had nothing to do with pass marks
in the Leaving.
Dr Wheeler’s statement brought a
stinging reply from Mr G. F. Lambert,
principal of one of the State's biggest
High schools. He said that in 40 years’
experience he had never seen a paper
which bruised the minds and broke the
spirits of so many earnest young
students. Those who had obtained dis-
tinction marks for mathematics through-
out their school careers felt they would be
struggling for a bare pass. They saw
their matriculation and their planned
careers jeopardised and their chances of
scholarship reduced to nil. He said he
knew of other High schools where his
opinions on the difficulty of the papers
were shared, and that their adverse re-
ports on the papers had not been men-
tioned by Dr Wheeler in his statement.
A year after the Public Examination
Board said it was discussing alterations
to the Leaving to cut the high failure
rate in first year examination at the
University of Western Australia and
almost four years after the Education
Department started an investigation of
the public examination system, there is
still no indication that any action has
been taken apart from the implication
in the current controversy that Leaving
papers are deliberately being made harder
to weed out weaker students among
university candidates.
UNIONS
Broken Branch
BY PETER KELLY
Tt seems rather incredible in these com-
paratively prosperous days for unions
to be short of funds. Although the build-
ing industry has been hit pretty hard by
the current economic recession, the New
South Wales Builders’ Laborers’ Federa-
tion has lost few of its 8000 members.
When the news leaked out recently that
the branch had a bank balance of £9,
the 22-year-old former pick and shovel
laborer, Mr “Mick" McNamara, refused
to say why this was so but left the field
wide open for speculation when he said
he had “inherited it that way.” He did
say however that half of the members of
the Federation were unfinancial and that
the New South Wales branch owed its
federal office £7OO for affiliation fees and
other charges. He added in a somewhat
sad understatement that the branch had
“virtually no cash” and owed £l5OO
“on various accounts.”
While no mention was made in any
report of a drive to make the unfinancial
half of the union financial, some of the
members had agreed to pay the next
half-year’s subscriptions in advance.
“This," said Mr McNamara, “will enable
the women office staff to be paid first.”
Despite the fact that officials of the
Federation are either being unnecessarily
tight-lipped about their finances, or
simply don't know, union secretaries
around the Trades Hall say that the
many legal conflicts within the union
were a major factor in depleting the
union’s coffers. But there are other
factors which remain unexplained.
In September last, a special auditors’
report by Wilkie Teape and Company
said “no improvement had been made to
unsatisfactory features” reported in the
union's finances in the June 30 half-
yearly report. Making rather an
obvious statement the report said it was
impossible to check every receipt but
an “internal" check had revealed a
number of matters which “appeared
irregular." The auditors also suggested to
the executive that it direct certain mem-
bers to attend the union “by appoint-
ment” so that the queries could be
cleared up.
So far Mr McNamara, who was elected
for a three year term only last month
(he is the youngest trade union secretary
in Australia), has managed to keep the
union together—despite its finances. He
has so far found enough money to pay
his nine officials their weekly wage bill
of £2OO.
Although one would expect him to
jump at the offer of a loan from another
union he has so far declined. According
to a member of the communist Building
Workers’ Industrial Union in New South
Wales, he was offered a loan “just to
help him out.” But he was not politically
naive enough to accept. Being in the
financial “red” is perhaps bad enough.


TOURISM
The Centre Game
REG ANSETT
Competition
FROM LINDSAY ELLIS IN ALICE SPRINGS
The past year saw the decline of one
great industry in Central Australia
and the blustering birth of another.
Ravaged by the worst drought in living
memory, it watched the greatest exodus
of cattle in its history —and witnessed a
record-breaking influx of tourists. Giant
road-trains loaded with gaunt-ribbed
cattle for the rail-head at Alice Springs
shared dusty bush roads with plush new
motor-coaches, outback-bound with their
cargoes of wide-eyed tourists.
Tourism had been Big Business for
some years in Central Australia. But in
the “boom” season just ended it estab-
lished itself conclusively as the Centre's
newest and most promising industry.
Part of the reason for this sudden
boom in tourism was a move by T.A.A.
before the start of the last tourist season.
Until then, Ansett-Pioneer Tours domi-
nated the Centralian tourist scene. Ovet
a period of a few years the company
spent hundreds of thousands of pounds
on its Alice Springs luxury motel, its
tourist chalets at the various scenic spots,
and equipping a huge vehicle fleet. Large
sums went on publicising the Centre.
Around this colossus flitted the small
operators.
Jt was into this situation that T.A.A.
brought its suggestion for a Central Aus-
tralian Tours Association to give the
small operators a united front. The
association was quickly formed, and
T.A.A. secured as manager of C.A.T.A.
Mr Bert Palmer, an experienced
Adelaide tourist man who well knew the
potential—and problems —of Territory
tourism.
The success of his efforts is shown in
the startling results achieved in the Asso-
ciation’s first year of operation. Join!
turnover of its members for the season
was double the total turnover of the same
operators working as individuals the
previous season. In all, C.A.T.A. handled
about 3200 tourists on Central Australian
scenic trips. Ansett-Pioneer handled
about 4022. Joint turnover of the two
companies is estimated at more than
£200,000.
It is impossible to establish the exact
number of tourists who visited the Centre
during the past season. Smaller, indi-
vidual operators took their cut, while
private motorists, living out of their
vehicles and scorning the organised tours,
poured through the country unchecked
Caravaners and campers in thousands
made the Centre their mecca. Petrol
re-sellers at such isolated spots as Kul-
gera on the overland highway from
Adelaide were sometimes delugrd with
customers. Lonely Angas Downs cattle
station on the long drive to Ayers Rock
reported petrol sales “beyond all expec-
tations.” Other cattle stations denuded
by drought have swung their resources
into the tourist game. One station, with
the backing of a large oil company, is
setting up a modern service station,
garage, and cafeteria to cater for
travellers 200 miles from the nearest
town. Another provides morning and
afternoon teas for bus travellers on the
way to Ayers Rock, as a side-line to
cattle work. Another station owner has
put thousands into a tourist hotel and
motel on the north-south highway to
Darwin.
Competition is also hotting up. Re-
cently, Ansett - A.N.A. secured flying
rights on passenger services from
Adelaide to Alice Springs and Darwin,
in direct competition with T.A.A.
T.A.A.’s flight schedule was halved to
make room for the newcomer. T.A.A.,
which had opened the Territory air-link
and carried the burden of the ea’rly years
of service, undoubtedly felt a little
piqued that it should have to share the
field now that the teething period was
over. So it was not surprising when
T.A.A.’s “baby,” C.A.T.A., suddenly
announced that it was beginning a luxury
road-coach service between Alice Springs
anc } Darwin for yeais the undisputed
realm ol Ansett-1 loneei.
The challenge was down. This week
Ansett-Pioneer replied with an announce-
ment that it would shortly be putting
on the Darwin run a bigger and better
bus than C.A.T.A., high-speed, super
luxury, and air-conditioned. With the
ball back at its own feet, C.A. 1 .A. is
expected to announce shortly a luxury
addition to its bus-fleet. Whether it in
turn will be better and bigger than the
opposition s is not known yet. If it is,
the tip tor the future is that before long
there will be an all-American Greyhound
bus eating up the miles to Darwin,
And on past experience, that’s just
when officialdom will step in with a 40
or 50 m.p.h. speed limit—which would
bring the field right back to size.
RELIGION
Witnesses at the Seaside
FROM FRANK SANDERSON IN QUEENSLAND
On December 1, almost 400 Jehovah’s
Witnesses descended on the sleepy
seaside resort of Hervey Bay (population
4000), near Maryborough (Q.), and,
between sessions of “Theocratic Ministry
School,” “Ministry Development Classes”
and preparation for field-work, put what
they had learned to good use by fanning
out over the area in search of converts.
'
They came from the 16 Congrega-
.. r ■ • i ®
lions of a circuit which takes m a large
slice of Queensland from Gympie to
Rockhampton and west to Longreach for
e semi-annua iicui s e oy.
Between sessions, those who were not
. •
door-knocking lor converts—or swim-
. & . ,• , n- iu o u
ming at the tree-lined Pialba Beach —
B , • , • ram u„
were engaged in keeping the assembly
functioning.
With headquarters at the Pialba R.S.L.
hall, there were committees responsible
for feeding, housing, informing, organ-
ising and seating. The assembly had its
own electricians and a battery of tape-
recorders was started during the main
sessions.
On Saturday afternoon three typists
rattled out “news” releases in the P.R.
section ; a cashier sat silently at his desk
in one corner of the P.R. room ; a van
stopped outside the hall and three young
men silently began to unload canvas
seats ; three young men and two girls
sat seriously at a table near the hall
entrance and a loose group of men and
women, mostly middle-aged, stood or sat
in the body of the hall and talked in a
low monotonous undertone. No one
laughed. Few smiled,
On Sunday afternoon Witnesses,
friends, new converts and the
curious heard Mr J. A. Wilson, of
Sydney, one of the three Australian Dis-
. , . ~ e
trict Supervisors and representative of
Watchtower Society, deliver the mam
address h assemb Yv. -Uniting Men
jn g Sp|i ,. up Wo rid." -How?" asked
j(],■ publicity folders. “By man-made
■ J
organisations such as the U.N. ? Or does
■ , . , , .... • -.
this modern world need an invisible spirit,
, -. ~ , u-
God, to unite all nations under His
Kingdom?”
Thirteen baptisms (with complete
immersion in the warm, clear water of
Urangan) were made of people from
13 to 70 years Mr Jack B ell, the P r.
man, said one Mt Morgan (near Rock-
hampton) family, which had been converted
and t> a ptised at the last semi-annual Cir-
cuit Assembly, had brought another con-
verted family to baptism. Both families
would, he said, return to Mt Morgan and
bring other families to be baptised . . .
Working on the premise that every mem-
ber of the sect is a minister and that it
is their unswerving duty to seek converts,
they probably will.


DEFENCE
The Darwin Base?
VISCOUNT SLIM
“Too vulnerable”
FROM KEITH WILLEY IN DARWIN
In a sense, Darwin has been waiting
years for the day when Britain quits
Singapore. When planning for the future,
businessmen never fail to take into
account that Darwin could be “the future
British bastion in the East. Never a
month goes by without some new rumor
cropping up. This month it was talk
of an American submarine base. The
month before a British “trouble-shoot-
ing” division was to have been stationed
here and the great Singapore base aban-
doned Ever since the war the armed
Services have “frozen” huge areas of the
city's best land, causing a congestion so
acute that, with a population of under
15,000, new residents have to go seven
or eight miles out to build a house.
Many servicemen have seen this pri-
marily as a garrison town, ever since
the day —20 years ago now —when Japa-
nese bombers swooped out of the clouds
to destroy the old Darwin and write a
new page in Australian history. Pro-
posals for a Malaysian Federation, carry-
ing with them the certainty that Britain's
days in Singapore are numbered, have
brought the Darwin pipe-dream nearer
reality.
In London recently the Malayan
Prime Minister, Tungku Abdul Rahman,
said Darwin would be a better site than
Singapore for the British military base.
Exactly what are the chances? Several
years ago when Sir William Slim, then
Governor-General, was visiting Darwin,
1 put it to him. The Field-Marshal
emphasised he was not speaking officially,
but that as a military man he considered
Darwin too vulnerable. He would choose
a site over in Western Australia instead.
Darwin could have many advantages
as a base. It has a magnificent inter-
national airport. It has a huge R.A.A.F.
ground establishment, geared to handle
the frequent arrival of large numbers
of jet warplanes from the south, and
from Butterworth in Malaya. The harbo:
is the finest in north Australia, but
costs would be enormous. At present the
railway goes only as far as Larrimah ;
and the highway only to Alice Springs
and Mount Isa. There is no railway
or bitumen road link right through to
the cities of the south. Before the idea
of a base could be entertained tens of
millions of pounds would have to be
c pent on communications.
Bearing in mind the trend of events
in Asia, it seems highly unlikely Britain
would build a new' Singapore here or
anywhere else. What will she have left
to defend that is worth such staggering
expenditure? What use is an exposed,
centralised base in a nuclear age?
Britain’s recent history clearly points
towards integration with Europe and
disentanglement from her costly overseas
commitments. For Britain even a com-
paratively small base in Darwin would
seem a luxury she does not need and
can ill afford. As far as the United States
is concerned there is a chance Darwin
might appeal as a base for nuclear sub-
marines. But anything more than that
is unlikely, to say the least.
It is obvious that Darwin's chief value
as a base would be not to Britain or
America, but to Australia itself. It is
only a couple of hours’ flying time from
Indonesian Timor, nearer Djakarta than
Canberra. If we have any future enemies
they will lie to the north, so there is a
case for a naval and air base at Darwin,
with a striking force capable of reaching
the major cities of a potential foe.
But would, or could, Australia pay out
the huge sums necessary to set up a base
of even modest proportions? The
R.A.A.F. at present views Darwin as a
sort of forward platform. Everything is
kept ready so that, in an emergency,
squadrons could be rushed north, where
a first-class airport and ground facilities
and personnel would await them. A
radar warning system is in operation
already. There is evidence of similar
views in the other Services. The Navy
has vacated H.M.A.S. Melville, its big
headquarters block in the middle of the
town, and “integrated'’ its personnel with
the Army at Larrakeyah Barracks. The
Army is preparing to vacate a big part
of East Point defence area, which will
be broken up for building blocks includ-
ing, it is said, a new Government House
for the Administrator of the Northern
Territory. The Navy’s present, Darwin-
based “striking force” consists of one
patrol vessel. As far as the Army is
concerned a peace-time build-up is most
unlikely. One bomb on the Stuart High-
way would sever Darwin's lifeline w'ith
the south and isolate at once any land
force placed here.
As an offensive base, Darwin has pos-
sibilities only if we could count on sea
and air superiority against a potential
enemy. But if war came it probably
would be against a nation equipped with
modern Russian aircraft, outnumbering
and outgunning the R.A.A.F. Indonesia's
recent decision to enlarge the airfield
at its Timor capital, Koepang, to take
jets, underlines our exposed position.
If the offensive capabilities, under
present conditions, are doubtful, what
about the defensive? First, what would
Darwin be defending? Would an enemy
land in the Territory, where one bomb
could disrupt his communications?
Where he would have to extend his
supply lines thousands of miles before
he reached anything worth shooting at?
He would be far more likely to immo-
bilise Darwin with a few bombs then
strike along the east coast where there
are a communications complex and ready-
made supply bases. There is a danger
that a big, costly military establishment
in Darwin —when and if the test came —-
would be by-passed and strangled like
the Maginot Line, while the real battle
went on elsewhere.
SPORT
The Soccer War
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
Victoria is the only State with unified
control of Soccer and we intend to
keep it that way, announced the pub-
licity committee of the Victorian
Amateur Soccer Football Association in
Melbourne rather complacently on
October 19. Now, six weeks later, the
V.A.S.F.A. is before the Supreme Court
in a breakaway action that makes the
Federal Government’s losses look like a
splinter.
On October 30, the State league clubs
in Melbourne, which are the drawcards
of Soccer and represent chiefly but not
exclusively national groups, rejected an
invitation' to join the national federa-
tion sponsored in Sydney, and two Vic-
torian club officials were appointed to
visit N.S.W., Queensland, South Aus-
tralia and Western Australia in an effort
“to end the dangers of disunity.”
The peacemakers were themselves con-
verted and are now protagonists in the
litigation. They are Mr Theo Marmaras
and Mr Michael Weinstein. Apparently
as a result of their report the State
league clubs decided within a fortnight
to join the breakaway Australian Federa-
tion of Soccer Clubs and to ask the
V.A.S.F.A. to join, too. The league clubs
felt that by not joining, Victoria would
be unnecessarily isolated, which would
be especially crippling since Australia is
already isolated by the ban by F.I.F.A.
on migrant players who have come here
in the past few years from Europe.
The V.A.S.F.A. response was remark-
able. They suspended the 12 clubs and


their four delegates. About 116 delegates
of minor clubs from all parts of Vic-
toria then attended a meeting at which
the decision was endorsed, and they in-
structed their delegates not to attend a
meeting of the Federation of Soccer
Clubs formed by the State league clubs.
The four delegates lost no time in con-
sulting Queen's Counsel, and they then
announced that their suspensions were
unconstitutional and that the council of
the V.A.S.F.A. would have no right to
disburse “any liquid resources” without
taking into account the interests of the
12 State league clubs. What had alarmed
the State clubs more than their suspen-
sions was the threat of the V.A.S.F.A.
to form another league of State clubs,
immediately raising fears about the
V.A.S.F.A.'s assets of £14,000.
There are 16 plaintiffs in the Supreme
Court action including officials of several
clubs. The defendants are members of
the executive council and board of
trustees of the V.A.S.F.A. Mr Justice
Smith has given them leave to move on
December 18 for temporary injunctions
pending the outcome of the action to
stop the V.A.S.F.A. from expelling their
clubs or from disposing of any of the
£14,000 which they claim was mainly
derived from State league clubs’ takings.
It is certain only a pardonable
exaggeration to report that hardly any-
one in Victoria knew Soccer was still
being played until the migrants on the
field and their more excited and pug-
nacious supporters around it began their
simultaneous matches in Melbourne.
“I Want a divorce!”
DEVELOPMENT
The Kraft Cheese Case
FROM W. V. DAVIES IN SCOTTSDALE
Queensland and the Northern Terri-
toiy are not the only places where
people complain Government money is
spent on the south instead of the north.
There is also the north-east of Tasmania,
the island's Cinderella. Hence the Tamar
bridge affair and the case of Kraft cheese.
The pressure to bridge the Tamar
comes from both sides of the river,
Beaconsfield on one side with a large
developmental programme under way,
and Bell Bay-George Town on the other
with an aluminium industry already
established and a ferro-manganese pro-
ject rapidly nearing completion.
To placate these two towns the Govern-
ment has gone through the usual motions
and ordered investigations of the site,
soundings, test bores, etc. (although
according to a former Warden of George
Town, the team that did the soundings
“must have had hooks on their sounding
lines,” because “they always went home
with a bag of fish!”). Then after six
years of all this came the recent
announcement that no suitable founda-
tions are available, and the entire scheme
has been plunged back into the melting-
pot of Tasmanian politics. The Warden
of George Town has asked if all the
previous plans have been a form of
political camouflage designed to placate
the people of the north and give them
the impression something is being done.
Now another factor has been brought
into the battle for a bridge, when the
George Town Municipality asked the
Launceston Marine Board to offer its
technical advice on the project. To date
the Marine Board has been quiet on the
subject of the bridge, although, with the
knowledge of the 40 tortuous miles
between Low Head and the inland port
of Launceston, it could have been most
vocal. Its silence may well be the result
of the knowledge that the establishment
of Bell Bay, and the provision of deep-
water facilities there, might be a body
blow to Launceston as a port.
With debate on the bridge still
meandering on its circular route, a take-
over bid by the Kraft group of food
processors for the dehydration factory at
Scottsdale brought the question of an
access road for the north-east of Tas-
mania into prominence again. At present,
access to the north-east is by routes that
are extremely scenic, but also a very
expensive bottle-neck for people whose
time costs money.
If the Kraft bid is successful, opera-
tions at Scottsdale will expand at a rate
that will make the progress of the last
50 years seem insignificant.
To accommodate this expansion, and
allow the Scottsdale factory and the
north-east in general to participate in the
benefits of the much-vaunted vehicular
ferries, an access road is essential. At
present exports from the north-east crawl
over the winding miles of the Sideling,
which are a monument to the courage of
pioneers but that is about all.
Like the Tamar bridge, this new access
road has been promised for a long time,
with the proviso made that the Tamar
bridge should be completed before the
road is begun. Interests in the north-
east say that this proviso should no
longer apply, because conditions have
changed so much since it was made, and
the cry is: “You are not going to build
the Tamar bridge now, so use the money
and give us the road you promised.”
Planning for a major bridge may take
years ; in that time the north-east could
lose an immense amount through the
present strangulating road system. Pres-
sure from Kraft, with a large stake in the
north-east, could also be an embarrass-
ment to the Reece Government,
committed to industrial development.
In the meantime, observers want to hear
how the Reece Government explains the
fact that Maunsell and partners were
asked by the Government to design a
bridge before the location was known,
and before the type of structure that
would be required could have been
known. North Tasmanian electors agree
the answer will have to be good.


“I don't know what your game is, Frampton, but it'll do you no good smarming in here with your fatuous Christmas
Greetings!"
IMMIGRATION
The Action Committee
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
While the election results in Victoria
might be a stalemate in some direc-
tions, Student Action is well pleased with
its own campaign to fight racialism in
Australia’s immigration and domestic
policies. Linking students from Mel-
bournes three tertiary institutions-
Melbourne University Monash Univer-
sity and the Royal Melbourne Institute
of Technology-Student Action's original
purpose was to harass politicians, both
Labor and L.-C.P., with questions about
racial discrimination in Australian migra-
tion policy. Later it defined its aim as
opposition to all forms of racialism, thus
roping in the aboriginal question.
During the election campaign close on
100,000 leaflets were distributed attack-
ing the present color bar in migration as
unchristian and out of touch with
popular feeling. (The November 4 Gallup
Poll showing 57 per cent, of Australians
in favor of migration of skilled Asians
was very useful.) Demonstrations at
election rallies made the news, and as
well as boldly painted slogans (“Mind
That Tan—They Might Deport You”;
“White Australia Policy Stinks”) these
usually included propaganda jingles set to
simple tunes. Lest anybody think that
the campaigning was merely an outlet
for youthful energy, a group of Mel-
bourne University professors and
lec urers 37 in. ail, swung in with a public
statement backing Student Action.
Both Mr Menzies and Mr Downer were
testy when confronted with the student
demonstrators and their questions.
Mr Calwell while outwardly calmer,
paid Student Action the tribute of send-
ing a circular letter to all endorsed A.L.P.
candidates in Victoria warning them of
the anti-racialism campaign and intended
to serve as a kind of brief for the defence
of White Australia (See Mugga,
Bulletin, December 9, 1961). Referring
to proposals to admit educated or skilled
migrants from Asia and America, Mr
Calwell said: “The duty of such people
is to their own, and if they wish to avoid
their obligations and go elsewhere they
are escapists and deserters. This is
particularly true of those Asian students
in Australian universities who wish to
break their bonds and forget their obli-
gations to build their own nations. These
are the last people Australia should wish
to welcome.” Student Action cheerfully
arranged to have extracts printed in
“Farrago”, the university weekly.
What is the future of Student Action
now that there is no election campaign
to provide a ready-made arena for its
own campaigning? It has built up a lot of
contacts and a mailing list ranging well
outside the ranks of students and has a
good supply of newspaper clippings,
photographs of demonstrations and
placards for use in future campaigning. It
will be keeping a watch on the High
Court case over the deportation of the
two Darwin pearl-divers and may turn its
attention to the forthcoming citizenship
convention in Canberra next January. It
is also preparing a film on the recent
demonstrations and other anti-racialist
activities with the aim of having it distri-
buted overseas.
Here the Federal Government has the
upper hand since it has power to prohibit
the export of films. But the resultant
publicity from the imposition of such
a ban would only be another triumph for
the campaign.




For election matter in this issue requiring
signature, Donald Horne, of 252 George Street,
Sydney, is responsible.
PLAIN ENGLISH
A Policy Without a Party
IN the gloomy period of political
instability that lies ahead, Aus-
tralia —if it can be described as
being governed at all —-is almost
certainly going to be governed to a
background of party expediency. If
the kind of nonsense that dominated
the election campaign is the kind of
thing that determines electoral success,
this will mean a short-term inflationary
programme carried out in an environ-
ment in which there may be a loss of
business confidence (including that of
overseas businessmen). There will be
little concern for the broad issues of
Australia’s future survival and pros-
perity. Even the short-term desire to
get men back into jobs may be frus-
trated if the collapse of business confi-
dence is acute.
It has not been widely realised even
among businessmen exactly what Aus-
tralia’s fundamental economic prob-
lems are. They are not fundamentally
the short-term alleviation of unemploy-
ment. but questions concerned with
in-built inflationary pressures and a use
of resources that at present imperil
the export industries.
Merely meddling with a bit of infla-
tion will just put things back where
they were. If it goes on long enough
we would revert to the unhealthy kind
of boom evident in 1960, and another
recession would have to be arranged.
Costs would go against the export
industries, which have to earn their
profits on unprotected world markets,
and if this went on long enough de-
valuation or subsidies would be the
only way out. The alternative to the
mess produced by these kinds of
policies is to concentrate resources in
industries of high productivity and in
the export industries.
Further exacerbating this problem is
Britain’s decision to enter the Euro-
pean Economic Community. The jolt
from this may not be as sudden as
has sometimes been suggested, but it
does mean that Australia may not be
able to export to anybody some of the
goods it now exports; that it will have
to find new markets for other exports;
and that to keep its trade in balance it
may have to develop new exports. To
imagine that we can just go on as we
are is ridiculous. To survive as a
trading nation (and we can’t survive
without being a trading nation) we
would have to change our trade pat-
tern and our internal production
pattern even if the economy were
already oriented towards the export
industries —which it is not.
Here, then, are three economic prob-
lems of critical importance:
1. Restriction of inflation.
2. Flow of resources to export
industries.
3. Changes now necessary to solve
the problems set by Britain’s
future entry into the European
Economic Community.
But even these three critical prob-
lems must be set in a wider background
of the even more critical problems
that come from the fact that Australia
is an underdeveloped, underpopulated
and virtually undefended continent
adjoining one of the most unstable
areas in the world which itself adjoins
an aggressive power determined to
dominate the whole area.
What can we do about that?
TN the first place we must develop,
A populate and defend this continent
if we are determined to hold it. and
this sets further economic problems,
some of which make the solution of
the problems already outlined even
more difficult. Maintaining or
increasing, as we should —the rate of
migration sets loose new inflationary
forces which only imaginative develop-
ment planning can offset. Develop-
ment itself has to be paid for in
resources, yet in all the election cam-
paign woofle about development—
however well it came across in TV
documentaries —who indicated where
we were going to get the men, money
and materials to do the developing?
And in defence there are questions
more of quantity than of quality. We
need bigger defence forces. Where are
we going to get them?
In the second place we may have to
look for new friends or strengthen old
alliances in the areas that surround
communist China in South-East Asia.
SEATO is the best we have for the
moment, and there seems some reason
to accept the charge that it is primarily
an instrument of Western European
disengagement from the area and a
way of ensuring that our American
allies do not become too committed in
South-East Asia to Western Europe’s
detriment. Great new concepts are
emerging—such as the projected
Malaysia and Japan’s miraculous
economic growth —that seem much
more relevant to the future of Aus-
tralia.
Connected with this are the great
questions of our national morale vis-
a-vis the possible intimidations and
ingratiations of Communist China over
the next 10 or 15 years. Our physical
defences are still crumbling on the
Chinese perimeter. Laos is lost to us
as an ally and South Vietnam is
threatened. As Professor C. P. Fitz-
gerald has said: “The Japanese occu-
pation of Indo-China was the first
cause of the fall of Singapore. Com-
munist conquest of Indo-China could
be the prelude to the fall of South-
East Asia.”
TN these terrifying circumstances,
A what is the future of a country that
does not yet recognise their existence?
That even in filling its belly cannot
look to the future but merely rushes to
the first trough that is shoved under its
snout? What shocks are ahead when
we move out of our pleasant dream
that we can go on forever as we are.
with no sacrifice, no discomfort, not
even an abandonment of fantasies? We
live in a world where there are greater
issues at stake than an extra five bob
a week on pensions.
It was the narrow parochialism and
the old-fashioned pre-occupation of so
much of the election campaign that
made one despair. We are not Ireland,
or Sweden, or Switzerland. We are not
a little country living in a stable area
and sheltered by the military alliances
of others. We cannot afford the
luxury of acting as if things were still
the same. We are lonely, and if we
had bad luck we could become isolated
and deserted —unless we help our-
selves. As it is now, in a crisis we are
dispensable.
What kind of policies might meet
this combination of problems? In the
first place we must begin to plan our
economy in a comprehensive and long-
term way. This does not mean a
further Government bureaucratisation
of business. It does mean deciding
which way the economy should be
shaped, announcing the decisions and
implementing them not by clumsy and
self-defeating direct controls but by
fiscal and budgetary methods that pro-
vide both the penalties and the incen-
tives whereby free enterprise can,
where necessary, redirect its energies.
We must establish priorities for
export industries, development indus-
tries, industries of high productivity
and industries that are of strategic
importance. Investment in these indus-
tries should be encouraged by special
taxation and credit policies. Industries
which compete for resources with
essential or highly efficient industries
should be sorted out and the future
growth of them should be restricted by
the same kind of methods, although
in such a way that hardship is not
suffered by innocent men.
''THROUGHOUT the world nations
A are adopting the methods of
planned capitalism—in which free
enterprise is left to run its own affairs
in detail, but is given directions in the
national interest. The economic re-
covery of France was associated with
detailed planning of this kind. Japan
has adopted a ten-year plan which
calls for a 100 per cent, increase of
the gross national product by 1970 and
has made Japan the fastest-growing
economy in the world.
In approaching the special problems
of trade, the solution may be at hand
if we concentrate more on countries
in our own part of the world. It may
prove to be of the utmost importance
that Australia should accept the fact
that Japan is rapidly taking Britain’s
place in our trade pattern; perhaps we
should consider our future economic
growth in this light. This would mean
a change in the nature of some of our
exports, with a growing emphasis on
metals. It would also mean a change
of importing policy.
Traditional objections to suffering
competition from the Japanese textile
industry are no longer relevant. There
will still be some competition of this
kind, but the Japanese are exercising
self-restraint in textile exports. Under
the ten-year plan, for example, there
is an increasing emphasis on the export
of heavy industrial machinery and
chemicals. Taiwan is another potential
trading partner in our own part of the
world, and while other nations in the
area are economically weaker, there
are possibilities for trade relations with
them that we have not yet exploited.
TN strategic national development
more positive forms of Government
action must be associated with the
encouragement of private enterprise.
Mr Menzies’s Water Resources Board
was a good idea. We may need other
bodies of this kind, and in the case
of comprehensive area schemes we
need more bodies of the kind of the
Snowy River Authority. But setting
up statutory bodies does not produce
the resources needed for national
development. That will be done finally
only by diverting resources into
development areas, which means that
some other areas are going to do with-
out. More specifically, it means that
Queensland and Western Australia
should be developed by the Govern-
ment at the expense (to some extent)
of other States; and that private enter-
prise should be encouraged into
development areas by special tax con-
cessions.
Plans for increased migration should
be integrated with development
schemes. We are no longer going to
find it easy to attract migrants. Europe
is no longer a dump of displaced or
dissatisfied persons we can pick over at
our leisure. The kind of planned
capitalism now operating in Western
Europe is ending that. We must now
range more widely. It is amazing that
we have not fully attempted to exploit
the fears of European capital and skills
in Africa, for example, as a source
of national development.
If policies of this kind are carried
out, Australia will emerge as a stable
and strong potential partner for other
nations interested in our part of the
world. And that would include
America. At present we take America’s
friendship for granted, but even
America could be found wanting as
an ally in a crisis. America is irre-
trievably committed to East Asia, but
South-East Asia and the South-west
Pacific must inevitably be lower in
American priorities.
In foreign policy it is dangerously
illusory to imagine that the British
Commonwealth means anything any
more to Australia, and it is well-nigh
incredible that Mr Calwell should
want to trust our future to the United
Nations. We must get our alliances
and our safeguards where we can find
them. And we may be able to find
allies in the future only by making
ourselves strong enough to be worth
making an ally of.
In domestic policy, other than
economic policy, two main problems
mark this period of Australian history.
One is education and the other is com-
munist infiltration. In tertiary educa-
tion Mr Menzies has been a pioneer in
money-finding, but even more money
must be found for education. It is
here, however, that Federal responsi-
bilities should end. The quality of
education provided is of immense im-
portance, but that does not have to be
—indeed it should not be—a national
matter. An emphasis on diversity of
approach in education may provide the
main hope for survival of education
standards, and discussion on these
questions is better carried out on a
State level.
/''OMMUNIST infiltration first brings
to mind the union movement and
the Labor party, and here the prime
responsibility rests squarely on those
A.L.P. men who are anti-communists.
Going slow for a few months on
policies that favor Soviet and Chinese
foreign policy and the interests of Aus-
tralian communists is not good enough
if those who prompt these policies are
still in the unions and the A.L.P. The
infiltrators must be filtered out. and
although this is not likely to come from
the A.L.P.. it would be a great day
for Australian democracy if all trade
union elections were automatically
conducted as secret ballots by court
authorities.
We would consider these to be the
main problems of Australia. Most of
them have little obvious electoral
appeal, but if the political crisis
deepens and instability finally unnerves
the electorate, the time may emerge
when they could be the policy of a
strong Government. For the moment
they are a policy without a party that
is likely to put them into effect.


BONDI:
Asleep in the Sun
By PATRICIA ROLFE
real-estate agent frowned across the sweep of sand
and sea to the waterfront of Bondi beach. “This,”
-*» he said dispassionately, “is the crummiest real-estate
area I've ever seen in my life. I call Bondi the Great
Australian Sell. It looks wonderful in a color picture to send
overseas, advertising Australia . . . world-famous beach, the
outdoor life, peace, prosperity —come and get it! But the
reality. Look at those crumbling blocks of flats! Look at
those sub-standard shops! It’s a sell, all right.”
The real-estate agent was not. of course, pointing out
anything new. Most people who have been there see that
the beach is one thing, Bondi another. The ugliness of
man-made Bondi, opposed to the God-made beach, is one
of our most remarkable achievements.
But strip Bondi of all the “part of the Australian
myth” “representative of our way of living” myth, and
there is still something which makes the idea of Bondi
stand for more than any other part of Australia’s generous
supply of beautiful coastline. New South Welshmen,
trapped by cold winters overseas, talk of lying on Bondi
beach.
Bondi's bikinis this year have had far more publicity
than they warrant, because the connoisseurs state firmly that
there are more examples of less on many other beaches.
We still talk about “going through” like a Bondi tram,
although the trams are now buses, and the trams, in
honest fact, were more often than not piled up in a cater-
pillar crawl along Oxford Street. Bondi cannot help getting
the affection, if only grudging, of most Sydneysiders. It’s
something like, with all your faults 1 love you still.
The idea of Bondi is one thing; reality another. But
in the first place, it is unfair that Bondi should be blamed
for not being something that it was never intended to be.
It is pointless to compare it with Nice or Miami, even.
Heaven help us! with Surfers’ Paradise.
Bondi is not a resort, and it is unlikely, now that so
many other places in Australia have blossomed with fibro
and plastic paint, that it ever will be. It would be a hope-
lessly late starter in an overcrowded field. Bondi is merely
a Sydney suburb which has a beach. The beach is its back
door rather than the front entrance.
Much of the ugliness of Bondi would pass unnoticed
along stretches of Parramatta Road. It merely suffers,
although, perhaps, more than most, from the diseases
which make so many areas of Sydney so unpleasing—
greedy and thoughtless builders and owners, lack of plan-
ning or just plain lack of common sense and lack of
interest by people who live there in their surroundings.
However, when the students of the University of N.S.W.
recently had a town-planning exhibition they awarded
Ramsgate Avenue. Bondi, the palm as the ugliest street in
Sydney.
What is the real Bondi? There are the sand and surf,
behind them the concrete promenade built by Waverley
Municipal Council. Then a wide stretch of grass, at
weekends covered with picnickers, and, late in the dry,
inevitably with bottles and papers. The grass is dotted wi :i
scrubby but hopeful Norfolk pines. The prevailing win:s
at Bondi have stopped these trees, planted about 70 y; s
ago. from growing luxuriant, and the council hopes o
replace them with New Zealand Christmas-bush.
Cross the grass to the roadway, where the tram-tracks
have been torn up to provide car-parking space. Then
there is the row of shops, flats and hotels, built either
in Bondi-Edwardian or barrack-square style. The build-
ings in good repair and freshly painted in this sweep of
road stand out remarkably clear and bright against their
neighbors. Beyond that, unbroken by trees in streets or
gardens, are the red-roofed “semis” and cottages.
To the north on a rock escarpment is the Bondi golf
club. The new clubhouse, all bright paint and imitation
sandstone (or that expensive real stone which so cleverly
mimics imitation), proclaims the power of the poker-
machine, and there are no trees or shrubs, not even a
modest row of cannas, visible to the passerby.
Beyond the surf the sewer outlet at Ben Buckler,
with its spreading brown stain in the water, proves that
man can mar even the sea, and is a reminder to all sailors
that they are now passing world-famous Bondi.
At present the Waverley Council is repainting all coun-
cil properties along the beach. The Mayor, Alderman
R. M. O'Keefe, said that the buildings would each be
painted in a different color scheme to give a “carnival
atmosphere.” He said the council had appealed to property-
owners along the beachfront to repaint their properties, and
there had been some response.
TN some curious ways everything at Bondi seems to have
A stopped still when war broke out. To go there for
the first time in 20 years is to marvel that the beach is still
so wide, the sand so fine and clean. So many other beaches,
particularly those on the north when ravaged by January
gales, seem to be eroding that Bondi seems immense and
unchanged.
But while the beach keeps its splendor, nothing else
changes, either. One of the mobile stalls which ply along
the promenade has prominently displayed “Toffee Apples.”
The tables in the colonnade at the side of the surf-sheds
have marble-tops. Marble at present is very fashionable,
but this is ancient marble with the grime and germs of
generations imbedded in its cracks and veins.
The turkish baths and hot sea-baths, with their warn-
ing notice to “get rid of harmful acids which might bring
on rheumatism, arthritis or lumbago,” are still there. The
shop windows are decorated with dummy chocolate blocks,
their colors faded by the generous sun. The interiors of
the shops are dark with wooden booths lining the walls.


38
4
Oaken ca sks of
specially selected
matured whiskies on
their way to the blend-
ing vats where they
are “ married ” in the
age old way to produce
theJamous Bond 7 blend.
r o
» *
fine liqueur whisky.
BOND 7
ONE OF THE FIVE GREAT WHISKIES OF THE WORLD
92868
or with wooden tables and chairs. Laminated plastic has
not yet come to Bondi.
TIONDI had its greatest period of development in the
** twenties and thirties. It is still an almost perfect repro-
duction of the suburb we built then. It hasn’t the charming
quaintness of, say, St Kilda, with its pier and its air of an
Edwardian watering-place. But the big houses of Bondi
have gone, broken up into rooming-houses, and with them
seems to have gone any air of elegance which Bondi might
ever have hoped to wear.
The cottages are often semi-detached, many of them
on 20ft frontages, which ensures that the sea of red roofs
is virtually unbroken. The cottages have small front
verandas, supported by heavy, stucco-encrusted posts. The
small garden may have gnomes or multi-colored flower-
pots, but rarely is there anything more ambitious than a
few straggling red geraniums.
Mr E. V. Walliker, who manages the L. J. Hooker
agency at Bondi Beach, says that the Landlord and Tenant
Act is largely responsible for the dilapidation of the beach
area.
He pointed out blocks of flats with the mortar be-
tween the bricks crumbling like ripe cheese, and with
iron veranda-supports gnarled with rust. He drew attention
to houses with hardly a trace of paint left to show what
color they were originally. The owners will not, or in more
cases, because their income from the property is so small,
cannot do major repairs. They intend to —or must —let
their properties fall into dereliction.
There is reportedly one row of 15 semi-detached cot-
tages near the beach to which the owner, a woman living
in the country, has done nothing in 30 years.
But why has the Landlord and Tenant Act defeated
the beach area while Bondi Junction thrives? The junction
got under way early in the piece when Grace Bros, built the
first store sponsored by a city shop there.
Others followed, and the junction is now a complete
shopping centre. Few of the local residents go to the city.
On Saturday morning or Friday, Bondi Junction overflows
with shoppers from all the surrounding eastern suburbs.
The beach has adequate shopping for local require-
ments, but the chain stores, those precursors of suburban
expansion, won’t go there. They say there isn’t enough
business in the general run of seaside places.
There are now rumors that a Melbourne syndicate has
bought a considerable slice of the waterfront for develop-
ment. But rumors of that sort tend to recur at intervals.
So far the level of offers for property at Bondi Beach is
just so much below that offered at the junction that few
tenants on low rentals are tempted to leave.
Only one large block of home units has been built at
Bondi Beach. That is just finished on the southern head-
land and tenants have views of both Bondi and Tamarama
—but not all the units are sold yet. There are plenty of
large blocks at thriving Bondi Junction, and the Hooker-
Rex, built in recent years, is at the junction, not the beach.
However, an eight-story, £195,000 private hotel is soon to
be built at the north end of the beach.
Surprisingly enough, although little has been done at
the beach, land values and rentals are high. An estate
agent said that the minimum price for a flat in the area is
10 guineas. He said that both land values and rents were
higher than Manly, which might be considered a compar-
able area, or a rival. However, he said, Dover Heights,
just beyond North Bondi, at the moment is probably the
best value in real estate in Sydney today.
It was also in the twenties and thirties that Bondi
gained the somewhat raffish reputation which still clings
to it. This was when the Mirrors Club flourished. The
building which housed it still stands, and it is talked about
now by habitues as though it combined all the mysterious-
ness and glamor of a Chicago speakeasy. However, soon
Prince’s and Romano’s opened and night-life grew more
respectable in city basements. Bondi, too, according to the
fixed idea of an ex-resident, which, he says, is not based on
research, was traditionally the home of the abortionist.
'THESE days the area supports some of the richest and
most flourishing clubs —postwar, poker-machine style
—in Sydney. The Eastern Suburbs Leagues’ Club is housed
at the junction in what was formerly the Royal Surrey
Hotel, which, when it was a Tooth’s house, was reputed to
have the second-largest beer consumption in N.S.W.
Another relic of prewar days at Bondi is the large


Jewish population. One local businessman said he believed
there were more Jews than Gentiles in the area. That is
probably an exaggeration, but there would certainly be
more prewar than postwar arrivals among the foreign
sector.
The prewar arrivals were mostly refugees. For them,
by one of the most astounding changes in our language,
what should have been a word indicating sympathy became
“Reffo,” a quick, cheap and ready insult.
The Jewish population has a synagogue and the Tal-
mudical College at Bondi. The former refugees appear on
the surface to be assimilated. “Reffo” has almost entirely
gone out of currency. They go each day to their small
factories or arcade shops, they buy their food at the junction
kosher butchers and poulterers, they go to the subscription
concerts, they stand on street-corners and talk to each other
in English, they go down to the beach and lie in the sun.
TN spite of all the publicity about bikinis, Bondi has
A traditionally been a “family” beach, almost, perhaps, as
much as Manly. The families come from the hot. dry
western suburbs as well as from the eastern suburbs. Many
of them come by public transport. Some local business-
men claim that the poor bus services account for the fact
that there are fewer people on Bondi these days (or. rather,
that the crowds haven’t grown in proportion to the rise in
population). However, local residents claim that the peak-
hour buses, which hurtle along side streets from the city,
first stop the junction, “go through” as the trams rarely did.
The crowd on the beach at Bondi is not notably
fashionable. The “smart” people of the eastern suburbs
go to Camp Cove, Lady Martin’s Beach or Redleaf.
Bondi does get a certain number of holiday-makers.
Some interstate and country people stay at the hotels,
which, if not imposing looking, are generally comfortable.
However, there are very few holiday flats or accommodation
at Bondi, although the demand is constant.
Traditionally the crowd on Bondi Beach was divided
into three groups. To the north, the family parties, in
the middle, the regulars, and to the south, the experts and
surt'-riders. At weekends and holidays these three sectors
meet and merge in one mass of sweltering humanity.
Bondi is probably a better place to go for a quick
swim than for a day’s outing. The very length of the beach
and the largeness of the crowds mean often that you have
to walk great distances to and from your car, or in search
of food. There are surf-sheds and food-and-drink stalls
only at the middle of the beach, although vendors do move
about the beach at frequent intervals.
Waverley Council is apt to regard Bondi as a slight
headache. Most councils with a strip of coastline tend to
think of their beaches as a liability rather than an asset.
Waverley Council has three beaches —Bondi, Bronte and
Tamarama. Bronte and Tamarama are pretty spots, but
Bondi has size and the almost unfailing excellence of its
surf. The only revenue the council has from the millions
of visitors (probably 5.000.000 annually at Bondi alone) is
from parking fees and dressing-shed charges. Yet beach
councils have to provide services and installations quite
different from, and much more extensive than, in inland
areas.
Waverley Council built the promenade and roadways
at Bondi with a loan of £250.000 in 1928. This money has
been repaid, but it would cost £2.000.000 to do this work
today.
As well as providing amenities, such as surf-sheds, the
beach council has to keep the beach clean and pay the
wages of the inspectors on its staff. Waverley Council is
now buying an American beach-cleaning machine at a cost
of £3500. This machine will sift the sand to a depth of
6in.. and should help to keep the Bondi sand as fine and
clean as it is.
The Mayor of Waverley, Alderman O’Keefe, said that
some years ago he suggested to the then N.S.W. Premier.
Mr Cahill, that certain beaches could be declared “resorts”
and some form of subsidy be paid by the State to develop
them. However, this idea was turned down, the Premier
taking the view that local property-owners benefited from
the increased value of a place close to the beach and local
shopkeepers gained extra trade from the visitors the beach
brought to the district.
nrHERE is always the possibility that a charge could be
A made for the use of the beach itself. However, what
council would be brave enough to take away the Aus-
tralian’s traditional right to lie in the sun and swim in the
sea for nothing? Although, of course, the growing per-
centage of New Australians are entirely accustomed to pay
for these privileges.
One difficulty in developing Bondi is that trade is
almost entirely limited to the season, and the season is
short. Most people go to Bondi to lie in the sun and to
have a surf. Most at present would spend nothing except
the price of a bottle of soft-drink or a packet of cigarettes.
To pay high rentals business people would have to be
assured of a more consistent income. People will go to
Manly in winter. There is the ferry ride, and once there,
if it is windy on the ocean, it will be calm on the harbor,
and vice versa. But if you go to Bondi and it is windy,
you can only turn round and go home.
In spite of constant small improvements made by the
council, any major development which would transform
Bondi could only come from private enterprise. Alderman
R. H. Hatfield has suggested that there should be a child-
minding centre, espresso bar. open-air cafe and restaurant.
Some visionary has suggested that Bondi could be developed
like the Tivoli Gardens. A South African wanted to build
an oceanarium, which, he explained, was a circular tank
50ft wide and 20ft deep containing fish and sea-life, at
Bondi.
Whether Bondi is ever turned into a Tivoli Gardens
is problematic. If Sydney got all the Tivoli Gardens she
has been promised, life would become one long carnival.
In any case, millions will continue to go to Bondi for sun.
sea and sand and consider that life has nothing more to
offer.


“Ah, Well, be it ever so humble. .."


WHAT MAKES FIDO BARK
In the Forgotten Towns
By PETER COLEMAN
a*IHE pilot circled the plane low above the buildings
as we tried to work out what town it was. It could
’ have been any of half a dozen towns around south-
west Queensland —a wide, empty main street, a pub,
a place called “Centenary Cafe,” a school, an airstrip,
houses for a couple of hundred souls. It was the first sign
of life for miles, but there was no highway to indicate
where we were, no river, no railway, and in the plane we
only had a road map. There was no sign of the expected
car driving out to the airstrip to meet us. It seemed neater
than most towns, there were no paddocks full of broken
beer bottles, the pub looked better than usual, local govern-
ment authorities were obviously spending some money on
the place. It was surely the shire capital, which was promis-
ing. In the end we landed at the airstrip and l called out
to two men who luckily were hanging around: “Is this
Boulia?” “Where else?” they said.
The Federal Inland Development Organisation had
arrived —or rather, three FIDO committee members and
a guest from “The Bulletin.” It was a typical FIDO town.
A small inland settlement in Queensland’s heart-break
corner on no road to anywhere, it could be an expansive
cattle and sheep town but seems to have stopped develop-
ing years ago. The cinema only reached Boulia this year.
In the last 12 months, the president told us. they had lost
£4m. worth of cattle and £2m. worth of sheep because
there were no roads to get them out. But it is on the route
of FIDO’s proposed Pioneers’ Highway through the
forgotten towns. In a few minutes the shire president's car
arrived to take us into town.
FIDO is the newest and most enterprising of the
various pressure groups responsible for the gradually
increasing public interest in inland development. A non-
party organisation, it was launched and run by a deter-
mined group of country men and women whom one can’t
imagine taking no for an answer or fitting into the groove
of any political party. On this trip was the president,
Brereton Lewis, who conceived the idea in 1958 when he
saw a few skinny cattle struggling into N.S.W. from the
Queensland drought, an old hand at development projects
(he was one of the leaders of the campaign for the Newell
Highway), chairman of the Gilgandra branch of the
Graziers’ Association and a man with no high opinion
of party politicians. (He cut his political teeth 33 years
ago campaigning for an Independent on a United Anti-
Socialist platform.) His wife, Mrs Joyce Lewis, is the
indefatigable honorary secretary of FIDO.
Also on this tour were three other independents. One
was Charles Russell, the former Country party M.H.R.
who resigned from the party because it opposed revaluation
of the pound and who feuded for years with Sir Arthur
Fadden. (He was in the news a couple of years ago when
the Civil Aviation Department charged him in the Sum-
mons Court with landing his plane at a closed airport and
with switching off his radio so that he could not hear the
order not to land. The department lost its case and had
to pay costs.) A second was Bryce Killen of Nyngan,
N.S.W., and Willeroo Station, N.T., who was also
in the news last October when he rescued two men who
had crash landed on Lake Eyre. The Civil Aviation De-
partment at first refused him permission to help in the
search, and finally agreed provided he did not leave the
Leigh Creek-Oodnadatta railway. It was after he left it
that he found the men. (By that time they were down
to eating flies, leather and salt-water mixed with tooth-
paste. In a few more hours they would probably have
died.) The pilot of the main FIDO party was Jack Bonney
of Cobar, one of the most enterprising of the western
graziers and a pioneer of the use of aircraft and motor-
bikes on sheep properties.
Their organisation’s aim is briefly “a concerted effort
to awaken our Commonwealth Government to the vital
necessity for developing and populating inland and
northern Australia.” They have been advocating at meeting
after meeting in the inland cities and townships since its
formation in Bourke in April, 1960. a North Australian
Development Commission, a comprehensive water conser-
vation scheme and a comprehensive pan-continental high-
way building plan.
General developmental propaganda aside, however,
their main concrete proposal has concerned the northern
cattle industry, and one particular plan has been worked
out in precise detail —a full-width bitumen Pioneers’ High-
way from Camooweal (west of Mt Isa on the Queensland-
Northern Territory border) through to Bourke. via
Boulia, Windorah, Eromanga, Thargomindah. They
estimate it would cost about £l3m. It would link
with other highways to form a transcontinental highway
from Darwin to Melbourne. It would also link with the
proposed Channel Roads system, serving the Queensland
railheads of Dajarra, Winton, Yaraka. Quilpie and Cunna-
mulla. together with Bourke in N.S.W. and the proposed
Birdsville-Maree road in South Australia.
The basic reasons for the emphasis on this highway
are clear and simple: There is at present not one con-
tinuous road out of the Northern Territory or from north-
west Queensland south into N.S.W. The good breeding
country is in the north and the good fattening country is
in the south, yet there is no road (or rail) link between
them. If the cattle are walked south there is an average
loss of 301 b. per beast per 100 miles, and after 13 weeks
from, say, Camooweal to Windorah they take another 13
weeks to recover before they can begin to fatten. In a
road-train on a good road this would be done in a day. In
times of drought the northern cattle cannot get out. while 90
per cent, of the rich fodder in the southern Channel Coun-
try goes to waste. Between 1958 and 1961 £4om. worth
of beef cattle died through pastoralists’ inability to get
them out of the drought areas. The lack of the highway


is responsible for the loss of 100,000 head, or £4m. worth,
of North Australian and West Queensland cattle every
year. In the near future, too. when C.5.1.R.0. develops
fattening areas in the north, cattle could be moved up to
them for export.
At the same time the cheap transport revolution has
arrived but cannot be fully exploited by pastoralists.
In 1947 road-trains for cattle cost 10s. a mile, and are now
sometimes as low as 4s. Wherever possible drovers are
replaced by truckers: in 1956 little over 3 per cent, of cattle
were moved by trucks, now over 50 per cent. But it is only
possible if there are good roads.
Yet, although the natural movement for the cattle
industry is north and south, the industry is organised east
and west. There is not only no north-south road linking
Queensland and N.S.W.. there is no railway either
(though railways were planned in the nineteenth century),
not even between the closest Queensland and N.S.W.
towns. Everything runs to the east coast, in the interests of
the towns, ports and butchers of east Queensland, though
to get there they have to pass through tick-infested country
and unsuitable feeding land. The Queensland coastal
interests have traditionally prevailed over the cattle interests.
This has come out in the debates over the Pioneers’
Highway. At one stage Queensland Premier Nicklin said
he supported the FIDO highway provided the Common-
wealth built it, but although the Commonwealth will not
finance roads unless they are sponsored by the States, he
has to date refused to sponsor it. When finally the Common-
wealth did agree to finance £sm. worth of road-building,
including a Mt Isa-Boulia stretch which would fit FIDO's
plan. Mr Nicklin later claimed that the whole £sm. was
for the Gulf Country, not for Mt Isa to Boulia. It was only
after FIDO publicised the affair he climbed down. At the
same time the Queensland Minister for Main Roads. Mr
Evans, has stated that if the Pioneers' Highway is built,
Queensland should secede from the Commonwealth. As
far as Queensland coastal interests are concerned, the
cattle industry must always look eastwards, even if its
natural interests are southwards. FIDO's answer to their
complaint is that development of the Brigalow Country
alone would keep the coastal interests more than busy.
IVEN Commonwealth coolness and Queensland hos-
tility, FIDO knows that its main strength is in publi-
cising the facts and arousing the public. Hence its public
meetings in all the towns along the proposed highway and
its rallies in Bourke and Canberra. Since some of the
members have aircraft of their own which they put at
FIDO’s disposal and every member is determined and
enthusiastic, interest in the highway is maintained through-
out the inland, and hardly a week goes by without some
development. Its recent tour was typical. The party set
out in Jack Bonney’s Beechcraft Bonanza from Dubbo and
flew 380 miles to Thargomindah for its first public meet-
ing. Here in the heart of Queensland’s drought-stricken
heart-break corner in a town of about 150, over 20 people
met in the shire hall, still decorated with Security Loan
banners from the war, heard FIDO’s latest reports and
future plans.
Then on another 400 miles to Boulia for a conference
with the shire president to discuss the district’s cattle and
sheep losses, and Premier Nicklin’s equivocation over the
first stage of the Pioneers’ Highway, Boulia to Isa. Next
day the party flew on to Dajarra, then into the Territory
to Brunette Downs and on to Katherine for a conference
with the Cattlemen’s Association. Bryce Killen and Charles
Russell flew into Darwin to speak at the Monday night
meeting in a Chinese hall with Mayor C. R. Cooper as
chairman.
B. Lewis told the crowd that, if the Government
remained indifferent to northern development for much
longer, FIDO might have to consider taking direct political
action. Bryce Killen hammered home the cattle industry's
need for cheap transport, illustrating the point from his
own experience: he transported 200 steers from Katherine
through Alice Springs and South Australia to Victoria,
which cost him £l9 a head for the 1950-mile journey, a
transport cost of over 50 per cent, of their price! Charles
Russell attacked the Queensland coastal interests, stressed
the need to develop the Channel Country, which could
fatten a million cattle in good seasons if there were access
roads to get them in and out again. Mrs Lewis urged
women to join FIDO, and, like Jock Nelson, stressed the
importance of the Asian market for cattle.
On the Tuesday, after a stop-off at Rum Jungle, the
party flew on to Alice Springs for further conferences with
cattlemen, and on Wednesday on to Broken Hill for the
biggest meeting of the trip —about 200 people in the Council
Chambers, with the mayor as chairman. It was also where
the party met the most searching questions from mining
and pastoral representatives. Did they not minimise what
was in fact being done for inland development? (The
answer was, no, but it is still pathetically inadequate.)
Did they not exaggerate the possibilities of water conser-
vation. since all our rivers run together would still not
equal the Danube? (The answer was. no. but exhaustive
development plans are still not forthcoming.) Would it
not be a more sensible order of priorities to concentrate
first on improving northern cattle stations and have the
highway later? (The answer was. the highway would make
quick improvements possible by making the industry profit-
able.)
Throughout the whole tour Brereton Lewis spoke
wherever possible over the local radio station and inter-
viewed local editors, while Mrs Lewis addressed the
country women's organisations. If FIDO does not get its
highway in the next three years (though they believe it will
be done) it will not be through any lack of agitation and
publicising of the facts. Plans for the future include an
M.G.M. ffim about the route of the Pioneers’ Highway, a
popular pamphlet for general distribution, public meetings
on coastal Queensland and a rally in Alice Springs and in
Sydney at Show-time.


"THE PRESS, THE PRESS,
THE AWFUL PRESS'
The Search for Michael Rockefeller
By PETER HASTINGS
THE administrative centre of south-west Netherlands
New Guinea is Merauke, a small town well known
to those Australians who had the misfortune to be
stationed there during the war. It is a flat, rather
ugly little settlement comprising a few bitumen roads
flanked by flamboyants (poincianas), administrative build-
ings, some surprisingly comfortable homes, a hotel of sorts,
a small Dutch garrison and installations, a great, sullen
river and a dirt road which in the dry season is passable to
the Australian border.
By New Guinea standards, Merauke is an old settle-
ment. nearly 50 years old. which was started as a trading
post and penal settlement area for politically minded
Indonesians in pre-war days. It was not built to stand the
ruinous pressures resulting from 40 to 50 U.S. and other
correspondents descending on it en masse a few weeks ago,
together with Governor Rockefeller and his entourage while
the search was being conducted for his son Michael. To
make matters more difficult, the actual search area was
nearly 200 miles north along the Asmat coast —a hideous
and depressing littoral exceeded in sheer repulsiveness only
by that of Prince Frederik Hendrik Island (due west of
Merauke), which is rock bottom. More specifically swamp
bottom.
The story we had all arrived to report was ostensibly
the search for Michael, but in reality turned out to be,
however distasteful or harrowing or intrusive, a watching
brief on the private and public agony of Governor Rocke-
feller and his daughter. Michael’s twin sister. Mrs Mary
Strawbridge. But perhaps one had better begin at the
beginning . . .
I had met Michael Rockefeller when he was a member
of the Harvard University-Peabody Museum Expedition in
Baliem. A pleasant, earnest, energetic young man wearing
a beard and spectacles, Rockefeller talked to me at length
about his great passion for the Asmat. He liked its culture
and was greatly attracted to its art, which is singular and
often very beautiful. He was determined to return there,
and did so with Rene Wassing. a young Dutch anthro-
pologist. He bartered axes and tobacco for Asmat art. and
even for the preserved heads (really beautiful things) of
long-dead relatives. He and Rene then undertook the fatal
trip across the mouth of the Eilanden River —a broad, fast-
flowing river which empties yellow and sluggish into the
Arafura Sea —a feat which both had achieved before in a
catamaran with outboard motors. It seems they were over-
loaded with luggage. Two Asmats with them jumped
and swam for shore to get help. The catamaran swamped.
The outboard motors cut out. The sea got rougher and
they bailed frantically. Michael begged Rene to swim
for shore with him. Exhausted, Rene refused and begged
Michael not to try it. Michael insisted he was going,
stripped himself to his underpants, lashed himself to two
jerricans in turn strapped by a webbing belt.
Attached to his own belt he carried a knife and a
compass. He dived off and was last seen by Rene —a speck
bobbing on the surface between two other specks formed
by the cans. Rene drifted on and out to sea for two days
and was picked up. Then the search began in earnest.
Had he reached shore? If he did. could he live? Yes,
said the experts. No, said the experts. If he had reached
shore, where were the jerricans? If he hadn’t, where were
they? Floating south with the current? Possibly sunk?
Embedded in the mud of some forlorn mangrove swamp?
The possibilities were endless. For those of us who had
seen that desolate, heart-breaking coastline before there
was only one answer —he had been eaten by sharks, barra-
cuda or crocodiles long before reaching shore.
But the dilemma remained for the journalists who
crowded into Merauke in that frantic week. The search
area lay at least 150 miles away, accessible only by a few
small planes. Merauke was signal and communications
headquarters where news of the search, any news, would
break. Did we stick around or move out? Many of us
did both as best we could. Many just sat in the 90-degree
heat and preyed on the Rockefellers, who arrived exhausted
but still optimistic on Wednesday afternoon.
The Governor’s Press secretary. Edward McManus
(who earned, perhaps undeservedly, the undying dislike of
every Australian journalist in Merauke because of his
obvious desire to keep us out of the picture), opened the
bowling by stating flatly that no pictures of the Governor
and his daughter would be allowed. That stopped no one
from taking pictures.
The next day the Governor stated that he would not
go out on the search again. He had perfect confidence in
the Dutch Administration’s efforts and would prefer to
allow the search to go on unimpeded by him. This com-
plicated matters. What, newsmen wondered, would they
do now? They sat. There wasn’t a great deal else
they could do, and, besides, he might say something or
announce something. He did. He called a Press confer-
ence, the first of a series, in which he praised the Dutch,
praised Dutch-native co-operation (it had been announced
that thousands of Asmats were mobilised into the search
“up there”) and waited for questions.
It was a frantic conference held on the porch of the
hotel. TV and still photographers had themselves a ball
racing around, falling over each other, swearing at each
other in their desperate haste to get shots of the Governor,
of Mary, of both together. “Smile, Governor!” “Look this
way, Governor.” “This way, Mary.” “Just one more,
Mary-Governor—Governor-Mary.” I remember one portly
photographer who moved with surprising grace. He was
never satisfied unless moving from one side of the confer-
ence table to the other, from one angle to another. A per-
fectionist, if ever there was one. Near me another stood
with a camera trained on the Governor and his daughter
keeping up an audible invocation: “Look this way, you


rotten bastard. Goddamn it, why can’t he look this way,
You stupid bastard, just look this way. Smile!”
UP’s representative opened the bowling. He abrogated
this right to himself under the illusion that this was a
top-level political interview in the executive mansion in
Albany instead of a free-for-all in the middle of a swamp.
Reporters edged around the one really vital question the
horrible question—did the Governor think that Mike was
alive? He did? So did Mary. (Bang went the shutters
again.) He threw a protective arm about her. He was more
than ever convinced of it. J saw an Australian reporter
e.ging up. 1 could almost guess the question. “Governor,
have you any idea how much the search will cost?” (Don’t
blame him. Blame generations of miserable chiefs-of-staff
in countless newspaper offices in Sydney. Wagga. London,
Wales, the Midlands: “How many times have I bloody well
told you to find out what things cost? One more slip like
that Jones and you’re fired.”) Rockefeller turned on him
and asked bleakly: “No. Have you?”
Reporters raced into bedrooms at the hotel, pulled out
typewriters, pounded out their largely meaningless mes-
sages and then started the long, hot hike up to the post
Oiiice. I shall never forget watching them start to walk
quicker and quicker as they neared the post office and
then break into a canter. Copy must be got out. and
first come, first served. But I already knew something about
the utter confusion of communications between Merauke
and Hollandia and knew also that the bland assurance of
the clerk that there was only a five-hour delay (it was
nearer 16 hours) was worthless. 1 could scarcely repress a
smile.
A NOTHER of our pet aversions was a top-name photo-
grapher of one of the world’s top-name magazines.
He was unfailingly rude and arrogant towards those in
whom he could see no possible use and flatteringly
obsequious to those whom he thought could help him. He
was avidly jealous of his association with the Rockefellers,
whom he knew, presumably, through having been associ-
ated with the Baliem expedition and. therefore, young
Michael. Like McManus, he seemed to be ill-disposed
towards the Australian Press. In that atmosphere suspicions
and impressions bloomed monstrously. He was forever
chiding those of us who might ask any members of the
officiaf party whether the Governor really did have hopes
—in the face of overwhelming evidence to the contrary —
that Michael was alive. “It lets"down the side.” he explained
unctuously, “to ask questions like that. The Governor gets
dispirited and then the whole team gets infected.” I noticed
that he was, nevertheless, the busiest photographer on the
job at the daily gubernatorial Press conferences. He came
out trumps on one occasion, however.
He brought Mary Strawbridge over to the hotel one
evening when I happened to be there and they sat at a
table discussing how best to get a letter to her husband in
the Philippines. Turning my head. I noticed a photographer
in the bar carefully lining up telescopic lenses on Mary,
who was sitting in the dining room. It was scarcely for-
givable. Finding the distance unsatisfactory, the photo-
grapher moved into the dining room, placed the camera on
the table beside him and prepared, while appearing to fiddle
innocently with it. to photograph her. Mrs Strawbridge’s
companion noticed the innocently trained camera and, being
an expert, twigged what was happening. He moved round
and sat in another chair so that his back was to the lens.
The offending photographer gave up all pretence of inno-
cence, stood up on a table and started to take a picture.
Mrs Strawbridge came over and begged him to desist. She
was exhausted and overwrought, she explained. Pictures
taken at Press conferences were one thing. Those taken on
private occasions another. There was a long argument
conducted between the photographer, Mrs Strawbridge.
who stood, and a nearby reporter who sat throughout the
altercation. I left.
On another night Rene Wassing was forced to undergo
the ordeal of the Press conference. Photographers weaved
in and out of the crowd of reporters, sweating, cursing,
professionally efficient. Questions poured out at him. Most
of them were superfluous and many were insulting. The
Press was plainly dissatisfied. There must be more to this
misadventure than Wassing had told. Somewhere, it was
clear to them, there lay an even bigger, hotter news story
than this prosaic chronology of events. Rene’s last warning
to Michael had been that any such action as he contem-
plated “would not be my responsibility.” Now, just what
had Dr Wassing meant by this? Did Professor Wassing
mean that he had some responsibility for Michael’s actions?
And so on until a hollow-eyed Wassing stumbled away.
I got out of Merauke for the next day-and-a-half on
the search itself. It was hard work and tiring standing in
the blister of a Catalina eight hours on end looking for a
red jerrican in an infinity of mangrove swamp, muddy
water, open sea and thousands of sharks, sea-snakes and
schools of fish. But it was something, even though there
was the sobering thought that those back in Merauke would
be the first people to hear if Michael were found —unless
we spotted him. which was at the utmost end of the scale
of improbability.
Next afternoon there was yet another Press conference.
The jerrican had been found just near where Resident
Janssen had predicted it would be, within a few miles of
where we had been sweeping the previous day. Governor
Rockefeller was more than ever convinced (and his
daughter, he said) that Michael was alive. He continued in
this vein despite the gentle scepticism with which Governor
Platteel (who had by now arrived from Hollandia) received
each declaration of hope. There were more questions, more
photographs. Both Rockefeller and his daughter now
looked like somnambulists and ready to drop from exhaus-
tion. And then it came. A journalist asked him quietly
whether he was keeping his wife informed. There was
sudden silence, and Rockefeller’s jaw hardened. This
obviously entangled him in the unspoken question of his
impending divorce. He swallowed hard and made a non-
commital reply about his office having all the information
available. It was rock bottom. The doyen of UP (or was
it AP?) again gratefully obtained our dismissal.
Another day dragged by. Repertorial tempers were
growing short. The heat was oppressive. There was. it
was generally agreed among the Americans (“hard” news-
men all) a shortage of news. An announcement of yet
another Press conference drew derisive cheers.
By Sunday my certainty that he would never be found
had become complete conviction, and I prepared to depart.
I paid a last visit to the hotel to say goodbye to a few
friends and was met by the top-name photographer of
one of the world's top-name magazines. The Governor and
his daughter, he announced with great satisfaction, had
gone to church. Accordingly he had felt it only reasonable
to suggest to AP and UP and CBS and God knows who
else that, under these circumstances, they should be allowed
to worship unmolested by photographers or reporters. He
left the sentence unfinished, and it hung reverently in the
still air. It obviously needed only my assurance that Aus-
tralians were not lacking in regard to decency and sensi-
tivity to bring his unctuous concern to full and happy
fruition. I assured him that the thought of disturbing the
Rockefellers in any way, shape or form while at church
would not cross my mind. I added that I was quite certain
that I spoke for every Australian in Merauke. I shook
hands and left him looking almost radiant with positive
thinking.


THE LABIN CONFERENCE
"The Labin outfit has a number of serious shortcomings "
By FRANK KNOPFELMACHER
Dr Knopfelmacher has just returned from Rome,
where he attended a five-day conference organised
by the French Socialist, Mme Labin. One of the
chief things to emerge from the conference was
the struggle being waged in South America by the
Communist party in penetrating Latin American
institutions. This is particularly true in
Venezuela.
THE nations of the free world are losing the war
against the communist bloc because they are con-
centrating on wrong and irrelevant issues. We ccunt
our rockets, set up military pacts, run prosperous
and affluent economies, yet while all this is happening our
societies are being eroded by communist penetration. Far
from protecting us effectively, our military pacts and
weapons are turning into tranquilisers, shielding from our
nerves the catastrophic situation on the only front that
matters, the front of the Cold War. The communists have
set up a gigantic apparatus of penetration, propaganda,
terror and infiltration; they are operating within the very
tissues of our social organisation on all levels; their key
men are dedicated and carefully trained operators, skilled,
knowledgeable and ruthless, and what do they encounter?
Nothing, or virtually nothing, of any significance. Our
institutions and elites, shaped and formed on pre-totarlitarian
precepts, have not yet developed the necessary concepts,
practices and skills to counter the menace. If we are to
survive, this situation must be changed.
All this and much more of greater detail and consider-
able interest was the subject of a conference held in Rome
on November 18-22. The conference, organised by Mme
Susan Labin, a French Socialist known for her fierce and
intelligent writing on communism, has been the second of
its kind, the first having been held in Paris in 1960 under
the chairmanship of the then Secretary of NATO. Paul-
Henri Spaak. The conference enjoyed considerable
unofficial support from NATO countries and principalities,
and among the participants or sponsors there have been
some Ministers, Service chiefs, academics and trade-
unionists not only from NATO countries but also from
countries such as India, as well as exiles from the com-
munist bloc. Among the participants this year there were
such diverse figures as Matteo Lombardo, leading Italian
Socialist and ex-Minister; Eugenio Reale, the famous
Italian ex-communist and financial genius, who took with
him the party’s financial secrets and published the proceed-
ings of the first Cominform meeting, at which he was
Italian d.iegate; Senator Dodd, ex-Nuremberg prosecutor
and chairman of the Senate Internal Security sub-
committee; Pacciardi, ex-commander of the International
Brigade in Spain and former Italian Minister of Defence;
Sgr Gonella. the present Italian Minister of Justice; the
Vice-President of the Bundestag. Dr Jaeger, who is also
Vice-President of NATO, and many others. The sponsors
included, inter alia. General Bethouart. a distinguished
French soldier and statesman. Salvador de Madariaga,
Messrs Pinay, Pleven, Conte and Schuman. Jules Romains.
Strauss-Huppee, Paolo Rossi and Lord Birdwood.
Delegates and observers from 63 countries attended,
representing many organisations, ranging from trade unions
to more or less well-known anti-communist outfits. The
first meeting was held with great pomp and circumstance
at the floodlit Rome Capitol. The keynote speeches were
delivered by the Italian Minister of Justice. Sgr Gonella,
and by the Vietnamese delegate, who reminded us that,
while most of us will be going back to “salons” and offices,
he and his friends may very well be going back to their
deaths. The organisers intended to launch the conference
with speeches from the Congolese delegates, but the news
that 12 Italian airmen were eaten by Congolese nationalists
had reached Rome about the time of the conference, and
the project was, therefore, hurriedly abandoned. The
magnificent streets and squares of the Eternal City were
filled with demonstrators demonstrating against this latest
form of African national awakening.
"pHE rest of the conference was devoted to speeches by
delegates, some very interesting, others dull and
tedious. For an Australian observer the most interesting
question was, naturally, how our own situation differs from
that in other countries. The pressures on active anti-
communists in Australia to give up are tremendous, and they
take many forms, ranging from blandishments that the
danger is not “real” to blackmail, disadvantage and threats,
or to exhortations that true sanctity lies in “spiritual”
matters, if one happens to be a Catholic. It was, therefore,
an experience of considerable moral significance to find
that our own predicament is shared by thousands of others
in practically all other countries of the world. The overall
pattern is clearly independent of local conditions and
depends, on the whole, on the nature of the communist
assault, which is essentially similar everywhere in the world.
The delegates who presented their reports on Soviet politi-
cal warfare in their respective countries belonged to diverse
and conflicting political parties and creeds; some of them
were public figures of great distinction, others rather hum-
drum journalists or academics. Yet the pictures which they
painted were frighteningly and startlingly similar, particu-
larly those of delegates from the developing countries:
massive communist penetration of all social institutions,
particularly of those which shape and form the habits of
future leaders, i.e., schools, universities, churches, news-
papers and publishing houses. Formal party membership is
very small and bears no relation at all to party influence.
The most successful operators are those whose party links
are secret or informal. Mass organisations are more or
less under Communist party control, and. most depressingly.
there is virtually no effective co-ordinated resistance, though
there is much diffuse and helpless resentment against com-
munist advances, on which resistance could be built.
'TTIE most alarming were the reports of the Latin
A American delegates, who included Catholic Actionists.
distinguished ex-communists and unrepentant Marxists like
Delgado and Trevigna, as well as ex-Central European.
Jewish Social Democrats of impeccably anti-authoritarian
outlook now resident in Latin America. Yet their reports


and informal stories given at parties were virtually identi-
cal. The Venezuelan situation is fairly typical for South
American ex-dictatorships: out of five political parties three
are communist fronts, one is in the process of becoming one
and the fifth is an ineffectual Christian Democratic party
restricting itself to “nice” anti-communism. The Catholic
hierarchy is anti-communist but lacks a political apparatus
to give leadership, since anti-integralist trends appear to
have prevailed among the Catholic intelligentsia. The
working class is very well off by Latin American standards,
and it derives its income mainly from foreign-owned oil
companies, but it is fiercely anti-Yankee and. therefore,
pro-communist. Manipulation of anti-Yankeeism in Latin
America is virtually the monopoly of the Communist party.
The situation in schools and universities is catastrophic
throughout Latin America, but more so in Venezuela.
Ninety per cent, of university students and about one-half
of the staff are open or secret party members. The rest are
more or less controlled by bolshevik organisations. Primary
and secondary teachers are completely under bolshevik
control, and indoctrination of the child starts at the age
of six. Textbooks and teaching aids on virtually all sub-
jects. ranging from psychology and economics to biology,
are carefully and subtly doctored in accordance with party
directives. The process which turns young Venezuelans
into agents of the most oppressive and obscurantist tyranny
in history starts with a whacking dose of sound progressive
liberalism.
AS a first step the “theological” image of the world
in a culture of overwhelmingly Catholic formation
is destroyed by the usual crude combination of Freud and
Darwin. At the same time the social system of the country
is subjected to destructive one-sided “analysis” open or
insinuated. With his traditional beliefs and loyalties
destroyed, the young Venezuelan is then presented with a
shining picture of the Socialist half of the world. The
countervailing powers of the Catholic universities are nil:
archaic, formalised arguments presented in dull encyclical
language and without roots in political organisation. My
informant, a Venezuelan academic, showed me scars left
after an attempt to assassinate him following a television
appearance. Ever since he has carried a gun. both in and
outside the campus. Whilst there is no one-one relation
between poverty and communism (communist influence is
much stronger in prosperous Venezuela than in Chile, where
the workers live in almost archaic misery), there is no doubt
that communist influence requires for its growth the manure
of general mass-alienation nurtured by corruption and
poverty. The Latin American delegates were unanimous
in their condemnation of the fallacious dichotomy which
sees communism either as being entirely caused by poverty
and corruption under the ancien regime or as the product
of Sino-Soviet conspiracy unconnected with local socio-
economic conditions. The truth, they insisted, is different:
tough conspiratorial organisation against a background of
mass-alienation. Both are necessary to produce deep com-
munist inroads into society. They also condemned Ameri-
can ineffectiveness in fighting communism. American aid,
massive and generous, passes virtually unnoticed, being
administered by non-political American bureaucrats who
are specifically instructed not to take an interest in local
politics. Thus, in Chile, new housing projects built almost
entirely from American aid are run by local committees
dominated by the Communist party, which somehow suc-
ceeds in turning the fruits of American aid into a source of
anti-Yankee grievance.
An interesting feature of quasi-neutralist united-front
outfits through which communist influence is exerted in
Latin America and elsewhere is their newfangled tolerance
of “dissident” Leftists and anti-Stalinists. Even Trotskyites
and revisionists seem to be welcomed; and new. informal
and often secret links with Moscow and Peking are formed.
1 was. naturally, very interested in this new development
which may help us to understand some extraordinary moves
indulged in by many Australian post-1956 ex-communists.
AT the end of the conference a general programme of
action was adopted, not very different from the one
adopted in Paris in 1960, which is known as the “Labin
programme.” The gist of it is roughly this:
A central NATO-based organisation ought to be set up
which would promote, direct and co-ordinate political war-
fare against the Soviet bloc in all social organisations on a
global basis. It ought to be manned by dedicated full-time
professionals trained in special schools who would possess
the necessary skills which may range from nursing to
dialectical materialism. Its work would be supervised and
planned by a political general staff answerable to NATO
and allied countries.
The Labin outfit has a number of very serious short-
comings. Both conferences were given too much to rhetoric
and too little was being done to plan small-scale concrete
actions. Mme Labin seems to be blissfully unaware of the
fact that heroic maximal programmes, no matter how
praiseworthy, are unlikely to attract the necessary Govern-
ment subsidies, if they are not backed by successful opera-
tional effort, if only on a small scale.
The most interesting part of the conference was outside
its formal proceedings. Delegates and observers from
various countries mixed freely and exchanged experiences.
And during such informal gatherings and meetings the
opinion was firmly formed and implanted that it is quite
imperative to set up national organisations to study and
combat communist influence. Most delegates felt that
such national organisations, which already exist in some
countries, can achieve more than a sort of supra-national
anti-communist Comintern. Different national organisations
will be animated by the same spirit, pursue identical objec-
tives, and they can maintain loose and effective liaison on
a regional basis. This might eventually lead to the forma-
tion of a supra-national general staff, but it would be
prudent to start from below, if necessary in a modest way.
TN Australia, anti-communist operations other than those
conducted by the ASIO. which are secret and. therefore,
unknown to the public, are carried out almost entirely by
Catholic laymen and virtually only in the trade unions.
Other institutions such as. say. universities, churches, news-
papers are undefended or defended in a hole-and-corner
manner by free-lancing enthusiasts without proper organisa-
tional support, at a time when they are becoming targets
of very special and subtle communist efforts, as evidence
from all over the world clearly shows. Also, the exclusively
Catholic basis of industrial defence may prove unstable in
the long run as new, neutralist and conformist elements
reared and assimilated in our neutralist universities are
bound to replace the old truculent anti-communist militants
in Catholic public life. It seems imperative to set up an
Australian organisation which would have two tasks: (1)
To study the movements of communist and communist-
infiltrated organisations in such a way that at any given
moment it would be known where their operators are and
what they do —the sort of knowledge Lloyds has about
ships. (2) To divulge the results of such studies to bodies
and organisations which cannot seek or obtain information
from Government agencies.
Our society is still healthy and essentially stable, and
we can nip the communist danger in the bud by a few
swift and precise organisational moves. To delay counter-
action until the cancer reaches our vital centres as it did
in most Latin American States, or until we are subjected
to direct Chinese pressure, would be suicidal folly.


FORUM
SOME PROBLEMS
OF TRADE UNIONISM
By LLOYD ROSS
J'RADE UNIONISM is linked with a Labor party —but the branches
which provide the lin\s are often dead. It generally accepts the need
to co-operate with governments in some fields —but co-operation is often
an excuse for laziness in developing ideas and methods that both advance
the aims of unionism and protect the interests of the community. Too
often co-operation is limited to extraneous things like a cricket match with
a personnel manager or a drink with an industrial officer.
This is part of a paper given by
Dr Lloyd Ross during a course in
industrial relations conducted by
the Paulian Association in Sydney.
Dr Ross is the New South Wales
State Secretary of the Australian
Railways Union.
Tn 1959. there were 1,850,727 trade
unionists in 369 unions in Australia.
They constitute 65 per cent of the males
who are gainfully worked and 41 per cent
of the females probably still the high-
est percentages in the free world. Trade
union orthodox theory claimed that the
unions are too numerous, but Australian
trade unionism survived the ideological
temptations of the One Big Union and
concentrated on building institutions
which could co-ordinate the policies and
actions of separate unions central
labor councils and the A.C.T.U. ;
groupings of single unions for special
purposes, broad committees, disputes
committees, combined road and rail com-
mittees, and so on.
Only partially have these approaches to
closer unity succeeded in achieving
common action. But the development of
such methods has been more successful
than the effort to create One Big Union —
and is the path which Australian trade
unionism will continue to take, where
common action or co-ordination of effort
is necessary.
Trade union power is spotted it is
great in the shearing sheds and weak in
the B.H.P. ; it is satisfactory in numbers,
and often disturbing in the extent of par-
ticipation ; it is powerful in obtaining
recognition by governments, courts and
employers, but less satisfactory in meet-
ing the challenges of new ideas on wages
and participation. Strength in numbers
has grown under the protection of govern-
ment and courts, and within the condi-
tions of full employment, but has still to
face the challenges of prolonged
economic crisis, political hostility, or
monopolistic aggression. The feelings of
solidarity towards unionism are strong,
but acceptance of responsibilities by the
membership in participation in union
affairs is weak.
Strength is important because trade
unionism confronts powerful employers
whose aims are different from those of
unionism. Not only do basic differences
arise on the shares of the national income,
on the level of wages or the tests to be
followed in determining levels of income,
on the share of increasing productivity,
but involved in industrial relationships
are questions of rights rights of disci-
pline, of union intervention ... of
management and labor.
Often supporters of the so-called
“ Right ” seem to me to regard strength as
being synonymous with communism, and
underestimate a need still a basic need
of trade unionism to parallel the
growth of industrial concentration and
monopolisation with the growth of trade-
unionism.
Measures have been proposed to
strengthen trade union organisations
within the A.C.T.U. ; they have been
supported by communists, but are
regarded by others as justifiable develop-
ments ; these are the establishment of
industrial groupings within the A.C.T.U.
and the regular meeting of such unions
within its framework.
I support recent developments within
the A.C.T.U. but believe that these are
by-passing much more serious problems,
and that unless these problems are
tackled, the development of official or
bureaucratic strength could be dangerous
—because fundamental problems are
being ignored.
INCREASING APATHY
'T'hose problems arise first from the
A declining interest of the membership
in the administration of a union and
unionism, and the widening gap between
the man on the job and the man in the
office. Participation of members in union
affairs is low ; apathy is great. Few —a
declining few —attend formal union meet-
ings. Less than 50 per cent, vote in
union elections. In the Federated Iron-
workers, the percentage of financial mem-
bership is high; in the A.R.U. it is low
(15,000 out of 25,000) but the percentage
of those in the Sydney district of the
F.I.A. who attend branch meetings is
so low that comparisons with other
unions would be irrelevant, and I think
ominous.
Such apathy is a characteristic of most
voluntary organisations ; but whether it
is capable of general explanation is not
nearly as important as the fact that an
institution, such as a trade union, which
depends for the advancement of its aims
not only on solidarity but also on frater-
nity, not only on the weight of numbers
but also on understanding by the mem-
bership of the growing complexity of
the issues to be decided, can afford to
ignore apathy only at its peril.
The frightening contrast here is
between the failure of the rank-and-file
member to attend a union meeting, and
his willingness to stand for two hours
at the back of the Sydney Labor Council
and express his opinions by noise and
abuse and threats, and not by toleration
and calm deliberation ; between his dila-
toriness in paying his union dues, and
his willingness to contribute to job
collections.
Apathy in formal participation is con-
trasted with enthusiasm for unofficial
activities ; indifference with participation
-but so also is deliberation contrasted
with demagogy, and democracy with
mobocracy. Decline in strikes is asso-
ciated with unofficial eruptions. The shop
steward obtains more support than the
union secretary, but he. too, discovers that
the winds of rank-and-file enthusiasm are
fickle, uncontrollable, indeterminable, vet
powerful, tempestuous, often decisive.
The wild cat strike is as dangerous today
as the tame cat union.
But this challenge cannot be met by
methods of discipline only ; nor by
bureaucratic isolationism—but by recog-
nising that it arises partly from weak-
nesses in trade union administration,
partly from the urge of men and women
to participate, though they often deny
formal and official forms of participa-
tion. The approach to a solution requires
the re-examination and re-statement of
union principles and methods of
organisation.
There is no more important subject
than the overcoming of rank-and-file


apathy and the methods of bridging the
gap between official and rank and file.
The importance of participation takes
me, first, into the controversial field of
rank-and-file movements within the trade-
union movement, and, secondly, to the
question of worker participation in an
industrial enterprise.
THE DEMAND FOR HIGHER
WAGES
''T'he demand for higher wages has been
the most important rank-and-file
demand in recent years; this demand
often reveals the gap between the official
and the rank and file, between the institu-
tions of wage-fixation, and economic and
social forces ; the demand poses a chal-
lenge to democratic and responsible union
officials that has not yet been faced.
The wage demand in a system of free
enterprise, possibly in a democratic
system, is the central interest of trade
unionists. It is the main source of their
income; it is a symbol both of their
inferior status and their growing power ;
it gives them an opportunity to exercise
their strength, and when their strength is
great, it provides a chance to increase
their income and their sense of power.
Within the circle of the industrial
“Right” in Australia there has been sup-
port for methods of direct negotiation
with employers, and yet opposition to
collective bargaining ; for insistence on
the acceptance of Arbitration Court dis-
cussions and support for the free enter-
prise methods of the United States.
Those who have fallen behind the un-
official movement for higher wages are
employees in Government employment.
Sooner or later they revolt and the inten-
sity of the revolt depends partly on the
extent to which the authorities recognise
that the revolt is based on a deep and
just feeling of inequality, and therefore
take steps to eliminate that feeling or
inequality before it breaks out in agita-
tion and strike. Where the authorities —
as in the N.S.W. Government Railways—
stood flat-footed on the award, the mili-
tant action was inevitable. Where the
authorities —as they have occasionally
done in the N.S.W. Government Railways
—attempted to meet the situation by dis-
criminatory bonus payments and exten-
sive overtime, they assisted individuals
and stored up mass hostility.
This wage issue illustrates vividly and
challengingly the alternative which is
implied in this article: either
a union official is able to develop
a peaceful co-operative solution to
an industrial problem, or, this failing,
he turns to an aggressive militant solu-
tion. But solutions there must be —
especially to this dynamic, persistent, per-
vasive issue of wages.
Private employers faced the issue more
ealistically than did Governments ;
Right-wing unionists, but no solution
more willing to alter traditional views
than were allegedly “Left unionists.”
When early in the campaign for an
industry allowance in the railways the
Commissioner for Railways offered to
consider a productivity allowance as
against an industry allowance, only the
A.R.U. indicated its interest—although
it should have been clear that this offered
the only alternative to a prolonged and
bitter struggle. And earlier when the
A.R.U. ended a serious strike at Darling
Harbor by agreeing to a productivity
scheme, the main and persistent criticism
came from “Right-wingers.”
The so-called “Right” trade unionists
must face the problem or they will face
intensified difficulties and divisions in an
economic revival especially if this
revival is contemporaneous with Labor
political revival. There are no signs that
the “Right-wing” unions are giving any
consideration to facing this problem of
wages in a unified, constructive and new
way.
JOINT CONSULTATION
nPHE ingredients of a new wage policy
-*■ are:
(1) A constantly improving standard
of wages—the emphasis is placed on the
need for improvement, not on any par-
ticular method.
(2) Some benefits of increasing pro-
ductivity must flow to the nation
generally and to the workers in the par-
ticular industry.
(3) The first call on the benefits of
technological progress must be compen-
sation to those who suffer from such
progress.
(4) Recognition of the fact that the
systems of wage regulation in Australia
have not revealed much capacity to
understand or solve problems which arise
from technological change, or from full
employment.
(5) Recognition of another fact—that
the worker will be prepared to recognise
a relationship between wages and prices
only in a very different political social
and industrial setting from that which
has existed in Australia since the end of
the war.
(6) Recognition of the psychological
factors in the wage struggle and that a
new atmosphere or new pattern of
relationship is essential if workers will
not use the economic power to obtain
higher wages. Workers in the industry
allowance campaign demanded flat-rate
increases rather than differentials ; the
significance of this demand has been
completely misunderstood by so-called
Right-wing unionists, but no solution
to the wage problem is possible unless
great importance is given to the psycho-
logical factors in the wage struggle.
The development of joint consultation
is important for the following reasons:
(1) It enables the worker to contribute
his ideas to the improvement of the pro-
ductivity of an industry.
(2) It gives the worker information on
the industry so that his demands are
reconciled with realities.
(3) It channels discontent into con-
structive directions.
(4) And, in Government enterprises,
especially under Labor Governments, it
offers a method of reconciling and co
ordinating aims and loyalties.
Neither “Left” nor “Right” has given
much thought to the problem. It has
been attacked by the “Right” because
it means co-operation with the boss ; or
because it would imply responsibility by
union officials ; in fact, it is an interest-
ing exercise in the strength of trade-
union orthodoxy to hear both Left and
Right condemn this idea in common
terms.
WHAT SHOULD BE DONE?
A/fY approach is educational, not poli-
tical or dogmatic ; not the framing
of programmes, though these are essential,
but the discussion of principles as an aid
and a test of programme. In the trade
union, the problem of reconciliation arises
first when the unionist comes into contact
with a government, especially a Labor
government; for a government, where
that government is facing the attack of
communism or communist Powers ; for
an employer, where the employer believes
that he is struggling for economic sur-
vival ; for a union official who is fighting
communism ; for a union official who has
strong beliefs that he has developed in
other spheres a Catholic, a socialist,
a pacifist.
The aims and behavior of trade
unionism must be consistent with demo-
cratic principles, within the union and
within the community. Resistance to
communist domination of trade unions
has been directed to protecting the
national democracy, to avoiding the
growth of an alien ideology, and pre-
serving the freedom of the membership
to make their own decisions. But this
democratic aim carries with it also the
challenge to control communism by
democratic methods; to defend union
democracy by avoiding corrupt practices ;
to increase the participation of members
in the activities of the union ; and to
recognise that within a pluralist demo-
cracy, such as a union, minorities have
basic rights of free speech, voting, tolera-
tion including communists or
anarchists. The democratic aspects of
unionism must be advanced since only
the democratic life in a union is the
healthy, vigorous, growing life. The
problem must be solved by unions them-
selves, but there is an opportunity for an
educational approach, because the forces
within the trade union movement are as
divided when they look within, as they
are suspicious when they look outwards.
There is scope for a series of discussions
among people who accept a common
outlook on these problems. The discus-
sions must be educational, not political;
personal, not institutional; confidential,
but not conspiratorial; continuous, not
episodical ; they must be regarded as a
meeting of minds not a caucus of the
single-minded. They should aim at
being a working party to develop ideas on
wage policies, trade union organisation,
participation of members in union affairs,
and joint consultation in industrial
management. The so-called Right is at
the cross-roads. If it cannot develop
policies which are militant and demo-
cratic, then it will dissolve in .he face of
alternatives which are militant, but not
democratic.


LETTERS
PROFILE OF A CAMPAIGN
Sir,
At last! Student Action has reached
the ears of Mugga! We have gained a
place in the political kistory of Aus-
tralia. The great Mugga has not only
recognised us, but has poured his scorn
upon us!
Mugga thinks that Student Action pro-
vided a “comic turn” (Bulletin,
December 9). Nobody else does Mr
Menzies certainly did not —and evidence
of any claim can be found in Mr
Menzies's remarks describing students
as “yahoos” and “imposters posing as
university students.” Mugga cannot give
evidence for his claim.
Mugga goes on to say that leading
candidates suffered from singing and
heckling on the W.A.P. (White Australian
Policy) issue. This is true. However,
Mugga did not say that every candidate
in Melbourne also suffered. Candidates
in all Melbourne electorates were
questioned. Representatives of Student
Action attended meetings of all candi-
dates of all parties that support White
Australia.
Our political oracle then suggests that
Mr Menzies knows how to handle slap-
stick better than Mr Calwell (Mugga
omits evidence of his claim of “slapstick”
—it could be that he does not have any).
It is obvious, as Mugga suggests, that Mr
Calwell bowed to the 300 students by
entering and leaving through the back
doors. However, I would suggest that
to abuse serious minded young people,
by using the terms I have quoted above,
when these people use the only means
open to them to express their views, is
hardly a superior method of handling
their expression of feeling.
Mugga makes a claim that Student
Action exhibited “larrickinism.” So to
Mugga and thus to all Bulletin readers
this must be a self-evident truth, because
he (Mugga) offers no evidence to support
his claim. I shall play the same game,
but as well merely suggest that Mugga
should contact the Melbourne police and
ask them how many Mercedes-Benz cars
Student Action turned over, how many
private parties were gate-crashed by
Student Action, how many internaional
conferences were disrupted by Student
Action. Apparently it is all right for
“Freedom Fighters” (Bulletin, Decem-
ber 9) to do this, but students who try to
demonstrate the sincerity of their beliefs
by moving placards merely display
“larrickinism.”
Mugga then suggests students are
“conceited.” As evidence of this he
quotes an example of what he cares to
describe as “esoteric in-group” jokes
against Mr Menzies. Again, there is no
evidence for this.
Mugga’s view of our “holier-than-
thou” attitude, “larrickinism” and “con-
ceit” is that they did our cause more harm
than good. I ask Mugga, on this point,
merely one question: What other methods
than placards, songs and handbills are
available to students? We have examined
the possibility of alternative methods and
they are not available to students.
J. M. C. KING
Parkville {Victoria).
THE DELIGHTS OF
INHUMANITY
Sir,
Mr Ray Mathew has appeared in The
Bulletin at various times in a number
of capacities—poet, short-story writer,
straight journalist, drama critic and has
been discussed in your columns as a play-
wright. In The Bulletin of December
9 he appears as literary critic, a compara-
tively new role and not, I think, his
best.
Along with some other Bulletin
reviewers, he has assumed that an expose
of plot is a substitute for criticism, a
method which reveals his inadequacy
and is unfair to both author and reader.
He discusses Hal Porter’s “The Tilted
Cross” plotwise at great length, with
liberal quotes and with occasional, not
too successful attempts at Mr Porter’s
style. To this he appends two paragraphs
which contain all there is in his review
of what may be called criticism but which
are, in fact, a maze of contradictions.
On Bearing Gifts
“But I wanted one
that shoots an inter-
continental missile
loaded with Stron-
tium 90!”
“Well, I did ask
for a transistor!”
“A set of saucepans.
I'm thrilled!”
“Incense and myrrh, eh. Some new
fangled imported gift idea, / bet!”


It includes a remarkable confusion by Mr
Mathew between the standards of
Dostoyevsky and Dumas and having
read (and enjoyed) “The Tilted Cross” I
doubt whether, in this instance, Mr
Porter is attempting to conform to either.
We still do not know whether Mr
Mathew thinks the book has value or
even whether he enjoyed it.
In the meantime it could be suggested
that Mr Mathew is in danger of becom-
ing a sort of literary Jack-of-all-trades,
but the wisdom of this is for himself and
his editors to decide.
MARY SALAS
MacLeod {Victoria).
"Ohh, you naughty
boy. A precious bottle
of Parisian Seduc-
tion!"
“A Mink! Oh, Mr
Loolman, whatever
did / do to deserve
that?'’
"Do / hear you right, man.
An album of ‘Songs My
Mother Taught Me' ?"
"Has it always to be Warm, flat
beer? Couldn't they leave out
champagne sometimes?"
SOUTH AUSTRALIA AND THE
STUART CASE
Sir,
Peter Kelly (Bulletin, December 9)
gives an extraordinarily biased account
of the Stuart case. I would be loath
to think he adopted this attitude as a
result of reading K. Inglis's book.
It rather appears that he had a pre-
judiced mind before reading, and singled
out certain facts, incidents or observa-
tions away from their context, to fit his
own prejudices. Why, for instance, should
the Executive put more reliance upon
“telegrams and exhortations from promi-
nent people” than on the considered
judgment of Her Majesty's Courts of
Justice?
Peter Kelly quotes the Adelaide
“News” as saying: “a clumsy manoeuvre
to prevent Mr Travers from appearing.”
If he were to study the files of the
‘‘News" on the case from the beginning,
he would hesitate to quote it at all
unless as an example of gutter journalism
at its worst.
As for the late Mr W J. Shand, Q.C.,
he received the usual eulogies when he
died, but his conduct at the hearing of
the Royal Commission was deplorable.
He must have been a sick man, which
may account for his abominable rudeness
to the Bench, which was presided over
by our honored and well-loved Chief
Justice, Sir Melhs Napier, Q.C.
Jt j s scarce iy correct to say that Stuart
was unrepresented. Stuart’s solicitors,
Mr O’Sullivan and Miss Devaney, were
always present, as was Mr F. Vil-
leneuve Smith, junior counsel.
Like man y others, Peter Kelly con-
fuses the Royal Commission with a trial.
Over and over the Chief Justice reminded
the Court that the Commission was not
J b f 3 3
what was appointed for was to
decide if the fresh evidence the defence
£!? im = d '° have granted a
The Commission was not a Court of
appea , an , ° II S wri e ,om
'"'"'"‘A , am ““ no
! he , 1“' again . s '« Sl ' ua J l «as jusllifted
but that the evidence brought forward
dl<l not warrant a frcsh tnal '
The extract from the Royal Commis-
sion quoted in the article is thoroughly
misleading when taken from its context,
which was column after column of end-
less repetition when Mr Shand was trying
to break down a witness’s credit. The
discrepancy was largely irrelevant, had
no bearing on the evidence, and could
only have raised a doubt—a sort of “if
this is so, what of the rest?” People who,
like myself, read every word of the
evidence, fully reported in the Adelaide
“Advertiser,” marvelled at the Chief
Justice’s patience.
There were certainly some queer things
about the Stuart Case, but not on the
part of the Playford Government or the
South Australian Courts of Justice,
There was the iest Father Dixon ,
who. because of his association with the
aborigines, was naturally anxious to help.
But he was led astray by his very anxiety,
and his “evidence” only further sub-
stantiated the case against Stuart.
There was Mr T. R. G. Strehlow, who
had grown up at Hermannsburg and
spoke the language like a native. He said
Stuart could not understand English
sufficiently to understand the confession.
Asked b (he Commission if he talked
. c . , ,
in English he - replied that he
or "y spoke to him in Aranda.
Why should the Stuart Case convince
the Government of the need for abolition
of capital punishment. Stuart hac
been sentenced to life imprisonment in
the first place nobody would have
bothered to challenge the verdict. How
wauld that hel P an '"nocent man?
One thing the Stuart Case did prove,
and nobody in South Australia would
gainsay it —that government by news-
paper is the greatest curse that could be
put on a community,
F. H. WILLSON
North Adelaide (S.T.).


CHAIRMAN’S ADDRESS
J. GADSDEN AUSTRALIA LIMITED
SEVENTH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
OF SHAREHOLDERS
Held on
FRIDAY. 24th NOVEMBER. 1961, at 12 NOON
Gentlemen,
I will presently ask you to accept a
motion for the adoption of the Directors’
Report anti Statement of Accounts for the
year ended 30th June, 1961, but before
doing this I wotdd like to highlight
certain activities which have taken place
during the past year.
TRADING RESULTS
No doubt you have made a study of
these and l feel that you w'ill agree that
they are satisfactory considering the diffi-
cult conditions which have prevailed. The
profit from trading after providing for
T axation is almost in line with last year
—actually a small increase is shown.
T he meat packing industry which is of
great importance to us has suffered
severely because of the widespread
drought conditions in Australia. Stock
losses in Queensland alone for the year
to 31st March, 1961 totalled 2,000.000
sheep and 400,000 head of cattle. Northern
Victoria has also experienced a set back,
and we feel that the full force of the
dry conditions has not yet been realised.
The imposition of credit restrictions
has had an impact on some clients, espe-
cially those connected with the building
trade which has been very seriously
affected and consequently there was a
reduction in demand for paint cans which
have always formed a valuable part of
our production. When this curtailment
of Bank Credit was imposed at such short
notice problems were created for all
business firms and this engendered loss
of confidence in the community resulting
in an unwillingness to buy. The restric-
tions came at the most inopportune period
of the year when the greatest pressure is
put on the liquid resources of our Com-
pany and many of our clients who at that
time are canning the products which are
then being harvested. The major prob-
lem for all concerned was to hurriedly
arrange their finances so that there wotdd
be no reduction in output and in our
own Company it was necessary to make
an Issue of one new share for every
eight shares held, the proceeds from which
were received on 31st March, 1961, and
which were used to create liquidity
and to provide for expansions of a
capital nature in which we . were
already involved. Another item which
affected the turnover and profit
for the year was the transfer of stock
and plant —used to manufacture drums —-
to Australian Packaging Industries Pty.
Ltd., which Company is operated in
equal shares with the Van Leer Organisa-
tion.
I have to this stage covered items
w'hich adversely affected the year’s trad-
ing. There were however factors which
operated to our benefit and there has
been a most satisfactory increase in the
sale of the small beer can and the
demand ior it continues to grow. 1 feel
certain that it will gather even greater
momentum as this package is now'
accepted everywhere. During the vear
w'e introduced the large beer can equiva-
lent in content to the large bottle and
this is finding a strong and growing
market. Reference w'as made last year
to supplying cans for soft drinks. These
are now in production and the future
is full of promise. We congratulate the
Tarax Organisation in being the pioneer
of this package in our country. The Flip
l op Cigarette pack supplied to Rothmans
has shown a marked increase and con-
tributed substantially to the turnover
for the year. We are pleased to be
associated as suppliers with such a pro-
gressive firm whose enterprise and busi-
ness acumen have placed their product
in the forefront of the market. Produc-
tion of flexible packages rvas commenced
in Fremantle and the business obtained
there is satisfactory and there are growth
prospects.
BOOK DEBTS
Credit restrictions already referred to
have made ii a greater problem to collect
amounts due and these have risen as
compared with last year but are receiving
close and constant attention.
EXPANSION—LAND AND
BUILDINGS
We hare bought land to provide elbow'
room for expansion in all Branches and
these purchases have been made at most
satisfactory prices.
During the present year the new'
building at Fremantle has been com-
pleted and the changeover from the old
premises was made with a minimum of
upset to production. We hare also com-
menced operations in the Goulburn
Valley- area. Land was purchased at
Shepparton and a Factory has been
erected to service the contract we have
with Campbell’s Soups. We plan to
concentrate our Sydney production of
Flexible Packages under one roof and
to provide for this bought a large area
of land at Bankstown where at a later
date a factory will be built. The two
buildings for Australian Packaging Indus-
tries Pty. Ltd. at Altona in Victoria and
Granville in New South Wales were
completed on schedule and operations
commenced there in November, I960,
and March, 1961.
REVOLUTION IN METHOD OF
CAN MAKING
Our Associates In the United States,
American Can Company, are completing
a method of can manufacture where
speeds of up to five times the presee.t
unit of production per hour will be
obtained. We look forward with great
interest to its introduction which will
revolutionise production but we feel it is
only a practical proposition, for huge
throughput and must certainly be con-
fined to centres where there is a highly
concentrated demand.
W. E. SMITH-GADSDEN
(QLD.) PTY. LTD.
We have purchased from W. E. Smith
Limited for cash shares held by them in
the above Company which now becomes a
wholly owned subsidiary of J. Gadsden
Australia Limited. As the transaction
was only completed on 30th June of this
year their results are not reflected in our
profits for the year. Sales from this
source since 30th June have shown con-
siderable increase over the corresponding
period last year. Over the Company as a
w'hole production and sales since 30th
June have increased when compared with
those for the corresponding months of last
year and if nothing untoward occurs it
would seem that our results are assured
for 1961 1962.
And now I offer my sincere thanks
to my Co-Directors and Staff for their
most able assistance which has been so
freely given in helping me to formulate
and carry through to a successful conclu-
sion the Board's Policy during the past
year.
N. C. GADSDEN,
Chairman.
24th November, 1961.


OUT and ABOUT
Small King-size
/"\ne local TV advertiser is now talking
about small king-size, medium king-
size and large king-size, without even
a glimmer of a smile.
South of the Border
/"An January 21 the Queensland law
prohibiting chiropractors from own-
ing or operating x-ray machines comes
into force.
However, a Brisbane chiropractor
intends to gather up his patients once
or twice a week and to take them in a
bus over the border for x-raying.
Fresh Air for Everyone
HThere has always been fresh air for
everybody in Australia. Even in the
largest cities, isolated on a vast continent,
people are never afraid to breathe freely.
However, if it is not fully understood
and checked now, air pollution becoming
dense enough to constitute a hazard
could follow the spreading rash of
factories on the Australian landscape.
This concern for factory fallout of the
future led to the first school of its kind in
Australia being held in Melbourne
recently. More than 70 delegates from
local government and key industries met
for five days at Melbourne University to
hear lectures, discussions and watch
demonstrations of equipment to analyse
and control air pollutants.
The man responsible for the course,
Dr W. Strauss, said the main purpose was
to teach people in industry how to tackle
their own particular pollution problems
by overcoming the cause before the effect
can be felt or inhaled. It is expected that
the school will in future be held regularly.
The final series of lectures, delivered by
the chief scientific officer of the Division
of Occupational Health in the N.S.W.
Health Department, dealt with the legal
aspects of air pollution from industry.
The N.S.W. Government has passed a
law providing that industries which are
likely to cause air pollution must be
licensed. The fees paid by these industries
will be spent in setting up a service of
expert engineers and technicians to solve
their particular problems.
No Job for Junior
HPhe cool breeze which has swept
through most industries in the past
year is only now making itself felt in
homes where, until now, the credit
squeeze was just a phrase recurring on
financial pages. This is because of the
shortage of holiday jobs.
The shops took fewer people on for
the Christmas rush. University employ-
ment officers have had difficulty in find-
ing enough jobs for students.
No holiday job for junior hits his
parents hard. “It not only means we have
to fork out cash every time he wants to
go anywhere,” one mother said, “it means
that he sits around the house all day,
eating. Also, most of his boy friends are
in the same boat, so they keep coming
around to cheer each other up. to fill in
time, and to discuss the possibility of
finding work somewhere. Most of this
time is spent investigating the contents
of the refrigerator.
“Every time one of his school-friends
comes for dinner he somehow manages
to stay the night. There’s someone here
nearly every night. In the early days I
used to change the spare bed every
time, but 1 soon woke up to that. They
all go to the same school, they can sleep
between the same sheets.
“But each morning they decide to go
to town to look for a job, so each time
the boy who stayed the night has to be
provided with a clean shirt so that he
can look the part. These shirts never
seem to come back, although probably
our boy borrows one when he stays the
night somewhere.”
Free Drinks
A Darwin correspondent reports that
some of the thirstier and more
cunning aborigines have discovered a
free supply of liquor with little or no
danger of discovery when they help them-
selves.
In Darwin cemetery are several
Japaneses graves, which are tended by
visiting or resident Japanese at various
times of the year. Included in the cere-
mony is the placing of a bowl of liquor
on the grave. Some of the aborigines
have taken the trouble to find out the
times of the ceremonies and afterwards
help themselves to the liquor, which is far
"Gee, Basil—that Was a complicated routine !”


from amusing to the authorities and the
Japanese.
Illusion
the stock recitation for declama-
tory small boys, “The Ballad of
‘The Revenge' ” was the subject of a
recent A. B. C. broadcast for schools.
After the poem there was a solemnly
spoken little tailpiece which said that all
this happened a very long time ago, and
that nowadays things were very different
because everyone worked for peace and
nations didn’t hate each other any longer.
Melbourne Doesn't Want
"Culture"
answer to the Sydney
Opera House has as yet neither
substance nor name. It is known, pro
tern, as the National Gallery and Cul-
tural Centre, but nobody is very happy
about that.
There has been a desultory correspon-
dence on the subject in the “Age.” Sir John
Medley suggested Feltonian Centre, after
Alfred Felton whose bequest has made
the Melbourne Art Gallery rich and
famous, but another correspondent
objects that most people would associate
that name with floor coverings.
“Keep the word ‘culture’ out of the
title at all costs,” was the advice of
another correspondent.
Jury Service in the Territory
/Chinese and other Asians who are Aus-
tralian citizens may soon be eligible
for jury service in the Northern Territory.
At present only “Europeans” can be
jurymen. Chinese, some of whom are
th » rd a«d fourth generate Australians,
, , . .
r , Thls ha^n^ ver P artlcular jV worried thc f
ntwi’. sno m C " ° f
community. But Territory^ g pohtidans
Jock Nelson and Tiger Brennan have
protested repeatedly. A few days ago the
Administrator, Mr Nott, foreshadowed
a change in Government thinking on the
subject.
Next year the Legislative Council is
expected to seek amendments to the Act,
making anyone who has lived in the
Territor y a " d has been the electoral
r ,° n for 12 months eli § ible to he called
tor Jury service - ° f course, the point, in
theS€ P arts > is largely academic. Because
apart from the rare murder cases the jury
system does not apply in the Northern
Territory anyway.
That Was Australia
The chief regret arising from the
resignation of Lord HOPETOUN as
Goverhor-General of Australia will be
because of its reason. Some three months
ago His Excellency assumed to his office
powers and privileges which in no wise
belong to it, and which he could only
exercise in defiance of the Federal con-
stitution and of every tradition of free
representative government. Parliament
then made a protest, a feeble protest it
is true, but still a protest, pointing out
to the Governor-General that it was
neither within his privilege to act as
a public apologist for his Ministers, nor
within his power to usurp the position of
a consulting member of a small Cabinet
junta to shape the military and foreign
policy of the Commonwealth. The occa-
sion of that protest should have been
the occasion of Lord HOPETOUN’s
resignation. The refusal of thepporersw r ers
he then claimed was of infinitely greater
importance than the refusal of a salary-
increase of £BOOO or even £BO,OOO a year.
But the timorous fashion in which
Parliament made its protest gave Lord
HOPETOUN an excuse for ignoring it,
of which excuse he availed himself. The
refusal of a salary accretion has now
been made boldly and definitely, and
Lord HOPETOUN “gives notice” boldly
and definitely. He would have consulted
his own dignity better, and the interests
of Australia would have been better
advanced, had the resignation come hard
upon the first rebuff. The Governor-
General would have cut a better figure
resigning on constitutional grounds; and
Australia would have been better served
by the next Governor-General having it
made quite clear to him that no active
interference on his part with the Govern-
ment of Australia will be tolerated. As
things stand, the chief point impressed
upon the new-comer will be that he is
not to expect more than £lO,OOO a year.
United with regret that this point, and
not the constitutional one, is the reason
of Lord HOPETOUN’s resignation will
naturally be some feeling of disappoint-
ment at losing the services of a gentle-
man who, as a figure-head, was always
amiable and dignified, and as well fitted
as anybody that could be imagined to
act as the ornamental rubber-stamp of
the Australian legislature.
—“The Bulletin/’ May 24, 1902
Feiffer
me mtr that ours was
THF Flß£f RemuTtOti AßM
COUttTRm TO WIH THF OTP
WAR 105 MOST RETURN
TO TH£ concept OF
RgVOUJTIONARV CHAW 66.
REVoourrofO /
IS AMdoPi
Mb T6MIM6 ?
SO WHSM PPEI/lOUS OOtOIOIAL
COtMTRIES 5561(0, AS IT SSSMS
W Mtfff, TO TOSS OFF THF
OF THS/R OPPRESSORS
IT mooveb US TO TRAIN
00RS6TV66 TO bUPPOPT _
THFM 1)0 THF/f? \
ASPIRATIONS. V
MU, A S THE
PPeSIPFWT SAIF
105 bHOUW
MAKS
SACRIFICES.
o& maze* that «j m form-
ativs staota em a pom
CHAN 66 MAN 06 MOST QlfflCUlX
WC6, l» MAM OAS 66 SA/P
oppz&iwe me is cFTev a
NATO ATW OR A WfMB£R OF
AMERICAN OUWTP /
FRWT J((, t >
SUfrAP, MIN'
IN6,faeWONT,
OR SOFT fl
PRWtC 1
CoMfMfes>.*
‘fwfef
mmm
MIU
mo,
HOU
KNOW
THAT,
snMARi/IN?
HOIkEWR Ml 6 rf &E UlU-
mmtic to uum THAT uoe
m co-opeme no we &ikc-
UATioM OF OUR OWN CORPORATE
malth, ir comereiH
REALISTIC
miw tor im-xl
IW6 PURPOSES
WITH OUR
AMRAA RIBS.
CU)lb£ ‘1&j!
citm,
CißVec
you [
t
We iiJSTAWc6, ip toe cm omo a
VFAI WHERE WE OFFER OuR SM£MI6F>
laos, Vietnam mv Formosa -
0W IN) REFORM THEY MEET
OVER AU OUR FRUIT, OIL, SU6AR,
HIFJIM6, TBUPhOHe AW OOFT
0Bk)K /UfEREErS-'
Then when)
EATftf AMERICA /
REBEES If /
WIEN BW ff
aoawstTHßM-
" NOT USf
KIPPM6.
YOU'RE
BRIUWNT
m kmou) '
THATMARI/IM 7
bi fycmem
mhs of
EtPlOlWtOti
toe hm
u a die ro
bui iv rue
coiv wAf?
ro a
BTAfOP'
snu.
IF msiveur KtM-
mm COQLO H6AR
hou you) - I MR
Mariam, TRRRf IP 0£
m ARTHUR
smestuGef?'


FOR THE OBSERVER
Nostalgia
as a Disease
HThe dictionary definition of nostalgia
is “homesickness as a disease.” There
is no mention of treatment or cure —-
probably because it is so pleasant an
indulgence to lie down and give way to
this complaint that even the medical
profession is riddled with the nostalgia-
prone.
All the same it is not quite healthy,
especially when it idealises the past to
the detriment of the present. Moreover,
so potent is the untruth-drug of nostalgics
that under its influence it is possible to
become a self-deluder and, what is worse,
a bore. If the drug were withdrawn and
the dreamer obliged to face his memories
objectively he would be forced to admit
that, more often than not, homesickness
for the past is homesickness for youth
. . . for a time when the sap ran high
or, even earlier still, when life involved
no responsibilities.
I would be inclined to divide the mecca
cf chronic nostalgics into zones: child-
hood, early maturity . . . then any period
from which you are divided by 20 years
from the present.
At this time of the year when news-
papers feature pictures of “weary
shoppers,” warnings to post now, buy
now, order your poultry now, and
women's magazines confront “weary
shopper” with a multitude of intricate
recipes which will “make it a proper
Christmas” for her family, nostalgia of
the first category is overpowering.
You remember halcyon days when the
approach of Christmas was unalloyed
joy. There were no ugly overtones of
commercial avarice; shopkeepers were
genial purveyors of good things over
which innocently you drooled. It did
not follow that you would find the
admired goods in your pillow slip, you
did not expect it and it did not seem
to matter. Satisfaction was assured by
the latest Mary Grant Bruce and the
familiar box of chocolates depicting a
girl in a hammock which always made
their appearance.
If anyone worked over Christmas it
was not you. A half-finished pin-
cushion, a handkerchief hemmed at
school, a sixpenny bottle of scent were
your confident contributions. The cook-
ing. for all you knew, was done by the
fairies. The weather was always perfect
—perfect, that is, for rising at the crack
of dawn to plunder your pillowslip or
for resting, replete with Christmas pud-
ding, under the dining-room table on
the cold, waxed floor.
This kind of harking back is as harm-
less as it is useless and may be dismissed
with a shrug.
The second —the self-deluding variety
—is another matter.
Now as you down your fifth gin you
remember, muzzily, the thrilling night
when the coffee shop opened at the Cross.
Somebody had a party and you all snake-
danced up Macleay Street to celebrate
the beginning of a new era in night life
. . . with a cup of coffee.
Or at Pakie’s self-service cafe in
Elizabeth Street you reached the giddy
heights of excitement on nothing stronger
than vegetable-and-macaroni pie. Or at
the plushy Ambassadors in Pitt Street
(which, alas, gave way to a “nothing
over sixpence” store), where the-dansants
were the thing, you foxtrotted all Satur-
day afternoon, humid in black velvet
and monkey fur, with no more stimulus
than a pot of tea.
That is not to say that in those days
of flaming youth you did not drink ; but
even the recollection of nausea following
your second glass of local champagne
has a sort of humorous charm.
It is a convention to blame the tempo
of the times, commercialism, changing
social habits, the degeneracy of modern
life. What about the breakdown in your
capacity for simple, unalcoholic fun?
This is pure self-delusive nostalgia.
The third form can be bad. It so
slants your thinking on the past at the
expense of the present—which has to be
lived through and coped with anyhow—
that it unfits you for contemporary
society. You become a bore to young
people (“I remember when . . .”) and
a whiner (“I don’t like all this plastic.”)
By your nostalgia shall you be judged—■
and aged.
However, every now and then a sort
of nostalgia virus breaks out and it be-
comes permissible, even fashionable, to
succumb. Hordes of people are suddenly
and mysteriously gripped by the disease.
At present it is homesickness for an era
called “the thirties” of which the symp-
toms are a rush of skirts to the knees,
beads to the stomach, “Time on My
Hands,” and long cigarette holders. These
manifestations leave me cold. My nostal-
gia for the thirties has to do with
other things or, more correctly, the lack
of things.
Life in the thirties was distin-
guished, in my book, for its lack of
complications. There was radio, yes, of
a sort, but not television, no refrigerators
to speak of, no washing machines, air-
conditioners, vitamisers, or two- or
four-stroke motor mowers. Hire-purchase
was a suspect word and status symbols
unknown. It was possible to be happy
as a lark without the spectre of monthly
payments peering over your shoulder or
the dread of things breaking down. There
was little to worry about with a rented
house, an ice-chest, a hand-propelled
lawnmower and a treadle sewing machine.
The only thing that could break down,
but seldom did, was that ornament of
so many homes, the Mother’s help.
For £1 a week (if you had it) you
could engage someone who would take
the place of all the household equipment
necessary today and mind the children
when you were out, as well. I remember


once advertising for help. One applicant
had the temerity to ask "have you a
vacuum cleaner? ’ I did not. I pointed
to my straw broom which was in excel-
lent condition. Wistful, she still took the
j°b-
A great number of happy people didn't
own homes. If you needed somewhere
to live you looked down the classified
columns and found 20 places from which
to choose. In the first two years of the
thirties I changed my dwelling place
16 times, the accommodation fluctuating
in accord with the fortunes.
Whether you lived in one room or a
mansion the service of tradesmen was
at your beck and call. The ice, the
groceries, a bunch of flowers or a yard
of calico ordered over the phone were
delivered to your door with a prompti-
tude you took as your due.
Without wishing to sound bitter one
wonders whether the sixties will ever
become the object of nostalgia. Well,
it is possible.
A picture of the future could be thus:
A rented apartment in a towering struc-
ture on the Le Corbusier plan with space
allotted according to the individual or
family unit—your own size cubed plus
the cubed proportions of additional
family members. It would be air-condi-
tioned, the only refrigeration a small
hole in the wall to cool your drinks (or
your head).
An important feature would be the
chute which would eliminate all clutter
—down it would go your plastic con-
tainers, papers, worn clothes, unwanted
kittens and broken toys, books you have
read, records you have heard, Christmas
ties, and a host of one-use disposals, to
be chewed up to nothing in a giant dis-
poser. No kitchen or wash-house prob-
lems—cooking, cleaning and laundering
would be taken care of on a mass scale
by automation.
Probably you would be fined for using
a private car even supposing you had
anywhere to keep such a toy. You’d
travel by public transport underground
or through the air.
The crystal clouds at this point and,
goodness me, perhaps it is just as weli.
It seems almost certain that the
adolescents of today will, by 1990, re-
member with nostalgia the jostling,
shoulder-bumping, costly, anxieiy-pro-
moting, muddling, exhausting, glamorous
inconveniences of the sixties. That is,
if they still haven't found a cure,
M. E. UPWARD
ABORIGINALITIES
Stock Train
Cky is the color of a magpie’s egg, pale,
fragile. The sun shatters it before I
get my boots laced. Jack gets out of
bed and stretches mightily. His great
scaffolding of arms and legs fills the hotel
bedroom. He limps across the lino and
overflows through the window. “Danny,”
he says cheerfully, “she’s going to be
hot.”
He drains back into the room, and I
can see the tin roofs, the brown roads
and the sedans that belong to the com-
mercial travellers who are still asleep.
Further out, the smooth hills are rising
out of shadow, sunlight streaming from
their shoulders, spilling across the thin
river with a silver splash, breaking
against a distant reef of mountains in a
haze of spray.
Jack’s hand spans my shoulder-
blades as we go down to breakfast. “She’s
going to be hot,” he repeats. “Danny,
you’re going to learn a lot today. Keep
your eyes open and you’ll learn some-
thing. I wish I was young again.”
We eat breakfast alone, before the
commercial travellers come down. After-
wards, Jack says, “You go upstairs and
pack the ports. I’ll go across to the truck-
ing yards and see if the flamin’ cattle have
arrived. No need to hurry.”
I go upstairs and pack the ports. Jack’s
got the lower half of a pair of pyjamas,
slippers, a cake of Sunlight soap, a nail-
brush that I’ve seen him use on his false
teeth, a dog-chain, a cheque-book, a dark
suit and a couple of decent shirts. There’s
a few dark spots on the shirts, and I
remember what a cow he is when he gets
full at the dances and wants to fight
someone. I note that he hasn't got any
socks. Maybe he’s got two pairs on
under the bluchers.
It’s half-past eight when I step into
the street, carrying the ports. The heat
sinks through my shirt. The hills are
melting and their yellow dust is running
down the roads. I go across the bridge,
60 feet above the dying river, and pass
under the big willow trees on the other
side that some English character planted
many years ago. When I reach the rail-
way tracks I feel like a hot rivet ready
to be rammed into the earth and fastened
there with the sun’s yellow hammer. I
step across a dozen sets of rails and
duck under the buffers of a timber truck,
still dragging the ports, and come up
against the trucking yards. There’s no
sign of the cattle, but Jack and a few
other men are just outside, standing in
the shade of a cabbage gum.
Jack says, “Take them ports down the
line and put ’em in the guard’s van.
Down there.” He waves at a line of
cattle trucks down near the engine shed,
about half a mile away. I walk down
between the lines for about 10 minutes
until I come up with the guard’s van.
1 throw the ports up into the van and
start the long tramp back to the trucking
yards. The van passes me on the way
back, together with a long stretch of
cattle trucks. There’s a guard leaning
out of the van and a driver leaning out
of the engine.
When I get back, Jack tousles my hair
with his hand, which is about as smooth
as a brick. “Why didn’t you wait for
the van?’' he says with a laugh. “You
could’a’ got a lift back.”
“Why go down there in the first
place?” I ask.
He walks away to open the big gate
on the main yard, and I hear the cattle
coming up the road, lowing, running,
ringing from the horses and the whips.
They come down on the yard in a rush,
only to baulk and fly off sideways in
a swirl of white faces and red hides. A
horseman gallops in across the wing of
the mob and they turn back towards the
gate. A volley of shouts and whips
presses them from the rear. Two horse-
men drive at the sides of the mob in a
pincer movement. Suddenly, the yard
is full of bellowing dust and rattling
horns. A dozen shoulders close the
straining gate. The dust clears, and I
can see foaming horses, and riders
stretching their legs, and dogs spread-
eagled in the shade with every inch of
their red tongues unravelled.
Jack says, “Now all we gotta do is
load them and the job’s done. Go and
ask somebody the time.”
I ask somebody the time. He squints
at the sun and says it’s about 10 o’clock.
I ask the guard in the van what the
time is, and he takes out a watch like
a silver johnny-cake and tells me it’s five
to 10. I walk back to Jack and tell
him the time. He says, “I know. Can’t
yer tell the time by the sun yet?” Then
he shouts to no one in particular, “Watch
out for that one. She’s a fizzy one.” He
means a big red cow, breasting through
the mob with her head up. Her thin
white horns are curled up in an attitude
of graceful danger.
Hour after hour we load the cattle.
Trucks glide up to the open end of
the ramp, doors are opened, cattle are
prodded up from the forcing yards, doors
are closed and pinned, the engine huffs
and clangs and up glides another truck.
Jack and I work in the big yard at the
back. Time and again we try to get
the fizzy cow into the forcing yard with
the other cattle, but she always spins
out at the last second. Finally, we’re
left with her in the yard, alone. We’re
on top of the rails, while she runs round
the empty yard trying to horn the dogs
who are snarling at her from outside.
Jack says, “Wait here, Danny.” He
climbs across the rails and stands in the
forcing yard. He opens the gate and
waves his hat at the cow. She spots him,
and charges with the slobbers flying from
N er open, bellowing mouth. Jack slides


behind the gate as she hurtles past into
the forcing yard.
Then he slams the gate and “goes for
the doctor.” She turns, half falling in
the dust, recovers, charges, takes a sliver
of wood from the rail with her near-side
horn two inches below his fast-ascending
boot. We get a rope on her horns and
prod her up the ramp. She bellows
tragically, shaking her head at the rope,
at the men, doubled up, straining
defiantly back against the slapping hands
and shouting voices. Jack twists her
tail cruelly and she lurches forward into
the truck. We lash her head up into a
corner and leave her to cool off. 1 look
at the sun and reckon it must be one
o’clock.
We boil the billy and have a feed of
sandwiches half an hour before the train
is ready to pull out. Jack says we've
got plenty of time. The vans are quiet
except for an occasional bellow or
shuffle of horns and bodies. The guard
comes along and sits down beside us in
the shade. He tells us that the passenger
train from Sydney is late and that we’ve
got to wait until it comes in before we
can move out. I look down the single
track a long time before I see the first
sign of it. It writhes out of the hills
sliding on a pool of fictitious water,
looks wider, taller, upside-down, real,
factual, black boiler, red carriages and
the big cry of aching steel. We climb
into the van to wait.
The guard says to me, “Don’t stand
with your face near the door. You'll get
bashed on the head when she starts.”
1 lie down on the floor behind the door
and close my eyes. I hear Jack say,
“Great thing to be young. He can sleep
anywhere, even on the floor.”
We haunt the hills with a cry of
steam, a sudden white feather in the
wind. 1 don't sleep. I’m a bit excited
about seeing Sydney for the first time.
Jack’s told me a lot about it, but that’s
not the same thing as seeing it yourself.
The engine is busy on a grade heaving
bundles of white steam into the late after-
noon. The hills are softening with
shadow. Sound blasts off the walls of
a cutting, collapses into a gully, spills
quietly across a brown plain, crashes back
from a deserted siding and a row of tanks.
The guard looks at his N.S.W.G.R.
watch and says we’re running an hour
late. Jack boils the billy on the small
stove and we drink tea.
We stop outside some big town and
back into a loop so that a passenger
train can go through ahead. “While
we’re waiting,” Jack says, “we’ll poke
the cattle up.” We walk along the trucks
but find only one cow to prod back to
her feet. The fizzy cow is still dragging
defiantly at the rope. Her own ribs are
scarred with horn marks. She’s the only
one who looks us in the eye. The others
stare dully at everything, waiting for
things to happen.
The express comes through like a
bullet. She beats up from the south like
a big, black hurricane. I flinch when
she goes past with a long wailing cry,
and when her van disappears into the
shadows everything that’s left seems
smaller, even the hills that shouted for
her.
I’m tired as hell so I sleep for half
an hour and come to in the darkness,
except for the fire in the stove. Jack
is asleep in the corner, propped up like
a half-filled bag of corn. The guard is
mucking about with his lantern. We’re
really moving now, walloping over pad-
docks and bridges. The engine, when I
look out and see it on a bend, is an old,
white-headed lunatic working furiously.
There’s a lot more trees in this country,
and I can see lights in the distance, so
I ask the guard if that's Sydney and
he tells me it’s Goulburn ; nowhere near
Sydney and not one-tenth as big.
We slow down and stop a long time
before we get near the town. “We've got
to wait outside the yard until the line
is clear,” the guard says. “There’s a wide
load coming through on its way to the
Snowy Mountains Hydro Scheme.”
Half an hour passes before a huge
diesel locomotive crawls past dragging
a quarter-mile of flat-tops and one huge
steel tank that almost brushes against
our van. Then we glide quietly into
the yard and our wheels get lost in a
crazy geometry of lines. Jack comes-to
and stands in the doorway. “Lookit all
them blue lights, Danny,” he says.
I see about 20 engines standing or
moving slowly in the yard. Flares of
steam, flashes of white flame, smell of
jet air and burning coal, a spider's net
of glistening rails. Lines of timber
trucks, vans, carriages, signal boxes, men
walking up and down wearing big gloves,
swinging lanterns, red and green,
\y e g Q a j on g p o k e the cattle up
and nc j a h ou t seven lying down, mainly
heavy ones whose legs get tired hold-
j n g them up, and we have a hard time
shoving the others about so that the ones
unc jerneath can stand up.
The fizzy cow snorts at us when we
go past. She s knocked one horn oft
an d her lace is a mass ol blood. I
manage to get the broken horn out of
the truck, still warm and I thiow i
between the tracks. It lies there, curled
graceful She stares at it, bellows and
throws herself backwards until the rope
bites into the raw, bleeding stump on
her head. Her flanks tremble but she
u ma to stand . All the other
are jet e t for a shu ffle or a
clas 4 h of horns .
b
We’ve got to wait at Goulburn until
all the important trains clear the points
and get well on their way to Syoney.
Then we move through the yard, past
the deserted platforms, slide into the


nothing of country, but for a long time
I can see the smear of lights.
Later, I sit hunched up in the door-
way, waiting for the light to grow
stronger. The country here is very hilly
and there’s plenty of green timber.
Farms are much closer together, the
dairy cattle don’t even bother to look up
as we roar past ; mountains are roped
together with mist, fences drip from the
night’s brief rain. We split the fog in
cuttings and blast our own fog of steam
and smoke into the warming air. I
haven’t slept all night ; not like the
guard and Jack who are propped up in
their corners like a couple of abandoned
concertinas. I don’t know why I haven’t
slept.
Land gets flatter, houses get thicker,
roads join with roads, cars run with
cars, telephone lines multiply by the
hundred, everything gets hotter and
faster. 1 hear Jack say, “There she is,
Danny. What d’you think of her?”
“She's big,” I say. “She’s big,” he says.
“She’s big all right.”
The guard looks at his watch and
reckons we’ve made up half an hour.
Should be in about two o’clock in the
afternoon.
Acres of tiles, hardly a tin roof any-
where, electric trains that don't look
much after what I saw in the Goulburn
yards. Cars, people, houses wash up
under our wheels like flotsam on a beach,
thicker and closer every mile until we’re
riding on a sea of junk. Old houses
rammed up in bundles, women sweeping
doorsteps, factories, silos, churches, kids,
parks . . .
By the time we get to Flemington I
can hardly keep awake. As soon as we
stop Jack hops out and starts talking to
some men in the yards, and before long
we’re opening the trucks and the cattle
are running down the ramps. Other men
come to drive them over to the resting
paddocks. Only one stays behind. She’s
dead. She hangs on the rope with her
one slender horn poking through the
slats of the truck. We take the rope off
and she slumps down on the floor. All
around me I can hear the noise of
traffic.
DON CAMPBELL
FOOD
Talking Turkey
“'T'here is one thing about raising
turkeys,” Mrs Edna Egan explained.
“You never grow so fond of them that
you can’t bear to part with them, as you
might if you raised dogs or cats, or
even pigs or chickens. You look at your
turkeys every day, and when the time
comes to sell them you are always glad
to see them go.”
The time to sell them, of course, is
right now. A week or so ago the Christ-
mas buyer arrived at Glenhaven, the
turkey-farm of Mrs Egan and her part-
ner, Miss Beryl Slatyer, at Castle Hill,
near Sydney, and took off about 300
turkeys, alive. He will dress, freeze and
sell them, mainly to butchers, who have
a large slice of the casual trade in tur-
keys at Christmas time.
Most of the turkey trade is at Christ-
mas and, until someone institutes an
Australian equivalent of Thanksgiving,
with traditional turkey and trimmings, it
is likely to remain so. The chicken-on-a-
spit, which is supposed to have “revolu-
tionised” the poultry industry, has had
no effect on sales of turkeys.
As well as not being particularly
lovable birds, turkeys are temperamental.
They have a reputation for being some-
what suicidal. It is sometimes alleged
that if excited they will kill themselves
by banging their heads up against the
wire of the yard, but not many poultry-
farmers will vouch for this. But Mrs
Egan says that if a turkey gets sick it
almost invariably dies, no matter what
you do for it. It is quite difficult to
balance their diet, but once their food
routine is established and they are past
the very young stage, turkeys generally
are easy to look after.
Glenhaven recently has begun to add
geese to the establishment. Geese are
very little trouble, as they graze. Goose
is particularly popular among New Aus-
tralians. So far, Glenhaven has not
established a regular market for geese,
but can sell all its full-grown birds to
casual customers.
There are perhaps only half a dozen
turkey-farms in the Sydney area. Other
small holders raise flocks for the Christ-
mas season.. Restaurants and hotels,
which have a year-round demand, get
their supplies from one regular source,
perhaps in the country, or they may raise
birds on their own farms.
Once the turkeys have been sold for
Christmas, most turkey-farmers can relax
for the next six months or so. The
owners of Glenhaven mostly sell their
birds alive so they do not have to go
through the business of killing, plucking
and freezing. However, they are kept
busy throughout the year selling fertile
eggs and poults to farmer:, in N.S.W.
and interstate.
Round about this time of the year
they do kill and dress a certain number
of local orders and they get endless
inquiries from Sunday drivers, “Do you
think I should get a turkey, or would
four chickens be better?” they are asked.
The Sunday driver will decide that she
wants one particular turkey out of the
flock and no other. It is sometimes easier
to sell the 300 live turkeys than it is to
sell one dressed bird to a casual buyer.
While other sections of the poultry
industry in N.S.W. are reportedly in
difficulties—perhaps because of cheaper
prices for eggs, perhaps because too
many entered the field a few years ago
and over-supplied the market—the tur-
key-farmers are happy with this year’s
prices.
A turkey is a good buy for any family
with a large enough oven in which to
cook it. If you have a large enough
deep-freeze, turkeys are considerably
cheaper at times of the year other than
Christmas. To try to get more of the
average family market smaller varieties
of turkeys are now being bred.
“Do you notice I've rearranged the sitting-room? ”


REVIEWS
THEATRE
Corn from the
Floor of the Barn
Yeitzapoppin. Harry Wren Variety.
Theatre Royal, Sydney.
Tt must be years since good-hearted and
A coarse-ground corn of this “Yellza-
poppin” type has been on sale in Sydney,
but there seems no reason why sales
should not be brisk.
The show is bred in the Olsen and
Johnson tradition, and so makes a big
point out of “gagging” the audience, but
busy comedians Keith Petersen and Terry
Scanlon did not take full measure of a
happily co-operative congregation, who
seemed willing to take whatever the stage
company cared to dish out.
More courage with the audience should
build up the already hilarious fun of the
participation routines, and a long spell
in the second half when the audience is
kept out of affairs seems to be a tactical
mistake.
Amongst the specialty acts, the Nicoli
Bros, make an art out of tumbling, dis-
guising some of the skill with belly
laughs ; the Flat Tops mix extraordinary
musical skills with crazy movement and
Goon humor in a show-stopping group
of numbers, and Barney Grant's hill-
billy comedian exhibited a frontier charm
that gave instant warmth to the theatre.
Outstanding, for this critic’s eye, was
one, Miss Amor Solar, a remarkably
talented young lady who seemed to have
no trouble whatever in imparting a
magical rhythm to just about every part
of an enchanting chassis. A reluctant
young man from the audience had the
steambox treatment from Miss Solar, who
put him on his knees on stage, and,
kneeling herself, advanced slowly towards
him—with her bosom involved in a most
bewildering whirl of movement to savage
drums.
The rest of her body almost immobile,
this basic dance has to be seen for the
fuli effect to be enjoyed. Mingled with
audience cries of delight were pleas for
mercy for the unfortunate male-—hypno-
tised. courageous, purple.
More ammunition was spent through-
out the show than in two episodes of
Gunsmoke —ducks were shot down from
the flies or the theatre ceiling, fish were
shot, and one fine running fight was
joined between two men in a bedroom
and a cowboy and a warship pictured on
the wall. A quiz down in the audi-
torium yielded prizes of live pigs, geese,
white mice—quite a generous riot.
Amongst all this light-hearted foolery,
the social field-worker might have made
some useful notes on the apparent still
common use of the chamber-pot. Many
main gags centred on the pot or its
equivalent, and, judging from the roars
of laughter, these references touched
many a sensitive hambone.
Most of the humor was on a juvenile
level, but its genuine coarseness and
gusto evaded any charge of vulgarity.
For the holiday-time the show would
seem to be perfectly tailored —toilet jokes
always seem acceptable even to country
aunts —and, apart from the already noted
epic appearance of Miss Solar, nothing
like a rumor of sophisticated sex appears
to have reached the company’s ears. The
chorus is almost always respectably
covered, and they manage to appear
iong-legged, pretty and precise in just
the right old-fashioned way.
All in all, some hours of something
like the old burlesque—if you can
imagine the old burlesque without s-x.
KEVON KEMP
ART
Unheroic Craftsmen
Charles Bush. Bonython Gallery.
Robert Campbell. Feel Street.
Adelaide
TThe successful artist, as hero, is required
nowadays to protest and suffer, a
surrogate for the rest of us. We com-
plain about those who conform, who
paint without signs of pain, who will not
offer us their personalities for a cult. We
want agonies, not Annigonis. This is all
very WC M> but really we must have both.
The two painters now on view in
Adelaide are unheroic craftsmen who
make a living out of knowing their art
rather than fostering its cultural changes,
Robert Campbell paints, and is director
of the State gallery. Charles Bush paints,


Listab'ished 1 868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON 4
OSUI.UVaa
m
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Walson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Pope? Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANU PACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYI'ERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS &. OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
•■JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
and is a weekly television personality
who tells women how to improve their
appearances. Both are usefully engaged
in exploiting the established techniques
and conventions of their craft, and so
one should not ask them to be in the
avant garde when what they are offering
to the general public is not caviar but
good fish-paste.
The paintings are safe and likeable.
Charles Bush's show ranges over his work
since 1936. It includes self-portraits of
different periods, and his recent night
paintings of Melbourne and Sydney. The
city scenes are asking to be hung in
boardrooms and reproduced on calen-
dars. Even the abstracts are based on
drops of polyvinyl plastic on masonite,
perhaps two of the most trusted materials
in our contemporary civilisation. Robert
Campbell’s water-colors and oils in the
English tradition have an Edwardian look
and would be secure in any drawing-
room. These are two solid workers, who
entertain without serious stimulation.
We need plenty like them, just as we need
the heroes, too.
EARLE HACKETT
Forceful Contribution
Trends in Dutch Painting since Van
Gogh. National Gallery of N.S.W.
TpiNELY selected, balanced, memorable
-® are the first w'ords that come to
mind n describing this excellent show
of sixty paintings from public and private
collections in Holland. Besides estab-
lished masterpieces, Australians will find
welcome surprises among the works of
many painters virtually unknown in this
country. Older artists, represented by
several powerful canvases, make one
aware ol the variety ot Dutch art.
rietner s strongly iealised self-portrait,
u ot vigorous modelling in liquid tones,
or his subtle Construction near the
R aadl straat emphasises the solid
achievement ot some of Van Gogh s con-
temporaries.
T , ,
In many respects colored reproductions
convey nothing of the surging textual
qualities of Van Goghs paint nor do
they more than hint at his elusive color
harmonies. The warm glow of flesh m
is Se f Poitiait 1886 indicates just
how far Van Gogh had progressed
under the spell of impressionism ,n one
year from the turgid but richly imp-
astoed Potatoes tni basket painted at
uernen. e ot ei three paintings
teach out towards a transcendental vision
of growth and decay typified by the
rhythmic crescendo of the St Remy
“Landscape at Moomise.”
Imaginative painters like Jan Toorop,
Keenly responsive to the movements of
their time and pointillism, symbolism,
post impressionism, deserve much more
than passing attention. However, one
of the great strengths of this show lies
in its representation of the Fauves. Kees
Van Dongen, whose brilliant portrait
of Lafitte gives ample evidence why he
became so fatally popular with the
“haute monde” of France, appears at the
summit of his achievement somewhere
between Matisse and Derain with “in-
terior with Yellow' Door'’ 1910. Less
distinctive perhaps, though revelling in
high-pitched color, Jan Slyters also
appears to have fallen into respectability
after 1912.
Four superlative Mondrians, includ-
ing two of the epoch-making trees serier,
1908 and 1912 respectively, so much
more vital than we ever imagined, give
a clue as to the inimitable freshness of
his mature style, a freshness shared to
a much lesser degree by other members
of the de Stijl. -These are well repre-
sented and appear at their best when not
directly imitating the master.
Classic dignity and expressionist vio-
lence, subtle chiaroscuro and chromatic
exhilaration mark the form-color
frontiers of Dutch art, continuous to
the present day in painters like Corneille
and Appel, Wagemaker and Benner.
Within these broad categories, surrealists,
neo-realists, abstractionists and expres-
sionists reinforce or overthrow estab-
lished tradition, which weighs heavily in
Holland, with a wealth of talent and
inventions. The dynamics of this situa-
tion ensure a forceful contribution to
the development of European painting.
J. HENSHAW
FILMS
Moravia Modified
Woman of Rome. Luigi Zampa.
Sydney Savoy.
T-WRF. are other nrofessions than the
T : . ? ,
oldest one in the Eternal City, but
one gets little inkling ot it in hints. Sex
,s sold so many times that it becomes
soiled rather than exciting; first on the
streets, then m the seedy novels, and
finally ,n celluloid But one can say of
a m a n ,°l ome ,u a i r” 1
good deal better than the reality, and
better than Moravia’s book. ‘
Where Moravia exploits sex, the film
exploits its symbol, Gina Lollobrigida.
Gina is a much better actress in Italian
than she is in English: lovely to look
at, and tragically convincing. It is to
Moravia's credit that in adapting his
novel to a scenario he has refined the
contents, cutting out the crudely descrip-
tive passages, and allowing Zampa to
suggest rather than show the full
brutality of a life of prostitution. How
good Zampa is as a director is most
clearly shown by comparing his "Woman
ot Rome with "Go Naked In the
Workr These fllms have , he same
(hema and the same star but in |he | atter
Gina is s(ri d „/ artis|ic meri( as
we „ as mora| vjrlue .. Woman of
Rome » she creates and sustains a role of
considera ble complexity, almost justify-
in« the book ' s sensational success,
. P la y ed b y Gina ; the unfortunate
girls story is memorable ; but Moravia s
quiverful of Roman males are beyond
redemption, even dramatically. As the
violence piles up, even good direction and
fine acting cannot conceal the fact that
“Woman of Rome” is designed to excite,
rather than to purge the emotions
through pity and terror. In short, the
film’s “immorality” is social rather than
sexual.
ANTON VOGT


* The Mind of Germany. Hans Kohn.
Macmillan. 545. 6d.
The Red Page
Under the Teutonic Curse
By EUGENE KAMENKA
“'T'he world demands, and has a right
A to demand, that the German people
give it a guarantee that the Pan-German
spirit, the spirit of arrogance, of the cult
of power and of paganism, is no longer
the German spirit.” These were the
words of a German —the distinguished
historian and admirer of Bismarck, Hans
Delbrueck. They were addressed to the
German people in 1918, just two months
before the general collapse that marked
the end of the Kaiser’s war.
Only two years earlier, on July 8,
1916, 1314 intellectuals, including 352
university professors, had submitted to
the Imperial Government a memoran-
dum strongly supporting the most
extreme pan-German war aims: the
annexation of all Belgium and the French
Channel coast, the separation of Poland,
the Baltic provinces and the Ukraine
from Russia and their constitution as
German-Austrian satellites, the creation
of a German African Empire to include
the French and Belgian Congo, the imposi-
tion of at least 10,000 million marks war
reparations on Germany’s enemies and
the insistence that they pay Germany’s
entire national debt.
Germany lost the war and the Kaiser
—who had practised Bismarck’s aggres-
sion without Bismarck’s ability—lost his
throne. The new German National
Assembly, meeting at Weimar in the
summer of 1919, adopted a republican
constitution. The socialist Minister of
the Interior, Eduard David, announced
that “the German Republic is henceforth
the most democratic democracy in the
world.”
Yet, in the same year, a leading Ger-
man Christian, the theologian Reinhold
Seeberg, began a memorial service for
students of the University of Berlin who
had died in the war with the words:
invictis victi victuri (to the undefeated,
the defeated who will be the future
victors). The Medical School of the
University of Konigsberg—the univer-
sity where Kant had taught and written
his “Project for Perpetual Peace”—
invited the German war leader Luden-
dorff to receive (of all things) an
honorary Doctorate of Medicine. The
citation read:
“To the master of strategy whose art
has saved the health and life of innumer-
able German warriors from hostile guns
. . to the leader whose strong arm
carried the immaculate glory of German
arms and the splendor of German culture
from the shores of the Atlantic to the
Arabian desert ; to the hero who pro-
tected the German people, who were
surrounded by a world of greedy enemies,
with the sharp blows of his undefeated
sword, until the people, trusting false
words, abandoned its unshattered arms
and its strong leader ; to that German
whose image, shining forth from the
darkness of the present, gives us faith
in a future saviour and avenger of our
people.”
Rarely, if ever, has a medical faculty
combined so many dangerous legends and
falsehoods into one citation. It is
scarcely surprising, perhaps, that in such
a climate Germany should welcome, only
14 years after her total defeat, yet another
saviour and avenger of the race: Adolf
Hitler.
TAO facts such as these, then, show that
National Socialism was not a mon-
strous deviation from German history,
but its “organic” culmination? Is there
indeed, as our fathers thought, a
“Teutonic curse” that has done more to
disrupt the world order than the forces
of industrial capitalism? Is it true, as
one critic has put it, that “Germans
always push an idea to its realisation
and every longing to its logical conclu-
sion ; [that] they create ‘extreme situa-
tions’ which can be resolved only by a
total breakthrough or a total defeat?”
The total defeat —twice in the last 50
years —has been Germany’s. Indeed, as
Professor Kohn* usefully reminds us,
even the present partition of Germany
into West and East Germany is as much
the result of Germany’s folly in collabora-
ting with Stalin to destroy the Polish
buffer State as of Russian intransigence
or Western weakness. Yet, in the balance,
Germany, despite her defeats, has caused
more suffering to others than she has
suffered herself. She rose, angry, brutal
and self-pitying from one defeat. Can
she still do so again and once more
destroy others in the process of destroy-
ing herself?
Ten years ago, most of us would have
taken this question very seriously indeed
—even if we had finally, perhaps a little
doubtfully, answered no. Today, the very
question seems slightly ludicrous. We
have other, infinitely larger problems to
think of: it is certainly not Germany
that faces us with the threat of a nuclear
war. At present Germany is simply not
any longer a powerful third force to be
suspected of manipulating dissention
between the other great Powers for the
sake of her own national-imperial
interests. Physically, Germany is herself
divided between the two warring camps ;
in each of these camps, she is no more
than a junior partner. Jf Germany were
to become the cause of a third world
war in this decade or the next, it would
not be as an active initiator, but as a
passive prize.
Professor Kohn, who now teaches
history in New York City College,
was born in Prague and served in the
Austro-Hungarian Army till he was taken
prisoner by the Russians. He has lived
in Paris, London and Jerusalem and
written a number of books on modern
European, Russian and Americm
nationalism. He is now an American
citizen. Yet “The Mind of Germany”
reveals unmistakably its author’s cultural
background. To most of us the “Teutonic
curse” has become an item in cultural
history ; recent cultural history, no doubt,
but nevertheless as stale as the newspaper
headlines and editorials of only five years
ago. But those who worship at the
shrine of Goethe and Schiller and Less-
ing, who see the classical German
enlightenment in the late eighteenth cen-
tury as a highpoint of Western civilisa-
tion, care about the “Teutonic curse.”
We may no longer see it as a physical
threat ; they still see it as a spiritual
threat —to themselves. Only thus, I
think, can we explain why Professor
Kohn should write a book which in sub-
ject as well as treatment is ten years too
late, and which itself ends by saying that
the new (Western) Germany seems no
longer under the curse of the Teutons.
This is not to say that a book cannot
be eternally interesting, no matter what
its subject. If Professor Kohn had given
us a penetrating analysis of the past
German dilemma, a new or definitive
view of the causes and character of
German nationalism, I should have been
the first to welcome this book. But he
has not. He has written an erudite,
intimate but rather superficial book
aimed at the intelligent layman on a
problem that no longer interests most
intelligent laymen— apart from Germans
and those who feel involved with Ger-
many’s culture, at least. Professor Kohn
traces for us —interestingly, it is true —
the way in which certain key notions
such as German faith and honor, the
romantic conception of Germanness and
a sense of German imperial mission
came to dominate much of German
intellectual life. He reminds us that even
such liberals as Neumann and Max
Weber were Prussian patriots. He
emphasises that at the time when other
people were becoming nation-states
Germany went through its “schreckliche


BOOKHUNTER
Dept. ••D." Ho* 2671, G.P.0.. Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—Action,
text hook, biography, history etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.O. Sydney
Kaiserlose Zeit” —“its terrible kingless
times”—in the 14th century, and came
to look back on the Hohenstaufen
Emperors with their domains in Italy and
Sicily as the symbols of German Imperial
greatness. It was thus, he argues, that
German nationalism never aimed at a
rationally circumscribed policy, but at
a Reich —an imperial dominion. Ger-
many's malady was that she had not
become part of modern Western Europe;
she proposed to cure this malady by
absorbing Europe instead of being
absorbed by it.
Kohn’s general thesis is that Hitler
was not part of a general twentieth cen-
tury mass movement, such as produced
Communism and Fascism, but a peculiar
German phenomenon, arising from the
fact that a modern society had been
imposed in Germany on pre-modern
social and intellectual foundations which
were proudly retained. This is an im-
portant, if unoriginal, claim but Kohn
does nothing to carry it beyond this
simple and bold assertion. His theme
that there are two Germanys —the
rational German tradition of European
cosmopolitanism, exemplified by Goethe,
and the national romanticism that cul-
minated in Germany's unification under
Prussia—is no doubt sound ; though
Kohn himself shows how complex the
mixtures may be. But it simply will not
do to keep ascribing the victory of
national-romanticism to a trahison ties
clercs —a betrayal by the intellectuals of
liberal values —without asking either why
the intellectuals rejected these values or
to what extent their influence was at all
significant. Intellectual history may be
interesting, but it simply will not carry
the burden of explaining the entire
political history of a people. At best,
it may exemplify it.
Nevertheless, for those wffio want to
see what the German problem was,
rather than to understand why it arose,
Kohn's book forms a vivid if somewhat
selective and uncritical introduction.
Amoralists All
No Answer. Robert Pinget. John
Calder. 225. 6d.
It Wasn’t Me. lan Jefferies. Jona-
than Cape. 18s. 9d.
The Furnished Room. Laura Del-
Rivo. New Authors Ltd. 20s.
Adrift in Soho. Colin Wilson. Victor
Gollancz. 20s.
HPhe contemporary loss of faith in tran-
scendent morality is the haunting fact
from which these four novels have
sprung: the dislocation between the
resources of the human being and the
social complex within which it finds
itself is the facet of this loss explored in
these books.
The French novel “No Answer” is, as
might be expected, the most precisely
desolate. An old man sits writing to his
runaway son ; his broken thoughts crawl
on to the page. There is no meaning
in the ruin of the father-son relationship
—but the father nags away at his pen
like a dog with a dry bone. Meanwhile,
the life of the provincial town proceeds,
meaningless, absurd. A young girl has
been buried, the relatives have done their
duty and, dressed in mourning, have not
mourned. They hurry away with dusty
shoes to get drunk, to turn over old
gossip. The old man revisits the post
office to ask once more for the letters
from his son that will never come. He
walks to the local cemetery and studies
the layout of the graves and their con-
dition. On his way back he is observed
by the town gossip. “What is written is
written: the rest is death,” is the last sen-
tence of this book, and it is clear that
for these people the death of God has led
to the death of man.
The reaction to the dilemma of the
20th century in Mr lan Jefferies's book
is vicious and logical. The hero, John
Craig, is a brilliant mathematician with
the temperament of a James Bond. For
him the world belongs to the clever
and highly trained, who will despise and
use the mentally untidy, whether they be
government officials or the man in the
street. Sent to Hungary to obtain scien-
tific data from a former colleague, Craig
is prepared to double-cross the men who
sent him—or anybody—in order to
obtain what he really wants: the publi-
cation of his own system of rocket guid-
ance. The story of his secret journey
across the border and through Hungary
is excitingly described. Through a land-
scape threaded with barbed wire, this
clandestine non-hero crawls in anarchic
self-sufficiency, and when, on the return
journey, this intellectual but now
emotionally disturbed man encounters a
specimen of ordinary humanity, there is
nothing he can do but shoot him dead.
For the liberal-humanist, caught between
communism on the Left and neo-Fascism
on the Right, this is a disturbing book to
read.
With “The Furnished Room” we return
to the familiar, shabby but warmer world
of London where, in the district of
Notting Hill, out-of-work artists, writers,
actors, tramps, nymphomaniacs and
various other types of layabouts con-
gregate in steamy “caffs” and talk away
their time before returning to dismal bed-
sitting rooms, to do more talking or to
make love on shabby beds. The sad hero
of this book is named Becket. He is a
lapsed Catholic who throws up his job
as a clerk, nearly starves to death, and
finally attempts to give his life some pur-
pose by murdering a rich old woman on
behalf of an ex-army officer friend who
will inherit her money. He fails in this,
too, but the moral shock he experiences
enables him to make some kind of deci-
sion for life.
Miss Del-Rivo knows her district and
her people very well, but one has by now
read a little too much about these urban
Bohemians: they no longer seem very
original or very, interesting. This young
author writes well, however, and her
future works will be worth watching.
Colin Wilson's second novel is, un-
fortunately, set in the same area of
London and is populated with the same
kind of people. It is obviously based
very much on his own experiences in
London, and he brings his characters to
life very vividly. There is a Rabelaisian
gusto in some of the scenes, and the
people in this book do not worry at all
about “morals” or “purpose.” The fact
that life is absurd is not for them a
matter for philosophical consideration
but a fact to be relished: they would not
want it any other way. Mr Wilson is
detached enough to observe the essential
shallowness of their lives, and it is no
accident that the most sympathetic
character in the book is a true and
dedicated painter.
“Adrift in Soho” is apparently the
first of a series, and one hopes that the
future volumes will have as much liveli-
ness in the writing, but more original and
interesting characters.
Taking these four novels together, what
I miss is that research in depth which
would not merely present the amorality
of our time but illuminate it. Freudian
analysis no doubt has its limitations, but
can the serious contemporary novelist
do without it?
NORMAN GEAR
One More Mountain to Cross
Show Me a Mountain. Colin Simpson.
Angus Sc Robertson. 30s.
HThe founders of Ampol Petroleum
came from a small town at the foot
of Mount Egmont in New Zealand.
“Show me a mountain and I'll show you
a way to get over it,” was the credo of
one of these men, a dynamic optimist
named W. G. Walkley. And the mountain
he climbs in this book is the Australian
oil monopoly.
Walkley's first trial at mountaineering
was in New Zealand, where he and W. A.
O’Callaghan ran a national union of
motorists. One of their enemies was the
high price of petrol and a little company
they organised not only cut that price by
importing Russian petrol and calling it
Europa but also made generous profits.
That gave Walkley the idea of selling
petrol in Australia, and he and his partner
came over in October 1935.


TEEMS OF TIMES AND HAPPY RETURNS
Dominic Behan
TEEMS OF TIMES AND HAPPY RETURNS By Dominic Behan,
the brother of Brendan, is the autobiography of his Dublin
childhood in the twenties and thirties. 22/6
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON MELBOURNE SYDNEY AUCKLAND
At that time the president of the
National Roads and Motorists Associa-
tion was John C. Watson, and more than
thirty years previously he had been first
Labor Prime Minister of Australia
(though he was hardly as young
then as Simpson implies). Watson
had left the party but he still
had a tinge of the radical and he
agreed to help Walkley in fighting the
big petrol companies. When the N.R.M.A.
refused to join the campaign Watson
himself became chairman of the Austra-
lian Motorists Petrol Company in 1936.
The company had a name, nothing
more. It had no selling agents and no
source of petrol. An attempt to raise
£192,000 by advertising its prospectus
failed disastrously, and deserved to fail
because the promoters wanted an absurdly
large share of the profits.
Walkley persevered and hired an office
and typist and typewriter. When he tried
to sign up service stations the oil com-
panies retaliated by offering the owners
more profit if they boycotted new brands.
When he tried to buy petrol pumps the
manufacturers refused to do business, and
when he imported electric pumps from
abroad the N.S.W. government was
slow to license *hem. The hawking of
shares at bowsers and verandahs eventu-...
ally provided capital, and the company
hired a tanker to bring its first petrol from
the United States in December 1937.
Generous loans from the Bank of New
South Wales tided the company through
early losses. The first dividend had just
been paid when war and petrol rationing
put all petrol companies on a quota.
Ampol was young and so its quota was
small. One way of increasing this quota
was to take over the independent Mel-
bourne firm of Alba in 1945; another
way was to abolish petrol rationing.
While Chifley argued that petrol ration-
ing was necessary to save dollars and
assist Britain in its economic recovery,
Ampol argued that it could buy petrol
without dollars or sterling. As Chifley
refused to budge, Ampol went from
Canberra to Surfers' Paradise and, calling
Mr Fadden from the surf, gave him facts
that were to fire one of the main issues
of the 1949 election.
Sir Arthur Fadden recalls in this book
that the defeat of Labor in 1949 was
“largely a result of the anti-rationing case
we had been presented with by Ampol”
and, he adds, the Country Party's hand-
ling of the case. If this verdict be true,
and most political scientists would doubt
it, there is irony that a company fostered
by the first Labor Prime Minister should
drive from office the last Labor Prime
Minister.
Ampol's swift growth in the last decade
and its uncanny sense of publicity are
racily described by Colin Simpson and
freely illustrated by photos of Namatjira,
Jack Davey, the Melbourne Cup, surf
carnivals, and Ampol’s other publicity
agents. The commissioning of a book
that is critical of other oil companies and
generous (and perhaps deservedly so) to
Ampol is another sign of Ampol s
seventh sense.
Lhe best quarter of the book tells of
Ampol’s courageous search for oil and
that magic week in 195 a when they found
it. That story merits the widest audience,
lor one disturbing facet of our times is
the pitifully low priority the nation has
given the oil quest.
William Walkley has got over most
mountains but the finding of a rich oil-
field is a range which, at our present
slow ascent, may not be crossed in his
life.
GEOFFREY BLAINEY
European Balance Sheet
European Exchanges. Special number
of Times Literary Supplement. Is.
T,n avoiding the trap of imagining that
a new cultural commonwealth will
grow out of the abundance of means of
communication available to us now, the
editors of “European Exchanges” are left
with a very confusing picture. That the
means do exist seems at first ample
grounds for optimism, but by the time
most of the nations have been assessed
there seems little left that anyone would
want to take in exchange. The optimism
of the planners has not flowered amidst
the thorns of the contributing critics.
Briefly, the European balance-sheet
reads: Contemporary poetry is just
prose, and poor prose at that ; the “new”
French novel is rot ; Italian neo-realism
is unreal ; both the Germanys are stag-
nant ; Russia is waiting for the Party to
authorise a Renaissance ; while on the
credit side we see Spain and Poland get-
ting along reasonably in spite of the
authorities ; Unesco distributing largesse ;
and governments and industry facing up
to their responsibilities as patrons.
It is hard to know where to plunge
into this vast critical and speculative
labyrinth. The list of names and schools
and the obscurity of many of the refer-
ences is forbidding, for while many
people may be familiar with cultures
other than their own, few have surely
come into contact with most of the names
mentioned in this. Dedicated armchair
cosmopolitans may find it an invaluable
compendium, but most will probably just
get reader’s cramp.
This is not to say that there is not
a good deal of provocative analysis in
some of the articles. The condemnation
of poetry, justified or not, is a handsome
apology for the virtue of knowing a
language for its own sake, and the fol-
lowing article on Christian novelists is a
very competent survey. Equally, the
principal articles on Germany, France,
Italy and Sweden all touch on the
absorbing problem of commitment.
However, even at its most interesting,
it is disappointingly confused. It is no
novelty to find critics disagreeing, even
diametrically, but it is burdensome to
have them forcing whole nations into
their world view, and quoting huge
numbers of writers in support of their
own little points. Maybe no one knows
what is important, what writers should
be writing about, but it is at least
encouraging to hear of the good attempts,
even if they are not wholly convincing.
Instead we hear more of the critics than
of the writers, and the Tower of Babel
grows higher.
If any theme does emerge, it is that
writers' problems are becoming more and
more general (and hence more easily dis-
cussed in a whole Eurpoean context) as
countries reach a uniform level of pros-
perity and liberal democracy. In poetry,
for instance, it is the general dominance
of technology which has impoverished so
many languages. The absence of a liberal
democratic atmosphere in communist
countries is seen as the main cause of
their artistic malaise. Prosperity itself
brings problems, problems of conscience
which writers in more and more coun-
tries must face. It Italy, Northern pros-
perity brings Southern poverty into
sharper relief, hence the Italian neo-
realists have a problem. The Swedes are
aware “that while want must be defeated,
affluence cannot be a moral goal.” Even
the wayward French, who are wasting
their talents, if any, turning out incon-
sequential drivel (according to the
“Times” correspondent), should be writ-
ing “about the social upheaval around
them.” In fact not even the German
expert who lays down that “the only
works of art that count as having any
meaning today are those which oppose
the idea of meaning with the greatest


resolution,” can refrain from admitting
that “the authentic artists of the present
day are those whose works reflect the
uttermost horror.”
There is some comforting information
on the growing generosity of official
patrons and unofficial prestige builders,
and some salutary time-honored warnings
about the danger of confusing the
enthusiasm of the cultural managers with
the value of the product they peddle,
BILL HANNAN
Seven Young Salmon
The Idiom of the People. James
Reeves, ed. Mercury Books. 10s. 9d.
A Short History of English Poetry.
James Reeves. Heinemann. 265.
Tames Reeves is an example of that
** curiously English species, the literary
middleman. These middlemen (G. S.
Fraser and John Lehmann are other
examples that spring to mind) can easily
be mocked as tiresome fringe-litterateurs.
Yet Reeves, at least, is a man who should
command our gratitude in a number of
ways. A very slight versifier himself,
he has been general editor of the valu-
able “Poetry Bookshelf” series in which,
among other things, he has offered us a
selection from that still-neglected major
poet, Emily Dickinson ; he has edited an
adaiirable school anthology in “The
Poets’ World”; and he has compiled two
collections of English traditional verse,
“The Idiom of the People'' and “The
Everlasting Circle.” If less than a serious
critic, he is still an editor, a commen-
tator, of good taste and common sense.
“The Idiom of the People,” now re-
issued as an eye-catching paperback, is
an excellent volume of rural folk-poetry
from the notebooks of the famous Eng-
lish collector, Cecil Sharp. In an intro-
duction which is both scholarly and
readable. Reeves discusses the collection,
revision and cultural significance of Eng-
lish folk-songs (for these are songs, even
if the music is not published in this
instance). He very properly attacks the
bowdlerizers and lauds the gusty vitality
of these lyrics: “Not only was there
little or none of the archness and evasion
characteristic of courtship among the
refined, both in life and song, there was
a sense of unregenerate pagan enjoyment
of natural functions in love and court-
ship. and a lack of reticence in expressing
the pleasures and pains of exercising
them." Reeves’s brief commentary, like
his annotations to the lyrics themselves,
is sensible and accurate without choking
the book in academic stodge.
But we go to the book, after all, for
its poems. And the best of these are very
good, in their lucid, vigorous, semi-
predictable mode. How firmly they
scotch one’s schoolboy loathing of Eng-
lish songs as springing from a bogus
Dresden-china world stuck in perpetual
blossom-time. Instead the ale flows,
shrewish wives scoldf thieves thieve, and
real, substantial milkmaids enjoy “the
jolly deed of kind" under every second
hedge. x
There are splendid versions here of
familiar lyrics like “The Derby Ram,”
“Our Goodman," “The Keeper,” “Ripest
Apples” and “Billy Boy.” There are also
many which are, to me at least, quite
unfamiliar. These range from an almost
surrealistic piece of fantasy like “As l
Was Going to Bunbury” :
And when the coddlins began to fall
1 found five-hundred men in all
And one of the men I saw was dead
So I sent for a hatchet to open his
head
And in his head I found a spring
And seven young salmon a-learning
to sing . . .
through a gamut of desertions and
paternity suits to the engaging sentiments
of “I’ve Been a Roving,'" surely a notable
example of “what oft was thought but
ne'er so well expressed”:
I've been a roving, I've been a roving
To the ale-house and the buts,
1 am coming, I am coming
With my liquor in my guts.
I’ve been a roving, I've been a roving
Where the honeysuckle creep,
1 am coming, I am coming
With the roses on my cheeks.
I’ve been a roving, I've been a roving
To the Noble and Cock Hen,
I am coming. I am coming
To my bairn back again.
Even when we allow for the fact that
“The Idiom of the People” is a selective
selection, it is depressing to set the
shabby lyrics of our Top Forty popular
songs against this sort of thing. Not
even the very welcome impetus of the
rock-'n'-roll movement can save our
songs from the most evasive, namby-
pamby sentiments. We prefer our lyrics
not to hint at what happens in the bed,
the prison or the pub.
lames Reeves comes out of “A Short
History of English Poetry” much less
impressively ; of course, it's a rare man
who succeeds with this sort of con-
certina-ed hodge-podge of facts, dates,
criticism and quotation. At least this
book is lucidly written and is generally
marked by lively horse-sense. Sometimes,
though, we find the Robert Graves of
“The Crowning Privilege” peering bale-
fully over Reeves's shoulder, guiding his
pen in strange, irrational directions.
Yeats, for instance, is dismissed with a
short, scornful snort, while “beastly
Skelton” receives a fanfare as loud as
that accorded to Chaucer, Milton, Pope
or Wordsworth. Again, in the seven-
teenth century chapters, Herrick gets
more attention than Herbert and Marvell
between them. Rum standards, these.
A lot of my dissatisfaction arises
from a feeling that the author is
trying to address half-a-dozen different
types of audience at once. I suppose
“A Short History of English Poetry”
would be a useful book for the school
library. Or else, having plenty of quota-
tions, it would be a salutary gift for
anyone who still believes that Palgrave's
“Golden Treasury” represents what is
great in English poetry.
CHRIS WALLACE-CRABBE
Proust's Maitre
Colette. Elaine Marks. Seeker and
Warburg. 345. 3d.
/'''olette is a brilliant minor writer who
continues to fascinate critics and
readers alike because she defies most
traditional classifications. The woman
who acted in music halls, operated her
own beauty salon, adored garlic and cats
and spent the last years of her life
crippled up with arthritis in a Paris flat,
where she wrote about flowers and the
sights from her windows, has already
been the subject of a number of glossy
memoirs and - some respectable critical
books. She was admired by such different
writers as Gide, Claudel and Proust.
Proust especially liked some of her
descripions of Venice and is said to have
called her Maitre ; Gide praised her for
the lack of complacency in her work.
Colette's paganism and amorality are
often exaggerated at the expense of her
solid peasant virtues, and it was the
presence of this solid moral code in her
work that doubtless appealed to Claudel.
Colette wrote to make money and to
entertain. Her early Claudine books
made her name and this early popular
character was later replaced by Rene and
Gigi. “Cheri," written in 1920. seemed
to show signs of Colette emerging as a
real novelist, but these hopes (or fears)
were soon dispelled by its sequel, “Le Ble
en Herbe,” a study of the growth of
adolescent love ; and “Duo,"’ and “The
Cat,” almost clinical exposures of marital
difficulties and jealousy, are among her
best works. Her autobiographical books,
and especially “Sido” and “My Mother's
House,” are perhaps her masterpieces.
Colette had little concern for the struc-
ture of the novel and her books fail to
achieve greatness because she is more
interested in objects and sensations than
people ; but she knew her limitations
and within them she achieves something
perfect. Her ability to convey impres-
sions, to describe natural objects and
particularly animals, is unequalled in
contemporary French literature, and it is
probably this love of life, the controlled
lyricism of her work as well as the mar-
vellous richness and vigor of her style
that continue to draw people to her.
Elaine Marks's doctoral thesis is a
good introduction to Colette’s world. It
lacks a certain critical astringency
(Colette could write a lot of pompous
nonsense at times —especially in her
grand-old-lady phase), but it covers the
main outlines of Colette's life and
development very ,well. And it is written
with the respect and admiration that are
fundamental to all good critical works.
VIVIAN SMITH


POEMS
Eyes
W'hat may I tell of inscrutable loveliness
That one glance of an eye
Could not express five times as well;
These the unbanished symbols,
The simian tantrum of the face,
The ruthless Mayan idol of the mind . . .
O yes, they shall sing here
These living things of darkness ;
They shall sing of the sweet, close body—
By the Lord, I shall never free myself of your
close body.
DAVID WOOD
Windows
So you’d remind me of those cobbled roads,
warped windows, wobbly shutters, a studio
with kitchen round the back,
a sink that no amount of scrubbing cleaned,
the walk of youthful tramps —this genius,
that nymphomaniac?
You remarked how any corner might reveal
the flight of boulevards (a life away
from all those other things)
which drew you like a pilgrim under portals
from the sordid fields of butchered men
to the praising of their kings.
Yet Paris should have been the chance to break
the glass from windows that had grown opaque.
RODNEY HALL
Icarus
So where he plunged the sea was dead,
the circling sky broke overhead.
That lad, spreadeagling underneath,
met legend drifting his own grief.
Long-armed seaweed was the cross
for a strange boy sliding to his loss.
The white poles met, his still eyes closed,
blind cells and fronds sucked at his ghost.
His molten flesh became a love.
The dead boy speaks in words of blood.
GAVIN BURGESS
After
After her great sickness
Things gradually returned to normal.
The plaintive note died out of her voice
And meals were again on time.
The tight screw of their minds
Eased in yellow laughter
And the days sagged in the heat.
Her son forgot the strict accusing nights
And began to grow lazy again,
Getting mixed up with the wrong crowd ;
While her daughter
Being intense and dedicated, with some independence,
Accused her of being old-fashioned.
Nobody noticed, in the thickening body,
The emaciated spirit
Which threw a long shadow over the house
Like a white gum-tree at evening.
MARGARET PILCHER
The Rustle of Spring
In scatty pink and white
The god’s rebirth comes round;
September rain has sodden
The local football ground.
Plum blossom on the roof
Of Maling's blue sedan
Lies thick as dandruff now.
We salvage what we can.
Remembering the Chev
Parked in some cul-de-sac,
The girls who came across,
The times he was knocked back.
An old quip comes to mind:
Like Bruce, he tried again
Until —the struggle waning—
Limp laurels crowned his pain.
Where are those tousled crows
From parties and from balls,
Teasers with tables turned,
As fierce as animals?
Poor, scattered housewives thus
Flattered by memory ;
Far from his flat they keep
i heir anonymity.
Now in a steel-framed chair
He haunts the window-sill
And nubile girls go sauntering
Inexorably downhill.
CHRIS WALLACE-CRABBE
General Meeting
See-saw old ladies distorted through the glass,
Shooting up elongated and alarmed
Or, much diminished, twittering on the ground,
Where bony laughter chatters in the grass.
Once taut-fieshed, where flesh now splays and
moulders,
They lifted gleaming heads with delicate frown
To assume the world like a familiar gown
Flung like flame across disdainful shoulders.
Old ladies, drifting now in a ragged dream
Where color shrinks and sours along the bones:
Procession of foolish hats on the sad stones
Like colored corks jauntily down a stream.
MARGARET PILCHER
A Desert Song
The Norse heroes have a proud place
In the naming of names. A cold race
They might have been, and arrogant,
But their seed grew to a strong plant.
When speaking to a king or a great man,
Be politic, manly and tall. Scan
His face for honesty before you take
An oath of fealty. Always make
The bitter land prosper where it can.
Turn your face away from the known
World, travel against the current
If wisdom allows. Be generous. Things lent
Have less strength than things given,
And food shared helps to leaven
Earthly credit. Be sure to seek fame.
And yours too might be a named name.
PETER NICHOLLS


GREAT-AUNT FANNY'S ICNIC
The scandal of
Great-aunt Fanny had
been mulled over
repeatedly and put aside \
ON and off through the years, by Otterwells alive
and kicking as well as by Otterwells since tucked
away in the family graveyard, the scandal of Great-
aunt Fanny had been mulled over with conscious
dispassion and repeatedly put aside like a tricky crossword.
There was, anyway, always happening, in this or that
Otterwell-dominated part of Tasmania, another Otterwell
wedding, birth or birthday. Or Lent began, or school
holidays, or shearing, or a vice-regal visit, or the racing
season, or war, or . . . well, tedious external things. No
one alive seemed sure how Fanny’s prolonged sojourn in
foreign territory had started: she herself divulged nothing,
but a tattered rumor inclined to some necessary patriotic
gesture during the 1914-1918 War. Aunt Ann, being
Aunt Ann, had other ideas —unpleasant ones, suggestive of
hanky-panky, and diplomatically disregarded. Great-
aunt’s legendary predicament was a subject as engaging as
a pet tortoise; it often came out, like a snail, at night. But
it withdrew, pronto, at the merest squeak of new christen-
ings, courtships or tonsillectomies. Finally, however,
explosively out of the blue. Uncle Eustace pronounced a
decision: he —he, himself—would fetch her back.
In the family Uncle Eustace was famed and feared
for his 19th-century forcefulness, this taking-the-buil-by-
the-horns Chinese Gordon resolution, as much as he was
renowned for being the one Otterwell bachelor, not only
for his period but for as far back as records were known.
The probity of his bachelordom. with no heart-of-gold
barmaid kept in a Battery Point love-nest, and certainly
no one or nothing else more dubious kept anywhere, added
a dignifying halo to the eccentricity of wifelessness. Who
knew what forces galore, untapped by wife, child, hidden
sorrow, poverty or unmentionable vice, still occupied him?
For example, at 72, he had just given up Royal Tennis.
On Christmas Eve, 1960, after performing a Father
Christmas as terrifying as Lear, and while reviving himself
with Courvoisier, he czarishly shouted them all . . . even
Uncle Hereward, who always fidgeted whether to take an
umbrella or not, blazing or pouring . . . into believing
that they had inclemently abandoned Great-aunt Fanny
“Among who knows whom,” Eustace blared Ezekielly,
“among tradespeople, shepherds, mercer’s counter-jumpers,
journalists! And exactly where, who knows, eh? Forty
years! A disgrace to us all. While Fergus was alive it
was wise to keep mum, eh? But he’s been dead for 12
years. Best leave it to me, eh? Pour me another, Varley.
Leave’t to me, eh?”
“Yes, oh yes, Eustace,” they heard themselves cravenly
pipe, and would have crossed themselves had they been one
of those. Eustace was an alarming not-to-be-denied Pied
Piper once he got going. They all quickly had another
drink. After all, it was Christmas, too.
By Candlemas, Uncle Eustace, in Isle of Butte tweeds,
point-to-point camp and pelargonium buttonhole, face pink
as sporting-paper or baby’s, had dominated, sniffling rather
and headachy, Fanny’s uprooting. It was a chilly day,
miles from anywhere respectable. Trees dripped on him as
though he were a postman. Her nearest neighbor was a
politician with a scruffy Socialist past. She should never,
of course, have spent all those years there. She should have
been with the family. With the family she would be.
Reluctantly he had to leave her at the railway station, to
travel on, poor lady, with a man with a suspect accent, to
Campbell Town, where Uncle Eustace proposed to catch
up with her next day.
The next day he was unable to keep his appointment
because of what he savagely called a summer cold. This
so swiftly galloped into danger that on St Valentine’s Day
he nearly died.
“Completely dying would, in the circumstances, have
been absolutely killing,” said Gwendoline, young Mrs lan
Otterwell, who concealed a marshmallow heart under a
shocker’s exterior.
“And needlessly ironic,” said Aunt Ann, fingering her
cameo as though she’d said nothing at all.
Not until Whitsunday was he finally out of bath-chairs
and his knees out from under afghans, and he fit and pink
and loud enough to ask about Great-aunt Fanny. Silence
fell. Time dropped a number of stitches. He asked again,
more loudly. Evasion was tried. Hereward offered a cigar.
Evasion and cigar were roared at. “But . . .” they all
began chattering at the same time, disobedient children
botching justification, “but, Eustace, dear, but old boy,
but Uncle, while you were so very, very . . .”
TN listening to the dangerous wind keening around Eustace,
1 in listening to the wind that never stopped flowing
through the garden of Otterwells, tugging off a leaf, a
branch, a heart, a life, they had, one and all, utterly for-
gotten to keep an eye on Great-aunt Fanny’s move.
Not saying they were but unmistakably considering
them ninnies, he next day drove 50-odd miles to see if
Fanny were settled in her proper place.
While everybody was telephoning everybody else, there
he was, in the family graveyard with its own century-old
chapel, peering and poking about, getting cemetery mud
on his brogues, trouser-cuffs and -knees. He returned to
the car with the ominous stride of Alexander the Great. He
drove back as recklessly as a joy-riding hot-rodder and
held the floor.
The billiard-table-sized Welsh slate slabs roofing the
vault, in which Fanny should long ago have circumspectly
been, seemed not, he thought, to have been recently moved.
She’d certainly—he’d seen to that, eh?—been got out of
that other wretched cemtery. Perhaps . . . per-h-a-p-s . . .
he further thought . . . moss in the crevices could have
been recently disturbed, could indeed have been replaced
with a species of commercial piety. But he’d forgotten to
take his spectacles; autumn leaves and a Scotch mist had
made pure decision difficult. Curse that summer cold!


A SHORT STORY
by Hal Porter
A telephone-call to the undertakers revealed that
he of odd accent who had been in charge of Fanny’s
digging-up, train trip and reinterment, had been a short-
time employee since returned to Australia. A mainlander!
Eustace gave a terrible shout and crashed down the receiver.
The earth, that great globe, winced. Varley dropped a
sugar-bowl, fortunately silver. A mainlander! . . . some-
one from . . . Carlton was it, eh? Woolloomooloo?
Swiftly as a Terrytoon vegetable, suspicion put on
buds, leaves, dire flowers. Uncle Eustace became taller
than Abraham Lincoln, and noisier: “The fellow's a
jackanapes. Mortician he calls himself. An employer of
criminals. Dabbling in cremation like a blasted Hindu, the
silly ass. Phonograph music and foam-rubber lilies!
Coffins of xylonite . . . plastic . . . whatever the muck is,
J suppose, eh? Mortician! Right from the jump I was
against his joining the club. He’s like the barber's cat:
all . . .”
“Eustace!” snapped Aunt Ann, “There are gentlemen
present.” She had been a maidenly suffragette with, never-
theless. ears.
In the next few days Eustace occupied himself
Napoleonically, very much head-of-the-family, with the
minutiae of a grandiose plan. He wrote fiats to everyone,
each succinct sentence brutally clear, too specific, too per-
sonal to be misunderstood or fobbed off. Intimations of
ex-communication glittered so ferociously between the lines
of his old man’s virile copperplate that newer Otterwell
wives, the just-read command on Spicer’s Deckle still be-
tween their fingertips, switched off spin-driers or forsook
semi-built Constance Spry flower arrangements and sped
in M.G.’s to buy trowels or whatever they were. Otterwell
telephones were rung and rang, constantly. Who, my God,
last had the crowbar from the potting-shed of the old
Sandy Bay place? What the hell was a mattock? Listen,
dear, Varley says we'll be expected to picinc ... if you
do a double lot of your divine little scones with Gentle-
men’s Relish I’ll do a double of my special Melting
Moments and we’ll inter-feed . . .
No one cared to let the side down; no one dared scamp
Uncle Eustace's mandates.
On the selected Sunday, from every part of Tasmania,
cars packed with tools, food, wicker-clad thermos flasks,
children and their Otterwell parents and relations, moved
towards the graveyard. Wound up like a clock, genera-
tions ago, the family ethos was so well-oiled, had ticked
so surely and sturdily for so long, that it would have been
useless as well as traitorous for any member to suggest I
should like to be otherwise, someone else or elsewhere
today, as useless as saying I should like to be an echidna or
called Dostoevski. From faith and habit, non-Otterwells
seemed to them as eels must to eagles, however glossy and
silver-plated the eel, however like fractured sunshade the
eagle. Sheer lunacy this plan of Eustace’s, they might think,
but ratifiable Otterwell lunacy. We’re all in it. So. by
10-o’clock, everyone punctual, from Melton Mowbray, St
Helen’s, Westbury, Huonville, Oatlands, New Norfolk,
everywhere, everyone had arrived. It was an autumn day,
exquisite for any outing, perfection for one of this nature:
nowhere are sunshine, birds, breezes, weeds, more subtly
exhilarating to the senses and conceit of the living than
in a graveyard.
■pECUNDITY was the first impression—children every-
A where; their knowingly uninhabited ink-blue, dead-still
Otterwell eyes spotted the air. There seemed double the
actual children, for each child had accompanied its own
Sunday-go-graveyard self as one extra child simmering
unseen to be barbaric and crazed, to flash diabolically
aflame past the corner of adult consciousnesses. But. the
time early and the occasion touchy, they discreetly simu-
lated severe charm and. speechlessly as nursery rhyme
characters on kindergarten friezes, carried buckets, rakes
and Dutch hoes. With their tweedy aunts, with wavering
aunts, champagne-bottle-legged golfing aunts, tittuping
aunts and Burn-Jones aunts, they advanced towards and
grouped themselves below Uncle Eustace, who had disposed
himself, civic-statue-like, on top of the vault to which, in
an orderliness obscured by gorse, periwinkle and pre-
Raphaelite Austrian Copper briers, other Otterwell graves
lined up.
Even Aunt Ann, inclined to perpetual fractiousness,
was momentarily decorous in the group which, standing
quietly as waxworks, chins uplifted, listened to Uncle
Eustace. Only the oldest aunt. Aunt Beatrice, sat. She
sat in a camp-chair, centrally front, her bone fingers bur-
dened with diamonds and rubies. The crowd, accidentally
dramatic, of overlapping generations, had the impermanent
coherence of a combination in whose each mind, as much
as in the corporate one. lay no mental reservations, like a
segment of decaying trevally. At least, on this occasion.
First of all, beneath their soles lay the boxed scraps of
their own dead. Second, many of their houses had once
been these dead's, or contained objects wherein the grimaces
or half-smiles of the dead still lingered —in Wainewright
portraits, darkening looking-glasses, on the bumlike curves
of silver rose-bowls, in photograph albums containing
pressed pansies picked last century by fingers that, then,
could write Otterwell on a will or a love-letter. Third,
Great-aunt Fanny, so long a sherry-party joke, now claimed
by right of blood this protective picnic, this family prying
into her gothic contretemps. Was she here, now. below, in
her destined niche, filed for reference on the Last Day?
That is what the family, through Uncle Eustace, hoped and
had jolly well paid for. Or had the mainland ghoul,
obviously with a face caddish as a monkey’s, done some-
thing too nasty to think of but nevertheless thought of . . .
a council rubbish-tip? a lake-bed? a stinky fire in a Mid-
lands’ gully once lair for convict bushrangers?
As they listened to Uncle Eustace avoid putting these
outraging possibilities into words, they stared remorselessly
at him, their thoughts sprinkling salty glints of anger in


their eyes. He, too, began to glint—but he was rebuking
them. “Moreover,” he was saying, “moreover, the grave-
yard, our graveyard, the Otterwell graveyard . . .” He was
rubbing it in. “. . . is in a shocking state. Eh? As you
can see.” As they could see. “Our own people! We are
to blame. We! We!” They were to blame. “That’s why
I wrote you all to come prepared to clean up while the
vault is investigated. Except, of course, Aunt Beatrice.”
Aunt Beatrice lifted an ancient jewel-knobbed hand with
queenly deprecation. Everyone looked at her as at an
unbelievable idol, but with sufficient affectionate respect.
“There are,” continued Uncle Eustace, “enough of us, God
knows—eh? In my letters you were each allotted a certain
task in a certain section. It took some planning.” He
paused. He stopped pausing and made a dangerous remark;
“Any questions?”
Before Aunt Ann could uncurl —he knew his danger—
he side-stepped quickly, side-stepped authoritatively;
“Good ... no questions. Charles, you have the crowbars?
Mattock, Greg? Pickaxe? Billhook? Mallet? Bamboo
rakes . . . Grace? Varley? Ah, I see you’ve a trowel,
Young Christopher!” Everyone had brought everything
asked for, and held them up: sans-culottes preparing to
march on the Tuileries. Everyone except . . . and Uncle
Eustace’s eyes narrowed . . . “Your secateurs, Ann?” Aunt
Ann’s German secateurs were famous. She had not brought
them. She tossed her head; no angel, she did not fear
treading. Her little indigo eyes also narrowed, and flashed
wickedly. Level-toned yet sharp, she said, “I have brought
Fanny’s own silver teapot. I felt it fitting.”
To everyone’s surprise. Aunt Beatrice said, almost cried
as loudly as someone younger, “No!” What could she
mean? Her old mind wandering, off and away?
Aunt Ann stuck out her chin, whiskery as an as-yet-
unshaved youth’s, at Eustace. It was a mutinous gesture.
Uncle Eustace clenched a fist.
“An unseemly disturbance is imminent,” whispered 12-
year-old Young Christopher, who was wicked, sophisticated
and far too handsome. His cousins sycophantically
giggled. “Fie! So early in the day. And before us innocent
innocents. Oh. fie!”
But Grace, lanky gentle Grace, said gently, “Aunt Ann
asked me to bring our secateurs, Eustace,” and she held
them up, high, at the end of her long, long, long arm. like
a symbolic communist. There secateurs were. Uncle
Eustace laughed—oh, quickly and fruitily as a Prime
Minister. “To work!” he shouted, semaphoring meaning-
lessly. “To your posts! To work!”
TN a geyser of released conversation, of greetings, of hula-
A baloo and movement, children bursting like grenades
from between adults, the group milled and crumbled and
scattered. To work all the women went except old Aunt
Beatrice, whose lilac-colored chiffon scarf was rearranged,
one after another, by five women. To work all the children
seemed to go except the youngest twins with silk-worm
silk hair who ran about clutching their flies and squealing,
“We are to blame. We! We! Wee-wee. Pee-wee. Wee-
-pee. We pee. We poo. We poo-poo!” Their stately
Labrador, its severe head like an heraldic profile or one
from an old walking-stick handle, lumbered woodenly as
a rocking-horse between them. A surfeit of forbidden
things to do had lashed them to exaltation.
While the women, garden-gloved or gloveless, worked
on paths, headstones, urns, broken columns, sandstone
scrolls, granite tomes and cast-iron railings, their unfettered,
faultless voices called in the sunlight above the buried,
tongueless skulls.
“My dear, how very kind of Eustace to put me on
Digby’s grave—l shouldn’t admit it with his age so clearly
stated, but we were childhood sweethearts. Though he
once stole my agate marbles.”
“This rose-bush must be a cutting from the big
Maman Cochet at The Grange.”
“Shall I scrape all this moss away? It looks so fitting
and darling. Or just leave aesthetic enough, like the
Japanese?”
“I wish I’d brought my old steel kitchen-knife. Men
don’t know about steel kitchen-knives.”
“What did James Frederick really die of?”
“I,” said Aunt Ann, “shall not pretend that I am at
ail surprised, but Eustace has alloted me the prickliest
grave.”
Although these statements seemed merely the trite
ones of feckless humans, and utterable by anyone with a
tongue, they revealed that the speakers had preserved,
throughout their own vicissitudes and those of the world
they had been born into, viewpoints and moralities as much
of their class as their accents were, and their children. These
creatures, in constant motion, had seemingly much multi-
plied, separating themselves from themselves as amoeba
do. They mafficked about with the alacrity of vandals
to whom that day no vandalism was permissible.
Some, for a while, brow-beatenly scratched lichen from
headstones, or permitted themselves to be hectored into
carrying off pruned brier suckers and Evening Primrose
stalks. Otherwise they roamed restlessly outside the cage of
adult duty, hampered by miles of undulating paddocks
and the obvious infinity of a cloudless sky. Aunt Ann kept
on capturing some of them with her fish-hook eye and, as
other aunts did, mistaking them for their siblings or cousins.
Were they, she asked, street-arabs or swindherd’s waifs crept
in through the may hedge? This was surely cryptic humor
on her part. Yet, even to aunts and uncles less whimsical
than Aunt Ann, there appeared more of these youngsters,
who no longer wore sailor suits and knew of “The Windsor
Magazine,” than seemed reasonable. The gold-mopped
twins, for example, had become a sextuplet, banshee-
shrieking by with attendant Cerberus.
A/fEANTIME, ponderously and sonorously and warily, the
men confronted the paramount mystery of Great-
aunt Fanny. Dedicated and daylight Burkes and Hares,
they assessed the vault-covering. Under their offhand
dandyism and leather-patched sports-coats was the muscular
and maternal brutishness of those who worked with animals
and their neuroses and needs, and who fought into sub-
mission, just as their women in labor fought necessary
pain into submission, the seasons and the earth. These
Otterwell males, or males chosen as sires by Otterwell
women, had weathered youth, injudicious passions, disillu-
sion, the whims of weather, scandals and boils on the back-
side with concealed and tenderised arrogance. Their
manners were perfect, and would have remained so while
they killed an enemy or stopped a crucifixion. Tenderly
their huge hands and shrewd eyes examined the tomb;
tenderly they prodded crevices with crowbars and pickaxes,
inviting each other’s suggestions to poo-hoo them, before
attacking like convinced burglars the vault-slabs. With
vigor and precision they made the first attempts at prising.
These failed. Swearing began. Those who did not smoke
pipes offered each other cigarettes, saying, “Christ, eh?
She’s going to be bloody tougher than we thought. Christ!”
Young Christopher was, of course, in earshot. He
possessed a special sense.
“They are blaspheming,” he said to his entourage of
underling cousins.
“They are blaspheming,” echoed the myrmidons, and,
giggling from trying not to giggle, held dirty hands over
their mouths, and stuck out their round bellies farther, and
rolled inky eyes.
“They are corrupting influences,” Young Christopher
continued, “they are immoral fiends and wick-ed monsters.


“The Colonel's on safari !”
We must inform the sheriff! Yippee!” And he galloped off,
being, centaur-like, horse and rider; and the smaller
centaurs galloped at his pace after him, caracoling like a
posse of goodies behind him, and shrilling like Comanches
around the church.
The men made a scarecrow of a marble angel with
their coats and, thus coatlessly defiant, attacked the slabs
again.
Presently, for Otterwell women were deft, most of
them had fulfilled Uncle Eustace’s behests. On the other
side of a raffish rosemary hedge was a handful of humbler
graves, not Otterwell Gwendoline, forthrightly why-
notting and dammit-all-let’s-do-the-decent-thinging. per-
suaded others less forthright and more dubious, but amen-
able to sentimental platitude disguised as decisiveness, to
work with her on these alien plots.
With less intensity of feeling they idly toiled, as at an
inferior charity, and were so toiling, and placidly deep in
obstetrical legend, when a shadow they immediately knew
was monitory fell upon their bowed backs and a fluting
astounded voice said:
“Those graves are not ours!”
It was Varley, intellectual and perfectionist (her rose-
garden was a miracle, so were her potted shrimps; she read
Elizabeth Bowen), who had just restored Edwin Otterwell’s
grave almost to the condition it was in in 1863 when he
had died under a runaway barouche.
“What the hell does it matter, Varley?” said Gwendo-
line in a contemporary way. softish but boldish. from her
kneeling-pad. She pushed back a lock of hair to stress
barefacedness. “Dammit, let’s be decent!”
“Need you swear?” said Varley, who really didn't
mind a scrap. “I don’t think we should interfere.”
“With the dead?” said Gwendoline lighting a suave
cigarette.
Varley was not to be caught. She, too, lit a cigarette
—slowly —and blew out —slowly —an actressy cone of
smoke.
“With the dead of others. The dead do not belong to
themselves. Graves belong to others. Those others should
tend them with love. They are not ours. Your work,
however worthy, is ... is municipal. There is no love.”
“Bosh!” said Gwendoline and, to show unabashment,
“Dammit, Varley!” Young Christopher would have
cherished this, but was being immaculately vile elsewhere.
All the children were. The twins and their dog, because
they had been forbidden the road, were on the road terrify-
ing a rustic Teddy Boy passerby who had intended terrify-
ing them.
Gwendoline spoke again: “Oh, double bosh, Varley!”
For Varley, towering, had fixed her with a navy-blue look.
Varley said. “Be that as it may. Gwendoline, you’ve
laddered your stocking —left leg.”
Gwendoline said. “Damn and blast!”
Women said, “Spit, dear.”
Who said. “Surely. Varley,” yanking out a thistle be-
longing to an unloved non-Otterwell, “surely it’s easy to
love humanity when it isn’t there?”
It sounded a Bronte-ish remark, but came, naturally,
from Aunt Ann. whose magnanimities even had always a
dash of vinegar. Varley. who had once published at her
own expense a book of poems (“Roses of Silence and
Solitude”), looked away, mysteriously as a poetess vouch-
safing nothing, and walked away thinking something nicer.
Nearby aunts, older, some, finding it time to suggest
to themselves starting a headache as reason for luncheon
but mainly cups of tea, drew from their pockets noon-
showing enamelled watches they had had since black
moire butterfly bows tied back their then-thick-and-colored
hair.
\/ARLEY. drifting, saw in the distance, frailly royal under
* the big cedar of Lebanon. Aunt Beatrice. Old. old
aunt, time-shrivelled aunt, had long ago. restless and fret-
ful. left her camp-chair. With a trailing totter, she had
moved from group to group in her Queen Alexandra
manner —the painted and thickly powered face also; the
gracious word dropped vaguely here and there. Yet she
seemed touched by the wing of an intangible bitterness, to
be seeking wearily, seeking and seeking. Now that the
vault was full —or would soon, they hoped, be proved to be,
for Great-aunt Fanny had been destined for the last
unoccupied niche —perhaps Aunt Beatrice, long the widow
of a husband buried at sea, sought a place for herself.
She tacked; she contemplated spaces; she tacked again.
Certainly, certainly, when next the family gathered she
would be underground, bereft of her far too many wonder-
ful old-fashioned rings, of her paint, of her Arabian nimbus
of scent, even of her scant flesh. Underground where?
Oh, where? She had entered the blue shadows of the
cedar, uninterested in the housewifely kneeling, the trowel-
ling and grating and hacking and snipping, the chattering,
the bonfire the children were prodding into smoke a paler
blue than the cedar-shadows. “Joffre blue,” she whispered.
It was a color of her middle years. Tears suggested them-
selves to her. “Joffre blue.” she was whispering when
Varley arrived. “Fanny spilt Indian ink on my Joffre blue
blouse with the pearl buttons.”
Using a handkerchief almost all lace, she blotted a
shallow tear before it furrowed her powder.
“Why. Aunt Beatrice . . .” said Varley coming into the


shadow. “Darling, why not come and sit down again? Or
should you like to be in the car? Luncheon’ll be soon.”
Old Aunt Beatrice looked haggard above her chiffon
pussy-cat bow of scarf. She spoke with querulous
wildness:
“1 don’t want to be buried outside. It’s too noisy.
Grasshoppers. Omnibuses going past to Hobart. And
too much light.” Varley knew that she sat always with
her back to it, the blinds three-quarter-down. “I want to
be in the vault. With Grandmother and Mama and
Alexander and GalamieL Fanny always grabbed every-
thing. She spilt ink on my blouse. She gave my lovely
scrapbook to the Orphans’ Home. Without permission.
She’s in the vault. It’s not fair. She doesn’t care. Look
where she got herself buried the first time . . .”
Varley was becoming horrified when there was a great
calling-out and waving from the men: “It’s open! It’s open!
We’ve opened the vault!”
Varley looked Come on. Aunt Beatrice, and held out
a hand.
“Leave me here,” said the ravaged old woman in the
cold shadow. “Leave me. I don’t want to see . . .” She
did not say Fanny, but grew infinitely fragile.
Varley did not know what to do, and felt larger
than a land-girl.
“Go away,” said Aunt Beatrice, waspish. “Go away
and leave me, mean, selfish Fanny,” said the old woman
to Varley.
Within minutes all of them, husbands, wives, aunts,
uncles, children, twins and dog, cynical Young Christopher,
flushed Varley, were at the vault.
What ultimately and most and for years impressed
the adults was that the name-plates on the coffins were
completely untarnished, as though they’d been done with
Goddard’s Plate Powder the day before; this despite the fact
that 6in. of strange, still water that seemed depthless
covered the floor.
What impressed the children first was a frog sitting
on Galamiel Otterwell’s coffin. But that was explicable:
water, frog, place for frog to sit when not in water.
What impressed the children most, and nightmarishly
until they themselves approached death, were the metallic-
green blowflies, fat and important, sulkily muttering as
though drunk. Why? Whence? The boys scratched their
necks, and did not want to ask questions.
Great-aunt Fanny was not at home.
As, they all said, they had all along all known.
The last niche was empty.
Rage (quite savage) and horror (sickening) overtook
the Otterwells, and they edged more closely together. The
rage was clear-cut at good money paid for what amounted
to profanation, at being gypped —the Otterwells! —by a
mainland spiv. The horror was an atavistic and family
horror that, somewhere —and they were responsible, which
increased the horror —a section of their heritage and own
lives had been lost as carelessly as a tennis racquet. Odcr-
wells had been sunk in oceans, blown to bits in currently
fashionable wars, buried in China, in Pere Lachaise near
Sarah Bernhardt, in dozens of places, and even Ireland.
Those were seemly enough; there was evidence; if tears
were to fall they knew which quarter to splash towards. The
losing of Great-aunt Fanny was . . . was . . .
The men swore vilely, even Uncle Hereward who
could rarely make up his mind. Uncle Eustace seemed to
be planning something in the nature of a Royal Commis-
sion. The sun grew hotter. One aunt, foreseeing endless-
ness without tea, considered a half-faint on a suitably low
tomb.
Meantime, where was Great-aunt Fanny?
as always, came first to her senses. Precise
* and romantic and fervid, with her Otterwell-ink-dark but
un-Otterwell-protruding eyes, she twined among them and
conspiratorially revealed another truth to them. Presently,
in silence, they had all turned their eyes towards the Cedar
of Lebanon.
Without a word to each other the women started to
move, to subtract themselves from the mingled group, to
begin walking towards the cedar.
The men, dividing themselves from the children, moved
a few paces after the women, and then stopped. The path
to the cedar was not for them. They lit pipes and cigarettes,
and turned inwards to each other, backs to the women,
backs to the children. Life is not for men.
The children looked down their noses: they had been
made to feel like children. They got smaller, starved-
looking, even world-weary Young Christopher; they drew
together and retreated. There was an impression of walk-
ing backwards from an insane world.
The women now began, young and old, to hasten,
almost to run stumbling, towards Old Aunt. They had no
manly or childish embarrassments; they were female, and
of earth. Some began to weep as they hurried but without
wiping away the great, sweet tears, the soft, soft tears, the
tears colored with life and death.
Old Aunt saw them coming, a pack with some appalling
information to reveal, and some outrageous deed to do—it
must have seemed so to her faded eyes. Yet, for she had
been a woman, too, she touched her scarf and moved into
the sunlight that was less kind to her painted wrinkles, and
advanced towards them, fantastic and beautifully hideous.
They were upon her; they surrounded her.
“Oh. Beatrice!” they cried, tears streaming down. “Oh,
Aunt Beatrice. Great-aunt isn’t there! She’s not there!
Fanny isn’t there! Oh. Aunt Beatrice, where is Aunt
Fanny? Lost! Gone! Not there! Empty! The niche is
empty!”
Aunt Beatrice knew what they were telling, what gift
they had run to bring her in their hands stained with
graves. She closed her eyes happily against their happiness
for her. yet two old tears, and two more, and another
two, ran refreshingly as creeks through the drought of
powder.
“Poor Fanny!” she said in her ecstasy.
“ What's in the bag, mate ?”


The New
Approach to
INVESTMENT
Of great significance to those with Estates,
including Investment holdings, is the plan-
ning of a balanced investment portfolio, and
possibly the formation of a Family Trust.
Such a plan may be devised to minimise
Death Duties, yet provide adequate
income and conserve Estate assets
during one’s lifetime and after death.
Union Trustee with a group of experts —
skilled in the modern conception of
Investment—can act as your financial
counsellor, relieving you of investment
worries, and helping you in many ways
to plan for future financial security.
May we discuss these matters with you—
without obligation—and in complete
confidence?
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria)
333 Collins St.. Melbourne. C.l
20 O’Connell St., Sydney
398-402 Queen St.. Brisbane
Also at Newcastle, Albury, Toowoomba,
Rockhampton, Townsville and Cbarleville.
Business, Robbery, Etc.
POST-ELECTIONS OUTLOOK
Unstable and Inflationary
1 1X7hatever the final outcome of the Federal elections,
’ * Australia faces a period of economic instability, with a
strong probability of new inflationary pressures.
Elections are notoriously bad for business. At the
moment the nation faces the prospects of either a double
dissolution or new elections to the House of Representatives,
in addition to the State elections in New South Wales next
February or March.
Mr Menzies's election hopes foundered largey because he
failed to present a dynamic programme of economic growth
to the electorate. Only a courageous and honest Government
would have risked the strong anti-inflationary steps taken in
November, 1960. But at that stage the Government's aims
were clear and precise—an unhealthy and dangerous speculative
boom had to be curbed and productive resources transferred
to the more essential industries. Unfortunately, some of the
techniques used were employed without sufficient prior
experience and resulted in a wide margin of error in relation
to some consumer goods industries. Temporary unemployment
which followed was higher than expected —but even this was
not the decisive factor. The Government seemed to have
panicked and began indiscriminate loosening of credit screws —
just at the time when only imaginative and selective measures
could have effected a successful transfer of resources to the
basic industries.
The seeds of the disaster were sown when Mr Holt brought
down his dull and unimaginative Budget last August. The
Federal Treasurer used many big words but failed to provide
any leadership to the economy which was slowly recovering.
There was a lot of talk about preserving price stability—by
that time largely achieved —but no incentive to balanced
growth. The Government refused to stimulate capital accumu-
lation by introducing realistic depreciation allowances and did
nothing to lure investment away from speculative activities
into essential production. The rural sector, for years trailing
far behind the secondary industries, was once again left on its
own. Export incentives were given scant attention. Such
complacency proved fatal.
The Government lost the crucial Queensland votes by
default. Mr Menzies. probably in all honesty, gave no economic
incentives to Queenslanders to return the Government. Under
the circumstances, Mr Calwell's grand but vague promises
about “development of the North” sounded sufficiently inviting
to cause the swing.
It is most unlikely that anybody really took seriously the
A.L.P.'s promise to pump-prime £lOO million into the economy
to “wipe out unemployment within 12 months.” But once again
the Government gave no indication of any plans to increase the
employment capacity of the basic sector. Its immediate pre-
election fiscal moves created the unfortunate impression of
trying to reactivate the economy simply by bringing back a
degree of inflation, which to many electors appeared to be
throwing away the hard-worn but real deflationary gams of
the credit squeeze —paid for by a measure of unemployment.
This gave Labor an excellent opportunity to make the most
of its effective, if malicious, charge that the Government
intended to rely on under-employment to control imports. Mr
Menzies should have given the electors an idea of how the
Government expected to bring about a redeployment of labor ;
and he had a very strong case in hand. Instead, he was left with
a number of hostile electors whose pockets were hurt by credit
restrictions, and many others whom he had failed to convince
that he had a sensible economic plan in mind.
From an economist's point of view the present situation is
very unfortunate. Neither the Liberal-Country coalition nor
the Labor party can now form an effective government. Vital
issues may depend on the votes of splinter groups in the


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
.4.V AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established IS'S
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
S'IRLAN ROBERTSON HERBERT M. DOUGLAS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS
A. C MAITLAND. Managing Director. R. A. CATLEY, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
Senate —if there will be no elections to the House until June
30, 1962.
Twelve years of political stability—one of the greatest
attractions for long term foreign capital—have been
replaced by an indefinite period of instability and crises.
The effects of this may not be felt immediately ; but they
will come and probably both dampen the rate of growth of
capital inflow and raise its cost. Migration intake may also be
affected.
If Mr Menzies carries on as a minority Government—
or with an ineffective majority and a hostile Senate —the
Opposition will be able to frustrate his export and import
policies. If Labor finally takes office we shall have forthwith
controls and restrictions which, because of our position on the
world market, we cannot afford. Heavy import restrictions can
only lead to retaliation —at a time when developments on the
European Common Market are forcing Australia to find
alternative outlets for some 20 p.c. of its export trade.
Both Mr Menzies and Mr Calwell will now look at the
electors w'ith a wary eye, and try to avoid making pressing but
unpopular economic decisions made necessary by the U.K.’s
coming entry into the European Economic Community. This
especially concerns radical changes which may be essential in
the rural sector when some of its products will be forced out
from the traditional British market.
Finally, it is likely that strong inflationary pressures will
be allowed to develop. The A.L.P. has publicly enunciated its
belief in inflation. Mr Menzies, if he survives, will face new
elections in the near future and will be primarily concerned with
inducing immediate, if short run, economic buoyancy to take up
the employment slack.
This means that, whichever party governs in Canberra,
the immediate future will be marked by pump-priming and
encouragement of consumer industries capable of rapid
economic acceleration. Real costs may rise and jeopardise the
export drive. Inflation may eat away most of the gains in
productivity, leading to still more inflation and then a fresh
wave of credit and import restrictions. And we may be back
where we started —fifteen or eighteen months later and worse
off.
The outlook is unstable and inflationary. It is a pity that
this should happen just when the economy is beginning to
liven up under its own impetus and the relationship between
exports and imports is becoming satisfactory. Mr Menzies
brought in his deflator much too late, and used it too abruptly
and indiscriminately. Had he pricked the boom a year or even
six months earlier, the country might have been spared its
present predicament.
EUGENE BAJKOWSKI
SILVER ANP GOLD
Open Market Fluctuations
Opeculative buying pushed up the open market price of
silver in London to 80d. sterling an ounce by October,
1961 —the highest level since January, 1960. I.M.F.’s official
publication, “International Financial News Survey,” says that
the two months’ forward price rose to 80|d. stg an ounce,
reaching a new peak since the Suez crisis in November, 1956.
Although w'orld consumption of silver —mainly by the
photographic and electronic industries, the jewellery trade and
for coinage purposes—has in recent years substantially exceeded
world production, there is no real shortage of the metal. The
recent price rises have been largely speculative.
Deficiencies in production have been made up by large
sales of demonetised silver by Communist China —which is
short of foreign exchange and hard pressed to pay for imports
of food grains, industrial machinery and essential raw materials
—and from other sources of secondary silver. In addition, the
United States Treasury disposed of considerable quantities of
its free stock silver. U.S. free stock silver at October 13, 1961,
totalled only 50.9 million ounces, compared with 123.5 million
ounces early in January. But even the American free stock is
marginal, compared with the U.S. Treasury's total silver hold-
ings, which are well over 3 billion ounces. This includes
2 billion ounces held as cover for silver certificates. The
I.M.F. organ points out that sales from these reserve holdings
require special legislative authorisation.
The latest wave of speculation was probably touched off
by fresh rumors that the U.S. silver selling delivery price will
be raised above the present 9lf cents an ounce. These rumors
followed closely upon the Kennedy administration's recent
official inquiry into the world silver situation. U.S. administra-
tion officials have held a number of meetings with silver
producers and industrial consumers, causing considerable
agitation among some silver dealers.
prices have also fluctuated in the past five months.
By last November the London dollar price of gold had
risen by 14 U.S. cents an ounce. Some of the recovery in
international gold prices may be due to stronger demand, par-
ticularly from private European business circles, but the main
reason is thought to be the contraction of gold supplies on the
world market. There is now a strong tendency for the prices
to go back to the trans-Atlantic shipping parity (U.S. $35.20
an ounce). I.M.F. observers feel that the various central banks
—in line with their “gentlemen's agreement” last summer —will
stay out of open market gold transactions.
SUGAR
World Prices Down
HThe persistent downward trend in international sugar prices
is continuing. In November the free world sugar price
slipped down to 2.48 U.S. cents a pound—the lowest for 20
years. There seems to be little hope for any radical improve-
ment. and the worlds sugar-producing countries are facing
another reduction in profits. Attempts to offset the dwindling
profit margins by increasing turnover may lead to further
price cuts as the supply on the world market increases despite
restrictive quotas.
The basic problem is that, although world consumption
of sugar steadily increases, rising supply continuously outruns
demand. Cuba’s efforts to abolish sugarcane monoculture, and
its partial withdrawal from the United States market, have not
resulted in any appreciable reduction in supply so far.
World output of sugar in the ten years from 1951-52 to
1960-61 shows a compound annual growth rate of slightly over
5 p.c.—far outmatching the rate of growth in demand. Steadily
mounting surpluses are depressing open market prices.
Meanwhile, the British Commonwealth Sugar Agreement
has recently been extended by another year to 1969. The
negotiated price for 1962 was fixed at £stg4s 15s. 3d. a ton —
13s. 3d. sterling higher than the 1961 price. “The Australian
Sugar Journal” says that the negotiated price quota allocation
for Australia for 1962 is 44 p.c. above the basic quota of
300,000 tons. This means that Australia’s total negotiated
tonnage for 1962 will amount to 313,500 tons —1500 tons less
than in 1961.
Progress reports from Queensland show that 8,272,469 tons
of sugarcane was crushed by the State’s sugar mills by
November 23, 1961. This compares with 8,686,369 tons
in 1960.


PATRICK & COMPANY
Member? of the Sydney Stock Exchange
K. H. ALLEN, M. K. L. DOWLING,
I' K. LEVY, A. P. REYNOLDS, N. R.
COURSE (Melbourne Resident Partner).
Delfin House, 16 O’Connell St., Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines).
Prudential Building, 150 Queen St.,
Melbourne, (ST-5957 (4 lines).
Telegrams and Cables: “Rosdale,” Sydney
Melbourne or Woolongong.
A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. h. NEVITT. A. C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground l’loor,
The National Mutual I.ife Building:,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO"
Phone: 31 27C1 P.O. BOX
(4 lines) No. 1887 W
John N. Robertson, Thompson
and Co.
Members of the Stoek Exchange of
Melbourne.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS,
Temple Court,
422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Telephones: 67 6154, 67 6155
Telegrams and Cables:
ROBFALK, MELBOURNE
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Ampol Petroleum Ltd
A company distinctly Australian has
edged further ahead during the last
twelve months. Petroleum marketers face
problems which other industries are
relatively free of —a drop in consumer
expenditure on motor cars, etc. Even a
company with foresight and get-up-and-
go policy such as this organisation finds
there is little answer to overall contrac-
tion in industry.
A disappointing note is the lift in
assets of some 20 p.c. while revenue
has increased by only 3.5 p.c. The ques-
tion remains—is there too much invest-
ment or are the assets developing too
broad a base?
The success story of Ampol commen-
ced in 1936 with a paid capital of
£200.000. Originally called Australian
Motorists Petroleum Company Limited
it set out w'ith the object of penetrating
the exclusive circle of petroleum distri-
butors Small by international stand-
ards, Ampol has countered w'ith an
imaginative market policy. Maturing
slowly until the fifties, Ampol has now
adopted a plan of integration into tyres,
cabs, shipping and refining. It is signifi-
cant that for the last two and a half
decades it has striven for its own supply
of oil in Australia.
Ampofs main product is Boron petrol,
marketed through a chain of company-
owned and sponsored service stations, in
addition, a full range of greases lubri-
cants, fuel oils and kerosene is also
produced.
At present the largest Australian-made
ship. “P. J Adams” (32,000 tons), is
being constructed at Whyalla. One of
the originators of the search for oil,
Ampol is now a partner with the Royal
Dutch Shell group. A 20 p.c. interest
is held in Western Australian Petroleum
Pty Ltd and a 70 p.c. interest in Ampol
Exploration. Other investments include
41.49 p.c. in B. F. Goodrich Australia
Pty Ltd which produces tyres and other
motor parts.
By November, 1960, Yellow Cabs Hold-
ings Limited was a wholly owned sub-
sidiary with a total fleet of 652 vehicles.
A 25 p.c. interest in the £l3 million
lubricating oil refinery at Kurnell near
Sydney forms another considerable
investment. The sale of petroleum pro-
ducts is effected through some 2000
outlets in Australia (of these, 700 are
company owned). Petroleum marketing
is more than important to Ampol since
increased significance is given to octane
rating (Boron has been marketed success-
fully since July, 1959).
The increase in gallonage was some
4.53 p.c. at 235.2 million gallons. Group
turnover increased by a further
£1,233,155 (up 3.5 p.c.).
Consolidated net profit at £2,273,324
was £169,441 or 8 p.c. higher than in 1960.
Depreciation was £198,238 higher at
£1,160,852 and taxation absorbed
£937,939 (up £17,939):
f— Dividends , Nominal
Sept., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. Reserves.*
£ p.e. p.c. £ £
1958 ..1,711,007 6 184 1,008,963 4,248,108
Share premiums, £ 750,000" .. .. 4,998,108
Reduction oil-search res., £55,838 4,942,330
To staff fund, £24,109 .. .. 4,918,101
1959 ..1,866,613 6 134 1,336,555 5,448,219
Share premiums, £199,8-51 .. . '5,048,010
Assets revaluation, £1,041,151 .. 6,089,221
Reduction oil-search reserve,
£111,723 6,577,498
1360 ..2,103,883 6 14 1.570,815 7,110,560
Share premiums, £3.083,026 . 10,193,592
Assets revaluations, £773,437 .. 10,967,929
Reduction oil-search res., £391,031 10,575,993
1961 ..2,273,324 6 14 1,701,450 11,147,872
* Subject to intangibles £62,218 at 30/9/61.
Earning rate was maintained at 19 p.c.
on the higher average capital of
£11,724,600 compared with the previous
19 p.c. on £10,791.500, the 1959
figure of 19.4 p.c. and 22.1 p.c. in 1958.
Ordinary dividend was steady at 14 p.c.
after paying £60,000 preference divi-
dends. The movements in reserves show
the improved liquidity position of the
company. An increase of £3,083,026 in
share premiums, as well as £773,437 asset
revaluation, contributed significantly to
the sharp increase in consolidated
reserves. Oil search reserves was
decreased by £391,031 during the last
term and the ploughback of profits
amounted to £571,874. Total reserves
for the year amounted to £11,147,872,
subject to £62,218 intangibles.
The familiar table of operating
expenses and appropriations draws atten-
tion to the steady decrease in service and
overheads, to the present level of 14 88
P-C., and the lift in depreciation charges
and duty: —-
Operating—Expenses, Appropriations etc. as a per-
centage of Total Revenue
1939. 1960. 1961.
A , r . • , , P- c - P- c - P-c.
Material costs .. .. 49.51 42.24 41.97
Duty 22.63 23.99 24.29
Services and overhead . . 19.42 10.22 14.88
Salaries and wages'... 6.48 7.18 7.09
Depreciation .. .. .2.22 2.72 3.18
Income tax .. .. 3.08 2.60 2.56
Dividends .. .. 4.11 4.44 4.65
Retained earnings .. 1.55 1.51 1.56
100.90 100.00 100.00
The subsidiary, National Share Services
Pty Ltd, established to operate
and maintain stock, share and note
registers for large or small public com-
panies in addition to their own require-
ments has proved successful.
Ever conscious of the company’s image,
Ampol maintains a rigorous public
relations programme. At present, in con-
junction with Australian Consolidated
Press Limited and W. D. and H. O. Wills
Australia Limited, an Australian syndi-
cate is sponsoring a sloop to challenge
America in the America's Cup at New-
port, Rhode island. *
During the year paid up capital was
increased by some 31 p.c. to £15,464,863
by:
(a) An issue of 3,000,000 deferred ss. ordinary
stock-units at a premium of Bs. 4d. to California
Texas Oil Corporation. The shares carry voting
rights, the right to a 5 p.c. dividend until
October, 1966, but no right to new issues until
alter October, 1966.
(b) An issue of 3,409,218 ss. stock-units for
the whole of the issued capital of Yellow Cabs
Holdings Ltd.
(c) An issue of 426,986 ss. stock-units, at a
premium of 6s. 4d., to acquire rea] estate.
(d) An issue of 3000 ss. stock-units from
options conversion.
(e) And the issue in May, 1961, of 13,808,453
ordinary ss. stock-units, at a premium of 4s.
3d. —55., payable on the Ist September, 1961,
and the balance of 4s. 3d. payable on the Ist
April, 1962.
Borrowing on notes was much the
same at £10,778.801, compared with
£ 3,779,951 for 1960. However, loans
were reduced to £1,437,745 from
£2,816,820. Fixed assets rose by 10.25
p.c. to £34,661,250, an increase of
£3,223,055. This comprised £21,522,966
freehold, leasehold, etc., £7,847,468 for


NEW HEBRIDES
INVESTMENT
OPPORTUNITY
SHEF
/
(Societe Hotel iere d’Efate)
French hotel, tourist and
investment company in the
Condominium of New Hebrides
invites Australian investors to
participate in its development
programme at Port Vila. Excel-
lent expansion opportunities in
French New Caledonia. Operat-
ing hotel and good possibilities
of obtaining official financial
backing after the initial stage.
/
Contact SHEF’s Australian
representative. Mr. Russel Blake,
at
18 CORREYS STREET,
NORTH STRATHFIELD
Phone 73-4464
mmm
UK
m
THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE
CO. LTD.
Branches throughout the
Commonwealth with repre-
sentatives and agents in
country centres.
Transacting
FIRE
MARINE
ACCIDENT
GENERAL INSURANCE
Hunter and A. McWilliams,
O'Connell Sts., Manager.
Sydney.
HELP
LEGACY
all the year round.
Donations: 169 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney. BM2OOI.
plant, machinery, pumps and equipment
and £5,290,866 for tankers:
1959. 1960. 1961.
Paid capital . . £11,695,859 £11,805,179 £15,464,863
Reserves .. 5,448,219 7,110,566 11,147,872
Loans .. .. 1,228,950 2,816,820 1,437,745
Notes ~ .. 4,461,908 10,779,951 10,778,801
Overdraft .. 3,091,600 2,794,393 3,645,771
Creditors . . 5,819,674 5,179,663 6,070.817
l oan by subsid. 90,000 122,000 440,500
Staff funds . . 46,948 66,179 80,476
Tax provision. . 1,025,000 1,003,753 1,054,000
Final dividends 672,195 756,317 824,781
Inter-co. balance 55,131
£33,580,353 £42,434,821 £51,000,757
Freeholds, etc. ( 22,830,494 28,807,783 34,661,250
Plant, etc. j
Shares Am-pol
Exploration . 1,417,940 1,417,940 1,417,940
Loan to Associ-
ated co'. . . - 560,353 878,002
■Shares other cos. 556,276 532,119 623,233
Note-redemption
Fund .. 90,000 120,000 150,000
Stocks . . 2,993,831 3,700,205 4,305,460
Debtors, cash,
etc. .. 5,354,112 6,932,520 6,403,164
Deposits . . 2,439,490
Intangibles .. 337,700 363,901 62,218
£33,580,353 £42,434,821 £51,000,757
Shares in Ampol Exploration Limited
were again shown at the unchanged book
value of £1.417,940. This subsidiary is
at present preparing for a concentrated
effort in drilling early in 1962. The sub-
sidiary B. F. Goodrich Australia Pty
Ltd as yet has rendered no dividends,
but it is anticipated that it will enter the
profit-making stage in 1962.
Another interesting feature is the
recently formed (July, 1961) Ampol
Development Limited with authorised
capital of £lO million. The exact role of
this company in the future financing of
the parent is yet to be decided. The Port
Alma refinery development, except for
the building of a large sea-board
terminal, has been deferred for the pre-
sent because of the apathy of the Gov-
ernments. The new sea-board terminal
will have a storage capacity of 3 million
gallons.
Considered as an investment proposi-
tion. Ampol presents both a picture of
a sound investment and a participating
interest in the speculative field of oil
discovery.
At the last sale in Sydney the ss. ords.
fetched 10s. 7d. for an immediate return
of 6.6 p.c. p.a. The ss. 6 p.c. conv. notes
maturing 1963 last changed hands at
9s. 6d. a unit, giving a return of 3.3 p.c.
p.a. The ss. 6 p.c. conv. notes maturing
1967 brought 7s. 3d. a unit for an immedi-
ate return of 4.1 p.c. p.a.
Net tangible asset backing is Bs. 7d.
for each ss. ord. stock-unit on the basis
of consolidated accounts.
Bast African Coffee Planta-
tions Ltd
"Cast African Coffee Plantations Ltd
' was incorporated in Melbourne in
1928, w'ith an issued capital of £150.000
in 20s. ords., to purchase and develop
coffee and tea estates in the uplands of the
Nandi and Kiambu districts of Kenya.
The total acreage under tea and coffee
plantations is 7449 acres, at an average
altitude of over 6000 ft and average rain-
fall of 58 inches a year.
Only in the past twelve years has the
company shown any returns to share-
holders. In its early stages of develop-
ment, before the trees had become
revenue producing, the world coffee
market collapsed due to overproduction
(especially in Brazil, which supplied 70
p.c. of the world’s requirements). So in
1933 shareholders had to invest another
£15,000 pref. capital in the business to
protect their investment.
It was not till the postwar years that
there was a marked improvement in the
industry. By 1949 £23,850 liabilities,
deferred since the depression, and ten
years’ arrears of pref. dividends were
paid, with a 7 p.c. dividend for the
ordinary shareholders.
The high-grade. Arabic flavor type of
coffee grown in Kenya enjoys a steadier
market than the more universally known
Santos and Java brands. Kenya coffee
is especially popular in Western Europe,
which buys some 60 p.c. of the total
crop.
The total tonnage produced last term
amounted to 455 tons (down 54 tons),
of w'hich Kiamara’s (near Kiambu)
record crop contributed 397 tons,
resulting in an average yield of
almost 19 cwt. of clean coffee per
acre. The average price received per
ton for the co.’s production was £3O8 —
a reduction of £95 per ton. The peak
price paid per ton of coffee w'as £6oo|
at one of the auctions held by the Coffee
Marketing Board, w'hile average price
was £315 per ton, £74 less than last year.
The tea areas suffered from a severe
drought for several months. This
reduced the crop to 73 p.c. of the esti-
mate. At 366.596 lbs. the crop compared
with 400,120 lbs. in the previous year.
Although the world market's tea prices
had sagged, the co. sold its tea at an
average price of 4s. 3fd. per lb. —an
advance of on the previous year.
The peak price was ss. sd. (up 4d.).
Due to lower coffee crop and prices
and lower tea production the company's
net profit at £100,842 was £54,044 lower,
after providing £9547 for depreciation
(down £316) and £4201 for Kenya income
tax (down £31,400) —-all in Australian
currency.
The earning rate on the average ord.
capital fell from 19.1 p.c. in 1960 to
12.4 p.c. in 1961, compared with 8.8 p.c.
in 1959 and 16.9 p.c. in 1958:
„ r T . To Re- Re-
Mav Profit. r Dividends—? —■, serves. serves.
31, £ £ £ £
1955. .121,254 161 p.c. = 87,750 33,504 234,408
Loss sale investments, £3179 . . 231,229
1956.. 93,690 161 p.c. = 87,750 5,940 537^169
Assets revalued, £270,000 . . . . 507,169
Revaluation res. capitalised, £270,000 237^169
Written-off investments, £124 .. 237,045
1957. .102,913 10 4/sp.c.= 87,750 15,163 2521208
1958. .137,085 10 4/5 „ ~87,750 49,335 301,543
1959.. 71,108 10 4/5 „„ 87.750 284,901
Development expenses w/off, £18,750 266,151
1960. .154,886 13J p.c=Toß,ooo 46,886 313,037
1961. .100,842 10 4/sp.c.= 87,750 13,092 326,129
All amounts shown are converted to Australian
currency at prevailing exchange rate.
This was sufficient to cover the lower


Pick up a better return
with complete security
g •
mam
m
■
Wwmm
m,
wmm
W\' ■/
P.A.. for 8 and iO years
with
REID MURRAY
Acceptance Limited
Reg. First Mortgage Debenture Stock
FIXED LONG TERM STOCK
P.A. . 5 Years
P.A. S Years
2 Years,.
SHORT TERM NOTICE STOCK
7 Vz^o
gEicrf p ® fi s
nrtfts, notice
SB* Qf P.A. on 3 .
mtfcs. notice
4<?o P.A. at cali
Applications accepted only on forms at-
tached to the Prospectus. Available from:
REID MURRAY ACCEPTANCE LTD.
403 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 67 1924
Any branch of the
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Any member of a
RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE IN AUST.
Or Joint Underwriting Brokers
TOLHURST, HENUEY, MBNCKTON & CO.
401 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of The Stock Exchange cf MeJS.
CUTTEN & HARVEY
97 King William Street, Adelaida
408 Collins Street, Melbourne
Members of Stock Exchange of
Adelaide Ltd.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £7,000,000
RMA.m
GUARANTEED BY REID MURRAY HOLDINGS LTD.
dividend rate of lOf p,c, (down 2 8/15
p.c.).
Paid capital remained unchanged at
£BIO,OOO in 10s. ords. supported by
£326,129 reserves and undistributed pro-
fits. Bank overdraft increased by £93,875,
creditors rose. Current liabilities exceed-
ed current assets by £207,488. The com-
pany's liquid position with a working
liquid ratio of 0.38 to 1.0 looks tight:—-
Converted to Australian Currency.
<959. 1900. 1961.
Paid capital .. £819,000 £BIO.OOO £.810.000
Reserves . . . . 284,901 313,037 326,129
Staff fund.. .. 7,996 11,15.3 13,844
Rank overdraft .. 7,412 24,791 118,666
Creditors .. .. 13,108 22,387 40374
Tax provision 47,869 45,402 39,626
Itivi (tends ~ 87.750 108,600 87,750
£1,259,9*8 £ 1,334,770 £1,435,989
Freeholds, lease-
' holds, buildings 840,632 853,749 858,416
Plant, livestock
etc 86,483 89.087 94,921
Plantation develop-
ment . . . . 267,980 308.320 396,260
Stock .. 23.937 19,453 23,734
Debtors .. .. 36,001 47,964 50,247
Shares .. .. 3.117 3,117 3.117
Cash, bonds etc., 8,888 13,080 15,274
£1,259,038 £1,334,770 £ 1,435,959
Net tangible asset backing works out
at 14s. 3d. for each 10s. ord. share.
Estimated coffee production for
1961-62 is from 330 to 350 tons. Over
the first quarter of the current year, out-
put of tea has lagged behind a bit, due
to the after-effects of the drought and
cold weather conditions. The tea estimate
for 1961-62 is 500,000 to 550.000 lbs.
The financial outlook appears fair,
except for the steady growth in labor
costs. However, political conditions con-
tinue to be uncertain and this tends to
push away the prospective investors.
This can be seen from the last sa'e in
Sydney where the 30s. ords. could be
bought below par at 75., making
the immediate return 15.4 p.c. on the
basis of the lOf p.c. div. rate.
OIL AND MINING
King hland Scheelite
P|irfxto r s of King Island Scheelite
(1947) Ltd have announced the for-
mation and incorporation of a wholly-
owned finance subsidiary, K.I.S. Finance
Corporation Ply Ltd.
Australian Associated Oil-
fields N.L
A USTRALIAN ASSOCIATED OILFIELDS
N.L. and associated companies
report that drill-stem tests in the Glen-
tulloch No. 1 well in Queensland have
now yielded 7.15 million cubic feet of gas
a day. The latest reported well depth
was 2800 feet. Further testing is expected.
Timor Oil Ltd
HTimor Oil Ltd reports that the Matai
No. 4 well has been spudded in and
has been drilled to 71 feet. Directors say
that this “marks the commencement of
new drilling operations under direct field
supervision of the Australian company.”


*.v.v
m
•V
,v.
YOUR
FAVOURITE
BRANDY
fine Australian
pot-still
Ifflm
•V.
•V« *V* fi «%
BRANDY
THE
ORION INSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England )
TIRE MARINE ACCIDENT AVIATION
K.S.W. If RANCH: 19 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
t-LEPHONES * BU 4387 L. V. THORPE, -Uaeager.
IT'S ONLY
and there’s
more to
read for
the whole
family in
Everybodys
Speculator's Diary
It’s been a real battle. This
week, I mean. What with
the election drama, fighting off
Mrs Smith at the office party,
Chirstmas shopping and going
to press early, I’ve hardly had
time to think about stocks and
shares. (My God! Now I’m
beginning to sound like those
lady columnists in the Sun-
day papers—you know, Di and
everybody.)
Actually I’ve got so carried
away with the Christmas spirit
that I’ve managed to chalk up
something of a personal record
by investing a mere £2OOO in
the past 10 days.
It all began when I received
a circular from one broker
I occasionally deal with hawk-
ing shares in Harris Holdings,
the Campbelltown timber and
hardware firm, at 75., a whole
6d. below the market price,
As I'd turned down what have
proved to be some of this
broker’s choicer offerings
(Fenwick, for instance), I
snapped up 1000 of these
Harris shares even though I
was told I’d be spanked if I
sold them before February,
They cost me £362.
Jhen
my somewhat glassy
eye lit on Mello-Lite. Now
poor old Mello-Lite has not
done too brilliantly since it
was listed a few years ago.
However, it is now being taken
over by its principal com-
petitor, Hunter Douglas, in a
rather complicated maneouvre.
What it all boils down to is
that Mello-Lite shareholders
will own about one-quarter of
the Australian subsidiary of
the international Hunter
Douglas company which
operates successfully in an
impressive number of coun-
tries. With a dividend rate
of 10 p.c. promised, the shares
were yielding 7.7 p.c. at 265.
This seemed much too good
for an American-controlled
company with a virtual mono-
poly of its field in Australia
so I bought 200. Away went
another £265.
Next to come under the
hammer was Beau Monde, the
hosiery company. Perhaps it
was because I’d sold my
Mericas that I was attracted to
a bit of leg, but its real reason
was Beau Monde's own chair-
man and others in the hosiery
game saying that their's is
one of the few industries that
is really springing back into
stride (so as to speak). Beau
Monde has never paid divi-
dends of less than 10 p.c. since
it was formed in 1935 and
often the rate has been as
high as 20 p.c. or even 25 p.c.
Last year it was 12 p.c. but if
profits are on the rise again so
too could be the dividend rate,
particularly as most of the
profit is usually paid out in
dividends. At 255. the shares
yield 9.6 p.c. even from the
current “low” 12 p.c. rate. So
I bought 200 of these, too.
Another £255.
By this time I was really
warming to the market. Then
Fibre Containers announced
that it was about to receive a
second takeover bid. With
Bowater’s offer worth about
335., I figured that any counter
offer would have to be worth
at least 355., possibly a good
deal more. At 355. or under,
it looked as though you could
hardly go wrong. Never being
one to do things by halves,
especially in this festive season,
I bought 500. That set me
back £BB6.
Finally there seemed to be a
bargain in Lindeman shares
per medium of Leo Buring.
Lindeman is taking over Leo
Buring, the ugly duckling of
the wine industry, on the basis
of three for eight. Buring’s
shares at 6s. 4d. are equivalent
to Lindeman at 16s. 9d. which
is 2s. below the current market
price and 4s. below recent
prices of 20s. 9d. So I bought
800 Leo Buring to give me
300 Lindeman. They cost me
£262 to bring my total debts
rip to £2030.
Fortunately I’d begun the
fortnight in a fairly liquid (sic)
state with £BB5 in hand. This
was augmented by another
£3OO (including £lO3 profit) I
received from H. Pettiford for
my 1000 W. H. Hole shares.
Then, just when I needed still
more cash, along came an
investment service—the one
which was responsible for put-
ting Shipping Newspapers up
to 90s. —and recommended
Fenwick. This enabled me to
sell my 300 at Fenwick for a
profit of £132. To show my
appreciation, I forthwith
despatched a Christmas card
to the gentleman concerned.
Which just leaves me with
enough space to wish my brave
little band of readers a
MERRY CHRISTMAS, too.
BOUGHT
1000 Harris at 7/- .. £362
200 Mello-Lite at 26/- £265
200 Beau Monde at
25/- £255
500 Fibre Cont. at
34/9 £BB6
800 Leo Buring at 6/4 £262
SOLD
300 Fenwick at 30/- £442
I still need £403 in cash but
who cares —apart from my
brokers. It's Christmas, I
made £235 this fortnight and
I own these shares:: —
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Total Per rent
Shares Company Cost Share Price
300 Hornibrook 354 23/- 26/6
200 Marriekvtlle 217 21/3 25/3
300 McDonald 207 13/6 15/3
200 Southern TV 205 20/ 25/
300 Pyrox 87 5/9 7/1
200 Dodge 136 13/4 14/8
400 Derrin 206 10/ 11/
400 O'Donnell 239 11/8 13/
200 F. (4. O'Brien 100 9/9 9/6
300 Bitumen & 011263 22/6 24/-
50 llothmans 199 78/9 86/
50 Shipping
News 175 69/ 86/-
400 Olympic Bowl 50 2/6 2/-
1.000 Chevron Syd. 117 2/3 2/5
500 West. Mining 210 8/3 9/-
800 Southgate 346 8/6 9/
1.000 United Motels 184 3/6 4/-
1,000 Harris 362 7/ 7/9
200 Mello-Lite 265 26/- 28/-
200 Beau Monde 255 25/- 25/-
900 Fibre Cont. 34 9 35/9
800 Leo Buring 6/4 6/6


RESIDENTIAL SCHOOL
STOCK EXCHANGE & INVESTMENTS
UNIVERSITY OF NEW ENGLAND,
ARMIDALE
January 26—February 4, 1962
A comprehensive course in investment analysis
featuring practical projects. Lecturers from
the Sydney Stock Exchange and the Depart-
ment of Economics, University of New England.
Inquire for full details from the Director of
Adult Education. University of New England,
Armidale.
Positions Vacant
ALL SOULS’ SCHOOL,
CHARTERS TOWERS, N. Q.
Masters required to teach:
I Book-keeping, Typing and general
middle school subjects
2. Latin and English.
Duties commence First Term, 1962.
Resident or non-resident; housemastership with
free Hat available for suitable man. Apply
Elf ADM ASTER.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SI PR KM E COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALKS
l\ Divorce
To: PATRICK FRANCIS O'FARRELL late of 109
Hastings Parade, Bondi in the State of New South
Walts.' —
TAKE NOTICE that LAURA O’FARRELL has tiled
a petition tor divorce No. 2994 of 1961 on the
grounds of desertion. If you wish to defend you may
enter an Answer in the Divorce Registery, Supreme
Court, Macquarie Street, Sydney, by the 26th January,
1962, aud obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from Marshall, Marks, Dezarnaulds & .Jones.
Solicitors, 07 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—C. A. H.
HARMS Registrar.
“This I must see!"
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 672
Across
I—What1 —What makes one pretty crook millimetre beef and
bamboozle? (7)
4—Secretly blaming on the march. (7)
8 — Again happen about a mongrel. (5)
9 Not a refreshment offer by Solomon to a royal visitor
though. (9)
10 — F.R.G.S. engineer affected one
who is talented in the
garden. (5. 7)
12 — The best act is to prepare for
afternoon tea? (4. 4)
13 — A sky full of cattle. (4)
16 — Jolson is heartened by my chemi-
cal. (4)
17 — Smoke travels along such a
Philippine island nuisance with
them. (4. 4)
21 —Publicity men with the watches
of William. (12)
23 Not a corrective ottered by
Solomon to a travel-worn royal
visitor though. (9)
24 Girl fared badly. (5)
25 Anybody knows Sydney has this
to shorten. (7)
26 Pygmalion dealt with her festive
tiffin. (7)
Down
1 — Hunts for food for a consider-
able time. (7)
2 Value Nancy brought into
play. (5. 5)
3 Pickle train Mae wrecked. (8)
4 Prosecute the “eye-for-an-eye”
philosophy in Geneva. (6)
5 Colour tribes are in confusion. (6)
6 Part of the programme introduces
it to them. (4>
7 Some Indian golfers would drive
off from such whiskers. (7)
9—Bramble bushes. (6)
11— Rampart warriors coming to
tea. (10)
14 — Tin-car smash in a Portuguese
resort near Lisbon. (6)
15— Pacific has the damaged puce
leaf. (8)
16 — Subject Jolson taking the earth
goddess a foundation gar-
ment. (7)
18 — Parent's bus runs on a cos-
metic. (7)
19 — Uncaught girl meeting the
editor. (6)
20 — I disappearing from the isle
before nightfall in part of a
shirt. (6)
22 —Arts arranged to include matter
of astronomical interest. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 671


FOR SPEED
(First issues off the press)
CONVENIENCE
(Right to your mail-box)
CONTINUITY
(No chance of missing out)
HAVE
DELIVERED BY POST
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
NEW SUB./RENEWAL
(Please cross out one)
Subscription Dept..
The Bulletin Newspaper,
Box 2521. G.P.0.. Sydney.
Please find enclosed my cheque!money-order for
• months’ subscription to The Bulletin.
NAME:
ADDRESS:
RATES (A/asia): 1 year—£2 125.; \ year—£l 6s.
Post free. British C’wealth: £3 3s. 6d. Foreign :
£3 16s
N.Z. CURRENCY (Remit to Box 965, Wellington,
N.Z.): A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d. ; year-
ns. 6d. British C’wealth: £2 3s. Foreign £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country -cheques.,
These prices include postage and apply whether
the subscription is paid direct to The Bulletin
or any newsagent in Australia or N.Z.
THE B U L LETI N
IS AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
NEWS MAGAZINE
5 2 pages of top-flight information. The press,
the radio, TV will dish you up the headline
news . . . but The Bulletin has time to bring
you the news inside the news.
AND IT’S PACKED WITH
ENTERTAINMENT
Nearly every facet of modern life is reflected
in The Bulletin’s pages, so no wonder
anyone can find a little of himself—or herself
—in The Bulletin.
